

DEWAR’S -All that a perfect Whisky should be.
R. G. WATKINS «s£. GO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney.
—FOR—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
.Sw&lc & S^r
Stone Sawing and
rioulding flachines
For Masons and Builders.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
3.A. Agent: C. C. DELANO, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide.
gOBAnX.
—ass? — •
fiadleys Orient fjotel.
lONEE
lan
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
~=>\
w
Take it back.
I must have
HUTTON’S
Pine-Appleßrand
HAMS ©
BACON.
SEND FOR A COPY OF
CHUBB’S NEW CATALOGUE.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive
JL
U
For INDIGESTION
ant l DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prlxe Medals.
m
THE SECRET OF IT’S POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
s
%
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest..
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
MANNESMANN WELDLESS STEEL PIPES
Now taking the place of Cast-Iron Pipes everywhere .
AGENTS - NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY) LTD., 109 PITT STREET.
The durability and lasting: qual-
ity of MALTHOID ROOFING
has been demonstrated by many
years of service under greatly
varying conditions* These, with
other virtues, have led to
MALTHOID ROOFING being
used in the erection of the
first buildings at the Federal
Capital Site.
D
«» s *2s
It will be an historical fact that
MALTHOID was used on the
first buildings erected on the
site of Australia's capital*
MALTHOID is a perfect roof-
ing material suitable for palace*
mansion* cottage or humpy* It
is the best water and weather
defying roofing on the market*
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), OHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L™
r
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
Steam and Power Pumps,
Cream Attemperators and Blenders,
o« y LD ’ LTb- ' "The Hercules” Refrigerating' Machine.
m innw spa watfr
Three reasons why HELIDON SPA triumphs as a Perfect Table Water: }
DEWHURST S HALEORAN, Ltd.,
klent '
The Bulletin
Vol.3l— No. 1594.]
[Thursday, September 1, 1910
Registered at- the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE BOOKSHOP OF THE CITY .
NOTE THE ADDRESS AND PAY US A VISIT.
ROBERTSON’S, Booksellers, Publishers and Stationers,
238 PITT STREET,
-v Opposite Sydney School of Arts.
THE PUBLICATION OF AUSTRALIAN BOOKS.
YVe have determined to encourage the production and publication of Australian Boobs by Australian Authors,
and are prepared to consider MSS. of all kinds, to discuss proposals for the publication of Educational Text
Books, Scientific and Practical Works ( Fiction, Poetry and General Literature.
George Robertson & Co. Pro ft. Ltd., 238 Pitt Street, Sydney.
FOR THE VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
Hudson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes.’*
C3T" AN IDEAL REMEDY
wm
nm.uiM&’M
mm
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing 'No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says: “Proved to be effective bactericidal!}
as is creosote."
Unlike cough medicines, “ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES ” do
not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after meals.
SOLD ONLY IN TINS, Price 1/6.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
Solti by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
1/6 in Stamps.
COMPANY, LTD., 19 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
THE RED PAGE
What’s Wrong with England
G. K. Chesterton calls his latest book What’s
Wrong with the World (Cassell and Co.). It
is really concerned with England only. To
the True Born Englishman that little piece
of earth is all of the world that matters. He
believes that if there is something rotten in
the state of England they are holding their
noses on the planet Mars. Things are
very wrong in England, and, says Chester-
ton, “ when things go very wrong we need
an unpractical man. ... If our statesmen
were visionaries something might be done.”
Being something of a visionary himself,
though his gaze is turned to the '•Past, he
does what he can by suggesting a cure, and
then explaining the nature of the trouble.
It is not the subject of Chesterton’s dis-
course that has gained him an audience ; but
the diverting manner of his delivery. His
style is a rotary one ; he progresses by taking
a succession of somersaults backwards. In
this book the argument rotates around one or
two simple and definite ideas. With intense
seriousness he propounds a reactionary faith
in whirling words which fall into unexpected
places.
That you can prove anything with figures
is a well-known truism. With words you
can work bigger miracles. Truth in words
is a round thing which mo yes with the times.
If arrested, it gathers moss ; the part ex-
posed becomes a wise-saw, a proverb—that is
a half-truth at best. The ordinary paradoxer
occasionally turns the other side up and
startles the sluggish reader. Chesterton does
this systematically, and is thus the Martin
Farquhar Tupper of his time, a time pre-
pared for the obverse of that Proverbial
Philosophy which was exceedingly popular in
the early part of last century.
Chesterton is much more than a Tupper,
for he is (to use his own language) a practical
visionary and a serious humorist, with a
turn for controversy—a combination of the
two characters who survived the slaughter in
his Napoleon of Notting Hill. He is cute
enough to make rickety “ men of words ” to
knock over for the amusement of the crowd.
He controverts his own statement of an
opponent’s case, never the opponent’s state-
ment.
W
This book begins with the assertion that
in social matters we must find the cure before
we find the disease. “The only logical
cure is the assertion of an ideal.” That
ideal must be found in the past. Many
people of to-day are building in the future ;
“ they look forward with enthusiasm because
they are afraid to look back.” What they
are afraid of is not stated. As a matter of
fact, many, like William Morris, have looked
back for their ideal, and many are seeking to
rebuild Thelema with modern bricks. In the
past (he would have you believe) everyone
could sprawl at ease with his jug of ale with-
out thought of the burdens of Empire ; and
when a man could jump on his wife in his own
home and drag up his children as he pleased,
then, indeed, every Englishman’s house was
his castle. The trouble now is that the
average Englishman has no home at all.
Man has always lost his way. He has been a
tramp ever since Eden ; bat he always knew, or
thought he knew, what he was looking for. . . .
Man has always been looking for that home
which is the subject matter of this book.
Home, to the moderately poor, is the only
place of liberty. It is also the only place of
anarchy and adventure.
It is the only spot on earth where a man can
alter arrangements suddenly, make an experi-
ment or indulge in a whim. Everywhere else he
goes he must accept the strict rules of the shop,
inn, club or museum that he happens to enter.
He can eat his meals on the floor of his own house
if he likes. I often do it myself. It gives a
curious, childish, poetic, picnic feeling. There
would be considerable trouble if I tried to do it in
an A. 8.0. tea-shop.
Now, says Chesterton, this simple ideal of
the average man has been derided as bour-
geois, as sentimental, or as despicably'
Christian.
Under various verbal forms he is recommended
to go on to the streets —which is called Individual-
ism ; or to the workhouse —which is called Col-
lectivism.
The unfortunate average Englishman is be-
wildered by the multitude of counsellors.
“He has always lost his way ; now he has
lost his address.” And Chesterton tells him
to ask in the Middle Ages for it. ’Tis a very
mystical glamor which makes the Past look
rosy for the poor. A few pages from Thorold
Rogers would destroy that illusion; but
facts never bothered Chesterton in his whirl-
ing course.
The average Englishman has .weak notions
about Imperialism of the Csesarian sort.
Chesterton butts into these, and incidentally
sweeps the colonies out of the way :
My only objection is that it is an illusion of
comfort; that an Empire whose heart is failing
should be specially proud of the extremities is to
me no more sublime a fact than that a dandy
whose brain is gone should still be proud of his
legs. It consoles men for the evident ugliness
and apathy of England with legends of fair youth
and heroic strenuousness in distant continents and
islands. ... Nor are the young people of the
colonies,* when you meet them, young giants or
pagan poets. They are mostly Cockneys, who
have lost their last music of real things by getting
out of the sound of Bow Bells. Mr. Itudyard
Kipling, a man of real though decadent genius,
threw a theoretic glamor over them, which is
already fading.
The colossal arrogance of that side kick !
The peril of Imperialism, in his opinion, is
the complete eclipse of comradeship and
equality by specialism and domination.
“ The democracy has one real enemy, and
that is civilisation.”
‘ ‘ There are only three things in the world
that women do not understand, and they are
Liberty, Equality and Fraternity.” They
do understand the ideas of home and thrift
and dignity. Their proper place is in the
home, and the invasion of politics by a small
section of them is another thing that is
wrong. “In all legends men have thought
of women as sublime separately, but horrible
in a herd.”
Woman stands for the idea of Sanity ; that in-
tellectual home to which the mind must return
after every excursion on extravagance. The mind
that finds its way to wild places is the poet’s; but
the mind that never finds its way back is the
lunatic’s. There must in every machine be a part
that moves and a part that stands still; there
must be in everything that changes a part that is
unchangeable.
Education is wrong because it doesn’t
educate and is socialistic. Everything else
is wrong, and “we must instantly begin all
over again, and begin at the other end.”
The excessive cleverness of this book defeats
its aim ; that is, if it has one. The reader is
so tickled by the “ gags ” and “ business ”
of the performer that h§ forgets the plot.'
In the dedication Chesterton frankly says :
“ As far as literature goes, this book is what
is wrong and no mistake.”
Henry Lawson
A new volume by Henry Lawson, The
Rising of the Court and other Sketches in
prose and verse (Angus and Robertson, Is.),
contains some old as well as recently-written
items. There is enough good “ Lawson ” in it
to justify the reprint ; but nothing that adds
to his reputation. Since the publication of
the two books which made that reputation,
Lawson has not widened his knowledge of
Australia. He has, however, deepened it.
The bush life he has written about in later
books is still in the bush of his boyhood. The
slums and the gaols of the city are,' un-
fortunately, those. of to-day, and Lawson
has plumbed some depths there with the
same keenness of observation that marked his
early bush sketches. The first sketch in
this little book gives the Experience of one
who has been locked up for a night and is
dealt with by the Court in the morning.
The overworked but still patient magistrate
and some One-eyed Rates and Mrs. John-
sons, who pass in monotonous procession
before him, are sketched with sympathetic
pen.
“One hundred and three ” is a powerful
statement of the soul-destroying effect of
gaol life:
You get the gaol-dust in your throat, in your skin
the dead gaol-white;
You get the gaol-whine in your voice and in every
letter you write.
And in your eyes comes the bright gaol-light—
not the glare of the world’s distraught,
Not the hunted look nor the guilty look, but the
awful look of the Caught.
As the poor get most help from the poor, so
the man “ inside ” gets most sympathy from
the other chaps in trouble :
But the kindness of man to man is great when
penned in a sandstone pen ;
The public call us the “ criminal class,” but the
warders call us “the men.”
The brute is a brute and a kind man kind, and the
strong heart does not fail—
A crawler’s a crawler everywhere ; but.a man is a
man in gaol!
There is some of Lawson’s philosophising
on crime in “ Wanted by the Police ” :
In our heart of hearts we are. antagonistic to
most of the laws and to the Law as a whole (which
we regard as an ass), and to the police magistrates
and the judges. And we hate lawyers and loathe
spies, pimps and informers of all descriptions, and
the hangman with all our soul.
That there is this antagonism is un-
doubted, and it is due to fear, to sympathy
for the under-dog, and, most of all, to a
rooted belief that punishment by law is too
often a crime of the worst description, as
suggested by a writer in The Hibbert Journal
for July.
“Mateship in Shakespeare’s Rome” is in-
teresting for its racy criticism of the spirit of
Shakespeare’s Romans. The other prose
sketches are poor. One of them is an ex-
panded account of a bush funeral which he
has already done much better in verse.
“The Army of the Rear,” written so far
back as 1888, is reprinted here. It is a com-
panion song to “ Faces in the Street ” of the
same period, and has fire in it. Lawson, in
his preface, states that the contents are pub-
lished exactly as he wrote them. Some of
them would be all the better for a little
pruning.
Havelock Ellis
The sixth and last volume of Studies in the
Psychology of Sex, by Havelock Ellis (Angus
and Robertson), deals with the relation of sex
to society, and is the most generally useful por-
tion of a valuable contribution to sociology.
The work has occupied 15 years. Ellis was
regarded as something like a charlatan when
he began, and the first volume, published
in England, was suppressed by the Govern-
ment. He has only lately gained recognition
from representative medical journals for the
scientific value of his work. It is not written
virginibus puerisque any more than other
pathological studies which have a recognised
place in scientific libraries. The new volume
treats of questions which need ventilation ;
questions relating to education, marriage and
the social evil, upon which those concerned
with the health of the body politic need en-
lightenment.
• •••«•
At the same time, Mrs. Havelock Ellis
reprints her lectures on Three Modern Seers
(Sydney , Book Club), each of whom has
helped in his way to demolish the traditional
views of morality. The three are James
Hinton, “a veritable Don Quixote of the
newer morality”; Nietzsche, “a modern
Lucifer of the intellect ” ; and Edward Car-
penter, “ a Child of the spirit.”
Nietzsche has not yet been assimilated by
the academic philosophers ; but the daring
originality of his ideas has gained for him a
wide if superficial acquaintance. He was
uncomplimentary to women. Mrs. Ellis
looks upon him as a tonic ; ‘ ‘ wise women
read him with an open mind, though possibly
with the suspicion of a smile.” Carpenter
is still living, and is best known as a disciple
of Walt Whitman.
Two-thirds of the book are devoted to
Hinton, author of half a dozen works ( Man
and his Dwelling Place, Life in Nature, The
Mystery of Pain, etc.) which had a small in-
fluence in their day and are now practically
forgotten. A man of scientific training (he
attained some celebrity as a doctor), Hinton
was also a mystic, and wrote on social ques-
tions with an uncompromising pen. The
highest life, in his vie w, was one in which the
impulses move spontaneously in the direc-
tion of right. Asceticism and licence are
both enemies to real freedom. “This
greater freedom which unites service and
pleasure is what James Hinton gave his life
to teach.” Hinton was a good man who got
a bad name because he once rashly said that
he was a born polygamist. He really
believed in monogamy, according to Mrs.
Ellis ; but attacked that monogamy which is
a disguised polygamy. However, the mis-
chief was done, Mrs. Grundy turned down
her thumb and Hinton was banned.
A Poet Who Married His Muse
Arthur J. Munby, who published many
volumes of verse during his life of 81 years
which closed in January last, was a minor
poet but an honest man. Vulgar Verses, the
title of one of his books, expressed the prin-
cipal purpose of all his work—praise of the
common people, especially the working
woman. This is a characteristic sonnet: —
This is her hand, her large and rugged hand:
Strong nervous fingers, stiff with homely toil,
Yet capable; for labor cannot spoil
Their native vigor, nor their swift command
Of household tools, indoors or on the land.
What if rough work must harden and must sou
Her massive palms ? They are but as a foil
To that sweet face which all can understand.
Yes, all enjoy the beauty of her face ;
But few perceive the pathos and the power
Of those broad hands, or feel that inner grace
Of which they are the symbol and the flower.
The grace of lowly help ; of duty done
Unselfishly, for all—for every one.
One volume called Faithful Servants con-
tains some hundreds of tributes paid to those
good retainers and body servants who were
still flourishing in the Victorian period.
Munby’s will, printed in the London Times,
contains this clause :
Whereas Hannah Cullwiek, servant, born at
Shifnal, Salop, and bred in the Charity School at
Aston Brook, Shifnal, has been for 45 years and
upwards beloved by me with a .pure and honour-
able love, and nob otherwise, and she, the said
Hannah, has during all that time been as faithful
and loving and devoted to me as ever woman was
to man, and whereas, after vainly trying to ex-
plain this state of things to my father, I married
the said Hannah (she being then in my service)
publicly in the pre.sence of all her kindred who
could be got together at the parish church of
Clerkenwell in the county of Middlesex on the
14th January, 1873.
Munby made his actions square with his
poetical precepts, which is more than some
bigger poets have done. Hannah, like
Nicola in Shaw’s Arms and the Man, had the
soul of a servant, and as Nidola said “ that’s
the secret of successful service.”
The Other Side, by H. A. Vachell
(Dymock’s). A musical genius, carefully
dry-nursed in his youth, is going to write a
soul-awakening oratorio. Influenced by love,
he composed and played some marvellous
music .. “ And for a moment those present
looked at him in silence, with a certain awe
touched to issues different from those which
habitually engrossed them, perceiving as
through a veil the Other Side, the un-
discovered country.” (A bad sentence, by
the way—“looked,” “touched,” “perceiv-
ing.”) Ambition impels him to prostitute
his talent in the production of comic opera for
big cash returns. He meets with an accident,
and, while apparently dead, his soul wanders
about and gets an inside view of his daughter’s
mind. It also visits “the other side,” in-
terviews his really dead wife, who implores
him to save their daughter from degenerating
into a worldling. In this respect it re-
sembles The Glimpse, by Arnold Bennett.
Vachell states that his book was written be-
fore The Glimpse appeared. His “glimpse”
of ‘ ‘ the Other Side ” is not so good as
Bennett’s ; but the story is a better one.
Corporal Sam and Other Stories, by “Q”
(Dymock’s). These ten stories are varied
in character —the Peninsular War, Crom-
well’s time, Troy Town and to-day. The
last of the ten, about a temporary exchange
of personalities, is out of “ Q’s ” line. It is
not to be expected that he could always keep
up to the level of Noughts and Crosses; yet
this is a very readable collection.
The Heart of Hindustan, by Edmund
White (Geo. Robertson and Co.). The
story is slighter than Flora Steel’s novels of
Indian life in the Punjab; but resembles
them in giving an intimate view of native
character and the British administration of
a North-West district.
Nightshade, by Paul Gwynne (Constable),
is a romance which may interest those in
search of the uncanny, and, possibly, those
who have read Le Bon’s Evolution of Forces.
There is a blind musician in Paris and two
women who lftve him. Meisterlimmer ap-
pears, in the trappings of the stage wizard,
and undertakes to make the blind man see.
You are to see, not only what other fools see
... but all that human eye or brain has fashioned
since the world began. I believe it even possible
that you may see the thoughts of men as they un-
roll themselves upon the brain. . . . That is your
first peep of light, my friend. When I say
“ light,” ! mean the light, the unknown color,
black light, to which every man’s brain and
thoughts would be sensitive if he had eyes like
yours. This is my lamp, my little belladonna,
with its ultra-violet color and its power of dilating
the pupil. I call it my little bunch of nightshade.
In trying to make Meisterlimmer particularly
weird and diabolic, Gwynne has produced an
abortion. (Nob long ago Sisleys published a
volume of fiction called Nightshade, by Roy
Horniman.)
George Black’s History of the N.S.W.
Labor Party has been revised and brought
up to date. It is obtainable for 3d. from the
author, c/o S. D. Townsend & Co., 282 Pitt-
street, Sydney, and should be read by every
elector.


Jl
xu/e
We are Family Drapers, Manufacturing Jewellers, Complete House Furnishers and
Universal Providers, and our Immense Store, with its Magnificent Stock of the
World’s Choicest Commodities, offers attractions that cannot be obtained elsewhere.
Write for Illustrated Price Lists of anything you want, posted free on application,
and reap the full benefit of ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES.
No. 203 —Perfume Spray,
Shaded Red and Shaded
Green Glass, Floral Design,
4/9.
M
MSS
ml
wsiism
No. 205—Perfume Spray,
White Out Glass, 5/9.
No. 202—Perfume Spray, Green
and Gold Frosted Glass, Fluted
Design, 3/3.
No. 201—Perfume Spray, Green
Glass, Fancy Floral Design, 4/3.
No. 200—Perfume Sprry,
Shaded H d and Gold
Designs, 3/9.
No. 204—Perfume Spray,
Pale Pink Glass, Floral
Design, 6/3.
World . . .
Renowned
WHITE SEWING MACHINES
Light . .
Running
There is no better Machine made than the World-Renowned
WHITE, which combines simplicity, quality and economy
with faithful construction and elegant finish.
The WHITE embraces all that stands for EFFICIENCY in SEWING MACHINES.
wwBW
m
A Tension Device
is a simple thing, and yet good sewing is impossible with-
out a correct tension. You know this from experience.
The White Pinch Tension
is without a peer. It pinches the thread iust enough to
produce a smooth, elastic stitch.
The White Tension Indicator
shows the state of the tension at all times. A tension can
be changed or duplicated in an instant. Every machine
user will appreciate this device.
The White Tension Releaser
operating with a lifter bar, instantly removes all tension
from the thread.
The Dust Caps
on needle and presser bars prevent the ingress of dust;
hence easier, smoother working.
The "White Drop-Head Automatic Lift
is the latest improvement in Sewing Machines, and is a
White feature.
The white vibrating shuttle
MACHINES, as illustrated, are elegantly
constructed, fitted with an Automatic Lift,
by means of which the simple raising of the cover
brings the head of the machine automatically up
into position ready for use. Each machine has
nickel-plated head wheel, hanging centre panel, and
drawers at each end of table, with beautiful swell
front-furniture, the most attractive style yet
brought out.
All WHITE Machines are fitted with ball
bearings and supplied with a full set of the latest
style steel attachments.
No. 24V, with 2 Drawers - - - £5/12/6
No. 25V, as illustration, with 4 Drawers, £6
No. 27V, as illustration, with 6 Drawers, £6/15/-
Write for Illustrated Price List of SEWING
MACHINES posted free on request.
mum
no
H
S®SSJ«
2SS.
No. 1800A —Shaving 1 Set,
two China Cups, Shaving
Brush and 6in. Bevelled
Glass on Nickel Stand, 16/6
No. 18030—Shavir.fr Set, in
White Celluloid, with 6in.
Bevelled Mirror, Shaving- Cup
and Brush, 12/6.
No. 17!X)X—Polished Oak Rack,
with Bevelled Glass Mirror,
Hollow-back Cloth and Hat,
Brushes, 9/-
No. 1817 X—Nickel-mounted Stand, with
Bevelled, Mirror,-Nickel and Imitation
Marble-mounted Hair and Cloth
Brushes, 28/6.
No. 1817 —With Embossed Nickel
Brushes, 28/6.
No. 181 . r >—Shaving Set, Polished
Wood Base, with Sin. Adjustable
Bevelled Mirror, Nickel Mu?,
China-lined Bowl, and Brush,
13/6.
No. ISo3X—Shaving-Set, in White
Celluloid, 6in. Bevelled Mirror,
China-lined Bowl, Brush and
Shaving Soap Case, 20/-
B
s
The King: Ansonia Black Walnut Ciocx ;
Ei<fht-Dav ; Half-hour Strike ; Cathedral
Gong: ; Heisrht, 24in ; Dial, 6in.—
With Alarm .. .. 20/-
Without Alarm .. .. 18/6
The Monarch Ansonia Black Walnut Clock ;
Eight-Day ; Half-hour Strike ; Cathedral
Gong; Height, 24iin. ; Dial, 6i0., 27/-
12
ao
ii
The Chopin Ansonia Marble Clock ; Eight-Day
Height, 9iin. ;; Width, 15Jin.
Half-hour Strike; Cathedral Gong;
Dial, Sin., 50/-
i. /:\ -■
&
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace ILmporiiim,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Andrade ~ BOOKS.
ANDRADE’S
MINSTKEL SHOW,
or Burnt Cork
Comicalities.
A Splendid Collec-
tion of Comic Songs,
Jokes, Conundrums,
Stump Speeches,
Monologues, Dia-
logues, Farces, Inter-
ludes and After-
pieces for Minstrel
Entertainments.
Post Free;
1/2.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book op Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Goteh, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pa<res, 400 colored plates
and en<rravin<rs, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only srenu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
f££T~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention Tiie Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
2
w
L
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing: at
word of command be-
tween the finders (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling: the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Flve Card
Triok. Another start-
ler, introducing- some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage
no confederates and no special skill), post free any
where, with TlTustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2.6.
Stamps or: Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postape to any address.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St.,
Melbourne.
COUGHS
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELLiS
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
Of All Stores
**ADE NUk** 4,
and Chemists,
Wholesale Agronts for Victoria: DUERDEM & SAI viSBURV, Melbourne.
ft
GROWING HAIR BY THE
CALENDAR.
ALL THE MATERIAL AND INSTRUCTIONS NECESSARY
FOR CARRYING OUT THIS VALUABLE TOILET
TEST SENT FREE BY REQUEST.
' A week’s trial of ‘'Harlene Hair-Drill” con-
vinces everyone of the almost magical effect of
the new method in growing new hair upon bald
or thin patches, in restoring the lustre and
colour to grey or faded hair, in removing scurf,
in increasing the lustre and glossy luxuriance of
“Woman’s crowning glory.”
In one week “ Harlene Hair-Drill ” grows
beautiful hair.
Practise the rules for “ Harlene Hair-Drill,” as
drawn up by Mr. Edwards, the eminent Royal
and Court Hair Specialist, and discoverer of
“Harlene-for-the-Ilair,” and you can literally
watch your hair growing thicker and longer and
more beautiful. You can grow hair by the
calendar —a calendar only seven days long.
A SEVEN DAYS’ FREE TEST.
Hundreds of men and women r re doing this at
the present moment. Troubled with Thin or Fall-
ing Hair, or attacked by Scurf or Premature Grey-
ness (and all greyness is premature, seeing that
Hair-DrilJ enabJes the hair to retain its colour up
to ola age), they have o itained one of the free
“ Harlene Seven Days’Hair-Drill Trial Outfits ”
(you can obtain one of these outfits yourself
free of all charge, by means of tho coupon at the
foot of this article), and at the end of a weeK
their friends have congratulated them upon the
marvellous improvement in their appearance.
You can do the same yourself. Get one of these
Trial Outfits—it will cost you nothing—and
practise “Harlem. Hair-Drill" for a couple of
minutes every morning. You begin directly
vou receive your outfit (full directions will be
sent with each), and all the rest of the day you
will be conscious of a healthy and pleasant
influence at work on your scalp and at the roots
of vour hair. v,„
“ Harlene Hair-Drill ” only takes a couple ot
minutes of the day, but its effect takes years oil
your appearance. And as after the week s tria
you will desire to continue this successful
method of Hair-Culture and Preservation, you
may like to know that further supplies ot
“Harlene” may be obtained from ordinary
enterprising chemists or stores all over the vvor
or it will be sent direct on receipt of postaj.
order (to include postage) from the todwaraa
Harlene Co., 95-6, High Ilolhorn. London,
W.C., in Is., 2s. 6d., and 4s. 6d. bottles. a
FREE TRIAL COUPON.
To the EDWARDS' HARLENE 00.,
95-96, High Holborn, London. England.
Dear Sirs,— Having read you* article on “Growing Hair by the
Calendar,” I should like to accept, your offer to send me the week's
Trial Outfit for “Harlene Hiir-Orilt ” free of charge. I enclose 3d. in
stamps for postage (to any part of the world).
NAME
ADDRESS
*
CHEAP EPITIOH of ON THE HOP!
Pkige 2/6,
Postage —N.S.W., 7d. ; other States, 1/2.
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Asstf ranee on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold “'‘ 'i
City or Suburban Properties,
- iL__ Security
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural L O- r jj^ s ® r ®*V f the Aus-
of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Tr easu r y Bills or y | NT EREST.
tralian States or New Zealand D«F“ AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF in.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege o r ®P a l'"~
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during: any year, without notice or payment of a •
TVic a vv Mnniro t p pKni. mo n • Shnnr.nr r.he Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chair
Director
Adrian Knox, E«q.. k.C.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET
rr* tir * A*r»L>T?c?r.v Secretary.
POSTAL INSTRUCTION.
Are You Ambitious?
LET US PREPARE YOU BY POST
For any of the Following Positions.
Electrical Engineer
Mechanical Engineer
Sanitary Inspector
Architect
Mechanical Draughtsman
Surveyor
Mine Manager
Mine Engineer
Mine Electrician
Incorporated Accountant
Hospital Nurse
Shire or Municipal Clerk
Shire or Municipal Auditor
Public School Teacher
Commonwealth Official
State Official
Bank Official
Chemist
Engine Driver
Forest Guard
Station Bookkeeper
Let us know what subject you wish to learn, and
we will give you Instruction by Correspondence.
SEND TO-DAY FOR DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET. “S."
STOTT & HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE,
Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
STEVENS
FAVORITE RIFLE NO. 17
Pioneer Small
All Progressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
“THE BULL’S-EYE KIND.”
Bore Arm of Efficiency. For .22 Long Rifle, .22-7-45 Winchester
R. F., .25 Stevens and .32 Long rim-fire, cartridges.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues.
12
This Man was Rescued from the Grave, and Lives.
THE MIRACLE OF RUTHERCLEN, VIC.
Cured after every Treatment Failed
with
Clements Tonic.
if YOU WISH TO BE CURED, READ THIS LETTER.
The medicine that saves and lengthens human life as
this one does; that brings back the health so long
despaired of; that proves by restored vigor and mental
energy that professional verdicts have not been fulfilled,
and that out of years of pain and suffering men and
women recover and enjoy life, surely this is the medicine
for the people in every rank and walk of existence.
People who are ill, sickly, weak-nerved, etc., should read
this letter to a great medicine. The writer can be seen
at Rutherglen any day, after being in four hospitals and
having no less than 17 medical examinations.
On 19th May, 1910, Mr. Downes again writes to Clements Tonic Ltd. :
“ I have sent my photo., as you desire. 1 wish I could do
more to advertise Clements Tonic to sufferers of ill-health, for
scores of men and women came to me the last three months
from far and near to See me, and wanted to know if Clements
Tonic cured me. lam thankful 1 can assure them all, without
fear or doubt, it has. I can say that also to the hundreds of
people who know the truth, when I was ill in Clunes, Ballarat,
Wangaratta and Corowa, and to those who had no hope for me.
But, thanks to this medicine, I am here before them all this day a
cured man. 1 wish 1 could show you in person the look of surprise
many persons have (especially those connected with the hospitals)
who meet and see me alive. / PATRICK DOWNES.”
Great Southern Consuls Mine, Rutherglen, Vic.
You will Live to a Green Old Age with the Medicine.
All Chemists and Stores sell it in Australia.


The Best
Cough Drops
Are Drops
of Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral.
Sixty years ago physicians first
used Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral, and
ever since then it has been the
standard cough remedy all over the
world. Thousands of families, in
Europe, Asia, Africa, and America,
keep a bottle of it in the house
ready for an emergency.
Mger’s
'Cherni Restored
controls the spasmodic efforts of
coughing, relieves the congestion in
the throat, quiets the inflammation
in the bronchial tubes, and prevents
the lungs from becoming involved.
There are many substitutes and
imitations. Be sure ycu get Ayer’s
Cherry Pectoral. It contains no
narcotic or poison of any kind.
Put up in large and small bottles.
prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S. A.
TEN DAYS’FREE TRIAL
la allowed on every cycle bought of ua. Tour
money in ful. refunded with ut qu. ation
If not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles 9
warranted five to ten years dcapatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
LATEST
MODE! .8
£3.10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, beat makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim brakes, variable gears
and all latcs Improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port In the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
AnTltir APE WYO wanted In each di-trict.
Mu I IVt Hutll I Q Large profits easily t- sde.
Write at onoe, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our .uecinl offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE GO., Dept. 280 Liverpool.
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Aeent,
157 Clarence Streets SYDNEY*
ELEY
UNIVERSAL
The name'Eley*
on any cartridge is
recognised by all
spor smen the world
over as a hall-mark of
excellence and reliability
The * Universal* 12-Bore Cartridge
is one of the most popular of all
*Eley Smokeless’— the popular low-
price cartridge
‘Eley 22 Rim Cartridge’— accurate
and clean
Obtainable thmugh ynur Gunmaker o* Dealt
i
Sne the j
name
Eley'
on all
i ar-
tridges
-rv~ -
w
W
Eley
Bros.,
Ltd.,
London /
H.Hiliier,
161 Qeorgre St West,
Sydney, N.S.W.,
ManvJatAiirtri-, Importer.
Sporting Sulkies, £9 10s. Abbott Baggies, solid
leather trimmed, £3l 10s. Buggies, from £ll 10s.
Governess Oarts, Phaetons, etc. Send for illustrated
catalogue. Harness, per set. £3 11s. Double Harness,
|£s 10s. Stock Saddles, £2 los. to £4 10s.
Grandmother Used
BONNINGTONS !
For over 45 years Bennington’s Irish Moss
has been the standard cough remedy. Grand-
mother used it, your mother used it, and
you probably use it yourself and give it to
your children.
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS.
There is no medicine like it for breaking up coughs and colds, healing inflam-
mation in the bronchial tubes and preventing serious lung troubles.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES —get what you ask for, and ask for
Bonnington’s Irish Moss—there is no remedy “just as good.” [3
HEALTHFUL.
ECONOMICAL..
CONVENIENT
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“ OXJR. JACK" Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. WO CUPS FOR 116.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St„ Adelaide ; Elizabeth St„ Melbourne.
THE IDEAL FOOD
for children from birth is
Horlick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constituents
in their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle. I
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infants’ Foods
containing Starch.
p
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
has been analysed by the Board ol Health and admitted
free of duty. Chemists, etc., are therefore safe in
selling Honllck’s Malted Milk, and parents are
guaranteed a suitable food for children from birth,
which contains No Stanch.
No confusion arises when you order Horlick’s, as only one kind is
manufactured, and only one is needed to feed your child. No Milk is re-
quired in the preparation of H or I ick’s as in other foods —water only.
Of all Qhemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, etc.
J Samples : 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough, Bucks, Eng.
BLED TO DEATH
NOBODY KNEW FIRST-AID.
MELBOURNE, Wednesday.
In the absence of the knowledge of the prin-
ciples of first-aid by those about him, Thomas
Howland, farmer, 50 years of age, bled to death
to-day at his home, four miles from Dimboola.
Howland knocked an ulcerous sore and burst, a
varicose vein near the ankle. His daughter
attempted to stanch the bleeding by applying
flour, but this had no effect, and he died within
10 minutes.
The above news item will serve to show how fallacious
is the opinion held by many sufferers from Varicose
Veins that they are “ really not dangerous.”
If you suffer from Varicose Veins, or have a relation or
friend who does, and if the Veins should burst, woiild you
know what to do ? Let us send you an illustrated free
book describing Varicose Veins in all their forms, the
methods to adopt in bandaging, and the course to pursue
if they should burst. This book also fully describes ihe
Veesey Method of treating and curing Varicose Veins
without operations.
To sufferers from Varicose Veins the Veesey Method of
Treatment comes as a great boon. Previous to its dis-
covery no painless, permanent palliative was known.
It cures the veins absolutely, and once cured they do
not return.
Do not fail to send for our free book, which gives full
information and particulars. Post free to any address
upon receipt of 2d. stamp. Call for free advice.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM,
104 Linden Court, Sydney,
Corner Market and Castlereagh Streets.
Lift to 2nd Floor.
[606
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirelv new —is in lact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease trom the first day’s use. No
ste 1 bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Zaw Points
/ni/entorj
BY LETTER. Reliable informa-
tion and advice on all matters con-
cerning the obtaining of Patents,
and the best means of keeping the
titles thereof inviolate during the term of grant.
If you have an invention and wish to patent it, forward
an accurate description of it, and you will receive an
answer by return of post as to whether it is patentable,
and what will be the cost of completely protecting it (in-
cluding drawings, etc.). No charge made for such report,
and all communications treated strictly confidentially.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
the “TYPHOID FLY”
DANGEROUS DOMESTIC PEST.
This is our well-known domestic pest—the
common housefly. Inaddition to being a typhoid
carrier, the fly may carry nearly all the intestinal
diseases and is the prime agent in the spread of
summer dysentery, being in this way unquestion-
ably responsible for the death of many children
in summer. The fly also possesses importance as
a disseminator of the bacilli of tuberculosis, the
danger of human infection from tubercular fly
specks being by the ingestion of the specks
on food.
It is a startling thought that a person who
drinks a cup of tea or a glass of milk into which a
fly has fallen may take into his system 1,250,000
bacilli of typhoid, dysentery or tuberculosis.
Summing up the position, the typhoid or house
fly is a general or common carrier of pathogenic
bacteria. It may carry typhoid fever, Asiatic
cholera, dysentery, cholera morbus and other
intestinal diseases. It may carry the bacilli
of tuberculosis and certain eye diseases. It
is everywhere present, and it is disposed
of with comparative ease by the use of
INSECTIBANE.
INSECTIBANE is sold everywhere, but it
is necessary to be careful to observe the spelling
of the name, as no other insect powder possesses
the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so
peculiarly efficacious.
Sole Proprietors :
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.
* >
%
*
& \ v
Free for the Asking.
<6>
m
The completest illus-
trated Catalogue and
Price List of Acety-
lene Burners ever
published in the
States. Shall we mail
it?
Sample Dozen
Assorted Burners,
Post Free, 10/«
Robert C. SwanS Co. Ltd.
304 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
“ LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm. Allays irritation.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Song of the Old and New.
The turbines on the shafting
Are whirling in their drums,
And humming as the hornet
Its lurid anger hums.
Three shafts and three propellers
A child might lift and fling,
Spin swift and soft, hard-driven,
With ne’er a rod to ring,
And not a crank to quarrel,
A-dipping in its pit,'
With thrusts that in the darkness,
Far from the riot, sit.
Steam turbines ! Ave, they’re busy,
These whirling, giddy things.
Give me a job wi’ pistons ,
And all the songs she sings 1
Maybe I’m old and foolish,
Yet think you well on this;
For forty years together
I’ve heard the slide-valve’s kiss.
We’ve stuck to the old pistons
(Long since we dropped the beam),
And think of them by instinct
Whene’er we talk of steam
Something to push and pull on.
To grip and grind and growl—
Something to watch and mother
When God’s wild surges howl.
And now, you’ve wild.wheels flying
On sixty thousand wings—
I cannot come to love them,
These queer imprisoned things.
The turbines cuddle closely
About the lean shaft-necks ;
My cylinders soared skyward
Above the ealqin decks,
A nd every stroke thrust upward,
And every blow Clashed down,
Took us so far from England
Or back towards London Town.
With every note clear-given,
And all in sweet accord,
The voices of my engines
Sang praises to the Lord.
They sang such songs as never
Were sung to sceptred kings—
I cannot love the turbines
For all their whirling wings !
The voices of the turbines
Are of the newer times,
When hymns shall be forgotten
For easy, rolling rhymes.
A lusty fighter’s challenge
We shouted to the seas—
The turbine, humming hoarsely,
Foretells the age of ease
When deeds we did ’midst thunder—
With songs for gods and kings
Shall all be done in silence —
With little, skimming wings.
S lent and swift, cloud-footed,
The man, enslaven, comes,
And lotus lands are singing
Within the turbine drums.
MAOBILAND.
WILL LAWSON.
The Doomed Man.
There came a king to Solomon.
He said : “This Earth I’ve travelled on,
I’ve traversed id from north to south
To hear your wisdom from your mouth ;
Had I the wisdom you possess
I’d be a god, and nothing less.”
Said Solomon “ ’Tis vanity—
Jeroam, flay this king for me J”
There came to Job, when he sat lone
And patient on his dunghill-throne,
An Arab chief in stately style,
With caravan that stretched a mile.
The chief said : “ Job, the people tell
That you have patience, sir, to sell.”
Job at that chief a potsherd shied,
And hit him fair ; and so he died.
When Haroun reigned in fair Bagdad,
There came to him a Dervish mad,
Who said : “ 0 Caliph, you have power
To rule the year, and rule the hour.
1 want you now to slay me straight,
Then my corpse reinvigorate.”
The Caliph flashed his scimitar,
The Dervish head went spinning far.
The courtiers said : “O Caliph sole !
Pronounce the word to make him whole.”
Then Haroun laughed : “It seems absurd,
But Allah only knows that word.”
There comes to me—God knows that I
Respect him well though he must die—
A man who says that he could weep
To see me sell myself so cheap;
A man who says : “ Could I command
Your brilliant wit and genius grand,
And literary style unique,
I would make twenty pounds a week.”
He does not seem to know that Crimes
And Virtues also, have their times;
That genius such as mine cannot
Be always fired to boil the pot.
He makes me mad—yet makes me laugh,
I’ve written out his epitaph,
My views about him to evince
I’ve heard he’s gone to Gladesville since.
REEVE ROE.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED
INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
3HS
Sis
iiiia
m
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order ; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather',
£4 15s. ; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained irom
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY,
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Touris'ts should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Bettor Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and T. C. TROEDSON,
Georg'e Streets, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
UNDER VICE-REGAL
PATRONAGE
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hairworkers and Dermatologists,
161 KING ST., SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Sts.
Transformations, from £4 4s. Tails, from 7s. 6d. Natural Hair Pads, from 21s. Fringes, from 7s. 6d.
TRY OUR. GLORIA HAIR TONIC. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Telephone 2138 Central. Country Orders Promptly Attended, To.
Welsbach Mantles
r. -J . ... '' ' . ■ • • ! I • /
area
m
SB
'■*£.**'
ss
IHSR
v-
—
fE&m
sfesS2
■O'””
30L
C#
i P
“ sS
>:«
ml
Office and Showrooms—
Welsbaoh House, Sidney,
Melbourne and Wellington.
Depots—Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle.
A much better light.
The installation of Welsbach
Mantles means an immediate
change for the better in light-
ing results. In place of the dull, flickering, defective light is given a pure, steady, brilliant light of
unequalled quality.
No other mantle gives as good a light nor lasts as long, because Welsbach Mantles are of extra
strong texture, and every part is scientifically treated with Welsbach fluid. Welsbach Mantles are
superior and more efficient in every way to the so-called “ Cheap ’■ imported mantle.
A far smaller gas bill.
With the increase in
light comes a decrease
in gas consumption. It
pays you to have Wel.sbach Mantles wherever more light—better light—is needed.
Always insist on your gasfitter, ironmonger or storekeeper supplying Welsbach Mantles—they
are Australian made, and well made at that.
LOOK FOR THE WELSBACH TRADE MARK on every mantle. It is our guarantee
to you that the mantle will do all we claim.
The Public Supplied Direct from the Manufacturers.
Being the largest manufacturers, importers and Cash Buyers of High-Class Jewellery, Watches, Clocks, Solid Silver and Silverplated Goods in the Commonwealth, we are in a better
position to supply the public and give better value than any other store in our line of business. We are determined to give our customers the benefit of our Cash System and Dealing
Direct with the Manufacturers, which means a saving of fully 10 to 20 per cent. We do not deal in sham goods. Even our lowest-priced articles are of sound and genuine quality
just what they are represented to be in material, make and finish. Write to-day for our new Art Catalogue, 112 pages, beautifully illustrated, in fine art cover. We post it free.
No. H92s9—Pearl, Garnet and Tourmaline
■ set 9et. Gold Brooch, £1 / 1 2/6.
No. D 1424 —Fine Tourmaline and 15ct.
Gold Brooch, £l/17/6.
No. J74B—Fine Pearl and Amethyst
' set 9ct. Gold Brooch, £l/10/=
No. D47l9—Fine Pmk or Blue Tour-
maline set 15ct. Gold Brooch’,
£2/5/=
_
No. J2910—-9et. Gold Brooch, set Pearls
and Green Peridot, 21/=
No. Jl9l8 —Fine Pearl and
Turquoise set 9ct. Gold
Pendant, 32/6
No. J3636—Fine Pearl and
Peridot set Gold Brooch,
£2/17/6.,
No. P7766—Fine' Pearl set
15ot. Gold Pendant Brooch,
with Diamond Centre, £l5
.No. C 4574 —15ofc. Gold Necklet, set with Fine White Pearls
Pink Tourmalines and Aquamarine, £lO.
Fine Diamond, Ruby and Sapphire “ Drag-on
Fly” Brooch, £lO/10/=
No. J 2909 9ct. Gold
Pendant, set Pearl, Pink
and Green Tourmalines,
21/*
No. C442B—Fine Amethyst and
Pearl-set 15ct. Gold Brooch,
£5/10/-
A 1
No. 04840—Fine Pearl and
Amethyst-set 9ct. Gold
Pendant, £l/17/6.
No. J2s37—Finest quality Aquamarine and
Pearl set 15ct. Gold Brooch, £3/5/-
No. J749—Fine Pearl and Amethyst set
Oct. Gold Brooch, £l/15/=
No. J73o—Fine Pearl and Peridot set
9ct, Gold Brooch, 18/6.
No. FB2S0 —loot. Gold Brooch, set with line
White Pearls, £3/15/=.
No. J492—lsct. Gold Brooch, Daisy and
Crescent Design, set with Ruby
Centre, £l/5/=
STEWART DAWSON ®, CO. (Australia, Ltd.)
Strand Corner, 4*2 George Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 31. No. 1594.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1910.
Pkick 6d.
THE CHEERLESS PROSPECT.
WADE: “If I don’t get there I’ll-drown; and if I do get there I’ll starve.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
‘'Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published bv William Maclkod. of
Musgrave and MeLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Thk Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the 00.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales. A ustraha.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK,
"TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(in A<n mine, ‘'alyl
Rev Annum ... ... ... jsl 6 0
Half.yearly ... OIS 6
Quarterly ' ’ 0 7 0
fty seiuliny direct to Tiik Bullktin Ofi.ce Twenty-Six
blnllings sterling you can have Tiik Bullktin posted
1 egv tarty to you every •week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
ohe addressed to William Maclkod, j 1 tanaging Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tiik Bullktin would ohliye the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise•
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager, 'l'o send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor. Bullktin.” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by ciddressing to persons instead of
ojhcials. The person may not be there; the oificial
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stumped letters are liable to be refused.
r The contents of this paper are copyright by the nub-
ushers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian subjects, aiul not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, $OOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs. Betters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bullktin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
lor return it ‘will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bullktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that- it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tiik Bullktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for diii kct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid fur same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, hut unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Thk Bullktin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand; anil on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and lhgby. Ltd., Adelaide—at kid per doz. nett.
Copies of Tiik Bullktin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Dutch, Ludgute Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, lid High llolborn, London. IV. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouvkr. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver , 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
(J. S. A.— lsserli.s A., Seattle, Washington ; International
hews Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
110 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tiik Bullktin metal advertising plates.size 6iin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded. on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1910.
WADE’S SHORT ROAD TO DEEP WATER.
The N.S.W. Government got safely into recess—
the last recess before the General Election—with-
out doing anything about the Closed Ports.
Having dodged action brilliantly to the last, it
fled amid an affable cloud of promises, and disap-
peared in a blaze of vague re-assurance and large-
minded theory. It suggested a cuttle-fish retiring
diplomatically amid a plausible blot of ink. A
closing episode of the session was the receipt by
Wade himself of a Western Riverina deputation,
which asked that one or two short lines should be
built in order to give the local farmers and sheep-
raisers direct connection with Melbourne, and
thus save them 200 or more miles of disastrously ;
expensive apd superfluous railway carriage. If
that deputation had been Wade’s long-lost
brother it couldn’t have been received with more
gladness. The Premier shook its hand hard, and
pulled its leg long and earnestly. The following
was part of his reply, as published by an admiring
Sydney daily, which has always supported the
present Ministry with one hand and the policy of
bringing everything to Sydney with the other :
Mr. Wade said the resolutions were comprehensive,
AND WOULD TAKE MANY YEARS TO CARRY OUT. All he COuld
do would be to speak as to the underlying questions of
policy involved. What they wanted was decentralisation.
They only opened up another aspect of the policy that
the Government had already decided to carry out. The
PRINCIPLE THAT TRADE AND PRODUCE OUGHT TO FIND THE
SHORTEST WAY TO DEEP WATER AND THE WORLD’S MARKET
WOULD BE GIVEN EFFECT TO. .. . THE TIME FOR CON-
CENTRATION OF TRADE IN SYDNEY WAS PAST. While they
had a railway terminus within 12 miles of the Victorian
border, that gap had been left (between Finley and
Tocumwal) for some years. How to connect people in
THE INTERIOR WITH THEIR NEAREST SEAPORTS WAS BEING
considered. At the same time, he would lay before the
Cabinet their requests as to local extension, which would
be considered along with THE GENERAL SCHEME. An
announcement would be made as soon as possible. “We
recognise,” said Mr. Wade, “ that the governing question
in regard to railway construction is not w hether freight
will be diverted from Sydney. Although a new con-
stmotion may lead to loss of freight in one direction by
the increase in population and production that follows
the whole State must benefit." 4
So the people of Western Riverina went home
comforted, I here was a general feeling that the
sinner had reformed, that the new era had almost
started, and that the millennium was rushing at
the farmer with such velocity that it was liable to
lun over him and tread him under foot at any
moment. Ihe Melbourne Age said Wade was
wise and statesmanlike,” and other papers made
remarks to the same effect. Yet a few months
fk U 'wT bef ,° rti , the dovvnfall °f “Liberalism ” at
the federal election suggested that the bottom
y out ?f the old game—Solemn
Lee, Minister for Works, met another
deputation from Western Riverina—a modest
little o ;putation, which mentioned that 12
miles of cheap line over a dead flat
would give a great number of N.S.W. settlers
access to Melbourne, and save them paying for the
aforesaid 200 miles and more of needless railway
carriage on their produce, and prevent them being
abso utely ruined by the curse of Superfluous
Haulage. And Solemn Lee scoffed at the appli-
cants, and said it wasn’t the policy of the Wade
Government to help N.S.W. trade to go to any
port save Sydney—and perhaps Newcastle. The
attitude of Solemn Lee was that, if Western
Kiverina or any other part of N.S.W. couldn’t
live by trading vvitli far-off Sydney, it could just
do without trading—in fact, it could go to the
dogs and the Devil and bury itself.
* * * *
That, as already mentioned, was some months
ago. It was before that dreadful 13th of April,
when the Federal election happened and the
script appeared upon the wall. It was, if this
writer’s recollection is correct, before the excited
promise of 6d. a day extra pay was made to the
N.S.W. police—the 6d. which, they say has
never yet reached them ; and before baker
McKye got half his fine remitted by Wade
without any reference to the Judge who
imposed the fine. It was long before the wild
financial upheaval, in which the N.S.W. railway
and tramway men were promised handsome pen-
sions in return for a contribution of per cent,
of their salaries, despite the fact that the break-
down of the Police Fund has shown 4 percent, to
be hopelessly inadequate for similar benefits. It
was before Jawbone Neild lost his senatorship ;
before a Labor man captured Reid’s old strong-
hold of East Sydney ; in short, it was before
the Deluge. Still, whether it was before
or behind the Deluge, the fact remains that
oOLEMN Lee laid it down that the congestion
policy was a fixed rule with the WadeGo vernment.
Solemn Lee is still a part of the Wade Govern-
ment, and his right to so define of the Wade
Government’s purposes has not been formally re-
pudiated to this day.
Wade’s attitude in this matter is that of a man
who simply yearns to open up the Closed Ports,
but who feels himself loaded down with a gigantic
responsibility. He is a cockroach carrying a
chest of drawers. He regards it as necessary to
prepare a “general scheme” of decentralisa-
tion—a great, heaven-towering proposition.
He is prepared to toil for years at build-
ing his political sky-scraper: This sort of
thing looks very earnest and stupendous
and all that sort of mullock, but there are certain
anomalies about it. Western Riverina, for
example, doesn’t want anyone to spend 10 or 20
years in building a mental device of immense
ramifications. It doesn’t ask for a labyrinth or a
colossus or a herd of pyramids. All it seeks, for
a start, is 12 miles of the cheapest possible rail-
way over the flattest and emptiest possible
country, to connect Berrigan or Finley, in
N.S.W., with Tocumwal, on the Murray River,
so as to give Western Riverina access toa market
that is very much nearer than Sydney; and though
it has received a lot of politeness it hasn’t been
blessed with half a yard of the actual railway.
It has been honored with dissertations upon
Wade’s good intentions, and these dissertations
are large enough to meet the case of a transconti-
nental line ; but one rail and a sleeper would be
more to the point. Similarly, in the North,
40 miles of line and one fair-sized pier would
enable the exports of the great northern
districts to find a cheap and adjacent outlet at
Port Stephens, unless a careful faking of the rail-
way rates made the concession null and void ; but
not one spike has been driven, nor have two-
penn’orth of wood or iron been supplied towards
that pier. The Wade Government hasn’t even
thought it worth while to alter the arrangement
whereby its North Coast railway, now in process
of construction, makes a costly semi-circle inland,
and adds about 40 miles to its length in order to
avoid Port Stephens, lest even one Closed Port
should be opened by accident. All the money
and the work and the red-hot haste are going to
prop up the repudiated policy of Congestion.
And the Congestion party doesn’t care how much
it is repudiated so long as its cause gets the solid
benefits.
At this present moment the Wade Government
is constructing new railways and duplicating old
ones with vast energy, but all the hundreds of
miles of line under construction point towards
Sydney. It has devised an extensive scheme of
railway reconstruction in the suburbs of the
capital, apparently for the express purpose of
enabling a larger proportion of the trade of the
Far North and Far South to be accommodated at
Sydney, regardless of the cost of getting it there.
It has, as already mentioned, planned out the new
North Coast railway on an immense insane curve,
in order to keep it away from Port Stephens and
drag the North Coast trade over needless dis-
tances to Sydney. It is toiling night and day to
get the Australian capital planted in the con-
gested area, the trade of which is centred in over-
crowded Sydney ; and to have the Federal port
at Jervis Bay made such a small and* re-
stricted affair that it will he useless for trade
purposes. It can find certain funds for the
improvement of certain outports, but that is in
the case of the little, hopeless bar-bound inlets
which are only capable of admitting small vessels
that have to tranship their cargoes at Sydney.
By some curious mental obfuscation the building
of 200 or 400 miles of costly new line to increase
the congestion of Sydney is a thing that can be
rushed into with very brief consideration. On
the other hand, the building of even a dozen
miles of rails over an uninhabited flat to give a
large outlying section of the State access to a
nearer port than Sydney will take “many years ”
of earnest thought and ‘hard mental digging and
prayers for more light. Wade pins his whole
soul to decentralisation ; but he makes no rash
promises to the Riverina folk. He is going to
bog in on their behalf, but he doesn’t guarantee
them anything sudden. The Closed Ports have
got a Royal Commission which drifts around
gathering evidence, and which should be able to
keep hope alive until over election day. And by
way of lending an air of verisimilitude to
the bald and sketchy narrative, it is re-
ported that surveyors, or people who look like
surveyors, are going around the disaffected
districts taking levels, or at least carrying
instruments with three or four legs and gazing
through tubes that faintly resemble telescopes.
All these circumstances suggest that an effort is
going to be made. And if the Government can
get the metropolitan vote on account of the huge
sums it is spending to prop up the policy of drag-
ging everything to Sydney, and can get the votes
of the North and South by reason of its enthusiasm
for not dragging everything to Sydney, then the
election will not go so very badly with it.
* * * *
It remains for the people of the Far South and
Far North to decide whether the prospect is
good enough and whether it is worth while to
take the bait. The Finley-Tocuimval line should
be the test of the Government’s sincerity.
I here is a gap of 12 miles to be filled in, and the
country is so easy that railways have already
been built thereabouts at the very small charge of
£216/ per mile. It would have cost less than
£26,000 to bridge the long-standing gap and to
bring a large section of N.S.W. within 180 miles
of ii port and a big city ; whereas, as things stand
to-day, the producers at that end of the district
“L l '' e pay freight on their goods over about
400 miles of railway. There isn’t even the ex-
pense of bridging the Murray at Tocumwal to be
considered, for the Murray is bridged already.
Ihe proposition is so exceedingly simple that
any Government which knew how to be a
decently plausible fraud or a decently feasible
sham would have built that scrap of dead-
level track as an evidence of good faith, even
if the line was abandoned afterwards. In the
absence of even that small evidence of political
honesty, this paper, for one, doesn’t regard the
Wade Ministry’s protestations as worth a half-
penny. It doesn’t believe that there is the
slightest intention of decentralising anything, or
of opening even one of the Closed Ports. It
places no value at all upon the gorgeous “ general
scheme, ’ which is to be pondered over for ** many
years. ’ The whole business looks too much like
an uncle in Fiji, and a frayed old uncle at that.
WADEISM ON ITS DEFENCE.
Tiik leading columns of the Sydney "Liberal”
papers continue to teem with agonised references
to the “calumny,” "slander,” and "mud” sup-
posed to have been.projected at the Wade Go-
vernment by allegedly unscrupulous Laborites.
In fact, it looks as though the ill-treatment of
blameless Premier Wade and his saintly colleagues
were going to be "Liberalism’s” main standby in
the pending unpleasantness. “Diabolical lies”
and "shameless misrepresentations” are the
phrases used by "Liberal” leader-writers to
describe most of the hostile criticisms. It is in-
variably taken as read, by these scribes, that
the Wade Government has triumphantly re-
futed the charges of its opponents and re-
duced them to ashes. But when the reader
turns from the leading pages to the news-
columns he finds that " Liberalism ” is much
less explicit. Wade, Wood and the rest are
allowed yards of space wherein to refute the
devilish libels that are represented as being heaped
on them. And yet they don’t refute worth a
deceased prawn. Certainly a tremendous show of
indignation and argument is made, but the real
issue is deftly side-stepped every time. Reliance
is placed on the frayed old controversial trick of
grabbing some utterly immaterial detail and pul-
verising that, in the hope that a chuckle-headed
public will believe, in the confusion, that a general
smashing of all accusations has occurred.
Take, for example, the Bowling jury-panel
business. In this connection someone is supposed
to have said somewhere that the Crown Prosecutor,
in the Bowling trial, had the names of the jurors
he was to stand aside "under his blotting pad.”
A "Liberal” was put up in the Assembly re-
cently to ask if it was true that he had the names
under his Uottimj-pad. “ That the Crown Prose-
cutor had the names of any jurors under his
blotting-pad is a diabolical lie,” said Wade,
majestically, and the dailies echoed the pro-
nouncement and besought Laborites to pile dust
on their heads in future whenever the words
"Bowling” and “jury panel” were mentioned
in juxtaposition. It is quite credible that the
gentleman who prosecuted Bowling didn’t have a
'ist of the jurors in the case UNDER His blotting-
pad, and there is no evidence that he had a
blotting-pad, and no one seems very certain where
the absurd blotting-pad detail started. But these
frantic statements about the blotting-pad don’t
even make a pretence of denying that he might
have had a list. If he possessed the often-
mentioned pad the list might have been on top of
it, where he could see it—not underneath, where
he couldn’t see it. The thing is a palpable side-
issue. The really urgent charges against the
Wade administration, so far as the Bowling
trial is concerned, are :
(1) That long before the case came on for hearing the
names of the jurors were forwarded by the Government
to the Inspector-General of Police.
(2) That the list was passed on by the Inspector-General
to the Metropolitan Superintendent of Police, who
(3) Caused the Divisional Inspectors to “make in-
quiries.”
(4) That the list was subsequently returned to the Jus-
tice Department together with the information acquired
by the police in regard to the jurymen.
(5) That on that inequitably-acquired information the.
Crown stood aside certain jurors.
Wade has not put up any “Liberal” jackal to
propound those vital points to him, so that he
might burst into a magnificently denunciatory
denial of them. And when the Opposition gave
him a chance to tear the damaging allegations to
pieces, he omitted to do so with great firmness,
and, instead, returned an answer so remarkable in
the matter of evasiveness that even the Sydney
Telegraph refrained from using it as a text.
* * * *
Equally unconvincing has been “Liberalism’s”
handling of the McKyk reproach and scandal.
An infinite amount of Liberal ink, energy and ver-
biage has been expended in denying that McKye,
the North Sydney baker, lived in the Willoughby
electorate. But whether the big anti-Socialist
business-man had his place of residence in Wil-
loughby, or over the border, at the time he came
prominently before the public, is of little moment.
The gravamen of the charge against Premier
Wade, and the only matter that really requires
controverting, is that—for whatever reason—he
showed a scandalous partiality towards McKye.
McKye was fined £5O by Judge Heydon for
underpaying his employees, in violation of an
award. Three months later he was found guilty of
the same offence by the same Judge and fined £l5O
—the J udge remarking that he " had deliberately
defied the Court.” Without any reference to the
Judge. Premier Wade stepped in and remitted
half McKye’s richly-deserved fine. That is the
accusation that has to be met by the Wade
Administration and its apologists, and so long as
it stays unanswered, wild howls about “ diabolical
lies ” regarding- the exact portion of North Sydney
in which McKyk resided at a given time, are of
minor importance.
* * ■* *
This tendency on the part of the upholders of
Wade to disregard the substance and battle
frenziedly with the shadow is well exemplified
over the statements that Bowling was “leg-
ironed” and Gray “chained to a notorious
criminal.” “ Dastardly ” was the way the S. M.
Herald (25/8/TO), under the heading “The Leg
Iron Incident,” denounced these allegations.
And yet they are strietlj true. Bowling was
leg-ironed, and the Government’s position in the
matter isn’t improved by “ Liberalism’s ” excited
efforts to pile all the obloquy connected with the
business on to a herd of inarticulate gaol-officials.
Also, Gray, when he complained that he was
“chained to a notorious criminal,” spoke
the cold truth and nothing but the truth.
According to the official report of the gover-
nor of Darlinghurst Gaol, Gray was chained to
five men “ all of whom had been previously con-
victed.” One of them was then on his way to do
his fourth sentence—for a very unsavory offence.
“ Liberalism ” may plead that he wasn’t notorious
in the Kelly Gang or Hawley Crippen sense,
but that technical point is hardly worth argu-
ing. This pathetically disingenuous business
of choosing an unimportant feature of any given
reproach, and loudly accusing it of being “dia-
bolical” or “dastardly,” while leaving the partof
the charge that really matters severely alone,
is too thin. The circumstance at issue is
not whether some more or less irresponsible
speaker worded an anti-WADE criticism incau-
tiously and so fell in on a small detail, but
whether, on all the facts, the Wade Adminis-
tration stands convicted of being a pretty rotten
one. One reason why the public|begins to think
it is very rotten is the frantic defence it is putting
up. Half the charges made against it would have
dropped out of sight by now if it hadn’t howled
and shouted, and produced official reports which
only made things worse; and put up clumsy
supporters to ask it silly questions to which,
under the impression that it was clearing its
character, it gave silly answers that multiplied
the original offence. A cheerful, off-hand
political pirate, when the Bowling leg-iron
business first turned up, would have simply said :
“Well, what about it?” When told that Gray
was chained to notorious criminals he would have
said:“Mebbe. I haven’t heard of it.” The Wade
Government will be remembered for many years
as the Government that Couldn’t Keep Still, It
has lost votes by its actions, but it has lost a
great many more by its explanations.
THE SONG OF THE THREE HOLY
CHILDREN.
(For further details see the Apocrypha.)
One day last week the S. M. Herald was lifted
out of the daily rut by a letter with three signa-
tures attached. The subject was “ The Slaughter
of Our Young Men,” and the gist of the parable
was to this effect:—
We, the undersigned, wish to briefly chronicle a sight
that met our eyes coming home from a meeting at about
10.30 p.m. on Friday evening. In all our united experi-
ences it is one of the most heartrending sights we have
seen. Outside of one of the most brilliantly-lighted bars
in Sydney stood a small group of youths, one about U,
one Ifi and one 20 years of age. The 16-year-old boy was
silly drunk, and blasphemous. Seeing us looking ait him,
he hiccoughed out: “ I’m 16 all right. My brother in
there (pointing to the bar) is only 14. There’s lots of
them drunk in there. Here, you chaps,” he called but,
“here’s some blokes want to see you.” At this some
seven or eight youths, one, as he said, certainlv not more
than 14 to all appearances, the others all under 20, and
every one of them undoubtedly and idiotically
drunk, came staggering out of the bar and sur-
rounded us, gesticulating and mouthing, looking,
indeed, as though they were tortured imps from Dante's
Inferno. Never has it been made so plain to us before,
though God knows we knew it well enough already, that
the public-house bar is the very gate of Hell, ilell in
this world and a bar to Heaven in the next. While these
boys mouthed round us, the sober barman, with his
towel over his shoulder, looked on with a sardonic and
unfeeling grin. One of our number went for the police,
intending to lay an information against the publican, but
the more sober of the youths, suspecting his errand, in-
duced the others to stagger off.. ..
In the face of such happenings, which must be very
common, seeing that there were over 27,000 arrests for
drunkenness last year in New South Wales alone, there
cannot be any justification for a Bishop of the Church of
England so speaking that his words and his high position
are used by every liquor-defence league in New South
Wales to support them in their efforts to maintain this
business.
Attached to this whirling document were three
signatures which purported to be those of G B
Nicholls, of Dunedin (M.L.) ; E. .J. E. King, of
Melbourne ; and W. J. Boyer, of Newcastle.
It is a thrilling yarn in its way, but regrettably
vague, like so many other pious narratives. The
dreadful event happened “outside one of the
most brilliantly-lighted bars in Sydney,” “One
of the most brilliantly-lighted 'bars in Sydney” is
an indefinite expression j .thf; ; . writers might
almost as well have spoken of “ one of the most
brilliantly four-legged horses in Europe.” Whether
they went in and inspected the gas-bitf and com-
pared it with the gas-bills Of other bars of their
acquaintance, or whether they only made a guess
at the brilliance, doesn’t appear. They don’t
give the name of the hote‘l, nor fThe name
of the street it infests ; in fact, they don’t
even hint whether it is near Circular Quay
or right up against the railway station. ffihis
reticence is over the odds. The three fioly
Children say they failed to find a policeman,
which circumstance saved them the trouble of
identifying the drink-warehouse at the police-
court next day, and going into details. They
looked for a constable, whom one might
reasonably expect to be hanging round such a
brilliantly-lighted bar in hopes of a drink ; but at
this crisis in the history of nations the intoxicated
boys fled, with their feet all t.angled up and their
mouths full of hiccups. Apparently they all
managed to take their wild and devious way home
without meeting a single cop among them, for no
news of the arrest of a he«d of squiffy infants
appeared in next morning’s papers.
* ■* £ *
The Three don’t mention that they called at the
detective office and gave information about this
shocking and public breach of tjie Licensing Act, so
that theplaeemight be watched forsitnilar happen-
ings in the future. They didn’t even follow the
herd of boy-drunks—who evidently couldn’t run
very fast—on the chance of meeting an officer of
the law on their way. In fact, they seem to have
done everything that profound inefficiency could
suggest to avert a conviction, and fn exposure of
the exact location of this den of- 4 sin. The. place
should be in a fairly busy street, for “ the most-
brilliantly lighted bars in Sydney” don’t lurk
uselessly in blind alleys, wasting the radiance of
their gas-bills. And the hour was 10.30 p.m.; just
before the theatres begin to pour forth their cargo
of gilded vice, consisting chiefly of the Woman
With a Past, and the Woman With a Great
Many Presents, and the Woman Who Did,
and the Woman Who Wanted To, and the


Girl Who Didn’t Care, and the Gay Lothario,
and the Man’s Wife, and the De-
ceiver Waßthe Forged Will in his Pocket.
Yet theMPf is no suggestion that anybody
noticed the dreadful spectacle of Three Good
Men being publicly surrounded by tortured
imps from Dante’s Inferno.” And as to why
these (flfeiths should have rushed at the Three
Good with details of their ages and the beer-
contents of their stomachs there isn’t a shred of
information. This writer has been 24 years in
Sydney, and has pursued all these years the
nefarious career of journalism. At timi s he has
gone, on the search for information, to places
that would shock the Three Good Men, who
stopped outside the brilliant pub when com-
ing home from a meeting —not a poker
party. He was on the game long before the
present very strict Licensing Act came into force,
and he remembers the old days when Sin was the
real article. Yet never once has he been rushed
with gratuitous information about anybody’s age
and the quantity of liquor that was washing around
amid the scuppers of his internals. Nor did any-
one ever call out a public-houseful of young drunks
for his inspection. He has helped some drunks
home, but he has found them morose and reticent,
and full of a firm conviction that their condition
was due to tainted fish. Some have ascribed it
to corned beef. It is alleged that there are drunks
who say they are the legitimate descendants of
the house of Valois, and that grief at the loss of
the French throne has caused the gingerbeer to
go to their heads ; but this scribe never met that
sort.
# * * » *
The barman who came out with a towel over
his shoulder and a bitter grin on his countenance,
to look on while his tight and quite illegal cus-
tomers were advertising his breach of the law in
the public street and putting the license in seri-
ous danger, is a fine touch. There are really very
few barmen in Sydney ; the selling of drink there
and in all other Australian cities, is mostly a
woman's occupation. The very scarce Sydney bar-
man doesn t, as a general thing, carry a towel over
his shoulder. The Band of Hope Review and the
British Workman (which latter is no relation at
all to the British Olayworker) depict him —or
used to depict him—in that guise ; but the towel
is not an Australian habit. Nor does the barman
go to the door, as a general thing, to do an unfeeling
grin after his departing customer; he would no
more think of it than Buckley and Nunn or
David Jones would think of keeping a special
shopwalker to turn somersaults and gnash his
teeth in fury behind the lady who has just bought
a twenty-guinea hat. There is even a lack of con-
viction about the statement of the Three Holy
Children that such terrible events “rntist be very
common, because there were 27,000 arrests for
drunkenness last year.” Allowing for 300 drink-
ing days in the year—which is below the real
figure, seeing that many people carry liquor home
on Saturday night and consume it on Sunday—
the allowance is 90 drunks per day among about
1,600y000 people. As there are rather over 3000
public-houses in the State, that figure repre-
sents one proved drunk for each pub every
days. A very large proportion of these
drunks happen on Saturday night, and about 97£
ner cent, of the offenders are over 21 years of age.
So the chance of finding seven or eight intoxicated
youths fleeing out of one brilliantly-lighted pul)at
one moment on a Friday evening is about equal
to the chance of hitting an archangel with a rifle-
ball by accident at a range of a million miles.
Ihe ordinary, every-day pagan has a profound
contempt for the wild statistics supplied by pious
folk about drink, immorality, escaped nuns, the
declining birth-rate, the machinations of Rome,
the horrors of Socialism, the necessity for filling
the country with niggers, and such-like. In this
case he would be glad if the Three Holy Children
would get down to particulars.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Very Remarkable Surrender.
Something happened to the Australian Notes
Bill one night last week—something so vast and
sudden that, when the catastrophe was over, the
painfully affable Fisher might almost as well
have put the remnants of his measure in the
basket and gone home. This is the brief and
simple report of the occurrence
On clause li, “(1) If payee so demands, a bank
when making any payment shall make the payment
in Australian notes and in the denominations'asked
for by the payee, under a penalty of £5; (-2)
nothing in this section shall compel a hank to pay
more than £25 im Australian notes in any one payment,”
the Prime Minister moved that it he struck out. This
was agreed to.
The Bulletin was moved, on more than one
occasion, to point out that clause 11 was wholly
unworkable and required amendment. It implied
that a bank, to be in a position to meet a single
£25 cheque in the way the law demanded, would
have to have on hand 50 notes of 10/- each,
25 £1 notes, five £5 notes, two £lO notes,
and one note of £2O, making in all £ll5 worth of
notes. And if it was also necessary to be able to
pay in gold to oblige the customer who wanted
that metal, then the absolutely safe reserve to
meet a £25 cheque would be £l4O. The proposi-
tion was so obviously unmanageable that it was
necessary to amend it, and the simple and obvious
amendment would have been to enact that the
bank must be prepared to pay in £1 notes—or
perhaps half in £1 notes and half in 10s. notes—
on demand, and to let the banker stock the larger
paper in an optional sort of way. The idea that
the clause would be struck out altogether never
occurred to the community even in its dreams.
The new departure is such a needless and
wholesale surrender as to be beyond compre-
hension. Unless there is still another reversal
of form the position will be something like this :
(1) The banks need not take from the State any
notes at all. (2) If they do take them they won’t
be compelled to keep them or circulate them ;
they may buy a few millions worth in a humor-
ous spirit, and give gold for them, and lie low until
three-fourths of the gold has been invested,
and until Parliament lias just gone into recess,’
and then bring all their notes back and demand
immediate coin. (3) Such notes as the banks
have to accept from the public they can send im-
mediately to the Treasury to be cashed. In short,
the Bill, after the throwing overboard of clause
11, supplied no sure means of either making or
keeping a circulation. Canada has two simple and
effective ways of doing both these things. In the
first place, it enacts that the banks must hold
40 per cent, of their cash reserves—their unused
money—in Government paper, and thereby, with-'
out in any way reducing the stock of coin -avail-
able for actual use, it creates a large and per-
manent demand for Dominion paper money. This
is the simple scheme which has been urged on
every Federal Government since the Common-
wealth commenced, with a special view to the
obliteration of the public debt, but they have all
been too blind to see the point. On top of this,
Canada creates a second demand by enacting that
any customer of a bank may demand to be paid
up to £2O in one-, two- or four-dollar Government
notes—the small currency of the country—which
is quite a different thing from requiring every
small branch to be stocked with five-dollar, 25-
dollar, 50-dollar and 100-dollar notes in addition
to keeping the necessary small change. This second
feature of the Canadian law represents the scheme
which was proposed here, but with such unfortu-
nate modifications that it hasjust been abandoned
in despair. Queensland has a third device, not by
any means of the best, yet highly humorous. It
gives the banks notes in exchange for gold, and
then puts the gold on deposit with the same
banks at low interest. Therefore, if a combina-
tion of banks came to the Government with a
truck-load of notes, and said fiercely: “Give us
gold immediately,” the Government could reply
in glacial tones : “Certainly. Drop the notes in
the corner. Here’s a cheque on yourselves pay-
able in gold ; go and pay yourselves”—or words
to that effect. All these devices recognise the
fact that a Government note-issue, if it is to
be an assured success, must have some machinery
attached for the purpose of getting the notes
out and making sure that they will remain out.
Otherwise, there may be a repetition of the experi-
ence of the Bank of England, which had its notes
bought up in wholesale fashion by its enemies, and
presented in one vast heap for immediate payment,
in consequence of which it had to practically re-
pudiate its own currency in the second year of its
existence. Of all the methods which this paper
knows, that of Canada is far the best. Unfortu-
nately, the wreckage of the Australian Notes Bill
now contains no method at all, not even a bad one.
Why the desperately polite but wholly useless
surrender to Toryism was made this writer doesn’t
know; but he has a dark suspicion that when
Deakin moved from the Treasury bench he left a
heap of his affability behind, and that Fisher has
been sitting on it.
Sundry Questions for Prime Minister Fisher.
A certain haze which lies on the political sur-
face might be partially dissipated if the Fisher
Ministry could be persuaded to define its position
as regards the proposed Canberra capital. It is
a straight and plain-speaking Ministry on most
other subjects ; but on this one it dodges with the
agility of George Reid in his younger days,
when he was long on the jump and windy on the
run and amazingly swift in getting round the
corner. So far, no one has been able to drag
from the Ministry a plain statement that it re-
gards Canberra as the best capital, or the one that
should be chosen in the interests of Australia, or
anything dimly resembling that. There are
many statements of individual Ministers on re-
cord to the effect that Canberra isn’t the best
site it has even been described as among the
worst—but there is no official declaration
that the Government as a whole supports Can-
berra because it is the right thing for the country
to do so. In fact, the care with which Andrew
IijSHER and some of his colleagues avoid saying
that they really believe in the place is almost
pathetic. Fisher’s customary method of side-
stepping the question, in order to avoid either
telling a direct falsehood by declaring his faith in
the lamentable site, or, as an alternative, giving
some impossible explanation of his position as a
man who is sacrificing the country for no visible
reward, is something like this :
The 1 lime Minister said the view of the Government
was that, rightly or wrongly, Parliament had chosen the
site of the Federal capital.
I hat explanation seems, if possible, a little more
futile than none at all. The same House, which
came “ rightly or wrongly ” to the Canberra deci-
sion, decided, rightly or wrongly, to build the
Australian fleet with borrowed money. And the
Fisher Government has just torn its naval loan de-
cision to pieces and given it to the four winds of de-
rision. In these circumstances, it is a mere throw-
ing of mud at the public intelligence to profess to
believe that the decisions of a defunct Parlia-
ment, which the people repudiated at the first
opportunity, are sacred and binding on its suc-
cessors. If that is so, there isn’t a penny to be
gained by electing a new Parliament. The
community is waiting to hear definitely
from Andrew Fisher on four points: (1)
Docs he regard Canberra as the place
that should assuredly be selected for Federal
capital purposes in the interests of Australia? (2)
If he does, why does lie find such difficulty in say-
ing so? (3) If he doesn’t, why does he deliberately
propose to sacrifice the interests of Australia ? (4)
If his only reason is that the last Parliament
settled the matter, why does he regard the de-
cision of the last Parliament as sacred in this one
instance and not in others? Of course, it is pos-
sible to reply that the Government is simply tired
of the whole business and wants to get it settled
in any old way and have a rest. Unfortunately,
the Australian people don’t pay Fisher his salary
for being tired. Furthermore, he hasn’t been long
enough in office to have any right to be tired.
Cable Services and News Suppression.
The papers that run the existing cable-vend are
taking the Australian Government’s cable subsidy
Bill badly, and their comments on the proposal
suggest a confused and maddened state of mind.
1 his is from an assault on the scheme which
appeared last Ihursday in the Sydney Tele-
graph :
Yet Mr. Pearce accuses the present Cable Association
of preventing the dissemination of news.” If it put
obstacles in the way of any paper or combination of
papers wishing to pay for cables as it does itself, that
accusation would be justified, but even if it wanted to do
this it has no power.
As to the truth, or otherwise, of Senator Pearce’s
charge, here is what Clause 11. of the Cable Asso-
ciation’s private agreement says :
Neither of the proprietaries constituting the aforesaid
respective associations shall (subject to the proviso in
this clause contained) use any European or foreign cables
other than and except the cable messages , the subject of
this agreement, and in case of wilful breach of this
stipulation by any proprietary the proprietary com-
mitting the breach shall pay to the credit of the general
fund of the cable service, as and by way of liquidated
damages, tor each and every such breach, and not as a
penalty, the sum of One thousand pounds sterling.
And any agreement to be entered into with any sub-
scriber or contributor to the service under the control of
the parties hereto shall provide against such subscriber
or contributor using any foreign or European cables ex-
cept as aforesaid.
Batchelor, M.H.R., in introducing the Bill in
the House of Representatives (17/8/10), quoted
some facts in this connection, which most of the
papers that benefit by the cable monopoly re-
frained from reporting. Colonel Reay, editor of
the Melbourne Herald, was in S’Africa during
the late lioer unpleasantness. Yet, according to
his sworn evidence before a Select Committee, he
couldn’t cable a word of war or other news to’his
paper. Happenings of the most vital national
urgency might have come under bis notice. He
could only Lave disseminated them, so far as
Australia and his paper were concerned, under
penalty of having the Herald ejected from the
cable combine or forced to pay into the combine’s
general fund, “ not as a penalty,” but “byway
of liquidated damages,” the sum of £lOOO.
If that sort of arrangement doesn’t constitute
“preventing the dissemination of news,” this
paper is unacquainted with news-suppression
when it sees it. Truly audacious is the Tele-
graph S claim that the Cable Association doesn’t
put obstacles in the way of any paper or com-
bination of papers wishing to pay for cables,”
and that “if it wanted to it has no power.”
It simply does the thing whether it wants to
or not, and whether it has power or not. There
a l re many admirable features in connection with
the Cable Subsidy Hill, and not the least of them
has reference to this very question of news-
aissemination. It is expressly provided in the
Bui that no paper which uses the subsidised
cables shall be debarred from publishing messages
received from other sources. That is to say, Aus-
tralia is not to be boycotted, henceforth, in the
interests of any arrogant Private Enterprise busi-
ness-concern, in the matter of valuable oversea
information.
The Despised Clerk.
When the Wade (N.S.W.) Government was in
its final flurry and was reaching wildly for votes
in all directions, it bethought itself at last of the
despised clerks. Wade had always refused with
contumely the request of the Clerks’ Union for a
Wages Board, and had opened the feature he
wears under his nose to state that clerks were a
well-paid body of men and didn’t require any
such consideration. Then, at the 59th minute of
the 11th hour, he rushed to placate the multitude
that sits on the high stool of commerce, and he
made the attempt with unspeakable clumsiness.
He proposed that whenever 10 clerks in the same
class of employment (bank tellers, bank ledger-
keepers, brewery clerks, lady typists or the like)
made public application to the Industrial Court,
the case of their particular class should be dealt
with. Of course, the 10 clerks would also, as a
general rule, be dealt with—by their employers—
aud unless they dyed themselves another color,
and changed their names, and started afresh!
they would find themselves on the black list for
life; Probably before the necessary 200 or so of
separate cases had been heard, and the whole
question of clerical pay and conditions fixed up,
about 2000 clerks would have become so well
known that for all the rest of each man’s
life nothing better than a junior’s or office-boy’s
billet would be available. That is taking
an optimistic view of the case; as a matter
of fact it seems doubtful if, even after all
that fuss, any single aspect of the question would
have been fixed up—it is doubtful if it would have
been, even looked at. Supposing that, say, 10
brewery clerks asked the Court to consider the
pay and circumstances of their class, and their
employers next morning put an end to their
career as brewery clerks, then they would cease to
represent the profession of beer-clerkery, and
their case would fall through. Apparently every
case would fall through on the same basis.
All this ineffable folly could be averted by
allowing the Clerks’ Union to do the work as
other unions do; but Wade had “words ’’
with the union and is apparently too boiling
mad to recognise it. Also, there seems to be
about Wade, in his political aspect, an incurable
desire—(l) to be a fly flat; (2) to sell a gold brick
to somebody,
♦
The Sieve as a Eeceptacle for Water.
Victoria’s Minister of Lands and the State’s
chief irrigation expert are at present in the Cold
Country and adjacent regions with the object of
inducing “desirable parties” to settle in Victoria
and devote themselves to the intense culture of
diminutive paddocks of 10 acres or so. The State
is indulging in this “policy” because Victoria is
a comparatively empty place which badly needs
settlers. Yet, even while the State is encourag-
ing immigration, the private landlord is encour-
aging emigration just about as fast. On August
16 the Hamilton (Western District) correspondent
of the Age remarked that 10 young farmers had
recently left that district because of their inability
to secure land at a reasonable price. All of them
had capital, one taking with him £2OOO. The
correspondent went on to explain why the
young men were leaving. In that dis-
trict, blessed with railways, good roads and
fruitful soil, no less than 2.U00,000 acres are held
by 187 people , and they will not sell. That is the
trouble. The Federal land-tax is certain to be
levied shortly; and the Argus is wailing like a
recently trodden-on cat about the disastrous
effects that the tax will have on landowners—that
it will eat up all their profits, and if they try
to sell they won’t be able to even give their
land away. Yet, when farmers with capital
try to buy a slice of their own home-land to work and
live on, the owners will not sell. Evidently the
misguided land-shark wants to wait and be ruined.
There are only 56,000,000 acres in Victoria: alto-
gether, including the far-out Mallee, the un-
touched eastern Gippsland, the mountain country
and snow-clad ranges of the N.E., and the acres
of streets and roads and playgrounds, and the
Hamilton golf-links and polo ground ; and 187
individuals hold 2,000,000 of those few acres.
And they will not sell. So Elwood Mead
and Minister McKenzie are urging the
eager settlers of Europe to corne out to an
empty land—empty because its sons are being
driven away—and settle on 10 acres apiece !
The Man Next Door.
Dear Bulletin, —Would it not be possible to
abolish the person mentioned above —the cove
alongside, the adjacent bloke, the individual
next door? It is in the agricultural sense that
he makes most trouble? The Melbourne Age
recently drew attention for the blankth time to
the fact that in very many parts of Victoria there
are now much fewer farms than there were 10
years ago, or 20 years ago, or 30 years ago. The
reason is that the • missing farms have been
absorbed by their neighbors; and where there
were formerly 20 or 30 of fair size, there are now
seven or eight that are bloated. This sort of
thing is going on constantly all over Victoria,
and it is the same in N. S. Wales and S. Aus. It
happens anywhere, whether the district grows
wheat or cows or potatoes. Every bucolic seems
cursed with an insatiable land-hunger, which
impels him to buy his neighbor’s farm, even at
the most extravagant price. To do this he
piles up a mortgage debt until he can’t see
over it; and he works his family until the
skin wears off their hands and feet. In nine
cases out of 10, when a farm is auctioned, the
buyer is the man next door. Of all the blocks to
closer settlement, this one is the worst. It is
such a bad one, indeed, that many years ago the
Danish Government passed a savage Act forbid-
ding any man from holding more than one farm,
with the result that to-day Denmark (which is
only a spot on ordinary maps) is a nation of
farmers, and exports more farm goods in a week
than Victoria does in six months. All the efforts
of Parliaments to break up the large estates will
be futile unless something is done to make them
stay broken up. At present, no sooner is an
estate broken up than it starts to grow together
again. When legislation on the Danish plan is
proposed, however, there is a howl raised that
transactions in land will be rendered difficult; and
those who do the howling seem to believe that,
when this is said, argument must cease. But, so far
as the welfare of the nation is concerned, these
transactions can be made much too easy. Specu-
lation in land is one of the pests of Australia.
The speculator adds nothing to the value of the
soil; he only battens on the farmer. It is plainly
to the advantage of the Commonwealth to have as
many families on the land as possible; and the
present system gives such shockingly bad results
that it is high time something new was tried,
The simplest way might be to make it illegal for
one man to hold more than one farm, only the
trouble is to say what is a farm ; and under those
circumstances a stiff progressive tax, rising
rapidly, may have to be relied upon. It may fail
in some cases ; but its tendency will be right all
the time.—Yours, etc., E.R.
Re-appearance of the Derry Swindle.
Last year, at a reunion at Clifton Gardens, near
Sydney, the N.S.W. Orange Lodges decided,
over a friendly anti-Papal scone-and-milk, to
forego Toryism and turn democratic. The Bul-
letin forecasted at the time, in an article headed
“ Too Good to be True,” that the lodges wouldn’t
be allowed to. The rank and file of Orangeism
are working men, but the people who exploit and
run the agitation are mostly Methody and Pres-
byterian parsons. Like the rest of us, they have
their livings to get. The big church-money doesn’t
come from the laboring classes ; they haven’t got
it to give. It has to be snared from affluent
business men who regard high wages as an out-
rage on the face of Nature, and the “ march of
industrialism ” as a movement to be hindered with
an axe. They are the folks who pay the piper, so
far as the chapels they patronise are concerned,
and they have a clear right to call the tune. Ac-
cordingly, they call it, when so disposed. That is
why the local organ of DiLL-ism, which first
announced to the world the impending democratis-
ation of Orangeism, was forced, last April, to bolt
suddenly into the Tory camp and print this slan-
derous doggerel concerning the aims of the Labor
Party :
You know that Socialism would
O’er social ruin gloat,
Dishonoring- all sacred ties,
So don’t omit to vote.
All Christian men have heard
Their creeds and faith decried ;
Have heard the Gospel teachings jeered,
The Gospel truths denied.
You know the Socialistic hound
Springs at Religion’s throat,
Till every man indignant stands —
And every man must vote.
That, also, accounts for the following item which
appeared in the Sydney dailies last week :
Dr. W. M. Dill Macky, president of the Australian
Protestant Defence Association, unfurled the Protestant
banner at the Protestant Hall last night, and in a fig hying
speech urged every Protestant in New South Wales to
vote for Liberals at the coining elections, and so return a
Protestant Government to power.
Are the Protestant workers of N.S.W. going to
be such tragic idiots as to follow Dill’s advice?
Protestantism in N.S.W. has no more need of a
“ Liberal ” Government to keep it alive and on
top than it has of a Seventh Day Ad ventist or
Choctaw Government. In a State where three
out of every four inhabitants are non-Catholics
the Protestant faith is in no more danger than
His Reward.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Junius" writes: “As one of the public, I took a
gre&t interest in the late strike, and advocated through
the Press staunch Liberalism, and that the laws be
upheld. I did more than this, helping to unload Govern-
ment coal. This was done under inexpert Government
officials, and with some danger. I sustained slight in-
juries in the course of my duties, but escaped luckily.
Some men refused to unload that coal, saying it was
‘scab.’ These men were given other work to do, and are
kept on, whilst I, who stuck to the Government, am dis-
regarded. The crux being passed, lam forgotten. lam
forgotten, more shame to the Government.... The
Labor members avow preference to unionists, but in
whose interest stands the Liberal? This question has
yet to be answered, or one vote at least is lost.”— Sydney
Evening News.
It is an ancient story :
When strife and trouble came
He stood by anti-Labor,
He played the Tory game,
And urged his fellow-workers
To rise and do the same.
His fellows mostly didn’t;
In fact, each blessed morn,
They came and watched him toiling
With unaffected scorn.
’Twixt grief and rage and pity
His loyal soul was torn.
Acquaintances sheered off him
In an amazing way ;
His old-time friends’ displeasure
Grew plainer ev’ry day.
He only smiled benignly,
And blithely drew his pay.
Meanwhile—although his fellows
Indulged in common sneers,
What time he vindicated
His principles—those jeers
Were salved with Lib’ral wages
And Lib’ralism’s cheers.
And so his days passed brightly
And profitably, till
The strike collapsed, and workers
Streamed over flat and hill.
And, taking jobs, got busy,
And grafted with a will.
“Free-labor ” stock, abruptly,
Experienced a slump.
The Loyalist’s employers
Acquired a sudden hump.
Later they gave their helper '
In firm, crisp terms, the bump.
That Loyalist’^.condition
To-day would make you sob ;
To beg he is uliable,
He lacks the nerve to rob.
Ho stands forlorn, divested
Of cash and friends and job.
N.S.W.
M. SAFRAN.


TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets. Chemists
refund money if it fails to cure. E. W. GROVE’S signa-
ture is on each box. 1/1 A.
Adams Tattersall’s Hotel,
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
4k
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD.
are the People for
msr
Moving Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney—3B6 George Street; Melbourne—266 Collins
Street; Brisbane—93-95 Queen Street:
Gawler Place : Perth—Tillys’ Photo. Stores.
A Dry Cough.
lv My little boy, 18 months old, suffered from a
dry cough for some time, and we feared it would
settle on his lungs,” writes Mrs. Jessie Wood, 89
Darragh Street, Kangaroo Point, Brisbane, Q.
“We tried cough remedies, but he received no
benefit till we used Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery,
which cured him.” Price Is. 6d. and 3s,*
bruiser Jack Johnson would be in a contest
with George Reid. To claim support for a
party in N.S. W. because it is Protestant is as
asinine as it would be to claim credit for
a dog: because it wore hair. Political parties
in N.S.W. are as naturally and inevitably
Protestant as dogs are hairy. And yet to pre-
vent the materialisation of a “ Catholic Govern-
ment”— a contingency about as likely as the
arrival of an entirely bald Newfoundland tripe-
hound—the laboring classes are calmly urged to
vote against every one of their material in-
terests. They are urged to vote for the continu-
ance of a coal-monopoly that has done damage to
every wage-earner in the community ; for rotten
lands administration, for more borrowing,
wild-cat superannuation schemes, dogged oppo-
sition to every national project that is
mooted anywhere, and countless other horrors
of the sort. And all because the wealthy
men, who buy leading Orange fanatics body
and soul, reckon that these things are going
to benefit their banking accounts. The Orange
toiler who is unable to see the strength of such
tactics and act accordingly deserves tube bumped
violently off the highest wall in Derry, and then
solemnly drowned, in full regalia, in the Boyne.
The Wheat Victoria Grows—and Doesn’t
Grow.
A whoop of joy arises in Victoria because the
estimate of Laughton, Government Statist, is
that there will be 287,000 more acres under wheat
in 1910-11 than there were in 1909-10. The figures
are:—
1909- 2,283,562 acres
1910- (estimate) .. 2,570,600 acres
Increase .. .. 287,038 acres
The cause of this big spread is to be found in the
high prices which were paid between last harvest
and seed-time, and which are hoped for in the
coming season. People who are fond of the mul-
tiplication-table sort of argument are already
pointing out that with a 10-bushel yield and four-
shilling wheat this will mean in round figures
another £500,000 for Victorians to spend next
summer. Other very venturesome persons are
saying that the 287,000-acre increase is a Sign
that no breaking up of the big estates
is needed, since Wheat, is spreading so vastly
without the aid of any land-taxes or area-limita-
tions whatsoever. This audacious statement leads
directly to the viscera of the subject and the en-
trails of the argument. The part of Victoria
which is hungriest for wheat, and is given
only sheep, is the Western District—the place
where you can drive for a day and see nothing but
the big landlord’s fences, The whole of this por-
tion of Victoria, which contains nine counties,
with a total occupied area of 6,600,000 acres, has
only one wheat-growing county—Ripon. Out of
the vast increase of 287,000 acres under wheat,
the Western District supplies only 19,000 acres,
or one-thirteenth of the total. It is practically
all in Ripon. The other counties simply remain
awful examples. They are the homes of the
wheat which Victoria doesn’t grow. Their
lugubrious story represents not the half-
millions sterling which Victoria gains, but
the half-millions sterling which Victoria
loses. Consider the fertile county of Gren-
ville. For three years (1907-9) it averaged
19 bushels of wheat per acre wherever it grew
wheat, or nearly twice the average Victorian
yield through the same period. But it never had
10,000 acres under crop. Hampden, a county
which yields grain almost as richly as Ripon,
never had 5000 acres under crop. Of all occupied
lands in the Western District, less than 5 per
cent, is devoted to agriculture; the rest is for “pas-
ture and other purposes,” the chief “other pur-
pose ” being unproductive idleness. This Western
District is practically one-fourth of Victoria.
Outside Ripon (and largely in Ripon also) it
remains a sheep run instead of a wheat field.
If the blessed squatter even squatted intelligently
something might be forgiven him, but his
ignorant and incapable way of squatting aggra-
vates his offence. Victoria makes a mighty poor
showing with, its sheep. In proportion to its
size, it doesn’t possess nearly so many as little
countries like Bulgaria, Bosnia, Servia and Herze-
govina, though in these places sheep-rearing is a
a mere side-show, and is never considered, as in
Victoria, a staple industry. As a solemn matter
of fact, Murray’s State ought to turn half its
sheep-lands into agricultural areas, and grow a
darned sight more sheep than its present total on
the other half. But that desirable result is never
likely to he attained under the system of big
holdings with no cultivation, and big squatters
with very little cultivation.
The Banker’s Halo.
One morning, last week, The Bulletin’s mail in-
cluded two pamphlets glued together by an acci-
dental drop of sealing-wax. That sealing-wax
dropped better than it knew ; for one pamphlet
was on “The Dangers of a Federal Note Issue,”
by Clement H. Davis, president of the Incor-
porated Institute of Accountants, Victoria; and
the other was an “Unauthorised Biography of
Joseph Ward, Premier of Maoriland,” consisting
mainly of a resurrection of Joseph’s connection
with the J. G. Ward Farmers’ Association, and
the J. G. Ward Farmers’ Association’s con-
nection with the Colonial Bank of Maoriland.
In Mr. Davis’s pamphlet The Bulletin read
once more that the only people to be trusted to
issue paper are the private banks ; and then, from
the other pamphlet, it got this idea of how trust-
worthy private banks can be :
Letter prom the “Invercargill Branch-Manager op the
Colonial Bank to the General Manager.
Dear Mackenzie,— The Ward Farmers balance on the
30th insc., and Mr. Ward proposes drawing his own
cheque for £40,000 on that day and handing the amount
to the Farmers’ Association till Monday, 2nd July. I
presume the transaction will be in order. We must not
show all the overdraft to the public this time, as there
ARE TOO MANY TIMID PEOPLE ABOUT AT PRESENT.
And then this :
From the Genf.ral Manager to J. G. Ward.
My dear Ward,—l intended to show you the enclosed
letter. ... I have not replied to it fact is, I
cannot—but I have no objection to your wiring that
you have seen me, and I have no objection to the
matter being arranged in the way indicated.
So by this juggling the Farmers’ Association
was shown by its balance-sheet to owe the bank
£40,000 less than it actually did owe, and the
bank was also shown to have lent the Association
£40,000 less than it actually had lent. The reason
was frankly stated by the bank manager :
We must not show all the overdraft to the public this
time, as there are too many timid people about at
present.
In other words: “We must throw dust in the
eyes of the public, otherwise they would come to
us for their money, and we couldn’t pay them.”
Under the circumstances, Mr. Clement TT.
r, » or some other large authority
might possibly follow up the pamphlet on “ The
Dangers of a Federal Note Issue ” with another
< i ne , o “ “ T h e lagers of a Private Note Issue.”
And if .he hasn’t got the history of the Colonial
Panic of Maoriland to refer to, Thk Bulletin will
lend it to him. It needn’t lend him Mr. Henry
Gyles Turner, for Mr. Hknuy Gyles Turner
followed Mr. Davis, and congratulated him on his
paper; and Mr. Henry Gyles Turner can give
him simply invaluable information on the abso-
lute impeccability of bank paper.
♦
Ihe Fisher Government introduced another
Navigation Bill last week, with the pretty cer-
tain knowledge that the bulky thing cannot be
got through this session. In fact, it will probably
be necessary to get the Constitution amended before
the Bill as it stands can become law at all. Under
those circumstances it seems desirable that one or
two matters about which there is very little con-
troversy should be cleared up by a short, separate
measure. The most pressing of these matters is
the better protection of the white crew. On the
east and south coasts of the Commonwealth the
Australian trade between ports is already reason-
ably well secured to the Caucasian. The ship-
owner, at any rate, must pay white men’s wages,
even if he employs colored crews, and he naturally
doesn t employ colored crews on those term.-..
But between the Australian ports of the mainland
and the Australian ports of Papua the white crew
is st l II subject to cheap colored-labor competition.
Ihe Australian Government insists upon white
crews when making its mail contracts ; yet while
it pays in that way for the encouragement of
white labor, its laws allow the cheap colored
person to defeat the Government’s own inten-
ds. In if the law remains like that,
and “white” carriers are insisted on in
mail contracts, the Government will have
to pay more for the mail services. Hitherto,
when there has been no cheap colored labor
competition to speak of, the “ white” vessels have
had what trade there has been, and the Common-
wealth Government has been able to make mail
contracts at fairly low rates in consequence. But
if cheap colored labor is allowed in, it inevitably
will grasp most of the trade ; and then the Aus-
t rail an Government will have to pay such large
subsidies as will enable white ships to be run
practically for mail purposes only. That is how
the matter stands from the Australian Treasury’s
point of view. From the Australian seaman’s
point of view, the matter simply is that he is up
against the competition of men whose standard of
living is low and whose pay is appalling ; and
that means a tendency to cut down the white
man s wages, with a gradual shrinkage of the
amount of work available for him even then. This
is a matter which could very well be dealt with
apart from the large and intricate questions
raised by the Navigation Bill.
Sundry potato-growers of Victoria are wailing
piteously because their guardian angel, the State,
remorselessly quarantines districts where Irish
blight has been observed, and compels them to
practise cleanliness and honesty in other ways.
Vet the Statistician shows the value of State
supervision. Neither Queensland nor N. S.
Wales has had the same superintendence in spud
matters that Victoria has been blessed with, and
Tasmania has had practically none at all. Here
is the result:—
Production of Potatoes in Tons.
Victoria. Tasmania. N.S.W. Queensland
1907 .. 166,839 182,323 114,856 15 830
1908 .. 135,110 145,483 55,882 13 177
190!) .. 152,849 121,605 71,794 ll’nso
1910 .. 174,970 73,862 68,000 n’,ooo
In 1907 Tasmania was the leading potato pro-
ducer. Since then Private Enterprise has got in
its work, and to-day Tassy doesn’t produce half
the quantity that its State-supervised competitor,
Victoria, does. It is the old story of the Cumber-
land county (N.S.W.) orchards over again. Left
to himself the short-sighted, opportunist grower
speedily runs his industry, his mates and himself,
into a bog of disease and ruin ; and when State
supervision ensures-cleanliness, health and pro-
sperity, he wails because, like the pig he loves, he
may not return to his wallow.
«
Melbourne Leader, which ought to know better,
scorns the idea of a duty on motor spirits and
benzine
So far, the only discovery of oil-bearing mineral
deposits which have any commercial value is at Lith-
gow, in New South Wales. Large deposits of shale exist
there which produce a very inferior illuminating oil, and
unsuitable for motoring on account of the excessive
quantities of sulphur which it contains. The presence of
sulphur is injurious to metal, and for this reason the
spirit so far produced is, in the opinion of motorists, un-
usable. An import duty would not, therefore, assist the
development of this shale deposit.
Twenty years ago the same Stinking Fish yarn
was told about Australian coke. It was soft, it
was full of sulphur, it couldn’t support a furnace
charge, and if it could it would spoil the metal.
So Australian smelters had to pay as much as £5
per ton for German and other foreign coke. Then
old George Dibbs said “ Damchicago!” or words
to that effect, put on a duty, and said
there was more to come if that lot wasn’t
enough. To-day Australia imports no coke
whatever, but exports some, and the cost
of production has been so cheapened as the in-
dustry has expanded that last year the average
value at the works was 13s. sd. per ton. One
result of that cheapening is that tens of thousands
of tons of ore, which once couldn’t be mined at all,
are now being smelted in Australia. What Aus-
tralian kerosene shale is capable of hasn’t been
really proved yet; but, at any rate, over £2,200,000
worth has been mined in N. S. Wales alone, and a
vast quantity of it—prcbably the bulk of it—has
been thought so well of by foreigners that they
have dragged it to their countries for treatment.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Orchid.”
" OTAI ' “Sweet Nell of Old Drury.”
Criterion “ The Arcadians.”
J IVOW Rickards’ Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
i-iTCEDM Spencer’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess Theatre “The Third Degree.”
Her Majesty’s “La Boheme” and “ Carmen.”
Royal “Pete.”
“ When London Sleeps.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West's Palace West’s Pictures.
Athenaeum Hall Taits’ Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarhjm Ice Skating.
+
Fred Leslie is still orchid-hunting at Her
Majesty’s. Incidentally, he continues to blast the
matrimonial hopes of Meakin ; also he rattles his
feet in a clog-dance that has nothing to do with
the case, but scores just as much applause as if
'ri Were P e ° on w hich everything hangs.
Ihe part that Leslie’s limber friend Percy
used to take in “The Orchid” is this
time in charge of Colin Campbell ; the
hrst-timer makes a good enough Comte Raoul de
Cassignat, who mixes fire-eating and orchid-
hunting, and in the end wages the sanguinary
duel with Meakin. When it comes to that part
the co. just lets itself go, and the broad fooling
produces the loud laugh of encouragement. “ The
Orchid bloom doesn’t last for ever ; but there is
as yet no sign of a wilt on the countenance of the
present vegetable.
MIS S RUBY RICH, a brilliant Sydney pianist,
who is making a big success in England.
Photo, by L. Turgill, London, W.C.
Every night for the past six weeks
William Cromwell’s aeroplane has collapsed and
flung him into Arcadia, and by the look of things
Cromwell could go on sustaining this accident
till aeroplanes grow as safe as perambulators.
The Criterion show is booming, and the.end of it
is not in sight.
There will fye a revival of “ Sweet Nell of
Old Drury ” at Sydney Theatre Royal next
Saturday, with Nellie Stewart in the rdle she has
made famous. To-night (Thursday) and to-
morrow Australia’s favorite actress appears in
“When Knighthood was in Flowet.”" Sweet
Nell will be on view for but three nights from
Saturday, as she is booked to leave for a tour of
Maoriland early next week.
** * *
That “a little widow is a dangerous
thing” is evidently the belief of the writers of
“ Bad Mrs. Bennett,” the four-act farcical comedy
produced at the Standard Theatre (Sydney) last
week by Mr. J. C. Lee and Miss Agnes
Chambers. Not that Miss Ella Crone, who
played the name-part, is little in stature,
but she has seductive little ways that
make men abject. The writers hit upon
a clever and original idea in making the husbands
of six women who are “friends” and traducers of
charming Mrs. Bennett become managers in the
millinery and frock shop which the moneyed
young relict opens in London for fun. Opening
is by invitation, and to it gather peeresses, and
into it comes music, vocal and instrumental.
Mrs. Bennett parades in fashionable masterpieces
in the way of gowns and hats, and all except
the six jealous wives (who come to sneer and re-
main to cry) are delighted. Instead of sympathy,
their husbands, now turned shopmen, offer to sell
them hats at ever so many guineas, and charmeuse
and laee. Their hysterics are pardonable; but
bad Mrs. Bennett, after she lias frightened
them thoroughly by threatening to ruin a
firm in which their moneys are invested, be-
comes good Mrs. Bennett, and marries Brian
Lindsay, “her darling of a manager,” and pours
more gold into the firm. Thus all ends happily.
Mr. Lee played well as Mr. Gore-Jones, one of
the aristocratic shopmen, and the six girls who
were the jealous wives seemed highly delighted
with the fun of having a stage husband to worry.
Miss L. Stammers and Mr. J. D. Stephen were
the interpolating singers, and Miss Agnes Cham-
bers conducted the Playgoers’ Orchestra. The per-
formance was given to a crowded house in aid of
the District Nursing Fund.
The Raymond Trio, who iMjk banjos and
step-dance vigorously in evening Weiss, have come
back to Sydney Tivoli fora brief farewell season.
The fair-haired sister dances like Spring, and the:
fluttering coat-tails of the two dancim* brothers,
who part their hair so beautiful]®!) create a
pleasant draught for the perspiring orchestra
and the people in the reserved stalls, who feel hot
enough for iced drinks when they remember that
the extra booking fee of one shilling has never
been lifted by the management. Apparently,
nothing less than a 12-inch shell will shift these
barnacle-like extras once they fasten on to the box
office. The ten acrobatic Kremos, whose work
requires no gilding, provide the big turn ; and
Mrs. Yeamans Titus, Tom Dawson, Olga Grey
and the Australian Dartos lend valuable assist-
ance. Unless the management changes its mind
in the meanwhile, De Lyle and Brunin will
whistle for a taxi on Friday night.
** * *
At the Palace (Sydney) West’s are show-
ing the salvage operations at the resting place
of the lost Dunbar; the picture suggests to
parents, when considering the question of what to
do with their boys, not to make them divers.
Then the docking at Cockatoo Island of the
Powerful reveals exactly where that ship is weak.
But what a sight the great prow is! “The
Punishment of the Samurai ” holds its tinted
way through the flowery land of old Japan
—a beautiful thing. Another sparkling, pro-
duction is a comedy of two French comedians
entitled “Female Tenacity.” A comedy of
comedians is generally a thing to make angels
weep, but this is an exception. Nellie Stewart’s
campaign on behalf of the Radium Fund should
prove popular. The prominence given by West's
to local subjects is highly commendable, and
when the public has grasped the habit of expect-
ing to see the chief events of the week on the
screen, the appetite should prove a lucrative one
for the picture people.
** * *
At Spencer’s Theatrescope, at Sydney
Lyceum this week, one strikes a programme which
kicks back and leaves the beholder dazed. For
the first time the Sydney laity has a chance to see
how public opinion is formed, and when the shock
is worn out there will probably be a revolution.
Yankee forests in which men fell timber to be
made into paper flash across the screen, and
the paper turns to wood while the audience
looks, and then swiftly changes to public opinion.
But the film gives the show away bv hammering
home the fact that the average daily is one man
shrieking one lie with 60,000 voices in one hour.
It is a serious problem whether this sort of
thing should be allowed. Leaving the news-
paper office, the audience is whirled through
a Bavarian tour, and Koenigen seems to
be the sort of place where one could have a
pleasant time with the right brand and a nice
girl. Thence one passes to the Black Belt of the
U.S.A., among the members of the Klu Klux
secret society ; then back once more to London*
the real living London of everyday. It’s a fine
jamboree, and brightened up with the intermit-
tent appearance of wild “comics.”
* *- * *
The semi-grand opera season at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) has been proceeding very pros-
perously as regards the front of the house, and
vicissitudinously behind the scenes. Last week’s
advts. were emblematical of the uncertainty of
earthly life. One never knew what next day’s
newspaper was going to bring forth. In the first
place, “ Carmen” and Bel Sorel were announced
for the Saturday, with certain alternations of
“Boheme” and “Carmen” to follow. Then
“Boheme” and MariaPampari weresubstituted for
the Saturday bill, with other alternations to follow.
Then the last of the future dates was withdrawn
from the advt., and it was said that Amy Castles
would make her first appearance in “Bohhme”
on Thursday of this present week, with Reginald
Roberts in the tenor part. Finally, the Saturday
audience, which came to hear Pampari in
“Boheme.” learned that Amy Castles was about
to be substituted for the uncertain Italian lady,
whilst Blarney, who had not previously been
mentioned in the matter, would take the tenor
part. Wh.ich sudden re-arrangement proved
satisfactory enoilgh.
* * * •>
The Bulletin complained of “Boheme”
in Sydney that it was a combination of incongru-
ous elements—a queer medley of tongues and
mannerisms. Saturday’s performance in Mel-
bourne was, at least, a wholly and completely
English translation of the Italian opera, as far as
it mattered. One of the principals had an Italian
name, yet he produced no striking evidence that
he wasn’t born in Melbourne, London or New
York. For the rest, they were frankly foreign to
the story; but the voices of the two Australian
songstresses,. Mabel Batchelor (of Sydney) and
Amy Castles, were in sweet sympathy with the
music as a rule. Amy Castles sings some of the
Mimi part with more warmth and color than she
ever could pu t into the Butterfly music, whichseems
not quite congenial to her tone and method.
Always pleasing, she was comparatively less suc-
cessful in the delightful duet in the first act than
in after numbers, and was never sweeter than in
her subdued singing of the death scene, ft was
here, too, that she nearly achieved the—to her—
impossible effect of a sick patient in need of
tonics. A capacity for quiet composure is her
most valuable asset in an acting part. The little
she does is done slowly and unaffectedly. Of
course, there was no suggestion of the consump-
tive, shrinking Mimi in Miss Castles’s appear-
ance at any time. She looked at first like a
buxom, comely maiden aunt who had walked
leisurely out of a Jane Austen novel. She was
never like the character she played ; but seeing
that the other members of the co.—with, perhaps,
the exception of the vivacious Miss Batchelor as
Musetta—were never like the characters theu
played, and that the sound of the music (not too
well managed by the orchestra) and the solemnity
of the final tableau were the main strength of the
entertainment, Amy Castles may be said to have
saved the occasion with flying colors.
* * * *
The non-appearance of Pampari was a dis-
appointment to all who had seen or heard of her
capital performance in “Butterfly”; but Mel-
bourne by this time ought to be always prepared
for the gentleman who comes before the curtain
at grand-opera times to announce his sorrow re a
hitch in the arrangements. In this case the
gentle stranger was Henry Bracy, and he spoke
his lines very nicely. As regards what will
happen at Her Majesty’s between now and the
end of the season, The Bulletin supposes that it


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, ' 293 George Street, 'Sydney.
BEWARE OF PNEUMONIA.
If you have weak lungs you have reason to fear
pneumonia, and should keep at hand a bottle of
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. It counteracts
any tendency of a cold or attack of influenza to
result in pneumonia. It always cures,.and cures
quickly.*
Advice, if good,'l’ll always take,
From one source or another ;
But I have always found I get
The best advice from mother.
When I have got a cough or cold,
She tells me to procure
The medicine that shifts it straight away,
And that is Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure. *
SJr.TB- Altars (DiA-i %
Mexican Walnut Stain ||
Wsshab. C
;andaT3EdhStety33axinless.
iNoDe^raminewithout the sig-
nature of Alfred Ardley
(fßesisteral).
will be “Bojieme” and “Carmen,” unless the
last-named opera gets suddenly indisposed.
* * *
The fact that Melbourne concert singers
of repute are not necessarily endeared to their
fellow-citizens by long absence was shown, in the
case of Mary Conly and Walter Kirby, at the
Town Hall last week. Both were well known as
promising young artists when they left Australia
a few years ago, and both have come back much
the better for their foreign training; but the public,
seemingly, is not bent on making them great pro-
phets in their own country. Mary Conly, nowa-
days, is round and matronly and older in appearance
than her age ; but she has a winsome face and a
deportment which is a lesson to ladies who are
not sylph-like. Her fine voice is round and
mellow, the tone suggesting a sweet apple rather
than a luscious plum, and her ringing top notes
are exciting events. She is an oratorio prima
donna who can also be tenderly expressive
in ballads. Walter Kirby has expanded from
a simply-saccharine tenor with falsetto pro-
clivities into a robust, celestial type of
warbler, who might he mistaken for an Italian
if he were not a diminished edition of Phil New-
bury in appearance and volume of voice. Coming
alternately, the forcible soprano and the gentle
tenor are equally interesting. Fred Beard plays
their accompaniments cleverly, whilst Victor
Biisst supplies solos on the piano, and Du Boulav,
who is cold and correct, does likewise on the
violin. A final concert is announced for Saturday.
m* * *
Last Saturday afternoon, at the Town
Hall, the Vic. Professional Orchestra (80 strong)
was conducted by Slapoffski through a programme
of six items, the longest of which was Mendels-
sohn’s lively Italian Symphony. It was an after-
noon off for Wagner, Beethoven and the Russian
genius whose name suggests an attack of influ-
enza ; but Weber, R. Strauss and Liszt were
there, and a Scandinavian stranger named
.Tarnefelt chipped in with a quaint little
piece that sounded like a train of poetic thought
jaunting through a tunnel. The feast of music
ended at 5 p.m., so the company, not being over-
fed. were in the mood to applaud heartily at the
finish. Melbourne is to hear further from the
V.P.O. next Saturday week (17th), when Herman
Shrader will conduct, and the winter will be
sufficiently dead to admit of “ Midsummer Night’s
Dream ” music being introduced.
* * *
Of the three melodramas now raging in
Melbourne “ The Third Degree ” takes the high-
est degree, hot that it is less actually unconvinc-
ing than sufch penny-novelette dramas as “Pete,”
but because the characters are mostly a huriian
array of contrasts, and the happenings, in spite
of their falseness, are naturally attached to the
characterisation. Besides, “ The Third Degree,”
like “ The Lion and the Mouse,” professes to ex-
pose a scandalous misuse of power by persons in
authority in the United States. The grains of
truth in these awful indictments of foreign govern-
ments are w.orth thinking about. They have a local
application. Australia has not yet had experience
of a police system whereby blokes are worried
into confessing crimes they didn’t commit, but it
knows of policemen who would work the system
if they could. Also, it is full of girls who can
picture themselves as heroines, like Miss Kath-
erine Grey, arid fancy themselves shining in a
similar style of conversation. All things con-
sidered, the wonder is that “The Third Degree”
doesn’t pack the Princess’s instead of merely
drawing fair houses. This is Agricultural Show
week, however, and business should be brisk
everywhere.
*# * *
Pete continues to nurse his woe and dandle
the prevailing baby at the Royal. Hall Caine’s
adaptation of “ The Manxman ” is the last pro-
duction of the season, and the end of its senti-
mental journey is not yet.
*# * *
Apparently “The Work Girl” proved too
hopeless' for even the uncritical patrons of Mel-
bourne King’s; anyway, it was withdrawn on
Saturday and replaced by “ When London
Sleeps.” This lurid farce is a popular old
offender; but having entered into its own recog-
nisances to appear for 12 nights only, it may be
dismissed with the usual caution. As a drama it
is the same patriarchal bun of sin and saintli-
ness, sprinkled with currants of comic relief and
buttered with the pretentious discourse of
George Cross. George is the hero of the
perversion, and appears as a circus gladi-
ator running to flesh. His job is to evince
his love for Queenie Carruthers —Queen of the
Slack Wire or something—and besiege her shell-
like ear with tender piffle. Miss Duggan is a
Queenie who seems to be sacrificing jauntiness on
the altar of avoirdupois. Miss Wilton is the
infamous Hilda Corrode, whose name suggests
/that she is something convincing in noxious acid ;
and Albert Bailey is at one time interesting and
even entertaining. Roy Redgrave impersonates
the villain who scoffs at the mighty and sneers at
the meek. Among his other misdeeds he poses as
proprietor of a rather bluish den furnished with
cigarette smoke, gilt furniture and champagne,
and understood to be a house which demands a
visit from Judkins. The supernumerary popula-
tion of the resort, however, give little suggestion
of being debauched or otherwise lively. Apart
-from their clothes and thick complexions, they
might pass for a coroner’s inquest discussing a
corpse.
** * *
The Opera House this week is a popular
place of holiday resort; where nien' with' agricul-
tural whiskers are getting much to be thankful
for. Powell and Vesey, who talk back at one
another, are recent arrivals; also Travis, the ven-
triloquist,. is about again ; Whilst Cronin and Co:,
Gracie Grahame, James, Bluett and his famous
boy scouts, and half a dozen other people remain
as before.
* * SK- *
At Spencer’s Olympia, Melbourne, “ A
Child of the Ghetto” makes the strongest appeal
to the sixpenny multitude. It is a heart-wringing
tale of an orphaned girl, who suffers dreadful
vicissitudes, but finally captures a simple man
who bathes her face in kisses. “ Percy, the Cow-
boy,” is a piece of Wild West extravaganza;
while there is a certain stealthy satire in the
poignant story of “ Bonehead’s Mistakes.” The
yarn covers the adventures of a charming noodle,
who hugs the delusion that a woman loves him.
In the end he learns, of course, that his delusion
is the only thing he can hug.
** * *
“Musette’s Caprice,” a picture in Tait’s
Melbourne programme, strikes one as a delightful
skit on the fashionable charity, of the moment y
whilst the film o.f “Giovanni de Medici” will
probably pass as a page from mediaeval history.
It is an extravagant narrative of love and war;
but the love is more convincing than the war.
The strife appears to suffer from ennui, possibly
because the warriors are hampered by their
ponderous armor.
“the THIRD DEGREE)’ AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
George Bryant as Captain
Clinton.
Howard Jeffries, sen
(Winter Hall).
“The Bad Girl of the Family,” making
its trial trip at Adelaide Royal, is an odd mix-
ture. Barring the che-ild (unaccountably absent)
it drags in all the old and popular properties,
The interest is chiefly domestic. Only one man is
killed, and that is practically an accident. But
we have the bedside prayer, the" marriage with a
veiled bride, the wrongfid accusation, the prison
escape, the sailor hero, and the final arrest of the
villain on the unsupported word of an accomplice.
The author (Fred Melville) is not afraid of dupli-
cating his effects. There are two weddings, two
revolver episodes, and two bedroom scenes; but
these last are quite Discreet, the rather lurid
hints of the contents-bills not being realised.
Good audiences are welcoming a second week
of this curious work, not worrying even when the
heroine remarks casually to a prisoner in Dart-
moor Gaol: “You’re needed badly outside.
Here is money. You’d better escape.” (And lie
does.) Miss Nellie Fergusson is the Bad Girl,
though mostly she is the usual persecuted heroine,
except when she has suddenly to say she is bad,
so as to be prayed over. Diver is a thoughtful
villain ; and from the rest J. P. O’Neill stands
out as a rich and humorous Jew. Butone marvels
when, slightly wounded by a single revolver-shot,
he appears with the top of his head tied u[y an
eye in a shade, and an arm in a sling. That
bullet must have scattered a lot ! At the Tivoli
is Mendel. It is a good and suggestive name for
a music-maker, and should reasonably be followed
by Beet, Hand, Chop and Moze. There are lots
of musicians that could safely be called Moze.
Arthur Adams is in Adelaide for the first pro-
duction, by the Literary Theatre, of his new play,
“ The Wasters ’’—too late for notice this week.
The humorless Women’s Political Asso-
ciation is opening its annual “ Parliament ” in Mel-
bourne this* week. This year the Parliament is to
be run on non-party lines under the direction of
Vida Goldstein, who has elected herself “Gover-
nor-General” and “Speaker.” As G.-G. Vida
will refuse to sign any unsuitable Bills, and as
Speaker she will be empowered to summon her-
self, as Sergeant-at-Arms, to eject any member
who refuses to apologise.
Samuel Lyons, who died atLeura(N.S. W.),
on August 24, aged 84, was a Sydney native and
son of the Samuel Lyons who 70 years ago built that
Lyons’s Terrace wherein doctors and dentists still
roar. Samuel, junior, was the last but one left of
the members of the reformed Parliament of 1859 ;
the very last is Lyttleton Holyoake Bayley, who
represented Mudgee and was Attorney General in
the Cowper Ministry (March to October, 1859).
Bayley will be kept in memory by Deniehy’s
“ Hbw I became Attorney-General of New
Barataria.” He is now a retired Indian High
Court Judge.
Judge Heydon kicked a large hole in
Wade’s Industrial Disputes Act on August 27,
when a trades union official applied for leave to
prosecute his employer for dismissing him from
his employment, because, said complainant, he was
secretary to his union. In refusing leave, Judge
Heydon stated the Act required that, before an
employer could be proceeded against, it must be
proved that the employee was dismissed solely
and Only because of his official connection with his
union. If such connection was but one reason for
the sack, or if the employer discreetly did not
give any reasons at all, he (the employer) could
not be prosecuted. So it would seem that if an
employer charged a man with being a union
official and a polygamist or cannibal, he could dis-
charge him witn impunity. Which seems to show
what a really beautiful Act Wade succeeded in
drawing up one way and another.
“ Capstan ” inspects the flagship with a
view to purchase :
Went down last Saturday afternoon to Cockatoo Dock
to see what the Powerful looks like out of water. The
big, grfiy, narrow-flanked ship, seen bone-dry and void of
men whilst standing bolt upright in the gigantic stone
basin, isn’t nearly so impressive as when swinging at her
moorings in Farm Cove. The dry dock exposes her lack
of armor with a terrible frankness that almost amounts
to impropriety. The frail lady-o’-war should never be on
view to the people who pay for her' upkeep without the
green skirts of the sea to cover her understandings. At
some points she looks just about as strong as a Sydney
ferryboat. I would like very much to buy the Powerful
and turn her into a cruising houseboat for paying guests.
I would reserve the quarter-deck for my own use, and on
moonlight nights I would hire a Dago street orchestra
and take her outside the Heads for a full-power spin. It
must be a blissfulexperience to sit and smoke on that toy
balcony which overhangs the stern, whilst the cruiser
lopes like a greyhound over a black and silver sea.
AT POVERTY POINT.
A great gulf of 7J years is fixed between the
Mr. Kirby of to-day and the gentler Walter who
sang to Melba in Melbourne at the time of her
first “starring'” tour. Walter Kirby was one of
the many who sought the diva’s vote and interest,
and, after he had got his cheque from a testimonial con-
cert, the brainy artist and business woman met him at a
Toorak gathering, and heard him sing. “You’ll do,”
said Melba ; “ there are some pood notes in your voice,’
and Walter blushed accordingly. “ How much money
have you got?” asked the practical Queen of Song;
to which blunt question Walter murmured the amount of
his resources. “ Ye-e-s ” said Melba, in a reflective com-
mercial tone. “ It’senough.” Then she talked a little more
with the lady-like young man, and promised him some
letters of iiitroductibn, and Walter sidled off like a
student who had passed his exam. 'Whatever assistance
he may have receivid in: advice and recommendation
from his masterful country-woman, Walter Kirby can
take credit for having followed his own natural bent.
His ingratiating manner has developed into an unassum-
ing airof self-possession. Mrs. John Madden summed up
the achievements of Toorak’s former protOgO, ere his re-
turn to Melbourne last week, in the solemn declaration
that “Princesses have played his accompaniments!”
But Walter doesn’t seem to have tattooed the names of
any royal accompanists on his chest. Perhaps because
he is neither a meek supplicant for adoration nor a
posing Sassietv pet, his patronesses of yore didn’t swarm
up and wave their handkerchiefs at his first re-appear-
ance.
When the “Arcadians” co. returns to Melbourne to
open in “Tom Jones,” there will be a new prima-donna.
Miss Winifred O’Connor is to make her first appearance
hereabouts as Sophia in the musical version of Fielding’s
naughty old novel. Also, Tom Craves, brother of George,
is engaged for comedian parts. Meanwhile, a second
Clarke and Meynell comic-opera co. is being fixed up by
Meynell in London, and the chorus has had a first muster
in Sydney.
The Clarke and Meynell firm is shaking things up. One
of the incoming people is a “beauty” baritone, Frank
Lincoln by name, whose charms are expected to appeal to
the direct female successors of the women who doted of
yore on Charley Ryley and Wallace Brownlow, and were
subsequently enamored somewhat of the egregious but
melodious Paul. Ecstatic admiration for a new beauty
baritone has been saving up, so to speak, for many years.
The others are now dim, sad memories. Ryley died in
the ’9o’s of last century ; Paul came to a tragic end not
very long afterwards; and poor Brownlow, at latest dates,
was said to be dying in America, under another name.
So the new man, when he comes with all his alleged love-
liness thick upon him, will have pathetic interest added
to his fascination. The girls and older ladies (some of
the matured ones are the worst) will tremble for his
health. Like the vicar in “ The Sorcerer,” he will be
able to sing “ And when I coughed, they thought the end
was near.”
“0.K.”: Mendel, the blind pianist, who is quite the
most remarkable musical “turn” that Rickards has in-
troduced to Australia, left Melbourne last week for
Adelaide, and from there he will return to England,
where he has engagements for a long time ahead. The
trouble with Mendel in Sydney and Melbourne was that
his unique talent didn’t interest a sufficiently large pro-
portion of the audiences or make itself evident to the
great bulk of them. His piano-playing is not a brilliant
entertainment for even musically-educated people in a
big building; and his dreadfully uneloquent “lecturer”
gives none of the facts al?out the blind man which are
most impressive. Mendel lost his sight in his babyhood,
Otherwise he would undoubtedly have been a great
executant of the music he has learned by heart. He
carries all of Beethoven’s compositions in his head, and
is almost note-perfect in Chopin, Mendelssohn and other
masters. Given a wholly musical atmosphere, he can play
many classical pieces charmingly, whereasinthe presence
of a varietv-show audience he can only do it, mechanically,
to order. His memory feats would be much more effec-
tive if he were tested by enquiring strangers from the
audience, instead of being left to take his tests from the
Rickards orchestra conductor. Under these chilly con-
ditions Mendel never gets properly “ nerved up.” He is
himself a composer, and his friends credit him with fine
original work ; but thus-far he has not been put in the
way of easily getting his own pieces recorded. The only
satisfaction he can draw from performing in public is
purely mercenary. He has a few thousands to his credit
already, and looks forward to’ being able to retire on a
very solid income, when he will relieve his mind of the
necessity to play “Annie Laurie,” etc., in imitation of
a street organ. These are some of the facts that ought
to be embodied in the discourse of the man who leads
the blind pianist on to the platform, but are not.
“Vic.”: The Salvation Army has just abandoned its
second-largest Victorian barracks—the building in
Ooventry-street, South Melbourne. This well-known big
place was built by pawnbroker Mendes as a theatre in 1878;
and it has become a theatre again, after the Salvos had
kept the Devil out for 27 years. The last thing play-
acted there in the old days was “ The Octoroon,” and it
has been the first acted under the new management.
Plays are now given one night a week, and the eternal
biograph fills in the rest of the time. So once a week
Salem Scudder declares that the camera can’t lie, and
the rest of the time the implement casts grievous doubts
on its own veracity.
“ Melb ” : An old friend turned up, or, rather, rolled
down, at the Melbourne Guildhall last Saturday night.
This was the beautiful drop curtain painted by Habbe in
1872 for the opening of the Opera House, and shown
there for a number of years. It is a replica of one Habbe
did previously for the Victoria Theatre in Sydney. There
is the familiar cobalt sea, with elegant galleys ; a marble-
pillared palace ; white, rolling clouds, and a Turneresque
sunset. Habbe was so proud that he wrote his name on
it. This curtain dropped in front of Lyster’s grand
operatic productions. On its first night there was the
comedy of <f London Assurance,” with Mrs. Gladstone
-and plain Bill Holloway in the cast.
“Jack Caul”: The piano-punching maniac-in-chief of
M.L. is now Miss Devereaux, who beat all previous records
recently by playing continuously for 64 hours at the Ex-
change Hall, Christchurch. The former holder of the
champion straight-jacket declares, however, that he
could have played on for another 20 hours, which would
have made his time over 80 hours. I move, in order to
conclude all arguments, that the entire list of endurance
performers be placed before a row of pianos—one piano
to each crazy loon—and started off simultaneously to
play until they fall off dead, the last man or woman alive
to take tbepadded cell and the side-bets.
One of the most, joyous days for the male inhabitants
of Wellington (M.L.), during- the carnival of anathema and
cheers through which “The Girl from Rector’s” rioted,
was that upon which Grace Palotta sold by auction, in
the Town Hall, seats for the Hugh Ward co.’s matinee
performance in aid of the Children’s Hospital. But they
paid for their fun. W’ith her most man-catching be-
witcheries (and Grace has a whole outfit of them) the
auctioneeress faced her victims. “ Now, gentlemen, how
much for these two seats, B 21 and 22, dress circle ? ”
Clamor immediately, mostly in shillings. Shillings were
no good to Grace. Bending down familiarly, with
that charming, d able eyelash droop of hers,
to a gay youth, Grace would point her hammer
with the following remarks: “Mr. —er —er ?”
“Smyth,” the youth would simper. “Of course; Mr.
Smyth” (as if she had gone inotor-waggoning with him
by moonlight). “ Did you say twoguineas ? ” What could
the poor man do? Hugh Ward was alongside him by this
time, holding out his hand for the boodle, the eyes of
the multitude were upon him, and the eyedroop was
running down his back like the warm water they pour
over you in the Ottoman Wash. “Certainly,” says
Smyth; “but I : , I mean, yes, two guineas.”
Then it was Browne-Jjones’s turn, and he got th'e effect in
the same place, and saw Hugh Ward’s dipper held
towards him simultaneously. The people were a bit
scared at first ; they’re not used to paying for seats with
guineas in Wellington, and they had never been so close
to the eyedroop before. But soon they got t > like it,
and when the Maorilander gets the hang of a game he’s a
good sport. The night the Ward season closed, the
Mayoress’s fund for the Children’s Hospital had bounced
from practically £0 to £5OOO.
In the old Colonists’ Homes, at Melbourne, closing a
long and honorable stage career, is Mrs. Gladstone,
widow of Edward Gladstone. Husband and wife were
engaged by George Coppin in England, and were for
many years inseparable at the old Melbourne Royal,
in Brookes’s time. In the cottage allotted to her the old
lady has the company of two daughters, and at over to
still finds the world isn’t all gloom.
SWEET NELL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mummers come and mummers go ;
Each short season closes ;
Time, that rules the passing show,
Withers all the roses.
Dainty lips that kisses flung,
Eyes of sweet beguiling—
Stars that twinkled bright and young—
Dose the art of smiling.
Dainty limbs in satin hose
Through the limelight glancing,
When enriched with adipose
Grow too stiff for dancing.
One and all they take their way
Toward the silent places,
While the ever-changing play
Calls for newer graces.
Only one still rules the show,
Joyous, young and clever ;
Mummers come and mummers go,
She keeps on for ever ;
Still she holds the hearts she won,
Careless who comes after ;
All Australia’s happy sun
llipples in her laughter.
N.S.W.
D.M.W.
Art—or Words to that Effect.
About the most that can be said for this year's
exhibition by the Royal Art Society of N.S.W.
is that it is an improvement on last year’s, which
isn’t anything to shout about—or even have a
Jimmy Woodser about —seeing that last year’s
show could hardly have been much worse. But
the large number of Atrocious Efforts of pupils
that covered the walls in 1909 has been consider-
ably reduced this year, and the committee is here-
by reprieved for the time being. As a result of
this pruning the general effect is calculated to
suggest to the casual visitor that in 12 months
the Society has made surprising progress.
But, unfortunately, a closer study of the walls is
less cheering. The young-horse talent moves
slowly at the beginning, particularly in Australia,
where the opportunities of skilful training are
few ; nevertheless, there are signs at the Royal
Art Exhibition that, in one or two instances, the
animal will get into the straight sooner or later,
and, in that, well-wishers of Australian artist.-,
must take their satisfaction for the minute, brac-
ing themselves with the knowledge that those who
have already got clear of the ruck are going at a
steady stride.
The trustees of the National Art Gallery have
purchased five canvases from the exhibition, of
which R. J. Jackson’s portraiture in oils,
“ Maidenhood,” will come in for most discussion.
Whatever may be thought of the picture as a
general result, there can be no question as to the
delicacy of color scheme and the purity of
detail. It is the only oil that was bought, which
is hard luck for Norman Carter, whose striking
full-length study of a girl in dull mauve, entitled
“ A Low-Toned Harmony,” deserves a place in
the national collection. Outstanding effect in
oils is also obtained by J. S. Watkins in “The
Baris Hat,” and by Rose MacPhersonin “Roses”
and “Still Life.” There is nothing technically
truer in the exhibition than the work in
these three pictures. W. Lister Lister has
his usual large canvas of the usual large
stretch of country or bush or ocean. Thi-
time it is “’Mid Song of Birds and Insects
Murmuring,” and it is as'good as others he h; 8
done; also it arrives at about the same point,
although it is different locality. The Bulletin
would cheerfully buy Mr. Lister something wet
if he would paint “ Cow Leaning Against a Tele-
graph Pole,” or “Politician Fleeing From En-
raged Populace,” or “Interior of an Empty-
Hogshead.” J. S. Watkins also hangs a very-
large picture, “The Doll,” which would have
been better for another 12 months in the cradle.
A number of the paintings in the oil section suffer
severely from want of light, and the worst
feature of this is that the bad positions
have been handed out to the wrong artists.
Out of the 30 odd black and whites, the trustees
of the National Art Gallery bought one—“ The
Apple Cart,” by Jas. A. Crisp. It was the pick
of the bunch, as was “The Verger,” a charming
miniature purchased from Bernice Edwell.
In the water-color section—which carries better
merchandise than the oil section —the trustees of
the National Gallery got a bargain in Dattilo
Rubbo’s “ A Moroccan,” at the catalogued price
of 15 guineas. It is one of Rubbo’s best head-
studies. Another fine study of his is the man
with the eye-patch in “ Derelicts ” (oils). The
only other water-color to receive the trustees’
seal is from the brush of B. E. Minns—“Crepus-
cule,” a half-light picture of a beach whereon the
Fish-0 homeward plods his weary way. Minns
has three or four small water-colors on view,
but “ Crepuseule ” is easily the best. James
A. Crisp may take it that he can produce
life-like magpies; and A. J. Fischer can be assured
that he has no idea of painting a picture that is
representative of “Under Blue Skies.” His
picture of that name might with equal reason have
been entitled “Under Two Tombstones.” All
the same, it is, from some points, creditable work.
And there are others worth mentioning—two or
three of Lister’s, C. N. Worsley’s, John W.
Tristram’s “ In the Half Light,” “ A Study ” by
lone Bennett, a sketch by Nessie Tindall,
a coupie by Albert J. Hanson, and a head
by Doris M. Williams. There are a number
of others of equal merit or very near
it, and if they feel aggrieved at not being men-
tioned they can put it down to any reason but
uncharitableness. The writer would cheerfullv
purchase all the canvases if he could, and give the
most of them away to his friends who buy high-
art American copies of beautiful, haughty ladies,
wearing after-dark hats and horsetail eyelashes,
spurning tame willie-boys on the banks of the old
Swanee. There is no picture in the Royal Art
Society’s Exhibition but could teach a great artistic
lesson if so distributed ; and although the writer
cannot himself carry out the suggestion, he offers
it as a going concern to Humphrey Oxenham or
some other philanthropist.
The exhibition will remain open until further
notice.


By Special
Appointment
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS,
MOONEE PONDS,
VICTORIA.
THE .CATERER, Tel. >'n, 2, Ascot.
Wedding 1 Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental tines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE. . f
Ring up No. 2 Ascot, and make'an appointtfient, when
our Manager will, cali and give all details.
Three little maidens coughing tog-ether,
Out in the street, in the wintry weather;
Coughing long, and coughing strong,
These three little maidens tripped along.
Said the first : “ I’ll try some Syrup of Squills.”
Said the other : “ I’ll get some of father’s pills.”
Said the third : “ I’ll buy Woods’ Peppermint Cure with-
out fail,”
And she is the only one living to tell the tale.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W, COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
£2OO
IN CASH.
A SPLENDID OPPORTUNITY
TO USERS OF ...
ENSIGN ROLL FILMS
FOR AMATUER PHOTOGRAPHERS ONLY.
Full Particulars on application to
HARRINGTONS LTD.
Photographic
Dealers,
SYDNEY —386 George Street (near G.P.0.). BRISBANE—93-95 Queen Street.
MELBOURNE —266 Collins Street. ADELAIDE —Gawler Place.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
PARLIAMENTARY.
The Speech from the Thrown.
m, , , , ... . , ,
ihe best description of the scene at the
wreck of the Dunbar, whose anchors and other
>e ongings are now being dragged up from just
outside Sydney Heads, was given by George
lornton in a letter to the S. M. Herald. He
was Mayor, of Sydney at the time, and took charge
of the recovering of the bodies. The following
extract from Ins letter shows that the George who
ive own to a few tears ago possessed a sort of
Zolaesqne power to picture what he saw.
learned volunteered to go down and send up some of the
mangled corpses now and then lodging on the rocks be-
neath us ; now a trunk of a female from the waist up;
now the legs of a male, the body of an infant, the right
arm, shoulder and head of a female, the bleached arm and
extended hand, with the wash of the receding waters,
almost as ’twere in life, beckoning for help. Then a leg|
a thigh, a human head would be hurled along, the sea
dashing most furiously, as if in: angry derision of our
efforts to rescue its prey. One figure, a female, tightly
clasping an infant to the breast, both locked in the firm
embrace of death, was for a moment seen ; then the legs
of some body would leap from the foaming cataract
caused hyth -receding sea Raping wildly, with feet seen
plainly upward in the air, to the abyss below, to be again
above' a ' n tOSSed ° P t 0 the pape ° f lh<? sorro ' vin » throng
The Mayor was very proud of that piece of litera-
ture. “ And I did it without the help of the town
clerk, too,’’he nged to s„y.
The Rev. Sinclaire, a prominent parson in
the Melbourne community, has given the intoler-
able Judkins something like a jolt. Recently
Jud. was making the usual vague remarks about
some of the things he had seen or imagined on a
nocturnal prowl, when Sinclaire rose up and
spoke:— .
While he entirely agreed as to the seriousness of the
subject, he felt strongly—and a great many other people
felt too—that the purely* repressive policy which seemed
to be the policy of the Social Reform Bureau was mis-
taken.. . . He did not agree with putting a measure in
force if it would have the effect of striking at the helpless
and the weak. A few helpless women, who had not the
money to escape, would be arrested ; there would be a
great deal of talk ; nothing else would be done. They r
would go down into the slums; they would set the law
in motion against poor weaklings. What else would they
do but set the law in motion against a few who had suf-
fered enough already? He believed they were over-
looking the root of the matter, and were ignorant of the
economic sources of the trouhle. It was said they were
afraid to tackle the real source; that they strained at a
gnat while they swallowed a camel. He ‘felt that there
was a great deal of truth in that. He felt that the get-
ting up at a meeting and detailing a number of disgust-
ing episodes which cam - ? under their observation was
doing no good. What weye thevgoinsr to do? Had they
ever thought of raids atToorak? Of looking into the
morals of members of their churches ? Of asking how far
the employers of labor were concerned?
To those pertinent and pleasing questions Jud-
kins and co. will never furnish satisfactory
answers. For they are essentially “class”
moralists. With them it is Bill and ’Liza, in the
parks, who do all the sinning.
'* * * *
The doctor’s yarn :
When are Australian women going to rid themselves of
their mediaeval ideas of Asiatic gorgeousness and luxury
as exemplified in the Indian or Afghan’s home ?
“ Wonderful, thick-piled carpets deadened the lightest
footfall. A languorous perfume was heavy in the room,
and the rich silken hangings were thick with gold
work! ”
That’s the averasre dreamful maiden’s idea of a dusky
lover’s bower. In reality—a perfume as of two dead cats
perfumed the stale air of Nadir Singh’s house as I recall
it. Nadir Singh was a wealthy merchant, but a cheap
line of dingy art muslin festooned those of his windows
which looked on the street. Those which looked on his
own back yarfl; a species of large rubbish dump, were
content with very yellow fly-specked newspaper. Cover-
ing on his floors there was none, save the trodden-in
dirt of years, and the grey fluff was piled high in the cor-
ners. Every window was shut, though the day was
warm ; and under and over the cat-perfume the ancient
faint whiff of “ the East ’’ crept in sickly thickness to the
nostrils.
Nadir Singh’s white wife was very sick, and her hus-
band seemed to resent the fact. The,bedroom where she
was coughing her life out ought at the least to have had
some last touch of tawdry magnificence about it. But it
wasn’t even tawdry—it was awful.
There were two ramshackle bedsteads, whereci the
brasswork of one was green, and the enamel-work of the
other was chipped and grimed. An indescribably dirty
valance hid the floor beneath. A couple of blue-painted
brass-bound chests served as dressing-table and wash-
stand.
But the woman on the bed was the worst object of ail.
Racked in her pain and misery and shame and dirt, there
was a grin on her lips that wouldn’t come off. So lorn’-
had she smiled to the order of Nadir Sine-h that now she
could not help herself, and her face was a horrible
mockery of mirth. And opposite her an elephant-
headed god and a woman astride a tiger with a bouquet
of snakes in her hand, mocked her back from a setting of
snakes and cows and flames, all in a srreat gilt frame, the
only clean object in the room. And over the woman’s
head, all askew and defiled with flv-specks, a thorn-
crowhed Saviour’s face looked sadlv down.
That was about the saddest thing I’ve seen. And of
such is the Kingdom, of Color.
The shipping fraternity threw up its col-
lective hat and cheered, last week, when a tired
wind-jammer blew np to
Sydney Heads. The winged
snail was the ship Verbena
and it had squandered 145
days in wafting itself from
London to the front door of
Port Jackson. Adverse winds
and currents had made the
voyage one long crawl, and
the Vulture of Monotony
had roosted untidily on the
yard-arm for nearly half a
year, only waking once a
day to flop into the cabin,
and tear a leaf off the calen-
dar with his evil beak.
The one and only incident
of the long, long pilgrimage
was the death of a sailor
from heart disease-under-
stood to be the favorite
trouble of frenzied finan-
ciers and others who live
in a constant whirl of ex-
citement. Senile decay or
the sleeping sickness would
have been more in keep-
ing with the circumstances. Some people die
awfully unsuitable deaths.
The Victorian Statist has been looking
into his phthiais fi Kureß , and filldsthatof
ad , dt ma , B victims whose natnes got into tlie
death-registrar’sbooksin thepast sixnionthsnoless
than 22 per cent, were miners. Among this class
there were three times more victims than amonc
other people. There is not another big industry
j n Victoria so deadly; and as the mines get
dee per, and the air and ventilation get poorer,
the job not only becomes deadlier but still worse
paid. Yet it is a business that the State is always
ex P ee ked to give special help to, and when the
papers report that 2d wt. of gold has been got at
three-quarters of a mile or so below the surface
everybody is expected to feel as though Vietori-i
LT.bwhfJ. 7 i, -1 1C ! tO .” a
’ <IC baA ,ino *^ er P©AOOck 8 feather put in its tail.
A WAKING DREAM (5.30 a.m.).
MILKO: “ Pint , sir?"
PARSON WITH THE JUG (huskily): “ Yesh—with a (hie) dash.”
“ Hal ’ : Another prophet has turned up
in Maoriland and has commenced foretelling
disaster in a hoarse voice. Maoriland is great on
prophets. Rather more than a decade ago a seer
calling himself Eugene made a sensation in the
land of earthquakes. The long-haired liar an-
nounced that the isles were shortly to be demo-
lished, and his affrighted followers hastily packed
up their aggregate carpet-bag and fled with him
to the interior of Africa. There Eugene left them,
a forlorn assemblage of lost cranks deposited on
the damp grass in a strange, lion-haunted land,
and started for the Cape en route to America.
What he profited by
the game was never
accurately k n o w n.
Some of his followers
walked back, and the
rest are either there
yet or else they wan-
dered further into the
interior and were run
over by flocks of hip-
popotami. The new
fresh prophet has ap-
parently announced
himself as the Messiah,
while a local man, who
has joined him, is in
business as John the
Baptist, and instead of
being shoved into a
boiling spring, these
dervishes are gather-
ing followers and
doing good business.
There is no law in
the country to keep
out prophets and other people who raise Cain or
the dead, and Joe Ward refuses to pass one for
fear a genuine prophet should arrive to lead the
inhabitants to the Golden Shore. That is about
the only place where Joe could collect enough
money to pay off the public debt, and it would be
hard luck to nrss it through some Customs officer
chasing Peter or John or any other authenticated
disciple into the sea as a prohibited immigrant.
The Victorian railways are so hard pushed
for rolling-stock for the fast-increasing suburban
traffic that Tait is now dragging out of the dust-
heap some of the old, long-discarded Hobson’s
Bay dog-boxes, and is repainting and labelling
them “First-class ” in place of the “Second-class”
they used to be. There is a rumor to the effect that
Tait can’t see the good of building new carriages
merely to get them smashed ; but it probably
springs from an ill-tempered source.
Port Adelaide had the scare of its life last
week. The steamer South Africa took fire, with
300 tons of explosives on board. It was in its
proper place, by the powder buoys; but it was
thought that a blow-up would pretty well smash
l he Port; so word was sent round, and all the
Sunday-evening congregations were hurried out
of church—not that they could do much except
go home, get the baby out of bed, and camp in
the open till the roofs fell in. Finally, nothing
happened, because the flames were got under.
AT THE ART SHOW.
MRS. SPOTS.: “ They say his picture fairly screams
for recognition. ”
STOUT GENT: "Dear me! I've heard of speaking
portraits , hut had no idea his art was so far-
reaching.”
Subsequent opinions seem to hold that the town—
d stant about 2k miles from the scene—would
have sustained nothing worse than broken win-
dows.; but there cannot be two opinions about the
bravery of the firemen, harbormaster, and such
of the crew as stuck to work and did the Casa-
bianca business; wherefore the grateful Port is
getting up a reward fund.
MORE REVOLUTION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The legislation introduced daring- the last two months
has proved that the methods and objects of the Labor
party are revolutionary. —Melbourne Argus (SS/SI'IO).
There is no blood unon the stones? No battered skulls,
nor shattered bones
Are scattered round? No sound of groans is heard, nor
widowed women’s moans?
Not yet does bloodstained Labor gloat to see, in floods of
gore afloat,
The sacrificial “ Liberal ” goat? No panic-stricken nose
can note
A smell of carnage in the air, nor eager gaze discover
where
Red fingers, twined in wisps of hair, have grabbed their
communistic share ?
With “ Liberal ” gore no swords are wet ?
Courage ! —there may be carnage yet!
No screaming, reeling rabble fills the streets, and busts
the banker’s tills ;
No fear of frightful torture kills fat Tories, white about
the gills ?
No crimson rivers roll along beside the kerb? No crim-
son wrong
Is fathered by a blood-stained throng, roaring a loud,
rude, crimson song ?
Not yet preposterous Fat has flown to seek the ranges,
on his own,
Lest he, defenceless and alone, be torn hind-leg from
limb and thrown
Among the tnob, their rage to whet ?
Keep on ! —there may be carnage yet!
No, no ! —not yet the mad mob waits outside obese Damn-
Labor’s gales,
Amass of grim, assorted hates, prepared to hang him,
with his mates.
But still, the revolution’s on ! The safety of stout men
is gone,
Though still the Socialistic John tramps by, the same old
beat upon.
The revolution’s on, of course 1 No wild mobs howl,
with anger hoarse ;
We feel lio carnage-bringing force which men behind the
scenes endorse ;
But bang the joyous castanet
Ahd curse—there may be carnage yet !
Not yet, of course, the grisly dreams of Labor are
resolved in streams
Of vital juice, red gore that gleams—fruit of their blood-
and-plunder„schemes.
Not yet.Uieshrill mob-woman comes to stride grim-faced
where live lead hums.
Not yet we hear the roll of drums, the noise that Fat
with fear benumbs,
Th» smell of smoke, the loud report, gore flowing freely
by the quart,
While perfect ladies hold the fort, and from behind piled
wardrobes snort;
But. . . revolution’s here, you bet!
Let’s hope there will be carnage yet.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


SCIENTIFIC OPINION.
Professor W. A. Dixon, F 1.C., F.C.S.
Public Analyst, of Sydney, adds his testi-
mony to that of other scientific men on the
purity of Sunlight Soap, He reports;—
“ Having analysed samples of Sunlight
Soap, purchased on open market, we have
pleasure in attesting to the especial purity
of Sunlight Soap Sunlight Soap is evi-
dently manufactured under close chemical
supervision, for we find it to contain no un-
saponified fat, no free alkali, and to be a well
made soap. There is no adulteration what-
ever. Sunlight Soap has the healthy, clean
smell of refined fats and oils, and is a good
genuine laundry soap. Whilst it cannot
injure the finest fabric nor the skin, yet it
■will do its work thoroughly.”
Severe Headaches.
“ For some time I was troubled with my liver
and kidneys, which caused severe headaches,”
writes Mr. Ed. Reck, of Marini Terrace, Gerald-
ton, W.A. “I took doctor’s medicine and several
kinds of pills, but nothing seemed to do me any
good until I took Laxo-Tonic Pills. After a few
doses I felt splendid. They gave me great
relief.” Price is. 6d. and 3s,*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
psiy a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
The" Change” Hat
A MOST CONFORM-
ABLE HAT special-
ised by ns—and so
named because it is capable
of being changed in appear-
ance simultaneously with the
wearer’s wishes.
It is of Pure Soft Fur Felt
—the brim can be turned up
or down at any point, the
crown creased or dented, and
a very smart appearance given
to the wearer's dressing for a
negligee occasion.
So popular was the Change
Hat last season that we have
restocked for this season—the
olors being Mid Grey, Fawn
Price 12|6
POSTED 9d. EXTRA,
1/3 INTER-STATE.
and Stone Brown.
State Size when Ordering.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
“ Moorabinda ” : Re early Australian-built
vessels. The Royal William, mentioned by “ Der-
went” (B. 11/8/TO) was originally named the
William the Fourth, and was built at Hobart in
1831, not in 1833, as stated by “Derwent.” The first
ship ever built in Australia—the Rosehill Packet
—was launched in September, 1789. The first
steamer—the Surprise—was built at Parramatta
hi 1831, for the Parramatta River trade. In the
4me year there-arrived in Port Jackson the first
steamer which sailed to Australia from England.
This was the Sophia Jane, of 25G tons, 50 horse-
power, brought riut by a part-owner (Lieutenant
. to ply between Sydney and New-
castle. The Spitfire, the first war-vessel built in
Australia, was launched at Sydney in 1854.
* * * *
“ U.S.” : Elijah Dowie’s Zion was much
too substantial a thing to vanish with its
founder; and word comes now and then
from some of the Australians whom ’Lije
roped in, that bossiness is pretty good, no
matter how badly the Muniho Jumbo
part of the enterprise has wilted. A
budget of papers just to hand from the city
gives an idea of Solid prosperity. There
was method in the prophet's craziness,
flie city was pitched in a fine spot, beside
take Michigan, between Chicago and
Milwaukee. Jewish goodwill was won by
the rigid exclusion of pork. The exclu-
sion of alcohol and' tobacco also brought
together the kind‘of persons who are apt
to be strong in cash. Dowie having gone,
WilburOlenn-Voliva, the former Austra-
lian representative grown fatter, is up in
the stirrups ?again as Chief Overseer.
After even putting him in quod, the
Zi< nites found he was the best man. He
has no prophetic nonsense, but conducts
a Methodist kind of service in the
Temple. Though most of the Dowie
trimmings have been shed, a kindly feeling
remains for the tempestuous old curser
with the purple 1, wings, and the Elijah
Hospice—the chi.ef charitable institution
•of the city—seems likely to preserve his
name. Yet why not call it Stinkpot
House ? If there was one word that was
especially dear to Elijah’s soul it was
** stinkpot.”
“ H.H.” : Saw the familiar headline
again last week: “Body Found.’’ But
what a scoop the paper would have which
announced on good evidence : “Soul Found”!
The Social Reform cleric is certainly the
limit. Consider this from Melbourne Agk
(28/8/TO) : —
Mr. Judkins : It did not need a very careful observation
to convince one that the girls [whom he saw behaving
improperly in certain city parks] did not belong 1 to a cer-
\ ain class. The girls'dressed as those whom he had seen,
and with their hair down their backs, as they came ordi-
narily from respectable homes. He was able, if desired,
to add the testimony,of a friend of his own, and was pre-
pared to stake his reputation on the fact.
Another Clergyman': I can give the name and address
of a girl—a member- of the Sunday-school
The First Clergyman (emphatically): I don’t want it.
The Chairman : No, no !
There are few two-uppers, fan-tan players or race-
course punters so debased as to clamor to he
allowed to publicly give away a young girl, how-
ever respectable and religious-minded she seemed
to be. Such an effort would be deprecated by the
habitues of a pak-a-pu establishment; it would
shatter a man’s popularity in an assemblage of
Domain loafers, and lower him in the estimation
of a gang of coiners. All things considered, the
time seems to be about ripe for someone to wade
in and start reforming the social reformers.
The prevalence of “ race suicide ” in Mel-
bourne has been bluntly attested by a local doctor.
Speaking in a recent coroner’s court, lie said that
he annually encountered about 200 cases of pre-
mature birth, and that one of the causes was the
frequency of criminal operations. This evidence,
which suggests that the census is being robbed at
a considerable rate, has been blessed with a com-
ment from the Victorian Premier. Like many
other persons, he deplores the existence of a
fairly popular practice; but derives comfort
from the fact that he is making an effort
to curb it. Murray’s effort merely amounts
to the registration of private hospitals, which
he thinks will “make difficult the existence
of places where, there is reason to believe, ques-
tionable operations are now carried on.” It is a
marvellous idea. Doctors and nurses have been
registered, and still the evil practice survives.
Chemists are registered, and cemeteries are regis-
tered, and the hangman is registered, and the
great sin doesn’t stop. The place where the body
is found is registered in the daily papers, and the
body keeps being found. A carefully-registered
policeman looks into the case. And now the
private hospital is to be registered. What a pity
Murray was not to the fore in Victorian politics
about 33 years ago ! He would have ordered that
all bushrangers should be registered, and thereby
have disqualified the Kelly Gang in one act.
Tasmania thinks it smells something.
Lately it had what it talked about as the Lang-
maid murder case, in which the prosecution relied
almost altogether on one witness. By a sad mis-
chance the police got to work at the same time on
what Judkins would call Launceston’s Social Evil,
and proceeded to break up the happy home of the
most notorious Flossie. And by another mis-
chance, the police picked upon the prin-
cipal witness in the Langmaid case to
help them pull off various charges of dis-
orderly conduct and sly-grog selling. Evi-
dently, the principal witness didn’t arouse any
suspicions in the Flossie dominions, and the
police reckoned they had a fine strong case ready,
when suddenly the Law Office dropped in with
the cold remark that the lady was not to be dis-
turbed. It looked for a moment as though the
Law Office might be Flossie’s dear old uncle or
something of the sort; but another explanation
was soon forthcoming—the Law Office didn’t
want its chief lily-white witness in the Langmaid
murder case to be known as the sort of person the
police picked to help them with inside informa-
tion about the proceedings in Flossie’s territory.
Now various M’s.P. are wondering whether the
jury would have come to the same conclusion in
the murder case if it had known what the Law
Office seems to know about the chief witness.
EXTRAORDINARY.
“ He's a funny sort of bloke, that Knocker Hardu.
Always knocks about with that there tart.”
“ Don’t see nothin' funny in-that.”
“ But he’s married to ’er.”
“Paddock Marshall” reports an encoun-
ter with the enemy :
Last Saturday afternoon, when the sun and the sea
were exactly the same tint of blue, and all the world was
sane and beautiful, I fell over a section of the Barnum-
Powell disorganisation. They shuffled, five strong, out of
a side street, and grouped themselves round an immense
Union Jack on a long pole like a raiding party of Blood-
and-Blazers. They were armed to the teeth with the
usual potsticks and wore scraps of ribbon on their
shoulders and light halters round their necks. Accom-
panying them was a youth of about 20 with a weak chin.
This vacancy had on plain clothes and bore a chart or
warrant to which he constantly referred. After some
preliminary wrangling, shoving and shuffling, an Indian
file was formed with the small, staggering standard-
bearer in front and the sergeant and plain clothes keeper
in the rear. “ Quick march ” yelled the sergeant with a
pirate-like scowl at his troupe of four, and they pro-
ceeded jerkily down the rocky hill road towards the
harbor. As they passed, he howled offensively at a youth
who was not carrying his marline-spike at the proper
angle. The rebuked one evidently had no fear of a court-
martial, for he promptly answered his commanding
White Rabbit back to the effect that he was a liar.
I expected to see him immediately lynched by the rest of
the party ; but the Blue Duck didn’t even attempt to
stun him with his trusty divining-rod. The ass with the
summons took no part in the performance other than to
amble fatuously along in the rear, muttering occasional
directions to the Supreme Guinea Pig. They finally dis-
appeared over the brow of the cliff, still arguing and
knocking thpir knees to the great scandal of all liege
subjects of our Lord the King and to the manifest cor-
ruption of their morals. What a devil of a plague these
field mice are 1
PROOF POSITIVE.
SAL: “ Whose ther tart per ambled 'ome wir Tnosdap? ”
’ENERY: “Me sister , er course
SAL: "Garni”
’ENERY : “ ’Struth! Didn’t per see me fetcher one in ther jor fer ’angin behind? ”
Last week an engine-driver on the Yic.
railways got a verdict for £4OO damages and costs
against the Commissioners. His eye was injured
by the bursting of a lubricating glass on the loco-
motive he had charge of, and he claimed that
negligence and unskilfulness in the construction
thereof were accountable for the mishap. J?he
jury remarked that, “in view of the admitted
ignorance in the Railway Department as to the
proper working of the lubricator on engines, the
matter should be looked into by the examiners of
engine-drivers.” There are evidently quite a lot
of things on the Vic. railways that want looking
into, but the worst trouble seems to be that some-
body has to lose an eye or a life before they are
found out. #
Something of the froth of romance w.-s
piled on top of the dull-brown beer-pot of exist-
ence last week by the mysterious case of the gol
who was found dead in the howling wastes of |
Kensington, Sydney. Of course, the habit of being
found dead is a thing to be discouraged—it is
generally fatal for one thing, and it is often un tib _\
for another —but if anyone decides that it is really
necessary to be found dead, then it is just as well
to do it amid a set of curious circumstances as to
do it in a sordid, ordinary backyard manner. A t
all events, the Kensington episode crowded out
of the morning papers some columns of fulsome
panegyric re the Wade Government, and to that
extent it was a helpful and uplifting business.
Otherwise it was chiefly valuable because it
reiterated and emphasised the old moral that
“ the body ” is a very awkward thing, and hard to
dispose of, and that nobody should take ary
chance of having one on hand until he has sen e
clear idea as to what he shall do with it. In th s
case the girl seems to have gone to the usual
female whose existence is such an annoyance to
Judkins, about the usual business which darkens
the life of Worrall—and the frequent mishap
occurred. Then there are stories about the hiring
of a sulky by a person unknown ; about a hurried
drive taken by two men and a woman—the latter
apparently dead, intoxicated or unconscious; about
an inquisitive gill who thought the woman s
aspect unusual and took careful stock of thefleeirg
turnout; and about two dreadful boys who tried
to hang on behind, to the great fury of the two
men, who shouted and walloped and otherwise
performed. Finally, there was the belated tram-
conductor, who found the remains on a sandy by-
way in a jerry-built neighborhood, Nobody had
wanted to make any attempt at burial. It was all
very crude and primitive, and alsoa very breathless
business for the horse. It might have done well
enough for Melbourne, for under the present
regime it is fairly safe to leave the body on the
Collins-street tram-line at high noon ; but the
method was too public for any other city. Still,
the secret has lasted fairly well, though the
winged feet of the constabulary have taken them
to the usual “ house in Paddington,’’.and a woman
has been arrested, and an alleged bloodstain—
possibly caused by someone dropping the dinner
meat —has been found.
THE REPENTANT ONE.
“I suppose y'r husband's sorry now f’r knocking
per about!"
“I don’t know tilt he comes out ’r tit ’orspita l."
THE SECRET OF WEDDED BLISS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Amonp the real working classes,” said t.lie Rev. J. G.
Watts-Ditehfield, “there was a very hiph repard for
matrimony, and, considering their environment, the
marriape tie was extremely well observed. Her marriape
lines were a woman’s preatest possession. Cheap
marriapes were had. Some years apo, at one church they
were inaupurated—no douht with pood intentions —but
the peneral opinion was that it was a very bad rule. It
drew attention to the church, but it lowered the whole
tone of marriape in the district for years.” —News item.
The marriape that does not occur
Amid an atmosphere
Of affluence, starts ’neath a blur
Or shadow, dark and drear.
The merest tyro, from the first,
Can see that it is bound to burst.
Love is an asset, more or less,
To husband and to wife.
Youth, beauty, health and cheerfulness
Are aids to married life.
Yet of more value far than these
Is promptness with the parson’s fees.
The brideproom who invades the church
Without the cleric’s dole,
And leaves the pood man in the lurch,
Imperilleth his soul.
Also, he makes a certainty
Of matrimonial misery.
In very little better plipht
Is the unpleasant brand
Of proom who payeth for the rite
With nippard, stinpy hand.
A hot old wedded time, I wist,
Faces that false economist.
Since wedlock first to man was known
The world has soupht in vain
For lipht—desirinp to be shown
How best to bear the strain.
The parson states the only way—
Be prompt and lavish with his pay.
N.S.W.
H. SINGENOISNE.


A CONFIDENT SURMISE.
YOUNG VIC.: “What’s going to be done to the office-whitewashed, I suppose?”
TAIT: “I guzss so.”


Squatter Sheep Branding Oil
SCOURS OUT OF THE WOOL.
Does not contain Pitch, Tar or other injurious ingredients.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. t 4
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
Gar as illustrated, with Michelin Tyres, £275, Sydney.
CLEM ENT-BAYARD
MOTOR CARS
are made bv Mons. Clement, the designer of the
“ Clemen t-Talbots” and “ Clement-Bayard.” Mr. ■
R. Gibson has'just donelCfOO miles on an 11-h.p.
“Clement-Bayard” in N.S.W. and Victoria, and
says“ The car performed in a first-class
manner. We never had to stop. We averaged
25 miles to the gallon, and made an average of
just on 26 miles an hour. We had a head wind,
and the roads were far from good. The car is
most flexible,! and really surprised us in
the manner she performed on soft, rousrh roads, running on her top without laboring or knocking.”
NO WONDER THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT GOES TO THE CLEMENT-BAYARD WORKS.
We are selling all the Models of these great works (3000 men are constantly employed) at the Home Prices—
plus only importing and Customs charges. Our prices will be found to be 25 per cent., lower than those
usually charged 8-12 H.P., 4 Cylinder Clement-Bayard, to carry four, with detachable back seat, £275 ;
11- H.P., 4 Cylinder Clement-Bayard, with double phaeton side entrance body, £375 ; Clement-Bayard,
12- H.P., 4 Cylinder, double phaeton side entrance bodv, £440 ; Clement-Bayard,'ls-24 H. P., 4 Cylinder,
double phaeton side entrance body, £495 ; Clement-Bayard. 20-30 H.P,, 6 Cylinder, dpuble phaeton side
entrance body, £550. ALL POWERS READY FOR DELIVERY.
FAIRFAX S ROBERTS,
STANTON COOK, LTD.,
Vice-Regal
Jewellers,
Motor and Electrical
» Engineers.
23 Hunter St., Sydney, Sole Agents in conjunction with
23 Underwood St., off 37 Pitt St., Sydney.
Applications for Agencies in Country Towns are invited.
More Imperialism.
The Bulletin lias received a circular from “ The
Imperial Maritime League,” which was founded
in London some time back with the object of edu-
cating the Empire as to the advisability of bor-
rowing £100,000,000 or so for the purposes :
(1) Of assuring the safety of the entire Empire and its
sea-borne trade.
(2) Of unifying the question of national and Imperial
■defence.
The names of a host of peers, generals, major-
generals and four vice-admirals, who are in sym-
pathy with the League and its aims, are attached.
According to the people who are trying to organise
this vast Imperial assault upon the world’s pawn-
shops :
The League stands for truth, not hidden but spoken,
and for faith in the GoD-giving-mission of our Empire
and our race.
The phraseology has a Babu-like sound, and like
most Babu iiteratureit is painfully obscure. The
remark about “ unifying the question of national
and imperial defence ” is probably a suave and
polite blither which covers some scheme for put-
ting the Australian and Maoriland squadrons
solely under British control, with a view to using
them for the protection of Bull’s own isles while
the countries which own them take their chance.
The remark about “assuring the safety of the
•entire Empire and its sea-borne trade ” proba-
bly means that somebody is mad or has
a deep, ulterior motive at the back of
his mind. If Britain abandons its hitherto
fixed principle of paying for defence in
peace time out of revenue, some wonderful
things must come to pass. .In the first place,
Britain is liable to get some 40 new first-class
ironclads all at once or thereabouts. That would
probably mean something like £13,000,000 a year
added to a defence bill which is already the big-
gest on earth—£3,ooo,ooo for interest on the naval
loan, and about £10,000,000 for wages, provisions,
ammunition, coal, docks, repairs and general up-
keep. Then, if it was proposed to pay off the
naval loan by the time the ships were worn out,
there would be about another £4,500,000 a year
extra for sinking fund. That would make the total
extra outlay some £17,500,000 a year. And in
about 20 years, and again in 40 years, and again in
(50 years there would be the necessity to replace
£100,000,000 worth of worn-out ships in one
stupendous act—or else abandon the command
•of the sea. For about the year 1935 the British
navy would be, to some extent, like the deacon’s
one-hoss shay—all going to pieces nt once.
Assuming that the proposed £100,000,000 loan
fleet got to sea about 1915, and Britain thereupon
started to pay an extra £17.500,000 per annum for
interest, maintenance and sinking fund, it could
hardly, on top of that, keep its regular ship-
building programme going at its full strength. So
in 1935 the country would find itself with, say, 40
huge ships all 20 years old and just about ready
for the scrap-heap ; ,about 50 huge ships ranging
from 20 to 40 years old, and almost entirely
superannuated ; and a. very few new and
really serviceable vessels, the money which
should have gone to build new and service-
able ships between the years 1915 and 1935
having, to a considerable extent, gone in interest*
sinking fund and maintenance of the great loan
squadron. The only possible explanation b'f the
plan seems to be that the advocates of the
£100,000,000 naval loan propose that, as soon as
•the ,b°r rc W e tl squadron is ready, it shall
attack the Triple Alliance with or < without
•excuse, wipe its navies off the seas, and'
then Britain can go in for comparative
disarmament and economy. But unless Britain
also wiped out the fleets of France,; iJapan aiid
the United States, it could only disarm and
economise within limits. And if Germany simply
backed its navy into its fortified harbors, flatly re-
fused to come out and be overwhelmed, seized Den-
mark, Holland and Belgium as compensation for
its temporarily interrupted sea commerce, and sat
•down to wait till the new £100,000,000 fleet wore
out or till Bull grew weary of the enormous bill for
upkeep, then the situation would look very like a
deadlock. Certainly Britain, with its 150,000
men available for foreign service, couldn’t go and
hunt up the Triple Alliance on land, if the Alliance
refused to appear at sea. One way and another
the proposed British tiaval loan policy promises'
no profit to anybody save the financiers who float
the big loan, the men who get the shipbuilding
and victualling contracts for the new ships, and the
■officers who get a sudden rush of promotion as the
hew I Q U vessels come into service.
; ♦
“ Shellback ” re a cooked rethrn :
A queer example of the Wade (If.S. W.) Government’s
•chronically shifty methods was afforded the other day,
when Clark, M.L.A. for St. Leonards, moved for a return
of all the Sydney Harbor collisions that have occurred
during the last 10 years. Treasurer Waddell blandly
produced a return dating from 1905. And even that
wasn’t accurate. Thus the Hawk-Moeraki collision case
is stated to have occurred in daylight instead of at night,
as actually happened. The Colac-Pareora case took place
between l and 2 a.m., while in the return it appears
vaguely as “before daylight.” Some collisions not in-
cluded in the list are :
Warung-Airlie, in Watson’s Bay.
Nymboida-Alma Doepel, in Darling Harbor.
Governor Blackall and punt in tow of Pacific.
The value of the return from the public point of view
■is minimised by the statements tacked oh to it, such as :
“It is interesting to' note that the majority of t,he
•collisions occurred during daylight and were of a minor
character.”
Apart from the fact that several certificates were sus-
pended over these allegedly-minor casualties, the follow-
ing were all cases in which serious damage resulted, and
they all happened at night :
Buninyong-Criffel collision, off Bradley’s Head.
Wyreema-Qurrajong collision, off Bradley’s Head.
Colac-Pareora collision, off Inner South Head.
Wairima-Mintaro collision, off Garden Island.
Furthermore* they all occurred at the several rounding
points specially dealt with in Festu’s harbor sketch as
points carrying extreme risks.
To put the matter shortly, it is hereby charged that
the return of recent accidents in Sydney Harbor is a
shameful fake. There are a number of possible explana-
tions of the fake : (1) That it is a habit to hold up Sydney
as a perfect harbor ; (2) that it is considered necessary to
uphold Sydney as against the old enemy, Melbourne ;
{3) that the Government doesn’t want to he put to the
worry and expense of reorsranising the harbor lighting
system ; (4) that it doesn’t want the trouble of reor-
ganising the management of the harbor; (5) that a
demand has been put up as a matter of State vanity that
•Sydney shall be the naval station of Australia, and it
would be fatal to admit that Sydney Harbor is over-
crowded already, and that there is no room for a naval
station. »
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Vigilans” replies at large, on the sub-
ject of buffalo-raising : •
I made a mistake in saying: Melville Island (N.T.) was
sold. I should have said an option was sold. The rent
of the island is Is. per square mile ; the area is 2500 square
miles, not 4000, as mentioned by “ Derelict.” It is for
the purpose of vaising buffalo, not shooting them, that
the co. proposes to establish bovril works. Buffalo are
just as tractable as European cattle, and, when mustered,
branded and yarded, are easily managed. They sell in
the Philippines for from £8 to £25 per head, so a shipping
trade might be done as well. The hide sells up to 255.;
but the co. proposes to do its own tanning on the
island, thus establishing another industry. I strongly
advocate raising buffalo in the Territory, because
I know it will be a fine industry for the North.
In 60 years a mere handful of the quadrupeds
increased to 60,000, and you don’t want better proof than
that, especially when you remember that this increase
took place with the animals quite uncared for.
“ Yeria ” seems to imply that I said cattle cannot be
raised in the Territory. The Territory, between latitudes
16 to 24, is the .greatest cattle country in the whole
world. I don’t need to ask Kidman ; I have lived there,
and I know. But there are portions of the North which,
although they have a heavy rainfall, are unsuitable.for
European cattle. This area lies between the Macarthur
ltiver and the Alligator. European cattle perished there
in thousands from ticks, leeches and other pests which
do not effect either buffaloor Brahmin cattle. The Terr-
itory measures 523,000 square miles, and in such an area,
spread over 16 degrees of latitude, there must be all sorts
of country.
FINDS HE HAS NO USE FOB THEM.
BOLLIVER (the cocky): “Hello! Clearin’ out?
Why, you ain’t bin here more’n a week.”
BILL (early and late man of all work): “I
ain't leavin’, boss—on’y gain ’ up town t’
pawn me blankets.”
The Flinders, in the innards of Queens-
land, came lately to the fore with a 4ft. 6in. blue-
nosed shark, alleged to have been shot in a
billabong near Richmond. The man-eater is
supposed to have travelled with flood-waters up
the river from the Gulf of Carpentaria a. jaunt
of 500 odd miles. Still, strange things do happen
on the Flinders, where beer is beer, especially
when the sheds cut out. A schoolboy there wrote
this essay on Halley’s comet: “In this country
the comet has already created a rise in the price
of beer, but it may cause even greater misfor-
tunes in other countries.”
A TRAGEDY.
HABITUAL DINER : “ Look here, waiter ,
the cooking is really very bad to-day. Who the deuce have you got in the kitchen?”
WAITER (hoarsely): “The bailiff, sir."
Queensland Government Surveyor Amos,
who recently inspected that part of West Banana-
land through which some people are bursting, to
drag the transcontinental railway, had some in-
teresting experiences during his trip, portion of
which was on, ground that no vehicle of any
kind, except . perhaps . a comet, had ever
traversed before.
The distance cov-
ered was 2668 miles,
and neither a punc-
ture nor blow-out
\v a s experienced
bv the car (a 15-
20h.p. Talbot) dur-
ing, the whole jour-
ney. After crossing
the bridge over the
' Warrego at' Oun-
namulla, Amos
didn’t come acrbss
another bridge
until he had gone
2190 miles, and he
found nousefor the
fishing tackle he
took with him.
Not one yard .of
metalled road was
seen, but near,
Urandangie the
track was through
,20 miles of lime-
stone boulders,
some of which had
to be rolled out of
the way. That
part of thejourney
took \\ hours. The
crossing of the
dry, sandy bed of
the Templeton
River was only
managed with the
help of a pair of
horses, and the
mud bank of the
Georgina River
was so high that
an hour and a half
was spent in mak-
ing a cutting
through it to let
the car pass. On
the return journey
strips of wire-net-
ting 25yds. long and 6ft. wide and planks 6ft. 6in.
long and 18in. wide were used in tackling sandy
creek and river beds, and in this way the Wills
River, which is 190yds. wide, took only 35min. to
cross. The worst day’s run was soon after leaving
Camooweal, when, owing to rain, the black soil had
become a bog, and only 5| miles were covered in
10 hours.
“Boswell”: Be proposed destruction of
water hyacinth by arsenical spraying. Those
who indulge in the pastime had better not. Some
six months ago the Tweed Shire Council (N.S.W.)
decided to treat'its lantana in that way, a.nd soon
the groans of dead and dying vegetation filled the
land. But the shire council had reckoned with-
out Cow. Some of the spray fell by the wayside
and gathered itself into a depression. Sundry
cows came along and licked ; and, as arsenic isn t
good for cows, the Tweed began to rain District
Court writs. After Judge Docker had listened
to the details for several days, the first cocky on
the list was awarded £72 for nine cows. The
council hurriedly compromised the remainder. It
took many days to count the Costs. The verdict
was nothing to the Costs. It isn’t regarded as a
friendly act to mention lantana-spraying now in
the presence of a Tweed shire councillor.
*** / *
According to the Dutch charts, Papua has
a mountain—Carstehs—which is somewhere about
tithes higher than Kosciusko, and about 50
per cent, better than the biggest thing in humps
that’ Maoriland can’ show. The Dutch charts
say that this Papuan excrescence reaches up
18.000 ft. or thereabouts; and as even the most
altitudinous peak of the European Alps doesn’t
go past 15,781 ft., it looks as though Papua, in-
stead of being the tropical swamp that some
people picture it, has a spire that crawls nearer
Heaven than anything in Europe, while
only two or three spires of the Andes beat
i-t in the whole Southern Hemisphere. Car-
sten's, named after the gentleman who explored
the Grulf of Carpentaria about a couple of cen-
turies before .Captain Cook was eaten in these
parts, is supposed to be the summit of the Snow
Mountains ; but nothing serious has been done, so
far, in the way of exploring the range, chiefly on
account of the taste the natives of the region have
for the Dutchmen who nominally own it.
* * * ■* *
“H.E.R.”: I was travelling between
Perth and Fremantle by train, the other day,
when a fat, full-blooded Pong got into the
compartment. “ Welly nice day,” he said. “You
leadurn the ?” He was referring to the
paper I was digesting. No,” I said, frowning
severely. “This is The Bulletin.” “You let
me have little look?” lie persuaded, pointing to
a picture. One figure in the drawing happened
to be a villainous-looking countryman of his, and,
in a sinful mood, I handed him the colored rag,
and waited for him to snort. But he didn’t
snort; he shook with laughter instead. He was
a Mongolian in absolute ecstasy. Finally, my
patience was rewarded with “You likee give
me this welly nice piccher ? This lallikin lookum
just like my bludder. Allee same welly good
joke ! My bludder—you see him welly angly
plesently ! ”
WY YUNG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beyond the ridge of Never Forget
Is a grey, ghost land where no glad gleam flashes,
Where rise the rivers of Old Regret,
And the red fruit withers to dust and ashes.
Over the edge of the world it lies,
Where curlews call and the reed beds shiver,
And Time is a sorrow that never dies
In old Wy Yung by the Mitchell River.
There Youth came tripping with lightsome feet,
Brave Youth with the clog of a curse upon it,
Where poppies flamed in the whispering wheat
And the young winds tilted the blue-bell’s bonnet;
Sad Youth came sighing with heart athirst
And a heartfelt prayer to God, the Giver.
All, God ! for the faith that was fairest first
In old Wy Yung by the Mitchell River.
Change on the grey land has worked his will,
Nor softened a line on its face abhorrtd ;
Gapped are the gum-trees on Calvert’s Hill,
Like the time-thinned hairs on an old man’s forehead.
A spectre stalks through the dappled maize,'
Where dead flags rustle and tassels quiver—
A spectre as dark as the bygone days.
In old Wy Yung by the Mitchell River.
VICTORIA.
MARIE E.J. PITT.


Hotel
Australia
TARIFF :
From 13/
per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Quickly Cures a Cold.
“ We have used Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery,
and find it a good cure for colds.” writes Mr.
Jonas Hawkes, Warren Road, Mordiailoc, Vic.
‘‘When we get a cold we take Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery at night, and are all right next morn-
ing.” Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
The Old Blend
Whisky
ur
What’s the time ? Just the time for a
glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson. Proprieior
THERE is absolutely NO
RISK when CASTRATING
with
DONALD ROSS
EMASCULATOR
Price, £3 3s.
Monet Eack if not Satisfied.
DONALD ROSS g CO., LTD.,
Angel Place, Sydney,
THE VETERINARY SUPPLY STORE
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : Talk about Out-
back hospitality—why, at Hogan’s homestead,
Thackaringa, near Broken Hill, a sheep-dog is
suckling two lambs! During the work of
drafting the lambs were somehow separated from
their mothers, and adopted the sheep-dog as a
foster-mother; and the curious part is that,
though the foster-mother howls at the indignity,
she carries her protest no farther.
A BAD DREAM.
“ Had a horrible dream last night. I dreamt a
bloke shouted for me, and just as I was going
to drink it I dreamt I woke up!”
A MINUTE DESCRIPTION.
NEWCHUM : “ There's a hoss over heah with a beastly cut on his leg.”
COCKY : “ Which laig? ”
NEWCHUM : “ The — ah—right hand front corner one.”
“The Scapegoat ” : lie “ Caber’s ” gibe at
me (B. 11/8/TO) and the cows I fed on prickly
pear in the 1902 drought—l beg now to hurl a big
slab of suspicion at him. I am candidly of the
opinion that the nearest acquaintance he has with
the vegetable spike-hog was obtained through the
window of a railway carriage. If he were even
on speaking terms with it he would know that
boiling causes the thorns to disappear; all that
remains is a thick jelly. The prickly pears I used
were the ordinary obtrusive variety, and the cows
were not nearly as cast-iron as “Caber’s ’’colossal
ignorance, and they are going as strong. A neigh-
boring dairy farmer is at present, and has for the
last six months, been feeding hispigs on pear leaves
boiled in skimmed milk, with excellent results.
No wonder “Caber’s” farmer’s pigs died at Clif-
ton (Q.) after feeding on pear leaves and flour. As
I pointed out, the bran and molasses counteracted
the astringent properties of the pear acid, but to
mix flour with the stew would be the most per-
fect way conceivable of bringing on bowel
stoppage and death.
* * * *
“ Vigilans ” describes some birds :
One of the most beautiful birds in the Northern Terri-
tory is the pigmy goose, arid I think the Territory is the
only part of Australia whpre it is to be found. It is
about the size of a duck, with lovely plumage. The body
is compact, and the flesh delicious. The birds inhabit
the lagoons on the Adelaide and Alligator Rivers, and
are easily shot. I have bagged 40 or 50 in a day. The
whistling duck is another very prolific waterfowl in the
Territory. These ducks are distributed throughout the
tropical and sub-tropical regions of the world. When
the nest is built in a tree, as is very often the case, the.
young are carried down to the water in the beak of the
parent bird. This is the only duck that perches
in trees. In India the species is called the tree-duck
or whistling teal, but in Australia it is known only as
whistling duck, the name being derived from the double
whistle-like note, which is always uttered when the
birds are alarmed or on the wing. They are very dull birds,
slow fliers and easily shot. They are expert swimmers
and great divers. In portions of the Territory, particu-
larly the coastal country, immense flocks of them
may be seen, but the most wonderful gathering of the
species I ever saw was at Newcastle Waters. The air was
simply massed with them; there must have been
millions circling round and round like great dark clouds.
White cockatoos may also be seen in the Northern Terri-
tory in countless thousands, and when the trees are
seeding the noise made by the birds is deafening. The
handsome black cockatoo is also prolific. Then there is
the extraordinary jungle fowl, with its nest resembling a
miniature hill. The earth is heaped up by the aid of the
powerful wings and legs, and from 10'to 15 eggs are de-
posited in a cavity. The opening is then carefully
closed. The eggs are left to hatch by natural process,
and in due course the young birds emerge fully
feathered, and ready to face the world on their own. The
Territory species of the jungle bird is the smallest in Aus-
tralia, although, strangely enough, it builds the largest
nest. The Queensland species is much larger and slower
on the wing. The. bird that impressed me most in the
Territory is the miniature kookaburra. This is of the
kingfisher family, inhabiting creeks and billabongs. It is
a charming bird, a reduced facsimile of the larger species
of the south. Likeifsbigrelative.it is the last bird to
go to roost and the first to rise. The plumage is similar,
and the laugh identical in a minor key. The Territorv
is alive with parrots, beautiful doves and pigeons, lovely
finches and wrens, and numerous feathered tribes un-
known in any other portion of the Commonwealth. A
collection would be invaluable to a zoo, and most instruc-
tive. There’s money in the same, too.
“C.S.A.” : I never knew an Australian to
eat wallaby, although I have seen immigrants
from Bull Land making a meal off the animal.
The wallaby, more especially up towards the
tropical regions, is infested with lice, ticks, fleas
and an odoriferous beetle, and this, together with
the fact that the flesh is generally worm-infested,
places it outside the range of an ordinary palate.
Even Binghi and his dog will not rush it, and
neither of them can be classed as dainty. Wal-
laby is apparently coming into favor in England,
but the Englishman’s tastes, as regards game, are
notorious. I’d sooner eat jugged Chinaman than
jugged wallaby.
TOO RICH.
FARMER'S WIPE: “ Aren't you the man I gave a
pork pic to last week ?”
TRAMP: “No, mum. I'm his ghost! He died."
From the coral strand where the spicy
breezes blow:—
Dobo, the Dutch port to which some of the Queensland
pearling fleet sailed when it wanted to give the Thursday
Island grounds a spell, has a more mixed population than
even “Thirsty” ; and “Thirsty’s” little lot used to be
reckoned as mixed as any in the world. There are the
Japs, of course, who do most of the diving; but the eye
of the boss has lately fallen on the Malay and the Manila-
man, and as these two are getting the job that the Jap
used to get the Japs don’t love them. Of the Malay him-
self there are about 27 breeds and half-breeds; pretty
well every East Indian island has produced itsown type —
Ambonese, Madourese, Javanese, Borneans and the rest
—and there are two distinct types belonging to
the Aru Islands themselves, one Papuan and the
other Malay. Besides these there are Chinese and
Hindoos of sorts, and an Australian aboriginal or two,
and a few Persians and more Arabs, for the Arab at one
time did most of the pearling in these parts, and his dhow
still looks in. There is the Dutch and the half-Dutch
official, who is wise enough mostly to stay inside, and
the English and Australian bosses of the comfortable
pearling schooners, and the wild Yank who looks round
for adventure, and occasionally finds it here with asharp-
point to it. The population is mostly male ; but once a
year, at the lay-up of the fleet, two or three hundred
Chrysanthemum ladies flutter in from the North, and
then for a couple of months Dobo isn’t a good place to be
in if a man wants a quiet life. On one night lately seven
men were knifed—and the wise Dutchman kept on stay-
ing indoors. But the force of the soutti east monsoon,
spends itself, and the water clears, and the overhaul of the
boats is finished, and the fleet shakes its sails out again - r
whereon the Yoshiwarra invasion moves out with every
passing boat, and Dobo falls back to its eternal stew.
For Dobo is a mere sandspit, with a tropical sea in front
and a tropical swamp at the back, and crocodiles and
cocoanuts all round. There isn’t a hill in the whole of
the Aru Islands—just slime and sweat, and mosquitoes
and malaria.
* * * *
“Chink” writes with heron’s blood for
ink:—
Every lover of bird-life and every man with a human
feeling for the fatally beautiful winged things that are
fast being pushed off the face of the earth will rejoice
that the destruction has attracted the attention of the
Imperial authorities—that is, if the authorities are in
earnest this time. In Australia both Prime Minister
Fisher and Customs Minister Tudor have expressed their
indignation at bird-butchery, and their eagerness to
co-operate in its suppression.
These spasmodic upheavals, however, make me tired.
They are always the same—arise with aclatter, and finish
nowhere. A matter of some 18 months ago an English
outcry resulted in the introduction of Avebury’s Plumage
Piohibition Bill. A select committee (just what is pro-
posed now) sat on this diligently until the agitation flick-
ered. Then the Bill slept with its forefathers.
At about the same time, Alfred Deakin was approached
» deputation from the bird-lovers of Victoria and
N.S.VV. Alfred was characteristically affable. He had
asked the Minister for Customs to prepare a Bill giving
the Government power to control exportation, and
would be further pleased to “consult the States” on the
subject. Loud applause. Exit deputation. Exit the
whole matter from Alfred’s mind. Also, in the fulness of
time exit the Affable himself.
In this latest revival indications are so far promising.
Fisher has not appealed to women, as Deakin did. Popu-
lar faith in the value of an appeal to the average plume-
wearing female is at a discount. The female’s colleeti\ e
heart compared to her vanity is as a peacock’s eye to his
tail.
Whether the Government has power to wholly control
the matter is doubtful, but both the Papuan ordinance
and the Federal laws prohibit the exportation of plumage
birds. Yet the London salts go on apace. At a recent
auction (of which there are many held each year) there
were catalogued—speaking roughly—sooo birds of para-
dise sluns, a like number of ospreys and brown Youra
pigeons (from Westralia), 694 emu skins, together with
an army of sundries.
only hope of checking this butchery lies in total
prohibition at the Customs and the prosecution of local
feather-dealers, who flaunt their pitiful wares in broad
defiance of the poorly-enforced regulations.
“Silas”: When Shaw’s wife, Sarah, died
all Whips tick felt genuine sympathy with the
bereaved. And with good reason.
There wasn’t another woman like the
late lamented Sarah in the whole
country-side at milking, managing
poultry, looking after apple trees,
tending bees, scrub-cutting, fencing
and splitting shingles. After the
funeral, when Darwood shook
Shaw by the hand, and expressed
his commiseration, Shaw’s lip
trembled, and a sigh burst from
his broad breast. “Yes,” he
said, “ Sarah was a good wife —
a good wife. Good as two
men.” Shaw was soon out and
about, looking for number two,
and for a month he philan-
dered with Pinto’s widow.
Then, to the great surprise
of Whip-stick, a matrimonial
advt. _ was discovered in the
Age, inviting applications for
the job of wife to John Shaw.
The advertiser was not exacting.
His appeal read : “ Wife wanted.
Apply John Shaw, farmer, Whip-
stick. Six-foot preferred.” Shaw’s
conduct provoked reproach. It
wasn't fair to the district. “ Why
can’t you marry the Widow Pinto?”
he was asked. Shaw shook his head.
“It’d be a shameful waste,” he said.
“She could never wear Sarah’s clothes.”
That explained the “ six-foot pre-
ferred.”
“ Bro ”: Strange are the dictates of
fashion. On a station I know they make a feature
of the annual “Shearers’ Ball.” It occurs in the
woolshed. Dancing space is limited, and so the
sitting-out seats are in the various sheep-pens.
The attendance is invariably so large that the
M.C. is forced to prevent those who have enjoyed
(say) dance 1 partaking of dance 2, and so on.
Often have I listened to his cheery but courteous
cry or howl, as he delivered himself: “Genelmen,
s’leet ver pardners from the right-hand sheep-
pens. Yous other blokes put yours into the left.”
These conventions would somewhat stagger our
Government House frequenters and other effete
coast-dwellers.
A BOUNDARY RIDER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve been pegging for weeks and weeks.
To-day I mounted my Sunday breeks,
Caught the mare and dusted her down,
Saddled, bridled, and went for town.
Lord, it was hot! The heavy dust
Rose and followed me, red as rust ;
Somebody’s grass alight to the west
Stung my eyes and tickled my chest.
What I did there God only knows —
Something comical, I suppose.
When I could pull myself together,
Found I was riding Hell-for-leather.
Never a look durst I throw back—
Thej r were after me down the track,
Clutching fingers and padding feet
After me, after me through the heat 1
Dip to the hill with a headlong rush !
They come heading me through the bush.
Cross the gully and breast the rise !
Look at their crowding, greedy eyes 1
Soon the clouds in the sky began :
“ Now he’s coming !” and “ Here’s our man ! ”
Grinning monkey and mouthing devil
Raced we even along the level.
Trees joined in to the rollicking chase,
Clawed and scratched at my burning face,
Whispering, sniggering, hither and yon :
“Now he’s running ! Come on 1 Come on ! ”
At the sliprail she foundered. Wait?
I made tracks for the humpy, straight,
Slipped like grease from her heaving flanks.
Stay out there till they got me? Thanks !
Here indoors it is bad enough ;
The damned partition don’t reach the roof.
What’s that crawling along the topi
Winking and blinking ? Blast you, stop !
I’ve backed right up against the wall,
Bang in the corner, chair and all,
But, here it’s creeping, and there it runs—
A fellow can’t watch all ways at once.
The sun’s gone down, the shadows are filled
With restless horrors that won’t be stilled.
What’s that you mutter, you gibbering liar ?
Steady, hold up 1 Let’s start the fire.
Hurry, hurry, ’twill soon be done.
Where’s the matches? My God, not one 1
Here I’ve got to stay in the dark
All through this awful night—and, hark !
What’s that? Steady 1 I’ll douse my head,
Then I shan’t see so beastly red.
Who left the tap turned on ? I doubt
I did it myself. The tank’s run out.
Well, that settles it. There’s—one—way.
Quick, or they’ll have me, make me stay !
Here’s the rope and a handy rafter—
Only the Devil knows what comes after !
TASMANIA.
A. W.


MR. FISHER’S VISIT TO SOUTH'-
AFRICA.
It is intended by Mr. Fisher to •
remain from two to three weeks
hi South Africa. He ha£ not yet -
marked out his itinerary, but it may
be that he will land at Durban, and
go on by rail.
II Mr. Fisher is going to Africa to*
k ! !l big game he’d better stop 1 at
home, for Roosevelt has left
nothing alive in that country
larger than a pee-wit.
The bogey of the ‘‘dangerous classes”
in New South Wales to-day is Labor,-
which is to the Liberals the red spectre
of revolution. Yet Mr. Fitzgerald, on 1
whose behalf I spoke, is a barrister of
high literary ability, and wears in an
evening the ordinary dress of civilisa-
tion, which Mr. Stephen was surprised
to see me wearing I— B\ Rl W/sf«
EL R. Wise: ‘‘Will any- fat gentle-
man step on the tail of my friend;
Fitz’s dress-coat ? ”
KAISER BILL AND PROVIDENCE.
From his speech at Konigsberg:
“ I myself am the instrument of
the Lord. Without heeding the
opinions of the day, I go my way.”
A Voice: “ But why drag in the
Lord?”
A communication has been received
the Minister for Customs front MtV
Wade, in reply to a letter from tfie
Federal authorities drawing attentfbn t«
tfie manufacture within Australis of
boots consisting more or less of card'
board in the soles.
L.B.M. s “ Australian manufactures is
lookin’ up. Wat oh 1 From card?
board boots to wooden nutmegs and
bass-wood hams is but a step,”
THE LAND TAX-
“ We have paid for the land, and it is for us to say ■whether we are putting
it to the best use or not. It is ridiculous to say that because we are not plough*
ing it, we are not using it.”— Letter from angry landowner.
Fatman, to Fisher: “ Here, I want that seat for my hat, and you're sitting o** it.
CARTOONLETS.


HUNYADI JANOS is the aperient water par
excellence. The average dose is a wineglassful taken be-
fore breakfast. Nature herself has mingled its chief in-
gredients, sulphate of magnesia and sulphate of soda, in
such ideal proportions that this Water acts promptly
without griping or other discomfort, and may be used for
any length of time and at any period of life.*
GAELIC
WHISKY
——
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Delicious
Drink.
Email I
. Fn» 4 8-rH.I
Vi 'el T tie Mil* dr,nk ' w,llc} » wai-ffij, fa.
C y#u proo( the cold
fifrif-?. r ? " IBUf * u,s a grand remedy
lit Colds, Code, ao4 Indigestion. f
Take home a bottle to-dayj -
Indigestion
and Catarrh.
Dear Sirs, It is now about five years since Angier f s Emulsion was
recommended to me by a doctor, and I have found it invaluable for
indigestion and stomach catarrh, as well as for toning up the system. I
was very much run-down when I first took it, but improved immediately,
and gained in weight 15 lb. in twelve weeks. I have recommended the
Emulsion to several of my friends for various complaints with good results.
It proved especially good for a friend who suffers from inflammation of the
bowels, who was completely cured, and has been at work regularly ever since.
(Name and address privately,)
ANGIERT EMULSION
(petroleum with hypo phosphites.^
Angier s Emulsion soothes the mucous membrane of the stomach and
intestines, arrests fermentation, and promotes normal, healthy action of
the bowels. It is a splendid tonic to appetite and digestion, and it builds
up health and strength. Doctors prescribe it for chronic indigestion,
nervous dyspepsia, stomach and intestinal catarrh, etc. Jt has cured
many obscure and obstinate cases. Of all Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
A FREE SAMPLE
sent on receipt of 4d. postage. Mention this paper.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., Ltd., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney,
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Colonel Onslow, M.L.A., his chance,
according to Labor-member Meehan in the
N.S.W. Assembly; “After the next general
election he will be the leader of the'Girl Scouts.”
The absentee Coopers, who don’t like the
look of Young Australia’s teeth, are rapidly get-
ting rid of their city properties. Falmouth
Chambers, in Pitt-street, Sydney, are now to
come under the hammer. The building was put
up in 1870 by or for Hoffnung and Co., and occu-
pies the site of the Red House Inn of half a cen-
tury ago.
MAORILAND’S CHIEF-JUSTICE, ROBERT
STOUT.
borne birthdays for SeptemberGeneral-
manager Delprat (Broken Hill Prop.), 54 on the
Ist; Education Minister ,T. A. Hogue (N.S W )
04 on the 2nd ; Warren, M.L.C. (S. A.), 80 on the
3rd; ex-Premier Jenkins (S.A.), 59, and Prof
Stirling (S.A.), 62, on the Bth; “ Demon ” Spof-
forth, 55 on the 9th ; Parson L. D. Bevan, 68 on
the 11th; Bishop Frodsham, 47 on the 14th;
Under-Secretary Sholl (S.A.), 66 on the 15th;
Geologist Logan Jack, 65, and Cardinal Moran,
80, on the 16th; Clement Wragge, 58 on the 18th •
Arthur Morgan (Q.), 54 on the 19th; Plevna
Ryan (V.), 57, and Sheriff Schomburgk (S.A.), 53
on the 20th ; Bishop Dunne (Broken Hill), Ol’
Health President Elkington (Q.), 39, and John
Carr (S.A.’s oldest politician), 91, on the 21st;
Attorney-General Hughes, 46 on the 25th : Dr
Strong (Melb.), 66 on the 26th ; Senator Symon,
64, and Education Minister Coney beer (S. A.). 51
on the 27th.
The Taits’ next lion is to be Alfred
Tennyson Dickens; but he will roar in
England and America, and not in these parts.
Lecturing is the idea. It was tried on the
dog in Australia ; but the dog’s tail was only
singed. Yet Alfred Tennyson, like Edward
Bulwer Lytton and the rest of the Dickens
family, can tell a story. “Ted” (E.B.L
aforementioned) could, 'in fact, tell one so
well that his comparative failure in the
N.S.W. Assembly was a bad disappointment
to Wilcannia, where, sitting on a corner of the
table in the pub parlor, he could easily make
the crowd forget its drink for an hour.'
“Bloggs”: Three distinct classes of
human beings yearn, seemingly, to be known
to the public by abbreviated forms of their
first names. They are (1) Australian black-
and-white artists (Will Dyson, Mick Paul,
Phil May, Ted Colles); (2) English Labor
members (Tom Mann, Ben Tillett. Will
Crooks); (3) low comedians (Nat Clifford
Billy Williams, and about 8,000,000 others)!
There are no other large bodies of citizens,
so far as I know, who inferentially request
their patrons to know them by their pet
names. And yet there are none who differ
more widely, in other respects, than black-
and-white artists, English Laborites and
comedians. What obscure common passion
brings them together in this one regard ? It
is a nice sociological problem.
Patrick Allan, who was lately killed by
a train at Auburn (Vic.), was an item in
the history of the Kelly gang. He was a
storekeeper at Beechworth (Vic.) when the
Kellys were the Chief Huns of the district
and he nourished the police with food and
information—the latter mostly picked up in
nocturnal rides. For besides weighing out
sugar Allan was a great horseman. Once he
drove Governor Loch over the Australian
Alps by a track that would urge the timid to
panic, and even the reckless to perspiration.
He didn t actually drive on the ceiling of things
upside-down as the fly does; but in driving up
the wall he had few equals.
A Melbourne citizen with the imposing-
name of J. Montgomery Kerr and the unum
peachable address of Toorak, wrote to the local
Herald recently announcing his intention to tour
the globe, and talk about Australia the while
In a spirit of the sincerest patronage, he said
On my travels I will leave no stone unturned in mv
endeavor to impress on Britisher and foreigner alike the
advantages of this beautiful country, spoilcat presentin'
what I consider class <>overriinent. **
So apparently Mr. Kerr will proclaim the
splendid size and quality of the fish he is holding
up to foreign view, but deplore the fact that it is
stinking. He will, nevertheless, probably do
more good than harm. Anyone who listens to
him will very likely reckon that the legislation
which is “up against” Australians of his class
and spoils the country from their point of view’
must be excellent class government, anyhow. ’
The Rev. Carr Smith, recently of St.
James’s, Sydney, has been dropped softly into
a living at Madresfield (Eng.), and need not
worry any more about Australia’s tastes in ehcle-
siastical flimsies. Madresfield is one of Beau-
champ s preserves. Carr Smith taught Beauchamp
a few rudiments in early life, and when the latter
became Governor of N.S.W. he worked might
and main to put an Australian apron on his old
tutor. Temporarily he made him Government
Jlouse Cnaplain. an official billet not known since
the early days when Governors treated religions
lightly. Carr Smith devoted the salary of that'
billet to charities. But the quest of the apron
was vain, and now the same good patron Beau-
champ comes again to the rescue and settles his
ancient friend where the teeth of the Sydney
grocer-vestryman cannot reach him.
Press Hack makes an old property pay
a final dividend : 1 J
The Austrian Courts are being moved to put an end to
the mystery of John Orth, by declaring him dead
and distributing his estate amongst his heirs. John
was an Austrian archduke, whose prbfessional
name was Johann Salvator; he was the son of
Leopold IT., and Leopold was Grand Duke of Tus-
can.v, and uncle of Francis Joseph. Born in ’O2, he
tilled in his tune at his cousin’s court till ’75. when he
made disparagmg observations about the army. These
landed him in gaol. Then he went to Bosnia a-soldierink
but a similar craze for reform got him disliked, and he
returned to Vienna. There he married Millie Stubel
t Tif danC - er , and daughter of a Viennese tradesman. At
that Trancis Joseph turned nasty, whereupon John left
Y n< L e i ! he name of ° rth a person supposed
to be the Archduke presently appeared in London, where
hemn^lst'e m n^l5t ' M , ar B' a !' ifca - loaded her with cement,
sacked the officers and sailed her himself to Buenos
Ayres. He reached Buenos all right, and started for Val-
-1 Parajso via the Horn. And that, fully 20 years ago was
the last seen of him or the ship. Various sensation'
mongers have at times reported him as working in Ohio
t aV havi T hifca Policeman and been ex-
pelled from Algiers ; as living placidly with his brother
Louis in Minorca ; as being in Chili, Patagonia, France
Australia and sundry ether places ; as having founded a
communistic State with his crew on a desert island as
*? een 'F 1 fch Balmaceda when that misdirected hero
put up his ultimate scrap ; and as having gone down in the
Admiral Lynch at the end of it. Doubtless John Orth is as
drowned as John Smith would be if he went to sea in a ship
that never reached port and left no trace behind; but a
People seem to think that a romance should not
end in that damp and unsatisfactory way, so the mystery
has bee.n kept alive, Baron del Abaco, now a planter in
German Papua, was a bosom friend of John’s, and was
captain of the guard on the night when the Emperor s
cousin skipped from the Court. Like his friend he
sacrificed lus position and prospects and became an exile
He may know what really became of John, but he wili
say nothing. So John Orth will be declared deceased
tom ake^ou to f* ‘' * th * laSt - * ha »
STILL FLYING.
THE AVIATOR: What do you think of my good
luck?”
THE FRIEND: “ What's that?”
THE AVIATOR: "Why, this is my second trip,
and I haven't been killed yet!”
p i e
.mail opencer, a venerable gentleman who
was buried last week, made at least one memor-
able remark in his lifetime. It was he who
P °V\ te ~i an accusing finger at Premier Asquith
and told him that any British Government which
ol,e first-class British battleship south
L-u llne woul d n,t survive for ten days. To
which statement Asquith’s reply was a dead
silence.
George Palmer passed out last week at
Benalla (Vic.). As a representative A iisfrnHan
seven years or so. Seeing that he dropped out of
notice in the late ’Bo’s of last century, it must
have surprised many people to hear that he was
not 50 when he died. Palmer married a sister of
wicket-keeper Blackham.
Dean Vance, one of the intellectual stars
of the Anglican Church in Melbourne, has thrown
U P this globe at the age of 82. Deceased was one
of the more circumspect warriors of a somewhat
stately and ornate faith. He never toiled in pub-
lic argument, never wowsed, never judded. For
years he was a typical Anglican parson, whose
zeal dozed and awoke to an eminently respectable
time-table. He was a highly educated man ; had
passed through King’s College, London, and Lin-
coln College, Oxford ; was examiner in classics
and philology at Melbourne University; and for
22 years was editor of the giddy Church op Eng-
land Messenger. Spiritually, his labors led
him through Geelong, Kyneton, Richmond and
Kew, until he anchored in a soft and rosy metro-
politan post. He. was a Londoner by birth, and
leaves eleven children to regret the loss of a fine
old parent.
It is alarming to hear from Foster Fraser,
on the authority of one Dr. Buttner, that the
Australian Race would die out in a few centuries,
if it were completely cut off from European
assistance. But, thank Heaven ! there are
laborers in the vineyard who do their best to avert
the day of desolation. The second Anglican
Dean of Melbourne, who died last week, married
an Australian girl, and celebrated his golden wed-
ding six years ago, when he had 11 children, 24
grandchildren and two great-grandchildren to his
credit. Since then the g.g.c’n have, presumably,
further increased and multiplied. The widow and
11 sons and daughters survive him. Should the
Australian Race get left to work out its own
extermination in a few centuries, the actual last
man on the continent is pretty certain to be a
direct descendant of a parson.
ENGLISH HUMOR.
Mr. Lloyd George, Chancellor of the Exchequer, an-
nounced that he had already prepared a scheme which
would secure from absolute want workmen who broke
down before they reached the age of 70 years, and be-
came eligible for old-age pensions. He hoped the allow-
ance would exceed 3s. a week.— Recent Cable Item.
BULL ( regretfully): “ What! Must you leave so
early? Why, I’d just ordered a small pen-
sion for you!”
“The Heathen ” : Kaiser Bill is reported
to have broken out again and made the Bourse
low spirited with the wild remark that he regards
himself as an instrument of the Lord, and will go
his own way regardless of the views and opinions
of the day. Wilhelm 11., who is alleged to have
been a very sick man for months past, has seem-
mgly, slipped a little further down hill Almost
the last item I read about Bill was that he kept
the Bible on a table by his bed. The position
now seems to be that the Bible now keens Bill on
a bed by its table. 1
J. CURRIE ELLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He did unhesitatingly say, from his own personal
knowledge and research, that the majority of white races
were very far below the Asiatics in intellect, ability arid
Currie ■ Elles < lecturing to N.S. W. Institute
Elies !
Elies ! /
Can anyone tell us
Whence comes this buzzing-called “ J. Currie Elies ”1
Who sought it?
Who caught it ?
Who trapped it and fought it ?
And into the Bankers’ dull Institute brought it?
What insect collector—
What curate or rector
Went out with his sensitive Gadfly Detector,
And lay
All the day
In a Boy Scout-ish way
In a large hollow log while the Devil made hay,
Determined to make other big hunters jealous
By snaring a genuine “J. Currie Elies”?
N.S.W.
WHITE AUSTRALIA.
THE NEW PARSON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A stransrelv dodgy, shifty, side-stepping, evasive,
indefinable, shadowy individual is the preacher.—
Bulletin (11/8/10).
Time was when the preacher, in surplice or band,
In a little box-pulpit on Sundays would stand ;
He stuck to his text, and with weighty white hand
Pounded hard on the Bible, or clung to the rail
While he wrestled with sin, and his tongue like a flail
Clattered down on the Devil and crumpled his tail.
Then on Mondays and Tuesdays and all through the
week
He was placid and flaccid and heavy and meek,
And his thirst was not quenched at the brooklet or creek,
But with flagons of ale, and with fine rosy port,
While his parish declared him a mighty good sort,
And his days were divided ’twixt study and sport.
Now the parson is dodgy and shifty, and tries
To get all his ten fingers in all the world's pies.
And pretends to be smart, and that no kind of flies
Can obtain one full minute of rest on his coat,
While he pokes his long nose in each corner to note
How his sheep are enticed by his brother the goat.
Side-stepping, evasive, and reckless of speech,
Without pausing to learn, he is ready to teach ;
And where angels won’t walk he jumps into the breach;
For the law of his warfare is simple and plain—
’Tis my duty to hit you, and yours to remain
In a reverent pose till I hit you again.
He is active, and blessed with a fine brazen cheek,
And, contriving to get in the limelight each week,
He hasn’t the sanctified time to be meek
As he ought, in accord with his teaching and dress.
For his life must be lived in the struggle and stress,
Or he wouldn’t get mentioned at all in the press.
And the newspaper press is important, you know,
For although it is plain where the journalists go
When they yield up the ghost, yet the parson’s best show
Is to advertise largely and cheaply, for great
Is the ink of the printer. Yes, judgment may wait,
But .Sunday comes round every week with the plate.
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.


is not the biggest thing
jiliM Wytii • : 1 ' ' • '/
<3>k* )v. ■ :>f ■■. • ' ‘ ' ' * ' ... .. . . .
• C '' : 1 V Odf ; ‘ *
•■VI?. ( iu- ' . '][" .'« ■ * ’ ’ , ;' \
in precious stones, but
the latest thing in


SUCTION GAS
PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
(made in England.)
beat all coiners at the
Eoyal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
by
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
jg~ “WO WITH ANY COMBINE.”
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydnoy, (Sole Agents for N.S.
W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Electric Light Department op the
Melbourne Citv Council :
Paid Contri- Writ- To
Gross as In- bulion ten Re- Re-
F'eb., Profit. terest. to City. Off. serves. serves.
1901 .. £11,786 £5,179 £6,607 £28,939
1902 .. 10,566 17,866 21,639
1903 .. 23,568 11,791 11,777 33,416
1904 .. 30,877 12,750 18,127 51,543
1905.. 36,636 13,395 £lOOO £12,608 22,241 61,176
1906 .. 40,986 13,456 1000 5,650 26,530 82,056
1907 .. 48,722 14,386 1500 5,039 27,797 109,853
1908 .. 53,761 16,144 3000 62,079 82,391
1909 .. 57,323 16,343 5000 5,532 30,448 112,839
1910 .. 63,842 17,066 7000 4,346 35,430 148,269
Those reserves are not all of the best, however. They
are made up as follows
1903. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Sinking Fund .. ..£40,985 £57,092 £63,982 £71,378
For renewals, etc. .. 25,240 48,778 74,333
P. and L. balance, Dr. 7,569
„ Or. -r 59 79 2,558
Total .. .. £33,416 £82,391 £112,839 £148,269
The Sinking Fund is all right: 1 per cent, on the total net
expenditure, represented by loans and adiances, is put
aside so that some day the city may be able to say that it
really does own the undertaking. Nominally the city owns
it even now ; but Cohen has provided the money,
and has it in pawn. A 1 per cent, sinking fund
isn’t over-strenuous ; nevertheless compound interest is
a powerful machine, and with its help even an annual
t per cent., invested at 3£ percent., will finish its job in-
side 44 years. As mentioned above, there is now £71,378
to the credit of this fund, while the total debt to be
wiped out is £479,669. But the other reserve is not so
genuine. A depreciation reserve is usually to a great
extent a mere set-off against rust and worms. It may be
better or worse than the average ; it depends upon the
energy with which repairs and renewals are reckoned as
being all in the day’s work and paid for accordingly with
the other wages, etc. Presently, however, some big
lot of renewals may have to be made ; and then this
fund may have to be tapped severely. The purpose of
the depreciation fund is to ensure that the city will have
machinery and other assets worth at any moment the
full amount that was paid for the plant; the purpose of
the sinking fund is to ensure that the city will own that
machinery and those assets in a given time. The two
funds differ a lot, but they are both very valuable.
About the most important question in connec-
tion with an industrial undertaking of this sort is: Is
the revenue big enough, after paving working expenses
and interest, to provide for (i) sinking .fund and
(2) renewals? After putting £7OOO into the citv’s
general funds, and writing off £4363 on sundry
accounts, there is on the past year’s operations
£35,430 to lay by. The sinking fund absorbs £4797,
leaving £30,633 to cover everything else. The total net
expenditure as at Feb. 28 was £479,669; and the surplus
of £30,633is equal to a shade over 6J per cent, on that
amount. If the amount written off odds and ends is
added to the £30,633, the total would reach very nearly
7 per cent. That proportion might fairly be regarded as
quite enough, though not very excessive. The com-
mittee of the council which runs the business thinks,
nevertheless, that it is safe to make another cut at the
rates. Certainly, if the revenue should suffer to
such an extent as to reduce the lav-by too far,
there is always the grant to the city funds to
come and go on. For last yeir £7OOO was handed over in
relief of rates. In other words, the undertaking not only
paid interest and 1 per cent, sinking fund, and put by
nearly 7 per cent, of the net capital cost to oover depre-
ciation and contingencies, but it took £7OOO off the
general ratepayers’ burdens—or, if you like, it provided
an extra £7OOO for the improvement of the city. And
obviously, on present appearances, when the sinking
fund has finished i ts job, and the city owns the works and
has done with paying interest, the undertaking will have
another £22,000 a year to dispose of, either in the shape
of further reductions in the price of lighting or for the
further improvement of the city. And the thing that
does all this is Socialism. It isn’t a bit like the wild,
ruinous jimjam that roars through the anti-Sosh papers
at election times.
While the scheme is doing these things for itself
and the city, it is apparently doing very well indeed for
the consumers, judging by the increased custom it is
getting. Here are some figures:—
Works’ Capital
Revenue. Expenditure. Profit. Outlav.
1901 .. £35,727 £24,462 £11,265 £204,051
1903 .. 64,008 41,352 22.656 324 979
1906 .. 72,214 33,628 38,586 380,565
1907 .. 81,190 35,660 45,530 420,236
1908 .. 92,365 42,766 49,599 510 843
1909 .. 102,635 50,177 52,458 556’,248
1910 .. 113,578 54,662 58,916 575,291
There is an apparent small discrepancy between some of
those figures and others that have gone ahead of them.
Profit, for instance, isn’t the same as is set out in the
first table ; but in the first table, receipts from interest
and profit on sales of debentures, etc., have been in-
cluded, and they naturally don’t appear in a statement
of the works’ revenue, etc. This shows in detail how the
total profit was made :
1908. 1909. 1910.
Balance, working account .. £49,599 £52,458 £58,916
Sinking fund interest .. .. 1,971 2,241 2,495
Renewals fund interest .. 2,046 999 1’768
Profit on sales of plant, deben-
tures, etc 145 1,625 663
Total profit .. .. £53,761 £57,323 £63,842
Also, the capital outlay of £575,291 is gross, and doesn’t
allow for amounts that have been written off out of
profits. The actual amount of loans outstanding is
£440,000, plus £39,669 of an overdraft. The sinking fund
is mostly in Melbourne Board of Works debentures; the
whole of it is held outside the business. The bulk of the
depreciation fund is, on the other hand, invested in the
undertaking, which on February 28 had a bank credit of
£64,176. Thus, though most of the depreciation fund is
nominally invested in the business, there are liquid assets
totalling more than the entire amount of the sinking and
depreciation funds combined. Altogether, it is a busi-
ness that both Melbourne and its city council have good
reason to be proud of.
* •» * *
The Union Bank of Australia
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves
£ £ £ £
Feb., 1903.. 109,649 8 p.c.= 60,000 50,009 1,019,793
Aug.', 1903.. 126,330 10 ~ „ 75,000 47,000 1,024,123
Feb., 1904.. 112,182 10 „ ~ 75,000 10,000 1,051,305
Aug., 1904.. 115,830 10 „ „ 75,000 25,000 1,067,135
Feb., 1905.. 100,374 10 „ „ 75,000 10,000 1,052,509
Aug., 1905.. 100,767 10 „ ~ 75,000 10,000 1,098,276
Feb., 1906.. 100,879 10 „ ~ 75,000 10,000 1,114,155
Aug.,1906.. 152,251 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,151,406
Feb., 1907.. 227,904 14 ~ ~105,000 70,000 1,204,310
Aug., 1907.. 146,560 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,235,870
Feb., 1908.. 145,188 14 ~ ~105,000 10,000 1,266,058
Aug., 1908.. 136,386 14 ~ „ 105.00 Q 10,000 1,287,444
Feb., 1909.. 135,562 14 ~ ~105,000 10,000 1,308,006
Aug., 1909.. 135,873 14 „ ~105,000 10,000 1,328,879
Feb., 1910.. 136,049 14 „ „ 105,000 10,000 1,349,928
This is six-months-old history ; for the accounts have to
wander backwards and forwards over the face of the
waters before being laid on this dissecting table. And by
that time the corpse has been so long dead that the post-
mortem, has lost most of its interest. Still, it is of some
value : it carries on the history of extraordinary success
one lap further. The Union made a good start after the
bank smashes (in which it didn't smash), and when there
was more business to be done a lot of the best of it
went the Union’s way. In banking, as remarked once or
twice before, nothing succeeds like success ; so this bank
has gone on growing to all appearances stronger and
stronger. Like most of the others in the same business
it has nevertheless kept a pretty tight reign on itself.
Twenty years ago the Australian bank manager used to
go out with a lasso and rope in customers and force ad-
vances on them. There has been little or none of that
lately, in spite of the good times. Many people know
that many banks would be glad to let out more money •
but managers still have an unpleasant habit of looking
hard at the security. One result in the case of the
Union is that, though in the past 12 months the deposits
have grown £2,026,946, advances have only grown £8314
Here are details:—
Feb., 1909. Feb., 1910.
Notes .. .. £474,072 £470,997 Dec. £3,075
Bll >s. etc 2,052,003 1,559,150 Dec. 492 853
Deposits .. .. 19,322,079 21,349,025 Inc. 2 026’946
Liquid assets .. 9,840,417 11,428,438 Inc. 1 588 Vl
Advances.. ~14,348,257 14,356,601 Inc. a’3U
Premises, etc. .. 572,457 549,061 Dee. 23’396
The bank has thus £23,379,172 of the public’s mon’ev •
and no less than 49 per cent, of it is represented bv
liquid assets of one sort and another.
Yet, in spite of that very large proportion of
assets which are earning either nothing at all or verv
little, the profits for the half-year were at the rate of
£9 12s. 4d. per cent, of the capital and reserves
combined. A return like that would hardly be possible
if it were not for the very large amount of the public’s
money which the bank is taking care of. For every £l of
its own in the business there is no less than £8 5s of the
public s—a proportion which would certainly be regarded
as too great if it were not for the fact that so much of it
is kept in liquid form. If a much larger quantity of it is
put out in ordinary risks, the management may be ex-
pected to seriously consider the question of getting in
more capital. The latter has stood at £1,500°000
ever since 1880, notwithstanding that the deposits knd
other liabilities have increased in the 30 years from
£8,933,195 to the before-mentioned £23,379,172 while ihe
advances have moved along from £5,273,694 to £14,356 601
True, the visible reserves have been strengthened, and’pos-
sibly the internal reserves are stronger too ; but the
growth of the visible reserves—which are the only ones
that can be reckoned with—hasn’t been in proportion to
the remarkable growth of the bank’s advances, and there
fore of its risks.
Elder, Smith and Co., Ltd. (Adelaide), pas-
toral finance and woolbroking people :
T „ . Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, servps
1900.. £28,631 9 p.c. =£17,100 £11531 £35454
1901.. 25,283 9 ~ „ 17 100 5000 3,183 38 637
1902.. 28,078 9„ „ 17,100 6396 4 582 43 219
1903.. 29,964 9 , 17,100 5000 7,864 51*083
1904.. 33,967 9 „ „ 17,100 5000 11 867 6*950
1905.. 36,532 10 „ „ 19,000 4000 13,532 76’482
1906.. 45,940 10 „ „ 19,000 3000 23,940 100’422
1907.. 60,674 10 ~ ~ 19,667 1500 39,507 139’929
1908.. 43,457 10 ~ ~ 25,000 18 457 168 386
1909.. 51,266 10 „ „ 25,000 - 26 266 184 652
1910.. 59,521 10 „ „ 29,991 _ _ aijlil
It was called Elder’s Wool and Produce Co. at first and
was in 20,000 shares of £lO paid to L 2 10s. The new co
formed in 1888, issued another 80,000 shares of £lO on
which, however, only £1 15s. was paid up for some years
making the capital £190,000. Subsequently £6O 000
was called up, making all shares paid to £2* 10s ■ and
last year £5O 00° was asked for, making all shares’paid
to £3 and liable for another £7 ; and a liability on shares
in a pastoral finance co. isn’t a mere fiction. Certainly
the co. has accumulated very good reserves, equal now
to £2 2s. 9d. per share. There is, however, a great deal
of money out at risk. This shows details of that and
some other things :
1900. 1908. 1909. 1910.
£■ £' £ £
Deposits, etc. .. 474,068 941,662 1,055,480 1,260,155
Other liabilities.. 79,672 216,290 190,870 238 60?
Premises, plant. . 57,268 78,756 79,195 104’340
Govt, stock, cash 235,173 187,473 339,590 63*029
Advances, etc. .. 414,844 1,144,855 1,046,653 1 U4’872
Other assets .. 83,299 167,754 228,164 ’176,698
“Other liabilities’’are mainly amounts in transit • and
even excluding them the liabilities are equal to just upon
£2 10s. for every £1 of the shareholders’ capital and re-
serves. Many a bank has from £5 to £7 of the public’s
money to every £1 of its own ; but verv few banks have
so large a proportion of their funds in what has hitherto
proved the very risky security of pastoral properties
and products. On the other hand, very few banks hold
such a large proportion of liquid assets. Probably
the large increase shown in this line during the
year is due in part to the raising of the fresh capital •
though, after all, that could only account for £5O 000 of
the total increase of £292,439. The fact is that, in spite
of the increase of capital and in spite of the rapid growth
of reserves, the advances have not increased in bulk for
a couple of years past. Just prior to that the growth
was very rapid; but evidently, while some of the co’s
clients may have been calling for advances, others have
been wiping off their little encumbrances. On many of
the securities there ought, therefore, to be now a large
margin of safety. Though nothing is shown above as
written off for some years past, depreciation has been
charged to Profit and Loss; the total for the past five years
appears to be £16,301, of which more than half (£lO 640)
has been charged against the revenue of the past 12
months. Goodwill, which cost the present co. £4O 856
has disappeared entirely ; and generally the management
appears to be as prudent as the S. Australian would
expect after he had read the names of the directors
» * * *
Sands and MacDougall, Ltd. (Melbourne)
printers, paper manufacturers, etc. : ’
Writ-
t „., ten To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1902.. £9OOO £14,121
1903.. £11,559 5 p.c. = £5561 5000 £998 15 119
1904.. 12,321 5,, ~ 5561 1916 4,844 19963
1905.. 17,592 5„ „ 5561 3353 8,678 28,641
1906.. 16,245 5,, ~ 5561 3000 7,684 36,325
1907.. 18,868 5,, ~ 5561 3250 10,057 46 382
1908.. 22,892 5,, ~ 5561 3800 13,531 59913
£7971 written off on revaluaiion . 51942
1909.. 17,217 5 p.c. = 5561 4041 7,615 59557
1910.. 27,032 s£„ „ 6117 6220 14,695 74,252
This co., which is deeply rooted in Melbourne and Ade-
laide, has reached its fiftieth half-year, and it produces a
fine crop to celebrate the occasion. That crop reflects
the state of Melbourne and Adelaide. New' cos. and new
firms have been springing up wholesale, and old houses
have been forming new branches and new departments •
and all this has brought a rush of grist to the printer’s’
and stationer’s mill. The tide will no doubt turn, and
theprinter and stationer will suffer very considerably; but
meantime Sands and MacDougall, at any rate, are getting
themselvesinto a much more comfortable position. Even
assuming that the amounts written off ought all to have
been written off to cover wear and tear of plant and de-
preciation of stock, there is still an addition of £60,131 to
the reserves in eight years—net profits earned and not
distributed. For every £1 of profit divided, about
£1 6s. Bd. has been laid by. But, as the next compari-
son shows, the bulk of it has gone into stock and pro-
perties
1902. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Debentures .. £50,000 £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Other liabilities .. 66,304 71,020 57,827 49 011
Stock .. .. 91,356 129,694 117,874 121’938
Plant and fixtures 51,217 61,685 52 462 48 268
Freeholds, etc. .. 59,294 68,172 79,092 78’657
Book debts, etc... 50,065 35,388 31,961 38,962
Liabilities other than the debentures certainly have been
reduced ; but, then, so have the liquid assets. The accu-
mulated profits have, therefore, been put under the same
hen as the capital; and though, no doubt, more chickens
may in consequence be hatched out, the whole lot of the
eggs will be affected if anything happens to the hen.
otock-in-trade represents nearly half the total assets;
ana what stock-in trade is worth is a matter of valuation,
if the stock is now valued at present prices and there
should be a fall in values, that fall will, of course, have
to be written off reserves or made good out of future
profits—a risk which the investor always has to take in
connection with a business carrying a large stock. There
may, on the other hand, be a rise in values ; but the ten-
dency always is to increase the stock at times when
values generally are high and trade is brisk, rather than
when they are low and trade is dull. The co. is in £25
shares, £l2 10s. paid ; and the debentures are secured on
the uncalled capital.
* * * *
The Denton Hat Mills, Ltd. (Melbourne),
from the last issue of a few new shares in the old co. at a
small premium:—
r . Written To Re- Re-
>ro®ts - Dividends. Off. serves, serves,
lom 10p.e. =£2450 £664 £4OBO
1901 .. 280/ 10 ~ ~ 2450 407 4487
1902 .. 2955 10 ~ ~ 2450 605 4992
1903 .. 3268 10 „ „ 2584 £1045 - 4631
1904 .. 3117 10 „ ~ 2990 127 4758
1905 .. 3208 10 ~ ~ 3000 208 4966
1906 .. 3363 10 ~ 3000 363 5329
1907 .. 3684 10 „ „ 3000 _ 684 6013
1908 .. 3969 10 ~ ~ 3000 969 6982
New co. formed ; capital increased to £45,005, of
which only the odd £5 appears to have been
paid in cash.
1909 .. 5636 9 p.c. = 4125 1511 1511
1910 .. 6923 12£ ~ ~ 5626 1297 2808
This isn’t put as definitely as it ought to be ; but the ac-
counts don’t explain what happened in 1908-9. The old co
had a capital of £30,000 and £6982 of reserves; total £36 982!
The new co. paid £45,000 (in shares) for the business’
Apparently the difference between the two amounts was
made up by writing up the assets, though the transaction
can’t be traced. Curiously the next balance-sheet, made
up as at June 30, shows among the assets; “Freehold
land and buildings, as per valuation July 12, 1909 ”
This is a very irregular proceeding. On one side liabili-
ties as at June 30 and on the other side assets as at July
12. It may not matter in this case, because the valuation
might have been the same whether it was made in June or
July ; but how could a balance have been struck if there
had been transactions meantime? Still, the business has
done so well that shareholders are not likely to complain
of little things like that. The co.’s financial position is
very easy; the total of its liabilities is £6126, and that
includes contingent accounts (probably semi-reserves)
while sundry debtors and other more or less liquid assets’
amount to £14,063. Clearly the co. has been dome re-
markably well. But as it gets older, and the policy of
High Protection is realised to be a settled thing, it will
almost for certain have harder internal competition So
far it has scored by being on the spot and ready.
* * * *
The Melbourne Steamship Co. -
Dividends on Added Nominal
Gross Capital to Re- Re-
Profits. Actually Paid, serves. serves.
Dec., 1903.. £7,885 8 p.c. = £3,000 £4885 £ll3 686
June, 1904.. 12,881 12 „ „ 4,500 8381 122 067
£47,067 Reserves written off; £75,000 capitalised. ’
Dec., 1904.. 13,374 10 p.c.= 3,750 9624 9 624
June, 1905.. 10,767 10 „ ~ 3,750 7017 16’641
Dec., 1905.. 8,767 10 „ „ 3,750 5017 21’e58
June, 1906.. 13,674 30 „,, 11,250 2424 24’082
Dec., 1906.. 9,187 10 „ „ 3,750 5437 V 519
June, 1907.. 18,202 30 „,, 11,250 6952 36*471
Dec., 1907.. ,13,117 15 ~ „ 5,625 7492 43 963
June, 1908.. 15,899 20 ~ „ 7,500 8399 52’362
Dec., 1908.. 14,008 16 „ „ 7,500 6508 58 870
June, 1909.. 13,405 14J „ „ 6,800 6605 65’475
Dec., 1909.. 13,869 14J „ „ 6,800 7069 72’544
June, 1910.. 15,488 14j ~ „ 6,800 8688 81,’232
The capital actually paid up is £95,000 ; but another
£75,000 has been transferred from reserves, making the
total £170,000. On that amount the dividend is 8 per
cent. The co. was formed in 1895 to amalgamate three
businesses—Reid’s, Mclntyre’s and Deane’s—and, as the
future was more or less uncertain, assets were taken in at
a low valuation. Things turned out very well, as it
happened; and when inter-State commerce became free
in 1900 they improved still further. The directors
therefore, felt safe in capitalising the bulk of the reserves
that remained after the assets had been revalued and
written down. Consequently there is some doubt
whether the whole £75,000 that w'as capitalised can be
regarded as undivided profit; the fact appears to be that
times having changed, it was found that the assets
were really worth more than the co. reckoned
them at the outset. Since the capital was in-
creased the reserves have again moved along briskly
But they are not all good reserves. Strictly re-
serves are value held in excess of the capital; but’part
of these reserves is merely a fund for the replacement of
w'orn-out capital. Of the total of £81,232 the deprecia-
tion and special renewals funds account for £50,550. If
the assets have lost that much value since 1904, then"the
real reserves are only £30,682, and the true profits since
1904 have been £50,550 less than the totals shown in the
table. Of course, depreciation can’t be checked by a
balance-sheet. All that a study of the document shows
is this:—
Dec., 1904. June, 1910.
Liabilities £12,796 £33,142
Assets 176,170 •
Surplus.. £163,374 £258,432
The growth is thus £95,058 in s£years; but £20,000 of
this was new capital, leaving£7s,osB as the accumulation
of 5£ years to provide for depreciation and everything
else. As shown above, the assets total £291,574 ; but
what may be regarded as the depreciable assets’have
fluctuated between £127,117 in 1904 and £235,595 at
present. And £75,058, after paying good dividends, looks
an exceedingly comfortable amount to lay by in 5£ years
to protect even the larger of those two sums; which is
another way of saying that probably, after making all fair
allowances, the true profits have been considerably in
excess of the dividends.
* * * *
The Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship
Co. (N.S.VV.); —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dee., 1904 .. £3092 6 p.c. =£3ooo £92 £8,793
June, 1905 .. 2960 6 ~ ~ 3000 8 753
Dec., 1905 .. 3385 6 „ „ 3000 385 9J38
June, 1906 .. 3053 6 „ „ 3000 53 9 191
Dee., 1906 .. 5128 6 ~ ~ 3000 2128 1L319
June, 1907 .. 6348 6 ~ ~ 3000 3348 14 667
Dec., 1907 .. 3247 6 „ „ 3000 247 14,’914
June, 1908 .. {^ tfcen 6 ff: , £2 ,, 0 . 30001 _
Dec., 1908 .. 3271 6 p.c. = 3000 271 11,616
June, 1909 .. 2829 6 ~ „ 3000 11 345
Dec., 1909 .. 3323 6 „ „ 3000 323 1L668
June, 1910 .. 2798 6 ~ ~ 3000 11,466
The crux of a shipping co.’s accounts is the amount of
revenue put aside to counterbalance wear and tear. If it
is too much the profits are made to appear less than they
really are ;ifit is too little they are inflated. With the
Newcastle and Hunter River Co. it is impossible to say
definitely which it is, because the amount is never dis-
closed. But one can follow things in this way
Dec., June, Dec., June,
1904. 1909. 1909. 1910.
Ship Property . .£41,300 £85,350 £81,150 £76,862
Freeholds, etc., .. 7,175 3,036 2,863 2,724
Plant, etc 2,730 5,446 5,169 5,032
Liquid Assets .. 66,157 24,624 31,619 34,266
Debts to Public .. 5,569 4,804 5,932 4,189
Ship property thus stands in the books at £B4BB less than
it did 12 months ago ; while the surplus of liquid assets
over liabilities is £10,257 more. This might mean that
some ship property has been sold ; but it is much more
likely that about £lO,OOO of revenue has been put aside in
12 months to cover depreciation—in other words, towards
paying for new ships to some day replace those now in
process of decay. It seems to be a very liberal
provision indeed. Still it is quite in accord with the
policy of the co. Five years ago, in fact, it had put by
so much that the surplus of liquid assets was £62,316 ;
whereupon it put £50,000 or so into new ships, and then
began to build up its liquid reserves again. The railways
are a hard competitor for the Newcastle-Sydney trade;
but the co. manages to keep its dividend pretty steady
by resisting the temptation to splash money about in
good times. Instead of doing any sky-rocket business it
prefers to soak up any surplus in the manner described
above. For 20 j'ears nothing higher than 6 per cent, has
been paid ; and, though in one black half-year the record
was nil, the rest of the time it has been 5 or 6 per cent,
—mostly the latter.
* * * *
The Foster Brewing Co. (Melbourne): —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1908 _ £51,700
Jan., 1909 .. £971 Nil £971 52,671
July, 1909 .. 556 5 p.c. = £1440 51,787
Jan., 1910 .. 2328 5„ „ 1440 888 52,675
July, 1910 .. 6191 8,, „ 2304 3887 56,562
£556, £2328, £6l9l—it looks as though Melbourne has
been getting thirsty lately 1 But that is not the whole
story. The Foster Co. is one of those that went into
the Melbourne brewery combine; and its profits are
governed almost entirely by the combine’s divi-
dends. Those divs. have shown up as follows in
this co.’s accounts January, 1909, 3 per cent,
per annum; July, 1909, nil; January, 1910, 6 per
cent.; July, 1910, 16 per cent. In 1909 the combine’s
divs. were small because it was spending a good deal of
money on plant. The Foster Co.’s interest in it is 72,500
shares, and it also pays the co. £l5OO a year rent for the
Foster brewer}'. All the Foster Co. has to pay out is in-
terest on £7500 of debentures and a trifle by way of
general expenses. Thus, with the rent, alO per cent,
div. from the combine gives the Foster Co. more than
enough to pay a 15 per cent. div. Probably, however,
the co. can’t afford to pay out all it gets from the com-
bine ; the brewery premises and plant stand in the books
at £47,530, and 2 per cent, off that for depreciation
would mop up £950, or more than half the rent. The
shares are not in very many hands; until a few years
back it was a proprietary affair in £4OO shares. Its
success won’t do the Commercial Bank of Australia any
harm.
The Wellington Investment, Trustee and
Agency Co. (M.L.)
Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1899.. £2909 9 percent. = £2115 £794 £9,831
Premiums on new shares 3750 13,581
1900.. 3444 9percent.= 2469 975 14,556
1901.. 3344 9 „ „ 2475 869 15,425
1902.. 3585 10 „ „ 2750 835 16,260
1903.. 4061 10 „ „ 2750 1311 17,571
1904.. 4116 10 „ „ 2750 1366 18,937
1905 / £19|250 of Reserves Capitalised 1
’ l 3510 10 per cent. = 2762 / 43 "
1906.. 4708 6 „ „ 2989 1719 2,154
1907.. 4779 6 „ ~ 3000 1779 3,93:;
1908.. 4917 6 „ „ 3000 1917 5,850
1909.. 4312 6 „ „ 3000 1312 7,102
1910.. 3769 6 „ ~ 3000 769 7,931
The law in Maoriland regarding trustee cos. is un-
satisfactory. Veai's ago, during the Melbourne boom,
one of the usual deposit-and-mortgage cos. proposed to
cut in at the trustee business ; but the danger was seen at
once and the thing was blocked. It was laid down then,
and in general it is now the law in Australia, that a co.
doing trustee business shall not borrow money to
lend out again; in other words, that its capital
shall not be risked, but shall be kept free to do its
proper work of guaranteeing the due fulfilment of the
co.’s obligations under the trusts it has accepted. In
Maoriland, however, a co. can take up trustee business
as a mere side-line. In this case, the co., besides risking
its own money in mortgages, has no less than £174,368 of
the public’s money at risk ; that is, about 3J times its
own capital and reserves. Of the capital—its own and
the public’s—£l67,2l7 is in mortgages, £40,687 in free-
holds and leaseholds, and £22,939 in debentures. Cash
amounts to £9l—£9l of cash and £157,231 of deposits !
The thing may be perfectly sound ; the security, if the
co. were given time to realise, might be ample to pav the
creditors nearly 30s. in the £, even apart from the share-
holders’ liability. But to hold £9l in cash and owe
£157,231 to depositors is tempting Providence.
* * * *
Broken Hill and Suburban Gas Co. (N. S
Wales);—
Written To Re- Re-
April, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
1904 .. £2401 6 p.c. =£1694 - £707 £5,630
1905 .. 2986 6 „ „ 1694 1292 6,928
1906 .. 3165 6 ~ ~ 1694 1471 8 399
1907 .. 4542 6 „ „ 1694 £2051 797 9! 190
1908 .. 5014 6 ~ „ 1694 1248 2072 11,268
1909 .. 3792 6,, ~ 1694 106 1992 13,260
1910 .. 4154 6} ~ „ 1835 745 1574 14,834
Of the reserves £5930 is .to the credit of a replacement
fund ; and presumably this is a set-otf against depreci-
ation which has actually taken place. If so it isn’t a
true reserve ; and the profits to that extent haven’t been
true profits either. Besides this amount, sums have cer-
tainly, been written off hitherto, but not for many years
past. The position is not therefore as good as it looks in
the table, though it is far from bad. This is another wav
to view it:— J
. . . , Apl., 1904. Apl., 1910.
Liquid assets .. .. £4402 £lO 065
Liabilities 147 658
Surplus .. .. £4255 £9,407
No capital has been got in during the six years • so out
of revenue 111 excess of working expenses the co. has paid
the divs., met the bills for repairs, renewals and exten-
x!',oo’->n nd \' aS stiU ? - 515210 the g'ood- Th >s i on a capital of
£28,229. In an ordinary place the record would be excel-
lent. Unfortunately Broken Hill isn’t an ordinary place
It depends entirely on a group of mines, and a mine i-
an animal which steadily eats itself; and when the last
mine has eaten the last particle of itself this co. will have
to blow itself out.
* * * *
Newcastle-Wallsend Coal Co. (N.S.W.):—
t, . To Re- Re-
r Fronts. Dividends. serves, serves
June, 1903.. £15,202 30 p.c. = £15,000 £202 £53 176
Dec., 1903.. 9,566 20 „ „ 10,000 _ £74s
June, 1904.. 4,009 15 „ „ 7,500 - 49251
Dec., 1904.. 5,003 10 „ „ 5,000 3 49 254
June, 1905.. 5,027 10 ~ ~ 5,000 27 49 281
Dec., 1905.. 3,759 10 ~ 5,000 48 040
June, 1906.. 5,093 10 „ „ 5,000 93 48 133
Dec., 1906.. 5,273 10 ” 5 000 273 48 406
June,1907.. 10,567 15 „ „ 7,500 3067 51 473
? ec- ’ 10,097 20 ” »> 10,000 97 51570
June, 1908.. 10,013 20 „ „ 10,000 13 51 583
Dec., 1908.. 10,431 20 10 000 431 52 014
June, 1909.. 10,370 20 „ „ 10,000 370 59 384
Dec., 1909.. 4,090 10 „ „ 5,000 51474
June, 1910.. 5,115 10 „ „ 5,000 115 51,589
m,L= ln i? lea ,- anfcn T P ut Girons on Brennan,
Burns, Bowling and such-like desperate characters whom
Judg:e Heydon had said he was quite prepared to shake
hands with, lasted until March 14. Even while the
trouble continued some Newcastle cos. made a penny
or two out of the coal they had in hand. When it was
over there was,” the Wallsend directors report, “a
heavy demand for coal”; though they certainly add
l° CkS i be . en replenished, “ the demand
eased off and trade has since been only moderate.” This
co. can, however, pay for something more than the office
cats victuals even when its coal trade only makes ends
me f; : . „ 1C has extensive surface rights, besides a
matter of £42,085 out at interest, and a railway line
from which it draws considerable revenue. It doesn’t
itemise its receipts nowadays ; but a few years ago, when
it did a little more in that way, the railway-traction re-
ceipts were from £l5OO to £lBOO in the 12 months. The
co. is a very old-established dividend-payer, whose dis-
tributions have roamed in recent years between 35 and 10
per cent., and for the last decade have averaged about
17£ per cent. And while it has paid that div., it has
managed to hang on to the bulk of its cash reserves in
spite of various additions to its mining property. Going


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia; is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CAN ADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-U.K., 3/- ; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; CERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
I** Sydney the Board has itsown offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing- direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “ VIA PACIFIC ” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable*
grams, 4£d. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information oh application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
BETTINCTON
SMOKELESS BOILER
Adapted for Burning Slack.
Guaranteed Highest Efficiency.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building-, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
[1
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil. so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* * • *
“Ferrodor” Paint.—Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort’s
Dock and Mt. Lyell buildings; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. & O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 100(1 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
THE LOSS of LIVE Steam in generating
steam power through faulty joints, badly packed piston
glands and leaky boiler mountings and stop valves causes
waste of fuel which can be prevented by using Bell’s
Asbestos “Bellite” Jointing, “Dagger” Packing and
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Water Gauges, Blow-Off Cocks
and Stop Valves. Permanent economy is also ensured
by protecting steam pipesand boilers with Bell’s Asbestos
Non-Conducting Composition or Flexible Rope Lagging.
Send for illustrated catalogue of engineering specialties to
BELL’S ASBESTOS AUSTRALIAN AGENCY LIMITED
(A. J. Borchert, General Manager), 315 Kent Street,
Sydney.* * * «
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing” 1909, devotes 14
pages to the Wilfley concentrating table, and, among
other things remarks (p. 1465): —“The first table sold
was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breckenridge,
Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been sold. This
machine has revolutionised ore dressing, and as such is a
phenomenal success. The original form, and forerunner
of all modern shaking tables with longitudinal riffles.. has
been greatly improved.” And further on (p. 1478) remarks:
“One feature of the Wilfley table to which especial
attention should be called is its ability to separate sands
from slimes while making the ordinary concentration.
This separation is more complete and thorough than can
be made by any classifier, and should be taken advantage
of in designing mills.” In the extensive additions just
made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.) a large
number of Wilfley Concentrators have been installed.
The Austral Otis Engineering Company, Limited, South
Melbourne, have the sole manufacturing rights.* [1
* * * *
Dick’s Patent Balata Belting, invented and
made by R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, is the only genuine,
reliable Balata Belting. To ensure getting real article
branded with makers’ name, obtain from Sole Importers,
James Hardie & Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney, who
carry large stocks, guaranteeing quality.* [2
* * » *
The Insurance Freeman, Liverpool, under date
October, 1908, writes re The Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society, Limited : —“ In every branch of business
success has been marked with sagacious management,
and it must be highly gratifying to all concerned to note
that the huge surplus at the last valuation, has been put
to most excellent and practical use in strengthening its
resources.” *
* * * *
MINERALISED SOIL and water-oarrying
minerals, sulphur or acids soon eat away metal pipe ; but
they have absolutely no effect on Wood Pipe. Get a
catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain, Sydney.*
# * * *
Patents. — Have you an idea worth patenting ?
If so, write to Grifflith and Hassell, registered Patent
Attorneys for information. Address, 163 King Street,
Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
Mine managers will be largely guided by the
wide experience of the N.S.W. Government Railways.
Half this year’s contract has been placed with Messrs.
Win. Adams & Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, for
their Genuine Nobels Explosives. Large stocks of high
explosives on hand. Write for contract forms and
quotations.”*
Mine managers when requiring air compressors
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not fail
to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they will be
impressed by its simplicity, compactness and portability.
Owing to the working parts being entirely enclosed it can
be placed to work on any part of the mine, either on the
surface or underground. The number of repeat orders
which Messrs. Reavell have received from the mining
community proves how greatly their compressor is
appreciated. The representatives for Australia are
Messrs. Babcock and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
+ * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Sileerbk.ro and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 20(>
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan's crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
more into details, the position 10 years ago compares
with that of to-day in this fashion :
June, 1900. June, 1910.
Liquid assets .. .. £72,792 £80,497
Liabilities 1,466 20,628
Surplus .. .. £71,326 £59,869
The surplus of liquid assets has thus been eaten into to
the extent of £11,457 in the 10 years ; but an almost
exact £lO,OOO of that has gone to add to the book-value
of property, plant, etc. What depreciation has been
written off to represent the coal that used to be in the
mine, but will never be there any more, isn’t visible from
the accounts. The co. may have bought properties to
take the place of worked-out lands, or it mai’ not. If
it hasn’t, the end will come some day. If it has bought
other lands the end will also come some day—unless
the co. goes on spending money indefinitely in the pur-
chase of properties. One needs, therefore, to know much
more about the Wallsend than the accounts tell before
one can regard it as an investment. In fact, at the
very best, coal-mines, though reckoned with the invest-
ments by Australian Stock Exchanges, have a very strong
speculative element in them ; and the price variations of
the most stable of the coal stocks are almost as great as
those of the shares in any other kind of hole in the earth.
* * * *
Albury Gas Co. (Albury, N.S.W.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
Dec., 1903 ..£459 10 per cent. = £375 £B4 £826
June, 1904 .. 471 10 „ ~ 375 96 922
Dec., 1904 ..524 10 „ „ 375 149 1071
June, 1905 „ 418 10 „ ~ 375 43 1114
Dec., 1905 .. 554 10 „ „ 375 179 1293
June, 1906 .. 516 10 „ „ 375 141 1434
Dec., 1906 .. 508 10 „ „ 375 133 1567
June, 1907 .. 488 10 „ „ 375 113 1680
Dec., 1907 .. 543 10 „ „ 375 168 1848
June, 1908 .. 673 10 „ „ 375 298 2146
Dec., 190 S .. 613 10 „ „ 375 238 2384
June, 1909 .. 672 10 „ „ 375 297 2681
Dec., 1909 .. 731 10 „ „ 375 356 3037
June, 1910 ..779 10 „ „ 375 404 3441
Profits are gross, without deduction for wear and tear.
Another view can be got this way :
June, 1903. June, 1910.
Liabilities .. .. £5229 £5171
Liquid assets .. 997 3214
Deficit .. .. £4232 £1957
So the co. has provided its dividends, paid for all re-
newals and additions, and besides added £2275 to its
liquid wealth in seven years. The 10 per cent, reduction
in the price of gas seems fully justified under those
circumstances.
* * * *
The Economic Permanent BuHjDING Society
(Melbourne), from the time when the capital was written
down from £42,640 to £17,056 :
Busi- Profit
ness on Total Re-
June, Profit. Sales. Profit. Dividend. serves
1905 ..£lO3O £lO3O 4p.c.= £6S2 £2481
1906 .. 1085 £241 1326 4„ „ 682 3125
1907 .. 1133 346 1479 4 „ „ 682 3922
1908 .. 1023 236 1259 4$ ~ „ 767 4414
1909 .. 1163 637 1 800 5 „ „ 853 5361
1910 .. 1395 152 1547 5 ~ „ 853 6055
In 1898 this society still had £59,500 of the old properties
on its hands, and by 1904 the incubus had only been re-
duced to £42,128. It was then decided to make the
accounts look more ship-shape, and capital was written
off as mentioned above; this allowed the £42,128
of assets to be written down to £26,500. The capital was
reduced by issuing two £l shares for each old £5 share.
Since then the Economic has shown these changes :
1905. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Liabilities .. £5,823 £3,096 £4,278 £4,204
Advances .. 5,402 8,978 12,954 14,195
Properties .. 19,995 15,864 13,513 13,063
Other Assets .. 645 590 1,081 910
Advances, properties (written down), and other assets
thus total £28,168 ; so the creditors are exceedingly well
protected. The business is, however, small; and it is
impossible to run it very economically. Unless the
society intends to launch out a bit, it would be better to
look round for an amalgamation somewhere.
* * * *
Another big inter-State fire and accident insur-
ance co. is in the incubator.
* * * *
The weary record of the Elsmork Tin Sluicing
Co. (shares held mostly in Melbourne, mine near Tingha,
N.S.W.):—
Writ-
ten Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves.
Dec., 1906 .. £1163 Nil £B3l
June, 1907 .. 2738 Nil £604 2965
Dec;, 1907 .. 570 12$ p.c.= £6OO 282 2653
Loss.
June, 1908 .. 305 Nil 2348
Dec., 1908 .. 184 Nil 2164
June, 1909 .. 497 Nil 1667
Profits.
Dec., 1909 .. 409 Nil 351 1725
June, 1910 .. 646 Nil 164 2207
The capital is £10,400. Of that, the vendors got £2500
in cash and £4OOO in shares, and they had all the best of
the deal. The co. might make a better showing with its
lslb. dirt if (1) so much shooting wasn’t necessary ; (2)
so much pumping wasn’t necessary. But, things being
as they are, the co. can never hope for dividends except
from an occasional patch of rich ground ; while a drop
of £2O per ton in tin would rule it right out. And £2O
isn’t much in tin ; in 1906 it averaged £lBO 17s. 6d., while
in 1898 it averaged only £7l. The present price is £153.
*■x » * *
Harden doesn’t look as though it will do any
good to gold-mining in N.S.W. It supports—or seems to
—the old idea that the State’s gold very rarely lastsdown.
To the No. 4 level (480 ft.) things were satisfactory ; but
at No. 5 (600 ft.) nothing payable has been found. Ex-
cept for a few patches the reef for the whole distance driven
(475ft.)has been “irregular in width and of low value.”
The shaft is down below 750 ft. ; but instead of going for
the lode there, the co. has been trying to pick up another
shoot at No. 4; It seems very doubtful policy ; but appa-
rently the co. didn’t have the pumping power to
carry on work at a No. 6 level. King, the manager,
who knows his mine, and has never been guilty of fire-
works concerning it, says he caii get over 12,000 tons of
50s. ore from above No. 4. There ought to be at least 10s.
per ton gross profit in this—revenue, that is, in excess of
actual expenses—for working costs last half-year were
down to 345. Id., and the metal losses are immaterial.
Unless new finds are made in the upper levels there are
no more divs. in view; but the mine should be able to
p y for what it deserves—a trial at 750 ft. If that fails,
then the book can be closed.
The old Cosmopolitan, at Hillgrove (N.S.W.),
having fallen into good hands, is being given another
chance; and it seems grateful for it. A mill has been put
up and just started ; and the faces show good ore. But
there are not many stopes, so yields may be erratic—
which should be kept in mind when the market springs
on a good return or two. # #
Principal Westralian results for July
Value
Ton- Revenue. Profit. per
nage. £ £ ton.
Great Boulder .. -- 19,454 49,070 24,518 50/5
Ivanhoe -- 19,641 41,690 20,030 42/5
Kalo-urli ’.. .. 10,980 28,665 15,384 52/2
Sons of Gwalia .. •• 13,510 23,630 9,519 35/- ,
Great Fingall .. .. 10,927 16,400 2,520 30/-
Associated .. .. 10,394 15,009 1,447 28/10
Orova Links •- 11,310 15,829 3,683 28/-
Oroya-Brown Hill .. 22,135* 6,124 3,614 5/6
South Kalgurli .. .. 9,380 11,838 1,713 25/9
Hainault. .. .. 6,862 7,808 1,061 22/9
Golden Ridge .. .. 2,400 6,396 2,657 53/4
Oroya-Black Range .. 4,600 9,254 2,555 40/3
Gwalia South .. .. 2,485 4,718 1,645 37/11
Mararoa 2,673 4,091 - 30/7
Associated Northern .. 2,309 5,280 2,493 f 44/2
Boulder No. 1 .. .. 1,653 2,763 101 33/-
Chaffers 4,255 6,424 372 30/2
North White Feather.. 2,350 2,823 271 24/-
Lake View Consols .. 9,355* 1,645 463 3/6
Menzies Consolidated.. 2,451 4,501 680 36/9
Northern Mines .. 8,056 8,626 383 21/5
Ida H 1,400 3,241 391 46/3
Ingliston Consols Ex-
tended .. .. 1,031 2,661 872 51/7
Ingliston Extended .. 940 2,100 358 44/8
Loss.
Golden Horseshoe .. 22,682 32,046 1558 28/3
Lake View and Star .. 11,833 13,754 3008 t 23/3
Westralia Waihi .. 1,270 1,334 100 21/-
Marvel Loch .. .. 906 1,571 179 36/10
Cumberland .. .. 355 480 342 27/-
Vivien .. .. .. 4,016 4,000 447 19/8
* Old residues.
t Mostly derived from public crushing.
t Costs included £4685 expended in plant and develop-
ment at Hannan’s Star.
* * * *
Associated (W.A.) presents a remarkable report
for the past financial year. In December last the
monthly return unexpectedly tumbled from £21,000 to
£15,000, and one of the directors came out from London
to see what was up. This director spent an hour or two
below, and then, with a feeling of work well performed,
advised the Board that the difficulty was only temporary.
After his return, however, further complications set in,
and the position became aggravated by the receipt of the
manager’s report, which marked down the extractable
value of the ore in sight to 275. 4d., or, roughly, 15s. less
than the estimate of a few months previously. Con-
fronted with this sudden change, the Board com-
missioned a quiet old gentleman named Professor
Liveing to report on the mine. A few weeks- later,
and just before the Professor reached his destination,
the directors were startled to receive a cable from the
manager withdrawing the amended estimate, and con-
taining the frank admission that it was impossible to
form any reliable idea of values, etc. For some reason
or other shareholders did not get this information for
over a month, and then were only informed through a
par. tucked away in the annual report. Since the direc-
tors have had their say Professor Liveing has come for-
ward with a preliminary report, backing up to some
extent the manager’s view of things, and there the
matter stands at present. The year's accounts show a
net working profit of £79,663, from which £30,021 has
been written off for development, shaft-sinking, etc.,
£368 for diamond drilling, and £787 for depreciation,
leaving a balance of £48,485. By adding the previous
year’s balance of £9688 to this, the co. was able to pay
two Is. dividends and carry forward £5169. The co.’s
cash resources now amount to over £140,000, so there is
no immediate danger of directors and officials being kept
Waiting for their screws.
* * * *
British Exploration of Australasia, Ltd., is in
trouble on account of a Perth creditor. Last year this
co. ran short of cash, and tried to raise more. Someone
recommended that the “highly promising prospects” of
its derelict Pilbarra ventures be done justice to in the
shape of further development, and the Board backed up
this suggestion by an appeal for reconstruction. Share-
holders, however, refused to come in, and consequently
knocked the bottom outs of the scheme. Since then some
of the co.’s properties have been in jeopardy ; and now,
to add to the eo.’s troubles, an unfeeling creditor wants
his money.
Gt. Boulder (W.A.) is still up against it. De-
velopments continue miserably poor in the bottom at
2650 ft., while the failure of the diamond drill to get on
to something good in deep ground at the north end of
the main workings hasn’t improved matters. Backward-
ation and dividends seem to be the two-pronged prop on
which the market is at present resting, as the appearance
of the main ore shoot below, 2200 ft., and particularly at
2650 ft., certainly does not warrant the present price for
shares.
* - ■* * *
The Bulletin is in receipt of a Golden Horse-
shoe circular! dated July 21, which states, among other
things, that the: outlook at the mine was never better,
and that the Board “ looks forward with confidence” to the
payment of the delayed August quarterly dividend before
the end of the year. A big improvement will have to be
effected in the monthly returns to do this; and it is doubt-
ful if it can be managed,
* * * *
Hannan’s Reward (W.A.) reports for 18 month*
ended April last that 65,360 tons were treated for a
revenue of £37,730. Expenditure absorbed £37,072 ; and,
after writing off £3Ol for depreciation, £357 remained.
Want of payable ore recently compelled the co. to cease
operations. Its only chance seems to lie in deep sink-
ing ; but whether the Board will risk the few thousand
pounds in hand on the off-cbance of this work leading to
success is a moot point.
* * -v *
Whim Well Copper Co. (W.A.) met share-
holders in London on July 26, and then asked them to
come back again in October to look at the reports and
accounts for 1909. Meantime a dividend of 5 per cent,
has been declared ; but as this co. is only able to pay out
by distributing nearly every penny of working profit
earned by treating the best ore, thus obliging it to in-
crease its’ share issue in order to provide capital expendi-
ture, the achievement isn’t anything to brag about!
The tearful announcement comes from Norse-
man that the Cumberland Go. has decided to abandon its
working option on the Venture leases. And only a little
while ago the local Westralian papers were reporting
almost every day the great value of the reef in these
leases. ’Twas ever thus.
* * * *
Most of Associated Northern’s spare cash is
going to Mexico, and not into shareholders’pockets. The
extraordinary meeting held in London on July 8, decided
to form a new co. to work a mine whose history dates
back to the time of the Spanish conquest, and which is
well above the snow-line on the side of some Sierra. The
reef, so the yarn goes, has a width in places of 30ft., and
contains both gold and silver. Costs are estimated at
20s. per ton, but as developed ore reserves are practically
non-existent, nothing very definite is said about profits.
Australian shareholders would have much preferred a
cash distribution to shares in a foreign venture of doubt-
ful value ; bub having made sure of voting strength
before disclosing its hand, the Board was able to do
things as it pleased.
Burma Mines, Ltd., in which a lot of good Lake
View (W.A.) money is sunk, now claims that it has cot
beyond the preliminary stage, and is about to show
whether original expectations can be justified. Since
the time when various reckless persons alleged that, to
make a fortune, the co. had only to begin where some
unskilled, prehistoric Chows left off, nearly half a million
sterling has been lavished on mine plant, raijway, etc.
At the present time the concern is weighted down with
considerably over a million shares, made up of deferred,
ordinary, preference and extra preference. Moreover, it
owes £225,179 on account of first and second mort-
gage debenture stock and accrued interest, besides
having a sundry-creditor indebtedness of about
£40,000, so the danger of having its credit stopped
increases hourly. Having got the co. into this
financial tangle, its controllers now admit that a great
mining problem is ahead, and that, unless developments
turn out well, the venture will barely yield enough to
repay the debenture debt and keep officials in their jobs.
All the co. actually had to start on was 150,000 tons of
ancient slags, a maze of honeycombed workings, and the
off-chance of finding the leavings of a payable mine
underneath. Of course, the hifalutin prospectus and the
flaring newspaper puffs told a very different tale ; but
the oracle had to be worked somehow, and the old, old
way of doing it was adopted.
* * * *
Black Range (W.A.) is just about the sweetest
thing in mining that Victoria has struck since Mount
Lyell. From the beginning of 1905 to June this year the
shareholders have had £149,469 in divs. on a capital of
£72,500. As nearly all the capital went to buy the mine,
the latter has also had to pay for the equipment, which
has run to another £31,000 ; and on top of that and the
divs., there is over £20,C00 of cash in hand. Ninepence a
month comes as regularly as the rent collector, and there
is no hint of tro.uble in the lower levels. The reef, no
doubt, does underlay out of the co.’s ground in the
northern end—the Black Range West has proved that—
but the parent co. will not be concerned about that for a
good many years to come, notwithstanding the proposed
increase in the output, which will involve another £12,000
in plant.
* * * *
Wandiligong, one of the Bright (Vic.) dredges,
is now 5£ years old, and has paid £11,910 in divs. on a
capital of £5400. Recent div. records have been: July,
’OB, £1500; Jan., ’O9, £4200 ; July, ’O9, £750; Jan., ’lO,
£1500; July, ’lO, £9OO. Last half-year’s profit was
£1478, of which £225 was written off. Two dredges are
at work, one at each end of the property, and there ap-
pears to be about nine years’ work lying between them.
No estimate has been made of values, though there is no
reason to suspect that the middle of the claim is poorer
than the ends.
* * * *
Johnson’s Reef, Bendigo (Vic.), is on a rough
track. The fond wish of those who have had to pay calls
for many a long day is that the shoot of gold that has
furnished the Collman and Tacchi with rich dividends
will wander across the Oollinan fault into the ground to
the north where Johnson’s rule. Very little gold has
been got there of late. The junction of a couple of slides
on the saddle and an enrichment of the stone have, how-
ever, given hope to a cheery Board during the cur-
rent half-year. The workings have now got outside the
fault-affected region, and there is talk that in the settled
country gold may make. Against this is the experience
established in Bendigo, and just repeated in the mine
itself at the junction of the slides, that gold often makes
best on a fault. Johnson’s have a long way to go to reach
their boundary to the north, and half a dozen heaves may
bring them wealth on the way thither ; so the Board is
doing right to hit out hard in that direction. The co. has
also something to hope from the extension of the Confi-
dence Extended shoot; but the Dagmar workings are
sadly disappointing. North Johnson’s are doing the pros-
pecting at this end, but no one looks at thatco. seriously
after the late flutter.
* * * *
Here is a little bit of the very Jatest about the
Frenchman’s Reef, Daylesford (Vic.): “In the faces of
No. 4 level slopes at present the stone is from 4ft. to sft.
thick, about half solid white stone and half magpie mix-
ture, all of which is heavily charged with mineral and is
showing splendid gold throughout. In the centre of the
hard laminated stone there are large pockets of pure
mineral, which, when scraped out with the pick, disclose
coarse gold freely. Specks of gold, fully Idwt. each,
were also seen in the sold stone.” This sort of plum-
pudding is too rich to be easily digested alone.
The sauce contains the corrective, for instead of the
specks making up to hundreds of ounces per ton, only
2oz. yields are estimated if the rich stone is crushed
separately! Even then it is only “likely”to go that,
though “ it ” is in “ black slate country and has a settled
appearance.” With all this wealth scattered about, it is
odd to look back at the last crushing of 700 tons and find
that it gave only 410 oz. No onedenies that Frenchman’s
Reef has big bodies of quartz, but it has to climb very
high to shake off the memory of a dreary past.
■* * * *
East Mexican, Charters Towers, got £2990 from
the last two crushings, which gave the enticing average
of £8 7s. Bd. per ton. Driving the eastern end of No. 5
has provided a good deal of excitement because specimen
stone has occasionally been Seen, A run of about 70ft. of
payable stone has been proved ; and the face is still 380 ft.
from Mills’ United boundary. Improved prospectsin the
rise from No. 6 and in No. 5 level, also an improvement
in the shaft, have helped to create a strong market.
* * *
Bonnie Dundee, Charters Towers, has hopes of
finding another run of payable ground, for two crosscuts
—one put in by the Brilliant Extended from No. 8 level—
have disclosed formations carrying quartz veins and a
little gold. Nothing can be said yet as to whether either
of these reefs will pay ; but the Bonnie is saving some of
the stone broken in driving at the 609 ft. level. Shares
have been hoisted to 3s. mainly because it was remem-
bered that the co. was lucky some time since in develop-
ing a shoot of stone near the Queen Central boundary.
The latter is reconstructing to sink the shaft and explore
the country near where the Bonnie did so well. Brilliant
Central has not been crushing so well; but the develop-
ment of No. 10 level, with an area of about five acres of
maiden ground, is interesting people in the show.
* * * *
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers, pays
its fifth dividend of Is. Altogether it has given share-
holders £37,500, and the mine is still in good fettle,
though it has already turned out about £BO,OOO this
year. The last fortnight’s lot was £5168 from 1165 tons.
No. 1 is undoubtedly the best in the mine—which is
encouraging to the East Mexican, whose boundary is
about 90ft. above the Freehold’s No. 1 level. But
developments have not been good at greater depths.
No. 3, which is now more than 250 ft. west of the shaft,
has passed through several bunches of stone, and the
best hope, based on nothing in particular, is that the
level will run into more profitable ground.
* * i *
The Tongkah bulls have been having a game
with the Tongkah bears, and the bears have had their
tails squeezed. There has been steady overselling ever
since Currie and Wharton fired in their damning reports ;
but the scrip wasn’t asked for until Captain Teddy Miles
got on the spot and whipped up things. Simultaneously
with the bigger yields reports came through that the new
dredges were to hand. Then the scrip was wanted in a
hurry, and buying-in notices fell in a heap on the Ex-
changes. Tongkah itself, however, remains the same
uncertain show that it has been all the time. Nobody
has cast any doubt upon the capacity of the claim to
yield a big tonnage of tin for a time ; it is the length of
the time that is in dispute. And, to make the future
more doubtful, the compromise with the Siamese Govern-
ment over the dock and channel contract seems to be
still hung up. So, in spite of the excellent prospects of
the tin market, Tongkah is still only a stock for the
gambler.
* * * *
Rustic: Safe enough, though cumbered with
many poor investments, which will mean poor bonuses
for years....Savarol: No; plenty better Mt. Bryan
S.: B. (7/7/’10) explains it; the co. is just at present
fighting for its life in the Privy Council.... Constant R.:
Don’t know ; but London Truth, which follows these
things, includes the firm in its black list M. Mungana :
Cameron and Sutherland, 114 a Sydney
E.A.G.: It was, and so far as we know still is, the most
likely-looking of all the rubber floats.
■* * * *
“ God’s own country ” has its New Zealand Con-
solidated Dental Co., and the last two or three balance-
sheets of the quaint concern have blown over to The
Bulletin. Presumably on the ground that Maoriland is
biting off something that will take some chewing pre-
sentlv, the co. fixed its capital as high as £50,000. Down
to March, 1909, only £19,675 had, however, been called
up; and for that year there was a div. of 7£ per cent.
(£1475), and a purchasers’ bonus of 1J per cent. (£255).
When that lot had been paid the co. was left with reserves
of £13,615; and it promptly played up £9838 by watering
its shares, issuing one for every two previously
held. “ There was, unfortunately,” the directors
lament, “a serious drop iu the price of teeth
during the year,” so for that year a profit
of only £1737 was made. Last year the teeth market
was brisker and the profit was £2003, so a 6 per cent,
div. was paid on the watered capital. Inevitably, this
being in lou Ward’s dominions, the co. has a mortgage
it is careful to mention that it is on its premises and not
on its teeth—and this and other debts total no less than
£14,186. It is a pretty large mouthful; still, besides
£10,300 of land and premises, the co. has £25,806 of
molars and sundries on the other side, with book debts
and other items totalling another £13,420. Obviously
there’s more gold in teeth than the dentist puts in.
(Continued on page 30.)


.V
V3S
$
*
/ CHARLES
Iheidsieck
CHAMPAGNE
1904
Those who suffer from falling hair, or, in fact,
any liair troubles, should find out about the Hygeia
Individual Treatment, which absolutely cures, where
those advertised remedies fail. Miss 8., of landra, whose
hair was dry and split and falling badly, whose scalp was
very irritable and covered with dandruff, writes, after
using the treatment only one month :
“I am very glad to say there is a great improvement
already : the irritation has already quite gone and nearly
all the dandruff, the ends are not at all split, and
altogether there is a great improvement. My hair is
beautifully soft and quite glossy, and there is' a lot of
new hair beginning to grow. It is not falling out at all,
and lias no appearance of doing so. I hope to be able to
call and see you in a few weeks’ time, and then you can
see for yourself the great improvement in my hair.— E.B.’
The President may be consulted, free of charge, any day
but Saturday, between 2.15 and 1.45, and on Wednesday
between C and 7. Those who wisli to know more about
this treatment and cannot call may write, enclosing 3d.
stamps for booklet and many more testimonials, to the
President, Dept. B, Hygeia Limited, Ocean- House,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
R°B y R
r*Ni
I?
Its great fun for me to watch
some of my competitors. When
they commence in business they
sell everything the public want,
but when they get on their feet a
bit “they begin to put on side”
“hoighty toighty”—“they don’t
keep this” and won’t stock
that —just as if their customers
were all brainless idiots, with
no opinion of their own and
lucky to be supplied by them
at all.
I once had a shop close to
one of those fellows and one
of the lines he would’nt keep
was Robur tea —and my word
the number of customers of his
who used to come to my shop
to get it would surprise you, and
they used to buy other things
from me at the same time. I’m
an old stager at the game and
1 take jolly good care to keep
whatever I’m asked for —talking
about R o bur—it’s not my place
to boost it up—there isn’t enough
to be made out of it, for that —
but it’s really astonishing how
people grow to like it and how
hard it is to get them off it
once they get started.
I sell about as much of the
No. 2 Grade as 1 do of the No. J.
They are both good, al-hough, of
course the latter is very much
the nicer of the two.
The Grocer\
a
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
BLACK & WHITE
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, August 30, 1910.
\ly I)kar Arini,—
Poor little Haydn, who at six years of age was
getting more flogging than food from the he-
music-teacher into whose sole charge he had
been committed ! Poor little genius, who at that
tender age wore a wig “ for the sake of cleanli-
ness” ! He hated to be dirty, but there was no
woman in the household to look after him.
Haydn, who in manhood was below the medium
in height, with long body and short legs—a small-
pox-pitted face; a polypus disfigurement of his
otherwise fine aquiline nose; the inspirer of genuine
love-passions in handsome women ! Haydn mar-
ried to an unloving, exacting, scolding woman—
yet he wrote “ The Creation.”
Last week the Sydney Philharmonic produced
“ The Creation ” at the Town Hall, and most of
the huge audience doubtless remembered, even
before the Heavens began Telling the Glory of
God, that Haydn prayed fervently every day
before starting work on its composition. Well,
Providence owed him something in the way of
compensation for the wig and the floggings, the
smallpox and his wife and the polypus, to say
nothing of early struggles against other adverse
circumstances; and the prayers were answered
with Inspirations all along the score.
Conductor ,T. Bradley generalled his fine body
of angels, Uriel, Gabriel and Raphael, and his
army of chorus-warblers with musicianly strategy.
Mrs. Slapoffski, disguised as Gabriel (in a glitter-
ing grey gown), was in fine voice. Miss Muriel
Barton and Messrs. Walter Whyte and Percy
Herford were other heavenly bodies in the musi-
cal scheme. Philharmonic says it was the best
booking occasion of its life. It is so glad Haydn
prayed.
On Saturday I picked the winner at the Royal
Art Society’s show. It is A. J. Burgess’s sea
piece—moonlight on a tumbling sea, with some
steamer craft. He has baptised it with some
lines of verse that don’t fit it as well as these do :
The sinister seduction of the moon,
The menace of the irreclaimable sea.
A portrait of Miss Florence Rodway, by Nor-
man Carter, entitled “A Low-toned Harmony,”
is another winner. The girl stands as if facing a
far horizon. Her black mushroom hat, dark
amethyst frock (I heard it variously called prune,
plum and deep heliotrope) and smoky-grey gauntlet
gloves make the harmony that sets off thestander’s
bright complexion. J. F. Scott’s “Evening at
Rose Bay” is another charming picture. Mr.
G. V. F. Mann gives a dear “Old Mill on the
Lachlan,” Tasmania. A little picture you can’t
but like is Miss Nita Bransel’s “ Trysting Place.”
I’ll find some more winners during the week, I
hope.
At the biennial meeting of the National Council
of Women, held last week, it was resolved to ask
the Government to establish a college of domestic
economy. It will be the many th time of asking. A
Government is more slippery than an oiled eel. The
McMillan lady, who presided, was clearly hopeful
that when the college is established it won’t lack
pupils. But the temperature of her listeners did
not rise in proportion to her enthusiasm. The
office and the factory that close at 5.30 or 6
o’clock will, they feared, continue to be the
Meccas of most women workers. The National
Councillors desire that domestic service, like
nursing, may be raised to a profession, and that
the stream of girls now rushing hospitalward may
be diverted into private households. The scheme
is full of “ifs” and “ buts ” and other traps,
mostly in the matters of working hours and wages.
To get her second wind and gather fresh
strength to buttress the Bush Book Club, its
founder, Lady Poore, went to Austinmer for a
quiet week. Now she is facing her harbor water-
frontage once more, and enthusiastically telling
the good measure we’ll get for our 2s. (id. at the
Greenoaks fete on September 16. The linked
sweetness of the revel will be drawn outfrom3to 6
in the afternoon and from 7.30 to 10 at night. The
Tivoli is going to lend the lady “stars” for an
hour’s shining at night on the improvised
stage which will be lighted with acetylene gas.
Miss Lorna Pounds will do some mimetic work in
the afternoon. Misses Maie Sydney and Perrin
will take round the hat. A field-gun display, a
gymnastic show from the Powerful, a chute,
entertainments for the under-14-year-olds, and
the newly-formed mandolin band are on the pro-
gramme. This mandolin band, which is said to
be a perfect combination of its kind, will
play in the evening, the performers dressed as
Spanish toreadors and Juanita maids. One hardly
likes to take so much for the money. Children
half-price.
Fanny Dango’s next appearance will be in con-
nection with a less exotic bloom than the Orchid.
She will look well below a wreath of orange
blossoms. The man in whose honor they will be
twined in honey-colored hair—the man whose
heart was danced out of him even as John Bap-
tist’s head was danced off him—was in Sydney
last week doing homage and giving more dia-
monds. (N.B.—Probably, like the sensible little
woman Miss Dango is said to be, she will wear her
going-away gown at the ceremony, and the latest
in big millinery, not orange flowers, will crown
her head.)
“ Mareeba ?” reiterated the puzzled interviewer
to Dolores while the soprano was week-ending
through this city on her way to Melbourne last
Sunday night. “ You sang at Mareeba and ‘loved ’
vour press notice ? Where is Mareeba ? ” “ Two
thousand miles from Sydney and a hundred from
Cairns,” answered Dolores. “ You have such im-
mense distances, but I am learning them by heart.”
Mareeba has such a pleasant, friendly sound
that I set out to find what it does for a living' and
whether it has any trout-fishing. The only' man
I could meet who knew it has no soul for trout-
fishing, but remembers that it has a brewery—
idle when he was there—and the most glorious
stars he has ever seen in Australia. And rosy-
cheeked children, though it is in North Queens-
land. And its excellent health is looked after
just now by Dr. Vernon, who came from Sydney
Uni., and is the good-Australian son of N. S.
Wales’s Government Architect.
Dolores bought the first four tickets sold by
Nellie Stewart on Saturday, at the street sale in
aid of her Radium Fund matinee. On Monday,
in the chill dawn of 5 o’clock, the queue wait-
ing for Paling’s to open and the booking to begin,
had a good long head on it, and by 8 o’clock
its tail was waving in Martin Place. Baronet
Rupert Clarke has sent Miss Stewart £25 towards
the fund, and Messrs. Oxenham, S. Hordern,
and A. Hordern have paid the like sum for
boxes for the matinee. Mr. Rickard parted
with £3O for his, and Mr. Oxenham sold the
first row of the circle and four rows of stalls for
£lB4 at the auction last week. The matinee
occurs next Monday, beginning at 1 o’clock. Tea
on the stage follows.
At the concert to be given on October 18 in aid
of the Children’s Hospital, both Mrs. Ewan
Frazer and Mrs. Alex. Gordon will make their
first platform appearance since their respective
marriages. As Miss Jessie Middleton Mrs.
Frazer was a distinguished pianist, and as she
is a quiet young matron, she has scarcely
had time to be extinguished as mistress of
the ivories. Mrs. Gordon will be remem-
bered as Miss Margaret Thomas (the public’s
memory rarely goes backward for longer than a
week or so), a sweetsinger. I fancy sherecently put
upajoyfulsongat someone’s wedding; but, anyhow,
her appearance in October will be her first on any
platform since the service that starts out with
“Dearly beloved ” was read in her honor. Others
assisting with the programme will be violinist
Staell and tenor Andrew Black. Mrs. Danger
Owen, Mrs. Philip Street and Mrs. James Ashton
are also working for the success of the concert.
Some recent picture post-cards of contralto
Ella Caspers are floating around Sydney. An
artist was at the back of the camera, and it is
wonderful what a few deep waves in her hair
and just the right turn of the head have done for
the poseuse. She looks artistic and almost a
beauty. Doubtless the photographer had nought
to do with the undulation of the hair, but un-
doubtedly he had with the girl’s attitude and the
droop of the eyes.
Talking of stage favorites : Clever Madge Mc-
Intosh, who was so successful here in “ The
Midnight Wedding” and kindred thrillers, is
managing a theatre in Glasgow for a syndicate.
She stages the plays, directs rehearsals, and, it is
to be hoped, is paid accordingly.
Miss Nora Venables, Sydney’s beauty-matron—
hospital matron I mean—has resigned her command
of the Children’s Hospital, after holding the posi-
tion for nearly 14 years. She has suffered many
farewells and presentations, or rather she en-
dured and the nursing staff did the suffering.
Almost, in their grief at losing one of the most
lovable of women, they rent their garments as
well as their hearts. It is understood that the
fortunate man Miss Venables is to marry is Dr.
Rutledge, who comes from Dubbo.
The T. H. Kellys started the new crop of revels
with the smallest sort of dance at their Double
Bay house on Monday night. The farewell ball
to the departing Hore-Ruthvens happens on the
evening of the day this letter impacts the public
eye, and after that, what with an Admiralty
House party, a “Powerful” dance, and mild
diversions at Federal and State Government
Houses, gaieties are scheduled to occur thick
and fast.
Captain Byng Stephens, who aided Lord and
Lady Northcote during their term of office here,
has got engaged. His future bride is a Miss
Olive Dawnay. Captain Stephens will be remem-
bered by Australians as a fair, slight and languid
young man, in a chronic state of anxiety as to the
state of his health. Old fishermen in the Monaro
district still speak with bated breath of his unique
gifts as a dry-fly fisherman.
Ninth of next month is the time, the Palace
Theatre the place, and the B. ofN.S.W. Dramatic
Association the persons of the performance in aid
of the North Shore Mater Misericordise Hospital
referred to in last letter. There are indications
that Sydney’s nobility, gentry and others intend
to be present in enormous numbers, and for tne
sake of a most worthy charity it is to be hoped
that the box-office will bulge with the quantity of
coin paid in on the occasion of the bankers’ mum-
ming.
That was a performance of pluck and endur-
ance on the part of two ladies—the ascent of
Kosciusko by Mrs. Horsfall and Mrs. Bourne.
I fancy they are the first women to accomplish
the grand climb in winter time. It had been
done only once from this side, and then by men.
Mrs. Horsfall is the wife of a Newcastle doctor
(a D.S.O. man); Mrs. Bourne is, I believe, a
Sydneysider. The ladies’ respective consorts
faced the wintry blasts with them. They had
already acquired some skill at the slippery game
in Switzerland. The bald and convincing narrative
of the trip says that the party, six in all, left the
hotel on ski on the 15th, at 11, lunched at Piper’s
Gap at 12.30, slept at Betts’s camp in a world of
snow, and made the attack on the mountain eight
miles distant next morning, starting at 7
o’clock. Hard snow and westerly wind when
within some 500 yards of the summit—the bee-
yutiful snow whirled down with the same violence
with which it smote the Erl-king, and the party
turned and fled before it. They ran back on ski
to the hotel, finishing in the moonlight.
To a mere member of the sex which is generally
supposed to be delirious on the subject of clothes,
the most interesting feature of the controversy
last week between Mr. B. R. Wise and Mr. Con-
sett Stephen was the stress laid by both parties
on the question of costume. Mr. Consett Stephen
went to hear Mr. Wise make a Labor speech, and
was pained to find him in “ immaculate evening
dress.” There, on a Labor platform, amid a
large mass of Labor leaguers, Mr. Wise was
to be seen in the garb he usually affects
at night; and Mr. Consett Stephen was surprised
and hurt. I gathered from Mr. Stephen’s letter
that there is a convention in these matters. At
Liberal meetings the club man wears a black coat
and a white tie, and no one says him nay. But,
if he would escape public flagellation in the press,
he must, before advancing on a Labor platform,
go to the expense and trouble of a disguise. And
yet if Mr. Wise had spoken for Mr. Fitzgerald
last week in moleskins and bowyangs, I doubt if
his critics would have been satisfied. They would
have found some dark, reprehensible significance
in his laborious effort at realism. 'Not less curious
than Mr. Consett Stephen’s scandalised astonish-
ment at Mr. Wise’s costume was Mr. Wise’s subse-
quent references to the matter. Instead of com-
menting acidly on the dreadful snobbishness
of the idea that a man must not—at the risk of
being severely chided by Liberalism—wear even-
ing clothes when in the presence of Laborites, the
K.C. took the absurd matter au serieux. He
solemnly pointed out that Mr. Fitzgerald also
wore evening clothes sometimes. And imme-
diately the gentleman who does the leading
articles for the Sydney Telegraph sprang to the
side of Mr. Consett Stephen and cried, with
scorn, that that was doubtless why Mr. Wise sup-
ported Mr. Fitzgerald. It is an extraordinary
fuss for a band of presumably busy male folks to
make over a little matter of costuming, and sug-
gests that we women are not the only slaves to
the dress-fetich, nor the sole exemplars of “class-
consciousness.”
Maggie Papakura, who does the Lead Kindly
Light act in Maoriland for the European tourist,
was in Sydney last week, from Tuesday to
Saturday, wearing her usual magenta hanky head-
dress. Then she fled back by the Ulimaroa
to her own boiling locality. Her departure for
London, whither she takes a company of Maori
braves and maids, is as assured as booking can
make it.
What lure has Westralia dangled before those
600 damsels who, the cable says, are coming out
to that State by the Pi mu taka for domestic ser-
vice ? Surely they have been shown written offers
of marriage from 600 tall, dark or fair gents in
comfortable circumstances. I don’t know of any
other inducement that would bring out 600 simul-
taneous girls. They are not coming, I will swear,
as plain dish-breakers and food-runners. No
promise of high wages, even if they were as high
as Hainan’s gallows, would bring such an in-
vasion in these capacities. Anyhow, I suspect
that when our Mr. Immigration Percy Hunter
read the cable his sobs became audible outside
Challis House.
Last week the Sydney Telegraph announced
the wedding of George Henry Lambkin and Bel-
gravia Jane Grant. And so there is a Belgravia
Jane Lambkin in the world. If, in these days of
hyper-criticism, a name like that occurred in a
novel or a play, the critics would chide the inven-
tor for his cheap and archaic wit. Belgravia
Lambkin is a thing that wasn’t dreamt of in the
philosophy of the most fantastic name-coiners of
the Early Victorian period.
Have just delighted my eyes at a private view
of the bridal gown to be worn by Miss Gwladys
Lewis, a Sydney girl, at her wedding next Wed-
nesday. Charmeuse below ninon it is, with rose
point for the yoke and sleeves. But the elaborate
embroidery of pearls and crystal on the ninon is
what gives the gown its chief distinction. Miss
Lewis is to be married to Mr. Scotland, who is
something in the private-secretarial line on
Garden Island.
Avaricious hospital sees, crowded the Town
Hall platform on Friday night, waiting for their
Hospital Saturday cheques to be handed them by
Lady Chelmsford. She handed so well that 3000
persons applauded the bestowals and a little con-
cert programme. Then (admission had been free)
the plates were taken round, and the 3000 ap-
plauders panned out £2O.
The Women’s Club members, who are losing
their comfortable quarters at Challis House, have
decided not to put themselves at the mercy of
landlords any more. They are going to build a
club-house for themselves, opposite Sydney’s very
swellest manger. The husbands of themembers are
paying for it. Even emancipated women find man
a great stand-by when it comes to paying for the
premises. If the Australian isn’t very chi valrousin
the bad old-fashioned way, he is perhaps the best
man in the world as regards “ letting her have her
head.” At the “ card evening ” given at the
Patriotic Club to Miss Macarthur Onslow, someone
wondered what the husbands of all the women
present were doing. An inquiry was hurriedly
made, and it was found that most of them were
spending a quiet evening at home—or were sup-
posed to be,anyhow.
Another number of the Fiery Cross comes
from Scotland. The Cross is owned and edited
by one Theodore Napier, and says things about
the Person and the Flag calculated to make Mr.
Bruce Smith sad and the British Empire League
ashamed. It invariably refers to Edward VII. as
“the late ‘King’ Edward,’’ as who should say
“Liberal” Mr. Wade; and hails as rightful
sovereign of England the Arch-Duchess of
Modena-Este. Here is the declaration which the
Fiery CROSS-ites caused to be affixed to the door
of Linlithgow Church the day Ed. VII. was
buried: —
Whereas
It hath pleased Almighty God to remove, by
death, the Occupant of the British Throne, it is hereby
declared That the Real and Lawful Sovereign of these
Realms is Marie Theresa Henrietta Dorothea, of the
Houses of Stuart, Tudor and Plantagenet, also of Estd
and Savoy, who, by Constitutional Right, should now
reign Mary IV. and 111. of Great Britain and Ireland.
God save the Queen !
Says Theodore Napier in reference to,the above: —
There can be no question as to the truth of its contents,
and that “ the real and lawful Sovereign of these Realms,”
is the Royal Lady therein declared. The “ Act of Settle-
ment” of 1701 was an illegal transaction as well as an
unrighteous one ; for the Parliament then created had no
legal and lawful authority, being merely a Convention
one, called by the usurper, William of Orange, and bis
illegal successors on the British Throne. Therefore the
present Union of Parliaments has likewise no legal stand-
ing—it was disowned by King James VIII. and 111. and
his Royal sons, and should not be owned by present-day
Legitimists. We can loyally exclaim, “God save the
Queen ! ”
And yet the alleged usurper, George, clings to his
job and remains, to all appearances, unperturbed.
It is an exhilarating thing to see strong men
leaping with rage on a ship’s deck. I saw some
last week. A coasting vessel was about to be
moved out backwards into the stream by an
attendant tug, and a forgetful seaman had left a
boat tethered to the stern by a short length of
rope. As the ferry-boat I was on approached the
Quay landing, the tug lugged the coaster back-
wards from the wharf. The boat under the
counter tried to get out of the way as a dog
dodges a horse. The coaster did its best to avoid
treading on the boat, and the four seamen on the
coaster’s deck stood idly watching the tug. The
hidden struggle under the stern grew gradually
fiercer. At last the coaster grew sick of it and
started to walk on the boat. The boat turned
over in a sickly fashion, and disappeared alto-
gether under the stern in a lather of foam.
Men on wharves and berthed steamers
stood up and howled and pointed. The four
seamen on the coaster became aware that people
around them were getting excited. They started
to investigate just as the boat bobbed up along-
side. More onlookers howled and pointed. One
seaman rushed to the rail and saw the water-
logged boat, with the oars and fittings drifting
away. He waved his arms at the other three, and
shouted something. The fattest of them leaped
into the air. The next fattest leaped higher in
the air. The third leaped till he was level with the
mast. The man who had discovered the damage
lowered himself over the bulwarks and made a
desperate effort to recover an oar. I th ink he really
wanted to get away from the three who were
leaping. I guess they were the headquarters
staff of that vessel, and he was the crew who had
tied the boat. It was a tragedy, but I saw it all
from a distance and it cheered me immensely.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HARDY
BROTHERS
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
LIMITED
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
CHRISTENING PRESENTS
IN SOLID SILVER.
A LARGE VARIETY.
INSPECTION INVITED.
SSSS,, '"*‘ i actin'
HARDY
BROS
r
SUGGESTIONS,
Spoon, Fork and Knife, in Case
Spoon and Fork (only) ~
Serviette Ring ~
Egg Cup and Spoon „
Porridge Bowl & Spoon ~
Plate and Spoon „
Cup and Saucer „
Mug »
Mug, Fork and Spoon ~
Rattle ~
Money Box „
Coods forwarded on Approval
to any Address in the
Commonwealth.
Baby’s Silver Brush, with Puff Jar,
Engraved with Nursery Rhyme,
in Case,
£2 13s
LARGE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE SENT POST FREE.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
500,000 Copies already sold of the Popular
Bookstall Series of Australian Novels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
THE DOUBLE ABDUCTION,
by H. K. BLOXHAM
(Author of “ On the Fringe of the Never-Never”).
With Four Full-Page illustrations by Ben Jordan.
Illustrated Paper Cover. Price 1/- ; postage 3d.
THE
Mr. Bloxham has
again succeeded in
weaving a web of
romance around the
belles of VVilcannia
which is likely to
prove as great a
favorite as his former
effort.
The plot is too
intricate and the in-
cidents too numer-
ous to mention in a
short paragraph, but
readers may be sure
of plenty of excite-
ment, told in this
author’s Thrilling
sty 1 e. The very
daring of the abduction of the two girls, although
committed by two seemingly simple young men, is
worthy of the best bushranging traditions of Aus-
tralia.
LOVE AND THE AEROPLANE,
A Tale of To-Morrow. By JOHN SANDES.
With Six Full-Page Illustrations by Lionel Lindsay
Illustrated Paper Cover. Price 1/- ; postage 3d.
For many years
the name of John
Sandes has been one
to conjure with so
far as smart articles,
humorous sketches
and literary criticism
in the leading: Aus-
tralian newspapers
were concerned, and
now this talented
author has turned
his ability into the
“Novel” channel
with marked success.
The story is de-
lightful in its many-
sided interests —
love, jealousy, hate
and their consequent _ .
tragedies—as influenced by the coming of the airship,
together with the quaint characters and quainter
philosophy to be met with in the bush environments
so ably featured in this story. The human interest is
all-absorbing and is splendidly handled. This tale
of to-morrow will be enjoyed wherever read.
Books by that Prince of Australian Writers,
STEELE RUDD.
“BOOKSTALL SERIES.”
THE POOR PARSON.
SANDY’S SELECTION.
FROM SELECTION TO CITY.
DAD IN POLITICS.
OUR NEW SELECTION.
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM.
A LAUGH IN EVERY PAGE.
Price 1/» each ; Post Free 1/3.
DUNCAN McCLURE.
BACK AT OUR SELECTION.
FOR LIFE.
ON OUR SELECTION.
STOCKING OUR SELECTION.
BUSH RANGING BOOKS.
John Vane, Bushranger, by Charles White.
.Short-Lived Bushrangers, by Charles White.
Three Years with Thunderbolt, by Ambrose Pratt,
Übiqt*ie,The Scientific Bushranger, by Clarence fylartin
LISTS SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL COMPANY, 476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches and
Booksellers.
STECK PIANOLA PIANO
THE
SIMPLER
WAY TO
MUSIC.
PS
the:
SIMPLER
WAY TO
MUSIC.
IN every home there is a need for music. Refining, soothing, inspiring music is
almost as essential to healthy, happy growth and development in both young and
old as sunshine itself.
The wav to music used to be a toilsome one. To-day music lias become the
easiest of the arts, thanks to the PIANOLA.
When you buy a 'PIANOLA you buy the ability and the privileges of the
musician. The technique it has taken him so long to acquire is yours at once. All
that he sums up in the one word “expression,” you can command as quickly as
you wish.
In expression the distinction between the PIANOLA and other Piano-players is
most manifest. Whether it be in bringing out the melody of a composition, and
causing it to sing above the accompanying notes —in shading the accompaniment in
an artistic use of the sustaining pedal—or in separating phrase from phrase in an
intelligent interpretation, the performer on the PIANOLA is supplied means for
artistic playing found on no other instrument of its_kin(h_
IT is wise to distinguish carefully between the PIANOLA and STECK PIANOLA
PIANO, and the manv attempted imitations of these famous instruments. The
THEMODIST, the METROSTYLE, the Graduated Accompaniment are exclusive
with the PIANOLA and STECK PIANOLA PIANO. The names of these vital features
have been imitated ; the devices themselves, however, are fully protected by patents.
The Pianola has unquestionably brightened and broadened the lives of thousands
of persons. It has furnished a new interest in the home, developed latent taste,
and proved itself a great educator for old and young. The Pianola and Steck Pianola
Piano are made only by the Pianola Company. I hey should not be confused with
other instruments lacking their important musical advantages.
Musically and mechanically the Pianola is universally recognised as standing at the
head of its class, a fact amply proven by its great sale exceeding that of all other
Piano-players combined.
A cordial invitation to call is extended to everyone who may be interested in
hearing the Pianolo, irrespective of any intention to purchase.
You will get it at once, post paid.
IF UNABLE TO CALL, WRITE FOR CATALOGUE “ C.”
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.,
. • -
Also at MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE and BRISBANE.
357 George Street, Sydney.


An object-lesson of a refreshing and much-
needed character was on view at the Don Store,
'Glenferrie, during Royal Show time. The pro-
prietor hit upon the happy idea of making his
roomy premises the home of a gorgeous exhi-
bition of Australian-made goods. Everything to
wear for both sexes and all ages disported in the
capacious windows and on acres of tables and
shelves and counters, in a glory of splendor and
plentitude. They told their story—their veracious
story—in a glowing language of shape and color,
which delighted the eye and made the heart of
the Australian feel glad. In effect, what they
eloquently stated was: “The intelligent and
trained Australian can manufacture everything
necessary for the well-being of man, just as his
great country with its amplitude of space and
its variousness of climate can grow everything
that man and woman need to eat, to wear,
to dwell in, or sit or lie down upon. Raw
material is here in abundance; trained in-
telligence is at hand. It needs only an intelligent
tariff to wave its creative hand or smile its en-
couraging smile, and, presto ! the wide walls of
the Don and the multitude of stores of which the
Don is a fine, progressive example are like to
burst with bales of cloth and good things in felt
and leather and linen.”*
Under Vice-Regal Patronage.
Mild (HIM? M&SSCfftn, Corsetiere,
of COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
begs to inform her Sydney clients that she will be
at the MOTEL METROPOLE, SYDNEY, from
WEDNESDAY, 7th, to TUESDAY, 13th
SEPTEMBER, both days inclusive.
Graceful
Form.
Though all may not en-
joy the birthright of
“the form divine,” there
is no reason Why any-
one should regard a
graceful symmetry as out
of the question for her.
Proper care in the de-
signing of frocks and
costumes, and especially
in the selection of the
Corsets over which they
are fitted and worn, will
do much to overcome
natural deficiencies in
this respect.
Royal
P.D.
Rustless Corsets
are famous for the graceful contour they
impart to every figure. Being constructed
on scientific, anatomical lines, “ P.D.”
Corsets impart the desired beauty of form
without imposing any restraint on the
limbs. Because of this feature they are
specially recommended by learned medical
men, who advise that “women should
wear only Corsets built on the most
advanced hygienic and anatomical prin»
ciples.”
Your draper has “ P.D.” Corsets exactly
constructed for your figure. Ask him to
show them to you. [I
-
a i
«■
SS36
*
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, August 29, 1910.
My Dear Yarrie,—
There is a" piquancy that is native to a mask
ball, but is foreign to most other animals of the
species; and men, beforehand, discuss in an in-
tensely interested way, “ What are you going to
wear?” Heard two sane city men in animated
conversation over the’phone discussing the inti-
mate details of their prospective clothes, and a
feminine clack-clacking about new feathers was
not so puerile. Then I met a giant of 6Jft.,
ambling along the city street with a smile child-
like and vacuous, toying with a newly-acquired
bauble to decorate his masquerade costume. Men
snort at women’s fal-lals and frivols; but see the
dandy Willie-boys they become when there is a
fancy-dress chance of dropping the crow’s uni-
form !
At the Artists’ Masque on Friday night two
serious male citizens went to the trouble of
squeezing into satin small-clothes and tight-
waisted vests, with a wealth of elaborate detail in
lace ruffles and folded stocks. Even the buttons
on the back of their colored cloth coats beamed
with complacency. It is not the frivolous who
frivol at a masquerade, so much as the staid people
who break into an unusual gambol.
At this V. A.B. outing thepre-historic Peruvians
and Incas, who were in the farthermost whirl of
history, came to the Eastern Gallery from the
previous juniors’ frivol. A youth of Eiffel height
had got his grandmother to knit a false skin ; it
covered him from crown to toe and had a skeleton
painted on it. Some girl in an exquisite grey
film-dress made herself hideous with a clinging
head mask—it had scarlet lips and eyes and
made her look like what Spiritualists would
call an Elemental. A quite healthy student
made a good card-boy—“ ’Rec’ card of the races.”
The eastern galleries make a good setting for
picture dances. The staircase spreads out wide
arms from its broad centre. Some of the artists,
busy with the decorations, cooked their sausages
up there the night before the revel. Persian rugs
hung over the balustrades all the same as in
stagey Spain. A dance programme—the only
one available —ran up the wall to a height of 12ft.
A life-size devil (now we know the size of a devil)
whirled in.the Judkins-damned waltz with a life-
size woman—mostly pink pegs and ballet skirts.
Weird heads and strange beginning-of-the-world
animals were the fantasy most of the artists had
painted, in the scheme of modern elevated-art
decoration. • Guilfoyle, of.“ The Gardens,” sent a
ton or two of gorgeous foliage, and pink lamps
shone through brown bracken. A leopard
prowled among the dancers; but in the pink light
liis horrid head showed merely a hot-water-bag
cover.
Supper was served in the depths of subterranean
caverns, with the tliump-thump of dancers above
punctuating the beery refreshers. Artists find
beer cheap and satisfactory—quantity goes for so
much. The quantity let a few roaring maniacs
loose at about 2 o’clock in the morning ; for
those present were not all Germans, who can
drink their rivers of beer in stolid comfort. Not
that the masquerade wasn’t exclusive. Every-
body who bought a ticket was put on parade
before the secretary, and a cold placard on the
door turned many away with a bitter snarl. “No
tickets sold at the door,” said the angel of the
flaming sword, and only the 400 elect were
allowed in.
The cries of those who were refused tickets for
the ball are gradually eventuating. Crowds were
turned from the door; but they had received fair
warning. In any case, Authority arrived and
mentioned overcrowding. That, however, hap-
pens every time artists (or any other people) pack
those uncertain galleries. Supper folks really
had fears that the ceiling would crash in with
the awful thump-thumping of the dancers over-
head. Some of the before-mentioned authorities,
arriving late, had a bad time. Their uniform
was taken for a remarkably good “get-up.”
A fireman came in the early hours and
demanded that hot, sitting-out dancers should
not smoke (tobacco, I mean); but gay
artists thought the “fireman” was “sus-
taining his character.” An agonised official at
last pushed himself between a happy pair, and
said testily, “ This is the sixth time I have asked
you not to smoke.” • And there were other
trials. A girl who went as a Javanese, in
the true and skimpy costume, got real angry
at last with one masked reveller, who
ranged alongside every half-hour or so with
“Step this way, miss; your bath’s ready!”
There was a beautiful wowser among the crowd
trying to keep order until he went over to the
satyrs. Hugh McCrae was satyr-in-chief; and
Hal Gye was a satyr jun. McCrae was at the
point of forcible ejection because he asked plaint-
ively : “Do you see through his dis-Gyes ?” One
man dared to wear a champion red golf coat when
he had never shaken hands with a brassie in his
life. Golf maniacs could scarcely restrain them-
selves, the sacrilege was so horrible.
Somewhere in the whirl concerts happened.
Mrs. Jansen sang, and mostly made skits upon
visiting Italian artists. She “took off” the divine
Gasparri and his glove, and other adored im-
ported people suffered through this actress.
Amateur-mummer Kilgour roused up some pretty
girl singers and a “Sliekards” set of black coons
who hit out ragtime gambols in the medley.
Prime-Minister Fisher has an unobtrusive way
of entertaining visiting notabilities. The other
day the man who was unintentionally responsible
ifor all the “Hello, Central” troubles throughout
ithe world was entertained at a luncheon as a
brither Scot. It seems that Dr. Telephone Bell
is not American-born ; he came from Edinburgh.
Almost any interesting visitor can get a free
luncheon with the Prime Minister—especially if he
be a Scotchman. Last week two were put through
in a batch—Matheson Lang and Julius Knight.
It is easy to guess that Lang came from the Land
o’ Cakes; but that Julius Superbus suffers in the
same way is a surprise. Apparently Julius is a
Scotchman and prood o’ it. A visiting Scotch
draughts champion was another guest at the
Federal Labor-leader’s luncheon table. (Mebbe,
on re-consideration, this note is scarcely fair to
Mr. Fisher, as it may lead to all the Mac Andrews
coming up out of their engine-rooms and rushing
him every time a steamer puts into Port Mel-
bourne.)
Slapoffski came back into his own old Mel-
bourne musical circle on Saturday. Before the
concert he wandered happily about the entrance
corridors, and in the interval indulged in a trium-
phal “ How d’ye do ? ” march round the balconies.
From his conductor’s throne he made a speech,
very straight-out and clinching. “You’ll find
factions are very good—for the hearers. Factions
make divisions, and divisions make competition.
There can’t be too much music in a city. You
have much music. You are going to have more.”
So did Slap bite out sentence after sentence.
Someone handed him a laurel wreath. Slap
looked positively ashamed. He did not acknow-
ledge the vegetable in any way, but tried to hide
it while he spoke. Anyhow, he bagged a good
walking stick with the greenery, for a gold-headed
club held the wreath in place.
The house showed increasing interest in the
budding orchestra—budding, though many of the
members played in the far back days of Cowen’s
Exhibition orchestra, and can scarcely be called
green and tender. Saturday was a smiling blue
spring day, and the finals of football made gaps
in indoor circles. Fink, for instance, wandered
in to the concert in an uncertain way, with his
baggy umbrella in evidence, hesitated and was
lost. Out-of-doors had it. Off he bolted. Prob-
ably he had gone to football.
A curious item of the audience was De Gilio
and a row of his minions, plastered up in an im-
movable row in the balcony all through the con-
cert. It is curious to see De Gilio anywhere,
except behind a flute and an orchestra stick.-
Mary Oonly, the returned Australian, is sing-
ing in Melbourne—singing like a bird. It is a
voice in a million, exquisite and full of sweetness.
“ Just as sweet as pie,” an American remarked;
and probably that goes as near to describing soul-
satisfying sweetness as any of the poets have got.
This Australian’s sweetness has not been wasted
in London. The last records before she came
away told of packed houses at Queen’s Hall,
with Mary.Conly the hit of the programme.
Kirby is with her—an early-time darling of
Melbourne girls. Kirby has been giving his
Australian tenor the approved Italian brand, and
getting in all the Italian tricks of the trade.
Victor Biisst slaps the piano, and a long, uncer-
tain violinist named Du Boulay achieves a rather
squeaky success. The crowd is lucky in having
Freddie Beard as accompanist; he provides
the melody with much sympathy and discern-
ment. Beard took this in hand out of sheer
artistic admiration of the star’s melodious chortle.
Mary Conly has put on many inches in width
since she was last in Melbourne, and she is
not very tall; yet she achieves what is known
as the “queenly manner,” and has. a quiet,
convincing way with her when she comes
on. She bows with the deep double bend that
Melba has made characteristic. Her neck is
so short that she sings defiantly into the
upper air. But the effect is all there—abso-
lute purity and sweetness. The lady has brought
gowns and gowns for the ravishment of the
feminine audience. A rose-colored glory has a black
net tunic and a black scheme that marks lengthy
lines down to foot and platform. How cunningly
can a “frocker ” make herself look almost anything
she wishes ! Melbfi, always short and squat at
races and in everyday life, could reach an impos-
ing height of graceful curves on the platform.
The Salon and all Mary Conly’s old-time
friends have been rushing to welcome her back to
Melbourne. She is one of a very musical tribe.
Her father was a schoolmaster out in one of the
northern suburbs of Melbourne, and she was one
of a big family of girls. They all sing better than
the average Conservatorium warbler; but Mary
was always the top bird on. the branches, and
Australia is glad to hear her warbling again, with
study and polish and concert experience added to
her earlier notes.
The Foundlings should bless King Edward for
dying. “We must do something,” said Sassiety ;
and the Foundlings had the luck to be chosen It.
So all the pent-up wealth of fashionable affairs,
held up by the block of Court mourning, is being
pushed their way. Mrs. St. Knight gave the last
monster party at her St. Kilda-road house to help
on her special section of the big show. Bridge
parties fall thick as hail; players give half their
winnings to the cause, besides paying for their
tables. It has been an epidemic, and, if it lasts,
there will have to be a crusade in search of
foundlings to sop up the wealth dropped by these
keen card-players.
Mrs. Cecilia Summerhayes is to be benefited on
September 6. A serious accident, last Christmas,
left her so much of an invalid that her classes
have had to be abandoned. At the benefit, Mrs.
Jansen is to sing, also Beatrice Madden. A scene
from Othello will be given by Coppin and Claude
Hall, and there will be other theatrical amateur
playings. Mrs. Summerhayes has been a big
factor in Australian music for years. She
came to these parts under engagement to give
piano recitals to the Sydney Exhibition. After
that season, she lived, for years in Maoriiand, then
returned to Sydney to an engagement at the
newly-operied Presbyterian Ladies’ College. She
was associated in concert work, after that, with
Mrs. Kellermann, Kowalski, Poussard and other
well-known early-timers, who founded the' Aus-
tralian Musical Association in Sydney. Mrs.
Summerhayes was a pupil of Halle. Daughter
Gertrude, a violinist of some note, carries on the,
family talent. They have both been teaching in
Melbourne for years, and this unfortunate acci-
dent broke into Mrs. Summerhayes’s life : work‘. '
So the musical world is keenly interested in the;
benefit. '
Melbourne’s Daffodil Show is booked for next
Tuesday. Daffodil growing has become almost a
religion here, and the Koyal Horticultural Society
promises some big golden surprises. The Friday
following will be capped by a Wattle Night,
with glorious clusters of every species of
wattle joining in the scheme of decora-
tion. Governor Carmichael will be there to back
up A. J. Campbell, who will lecture on Wattle.
Carmichael and Campbell are cronies in another
direction—both are ornithologists. Bird-man
Campbell wrote a famous book about his Aus-
tralian pets. Between them they should snare
some wattle birds—for that night only. Beautiful
dove-colored darlings are these, with a note like
a bar of celestial melody. The whole thing—
daffodil show and wattle night—will be in the
Town Hall.
What a crowd is society ! The Vienna Cafe,
packed after a Saturday night’s opera for its
evening feeding, is fashion at its height. But at
40 of the 50 tables sits a known and grinning
skeleton. Theie are four people at one of the
tables, and one of the four a husband, sitting
there, with a sickly grin, merely for appearance
sake—and all the time Appearance is chuckling
with a cynical chuckle because half the other
tables are remarking on the obviousity of the
neighborly screen. The Screened One, with
rather too much color on her lips, giggles in a
whisper to the other woman about next table’s
husband : “ Half seas over again, my dear. How
I pity his po-o-or, dear wife.” Over the way
table has a woman grinning like a Hebrew
cat, because she sees the money that should pay
piles of bills being swept into outer limbo for
more champagne. "N’mind, dear, we’ll have a taxi
home,” chirrups the happy, reckless husband.
The Most Beautiful Woman, who has enjoyed a
season or two of the delight of being a well-
dressed and pampered scandal—is showing crows’
feet under the make-up. She has shivered too
long at the afternoon’s races for the sake of a new,
skimpy neck-fashion. It is a happy crowd is
society. Appearance is a heavy sack to carry.
It suggests the case of the Seller of Marriageable
Women in “Madam Butterfly,” who rudely
checks Butterfly’s grief for her dead father.
“Smile—smile,” he says, “or the American will
not marry.” One table has the envied girl who
is to marry old Three Score and Ten. She sees
suddenly the old age of his mouth, and his senile
grin, and the loose, promiscuous waving of his
paraplegic leg—all visible in a moment, as he
tucks her cloak round her shoulders. They are a
happy crowd—a jolly Vienna-ful of Saturday
supper people.
The Huge Joke of the rather jocular Sassiety
here is a scrambling matron who is fiercely claw-
ing a place in elevated circles for her two rather
weird chickens. The mother-love shows it-
self in strange streaks. Sassiety’s last chuckle
is over the Dance. Mrs. Climber says
pathetically: “I shall make' 200 enemies over
this dance of mine. You see, I should
ask 400, and I can only have 200.” The elect
smile gently over their cards. At the Glassy
Harum Mrs. Climber carefully bumps into a
Leading Light, then scrambles into an introduc-
tion ; and the next post brings the flabbergasted
Leading Light a card for the Climbers’ At Home.
They are all invited to the dance, and the ques-
tion is, “Who’s going?” The supper will be
good, anyhow; so the only-half-elevated droop
down graciously to the poor, anxious, harried"
creature, who is spending whips of coin and
trouble just to get a shoulder-rub and brutal
treatment from the Naioest. There should be a
reformatory for climbers, to teach them the r
awfulness of those who have already climbed.
Lieutenant Marsden, a darling of Toorakian
damsels, who was keen on the amatuah mummer-
shows in Melbourne, is working stage matters in
earnest in Fogland. He is billed as principal
tenor in “The Mountaineers,” at London Savoy,
with Marie Dainton as leading soprano. The
magnificent youth got his first look-in by the
lucky chance of an understudy’s opportunity.
Some man of weight fell sick, and the gay lieu-
tenant, who was trying his sweet warble in, the
chorus, got his chance. The chance was a hit,
and this new engagement is the result.
The pampered pups that Cold Country women
doll up in furs and frills threaten to pervade this
sane land, judging by the fact that a prize-
winning Pomeranian at the Vic. Ladies’ Kennel
Club show was tricked out with a gold bangle,
made to measure, on his forepaw. And it was a
married woman that was listed as the owner.
Has baby a bangle, too ? Or are mere babies
de trop ?
King’s Theatre is shouting for 50 “tall, hand-
some ladies” for the new show. And all the
peaches in the city are rushing for the chance of
a stage parade.
Bertha Merfield, an artist who always keeps
her end up with handicrafts, is giving a special
view of her paintings and her beaten metals and
her thumped leathers on September 5. The
studio is in Alexandra Chambers, Elizabeth-
street.
The South Yarra Rink carnivals oh Thursday,
September 1, what time the Backbone of the
Country is thronging Melbourne for the Show.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide: —
Our young doctors stopped mending the shattered last
Friday evening, and asked the nicest girls they knew to
danee with them. They put poppies in the ear of the
Norwood Town Hall, hung up lilies and scarlet floral
umbrellas, put a skull and cross-bones, electric-ljghted,
over the door, and there they were. Mrs. Lendoij, Mrs.
Gavin Gardner and Mrs. J. E. Osborne received the com-
pany, and otherwise placated Mrs. Grundy. It was a well-
balanced dance, with more mere men than we knew we
had.
A “ flapper” dance happened the same night at St.
Peter’s College. The big schoolroom and sundry class-
rooms were turned into a teddy-bear garden, and the
subdued roar of youthful revelry could be heard for
miles. J “ ■
The University Sports occur at the Oval next Friday,
and the landscape is punctuated o’ nights and early
morns by weird-looking athletesj-who tear over the face
of it in a frenzy of training’. It is a solemn matter,
nowadays, for a Rhodes scholarship may be hanging by a
thread to the result.
Mrs. Charlie Herbert and her younger olive- branches
have gone off to help govern Papua, after all. They
have been dwelling on Barton Terrace since their lord
and father left off driving S.A.’s cream elephant, the
Northern Territoiy. And when he was appointed Judge
in New Guinea, they stayed in Adelaide while he went
to reconnoitre. Now a message has summoned them to
Port Moresby.
Arthur Adams has arrived in Adelaide, to give us an
opportunity of calling “Author” for the first time in our
little lives, the occasion being the performance of his
three-act play, “ The Wasters.” The day of his arrival
he was captured by the Commonwealth Club, which we
keep to.pounce on visiting celebrities for lunching pur-
poses, and given a feast, with attendant speeches.
The bees are humming in the National A
conference threatens next month, and as I have men-
tioned before, Adelaide loves a conference and always
gives it the largest spare bedroom and the best blitter.
Various celebrities are expected from the other States to
tell us how to be voters though married, and cither
weighty matters like that; but the League’s most thrill-
ing disclosure is that it has a woman’s club up its sleeve,
and soon hopes to have it in more commodious pre-
mises. It is not to be a decorative and expensive affair,
the subscription being a paltry 7s. 6d. or 10s. 6d. for
grown-ups, and ss. for damsels under 21. There will be
comfy quarters, where you can rest or have tea or change
your complexion ; and, best of all, the club will be open
until 8.30 p.m., Saturdays included, so that members may
dress there for any evening revel if they wish to stay in
town.
Tall young Leila Doubleday, now with 16 summers to
her credit, will give her first concert in Vienna next
December. Professor Rosb, who guides the Australian
youngster’s fiddle bow, will conduct the accompanying
orchestra with his own exalted hand. And since this is
a vast honor which he has hitherto only condescended
to give Ysaye himself, one may conclude that Leila, the
charming child, has grown into a brilliant damsel, with
her feet firmly planted on the path to glory.
The Victorian singer girl, Elizabeth Newbold (whose
nightingale talents were first really discovered by Ade-
laide, we’d have you remember), is now in London, win-
ning the favor of sundry duchesses and things, after 18
months’ hard study in Paris. She sang at Walter Kirby’s
concert at the town ho.useof the Earl of Plymouth, where
Lady Wantage heard her, and engaged her to warble at
her next party. The latter revel was simply strewn with
the peerage, which handed out approbation and more en-
gagements to the damsel. Elizabeth’s latest photograph
shows a much-polished young nightingale in a smart
Empire frock and well-coiffed locksl
“ The High Light,” a volume of verse, prose and pic-
tures, published in the sacred cause of Art, has just been
brought out by the enthusiasts who run the Adelaide
Drawing and Sketch Club. Over 25 full-page drawings, two
beauteously reproduced in color, deck the booklet, which
is edited by Bernard Dubois. Sundry ivell-kqow'n inky-
wayfarers have contributed ; also artists of more or less
tonnage, besides the members of the club. Mary
Gilmore and' Marie J. Pitt have each some charm-
ing verses ; and E. J. Brady contributes a prose-poem of a
springday. There are interesting Academy Reminiscences
by Archibald Collins ; while Souter, McCrae, Pearce and
others have added their brains to the artistic confusion.
The whole is excellently printed, with never an adver-
tisement to rack the nerves of the art devotee. t‘ Ttie
High Light ” is sold at a single shilling, and Adelaid;e-for-
Culture is buying it up proudly.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


BEAUTIFUL WOMEN.
IS it possible to put forth a more effective argument in support of the
superiority of Yalaze than can be read out of the testimony here
reproduced ? The women here portrayed, on whom night after
night are focussed the eye of the nation, have spoken in terms
unmistakable—have spoken not in their capacity as actresses,
but as mere women for the benefit of women.
Amongst them is that beautiful statuesque Bendigo girl,
Miss Alice Crawford, who has won London by storm. Miss
Marie Studholme is here, and Miss Lily Elsie.
These testimonies should serve as more than sufficient hint
to the average woman who wishes to be sure that she is right
in her selection of what is necessary to a competent and
scientific care of the complexion.
Yalaze Skin Food holds a unique position among com-
plexion correctives. It fully justifies every claim that is
made for it. Valaze perfects the good skin, purifies the
bad skin, and beautifies all skins. The effect after one
month’s treatment of Yalaze is most astounding,
and the mirror from day to day tells the Valaze
beginner the magical story of its beautifying progress.
The price of Valaze is 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. a jar, 6d. postage.
The Valaze Soap and Powder so enthusiastically mentioned by Miss
Lily Elsie are delightful associates of Yalaze. The Soap is perfect for toilet
use, and lasts several months ; 2s. 2d. posted. The Powder is exquisite
for greasy, shiny and over-moist skins; 2s. 2d. posted. The Novena
Poudre is for dry, parched skins, and is pleasant and beneficial to use ;
2s. 2d. posted.
An excellent remedy for a complaint which is most prevalent amongst
Australian girls is the Valaze Blackhead and Open Pore Cure. This pre-
paration removes every trace of blackheads, open pores, acne, and refines
the skin texture ; 2s. lOd. posted.
Send for Beauty in the Making —Mile. Rubinstein’s interesting Book, which
is a mine of valuable suggestions on the care of the complexion.
All Valaze preparations are obtainable from leading chemists, or direct from
Rubinstein Prop. Ltd., Valaze Institute, 274 Collins Street, Melbourne ; 158 Pitt
Street, Sydney ; and at Wel-
lington, N.Z., and Mayfair,
London.
wm
mm:-
or
of
HP
mi
is-.
(m/mI
V
v>
m
YOU ft RUSSJ AN ?.SKIN£FOOD DOES
PRECISELY WHAT" IS REQUIRED.
\IT PRESERVES THE TONE, WHITE
J-NESS K CLEARNESS OF THE SKIN
f AS NO OTHER PREPARATION HAS
"•DONE . .. 3
;’ : o
u
flNr>
XpOn
Tut
St
r *st>
*•>*
%
*3?
I HAVE FOUND VALAZE
ONDERFUL IN REMOVING
TAN <£ FRECKLES . ON MY RETURN
TO TOWN I FOUND MYSELF VERY
TANNED, BUT VALAZE HAS TAKEN-
AWAY ALL DISCOLOURATION «C
IMPROVED MY SKIN REMARKABLY
I HAVE FOUND THE
VALAZE SKIN FOOD,
POWDER dC COMPLEXION
SOAP MOST EXCELLENT
<C SHALL BE GLAD TO
COME TO YOUR ROOMS
SHORTLY FOR MORE .
I SHALL BE PLEASED TO
RECOMMEND THEM TO
MY FIX!ENDS
EVTR%£g VD 1 HAVE
i
_L
G&b
I &&&
r^-xxo
Iflggc. v3%ctP‘
Vo^S, £l a?> .^
< TjlU^ a
H
HNE
■SF
THE VALA2E SOAP its
QUITE THE NICEST
«r\An cno THc Sl/tvr »C
HAVE
; - A
WHAT AUSTRALIA CAN DO.
’) ’ ’
'• ■ • • i f •"* . j
As seen at Fleming'ton and Glc^nferrie.
WHAT Australia cah do in the
Cricket and Football Fields and
the Tennis Court the whole
world knows. What she can do in the
way of Agricultural and Mechanical Pro-
duction is being abundantly testified to
at the Flemington .Show. And for what
she can achieve in the way of Manufac-
tures we must turn to Glehferrie, where
the famed Don Store has arrayed its
wide spaces and spacious, windows with
an ample variety of goods of entirely
Australian make.
Hence visitors to the Royal Show will
find one of the most satisfactory feasts for
the eye, no matter how that industrious
organ has been satiated at Flemington, at
The Don. Also, they may add to the
attractions of the day. by the novel
experience of a ride in the Tait train
which runs from No. 4 platform at the
Flinders Street station, through Glen-
ferrie, some half a dozen times during the
day.
But about this Show at The Don!
Well, all the nice clothes and every sort
of wear with which the backbone of the
country and his best girl, and everybody
else and his'best girl, attire themselves,
will be on, view in a very riot of color,
variety, quality and quantity.. And all
these lovely goods—goods good. to look
at, to touch, to .put. on and look: .pretty in
—all these joyous goods are of Australian
make.
Isn’t it a glad thing to be an Australian?
To live in a good, free country that can
be its own universal provider ? To live
1
c
&
irH
3NK
* .
'
in a country that —well, in a country
that can produce the Don-Store and all
that the Don Store has on show? You
bet it is ! .....
We were going to say something.about
this' Don Store ; but never mind about
that 1 All we need say is; Go and
see it ! A quarter of an hour in the
train takes you to Glenferrie ; and when,
you are at the Glenferrie station you are
at the Don Store. Indeed, some people
say the Don is Glenferrie. Certainly,
when you’ve seen the Don you’ve seen
Glenferrie. Nay, you’ve seen most all
Australia ! At least you’ve seen what
Australia can do! What she can do
when she means business ! What she
can do when she sets her brains and
hands to the good purpose of supplying
i the wants of her people ! Aye, and of
making them as golden in heart as their
own golden sunshine, by the sunshine of
good and comforting raiment; of eye-
pleasing artistic effects in clothing and
i material.
Good, bright, sunny Australia ! It is
well represented at the Don with its fine,
bright Australian effects in soft goods.
With its airy, breezy glades of room —
.elbow room —its vast distances, so to
speak, of floor spaces. A motor-car might
■ drive along the avenues between the
■ counters. The train itself, with a little
.manipulation, so close it is when it is in
.the station, might sail in through one of
iits wide doors and pull up at the drapery
•counter.
Just one word more. If you cannot
•go and see this finest part of the Show at
(Glenferrie —don’t forget to shop there.
No matter where you live send to The
Don for its catalogue. It will send its
good goods—its bright, cheering and
joyous goods —to any part of Australia.
Remember The Don—well, not neces-
sarily in your prayers. But when you are
ordering by mail —write to
The Don Store,
Glenferrie.


MODERN TREATMENT FOE REDUCTION
OF WEIGHT.
An Invaluable Prescription.
Whatever danger there is in the condition of
neglected obesity—and experience tells us there is
much—there is considerably more peril' in follow-
ing any of the various treatments which old-time
practitioners had to fall back upon—treatments
which relied mainly upon depriving the system of
its proper sustenance. These treatments, unfor-
tunately, still have their unenlightened adherents,
though they are fast giving way to the results of
modern scientific thought and research. Over-
stout people could find no more efficacious remedy
for this distressing complaint than in availing
themselves of the following invaluable prescrip-
tion, which they can either make up .themselves
or get any chemist to do soTake one half-ounce
of Marmola, one ounce of fluid Extract of Glycvr
rhiza 8.P., and one ounce of pure Glycerine B.P.
Shake well together with peppermint water to
make six ounces in all. Take a dose of this harm-
less mixture after each meal, and the excess-fat
will fall away daily to the extent of several pounds
in a week in the severer cases of corpulency. This
simple remedy, with the pleasant aid of whole-
some food and rest, is now regarded as the modern
treatment par excellence for the cure of obesity.
Renewed strength returns with recovered beauty
of shape.*
CHERRY BLOSSOM BOOT
POLISH is Hie best you caii
possibly use. It has no
superior as a polish, giving a per-
fect, shine that lasts. It softens
the leather, protecting it against
dampness, and renders the boots
pliable and easy to the feet.
Cherry Blossom Boot Polish
is supplied in Lius at 3d. and 6d.
each—Black or Tan—the largest
tins on the market at the price.
. your dealer cannot supply you, write direct to us.
Managing Agents for Australia:
SWIFT &; COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
%
m
Li//
A hundred bottles stood one day
In a chemist’s shop just-o’er the way ;
He sold them all, see what they brought
To the people who these bottles bought.
Woods’Peppermint Cure was in each one,
They cured before that day was done—
Quite sixty colds,and twenty chills,
Twelve weakly chests and eight other ills.*
Dixon, of the famous “0.T.,” is at present in
England, and proving to the people who inhabit that
small but somewhat remarkable country that the Aus-
tralians can not only manufacture a first-class non-
alcoholic beverage, but drink it. Mr. Dixon has done
big business, although he has only pushed the sale of
“ 0.T.” two days a week. The other five days have been
occupied.in proving to the aborigines,of London that the
duly convict settlements now existing in Australia are
Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide.*
Sport being the best of mortar for the
building of international amity, ’tis a pity the
Nations don’t agree to play the same brand of
football —the Australian with modifications,, for
choice. The right brand of sport inspired to its
most fraternal form by D.C.L., the right brand
of whisky, and the spirit of peace and goodwill
must smile upon the earth.*
TOOTHACHE.
There is nothing so good for toothache as
Chamberlain’s Tain Balm. When the gums and
face are rubbed freely with this liniment the pain
soon disappears. When the tooth is decayed
saturate a piece of cotton wool with Chamberlain’s
Pain Balm, place it in the cavity of the tooth and
immediate relief will result. Being an antiseptic,
this preparation will cleanse the tooth and thus
in a measure arrest decay. It will in no way
injure the tooth.*
WITH INDIGESTION.
0
A Constant Sufferer tells how
She was Cured,
After suffering severe attacks of Indigestion
after almost every meal for years, Mrs. M. Shorter,
of Toowoomba, Queensland, tried the tonic treat-
ment, which aims at increasing the strength of
the stomach so that it can digest food properly.
Her experience was remarkable, for she found
speedy relief, and can now, for the first time in
many years, eat an ordinary meal with comfort.
Mrs. Shorter, who lives in Mort Street, stated
“ For many years I had been troubled with
Indigestion, As sure as-I took a meal I would get
a suffocating sort of pain in my chest almost
directly after, and I would feel a weighty pain
right through to my shoulder blades. I would be
quite weighed down with it and hardly able to
breathe. I could not bear my clothes to be at all
tight on me. I never could find any appetite for
fear of Indigestion coming on after. I could
hardly bear to even cook the food, thesmell would
upset me. I had such dreadful headaches, too.
All my head seemed whirling, and the ache would
press over my eyes till I could hardly see. I
would be afraid to stoop, for the blood would rush
to my head and make me dizzy. I turned awfully
yellow and sallow. Sometimes, too, a regular
mist would come over my eyes. I would wake up
every morning with a sour acid taste that stayed
on me for hours, and my tongue was always furry
and dry. My system would be full of wind. All
the time I would be despondent and wretched,
but I made up my mind to give Dr. Williams’
Pink Pills a trial, and since I finished the course
my health has been splendid. Now I can eat any-
thing I fancy, and the: constant load and the
weariness have all gone. My color has come back
and I feel a different bbing altogether.”
Don’t let any dealer talk you into taking some-
thing which he says is “just as good.” If you are
pestered to take a substitute, send 2s. 9d. for one
box, or 15s. 3d. for six boxes, to the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney.*
Denyer’s Special E!“!i£ Truss
denyer
ensu r e 8
safety to the
Ruptured, is
e if e c t i v e,
1 i'g h t and
cool in wear.
Equally comfortable in erect
or reclining position.
No Springs to Irritate.
Single, 17/6. Double, 22/6.
We are Truss Specialists and will fit you
exactly. ' CONSULTATIONS FREE. .
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses and
Abdominal Belts,
231 GEUIIGE ST. (opp. Huuter St.), SYDNEY.,
POLITICAL
POINTS
N.S.W. Premier Wade has a new experi-
ence ahead of him. So far, he has never even sat
in Opposition, let alone led it.' He came in with
the Carruthers flood, which landed him on a
Government bench, and he has been there ever
since; while McGowen, the prospective Premier,
has not once tasted that joy in his 18 years of
politics.
The temperance folk of S. Aus. are throw-
ing clods at the Labor Government for exempting
the Adelaide Club and the Commercial Travellers’
Club from the operation of the Licensing Act,
and allowing them to supply liquor to members and
friends on Sundays, Christmas Day and Good
Friday, as well as at any hour of the day or night.
The publicans are also up in arms, and still
another crowd is demanding to know why the
“tony” clubs should be given privileges not
accorded to the Democratic Club and other
working men institutions. The Price Govern
ment and the Peake Government both re-
fused to give the concession now granted ; and
the outcry is so loud that the Verran Government
will probably decide that it spoke out of its turn.
Wade and Waddell are going to the
country in a month or so as the people who have
solved no-land-for-settlers problem in N. S.
Wales, they have so'.v ed it so thoroughly that
for one poor thousand-acre patch of scrub and
suckers near Barmedman, with a gravel pit in
the corner of it, there were no lesis than 88 appli-
cants, the other day. And 83 of them were
judged good enough settlers to be entitled to go
into the ballot.
Melbourne Argus lately printed a modest
P a L r > notifying that, as a result of negotiations, an
honorable understanding ” had been reached by
the brick-making companies and the smaller yards
for “regulating the output” during the next
three years. “ The same yards will be shut down
as were closed when a similar arrangement
existed three' years ago.” it added. “An
effect is the demand for brick companies’
shares, which have already risen on the
Stock Exchange.” Another effect is that
the Private Enterprise builder will pay through
the nose for bricks; but the Argus unaccount-
ably overlooked that aspect of the case. Yet the
Argus professes to be a perfect elephant for pro-
tecting Private Enterprise.
CLEANLINESS V. GODLINESS.
CHOLERA IN ITALY.—HOW IT WAS INTRODUCED.'
London, 20th August.—The cholera outbreak in Italy is assuming- serious proportions. The disease was not
introduced by gipsies from Odessa, as was at first reported, but by Russian pilgrims, who visited the relics of
St. Nicholas at Trani. After visiting the relics they washed their clothing at a public well, and this resulted
in a number of the local inhabitants being infected.
HOLY MUSCOVITE (taking his salvation for granted): “I did the pilgrimage to Trani just
before I died"
ST. PETER (interrupting): “And washed your clothes in a well! Consider yourself d-d! ”
The S. M. Herald has preserved a whole
week’s dead silence over the unfortunate Barren
Jack business. It was the Herald which first de-
clared that the building by the -Ma State of Barren
Jack reservoir was creating a great unearned in-
crement, and that, through Government muddling,
this profit was being absorbed by private land-
lords. And when the same paper came out a few
days later with a furious denial of the “ slander ”
—its own slander—and said it was “characteristic
of the policy of the Labor party,” strong men sat
down hastily and gasped for their second wind.
Now there is a chance for one of the finest ex-
planations that the Herald ever offered, and
never an explanation comes along.
While the Argus was telling how wicked
and unnecessary the progressive land-tax is, this
news was printed in State Premier John
Weary’s electorate :
One of the oldest State schools in the district has been
closed, viz., Nirranda East. For very many years this
school was of great service to the district. ..'. However,
there are not enough scholars now, and closing was the
only thing to be done.
Mepunga State school has suffered the same fate as
Nirranda East, for the same reason, and it is curious that,
while the adult population of Mepunga has not decreased,
the juvenile population should have become insufficient
to carry on the school.
It is the old story. There is no land available for
the young men; so they have either stayed on
at home and given up any thought of getting
married, or have gone away and are now helping
to fill schools in some other part of the world.
Higgs, M.H.R., proposes that one of the
subjects for discussion at the next Imperial Con-
ference should be “ international arbitration for
the settlement of international disputes.” Well,
international arbitration is a good thing. Korea
got it.
Senator Simian Phraser got on to his two
old feet last week to declare once more that the
route of the transcontinental railway shouldn’t be
specified in the Northern Territory Bill, but the
matter “ should be left for the best expert advice
to settle.” Surely that gag deserves a rest. Ex-
pert ad vice was called in to decide the best site
for a Federal capital, and the verdict was given
for Monaro ; but then the old Tory push of Syd-
ney simply said : “This capital has to be right
up alongside Sydney, expert or no expert,” and
Yassberra was selected. Similarly, if the selec-
tion of the railway route was left to experts, and
they recommended the direct line, the same gang
of spielers would probably say: “Hang the
experts ! This railway has got to come to Syd-
ney.” There is neither honor, decency nor fair
play among the sharks of the Old Brigade, and no
Australian State is ever likely to trust them
again even if they swear by all the saints in the
calendar.
Someone shouldawaken Melbourne’s Board
of Works to the tragedy of its position. Up to
June 30, 1909, its debts amounted to £10,139,662,
with no fund set by for their ultimate redemp-
tion. Moreover, the • Shirks have been so foolish
and dilatory that scarcely any provision has been
made for depreciation. It is said that the Board’s
assets that are liable to screech for renewal would
be cheaply estimated at £1,700,000, yet the Shirks
have only nursed into being a renewals reserve
fund of about £44,000. Seeing that this is the soli-
tary reserve that the Board possesses, it would be
generous to term it a shadow of preparation for
future liabilities. It seems hardly worth describ-
ing as a shadow: it scarcely amounts to a breath
of suspicion.
Labor-member Woods has unearthed a
fool-business in Tasmania. Last year the Govern-
ment, in order to prevent the closing down of
the Tasmanian Smelting Co.’s works at Zeehan,
advanced the company £20.000 on loan, taking a
mortgage over the plant and business. The
money is now said to be all gone, and the smelters
are practically stopped again, with little chance
of continuing operations unless they can get a
certain class of ore. The Hercules Co., 20 miles
away, is alleged to have plenty of the ore re-
quired to make the Government-subsidised
Zeehan smelters pay; but the Hercules Co. doesn’t
want to sell—at any rate, not at a price con-
sidered reasonable by the Smelting Co. The
result is a deadlock, to which the wisdom of Mines
Minister Solomon can’t find the key. And all the
time the Hercules Co. receives from the State a
concession of one-half the ordinary railway rate
on ore sent for export! So it seems that the fool-
Government with one hand feeds the Private
Enterprise smelter to encourage local smelting,
and with the other it feeds the Private Enterprise
mine to discourage the same thing.
It has been set forth with a sudden yelp
in the Sydney morning papers that the Wade
Government has acquired, for closer settlement,
24 estates, equal to 534,445 acres. And while it
was doing this, to the great satisfaction of 24 big
landlords, it made not the slightest effort to pre-
vent the formation of 25 new estates equal to
619,227 acres, or anything like that. What is the
good of subdividing the land if there isn’t the
slightest effort to keep it subdivided?
Under the Advances to Workers Bill, just
passed by the S. Aus. Assembly, the borrower is
given 50 years to repay the loan granted to build
his house. “He will start as a boy and finish as
a grandfather.” objected ex-Attorney-General
Homburg ; and Tommy Ryan retorted “That is
better than the present way of starting as a boy
and finishing in the destitute asylum.” All the
same, except in very rare cases, the period for re-
payment is too long. The Maoriland Government
made the maximum about 36 years, and the
Superintendent now reports that even that is too
much for safety.
Customs Minister Tudor threatens to pub-
lish the names of the manufacturers* and the
retailers of the cardboard boots that are being
fraudulently sold to a guileless public, if the
practice isn’t stopped. A better plan still would
be to pass a short measure on the lines of the
French law, whereby a person convicted of mak-
ing or selling adulterated articles has to publish
the fact in his shop window or outside his pre-
mises for two months thereafter. The spectacle
of a milk-oh cantering round with a large blue
paper stuck on each side of his cart would be a
soothing sight—if it happened. But it wouldn’t
happen. The adulterator would simply go out of
business—which is exactly what is wanted.
Britain has paid up without a murmur the
bill for King Edward’s funeral, £40,500. About
half of it went in the travelling expenses of troops
and sailors ; also, the housing of foreign guests,
and special steamers for them cost a few thou-
sands. But while that bill was paid unmurmur-
ingly, other “supplementary estimates” published
at the same time have brought out a lot of ques-
tions. For one thing, it had not been realised by
a good many politicians that the taxpayer pays
extra for all royal movements. For instance—
“ Visit of King Edward and his Queen to Berlin,
£2685”; “ visit of the King of Portugal to Eng-
land, £7000.” Also, there is a startling item—
“ Placing the royal palaces in a condition fit for
the occupation of the King and Queen and. Queen
Alexandra.” This comes to over £64,000. King
Edward seemed to get on very well in the palaces
as they were, and the taxpayer—who has just
finished voting a big civil list for the new
monarchs and their large young family—is mak-
ing quite a lot of unpleasant remarks.
AUTHORITIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The debate upon the Notes Bill in the House of Repre*
sentatives became a horrible jargon of jangling quota-
tions, in which each side flung “Authorities ” at the
heads of the other fellows. The fault of this kind of
wrangle is (as Schopenhauer says) that you think with
somebody else’s head instead of your own. Authorities
are bad company; they do nothing but gibe at each
other, and in the end you are glad to kick them all out of
doors.
If you want to represent your opinion and intent
In the teeth of base and truculent majorities,
Let your long orations glitter with your own inventive
twitter,
But don’t forget to mention the Authorities,
Authorities !
When your own conceptions lag, try an ornamental tag
In the ever-unforgettable Authorities.
If, as Labor member, you wish to contradict the view
Of what (for rhyming’s sake) we’ll call priorities,
Dredge the library yourself, but select a different shelf,
And slaughter them with-opposite Authorities,
Authorities !
For the beauty of the Past is that no opinions last,
And there’s always a rebuttal in Authorities.
When a fight like this is started it can grow quite merry-
hearted
While you argue the supposed superiorities
Of the Contra and the Pro, of the volumes that you
know,
Which are bursting with the maxims of Authorities,
Authorities!
Oh, they make a gallant line, Volumes I. -to XCIX,,
Of insanely-contradictory Authorities !
Old Daniel Webster’s ghost leads a grim, grey-bearded
host
Composed of much-respected seniorities ;
But the spook of Spencer comes with the crashing noise
of drums,
And Donnybrook’s the home of the Authorities,
Authorities !
Not Armageddon may such a gory sight display
As the internecine strife of the Authorities!
On March the Seventeen or July the Twelfth we’ve seen
Some soul-inspiring detur-digniorities ;
But your “ Let-the-best-man-win ” never raised a fiercer
din
Than when theswar (s waged between Authorities,
Authorities!
When quotations dropped at random by the blokes who
understand ’em
Have stirred the mutual hate of the Authorities !
In debates in Parliament we must hear much argument
Of a fortior-posterior-priorities ;
Let the wordy conflict roll (though it harrows up my
soul),
But for God’s sake let us banish the Authorities,
Authorities !
Never author on the shelf but will contradict himself
When you loose the babbling torrent of Authorities!
VICTORIA.
L.


Th. BECHSTEIN PIANOS
are used by all tbe great Pianists of*
the present day—no other Piano can
fully satisfy their requirements. Their
tone quality is perfect.
JOSEF HOFFMANN writes of them:—
"The Bechstein Piano possesses greater poetry of
tone and resembles the human voice more than
0
any other instrument. It is the realisation of my
ideal of a piano, and the only one on which I
can express all I feel."
MADAME CARRENO writes:
“ The Bechstein Piano is the ideal of perfection,
and above all other instruments, responds to all
demands of an artist."
We stocK these magnificent Pianos
both in Grands and Uprights, and
invite you to call and inspect them,
or to write for full particulars.
Catalogues are free for the asKing.
W. H.
(Q. CO. LTD.,
338 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY,
ana at BRISBANE
ana NEWCASTLE.
We arc
'Jy *
<* *
»?*f *»V . Ulr
im wm
■
■>*', 4 »< f
,v ■
;
S ;
1
■
-'
i ■
"
.■I
IfMI
.?* A-J
NH
s®
ggJZK
EK ®\'.''®" :
H<o&> ... i- ® ~ f
0 tSU sZ'^'?'
••• .W-.
r ®!3« ?•>
i«
?SEis
:®f
Machine
• -ri^-
Ving*Th id i n V
Manufacturers £ Designers
of Furniture, Fitments &■ J
Mantelpieces.
All the Latest Machines are installed in
Our JXew & Modem Factory.
J/e claim to grive t/ie Lowes? Possible Prices
wii/i the Maximum Standard of Z/igrh Class WorA.
ESTIMATES & DESIGNS FREE OF CHARGE.
BUCKLEY &■ NUNN LT?
MELBOURNE.
THE.
QUESTION of the DAY
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If yon Have not, yon Have not
done your dnty by your skin and
complexion. If, on tHe otHer Hand
tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally—yon
HAVE used PEARS, yon can feel
Happy, for yon will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s Health and beanty. There
can be no qnestion abont that.
PEARS Has been making beantifnl
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.


DOES YOUR CHILD SUFFER FROM
WORMS?
Stomach and intestinal worms are the cause of
nine-tenths of the crying:, fretfulness and irrita-
bility of children. The mere mention of worms
makes one feel uncomfortable, but their presence
in the system must assuredly cause such torture
and agony that there is little wonder at the
irritable disposition which is so often developed,
not only in children, but frequently in adults.
Worms require a specific medicine, and there is no
better remedy than Comstock’s “Dead Shot”
Worm Pellets, as used by Mrs. Willmott, of
Cooma, N.S.W., who states: —“Hearing about
the wonderful success of your Worm Pellets, I
decided to give them a trial. I gave my three
children, Roy, Phyllis and Horace, a dose each,
as they had all the symptoms of worms. The
pellets were taken at 6 o’clock in the morning,
and at 10 o’clock Roy had passed a stomach worm
about 12 inches in length, and the other children
passed quite a number of thread worms. Since
taking the pellets the children seem greatly
relieved and appear to be better in health. I
shall always recommend them to my friends, and
you may use this testimonial for publication in
any way you please.”
For sale by all chemists, price Is. 6d., ; or will be
sent post paid at same price, by The W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street. Sydney.*
WANTED.— WASHING and CLEANING
by the Day urgently required by a
Respectable Woman.
MRS. DALTON,
Robert Street,
Rose Bay, Sydney.
ROWLAND'S
KALYDOR
FID »SKIN
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and Insures a lovoiv
delicate complexion to all who us* ii.
2/tf, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
PILES CURED IN 6 to 14 DAYS.I
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any
Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding Piles i
days, or money refunded. 2/3.
case of
i 6 to 14
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
RESCN’S
SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALOOORLIE and COOLCARPIE,
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“Hermes”: There’s a very disgusted book-
maker in Sydney just now. In the golden days a-rear, he
spent a pleasant and profitable time gambling with a
reckless wight as to which of two flies would soar first.
When the pleasant day had ended the bookmaker found
he had won £3OO, and the other gentleman, not having
that amount about his clothes, suggested that he should
owe it. “Well, give me a p.n.,” said the bookmaker.
“ Certainly,” said the other, and he signed the p.n. with
a graceful flourish. Then the bookmaker went out and
discounted the p.n., and the discounters pressed the
maker for payment. He scoffed. They took him to
court. He scoffed from the box. They got judgment.
But, before they could do anything, he got in with a
demurrer on the ground that the title of the man who
had discounted the p.n. was bad, as under an Act of
Anne, of blessed memory, bills for debts contracted by
gaming were valueless. The plaintiffs said they cashed
the note in good faith, and knew nothing of what it was
for and how obtained. And they inquired indignantly
if they were to lose their good money when they had
acted on these high moral principles. The N.S.W. Pull
Court opined they were, and unless they can persuade
the High Court to upset the decision their only chance is
to recover from the bookmaker.
Come to think of it, gambling on which of two
flies will soar first is about as fair a thing as can be
arranged. Unless the gentleman who proposes the
gamble produces his flies from a matchbox, there is no
danger of being up against a fake. An inveterate gambler
of Maoriland used to while away wet afternoons by bet-
ting on which of two raindrops would reach the bottom
of the pane first. I was once fool enough to take him
on, and lost a month’s wages in about a minute. The
brute had oiled one side of the pane beforehand, and was
betting on a sure thing. There are stories about men
who have trained bluebottles to fly in a certain order,
but they are more or less dubious. On another occasion,
in a railway carriage, I met a man who offered to bet on
which of two women would speak first. Took him up
also, but there was no money in it —the ladies spoke
simultaneously, and kept going all the time. The grim-
mest gambler I ever knew was one I met on board a sink-
ing steamer off the Kaikouras, on the Maoriland coast;
he laid me 10 to 1, to be paid in this world or the next,
that we wouldn’t get to the shore. As we were saved
from drowning by a passing steamer I claimed a win, and
he took me round to the best pub in Christchurch and
paid up over a bottle of champagne.
Unfortunately courts are not always so sane as
the N.S.W. Full Court proved to be on this occasion.
Was in a pub one night in a Maoriland town that is now
“dry,” but was then notorious for hard drinking and
heavy gambling, and saw a number of the magnates
playing Yankee grab on the nude back of a comely bar-
maid. Among them was a youth who was in charge of
a tailoring business. He was gambling on paper, and
that night he signed a p.n. for £l5O before he left the
pub. The man who held it sold the. document for £5O
next day, and the shark who advanced the money sued
when the thing fell due. The youth pleaded that it was
a gambling debt; but the man who held the p.n. said he
had cashed it in good faith and knew nothing of what it
was for. The fool on the bench gave judgment for the
full amount, and next morning the youth was found, face
downwards, with a bottle that had held prussic acid in
his clenched fist.
The humors of the Johnson-Jeffries business:—
Reno was crowded beyond the dreams of caterers.
At noon, all the food meant for the night’s dinrfer was
being served. Prices were anything the vendor liked to
ask. Hugh Mclntosh isdescribed as paying “ a pocketful
of money” and getting “three half-cooked eggs, a hunk
of steak, all on the same plate, and the remnants of some
fresh bread and coffee in a mush-b0w1.”... The ther-
mometer at the ringside was 102°, and there was no roof.
Eye-shades were so prominent on the side opposite
the sun, that they were at one time taken to be a
trick to flash the light back into Jeffries’s eyes....
Hundreds of women sat about in the audience. One
brought two children ! The wife of Tex Rickard, referee,
had aparty of 40. Mrs. Johnson was said to be the prettiest
woman in sight An unauthorised moving picture
concern ran up a light tower outside the arena, with a
mirror on top to reflect the fight on to a camera on the
ground. The authorised people tried to blur it with
flashes from another mirror. Result doubtful. ... The
18,500 inside, hot, mostly hungry and pocket-picked
(every wise man had kept his fight-ticket in his boot all
day), had to wait from 1.30 (advertised time) till 2.45,
while every has-been and hanger-on of the game was
“introduced” by a loud-mouthed M.O. Meanwhile,
some hundreds of outsiders broke down a board fence,
got into the cheap seats, and then tipped ushers a dollar
to let them into the 30-dollar places. ... During the 15
rounds, Jeffries was mostly chewing gum, and Johnson
talking to all and sundry, especially to Corbett, who
openly jeered at him in a vain attempt to make him lose
his temper. Said Johnson once to Corbett, jifrinning :
“ Yellow streak, eh? Well, he made you show it, and if
lie makes me quit I’ll come outside and get you ”...
At the finish, the crowd janimed in 'and cut the ropes
into bits for souvenirs, then the canvas off the floor,
spattered with Jeffries’s nose-blood. One enthusiast got
away with the iron post from Jeffries’s corner. ... In'
San Francisco, the Examiner ran two replicas of the
fight while it was going on, each round being wired from
Reno and worked out on the stage by a white and a
black. One stage was up on the front of the newspaper
office, and provided a free show for 80,000 people. The
next day’s paper analysed and dismissed the “dope ”
theory. Jeffries was merely “ scared,” in a “ blue funk,”
had “ Cold feet.” “ The people left in Reno appear to
have decided to treat him with contempt.” As Burns
said in Sydney, America has No Use fora Beaten Man.
* * * *
As was expected, Arnst will go on to Canada to
row Eddie Durnan, Hanlan’s nephew, and the match will
almost certainly result in a fearful doing for the young
Canadian, who did not inherit the whole of his great
little uncle’s toga. Arnst seems to stand in the same
place in the rowing world as Massa Johnson occu-
pies in the bruising division. At present there is no
one in sight who has a remote chance of defeating him,
and the remark of Guy Nickalls, that had the race been
on the Thames Barry would have won, cuts no ice.
Nickalls probably jumped to the conclusion that Arnst
was a smooth-water rower, and would have done badly in
the rough water of the Thames course. But that is
Balderdash, the son of Ignorance. At Akaroa Arnst
showed that he was just as good in rough as in smooth
water, and the root of the matter is that successful
sculling is purely a matter of brawn, brute force and
strong heart. Skill counts for nothing against these
unless it is backed up by almost equal physical quality.
* * * *
“Snell” : “0.K.” (B. 18/8/’10) returns to the
attack on pugilism, which he regards as a despicable
sport, fit only for niggers, and assails the game with
bastard “• facts ” and w T ry logic. The Morning Post had
an idea that the class most disgusted and horrified at the
spectacle of two sound, hard, human animals smiting
each other grievously, with gloves, leaves itself open to an
accusation of degeneracy. He greets this with superb
disdain, and disposes of it with an epigram—“ Rats!”
Then he remarks that the ancient Roman race was de-
voted to spectacles of violence “ when it reached the
point where ruder races were bound to shatter its
power.” Which observation, if of any consequence at
all, blasts all “ O.K.'s” subsequent arguments, since his
chief quarrel with boxing is that it cultivates rudeness.
Why did “ 0.K.” neglect Greece, the boxing nation ? In
the hours of its greatest pride Greece gloried in boxing,
not with hair-stuffed gloves, mind you, but with the
deadly cestus of hardened bull-hide loaded with lead. De-
generacy came to Greece, as to Rome, and as it comes to
us, not through the cultivation of the body and delight in
the higher brute qualities of strength, swiftness and
courage, but through luxuriousness and a drift to crimped
and curled effeminacy, often associated with extraor-
dinary but unhealthy intellectuality. As for “O.K.’s”
jubilant staging of Germany as a triumphant nation that
abhors violent sports, may I set against the broken noses he
has seen in England the slashed faces of German students?
Where young Englishmen put up their hands, young
Germans commonly chop each other with lethal weapons.
“ O. K.” embraces wrestling, but does not compare the
last world’s championship wrestled in America with the
last world’s championship boxed there, for the excellent
reason that the latter was a clean, decent exhibition of
athletics, whereas the wrestle was a dirty and vicious
display of cunning, cowardliness and cruelty. Wrestling
can be brutal, and often is, just as boxing may be, and
as almost every sport we indulge in may be ; and I doubt
if there is a wrestler of any eminence on the mat to-«'ay
who has not been badly broken up at some time or
another.
* * * *
The young Victorian enthusiasts who get some-
what butchered to make an Annual Amateur Boxing and
Wrestling Tournament, in Melbourne, are reaping, this
year, a “ social evening ” for theirpains. The committee of
the A.A.A. can afford to be hospitable, for the recent
tournament, managed by “Stork” Adams, brought a
profit of £149, as against £72 last year. Judkins not-
withstanding, the attraction of these biff, stoush and
wrastle shows seems to be increasing in violence.
* * * *
Although rich prizes will continue to offer for
various aerial feats, the days of “ aviation carnivals ” would
appear to be over. That of Blackpool resulted in a loss
of £20,000 to the promoters, and the carnival at Lanark
swallowed up almost as much. The trouble of the aero-
carnival promoter is that the people who pay for admis-
sion get no better view' than those who do not, and they
run more risks of being smashed up. Quite a lot of
spectators have been killed and injured by unmanageable
aer'os ploughing through, or falling into the middle of, a
packed audience. Most of the accidents have occurred
ju.st before the fliers alighted, when they were hovering
over the people w'ho were paying for the show'. Under
any circumstances, it is hard to get people who can see a
show for nothing to pay for doing so, but when they got
only increased risks in return for their money,
human nature gave way. So with the announced
disappearance of aero carnivals, another form of
encouragement has suddenly leapt into existence.
Big municipalities are offering prizes for the purpose of
developing airmen for military work, and the French
army-lords are encouraging both officers and men to try
flying. Those who show special aptitude for the work
are to receive all sorts of encouragement. Italy is going
in the same direction, and is about to establish a big
fleet of dirigibles, each airship to carry one or more aSro-
planes for scouting purposes, even as a battleship carries
fast petrol-launches. The British War Office has sud-
denly dropped its attitude of “not interested,” and cor-
dially invited airmen to take part in the forthcoming
military manoeuvres. But, so far, there is no word of an
English squadron of dirigibles or a mosquito aerial
fleet of ’planes.
* * * #
It is always the amateur who blazes the track,
and the people who are exploiting the dirigible have
both eyes glued on Walter Wellman and his engineer,
Melville Vaniman. These two scientific lunatics propose
to cross the Atlantic, from New York to England, in the
new and specially.designed airship America. This huge
gas-bag will be 228 ft. long and 182 ft. in circumference at
its greatest girth. Its gas-volume will be 345,000 cubic
feet, and its total lifting capacity 12 tons. Practically, it
will be about the size of a White Star liner, and yet will
only carry altogether 12 tons. The weakness of the dirig-
ible is that it is a knock-kneed giant without muscles.
The actual ship in w'hich the aeronauts will travel will be
a steel car 156 ft. in length. To drive this mass
Wellman will depend principally upon a 70 - h.p.
gasolene engine; but there are to be two other
engines on board. One is an eight-cylinder affair
developing 200 h.p., which will be kept in reserve and
used only in case of emergency. The third engine will
be a 10-h.p. affair, to drive the air-puinp and so on. With
both driving engines going on each pair of twin screws
the dirigible will be good for about 30 miles an hour.
Wellman’s great danger is the leakage, which, so far,
nobody has been able to prevent; and although the
envelope will consist of three thicknesses of silk and
cotton, with three layers of the finest rubber between
them, the leakage will still be there. The Zeppelins,
after which the America is designed, cannot stay afloat
more than 56 hours, and as Wellman can’t travel 3070
miles in 56 hours he will have to do some solid thinking
between now and the day of starting. A remarkable cir-
cumstance is that the two adventurers hope to get four
other lunatics like unto themselves to act as crew, and
as the world is fairly crazy they will probably have 48
madmen to choose from.
* * * *
The question whether Glebe or Eastern Suburbs
should step down into the second division of the Metro-
politan Rugby Union competition was decided on Satur-
day, when the Gjebe forwards fell on the Eastern team
and ripped it to pieces. East was brilliant in flashes, but
Glebe played with steady thoroughness, and had East
beaten from the jump. When the whistle blew the
figures were 23 points to seven. The other “A” Division
match was between University and South Sydney. There
was nothing interesting about the struggle, and in the
first half South piled up six to nil. In the second
Uni, played desperately, but failed to wipe off the
margin, and just managed to save Alma Mater’s face
by scoring a try. That was the last flutter, and by six to
three South waltzed into second place on the competi-
tion list. Newtown is still at the top with 22 points,
South has 20, University has 18 and Glebe 16. Newtown
had a bye on Saturday, but in this case the bye carried
no points with it; so, as a matter of fact, Newtown just
stood still like the sun and moon when Joshua pulled the
strings. So Eastern Suburbs heads the “B” division
with 16 points, with Manly and North Sydney near neigh-
bors, 12 and 10 points respectively. Below these are only
single figures, which at this stagp do not count.
* * *
The Rugby League position became interesting
on Saturday. South Sydney, which headed the compe-
tition at the start of the games, was up against Eastern
Suburbs, and an almost assured winner. South’s bugbear
was Newtown, and with the comparatively weak Eastern
team to beat, South felt fairly sure of keeping its lead of
one' point. On the other hand, it was almost certain
Newtown would keep its place, as North Sydney, in the
opinion of the cognoscenti, could not possibly’hope to
down the formidable Newtown crowd. And it didn’t.
Newtown won by 20 to 10. At the Agricultural Ground
8000 people had rolled up to see South Sydney crush
Eastern Suburbs to pulp. South’s defence was perfect,
and its goal line impregnable. It played an aggressive
game and crossed the Eastern line, but failed to convert.
Several certain scores were lost by careless disregard of
the rules, and the first half closed with South leading by
three to two—a mighty narrow margin. And, as said
before, the worst part of it was that but for illegali-
ties it would have been wider. With the wind
in the opposite direction, South’s aggressive play
waned considerably, and Eastern Suburbs attacked.
Although the Southern line was impregnable, the goal
proved vulnerable enough, and with Messenger’s heavy
artillery in full blast South Sydney was beaten by a
series of penalty kicks and marks, the score being eight
to three. Glebe came a cropper over the large feet of
Balmain, the men from the Tattered Suburb w'inning by
19 points to 14 ; and Annandalefairly wiped the floor with
Western Suburbs—2s points to three. So the result is
that South, with 18 points, had to climb down from the
top of the poll and give place to Newtown with 19. Bal-
main and Eastern Suburbs have 16 each, and Glebe has
12. The competition has practically become a duel be-
tween Newtoum and South Sydney, with the other club
matches thrown in as trimmings.
* * * *
“Soccer” struggle for the Gardiner Cup came
to an end on Saturday, when Rozelle’s brilliant attempt
to snatch it failed at Sydney Sports Ground. Rozelle
played magnificently ; but the Glebe net was inviolate,
and a splendid struggle ended in a draw, leaving Glebe
in possession of the Cup. This is the second time Glebe
has held it, the previous occasion being 1908. Pvrmont
held it till last Saturday, and now it is back
in the Glebe strongroom. The final for the
Gardiner Oup, the historic “ Soccer ” trophy, will
happen along next Saturday at the Epping ground.
The battlers will be Helensburgh (on the South Coast)
and the warship Powerful team. It will be a great game,
as the country team is in fine nick and the Powerful men
are trained to the moment. Just at present, Powerful
is probably the most solid team in Sydney, its combina-
tion being almost marvellous. Any weakness in the
mass will be found in the backs, a division in which
Helensburgh is particularly strong. But the Powerful
forwards are terrible.
* * * *
At Erskineville, the home of the Australian
rulers, the merry men from Riverina went down smash
before a Sydney team. The first half of the game was
good, but after that the Backblockers just crumbled
away, and the local men won by a cricket score, 106
points to 35. Next Saturday will see the resumption of
the local competitions, when Y.M.C.A., East Sydney,
Sydney and Paddington will play off for the Rawson Cup.
TheY.M.C.A., which means Youthful Muscular Christians
Ass., holds the key of the position, and the team that
can down it will probably appropriate the Cup and the
premiership.
* * * *
A golden afternoon and the prospect of seeing
the Students do their dash for semi-final honors brought
crowds to the little East Melbourne ground on Saturday.
’Varsity was up against ’Wood, and a gorgeous game
ensued. The Magpies knew that victory assured them of
a semi-final place, besides which they are the only
team the Students have never beaten ; so they went off
with a will, playing with beautiful unanimity and
scoring faster than usual. But the shooting was faulty,
and at half-time they had but five goals eight
behinds; while ’Varsity was practically level with
six goals one behind. The Students boast some
exceptional “high markers” and “place kicks,”
and they were apparently relying on long straight
shots. But the determination of the Magpies
was too much for them. The long shots were
good, but there weren’t enough of them and
at the finish it was: Uni., 59 points; ’Wood, 75. So
the Students passed out. They had in this their third
year in the League done well; but the persistence,
needed for a sustained struggle was lacking, especially in
the earlier games.
The same afternoon Geelong was letting out its
last kick at Essendon. Could it but scramble home
somehow, there was still a possible chance of reaching
the final four, so it woke up and bogged in. Its
persistence was admirable, but its kicking lamentable—
Geelong, 10 goals 19 behinds ; Essendon, 10 goals 11 be-
hinds. The “ possible ” is still there, but the decision
doesn’t liein Geelong’s hands now. To get in the “ four ”
it must not only beat ’Wood next Saturday, but ’Roy
must also beat South. So the collision of ’Roy and
South will be momentous. The upending of Rich-
mond by Carlton—62 to 45—and the capsizing of Mel-
bourne by ’Roy—BB to 23—were episodes that none but
one-eyed barrackers bothered about.
* * * *
The various Ass. scuffles held little interest for
anybody, the positions of the first four being practically
assured. ’Scray downed ’Town by 54 to 44 ; P’ran outed
Brighton by 88 to 39 ; Brunswick dittoed Port by 100 to
50 ; Essendon went better by piling up 142 to North-
cote’s 23 ; and North reached the apex of glory by accu-
mulating 159 to Preston’s seven. In this last game
Caine, of North Melbourne and erst of Carlton, gained a
record by punting 12 goals, making 68 for the season.
Caine, by the way, is a Lancefield (Vic.) publican.
* * * *
The fourth annual 100-mile road race of the
Vic. Cycle Tride Association happened on Saturday.
The course was from Essendon, through Sunbury, Lance-
field and Woodend, to O irlsruhe and back, and the
upshot was so unaccountable that at latest the officials
were taking statutory declarations and indulging in
deep thought. Over 300 cyclists entered, and 254 were
sent away, the first at 9 a.in. As the Vic. record for the
distance is shrs. 10min., nobody was expected home be-
fore 2 p.m. But at 1.45 p.m. an unknown named T. Doyle,
from near Lilydale, casually pedalled in. He had been
allotted 31 minutes start, but his actual riding
time was only 4hrs. 41min., so the officials
deferred their congratulations. And when the speedy
Munro pedalled in after exactly five hours’ rid-
ing—10 minutes less than the record—they also deferred
their decision pending investigation. Meanwhile Doyle,
who is a seasoned youth of 39, claims that he rode
the course all right, accompanying the others to Carls-
ruhe, from which he came away, on his own, at a smart
pace. The feat isn’t impossible, but the committee,
as before mentioned, is thoughtful.
* * *
Scotch and Xavier Colleges (Melbourne) de-
bated the Public Schools’ hoof ball premiership last week.
Both sides were full of vim and enthusiasm, but the Xaviers
showed better concerted play than the heavier Presby-
terians. By dint of hard striving, they gradually
worked off a deficit of 13 points in the first quarter, and
declared a surplus of 11 points at the finishing gong. It
was a creditable win for the Xaviers, who have never pre-
viously secured premiership honors. In each of the la.
10 years they have struggled for the top of the tree, D
have usually been found, in the end, among the roots.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cricket Association’s selection com-
mittee for the coming season is almost brand-new—-Jt.
Hume, E. F. Waddy and W. Bardsley. The last two
take the shoes of F. Iredale and G. P. Barbour, the
Association has, therefore, injected new blood into tne
committee ; and if the new body can satisfy, or even nan
pacify the grumblings which were heard last season, it
will work a miracle. One thing is certain —the younger
players won’t be forgotten. +
Sydney baseball on Saturday brought about the
first downfall of all-conquering Burwood this season.
In 14 previous matches defeat had passed on thei other
side ; and, just when the season was closing, Leichhardt
arose like David of old and slew the ponderous Goliath-
four runs to one. Burwood, however, has the premier-
ship safely tucked away in its toga, though it growled
heavily at the defeat. As a contrast to the low scoring,
Petersham walloped Paddington by 25 to nine , Lane
Cove outed Sydney by 23 to eight; and University made
small beans of Manly, and won by 16 to four.
* * * *
The “sculling challenge” season—like the
snake period—is around again. Harry Pearce (Australian
champion) and Maorilander Webb are sparring for wind
over a match for the championship, each side wanting
the match in his own country. George Day is also on
the rampage ; and myriads of lesser lights are paddling
on the river in quest of floating money-bags, rhe com-
ing year promises a mighty interest in professional
sculling.
* * * *
The unexpected again happened in the Sydney
lacrosse premiership on Saturday, when Sydney upset
Mosman to the awful extent of five goals to nil. In the
two final stages of the premiership “ the dark horse
trod on the pretensions of the favorites. Petersham and
Mosman ; and as the rules give the last season’s premiers
(Petersham) a right to challenge, the extra match will
wind up the season on Saturday. In the “B’ grade
Manly had no difficulty in annihilating Stanmore by six
goals to nil in a game which sparkled with play much
superior to that of the first-graders.
Cloncurry, in Queensland’s wild and woolly
West, works hard at copper-gouging all the: week, so
takes things gently on the Sabbath. One recent Sabbath
was more placid than usual. Wanting a chance to talk
of good things, Hampden and Cloncurry decided to
meet at football; it was reckoned that, wandering about
in couples, there would be a splendid chance for uplift-
ing. There was. Unfortunately, while remembering the
lift, Cloncurry had forgotten the bump. Still the casual-
ties were not numerous—one broken nose, one fractured
skull and one corpse. The corpse caused general sorrow,
and the teams decided to bear the cost of the funeral.
Incidentally, one goal was kicked.
* * * *
As predicted, the Australian amateur billiard
championship was captured last week by Victoria for the
first time, after a remarkably close fight. Tricks beat
Rumball by 30 points, or 1 per cent, on the total of 3000.
From start to finish the game was well contested. Rum-
ball, with his comparatively awkward style but somewhat
better tactics, seemed to have a slight advantage over
the Victorian, who is the more artistic arid less caieful
player. Each made a couple of three-figure breaks, but
Rumball’s were the bigger, one of them being the record
for amateur championship matches. This was Tricks’s
sixth or seventh attempt to win the medal, and when he
ran out with a 15 break, leaving Rumball at 2970, the
crowd in Alcock’s (Melbj) room applauded vigorously.
After which the loser got a loud burst of appreciation.
* * * *
A cove writes from Maoriland, apparently more
in sorrow than anger:—
Mr. Editor Bulletin Sydney. — l enclose some cuttings
from the Auckland Star of the 23rd. I just want to let
you know that Maorilanders couldn’t expect fair play
from you blokes don’t you know you Australian blokes
always are onesided you can’t play football, anyhow
you’re not fair, and you know it, that is my opinion of
you blokes, You’re a pretty crook lot you Sydney blokes,
that’s straight. —Maorilander.
This sort of thing almost makes one believe in Prohibition
—for Maoriland.


John Strange
Winter’s
Hair Food
This marvellous hair grow-
er gave a hard-worked novel-
ist—John Strange Winter, the
author of "Bootle’s Baby”—a
magnificent head of hair, after
she had been reduced to wear-
ing a wig. Nothing short of
overwhelming proof of its
merit would have induced a
world-famous authoress to
trade in the hair food. Sold by
all Chemists and Stores
Price 2/6 ; Post Free, 3/-
J S.W. CO.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
and at Melbourne & Adelaide.
‘SHELL’
MOTOR
SPIRIT.
ITS PERFECT PURlTY—
that’s the Point.
> *»»
THE
MOTA
(Resd.).
The“Mota” Hat simply leapt into popular
favor this season.
Young- men and old men, city men and country
men, travellers, sportsmen, business men—all
recognise in the “ Mota ” a particularly smart,
soft felt hat with materials and workmanship
decidedly above the average to recommend it.
Stocked by all leading Houses throughout Aus-
tralia in all fashionable colors.
Prices 7/6 to 12/6.
If unobtainable in your district write to us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS LIMITED,
Abbotsford, Melbourne.
“ LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
MAKE A NOISE LIKE AN ORDER.
CADILLAC,
25-30 H.P. £,500.
450 in Australasia.
35,000 in the World.
L
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE .
•I
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., Brisbane.
SAUL’S MOTOR CO., Launceston.
Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
QUEENSLAND.
MATRIMONIAL JURISDICTION.
No. 2 of 1910.
In Fokma Pauperis.
MR. JUSTICE CHUBB.
Between
DAVID GEORGE BEER, Plaintiff,
AND
AND
TOTTIE BEER, Defendant,
JACK COLLINS, Co-Defendant.
To TOTTIE BEER wife of the abovenamed
David George Beer of Warwick in the State
of Queensland Engine Driver AND to JACK
COLLINS of May Street West End South
Brisbane in the said State.
TAKE NOTICE that David George Beer of
Hamilton Stt-eet Warwick in the State of Queens-
land Engine Driver has commenced an action
against you Tottie Beer in His Majesty’s Supreme
Court of Queensland at Brisbane by Petition
bearing date the twenty-fourth day of December
1909 praying for a decree that his marriage with
you be dissolved and by Writ of Summons issued
out of the said Court dated the fourth day of
January 1910 which Writ is endorsed as follows:
“The Plaintiff’s claim is for a dissolution of his
marriage with the Defendant Tottie Beer ” and
in which said Writ you Jack Collins are joined as
Co-Defendant AND TAKE NOTICE that by
an Order dated the first day of August 1910 the
said Court has ordered that the publication of
advertisement of notice of the said Petition and
Writ and of the said Order twice in the Brisbane
Courier Newspaper published at Brisbane in the
State of Queensland and twice in The Bulletin
Newspaper published at Sydney in the State of
New South Wales shall be deemed good and suf-
ficent service of the said Petition and Writ
upon you on the day on which the last
of such ad vertisments shall aDpear AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that you are
required within thirty days after the insertion of
the last of the said advertisements inclusive of
the day of such insertion to defend the said
action by causing an appearance to be entered for
you in the said Court to the said action and in
default of your so doing the said David George
Beer may by leave of the Court or a Judge pro-
ceed thereon and Judgment may be given in
your absence.
Dated the twenty-third day of August, 1910.
BERGIN & BERGIN,
Solicitors for David George Beer,
Victoria Chambers, Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Public Notices.
£3OO REWARD.
Stolen from Westg'rove
(UPPER DAWSON, QUEENSLAND),
About February this year, eighteen (18) head unbroken
HORSES (seven fillies and eleven colts—two saddle and
balance draft, majority bays), branded BVS over distin-
guishing number on off shoulder, with number seven (7)
on cheek (brand probably since mutilated).
The above reward will be paid to any one (not being
the principal offender) giving information which will
lead to the conviction of the thief or thieves and the re-
covery of the stolen horses. A substantial reward will
be paid to anyone giving information which will lead to
the recovery of any of the horses. For further informa-
tion refer to the police or to the undersigned. (N.B. —No
horses answering to the above description have been sold
from the station.)
JOHN COLLINS & SONS.
Tamrookum, Beaudesert, Queensland.
19th August, 1910.
A. M. L. 8 F. Co. Ltd
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stock and Station Agents.
CAPITAL
SUBSCRIBED ...
PAID-UP
RESERVE FUND
£4,000,000
£3,000,000
£520,000
£300.000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral Pro-
perties and Stock, and on the Growing Wool Clip and Wheat Crop.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in Australia, being all
recently constructed.
Australian Mortgage, Land 8 Finance Co.
LIMITED,
William Street, MELBOURNE;
BligH Street, SYDNEY;
Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
When John See was Premier of N.S.W.,
soon after the beginning of Federation, he
brought down a Bill to provide for the reduction
of members. Like Wade, he adopted the refer-
endum method, but he hobbled the popular will
by declaring that the choice must not go below
90—at that time the Assembly was 125 strong.
The present “ Liberal ” party was in Opposition,
and in righteous indignation it denounced the
measure as undemocratic. “ Trust the people,”
it clamored; but See was adamant, and the
“Liberal ” crowd rose in a body and marched off
the premises, leaving the Government to pass the
Bill on its own. But Deform out of office is a
very different animal from Deform in office,
wherefore we find Wade framing a Reduction of
Members Referendum Bill which arbitrarily
fixed 72 as the lowest number to be decided upon.
So that, while See offered a reduction of 28 per
cent., the “ trust-the-people ” advocates proposed
a mere reduction of 20 per cent. And then they
came to the decision that the people couldn’t be
trusted at all and withdrew the Bill, for which
deed Wade was formally thanked in the Assem-
bly by the chief bottle-washer of the party,
J. C. L. Fitzpatrick.
For Sale.
HIGH-CLASS DAIRYING FARM IN
FULL WORK.
FINEST LAND IN THIS STATE, 100 yards from
Wharf, and three miles from factory. Stocked with
the best of cattle, piggeries, and complete with
every modern equipment, comprising: a Model Up-to-date
DAIRY FARM OF ABOUT 127 ACRES, thoroughly well
watered and securely fenced. Excellent opportunity
Gentleman’s Son desiring to walk into a highly remuner-
ative farming industry. Easy Terms.
R. C. WATKINS & CO., 107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Speaker’s Gallery :
About a thousand would-be candidates for the 90 seats
to become vacant in N.S.W. Assembly have been dis-
qualified by “ Liberal ” and Lahot leagues and selection
organisations generally ; also, hundreds of citizens of
tremendous public spirit and affidavited statesmanship
have been scared off by that latest invention in machine
politics, party nomineeism. They would not face the pre-
liminary' canvass and intrigue, round up the next-door
neighbors and the football team and the employees at
the office, pay for drinks for half a hundred beer-
sparrers, pull wires or noses, or beg, cadge, fake or other-
wise obtain votes. Half the “ Liberal ” camp is unable to
obtain rest because of thfe wails of the deceived, and the
air is laden with the howls of enraged persons who
declare that they have been tricked, defrauded, blown-
out and sandbagged from behind.
Men’s Serviceable High=Grade Footwear
The Rigney Footwear is not the average kind.
It’s designed for men of taste who know what they want
and mean to get it.
I t’s serviceable, high-grade footwear—equal in every respect
to any made-to-order shoe.
Take a look at the shoe illustrated.
It’s a Black Phoenix Calf Derby.
21/=, 22/6, 25/= , B/
Ditto in Boots. 23/6 and 25/-
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for our Booklet, “ The Rigney Shoe for Men.’ -
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
ft
L
A
1
B-W
Talk the Matter Over
We claim that there cannot be a better cycle at the price
than that we make for £ll. But we don’t claim it with-
out expecting you to be sceptical. You may think that we
are unduly prejudiced in favor of our own machine, but
we can quickly PROVE our claims if ybu will come in and
talk the matter over. We are open till 9 p.m. on Fridays.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Largest Cycle Building House in the State,
23* Pitt Street and Castlereagh Street, «yOnCy.
i
at Thursday Island!
diving coons
are equal to the world’s best. Our
Diving Dresses, Diving Hose, and
Sundries, are constructed under the
strictest supervision on the latest
methods and of the finest materials.
Correspondence Invited List on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
108 Flinders St., Melbourne; 255 Clarence St.,
Sydney; 92 Pirie St., Adelaide , 265-270 Adelaide
St., Brisbane, 67 King St., Perth • Worcester-.St,
Christchurch.


A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD or OPERA GLASSES, Pocket
Size, Morocco-covered body, Perfectly Ad-
justed, Enamel-finished Frame, Achromatic
Lenses, in Solid Leather Case,
25/-
Other Powers, 12/6, 15/, 17/6 , 20/, 30/,
40/, up.
NEW
GOODS ARE
ARRIVING
EVERY
MAIL.
A. SAUNDERS.
PEGGY BAG, Morocco Leather, Cham-
ois Leather lined, with Extra Division,
Strong Leather Handles,
15/'
Other Styles, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6,
9/6, 10/6, up.
0Sz
■
M
i mm
aaifi
MlilW «!
11
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR-CASE, Seal Leather,
Green, Black, or Brown,
French Calf lined, Pure
Silver Mounts,
15/
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/, 12/6,
15/6, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
GENT
lined,
Other
A. SAUNDERS.
,’S POCKET-BOOK, Morocco
Pure Silver Mounts, Lock
Styles, 5/6, 6 0, 12/6, .15/, 1
Leather, Silk-
and Shield,
17/6, 20/, 25/.
WRITE US YOUR
EXACT REQUIREMENT.
WE CAN SUPPLY IT.
i
A. SAUNDERS.
POCKET SIGHT COMPASS, Oxidised
Brass Case, Paper or Metal Hi 2m,
12/6, 15/; 2Jin, 17/6, :M
Ordinary Styles, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6, 5 1, 6/6, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARVING
KNIFE AND
FORK, Buck-
horn Handles,
Finest Sheffield
Steel, strongly
made, well fin-
ished,
5/6 Per Pair.
Other Styles,
4/6 to 15/.
sw w
W4R
m
A. SAUNDERS.
INK-STAND, Jfolished English Oak Base, Nickel-plated
Mounts, Crystal Glass Bottles,
12/6.
Other Styles, 7/6, .9/6, 12/6, 15/6, 20/,
OUR FREE CATA-
LOGUE IS FULL OF
OTHER IDEAS. SEND
FOR A COPY.
A. SAUNDERS.
Collapsible Torpedo COL-
LAR BOX, in real Pigskin,
* K>r-
Seal 7/6. Ordinary Styles,
6/6, 7/6, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
NICKEL SHAVING
STAND, with Telescopic
Mirror, Hot-water Bowl,
and Brush, with Round
Base, 15/.
Other Styles, 5/6, 6/6,
S/6, 10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 20/.
GENT.’S HAIR BRUSH,
Nictkel-mounted, Nicely
Embossed,
4/0.
Higher Grade, Fine-
q ality Bristles, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
WRITING FOLIO, Polished Leather, in
Green or Black, with re-
ceptacles for paper, envelopes, visiting-
cards, stamps, etc., also paper-knife, pen,
and pencil. Good strong lock and key,
15/
Other Styles, 4/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 20/,
up to 72/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SMOKER’S SET, comprising Cigar and Cigarette Stand,
Ash Tray, and Match Stand, with Plate Glass Base,
With Polished Cedar Base, 30/. May be had with Fine-
quality Brass or Copper Mounts.
A. SAUNDERS.
Buckskin TOBACCO POUCH
Solid Silver Shield, Rubber
lined, 4/6-
Other Styles, 6/6, 7/6, 10/6
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT’S. B.aJSlI SET.
containing Brush, ? long
white bristles, Mirror, and
Comb, in Morocco Leather
Case, 10/0.
. With Silver Shield, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
CATTLE KNIFE,
Stag Handle, 3
strong Sheffield
blades, largest blade
3in long, Quality
Guaranteed, 4/6
Larger, with 4 blades,
5/6. Others 1/, 1/6,
ffll
l
m
OUR
DISPLAY
OF
TOILET
REQUISITES
IS THE
FINEST,
MOST
VARIED,
AND
MODE-
RATELY-
PRICED
IN ALL
AUSTRALIA.
MAY
WE
SEND
YOU
OUR
CATA-
LOGUE.
This Handsome
Marble Clock
%
N
m
IS CAREFULLY OILED,
BEFORE BEING
ADJUSTED, AND TIMED,
DESPATCHED.
ACCURATE,
RELIABLE,
LONG-
WEARING.
OF A RARE
QUALITY
AND
VALUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
HANDSOME PRESENTATION MARBLE CLOCK, height 14in, width 17iin, Very Highest Quality, Movement
Guaranteed, Free Repair for 3 Years.
. /B 5
i Other Styles, 50/, CO/, 70/, up to £l2/10/.
DH
A. SAUNDERS.
Extra High-grade Crush Morocco BAG, Cha-
mois Leather-lined, Extra Inside Division,
Superior Close-fitting Nickel Frame, Strong
Handles, 25/-
Other Styles, 27/6, 35/, 37/6, up to 55/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TABLE CUTLERY, FINEST SHEFFIELD STEEL, ROUND OR SQUARE XYLONITE HANDLES.
DimnuDO I WT\rm?Ti?T r» T> nWRHTn A TTARRTSON TIROS qtiH Wf
' JOSEPH RODGERS. t, | WINGFIELD,/ROWBOTHAM,
Dessert ..7/9, 8/6, 9/6, 10/61-doz I AND CO.
Table ..8/9, 9/6, 10/6, 11/6 J-doz I Dessert . .3/9, 5/, 7/9, 10/6 J-doz
1 Tlble ....4/3,4)/, 8/9, 12/6 £-doz
DESSERT KNIVES, Ivory Handles, fromVra*/Vt0,30/ per-fdoz. -TABLE KNIVES, Do., from 20/ to 45 per
J-doz. MEAT CARVERS. 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, toj 15/6, 4n Stag and Xylonite Handles.
HARRISON BROS, and HOWSON.
Dessert ....7/6, 8/6, 9/6, 4-doz
Table 8/6, 9/6, 10/6 £-doz
POorvET
CORKSCREW.
Nickel Silver,
Best Sheffield,
make, 2 /-
Spectacle
Chatelaine,
Morocco
Leather,
8/6-
MEAT CARVERS, Pure Silver-plated Handles, Knife, Fork, and Steel, Hand-
forged Sheffield Blades, in Silk-lined Case,
20/.
Similar Designs, with Sterling Silver Handle, 35/, 40/, 42/6. Cther Styles in
Stag, Xylonite, and Ivory, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, up to * 2/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid
Ebony, Sterling Silver
Mounted, Fine, White
Bristles, 15/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6,
16/6, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET SET, Real Ebony, comprising Hair Brush, Cloth
Brush, Mirror, and Comb, Sterling Silver Mounted, with
Extra Long White Bristles, in Silk-lined Case £3/3/-
Without Mirror, 45/.
JEWELLER/
v^CHsC/ffQjy
k MAKER iI
1
jYDNEYS leading jeweller.
807.809.811.815.815.817- GEORGE ST. 1 Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY, N.S.W.
S> SILVERSMITH
t OH s ULT//V c
.OPTICIAN


Spring Styles for Men.
Clothes of Satisfaction.
I
vVac \Suits
Ready-to
Wear.
You are particularly invited to
inspect our fine showing of up-to-
date Clothes for immediate wear—
especially our
Ballarat
Blue Se rg>e
Sac Suits
at
25|-
We guarantee these to be pure
wool, and to thoroughly keep their
color.
They are made in sizes to fit tall, slender men —cross sizes for
men of short, stout build—and men of ordinary size.
There is no better value in the Commonwealth. Every garment
our own make—well made —and perfect-fitting.
High-Grade Tailoring
Smart
Suits
to
Measure,
50|-tolos|-
Tailored by tailors in first-
class manner throughout.
Style—fit and finish ab-
solutely guaranteed—these
suits are their own best
recommendation to critical
dressers.
Show visitors are especially
requested to call and see
our magnificent showing of
new Spring Suitings in all
the latest designs and color-
ings.
Should you not be re-
quiring a suit at the
moment, we shall be pleased
to take your measure for
future reference. Patterns
supplied if desired, from
which you may order at
your own convenience.
T 1 WA
'
- \ *
For those who cannot call—patterns and seir-measurement forms
will be sent post free anywhere on application.
Shirts and Pyjamas.
-jrrm
i - T
4 - * t
-4 • *
--
nmiw
All our Shirts and Pyjamas are
made on our own premises from
the finest Irish Linen, Scotch,
English and French Shirtings, and
can be confidently recommended
to give every satisfaction.
A fine showing now being made
in all the newest designs.
Shirts
from 5/6
To order 1/- Extra.
Pyjamas
from 6/6
To order 2/- Extra.
A Fine Lot of AU=Wool Rugs from 13/9.
Also a Splendid Assortment of Portmanteaus,
Gladstone and Brief Bags, Trunks, etc.
Keith's American
“Walk-Over”
Boots and Shoes.
We are sole agents for this famous Footwear, and are showing
a full assortment in the Latest Styles and Shapes—half sizes and four
different fittings.
Particular attention is drawn to a Special Line
of this maker’s
Glace Kid
Balmorals
narrow, medium or square toes, at 22/6
and their
Box Calf
Balmorals
natural shapes—double soles—at 251-
These are the highest-grade American Footw
well worth your inspection.
LINCOLN, STUART & CO.
244-254 Flinders Street, Melbourne, Victoria.


Croup
can be cured
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Croup, acute or chronic, is
best cured by Scott’s Emul-
sion. Scott’s Emulsion per-
manently cures croup. This
statement is made because
scores of parents have writ-
ten to say their children were
cured of croup by Scott’s
Emulsion . For example, Mrs.
E. M. Beard wrote, 19th May,
1909, from 26, Bennett Street,
Moore Park, Sydney, N.S.W.:
“One bottle of Scott’s Emulsion com-
pletely cured my little daughter, aged one
year and four months, of a nasty attack of
croup. Ten months ago she was very ill
with wasting disease. After
a second bottle of Scott’s
Emulsion she began to sleep
well and was not so fretful.
In three months she did not
look like the same child, and
she is now just as strong as she
was weak before. This trade-
mark was on the emulsion I
bought. ”
If you wish to get rid of
croup and decide to buy
Scott’s Emulsion, decide
also to GET SCOTT’S
EMULSION. You may be
asked to buy another emul-
sion and told it is “just as
good as Scott’s.” Substitute
emulsions can only be sold
on the reputation of Scott’s
Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion cures the disease —
no matter the age of the patient—and
will be approved by your Doctor for
Croup if you ask him.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
“MAN TO MAN”
is the title of a Valuable BOOKLET explaining 1
the Causes and Cure of
NERVOUSNESS and ALLIED TROUBLES,
which embitter life, and cause premature decay.
A copy of this Booklet will be sent FREE
(sealed) to anyone interested.
London Specialities Agency,
44 Gastlereagh Street, Sydney.
C=3
f B l
i seal \
:medyfor\
Wav Fever *■
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
A cafe and simple remedy for'
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever '
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatl se wi th jach bottle |
or mailed on request.
Hie Evans Chemical Co.
Cincumati, Ohio, y
O.S. A.
rriHE BULLETIN POST CARDS.—New
I Series. IV.. V.. VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten, sd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
“LINSEED COMPOUND.” —The “ Stockport
Remedy ” for Coughs & Golds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
The
Tie
that
will not
Crease
r
"IRISVgd)'
Real PoplinTiesi
None'"
Genuine
without
thfj
fceg<! Tab.
IR
REAL POPLIN
Silk & Woo/.
REG?
Obtainable All Mercers
I
A 111 ! Hi.
CM=
I ;
> 3. =5
mwm r
111
- ,/
k.oniy
( ,4>
inn ii m Vi P
uV yMf
/
>•=
rr
«•
c or
«. <•/
«=r
4 s <A\
L .
<■;■ <• •cV
J/
/i i"
n g
K / B
The Woman
of To-Day
leads a busier life and has far
more strain on her physical resources
than a generation ago, and is there-
fore more often liable to get run-down,
sluggish and constipated.
Few need to be told how serious such a condition
as constipation is—how headaches, biliousness, fevers,
weak nerves, anaemia and organic troubles are brought
on by its neglect —but it cannot be too often repeated that
constipation, to be properly and permanently overcome, must
be corrected by the most gentle and natural means.
The safest remedy —the one which millions use and which
the highest medical authorities have always approved— is
CALIFORNIA
SYRUP of FIGS
“ Nature’s Pleasant Laxative.”
It neither purges nor strains the system, but acting quietly,
cleanses, soothes and strengthens the organs at fault and
restores the whole system quickly to its proper working state.
Of Chemists, in two sizes.
YOU MUST ASK FOR CALIFORNIA SYRUP OF FIGS.
fkOt MAR*
STYLISH FOOTWEAR FOR MEN
Leeming’s Footwear is built a good deal better
than you'd think there was any need for, and
costs a good deal less than you’d expect.
The Shoe illustrated is the last word in Men’s
Shoes for Winter wear—strong but shapely—in
Tan or Black.
Prices, 18/6 and 22/6.
Write for our Booklet “ Shoelight,’’ post free
on application.
LEJLMING’S,
PRICES,
18/6 8 22/6
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne*, 257=259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran; 1-3 Errol Street, North Melbourne,
DON’T STAY THIN!
DEVELOP YOUR BUST.
Every day
other women
are increas-
ing their
weight and
developing
their figures.
You can do
the same.
Try a course
of
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH=FQOD”
It will work wonders for your appearance.
It increases the weight by fiv% pounds a
week, and adds inches to your bust measure-
ment. Send a 2d. stamp for Free Trial
Sample and Free Book, or call.
FALLIERE
“FLESH-FOOD” CO,,
Dept. 5,
Likdkn Court,
Cartlereacw St.,
SYDNEY,
For the P.M.G.—and others
1. Gambling is trying to get gain at
another’s loss ; it is a part of a larger whole,
an outward trouble begotten of something
inward — viz., love of money, excessive desire
for gain.
2. Finding money and keeping it and
winning money by gambling, are morally
about equal.
3. Betting is, upon occasion, both lawful
and right; but gambling never is.
4. An opinion worth having is worth back-
ing ; but let it be done more to show that
you believe in what you say, that you have
the courage of your convictions, than to
make money. Many a battlefield has been
but a backing of opinion,
5. If all backing and betting were done in
silver coin only, and winnings given to
charitable purposes, there would be increase
both of real sport and of enjoyment from
same, as well as of income to the charities,
with a corresponding decrease of desire for
unlawful gain.
6. If some of the “upper ten” were to
set example as above suggested, same would
spread to the multitude ; and what is now
largely a nuisance, if not a curse, would
become a means of amusement, for all equally
pleasurable and useful. —ApvT,
“LINSEED COMPOUND” — Trade Mark of Kay
Compound Essence of Einseed for Coughs and Colds.
Model “T” Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars lor Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials :
1. High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. .Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
The Commercial Building and Investment
Co. (Sydney)
Loss on
Loss on Property Total
June, Business. Sales. Loss. Deficit.
1900 ..• £933 £933 £9,293
1901 .. 186 186 9,479
1902 45 45 9,524
Profit. Profit.
1903 .. 708 708 8,816
1904 .. 286 286 8,530
Loss. Loss.
1905 .. 396 £8165 8561 17,091
Profit. Profit.
1906 .. 758 758 16,333
1907 .. 327 327 16,006
1908 .. 819 819 15,187
Profit.
1909 .. 2425 2500 4925 10,262
Loss. Loss.
1910 790 5850 5060 15,322
This co. has been struggling for years to save something
out of the wreck. It plunged in Sydney and suburban
properties at a time when, having borrowed wildly, Aus-
tralia didn’t know what better to do with the money
than make a land boom. In 1897, when this paper first
became acquainted with the co., the latter had
properties which had cost £286,505, and on these
assets it owed £178,987; Several of the creditors
began to drop in frequently and ask when it would
be convenient, etc. ; and, though the co. had already
been tapping shareholders pretty often, it had no option
but to tap them some more—and trust to luck and
economy for the rest. The case called for such a tre-
mendous lot of those commodities that the supply hasn’t
even'yet reached the demand. It is true that, for a few
years past, the revenue from rents, etc., has exceeded
the outgoings—the outgoings being chiefly interest—but
luck hasn’t yet brought the market value of the proper-
ties up to book value. In a few sales a profit has been
made ; but mostly there has been a loss. On the whole,
however, the co. has preferred to hang on rather than
sacrifice : wherefore there has been no wholesale reduc-
tion in the property item. The following shows that and
other things :
1897. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Capital paid .. £112,725 £160,648 £160,648 £160,648
Liabilities .. 178,987 125,471 120.299 104,185
Properties .. 286,505 269,533 268,483 245,249
Other assets .. 3,878 1,399 2,201 4,262
So in 13 years the co. has only got rid of £41,256 worth
(book value) of properties, or about one-seventh of the
lot, and that can’t be called furious driving. That
wouldn’t matter much, though, if the rents were better;
but they don’t bring in 4£ per cent, gross, which is less
than the average cost of the money' borrowed on mort-
gage. They are evidently still over-valued, in spite of
the brisk property market; so with a view to clearing
things up, a revaluation has been made, and probably the
next accounts will show both i ie properties and the
capital written down. Meantime, as part of the general
cleaning-up, out-of-date properties are being remodelled,
and other steps taken to generally put a new complexion
on the faded and care-worn concern.
* * * *
Standard Mutual Building Society (Melb.):
Profit on Writ-
Property ten Re-
Profits. Sales. Dividends. off. serves.
Jan., 1904.. £2230 £612 6 p.c.=£1434 —£14,400
July, 1904.. 1986 534 6 „ „ 1434 338 15,148
Jan., 1905.. 2076 221 6 „ „ 1434 16,011
Ju1y,1905.. 1880 170 6 „ „ 1434 258 16,369
Jan., 1906.. 1869 441 6 ~ ~ 1434 17,245
July, 1906.. 1789 317 7J „ ~ 1752 200 17,399
Jan., 1907.. 2087 581 7£ „ „ 1752 18,315
July, 1907.. 1958 313 7j „ „ 1752 150 18,684
Jan., 1908.. 1952 288 7J „ „ 1752 19,172
July, 1908.. 2102 753 8 „ „ 1912 700 19,415
Jan., 1909.. 2009 379 8 „ „ 1912 19,891
July, 1909.. 2211 161 8 „ „ 1912 20,351
Jan., 1910.. 2319 294 8 ~ ~ 1912 21,052
July, 1910.. 2233 1239 8 „ „ 1912 501 22,111
The society was left with the usual quantity of boom-
froth in its pot in the ’9o’s ; and, after waiting for a few
years to see whether the froth would change itself back
into something liquid, the directors got tired and in
1900 blew the white crest off the beer and wrote
down the capital to correspond. While they were
about it they did the thing vigorously'. Values
of the assets in hand were, in fact, written down
rather below the mark, and subsequent sales have
produced more than the revised book values. That ex-
plains the “ profit on property sales” column—satisfac-
tory enough as far as it goes, but still to be viewed in the
light of the fact that half the capital was consumed in
writing down the assets to their present book value. As
sales have been made the money has been turned into
new business, or employed in moderation to pay' off
debts; and the surplus business earnings in excess of
divs. have gone the same way;—
June,’ol. June,’o9. Dec.,'o9. June, TO.
Liabilities .. £37,015 £31,174 £31,117 £30,865
Advances .. 19,998 53,418 58,757 62,841
Foreclosures 72,305 47,814 43,182 38,899
Cash, etc. .. 2,778 109 114 946
Clearly business isn’t being rushed ; that is obvious from
the fact that, at a time when money is plentiful and
deposits easy to get, this society’s indebtedness has
decreased, it can’t be because the security is poor ; for
the society has assets (mostly written down) 3£ times
larger than the whole of the liabilities. Evidently’,
thinking perhaps that present values are inflated, it has
1 decided to go slow ; and when a society can go as slow as
this society is doing, and pay 8 per cent.,-it may reckon
that it is managing very well.
The last six years’ painful record of the Mun-
gana, one of the Chillagoe “pups” :
Written Nominal
June, Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1905 .. £5,742 Nil £11,360
1906 .. 31,609 Nil £lO,OOO 32,969
1907 .. 32,941 Nil 10,079 55,831
Loss.
1908 .. 2,153 Nil 2,094 51,584
Mar., Profit.
1909 .. 8,215 Nil 4,115 55,684
1910 .. 4,195 Nil 3,098 56,781
That looks like a net profit of t £45,421 since 1905; but
consider this too :
June, 1905. March, 1910.
Liabilities .. .. £9899 £3075
Liquid assets .. 5109 7914
Deficit .. .. £4790 Surplus.. £4839
So what maybe called the cash position has improved by
only £9629 in the 4f years; the balance of the alleged
profit has gone a little into plant, but mostly into that
vague thing called “ mines development ” —that is, into
holes of one sort and another, which may or may' not ex-
pose some ore. At March this shadowy' asset stood at
no less than £71,855.
* * * *
From the litter of cats produced by the last
Cobar (N.S. W.) boom two or three may be saved, includ-
ing the Canbelego. There is no sign that it is a mine for a
big co.; and fortunately it is in the hands of a small
concern, with a paid capital of only £5646, partly in fully-
paid ss. shares, and partly in contribs. paid to Is. 3d. It
has a lode up to 10ft. wide, mostly of 4 per cent, ore or
thereabouts ; but there are irregular shoots of rich stuff,
and a hopeful sign is that the good stuff lasts down to
300 ft., the present bottom. There is no possible profit in
1 the 4 per cent, ore at present; and the quantity of rich
ore is uncertain. In the past year four lots (155 tons)
went away and gave about £3 14s. per ton, after paying
all charges off the mine. Enough should at least be got
to keep the pot boiling and leave something over ; and if
the mine lasts until the next copper boom happens along,
there may be a few plums tp add to the modest pudding.
The co. has no cash, so there is nothing for it but to pull
the rich stuff out—or tire the shareholders with calls.
* * * *
Breadalbane Mining and Smelting Co., near
Goulburn (N.S.W.), is developing a big hematite (oxide
j of iron) formation, which it hopes to use as a flux for the
| silicious ore of the district. Kangiara, with its mixture
of lead and copper ; Kyloe, with its excess of silica ; and a
number of other small shows up the railway line are ex-
pected to patronise this new smelting base. The estab-
lishment of smelting works to serve a district is gener-
ally an attractive idea ; but, even if enough money is sub-
scribed to provide a good rig-out, the supply of ore is
usually too precarious to give successful results, and it is
very rarely that a really’ good smelting mixture can be
contrived.


Beale
Grand Prix
(London)
Pianos.
TO INTENDING PIANO BUYERS.
Having decided that you will only have a piano with the best tonal qualities, and the
BEALE PIANO answering all requirements in that respect, as attested by the award of
THE GRAND PRIX,
you next consider the question of the permanence of the instrument, i.e. t its lasting musical
qualities. Here the BEALE PIANO meets requirements to a greater degree than any
other. By the nature of its construction it is the most durable piano manufactured. In
foreign instruments the wrest-plank, or block which holds the pins to which the wires are
strung, is made of wood, and fitted into a space in the iron frame. In the BEALE
PIANO the pin-block is cast solidly with the iron frame, and is part and parcel of it. The
strength of the BEALE PIANO, and therefore its durability, is obvious. ;
i
The difference in the pin-blocks naturally means a superiority in the tuning system. In
the wooden pin-block the pins are driven in from the front. They depend entirely upon the
pinch of the wood to hold them against the stress of the wires, whose total strain is about
twenty-five tons. In the Beale metal pin-block the pins are fitted from behind, and controlled
by tension studs on strict mechanical principle. Our tuning system is the only positive and
truly scientific method yet invented. Tuning is the perfection of smoothness and simplicity.
It was for this frame, with the patent pin-block and tuning system, that the
DIPLOMA OF HONOR
(next to the Grand Prix) was awarded at the Franco-British Exhibition. In the 13,000
Beale Pianos now in use there are 2,800,000 pins, and every one acts with precision.
BEALE CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
-378 George Street, Sydney 3 D c.P.o r ) om 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 Queen Street, Brisbane (next G.P.O. —our Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Goulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Mackay and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. Write for Catalogue f or for Representative to call.
Head Offices & Factories : Trafalgar Street, Annandale, Sydney.
Cash or Easy Terms, 25 Years’ Guarantee, Repairs and Tuning,
Old Pianos Allowed For, Direct from Factory to Family.
Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


i
»
H'
ma..s
lilillll
p
m
ms
■ ' 1 : '
a
■■
.. 55
i
k
:
m
IIH
m
i
Wi
i
l
H I
WH
REGULAR &
FREQUENT SAILINGS BETWEEN
r WEST AUSTRALIA. SOUTH AUSTRALIA,
VICTORIA, NEW SOUTH WALES, QUEENSLAND
V
■ :
«i
and ail porl-s in each
AUSTRALIAN STATE
HOWARD SMITH C°L TD HUDDART PARKER&C°P TY L TD
M c ILWRAITH. M C EACHARN &C° P TY L TD
OFFICES & AGENTS AT ALL PORTS


Amusements.
TOUR OF
Antonia DOLORKS
DIRECTION .. H. X. SOUTHWELL.
MELBOURNE-OPENING SEPTEMBER 24.
PERTH OPENING OCTOBER 15.
ADELAIDE OPENING NOVEMBER 7.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager; J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
TO-NIGHT AT ,7.50,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
THE ORCHID.
A CARNIVAL OP MUSIC AND MERRIMENT.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
Lessee : PRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE & CLYDE MEYNELL SEASON.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
THU ARCADIANS.
Played bv RUPERT CLARKE and CLYDE MEYNELL'S
NEW ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
First Appearance in Svdney of “ CHANTECLER,,”
introduced by THE SHOW GIRLS.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Theatre royal. Sydney.
Lessee & Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
GOOD-BYE TO NELLIE STEWART.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 1, FRIDAY, SEPT. 2, ,
WHEN KNIGHTHOOD WAS IN FLOWER.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 3, MONDAY, SEPT. 5,
TUESDAY, SEPT. 6,
SWEET NELL OF OLD DRURY.
Prices as usual. Plan at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
LAST NIGHTS AT THE PALACE.
OPENING AT THE GLACIARIUM, SAT. SEPT. 10.
WEST’S PICTURES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. : T. J. West.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra").
THE: LYCEUM..
Leyery eyenino at 8
MAXI NEES -WEDNESDAYS. SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2 30.
C P ENCER'S 'TMEATRESCOPE <?.
J PICTURES
-9 /f#E SUPERIOR TO / ILL OT/fERS. <9
Popular Prices Plan at Palings.
TIVOLI THEATRE, S V O E V.
Sole Proprietor & Manairer— Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
KREMO FAMILY, the Greatest of all Rislev Acrobats.
RAYMOND TRIO, Musicians and Dancers.
MDE. LYDIA YEAMANS TITUS. Hijrh-class Vocalist,
assisted by PROF. FRED TITUS, Accompanist.
TOM DAWSON, Popular and Favorite Comedian.
FRED K .ETON, Enaland’s Popular Comedian.
BERT TERRELL, Dutch Comedian and Yodeller.
GEO. DEAN/ THE AUSTRALIAN DARTOS.
PRICES —35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Palintr’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. llarrv Rickards.
POWELL & VESEY, Duologue
LIEUT. FRANK TRAVIS. . MARJORIE DEAN.
MORRIS CRONIN AND PARTY, Jugglers.
GRACIE GRAHAME.
GODFREY JAMES, Singing Collier.
FANNY POWERS, Mimetic Artiste.
DONNELLY TRIO, Song and Dance Artists.
FRED BLUETT and HIS BOY SCOUTS.
Plan at Allan’s. iT3T PRICES —tis, 2s, Is.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manasrer— William Anderson.
FOR THE SHOW CARNIVAL.
William Andkrson s Famous Dramatic Co. in
one of the Most Successful Dramas Ever Written,
WHEN LONDON SLEEPS.
Magnificent New Scenery and Effects.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Bs, 2s and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager': .T. C. Wit.mamson, Ltd.
Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON presents
THE GRAND OPERA CO.
THURSDAY, SEPT. 1 ... LA BOHEME.
FRIDAY, SEPT. 2 ... CARMEN.
SATURDAY, SEPT. 3 ... LA BOHEME.
MONDAY, SEPT. 5 ... CARMEN.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, ‘2s, Is.
MELBOURNE.
EATRE ROYAL,
LAST PRODUCTION OF THE SEASON.
MATHESON LANG and HUTIN BRITTON in the
Enormously Successful Play,
PETE,
Dramatised from Hall Caine’s Famous Play,
“THE MANXMAN.”
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
MELBOURNE.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE,
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MELBOURNE.
JULIUS KNIGHT, KATHERINE GREY,
and a Brilliant Supporting 1 Co.
—IN —
THE THIRD DEGREE.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Allan’s.
UW E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THE BEST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest. Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
MELBOURNE OLAC.ARIU
ICE-SKATING
EVERT AFTERNOON
AND
evening;
Ml
W IRTMS'OLYMPIA
.EVERY EVENING AT 8 ——
Matinees-Wednesdays .Saturdays and Holidays atz -jO.
rf RE SUPERIOR TO PLL ° x T/i^ S ?
Popular Prices Plam as usual -*.al
A™
EN/EIIM
Lessees
HALL. MELBOURNE
J. & N. TAIT.
j J.&N.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS; SATURDAYS & Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
Public Notice.
Alexander’s Squash Bottles.
Alexander and
Paterson give
notice that they
will institute proceedings against anyone who makes
use of their bottles which are branded with their name.
They are prepared to give 12s. per gross for their
bottles dirty, packed in straws and cornsacks, and
placed free on board Inter-State steamer addressed to
them at Melbourne —straws and bags extra.
Missing: Friends.
ILL PATRICK TONER., of Bar-
’ * widgee, write to Denis Toner, Waterloo,
via.Mvrtleford, Victoria. (Urgent.)
EXHIBITION
OF
ORIGINAL “BULLETIN” PICTURES
IN MELBOURNE,
Upper Athenaeum Hall, Collins Street.
Admission //- Illustrated Catalogue Free.
THIS Exhibition comprises 500 Original
Pictures which have been reproduced
in The Bulletin. All the best Aus-
tralian Artists, including work by “ Hop,”
Norman Lindsay, All Vincent, Ik E. Minns,
Lionel Lindsay, Geo. Lambert, Mahony,
etc., will be shown. The Exhibition will be
open from August 27 to September 10, from
10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Those unable to visit this unique picture
show are advised to write for the Catalogue,
and to send along their cheque for the amount
they wish to spend, mentioning their favorite
artist. A good picture guaranteed.
EXHIBITION open 10 a.m 6 p.m.
■from August 27 to September 10.
Thomas C. Lothian, Manager.
THROW DOWN THE BOTTLE.
Cease bei njr a curse in your home and a nuisance to
your friends. The Devil of Drink can be banished
for ever by DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered
by the Govts. Vie. and N.S.W.). A harmless remedy
—can be given secretly or taken voluntarily. Advice
Free. Write or call. DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISH-
MENTS : 54 Russell Street, Melbourne; 1161 Hay
Street, Perth, W.A. [3
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO.
NEURALGIA.
Blairs
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
Ail Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT Sc Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
[eWTn
Don’t
Advertise Y°« De*f»
By using an unsightly device, when
you can obtain Wilson’s Common
fcers* Ear Drums. They relieve \
Deafness and Head Noises, and are
invisible and comfortable ; help ears as
glasses help eyes Hundreds long consid-
ered past help now hear. If you suffer, why
not get particulars free? Write—
STAR NOVELiY CO., 529 Collins St., Melbourne.
;> ■
For your everyday use,
and your everyday
comfort, buy . . .
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Toilet Soap,
For you want a Soap that is pure
and cleansing, you like a soap that
is pleasant and refreshing, and an
antiseptic soap like this, containing
10% pure Carbolic—an ample
proportion—protects you against risk of
contagion. Sold at Local Stores and
Chemists, in three-tablet boxes.
Makers, F. C. CALVERT & Co..
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
ClED™iinijaiwlipTntutmiiiiiiunj|ii>
wm
finiJ
' ; „ • - • - • ,
Sargents’ Banqueting' Hall
is now recognised as the best and most favored place for Banquets, Dinner
Parties, etc. Festive occasions entrusted to our care are carried out in a
thoroughly efficient manner. The tables are set with the finest appointments.
The menu represents an elaborate selection of the very choicest edibles, daintily
prepared, and served iri the popular and superior “ Sargent ” style. Terms on
application to the Manager.
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High=Class Caterers
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
(’Phone—Office, 3559;
Cafe, 1876 ; Catering:, 4250).
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St.
(’Phone, City 1344).
A MOUSTACHE would IITPROVE YOU
fill out your features and give character to your face.
ffe guarant.ee you a handsome moustache if you have the least sign of
down on your lip.
CAPILLARINE is a genuine moustache producer and strengthener.
A little rubbed on each night is all that is required.
Price 10/6, Post Free, sent to Any Address in the World.
Craig & Aitken, 654 George St,, Sydney*
Established 30 Years.
5
n
SAND SHOES.
Adult sizes, 9d. ; Children’s, (id.
Do You see that
ASBESTOS SOCK ?
Asbesto-Plims DO NOT DRAW THE
FEET, and this is the reason.
THE ASBJSSTO-PLIM is furnished with, an Asbestos
Sock, vulcanised on so that it cannot get .out of place.
Asbestos is a perfect insulator, and used as a sock
prevents the heat from external influences striking
through to the foot, thus reducing perspiration to a minimum
and greatly increasing the comfort.
>' i
That, unpleasant and even painful burning-sensation, usually referred teas “ drawing the feet,” complained
of by \vearers of the ordinary pliinsoll and other rubber-soled shoes, has always been a drawback in the rubber
shoe trade. Every retailer knows that many buyers of plimsolls, Especially of children’s sizes, have grave niis-
o-ivings about doing,so, while a vetv great number will not purchase rubber shoes of this description at all,
because of this complaint. The cause of all the trouble we have now successfully overcome. Allay
the fears of your friends by recommending
NOVELTY RUBBER CO.’s ASBESTO-PUMS
which from $ hygienic point of view have nothing bpt advantages.
IT IS THE ONLY RUBBER SHOE ON THE MARKET \pTH AN ASBESTOS SOCK.
We cut these insoles to fit any size shoes—a boon to those who suffer from
tender feet. Men’s, 1/6; Women’s, 1/3 per pair. Postage Free.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NOVELTY ROBBER CO.,
SOLE AGENTS.
250 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
Write for Catalogue “ B,” posted free.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund's Blue Anchor Line).
LONDON .. f 0
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 13s. Co £3l 10s.
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by this Steamer.
k? 7 7N 7 D THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
aoV^ n „^; s P p OVER tickets INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ARERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Svdnev.
Aoknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
HI William-street.
Adrlaidk & FRRMANTIiK Agents : GEO. WILLS & 00.
ORIENT LINE
Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA ENGL AN D.
OTRANTO
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMRAH
OPHIR
ORMUZ
Sailing' every fortnight from BRISBANE, SVDNEY-
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
l2 Martin Black, Sydnky.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The
Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700.000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
.1. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sfs.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
r NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)aui Zealand.
r SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up .. .. £° 000 000
Uncalled Capital ./ " £500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
on Australia, New Zea-
— land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland,, and other places.
GRANTS DRAFTS
transacts all other usual
at Interest for
- fixed periods, and
Banking l busings.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
THE
Australian gank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000.000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets,
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street
Sydney.
, E.C.
DIR ECTOR®-- Philip H. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Flon
Sir Frances B. Suttor, Kt., M.L.0.; Ciiarlks H. Mna
Esq. ; \»QWLAND H. Ditokbr, E<q. ; Sir William p’
Manning, Kt. ; Gkorgk J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth and
iNew Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
■ V A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ...
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital ..
£1,500,000 0 0
1,380,000 0 0
... . 1,500,000 0 0
£4,380,000 0 0
DIRECTORS: ‘V.
George J Cohen. Esq Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Eater, M.L.C Deputv-Chairman
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. OnslowThlS ™q'
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson Esq
General Manager :T. A. Dibbs. ’
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector •
H. H. Massik.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. .Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
W. C. B. Tilky, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S. Littleton •
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £513,632 0 0
Reserve Liability’of Shareholders .. 16 9 449 o 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) ” 74,’500 ft 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
£750,581 O' 0
E - H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street London
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. £ C ’
Agents and Correspoiidems throughout the World.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. • W O
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.) - Hon W
H. Wood, ALL. A. ; E. Owkn Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
T BY
Word Deutscher Lloyd.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
Gondon, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Shipping.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
FOUR • WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to-
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
T H SeriS 7 IV. ET V IN v f 0S J ad C e fK D S-N,w
Tcn - 5d - I '”“' d « d
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. Plymouth, and.
London..
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
* Twjii Screw, a One class only.
FARES- Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .; .. From £57 .. £l6 Os Co £2O Os.
Oape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & 0. Branch Service.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
• SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
'9FHIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the hio-hest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailine.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Aerents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
September 2.
MEDIC, 12.000 tons, to sail about
September 28.
AFRIC, SUEVIC and PERSIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling App u atus.
Only One Class of Accommodation*
FARES— Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 S Oi
London ... .. 19 0 0 to 39 0 0
N'ew Vork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne 1 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application. l
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
WINTER TOURS i
N
to Papua and the Pacific Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Sept. 23, Nov. 4 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Sept. 9, Oct. 21 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
J^t RNS : P ” ,LP &CO ’ Ltd > ll Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT-INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
ADVANrFS n T SItS " p to / 500 - NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
‘lands 66 “ P 25 ’°°° at modeiate rates of interest, on city or
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT -CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER ?i YEARS
Office ° n apphCation t 0 Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
—— J* H. DAVIES, Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Paid-up Capital -
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
Established 1817.
£2,500,000
£1,750,000
£2,500,000
£6,750,000
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, lit., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. Reginald James
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Black,
M.LC.
Head Office—George™ mer ' Esq.
With 305 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand* Fiji t BPO ?2 St) EC ‘
throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe India’China i,™ ts and . Correspondents
United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies P ’ the EaSt> Africa ' Cariada . the
Cjble remittances nia.de to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign nhees DTRFCT • D -,,
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued a " d
J- BUSSELL FRENCH. General .Manager.
Insurance, &c.
The Colonial {|)utual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Lite Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without^!! tual Liability.
Hhad Offick :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring- £33,888 510
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chikf Offick for Nkw South Wauks :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hon. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruck Smith, K.C., M.P.
A- ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000,
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks..
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on W 001, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
Rates Very Low.
of various classes.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
Hotels, &c.
FOSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
family hotel of
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO,
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,,
Victorian and Quasnsland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping an Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERAT.DTON (W.A.)
BRISBANE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
Anri Ports Nor*h to Oairns. -
S.S. Ivanowna, Sept. 17
(To Fremantle without
• transhipment).
1 S.S. Allinjra, Sept. 17.
I S.S. Gran tala, Sept. -4.
J S.S. Yong-ala, Oct. 1.
Best and Cheapest Route to Go/dfieirfs,
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on Yi
services subject to conditions, ,vhich can he ascertained
on application at the Company's Office.
G. S„ YUILL & CO.. LTD.,
Airents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RE D ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to anv part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER,
t Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Laundry on board.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F.— H.
Federal>Houlder»Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “ SOMERSET,”
4 '? ,ls ‘ B- G. Hayward Oomniandei
Will be despatched from BRISBANE about 2nd Wept.
” »» .. SYDNEY .. 7th Sept!.
*• .. MELBOURNE „ 10th Sept.
>• >. ■> ADELAIDE ~ 14th Sept.
The saloon accommodation consists of all t\VO-berth.
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of'
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main/
iifn ® h bP s > w ' fc h dining room on the upper deck-
Wbn lighted aaid ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions l
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
7 Saloon. " ' Third Class.
LONDON and \
LIVERPOOL., l £49 10s - LT3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 179.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea evtra
To be followed at regular four-weekly in'teivnls by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., S.vdtiev and Brisbane-
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart:
Fr e DFR R^?TTLr^ C ?7 AC ? A i iN 4 & Co " Md., Melbourne;
T & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
T HE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPAN 1C LIMITED
nAT»m.T t, * l2 Collina-et., Melbourne,
RESERVE " £90,000 0 0
RESERVE * UND(lnvested m Debentures
Stock, and First .. £3(j 000 0 0
Dirkctors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Griee Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; J. H.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander JPCracken.
JAMES BORROW .MAN, Manager.
FKEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
"PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
£be
Brifisihfliistralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians,
and published by Australians in
written
London.
Price 6d
HOST FREE, je I per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visitthe Reading Room where files
or all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the LitiTiSH-AusTKALAsrAN during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on fyl 1 topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied bv the paper.
r ° J ees ' A patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.C.


i v .
IS
*
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by tlifi N.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and \ ictonn. Thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Uiainary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Goal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
What Ball-Bearings are to the Cyclist,
Ball-Pointed Pens are to the Writer!
they S° easy, glide over the surface of the paper without sticking or
spurting, and make writing a pleasure. You write on a ball instead of
on a sharp jagging point —that makes the difference !
Ball - Pointed Pens
are sold by Stationers in 6d. Assorted Sample Boxes.
You’ll be pleased with them. Buy a Sample Box.
MarK Foy’s Ltd.
SYDNEY
No. 1024.—“ Dinna
Forget ” Charm,
gold, 5/6.
WE PAY
CARRIAGE
ON ALL
THESE
GOODS.
No. 1130— Gold
Heart Pendant,
pearl set, 10/-
?a
No. 1148—9 ct. Gold Band Bangle, 22/6 ; others 25/- &30/-
“The Home of Good Values.”
m
No. 1080—9 ct. Gold Crescent and Star Brooch, 15/6.
No. 1034 —L'nks —
Silver, 2/6; Gold, 10/6.
SEND CASH
with ORDER.
We Buy for
Cash and Sell
for Cash.
No. 1046 Sapphire
and Diamond Dress
Ring, 15ct. Gold, 25/-
Obhers to 50/-
No. 1047— Betrothal
Ring, olivine and
diamonds, £6/10/-
9ct. Gold Wishbone and
Comet Brooch, pearl set, 10/-
Other Designs to 17/6.
S. SMITH & SON’S (Ltd.)
WORLD-RENOWNED WATCHES.
Ladies’ Lever Watches,
in Solid Silver Cases,
£1 10 0
In Iron Clad Cases, £1
HI
S'
m
Ladies’ Lever Watches,
in fin'! Gold Cases,
£3 15 0
In Half-Hunting 18ct. Gold
Cases, £5 5 0
si yyuinuuciu iu
H.M. The King.
Write for
New
Illustrated
Catalogues.
Watches, Clocks,
Jewellery,
Speed Indicators,
separate volumes.
Special Terms
to Shippers.
The “ Charing X, ” All-English Lever,
fully Jewelled, in Silver Case, £2.
S.SMITH R SONS
"THE CHPRING*
The “ Trafalgar All-English Lever,
in Iron Clad Case, £l.
THE “STRAND” ALL-ENGLISH GENTS’ LEYER, in massive 18ct. Gold Cases
best quality obtainable. Crystal, £l3 15s. Full or Half Hunters, £l6 16s.
Watchmakers to the Admiralty, 0 STRAND, LONDON,
THE BRAKE ON YOUR BICYCLE
«no less important than the Free Wheel. The perfection of both
Brake and Free Wheel will be obtained if you decide upon having
your bicycle fitted with the latest improved
Eadie Coaster Hub.
The demand for these Hubs is simply enormous and has greatly increased
since they have been made at the famous B.S.A. Works. The badie
Coaster Hub is now practically perfect, it can be fitted to any
bicycle by any dealer at short notice, and no bicycle can be considered
fully equipped for the road that is not fitted with this device.
For absolute luxury the cyclist can go one better by having
his bicycle fitted with the
Eadie Two-speed Coaster.
This is fhe only combination of two speeds, free wheel and brake in
one hub, that has satisfactorily passed the test of time. Write for a
B.S.A. Handbook and read all about these goods and where they
are made. Post free from —
D- Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
S Stock Exchange Building, Melbourne.
u
ft
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern (Si Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
66 TO ®
m
&
XJ? 5
»
/HI
a
'Wi
3<x?o«
You will find far greater pleasure in spending your spare hours
at home if you have a “Bijou” table in the dining-room.
This table is specially designed for home use—it contains all the
merits of our standard tables, with the advantage of being readily
convertible into a dining-table by means of a simple adjustment of
leaves.
It is fitted with slate bed, fast-running cushions, covered with
superfine billiard cloth, beautifully made and nicely finished.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
Alcock & Co.
397 George St., Sydney. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Murray St., Perth.^ 4
Aa
WOOL
It costs us a lot
more to sell you a pair
of stockings than the
money you pay for them.
But we know that once you have worn
you will want again. They are so comfort-
able —warm in winter, cool in summer, more than all,
you will realise the distinct gain in having hnshrinkable hose.
And never shrinks —never becomes too small.
Men’s Socks and Stockings, Ladies' and Children's Stockings and Babies’ Socks.
In all prices and colours. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores.
If your dealer does not stock JfaAOlC he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty -write for "Jason" Booklet and name of nearest Agent, to
Aa2 Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England. <i>


IN BANANA LAND
Queensland took a Bible-in-schools refer-
endum last April, and on a rather small vote the
Scripture had a majority. So far, the Tory
Kidston-Philp Government has taken no notice
of the decision ; hence this amazing roar last week
, Tvn y . r ci i
by irarson Dili M.icky, of Sydney:
Rome is attached to the Labor party. . . . We cannot
attach ourselves to Labor while the Labor party is con-
trolled by Rome. Rome does control Labor. In Queens-
land, in spite of a majority of 17,000 at the referendum,
we cannot get the Bible into the State schools. The
Labor council notwithstanding this majority, opposed
the carrying of the Bible into the schoo s. ... It teas
Rome and Rome alone prevented'the Bible from qettinq
into the schools of Victoria and Queensland.
Truly, for unscrupulousness and plain depravity
the political parson is something of a record. The
Labor party —the alleged party of Rome-has
never managed to secure anything like a majority
in either Queensland or Victoria. Yet when the
Tory majority—said to stand for sturdy Protest-
antism-keeps the Bible out of the State schools,
the Dills of this country have the brazen effrontery
to charge that offence against the Labor minority.
The case is one in which it is impossible for the
average man to assume anything else than pre-
meditated lying, slander and bearing of false
witness—the things that the Bible alleges to lead
to Hell. Yet the parsonical conscience is so
warped that it is not only possible for individuals
who circulate that kind of stuff to remain in holy
orders, but other parsons associate with them,
eat with them, drink with them, shake hands
with them, and don’t even begin to realise the
disgust that the whole dirty business creates in
the minds of deeent men.
Clancy’s “Ad.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bushman, age 35, wishes to meet bright girl, view to
matrimony. K 25, this office. —Brisbane Paper.
A BUSHMAN calls in the Press to-day
For a girl who’ll love him truly,
For a wench who’ll care for his heart alway
And live for a dear one duly ;
He’s sick of the bush and the shearing push.
He’s full of the jumbuck’s antic.
And he hurls a curse at the foolish verse
Of the new bush-school romantic.
He’s shorn his sheep on the slow Barcoo
And eke on the Diamantina,
And now he is out on the win and woo
For a trim-built Liz or Lena;
His tucker bag and his ancient swag
He’ll s'ing to the depths of Hades,
The while he glows with a myriad throes
In a dream of lovely ladies.
He’ll drove no more as he did one time
His cattle a-down the Flinders ;
He has left the Downs and the droughty clime
And the plains of dust and cinders ;
With a new tie-pin and a shaven chin
He searches the morning journal,
And indites an “ ad.” .with a fervor glad
That hints of a love eternal.
He’ll boil no more in the even-glow
His billycan black and lonely ;
For his heart yearns now for a homely, show
And a maid that loves him only ;
lie dreams of curls and of teeth like pearls
That part in a smile bewitch in’,
Of ankles neat and dainty feet
That trip in a cosy kitchen.
The girls he’d met in the burning West,
They were all too free and frisky
To move the heart in a sturdy breast
That recoiled from love-ways risky ;
He seeks a maid not old and staid,
But honest and frank and brightsome.
Who will keep her hub. from the street and pub.
With a fetching smile and lightsome.
No more his cheque, as the cheques one-time,
He’ll melt in the old way mulish ;
No more he’ll graft through a year of grime
For the sake of “benders” foolish ;
He has turned his back on the well-known track
For a lonely bushman’s fancy,
For the cosy cot, and a true man’s lot.
And the girl who weds with Clancy.
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, August 27, 1910.
Mt Dear Thargomindah,—
On two days last week the National Council of
Women gathered itself into its new rooms and
chased reform schemes through two whole fore-
noons, as well as for two hours on Wednesday
night. One comely dame charged the Premier
with fierce and disrespectful language to the depu-
tation that demanded the clanging of a Curfew in
the early hours of the night, for the protection of
the young. Another grievance ventilated was
that members could not recall the dates
of the quarterly meetings unless they were
specially notified ; whereupon the sec. arose and
reminded the gatheringthat members had received,
at the commencement of the year, a card with the
dates writ large thereon, and they could all have
easily pinned the document upon their mirrors
where they would have been sure to see it.
One elderly young thing replied in indignant
tones that National Council women did not
always have time to look into their- mirrors.
(Derisive laughter—how r women know women !)
Mrs. Kingsbury, who takes Mrs. Joey Bell’s
place as president this year, cannot at all events
claim to do without the mirror’s help, as her hats
are of a variety that need skilful adjusting. She
makes a powerful chairlady, and speaks with a
tear in her voice that is most appealing.
QUITE DEAD.
GERTIE: “But are they
sure the poor fellow’s
dead? ”
BERTIE : “ Oh, yes, quite.
His name’s Me 'lavish,
and they sear died his.
pockets, and he didn’t
move.”
„ , , . , .
VT PI f aS ? f ° rwa [ d a P acka f of Hpologies to Miss
Mackintosh, whose record as tennis champion of
female Queensland I passed over last week. The
credit of beating the N.S.W. captain, Mrs.
Wolstenholme, fell, however, to Miss M. Thnrlow,
i . ’ .’ , c ... ,1 v ■, cat-
f bo f. subsequent defeat at the hands of Miss
Mackintosh was of the honorable order.
The “just out ” estimates in connection with
.. a.. . ,> . Q •
the State Public Service have about them a dis-
tinct aroma of rodent. 1 hey disclose a rise in
salary and the added honor of assistant Under-
ec‘ to Chief-Accountant Gall, of the Home De-
gart™enV and something pleasant for Under-
?. eC- ,^ ow e f s °? tb ? br ? asur y- ®ut Brennan, the
tblrd leg of wbat b S s been look « d U P™ 111 some
? uarte ? as an unhoiy trinity, gets nothing. And
here the wb,ff 18 n.J»tice«vble_; for Brennan raises
n .° v< ? lce °* complaint a silence that suggests
that be ma y bave "& eived a b,nt of tbe earl -Y
of Income-Tax Commissioner Hughes,
and of his own fitness for the footcovenngs.
A recent returnee firqm tlie fogs is young Lange
Powell, whose architectural knowledge made J.
Bull sit up and take notice. This young man,
who will shortly dangle his sign from a conveni-
ent window, brings a lean qastof countenance and
soulful dark eyes, togethek with elegantly-cut
clothes, to bear upon the local person who
desires an ancestral home dr a new town hall,
Powell, jun., was hung, so to speak, upon the
exclusive walls of the Royal Academy, and
generally commended for his perspectives. He
also had pushed at him a request to draw an idea
for a town hall for the historical town of Khar-
toum ; so he should not need the assistance of a
Jinnee to blow a client in at the window. He is
a real Brisbaneite, who, having learned his work
in this city, afterwards spent three years in the
Old World to absorb notions.
Our Government House Vision has been bear-
ing a weight of woe that must have nearly reduced
her to calling up an ambulance. This week she
sat through a fete at the Seamen’s Mission, a
National Council meeting, and the hardy annual
of the Young Women’s Christian Association.
Her only let-up, as our Yankee cousins say, was
a glimpse of “ The Brass Bottle ” under the wings
of Mr. and Mrs. Robin Dods ; and this probably
saved her reason.
Harking back to the National she-Council, a
delegate from the south side opened up a bad
state of things in her report upon benevolent
work. It seems that, young as Brisbane is, it is
no unusual thing for two men, three women and
13 children to live in an area unfit for the proper
housing of six people and a cat. Hard squeezing
does not make for good citizens, unless it is girl
citizen (and that’s a different kind of squeezing),
and the City Inspecter or the Overseer of Hygiene
is being urged to cast a disapproving eye on the
evil.
Mrs. H. M. Hicks is busy packing up her best
Bombazine and her Chanticleer motor bonnet.
and labelling the same for the land of cakes and
whuskev, where she will foregather with daughter
Winnie and son-in-law McLaugnlan.
The clan Macgregor paid a surprise visit on
Tuesday last to the Chelmsford Institute, where
the chieftain, armed to the teeth with microscopes
and the like, took medical bearings of the com-
mittee’s efforts, and left behind him much valu-
able opinion. With the coming of hot weather,
the little depbt will start afresh upon its battle
against infant mortality.
The latest engagement announced is that of
Miss Greta Baynes, second daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Harry Baynes, and Mr. Macdonald, son of
Mr. P. F. Macdonald. (Pa Macdonald it was who
sold Cullineringo to the ill-fated Wills, who was
killed with a large party while on his way to the
property.) Miss Greta is a dainty maiden, and
already popular in the “ inner” of local Sassiety.
Pretty Kate Willcocks, daughter of the mining
man, wedded her Dr. Geoffrey Lucas in the parish
church of Past Paston (Eng.) on July 18. The
robe was of ivory satin, with pearls and crystals;
and Miss Jessie Clark, of this city, was one of the
four satin-gowned maids. Some diamonds of
worth were included in the parental offerings.
. Died on August 26, “old Tom” Petrie, after a
life of close on 80 years in Queensland. T.P.
claimed to be the oldest white resident of this
State ; also he claimed to be the only white man
who was ever admitted to the freemasonry of the
aborigines. He was put through the mysterious
Bora ceremony in the early ’4o's, as John Allan,
one of the last of the race, and himself a well-
educated man, affirms. Andrew, father of Tom,
was a nature-lover and an intrepid explorer. ?md,
among other deeds, discovered the Mary Raver.
It was Andrew Petrie who rescued Durramboi, the
escaped convict, after many years spent with the
blacks. Young Tom, as he was then, took after
his dad in the matter of exploration, and his investi-
gations led to the finding of the Bunya pine. He
talked the tongue of many of the tribes in the
Moreton district, and his reminiscences, edited by
daughter Constance, will remain the text book of
native history and customs, as well as a fine record
of the early days. The old man, who until about
two years since was hale., and 'hearty, 'had been
seriously ill for five months. He passed peace-
fully out, with his family round him, and was
laid to rest with his son and daughter (Mrs.
Armour), in the North Pine Cemetery, close to
the homestead he loved. His venerable wife sur-
vives, as well as five daughters. Among a host of
connections is the member for Toombul, Andrew
Petrie, the off-side Government Whip. The old
man was his uncle.
Another old identity to take the.long road this
week was Mr. A. W. Chambers, of the firm of
Chambers, McNab and McNab, who had been
rounding up Costs in Queensland since 1875.
Deceased was at one time a teacher in the Bris-
bane Grammar School, and was one of the trustees
of the Public Library.
It transpires that the warships Challenger and
Prometheus did not leave our waters when they
disappeared from the Gardens reach, but steamed
from the sight of men and women owing to an
outbreak of measles and mumps among the crew.
Those whose heads are not too swelled, or are not
too spotted, are indulging in a little gun-practice.
Yours affectionately, Mario.
The Kidston Ministry is greasing the fat
pig this year. Civil servants with salaries of
£7OO and £BOO are getting rises of £5O and
£lOO, while the rank and file climb slowly through
the regular grades of routine promotion. Queens-
land may live to see Philp proposing a vote of
want of confidence in Kidston on account of the
latter’s extravagance.
The Kid-Philp Government is moving to
amend the Standing Orders with a view to
compelling members to boil down their speeches.
The orations on the Address-in-Reply are specially
singled out; but it would simplify matters to
abolish the useless Address altogether. Naturally
the two most enthusiastic barrackers for boiling-
down are Kidston and Lesina. Kidston’s
Opposition speeches on the Address rarely lasted
less than three hours, while Lesina usually
occupied two hours with his mere oratorical
preliminaries.
At Mount Elliott a beer strike has been
declared in an endeavor to force the local publicans
to reduce the price from Is. a time to 6d. a mug,
pot or vessel. A few days ago a combined meet-
ing of navvies, miners, grafters and indignant
citizens was held, at which the following resolu-
tion was unanimously passed :
No drink will be drunk till furl her orders. Blokes are
warned not to come to Mount Elliott while the strike is
on.
So far there has not been a deserter from the
strikers’ ranks, and Mr. Public House is leaning
against his verandah listening to the beer going
flat and the spiders spinning mosquito nets round
the bottle containing the well-known Outback
brand, two drinks of,which, as the Yankee ganger
said, “would make a jack-rabbit sit tip and spit
in a bulldog’s face.”
Bananaland thinks of doing things to its
antiquated jury system. A measure now before
Parliament proposes to abolish the old property
qualification and make every man of good charac-
ter who happens to be between 21 and 60 years of
age eligible for service. An important feature of
the Bill is the recognition of majority verdicts in
criminal cases—capital charges excepted. It is
also proposed that in a civil case where a jury
cannot reach a majority verdict after a six hours’
struggle with the problem, it may be passed out to
get work and a fresh crowd sworn in to settle the
job. Altogether, the amending Bill appears
likely to bring the fossilised jury system of
Bananaland fairly up to date, so that it
can commence a useful career of horse sense.
Unfortunately thisidea.of dischargingthecivil jury
after six hours will involve a new hearing of the
case with much Costs. Why should not two or
three juries hear a case ? When the case is fin-
ished they could be locked up. If. after six hours,
jury No. 1 hadn’t come to a decision it could be
discharged and the matter referred to jury No. 2.
If it didn’t “ arrive ” in another six bouts it could
be thrown into the Street, arid the problem would
then be up to jury No. 3, and if that failed there
would either be a new trial or the matter would be
abandoned. Three juries of seven men each would
only require 21 jurors, which isn’t an extraordinary
number, and by compressing three trials into one
,a great amount of time, worry and Costs would be
saved.
Starting the day well.
A FTER a night's rest the first thing one wishes to do is to rinse
the mouth. The “ nasty flat taste ”on waking is due to an
excessive development of
bacteria in the mouth during
sleep, and the rinsing should
therefore be done with Odol,
the famous liquid antiseptic
dentifrice. “ Prevention is
better than cure,” and it is
before retiring to rest, there-
fore, that the precaution
should be taken of rinsing
the mouth with Odol, and
clearingifitj of every particle
of food, fo? iti is during the
night when the damage is
done —when . the microbes
gathered there, attracted by
these food particles, set up
fermentation and decom-
position processes, which, if
not counteracted, are sure
to end in the destruction of
the teeth.
a regular evening
Mix a few drops of Odol with water;
rinsing with Odor will induce such a delightful feeling of cleanliness
and comfort in the mouth that a real beauty sleep is the natural
result.
Odol keeps the mouth
free from all impurities,
and the teeth absolutely
proof against decay,
destroying all existing
germs and effectually
preventing others from
taking their place.
Tooth-powders and
tooth-pastes can never
safeguard the teeth
from decay, for the
simple reason that the
parts which are most
liable to attack, the
backs of the molars
and the fissures and
interstices of the teeth
—the very parts where
the microbes live and
thrive—are not puri-
fied, because they can-
rinse, and then brush the teeth
with it in the ordinary way;
not be reached by such things as powders and pastes.
The complete disinfection of the mouth and teeth resulting
from the use of Odol is due to a remarkable property which
this and no other preparation possesses, which being absorbed
by the surface of the mucous ineml>raue, and forcing itself into
the hollows of the teeth, deposits a stbre of antiseptic matter whose
purifying action continues
for some hours.
It • is this lasting effect,
this precious and trans-
cendent quality, that gives
to daily users of Odol the
absolute assurance that
their mouths are per-
manently protected against
the ravages of the tooth-
destroying microbes.
It follows that everyone
who daily and regularly
uses Odol will practise the
most perfect hygiene of
the mouth and teeth that
scientific discovery has up
to the present time made
possible.
Those who find the
“ Standard Flavor” of
Odol somewhat too strong
and pungent for their liking
conclude by gargling with the mixture.
should try the “ Sweet Rose Flavor,” which is particularly suitable
for ladies and children. The special Odol properties are the
same in both.


.X
t
'•• ■■■ ■
■
m
\
.■ v ,; '-
r-'::
¥/ . /
■■■:•>•
■/ / J
■
/
f
;
2-
i4m
mm
* )
.
isOn
% ::
'W. C\ l
vF-JW* w
.
/
-mm
m
/
mi
■M
‘H:
■'■ 3
• •
ffSi
n
!
"m
s mm
w
m m i
®S§S
m
>tm l I
• ?
Biwsai
*'w.a
■ Ajfia
J
Vfe Jlo.N.
COME TO QUEENSLAND.
The wonderland of the North, with
its manifold delights and unique
charm, calls equally and irresistibly
the pleasure-seeßer as well as jaded,
overworked mankind.
Only five days from Sydney.
For Combined Rail and Steamer Fares apply Railway Stations.


Slight Red Eruption Grew to be
Terrible —Sleepless Nights and
Restless Days Made Life a Burden
—Was Completely Discouraged.
CUTICURA CURED AFTER
16 YEARS OF SUFFERING
“For sixteen long years I have been
suffering with r. had case cf skin dis-
ease. While a child
there broke out a red
sore on the legs just
in back of my knees,
caused by a tight, col-
ored garter. At first
it seemed to be a
slight affair but grad-
ually it waxed from
bad to worse, and at
last I saw I had a bad
skin disease. I tried
many house remedies
and also many widely
known doctors in dif-
ferent cities but to no satisfactory result.
The plague bothered me more in warm
weather than in winter and being on my
leg joints it made it impossible for me
to walk, and I was forced to stay indoors
in the warmest weather.
“My hopes of recovery were by this
time spent. Sleepless nights ana rest-
less days made life an unbearable bur-
den. At last I was advised to try the
Cuticura Remedies and I did not need
more than a trial to convince me that
1 was on the road of success this time.
I bought two sets of the Cuticura Rem-
edies (Cuticura Soap, Ointment and
Pills) and after these were gone I was
a different man entirely. The Cuticura
Remedies certainly did a great deal for
me, as it changed my wholo career from
bad to good. I am now the happiest
man that there is at least one true cure
for skin diseases. Leonard A. Hawtof,
II Nostrand Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y.,
U. S. A., July 30 and Aug. 8, 1909.”
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
Cuticura is the most econonr'c n l treat-
ment known for torturing, disfiguring
affections of the skin, scalp and hair of
infants, children and adults. A single
tablet of Cuticura Soap and box of Cuti-
cura Ointment are often sufficient to cure.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London, 27,
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 10, Rue de la Chaussee
d’Antin; Au- tralia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney; India,
B. K. Paul, Calcutta: So. Africa, Lennon, Ltd., Cape
Town, etc.; U. S. A., Potter Drug & Chem. Corp.,
Sole Props., Boston.
IKS* Post-free, 32-page book," How to Cure the Skin.”
how “ANTINEURAS THIN ”
REMEDIES NERVOUS BREAKDOWN.
It is, in the first place, essentially a food—not a mere
drug: stimulant. It is a food that feeds the whole of the
nervous system with those elements the lack of which in
the structural tissues constitutes the neurasthenic con-
dition. It is so easily assimilated that in one hour it is
fully assimilated, thus creating- quickly a renewed mental
and physical vigor. This is not mere stimulation ; hut is
really the sensati ;n produced by the actual assimilation
and storage of those refined elements necessary to nerve
comfort and vigor. This uplifting is not—as in the case
of tonics and stimulants—a mere transient whipping up,
but an actual addition to the nerve-structure and nerve-
strength of the individual. Readers of Thk Bullktin are
invited to test “ Antineurasthin,” as also to read the
wo helpfully-informing pamphlets enclosed with the trial
supply of “ Antineurasthin,” which can be obtained by
sending your name and address (together with stamps or
postal notes for Is.) to the Wholesale Distributor for Aus
tralia and New Zealand, H. A. GODDARD, Eagle Street
Brisbane.
A HARMLESS
REDUCER.
FAT
WHY haven’t you tried to reduce your
fat ? Surely you are not simple enough
to imagine that your condition is an
ordination of Providence, and you’ll
stay fat “because it’s my nature.” It isn’t your
nature. .It isn’t a blessing in disguise—it’s a
disease —and a bad one. Your life and future are
in as much peril as if you were rubbing shoulders
with many virulent diseases. Every day the
papers tell you of death from obese hearts. Listen
to reason, and don’t calmly await your turn.
“FATCURE”
is a safe, harmless fat reducer that wi ll take off
your excess weight, even by us much as five
pounds in a week. I)o us the justice to investi-
gate our claims. Do yourself the justice of
ipjssing no opportunity that assures relief- from
poss'ble disaster to your health and happiness.
Given the opportunity, we can convince you
apd make a patient of you. Once a patient,
success is certain.
Send a 2d. stamp for Free Trial Sample of
“ Fatcure’' and free descriptive book on obesity.
Call for Free Advice. [606
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
When is Duty a Pleasure ?
When one needs an
Aperient and takes
LAXATINE.
Is.
All Chemists and Storekeepers.
Manufactured by the Laxatine
Co. Ltd., Budapest, Hungary.
A LAXATIVE
AS A LOZENGE.
1s
[2
i
GOOD DIGESTION
QUICKLY RETURNS
—and good health follows naturally
when you restore your digestive
organs to healthful working order.
Mother Seigel’s Syrup, the world-
famed tonic—made of roots, barks
and leaves—tones up and strengthens
the stomach and other organs of
digestion. Thus it gives relish for
food and the power to digest it.
Further, it makes food nourish you,
WHEN YOU TAKE
THE DIGESTIVE TONIC
and clears away the poisonous pro-
ducts of indigestion—the fruitful
cause of pains after eating, head-
aches, brain-fag biliousness, consti-
pation. "As a reliable, safe and
effective family remedy for indi-
gestion, there is nothing in all
Australia to equal Mother Seigel’s
Syrup.”—W. Cregan, Morse Street,
The Valley, Brisbane, Queensland.
January 28, 1910.
salts
SYRUP
«ss»
FLIT
L-REDDOT-W#
TE-FLITE- Hi
WH
MOTTIFIte
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CHT?SYDNEY
AND ALL STATES <3.
The Edison
Amberola
Phono graph
THE AMBEROLA is the latest
Edison Phonograph. It has
the perfection of tone and
mechanism characteristic of all
Edison instruments, and, in addi-
tion, a case that is a masterpiece
of the cabinet-maker’s art. It can
be had in several finishes of Oak or
Mahogany to harmonise with the
furniture of any drawing-room or
music-room.
The price of the Amberola is
£45. Any Edison dealer can
supply you. If you do not know
the address of one, send us a post-
card and we will tell you that of the
nearest. Write to-day.
Watch for details of Edison Grand
Opera Amberol Records which are
to arrive shortly.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia,
Ltd.,
Dept. B, Kent Street, Sydney.
DR. Me LAUGH LIN’S
ELECTRIC BELT
is fully described in our grand illustrated
Free Book. . . . This Book tells
how Weakness, lassitude, Toss of Power,
Nervousness, Weak Back, Insomnia, Indi-
gestion, Dyspepsia, Sour Stomach. Diabetes,
Constipation, Skin and Blood Diseases,
Kidney and Liver Troubles, Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Lumbago. Varicocele and Rupture
are cured to stay cured. . . . Write for
Book to-day. and it will be sent you Free
and Postage Paid by return mail.
THE MCLAUGHLIN CO,
12 Linden Court, Sydney.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache —a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
' A HUGE SUCCESS!'
BIRDSflrp
kC-USTARaJP-/ A
Bird’s
Custard gftSniit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
QREME LA FRANCE
lie
Aii Exquisite Lotion and
Cosmetic for Beautifying
and giving Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion, Neck and
Arms —is most bene-
ficial to the skin
when showing a
I tendency to be-
| come thin, flabby
and discolored.
It softens a hard,
dry skin, and is
perfectly harmless to
the most delicate skin.
Price 2/6, Posted 3/-
Obtainable only from
MADAME LEICH, Hair and
Skin Specialist and Ladies'
Hairdresser, 23 The Block Arcade, COLLINB BTREET
ENTRANCE. MELBOURNE.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRIS'S |
hree Witches
CJJIARETTCS
iuintr
6° for 10
London Made
HIGHEST GRADE.
6s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, sydney.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
iVo notice (except of a hostile character) will be. talcen of
communications insufficiently stamped. Xante and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Jerong: Thanks; we’ve been hammering at
that for a long while, and we haven’t finished yet
D.R.M. . Prefer A, but couldn’t give you any convincing
reasons for it... C.W.E. : Well, the other man wrote
from Broome about Broome,.and you write about it from
Warrnambool. So we guess we’ll let the other man’s
yarn stand.... A.E. V/. : All true, no doubt; but the
Commonwealth Government must know what it can do
with its unrefined sugar before it puts up a mill here
and another there .. Darcy: You’ve just built a family
nest on high ground, facing the sea, and you want an
appropriate native-Australian name for it. We aren’t
doing any business. When that kind of demand is made
the objectionable humorist rushes in, and you generally
end by getting a poetic-sounding name which proves
some day to be Hottentot for tripe or bonedust....
Rest; There is none for you in these columns Bom-
7m; iiV" l snt " A Thought”—it’s a spasm E.M.
(VVoollahra): It lacks novelty, and you haven’t put it
into verse very skilfully. .H.E.W. (V.) : The poem that be-
gins I dreamt last night, I know not why,” is invariably
an infuriating production, because it starts out with
straws in its hair and no definite intentions. “ Loves of
Yesterday” and “Elves” are both of the same hazv,
moonstruck order, and are unfit to be at large. ..Cynicus ;
It bears a terrible resemblance to the sort of “ humorous ”
recitation selected by the average young woman reciter...
Roy: “ A Winter’s Night ” is a gusty, cheerless produc-
tion, full of blue ruin, ghouls, hovels, lunatics, devils and
drink. Find a ruined homestead or a disused candle
factory and moan round it ...G.K. (V.): Your note:
“ The following is written as a true state of affairs now
existing, composed according to my judgment (poor) in
such a manner as I hope will meet with approval, en-
couragement and your sympathy.” Have looked at both
poems, including the one containing the appeal: “ O
lend, dear sir, your sympathetic eye.” You have our
sympathy ; but we can’t afford to give you any encourage-
ment. Will not charge you for the loan of our sympa-
thetic eye this time.... R.T. W. : We print your strongly
teetotal poem with pleasure :
Trickle, Trickle, Trickle, Cristal Water pure
Sparkling, rippling Eddying forever Runing shure
Beads of Sparkling Silver musically Whispering too
The Mossy banks as You Go Onward hurrying through.
Purest Cristal water. Filtered through Mountains Grand
Flowing through Verdant Valleys O’, r Undunating Land.
Winding- twining Onward to join Your parent Stream
Slowly Shurly Creeping Your Cristal waters Gleam.
...Toni Long: Right. Weacquit Web., and admit “ pendu-
lates ” as a word of good character, though Web. in his very
latest edition does stow it into a footnote among the rare
and doubtfuls... .Ignorant: The N.T. is at present S. Aus-
tralian territory ; that is, S. Aus. has to provide the
money to administer and develop it. And as S. Aus.
has its hands otherwise full, it isn’t developing the
N.T. worth tuppence. This non-development is a
menace to all Australia ; and that’s, broadly, why it is
proposed that the Commonwealth of Australia should
take the place of the little State of S. Aus. in the matter.
Grif: If it was essentially your stuff it will have been
credited to you, and will be paid for on being claimed.
... .Sheila Mac: One is smart but not sweet; the other’s
insipid. Par may d 0.... Sehrahe : No, not for desertion
alone. For the rest, you had better consult a lawyer....
Eohuca : It is a fairly uneven rhyme, and the idea was
used some months ago by another writer... Bellerive :
“The Two Brothers ” cost us fourpence, or tuppence per
brother:
THE TWO BROTHERS.
A disgarded son in frenzy
Fiercely drew a knife
With which he did take
His aged father’s life
And while plundering near
His ghastly victim’s bed
There was a sharp report
And he toppled over dead
With a pistol stood a youth
With his back to the door
Wildly glaring at the slain
Outstretched on the floor.
'Twas the miscreant’s brother
Who had arrived too late
To save his father from
An horrid fate.
Cushla Ma Chree(S.A.): One isn’t poetry at all, and
the other is a poor sample of it Jud: Unsuitable.
The Grafter: “The Game” is a valueless trifle
The Nondescript: “Remorse” is the better of the two,
but even it has several uneven patches... F.M. (Sor-
rento, V.): It is very neatly written, but you should
have sent it to some paper with an Aunt Mary "or an Uncle
Joe. Our Uncle Joe was sacked years ago when it was
discovered that he was using the basement of the church
on off nights as a two-up academy G. VV. (Q.); It is
very sweet and tender, and its intentions are strictly
honorable, but we can’t use it. She said that site “ loved
the villain,” and you “ watched her sweet eyes glow,”
and that was the end of it. It is a purely personal
matter J.F.M. (V.): “A Romance of 1915” is neatly
rhymed, hut it misses by some two or three feet. The
other collapses utterly in the last verse wheri it warns
poets about bad smells. An Inspector of Nuisances
might appreciate it, but it makes no appeal here,
Tom J. (V.): The horse-poem about the outlaw and the
lad who rode him pig-roots and kicks in an alarming
manner. If we printed it, it would probably lash out
with its heels and fatally injure the item in the next
column Olutha: You have attended to the metre and
the rhymes fairly well, but there is still something want-
ing—the sense, perhaps. This is a fair sample of the
poem as it stands:
I came to learn, the book lies idly by,
My thoughts now vague, indefinite this hour ;
Had thought to gain the rise of all most high,
A feudal lord mid power a greater power.
Nook Nook: Bee story has humorous possibilities;
but isn’t handled with sufficient skill Gordon T.
(N.S.W.): “ The Angel’s Message ” will not be delivered
through these columns. . ..W.S. (YV.A.) : Will look at the
marine rhyme and “Villun” again. Other unsuitable.
V.J. : The poem has a few gleams ; but you’ve
fashioned it very crudely R.C.L.H. : “ Wander-Spell ”
is weak stuff. “ ’Tis luring more and more me” is a truly
awful example of language torture Meliora : “The
Wowser ” was taken in hand on arrival by the Religious
Editor, who enticed him with tales of sin to the overhead
gangway beneath which are the immense wastepaper
tanks. We need say no more,.. .S.McK. (Tas.) : “ Yass-
berra” is an infernally dry poem; but it managed to
trickle as far as the wicker receptacle L. K. (V.): You
are the champion long-distance rhymer. Take a deep
breath and read these two lines over to yourself:
Not less at any time dead Love I think of you ; but some-
thing in the simple little message touched my heart
to-day
Till I’m walking the city unknowing where it leads me,
unseeing things around one, for the things that lie
away.
Other poem is not quite so breathless, but has no value
whatever Boyd 0. : Regret cannot find any record of
“SundownerS.” When stamps are enclosed, the MS. is
simply returned without comment. Cannot undertake
to criticise manuscripts by letter. Yarns thusfar have
been judged unsuitable for various reasons... .C.V.E.
(V.): You mean well; but the poem is very terrible.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Jim : Terrible.. ..Cherry : Old idea, unrelieved by any
signs of wild genius in the drawing.... Wombat: Have
no special opinion of your work. It is just moderate—
ordinary or thereabouts... .T.E.G. : The
woman is a leering horror and the man is calculated to
cast a gloom over all the nations W.H. : Matheson
Lang was done before when the show was at Syd-
ney, and done better. The doctors wouldn’t arouse any
wild interest. You had one picturesque medico in Mel-
bourne for caricature purposes, but the unpara££eled
Smith is dead R.G.C., J.E.P., and Lennox: All the
gags are on the old-age pension list Fergus Something
Illegible :No good to us Bro : Drawings are hopeless.
Ajax : Quite right; we won’t print it.. ..H.W.C.,
Brown Hill, A.R.M., Spragg : Shot out.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
WMS
» V.A
THE
Ur
\Wi >
gUNYI P
KM : 1
YJ Fo REST D EVI L.
The Roots Must Come Out,
as well as the Trunk.
POsI 1 IVII.LY the hardest work the Farmer, Settler or Squatter is called upon to do is
grubbing. The old method of uprooting dry or green stumps and trees is now entirely
revolutionised by the introduction on the market of the most marvellous labor-saving
_ device for Farmers, etc., ever invented. It is called “The Bunyip Forest
Devil. I Ins particular Forest Devil is far superior to any other Forest Devil in the market,
m that it is the very essence of simplicity in adjusting and in manipulating. The most
admirable features of “ The Bnnyip Forest Devil” are that it is not only light in weight
and can be moved with the greatest ease from tree to tree, where it can be rapidly fixed and
adjusted, but it is absolutely certain to accomplish almost any task set to it.
t» Cre, * l «ndous strain which can be brought to bear with “The Bunyip Forest
Devil makes it absolutely imperative for the tree or stump to leave the ground entirely
roots and all, no matter how big the tree or stump, how long it has been growing, or how
nrmly it be rooted in the ground. ;
Many “land men,” once doubtful of the assertions claimed for it, are now loud in their
praises of the unbounded and entire satisfaction it has given in their case, and in many
instances they have paid for the cost of the machine in a very short while by hiring it to
their neighbors.
Convincing proof of its wonderful power and its durability, the quickness with which it
can be adjusted, the labor and money it saves, will be found in a special and attractive
catalogue Messrs. John Cooper & Sons, 287-289 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, have just issued.
Copies will be sent free to every enquirer, together with any other information required.
When writing, please mention this paper.
John Cooper 8 Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth Street (opp. St.
Francis’s Church), MELBOURNE.
BEAUTIES
CO/?/)
v
V
Do
r>!
A
Cy
C>
&
IS
*6X
01
XM
Co
IW. On'LY'
TYRE /
built on
/CIEIWIC
FRinCIPLE/
the
/ILVERTOWH
RUBBER C
Z 79 GEORGE / r
} .A'DHEY
OSTRICH PLUnES
FROM OUR FAMOUS TARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention Tub Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and
Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
Early Spring
r -* mm ■
Suitings.
WE have made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest productions in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to us.
We have received the first two consign-
ments, and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM § CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer's).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
vMMmmJ
&
0*350
■O
a*Q
€»
Si
Ok
fifth Yo.^MliSK.At
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
%
HEARNES
Bronchitis Cure
The Grandest Remedy in the World for
COUGHS & COLDS
ONE DOSE IS GENERALLY SUFFICIENT.
THOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at
its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, Difficulty
of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience
delightful and rapid relief; and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a
complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irrita-
tion in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice,
and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is
not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appear-
SMALL
SIZE:
2/6
ance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without
it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or
two is generally sufficient, and a com-
plete cure is certain.
LARGE
SIZE*
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE VENDORS, and
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
N-S.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney*
' ‘ v> .
I
mm
\WAHT
b \Ao Holder s\\o\x\d \>e \n\W\o\x\: \\. \ sex\\L r ox\ request
us
V
mien
Li
15=17 Market Street, Sydney
Milk Food No. 1
From birth to 3 months.
Milk Food No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
A progressive dietary adapted to the growing digestive powers.
Malted Food No. 3
From 7 months upwards.


A Hair Stain Second to None—
Andrew McGee’s Celebrated Hair Stain
is an unequalled preparation for speedily restoring: grrey and faded tresses to a
natural brown or black. Simple to apply—harmless and permanent. Will
neither wash nor rub off, nor discolor linen.
Prices, 4/6 and 8/6 a bottle, posted 9d. extra N.S.W.; 1/2 Inter-State.
McGEE’S MOUSTACHE DYE, 3/- a bottle, posted free N.S.W.; Inter-State, 3/2.
1
ANDREW McGEE
GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSER,
5 and 7 Castlereag'h Street, corner Hunter Street, Sydney.
An Effective Cure for
RHEUMATISM.
.naammmmßmmmmmmmmmmammmmaammmmmmmmmmMMMEZ
That’s our Medical Battery. It re-
lieves the agonising pains of all forms
of Rheumatism, and, if persistently
used, will effect a permanent cure.
Whenever electricity is required,
the Medical Battery will give abun-
dant satisfaction. Can be made very
strong or very weak. Good for all
nervous disorders.
Cures
RHEUMATISM,
LUMBAGO,
SCIATICA,
and all
NERVOUS
TROUBLES.
PRICE-
Post
Free.
JORDAN’S
393 QEORQE STREET,
OPTICIANS and ELECTRICIANS,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
Money Back if
Unsatisfactory.
(Formerly OSBORN 8 JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
SYDNEY.
POLKEY MOTOR LAMPS
ALL BRITISH.
ACETYLENE and ELECTRIC.
Supplied from stock. Write for Catalogue.
SCHEELE S GIBBES, 2 Hunter Street, Sydney. Te c it r
•• AWL-YOU-WANT."
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags. Belts,* Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sew*
2S. Posted.
(Awl. 2 needles,
x reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
1 Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
is the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one's pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sevdng Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Need.es are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed. Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 3 steel needles—i bent, i straight—r reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post free. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post tree. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d..
post free ; 2 for yd., set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO , 228 Coltins Street, Melbourne.
S~ JACOBS
OIL
RHEUMATISM
• and Bodily Aches and Pains.
Of all Chemists and Stores
<6.
THIS IS THE RAZOR
that we, as practicsJ. hstlnSrrasers,can jfTmajmmtee to give
vou a perfect, dwtm and (canai'fojtabJ® skutwt ©very day
In the year—THE PLUM, Piles 10/6, post free any-
where—with the keen shavuug edge that-requires little
stropping* and is AIAVAYS satisfactory- We will keep
THB PLUM in good .orAeir Lor two year# free ©f charge.
Price 10/6
Post Free to
any Country.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Strongr Case, 10/8
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6,
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving: Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning: Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITREN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established .30 Years.
■ XT!/?
Mmfj
*+%>
St
&T.
w
?.
\n
«J
*>»VA
\v«y:i
o.,',v:**v
j{fl”.V.vVV/|y.
%%#i
}?sv>
<;/•:;
Vi?*-
4v
LS
'j//?
\V
;rs
A'?
4?4<
CiS'i
•4*l
!£f<
<=
i*j»
V*.v
m!
15
3&r :
cvy:
m
Wr.f.
ire
«-w,
• V
-3£*V
jAVs
.;»■
i\s
/.ir
*c
• «*«
VijSssP
,xi4*
M
■«;
tli&
&
8®
U
Ss&
/ivS
>ss
•U!'
Mv
83
K>*
Vi
v.v
*•*«•«
;•;:»%
r,t.<
&
♦ M
ft.
.If
rfl)
,**A
*<a*
-sK
er
More than
One Half of the
World’s Trade
in Harvesting
Machinery has for
years been held by
“Deering” and“McCor-
mick” Binders.
They are sold in every
country of the globe where
harvesting machines are used,
and Every day of the 365 large
numbers of them are harvesting
grain somewhere.
No other machines for any purpose have ever achieved and held
such wonderful popularity.
The owner of any Binder may have a good machine, but the owner
of a “Deering” or “McCormick” knows that his machine has been pro-
nounced the best by a majority of the world’s farmers.
Are you with the majority?
GEO. WILLS & CO., Perth,
General Agents for W.A. (Deering)
WM. SANDOVER & CO., Perth,
General Agents for W.A. (McCormick)
International Harvester Company oi America
(Incorporated)
200 Roma St, Brisbane; 37 Broadway, Sydney; 545 Bourke St,
Melbourne; 17 Bank St, Adelaide; 75 York St, Launceston.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, Hobart,
General Agent for
Southern Tasmania. (308)


Even Foster F raser could see this surface
truth :
influence is always strongest where the
R^?Jk atl ° nis /^ eatest > asin Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
risbane and Perth, the Governments have converged
*v!l al ' Wa j lnes on ose places to the disadvantage of
others, and crippling of business. At certain periods
there is a great rush of wool, live sheep and mutton,
instead of having various exits for export, the aim is to
force all goods out of one door. So there is congestion,
delay, damage and loss. Yet few coasts in the world
haye such magnificent natural harbors.
Php extract is from his book on Australia.
Gordon Ingli# : The squalor and poverty
and starvation and death in this Freetrade
London is appalling to the Australian from the
clean, wide spaces. It frightens a man to think of
the thousands of these human beings crawling
through the long years like half-starved animals—
hungry, ill-clothed, from the first morning when,
as infants, they roll out of the rag-bed, to the last
when they are bundled into a pauper’s
coffin. The uncontradicted statement was made
the other day that 400,000 people in London were
living in one-roomed tenements, and of these
40,000 were crowded five in a room, and 8000
seven in a room. The main result of it all is the
murder df the children. An analysis of the death-
rate in the Big Smoke reveals the fact that in the
richer parts of the city 18 per 1000 of the children
die before reaching the age of one year, while
in the middle-class districts 28 per 1000 die
under that age, and in working-class localities 54
per 1000 die or are murdered.
“The Waybacks Again.”
Another
stack of
joy and laughter about the famous family.
Is.
m
A)
391
c?
PRIZES Value £2250
IN THE
8-HOUR
ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 29,1910.
Ist Prize, value £5OO.
3rd Prize, value £lOO.
2nd Prize, value £250.
And 297 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. J. Sawd.v, Warner
Avenue, North Bondi, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 3.
To anv person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from JOHN TRAVERS Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
*
FOOD
is soothing and satisfying. It contains all the elements
of a natural food in a condition suitable for immediate
absorption. t
When milk alone is heavy and unsatisfying, Bengers rood
made with milk, is appetising and nutritive.
Benger’s Food should be used for healthy development in
infancy, for rebuilding strength in weakened systems, and for the
preservation of old age in usefulness and vigour.
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, AND THE AGED .
The British Medical Journal says Benger's Food has. by its excellence , established a reputation of its own.
BENGER S FOOD, LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, Eng.
Pood is sold in tins fiv Dru&ists, etc., everywhere. Bga
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED.-—
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street^^ydney^
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow f etc., pnd
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Prooeeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
A
• COAGULINE,’ ‘KLINX,’ I TENASITINE’
Cements for breakages, •manufffcttirinjr purposes, etc.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles. Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE SPRAY WATER PISTOL.
Durable, Reliable and Perfectly Safe.
Will stop the most vicious
dog or man without
permanent injury. In-
valuable for cyclists, un-
escorted ladies, cashiers,
night-watchmen, homes,
etc. Has more effect on
beggars and tramps than
a watch-dog. Reloading
unlimited. It creates great amusement for young
and old Length 5 inches, nickel-plated and nicely
ornamented. Price 1/6 post-free anywhere.
THE “JOKER” TRICK MATCHBOX.
The box can be filled with matches, and then closed,
and, to the amazement of your friends, upon re-
opening the box, the matches have completely dis-
appeared. A great joke on cadgers, who, upon
begging a match, are shown the empty box, and the
next moment, if the owner chooses, he may help
himself to a match from the same box. Strongly
made of polished nickel, and can be carried in the
vest pocket. Price, with full directions, 7d. post free.
NICKEL-PLATED CHANCE PURSE.
Beautifully chased, and guaranteed to wear white
throughout. Will hold any of the coins, as illus-
trated 7 and will also take sovereigns and half-
sovereigns in the 1/- and 6d. compartments, and
uennies and half-pennies in the 2/6 and 2/- com-
partments. Split ring attached for affixing to watch
or key chain. Price, post free anywhere, 1/2.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Hay market, SYDNEY.
NO.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
Postal Address: B?x 3, Haymarlcet Post Office.
No. 1 Branch : 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney. _
2 Branch s 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
%
'A
<00; |
fralUimirWtojft
m
'•wunxiW in l *?
A
A little of
Old
ORknev
tbe Real Liqueur Scotch,
is better tban a lot of an
inferior wbisKy. Our en-
tire output is reserved for
this, our own brand,wbicb
we guarantee for its qua-
lity, age, and flavour.
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London.
Proprietors o! Stromness Distillery,
Orkney, Scotland.
Agents :
MELBOURNE— T. R. .Tones & Co., 366 Bourke Street
BRISBANE— EIIiott, Donaldson & Douglas Ltd.,
108-110 Eagle Street.
ADELAIDE—Lord & Heseltine, 90 Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON—John McKenzie & Co.
HOBART—John Ferguson & Co.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Mmums
England, 6d. How tqGet Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
ls 9 d All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Ausr. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. ’Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, Ss 9d posted. . Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, lls. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford) 9d- The Art of Jiu : Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, (id. , Britain for the
British, 6d. : How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is,2d: New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d, Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen- Elizabeth, Is 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No_ man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with.the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easjt, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s ed.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other’Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. 25 1 cclts.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of, the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
INGKRSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Crevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book’ over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100, New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking anp Repairing, Is 2d. I)\na*
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
pete). is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).


Our
Special
Snaps
DOMOULINS’ D.8.8.L. GUN,
12-gauge, top lever, 30in. real twist barrels,
choke, side clips, square Greener cross bolt,
highly engraved, pistol grip, walnut stock]
weight about 71b., patent fore-end. POST FREE,
£4 4s.
ISAAC HOLLIS S SONS’ " THE RELIABLE ” D.8.8.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top lever, bar action, 30in. real twist or steel
barrels, Greener cross bolt, both choke, rebounding locks, ,
snap fore-end, chambered for 2fin. cartridges, weight from 7£ to 7£lb. Guaranteed
for all Smokeless Powders, half-pistol grip, walnut stock. /Oe gW
DELIVERED, ou '
“WINCHESTER/* Single Shot, 1902 Model,
22 Cal. Kim Fire, peep or V sights, scroll
trigger guard, steel heel plate, .
weight 2glb. 18Sw O CS m
We can supply the 1902 Model Kifle, fitted with sporting ladder rear sight
at 20s. Postage—ls. 6d., N.S.W.; 2s. Bd., Inter-State.
Send for Our
ILLUSTRATED
SPORTS,
FISHING and
TOBACCO
LISTS, FREE.
BAYARD SEMI-AUTOMATIC RIFLE,
22 cal., 19in. Round Steel Barrel, length over .all
38|in., weight 3flb., handles short, long
or long rifle cartridges, Qo»
Postage—ls. 6d., N.S.W. ; 2s. Bd., Inter-State.
MICK SIMMONS.
Head Depot, HAYMARRET, SYDNEY, N. S. W.
Branches Hunter Street, Newcastle ; 273 Darling Street, Balmain ;
197 Oxford Street, Sydney; Church Street, Parramatta ; 113 King Street, Newtown.
[4
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancv. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U S A.
“RICHARDSON”
CHICAGO
WOOL,
Grain, Hides, Furskins,
Fat Stock or Store Stock
WILL BRING GOOD PRICES ALWAYS
WHEN THE SALE IS ENTRUSTED TO
New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY
Small Lots and Large Lots receive the same careful attention.
[2
DISTINCTION IN DRESS
No dress looks so rich and feels so soft and silky as one of Louis
Velveteen or Chiffon Vel-Duvet. Its lines are graceful and
flowing, and for Pile, Lustre, and
Brilliancy, it is unsurpassed. It is famed
for its exquisite Colours and won’t crush
EN
jMallj)rapers throughout the World. Manufacturers 57. Newton St., Manchester, Eng.
The Association ol Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
Fine Gem Ring, Real
Pearl, Sapphire,Ruby,
and Six Diamonds.
£6 15s.
Single Stone Brilliant,
£l7 15s.
First quality Diamonds,
£45. Other sizes
from £5 ss.
,Fine Amethyst and
Diamond Ring,£&Bs.
Cable Address: RUSPOLI, LONDON.
2 Sapphires, 1 Ruby arid
Diamonds ; 2 Emeralds
and Diamonds ; 3 Pearls
and Diamonds ; 2 Emer-
alds and Diamonds; 2
Sapphires, 1 Ruby and
Diamonds, £5 ss.
Ruby and Sapphire, sur-
rounded by Brilliants,
£lO 10s.
18-carat R'ng, Rubies or
Sapphires & Diamonds,
£3 15s
Rubies or Sapphires
and Diamonds, £8 Bs.
All Double Cut Bril-
liants, £l2 12s.
YOU GAN BUY FROM ENGLAND.
Pay your Duty and purchase
Cheaper and Better than you
are now doing. Write for
Catalogue containing 6,000
Illustrations, Post Free to
any part of the world.
4 Brilliants, with 3
Rubies or Sapphires,
£3 15s.
Fine Ring,
£2 15s.
6, Grand Hotel Buildings, London, W.C.
The British & Colonial Aeroplane
Company, Limited.
Directors.
SIR GEORGE WHITE. BART.
SAMUEL WHITE, J P.
G. STANLEY WHITE.
Bankers—THU BANK OF ENGLAND.
Builders of the British
£OQIRC Aeroplanes
KJ)
“Zodiac” Biplanes
50/60 h.p. - - Price £l,OOO.
0 xn/o
<Ur ers*
‘‘Zodiac” Monoplanes
25/30 h.p. - - Price £5OO.
Terms —One-third with order, balance before delivery.
Delivered F.O B any port in Great Britain in one month from receipt of order.
Write for Catalogue and full particulars.
Offices and Works - - BRISTOL, ENG.
Flying Ground - SALISBURY PLAIN (W.D.)
Telegrams: "AVIATION. BRISTOL.” Codes—A i, A.8.C., and MOREING.
LAIT LAROLA
Invaluable:
for fhe SKIN
In HOT
orCOLD
climafes.
Removes all
IRRITATION
andTAN.
Lait
aro
Reg?,
Sole
Makers
M.BEETHAM & SON,
CHELTENHAM,ENGLAND.
COOLS AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
Gives a
Perfect
[OHM
Soft
Velvet.
VERY SOOTHING AFTER SHAVING
LAIT LAROLA
I \ WISH:
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both*
“Montserrat”
:: :: Sauce
die basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT" LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
jisk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
Send in your Application
NOW.
Absolutely FREE
r^ipioN
(Drawn from Photo)
“ The
Champion
Senior
Phonograph
List Price,
£6/10/-.
exactly as illustrated, which is listed at and Guarant
for 5 years.
How can we afford to give away these expensive
machines without charge ? The explanation is a
simple one. We hold and control enormous
. stocks of Records. Now, we propose to give
you the Phonograph to create an increased demand for our Records. Do you see our reason Now ?
We will send one of our “ Champion Senior *' Phonographs Free of any charge
whatever to any respectable and approved person applying if you agree to give a practical de-
monstration among your friends and comply with the conditions we send in response to
your application, in respect to the distributing of our Circulars and Price Lists, and
the use of our Records. &c. Full particulars of our method of Free Distribution sent
to each applicant. Write at once to
Anglo-Australian Importing Co.,
Opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY, New South Wales.
A FREE PHONOGRAPH
FOR—YOU!
Owing to the enormously increased demand for our Records
as the result of our last Distribution of Free Phono*
graphs, we have decided to GIVE AWAY a further
ONE THOUSAND PHONOGRAPHS FREE.
You may choose the machine you prefer from our various
styles, including our latest and best,
“ The Champion Senior,”
No. 2
CUT THIS OUT
and Hail to the
AN GLO-AUSTRALIAN
IHPORTING CO, SYDNEY
I hereby make application for
fall particulars of vour FREE
PHONOGRAPH DISTRIBUTION as
advertised by your Company.
Name
Street
Town State


*
t
%
The Best for Children,
and Grown Folß too.
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY has won the
confidence of the parents and the love of the child-
ren by its wonderful curative effect upon the throat,
chest, and lungs. Children are particularly susceptible
to coughs and colds, and the medicine which always
cures and protects them from all dangers is the one the
mothers recognise as best.
It is a wise mother who prepares for trouble in time of
peace. She places Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery on the
shelf, and rests secure against all winter dangers. Know-
ing well she has the remedy which will protect her
little ones against the vicissitudes of cold weather.
“DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY
SAVED MY LITTLE BOY’S LIFE,”
"My little boy Fred was taken very bad with Bronchitis. !t certainly was
j bad ca , e> and nothing that I could give him seemed to do him any good,’’
writes Mrs. Eliz. Graham, 115 Union St, Spring Mill, Q “The doctor
ordered him to the hospital, but the doctors there could not cure him, and
we thought we were going to lose him. We brought him home again
A friend recommended Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery, and that saved my
child's life . 1 got a large bottle of New Discovery, and it helped him at
once, and before the bottle was used up he was entirely cured. At the same
time my other little boy had a very bad cold, and 1 tried Dr Sheldon s New
Discovery for him, and it cured him quickly. 1 consider it a splendid remedy
for children, and will always use it and recommend it.”
DsSheldons
New Discovery
OUGHS
AND
OM)S
Price,
1/6 and 3/•
Obtainable
everywhere
Buyers of
HORROCKSES’
LONGCLOTHS and
MADAPOLAMS
GRAND PRIZE
FRANCO - BRITISH
EXHIBITION, 1908
G. & G. 603
have a guarantee if HORROCKSES’
name is on the Selvedges, that they
are getting the very best that the
Old Country Produces.
Decline all Substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
DEMONSTR ATO R ACENTSWANTE D
Immense field open for Detroit Oil Engines. New invention permits operating
on ordinary .lamp oil. No heating device required. Stationary Engines for
farms, shops, and all power purposes. Electric lighting outfits. Pumps and Pumping
outfits. Sawing outfits. Marine Engines forboatsandMarineßeverseGears. Sizes 2-n.p. I
to 100-h.p. One to eight cylinders. Enginesfully warranted and built to work. Liberal I
commissions paid. Special wholesale price on first outfit in a community. Handsome ly (
finished demonstrator engine at no extra cost. Complete Illustrated Catalog mailed
FREE. Write for our proposition to agents and users of power. Bank references given.
Detroit Engine Works, 15 Meldrum Avenue, Detroit, Michigan, lI.S. A. d
i
The Speechless Lady.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fortunately the weather was fine at the time, and the
broken-down liner Salazie, having a good offing, was clear
of immediate danger. Signals of distress were made, and
these were answered on Monday morning by the steamer
Karoola. The captain of the Karoola offered to tow the
disabled vessel into port. The sum mentioned for sal-
vage, £4OOO, was not entertained by the mailboat’s
officers, and the Karoola’s Captain was asked to report
the disabled steamer to the owners. Daily paper.
The liner she’s a lady and you’ll never see her beg,
Unless she stumbles on the sea and breaks her
shapely leg ;
Then it’s blue lights and “Murder!” and it’s
“ Help me up !” and “ Oh !
Do tell that common working-boat a lady wants a
tow ! ”
Tiie common working-boat comes up and smokes
right in her face ;
He never shows the least respect—he doesn’t
know his place ;
He doesn’t say how glad he is assistance to afford ;
But gruffly quotes the price at which he’ll pass a
line on board.
The liner she’s a lady and her ways are lady’s
ways;
She draws herself up on a sea : “ No thanks, my
man,” she says;
“ Report me to the owners.” Then the working-
boat looks glum
And kicks himself to Sydney with a surly
“Orright, mum.”
A nasty gale springs up as soon as he is out of
sight;
The injured lady has to hold her hat on all the
night;
And frequently the ocean winds that round her
wildly blow
Hear such remarks as this : “Oh dear ! Why
did I let him go ?”
The ocean is a dismal place for ladies who can’t
walk
And who are still unable with a “wireless”
tongue to talk ;
Tis useless then to loudly ask : “ Why did I ever
rove
Without the wherewithal to call my husband
from Farm Cove?
“The other ocean ladies who are sitting round
the Quay
With heaps of ca»-go in their laps, could they but
talk to me
And I with them, I would not feel so terribly
afraid ;
Also, some civil ship would now be steaming to
my aid.
“ But here I am. I’m drifting fast, and cannot
send one word
To warn the family at home ! ’Tis horrid and
absurd !
I hope that surly working-boat won’t be delayed
by fog,
Or stop to see another boat about an old sea'
dog ! ”
The liner is a thoroughbred and doesn’t lose her
grip
Upon her nerves or wind-blown hat ; as for her
sister ship
She shudders lonely on the sea with her poor
broken leg—
As speechless as a drunkard and as helpless as a
keg.
A long, long time elapses ere the sisters heave in
sight;
There’s a tow-line and much fussing and hysteri-
cal delight!
She’s taken gently homeward, for she’s had a
nasty shock,
And needs some skilled attention by the doctors
at the dock.
Oh, slowly, slowly up the coast they bring poor,
injured Sal.
Unto the engine surgeons in the Harbor Hos-
pital ;
And when the sympathising ships along the
wharves she nears
She says: “Yes, safe at last —but only pretty
well, my dears ! ”
The liner is a lady and she speaks the tongue of
Morse;
Her siren is contralto and with it she loudly roars;
But far beyond the range of lamps and mighty
siren, too,
The crackling spark of “ wireless ” gets the urgent
message through.
N.S.W.
E. O’F.
The Way Back.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
OUTWARD BOUND the unknown
miles are stretched by imagination into
leagues—by that same imagination which
makes journeys ever new—which makes the buck-
ling of the last strap the beginning of the dis-
covery of a new heaven and a new earth. But
over the homeward track all has become known,
and the leagues dwindle to furlongs in the half
contempt that comes with the full understanding
of the happenings experienced. The horse travels
better; high on his cantering back you blow the
blue tobacco smoke into the still air ; the miles
uncoil themselves out of the plain and race back
to the forgotten horizons ; and if, in addition to
all being known, there have been profits, no
travelling can make you weary.
I broke camp,one morning long before daylight
—unwillingly enough because the saddle-horse
and a pack-horse, not knowing that which the
day might bring forth, and hating it for their own
ignorance, had broken back a dozen times. But
,at Mast we were clicking through saltbush and
swishing through tussocks of kangaroo grass in
that fresh morning under a wind-loosened moon;
ibr the moon itself seemed to drift, and not the
restless clouds.
Copper was £lO5 per ton. Men who had been
tailing bullocks all their lives and were now
copper gougers were full of the new hope. They
spoke disrespectfully of all quadrupeds, and talked
of selling 50ft. of copper claim to some English
bloke for “ millyuns ” or thousands.
The sun rose suddenly and derisively and made
the new hope more brilliant. Yet were the miles
all their length because we were outward bound
and the next water was unknown.
Through saltbush and pigweed to spinifex we
went, and then to the base of a hundred water-
worn cliffs of quartzite pincushioned by old man
spinifex, growing from base to summit, their roots
clinging to the rock-joints despairingly, as a
shipwrecked man breaks his nails climbing away
from the sea. White gums outlined a dry creek,
and from the shoulder of a cliff hawks suddenly
sprang into the blue, marking the camp, over
which they soared, for spoil. Such interest made
the miles suddenly shorter.
And then, with the usual formula which de-
ceives nobody, the green prospector said : “We’ve
got the mine—found her yesterday. Money can’t
buy her. We’d turn down the Rothschilds.” But
I could come and see it if I liked, and thus the
buyer begins the long ride to El Dorado and finds
quartz as white as a hound’s tooth. The way
back with another hope gone is better than the
way out with the hope alive. For a man, though
he loves to stray, loves more to come home again.
One day a nigger, hatless, but wearing trousers,
told us of “ big feller copper.” It was near a
“ tchtigar bag,” he said, and we struck a bargain.
He was to have the honey he had himself found,
and we were to have the copper he had also found
in return for the honey which was already his
own.
Half-way out we cross-examined him as to the
possibility of others discovering the new Rio Tinto.
He assured us it was impossible. The “ big feller
copper” was safe, as he had covered it with his
hat. And when we got there it was true enough.
The “big feller copper” was just that size.
Meantime the merry savage cut the “tchugar
bag”outofa coolibah, eating the stingless bees
and their honey and the comb all altogether ; spit-
ting out dead bees, wax and bits of wood, and
reeking with honey from chin to flank.
There was a man on the field about that time
who had the “New Hope” so badly that dis-
appointment hipped him. He went everywhere
—across country, over rocks and through gorges,
jumping down hills with an old buggy tied up
with fencing wire and drawn by two long-tailed,
long-maned, splay-footed horses whose hoofs
tripped them because they had never known a
pedicurist. He drove at an eight-mile gait
through a sea of spear-grass wither high. That
was the road out; and if there were the shadow
of an occasion to peg a claim, he drove back to
the warden at the same pace. But if it were just
a disappointment, the long-haired horses crawled
drearily.
I mind the last night before the return journey
east and south on one of my northern trips. I
started across country to see a claim too late in
the afternoon. The moon was a late riser and I
found myself on trackless country in the dark. I
found the bed of a big dry creek and a waterhole,
hobbled the horse and turned him out to feed ;
and as 1 had no tucker, I wished that man’s ability
to eat grass had survived with his caecum. Where
there’s nothing to eat, go to sleep. I had a belly-
ful of water, and made a bed with leaves and
grass and the saddle-cloth, with the saddle for a
pillow, and slept. Moonrise awoke me—the light
and the dingo that came to drink. A dingo bitch
was playing fantastically with two pups in the
moonlight, and howling to cover at the slightest
suspicion of a man. My own horse was clinking
his hobbles as he hopped to the water, where he
drank noisily and fouled the pool in his careless-
ness. Then came the brumbies, as delicate as my
civilised horse was slovenly, and very careful to
keep the water from pollution. In the moonlight
they looked the perfection of form ; their fleetness
at the first alarm bore out their appearance.
Maybe they were of the get of that chestnut
stallion who took to the bush from Kamilaroy.
Many men have tried to capture him —men on
swift horses too ; yet when pursuers are pressing
him at top speed, he lets himself out a little and
leaves them all. His foals are bred to brumby
dams, and yet are models. Or they may be de-
scended from that other stallion who was branded
and immediately escaped into the thick gidyea
scrub, where none could follow him.
Let us come to tjie dry river bed. Great um-
belliferous plants, carrying blue flowers like lark-
spurs, scented the flat rocky lengths of the smaller
creek that fed the pool, mingling their perfume
with the smell of the pink broom. My work was
done, and the 2500-mile run home was about to
begin, the long track east and south opening
through scrub and defile and over the long grassy
sea. And that time I was sorry to take the way
back; to leave the long distances of green and
gray, of spinifex and saltbush, of red earth and
yellow grass. For I got the truth that time, and
the truth is this —that it doesn’t matter where a
man’s going so long as he’s going somewhere. It
is being quiet that Trills iron.
Pichi Richi Pass and Temple Bar stay in the
memory as gateways on the return tracks. Bo
also does the Gorge, with its gossan-red cliffs
of quartzite and its beautifully-formed white
eucalypts, leaning over at an angle of 30 degrees
and making a triumphal arch to the liberties Ipe-
yond. There the big black dog, savage as a
panther, growls on his ramparts of clean-picked
bullock bones and tears up the dust in rage of his
chains.
And then, after many camps, one comes to the
world of fixed times and coaches—of baulky
horses, colicky and unbroken—and at last, by
stress and animal pain, to the railway that leads
to the sea.
Yet in those northern runs the distances are so
great that the change is gently broken. Tas-
mania is too small for that, and from Mount
Balfour to Burnie the transition is abrupt.
After the cold and the rain came the compensa-
tions —the flying coach and the galloping horses
through clear bright sunlight and fresh bright
elderberry and hawthorn and walnut; the long
road around the flanks of the hills ; the nodding
carpet of the dancing buttercup; the star of the
clematis and the gay green of the clover. With
the good knowledge of work done I stopped at
Wynyard for half a dozen hours and caught a fish
—sacrificing life with great joy—and then a pair
of; horses galloped with me 12 miles through soft
stiirlight to Burnie and asked only 65 minutes for
the passage. So down to the Ooiiah and out to
the Straits as the moon came to them, and some-
body played Schumann’s Serenade as a valedic-
tory bf the winking lights of Emu Bay.
The cold and the sleet and the slush of button
grass were here paid for with a' measure heaped
up and running over. The stars were forth. The
night wind trembled. There was not any sea.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


MIS
SUFFERED INTENSE
AGONY—DOCTOR
SAID OPERATION
WAS ONLY HOPE.
MR. J. O’Hanlon, of Tucker Street, Horseshoe Bend, Gympie (Q.),
says: • • For five long years I suffered from bleeding Piles, and
uimg this period both internal and
, ex e . 1 ’ an d also consulted a doctor. The so-called remedies,
ever, ai ed to bring me relief, and the doctor strongly advised me
o undergo an operation, assuring me that I should not get rid of the
. \, es unl ®f s * k a <i them cut out. I was suffering great agony; intense
amnia ion had set in; sitting down was out of the question; and I
was rapidly becoming incapacitated for work.
, * turn ing over in my mind what course next to adopt, when I
aimed to read of the wonderful eflicacy of Zam-Buk for Piles, and
id ** before making up my mind to undergo the operation
‘ vise y the doctor. The first application of Zam-Buk brought im-
e mte te lef, cooling and soothing the aching parts. 1 continued with
tue treatment, and gradually, but surely, the Piles went completely away.
ee a new man, and have not been troubled with the Files for the past
year, which proves conclusively that Zam-Buk entirely cured me of
this most dreaded trouble ”
I The home that always keeps a
pot of Zam-Buk handy is furnished
with a reliable remedy for any
SCALP SORES suddenly appearing'
among the children ; the obstinate
PILES and BAD LECS of the
worker; festering and swelling
from BLOOD-POISONING; and any
burning, irritating sores which
are among the daily perils of this
season. Obtainable from all
chemists and stores at Is. 6d.
and 3s. 6d. per pot (contains
nearly four times the Is. 6d.), or
direot from the Zam-Buk Co.,
39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Egg
W‘.
DR. ANDREW WILSON,
the well-known medical writer
and author of “Homely Talks on
First-Aid," says “ Wherever
a pot of Zam-Buk is handy, this pre-
paration may be relied upon as an anti-
septic dressing which requires no prepara-
tion, and has the additional advantage of
possessing unique healing properties
Mr. O’Hanlon,
cured of Piles
by Zam - Buk
after five
years’ suffer*
ing.
A
COOLING
amßuk
SOOTHING . HEALING
Plasters
APPLY
Wherever there is Pain.
a*
Pains in the Back
Allcock's Plasters have no equal.
Strengthen Weak Backs
as nothing else can.
Pains in the Side
Allcock’s Plasters relieve promptly
and at the same time
strengthen side and restore energy.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, Indigestion, etc. Purely Vegetable.
Established 1763.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., BIRKENHEAD, ENG.
THE fICOOBPEON for Country Residents
K
I
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, ejctfra
largre bellows protected by steel corners; 2 sets’of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address iijTi.
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d. ;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/= . «
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
The Ships of Hobart Town.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I SING a song of ancient ships that lined the
Derwent side—
Of whalers sunk in long eclipse that were
Tasmania’s pride!
The old Loongana knew the track—methinks I
see her go;
The buried years come crowding back, and
bo’s’ns’ whistles blow.
Beside the placid Derwent stream were built the
aged bones
Of craft that sped with sails a-gleam (they sleep
with David Jones).
The Halley Bayley on the slips, her sides fresh-
streaked with brown ;
I sing a song of vanished ships—the ships of
Hobart Town !
Far down—
Aye, down the years they speed with cheers, the
ships of Hobart Town !
When old-time California called, they felled the
towering gums ;
Our fathers strong and ocean-thralled—l hear
their battle-drums !
I hear the mighty ring of steel, I see the clippers
So-
ill6 clippers staunch and fleet of heel that traded
to and fro !
From ’Frisco ere the days of steam, from Hobart
to Dundee ;
Where tramps to-day with sirens scream, they
faced the stubborn sea !
io-day upon the silent slips they slide no clippers
down ;
They’re dead and gone, the sturdy ships—the
ships of Hobart Town !
Her crown,
In days of old when men were bold—the ships of
Hobart Town !
From Hobart to the China Seas, Tasmanian-built
and manned—
They bore unto their islands’ quays the freights of
many a land,
De Graves and Clark and Kennedy—the ’thirties
saw them trail ;
The men who shaped the sundered tree and
hoisted yard and sail!
The sleeping hulks by Derwent side, forgotten
now and lone.
Could tell of old romance and pride, all vanished
and unknown !
McGregor, Ross j —the names of hefty men who
raised her crown ;
The city knew their splendid aims—the Men of
Hobart Town !
Fools frown—
But they were Men, who builded then the ships of
Hobart Town !
The shipyards dead and silent are, no clang of
hammered steel;
No sharpened axe that shapes the spar or builds
the rib and keel !
Of schooners of the bygone time—the shaping
hands are still ;
Our pioneers with faith sublime and strong, un-
swerving will!
The Men who built the trading craft that plied to
Britain s gates,
They hear no croon of steam and shaft, nor clang
of armor-plates !
ihey lie at rest beneath the sod, and fear no
Judgment-frown ;
They gave their offering to God—the ships of
Hobart Town !
No clown
bihaU jeer nor scoff at builders of the ships of
Hobart Town !
The Ancient Builders lie asleep, their splendid
work is done;
Their traders crossed the surging deep—their
freighted namesakes run !
The new Loongana’s turbines swing—she was not
builded here;
I hear no shipyard forges ring beside the Hobart
pier !
The Apple-steamers come and go—the ships of
Tyne and Clyde.
But no one hears a hammer-blow here by the
Derwent side.
Yet still across the ancient years a call comes
pealing down —
The ghosts of Pioneers build ghostly ships at
Hobart Town !
Canst drown
The song I hear of men who steer the ships of
Hobart Town ?
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
At Lake Tobowry.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
ALONG the coast are small lakes which
are bar-bound three parts of the time-
desolatestretchesof waterwhichtheblack
-„,., f . . , , .
' . re( Juent ,n the moulting season,
iNowand again a farmer takes up land there and
leads a more or less hermit-like existence, making
a bare living out of the soil and a bit of fishing”
He is handicapped in getting his produce to
y °
' ve • Boats do not call, because the entrance
to the lake is almost always closed ; and the water
backs up over his land till sometimes it almost
encroaches into the house. But he was far-seeing
when he erected his domicile, and took care to
, . , , K care to
erect it higher than the sand hummocks on the
beaches. He has a flat-bottomed punt to do his.
fishing in, but he only fishes for his own needs
These lakes are biding their time however’
. , , • ’ i
awaiting a country s development,
Bake lobowry is one of these, a splendid sheet
of water, beloved by fish and game: But you
rarely se.e other than settlers fishing there,
and seldom hear the crack of a gun. The fact is
~ , , , , , ’
the lake has been closed to tidal influences so
long that'k is filled with a long grass, and amid
this the fish lurk and find so much sustenance that
a bait would never tempt them. You may see a
settler hsul with Ms «ft, or »,* y.rfs of net;
»ut he will tell you that he gets scarcely any fish,
because the grass is too thick. The net slides
over the top of it, or else the fish swim up among
the trees, where, of course, he cannot haul. The
country is so wild and dense and the ground so
rough that sport is too precarious and too much
ihe hard work to tempt visitors, though you hear
t le wonga pigeon calling, and the pheasant is
sometimes noisy in the underbrush, and wood
duck and teal are always in evidence.
I he lake is pretty, but the ironbark bush frowns
about it, and is of such a dismal character that the
aboriginals invest it with all sorts of super-
nature. The blackfellow likes pleasant sur-
roundings, so he has no permanent camp
at Lake Tobowry. Rather, he makes his
home on the pleasant knoll at Ulladulla,
where he can see the blue of the ocean, and watch
the ships pass in the distance. But there comes
a time when the tribe packs up its blankets and
makes for Tobowry. It is feast time then,
for the water has burst its bounds and lee itself
out through the entrance into the ocean in a roar-
ing flood. And when the black brethren come
they stay for months, eating the fattest mud
oysters you ever saw, and catching the finest lake
fish you ever had the luck to eat. It is an old-
time custom this, to go to Lake Tobowry when
the heavy rains open it. The lake may be one of
the most dismal along the coast, but it also con-
tains the most fish and oysters, which are to be
got at when the lake has become tidal once again.
Fish that have fattened, among lush grasses,
oyster that have lain submerged for many years,
may be obtained for very little trouble. The fish
are stupid and easily caught; you may even rush
in the shallow passage when the sand at the bar
first gives way, and catch them with your hands,
and carry them ashore.
It seems that the fish of the lake are eager to
rush across the bar at the first opportunity. They
wait in shoals on the flat by the bar till the
channel is deep enough to negotiate, and then
they let themselves go, floundering and rolling
down in the crumbling sand to get the first
taste of ocean’s ozone after years of semi-fresh
water. Outside are other fish, looking lean and
clean and silvery, that are just as eager to get in
among the grasses of the lake. You may alwavs
tell the ocean fish from his lake cousin by his clean
and slender appearance, the lake fish being yellow
and fat and slimy.
The aborigines arrive in twos and threes, and
their first thought is to cut bark to make mi-mies
with. After that they strip the prickly leaf ti-
tree for soft bark to lie on. Then they eat, get-
ting the fish at the bar, wading into the water and
stooping under it to collect oysters. Some get the
heart of the cabbage tree for vegetable, find wild
bees’ nests for honey, and knock over a wonga
pigeon or a wood duck. It is their merriest time,
jest and laughter lasting all day long.
The curious part of it all is that the aborigines
have a dread of Lake Tobowry. Of all the
lakes along the coast this is most peopled with
supernature, and its shores are infested with
terrible creatures that you never see, but hear a
lot about. Every aborigine believes in spirits
and gooingarah (devils), but besides these there
are others. The cullalans, for instance. These
are women who live by diving for lobsters, and if
two of them manage to capture a handsome young
aboriginal they keep him for their husband. They
work in pairs, and one watches that he does not
escape while the other sleeps or goes away diving
for food. When you are caught you will have to
be pretty smart if you ever get away again, and
you get terribly tired df raw lobster. The
women of the tribe are no safer, for there is the
thooligal, a sort of old man of the woods, who will
follow up a young woman for miles. He bears
her away to his fastness among the rocks, and if
she does not die of fright she is served the same
way as the cullalans serve the young men. You
may sometimes come unexpectedly upon a thooli.
gal sitting by the sea, with a chaplet of kelp on
his head and his hair shining like the sun on
water. He is indeed a terrible monster, and
can only be driven away by incantations, which
none but a bangal (a blackfellow doctor) knows
how’ to say. Yet terrible and all as the thooligal
is, he is not half so fearful as the wallathegar,
which captures you to eat. He will even eat
the clever old men. He lives at the head of
the lake in a hollow tree, and his fingers have
talons on them like an eagle’s, and he can run
faster than any man, and the only way to escape
him is to cross as much water as you can, because
he does not like water, and never faces it unless
he is terribly hungry. This fellow is not to be
put off with incantations of any sort —his troubles
about what the wise old men say.
Telling all these tales, it is no wonder the black
brethren and sistern creep closer to the homely,
glowing embers of the camp fire, and cast appre-
hensive glances at the wall of blackness that is in
the rear. The well-known call of the bandicoot
takes on an uncanny sound, and causes you to
blanch ; and when a native bear snaps a twig it
makes you jump, and the call of the opossum sets
your blood running cold. When the perch rises
to the surface and gives its curious knock-like erv
you are ready to believe that it is a bunyip at
least. There are, indeed, terrible things about
Lake Tobowry, and while you talk you can feel
the burning eyes of the wallathegar blazing at
you from the dark trees behind the fire glow.
So-the days and nights pass in feasting while
the sun is up. and in telling awesome tales by the
fires at night. All the time the oysters become
less, and the fish become accustomed to thechange
of water and do not pass through the entrance so
frequently, and one family returns to Ulladulla,
where there is-more comfort and less-danger of
rheumatism, and others follow, and by-and-bye
Lake Tobowry is deserted again, except by the
few settlers; Some day the (royernment" will
awake to the importance of these lakes, and they
will make permanent entrances, and small
steamers may be able to go in and out and keep
schedule time, and townships will spring up, and
the few settlers will wake from a long sleep
and became real farmers. There will be no room
then for cullalans or thooligals, or even wallathe-
gars, and the,black people (if any exist) will look
back on the good old days of Lake Tobowry,
when flood time always meant feast time.
ROBET BROTHERS.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
Club Rum.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
M
a »ufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’s ‘FRUIT salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, preventeu a serious illness.
CAUTION. —Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT,'
i otherwise you haw the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO Ltd., FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
RTTTTT
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
"wnmi —iiiiir
MAGNESIA
*2
m
l*l
(to
r if wi *
m
Owing to its cleansing
action on the Kidneys
and other organs it is
a real Health tonic.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
1 >1 >n Ai.D Or, ARK. 600 plages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
1 '"HAri.T. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines, sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
J old Refining. Donald ©park. 12s. 6d.
Metrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
,N PREPARATION.
Collieries 6 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
*“• Danvkrs Powkr.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett. \
W M
%)
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending 1 all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your case
and I will advise you
Heffd. Chemist,
hy Examination
Clarendon Street, South Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I.’, 2/9 & 4/6
tf/tlcrcdf’ 41
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup. Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
s
BRANDAUER & Co.’s,
ircular Pointei
Pern
Ltd.
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works s Birmingham, England,
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE * BREAKSPEAR,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S OINTMENT.
'
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask .vom- chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. riO, Lambeth Road. Loudon, Eng,
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
/tß^\
all shapes
|/eACM POiT FREE 1/a
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
smrt£H£t'Pfßs& roßACcwisrs
SHOULD SEMD FOR OUR TRADE LIST
ASTHMACURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nerrouß.Cotighß,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by G KIM AULT A Go’s INDIAN CIGAK-
I'. "T/' f S, » 'i bv q.V Chtmint*.
In
48 hours.
Each
Capsule bears the name
wr-
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
Inconvenience
“ LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePort
Nature's Gift.
YAV?
fills this prescription. {
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle tips Wine,
thereby',' saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0, for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 7S PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.


Perdriau’s
Sporting Footwear.
Men’s White Canvas
Tennis Shoes, plain, or
with cap and strap,
solid leather insole,
stitched at toes and
heels, Jin. Best Bed
Rubber 8o!es, 12/6.
Men’s Tan Canvas Tennis Shoes, plain finish,
reliably made, with Jin. Best Red Rubber Soles,
11/6. Postage on Shoes, 9d. extra.
Perdriau Golf Boots, Tan Willow Calf or Best
Quality Black Box Calf, Derby Pattern ; Soles are
Rubber-studded, and the Boot is Leather-lined.
Price 30/-, Postage, 1/- extra.
Write for a copy of our Price List, which gives
full details of all our Sporting Footwear.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
HOUSE LIGHTING.
BATTERY SETS
always in stock.
For particulars and prices apply*
T. K. Steanes, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney
Fibro-Cement
WHAT IS IT ? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with. Asbestos. It has the strength*
durability of concrete, and the cool and n re 'P r
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, *tro
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artist!
appearance. _ .
Made In Slates for roofing, Red, Grey
In Sheets Bft. 2£ln. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings. in „
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for co
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, e-
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “B ” to Sole linP or
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEV ; afl
581-583 Little Collins St., Melbourn^-
HE BULLETIN POST CARDS'^’
T
Series, IY., V., VI.
Packet of Ten, sd.
Packet of Twelve,
o
o
o
O'
BE UP-TO-DATE AND USE
THE
$
$
o
c
Electric Shearing Machines.
British Made. Therefore Reliable.
Writo for Information to
DALGETY & CO. LTD.,
SOLE AGENTS.
$
c
&
o
o
o
m
Reliable Motive Power
to drive Shearing Machines, Chaffcutters,
Saws, Pumps, etc.
TANGYES Oil Engines
Stationary or Portable Types. All Sizes. Very
simple to Operate. Require practically no attention.
Where . PORTABLE STEAn ENGINE
is required we strongly recommend
The Clayton 8 Shuttleworth
WELL KNOWN AMONGST AGRICULTURISTS!
Sole Agents
for Above —
DALGETY & GO. LTD.,
Miller’s Point,
SYDNEY.
7 1 . \
• ; 'v >4? - p 7?*
V >.- ’ s
’
■ »
STAERKER S FISCHER,
40 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
172 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, DEDTH
St. George’s Terrace, » ErKl Jl.
7 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
f i'
’
Galvanised
;
Corrugated
Iron.
DRINK
&
BECK’S LAGER BEER
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
263 George St., Sydney;
525 Collins St., Melbourne.
BATTERY REQUISITES.
FORGED STEEL SHOES and DIES.
POK
Woven Wire and Punched Steel Battery Screens. Best Quality Silver Electro Amalgamating Plates.
CAM
BRAND.
