

DEWAR'S the whisky of whiskies
R. Car. WATKINS GO.,
107 Kent Street;, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining* aAd Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ĥ
ħ
McLaren
Traction Engines.
The Finest Hauling Locos.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne,
B.A. Agent: 0. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide.
HOBART.
Htti —-
fiadleys Orient fjotel.
h
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C. Lucfo
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
rioi & Son.
. -
ĥ
Take it back.,
I must have
HUTTON’S
Pine Apple Brand
HAMS ®
BACON.
ÜBBS DIAGONAL
FIT PERFECTLY.
ImM?
JUNKET ra ade from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
HANSENS
1
u
ħ
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prlxe Medals.
dffo,
euc. ob (fa, 'foot:
t£ju JoUnjtZtj CU/jdL* JcuOuftouJij *&£££,
i*L .jty
s,
W>
v*
A.
;
!
<0
c»
<o
V
o
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
BENSDORPS
h
ĥ
mm
IS
the Queen of dl Cocoas
FOI^
Aroma,Strength
PABCO ROOFING
(WHITE MALTHOID),
THERE IS NOT THE SLIGHTEST DOUBT, IS THE COOLEST ROOF FOR SUMMER.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), OHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
REFRIGERATORS
ECONOMY
r
4
REFRIGERATOR
SIMPLICITY
C. A. MacDONALD LTD., 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
w
m
WORTHINGTON PUMPS
FOR ALL SERVICES KEPT
IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues.
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 32 8 34 Cl&fCflCC StfCCt, Sydney.
•sum
dlf} SB
h
Fragrant
as the
Heather.
II
HELIDON SPA is the only Australian Mineral
Water with Genuine Osmotic Properties.
DEWHURST g HALLORAN, Ltd.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
v©].3i— No. 1605.]
[Thursday, November 17, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOOKS.
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO. PROP.,
238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
LTD.,
1 Lawson Wood, by A. E. Johnson, 4s, posted 4s 6d.
Paschls : Chemistry of the Colloids, 4s, posted 4s 6d.
Serviss, G. P.: Bound the Year, 6s, posted 6s 6d.
Lang, A.: Lilac Fairy Book, 6s, posted 6s 6d.
Corbin : Engineering of To-day, 6s, posted 6s 6d.
Harris, E. G.: Compressed Air, Bs, posted 8s 6d.
Parnell, Life of, ‘by R. B. O’Brien, Is 3d, posted Is 6d,
Burryhouse : The Earth and its Story, 6s, posted 6s'tk
Dick see : Business Organisation, ss, posted ss'6cL
Capes, B.: Historical Vignettes, 9s, posted 9s Bd.
McCabe, J Evolution of Mind, 6s, posted 6s 6d.
Herbert, S.: First Principles of Heredity, 6s, p. 6s 6d,
Kiplin'g, R.: Rewards and Fairies, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Gf’rimshaw, B.: The New Guinea, 3s, posted 3s 6d.
Fulton : Principles of Metallurgy, 255, posted 26a.
Haviland : Hives of the Fur Folk, 6s, posted 6s 6d.
MOTOR. ANNUAL) 13th Edition, Is. 9d., posted 2s.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For GOUGHS, COLDS, 80RE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
toLecturer s,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro lon g e d
periods.”
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
ħ
G. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lunge.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD*., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
The RED PAGE
The Climate and the Future,
With Some Remarks About Mcat
People who visited Australia in its infancy
were impressed mainly by its natural curiosi-
ties. They told stories to the home folk as
strange as those of Sir John Mandeville or
Marco Polo about our birds, which sang only
in their sleep ; paddymelons which did not
grow on vines ; duck-billed bandicoots,
which walked on one leg ; and other
marvels, now, unfortunately, becoming ex-
tinct. Then, in our hobble-de-hoy period,
British travellers looked upon Australia as
something like a foundling which had been
dropped into desert space by their fathers
and had grown up fantastically. They re-
marked upon our curious methods of manag-
ing our own affairs, the carnivorous habits of
the people, and the devastating influence of
the climate. Youth is always a fair mark
for the brickbat of Advice, and those thrown
at us since we first began to toddle, by the
whole procession down to Foster Fraser,
would build a museum.
Prophecies would make a star exhibit for
such an institution. There is an antediluvian
specimen in a rare old Sydney magazine
which turned up recently— The South-Asian
Register, a quarterly, edited by Roger Old-
field, D.O.L. In No. 3, for April, 1828,
there is an unsigned article on New Holland
with some interesting reflections :
Such is the uniformity of the climate and
scenery of New Holland, that we are disposed to
imagine the manners of the people will here-
after assume a correspondent tameness and feeble-
ness of character; that they will have but little
or no poetry, and consequently no impulse to rise
in the scale of morals. For poetry is to morals,
not the staff of life only, but the wine of its
banqueting house; the inspiration of its finest
virtues and their preserving balm. Here there is
no long summer day or long winter night; no fall
of the leaf; no sudden exuberance of flowers in
the spring ; no song of birds; no deep continuing
twilight; no season of absolute gloom and rigor
and darkness to cause the mind to turn inward on
its own creations; nor is there the fieroe contrast
and splendor of a tropical region ; but, in what
there is, a medium, a plain level uniformity. We
are apt to forget how we have lived, or what has
happened, so little is there to mark the progress
of the year. The imagery of English poetry is
nob understood by our children, nor will it admit
of any paraphrase or translation. . . .
The effects of the climate on the white children
born here are very obvious. For no matter
whether the parents have brown hair or black, the
children have white Or flaxen, till they are 10 or
12 years of age, when it gradually assumes a
darker color. Their eyes, too, seem less able to
bear the sun; and the lids, in consequence, are
generally more than half-closed; which takes
»why much of the expression of that eloquent
representative of the mind. Their complexion is
usually pale or sallow; their feet large (kxcept
the females); their stature much taller tha\ the
parents, and their maturity more precocious; the
females, blooming and fading, as elsewhere, with
too brief an interval.
The South-Asian writer (presumably DrJ
Oldfield), if alive to-day, would be inclined to
go out of business as a prophet. In the poetry
line alone he made a bad miss. However,
he did not say anything about Meat; per-
haps because its ravages were not then so
bad as in Bishop Barry’s time.
Last year Alfred Manes, a German pro-
fessor, visited Australia and Maoriland,
principally for the purpose of studying our
social and economic conditions. The written
result has been published, with many illus-
trations, as Ins Land der Sozialen Wander
(Mittlar and Son, Berlin).
After a brief account of his trip to Japan
and through the South Seas “into the Land
of Social Wonders,” he gives a rough sketch
of the progress of Australasia since the first
settlement, when, “by a mere joke of His-
tory, Australasia became English.” He
found much to admire here, especially
amongst the women. He liked our religious
tolerance, but was surprised at the rigorous
Sunday observance in some places. He met
Deakin and Fisher, and considered both to
be fine types, with none of the stiffness and
formality of English politicians. While
here he seized an opportunity to condemn
St. Ledger’s book, Australian Socialism, as
inaccurate.
These items are by the way. What he
tells the Germans at length is that Austral-
asia is really the paradise of the working
man. The country possesses no stratum
of population which could be designated as
proletarians. The cost of living is higher
than in Europe, but the working man has an
easier time—“the tempo of work bears no
comparison with the European rate”—the
workman declines to be used up rapidly,
and he is able to do this because “ he stage-
manages the politics of the country.” There
are old-age pensions and other advantages,
and a working man “cannot live anywhere
more comfortably than in Australia.”
But while he has so many advantages, he
makes no sacrifices for his country :
Nowhere has the citizen more extensive rights
and fewer obligations. . . . Australasians are ad-
mirers of their own countries, yet lack true
patriotism ; for patriotism must he judged by the
sacrifice one is prepared to make for the father-
land.
Manes noticed a great interest in music, and
thought we had more pianos per head than
any other country ; but saw little enthusiasm
for science or art:
National enthusiasm is only manifested in things
concerning sport. . . . The climate, permitting an
open-air life throughout the year, makes them a
sport-loving people. ... In the conflict between
climate and inherited characteristics the latter
will go under.
The good conditions of life in Australasia, he
thinks, have been gained too easily, and are
not sufficiently valued. These, too, are
Srobably responsible for the low birth-rate.
k>o much meat, too few babies.
Australia, he says, is amongst the rich-
est countries in the world, and there is room
here for 20 millions of people, “excluding
those portions which are said by pessimists
to be uninhabitable.” He “ cannot be suffi-
ciently amazed ” that this great continent has
only the ridiculous number of four million
people.
It seemed to him that we were living
without much interest in the rest of the
world :
Nowhere is there less idealism in the great mass
of the people than in Australia. Until recently
it never occurred to those people that they may
become involved in war.
Australians have been reminded of the
Yellow Peril pretty often. This man says
there is also a Black Peril and a Brown
Peril. White Australasia, in fact, he regards
as a vain dream :
If you consider the happiness of the present,
of oneself, of this generation — then Australia is a
happy place without any thought of the future.
Germany can learn from Australians the human
social spirit that knows nothing of the pride of
caste. The Germans have a great future and a
past of which they may he proud. Australia has
neither the one nor the other—only the present.
The tone of this criticism (translated by Mr.
F. Bender) is superior to that of the average
globe-trotter. It would induce German
working men to come and take their chance
with the Japs in a country where there is so
much meat.
The London Times, in a long article on
“ The Temper of Australia ” (Literary Sup-
plement 23/9/’10), takes a similar view with
regard to our climate with a more cheerful
note about the future.
The supreme consideration of which historians
will judge the effect is not heredity but climate.
One constant and pervading influence is stronger
than all others—(he light and warmth of southern
sun. ... As a people, they warm “ both hands
before the fire of life,” with an unfailing pleasure
in its light and glow. . . . Nowhere do women
nail the colors of happiness more gaily to the mast
or yet contribute more to the steady drive of
character which makes for national advance.
Whatever lies beneath the exterior, in women or
in men, the laughing spirit, the summer,mood,
the touch of carnival is everywhere an infection in
the land.
We must learn to use the gun and be pre-
pared for the worst. In the meantime we
can make the moat of the meat and the
climate.
The Passing of Stephen Phillips
It is ten years since Phillips made a big
splash in the literary world with poems in
dramatic form, which were extravagantly
g raised as poetic dramas. Where Tennyson,
winbume and many others since the Eliza-
bethans bad failed, Phillips succeeded ; for
his plays were acted with popular approval,
and the critics talked about them as beginning
a new era of poetic drama in England. In
the earlier hook of Poems there was some fine
decorative verse, in which many colored
phrases and musical lines were added to-
gether. Phillips had evidently felt the glow
of the younger Tennyson, the passion of
Keats and the pomp and circumstance
of Milton, and he revived them with a
cunning hand. Much of their charm was
that of remembered music. There was no
new note in the poems, never the magical
phrase or the creation of new beauty—but a
good imitation of these things. That is to
say, Phillips was a minor poet. The drama,
which imposes a bigger strain of imaginative
creation than any other literary form, was
suggested to Phillips because he had been an
actor. His experience probably taught him
what the public wants, and he gave them
melodrama and spectacle with a literary or
historical background. Instead of the usual
rant and fustian he gave them rant with
treacle and fustian studded with polysyllabic
paste jewels. Even in Herod, the best of
the plays, the reader does not feel that the
words come from created characters, but
that they have been stuck into the mouths of
lay figures. And they are full of echoes.
Consider the end of Paolo and Francesca —a
play in which the gold of a few lines in Dante
was beaten out into transparent gold-leaf.
This passage was highly admired by Edin-
burgh and other reviewers at the time of
publication :
Lucrezia : I have borne one child and she has
died in youth !
Giovanni ( going to the litter on which lie the
bodies of Paolo and Francesca) : Not easily
have we three come to this —
We three who are now dead. Unwillingly
They loved, unwillingly I slew them. Now
I kiss them on the forehead quietly.
(He kisses them . . and is shaken,)
Luck.: What ails you now?
Giov.: She takes away my strength. .
I did not know the dead could have such hair.
Hide them. They look like children fast
asleep.
44 We three who now are dead ’’—The anti-
cipatory epithet which had force when used
by Keats in Isabella :
So the two brothers and their murdered man
Rode past. ...
—had been adapted by Phillips in “The
Wife ” (Poems):
With her right arm the door she pushed.
And to the dead the widow rushed
—with the emphasis of italics, too. The
last three lines of Giovanni’s speech are a
paraphrase of Webster’s famous “ Cover her
face ; mine eyes dazzle ; she died young,’’ in
The Duchess of Malfy.
In Ulysses and later plays such poetical
quality as there was in Phillips diminished,
and now in Pietro of Siena (Macmillan) it
peters out. His invention fails ; his pulse
is feeble ; his hand shakes.
This weak affair is a short three-act play
in which the action occupies a single night.
Pietro, “ head of the ancient and exiled
house of Torniella,” besieges Siena and
defeats the reigning family of Gonzaga
against whom he has many bitter grievances.
Luigi, chief of the Gonzagas, instead of
being immediately despatched per snicker-
see, as was the custom in those days, is
charged with a number of offences and con-
demned to death at the rising of the next
sun. Whereupon the villainous Luigi begins
to blubber. His beautiful sister, Gemma,
pleads with Pietro that she be allowed to die
too :
Let me not wither out this hollow world
Alone; but in that warrant add my name
To his; for all his frailties I defend,
In all his acts I am associate.
I would give up the very ghost in me
And my dear soul would put in pawn for him.
Pietro is immediately smitten by the lady ;
she “puts a fever in his blood.” Later on
he sends his jackal to her with an offer that
if she will be his for the night Luigi shall
not die. Gemma says “no” emphatically :
. . . They who went
To flame for faith, they went not for this cause,
And out of scorching flesh deserved the stars.
The girl who yields beneath a summer moon.
That I can understand ; but never a true woman
Made bargain with her body such as this.
There is my answer, now and for all time.
Yet she goes, with a dagger, and speaks less
than fifty lines, which Pietro finds to “ have
shaken into me a soul.”
Even your sneer sublime and starry scorn
Has (!) taken from my feet the under world.
I would be what you say I cannot be.
Not with the ape-like wooing as of old,
But as a spirit suing thee through stars.
(“ Has ” is, no doubt, a printer’s error. Note the excess
of sibilants —a common fault in S.P.’s work, and the
screeching for effect in the lines italicised.)
Pietro, in spite of a threatened mutiny and
the anathema of the Church,’ decides in a
moment to marry Gemma. Tbis would be all
right if the lady’s brief speech had any sub-
limity or starry scorn in it, and if she had not
produced the dagger somewhat in the manner
of Edmund Burke’s oration. However,
Pietro, the rip, is purified ; the released
Luigi suddenly plays the man; the Torni-
ellas and the Gonzagas all sit down to
drink their gorgonzola and eat their botti-
celli—or whatever was on the menu—and
live happily ever after. A play which began
for a tragedy ends as a cheap melodrama. —
Exit Stephen Phillips.
Art and the National Gallery of
N.S.W.
The attitude of the Trustees of the Na-
tional Art Gallery towards all that is most
distinctive and original in the work of their
own countrymen is one that has earned for
them richly-deserved ridicule.
They pique themselves upon their Austra-
lian collection; yet they have not a single draw-
ing by L. Hopkins, and nothing by Norman
Lindsay in pen and ink (a medium in which
he is unsurpassed in the present day). Phil
May is so badly represented that it would
have been better if nothing at all of his had
been bought, and no example of Mr. George
Lambert’s later work is to be found upon
their walls.
Here are four men who have either been
born in Australia or have lived for many
years in our midst; whose achievements
must always take a high place when the
“ History of Art in Australia ” comes to be
written, and who, nevertheless, have been
practically ignored by our Gallery authori-
ties. On the other hand, in spite of the
alleged jealousy between the two States,
Victoria possesses excellent examples of
three of these men.
What is the reason of this? How is it
possible for our Trustees to purchase such
work as, say, “ Las Mantillas Negras,” and
pass over some of the astonishing painting
lately exhibited by Geo. Lambert in this
city. It is disagreeable to have to allude to
the purchases of Mr. Bernard Hall and the
young Victorian student, Mr. Wheeler ; but
it passes the comprehension of anyone
with only a glimmering of what great
painting really is, how the Trustees deputed
from our Gallery to visit the Lambert-
Streeton-Wilson exhibition in Melbourne
could neglect it in favor of the two pictures
they brought back. The reason is not far
to seek. The Trustees are drawn from all
ranks of life. Stock and station agents,
newspaper proprietors, lawyers, insurance
agents, sharebrokers, architects, etc., etc.,
without study, without experience, without, in
many cases, any love of the Fine Arts at all,
have been through political influence placed
in the position of guiding and fostering the
artistic taste of N.S.W. There is but one
artist amongst them—W. Lister-Lister, presi-
dent of the Royal Art Society.
When, two or three years ago, a fine col-
lection of British art was exhibited in N.Z.,
the president, Mr. Du Faur, and the secre-
tary, Mr. G. Y. F. Mann, were sent to pur-
chase on behalf of the Trust. They spent
about £3OOO, and the only thing they
brought back above mediocrity was a small
marble bust by Brock. Emboldened by
this, it was suggested that they should go to
Europe and purchase some more trivialities.
But the commonse-sense of those in power
took alarm, and this was blocked. Foryears
money has been accumulating in London
to buy a great picture. But the great
picture will never be bought; first,
because the Trustees would not know
a great picture if they saw one ; secondly,
because there are too many better and keener
judges on the spot, anxious to possess great
work, to allow any hope of our Gallery or,
indeed, any colonial Gallery securing master-
pieces. At this game Australia has all the
odds against her. Any ordinary millionaire
could, with a stroke of his pen, outbid all
her efforts to secure masterpieces for 20
years to come. The Trust has had but one
direction in which it could hope to do use-
ful and capable work, and that has been
neglected.
If they had stood in the forefront of every
genuine artistic aspiration, ready to listen
to all, and willing to learn the best methods
whereby to discharge the responsibility
placed upon them, they would, at all events,
have secured the support and sympathy of
the artists in their difficult and onerous posi-
tion. Ignorance and lack of interest is at
the root of the whole matter. Meanwhile,
much indifferent work is being bought or
rewarded by Wynn prizes, while many good
pictures are being passed over.
And so it will continue until the Govern-
ment recognises that, in making appoint-
ments to the National Gallery Trust, know-
ledge, experience and artistic insight are
essential qualifications, and that nothing else
matters much.
JULIAN ASHTON.
Attempts have been made to write Aus-
tralian fairy tales for children ; but the Aus-
tralian fairy is not convincing. In keeping
to the birds and trees, flowers and fishes of
Australia, Amy Mack (Mrs. Harrison) has
succeeded in making stories for Australian
children which can be read with pleasure
and advantage. In Bushland Stories (Angus
and Robertson) she has given individual-
ity to some residents of the Bush
which she knows well, and has woven
some graceful stories around them. The
only fairies she introduces are those of
the neglected Australian flowers; very
patriotic fairies, some of them, who helped
one artist to paint the flowers, so that he
became famous and their beauty widely
known. The book is printed in excellent
type and there are six illustrations by Lionel
Lindsay. Bushland Stories is just the thing
as a Christmas present for kiddies who can
read.
The Australian Bird Calendar-verses by
E. S. Emerson and drawings by Norman
Lindsay—has been reprinted from The Lone
Hand and published by G. Robertson and
Co. It makes a charming booklet for pre-
sentation.
At the Villa Rose, by A. E. W. Mason
(Hodder and Stoughton)—a fairly ingenious
detective story with some thrill in it.
♦—
To be published shortly—the collected verses of
Helen Jerouie (N.S.W.) and Louis Esson (Vic,).
Also rumored that a new volume by James
Hebbleth waite (Tas.) will drop gently into the
market place like a grey rose,
Shaekleton’s The Heart of the Antarctic has
been reprinted in one volume at 7s. The new
edition contains all that was in the £2 2s. edition,
except the scientific appendices.


Jl
<ace
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
Similar in construction to the ordinary TJ-Bar Lever Harrow, with the addition of the
Guards that protect the ends of the tooth bars.
This Harrow is superior to all others for use in orchards, vineyards or trarfiy ground.
The ends of the tooth bars being protected prevents injury from colliding with trees or shrubs,
and avoids the accumulation of trash that would foul the ordinary Harrow.
By throwing the levers forward the teeth are thrown back for transporting, or to clear the
Harrow of trash. .
Made in two Sections of 25 or 30 teeth to the Section. The teeth are 8 inches long by
inch square. .
2 Sections of 25 teeth each with bars as shown, weight 2031 b., width Bft., complete, 75/-
2 Sections of 30 teeth each with bars as shown, weight 2311 b., width 10ft., complete, 84/-
Canton Guard Lever Harrows
'&m
m l
. /-
" mm - '
J 0»
w*&
Double Furrow
Marvel Plough.
No. 587.
Double-Furrow Marvel Plough, to work with one horse, all Iron, with two Steel
Shares (No. 587), 88s.
Wiard Patented Steel Beam Plough.
33
No. 100, Wiard’s Patented Steel Beam Plough, 2-horse. Ploughs Gin. to 9in. deep, lOin.
to 14in. wide. Fitted with ordinary Colonial Coulter Weight, 1061 b. Can be had
with Iron Handles if required. This Plough is one of the easiest of draught of the
whole Wiard series. Price .£3 15s. Extra Shares, Is. 9d. each.
h
No. o—One Horse
Iron Plough,
with one extra share and Spanner ; weight, llhlb.
(No. SDO) 70s.
No. 590.
The Little
Beauty
iron Pony
Plough,
weight, 821 b., 50s.
We are now stocking disc ploughs, which are made exclusively for certain selections,
but for general use everywhere, in hard, soft, dry, wet, old or new soil, No. 4 is better
adapted than any other make or style.
The discs are 24 inches in diameter, and the single disc will turn furrows from 3 to 12
inches, and the gang ploughs have adjustments of equal dimensions between each disc. The
discs are all ball bearing, have dust-proof boxes, and are set at the proper angle to revolve
freely when in contact with the soil. The soil is turned completely over and is thoroughly
pulverised. Can be adjusted to cut 10 or 12 inches.
Attachment to make 2-Furrow into a 3-Furrow plough, or 3-Furrow to 4-Furrow, 60/-
The Canton Disc Plough has been universally successful. Weight, 7801 b. £l6/5/-
3-Furrow ditto, ditto. Weight, 9001 b. £2l.
Canton No. 4 Disc Plough.
The hopper is made with two apartments, one for the
seed and the other for the fertilizer. By an ingenious
arrangement the fertilizer drops at the same instant in the
rear separately and to the right and left, and mixes with
the soil, thus avoiding all danger of injury to the seed
Price JES 9s. 6d.
Star Billings Planter and
Fertilizer.
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LISTS
POST FREE
ON
APPLICATION.
vM*
mu**
THE MATTHEWS
NEW UNIVERSAL
EXCEL HARROW
CULTIVATOR.
Weight 631 b.
For fine work among small plants where it is desired simply to loosen and pulverise the soil, this
style of cultivator is unsurpassed. Adjustable and reversible steel teeth, diamond shaped,'may
be used either end up, and may be set either straight, or slanting backward or forward. One
end of each tooth is cut plain, while the other end is curved and forged as illustrated. We
recommend this implement as the strongest and best Harrow Cultivator made. Price 31s. 6d.
Wiard
Patent
Steel-beam
Swivel Ploughs.
With Straight Coulter.
ĥ
These are the first practical Steel-beam Side-Hill Ploughs ever produced.
The beams are of highest grade forged steel, and are stronger than any other beam
made. They are so adjusted that the Plough works perfectly when reversed either
way, and all the parts are attached in the simplest but strongest manner. The Coulter
is the ordinary Colonial pattern, not as shown.
No. 120—Steel beam, sin. to Sin. deep, Bin. to 12in. wide; weight, with
clevis, 1181 b. 78/6.
No. 21 — Wiard One-horse Hillside Plough, with wood beam, ploughs 4in. to
Tin. deep, 6in. to lOin. wide ; weight, 781 b. 42/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Anprape « BOOKS.
Freemasonry
Explained.
A GUIDE TO THE
CRAFT!
A LIGHT TO THE
UNENLIGHTENED
THE KEYS TO ALL
DEGREES!
COMPLETE, Is.
Post Free, Is. 3d.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Trick's,
1/-. Wrestling, By Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Hose Counted Eggs, and
116 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/8.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
ND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
B
L
Marvellously Simple 1
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying 1 and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing- at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any.
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2,6.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
ħ
h
ĥ
You
cannot
strop it
wrongly
Insert the
strop in the Auto Strop
Safety Razor —move the
Razor to and fro —the
blade reverses automatically
at the end of each stroke, '
thus stropping itself —in an
instant you have a keen edge
That is why the
Aulo'Strop
k^ F z ET oR
always give* a smooth and luxurious shave. And the Auto Strop user avoids
i continual outlay for new blades —required by any ordinary safety razor,
k There is nothing to take apart to strop or clean. Far quicker, handier
and cheaper than a no-stropping razor.
The Standard Outfit consists of quadruple silver-
plated, self-stropping razor ; one dozen specially
tested lancet - steel blades; one horsehide
strop ; the whole contained in handsome
leather case, size 2 in. by 3} in. The
price complete is
25/-
and no
further
expense.
ħ
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO.,LTD
The Rialto, Collins St., Melbourne; and'
222. Clarence St., Sydney.
m
i
& JA V'*£
UNSHRINKABLE
DERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO., London, England.
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
Australian flutual Provident Society.
Next Distribution of Cash Surplus as at 31st December, 1910.
POLICIES EFFECTED IN THE ORDINARY DEPARTMENT BEFORE THE CLOSE
OF THE YEAR WILL SHARE IN THE CASH BONUS TO BE THEN ALLOTTED.
Surplus divided for the year 1909, £779,692. Total bonuses distributed, £16,116,584.
The Society being a purely mutual institution the whole of the profits earned are divided among the partici-
pating policy holders. It is therefore to the advantage of every member to recommend the Society to his menus.
Accumulated Funds, £25,750,000. Annual Income, £3,380,000.
Policies can be effected for anv sum up to £lO,OOO. Write at once to the Head Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney, or
any'District Oifi ;e or Agent of the Society, for full particulars.
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A, F.F.A., F.S.S., H - w APPKRLY.
General Manager and Actuary. Secretary.
ZERCHO’S
CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE.
?wsfifeg
n\tnr=rsrv?irs
7SX
IZanl
rqjnn .iiiJ-iw iM-.ni m «■ n Hm un„ it »ifiiifJ
A In
in iw
-m v*i\wmmsamma
-rCFZV
S&t,
> J
159 Collins St., Melbourne.
28 Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Currie Chambers, Adelaide.
Utilise your spare time by studying at home some
of the following subjects
Send for Descriptive Pamphlet “S" and state subject
in which you are interested.
Shorthand
Typewriting
bookkeeping
Accountancy
English
Penmanship
Arithmetic
Correspondence
Latin
French
Greek
Algebra
Geometry
Trigonometry
Elementary Science
History
Geography
Surveying
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Draftsmanship
Freehand Drawing
Pen and Ink Drawing
Illustrating and Designing.
Let us coach you for a University, Local Government
(Shire Clerks or Auditors). Public Service, Sanitary
Inspectors', or any other examination.
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT RIFLE NO. 14
h
ĥ
THE RIGHT RIFLE FOR THE YOUNGEST BOY.
Parts attached to action itself, making it very simple. Weighs 2 Yz pounds.
Chambered for .22 Long-rifle R. F. Cartridges. Will also shoot .22 Long
R. F. and .22 Short R. F.
All Progressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
A Clergyman’s Testimony to Clements Tonic.
i
II
REV. J. WILLIAMS.
“CLEMENTS TONIC LTD,
A MINISTERING MEDICINE
FOR ELEVEN YEARS PASTOR
of the Wooloongabba Congregational Church, Bris-
bane, and Principal of the Theological School
founded therewith, the Rev, John Williams, a strong
intellectual thinker, and a fine and forceful preacher,
well remembered in Brisbane for his splendid edu-
cational sermons and lectures, writes the following
letter to the merits of a great medicine which is
creating unquestionable cures of Nervous Breakdown,
Insomnia, Weakness, Brain-Fag, and Stomach and
Liver Ailments. Business men and women in ill-
health should read this letter, especially if they wish
to regain health and strength, and enjoy life as only
healthy people can :
“Clements Tonic Cured Me.”
“ Prompted by a spirit of gratitude, I write to let you know that Clements
Tonic did for me what I have learnt it has done so effectively for others. I
suffered from nervous breakdown, consequent upon the strain of over-work,
and was for a time at quite a loss to find an effective recuperative. Happily
my choice fell on Clements Tonic, which restored me to my wonted self with
surprising speed and surety. When I have felt the same condition of nerves
arising, I have promptly checked it by a timely use of the remedy. Above
all, I find it induces a natural, refreshing sleep, wherein Nature has oppor-
tunity to work her cures in her own way ; and what could be better said of
a remedy than that ? I am, yours faithfully,
REV. «J. WILLIAMS.”
Everv week letters in praise of the health-creating properties of this (treat medicine, Clements Tonic,
„„ a „j„ on tn the proprietors. They come from all States of the Commonwealth. Those persons who are
.TffliorpH with impaired digestion, nervous breakdown, or debility, constipation, weakness, lassitude, low
gpirir.a, biliousness, sick headache, liver or kidney irregularity, should obtain Clements Tonic and health
at the same time. This letter proves this can be done. People who are ill, sickly, weak-nerved; with
strength, vigor,-energy undermined, or who-cannot get strong after long or sudden illnesses or attack!
of fnrcr ct" read the tributes to this great medicine, and send for it without delay. A 1 *
Chemists and Stores sell'it everywhere in Australia, so that the sick person may obtain it.


What
About
That
Dandruff?
*****
SSI
T--'
SsrfSEli'S*'
SsFSSsS!
>^r*!s
There is just this much about it:
Dandruff is a germ disease, is
most untidy, annoying, and leads
to baldness. When chronic, it
is very stubborn, bu* surely
yields to thorough and energetic
treatment. All germs must be
destroyed, the scalp must be
restored to health. Here is the
remedy: Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Ask your doctor about using it.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
DOES NOT COLOR THE HAIR
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayar & Co., Lowell, Mast,, U. S. A,
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
r
We despatch direct from onr Coventry factory
to anyone, on tan days’ approval, oar
highest grade HBAD
Coventry Flyers
at leas than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
MODEM £3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest Improvements
Pack ad and Dolivarad
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted In each dii-
trict. Large iproflti
cully made. Write u. once, tiling sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Bpeolal Offer
•ample machine. m
MEAD CYCLE CO..
Dept. 280
LIVERPOOL
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Agent,
157 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
“For Valour”
The foundation of all greatness is
laid in the food of the children,
which should give them the strength
of future years—the courage of life.
Cerebos
s*ir
makes all food more nourishing.
Agents—Harrison and At (wood, Sydney.
YOUR EYES !
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
ND
PA
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us far Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
ħ
Zaw Points
Inventors*
Cart I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest wav to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to
write to me describing your invention, enclosing a small
sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cc/dially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an hones opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings. Collins Street, Melbourne.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston—“WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
4, /
H
Lx*’ **v'
For Children’s Coughs and Colds
There is no better remedy for Children’s
Coughs and Colds than
BOHNIHGTON’S
IRISH MOSS.
It does them as much, good
as it does the older folk.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES.
Ask for Bonningtons s, and insist on getting it. It is dangerous to experiment
when you can get a remedy that has stood the test for over 45 years.
Sold Everywhere. Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. Gd.
[2
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL.. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“OUR. JACK’* Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the "PURE FOODS ” Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD.. Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
DON’T STAY THIN!
DEVELOP YOUR BUST.
)]
Every day
other women
are increas-
ing their
weight and
developing
their figures.
You can do
the same.
Try a course
of
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH=FOOD”
It will work wonders for your appearance.
It increases the weight by five pounds a
week, and adds inches to your bust measure-
ment. Send a 2d. stamp for Free Trial
Sample and Free Book, or call.
FALLIERE “ FLESH-FOOD ” GO.,
Dept. 5,
Linden Coort,
Castlereaqii St.,
SYDNEY,
H
ORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
TIMES
AND
ALL x
CLIMES
A t
break-
fa s t
time or
supper time
HoMJck’s.
Malted Milk is
a delicious substitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute
and requires no cooking.
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, Horlic k’s
Malted Milkisau
. ideal food-beverage,
easily digested, nour-
ishing, invigorating.
It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and prov-
ides a full
diet in
sick-
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples : 82T, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co. Slough, Eng.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease from the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars TosteilFrce
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
C'iHEAP EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
J Price 2/6. Postage, N.S.W.; 7d.; otlier
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
GOLCRYST
THE HEALTH SALT
for aII
BLOOD DISORDERS
RHEUMATISM
IS SOLD F.VTRYWHF.RE IN
i-pkts
Agents in N.S.W. —ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Sydney.
Proprietors—ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
oJL
1
'yi/’HY should any woman look
dowdy and frumpy, why should
she court ill health in the old fashioned
corset when she can so easily secure
the fashionable, easy flowing lines by
the newest and latest corset and enjoy
the best of good health as well ?
How can you show the latest
figure, the long graceful lines,
exacted by the recent Paris
styles, when you are wearing old fashioned
corsets with their unnatural and unhealthy
abrupt break at the waist line? The
fault is not in your figure. Try our
D& A Directoire designed after a
close study of Parisian styles at Long-
champs, in the tea rooms Rue de Rivoli,
and at the famous dress-makers of
Rue de la Paix.
n 4
This corset will give you the most fashionable effect, absolutely beyond criticism —yet will
be more comfortable and more healthful, since jt supports and does not compress, than any other
corset you ever put on. For Sale by all leading drapers. A-a
THE DOMINION CORSET COMPANY, QUEBEC, CANADA.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Lady Yelp.
TOf ANTED, musical Lady Help or light General,
small adult family, gas stove. 21 Craigend-st.,
Darlinghurst.—S. M. Hkrald.
We seek her—the Girl of Our Heart,
The Perfect Domestic—the Treasure;
Complete—dedicated—apart,
Yet meeting with generous measure
Her service; we ask not her name,
Be it Doris or Mary or Emily
Or Bridget—’twould be all the same to our small
adult family.
We seek her; in grotto or grove
Lies she hid like some wood-nymph seques-
stered ?
Must we, with our useful gas-stove,
By incompetents longer be pestered ?
Our carpets are going to rack,
Unswept, and the curtains need mending;
The process of giving The Sack to girls seems
unending !
Oh, the girls we have had in the past!
Dear, dear! How their moods used to try us !
Some cheeked : some were glum or downcast;
Some catty ; some cranky ; some pious ;
Some drank ; some would openly shirk ;
Some growled at their bountiful ration—
Not one ever tackled the work in a light-hearted
fashion 1
Of course, we are very select
(The neighbors on each side are odious)—
And the services we should expect
Must be merry and bright and melodious ;
We hope that it’s perfectly clear
The “general ” for whom we are looking
Must shine in the musical sphere, as well as at
cooking.
The house-work that has to be done
Means waiting and giving attention
To us and our daughter and son,
And one or two more not worth mention.
With the bedrooms, the boots and the knives,
The piano and voice-cultivation,
A girl leads the happiest of lives in this situa-
tion !
If father comes home tired or sad,
Our treasure will banish ennui
By playing Schubert’s Serenade,
Or singing him. Ah, fors b lui 1
How proud we shall be of our help !
How night will be turned into day
When she yells with a rhythmic yelp, Yip-I-addy-
I-Ay 1
So, if you should find such a pearl
Industrious, musical, gay;
A really superior girl
Who thinks more of duty than pay ;
Who is able to cook and to sing,
To wash and to play and to sew—
In short, to do everything—will you please let us
know ?
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.
She of the Laces.
You dress her in laces, because she must grace
Her owner and trainer—as though for a race.
You’re proud when men notice her beautiful face.
A kiss in your hurry to her you may fling
(You’d really be hurt if you thought it might
sting).
A bouquet of flowers to her you may bring.
Quite happy is she with a husband so good
(As happy, maybe, as a nice piece of wood);
And she never complains (for no “ good ” woman
should).
Fools say that a woman must empty her heart
Or it bursts with its burden of love ! Now you
start
And wonder what more she can want as her part !
You never inquire (in your masculine way)
How she of the laces has spent her long day ; .
“ House things and tea-gossip, no doubt,” you
would say.
N.S.W.
HELEN JEROMF.
You.
You’re youth itself with the swift strong swing of
your hips
As you walk to meet me,
You are love itself with the pouting rose of your
lips
When they smile to greet me,
You are life and passion and glory and keen
delight
And a joy undying.
In the stolen hour of a mad and a wondrous night
When we kiss sighing.
You are hate itself if I go from your arms to gaze
On a fruit forbidden,
And scorn itself when I sue in penitent ways
(With my laughter hidden).
You are Eve and Helen —the goal of the world’s
desire—
And an angry goddess,
With the centuries’ store of fury and rage and fire
In one trim bodice.
You are Flower-of-love, and a little tigerish cat ;
All kisses and claws ;
You are Aphrodite wearing a picture hat,
And you know no laws.
You are love and anger at once, you are hot and
cold =*"
In a windy whirl,
And there’s nothing sweeter for any man’3 arms
to hold
Than you—a girl.
VICTORIA.
L.


Combination Couch and Bed.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CHANGED INSTANTLY
tajuV*'* V ■ y. ■*• n *j
/ ■ i v * * a v v 4
5. A.:v&'«.
CLOSED AS COUCH.
SI
:v
■■'V
m
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of, order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 45.; in
Tapesfry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
WATCH AND CHAIN AND RING
GIVEN
STEM
WIND/
STEM
SET
For Selling Our High Grade Art Post Cards
V &
Wo give absolutely FREE this handsome AMERICAN MADE, STEM WIND AND STEM SET. Watch, care-
fully tested and fully guaranteed for selling only twenty packages of our HIGH GRADE
ART POST CARDS at 5d a package. Send us your name and address (no money) and we
will send you the twenty packages of Beautiful Post Cards to sell at 5d per package.
When sold send us the 8 shillings and we will positively send you at once this beautD'U
WATCH and CHAIN and RING. We will refund the money if you are not perfectly
satisfied. Write today for the cards.
PEERLESS WATCH COMPANY, 1137 East 63rd Street, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VL
• Packet of Twelve ... ... 6d
Packet of Ten ... ... 5d
SAVE MONEY
by buying one of DWYER’S VEHICLES. They cannot be
equalled for Beauty of Design, Durability and Light Running.
Fadories-WOLLONGONG and NEWTOWN.
h
ĥ
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets* Brisk*
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director:
A. MESTON.
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been marie by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can he made at the Hotel tor motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Castlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
V
UNDER VICE-REGAL
ħ
PATRONAGE,
The Misses Isaacs
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KINO STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Bulletin ” Office
Th.
ABDVLLA
CIGARETTES.
Banish thoughts of duns and debt
With an ABDULLA Cigarette.
The Smoke for the Happy Man.
PALGETY&C? LT?
WHOLESALE AGENTS FOR
AUSTRALIA.
I
¥
S
Vfi
4*
Q
WmM
&:&*:
(AUSTRALIA) LTD.
No. G42S6—Finest quality Silverplate on
Hard White Metal, Embossed Pattern
Biscuit Box, £2/7/6.
STRAND
CORNER,
412 George Street, Sydney.
HANDSOME WEDDING PRESENTS in Sterling Silver and Electroplate.
THOSE of you who are interested in approaching Weddings should make a point of
inspecting our fine selection of High-Grade Goods. As we purchase direct from
only the actual manufacturers for Spot Cash, you may be sure of getting supreme
value for every shilling spent with us. Our stocks are always up-to-date-each week
sees new shipments arriving. If you are unable to call, write for our n w
Catalogue, 112 pages, beautifully illustrated in fine art cover. We post it Free!
No. 5263—Best quality Silver-plated
2-Bottle Inkstand, 16/6.
No. G4269—Finest quality Sheffield Silverplate
Asparagus Dish, with Removable Rack, £2.
No. F4B49—Embossed and Fluted
Silverplated Fern Pot—
4in., 22/6 4Jin., 27/6
sfin.,£2 Bin., £3/7/6
No. G2s34—Finest quality Silverplated
on Nickel Silver Triple-Expanding
Biscuit Box, £B/10/-
No. B4S9o—Finest quality Silverplate on Hard
White Metal, Revolving Vegetable Dish. Each
dish can be removed and used separately.
£ 6/6/ -
No. J26ls—Solid Silver
Flower Vase, 8 inches
high, 21/-
No. J2BB2 —Fine Gut Glass and Silverplated
on Nickel Silver Dinner Cruet, 16/6.
Other designs at 27/6, 37/6, 50/-
No. H 2095 —Handsome Claret
Jug, Finest Cut Glass and
Silverplate, £3/ 15/-
Others&t 16/6, 25/*, 35/-, 60/-
No. F942l—Six Solid Silver Afternoon Cake Forks
with Mother of Pearl Handles, in Silk-lined Case, £3
iiwiiiiiinlTii
No. H366—Fine Polished Oak Tray, with best
quality Silverplated Pierced Border Mounts,
20 inches long, £4/10/-
Other designs from £l/*/-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 31.—N0. 1605.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1910.
Prick 6d.
WADE AND THE SPECTRE.
“The principle is dangerous, iniquitous, undemocratic,” said Mr. Wade, with warmth. “The obligation rests on the State Governments to make a move in defence
of constitutional principles, and for the protection of their own rights. I make this fair offer,” Mr. Wade proceeded, “that if Mr. McGowen will take the lead to protect
New South Wales against this gross aggression, I will stand behind him. I beg and implore all business and professional men, and even men of leisure, to consider these
proposals carefully, and when they have mastered the insidious danger that lies beneath them, to use their best endeavors to rouse the public at large to a sense of our im-
pending danger.”— Wade, on the proposal that the people of the Commonwealth shall govern themselves.
McGOWEN: “Now, ought I to humor these diseased fancies of his, or treat him as a dangerous lunatic?”


' XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1910.
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 15.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), contributed
during the year by the foremost Australasian
writers.
The illustrations by “ Hop,” Alf Vincent, Norman
Lindsay and other leading representative artists,
will be the finest Black and White work obtainable
in Australia, and will reflect the national humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number is the annual re-
flection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore uteful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence of
the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be allowed
for.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 19th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ;
Foreign addresses, 9d. ,
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, oE
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES s Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(11l Adi-nnre, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you every iveek for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Bulletin would oblige, the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters ( with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
Sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
oficials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are. liable, to be refused.
The contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, ivhere practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, andnot exceeding
hoc columns in length, or, say, SOOO ivords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly eonfi-
dential.
Tim Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forivarded without stamps
for return it. will be understood that the espy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. _ Tiib Bullktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct, reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Tiib Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tiib Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, W. C.
South Africa.— The Central Neios Agency, Capetoivn;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central Neivs Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.— lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington;lnternational
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Eoypt.— The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tim Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6§in. x lhin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
jffie^zdZe&Ti.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1910.
THE STATE AS A DIVIDEND-PAYING
INSTITUTION.
The community is so much accustomed to paying
taxes that it is difficult to realise the possibility
of there ever being a Government which won’t
tax the. people, but will, instead, declare an occa-
sional dividend. According to all current ideas,
such a proposition is wildly impossible. And
yet, on closer inspection, the impossibility isn’t so
wild as it might be. The community is in itself
an asset, though a neglected one. It can make
alues—immense values— by simply sitting down
in one place, which is the reason why an old,
dank forest haunted by bears is now London. It
can destroy immense values by getting up again
from the place whereon it previously sat down ;
consequently Nineveh is now a mere dust-storm.
It can remove immense values from one place to
another by merely shifting from the old spot to a
new one; wherefore the new city of Norwich
was built out of the old ruins of Caistor.
The discovery of gold or other minerals is a
great creator of values; so is agriculture; so is
pastoral development; so is the building of roads,
railways, bridges, telegraph lines, etc. ; but
nothing creates values like the popular „habit of
sitting down, or staying, or dwelling, or remain-
ing, or being stationary. Thus it i 3 that the
barren bit of land on which Sydney and its
suburbs stand is valued at about £50,000,000, or,
say, £5OO per acre, and is daily growing more
expensive. That figure takes no account of im-
provements, which are separately estimated. It
is the price to which the bare dust has risen in a
little over 100 years. Yet that same land, before
Sydney commenced, was worth about one’possum
to the acre or a native bear to the square mile ;
and the commercial value of the harbor was not
quite twopence. The bulk of this wealth is the
growth of the last 30 years ; for a very long time
after Sydney commenced a great part of what are
now the city’s outskirts didn’t advance much
beyond the old ’possum or native bear figure.
Seeing that the community can make so much
money by merely sitting down in favorable spots,
the question why the community allows silly
rulers of its own selection to prevent its sitting
down becomes the boss conundrum of the age.
When it camped at Sydney it did so, most un-
wisely, to make money for the private landlord,
who very often went abroad to spend his riches.
But now that it sees how much profit there is in
the sedentary game, it should make haste to
repeat the experiment for its own profit.
* * * *
N.S.W. is in a remarkable position. It has a
long seaboard, and of its first-class ports only one
can be said to be in use. There is a chance to
resume at the current value, which is almost no
value at all, the land around the other ports, and
decree that it shall be State property for ever.
Then it is only necessary to invite the people to
come in, and a movement will commence that will
ultimately make hundreds of millions of pounds
out of nothing worth mentioning. There never was
an El Dorado or a philosopher’s stone or a Potosi
or a Pactolus like this simple, idea. Even if
the South Sea Bubble hadn’t burst and the
Mississippi scheme hadn’t got drowned, they
would have been nothing to it. The wondrous
devices for extracting gold out of paving stones
and sunshine from cucumbers wouldn’t have been
in the same street, supposing they had succeeded
—which they didn’t. When, after 1000 years of
effort, the barbarians at last plundered Con-
stantinople the profit didn’t amount to more than
a fraction of the possibilities which lie before the
people of N.S.W., and a lot of the booty of
the old Byzantine city was burnt, mislaid,
broken or lost at sea, and a lot more
was spent in drink. The outlay required
to set afloat a movement which will ultimately
furnish the State with at least three more Sydneys,
all public property, is either very little, or
nothing, or less than nothing. There are a few
small railway connections to be finished, some
roads to be made, some wharves to be constructed,
and some land to be resumed at not much more
than prairie value. Also, there are questions of
drainage and water supply. The railways will
pay for themselves. The wharves will be paid for
out of harbor dues. The rest of the bill can be
more than covered by the saving of the cost of
hundreds of miles of needless haulage to absurdly
remote ports; by the increased value given to
public lands served by the new railways ; and by
betterment taxes on the private lands served by
the new railways. With the addition of some
local water and sewerage rates the State could sit
down on the sites of its new cities with its land
rents as clear profit and with some money—or at
least some valuable new assets—to the good in
addition.
* * * *
And having got this far it could advertise in
Australia and Maoriland and Great Britain and
the United States somewhat after this fashion :—r
FARMS to Let or for Sale in the best-watered and most
fertile part of New South Wales. Climate excellent.
Good Road and Railway communication. In every case
a First-Class Port is handy. Supply of Land almost un-
limited. Population not much more than nil, the
country having been hitherto retarded by want of Access
to a Port. Room for Millions of respectable white men.
And again :
POPULATION wanted for Several New Seaport
Cities which have been opened to supply the Agricul-
tural and Pastoral Population mentioned above. Build-
ing Leases on easy terms. Good Drainage; Good
Climate ; Good Water Supply ; Good Government; no
Native Troubles; no Revolutions. Each City has a
better harbor than London. Each City will draw its
trade from a Larger Area than that on which London
depends. Each City has a Better Show than London
had when it started, and will Get There a great deal
sooner. Room for Manufacturers, Merchants, Shop-
keepers, Lawyers, Doctors, Dentists, Newspaper Pro-
prietors, Seamen, Clerks, Domestic Servants, and all
manner of Respectable White People. There has been no
chance like this for Ten Centuries.
It might look extravagant and King O’Malley-
esque, but it would be strictly true. The new
cities wouldn’t be hampered, as was Sydney, by
lack of railways and roads, by native, troubles, by
want of local white population, by popular ignor-
ance of Australia, by poverty, ignorance, convict
traditions and the supreme isolation which comes
of being a four or six months’ voyage from the
nearest white community of any size. Each of
them would be Sydney with a century of proba-
tion cut out, and without the drawbacks which
the lack of a century’s knowledge imposed on
Sydney.
■* * * *
The State Labor party is supposed to believe
in the public ownership of land, and this would
be the genuine article. It is understood to be-
lieve in State enterprise, and if it can think of any
feasible State enterprise that is bigger than this The
Bulletin will cheerfully buy it a new hat. It is
alleged to be looking for a chance to build public
works which will pay interest on their cost and 1
per cent, sinking fund, and this is the sort of public
work which promises to do that a thousand times
over. In fact, it promises to cost really nothing,
and to yield in time about £5,000,000 a year,
with a prospect of almost indefinite increase
beyond that figure. Then the State Labor party
is said to object to the use of public money for
the enrichment of private landlords, and so long
as it builds more and more railways to drag to
Sydney trade that doesn’t naturally belong to
that city, it is shovelling out public money whole-
sale for the Sydney private landlord’s enrichment,
and at the same time perpetrating a stupendous rob-
bery on the public. Furthermore, it is suspected of
being a State Frights party with a great desire
for the expansion of N.S.W., and in that matter
The Bulletin cordially sympathises with it—only
with a difference. This paper can’t see why there
should not be 6,400,000 people in N.S.W. instead of
1,600,000. It utterly fails to perceive why, while
the county which lies at the back of Sydney har-
bor had, at the date of last census, 362 persons to
the square mile, the ones at the back of Twofold
Bay, Jervis Bay, Port Stephens and Coff’s Harbor
should have, respectively, only
people to the square mile. Three at least of these
harbors are as good as Sydney in a commercial
sense, and their rigid closure seems to do no good
either to themselves or to Sydney—it merely de-
populates the adjacent country, and thereby de-
populates N.S.W., the land which the State
Frighters profess to value so highly. Further-
more, the policy of the Closed Ports seems, on the
present erround valuation of Sydney, to be depriv-
ing the State of £150,000,000 or £200,000,000, or
some such small sum, and that means the sacrifice
of a golden opportunity to abolish all State taxes
and possibly declare a dividend to the people as
well. There is absolutely no reason why the
Government shouldn’t declare a dividend now
and then, though the proceeding is uncommon.
HOW BILL WADE WON THE BATTLE
OF WATERLOO.
An unusual feature of the recent N.S. W. electoral
campaign was the sudden publication by his friends
of ex-Premier W adk in the capacity of a hero. This
unlooked-for event happened towards the close of
the struggle, when it was evident that he abso-
lutely had to appear in some capacity if he didn’t
want to politically perish. Affairs were then
very, very bad with the Wade Ministry. Many
people said the only thing that was wrong
with it was that it hadn’t a redeeming feature in
its official character, and even its supporters had
a hard struggle to find pleasant remarks to make
about it. At this crisis a Sydney Tory daily
suddenly rushed on to the field of battle
with an article about Wade as an athlete
in early life. He had, it seems, been a great
cricketer or footballer, or something. He had an
unusual muscular development across the stomach ;
his chest measurement was remarkable especially
when he inflated that organ and threw it out re-
gardless of any furniture or mantelpiece orna-
ments that might be in the way ; and his leg-
circumference called for the respect of admiring
nations. For a day or two the Tory party
travelled on the theory that the ex-Premier must
be a manly and fair-minded man, partly because
an athletic training promoted fair-mindedness (as
evidenced by the way horses are always run
straight and footballers never kick each other
or the referee), and partly because, with
all that chest expansion, he couldn’t be
otherwise. He was Australia’s Longest Jump-
ing Son, or something of the kind. And then
one of Wade’s Ministerial colleagues broke the
news to the country that the Tory Premier was
also a hero of very great size. Eight years ago.
when the grievous Mount Kembla colliery ex-
plosion took place, he was in the neighborhood on
legal business. Apparently he hardly touched
the ground twice as he fled to the mine. He was
one of the rescuers who took their lives in their
hands and went to the aid of their distressed
brethren, and as two of the rescue party perished
while engaged in the good work, it was plainly
a brave man’s job. To shove a politician like that
out of office would be a public crime.
* * * *
The story of Wade the life-saver caught on. It
was boomed in Tory papers and on Tory plat-
forms. It was recited by politicians, par-
sons, big landowners, old maids, eminent legal
authorities, importers, local optionists, bagmen,
wowsers and others. People began to view
the very ordinary and uninspiring Premier in
a new light. They saw him rushing into
the deadly breach while others held back.
They depicted him in pitch darkness far under-
ground, going around on all fours while tons
of coal fell on him every few minutes; dropping
into subterranean rivers where the sun had never
been and dropping out again; climbing up
supporting pillars of coal to see if there was a
dead body at the top; and bringing out the
injured, three under each arm. It was a great
idea, and exactly how many votes it was good for
will never be known. Curiously enough, no
opponent seems to have thought of looking up
the old records and verifying the story. People
knew perfectly well that there was hardly any lie
or any blotchy or unwholesome meanness of which
“Liberalism” wasn’t capable, yet the thought
that there might possibly have been another and
quite a different hero named Wade on the
scene, and that his laurels were being stolen
to deck a transient politician, implied such
a boundless wilderness of cheek that the
suspicion didn’t occur to the Laborites. It
seemed beyond belief. It suggested a com-
bination of an impossible number of people
to circulate a monstrous falsehood ; a lack of
scruple and decency on the part of allegedly
reputable papers that was over the odds ; and a
political degradation that represented the bottom
of the garbage tin. So the tale went unquestioned
till polling day and afterwards. Finally, some
person got a letter into the S. M. Herald in which
he declared that one of the heroes of Mount
Kembla was Dr. T. F. Wade, a local medico, but
that Gregory the lawyer was never inside the
mine at all. Then there was a great silence.
Then there was a long breath. Then there was a
long drink. And then there was a sound as of
some one saying “ Gosh ! ” afar off.
*
Looking back on the old records, some curious
evidence turns up. Mount Kembla wasn’t a mere
casual hole in the ground which might be rushed
into with impunity by any strange visitor. One of
the rescue parties did nearly 10 miles of subter-
ranean travelling. Even the most long-legged bar-
risterial amateur would have been useless in these
caverns unless some one who knew the place led
him at the end’of a string. Besides, there was no
room for barristerial amateurs; quite a number of
experts who wanted to go in on rescue work
couldn’t do so because there weren’t enough
lamps to go round, and the idea of there
being lamps to spare for outside folk, who just
scuffled along, looks wholly improbable. The
S. M. Herald of August 3 published the names
of “prominent gentlemen’’—apparently all per-
sons who knew the place and the business —who
went below, and the name of C. G. Wade was
not among them. On August 6 it mentioned that
Dr. Robertson thanked those who had assisted,
and again the name of C. G. Wade was not among
them. TheHKRALDof Augustlmentioned him along
with a great number of others as helping at the
useful but not hazardous work of making stretchers
outside the mine. The Telegraph said nothing of
him going into the mine, though Dr. Wade
was spoken of. At the inquest, Dr. Wade
gave evidence about going into the mine, but
though C. G. Wade cross-examined him, there
was no hint that the medico and the barrister met
in the dangerous bowels of the earth. It is all
profoundly unsatisfactory. Up to time of writing,
not one of the papers which cadged for votes in
the Wade interest with this tale of heroism has
offered any explanation. Neither have any of the
persons who shouted re the subject on public
platforms. Nor has Wade himself, who per-
mitted them to shout and blither. The great
“Liberal” party has been accused of a par-
ticularly mean and shady form of false pre-
tence, and its silence, so far, is like that of the
lost grave of Moses. Unless some feasible theory
is forthcoming the tale about how Bill Wade
won the battle of Waterloo will take its place
among the fish stories of humanity, and any
future narratives concerning the great deeds of that
remarkable person will require to be supported by
thumb prints.
THE NEED TO HURRY UP.
Latk news from London is that that great
Westralian land-grabber, the Midland Railway
Co., proposes to at once cut up 30,000 acres into
about 100 farms and put them on the market. As
soon as they are absorbed it is going to
cut up some more, and so on till all
its vast holdings are disposed of. In Tas-
mania, the Van Diemen’s Land Co., which
owns the cream of the north-west of the island,
is preparing to do likewise, and the vast A. A. Co.
proposes to go in for a similar policy in N. S.
Wales. They are some of the earliest results of
the Labor party’s land-tax legislation, the cala-
mity which Toryism alleged a few months back
was going to depopulate and ruin the Common-
wealth. The Adelaide-Port Darwin railway will
open up a huge virgin tract of pastoral, agricul-
tural and mineral land. There would be little
sense or justice in letting Private Enterprise profit
by this; in fact, the Government that abetted
such a fraud would deserve a term either in a gaol
or a lunatic asylum. Hence the Federal Govern-
ment has taken a sound line in deciding to incor-
porate in its Northern Territory Acceptance'Bill
a clause forbidding the further alienation of
Northern Territory land. But the Fishek
Ministry will need to do more than legis-
late to keep the land-shark out; it must
make provision to bring the white settler in. And
it must do it soon. A white population in the
Territory is even more a national than it is an
economic requirement. Certainly what it pays a
Land Co. to do in Westralia it is going to pay
Australia to do in the Territory ; but whereas the
Land Co. has nothing more inspiring before it
than the prospects of dividends, Australia has the
cause of self-preservation to spur it on. There are
still to be found in the Commonwealth citizens who
claim that their native land is in no danger from
oversea Powers, since it is such a waste, ruined,
drought-smitten tragedy of a place that nO rational
foreigner would be hampered with it. Another
section points to the Transvaal, and claims that,
since a small State, with les3 than the population
of Sydney, was able to keep the British Empire
at bay for years, a continent with almost the
population of Greater London could hold off a
hostile Power for ever. And then there are the
folks who refuse to even think about the unsavory
question of possible danger ; the persons who ad-
mit shamelessly that they don’t consider the
Commonwealth worth defending; the freaks
who mention that, since Labor started to
rule, they have lost all fear of the .Tap;
the Peace Society enthusiasts, who propose to
reason affably with the ravening foe, when he
arrives, and induce him, by logic and kind words,
to forego his bloody project, and others more or
less demented. They may differ as regards
details, but on one point they are agreed—
namely, the wisdom of Australia marking time in
the matter of defence, and its corollary, immigra-
tion, and putting off the boring, expensive busi-
ness of becoming self-contained for an indefinite
period.
*
In view of the existence of these human dis-
asters, it cannot be remarked too insistently or
too often that Australia is quite worth seizing.
In fact, it is the natural and eagerly-anticipated
prize of the first nation that can hope to down
Britain by sea or land. There are more countries
than Japan with avid eyes on it. Ever since
Bismarck gave Germany Protection, and raised it
from the status of a dog-poor land to that of the
most prosperous manufacturing nation on earth,
it& rulers have been looking round for means of
colonial expansion. An attempt was made to
“ peacefully penetrate ” South America ; there is
still a province of Brazil which is almost entirely
German. Then President Cleveland’s Secre-
tary of State, Olney, stepped in and proclaimed
the Monroe doctrine, and Germany’s prospects of
gaining a foothold in S. America faded away. A
forlorn-hope attempt was made to do something
in East Africa. But the land there is poor and
the climate rotten. The emigrating Teuton con-
tinues —despite the determined efforts of his
Government to divert him to the German
colonies —to settle in white men’s lands, in the
Commonwealth (both S. Australia and Queens-
land possess thriving German settlements) and in
America. Australia is the one continent in the
whole world whichisequallv desirable to the colored
man and to the Caucasian, and which the merest
accident is liable to place at the mercy of either.
Its existence, as a nation, depends, as things
are, on the United Kingdom’s capacity to
hold its end up in face of the armament-
race that is occurring in the North Sea and
environs; and, as a sideline, on the United
Kingdom’s capacity and willingness to hold Aus-
tralia’s end up as well. If the people who raised
the Dreadnought howl last year weren’t particu-
larly shameless liars, Britain’s place as Mistress
of the Seas is none too secure ; in fact, there are
reasonable doubts if Bull is going to remain
Lord of his own Channel for much longer.
The state of the military arm of the service
is deplorable, a fact which is vouched for, not
only by famous French and German experts, but
by British officers of all ranks, from Field-Marshal
Roberts down to mere underlings like SuTOR,
R.A., recently removed from the army for speak-
ing his mind about it. Everything combines to
shout in Australia’s ear the counsel “ Hurry up!”
Hurry up with an army and navy organisation,
hurry up with the completion of a strategic rail-
way between Adelaide and Port Darwin, and,
above all, hurry up with the peopling of the
empty spaces.
* * * *
The last is a patriotic work is which the State
Labor Governments may take a useful hand. An
old Tory gag lays it down that Labor is hostile
to immigration at any price. The McGowen
Ministry is offered a particularly bright chance to
demonstrate the lying injustice of that charge
and to swell its revenues in the act. The Wade
Government made an uproar about the extent of
its immigration work and the immense tracts of
land it was making available for settlement. The
notorious fact is it did practically nothingdn these
directions, as was natural in a crowd whose main
supporters rendered it, of necessity, a party
of cheap labor and dear land. Small con-
tingents of British laborers were imported,
but not one in 50 took up a selection.
The new-comers, being usually hard up, couldn’t
afford to range round looking for suitable land.


Much less buy the same when it was discovered,
oo they sought employment, and were quickly
snapped,up at low wages by squatters and others.
Wade’s immigrants” became, in certain quar-
ters, a synonym for all that was hard-working,
cheap and servile in the male-labor line. The
impossibility of either immigrants or native Aus-
tralians of small means getting on the N.S.W.
land under the Wade regime, with any reason-
able hope of success, is plain to anyone who
glances at the conditions. Good seasons and the
absence of an adequate land-tax have conspired
to bloat land values. The excessive price of land
is the feature that has struck the peregrinating
Scotch Commissioners hardest. One of them ob-
served that he could put his hand on better and
cheaper land in the United Kingdom than he
could in the Ma State. As the average price of a
very modest farm in the areas resumed by Wade
works out at a fraction over £2OOO, the Caledonian
was possibly right. The Wade scheme of allur-
ing settlers from overseas was to offer them re-
sumed land. That suited the supporters of Wade-
lsm down to the ground. The squatter, whether his
property is encumbered or otherwise, is delighted
to have it resumed at the sort of figure Gov-
ernments pay ; and when a bank is in practical
possession it is more delighted still. Wade paid
away about £2,000,000 of hard-borrowed resump-
tion money amid the cheers of all but (1) would-be
settlers of local extraction and moderate means ;
(2) immigrants with similar light pockets; (3)
those Australians who appreciate the urgency of
satisfying the local land hunger, as a preliminary
to attracting more and more white settlers from
foreign parts. McGowen has the land-tax be-
hind him, in which respect he is more favor-
ably situated than Wade was. It will enable
him to reverse the WADE-ite motto and declare
for cheap instead of dear land, and well-paid
in place of cheap labor. At the rate the land-tax
is opening up country—as evidenced by the in-
stances already quoted—the desire of the native-
born for land shouldn’t remain for long un-
quenched. Remains the overseas white farmer
and potential defender whom it is up to McGowen
and his colleagues to help to these shores by every
legitimate means. It is one of thoses cases in
which there really isn’t a minute to lose.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Parliament with Straw in Its Hair.
The Labor Party’s proposals for increased powers
iu the Australian Parliament have caused a squeal
of a familiar kind in the Tory press. Democratic
power is something of which the Tory stands in
deadly fear, his idea being that Parliament should
serve as a prop to his vested interests. Con-
quently, the leading columns of the flabber-
gasted dailies have been filled with awful pic-
tures of the Things that will be Possible if the
national Parliament gets its wider powers. It will
be Possible to upset the State railways ; Possible
to nationalise the flourishing fish-and-chips shop
in Little Smith-street; Possible to commit the
wildest extravagances and the most loudly-
raving lunacies that the mind of an agitated Tory
can conceive. Of course, all things are possible ;
but this wail of the Dodderers is not specially
applicable to Federal power, but is a complaint
against the sovereignty of any Government. The
Conservative Jeremiah, when he is opposing the
grant of powers under a law or a Constitution,
always assumes the existence of a maniac Parlia-
ment, gibbering in irresponsible imbecility, and
preparing to use its authority with the intelligence
of a set of inferior anthropoids. Much vaster
powers than any which are proposed for the
Federation have resided for the best part of a
century in the hands of the Australian States, and
for many centuries in the hands of European and
American Governments; yet those Governments
have not habitually gone dilly, and done all the
foolish things which the terror-stricken Tory now
drags from the depths of his imagination. For
many years it has been within the power of Kid-
ston and his majority in Queensland to prescribe
12 months’ gaol and the Bowling leg-irons for
anybody who buttoned his shirt-collar with a bone
stud. Yet, although Kidston does not tower
above the average in political intelligence, men
have continued with confidence to use bone
studs in their shirts instead of pieces of
qopper wire, and the great industry of making
bone studs out of compressed potato has not
languished. Sheer simian lunacy, of the kind
imagined in the delirium of the Conservative, is
not the normal condition of a majority in Parlia-
ment or in the electorates. When a Parliament
does arise, crazy-witted enough to do all the queer,
insane actions which the Waders prophecy, it
won’t matter much whether it has the power or
not. A man who suddenly gets religious mania,
and decides that it is time for him to slaughter
his family, doesn’t go to the Court for a decree
before he swings the tomahawk. Similarly, if we
get a Parliament afflicted with delirium tremens,
things will happen whether it has lawful
authority or not. But there is no imme-
diate prospect of such a disaster. The Australian
Parliament has hitherto behaved with reasonable
sanity; and with the enlarging of its powers
there is no special reason why it should suddenly
strip off its clothes, rub its face with phosphorus,
and announce that it is the Wild Man of the
Woods, descended from Heaven for the purpose
of eviscerating all Tory politicians exceeding 15st.
in weight. It seems half a pity that the Parlia-
ment won’t be even as mad as that.
+
A “ Liberal ” Estimate of “ Liberalism.”
Joe Carruthers, one-time Liberal Premier of
N. S. Wales, was put up by the little band of
Sydney importers aud lawyers who i-an the Wade
dinner to delives a panegyric on the hero of the
evening in particular, and on the hero’s party in
general. And this is how he did it: —
He (Carruthers) was compelled, in the interests of
health, to retire from public affairs, and he then nomi-
nated as his successor almost the youngest of his team in
Parliamentary experience, Mr. Wade, to be entrusted
with a commission to form a new Government. (Cheers.)
Mr. Wade’s career, for some years as Minister and for
three years as Premier, had fully justified the choice
which he bad made of him.
As one who had been intimately acquainted with the
public life of many former Premiers, he said there were
very few Premiers who had had so many difficulties to
contend with as Mr. Wade, almost alone and unaided, had
had to meet. (Loud cheers.) Ten years ago they could
have gone to either side of Parliament, the Government
side or the Opposition, and laid their hands on 10 men
fit to lead and to go on the platform to sway public
opinion; but the Federation had come, and with it had
been realised the prophecy that a large number of our
best men would be taken away from the sphere of State
activity.
There had been very little recruiting to our public life
from that section of the people which was so largely rep-
resented at that function. “We have no men to make
up for men like George Reid, William McMillan, Edmund
Barton, Richard O’Connor, William Hughes, Christo-
pher Watson, Bruce Smith, J. P. Abbott and John See,”
the speaker said. “These men have left gaps which have
not been adequately filled, and no man has had to suffer
more from this condition of public life than Mr. Wade.”
(Cheers.) “ Yet Mr. Wade had stood firm, like on? of
old, carrying -the standard of his party. (Renewed
cheering.)
The wine must have been well in and the wit
right out for such words to evoke cheers from
such a company. Stripped of the frail veneer of
surface civility which the occasion demanded,
Carbuthers’s eulogy amounted to this :
When he (Carruthers) retired from’ politics he left in
charge of the Liberal and Reform party a gang of incom-
petents and political deadbeats. So hopeless were they
that he was impelled to deliberately choose as his suc-
cessor a mere political infant.
Wade had led the party as weli as was to be expected
in the desperate circumstances. True, he had landed it
on the rocks. They were met that night, not to cele-
brate one of those sweeping triumphs which used to be
the order of his (Carruthers’s) day, but to mourn a
smashing defeat. Still, when he (Carruthers) thought
of what would have happened had any member of the
party but Wade been at the helm, he (Joseph) felt, com-
paratively speaking, congratulatory.
“ Liberalism,” in N.S.W., was in a bad way. Decent
citizens sheered off it. In the brave days when he (the
speaker) was Consul, Barton, W. M. Hughes, J. C. Wat-
son and the like sat in the State House, and, b.v their pre-
sence there, uplifted it in the eves of the populace. But
they were gone. Instead of Hughes and Watson, they
had Wade and Garland. Parliament had degenerated
into a place infested with derelicts.
Let them not, however, be unduly harsh with Wade.
He had labored under cruel handicaps, “due to the con-
dition of public life’’ — i.e., to the condition of “ Liberal-
ism.” He had had to carry the standard of the party
with such deplorable lieutenants as J. A. Hogue, Wad-
dell, Oakes, O’Conor and Hughes, M.L.C. A cargo like
that would sink any ship.
It is a curious fact that, despite the above views,
Carruthers remains an anti-Unifieationist. He
recognises that the brains and character of the
State, so far as politics are concerned, have cen-
tred in the Federal Houses. He recognises that
this is a natural tendency, and, hence, one that
must continue. He can see nothing of real worth
even in the party he most favors; future State
Parliaments have no hope of being anything but
contemptible institutions, full of elderly asses and
callow blunderers. If Carruthers is correct, it
seems a foolish business to go on wasting good
public money on State Parliaments. In fact, it
is suggestive somewhat, of employing the inmates
of a blind asylum to look for Bullfinch mines.
«
- The Old Kailway Contraptions.
“ Henry Horsecollar ” on a matter of engineer-
ing :
Quite a number of new happenings are reported these
days in connection with Australian railways. Sydney’s
bottle-neck—the lamentable lj-mile stretch where the
entire railway traffic of the State is shoved on to six pairs
of rails—is to be widened at great cost and extra rails
laid down to facilitate the draggage of everything to
Sydney. The duplication of the railway across the Blue
Mountains is proceeding apace, and on one small section
the engineers have cut out and straightened no less than
12 bad curves which the ancient railway-makers had
apparently put in by way of amusement. (They
were a mirthful lot, these early builders, and, even
on the practically dead flat country between Sydney and
liomebush they seldom allowed the railway to keep a
straight line for 200yds. at a time.) A duplicate line is
being built to Newcastle, and there is talk of a quadruple
line thence to Maitland. The policy of dragging goods
for export past Port Stephens and Newcastle to Sydney
makes these costly additions necessary. There is a pro-
ject for the duplication of the Southern line as far as
Goulburn, and for cutting out the Thirlmere tunnel. It
being an axiom that all exports from the south and south-
west must be hauled past Twofold Bay and Jervis Bay to
Sydney, and must be refused access to Melbourne and
Adelaide, however convenient these ports may be, the
duplications along the Southern line are unavoidable.
The work of laying the North Coast railway— the one
that makes the costly semi-circular deviation inland in
order to avoid the best port that N.S.W. possesses north
of Sydney, there being a fear lest local trade should get a
cheap and convenient outlet there —is in full blast. Then
there are in the middle distance of things the completion
of the two transcontinental lines (the one to Perth is
already being surveyed according to the 4ft. B£in. gauge)
and the shabby little branch to the shabby little Austra-
lian capital. On top of it all the new Australian Govern-
ment begins to dream of a uniform 4ft. BJin. railway
gauge for Australia generally. All these doings suggest a
great amount of energy, but it is a pity that
there is so little substantial assurance that the
energy isn’t misplaced. To begin with, the Australian
railway builders are still working on the assumption that
the old Puffing Billy is the last word in railway traction,
and are laying all their schemes accordingly. And the
Puffing Billy, instead of being the last word, promises
soon to be an old disused Greek root, or something of the
sort. In the United States to-day the locomotive is
being boiled down and made into rails or tea-kettles or
horse-shoes about as fast as the work can be done ; in
fact, electricity has so far arrived as a means of long-
distance haulage that many authorities reckon there will
never be another mile of steam railway built in the
republic from now to Judgment Day. Again, Australia
seems as far as ever from realising that the mono-rail
may be the invention of the future, and that the new
lines which it is building or planning so extensively may
be the last gasp of an antiquated policy which is just
about to join the dodo. At all events there is no news
about George Reid having been directed to leave off
feeding for a minute, and to bring his well-trained scien-
tific mind to bear on the question ; nor is there any word
of a proposal to lay down a short experimental line on
the Brennan principle in this country, so that Aus-
tralia may know things by experience before it
lashes out a heap of millions on the old costly and pos-
sibly dead two-rail contraption, and a lot more millions
on the work of changing this country’s varied two-rail
contraptions into a uniform contraption. Britain doesn’t
require to hurry over this matter, for it is a fairly busy
year when the whole United Kingdom adds 80 miles of
new line to its system. Therefore, even if the additions
prove largely a waste of money, the waste isn’t very ex-
tensive. But the case is different in a country which is
about to bog in at construction on a gigantic scale. If it
makes a mess of things from sheer negligence, the mess
will be monumental.
«
Do Young Snakes Swallow their Mothers?
“The Professor” discusses a curious museum
freak:—
It has always been held to be a violation of the first
principles of natural history that any respectable tail
should wag its dog. On the other hand, it is deemed a
religious act on the part of a well-bred spaniel to wag its
tail and prick up its ears, or even use its mouth to
extract a thorn from its foot. The great difficulty which
has recently arisen in Australia is largely due" to the
peculiar nature of our indigenous fauna, aiid, in the case
of our largest mammal, a fierce discussion continues to
rage as to which portion of the animal is dog and which
is tail. The Federation, in the view of one section of the
press, consists of a number of State dogs possessing a
joint tail which they are requested to wag in unison.
This tail is known as the Commonwealth, and is, to the
Tory fancy, a large, ornamental, bushy appendage, very
pleasing to its several owners ; but not to be regarded as
possessing any special purpose or utility. The Aus-
tralian view is different. To the people of the continent
the Commonwealth is one large and indivisible dog
whose six legs are the several States, and whose tufted
and star-bedizened tail wears the cocked-hat of a
Governor-General. Incidentally, Australia can see no
good reason why a separate and wholly superfluous tail
should be attached to each individual foot. The absurd
feathers on the legs of a Brahmapootra rooster are as
nothing to such a hairy encumbrance. The progress of
an animal which spends its vital energy in oscillating
seven distinct tails is necessarily slow, and Australia is
desirous that the Commonwealth should move with some
rapidity.
Night and day without ceasing a Tory wail ascends the
heavens, and the burden of that bitter lamentation is the
attempt on the part of the Commonwealth to acquire
some speed of movement. The big dog has shown a
disposition to use his tongue and teeth for the purpose
of extracting thorns and grass seed from his several
feet; and the Tory press cries out in indignation that the
mouth, which it persists in regarding as situated at the
remote end of the tail, has been interfering uuwarrant-
ably with the rights of the lower members. More than
this, the same lawless mouth seems inclined to eat up the
products of the chase, which it is perfectly clear have
been c ptured through the speed and energy of the legs.
Naturally,;the section of the press alluded to appeals to
reason against such an outrage, and many of its readers
have been convinced that it would be better to cut off
each paw separately than to allow the corporate animal
to digest one bone of the jointly captured prey.
A curious feature about the evolution of this Austra-
lian animal is that the right-hand middle paw, which is
called New South Wales, but is really Sydney, came into
existence before the rest of the creature developed ; and
so regards itself as the mother of the beast of which it
forms a part. That its peculiar offspring—which is itself
with more added —should presume to interfere with apart
of itself which existed before the wholeanimal was born, is
an offence that seems to be without parallel in the whole
field of political biology, and has given rise to endless
editorial comment in the journals devoted to the inter-
ests of the extinct carnivorae. The difficulties, however,
which beset the life path of the Commonwealth are not
nearly so great as at first sight they might appear. This
is due to the fact that the animal possesses certain com-
plex grey matter which is situated between the ears and
some distance above the whiskers. The matter is known
as brain, and by its use all serious problems such as those
which have arisen may be satisfactorily solved.
♦
The Case of Ram Chunder.
Last week news arrived to the effect that the
Chow had decided to get a legislative move on
him. A little while ago a sort of nominee Legis-
lature met in Pekin, the idea being that it would
serve to break the news to China that it was to
have a real Parliament a few years later on. Ap-
parently, those in authority reckoned that the old
crockery empire, bogged in immemorial sloth and
tradition, must take its Parliament by instal-
ments, lest the surprise should prove disastrous.
But the temporary nominee Legislature appears
to have rushed things; at all events it is rumored
that the Chinese Parliament may now be looked
for almost any day. This brings the big crisis in
India perceptibly nearer. When China, Asiatic
Russia, Turkey, Japan and Persia all have some
pretence of self-government the angry Ram
Chunder is likely to ask for his own Legislature
with even more bitterness than hitherto. His
situation is peculiar. He represents the second
largest community in Asia and in the world. He
has as good a fighting record and as good an edu-
cational record as some of his neighbors. He, is
despotically ruled by a country whidh makes more
brag about its adhesidn to the Parliamentary sys-
tem than any other on earth, while at the same time
that country refuses the blessing of Parliamentary
Government to more people than any other despot
on earth. The arrangement is too anomalous to
last. John Bull is quite willing that Ram Chunder
shall have as complete self-governmentas Australia
has—if he can get any sufficient guarantee that
Ram Chunder will always govern just as he
(John Bull) desires ; but Ram replies that that
wouldn’t be self-government at all. And if Ram
gets a chance to govern the way he desires himself,
it doesn’t seem as if Bull’s indian Empire will
last very long. Also, if Ram doesn’t get any
chance to govern himself, it seems as if the dura-
tion of Bull’s Indian Empire will be compara-
tively short. The existence of a Chow Parliament
legislating according to Chow ideas looks possible.
The existence of a Hindu Parliament legislating
according to British ideas doesn’t; nor does the
existence of a Hindu Parliament legislating in
direct opposition to British ideas. Yet, after 40
or 50 years spent in efforts to uplift the Hindu by
teaching him British history and British theories
of the right of man to resist despotism, he has
become a very impervious nigger so far as concerns
any attempt to persuade him that these theories
don’t apply in his case. The individual who had
a tiger by the tail and could neither hold on or let
go was in a difficult situation ; but at least his
tiger had only one tail. The political tiger of
India seems to be nearly all tail.
< *
The proposal to start Australia’s penny postal
system next May caused ex-Senator PuLSFORDto
boil over horribly. He pointed out in the papers
that the book-keeping system ends next December,
so for four months Victoria’s penny postal system
will be lumped with the other twopenny or par-
tially twopenny systems, and N.S.W. will help
to pay the loss, and the Ma State will be wronged
again. Said Pulsford in great anger:—
I am anxious to see what the McGowen Government
will do in the matter. Will they do anything to defend
the rights and interests of the people of New South
Wales ? At a rough guess—very rough, I admit —I should
say that the people of New South Wales will pay £lO,OOO
monthly, that is, £40,000 in the four months, more than
I believe to be legal, and more than everyone can see to
be fair. Will the McGowen Government do the right
thing, which obviously is to obtain for the Treasury of
New South Wales the amount of this extra postage,
using, if need be, the power of the High Court to enforce
their claim ?
The habit of cursing Victoria—the State which
once had the darned cheek to own a larger popu-
lation than N.S.W.—is so fixed that Pulsford
hadn’t time to notice that during these four
months S.A., with its all-round twopenny post-
age, will have exactly the same grievance against
N.S.W. and all the other States as N.S.W. and
all the other States will have against Victoria,
and, if there is going to be litigation over the
matter, there is likely to be a heap of litigation.
And the £lO,OOO per month that Pulsford
raves about won’t belong to N.S.W. alone
but to five States, S.A. being probable the
biggest claimant. Then, as a set-off, Victoria
and Tasmania will have a grievance of their own,
on the ground that they are small, fairly well-
peopled regions, where letters can be delivered
cheaply, while in great sprawling places like the
other four States it sometimes costs in outlying
parts ss. to deliver a single post-card, and when
the postal business is put on a uniform basis, the
two little States will be helping to pay their
big neighbors’ bills. But the most curious
part of the Pulsford roar is this : The
party to which he belongs introduced the
penny postage idea (Pulsford assisting) on the
plea that it would lead almost immediately to
great and certain profit. Now, Victoria has had
the eminently profitable penny dodge for 10 years,
and Pulsford’s complaint is that for four months
the ruinous Victorian penny system is to be mixed
up with N.S.W.’s highly remunerative mixed
penny and twopenny device, to the great injury
of Ma. Which is a confused proposition, and sug-
gests that Pulsford is more infuriated than
logical.
*
Admiral Henderson is going round the Aus-
tralian coast trying to bring his expert inind to
bear on the selection of the most suitable site for
an Australian naval station. He may not do the
work very well, either through lack of time to visit
all the good harbors, or through lack of time to
properly inspect those he does visit. Or he may
start with the idea that the first business of an
Australian fleet is to be ready to rush off to help
defend England rather than to be ready to oppose
invasion from Asia; or, again, hemay wholly under-
estimate the -size of the fleet for which provision
has to be made. But, anyhow, he is an admiral;
he knows something of nautical matters; he
can recognise fish when he meets it, and he
bears up against sea-sickness. Therefore, he is
aware of a few matters, and is threatened with
information. But the S. M. Herald knows a
heap more than he does, and last week it warned
him in a leading article to be mighty careful
about his doings. Said the Herald
The near arrival of the first of the Australian ships,
however, makes it desirable that the substance of Admiral
Henderson's report on the naval side of our defence
scheme should be soon known. We take it that the
Government will accept as binding his recommendations
in respect of the location of docks and depdts, and the
general disposition of the ships. Naturallj', this State
will be anxious to know whether the port which ever
has been considered as the most effective Pacific base
for the Imperial squadron will continue as the head-
quarters of the Australian unit, or whether the Admiral’s
views will coincide with the parochial strivings of our
good neighbors in the south, who wish the distinction
and the material advantages for Hobson’s Bay or there-
abouts. Thip, however, is clear, that, if Sydney ceases to
be the Imperial naval depdt for the Pacific, and the Com-
monwealth naval base is established elsewhere, enormous
facilities and plant, which have cost hundreds of thou-
sands of pounds, will be so much waste. That, however,
is a matter which need not he discussed further now.
So the matter is fairly clear. Any selection of a
naval base except in N.S. W. or Victoria is out of
the question, and if a base is selected in Victoria
that fact can only be due to the “ parochial striv-
ings’ of Victorians. In fact, according to the
Herald, the choice lies between Sydney (selected
on its merits) or Melbourne (selected owing to the
base machinations of the people down south).
Queensland and Westvalia are disqualified, and
all N.S.W. ports save Sydney are disqualified.
A.nd if the Admiral doesn’t recommend Sydney,
his report will be disqualified if the Herald can
manage it, just as was the report of the eminent
N.S.W. expert who was appointed to select a
rederal capital site and advised in favor of
Monaro, and the report of the expert who was
appointed to consider the case of Yass-Canberra
and declared the place utterly unsuitable.
«
“ W.T.” summarises his race-going objections to
the tote:—
(1) You never know what odds you are going to get
till after the race is over, and then you’re usually disap-
pointed.
(2) With a 10-bob tote, the Legerite can’t “punt a
dollar,” whereas a “ book” will accept a wager of a florin
and be thankful.
(3) A race meeting without bookmakers is a depressing
affair. In the long waits between each race the time
drags very slowly, and half the amusement is in walking
round the ring trying to find the longest odds.
(4) Of every pound that goes through the machine it
sticks to two shillings— 10 per cent.
(5) The “ tote ” rooks in another way. Fractions of
sixpences are not paid out in the dividend, and the odd
pence is a “ perk ” to the machine.
To which The Bulletin replies :
(1) Bookmakers’ odds are a disappointment whenever
you get them ; being on an average eight or 10 points
shorter than those offered by the tote.
(2) It is true the Legerite can’t invest a “dollar” on a
10s. tote ; but neither can he invest 2s. with any book-
maker who does business in the 10s. enclosure. And
whereas the tote will reject the Legerite’s 2s. with
courtesy, the 10s. bookmaker will do so with contempt,
if not profanity.
(3) As to the “books ” and their howls, clothes, cigars
and other appurtenances rendering a race-meeting more
pleasing, the thing is a matter of taste. According
to the writer’s way of looking at it, Sheol will have no
terrors for the man who finds his pleasure in battling for
odds in the atmosphere of the Ring.
(4 and 5) Certainly the tote takes 10 per cent, and the #
fractions of sixpences. On the other hand, it returns*
practically the entire amount to the public in the form
of subscriptions to hospitals, improvements and dona-
tions to racing clubs and so on. The penciller bags a
matter of 50 per cent, more public money than the tote
does (in the form of pinched prices, stiffened horses, etc.),
and “ blews ’’ it, with much enthusiasm, on himself.
♦
The M.L. Beet Root Sugar Bill, the waddy with
which J. Ward proposes to hit the big C.S.R.
monopoly, has two knobs for the business to be
undertaken: (1) the establishment of State
Sugar Works; (2) a bonus on the produc-
tion of beet sugar in the Dominion for five
years, at the rate of Id. per lb. for che
first three years, and Jd. per lb. during the
next two years. Under certain circumstances,
Ward is even prepared to give any person or co.
undertaking the industry, in addition to the cash
bonus, a State monopoly. • Which seems like
knocking a large-sized Aunt Sally down on one
side and rearing up a middle-sized one on the
other. True, the Government may acquire the
works at the expiration of 21 years ; but quite a
number of things may not happen at the end of 21
years, and the taking over of a State-fostered
monopoly is one of them. But Maoriland’s dis-
satisfaction with the existing monopoly is such
that almost any scheme of revolt will appeal to it;
and Ward says he is fixed on seeing a local beet
sugar industry established, if not in one way then
in some other. He pointed out the other day
that in Australia, where there is a £6 duty on
sugar, the article is cheaper than in M.L.,
where there is no duty ; and that the M.L. Gov-
ernment had made remissions of over £200,000
annually on sugar in order to reduce the price to
the public, with the sole result that the fat co. got
fatter.
Melbourne Labor Call, in an article concerning
“What Labor owes to Joseph Woolf,” states
that a number of trades unions in Victoria, after
battling in the law courts with victorious results,
have carefully refrained thus far from paying
their lawyer. Instancing some of the unions for
whom Woolf has acted as legal adviser, the
Labor Call says :
Not only hns he not received payment of his profes-
sional costs in many of these matters, but in at least a
score of instances does he still remain unpaid for those
amounts which he generously drew from his own pocket
to keep the Labor cause alive. The sum of £2500 would
scarce represent what he has spent in the interests of the
various unions, and of which not one penny has been
refunded. In the Implement Makers’ case alone the fees
to which Mr. Woolf is entitled amount to over £lOOO,
and beyond that he has paid in hard cash nearly £4OO in
working up the case, and yet he is still waiting to be re-
imbursed.
If all this be true —and it seems to be—the re-
sponsibility for a sweeping charge of ingratitude
against organised Labor bodies rests upon the
organisers. Lawyer Woolf presumably had the
authority and assistance of representative Labor-
ites in whatever he did. He worked as a lawyer
with the hope of being paid for his trouble, in
most cases, anyhow ; and he met the actual cost
of certain legal moves with the confident expecta-
tion of being reimbursed his money out of pocket.
The cynical suggestion that it “ suited ” him to
take up these cases for the sake of the advertise-
ment attaching to them is no answer to a plea for
payment. Woolf appears to have been the best
man that Labor could get; and had he not,prof-
fered his services without stipulating for guaran-
tees of payment. Labor would have been obliged
to procure his services, or other services
of less value, in an ordinary way. Organ-
ised labor believes that the laborer is worthy
of his hire, which indeed is why it is organised ;
and it can therefore less afford even than other
people to ignore the allegation that for many
years it has been accepting labor and money with-
out giving a thought to the matter of paying the
bill.


HAPPY THOUGHT!
A “ Montserrat ” Lime Juice and small Soda
but see it is “ Montserrat”— the genuine kind.
Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
Moving- Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney—3B6 George Street; Melbourne—266 Collins
Street: Brisbane—93-95 Queen Street; Adelaide—
Gawler Place: Perth—Tillys’ Photo. Stores.
Franz Josef
Lag'er Beer
SparKling',
Refreshing',
Exhilarating
and Pure.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
The first policy speech of N.S.W. Premier
McGowhn may be summed up in a very few
words. He didn’t say what his Government was
going to do about the Closed Ports or about
Decentralisation generally, or how it was going
to tackle the incredible liability left on its hands
under Wade’s railway and tramway pension
scheme. He said very little about finance. He
failed to commit himself recklessly re a borrowing
or anti-borrowing policy, or the repayment of the
public debt, or the letting slide of the public debt.
Whether he is going to spend the best part of his
time, like his unlamented predecessor, in snarl-
ing at and picking absurd quarrels with the
Australian Parliament was not explained. Nor
was there any explanation as to why the State
Labor party has lent itself so persistently in the
matter of the Federal capital to the Congestion
policy of the old Tory gang, and labored so hard
at doing the work of the Sydney importers and
landlords. A good deal was said about a new
Arbitration Act, and about settling people on the
land ; about law reform, State coal mines, State
iron works, etc.; but with it all the speech
covered a comparatively narrow range. The
biggest and most difficult questions were mostly
avoided. About the things that the public already
knew, the Premier was fairly explicit; about
those that it didn’t know, he was reticent.
Possibly he said enough to go on with; yet
he said so little that he gave his opponents a
chance to discharge the old sneer about “class
legislation ” and the lack of a broad national
policy. The said opponents have never been con-
victed by their bitterest friends of possessing a
broad national policy themselves ; but that is an-
other matter.
The British people have decided on having a real
good time in a political sense. In other words,
they are going to have another general election.
In 1905 the Unionist-Tory crowd, after being 10
years in office, was so badly walloped that it al-
most vanished. There are five parties in the
House of Commons ; but the Liberals, National-
ists and Laborites, in temporary alliance, counted
354 votes more than the Conservatives and Union-
ists. Things lumbered along for a while till 1909,
when the House of Lords threw out Lloyd-
George’s Budget on the plea that the proposed
new taxation was ridiculous. There was the father
of a row, and the House of Commons was
dissolved, and the Liberals went to the country
declaring that the veto of the Upper House must
be abolished, and asking the public to decide the
election on that issue alone. Of course the coun-
try did nothing of the sort. A referendum can
be taken on one question only, but at a general
election Irish Nationalists vote for the Home Rule
candidate, and Tariff Reformers for the Protec-
tionist candidate, and teetotalism, woman’s suff-
rage and the disestablishment of the Welsh Church,
all drift into the shindy. The Liberals came back
with such a diminished majority that they now
depend on the Irish Nationalists to keep them in
office. They said the country, by not wiping them
out altogether, had endorsed their demand that
the veto of the Lords should be abolished,
and the Lords said that it had done no-
thing of the sort. Neither could prove its
case, but the Lords made it clear that if a Bill for
the reduction of its powers was sent up to it the
document would be thrown out. The King could
ensure its passing by the creation of several hun-
dred new democratic peers, but apparently he
didn’t feel that way. So there is to be another
dissolution of the Commons, and the country is to
express its mixed and quite unintelligible opinion
again. If the Unionists win, the House of Lords
will remain. If the Liberal combination is still
on top with a small majority, the Lords will say
that it didn’t win on this question. Then the
King will doubtless be appealed to, and if he
refuses to make a batch of new peers the Govern-
ment will presumably resign, and after that,
if the Unionists find themselves in office with a
majority of the Commons against them, the only
visible device will be to dissolve and have one
more chaotic election--which won’t clearly decide
anything. The Referendum would settle the
question in one act, but then the Referendum
isn’t English. It is a dreadful thing not to be
English.
*
The approach of the M.L. elections (1911) dis-
covers Joseph Ward extremely busy as shop-
walker and window-dresser; and his affability
descends upon the wholesale and retail customer
alike.
Any Customer: “ 1 want some”
Joseph : “ Yes, sir ; this way, sir ; follow me ; any old
darned thing you like.”
The anti-betting people get the welcome smile;
the Cold Tea party is beamed upon ; the Bung
trade is handed the side-wink ; the anti-borrowing
advocates are charmed with an outburst against
Cohen and the promise of a sinking fund;
the pawnshop barrackers are assured that public
works must be gone on with, and that there will
be no departure from the old, reliable methods of
finance; the anti-monopolists are urged to stay
and see the new weapons for settling trusts ; the
Private Enterprise buyers are urged to make them-
selves at home and taste the light, socialistic
pastry—pastry that P.E. might swallow without
the slightest ill effects. The very latest goods
that Joseph has opened up came out of the land
and income tax box. While the land tax is to
stand without alteration, an income tax is offered
in quite a new pattern, running up from fid. to
Is. 2d. Fat is squealing, of course, but the shopman
affably assures him that the bargain is not at all a
bad one if it is closely examined. “Why,” he
says, “if you get £2OOO a year you don’t have to
pav more than the fellow with only £1250; and if
vou get £5OOO or £lO,OOO you get let off just as if
you only had £2OOO a year coming in.” And to
the poor customers Joseph whispers: “Now, all
3'ou chaps with less than £3OO a year get off scot
free; but I’ve ‘socked’ the plutocrats who draw
£lOOO and over a year. The £lOOO a year fellows
alone have to jump from 6d. in the £ to lid. You
can’t go wrong dealing with me ! ” And as the
Opposition trader hasn’t Joseph’s display of
goods, the bulk of the 1911 trade is confidently
expected at the Government stores.
We have been called on by Miss Grace
Hendy Pooley’s solicitors to apologise for a para-
graph in our issue of the 3rd inst., which is con-
sidered by Miss Hendy Pooley’s solicitors to be
libellous and in bad taste. Evidently the lady’s
solicitors place upon the paragraph a construction
which it was never intended to bear; and, if it
can bear that construction, the lady is tendered
. our sincere apologies. In any case, The Bulle-
tin, having no quarrel with Miss Hendy Pooley, re-
grets if it has hurt her personal feelings, for its
remarks were intended to apply only to her poli-
tical opinions; and it is surprised and sorry that
any other construction should or could have been
put upon them.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Oar Miss Gibbs.”
Royal “Salvation Nell.”
Criterion “ What Happened to Jones."
Palace “Revenge.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Olympia “ Squatter’s Daughter ’’(Pictures).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Theatre “A Knight for a Day.”
Her Majesty's .... “The Whip.”
Royal “The Arcadians.”
King’s “ The Shadows of a Great City.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Arcadia, St. Kilda The Jesters.
Glaciarium Taits’ Pictures.
Esplanade, St. Kilda.. The Follies Comedy Co.
Wirths’ Park Wirths’ Circus.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
«.
“ What Happened to Jones ” is filling in
the last days of the Willoughby season at Sydney
Cri. In the days when the world was younger
Jones was played by the late Charles Arnold,
who did him so well that every other Jones
labors under the disadvantage of those
comparisons which are said to be odious,
which statement has never been seriously
contradicted. Now the character is taken—and
taken in admirable style—by George Willoughby.
It is an interesting thing in its way. Jones is
the typical American hustler—the one who hustles
so much that he hasn’t time to work. A hustler
is a rusher, just like a kitten, and a kitten
is an animal that flees violently at nothing,
and stops short before it gets there, and then puts
up the world’s unpaced record in pursuit of its
own tail. Even when the hustler goes into a
hotel to have a quiet drink he leaps in so violently
—just to show that he is a busy man—that he
strikes the bar hard and rebounds against
the wall, which proceeding often results in skull- *
fracture. The defunct hustler leaves no assets
behind him except an unslept-in bed, a half-finished
cocktail, and some brown clothes—brown doesn’t
show the scorching effects of excessive atmo-
spheric friction. Of this category, as already,
mentioned, is bagman Jones, who bolts from
a most unsatisfactory prize-fight and takes
unauthorised refuge in the house of Goodly.
The fight happens above a stable, or in
some such place where there can’t pos-
sibly be room for a large paying audience.
Apparently it is the sort of rough-and-tumble
that occurs in back-street athletic halls between
Stinker and Ginger. And it is broken up by a
corrupt police force acting under local statutes
of a rather confused kind, wherefore com-
plications ensue, and Jones’s business is
neglected—though he still hustles. Things don’t
really happen to Jones; he is too rapid in
his movements. He is the sort of man who would
leap up and down, if lateral movement were
denied him, rather than remain still. But as a
happener to other people Jones has no known
rivals, save perhaps JuliusCsesar and the Inquisi-
tion ; and if the latter coucern had only thought
of torturing the heretic under chloroform its
record for activity wouldn’t have been nearly
equal to Jones’s.
The company rises to a very high standard
in “Jones.” It may, so to speak, be arrayed in
four lines. In the first rank are George Willough-
by, Hugh Buckler, David James and four
ladies —Misses Mab Paul, Amy Willard,
Violet Paget and Agnes Keogh—whose work
is excellent. A second row includes Harry
Halley and Miss Langridge, who are rather
less excellent, and Harry Overton, who is
something of an exaggeration. Next come one
or two persons whose parts are too small to give
them any definite show; and, finally, Miss
Payter, as the Swedish servant girl, crowds
by herself. She makes the Scandinavian
slavey a wild and amazing caricature, such
as has not been seen on this earth since the
pterodactyl fell ill, and was taken to the hospital
to die. “Jones” is preceded by “The Grey
Parrot an interesting story of man’s unrelia-
bility and woman’s deceit, with a publican and a
hard - cursing fowl
thrown in. The
language of the fowl
isn’t published, but
it is understood to
be actionable.
“SALVATION
NELL,” AT
SYDNEY
ROYAL.
The Lord [?]
Major (Sydney
Stirling).
Jim Platt (William Desmond).
After a long and payable season at
Sydney Palace the Haroilton-Maxwell dramatic
company announces its approaching end, and
Friday week (Nov. 25) will see villainy get the
final woodener in the short' ribs or thereabouts,
and hear the glad, abandoned flop of virtue into
the arms of heroism for the last time. Mean-
while, “Revenge,” a four-act military drama, is
being revived to reliable business, blood-curdling
shrieks, long-sleevers between the acts, and the
information on the programme that “photo
postcards of the company may be obtained in the
theatre, 2d. each.” Which (the 2d.) is very
reasonable. All things considered, “Revenge”
is good melodrama. It is based on an uprising
against the Austrian throne, and a digest of the
“synopsis of scenery” as billed gives the story
in a nutshell. Thus or thereabouts: —
Act I.
Room in the King’s Palace (good old r00m)... The
Plotters... The Listener.. . The Explosive Poi-
son. .. The Listener Blinded.
Act 11.
The Queen’s Boudoir. ..Race for a man’s life and a woman’s
honor.. .. The blind messenger... . The plot fails.
Act 111.
The Queen is saved.... The plotters are disappointed, but
undaunted.
Act IV.
The King is stiffened 0ut.... Vengeance signalled at the
entrance (0.p.).... Hero regains his sight. ... Imme-
diately gouges out she-villain’s eyeballs (Revenge
on the 1005 e).... He-villain’s jugular then severed
(Revenge glutted).... All over.... Balance to part-
ners. ... Curtain, and orchestra playing march
comique, “ Sliding Jim ” (F. H. Losey).
After that, you can do what you like. Writer
did two running.
“ A KNIGHT FOR A DAY,” AT MEL-
BOURNE PRINCESS’S.
W. S. Percy
as Marcelin.
the man with
the sauce.
An impression of small
“ girl ” in the Pony
Ballet.
“Our Miss Gibbs” continues to draw-
bloated houses to Her Majesty’s, Sydney. Lang-
ford Kirby was ordered a rest-cure the other day,
and his part of Hughie Pierrepoint has been
grappled with satisfactorily by Leslie Holland,
who was imported to place Horace Ventirnore in
“ The Brass Bottle.” Miss Gibbs intends to be
with us till Christmas week or thereabouts.
** * *
The godly and the ungodly are flocking to
“Salvation Nell,” at Sydney Royal, in about
equal numbers—the former in the hope of being
shocked, the latter in quest of mere diversion.
The Salvation Army is understood to have had a
rush of recruits as a result of the new J.C.W.
production, which is one of the reproaches that
artistic folk will find to level at it.
* * ifr *
Notwithstanding newer turns, Dan, the
Drunken Dog, constitutes Sydney Tivoli’s
great draw. By simply sitting on a keg outside a
saloon door, following other dogs in and out, and
thirstily licking his lips, he scores every evening
the unanimous howl of joy that is the dream of
the hard-working human jester who performs his
well-rehearsed joke with elaborate care, and then
mutely begs a laugh from his audience. Lairy
Lewis", a moderately amusing comedian, ai d
Violet Stockelle, serio, are the latest additions to
the bill, which also includes Howard and Foy,
the Dancing Gilberts, Woods and Fraser, Brown
and Robinson, and Olga Grey. The ladies of the
beer-garden first part are still flourishing a languid
limb, and Irving Sayies, of the ivory smile and
French-polished countenance; has made a trium-
phant return. Sayles’s obvious delight at having
himself back and his eagerness to leap sft. in the
air make a refreshing contrast to the general
Weariness of the lady beer-gardeners.
** * *
“The Squatter’s Daughter” now glides
through W. Anderson’s picture-making machine
at the Olympia (Sydney); and there is enough
horse and girl in it to appeal to crowded houses
six nights a week. In case the crowded houses
don’t quite understand what all the trouble is
about, a lecturer is engaged to clear up doubts ;
and an orchestra is also on the premises to help
soothe the villain’s, savage breast.
** m *
Walter Bentley and Ancelon will give
another costume recital in St. James’s Hall,
Sydney, next Monday night. Bentley w’ill be
seen in one of his favorite parts—Jock fiowieson,
in “Cramond Brig”—and some Shaksperian
scenes will also be played. The plan is at
Paling’s.
** * *
A revival of “The Arcadians” crowded
Melbourne Royal last Saturday 7 with an audience
that knew this sweetest and cleanest of modern
comic operas, and gave to each of its familiar airs
in turn a round of recognition such as greets the
popular numbers at a ballad concert. The char-
acters were old friends. For a dozen weeks earlier
in the year they had said and done the same
things, and there was no novelty in them. No-
body looked for changes in the happenings of “The
Arcadians,” but everybody was interested in dis-
covering whatdifference a new Sombra would make
in the effect of the performance, musical and
otherwise. The difference is a gain. Miss Wini-
fred O’Connor has a finer voice and is a more
brilliant vocalist than her charming little pre-
decessor. “ The Pipes of Pan ”is a more telling
solo as she sings it; likewise “ Arcady is Ever
Young,” in the second act. She is the principal
factor in an improved rendering of the quartette,
“ The Joy of Life,” the daintiest thing in the opera,
and she introduces a waltz song into the restaur-
ant scene. Personally, she adds some dignity
of height to the figure of the artless fanatic,
whilst losing the charm of childish subjectiveness
that attracted sympathy to Miss Maie Sydney,
though it weakened the significance of the
character. Moreover, Miss O’Connor has a coldly
demure style, which is naturally suited to the
Arcadian girl; for, since Sombra acts as head
waitress at a London restaurant without getting
the least attention from casual male customers,
she must be an exceedingly repellent angel. No
mortal ever caresses her until he is invited, nor
proposes to repeat the endearment. Even Smith
Simplieitas is rather afraid of Sombra. She is ter-
ribly good as well as severely simple. And Miss
O’Connor, who always looks sufficiently straight-
laced for a bishop’s niece, would be the ideal
Arcadian mission lady if she would but be earnest
all the time and a bit unbending occasionally.
She maintains a negative air of restraint rather
than a positive attitude of indifference. She walks
intelligently through her part like one just off the
ice.
*
Miss Gilliam, on the other hand, puts a lot
of dramatic force into the varying emotions of the
girl with a brogue, and has almost ceased to
over-emphasise her words. Also, Cromwell
seems all the better for toning himself down ;
whilst Tom Walls and Miss Kavanagh are admir-
able, as before. Charles Stone seems more
|nimble, and Thorley is quite at home again. For
the rest, Percy Clifton resumes the glittering bald
crown of Father Time ; the place of the late
Edwards is taken by Shortland, whose legs (alas !)
are not eccentric ; and Miss Flossie Diciunsqn is
a bright little Chrysea when she attends strictly
to business and doesn’t smile away from
her character. “The Arcadians” is truly an
admirable show. The mounting and orchestra
management are capital, and the new girls in the
bird-bedizened hats are as tall and beauteous as
some that went away. A great feature of the
revival was to have been the first appearance of a
new dancer, Miss Chistie Mulniah. The lady
appeared—a bouncing, adorable vision—and gave
some indications on the tips of her toes of what
she might have done if she hadn’t previously
strained one of the tendons of one of her under-
standings at rehearsal. Miss Chistie danced in
bandages on Saturday night, it was said, and she
fell down as the result of a complete collapse of
the tendon aforesaid. A critical appreciation of
her continental kick is therefore postponed for at
least a week.
** * *
At the King’s, the missing heiress is still
coming home to roost in the last act, and the
villain who couldn’t discover her for 15 long,
weary years is still finding cause for regret that
the young woman ever came to light. During
the long period when the curtain was down, this
wicked cousin and his friend, the pawnbroker,
were getting on well enough without the million
dollars. If they murdered anybody they didn’t
get found out. It was bad luck for them that
they never turned respectable and wiped the
dollars off the slate of memory. These are some
of the sad reflections awakened by “Shadows of
a Great City,” wherein Maggie Moore and H.
Roberts, and a company mostly deserving of a
better drama, will continue to flourish until next
week.
** * *
The next Wednesday matinee of “The
Whip” will be its last at Her Majesty’s (Mel-
bourne), for the delayed revival of “Harbor
Lights” comes due on the 26th. Meanwhile
“The Whip” is adding more units to its long
total on the scoring-board, and late-comers are
advised to hurry up ere the stumps are drawn.
** * *
At the Princess’s the crazy attractions of
“A Knight for a Day” have been increased by
the engagement of Hassan, the animal imper-
sonator ; wherefore the tincture of panto in the
flow of fatuity is stronger than at first. The
flow will cease, or be interrupted, next Thurs-
day (24th), when the pupils of Jennie Brennan are
to perform “The Geisha,” in aid of the Found-
ling Hospital and Infants’ Home. A few years
ago Miss Brennan put her pupils through a per-
formance of “LaPoupee,” which was a wonder-
ful achievement of young Australian precocity.
If “The Geisha” is nearly as bright as “La
Poupee ” was it will be hardly less astonishing.
* * *
At the Opera House the largest type in
the bill of fare is lavished upon Neil Kenyon, a
comedian who claims special consideration for his
Scotchness. The advt. states that the kilted
character-impersonator is so urgently required in
the far-off land of his greatness that he can only
stay in Melbourne for a fortnight; therefore, if
Melbourne wants to prevent his escape, it. will be
necessary to get an injunction from the Court.
Speaking from a brief and hasty impression of
braw Neil’s bonnie Kenyonism, this writer would
say that a fortnight is plenty. Yaude and, Verne
are back again of late, and Bluett is appearing at
his drollest.
** * *
Wirths’ Circus threatens to tear itself from
Melbourne next Monday, or thereabouts; but in
the meantime the hippopotamus will continue to
sweat blood on the old pitch. Some of Lizzie’s
perspiration is due probably to the awful names
the Wirths are calling her. Their latest term of


JERDAN’S, the big Cinematograph people at
393 George Street, Sydney, have just got out
a Catalogue for Picture Showmen that’s just it.
If you’ve leanings that way you’d better write for
a copy. It’s free.*
insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
FIRE
Lowest Rates Charoed.
f Phone No. 236 Central.
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
Something to
be GRATEFUL for.
Wolfe's
Schnapps.
opprobrium is “the Behemoth of Job,” and the
animal certainly looks it. One day last week the
Circuswas to have dropped Raymond the Hand-
cuff King, in a manacled state, from the parapet
of Princes Bridge ; but the Gaud Mayor and the
police were so deeply moved by Raymond’s prayers
for permission to risk his life that they told him
he mustn’t. The baffled hero eventually reached
the Yarra by way of a motor launch, and dived
off the deck in a death-defying manner.
s(£
At the Melbourne palace of West, “ The
Flag of Company I H”’ is arousing great congre-
gations to loud applause. Yet “The Flag is
hardly more than a crude tumult, interrupted by
a dog-turn, a Red Indian orgy, and a sickly bit of
flag-kissing business. “The Champion Boxer
will appear mildly facetious to the patrons of
stoush ; while “ Nellie’s Farm ” should attract the
tenants of a kindergarten. Very pleasing are
some scenes on the Italian lakes; but there is only
a waning interest in the picture of Manoel of
Portugal. A few days ago he was the idol of
tlie illustrated papers; but to-day he is merely a
king who is out of print.
** * *
Miss Maud Grantham is to repeat her
charming recital of Kipling’s “Just So” stories,
with song and picture illustrations, at the
Athenaeum upper-hall next Saturday (19th). She
tried the entertainment at another little hall
during Cup week, with the result that old General
Desire demanded an encore.
“ THE SHADOWS OF A GREAT CITY,” AT
MELBOURNE KING'S.
W. J. Montgomery as
George Benson . the
Dreadful Villain.
H. R. Roberts as the
persecuted sailor.
Tom Cooper.
Adelaide Tivoli has struck a strong attrac-
tion in Kelly, the American monologuer, who does
a whole eccentric nigger law-court by himself.
The so-called Dartos are back with their clever
daiicing, and Tom Dawson is an acceptable change
from Larry Lewis. The little lady who gives a
series of living pictures is surely worthy of having
her own name on the programme ; hitherto the
turn has been called “A Ba-be’s Postcard Album,”
which is unnecessarily childish. At the Royal
“ The Winning Ticket ” proves itself a good
stayer ; but it is slow away from the
barrier. That is, the first act drags a
lot, but enthusiasm steadily works up from there
to the Cup finish. As for the story, it is steep,
of course, but not nearly as rotten as some recent
imported melodramas. It is an odd coincidence
that Adelaide had the winning ticket (£5000) in
a Tattersall this Cup ; and it was one of the city’s
best-known amateur actors that held it. Other
shows include Dolores (who had a Throat, and
had to cancel one concert), and the familiar
“ Elijah ”by the Bach Society. West’s Pic-
tures are putting up films of the recent
“historic upheaval” in Lisbon, which they
are bold enough to compare with the Re-
volution in France. Judkins has been wander-
ing round, sometimes just lecturing, sometimes
promoting meetings for Peace or Anti-Gambling
or No License. Paris Nesbit, K.C., loves to fish
in these stormy waters, but he always reserves
the right to be candid. When he remarked, for
instance, that “for reasons which are obvious, no
one who believed in the deity of Christ could
agree with the prohibition of alcoholic liquor,”
Judkins would probably almost as soon have done
without his assistance.
“Qua,” on Yictoria’s latest irrigation
settlement:—
The Vic. Government has got the Cohuna irrigation
settlement in a much more advanced state for Meade’s
immigrants than the writer of the par in B. (27/10/10)
indicates. With two small exceptions, the channels in
40 blocks are completed ; and in the two exceptions, the
work will be finished in a few days. Further, culverts,
water checks, and other structures are about 90 per cent,
completed. Grading certainly hasn’t been done ; but
graders are at work. Without irrigation, it may be
necessary to plant between March and June ; but, where
water can be got at any time, crops may also be sown at
any time. And even before they are sown the settlers
won’t starve. Already several from other parts of Vic-
toria have arrived at Cohuna and taken up land. In
many instances they brought their cows with them, and
put them on the natural grasses, as they had no other
fodder, and Spot and Poley yielded revenue from the day
of their coming. They are here yet and so are their
owners, and, if you want their opinion of Cohuna’s
natural grass for cow-feed, come and ask them. Spot
and Poley probably won’t answer, but their bosses will.
A step against which the Octopus Tram-
way Co. in Melbourne has fought for years, using
political influence, intimidation and smoodging as
its weapons, is about to be accomplished. A
Tramwav Emdovees Association has been
formed, for registration under Federal law ; and
though it starts with the 60 men on the Prahran-
Malvern municipal tramways, it is likely to in-
clude very soon the 1700 who work for the
Octopus.
The Mackay (Queensland) Mercury, on
October 27, expressed considerable surprise con-
cerning a halo. Said the editor :“A phenomenon
that attracted considerable attention occurred
yesterday (October 26), when a halo of very
striking appearance encircled the sun.” Later
on, the halo disappeared suddenly, and “the
sun’s appearance became normal.” It was on the
26th that P. Bowling was released. Now, The
Bulletin knows where he got his halo from. It
is the same size, exactly, as the one the Mackay
Mercury saw and suddenly missed.
John Murray took advantage of the Gaud
Mayor’s dinner in Melbourne to talk State Rights.
He introduced the old gags adroitly enough. He
said nothing that was untrue in itself; but he left
unsaid everything that could have lent import-
ance to his utterance. For instance, the weary
platitudinarian remarked that it was easy for a
Labor Government to do things with the Senate
at its back, while it was practically impossible for
a Vic. State Government to push democratic Bills
through the Council. But as to how the State
was to be ridded of the Council, and as to why it
should claim to have legislative rights while con-
tinuing to suffer from Tory paralysis —on these
points Premier Weary was as deaf as the oysters
he had swallowed before he started on the soup.
It is all very well for a local politician to say in a
large, general way that certain legislation can
only be properly accomplished by the Federal
Government, and other legislation can only be
perfected by the State Government ; but, seeing
that there is no prospect of progressive legislation
for Vic. save through the interference of the
Federal Government, even disgusted State
Righters (in moderation) are liable to go bar-
racking for “ interference.”
An Art note (of interrogation) from
“ 0.K.” :
Nobody can deny the technical skill and artistic force
in George Lambert’s paintings ; but, on the other hand,
nobody can deny that his “Holiday, in Essex,” pub-
lished in this month’s Lone Hand, is not so much a pre-
sentment of the Lambertian wife and kiddies going home
(accompanied by a black pony), to cook soipe fish, as a
mixed parody of sundry ancient pictures of the Holy
Family. Mrs. Lambert, with her bare feet and ankles, is
a suggestion of Mary ; the eldest Master Lambert, carry-
ing the miraculous fishes, and shod with sandals, is a
sort of juvenile Jesus; and little Miss Lambert on the
ponv sets one thinking of the Scriptures. “A Holiday
in Essex,” forsooth ! It’s a transfiguration of “ The
Flight Out of Egypt,” or some such holy sub-
ject, with Joseph the Carpenter omitted. Look-
ing first bn this picture and then on the artist’s
inexplicable “The Shop," now on exhibition at the
Athenjeum Hall (Melb.), One naturally asks: What is
George Lambert giving us ? The Old Masters achieved
immortality (for as long as the pigments of their pictures
hold together) by painting the people and things of their
time in a seriously realistic style, or by treating classical
subjects, religious or otherwise, in an honestly imagina-
tive style. They painted their pictures as works of
modern Masters in the spirit of the times. Time has
made them Old-Masterly productions. George Lambert’s
clever work seems essentially artificial. The spirit of his
time is not in it. He arrays it in the art fashions of ages
agone. His “ Holiday in Essex ” is a family group posed
and clothed for a mock “ Old Master” picture, and lack-
ing altogether the live human interest or suggestion of
inspiration which attaches to the work of painters whose
celebrity has endured for centuries.
Did any human being ever dare to hustle an
archbishop? Also, does any archbishop really
know what a hustling place the world is? These
questions will ask themselves because the Arch-
bishop o£ Canterbury recently came out of his
peaceful cathedral close and rebuked the perspir-
ing lay world for being in too much of a hurry,
and for “striving for ‘short cuts.’” Had the
outburst occurred in his time, the Self-Made Hog
Packer would probably have fired something like
this at the harassed Manager of the Grease De-
partment :
Dear Pierrkpont,— ln case you should get stuck on
those few take-it-easy observations of the Canterbury
Boss and squander a good stamp that might earn money
by escorting an invoice to a customer by passing them
along to your old dad, I am robbing myself of a quarter
of an hour to assure you that Canterbury’s methods
would not earn him 10 dollars a week in the stockyards.
You may have noticed that the average bishop travels
for a firm that’s been established fora few hundred years
at least; also, the thought may have struck you that,
while the representatives of Christianity Unlimited keep
butting in on the ranges of the other religion-dealers,
and spend money pretty freely, they don’t write enough
new business to pay expenses. Like most old firms, the
Church is conservative, and it doesn’t make any special
efforts to meet new customers—partly from habit, partly
from fear of hurting the feelings of its old customers who
have got used to the old brand. A certain amount of
income on old business flows into the Church, like itdoes
to most other well-established fire insurance concerns,
automatically, and the dry-rot of easy-money has eaten
into its pulpit. It hasn’t really had to hustle for so long
that it can’t hustle and can’t understand the necessity for
hustle. Its remarks on the subjects are, therefore, worth
about as much as the testimonial of the man who says he
was cured of chilblains on the heart by taking 35 bottles
of Dr. Ginaqua’s Pink Rat Tonic. He means well, but he
never had as much as a bunion.
Long before I met your mother I added up the figures
on the church subscription butts in my private cheque-
book, and figured it out that a concern that couldn’t put
up as much as a font without running heavily into debt,
and then holding up the town for the money to pay off
the mortgage, wasn’t a fit and proper institution to tell
me how to run my little c.o.d. outfit. I kept right on
subscribing ; but I didn’t apply to the purely secular hogs
the advice I got in return for my good money. If a
bishop feels good and goes off on a burst and orders a
cathedral for himself, he doesn’t swear off steeples when
he comes-to, and start to pay the bill out of his salary.
No, sir, he just puts on his walking boots and starts to
get up a building fund, and keeps his parishioners side-
stepping until he dies at 90, and leaves a pile of stone and
about three car-loads of mortgage. Then, if anyone
wants to say anything rough about his business methods,
he says it under his breath after turning round three
times and looking under the table. Of course, if you or
I tried to run the business on those lines, we’d strike
trouble right away, and the papers would give us as
much space as a murder.
A bishop is useful in his own way, and his advice on
a lot of subjects is worth taking ; but his repertoire
doesn’t include finance or hustle ; and I don’t want you
to sit back and wonder if you’re going too hard, because
a letter from the N.Y. and X. Shipping Co., about the
delay in shipping their last order, tells me that you
haven’t. Perhaps, after all, your eye didn’t light on the
paragraph about Canterbury’s speech, and this letter has
merely delayed you with your mail. If so, please accept
my apologies, and put it down to an old man’s eagerness
co dodge a padded brick of loose eloquence that looks
iust about the right size to throw at
Your affectionate father, John Graham.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Star”: Here in Melbourne, at any rate, Poverty
Point seems to be a thing- of the past. Possibly it is also
a thing of the future. But for the present there are no
unemployed pros. So urgent is the demand for actors
that even the very finest tragedians on earth have secured
billets, and the magnificent Hamlets and superb Romeos
who used to lean upon the verandah posts are now lean-
ing on the bars, called thither by that good old warrior,
General Prosperity. Here’s an advertisement for Aus-
tralia. Fancy being able to say in London : “ A rich
country? I should say so. Why, in Australia we have
no unemployed actors!”
Max Maxwell, who was associated with Bland Holt for
a decade, and has since his mentor’s retirement been run-
ning in conjunction with Allan Hamilton, will, upon the
conclusion of the present Palace season, undertake a long
tour of the States with “new plays for old patrons.”
Mr. Maxwell will have the help of Miss Beatrice Holloway
and many other old and new mummers to support him in
endeavoring to prove the villain’s guilt
On Sunday last West’s Pictures and auxiliaries—such as
managers, operators, ticket-takers, honorable solicitor,
wives, sweethearts, family, sandwiches, beer, lemonade,
fruit-salads and other effects —formed themselves into an
unlimited picnic co. at Mortlake (Sydney), and gave the
first annual performance. Unfortunately, it did not
turn out as well as it might have done, owing entirely to
the fact that no arrangement had been made with Time
to stand back and allow the proceedings to last a week.
“ Melb ” : How Melbourne show biz has been revolu-
tionised ! Once no one thought that anything could be
done on the south side of Princes Bridge. Finally visit-
ing shows like Cooper and Bailey’s, Cole's, Chiarini’s and
Wilson’s were forced to go there, through the peculiar
difficulties of the city. Then rude winds, with razors in
the air, necessitated the comparatively permanent build-
ings of Fillis, Fitzgerald and Wirth. Now look at the
three immense biographs, with Skating Rink, Wirths’
Circus under canvas and the Continental Gardens. Yet
more astounding is St. Kilda, further on. Here there are
every night three vaudeville shows, two large biograph
concerns, with two illuminated gardens of the Cremorne,
Vauxhall and Ranelagh order, and a lot of other things.
Only 10 years ago, though St. Kilda had more moneyed
population, it had no amusements at all.
John Utting, who wrote up the story of Herbert Flem-
ming’s theatrical career a few years ago, states that Tub
Lone Hand articles on Australian Mummers have erred
in claiming Flemming as a Maorilander. He was a Cock-
ney by birth, it appears, and had put in some time as an
amateur on the boards of London suburban theatres
(which were very small beer in those days) ere he
migrated to Maoriland for his health’s sake. But seeing
that Flemming was only 22 when he changed his hemi-
sphere, and had begun his new life in a wool store at
Christchurch before taking to the professional stage, The
Lone Hand writer may be pardoned for classing him
among Maoriland actors.
“ The Oldest Inhabitant ” : Ambrose Kyte was not the
husband of Tilly Earl (B. 10/11/T0). That dainty little
girl married John Edouin, the harlequin of the Edouin
family. On John’s death, the widow married Mr.
Newton, a minor actor, by whom there was some family.
Tilly’s father was a cab proprietor and driver, who took
checks at the pit entrance of the old Theatre Royal in
G. Y. Brooke’s time.
GASTON MERVALE AS SVENGALI.
From a plaster bust by J. B. Atholwood.
That good actor, J. B. Atholwood, has just discovered
something- else about himself. While he was in Welling-
ton (M.L.), disporting himself with “Sweet Nell,” Illing-
worth, the sculptor, loving “Jimmy” as a brother,
invited him to his studio, where mud is made art.
While Illingworth patted and picked at a lump of plasti-
cene, which is to be a panel of the radiant Nell for the
Sydney Hospital, James B. started fooling about with a
bit of grey earth. Then, seized with an idea, he started
to work under Illingworth’s guiding eye on a mind-
portrait of Gaston Mervale as Svengali. After devoting
a couple of hours daily to the job he produced an astonish-
ing likeness in clay, of which a May Moore portrait is
given herewith.
“Sceneshifter”: The discussion re drop-scenes sets
one’s mind roaming' through Sydney theatres, only to find
that there isn’t a drop-scene left. Down to 15 years ago
there was a fine view of Windsor Castle at Her Majesty’s ;
the Criterion had an Australian subject, “ The Landing
of Captain Cook at Kurnell”; the Theatre Royal had a
Japanese view. But when the Lyceum opened, in 1892,
it had no drop—nothing but a blue plush curtain, that
did duty on all occasions. And the others soon followed.
“ Harrison O.” : The curse of the theatrical encore is,
as “ Sil ” alleges(“ P.P.” 3/11/’lo>, becoming no better with
great rapidity. On the first night of “ The Shadows of a
Great City,” at Melbourne King’s, the action was held up to
permit of Maggie Moore intoning a ditty. An encore
was demanded and supplied, and then two or three large
bunches of vegetables were handed to her from the
orchestra. All of this happened during a scene laid in
an old boat-house, which was at times visited by ex-
convicts, wandering heroes and minions of law’n’order.
And, when the play started to move once again, neither
mummers nor audience appeared to observe anything in-
congruous in the pile of costly vegetation which reposed
in a corner of the battered old boatshed.
John Long, the London publisher who
Gould’s novels, has got on to a weird yarn. This is from
a leaflet he is sending round: “Australia is about to
exploit the possibilities of the drama as an aid to
colonial development. It appears that the Common-
wealth Treasury has voted £4OOO a year towards an Aus-
tralian drama to be played throughout the English pro-
vinces for the advertisement of the country. The play is
to be written by a one-time Australian, Mr. Nat Gould,
of sporting novel fame, and acted by Australian artists,
and it is hoped that it may disseminate knowledge of the
resources of Australia and attract desirable immigrants
to the country.” The principals engaged for this venture
are not specified. Likely stars would be King O’Malley,
Miss Eugenie Duggan, G. Reid, and the Australian
suffragette who lashed herself to the House of Commons
grille.
“ Busk ’’: Tittell Brune cries out to be saved from Hall
Caine. She acted in his play, “ The Eternal Question,”
new version of “The Eternal City.” The Daily Mail
slated the play, and gently scarified Tittell. Whereupon
Hall Caine rises in the Loudon Daily Telegraph with a
yard of literary pump water on the magnificence of
Tittell Brune. Reminds you of McKee Rankin’s rancid
butter poured on Nance O’Neil. But they are nearly all
the same. Victor Hugo used to write absurd prefaces to
his dramas, emptying the melted-butter pot on all the
performers—always with an underlying hint that the
play was the finest ever written. Edmund Kean, after
acting Othello, said to a humble country actor: “ Sir
you are the finest lago I ever acted with.” lago : “ Sir,
I should be flattered but that 1 know eleven lagos to
whom you have said the same.”
So many English farcical comedies of the old domestic-
misunderstanding type were adaptations from the French
that it comes as a shock to read of a modern French
comedy which, though adapted from the German, bears a
strong family likeness to a 25-year-old English piece. In
the Franco-German story a schoolmaster has written a
play of ancient Roman interest unbeknown to his wife.
This he introduces to the manager of a travelling dra-
matic co., whose leading juvenile captures the affections
of the schoolmaster’s daughter. The plot of “ L’Enleve-
ment Des Sabines,” the' comedy in question, consists
mainly of domestic troubles arising from the
secret negotiations between the pedant playwright
and the theatrical buskers, characters and plot being
much the same as they were in “ A Night Off,”
written by Alfred Maltby and produced by J. C. William-
son in the 80’s of last century. Titheradge played the
leading juvenile of the travelling co. ; George Anson was
the fur-colored manager who made a hash of the pro-
fessor’s Roman tragedy; Miss Agnes Thomas was the
author’s charming daughter, whilst Maltby himself played
the unsophisticated prof. A good many veteran Aus-
tralian playgoers must remember “A Night Off" as a
remaikably bright farcical comedy in its day, and if the
French adaptation from the German should happen to
come to Australia in English translation, they will recog-
nise an old friend.
“ Stargazer ” : The manufacturers of “ A Knight for a
Day,” and the present perpetrators of it, attempt to dis-
count criticism by printing in bold type the modest asser-
tion that, whatever the play may be, it is all that is
claimed for it. This, from my point of view, is an assur-
ance that “ A Knight for a Day ” is imbecile; and I am
pleased to have author and manager in cordial agreement
with me. Cut out Toby Claude’s fun, for nothing of which
the authors are responsible, and the remaining comedy
is woefully flat Where it isn’t desperately stale. Two
pleasant songs, two rattling ballets, and Toby Claude
represent the assets of “ A Knight for a Day " —say 35
minutes’ amusement, with 2hr. 26min. of more or less
patient waiting.
“Jean S.”: Women in the profession encumber them-
selves with weird names. A vaudevillienne who recently
went insolvent in N’York was known as Miss Truly
Shattuck, which suggests that all other Shattucks are
base impostors or bad imitations. Serene Nord is the
advertised title of an “American Venus” who dives in a
garb that resembles a coat of paint. A dancer appearing
the other day at the London Coliseum was billed as My
Fancy, which sounds like something heard in the Paddock
or on the Hill. (An imported lady of the same name did
a dance of sorts at a Sydney theatre some years ago.)
In Australia we have Miss Toby Claude. Personally, I
can endure Claude unruffled, but I can’t think of Toby
without thoughts of a door-mat and a little towser gnaw-
ing an immense dog-biscuit on it.
“L.H.P.”: Beerbohm Tree’s spectacular production of
“ Henry VIII.” at his London theatre last month brings
to mind other shows along the same lines. When Garrick
presented the Tudor monarch at Drury Lane he starred
his coronation procession. Also, he introduced a real
bonfire on the stage. This effort after realism left the
spectators cold. The smoke made them cough, and they
hooted the bonfire and its attendants. Garrick accora-
ingly cut it out at subsequent shows. Tree, as usual,
does his version in three acts, and introduces 10 scenes—
some of which are repeated. Violet Vanbrugh, the
Patience of Irving’s 1892 production at the Lyceum, is
his Queen Katherine. Irving’s version was in five
acts and 13 scenes, and, according to Austin Brereton,
brought the Lyceum knight-actor a profit of £13,000.
Charles Kean included “Henry VIII.” in his famous
Shakspearian revivals at the London Princess, doing it
in 1855. His five-act version contained 15 scenes, and an
introduced panorama of London, and was also remarkable
for the first introduction to the London stage, of lime-
light, and the French device of tableau curtains. Be-
tween Kean and Irving came Samuel Phelps, who
frequently played the wily Cardinal at Drury Lane under
Chatterton’s stormy management. It was in 1878 that
Phelps, while playing the role at the now defunct West-
minster Aquarium, finally broke down, just at the con-
clusion of the famous farewell speech. Creswick, a
contemporary of Phelps, played “ Henry VIII.” in Aus-
tralia.
“ Lud ” : Cabled that Ellen Terry’s Shakspeare lecture
is an overpowering New York success. The Taits or
someone should rush in with an offer to her to visit
Sydney and Melbourne. Her lecture will, of course, be
very theatrical. Beatrice was her finest Shakspearian
character; it may be peerless throughout all time. She
thought Irving too slow as Benedick, and preferred her
husband, Kelly. Nor did she dislike Asche’s cackle in
the part. Her Portia came next. Probably it was not
up to Helen Faucit’s or Ellen Tree’s, but eminently
pleasing in the light and airy, where other Portias have
been weak. Her Ophelia was unquestionably of the first
order, in the era when Irving was the unrivalled Hamlet
—“ Booth the actor, Irving the Hamlet.” Bancroft urged
Irving to give her a show as Rosalind. “ Where do I
come in?” asked ’Enry. “Oh, Touchstone.” “Don’t
see it.” Her Juliet was not a good fit, though far better
than Irving’s Romeo. Yet she maintains that no living
actor could perform it as well as Irving. “Don’t men-
tion Terriss in the same breath,” says she. Her Lady
Macbeth was a very strange thing, like that of tiny blonde
Mrs. Scott Siddons. (A recent literary explorer main-
tains that Lucrezia Borgia was an amiable little hlonde.)
Ellen Terry would have been fine in Miranda a/d Her
mione. She was sweet as Viola; not at home in
Volumnia ; walked deliciously through Desdemona ; out
of place in Queen Katherine (Genevieve Wardls part); and
not eminent as Cordelia—and Irving’s Lear was shocking.
THE VILLAIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ This wheeze, my boy,” the boss had said,
“ Will get the biggest laugh
That ever yet was credited
A mummer. I don’t chaff—
No matter what has gone before,
The audience will scream and roar ! ”
The first night of the panto, came,
My brother-comics I
Looked on with scorn ; I meant to shame
Their efforts by-and-by.
Scene 4—remember, if you please,
Was where I had to work the “ wheeze.”
The moment came ! I cracked the joke
Then waited for the scream ;
But ne’er a sound the silence broke—
It seemed a ghastly dream.
(woke up when, instead of cheers,
Hisses and hoots assailed my ears !
Hisses and hoots ! I left the stage,
Looking and feeling blue ;
The prompter, eager to assuage
My grief, said : “ Thought yer knew,
That other bloomin' comic , he
Cracked that before yer in Scene 3 /”
MAORILAND.
EARDLEY TURNER.


h
at the Names we represent
EACH ONE A GUARANTEE IN ITSELF.
THE DAIMLER —Grand Prix Brussels International Exhibi-
tion, 1910.
THE AUSTIN —One of England’s foremost Cars.
THE DELAUNAY= BELLEVILLE —the Flower of the French
Automobile Industry.
THE F.N. (N.S.W.)—Manufactured by the Belgian Arms Factory.
Flawless as a Gun-Barrel.
THE SCHACHT Motor Buggy —Unexcelled for Country Work.
The Favorite of the “ Man on the Land.”
YOU CANNOT GET BETTER THAN THESE.
Look
Sole
Agents:
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.,
136-138 Phillip St.,
Sydney.
ĥ
ħ
Pair.
Pyjamas for 8(11
They are leaders in our Mercery Department this Season,
and of very special value, made of a
SPLENDID QUALITY CEYLON and
COLORED COTTON CREPE—
two materials specially selected and sent out in an enormous
quantity straight from reliable manufacturers. Every suit is
cut by our own Man Tailor—an expert—and they are made up
under our own strict supervision—which means thorough
workmanship and careful finishing. In all Men’s Sizes.
Our guarantee for perfect satisfaction accompanies each
garment, failing which we willingly refund your money.
Distant residents remember
WE PAY CARRIAGE
on all goods except Furniture, Floor Covering, Kitchen and
Hardware to any part of the Commonwealth.
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
• ••
Society
“ ALL IS VANITY .”
There is no pleasing some people. In
1908 the M.L. wowsers appealed to the public to
rise and throw off the curse of der-rink and its
accompanying wickedness, and lead the life of
decency and righteousness, and such like. Waihi
was one of the places that decided to follow the
advice, and voted No License. And this is the
locally-reported opinion of Dr. Henry (of the
Henry-Potts mission) on the result, as given at
his final address in the town :
He said that, in proportion to the population, he had
never seen so many occupants of “ Coward’s Castle "as he
hadseenin Waihi. They had not the courage of honest con-
victions, nor the courage of a Chinaman, and were
spiritual skunks. The mission had been the hardest one
in Mnoriland. His voice and strength had gone, and
his brain was in a whirl. He had pleaded his best. If he
thought he would have such a difficult time again, with
its burden and strain, he would turn his back upon it, for
it would break his heart. He would not stand in their
places for the Waihi mine itself.
What with stipendiary magistrates, police inspec-
tors, Gospel missioners, etc., No License is leading
a dog’s life these times.
# * * * fc
N.S.W. Premier McGowen told a glad
yarn to a deputation last week (S. M. Herald
report) :
In the course of an election campaign, a selector told
him of two new arrivals from Birmingham, whom he was
employing. One, the selector said, was well developed
physically, but, to his consternation, he found that the
man had never seen an axe before in his life, and when
trying to use one after a course of instruction, was in a
fair way to chop off some of his toes. The selector
asked the man how they obtained their wood in Bir-
mingham. The reply was that they got it usually in
small bundles. “The Australian was disgusted,” said
Mr. MeUowen, “ and thought we were the biggest fools
in the manner in which we selected men.” The anecdote
was given to illustrate Mr. McGowen’s warning as to the
class of men that should be chosen for Australia.
The point is hardly so clear as it might be. If
McGowen means that we should only import bush
carpenters, fencers, expert tree-fellers, cattle and
sheep men of the kind who are ready at the
shortest notice to take flocks and herds across the
boundless wilderness, prospectors, and other
hardy pioneers, the simple reply is that they can’t
be got. The only countries besides Australia
which grow such folk are thinly-peopled lands
which want immigrants themselves. In Britain
there are no bush carpenters and no bush. The
fencer is almost unknown, for the little fields are
divided by hedges, except in such places as Ireland
or the Scotch Highlands, where walls of loose
stones are common. Some of the hedges are said
to be a century old. The expert tree-feller doesn’t
grow there, for the few trees are, as a rule,
religiously preserved. The country imports its
firewood as a general thing. Nobody in Britain
learns the art of finding his way across the trackless
wilderness; it is difficult to get out of sight of a
house, and in some places it isn’t easy to get out of
sight of a hotel. Everybody walks on roads.
Everybody can find water within half a mile.
Nobody ever heard of such a sacrilege as ring-
barking trees; an Englishman would as soon ring-
bark the royal family. People don’t even learn to
chop up small fragments of wood in the back yard,
for an enormous proportion of the community has
no back yard. There is no recognised class of
shearers; the small flocks of sheep simply
have their hair cut in a steady-going way.
Nobody “ runs up ” a slab hut; if he wants a
place built he sends for the recognised bricklayer.
From that quiet, tame land comes a quiet, tame
immigrant who never takes kindly to the Aus-
tralian wilds, though his Australian-born son
does. And if Premier McGowen proposes to
wait for immigrants till we get the hardy English
bushman who has led a roving life in the bound-
less wastes of Middlesex he will wait a long time.
Meantime he should suppress ignorant or insane
selectors who imagine that in old cities like Bir-
mingham the inhabitants personally cut down
forest giants for fuel. They tend to rouse the
mirth of the Old World.
* * * *
A rumor is abroad that when George V.
is crowned he w’ill appear under the new aspect
of “ Emperor of All the Britains.” It is a ring-
ing title and calculated to shake up that rival
potentate, the Emperor of All the Russias.” The
style and dignity of English monarchs have been
variable quantities. There were old English
kings who called themselves “Pendragon, ” and
others who called themselves “ Brytenwalda.”
Edward, son of Alfred the Great, was “King of
the Angul-Saxons.” Athelstan called himself (1)
“Monarch of All Britain”; (2) “King of the
Englishmen and of All the Nations dwell-
ing with them on every side”; (3) “King of
the Angul-Saxons and of All Britain ”; (4)
“ Angul-Saxon King and Brytenwalda of All
these Islands”; (5) “Basileus of the English
and at the Same Time Emperor of the Kings and
Nations dwelling within the Bounds of Britain.”
He died before he could invent any more titles,
and before he died the empire had gone to wreck.
For fully 300 years the King of England whooped
himself up as Basileus of Britain. In between
times there was an English king whose style was
“Caesar of the Whole of Britain.” So if George
Y. decides to be Emperor of England, or any
trifle like that, he has precedent behind him.
Whether there is any material profit in this extra
pomp is another matter. Some pessimists still
hold that Britain’s supremacy first began to be
seriously questioned after Queen Victoria gilded
her state, at Disraeli’s instigation, with thd new
name of “Empress of India.” Perhaps it will
yet be found that the most durable monarchy is
that in which the ruler is simply described as Old
Boots.
THREE TO ONE.
The unitary method is fast superseding the old rule of three.— Arithmetical Note.
SMALL son: “Pa, what’s the unitary method, and what’s the rule of three, and what”
HARASSRD PA (thinking of ma-in-law, wife and baby in background): “Unitary method
means staying single. Rule of three means damfoolery.”
SMALL SON: “ Will that answer do for the teacher, pa?”
HABASSED PA: “Yes, if he’s MARRIED.”
“The Old Soldier”: “The reticent Ad-
miral Hendersou ” has spoken on one topic, any-
how. According to the papers, he said “Glad-
stone was a very fine harbor, and ho wondered
why it was not more used.” Though it is 30
years since I saw it, and though since then I have
seen most Australian harbors, and have also scru-
tinised many in Europe, Gladstone still remains
in my mind as one of the world’s best. It is not
A GOOD CHARACTER.
EMPLOYER : “ Any references with you? ”
THE APPLICANT: “Not in writin; but the boss
at the last place I was at says I’m the best
bloke to work he ever had in the lock-up.”
only easy to enter and safe when you are inside,
but it has, in Rorld’s Bay, a secure outer harbor in
which ships could lie at anchor in smooth water
in almost any weather. Facing Island and Curtis
Island shelter it to the east and north. The
channel between them is so narrow and so thickly
set with rocks as to be practically impassable
even for small boats. In short, Port Curtis is an
ideal naval port; the only one that I know in the
world to approach it is Brest, in France, and that
is not nearly so good, so large or so well shel-
tered. The shallow puddles that serve as harbors
for Chatham and Portsmouth are not to be named
in the same breath with it, while their outer
anchorages at Spithead and Sheerness (The
Nore) are not to be compared with Rodd’s Bay.
Some people have strange ideas. A River-
ina (N.S.W.) town had a flower show and fair
the other day, and the prize for the “ best baby”
was awarded to a little Chinese half-caste. And
the chances are that the people who reckoned
that a yellow streak improves the Bulldog breed
shout the loudest on Empire Day about “ the
grand old British race.”
“Chasuble”: Archbishop Carr has been
“improving” the anniversary of St. Patrick’s
(Melbourne). O’Shanassv was the great
layman in 1850 when St. 1 Pat’s was
planned. He wanted a big square, with
the Cathedral on one side and Parlia-
ment House, then not started, on an-
other, while public offices filled the
other two sides. The other sects, of
course, howled, and the scheme had
no hope. Yet the Cathedral is more
prominent as it is. It has cost £200,000,
of which £90,000 has been spent by Dr.
Carr ; and the last brick is still far off.
The completed building will have two
front spires each 200 ft. high, and a
transept spire 350 ft. high. Crotty
thought that he had dug these out of
Mount Lyell, so he bequeathed £lO,OOO.
But the Church gave a slice of money to
the widow, who had been overlooked by
Crotty, and in the realisation of the estate
a good deal of what was left of the ten thou.
has melted. Outsiders don’t know how much
the Church got; but, anyway, no spires sprout.
They don’t drink in hotel bars at Inver-
cargill (M.L.); but some people must have excite-
ment. One couple in that stricken community
finds employment or relaxation or something in
getting itself married and divorced and re-married.
These lovers had not long been man and wife be-
fore they were divorced. Each then married
somebody else. In due time they were divorced
from the second husband and wife respectively;
and then they married one another again. One
of them has now an application for divorce before
the Court. As soon as this is settled some parson
will, no dou.bt, be getting a job to re marry them.
There seems to be nothing half so good as divorce
for bringing some people together. In the Well-
ington Court the other day application was made
to have a decree nisi made absolute. The parties
had been shown at the divorce hearing to have
always disagreed ; indeed they had hardly ever
lived together. But when the absolute order was
asked for, it was opposed on the ground that, since
the decree nisi, the parties had been living .to-
gether, and were apparently desperately in love.
THE BOLD BACILLUS: A FRAGMENT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
... “I make this fair offer. If Mr. McGowen, as Pre-
mier, will take the lead to protect New South Wales
against this aggression, I will stand behind him, and do
my best to help him. (Loud cheers.) But if he is not
prepared to take that step, then I will not be found
wanting—(renewed cheering).” — Sydney D.T. (S/11/’10).
Now, by the Purple Harbor,
Was tumult and affright,
When the great lord of Talur
A banquet made that night;
The guests were pale and gloomy,
Despite the dry champagne,
For—Horror 1 Andrufisur
Was on the march again !
Fast by the Statefrites’ standard,
Overlooking all the food,
Sat Carolus Bacillus,
In sad and thoughtful mood ;
At his right hand sat Garlus,
And Oaksiu3, and the rest,
With the great lord of Talur—
Who seemed himself depressed]
And all the Fatted chieftains
Were ranged beneath his eye,
With many a famished Hebrew
Who bade the pork go by!
And'with a mighty following,
To join the revels, came
The Tusculan, Surrector,
Prince of the Barbwire name.
Surrector’s brow was very sad,
Surrector’s speech was low,
And darkly looked he at the feast
And watched the red wine flow:
“ Ho, chieftains! Andruftsur
Now thunders at our gate ;
He bears the Referendum —
What hope, then, for the State?”
Then up sprang bold Bacillus—
The Statefrites’ champion, he !
“ Nay, Romans ! We must die first;
Now, who w’ill die with me?
I ask : Can man die better
Than in MA’S noble cause—
For the profits of her Fat Men,
And her pale, thin Wowser laws?
’“And for the Constitooshun
That we admire so much ;
And for our institooshuns
Like Governors and such—
For Costs and costly actions—
Appeals by George, to George !
A fig for Andrufisur,
And may it choke his gorge 1
“Go, summon Magovenius
With all the speed ye may 1
I, with that wight to help me,
Will hold the foe in play :
In j’on Statefrites Assembly,
By one, by two, by three.
We’ll buzz and hum and whoosh and whiz
And generally stop all' biz—
So just rely on ME !”
N.S.W.
MACAULAT MISOR.


Rich Women need Sunlight Soap.
Poor Women need Sunlight Soap.
All Women need Sunlight Soap.
IT DOES WHAT IT PROMISES.
What’s ~
put
in
the
Soap
comes
out
in
the
clothes.
h
ĥ
ħ
No. 57.
Guaranteed under
the " Pure Food Act, 1908,'
by Lever Brothers Limited
Sydney. N.S.W.
No. 57.
By Special
Appointment
h
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS, Mo# “ s '
THE CATERER, Tel. No. 2, Ascot. "111 OKI A.
Wedding- Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Ring up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from.
George or King Streets).*
ĥ
Big in Quality—
but Small in Price,
12/6
'T'HIS Boot, in spite of its small cost, is
one we can highly recommend. It is
made on a special last, in extended
medium shape, with close welts and linen
linings. You can have it in either of two
materials—Black Yici or Black or Tan Box
Calf. Say which you prefer when you order.
Tell us what size boot you take, too.
Price, 12s. 6d.
Posted Is. extra; Inter-State, Is. 3d. extra.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
“ Men’s Outfitters.”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
“Philo”: The trouble the Queensland
Government is facing in connection with the
“ guaranteed ” Dalby-Cattle Creek railway recalls
a similar circumstance in Tasmania. The Laun-
ceston-Deloraine line was constructed on the
guarantee system. At the end of the first year
there was a substantial deficit. When called
upon to make good the loss, cocky said “ Garn ! ”
Therailway people threatened proceedings. Cocky
repeated “Garn!” in his very loudest voice.
Bailiffs then went in and gathered some of cocky’s
stock. In a few well-chosen remarks, cocky con-
veyed to the railway people his opinion of them.
On the day of the sale the farmers gathered in
SHE WAS THE ONE.
“ That looks like Miss Gibbs."
“I believe it is Miss Gibbs.”
“ Of course it is Miss Gibbs.”
Launceston and marched to the sale-yards, carry-
ing banners bearing disagreeable remarks about
the enemy. One man marched with a coffin on his
shoulder, and it bore the inscription. “ For the man
who buys Paddy Griffin’s cow.” And when the
sale occurred, the people whom the railways ex-
peeted to buy the stock smiled sarcastically, and
said that they’d see them darned first. So far as
I know, the railway let the painful subject drop
at that point.
“Jack Jay ’: If Maggie Papakura, or
Pat O’Maori, or somebody else has not already
clawed the scalp of Robert Brothers for his"
article (B. 13/10/T0) on the Maori, I should
like a scratch at him. It is no good
taking him in detail, for all through
he shows the tourist’s usual hastiness
of observation. But a point or two
must be fixed upon—say, one each
for men, women and girls. As to
the men, they are not lazy, as
Robert Bros, alleges. Henare
is a first-class worker when
he wants to work. He’s not
a steady worker, because
when he earns what he
wants for kai or clothes or
a bicycle, he doesn’t see the
fun of continuing to lose his
valuable oil. Maori women
may not be modest from
Robert’s point of view,
though I don’t know what
his point of view is; but
they would cover their eyes
in shocked Surprise at some
of the exposures at a ball or
dinner party of pakehas.
As to the girls, there was a
time when it was reckoned
quite an honor to one of
them to have a half-caste
baby. But it isn’t so now;
and the last little half-caste
that appeared in my vicinity
was followed by a thick stick
and an order to “marry the
girl.” Robert’s little know-
ledge is clearly shown in
his remarks about feathers.
He says: “A huia’s feather
will do.” I should say it would.
Only the chiefs were allowed to wear
the huia feather; and those feathers are
now so scarce that Robert would make a good
thing by snaring the next dozen or two he
glimpses.
« * « *
“ Sil ” : The Dawes Point pile-light, the
eyesore which macks the unnecessary reef that
juts out into the fairway at Circular Quay, Syd-
ney, has been bumped over again. It is the third
time within one year, and three warnings ought
to be enough for any body—even a Harbor Trust.
This, and the similar light that is stationed off
Bennelong Point, seem to exist mostly as marine
ninepins, which any wandering craft can knock
over if it feels inclined; and, latterly, they
have been bumped so often that they have
taken to looking less like pile-lights than
dejected drunks whose hats hang over
one eye. At a very busy place like Circular
Quay, any obstruction whatsoever should be looked
at askance; yet the gentlemen of the Harbor
Trust allow these reefs to block up the narrow
entrance (the Dawes Point Horror juts out fully
80ft.). and they keep on cheerfully paying for the
upkeep, and the lighting and the numerous
repairs, year after year, when a tithe of the
money expended on gun-cotton would, at least,
cut a large slice off the risk of Sydney’s almost
inevitable ferry accident.
“The Gunner”: Some cable items are
most interesting when the newspaper cutting has
taken on the yellow hue of old age. Here is one
just a year old :
Reuter’s correspondent at Constantinople telegraphs
that the Government has ordered from a German firm
300,000,000 Mauser cartridges, delivery to be completed
in 1910.
The Turk was recently referred to in The Bul-
letin (3/11/TO) as having broken out again in
several places. Apparently, it was not done on
the spur of the moment. I take it that he got
the Atrocity Department to map out a programme
a year ahead, then calmly ordered his shooting
material, crossed his legs, and sat down to wait
with Asiatic calm until the very last cartridge
was delivered. The Macedonian persecutions and
judicial murders, the row on the Greek border,
the Persian raid and the rest of the fun were all
wrapped in that German order of.42«»ionths back.
I wonder are the Japs as deliberate and far-
seeing?
THE ECONOMIST.
“ Well, what do you want ?”
“ Bread. ”
“ Bread—is that all you can say?”
“ No: butter.”
An 18-carat insolvent turned up at Echuca
(Vic.) last week. He had gone smash away
back in 1902 over a carting venture; then,
having made some arrangement with his creditors,
he repaired to the Mallee to take up farming.
There Fortune grinned broadly upon him, and
the land, in response to the vigorous tickling of
his disc-plough, laughed with a succession of har-
vests. The net result was a comfortable bank
account, out of which he desired to pay his 1902
creditors 20s. in the £, and get a receipt in full
and a certificate of discharge. The Judge who
heard the appeal gladly handed out the desired
document with a few remarks of a complimen-
tary character. Possibly the solvent farmer is a
relative of the man who, four years ago, took up land
at Carina, in the Western Mallee, owning nothing
but the clothes he stood up in. A little while ago
he was reported to have a 400-acre crop of wheat
estimated to be worth £lOOO. These stories of
the earth’s fruitfulness and of an honest man’s
yearning for a receipt in full make pleasant read-
ing—even for the city worker on a salary who
has no such chance of making a rise. The city
worker is pleased to hear about the wheat, and
hopes that Tait’s railways will be able to carry it
to the seaboard for the fortunate owner. But a
little thought that will rankle is that the farmer,
no matter how well he does, keeps on holding out
his hat to the city for the same old roads and
bridges.
* * * *
Now that a police magistrate has decided
that there was no.case against the South Yarra
signalman, whom Attorney-General Brown, of
Victoria, ordered to be charged in connection
with the Richmond railway disaster, and now
that driver Melville has also been acquitted—the
Judge asking the jurors at the close of the Crown
case if they wanted to hear any further evidence,
which they didn’t—it is up to Mr. Brown to make
an earnest effort to find another scapegoat. The
Inquiry Board’s finding was inconclusive; but the
Coroner laid the blame on the repeated and cus-
tomary breaches of faulty regulations ; and, seeing
that the smash will call for over £lOO.OOO worth
of compensation (£BO,OOO has already been paid),
besides the bills for relief, for the inquiries, etc ,
somebody ought, at least, to be fined 40s. or a
month over the occurrence.
* * * *
A sinful clause in the Melbourne Tram-
way Co.’s charter permits the monopoly to
squeeze a bit extra out of the public on certain
holidays. On Cup Day, which is one of these
special occasions, there is no issue of transfer
tickets from one line to another; also “city”
tickets which cost three-halfpence are “off,”
and anyone riding a little way in Bourke
or Collins street to the Spencer-street
station must pay a twopenny ticket or three-
pence in cash. The odd thing is that the
wowsers have never risen in revolt against this
Cup Day imposition. They may organise Sun-
day-school picnics and things as counterblasts to
the dissipation of the godless; but they can’t
escape the Tramway Co.’s demand for extra fare
in consideration of it being Cup Day.
Melbourne’s Gas Co., which is almost as
Fat as its Tramway Co., got an unpleasant sur-
prise lately when its mechanical employees found
they catne under the Wages Board’s decision,
governing the plumbing trade, and were, there-
fore, entitled to a minimum of £3 6s. for first-class
and £2 17s. for second-class men. As these rates
meant an increase of from 7s 6d. to 10s. per week,
together with a reduction of hours from 48 to 44,
the co., or someone connected with the co., pon-
dered deeply, and ultimately begat the idea that
the Tramway Co.’s dodge was the correct caper.
Certain delegates, therefore, convened a meeting
of the 100 or so employees concerned, and
invited them to sign a petition asking Parliament
to remove them from the Wages Board’s control,
and assuring that body that they were more than
satisfied with the company’s treatment, and had
no desire to swap their ke-ind masters for a Wages
Board. When the meeting assembled, however,
)t straightway ignored the “delegates,” chose an
independent chairman, and took a vote by ballot
that upset the whole tricky arrangement. By the
way, Swinburne, M.B. A., was virtuously indignant
when the Tramway Co. tried its little dodge. Now
Swinburne is chairman of theGasCo. Presumably
therefore, even if the petition to Parliament had
been agreed upon, Swinburne would have called
upon the House to throw it out with the utmost
energy. Possibly, also, he would have remarked,
that it would be a monstrous thing to encourage’
employers to think that they could be a law untO'
themselves simply because they happened to have,
a long pay-sheet.
* * *
The Victorian railways seem prepared to*
take any risk these times. One day last week iu
carriage forming part of a train from Preston,
to Princes Bridge started to jolt heavily and rock
in a sickly way. The people in it held tight andl
waited for the usual smash. The carriage, how-
ever, held on until the train ran into a station; then
the footboard of the wounded vehicle grated along
the kerbing of the platform, splintering and
cracking. The damage was noted by someone in
authority, and—the train was sent on to the next
station. Again the caravan was waved forward
by some dauntless person ; and the same per-
formance was repeated at every stopping-place. At
Princes Bridge some large person in authority was
invited to havealookatit. HesaidtheS.M.’salong
the line had already told him about it, and added
that the carriage would have to go out with the
train because there was nothing to take its place.
So the dangerous thing, with its undergear
broken, was sent off again on its journey lurching
and straining. A railway system run on such
lines keeps Providence working overtime. The
trouble is that when Providence gets sick of it;
and allows something to smash, it can’t be-
arrested and charged like plain Jack Footplate,
with “ wilful omission and neglect to observe cer-
tain regulations made by the Railway Commis-
sioners for governing the working of traffic.”'
Providence doesn’t seem to care a hang for the:
Railway Commissioners’ regulations.
WITH THE USUAL RESULT.
FRIEND: “So you’re taken your son in to ieacth
him the business, I hear. How's he turning
out?”
BUSINESS MAN (wearily): “ Great success! He's
teaching me.”
These foreign-fleet visits are things to be
encouraged— sometimes. The Dutchmen left
between 140 and 150 men behind them ; and Van
Voss simply says, “Oh, no matter !” Mostofthem
got away either at Adelaide or Fremantle. S. Aus-
tralia has just started, harvesting, and wants cheap
“hands” badly; so while the Dutch bridge was
being entertained at a garden party, the Dutch
fo’c’stlewas having lager and other things poured
into it by the largely-farming Teuton at another
spree. The Westralian cocky probably didn’t
think of the same thing; but that other powerful
bird, the Bullfinch, did the job for him.
THE HATE OF SAINTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN .]
Archdeacon Blank has addressed yet another sharp re-
monstrance to Archbishop Stoush. This is the 47th re-
monstrance the Archbishop has received from Archdeacon
Blank.
With regard to the Drainville Church Lands dispute,
which originated over five years ago, the Rev. Bloggs
pointed out yesterdav that the Rev. Yelp was once more
distorting the truth in a cynically shameless fashion.
The Bash case has revived. Dean Bash and his congre-
gation propose to fight the Bishop to the last ditch.
—News items.
The seasons come and go ; the skies
Grow dark, then light again ;
Wars rage, and after follows peace ;
Folk loathe, then love amain.
One thing alone Time’s healing hand
Descends upon in vain ;
It can do anything but cause
The Hate of Saints to wane.
The village atmosphere is calm.
The very councillors
F.xist in amity. The lamb
Besides the lion snores
In fifty queer unlikely spots ;
Yet, still the Bishop pours
Rebuke upon the Dean, whereat
The Dean defiance roars.
The pious Corsican is said
To have a pleasing way
Of cherishing his grievances.
Long years do not allay
His rage. Wherein he much suggests
Our holy ones, who pray
Yet keep the flames of Hate ablaze
For ever and a day.
Out in the empty spaces which
The misanthrope affects,
in hovel, tent or mansion that
The plutocrat erects —
Wherever men are found, in short,
One nuisance aye surrects :
The din of clerics quarrelling,
The howls of warring sects.
ENVOY.
Th" seasons come and go ; the skies
Grow dark, then light again ;
Wars rage, and after follows peace,
Folks loathe, then love amain.
One thing alone Time’s healing hand
Descends upon in vain ;
It can do anything but cause
The Hate of Saints to wane.
N.S.W.
H. SINGKMOINE.


“National” Gas Engines and Suction Plants
Known as the “Royal ” Gold Medal Engines and Plants, beat all comers
in England after exhaustive trials.
EXCELLENT RESULTS FROM EITHER COKE OR CHARCOAL.
SOLE AGENTS, with experts from the English Works:—
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER & CO., 2 Circular Quay East, Sydney; 54 Queen St„ Meltcvrnc
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
jig" “NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE.”
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), UTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Joseph Ward, of Maoriland, is a many-s ded
man. A much-fussed-over item of his beautiful political
programme is the pomplete repayment (some day) of the
public debt. Now Joseph borrows another £5,000,000
from his friend John Bullscein, of London, in one heap
and on fairly precipitous terms. A million of this money
is to pay for the great ironclad Deadbeat which Maori-
land shoved at unwilling-Britain a little while ago. Then
£1,750,000 is for public works of one kind and another
(largely another), £250,000 for the repurchase of expens-
ive land from big landlords, and the rest is to be lent
out to settlers and workers so that they may
the better learn the great IO U habit. Maori-
land finance is an amazing thing. For in-
stance, the country had, in 1891, a sinking fund
of £1,487,042 towards the ultimate repayment of its
public deist. In 1909 the sinking fund was £3,156,9S9 —
an apparent increase of £1,669,947. It wasn’t very much
of an increase, but it looked better than nothing. But
then it transpires, two pages further on in the wilderness
of the last Maoriland Official (it should be “ Fishy”) Year
Book, that between 1891 and 1909 Maoriland borroived
£1,777,000 to put in the sinking fund. The astonishing
country is pledged by law to make certain payments
into this fund for the ultimate redemption of loans,
so it simplifies matters by making the payments
out of the loans themselves. And not only
that, but it seems to borrow a little extra as the
price of a casual drink and cigar, so to speak. Anyhow,
there is no sign of the interest which the sinking fund
should have accumulated between 1891 and 1909, and the
money borrowed on account of the fund appears to be
fully £lOO,OOO more than the visible increase of the fund.
If there is any other sinking fund on earth like the
stupendous jest of Ward’s country, a great many people
would like to know where it hangs out. It is specially
characteristic, too. of Joseph’s land that its sudden re-
solve to pay off its whole debt (one of these days) should
happen almost at the same moment as its decision to float
the biggest loan it has put on the market for many years.
* * * *
The Agricultural Bank of Qukknsland
Loss Net Profit
Before Available
Paying Interest Paid for
June, Interest. to State. Reserves. Deficit.
1903 .. £289 3 p.c. = £47 £336
Profit.
1904 .. 501 3 „ „ 417 £B4 252
1905 .. 826 3 „ „ 773 53 199
Reserves.
1906 .. 2476 3 „ „ 2031 445 246
1907 .. 4212 3 „ „ 3161 1051 1297
1908 .. 4771 3 „ ~ 3445 1326 2623
1909 .. 5257 3 „ „ 3851 1406 4029
1910 .. 6253 3 ~ „ 4278 1975 6004
This State Bank is financed by advances from the
Treasury at 3 per cent., which is a good deal less than
the Treasury has to pay for its own borrowings. Having
this cheap money the bank ought to be able to offer such
attractive terms that the doormat should be worn out in
about 12 months. But the doormat is in no danger ; for
the bank is so tied up and tied down that it has no hope
of competing with the private banks. If a man
is in the hands of a private money-lender, the
State bank can only advance 10s. in the £ of the value of
the property ; and it can’t lend at all for “unspecified
purposes,” so that if a man, having used up all his means
in improvements, wants a trifle to carry on with, the
bank cannot apparently do business with him at all.
“One hundred and fifty-two advances have been repaid
during the year,” the trustees say, “and the properties
have been released. We are glad to think that the
recent good seasons have enabled some farmers to pay
off their loans. In other instances, as our Acts do not
permit us to make advances for unspecified purposes, the
loans have been taken up by other financial institutions.”
Progressive men get sick and tired of continually tripping
over red tape ; and the bank probably loses its best
clients. And in connection with this class of business
especially, the man, if he is the right sort, is a much
better security than the block of land. Thus,
one way and another, it comes about that after
eight years this Queensland Agricultural Bink has
only £163,641 out in advances, as against £602,642 in
S. Australia after eight years’ operation of the State
Bank there. Moreover, though it does so little business,
and though the trustees are so tied down, the Queens-
land bank has more properties thrown on its hands in
one year than the S. Australian bank has, as a rule, in
seven. At present there are 12 foreclosures in hand.
Some further figures as to the bank’s progress :
Advances
Advances Repaid Expenses
Out- during Working p.c. of
standing. Year. Expenses. Advances.
1903 .. £6,253 £557 £8 18 2
1904 - .. 20,370 £650 550 2 14 0
1905 38,417 311 687 1 15 9
1906 .. 94,268 3,229 1043 1 2 0
1907 1 .. 112,216 12,908 1243 1 2 2
1908 .. 119,344 16,716 1199 1 0 1
1909 ... 136,947 16,184 1388 1 0 3
1910 .. 163,641 21,551 1515 18 6
The expenses are heavy compared with the S. Aus-
tralian 13s. ; but, taking into account the small business
which has to carry the charges, the reduction to 18s. 6d.
shows remarkable economy. In Maoriland, where the
advances amount to £5,662,973, the expenses have been
got down to ss. 4d. per cent. Year after year attention
has been drawn to the woefully unsatisfactory position in
which the Queensland Parliament has left its bank ; and
year after year nothing is done to enable it to make a
decent show against outside competition. It will begin
to look presently as if it weren’t desired that it should
make! a decent show.
* * * *
The County of Bourkk Permanent Building
and Investment Society (Melbourne)
Busi- Net
ness Profit on To Re- Re-
. Sept., Profits. Sales. Dividends. serves, serves.
1899.. £4,888 £1746 6 p.c. =£5889 £745 £10,405
1900 . 6,010 1561 6 ,'. „ 5889 1682 12,087
1901.. 7,363 2869 6 „ „ 5888 4344 16,431
1902 . 8,338 3913 7£ „ ~ 7361 4890 21,321
1903.. 8,844 2632 7* „ „ 7361 4115 25,436
1904.. 10,753 1563 7£ „ „ 7314 5002 30,438
1905.. 9,408 1500 8J „ „ 8533 2375 32,813
1906.. 10,291 1200 10 „ „ 9752 1739 34,552
1907.. 10,922 1300 10 „ ~ 9752 2470 37,022
1908.. 10,870 1500 10 ~ ~ 9667 2703 39,725
1999.. 10,702 2000 10 ~ ~ 9636 3066 42,791
1910.. 10,512 4000, 10 „ „ 9636 4876 47,667
There was a cleaning-up just before that table was
wheeled into this column. The assets which had stood
in the books at £180,876 were at that time revalued and
were then said to be worth only £118,151. That showed
that it was necessary to write off £62,725 of capital
or reserves to square. matters. _ As the outlook
wasn’t very promising, it was decided to write off
more than that. Two-fifths of the total capital was
therefore wiped out, which not only squared the deficit,
but left £10,532 over to be transferred to a contingency
fund. Then Federation arrived, and Australia began to
do a great deal of work which the foreigner had pre-
viously done for it, at great expense to Australia ; also,
wood seasons and good prices arrived. Further, better
methods arrived—methods under which fair yields were
got in seasons which, under old methods, would have
meant rank failure. Promptly, the thing which
Australia can least afford to happen did happen
—up sprang land values. And the more they
sprang the better it was, of course, for concerns
like this County of Bourke Building and Investment
Society. Australia suffers in a very bad way from a
trouble which afflicts a lot of the world more or less—the
idea that, the higher the price of land, the better things
are. However, it’s a rotten wind that blows nobody
good; so this concern gains by the national misfortune.
For the increasing prices have allowed the co. to show
big profits on sales —that is to say, surpluses on the
written-down values. It will be noticed that the profits
from sales are stated in round numbers, which seems to
indicate that the co. keeps something in reserve. Pro-
gress since the cleaning-up is further followed in this
table: —
1900. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Capital .. .. £98,150 £96,387 £96,361 £96,361
Deposits .. .. 6,211 22,427 22,644 21,275
Other liabilities .. 1,897 10,677 2,724 4,347
Foreclosures .. 66,536 37,917 30,414 17,837
Advances.. .. 49,339 138,271 138.408 157,273
Other assets .. 5,907 258 1,720 563
As properties have been sold, the proceeds have been lent
out again, and, judging by the small amount of cash in
hand, there has been no trouble in finding borrowers. In
fact, the co. has had to increase its own borrowings from
depositors, though the liability is still very small compared
with shareholders’own funds. The rents from properties
in possession show over 12 per cent, gross, which suggests
that the remaining properties are under-valued ;
and the advances also show a high return, which sug-
gests that they have also been written down out of un-
disclosed profits. Nobody knows how many of the pre-
sent securities will fall into the co.’s hands ; apart from
that, the position looks unusually strong, due mainly, of
course, to the excessive writing-down of assets and
capital 11 years ago.
* # * *
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd., who carry on a
furnishing and drapery business in Sydney and elsewhere,
and do much of it on a time-payment basis: —
Deficit
(Goodwill
Dividends. not
, ' reckoned
Pref. Written as an
Aug., Profits. (6 p.c.) Ordinary. Off. Asset).
1905.. £49,039
1906.. £30,656 £4954 7 i p.c. = £11,250 £1694 36,281
1907.. 33,279 6000 7J „ ~ 11,250 2538 22,790
1908.. 33,603 6000 8 ~ ~ 12,000 2971 10,158
1909.. 35,473 6542 8 „ „ 12,712 2660 3,401
1910.. 39,640 7500 8 „ ~ 14,000 3167 18,374
The public began to get acquainted with the vitals of
this business in 1906, four years after the co. had been
registered. The goodwill originally cost the co. £72,377,
apparently paid in shares. By 1906 it had been written
down to £65,000 out of profits. As at August 31, 1905,
the deficit (not counting goodwill as an asset) was
£49,039. That deficit has now been changed into a reserve
of £18,374. So we get this : In five years the business,
besides paying 6 per cent, on cumulative pref. capital,
and 7£ or 8 per cent, on ordinary capital, has put by
£67,413. In addition, something has been written off
leaseholds and fittings—the totals are shown in the
table. The capital in 1906 was £250,000 ; at present it is
£300,000. Assume that it has averaged £275,000 ; then
the profit which has been put by has been equal to a
shade under 5 per cent, per annum of the capital. But
was it really profit? For, of course, many a financial
and trading concern has thought it has made a profit
which it really hasn’t made. It is necessary to find out
first where the profit is. When it is in cash there is no
doubt about it; but it most often is in something else.
This comparison may help :
1906. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Stock.. .. £96,965 £133,463 £138,570 £179,357
Book debts .. 124,289 148,337 154,106 171,402
Freeholds .. 77,093 83,889 89,226 90,556
Leaseholds .. 14,093 11,813 14,755 18,929
Plant, etc. ..' 17,354 17,401 17,217 18,724
Cash .. .. 3,943 4,440 7,106 • 7,343
Thus, in only four years £82,392 has gone into stock, £47,113
into book debts, and £19,669 (net) into properties and
plant. The genuineness of the profits which have been
put into these assets depends therefore upon—(l)
whether the book debts are good ; (2) whether the stock
and the property assets have been valued right. Tub
Bulletin has no reason at all to suspect either one or the
other.
Accumulated profits obviously haven’t been
capable of buying all that extra stock, etc. Besides the
accumulated profits, £50,000 of new capital has been
introduced; and, in addition, a good deal of outside
money:—
1906. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Mortgages .. £40,800 £38,000 £36,000 £54,000
Other debts .. 65,262 109,501 65,324 103,187
Total .. £106,062 £147,501 £101,324 £157,187
That is a pretty solid debt. But in a time-payment busi-
ness a sizeable debt is almost inevitable. The time-pay-
ment man really carries on a sort of bank : he lends out
money in the shape of goods. If the business is well
managed, there is nothing alarming, therefore, in a
total of liabilities which would be startling if it
were shown by the ordinary trading business. Neces-
sarily the shareholders in the t.-p. business take
risks. You can’t borrow money for any purpose
whatever, and pledge yourself to return it, without
taking a risk. The weight of the risk depends mainly on
the security into which the borrowed money is put, and
incidentally on the profit which you are making, and
which you can put aside to wipe out bad debts as they
present themselves. In this case the security (apart
from stock and properties) consists of time-payment or
hire-agreement debts, which are probably a good deal
better security than they sound ; and there is no doubt
about the high rate of profit. The growth of the reserves
has been very good ; and even then the profits are shown
net, after deducting an unknown amount written off
against bad and doubtful debts. At the same time,
while the business shows such excellent results in the
good years, it is one which seems likely to suffer more
than most in a time of depression.
* * * *
Great Cobar, Ltd. (N.S.W.), whose huge
deficit to start with was made up of preliminary expenses,
£22,596, and underwriting commission, £144,073
Dividend Written
Profit. and Tax. Off. Deficit.
Mav, 1906.. £166,669
Dec., 1907.. £188,931 Ilj p.c. = £126,028 Nil 103,766
Further Preliminary Expenses, £97 .. .. 103,863
Loss.
T-, inno f 501 Nil Nil 104,364
Dec., j)i scolu ,t; on Debentures,£442s .. 108,759
Deposits on Debentures forfeited, £lO .. 108,779
Discount on Debentures, etc., £9457 .. .. 118,236
Profit. Div. and Tax.
Dec., 1909.. 598 Nil Nil 117,638
The poor Australian who thinks that the foreigner can
always do the thing better is hereby incited to consider
the case of the Great Oobar. For some years the Long-
worths and Dr. Read and A. J. Gould and one or two
more waxed fat on the proceeds of this mine, managed
in those days by G. H. Blakemore, under the eye
for some time of the Longworths and Dr. Read. Then
the company-promoter saw pickings in it for himself,
and the property was hawked to London. J. Bull took
up the bulk of the shares, after a lot of pressing, and
Paris was persuaded to swallow the balance. The cost of
flotation simply takes the breath away. The first line in
the table shows a deficit of £166,669 ; and that represents
the loadihg which the unfortunate co. has to carry for
preliminary exes. Nor did that represent the only
misfortune*. Blakemore, being merely an Australian
metallurgist and engineer who had made the previous
owners rich, wasn’t good enough, of course. Frills were
put on, and, to earn the promised huge profit, a complete
new plant was designed. Blakemore struggled with it,
and the promised results didn’t arrive. Then Blakemore,
not to put too fine a point on it, was sacked ; and, later
on, some very unpleasant things were said about him. A
lot ■of people expected him then to do some talk-
ing in reply; apparently he decided that the
future would do it more eloquently. And so
it has. H. O. Bellinger, one of the best smelting
men in America, was brought in. It was the
Oliver case over again. The Australian, when he com-
plained, was told that if he couldn’t make a success of
things it was because he was no good. The imported
man, when he complained, was told to dip into, the bag
and take what he wanted to make the equipment good.
“No. 1 furnace was closed down entirely for reconstruc-
tion. ... In turn similar alterations were made to the
Nos. 2 and 3. . . . The right-angle turns in the blast flue
were taken out with a view of securing a better
draught efficiency.” And so on. As the directors
say: “ The plant, as originally designed, completely
failed to treat commercially the tonnage it was
designed for, and the alterations and re-arrangements
Mr. Bellinger found himself obliged to suggest were so
extensive that thev practically involved the remodelling
of the whole works, with the exception of the power-
house.” Also: “In the month of June, Mr. J. D. Ken-
dall’s connection with the co. terminated.” Mr. Kendall
had been director, consulting engineer, technical adviser,
and boss-in-general. But so far there is not one word of
the apology that is due to Blakemore, the man who
couldn’t do what Bellinger saw it was useless to attempt
to do.
All this reconstruction meant more expense ;
and the more capital the co. had to get in, the more it
had to pay through the nose to get it. Some debentures
were added during the year, and, though they carry 6per
cent, interest and are secured by a first mortgage, they
only brought 95 per cent. This discount means adding
another £9457 to the load of paper—the co. has to pay 6
per cent, interest on £9457 which it never got, and
in a few years it will have to pay the £9457. As at
December 31 the capital stood at £7so,ooo—the same as
12 months previously. Other items had moved this
way:—
Debts— Dec., ’OS. Dec., ’O9.
Debentures (6 p.c.) .. ..£588,644 £757,366
Loans and interest .. .. 219,149 77,956
Sundry creditors.. .. .. 36,636 46,037
Total .. .. £844,429 £881,359
Liquid Assets —
Metal and ore in hand and
transit £130,683 £103,888
Stores .. .. .. .. 21,566 35,200
Cash and sundries .. .. 11,550 16,424
Total £163,799 £155,512
Excess of Liabilities .. .. .. £680,630 £725,847
Thus £45,217 has been added to the burdens during the
year—mostly money spent on the reconstructed plant,
etc., and in discounts on loans floated. Not a penny has
been written off the old plant. Moreover, a large amount
—over £50,000, most likely—was got out of the old fur-
nace bottoms at Lithgow.
Shareholders are now assured that the co. is
going to have a straight run. The output is cer-
tainly mounting; but this is partly due to the
purchase of the Cobar Gold Mines’ property; and
that purchase, not shown in the present accounts,
involved the issue of another 20,000 shares of £5.
Authority to issue still another 30,000 was aslved
for at the annual meeting—mainly to reduce liabilities.
This will bring the total share capital up to £1,000,000.
The original idea was that the debentures would be paid
off at the rate of £lOO,OOO a year out of profits ; but as
that way of shifting the debt was impossible, another had
to be found. Under the old scheme the co. took in a few
lodgers to help pay for the furniture ; and when they had
done it they were to be turned out. Under the new
scheme the lodgers are made partners in the
furniture and in any profits that may be made
out of the business. What the profits are likely
to be there is now no sure way of estimating,
since no results are available as to the working of the
new Cobar Gold Mines purchase. Twelve months ago,
taking copper at £62 per ton, the profit in the ore re-
serves looked like £1,229,250 ; and when all debts and in-
terest (for six years) were deducted from that amount,
there remained £371,620 for the shareholders. Since
then the Cobar and Chesney ore reserves have been in-
creased from 2,383,000 tons to 2,877,000 tons, and no doubt
much more ore will be found. Bellinger reckons upon
producing from 850 to 1000 tons copper per month from
40,000 tons of ore. Costs he formerly reckoned at from
£34 to £4O per ton f.o.b. Sydney. If 850 tons are pro-
duced for £37 and sold at £57, a monthly profit of
£17,000 is shown = £204,000 a year. Assume the de-
bentures are reduced to £650,000, the interest would
call for £39,000 a year, leaving £165,000 a year
for the shareholders and the reduction of deben-
ture debt. On present showing there is seven years’
ore available at the rate of 40,000 tons a month.
If £165,000 a year can be made for seven years,
the total would’ be £1,155,000. As shown above, the
capital and net liabilities on December 31 (before the
Cobar Gold Mines purchase) was £1,475,000. The co.
must therefore make £165,000 a year—or, say, £l6 per ton
on a monthly output of 850 tons—for nine years to repay
liabilities and give the shareholders back their £5 per
share without interest ; and there must be additional
profit of (say) £ll,lOO a year for nine years to pay the
extra £lOO,OOO represented by the Cobar Gold Mines
purchase. Obviously both the mines and the market will
have to be very good to the shareholders to give them
their money back plus interest.
* * * *
The Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. :
Dividends and Written
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1903.. £2,048
Reserves.
Mar., 1904.. £115,172 Nil 113,124
Sept., 1904.. 129,502 12J p.c. =£78,780 163,846
Mar., 1905.. 161,755 12 „ „ 78,750 £8,764 238,087
Sept., 1905.. 201,985 12J „ ~ 78,750 9,021 352,301
Mar., 1906.. 267,795 20 ~ ~ 126,000 8,713 485,383
Sept., 1906.. 251,095 25 „ ~ 157,500 10,071 568,907
Mar., 1907.. 282,938 32£ ~ ~ 205,074 11,515 635,256
Sept., 1907.. 150,625 35 „ ~220,551 11,740 553,590
Mar., 1908.. 141,730 20 „ „ 126,168 9,723 559,429
Sept., 1908.. 168,130 17£ ~ ~110,364 12,006 605,189
Mar., 1909.. 141,683 17£ „ „ 110,372 10,153 626,347
Sept., 1909.. 155,081 17& „ ~110,300 9,930 661,198
Mar., 1910.. 131,506 17$ „ ~ 111,094 10,076 671,534
Sept., 1910.. 106,274 17£ ~ ~110,594 10,147 657,067
Next half-year, however, according to present appear-
ances, the dividend record won’t be as good. The co.
makes a distribution every six months. For the past 2J
years the dividend has been Is. 3d. per share, with a six-
penny bonus, making a total of £105,000, plus dividend
and income tax (which varies a trifle); but for the
current term the bonus has been knocked off, so
the distribution will amount to £75,000. Last
half-year, it will be observed, the net profit didn’t quite
reach the amount paid out; so the reduction, though
mostly unexpected, has something to justify it, espe-
cially as the copper market is still very sick. On the
other hand, general-manager Sticht’s report as to the
mine is distinctly cheerful.
* I, . * * *
Broken Hill Block 10, one of the once-big
Barrier silver-lead-zinc propositions :
Loss. Divs.
Sept.,’o3.. £1,777 Nil
Profit.
Mar., ’04.. 12,680 Nil
Sept.,’o4.. 11,090 Nil
Mar., ’05.. 20,438 Nil
Sept.,’os.. 114,340 £15,000
Mar., ’06.. 46,804 60,000
Sept.,’o6.. 49,625 30,000
Profit. Divs.
Mar., ’07.. £61,945 £55,000
Sept.,’o7.. 65,786 50,000
Mar., ’OB.. 12,256 30,000
Sept., ’OB.. 22,080 5,000
Mar., ’09.. 39,284 10,000
Sept.,’o9.. 28,844 20,000
Mar., ’lO.. 3,422 20,000
Sept., TO.. 15,243 15,000
The half-year’s mining' and milling operations don’t
justify the fairly prosperous appearance of the last line
in that table. Work at Broken Hill nowadays falls under
two headings : (1) a preliminary milling to get out a lead
product; (2) the treatment, usually by an oil-acid pro-
cess, to get a zinc concentrate out of the residues
from the first process. Block 10 has not for many
years past yielded a good milling ore. This means that
an unusually large proportion of the metals is left in
the residues. Now, in treating the residues for zinc, a
silver-lead concentrate is made incidentally ; and both
because of the large quantities of silver and lead left in
the residues and because of their comparative richness in
zinc, these residues have been in great demand ever since
zinc treatment started. A few months ago the co. reck-
oned up, and decided that it had 89,782 tons left unsold
in the dumps. It made a bargain with the De Bavay
people to take the lot at ss. 3d. per ton, less 2£ per
cent. ; and the current year’s output was included in the
deal. On account of this and previous zinc deals large
sums have been received during the half-year. The
£15,243 of profit is made up this way
Zinc tailings (paid for) .. .. .. .. £26,810
Surplus on final adjustment of sales (old slimes) 1,012
Interest .. .. •• •• •• ••
Zinc tailings (unsold) 2,089
£30,997
Less loss on current silver-lead produc-
tion .. .. •• -■ -- £7613
Depreciation .. .. .. .. 8141
v 15,754
Net profit £15,243
Perhaps the loss on current silver-lead production is
rather over-stated ; for a small proportion of a few of the
costs ought to be charged to the zinc production. Ap-
proximately, however, the table shows what a bad way
Block 10 would be in now if it had to still rely on silver
and lead.
The directors set out their position very clearly ;
there isn’t a better man than chairman William
Jamieson for doing that. Beckoning in all the
zinc contracts that have been made, the liquid
assets are '£153,680 ahead of the liabilities. That is
just about 30s. a share. (There are IQO.OOO shares.)
Besides that there are probably 600,000 tons of workable
ore in the mine. Locum, tenens Armstrong, a son of the
old N.S.W. K. 0., who is acting while general-manager
Low is away, makes no estimate of ore reserves ; but six
months ago the directors said they thought 600,000 tons
might be safely taken out at the rate of 2500 tons a week.
A good deal of development work has been done
since then; but nothing of any consequence has
been found, and unless the metal market favors the
co. very much it doesn’t look as if there will
be much worth mining below about 1550 ft. The 1615 ft.
exploration has shown either very poor ore of moderate
size (say 18ft.), or moderate ore of very poor size (say
sft.). The 600,000 tons will therefore probably not be
exceeded. On the past half-year’s figures the silver-lead
extraction (setting all the mining charges against lead)
won’t pay expens. s. However, assume that it just pays
in the future, and that the co. can get ss. 3d. per ton for
the residues ; also, that that ss. 3d. is all profit. The
residues will amount to about 420,000 tons at the outside,
worth, at ss. 3d., £110,250. Add that to the surplus of
liquid assets, and we get £263,930, which means £2 12s.
per share. Of that amount at least £1 per share
(£100,000) will be available from zinc payments within
the next 2£ years.
It cannot, of course, be said positively that the
mine has no life after 600,000 tons have been taken out.
There may be another shoot of ore underneath, though
that is very unlikely ; or there may be unsuspected
shallower bodies lurking inside the lease, though
that isn’t very likely either. At any rate, it is
madness to regard the money to be received from
the co. as dividends. The bulk of it must be con-
sidered as return of capital ; for the plant and other non-
liquid assets will be worth practically nothing when the
mine is played out. True, big profits may be made out
of the silver-lead ; if so, it must be by a big spring in
metal prices. On the other hand, it is at least equally
probable that this branch will absorb some of the money
got for the zincs. There are two other strings to the co.’s
bow—the South Comstock (Tas.) and the Bising Sun (an
outside Broken Hill show). On present appearances,
they are also quite as likely to absorb profit as to make
any ’
The Broken Hill lode is apparently a Y-shaped
body, with the V turned upside down. On the north
side of the point are the British, Junction, Junction
North, and North ; on the south side, the B. H. Prop.,
Block 10, Sulphide Corporation, South, and South Blocks.
Block 14 and the northern block of the B. H. Prop, are
at the point. So it came about that these two
got quickest on to profits—the rich values there
were lying on the surface —while the farther
along the legs one got the longer the co. had to
wait for prosperity. In the early days the B. H. Prop,
and even Block 14-looked down with scorn on the North
and the South. Now, after 23 years, the South and the
North look down with scorn on, at any rate, Block 14. The
latter would, in fact, have been a deadbeat by now if in
the time of its affluence it hadn’t itself scorned to hunt up
detached bodies of carbonates. For six years past it has
been living on those gleanings. In the days of the last metal
boom things looked flourishing ; for it doesn’t take many
tons of carbonates to make a big show in £s d. Before
that, however, the co. was in such a bad way that in
order to get in a little bit of capital it had to offer 10
per cent, interest plus full p irticipation in all dividends.
The little patches of carbonates are nowadays harder and
harder to find, and so only the 10 per cent, interest has
lately been paid. Twelve months’ results
Mar., ’lO. Sept., ’lO
Ten per cent, on pref. shares £1,500 £l5OO
Written off (depreciation) .. 3,347 2915
To reserves .. .. .. 9,692 5278
Total profit .. .. £14,539 £9693
Nominally the reserves now amount to £92,758, plus £521
premiums on shares. Mining cos.’ reserves are, however,
a delusion and a snare nine times out of 10. I'n this case
the position is rather better than it is with most mining
cos. ; for the liquid assets (nearly all cash) are £78,517
in excess of liabilities. Twelve months ago the surplus
was £57,816, so that £20,701 has been put in the stocking
during the 12 months.
The future of Block 14 may be anything—
except very bright; it is impossible to see how it can be
that. As remarked just now, all the profit in recent
years has come from carbonates ; and the position is so
uncertain that the manager won’t even guess how much
or little is left. As a matter of fact, the known reserves
run to only a few hundre* tons ; but other patches
may be found. The bottom levels have been a
blank (remember that the mine is on the
point of the inverted Y), and there are only 220,000 tons
of sulphides proved. Moreover, these are neither rich
nor very tractable ; and there is no profit in them unless
lead gets to (say) £l4, or unless the metallurgists strike
some better process. Considerable dumps of zinc tailings
also remain. They are not very attractive either, but
there are still hopes of knocking a fair profit out of them.
The Murex people are experimenting with this product.
Meantime the co. is looking around for another mine.
* * * *
The big eastern ore body in the Central mine.
Broken Hill, has turned on its elbow in a peculiar way.
It went big right up to the Block 10 boundary, on the
1000 ft. level, and then seemed to shy at something—
perhaps it was at Block 10’s haw-hawty management—
and tried to turn round and get back into the Central.
Big lodes, like huge warships, can’t turn very quickly, so
the ore shoot has only succeeded in turning east and
making an elbow. But the result is that Block 10 has
been left with about a third of the width of ore on its
side of the fence, while the Central has the rest. Block
10’s hope lies in the possibility of the different behavior
of the lode at the levels below the 1215 ft., for this make
of ore has been worked out in the upper levels.
* * * *
When the Zinc Corporation found itself face to
face with the hitherto evaded slimes-treatment proposi-
tion at Broken Hill, it wasted no time on sentiment. The
Elmore plant did not suit, so in went a Minerals Separa-
tion unit of eight flotation pans. Judging by the Block
10 directors’ report, it was the prospect of a difficulty in
the treatment of the slimes contained in the tailings than
led to the shutting down of the Elmore experimental
plant on that mine. The mistake that Block 10 had made
in selecting the Elmore method, in preference to one


By appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys tinder
Power, Agents, etc.,
You are assured of Absolute Security, Efficient
and Economical Management, etc.
Trust Funds to Lend.
2, <4 and 6 Spring, Street,
Sydney,
Write for Booklet.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
BETTINGTON
SMOKELESS BOILER
Adapted for Burning Slack.
Guaranteed Highest Efficiency.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building:, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct thwir
special attention to, these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
■* * • •
“Fkrrodor” Paint. — Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort’s
Dock and Mt. Lyell buildings; Hawkesbur.v, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. &O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
THE LOSS of LIVE Steam in generating
steam power through faulty joints, badly packed piston
glands and leaky boiler mountings and stop valves causes
waste of fuel which can be prevented by using Bell’s
Asbestos •‘Bellite” Jointing, “Dagger” Packing and
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Water Gauges, Blow-Off Cocks
and Stop Valves. Permanent economy is also ensured
by protecting steam pipesand boilers with Bell’s Asbesios
Non-Conducting Composition or Flexible Rope Lagging.
Send for illustrated catalogue of engineering specialties to
BELL’S ASBESTOS AUSTRALIAN AGENCY LIMITED
(A. J. Borchert, General Manager), 315 Kent Street,
Sydney.*
The Bigelow Patent Rock Breaker commends
itself to mine managers who welcome an effective
machine which is cheaper to maintain and repair than
Gyratory and other crushers. This machine is of the
well-known Blake type, but has some additional improve-
ments which have justified in practice all the claims
advanced by the patentee. The work of crushing is done
on the down-stroke of the pitman instead of the up-
stroke ; there is no strain on the pitman cap ; two large
side rods resist the thrust of the toggles, and enable the
jaws to be regulated within a large range ; the back
toggle is so made as to resist all legitimate strains of
crushing, but will shear under exceptional conditions
and save the machine. The shaft and eccentric bearings
are self-lubricating ; the jaws are convex and concave,
and with the cheek plates are made of steel and are
reversible. The Austral Otis Engineering Company, of
South Melbourne, have installed a great number of these
machines, and hold the sole manufacturing rights for the
Commonwealth.* [3
. “Fibro-Cement” Asbestos Fireproof Sheets. In
large size, Bft. 2£in. x 4ft. x (about) Jin. thick, now largely
used for walls, for homesteads, bungalows, silos, cottages,
shearers’ quarters, dairies, stables. Fire, heat, acid and
ant proof. Strong, cheap, everlasting. Lower insurance
rate. Photos, and testimonials free from sole importers.
James I-lardie Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney, and
581-583 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.* [1
* * * *
The Insurance Freeman, Liverpool, in its
October, ’OB. number, comments upon the last report of
The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited as
follows : “ To have completed £1,278,034 of new business
is a really splendid achievement for any office, but for a
comparatively young one (having been established in
1873) the figures are of intense interest, and indicate the
force of the power which the Colonial Mutual has
attained in the insurance world.”
• * * .*
“WOOD PIPE has proved very satisfactory
in the past, and we are disposed to use it now to the
exclusion of iron pipe.”—The verdict of a leading G. &
C. Mg. Co. in W.A. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain, Sydney.
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
* • * •
Nobel’s Dynamite Factory, Hamburg, at the
recent Brussels World Exhibition received the highest
awards, viz,, Three Grand Prix for explosives of all grades
for both mining and military purposes. This against all
comers. Mine managers in New South Wales, who are
experiencing trouble, write the agents, Win. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Large stocks on hand.*
* * * *
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout Australia by Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinder are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangement of valves, and automatic lubrica-
tion, and these are testified to by Australian users. The
engine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annum.* [1
+ * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other.riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria.*
*•*■* ■*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
•* « ■* *
Assayers, Mink Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silbkrbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
which was not so sensitive, was pointed out by The Bul-
letin when the experimental plant was first installed.
The 900 odd tons of zinc concentrates, which are the re-
sult of the directors' indiscretion, won't go anywhere
near paying expenses.
* * * *
Mount Boppy, near Cobar (N.S.W.), pays
2s. 6d. a share, making 22J per cent, on capital for the
first eight months of the year. This Bull-owned mine
started its career of prosperity in 1902, and has been
paying an average of about 35 per cent, per annum ever
since. The ore is of medium grade, and takes a lot of
treatment. A sample monthly return is 6520 tons for
39250 z. The co. is in 121,000 shares of £1 each, so a
small profit on 6000 tons a month makes the dividends
appear large when reckoned on a percentage basis. The
mine is a long wav from done yet; but it is not so rich as
it used to be. Taking time by the forelock, manager
Moore has secured the Blue Spec, at Hargreaves.
At the Oobar meeting in London the chair-
man, according to a Financial News report, said : “ The
present profits per ton of copper were between £32 and
£34.” This paper is much too police to say that either
the chairman or the reporter talked unmitigated rot.
* * * *
If Great Cobar gets rid of as many of the new
issue of shares as it no doubt hopes to, there seems little
doubt that refining will start again, most likely at
Lithgow.
# * * *
Customs Minister Tudor has been asked to give
a hand to establish a copper-wire making industry in Aus-
tralia. There is absolutely no reason why Australia’s
requirements, at the very least, should not be supplied
in Australia. Copper of the highest conductivity in the
world is cast in the Commonwealth —cast specially for
wire making; and Mt. Kembla (N.S.W.) already has a
small wire-drawing plant, though it is only used by the
Smelting and Refining Co. to produce samples for testing
purposes.
* * * *
The N.S.W. State Government has secured
some coal lands on the South Coast, so that a State mine
shows over the horizon. Mines Minister Edden has
long been in favor of such a national asset; and the up-
setting of railway traffic arrangements during the late
strike turned tens of thousands, even of anti-Socialists,
to his way of thinking. Even those tremendous anti-
Socialists, the Hoskins iron firm, of Lithgow, see to it
that they have their own coal mine.
# * # *
Wyalong (N.S.W.) has had a rush to Stani-
forth’s C.P. property, 20 miles out. A quartz specimen
studded with gold was said to have been taken out of a
posthole; but though a number of “permits” to search
have been issued, no more of the yellow stuff has been
found.
* * * *
The nest of Bullfinches would twitter more if
they were further away. The find is too near the rail-
way, and too handy to Perth and Kalgoorlie, to blossom
really gorgeously before some development work is done ;
and once the syndicate scrip is on the market and has to
be paid for, it will be a case of rush in out of the wet. A
complete collapse in the wild-cat market is saved for the
moment, as the Bullfinch itself loudly chirrups rich
assays when things begin to look dull, and outside this
there are some actual lodes to work on. The area is large,
and several distinct runs of ore can be prospected ; but
so far the average has been comparatively low. When
high values have been got they have come from small
veins in the lodes. The complexity of some of the ore is
also a drawback ; thus the Transvaal, one of the biggest
lodes about, has almost every intractable mineral known.
The Bullfinch is the best of the bunch so far, and may be
the whole of the bunch when all is known.
Speculation is also restricted to a certain extent
by the fact that holders of much of the ground already
on the market will not know where they are for a month
or more yet. The Warden has visited the field, but, as
anticipated, has only been able to grant those leases
which were pegged early in the rush, and whose title was
obvious. A surveyor is now manfully battling through
the forest of pegs, but it will be some moons before he
has things straightened out. Since it has been made
clear that the public insists on some visible results in
the outside claims, there is a better disposition among
holders of ground to do a little work, and shafts are
being started here and there. Time is, nevertheless,
still chiefly taken up with meeting option-seekers and
prospective purchasers, who make up most of the popu-
lation.
There will be no early-day hardships on West-
ralia’s latest find. Already the State Government talks
of a water-pipe line, and the Commonwealth Government
got in promptly with preliminary work for a telephone
or telegraph line. A light line of railway is even talked
of. But there is many a claim-holder on the field who
wishes the railway were a hundred miles away. Some
people are never satisfied. Already there is very keen
competition in motor-cars along the road.
The Westralian Government has decided not to
be fleeced as badly as usual over this Bullfinch rush.
Hotel licenses, if granted at all, will only be granted in
respect to specified blocks, and those blocks will be put
up for ’sale or lease with this right attached. More
likely, however, the State will run its own pub or pubs.
The Government makes it a condition of sale of ordinary
blocks that the purchaser or any future transferee must
bind himself not to apply for a hotel license. Blocks
with this restriction are being advertised by the Govern-
ment for auction in real land-boom style.
* « * *
After the uncontradicted reports of offers of half
a million cash for the Bullfinch, its flotation in 500,000
shares, with £lOO,OOO for working capital, came as a sur-
prise to those engaged in the new Bullfinch market. The
position is that Doolette and party take 400,000 shares,
while Messrs. Lionel Robinson and Go. take the option on
50,000 for underwriting 50,000. As London sternly re-
stricts the dealing in vendors’shares for from six to 12
months, the underwriting brokers, who have a free
market for their shares, look to have a good thing on.
Shares have been poured out from London at any price
offering above 405., so the promoters will probably stand
on velvet for the optioned shares. The real inwardness
of the deal has yet to show itself. Doolette and party
take up the managing directorship and other positions,
and so forth. Meanwhile interest centres on the next
crushing, which is estimated to go 19oz.
* * * *
Doolette, who backed the prospector of the
Bullfinch, evidently knows the value of publicitj’. He
has promptly annexed one of the best-known pressmen
about Perth as his private secretary. Appointee was a
member of the West Australian staff for some time, and
latterly has been on Hansard ; so he knows the ropes of
both press and Parliament.
* * * *
A great whoop has been made that London
capital is coming into the Bullfinch country. The wish
is father to the whoop. So far, London has been very
canny. When options have been offered cables have been
dispatched to well-known ruining engineers to visit and
inspect. The replies of some, after being shown several
acres of desert or forest, with a costeen across an alleged
reef, have fused the wires.
* * * *
“ The Battler ” : The report of Dr. Cumpston,
Commissioner to inquire into the prevalence of miners’
disease in Westralia, has been laid before the State
Parliament. The doctor’s figures make one wonder if
the frantic punching of gigantic orifices in the ground in
search of infinitesimal pieces of yellow metal is worth all
the expenditure of life. Of the machine men examined,
25 per cent, were found to be in various stages of
fibrosis, otherwise affected lungs, due to the inhalation
of dust particles. Of a total of 1805 mine workers of all
classes, 708 were affected in some way. The Commis-
sioner knocked on the head the smug theory that such
men as are affected had most likely brought their weak-
ened lungs from the other States, for most of the
affected men had had no mining experience outside
Westralia. The Commission, measuring out men’s lives
in cold statistics, calculates the average expectation
of life of the miner from the age of 15 as 3£ years less than
that of other members of the community up to the age of
60. It will be interesting to note what effect the report
will have on the fate of Hudson’s Amended Workers’
Compensation Bill. The Bill, which was introduced this
session, has been practically shelved for the present by
reference to a Select Committee; but it is certain
that Hudson will continue to lay the little one at
Fat’s door until it is given house-room. In the Bill
provision is made for compensation in cases of sickness
caused by the nature of employment. The mining in-
dustry is the only one that will be affected to any con-
siderable extent by this provision ; and, as a natural con-
sequence, the Chamber of Mines and allied institutions
are protesting horribly. They are not concerned about
the increase of their insurance rates; their wails are all
over the dreadful fate of the weakly worker, who will
be cast into the outer darkness of unemployment.
They wisely don’t produce the weakly worker as an ex-
hibit. The fact is, in the Westralian mines it’s very hard
to find him ; and when he is found his weakness is nearly
always due to the conditions under which he has labored.
# * * *
Mines Inspector Kuss and retinue have arrived
in Kalgoorlie to determine the future of the Golden
Horseshoe, as far as the Paris market is concerned. Kuss,
when at home, is an official inspector of mines—mostly
collieries—and a colliery inspector may not be the best
man in the world to report on a gold mine. Still, it is
pretty certain he will be able to see the need of develop-
ment. In fact, but for that, there would have been no
call for the Frenchman’s visit. What the Horseshoe will
do with the fine new extra plant just on completion
(built, by the way, on debentures) is a puzzle ; and the
visitor will probably say some severe things about that,
too—more especially as J. Bull has, it is said, been passing
the baby on to Paris to nurse.
* • • *
Not to be completely outshone by their resusci-
tated rival, Kalgoorlie and Boulder have had a pegging
flutter at Binduli, the next parallel rise west of the
Golden Mile. “ Indications of something good ” was the
whisper, and all who are in the game, save near-by resi-
dents, swarmed out to the spot armed with pegs. But
the country was too uninviting for most of the rushers to
bother about even a prospecting area, and the proximity
of numerous piggeries, an unregistered racecourse and a
sanitary depdt didn’t make the new rush smell any sweeter.
Some years ago a galena find on this same line attracted
attention ; but it faded out of sight quickly.
* * * *
Coolgardie has come into the gold-find flutter
with a rich reef at Kunanalling. Of course, the holder
has refused gorgeous offers from abroad, and Coolgardie-
ltes are quite annoyed if you say it is probably a pocket,
like the rest of the finds in the district.
* * * *
8., M. and Co. in general and Boring in particu-
lar have been “ up against it” in Westralia. Despite much
bugling, Gwalias, the leading stock in the 8., M. and Co.
stable, fell from 355. to 295. 6d. According to repeated state-
ments by Loring, the Leonora mine never looked better,
while developments had actually brought cheaper costs
to view, owing to the lode coming nearer the shaft at the
bottom levels. Local opinion supports the optimism, and
the reason assigned for the slump is the sale of large lots
of scrip in London to finance Bullfinch shares. If so,
8., M. and Co. can very well afford to smile and 'wait.
* * * *
The W.A. gold yield does not yet advance on
the strength of the new finds. October shows a Mines
Department report of 123,0940 z., as against 124,2310 z. for
September. Last October the return was 131,2990 z., a
total not reached yet this year. The Bullfinch returns
are anticipated to brighten the totals a little if they can
recover the bulk of the metal by the roasting process
now employed. There does not appear to be any serious
difficulty about it.
* * * *
Mills’ United, Charters Towers, closed its half-
year with a profit of £10,425. The mine sent 12,937 tons
to the mill, which, with 13,366 tons of tailings, gave a
revenue of £42,762. Costs have been high ; but that was
to be expected, because prospecting had to be pushed
along. Originally this mine was started as a deep
block on the Day Dawn reef. The western shoot
gave some splendid dividends in the ’9o’s. Then
it had a quiet time for several years, and the
shares were quoted down to 4s. in 1904. Next, the
shoot on the eastern side gave £225,000 in dividends in
three years, these rich returns being nearly equal to the
best three years’ output from the western shoot. Now
Mills’United is in for a course of development, and, having
£32,690 on fixed deposit, it is well able to go deeper on
the reef that was so prolific. It is proposed to carry the
main shaft down as a winze, and sink other winzes at
wide intervals. In recent years the co. has added
other strings to its bow. It bought the Day Dawn and
Wyndham lease and plant for £2700, and has been able to
sell some of the machinery for £2500. It also holds a
mining lease 28 miles away, near Ravenswood Junction,
the shaft on which is down 141 ft.
* * * *
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers, is
not looking well in the deep level. No. 4 has not yet
shown better form than No. 3 did. Still, it should be
remembered that the deepest level is not free from the
disturbing influence of the dyke. No. 1 winze below No.
3 level at 96ft. had lOin. of fairly well mineralised stone
in the face ; but a small reef of medium grade is not what
was anticipated by people who gave high prices for
Freehold shares. Reserves hardly get mentioned, but
they are not strong enough to maintain an output of
30,000 tons a year for long unless the deeps shape better.
Mills’ United, on the western side of the Freehold, is
enlarging its winze below No. 14 west level; so it evi-
dently hopes to pick up a shoot of stone below No. 14,
or more than 300 ft. deeper than the Freehold’s No. 4 level.
True, Mills’ United has had the thick end of the shoot,
and its crushings from the Eastern Day Dawn have given
seven times as much in dividends as the Freehold has
paid.
* * *
Satisfactory news still comes from the Hamp-
den-Cloncurry (Q.). The north end of the 400 ft. level in
the Duchess is past the 460 ft. mark, and has recently
shown improved prospects. Assays run to 11 per cent,
copper for a width of 2ijft. The 260 ft. level had a long
run of ore to the north, and the deepest at 400 ft. has
met two rich shoots, though there is a wide intervening
blank. The Hampden mine is also showing good pro-
spects at the 350 ft. level. Winzing from the level above,
with crosscuts, practically proves that there is a good
make of ore at the southern end from No. 2 shaft. The
long rise from the 200 ft. level also shows good ore worth
12 per cent, for a width of 3ft. Reserves in both mines
therefore show large increases, on the strength of which
the Melbourne market has been giving’ the stock the
recently-anticipated boost. As previously announced,
the Baillieus have been interested in Hampden, and it is
now made public that they have underwritten the rail-
way debenture issue. They get 7£ per cent, commission,
and an option at par over the unissued 50,000 shares.
* * * *
Mt. Elliott (Q.) sent 4680 tons of copper ore
to the furnace last month. A big open face is being
worked, from which a few men can turn out 100 tons of
ore per day. These bulky faces of ferruginous ore help to
keep down the cost of producing copper. It is risky,
though, to figure future profits on the work of a new
plant fed with rich and cheaply mined ore from an open
cut. The 280 ft. and 400 ft. levels are in good form, but
the mine can hardly be said to have proved itself at
depth. The deepest level—No. 5, which is below 500 ft.
vertical—is in 83ft. ; but although some good specimens
are got the average value is not high. The latest report
mentions 3 per cent. The converters turned out 560 tons
of blister during October, and no doubt worked up some
of the matte left over from the September run. Expenses
are put at £'14,570, and the profit might therefore be
stated at the same figure, or a trifle more.
* * * *
Gympie goldfield for October crushed 11,990
tons for 55260 z., out of which £3BOO was paid as divi-
dends. Calls for the same period totalled £4580. The
chief producers were: .Scottish Gympie, 8000 tons for
23540 z.; East Oriental and Glanmire, 910 tons for 1105 oz.;
and No. 2 South Great Eastern, 800 tons for 688 oz. East
Orieiital and Glanmire has provided the chief sensation of
late by locating another good shoot of stone in the
northern workings. This shoot has so far yielded a 3d.
and a 4d. div., equal to £4666 ; and there should be a few
more threepennies. It is to be hoped, though, the co.
will keep a bit in reserve. No. 2 S. Great Eastern will pro-
bably pay a Christmas dividend. Shaft sinking is pro-
gressing, and the work offers hope, judging by the results
got from the Inglewood at 2000 odd feet in the Scottish
Gympie. which lies to the east. No. 3 North Columbia
is crushing about soz. stone. The formation seems dis-
turbed by a slide, and culling mullock from ore is expen-
sive. Still, the reef has not been opened up much so far.
* * * *
There is a bother up in Ballarat over the
financial position of Nuggetty Ajax, Daylesford. After
all, the writing was on the wall goodness knows how
long since, but bluff prevented anyone belling the
cat. Nuggetty Ajax was a freak from the first, and
would have cracked months since had the market not
been sizzled up every time it tried to bring prices
down to harmonise with the value of ore-reserves.
The first smash came over the report of a creep
in the stopes. The echo of this movement reached
Lyddiard-street, and is still talked about. Spinsters in
their nightdresses rushed out to see the scuttle, and
shrieked because they had been caught napping. All this
present cry-out about the co.’s bad financial position is
farcical, if the Nuggetty had the ore reserves, finances
would right themselves in no time. Chairman Vince is
safe there. If the reserves are not up to the market price
of scrip, a different tally has to be nicked. That is really
the little trouble that worries those who are in “the
greatest gold mine in the State.”
* * * *
Since the Lyell Blocks took to talking about the
underlie of the North Lyell shoot of ore, the Mount Lyell
has stopped issuing plans. Had the Blocks Board had
the sense to hold its tongue, it might have gone on having
plans. Now Bowes Kelly cannot be pitched into for
keeping them in the office rack. Said plans are, never-
theless, wanted to follow Sticht in his wandering from
No. 19 stope to No. 95 stope or thereabout. What stands
out conspicuously re the North Lyell is that much ore
isn’t being broken out above 600 ft., because there isn’t
much left to break out. The 850 ft. level fills up the gap,
and is a mine unto itself. Being so big, it seemed
to be a tip-top introduction to the 1000 ft. level
and to the deeper 1100 ft. level. As matters have
turned out, at 1050 ft. they had to go in search of the new
ore body. This had substantial existence at 1000 ft., and,
after a hunt, the lost chicken has been cooped in. The
downward continuation of No. 22 and No. 34 stope ore
bodies, 1000 ft. level, are assumed to have been dis-
covered by the drill; but Sticht won’t take his oath on
the point. Six months’ work at the bottom of the mine
means that the New Development ore body has been
picked up and proved. As for the rest, Sticht
throws out the. hope that off the No. 1 North drive
the body worked in the No. 22 and No. 34 stopes
may be proved. What strikes the eye is the hustling
round which is being done to pick up ore at the bottom
level ; also, that there is more elusiveness about the
bodies than there was at any previous point under the
850 ft. ground floor. Sticht tells of 927,000 tons of ore in
sight in the North Lyell, but be fails to lay out the re-
serves at the different levels. A bit of spice of that sort
would give more taste to his half-yearly roast.
+• * * *
The latest Baillieu-Cohen combination in
Melbourne, now that Amalgamated Zincs are floating
nicely, is Latrobe Shale and Oil. Quaintly enough, a day
or two before the world was let into the secret that
chemist de Bavay had cocked an approving eye over
Latrobe, peeping Toms learnt that the Navy was wanting
samples of Latrobe oil. Could things happen more nicely ?
Just a whisper of the same kind set the oil-boom raging
in London to top-off the rubber rush, and give Moreing
his chance to unload the Maikop flotations on a receptive
public. No prospectus has been made public by the
Latrobe Shale and Oil, but the dailies mention 126,000
shares of £1 each, and an area of 4000 acres. Surely
there isn’t much left in Tassy with the Lyell on the one
side, the electric-power co. on the other, and Baillieu-
Cohen at Latrobe. The funny part is that David Currie, of
the Briseis, should have been brought in to watch the tests
to be made in Scotland of some of the shale sent thither.
How like a bit out of a pedigree book ! Clark, of Clark
and Robinson, on the Briseis Board ; Currie, consulting
engineer of the Briseis; Currie and Wharton, expert
examiners of the Tongkah for the Baillieus; Wharton,
chairman of the Latrobe; Currie, inspector of the
Latrobe and supervisor of the tests in Scotland ! As
Currie is about as dour as the average Scot when busi-
ness is on the mat, his word will mean a lot with people
who are looking out for good snaps in the mining world.
Viewing the Latrobeinperspective.it looks as if Baillieu
and Cohen had trained their guns beautifully. The only fly
in the ointment is that the Commonwealth Oil hasn’t
matured beautifully so far.
* * * *
The Auckland Rubbersub Purchasing Syndi-
cate, Ltd., begins to talk. At a meeting the other day
the chairman (C. H. Wilson) said “ he had met Mr. G.
Metcalfe, the inventor, who had just returned from Aus-
tralia, and he was against accepting the Dunlop Co.’s
offer of £75,000 for the purchase of the Australian rights.”
The secretary said that, “ rubbersub could be utilised in
90 per cent. of the articles now'manufactured of rubber, and
at less than 25 per cent, of the cost.” There is, however,
a tantalising lack of detail about the wonder, whose
inventor is a Yoikshireman domiciled in Christchurch.
* * * *
The Colonial Mutual Fire is going into the
melting pot, and a new co. is to be cast. The directors
want power to go into all the insurance side-lines, many
of which can be picked up incidentally ; also they have
lately been paying over 20 per cent, in dividends,
and a 20 per cent, dividend attracts competition.
So the new co. will have a paid capital of
£200,000 instead of £lOO,OOO, which means that the
present holder will get two shares in the new co. for
one in the old. Even then there will be something well
over £50,000 to start reserves with. There was a rumor
lately that another absorption was in the air, and that a
big English co. was going to swallow the Colonial
Mutual. It is good news that nothing like that is to
happen.
* * * *
Copper: Sorry can’t advise...... Romulus : Have
nothing to do with them.
Maoriland’s petroleum fields are attracting
attention from outside. For years prospecting work was
carried on in Taranaki by some local enthusiasts. Want
of capital and inexpert management cruelled the work ;
but the Taranaki Petroleum Co. at last did better, and
now has 150,000ga1. of crude oil at grass. It wants
Government assistance for a refinery, and Mines Minister
MoKenzie is debating whether to assise a co. to put one
up, or to erect a State refinery for the whole field. The
latter plan would give the Government a control
which would block monopolists. There are also promis-
ing indications near Gisborne, on the East Coast of the
North Island, where a syndicate is boring, and an “ emi-
nent expert ” is on the way from Bull’s land to examine.
Also and moreover, a £25,000 syndicate has been floated
by the Consolidated Goldfields people in London to try
a field near Greymouth, on the West Coast of the South
Island.
* * * *
The complex gold and silver ores of the Te
Aroha and Lower Thames (M.L.) have hitherto beaten the
metallurgist. W. R. Wilson, with John Howell as his
manager, tried the ores 20 years back, and failed ; where-
upon Howell was passed on to Broken Hill. A Glasgow
co. also failed. The only money that has ever been
made out of these refractory ores was coined when the}’
were rich enough to bear transportation costs to Aus-
tralia. Want of cheap fluxes is the local trouble, but a
chemical or electrical process seems possible.
# * *
Bendigo isn’t the only field in Victoria where
the shepherd nurses his flock of leases. At Glen Wills a
small sheep-run is held by a “mining" co. which has
done nothing off its own bat for years, but has been
pouching as much as 33J percent, royalty from tributors.
This concern is supposed to keep a minimum of 27 men
at work ; for three years, however, in spite of kicks and
protests, it is doubtful whether there has been an average
of 10 at work, tributors included.


Seasons change, Spring, Summer, Autumn,
Winter. Wolfe’s Schnapps at all seasons.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprieior
Ideas. Yes ! You may enter the Arcade
lift 266 Flinders St., Melbourne, and call upon
patent agents Phillips Ormonde & Co. They will
be glad to see you. Will readily afford any infor-
mation you need, if you have a patentable inven-
tion. Don’t forget too that you can write them.
Correspondence is invited." There’s another
matter. There’s that interesting quarterly the
Scientific Australian. It’s only 2s. 6d. per
annum. A trifle. 266 also represent various
English and American industrial and technical
Journals, a sample of any of which, by sending
stamps, you can have. *
GOLDEN YELLOW AXLE GREASE.
A Pure Oil Lubricant for
all Axles and Bearing's.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
HOG-HUNTING.
Z245: “ Did you get his number ?”
Z1092: “ No, but I got very close to it!”
“Jim Pannikin”: Milparinka, in the
farthest-out corner of N.S.W., lias seen its first
motor-car. It was en route for Yandama Station.
The journey from Broken Hill, about 200 miles,
was done in I’s days, one night being spent at a
roadside hotel. Some day I’ll wander again all
over the wonderful West-o’-Darling ; but I’ll wait
till I can get a sweet-smelling motor-car, because
I’d regard it as a sacrilege to poison and pollute
the glorious, exhilarating Outback air with petrol
perfume.
HIS LOT WAS LITTLE.
THE CURATE (who has overheard Dismal Jimmy lamenting his hard fate): “ Come, come, my
poor fellow, you must cheer up. Be content with your lot.”
DISMAL JAMES (fiercely): “ Who in thunder said I ’AD a lot!”
“Frank B.” : “Camp Oven” assumes
(B. 13/10/T0) that his bullock swam “more than
a hundred miles” because its hide bore the brand
of a station that distance from the “scene of its
slaughter.” Well, 1 claim the record for a grey-
hound slut I hauled out of the Murray last flood-
time. She wore a collar stamped, “ Made in Ger-
many.”
* * * *
“Eddyson”: Two recent “miraculous
recoveries ” in Melbourne remind me of
the case of Thomas Thomas, of Waddy.
Thomas was stricken dumb by the action
of a blast. Two Geordies coming off shift
at the Hand and Band had neglected to
inform Tom Tommie that there was a
charge in and a spitting fuse at the face.
Tommie’s mate was detained on the
plat; but Tommie paddled down the
drive, and met the blast face to face.
Thomas was not damaged, but when he
climbed out and tried to express his
robust feelings about those Geordies, he
found that the power of expression had
wholly failed him in his hour of greatest
need. Tom Tommie’s stroke excited great
concern at Waddy. It was feelingly dis-
cussed at a meeting of the Wesleyan
brethren in the tin chapel of which
Thomas was an ornament. The Rev.
Daniel Glasson went so far as to invite
the attendance of seven of the most
eloquent Cousin Jacks to a praying bee
in his parlor on the following afternoon.
The idea was to secure the intervention
of Providence in the case of the afflicted
brother. The pray-ers got away well to-
gether, and were praying with undimin-
ished vigor for the alleviation of Thomas
Thomas’s affliction half an hour later,
when Thomas Thomas himself burst into
the room, almost purple in his hot in-
dignation. For a moment he lingered at
the door, blown with fury; then he said:
“ Lor and it, Brother
Glassen, there’s that black cow
of yours at my cabbages
again!” The prayers of the righteous
had availed.
“ Werrimee’s ” hair-raising yarn :
Chummy had been sent out to a vard-builders’ camp,
which he reached a little before sundown, and just as the
men were riding off to visit a neighboring camp. Jocu-
larly they mentioned that a woman had been murdered
by a shepherd on the adjacent hill some years before,
and if he heard anyone calling or screaming after dark,
he’d know it was only her ghost. Chummy didn’t like
the idea of a ghost for company, and expressed a wish to
make their neighbor’s acquaintance. But they had no
spare horses, and he had to content himself with the
assurance that they wouldn’t be long away. So he
boiled his billy and had tea. Dusk was deepening, when
presently from the hill came a low wail that might
have been the cry of a soul being turned on
the gridiron. The shock staggered Chummy a bit,
and, before he had time to get his composure back,
several terrific screams announced that the Devil was
poking up the fire. Withbut waiting to get his hat, he
rushed out and sped along the track towards the other
camp. Thoroughly exhausted he reached the place, and
dropped panting and groaning among the astonished
men. He never went back. He worked at the camp
next day while one of the men went for his swag ; then
he lost no time in getting out of the neighborhood.
Bushman-like, the vard-builders considered it would have
spoiled a good joke if they had explained to him that
what he had heard were the cries of the stone plovers or
bush curlews.
“Eddyson”: When the little rush broke
out at Barrel Flat, the surrounding district was
probably the most lonesome patch left in all Vic-
toria. Waterman’s holding was nearest, and
Waterman commanded the Barrel Flat trade in
eggs, pickled cow, vegetables and a weird kind of
bread. Waterman had a daughter, Roseann, a
wild and woolly native of 20, brought up with
small knowledge of her kind, and as
fearful as a mountain steer. When
Roseann first saw Crillin, the
prospector of Barrel Flat, she
ran two miles on end, and hid
in a tree. After that, if
Crillin or any of the others
from the flat approached
Waterman’s, Roseann
bolted into the parental
cowshed,and lurked there
till all danger was past.
No startled doe was in
it withßoseann Water-
man as a shrinking
child of nature. Mickie
Crillin was amazed ;
hitherto he bad been
the timid thing where
women were concerned,
and this still more
timid thing took his
fancy captive. So he
decided to marry Miss
Waterman, and lose no
time aboutit. One Sunday
afternoon he called at Water-
man’s back door, and stated his intention
plump and plain. There was an instantaneous
bolt from the front. “ Want me daughter, Rose-
ann?” said Waterman. “Well, I don’t see why
for not. But you’ll have to run her down yer-
self ! ”
* * * *
“G-.R.F.” has his suspicions :
“ Gentleman James’s ” belated note (B. 13/10/’10) that
beri-beri is caused by using stagnant water is about
as improbable as is his assertion that he was on
one of the schooners near the Ethel fleet at
the time I referred to in my par. (B. 2/0/’10). He was
unlucky in selecting the pen-name of “ Gentleman
James,” for that breezy sea-rover, at the time I refer
to, was tossing about on the ocean somewhere be-
tween Port Darwin and Timor. I am certain of
this, because I gave James the first whisky he
had had for many weary weeks on his arrival in Cygnet
Bay, where we were laid up for the hurricane season,
after the beri-beri outrage. “Gentleman James ” had
the Beatrice, a smart lugger with which he had been
shelling out of Port Darwin. He told me why he left
Darwin, and what happened at Kopang (Timor), but as
Chaucer says, that is another story. All I need tell you
is that he reached Cygnet Bay one breezy Sunday morn-
ing, his sails patched with gunny bags, and the bellies
of his crew and himself empty. All the tucker they had left
was half a bag of rice. I mention this to show that “Gentle-
man James ” could not have been where your correspon-
dent’s par says he was when the Ethel’s men were bad.
There are other indications that prove that the writer
of the par is not acquainted with pearling luggers, for a
tyro at the game knows that only castor or olive oil is
used on the pearling luggers for lubricating the diving
pumps. Why, then, should he correct me, and say that
it was pump-oil and not castor that was used with raw
potatoes and vinegar for dieting the beri-beri patients?
We never watered the Ethel’s luggers from stagnant
waterholes, so bad water was certainly not the cause of
the beri-beri amongst our men. Besides, the distemper
most frequently attacks new arrivals from Singapore.
“Puketapu” : When Bill Scott made his
periodical trip to Konini (M.L.) it was no place
for a one-armed man. Two arms were the least
you could do with, and a pick-handle in your hip
pocket showed a wise discretion. Directly
William arrived he had a flap hoisted on top of
the pub as a sign to the neighborhood that free
drinks were on the menu, and as long as his
money lasted (which was generally about
a week) the bar was open at Bill’s ex-
pense. There, with his coat off, his shirt
open at the big weather-tanned throat, he
was in his glory. He could fight, sing and
drink till the cows came home. Probably he
could do other things ; but I never saw him try.
If ever you get as far as that little Konini pub,
they’ll show you, cut on the tap-room mantel-
piece : “On Boxing Night, 1888, Bill Scott
fought Dinny McPhee here, and it was the
best fight in the world.” Dinny was a big,
Irish navvy, Roman to the bone, and touchy
and suspicious concerning religious references.
All hands were roaring drunk this night when
Bill knocked on the table and said : “Fill ’em
up, and drink a toast to me—St. Bill.” What
Dinny found offensive in the words I don’t know,
but his liquor splashed in Bill's face. “Yez
dirty, low, crawlin’ swine,” he bellowed. “For
the fame of iviry true saint I’ll lay yez out this
night.” Bill wiped his face, and, said he:
“ You’ll have another drink first, Dinny.”
Then they removed everything but their
trousers, and for over an hour fought like two
wild beasts. No rules were observed ; there were
no specified rounds ; but by mutual consent both
men stood off every now and then to wipe off the
blood and drink a half-tumbler of rum. At the
finish their faces looked like stamped-out steak,
and Bill had his cheek laid open to the bone. It
had to be sewn up, and there was nobody to
do the job but the saddler, the rivers being
so swollen that no help could have been obtained
from outside for days. The saddler, of course, was
drunk ; but a couple of stiff brandies made him as
nearly sober as could be expected, and he com-
menced his surgery. It could never have been
finished, excepting for the fact that the patient
was practically unconscious, for the yash was sewn
up with fine waxed, thread, and an awl was used to
bore the holes. In the morning, when the pub-
keeper went to the bedroom to see Bill Scott he
was gone. And now whenever I hear them talk
of great fighting men I think of Bill—and St.
Bill.
* * * *
“ Pick ” : The ventriloquial power claimed
for certain birds and animals by “Wee Mac”
(B. 13/10/T0) is based on delusion. No one has
yet clamored for bullocks’ bells to be classed ns
ventriloquists. Yet in thick forest country or
among ranges the bell-tones seem to flit from one
point to another in a wav that angers a searcher
for the oxen attached to them. Continuous
sounds are at any time difficult to locate, for the
reason that they travel in all directions, and
hollows, obstructions, currents of air and so forth
tend to swell or depress their volume. The en-
tertainer who calls himself a ventriloquist is like-
wise a counterfeit. By directing his hearers’
attention to the floor or tho ceiling, or the doll on
the table, and by speaking with little or no lip
movement, he makes it appear that the sound
SABAH’S HAT COMES HOME.
comes from the distant object; but only the
gullible will believe that he can throw his voice
thereto, just as he could throw his hat or old
boots. He can’t. Neither can “Wee Mac’s”
birds or dingo, although the breeze, echo and
other natural conveyances may often have led the
diminutive clansman into the erroneous belief
that the vocal goods were being delivered from
the wrong address.
* * * *
“ Werrimee ” : The average Caucasian
isn’t in it with the untutored local nigger as a
water-borer. When tapping soakages in creek
beds the white man spends hours rooting out sand
that is continually falling in, and has, when
finished, a hole big enough to bury a bullock in.
The black man merely scrapes away the loose
sand on top, and, driving his spear in, works it
down as far as necessary. Down the tiny bore
he inserts a hollow reed, through which he drinks
his fill with ease and comfort. Water so tapped,
however, can do with exposure to the air for a few
hours, as it has, at first, a peculiar earthy taste,
and often a flavor of decayed vegetation. In
Westralia, after rain, the blacks cross the desert
and dig small holes in the clay-pans, in which
they plant a sheet of bark dipped in the centre
to hold water. Another sheet is laid over this
and buried under sand or earth to prevent evapo-
ration. There is good, cool water there long after
the claypans have dried up, and this enables the
abos. to cross the desert, instead of going under to
the thirst-fiend in the middle of it. Another
device is the log-well, copied by the miners,
made by sinking a hollow log in the ground,
the top being covered with bushes or bark.
CRIPPLED FOR THE CUP.
(A Bushman’s Tragedy.)
[For Tiif. Bulletin.]
Sick an’ on me back here ;
Down an’ broken up,
All the way from Gippsland
Come to see the Cup ! . ..
Nurse to bring- me physic,
Nurse to give me tea ;
That’s no good to Gundi
Gundi meanin' me.
Out they’ll go to-morrow
Fifty thousand strong ;
Trains an’ cabs an’ motors—
-1 won’t be along !
Girl I should have taken
(Nicely dollied up)
Goin’ with another
Chap to see the Cup !
Tripped along the tramline,
Fell an’ broke me knee ;
Done me up in plaster—
Lovely luck for me !
Night nurse she is kindly ;
Day nurse is a dream
(Ev’rv time they touch me
Feel I want to scream).
Place is well conducted ;
Thermic chart writ up ;
What’s the good to me here,
Euchred for the Cup ?
I can’t hear the noise of
Busy streets and wide;
I can’t hear the voices
Of the folks outside.
I won’t hear the shoutin’
Down along the course
When the crowd to-morrow
Hails the winning horse.
Life has got its troubles :
Some are hard to breast.
Thought to do me bit on
Me fancy, like the re3t!
Thought tg do the lawn with
Sweetest thing in town . . .
Hospital instead, mates,
Outed, biffed an’ down !
Nurse to fix me pillows,
Nurse to fetch me tea—
Wish ’em luck—in physic—
Rotten luck for me !
Goin’ back to Gippsland
When they fix me up—
Missed the ’bus with Clara !
Missed the blighted Cup !!
VICTORIA.
EDW. J. BRADY.


;di n i-’-i nij^.
The Old Blerxd
Whisky
DIITILI.Ent. *
omecT ntOM distillers.
A Reliable Remedy.
Rexona is a reliable remedy for all eruptions
and irritations of the skin. Eczema, pimples,
sores, chilblains, chapped hands, sciatica, itching
or bleeding piles, cuts, burns, bruises, scalds, bad
legs, stings of insects and all kinds of inflamma-
tion. Rexona is sold only in triangular pots at
Is. 6d. and 3s,*
CLEMENT-BAYARD
MOTOR CARS
Are years ahead of other makes of cars in sim-
plicity and perfection.
Are lighter (yet stronger) than other cars.
Reason—scientifically prepared material.
Are much simpler (yet more reliable) than other
makes of cars.
Are so automatic that a child can safely drive
them.
Are famed for light tyre bills. Why? Because
8-14 h.p. 4-Cylinder, with Detachable Back
Seat, as shown, £275.
lighter and less vibration. '
Are fitted with the best carburetter and a new naphtha-saving appliance. .
Are embodiments of all the latest discoveries of motor science. '
One of the most costly cars of Europe, and yet are sold here 25% lower than other first-class cars.
Are the product of one of the oldest and largest car factories of the world, the factory that has made <
the motors for the English Government’s great war dirigibles. ' .
CLEMENT-BAYARD, 8/14 h.p., 4 Cylinders, with Double Phaeton Body, Detachable Back Seat, £275.
CLEMENT-BAYARD, 12/18 h.p., 4 Cylinders, with Double Phaeton Side Entrance Body, £450. |
Sole Agents’ FAIRFAX & ROBERTS The Oldest Jewellery 23 Hunter Street.
Office: ’ House in Sydney,
Garage: STANTON COOK, LTD., 23 Underwood Street, Sydney.
Sole Agents, Victoria: JAMES A. MUNRO & CO., Elizabeth Street, Melbourne. i
“ Kodak ” : I came across them in a little
mountain hotel in Victoria at the critical stage of
their Christmas jamboree. They loved each other
lietter than brothers, and spree’d in harmony until
something in Mick’s make-up gave way under the
strain of unlimited beer, and he developed his
absurd hallucination that Joe, his friend of years,
was stone-deaf. This stage, so the publican con-
fidentially informed me, was generally reached
during the second day’s drinking. I had hap-
pened along just as Mick was getting angry with
his placidly-drunk mate, who had learnt by long
experience that it was not the slightest use trying
to persuade Mick that his hearing was unimpaired.
When I entered the bar, Mick was leaning over
the glumly-silent man and roaring at him. The
proceedings were something like this :
Mick (in a voice of thunder) : “ It’s not a blanky bit o’
use talkin’ to yer ! You’re as deaf as a blanky post! ”
Resigned nods from Joe.
Mick (enraged by Joe’s frozen placidity) : “ It’s no
blanky use pretendin’ yer can hear, because I blanky well
know yer can’t ! ”
More nods.
t Mick (more furious than ever): “ You don’t know what
I’m sayin’! You can’t hear nothin’! Yer just sit there
like a blanky stuffed owl! Enough t’ give a man the
’orrors, you are ! ”
Reproachful look from Joe.
Mick (maddened by reproachful look—bellowing dread-
fully) : “ Gorstrooth ! Can’t yer ’ear that ? I can’t ’owl
any louder! W’y-don’t-yer-stay-in-yer-camp ?. . . Can
yer ’ear that t"
Joe takes a long pull at his beer.
Mick (dashing his hat on the floor): “ Damyer, yer
ain’t fit t’ be loose ! What was yer blanky re-la cions
doin’ that they didn’t put yer in th’ Deaf an’ Dumb
’Sylum ? I can’t get any sense outer yer ! What th’
’ell is a man t’ do with yer?”
Silent interval occupied by Mick in picking up his hat
and brushing it, and by Joe in sadly draining the rest of
his beer.
Mick (with sudden ferocity, after regarding Joe-des-
perately for several minutes): “'Ow the ’ell you expec’
any man t’ drink with yer, beats me ! You don’ know
what I’m savin’, an’ I don’ know what you’re thinkin’,
an’there ain’t no blanky sociability, no nothin’! Gors-
trooth, a man might as well drink with a waxworks 1
Oan’t yer do anythin’ but sit there like a blanky owl ! ”
Reproachful look from Joe.
Mick (howling furiously) : “ Can’t yer ’ear me?" Lor’
nmme, I can’t sing out any louder 1 Will-ykr-’avk-a-
BKKR?”
Joe silently rises and carries his glass to the bar. Mick
hurriedly follows.
Mick (to the publican, who is enjoying the joke):
“’Ere, Bill, give this d—d ole fool another beer, and
fill me another ! ” (To Joe, roaring): “Well, you ’eard
that orright, didn’t yerV"
Joe silently carries his filled glass back to his seat.
Mick (to publican): “Damme if I ever see anythin’
like ’im ! ’E muster heard me arsk him t’ ’ave a beer, th’
way he come at it! Th’ blanky fool carn’t ’ear anythin'
else. I’m goin’t’ make ’im answer me, you see ! ” (Goes
over to Joe, stands beside him, and howls right in his
ear) : “ ’Ow-are-ybr-now ? ”
Joe (mildly) : “ I’m orright, Mick ! ”
Mick (staggered and enraged at getting an answer at
last): “ Yer a liar ! Yer not orright! Yer as deaf as a
blanky post! I’ve been 'owling at yer this ’arf-hour, an’
yer never ’eard a word I was sayin’! What’s th’ use o’
tellin’ lies? Yer not orright, and yer never will be
orright! Blanky fine bloke you are t’ go out with ! W’y,
a bloke can’t get a word outer yer or inter yer 1 D—d
if I know w’y I stand ’ere wastin’ me breath on yer 1 I
tell yer it’s not a blanky bit o’ use talkin’ to yer! Yer as
deaf as a blanky post! ”
I suddenly realised that the circular argument had
arrived at the original point, and was starting on
another round. Tossing a shilling and a hurried
“ Good-day ” to the grinning publican, I fled.
***••*
“ Adelaide ” : That 13-year-old Tasmanian
merino, which has given at its first shearing wool
lft. 9in. long, is badly beaten by a sample in a
case on the walls of the Exchange Hotel in Ade-
laide. It came from an.old ewe that had run on
Kangaroo Island (S. Aus.j for an unknown time,
practically wild, and is 4ft. 4in. long.
'the observations of “Vigilans”
Newcastle Waters (Northern Territory), which will one
day play a prominent part in Australia’s transcontinental
railway, lie 320 miles south of the terminus of the Port
Darwin railway at Pine Creek. The discoverer was John
Ross, but why the name Newcastle was given I can’t say.
Newcastle Lake, when full, may be 50 miles long by 20
wide. The country around it is generally undulating'
with grassed slopes leading from the range, and rich open
plains of blue-black soil. The entrance to the lake is a
large and permanent sheet of water, overflowing its
banks to the north from two to five miles. The road and
telegraph line follow this creek for 26 miles. It is
not a permanent running- stream, but the waterholes
are never dry, and rice should grow well thereabouts.
The country maintains its character as far as the tele-
graph station at Daly Waters, a creek about 20 miles in
length, emptying into a large swamp, the latter called
after Stuart, the explorer of these regions. This swamp,
after rain, is an immense stretch of water, inundating an
enormous area of low country—black-soil plains, covered
with light and stunted gum scrub. Hereabouts is the
only wild rice growing in Australia —a small, black grain,
used by the aborigines for food.
All this fine country is held by John Lewis, M.L.A. The
best cattle and horses in the North are grown upon it. It
is naturally watered, and the flooded country forms
into a flat channel called Bindurn Creek, and wends for
60 miles through light forest country, ultimately empty-
ing into Elsie Creek, a tributary of the Roper. Elsie
Creek has many fine deep billabongs, a channel 10 miles
in length, and an average width of 50yds. On each side
of this splendid reach of water is a magnificent growth of
paper-baik timber —a forest of straight, tall spars. This
is one of the most useful timbers in the Northern Terri-
tory. Over a low range to the east is the famous Barkly
tableland, estimated to be capable of carrying between
15,000,000 and 20,000,000 sheep. On the west side there
is a stretch of semi-forest country, practically waterless ;
then the Victoria Downs, capable of carrying another
10,000,000 jumbucks. It is not a single line of railway
that is required to develop this magnificent area, but a
system of branch lines. Newcastle Waters has a great
future as a railway junction ; it will be Australia’s great
northern depot.
NOT UNDERSTOOD.
BARCOO BILL: “ And kin yer write on a hempty stummick?”
THE OTHER: “Sir, I am a poet—not a TATTOO ARTIST!”
“ Gidclap ” : I remember that it was a
dirty night, and also that it was after the ninth
drink. Four of us were seated in the parlor of a
pubbery out back of the ’fields in W. A., the time
being midnight and the topic ghosts. Bob
McLeod had no belief in spooks or spirits that
weren’t in bottles, and said so. To test his
courage, one of us wagered that he wasn’t game
to go down to the aboriginal cemetery, dig up a
skull and return to the pub with it. Mac took
the bet up and went out. After a minute or two
Sparrow Hart rose, and, remarking that he would
“ make Mac earn those drinks,” set off in his
wake. The niggers’ burying-ground was situated
in a clearing in the mulga a good half-
mile away, and Sparrow, knowing the coun-
try, took the short cut through the scrub. He
arrived first, and when Mac came scrambling
through, Sparrow dogged stealthily behind him.
NATURAL HISTORY.
BARMAID: "What's that professor chap doing?
POTMAN: “ He’s got ’em again, Miss—sees snakes.”
Barmaid: “ But what's he doing?”
POTMAN: “ Oh, he’s classifying them.”
Presently Mac started to grub. He hadn’t to dig
deep—Binghi never thought the deceased worth
more than an 18in. excavation—and soon he found
something. He struck a match. It was a skull.
As the light illumined it, Sparrow from behind
remarked in sepulchral tones: “That’s m-i-i-ine!”
Mac hurriedly dropped the goods, and wheeled
round, but saw nothing. After waiting and listen-
ing for a few minutes he moved to another family
vault, and started hoeing up the Garden of Death.
There he rooted out another skull, and lighted a
second match to examine it. “That’s
wailed the voice in the darkness. Mac turned
sharply and said : “ Oh. that be d—— for a yarn.
They can’t all be yours. I’m havin’ this one.”
And he did.
“E.S.S.”: The black cockatoos, which
move in small cohorts, feeding on eucalypti seeds,
banksia, wood grubs and caterpillars, don’t
trouble the wheat-grower like their white cousins;
and, though they prune forest trees severely, they
do a lot of good in licking up various pernicious
grubs. Their flight is heavy ; and most of them
have a low, crying call. If they are the right sex
they lay two white eggs, placed deep down in
lofty and generally inaccessible tree-spots. Two
notable features of the species are the marking of
the tail and the depth of the bill. The black tail
has a broad band across all but the two central
feathers. The band of the Banksian is deep
vermilion ;of Leach’s cockatoo, scarlet; of the
wyla, or funeral cockatoo, freckled brimstone
yellow ; of the white-tail (Bau-
din’s cockatoo), creamy white.
The larawuk, or great-billed
cockatoo, has the most power-
ful bill, ljin. long and 3in.
deep. It also has the longest
crest. The bill of the karrak,
or western black cockatoo, is
2|in. deep. The tail of this
fellow is crossed with red.
The yellow-eared cockatoo,
which is 24in. in length and
has a light, buff-colored band,
thickly mottled with grey, is
the most showy of the black
species and the most frequently
shot. In common with some of
its relatives, it flies low on the
approach of rain, and whines
as though something was wrong
with its State rights. To get
the grubs in wattle and gum
trees it scoops off the bark and
saws branches right through ; sap-
lings fiin. thick are frequently cut
down. I have seen a thick chip
lOin. long taken out by its powerful
bill. It lays about the beginning of
November. The gluttonous young keep
both parents busy ; the old man attends
to one and the missus to the other ; each
disgorges a cropful of seeds and crams it
into the infant mouths. The wyla does
considerable damage to trees, besides snip-
ping off branchlets of the angophora. The
great palm cockatoo, which has a big, bunchy,
black crest, with crimson and yellow on the
cheeks, feeds on the tender shoots of palms in far
northern scrubs. Like the king lory, it prefers
thick scrub to open forest country. Leach’s
cockatoo (Can any scribe supply the aboriginal
name of this bird— Galaptorhynchus leachii ?) is
the smallest of the family, and is crowned with a
tuft of yellow feathers. Though it does no
damage to trees, it incurs disfavor by wantonly
cutting off the unripe geebungs, a delicious wild
fruit relished by both white people and abori-
gines.
THE PURSUIT OF COW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
’Twas on the Lawn. A happy flock
Of dames were tripping to and fro ;
And maidens, too, each in a frock
Whose hobbled style you ought to know.
The ladies passed suffused with pride ;
The tallest had a three-inch stride.
Good Mary Canty, tough and raw,
From Teddywaddy for the Cup,
Gassed on the latest thing in awe.
The skirt she held discreetly up
Was three yards wide. At any rate,
It didn’t hamper Mary’s gait.
Her wonder grew, as tighter still
The hobbled ankles shuffled by,
Until at length on Flat and Hill
The startled people heard her cry :
“ I’m wonderin’ how the divil, Pat,
They chase the cows in skirts like that 1”
VICTORIA.
Silas Snell.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice ( except of cl hostile char acter) will be taken of
communications insuiiiciently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. Ao liability is under,
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted , whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will t>e
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
J.S.B. : Nonsense ! So far from being short-
sighted and hide-bound, Adelaide City Council is about
the most progressive in Australia. In addition to the
public utilities it owns already—trams, tish and other
markets, etc. —it is now providing itself with abattoirs
and stock markets, and is reaching out after the electric
light and power business. The latter can’t be taken over
until Dec. 11,1911; but the council is getting ready
J.S.T.: There is a square mile in a mile square—each con-
tains 040 acres Socialist: Thanks. We have no brick
to heave at you—we relish your sauce, in fact, quite as
much as we do your butter C.M. : It’s no use sending
MS. to-day and a stamp for return three months hence.
If you waiit the burden back, in case of rejection, send
the stamp with the M 5.... Damper Chewer : You’re
“ not sure whether it’s poetry or not 1 ” Heavens, man,
there’s not a shadow ofdouht about it:
A SWAGMAN’S EXPERIENCE IN A COUNTRY PUB.
Act I.
It was in a country pub,
Where they sell bad grog and worse grub.
Act 11.
It was closing time, I had a drink with the groom,
Sick and weary I went to my room,
With the room going round, my
My head heavy as lead.
When I woke in the morning I was out of bed,
Must have upset the jug, I lie floor was wet,
Ivly watch and my money I haven't seen yet.
Act 111.
I went and explained' to Bung
And this is the story he sung—
I've heard that old story before
I’ve heard that old story before
If your tongue you don’t cease
I’ll send for the police,
He said as he showed me the door.
So 1 grabbed hold of Matilda
Without any silver
But I would have liked to give Bung one on the jaw.
....John I.: Poor stuff... .Snooker : Ditto.... D. 11. T. :
One is as old as the Seven Sins ; and the other is kicked
out on suspicion.... Pat: 11. L. Godfrey, Port Darwin,
Northern Teiritory... .A. D. Pose: Reclined. Remember
you were once a baby yourself; also that you may be
reincarnated and be a baby again. Therefore, do not
rush at yourself and kick yourself violently with the hoof
of scorn.. .8. Septimus: Very faint jingle, and a little
out of date .. .P.L.K. (V.) : Herewith the first two verses
of your tremendous poem about the man who hired a
special carriage in order that his wife might not be
separated from her bull pup:
Was it for charity, love, or for vanity
Caused them to gather that mungrell cur in?
Methinks it was vanity rather than charity,
Food for the garrolous, fame for the vain.
Oh fot the thought of it! Shame that’s been wrought
by it, ...
Shame ! draw the curtain, the Word is in vain.
Has Christianity fallen ’neath vanity,
Have the children of Adam inherited Cain?
You are evidently the Dreadnought type of poet—all big
guns ...F.O. (Sydney): Unsuitable Uncle: It is an
amiable, loosely-constructed rhyme ; but the catalogue
of Jack’s virtues gets monotonous K.O’S. : Your
Pegasu’s came down heavily at the Old Stone Wall
Harold O. (S.A.): There have been brighter things
written about the Devil M.A.C. : Regret cannot use
the verses.. ..B.F.G. : Borders on the commonplace
R.D.P. : Too slight J.R.P.: Twenty shillings or a
month Fitful: A cheerful rhyme, but a t rifle too thin.
A.Y. (S.A.): Sorry not sufficient technical skill
Derelict (Tas.): Underproof verse M.T. (W.A.): The
opening lines of your address to the women emigrants ai e
calculated to attract attention :
This is a word to the women sent out from a woman’s pen
To greet the women of other lands, but not for the ears
of men.
Sorry can’t print any more. One or two prying men
wouid be sure to read it out of curiosity Eva AI. : Pro-
posed at first to print your best sentence ; but found it
ran to a breathless half-column or so—and space is limited
this week F.G.A. : Your verse is of the over-boiled egg
variety—hard to digest Bellerive :In these degene-
rate days of kiss-in-the-prize-ring, the battered, old-time
bruiser is a welcome guest:
THE OLD TIME BRUISER.
(Sample Improved.)
There was no framed-up bouts in my time, Lads,
To a finish we had to fight,
Opponents would battle away in the ring
From noon to the shadows of night.
I achieved notoriety at middle-weight, Lads,
Till Tom Sayers knocked me out,
The ugly scar'over my left eye, Lads,
Is a relic of the old-time bout.
Though many long years have rolled away
Since I retired from the sporting ring,
As if through a mirror I picture Die past
As memories around me cling.
B.S.P. : “Selectors” is breezy, but it charges ovei
oid ground, and gallops on the heels of the Light Brigade
....Pat (V.): Both unsuitable Duelist: Worst Jud-
kins poem yet encountered. Others indicate that your
lyre needs the attention of a piano-tuner or bicycle
mechanic Adsum : You mean well, but the verses pro-
ceed in a heavy-footed manner to a particularly dull end.
Try some whisky and soda.. ..DickOF. (Q.): Sorry can't
use either of them.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
T.H.: The joke is a good one spoiled, and the drawing
is bad enough to have been done in the dark L.S.:
You’ve miles and miles to go yet R.V.: Ditto; hut
you’ll probably get there ...G.F.8.: McTaggart, who
said he didn’t like McDougall because McDougall stopped
pouring when McTaggart said “When,” is a pensioner.
Other unsuitable S.S.: One can’t crawl from old age.
the other from sheer weakness... A.D.: Poor little puns.
R.B.W.: A little seasickness goes a long way....
H.W.: None of the last batch... .J.G.8., W.S., Kip.
V.E.T., O.T. : Unsuitable for illustration Chick: Not
bad, but the subject is overdone Arnold, Spero,
J.W.W.: Giey-haired Fitful : Been done so often with
so many small variations.. ..Redcot: Redhot....Far-
quar : Doesn’t seem to fill the bill M.H. : One
may do Fancy-free: Next time please say which
is the drawing and which is the joke.... Film A:
There’s a good deal of promise in it. Question
now is—Has he got any ideas ? Even a black-and-whiter
is all the better for a few.... M.8.C.: It won’t do as it is ;
and it’s hardly worth i e-drawing.... A.C.L.: Thanks;
but it’s old.


PREMIER MURRAY’S DREAM.-(W m Apologies to Shaksfieare.)
It has also been persistently rumored during the last few days that the Premier (Mr. Murray) was likely to retire from Parliament and take the position of chairman of the Melbourne Harbor Trust. — Argus.
WILLY WATT: “Why looks friend John so heavily to-day?”
MURRAY: “Oh! I have passed a miserable night,
So full of fearful dreams, of ugly sights,
That as I am a temperance party man
In league with Wowsers, and by Judkins led,
I would not spend another such a night,
Though ’twere to buy a world of lazy days.”
WILLY WATT: “What was your dream?”
MURRAY: “Methought the Argus rumor spake the truth
And I had left the House to go to Work
From ten to four as chairman of the Trust.
O, Lord ! Methought what pain it was to work!”


The casualties In the great “Welsh war”
consist mostly of broken jaws due to the fact
that the rioting has been conducted in the Welsh language.
Bridegroom :
‘ Hallo ! I say,
yonder comes yW
our train. We’ll
have to step it cut
to catch it I ”
Bride: “Step it out I
How can you ex-
pect me to step it
i out in a skirt like
I this ? ”
However, the bridegroom was a man of resource, and they
caught the train !
VANCOUVER
(8.C.), Saturday.—
The steamer Portland,
of the Alaska Coast Com-
pany, stranded on an un-
charted rock at the Katalla
River mouth In a snow-
storm. The passengers
rushed on deck in their
night garments, but a panic
was averted by the coolness
of the captain and crew.
• «I THOUGHT 1 HAD A STAMP.”
(After the original and rather overworked picture by “ Hop.”)
The Postal Rates (Penny Postage) Bill has been read a second
time.
The passengers ought to have
been if cool,” too, in their nighties
and a snowstorm.
At the W.C.T.U.
Conference, held at
Melbourne recently,
Mrc. Humble said
she had heard that
some birds were
g-ad enough to get
rid of their plum-
age—-the ostrich, 8
for example, which
siied its plumes in
di e season for the j
use and benefit of
womenkind. She,
for one, would con-
tinue i o wear her ostrich plumes.
(Cheers.)
The Ostrich: ‘‘Oh, yes, you are wel-
come to my feathers; but don’t
flatter yourselves that by wearing
them you can ever make yourselves
look like ostriches ! ”
. CLONCURRY, Thursday.—The beer strike, which has /
been in existence for 11 weeks, ended last night, the
strikers agreeing to accept the hotelkeepers’ terms.
More police are urgently needed. There was almost a last
nlgftt. Fully one hundred men followed a man to kick hints out of
the town. 1
Naturally they followed him. You don’t generally walk in front of
a man when you kick him out of town.
FUSS AND FEATHERS.— (Hop.’s Understudy on the Job.)


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
CHAMBERLAIN’S TABLETS.
A remedy in Tablet form having specific action
on the stomach, liver and bowels. Easy to take,
prompt and gentle in their action, and beneficial in
results. Try a box if you are troubled with con-
stipation. Sold everywhere at Is. 6d.*
Barked Your Shins?
Well, try Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment ; it
will take away all the pain and stiffness, and you
will forget all about it. Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
'
Trade
Mark
AND
WMER
FOR INDOOR WORKERS.
Cooling! Refreshing!
Thirst Quenching! Sustaining!
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“ Frank J. Gould, the American million-
aire, has been quietly married to Miss Edie Kelly,
a London Gaiety girl.” Quietly—and we hear
the wedding hells at the Antipodes !
A lot of millionaires and earls
Have wedded been to Gaiety girls,
All separated soon to be
From girl or else from gaiety.
Will Dyson’s series of caricatures in
London World is broken to allow “Spy ” to get
in one of barrister Charles William Mathews,
Public Prosecutor, apropos Crippen. C.W. is
stepson of Charles James Mathews, the comedian,
and the two were in Australia together 40 years
ago. C.W., then a lad, acted in Sydney and
Melbourne in a piece called “ The Bachelor of
Arts.” He was born with the name of Daven-
port, being the son of Mrs. C. J. Mathews and
her former husband, Davenport the tragedian.
THE FLIGHT OF TIME.
“ What’s the time, Mister?"
"Just six o’clouk."
“Is that all! It gets late very early these days."
Garvin, the retiring N.S.W. police boss,
joined the service in ’62. He is quite satisfied
with the force as it is, and he shares the general
opinion that Labor in office is going to make
tilings move. And Garvin, who is getting an old
man, probably doesn’t want to move. He is much
more likely to want his own way ; and the wav of
the new regime is not likely to be his way. “As
the S. M. Herald indelicately put it: “The re-
tirement will, no doubt, accelerate some changes in
the force that will make for a further instalment
of efficiency.” Rather than keep up with the
procession, Garvin goes out on a pension, which
he has no doubt earned, though had “Liberalism ”
won at the elections he would most likely have
waited to complete his 50 years of service.
Premier Jack Verran (S.A.) bristles with
metaphors and similes. The other night he fore-
gathered with the chief wowsers of Adelaide, In
vivid local-preacher terms he described his visit
to Victoria Park racecourse, and fiercely denounced
the tote and all its works. “And the women,”
he cried—-“ they’re 10 times worse than the men.
It was disgustin’ to see ’em clawin’ each other
round the windows to get their money on, like—
like young foals tryin’ to reach their mothers.”
“Locust”: Wise, K.C., who returned
to Sydney from
land a year ago, ap-
parently broken in
health, has bucked up
Wonderfully, and is
to-day as good ment-
ally and almost as
good physically as
evefr At the recent
elections he spoke for
40 minutes to a crowd
of 2000 people in the
open air at Darling-
hurst. It was the
kind of political
speech one rarely
hears nowadays in
N.S.W., since the ad-
vent of the Wadeian
mediocrities clear-
cut, argumentative,
epigrammatic, full of
literary and oratori-
cal graces. A press-
man, sitting behind
me, was looking over
some typed MS.
“ Wonderful,” he ex-
claimed as Wise
finished. “Here is
the speech in type,
and Wise’s memory
has never failed him
for a moment ! ”
There are not half a
dozen politicians in
Australia who could
have performed the
feat of memory ; there
are fewer who could
have written the mat-
ter of the speech, and
fewer still who could have delivered it with such
oratorical finesse.
The “Old Boys” of the Geelong (Vic.)
Grammar School have erected a tablet in the
school to the memory of their old master, James
Lister Cuthhertson, writer of good Australian
verse under the pen-name of “ C.” Though most
of his works appeared in the school Quarterly,
some have found a bigger public in “Barwon
Ballads,” energetic lines that have a true Aus-
tralian ring. It was from “ Australia Federata,”
the first of the Ballads, that Foster Fraser selected
the lines that head the opening chapter of his
Australian book. Another hook of Cuthbertson’s
verses is to be published by his pupils, who are
scattered all over the Australia he loved so genu-
inely. “C.” died at Mount Gambier on Janu-
ary 18 last, aged 58.
Keeghan, who beat Wade’s Education
Minister, Jimmy Hogue, for Glebe (N.S.W.),
was, till recently, a pick-and-shovel man, em-
ployed by the Sydney City Council. In the
days when it was a sin to he a Laborite, Keeghan
lost his job as a miner at Wyalong for giving
active support to Holman in the Grenfell elec-
torate. Holman got in, and Keeghan had to get
out. In 1901, while he was mining about Parkes,
the Labor League made him its representative at
the annual conference in Sydney ; and, there-
after, he stuck to the metropolis. At the Federal
election for Lang in 1904 he was beaten by W. E.
Johnson. But he plugged away, and did a lot of
hard toil as secretary of the Glebe P.L.L. This
body later on handed him the gloves, and a*
everybody—including even the D.T.—knows, he
knocked his man out with 200 points to spare.
At Ashburton (M.L.), where the beer is
only allowed to froth in a surreptitious way, a
statue has been upended in Baring Square, so
that the rising generation may not forget John
Grigg, one of the passing wool kings, who
long ago spread over much country there-
abouts. As far as monuments go—which
isn’t far—the thing is good. On the side*
of the base are depicted shearer, ploughman
and harvester; on the fourth side John Grigg
stands alone with staff and shawl. The
only fault the sculptor made was the omission
of a fifth side, showing the rouseabout ram-
pant, with Capital fleeing in the distance.
Fred E. Baurne, the brainy member for
Auckland East (M.L.), who died a few months ago
while on a trip to Europe, only cut up for £1750,
according to the probate figures. Baurne was a
K. 0., and could have built up a big practice ;but
politics knocked his chances to pieces.
Robert Gillespie, who died in Victoria , the
other day, was deeply immersed in Presbyterian
pursuits. He toiled to get the State schools
taught about Jonah’s fish and Elijah’s ravens;
was vice-president of the British and Foreign
Bible Society; and sat on councils directing
various Seawtch colleges and schools. In a
more secular way he was connected with the
National Bank of Australasia for over 30 years,
and, between 1859 and 1861, he represented Gren-
ville in the Vic. Legislative Assembly. Gillespie,
whose religious fads never interfered with his
personal popularity, reached Melbourne from
London in 1852.
From the gallery :
One large, fat bubble is in a condition of collapse these
days. Bigjohn Forrest, whose vanity led him to believe
that out of the whirlpool of political schemes he might
some day emerge as Prime Minister of Australia, now sits
mute, slowly realising that he is a back number for ever
and ever, amen. Bigjohn’s bloated ambitions never used
to sleep in the old days. When he was in a Ministry, he
was constantly’ button-holing and ear-biting and plotting
to lift himself one step higher. During the weeks of
cabal which saw the shameful conception and generation
of the Fusion, Bigjohn probably hoped to slide into the
leadership. He had, indeed, a small tail of followers,
who became known as the Dinner-and-Tea Party. When
Deakin got the price of the sacrifice, John Forrest
tried to dish George Reid for the High Commissioner-
ship, but was again left in the mud. Now he is
in Opposition, becoming more addicted to lamentation
than to intrigue, for the future holds no chances for him.
He affords the melancholy sight of an old, vain man, still
greedy for place and the flattery which it attracts, but
condemned to realise gradually, yet surely, that he is
Left for ever—a derelict to whom the glory of high office
will never return.
G. A. McKay is the new Federal Land
Tax Commissioner. There are few men who have
rushed up so fast. In i9ol he had a billet in the
N.S.W. service, and was chosen from a horde of
applicants as Commonwealth Public Service In-
spector—a job graded at £7OO, and a big rise on
his State pay. Only this year he was offered and
accepted a vacancy on the N.S.W. State Public
Service Board at £lOOO, and now he again enters
the Commonwealth service as Land Tax Commis-
sioner at £1250,
NO EYES FOR OTHERS.
FOR THE DEFENCE: “ And you insist no one gives
you black eyes but your unhappy husband?"
COMPLAINANT: “No one don’t. Cause why? I've
on'y got two eyes."
Parson Spurr, of Melbourne, says “man
is to be judged by the way he treats women.” As
a matter of fact, he is generally judged by the
way he “treats” men.
Miss Rees, a daughter of W. L. Rees,
once a noted politician and follower of Hori Grey
in M.L., was admitted as a solicitor in Gisborne
the other day, and later on appeared in a case in
the Native Lands Court. Still, she is not the first
lady to pursue Costs in M.L. ; the pioneer was
admitted in Dunedin some years ago.
Charlie N uttall, the black-and-white artist,
is hack in Australia for good, not because he
reckons this the best country in the world for
income-making, but because he reckons it the best
to live in. IN uttall has returned from America a
bloated capitalist, as artists go, and can afford to
please himself in the matter of where to settle
down.
Birkenhead (S.A.) has a pair of veterans,
an Ottaway couple, who had their “diamond
wedding’’ last week. That is, they were married
away before the Crimean War, before gold had
been found in Victoria, and when the late King
Edward was a kid in knickerbockers. And they
are well and strong, with seven children living
out of a family of 11, and (to date) 76 descendants
in all. Mr. Ottaway remembers a time when
there was no flour in Adelaide, and his father
bought 10 tons of Tasmanian at £lOO a ton, bread
being then 2s. the 21b. loaf.
A yarn got going in Melbourne that John
Weary intended to shift his bed out of the Pre-
mier’s office, and make himself chairman of a
reconstituted Harbor Trust. This rumor found
its way into the Argus, and John, as soon as he
could be wakened, was prodded with questions
by many reporters. He felt for his pipe, and as
soon as he had cut up half a plug of dark tobacco,
and had borrowed a match, he closed his eyes
comfortably and said that he was not going to
abandon the Post of Duty. He was then under-
stood to remark that he might be aroused for
another interview at the usual time next day.
The colorless Lord Chelmsford couldn’t
do more if he were making a spirited bid for the
Gov.-Generalship when it becomes vacant. Note
how the weeklies reproduce photos, of him in all
sorts of edifying attitudes, knowing that Britain’s
late King Ed. popularised himself that way ; how
the dailies dwell on Queensland’s love for him ;
how he discharges speeches full of lofty platitude,
right and left; how he is ever ready to forego a
race-meeting for a Sabbath-school rally, so to
speak ; and generally how he spends laborious
days and nights getting into the public’s eye. If
his thoughts run to the Federal Government
House, one thing is going to stand to him. Lady
Chelmsford was a Guest, and the Wimborne
family are Liberal to the hack teeth, and hence in
high favor with the present British Government.
About a pushing Inky Way-farer :
Henry S. Gullett, who got himself talked about in the
House of Reps, the other day, threatens to be one of the
most successful men who have got their start on the
Australian Dress track. He joined the Herald as a
youngster 12 years ago, with no training to speak of, but
with energy, enthusiasm and a capacity for taking pains.
And he had the news microbe in his blood—Henry Gul-
lett was one uncle ;H. M. Somer another. The former,
who has edited both the Herald and the Daily Tele-
graph, got a big interest in the Telegraph when
few would look at the shares, and is wealthy
beyond the dreams of most other penmen in Aus-
tralia. H. M. Somer, now secretary of the R. A.
Society, was the first agricultural editor of the
S. M. Herald. Young Gullett got his chance at the
Mount Kembla disaster, and he seized it with both
hands, and thus climbed into notice. When Monty
Somer retired to take the management of the R. A.
Society, H. S. Gullett was passed on up to the “Land”
column; bub finally he quitted it for “ Business, Rob-
bery, etc.” The old microbe went on gnawing at him,
however, till id drove him to big London. There, Reid
put him on to advertise Australia ; but latterly' he has
been “doing” the Western States of America and
Canada for some London journals. He left Vancouver on
November 4 with some commissions in his pocket to write
up the Commonwealth, and should blow into the old
track early in December.
Westralia has another glory besides the
Bullfinch —a Lieutenant-Governor who, in laying
the foundation stone for a Chinese hall the other
day, mentioned the proud fact that he had had
Chinese tenants for 28 years
l)r. Cleary, the new R.C. Bishop of Auck-
land (M.L.), has for some years been on the Inky
Track as editor of the Maoriland Tablet, in
Dunedin. From the clerical point of view he vvas,
no doubt, a capital editor; but as a slashing writer
he couldn’t match Perrin, who ran the paper for
a number of years,
“ The Oldest Inhabitant ” re Melbourne’s
Wowser of half a century ago (B. 10/11/TO) i
Dr. Milton —the “Rev. J. L. Milton, physician ” —lived
in Lola Montes’s time in Flinders-lahe. He wowsed, tio
doubt; still he did some practical good. He was ah
almost daily attendant at the police court, where he gave
Sergeant Pewtress great help with the drunks, male ahU
female. Told that he was talking abdut Something of
which he had no personal knowledge; he went tb She
Lola. He had a sbat in the centre of the pit of the Theatfe
Royal, and rose boldly to protest. The aildienbe hbbted
the old man. Lola, of course, Smiled bn him, fof she
knew that it sVas all good advertisement.
Parkes Used to take & fright Off hofir Rfrtl
then and go alorig to the theatre, With tWO Of
three of his colleagues. One night a lady of fery
striking appearance took all eyes in the stalls and
circle. “ Who is she ? ” somebody asked Parkes.
“Well,” shrilled the old man, “I have asked the
Attorney-General, and he doesn’t know ; and I
have asked the Minister for Justice, and he
doesn’t know ; and I have asked the Minister for
Lands, and he doesn’t know ; and I don’t know.
So she’s a respectable woman, anyhow.”
“Alpha’s Z’s ” nomination :
“Boswell” (B. 3/11/’10) says Barney Grogan, of Yass
(N.S.W.), is a champion political runner-up; hut on his
quoted performances he isn’t in it with Jimmy Malcolm,
of Wallaroo (S.A.). For 20 years Jimmy contested every
election as Tory, Liberal or Laborite, and was a trier
every time ; hut his little legs (he is sft. and under, and
broad in proportion) could never carry him to victory.
His best performance was his last, in 1906, when he
carried Labor’s colors with Verran and Winter. At mid-
night he led Peter Allen in the count by 1800, and the
race seemed all over ; but Peter came like a flash and
beat him on the post. Now, Jimmy is “ down and out.”
for in 1910 he was dropped in favor of long Jack Herbert,
who gave Allen the race of his life, and was only beaten
by 70 odd votes. Still Jimmy more than earns his chaff.
He is ex-Mayor of Wallaroo, Chairman of the District
Council and of the School Board, Chief Ruler of the Parish
Pump, and Prime Mover in All Things.
“ Ami ” : It is amazing to see our friends
under the limelight. I cannot recognise my old
acquaintance, Alfred Tennyson Dickens, in the
brilliant pen-portraits of him given by London
journalists, concerning his arrival for a three
years’ course of lecturing on his illustrious sire.
He is young again, dressed to the nines, and,
with a new spiky moustache, has a wonderful re-
semblance to “Box.” Gad! You’d think he
stood before you. Even wears his belltopper, in-
clining towards the rear of his left ear, like his
father. Same walk, same everything, as testified
by a host of reminiscents who peep out of Kensal
Green. Well, Alfred can read the old man a
great deal better than Charles, junior., and yet
Charles heaped up dollars in America. A. T.
Dickens came to Australia by the s.s. London on
its first voyage. On the next trip the London
was lost.
COHEN'S GOOD CUSTOMER.
A large loan for naval purposes is proposed by Great
Britain.— Cable.
The Scottish Lord Advocate eulogised Britain’s achieve-
ments by means of Freetrade finance. —Another Cable.
COHEN “ Ach, yes — this Freetrade's a great
policy—how much do you rant this time,
Mr. Bull?"
Adelaide has lost a real veteran in Joshua
Gurr, aged 91, who arrived from England in 1839,
and always claimed that he helped the famous
Ridley in making the first wheat stripper. Gurr,
of “Gurr’s Lane,” was a local celebrity at
Kensington, three miles from the G.P.0.; but
last year the electric trams hunted him out,
changed the name to Gurr’s-road, and established
a terminus almost on his doorstep; and the
veteran never got over this invasion of his
rjrivacv
L
THE POLITICAL WEARY WILLIE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I do not believe in useless expenditure of physical or
any other kind of energy. I would rather conserve it for
some useful purpose. Over-legislation may be worse fol-
the people than under-legislation. I can conceive laws
so bad that it Would be better to have no laws at all,—
Premier Yaivn Murray.
The cobbler leaned upon the wall,
And yawned to gulp the universe.
He did no kind of work at all,
For wasn’t labor Adam’s curse ?
He'd knocked off making boots, he said—
His eyes blinked in his nodding head —
Because he knew of shoes so odd
’Twere better far to go unshod.
The baker curled upon his bed,
And shook the heavens with his snore,
And when they came and asked for bread
He said he meant to make no more.
He could imagine loaves so poor,
Sour, heavy, doughy and impure
That it were best, he understood,
To knock off baking bread for good.
The carpenter would huild no homes,
The tailor wouldn’t make a suit,
The author bucked at writing tomes,
The farmer wouldn’t grow a root.
Because they could imagine olo’s,
And spuds, and books, and terrace rows
So very bad they had no doubt
’Twere better far to go without.
These fell into the copper’s claws,
Were scoffed at by the grinning court,
And duly sent to gaol because
They had no visible support.
I’m waiting now with marked concern
From early morning rags to learn
That some constabulary wag
Has lumbered Murray on the vag.
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


j
y
<
J
V
<r •
£
n
rvr
y
iL
k
K-7.
ypiri
ONLY FIVE WEEKS
TO CHRISTMAS!
Only five weeks to Christmas ! Only five weeks to go;
Then we will meet,
My Pierette sweet,
Beneath the mistletoe !
Tes; it’s only five weeKs to Christmas. We are already very busy on Christmas orders,
although we Keep nine cutters constantly going. You should get your Christmas suit in hand
at once, and you can rely on our guarantee to give you the utmost satisfaction in finish, wear,
Quality and comfort. We have the most complete range of all Kinds of Summer-time
Suitings, specialising in Australian, as instanced by the well-Known VICARS* “ALL-WOOL”
MARRICKVILLE TWEEDS. We Quote 635., 705., 845., 90s. and 105 s. Drop in on us during
the weeK. If you cannot call, a postcard will bring you self-measurement form and patterns.
GOWING BROS.,
486, 488, 490 George Street; and 7,9, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.


TO STOP HAIR FROM FALLING OUT.
Ihkre are doubtless few of our readers who do
not suffer more or less from falling hair—the fore-
runner of baldness. While there are several
causes for this annoying condition, it is in nine
cases out of ten due to the dandruff germ, which,
by penetrating the hair root, destroys the vitality
thereof and relaxes the muscular tissues which
hold and protect the hair sac. If permitted to
remain in undisturbed possession, the dandruff
germ soon destroys the life of the hair root, and
permanent baldness ensues. To destroy the
dandruff germ, stop hair from falling out, and
prevent baldness, we know of nothing so effective
as to rub into the scalp morning and night with
the finger tips a lotion which any chemist can
prepare by mixing 3 ounces Bay Rum with
1 ounce Lavona de Composee and £ dram Menthol
Crystals. The addition of a spoonful of French
Fon Fleur Perfume gives a peculiarly lasting and
pleasing odor that is greatly appreciated by
many. Used as indicated above, this tonic is
unequalled. It is absolutely harmless, contains
no coloring matter, and many claim that it has
restored their grey hair to its original color.
CAUTION.—Owing to the peculiar hair-growing pro-
perties of this preparation readers are advised not to
apply where hair is not desired.
ĥ
CHERRY BLOSSOM BOOT POLISH
Rives a bright, lasting shine—
a shine that pleases but does
not harm. It softens the leather and
protects it against dampness, thus
doubling the wear of both boots
and shoes.
CHERRY BLOSSOM BOOT POLISH
is sold'in 3d. and 6d. tins—Black or
Tan—the largest on the market at
the price. If you have any difficulty
in securing it, write direct to us,
and we will see that you are supplied immediately.
Managing-Agents for Australia:
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
TRIED IT ON THE HORSE.
“When driving from Tamworth to Bowling
Alley Point, one of my horses took bad with
gripes and got down kicking and struggling,”
says Mr. Sam L. Pyrke, of Bowling Alley Point,
N.S.W. “ Those who passed me considered the
horse would die. As I always carry Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy for my own
use in case of emergency, I put a whole bottle of
it in half a pint of water and gave it to the horse.
In less than a quarter of an hour he was up and
started to feed. It is Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy that I have to
thank for saving me a good horse.”*
In another column appears the prospectus of
the Cornishman Goldmining Company, of 100,000 shares
of 10s. each, Is. to be paid on application and Is. on allot-
ment. This property is in a high state of development,
andis situated only six mijes south of the Southern Cross
Railway Station, in well-timbered country. The claim
is said to contain a 15dwt. lode 10ft. in width, and a
highly-valuable reef 2ft. 6in. wide, worth 35dwt. to the
ton at the 120 ft. level. The area of the Cornishman con-
sists of 21 acres, and the ore taken from the lode and reef
has given a yield of 6710 z. of fine gold from 536 tons.*
All Are United
In saying that for all stomach troubles there is no
remedy like Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules.
Price 2s. 6d. per tin of 80 Tabules.*
PALE, BLOODLESS
PEOPLE
«♦
Should Know How to Increase
Their Blood Supply*
♦
When the blood supply has become thin and
watery the sufferer is told by the doctor that he
or she has “ansemia.” Weariness, paleness and
lack of energy are amongst l the earliest symptoms.
Headaches, indigestion and heart palpitation
come later, and in severe Or neglected cases there
is fainting fits, general prostration and indications
of a decline. Because a lack of blood is the cause
of all the trouble, the only cure is treatment that
will renew the blood supply. Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills are compounded for this very purpose.
They actually combine with food and air to make
new blood. One of the first things the patient
notices after beginning this treatment is the
return of a healthy appetite.
Anaemic people will be interested in the state-
ment made to a reporter by Mrs. E. Reeves,
William Street, Brisbane.
“ I overworked myself and gradually got so run
down that I was in a pitiable state, only my
spirits kept me alive,” said Mrs. Reeves. “Igrew
worse every day. My food was always disagree-
ing with me, whenever I touched a morsel. My
face was so ghastly pale that people would actually
stop me in the street, and my eyes were sunk
right into my head. For sixteen weeks I was in
the hospital. I got a little benefit, but I relapsed
when I came out. I would get nasty faint turns
and feel so ill that I thought I would not live. I
was utterly low-spirited and weak. My heart
would thump like mad if I went upstairs, and I
would have to stop and rest. My head ached so
much that I could hardly see to sew or read. My
feet were so swelled that I could hardly get my
stockings on, and you could press great dents in
my wrists and ankles. It I attempted to lift any-
thing heavy I would faint right away. By chance
one day I started Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and
actually with the first box I felt a shade better, so
I purchased a fair supply. As I kept on with
them my strength gradually came back. By the
time I was on the third box I was on the high
road to recovery.
The price is 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d.,
and if you have trouble in getting them, send a
postal note for the amount to the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney, and
they will be sent post free by return mail.*
m
msnns
D CNYEH
©
Denyer’s
Special
Elastic
Truss
fully sup.
ports, safe-
guards and
safely permits hard exercise.
Cool, Non-chafinjr.
We fit you exactly.
17/6 Single; 22/6 Double.
Makers of Trusses and
Abdominal Belts.
DENYER BROS.,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
At Wonthaggi (Vic.) State coal mine the
parsons have passed a resolution deploring the
presence of two-gallon licenses, and urging the
Premier to rush in his promised Bill to abolish
them. As the parsons are as much opposed to
pub-licenses as they are to two-gallon licenses,
what they evidently want is the frowsy sly-grog
shop and the boozing club. The alternative is the
State pub, and everything at Wonthaggi seems
to shout for it—-a drunldess State hotel, where a
man can go and get a threepenny pint when he
wants it, and from which he will be in danger of
being emptied out if he demands more than his
legs or his head can stand.
1 “Timothy Tufthunter ”
What beautiful swindles can be worked under Gregory
the Great’s freak legislation, by which a settler can get
95 per cent, of the money to purchase land from a private
landlord. For instance, a squatter wants to evade the
federal Land Tax. He has half a dozen men who are not
too particular what they do for an easy crust. He agrees to
sell them land ; but first gets a perpetual lease at a nomi-
nal rent. Then the men go to Wade’s pawnshop, and
borrow £950 out of every £lOOO required. The squatter
will lend the other £so—he gets it all back. He will
arrange, of course, that none of the blocks shall be worth
more than £5OOO. The squatter, while thus dodging
taxation, could this way raise capital for new investments
or pay off a mortgage. Don’t say it couldn’t be done ;
the crop of dummies never yet failed even in the worst
drought.
Biblical dialogue in the House of Reps. :
Minister for Home Affairs O’Malley : Moses, when he
saw the Promised Land, never saw a more beautiful sight
than I saw at Yassberra.
Rep. Fenton : Moses could get water out of rocks: vou
can't.
Also, Patriarch O’Malley may remember with ad-
vantage : —(1) It took Moses so long to establish his
capital at the alleged Biblical Yassberra that he
didn’t establish it, after all—he pegged out from
old age, or something, before he quite had time;
and (2) the people who followed Moses to the
place to which O’Malley likens Yassberra didn’t
stay there—in fact, they cleared out so completely
that it’s hard to say definitely where they cleared
to. Prophetic?
Another interference with the sacred right
of Private Enterprise to do what or whom it
pleases is proposed in Victoria. Geo. Graham,
Minister of Agriculture, farmer and anti-Socialist,
has circulated a Bill which proposes that the fruit
in every box, basket, case, package or other port-
manteau shall be of one and the same quality
throughout; that is to say, that the age-old
trade custom of allowing the largest and ripest
strawberries to find their way to the top is to be
sawn off. The thing is monstrous, of course ; but,
thank Heaven, the House of Rich Landlords has
yet to review the measure, and will doubtless dis-
cover 47 reasons why Private Enterprise shouldn’t
be barred from swindling the public if and when
it can.
Some daily paper evidence of No License
“ reform ” in Maoriland :
Waihi, November 3.—There is a very strong feeling
here that License will be won back at next year’s Local
Option poll. This is the outcome of conditions which
exist in regard to procuring liquor ; also as a result of
the large number of prosecutions in this connection.
Many are of opinion that it would be far better to have
Prohibition than No License as it now stands.
Masterton, November 2.—One of the witnesses in a
case at the S. M. Court to-day, in which application was
made for a prohibition order, said sly-grog selling was
rampant in Masterton. Thedefendant had been procuring
liquor of the vilest description in these dens, and it was
simply poisoning him.
Altogether, the sly-grog shop and the adulterated
liquor make up a curious brand of “ reform.”
It is now discovered in Victoria that there
are not enough trucks to cart the farmers’ wheat.
According to the Age, the “Q” trucks, which
embrace about 70 per cent, of Victorian waggon
stock, have only been increased by 521 in the last
two years; whilst “ iron hopper coal trucks,”
which are required for the Powlet traffic, remain
just as they were in 1908 ! What the Age doesn’t
mention—because even the Age is afflicted with
the centralisation disease—is that there would
probably be quite enough trucks if the goods went
to the nearest ports. Obviously, one truck that
only has to carry stuff 100 miles can do as much
as two trucks if the stuff is carried the necessary
100 miles and an unnecessary 100 mile sinto the
bargain.
For 74 years, with Adelaide radiating out
in every direction beyond its belt of Park Lands,
there has remained a great patch of bare paddock
immediately adjoining the city boundary on the
west. Now the new railway goods-sheds have
come down there, and the S. Australian Co., the
absentee concern which owns the patch, thinks it
good enough to grab the enhanced value,
take its unearned profits, and stand from
under the land tax. It remarks complacently in
its preliminary puffs that it has kept locked
up for all these years land which ordinarily
would be sold by the foot, but which will now go
in blocks of 10 to 30 acres. The total of the pre-
sent unload is 248 acres, but there must be lots
more in reserve. And the whole of it is within
two miles—some within one mile—of the G.P.O.
It is when you come to think of cases like this
that you realise how sinful a progressive land tax
really is.
QUAINT DISCOVERY IN TWO THOUSAND
AND SOMETHING.
Sydney, Tuesday.—The Liberal speaking- team, which
did good service in connection with the recent State
elections, held a meeting to-day, and decided not to dis-
band. A Liberal debating club is to be formed. — News
Item.
AUSTRALJAP CACE-EXPLORER: “ Banzai! What
ancient race of troglodytes have we here ?”
THE CAVE-DWELLERS: “ Troglodytes? We're
not troglodytes! We’re Liberals!”
Admiral Poore, a sailor who knows his job
and sticks to it, gave shipowners something to
think of in a speech in Melbourne last week. He
told them that they couldn’t rely on the “ neu-
trality ” of the Suez Canal in war time, and, even
if they could, the Red and Mediterranean seas
would be full of commerce-destroyers. Conse-
quently, on the outbreak of war, Australian-
European shipping would be driven to the open
ocean and the Cape route, and the Admiral advised
shipowners to make their plans accordingly. The
speech will not be pleasant reading for that over-
greedy dragon, the Suez Canal Co. ; but it has
the look of truth from its top-hat to its boots.
Day by day Deakin condemns himself
more and more. There is a fatal streak of oppor-
tunism in his character ; he adopts his environ-
ment, and flops from point to point, doing things
which are.of no value for the future. His speeches
against the Labor Ministry’s big proposals—land
tax, industrial referendum, and so on—have been
cloudy pieces of Parliamentary dialectics, always
clever, but without any substance. He becomes
only a more phosphorescent Joe Cook ; and Joe,
all through his career, has simply played the part
of a political scarecrow, flapping in the wind to
frighten crows who don’t examine it too closely.
George Reid once said of Deakin : “ He is always
under the influence of the strongest man in his
vicinity.” Imagine, then, the nothingness of his
politics when the influence comes from the ragged
Remnant that surrounds him now !
No wonder the profession that Wade
belongs to thinks the present N.S.W. system of
breaking up large estates and settling people on
the land is It! Attorney-General Holman fines
that the late Government paid, in lawyers’ fees
and costs, the sum of £26,485 in respect of the
resumption of estates, exclusive of eight proper-
ties in which the legal business has not been com-
pleted. This huge bill is, of course, tacked on to
the price which the unfortunate selectors have to
pay.
A YELLOW NIGHTMARE.
Young Australia sees “things”; and he’s for-
gotten his gun, as usual.
Alfred Deakin, the pretty-speech maker,
sitting silent at. the Melbourne Gaud Mayor’s
banquet while Governor-Generals and Admirals
and such talked about defence, had to take this
thrust from Attorney-General Hughes :
This Government, with regard Co defence, has not
stopped short with speeches on the necessity of
defence, but has gone on with the putting into force
of a scheme of the most effective defence that has
yet been known in Australia. Therefore we may
claim some small measure of credit for having
taken hold of these non-party matters, and hav-
ing lifted them not only out of party, but even out of
those realms of brilliant abstraction in which they rested
so long.
Fisher ordered the destroyers, Pearce introduced
the Citizen Training Bill, and Hughes asks that
only these things should count.
Griffith, N.B.W. Minister for Works,
shocked and surprised adeputation the other day.
This deputation had meandered in from Botany
with a request for a sewerage scheme. It wasn’t
a new request ; in fact, it was so old that the
deputation just brought it along from force of
habit. It felt that, having been a regular caller on
other Governments for years, it would look un-
friendly to cease the visits because a Labor
Government had taken over the Treasury.
Nobody expected more than the usual assurance
that the job would be “ considered ” ; so when
Griffith showed that not only had he gone into
the details of the question, without being asked,
but had also placed on the Estimates the money
to end a public scandal, the deputation felt that
its most cherished fears were about to be realised.
Already it felt the marriage tie slipping, and
fancied it heard the sanctity of the home being
broken up. As a matter of.fact, the row ,was
made by Labor throwing precedent downstairs
and breaking up old-established custom with a
tomahawk.
From the Gallery Hand :
It is a paradox that, while Labor Premier McGowen
announces longer sitting hours in the N.S.W. Assembly,
the Tory barnacle Johnson is crying in the Federal House
that the eight-hour principle should be applied, in the
interests, not only of members, but of officers. Last
session the Ma State’s Assembly sat 317 hours 45 minutes
in 31 days, which pans out at an average of l 6 hours
15 minutes. McGowen must be afraid of one of two
things: either that the crowd behind him is going to
spread its peacock oratory in its new pen till all’s
blue, or that Wade’s lot is going to obstruct.
Both troubles will, no doubt, hamper the Govern-
ment for a while ; but they’ll soon wear off. Some
people are urging that the Assembly should meet
in the morning, some that the meeting ‘hour should be
2.30 p.m., some that there should be no sittings at night.
My experience is that the work is dealt with more rapidly
and effectively in the late hours of the night or the early
hours of the morning than at any other time. Dick
Seddon used to say of the M.L. House of Reps, that he
could never start it into a business stride until
after the supper adjournment (10 p.m.) when the
public galleries were practically emptied. Another
factor that facilitates Parliamentary work in the late
hours is the closing up of newspaper space. Members
know that after 11.30 p.m., and often something before
that time, it'is np good talking for; publication, and that
knowledge stops gallons of words.
McGo wen’s small majority in N.S.W.
recalls George Dibbs’s position during 1893-4.
Ministers then—big, brainy, headstrong men like
Lyne, Copeland, O’Connor and Barton —had, as
McGowen has, a strong press against them,
exaggerating their vices and disparaging their
virtues. On several field-nights JDibbs scraped
through by only a couple of votes. Theoretically
one vote is enough ; but the press started a most
effective cry that the Dibbs men were sticking to
their ship for the sake of the salaries —that they
had not a proper political pride, and so so. The
cry told, and at the next election Dibbs
went out, and Reid, having jockeyed Parkes out
of the leadership, came in. Reid had a bigger
majority than Dibbs; but, wanting more, he went
to the country in a year with his well-remembered
“ Out with the fossils ! ” cry. The “ out with the
fossils” card should be even more potent now ;
and if McGowen plays it, and does not dally too
long, he’ll probably bring his majority up over
the safe notch. If he drags on by a narrow and
precarious majority, he will probably share the
fate of Dibbs. After getting a few big things re-
jected, the “out with the fossils” trumpet should
therefore be heard—and meant.
Originally, it was thought that £BO,OOO
would pay all the claims arising out of the Rich-
mond (Vic.) railway massacre; but now it looks
as though another £30,000 will be wanted. Thus,
between them, Sunshine and Richmond will have
cost the State a total of £235,000 in compensation
claims alone. No wonder the departing Tait, in
his valedictory speech, thanked Heaven for “good
seasons and the prosperity they brought.”
The Federal Statist estimates that the
population of Queensland increased during the
quarter ended June 30 by 11,452 ; that
of N.S.W. by 7167 ; and that of Vic-
toria by 6282. It seems to be the sort
of thing that was bound to happen.
N.S.W. systematically tries to make
uninhabitable every part of the State
that is too far away from Sydney to
trade profitably with that port; and
Victoria does the same with the
regions whose business can’t be dragged
to Melbourne. It means that, for all
purposes of settlement, these States
might as well be half, or less than
half, the size they are, and that the
available bit of each State is so far
filled up that it doesn’t attract Settlers
as it used to do. Queensland, on the
other hand, has built railways to carry
trade to half a dozen ports beside
Brisbane. It has tried to make all its
territory available to settlers, and it is
just beginning to have its reward.
The cherished Liberal-Conser-
vative idea that the caucus was in-
vented by the Devil for the sole use of
the Australian Labor party is knocked
ruthlessly on the head by Cecil Ches-
terton in a series, “ How the Rich
Rule Us,” running in the New
Age
Hardly anyone 13 allowed to become a
member of Parliament in England except
by permission of the party caucus. The
caucus is subject to the rich, who subscribe
to its funds. Therefore it is not necessary
to bribe members of Parliament in England.
One does not bribe one’s bond-slaves
Australia hasn’t that sort of caucus, anyhow. The
nearest approach to it was in the days before the
Labor party arrived—when the squatters used to
meet at Scott’s, in Melbourne, and decide who
should be the members for the far-west districts
in the N.S.W. Assembly.
The last stupendous batch of direct taxes
which the British Government put on in a final
effort to avoid taxing the importer at the Cus-
toms House is making things hum. The new
license duties, for instance, have caused a holy
slump in pubs. The. goodwill of a London city
pub which fetched £ll,OOO a year or two ago was
sold the other day for £l5O, and another one with
a 49 years’ lease went for £l3O. Now, if the
policy of the Labor party had caused a fall like
that—!!!!
THE PEOPLE’S PARTY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where cocky farmers muster
And lucerne patches grow,
And cows at twilight cluster,
And hayseed bushes blow ;
Where irrigation steamers
Glide down the green canal,
The Cabbage State’s redeemers
Pledge troth to Capital.
With patriarchal whiskers,
A cow-bell in each hand,
Forensic freaks and friskers
Arise throughout the land.
They rise with valor hearty,
From Stawell unto Nhill,
To mould the People’s Party
Against the people’s will.
They rise to stem the torrent
* Of Socialistic blokes.
A Land Tax is abhorrent
To all right-thinking folks.
If Hughes means Confiscation
i> And pressure would apply,
The Backbone of the Nation
Will know the reason why.
Our farm and dairy sages
All Parliaments would sway.
They stand for modest wages
And 16 hours per day.
For anti-Legislation,
Cheap freights, free water scheme,
For Cow and sound stagnation,
And blowflies in the cream.
To hymn their radiant glories
The Argus lifts its voice ;
Exult the ice-bound Tories
And Wowsers sad rejoice !
With whiskers large and hearty,
A cow-bell in each hand,
At last a People’s Party
Goes forth to save the land.
VIATORIA.
GANESHA.


y
John
Strange
Winter
LaKshmi Cream.
Lakshmi Cream is the invention of that world-famous writer, John Strange
Winter, authoress of “Bootle’s Baby,” and is made under her personal
direction. It is a delicious compound of ingredients which soften, cleanse,
stimulate and feed the skin.
The Countess Cowley writes: “I cannot tell you what a comfort it was.”
Miss Nellie Stewart writes : “Lakshmi is really marvellous for keeping the
complexion clear and free from lines and wrinkles. Henceforth I shall
use no other.”
Kitty Mason writes: “Lakshmi is glorious.”
Price 3s. ; Post Free, 3s. 6d.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, and at John Strange Winter’s Toilet Rooms,
24 Cas.tlereagh Street, Sydney, where practical advice as to the use of
John Strange Winter Toilet Specialties will be given to anyone interested.
JOHN STRANGE WINTER.
(Australia), Ivtd.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide and i London.
h
OSTRICH PLUriES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
10/6
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention Tiie Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
,
•WINCHESTER
REPEATING RIFLES
.25-20, .32, .38 and .44 Calibers
Boys in America look forward to
the time when they can own their
own Winchesters. These are the rifles that have
always been used by the American cowboy and
western plainsman, who are among the best
marksmen in the world. In encounters with
the Indians and in rounding up cattle, these
hardy men have often been obliged to stake
their lives on their Winchesters. If you want
a rifle that will wear well and always be re-
liable and accurate —buy a Winchester.
Winchester Guns and Winchester Ammunition—
The Red }N Brand—are made in the same
plant for each other and sold everywhere.
FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS
Farmer’s
Crowned with Quality==
Hats.
Brimful of Style.
*Wf
FARMER S HATS n
CROWNED WITH QUALITY
BRIMFUL OF STYLE
“ Virtue may flourish in an old cravat ,
But man and nature scorn the shocking hat." —O. W. lloi.mes.
First —The Alpine Felt
We have them in the newest shades of grey, with self, navy or black bands.
Farmer’s well-known reliable qualities, 12/6, 14/6, 15/6, 16/6.
Price, as Pictured, 12/0.
Second —The Panama
The coolest and most comfortable Hat for Summer wear ; small smart shape, with
narrow brim, as pictured, or with wider brims up to 3 inches. 18/6, 21/-, 25/-,
30/-, 35/- to 42/- Price, as Pi<st\ired, 21/-
THird—THe Lounge Felt
Bound or unbound brim, can be worn in a variety of shapes ; colors—green, fawn,
grey, beaver, brown. 10/6, 12/6, 14/6, 15/6.
Price, as Picittired, 12/0.
STETSON HATS, 25/-. 27/6 and 36/-
ĥ
COMP-I,
4*
ħ
h
V
ACUUM
lUBRICATING
0
Are treated in stills
from which the air has
been partially exhausted.
This permits distillation
at a temperature much lower
than the killing heat of
direct fire.
Thus the natural mineral
greases are not burned out of
the petroleum and we get
the oils that lubricate most


R
»
1
Estab.
1618.
/V
rr
■a
V!
(Q
rob»r
I’m glad when the dinner’s
over, and 1 can sit down and take
a rest —goodness me, but cookin’s
hard work! and how nice a
cup of fresh tea does taste, to be
„ure! —we get Rob u r No. 1
Grade and it’s real good, and
there isn’t many other sorts of
tea you can say that of.
The main thing about tea is to
get it fresh, and make it fresh
—1 believe ir gettin’ fresh tea
in every week —it’s easy to see
whether Robur tea is fresh or
not by lookin’ at the date on
the package- that tells you when
it was packed—none of the other
sort are dated, and they may be
as old as Methuselah for all you
know when you buy ’em.
My word! when you’ve been
standin’ over a fire for an hour
or two, and a-feelin’ half cooked
yourself, is when you can tell
whether tea’s good or not —I’ve
tried all the other sorts, and if
you were to pack them shelves
with all of ’em, 1 wouldn’t drink
one of ’em so long as 1 could get
Robur —not if you paid me.
The Cook.
QUALITY-BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, November 14, 1910.
My Drab Ahini, —
-The Chelmsfords’ garden party gave unqualified
satisfaction. The post-mortem on it declared it
better than the Dudleys’. Cranbrook has swollen
visibly since the last entertainment given there.
Evidences of the ten thousand sterling spent on
additions and improvements are quite obvious.
Chelmsford children—the Misses Bridget, Anne
and Joan, and Master Andrew—played amongst
the refreshments and guests. A Spencer Brunton
daughter looked one of the best in grey chiffon,
with a pink dandelion blowawayin her hat. Mrs.
Rose Bay Holdsworth’s white net frock and black-
and-tan hat were a success. Mrs. (Dr.) Jamieson
won the eyestakes with an old-rose and a black and
pink hat. Mrs. Tom Hughes was a study in pale
blue and mole and hobbles. Miss Docker’s lime-
green dewdrop net over charmeuse was a pretty
conspiracy of colors and fabrics. Mrs. Trefle,
Mrs. Holman, Mrs. Beeby and the Premier’s con-
sort, Mrs. MeGowen, represented the femi
side of the new Ministry.
Recessional! Our friends are drifting • .
from the Cup and bringing us plain tales froti.
grandstands. One Sydneysider has with h-
Melbourne girl—she, to be accurate, is a mam. ;
woman, but quite young, pretty and with abut.,
a ring-tail’possum’s sense of responsibility. Them
an against in a tea-room, and we began to
talk Cup raiment. “ What kind of a hat
did you wear.?”. I asked the ’possum girl.
A black tegal, ’ she replied, “with five white
feathers—weeping. They saved me doing it, for
I had not heard of Comedy King.” “ What did
it cost?’ I asked, with the delicate directness of
a Johnson left. “Fifteen guineas.” As I had
never heard of her husband being in wool, rubber
or Bullfinch, I did not believe her, and said
so. ‘ ft is quite true,” corroborated the Sydney
girl; “we’ll go before a, J. P., ifyou like, and make
an affidavit. Besides, its picture came out beauti-
fully in one of the weeklies.”
On asking for an introduction to the hat, the
friend told of its untimely departure, a few days
previously, through the window of one of our
trains. It was an express train, running at high
speed ; the wind was strong, and the flight of the
hat with the five wails of Jeremiah around its
crown occurred midway in the journey. For a
while it raced the train and tried to settle on
the smoke-stack, then dropped behind, and
finally, at a curve in the line, it veered and flew
direct for the sunset at the rate of a hundred miles
a minute, moulting painfully on its via dolorosa.
And yet the owner of that fifteen guineas’ worth
which she had worn just three times could sit and
smile and eat strawberry jam—the tea-room did
not keep eucalyptus leaves. I think 1 hear you
«ay —“Non possumus.”
Of a few Cup caprices the pair “fluffed ” rather
engagingly. Hats were of two sorts, the feathered
and the big-bowed. The white muslin frocks
with biack velvet innovations they liked im-
mensely. One magpie woman was particularly at-
tractive. She had, with her fine white embroidered
frock, a black velvet belt, hat, shoes, parasol and
bag all of black velvet. There were two black satin
severely-simple tailor-mades that looked quite
haughtily distinctive. The inadequate parasols
on the suddenly-wet Oaks Day made atragi-comie
circumstance, to which the holding up of narrow
skirts with no underskirts contributed. There
were green legs, lime legs, mole legs, white legs,
mauve legs and black legs. Never in the Cup his-
tory since Archer won the first Cup away back in the
’so’s have there been such leg revelations. Didn’t
the psalmist say in Holy Writ that the Lord taketh
no joy in the legs of a man ? Unless the
beautifully-stockjnged legs of woman also come
under the condemnation, He must have enjoyed
Oaks Day. Hose and shoes matched the gowns,
and in many instances so did the big bags carried
by the women. Better specify, because the book-
makers also carry bags. The vogue of the short
skirt must have sent the choice footwear trade up
by thousands and thousands sterling. Only one
woman did the Suffers see with the graduated spot
frock. She was ahead of things.
Which reminds me that Miss Phyllis Hopwood-
Foldi mentioned the graduated spot as raging
fashionably in Paris a few months ago. To be
unspotted before the world in the Gallic capital
signified dowdiness. The spots start around the
neck and shoulders (this is not measles, remem-
ber) no bigger than dots. They enlarge to the
size of peas. Down on the skirt they are as
tennis balls, then cricket balls, and, finally,
at the hem footballs. But as the skirts are so
tight, the footballs can’t be kicked.
Mr. “ Tony ” Hordern, the matrimonial catch
of Sydney, has been snared by a mere Melbourne-
ite. He became engaged during Cup week to
Miss Bingham, daughter of Colonel Bingham, a
niece of ,the WaxcelJency Maddens and an ex-
tremely pretty girl. In appearance she much re-
sembles her cousin, Miss Beatrice Madden. The
alliance .was fixed up at Mrs. Ernest Brooks’s
dance, and announced at the McEvo.y frivol the
following evening. The wolf of want is unlikely to
howl at the door of this young couple. JVlr.
Hordern’s income from the mammoth store on
Brickfield Hill gets to such tall figures that they
make oneydizzy ; in addition, he has the use of
the ancestral Retford Hall, at Darling Point,
and owns enough city property to cause
the normal person to forego work for life.
I may mention, for the information of match-
making parents and the like, that another mem-
ber of this family. Mr. “Libby” Hordern, comes
of age shortly. When that gl'ad event occurs, the
youth will not only proceed to draw the same
enormous income as his two brothers, but will be
handed a wad of minority accumulations amount-
ing to £170,000. He is at present on his way to
Colombo, where he will meet his mother and
bring her along to Sydney.
The English files tell of Miss Fanny Friend’s
marriage in London to a Major Koe. The
Friends draw a comfortable income from an iron-
mongery business hereabouts, and also had the
privilege of relationship with “ Bill ” Sparke, de-
ceased, who started in a comparatively small way
as a wine-and-spirit merchant, and finished up
one of Sydney’s biggest landlords.
A girl friend tells me she saw the bride-elect of
the marine catch of the season lately. They
were fellow-passengers on theMilson's Point horse
punt. Someone was giving the happy pair a
congratulatory picnic in motors, and Miss Bertha
Brady looked the best quality Quaker in grey
ninon, a grey motor bonnet with pink, and a grey
veil. She has. it seems, a more valuable asset
than even her beautiful fair hair, viz., a singing
voice of more than usual quality.
Prima-dnnna Bel Sorel and her mother left on
Saturday by the Orsova in a maelstrom of flowers,
French chatter and frantic kisses, not of the dry
Martini type because of the tears. If you don’t
understand the allusion to dry Martini, see
“Salvation Nell” for enlightenment. TheSorels,
Bel and Belle, made themselves well-beloved
everywhere in Australia ; and they were appreci-
ative of any little jobs done for them. For instance,
Miss Cissie Jamieson, of whose foreign-languages
help they often availed themselves, was presented
the Bel bird with her miniature set in a
ii,iiv gold circle, and depending from a pre-
metal chain.
•• ■ e well-known persons are packing up—more
-- .alians to help make lodgings and vittles
dearer what time George V. is crowned. General
Gordon is going, but his appreciative country is
sending him on its own military business. Colonel
and Mrs. Hoad, it is said, are going too. Mrs.
Hugh Mac Neil, Dr. and Mrs. MacCormick and
their children. Dr. and Mrs. Chisholm and their
small folk, and Mrs. Garvan (of the M.L.C. life
office) with one of her musicianly daughters—
what a covey to fly north ! The Chelmsfords go
the same way in February, hut they will return.
So, it is hoped, will all the others.
Last week I told you that the Austins, of Aus-
tiniee, would be early trippers to Europe. But
the arrangements have been quite upset. Mrs.
Austin, who was one of the horsey-and-woolly
Lees, of Bathurst and elsewhere, had to go under
an operation; and never recovering from the
shock of it, she died the day after my note was
printed.
Julius Knight is promising himself an easy
time on the Orsova. There is a bunch of other
theatricals and singers on board, and J. Knight,
who has bought a luxurious chair, intends to do
the semi-invalid-come-and-soothe-me act.
Miss Shena Potter, a Girton girl of many
brains and accomplishments, an ardent Suffrag-
ette and a friend of Mrs. Sidney Webb, the phil-
anthropist and writer, has arrived in Melbourne,
and will be in Sydney presently. She has a
mission—something to do with the collection of
statistics. But her principal interest to frivolous
Sydney will be the fact that she is a
daughter of that beautiful Mrs. “Jack” Potter
who, some four or five years ago, was, with her
husband, so much sought after by our Sydney
nobility and gentry. The Potters are of the Birt,
Potter, and Hughes group, owning the Federal
Steamship line. Miss Shena (uncommon name)
is a niece of Captain Charles Taylor, of Sydney—
or, to be quite accurate, a niece of his wife.
Australians who had met Lady Beatrice Clark
will be sorry to hear that she is ill, and has to go
into a private hospital for a rest cure. Also they
will be glad to hear that her illness is not regarded
as serious. Mr. Bobertson Clark is busy with a
settlement of his late father’s affairs.
Kenilworth Parkes, old Henry’s second son,
died of lockjaw last week. He was not the most
fortunate of the family, though he had many at-
tractive qualities. He married early, and soon
found himself with two children on his hands and
scant means of supporting them. The children
have been for some time under the wing of Mrs.
Henry Parkes, sen.
The well-meaning efforts of the Boy Scouts who
joined in the hunt for lost Miss Gibson of Manly
seem to have exasperated Alec Brown, the
black tracker, whom the police brought down from
Armidale to help them. Droves of Scouts tore
ahead of the tracker, stopping only to give the
password, salute the Flag and perform the other
ceremonies of their craft, with the result that the
maddened aboriginal had to pick his way along
ground that looked as though an army corps had
traversed it. Asked by the Evening News what he
thought of the Scouts as discoverers of the lost,
stolen or strayed, sable Alec replied acidly:
“They might , in time, track a cow out of a
waterhole or along a road after heavy
rain.” Previous to this heartless insult some
hundred of scouts had intended spending their
holidays with Alec at Armidale, with the object of
acquiring his art. Now they regard him as a
coarse person, and they propose to have nothing
more to do with him. The tracker is bearing up
well under the affliction.
The Bank of Australasia has had a diamond
jubilee, and at the half-yearly meeting in London
some weeks ago, Sir Andrew Scobie, one of the
bank’s potentates, said that the festival was to be
commemorated by the giving of a 10 per cent,
bonus to the staff—which means about £20,000.
Mr. W. K. D’Arcy, the Mount Morganaire,
mentioned the other day as being in Australia, is,
it seems, merely “coming out.” But, as Mr.
D’Arcy has for years been assuring his Australian
friends that he was “coming out,” it isn’t at all
certain when he will be seen in Sydney.
Mrs. ex-Premier Wade’s anecdote of her son,
little Harry, and the working men, starred by
the daily papers under the heading, “An In-
fantile Politician,” shows yet again how painfully
liable a child is to inherit the weakest points of
its parents. Little Harry, it appears, saw some
workmen, and—all unasked —went over to instruct
them in politics. The point of the dialogue that
ensued was little Harry’s final pronouncement.
“No,” said he, “that is the nasty, selfish way
you Labor people have got.” Young Henry
doesn’t bother about reasons or anything of
that sort. He just stands up like a little
man and heaves charges. How reminiscent of
the late election struggle, when little Harry’s
male progenitor made the same sort of remarks
and troubled as little about proving them. A
feature of the episode that the daily papers missed
was the good-humored tolerance of the workers in
regard to Harry. Small boys were never made to
wander round instructing their elders in politics.
To spare the palm of the hand in cases of this sort
is not merely to spoil the child, but to deliberately
encourage the manufacture of youthful prigs and
bores. Anyhow, little Harry should have been
reasoned with firmly, before being hunted back
to his wooden soldiers and things.
Two or three letters ago I allowed a man to
have a screaming fit in my columns, you may
remember, His grievance was mainly the inepti-
tude of the teacher. She could not cook, and,
when she married, she dropped the baby
whilst washing it. Well, three letters
have braved the lonely, red dangers of
suburban post offices or bush mail bags to protest
against the man’s strictures. One is from a
young, unmarried public-school teacher. She
does not do much but deny the alleged helpless-
ness, and she writes a nice letter without any
claw punctures in it. Another letter is from Mrs.
Lalor, the press see. of the Domestic Workers’
Union, and here it is :
How lons', O Lord! how long will man continue to
apply his clumsy logic and total disregard for facts to
the Woman Question? In my young days I was inti-
mately acquainted with two women—A, a teacher ; B, a
domestic servant, A married a mine manager, with £250
per annum ; B a mechanic, with less than half that sum
and irregular employment. Before the advent of the
“asset” or the “ encumbrance,” or whatever name you
like to give the modern baby, A did all her own house-
work ; her stylish villa at North Sydney was a model of
neatness and housewifely care; her cooking was ex-
quisite; she did her own sewing, with the exception of
her smart hats and gowns, and was an expert at it. She
had a day “at home” to her own set. “Her own set,”
exactly. She had all the snobbishness of that set —its
narrow, small ideals and smug complacency in its own
superiority. Being an educated woman up to a certain
standard, she read, of course, books suited to that stan-
dard and her own outlook on life. She had not a grain
of sense of humor.
B, with whom I boarded for a short time, kept her
house scrupulously clean ; and, when I say that, I say all
I can about her qualifications as a housekeeper. She
could not cook, she gave out all her sewing with the
exception of mending, which she did badly ; her one child
roamed the streets all day, neglected as to clothes,
manners, education and many other things. (I forsrob to
state that in due time A had a baby, which she did not
drop on the floor when she first attempted to wash it.)
Of the two women, I liked B the better. She had a
strong sense of humor, was a student of Dickens and
other writers of equal calibre ; she never g-ossiped over
the back fence, nor repeated tales likely to hurt
other people’s feelings. Once she saw with intuitive
exactness the cause of my own inability to “get on”
with a relative, and acted as peace-maker. She had the
“charity which thinketh no evil.” In short, one hour
of her company was worth, in entertainment, a whole
week of A.’s, with all the latter’s advantages of education
and social position.
Now, what is the moral of all this? Two things : that
the women were in wrong places ; that men must learn to
study woman not as a class, but from the standpoint that
she is separately and individually a Human Intelligence.
The third letter comes from the backblocks of
Tasmania. One quote from it: —
Young women who go to face the music among
strangers in the backblocks are not the sort to shirk
domestic duties. Look for the shirkers among factory
and shop girls. Personally, lam acquainted with several
young women who have married after having given about
10 years’ hard graft to the State. At present they are
training a future generation, in which they have a closer
personal interest than heretofore—and they are doing it
well. As for the baby—well, they are as enthusiastic
about it as their most tolerant friends can endure.
“Stray,” onco a Sydney penwoman, writes me
from Mombasa, in equatorial Africa :
“Oh, how envious I am of that little Dutch kitchen in
Java that you wrote of! Of those three bright
little stoves all in a row on a shelf—of tho e
dear, tiny, squatting, magic cooks and washers-
up! How frantically envious! What have I done
offensive to the gods that I should have a kitchen
in Mombasa? Mombasa is a blood-stained coral island in
the Indian Ocean, joined on to the coast of British East
Africa by a bridge ; and its kitchens keep one from grace.
A little iron room away from the house—sometimes on
top of it—painted red and splashed and “grubbed” be-
yond printable description. Perhaps one little window;
more often none. And, anyhow, the window isn’t used
for ventilation purposes; it is kept shut until the cook
wants to throw the cabbage-water out. There is no
chimney, and the smoke swirls about frenziedlv
trying to escape by the shut door. A great
mass of coral rubble, cemented smooth and smoke-
grimed, takes up most of the space, and on
top of its flat and open surface the wood fires burn
and smoke, and on them are cooked the various foods we
are grateful to get—the unyielding goat, the attenuated
ehoolc, the hump of the patient beast that is cow or ox
or buffalo or rhino, or something ; the really excellent
fish, or anything else the cook snares in the odorsome
native bazaar.
The Swahili or Goanese cook waits about sulkily while
the Bibi storms, rages or pleads. He looks away
dreamily while she endeavors to show him how to
wash dishes in hot water. He dislikes hot water.
He listens patiently while she explains the use
of a rubbish-tin for refuse; and when her back is
turned he pitches the garbage outside the door. He
resents intrusion. He cooks fairly well, and can’t under-
stand why the Bibi can’t leave things alone. By degrees she
does. She must eat, and the climate begins to tell after a
few strenuous times in the kitchen. But what eventually
stops her is the absolute uselessness of it. She achieves
nothing but a headache, and then she can’t eat her food.
I was contemptuous when I first heard the residents—
who ape the Anglo-Indian style—murmuring, “ You can’t
do this and that,” with words like “prestige” and such.
I don’t say anything about prestige, the gaining or losing
of it; but I’ve given over the kitchen to the evil-doers,
and eat by the faith of hunger and recklessness.
A harassed man writes to me from a Victorian
footplate;—
Last j'ear, after you printed my wail about the trouble
we had to see the guard’s green flag on account of the
then-fashionable green veils, Mr. Tait gave the guards a
bigger flag. Now the big hats hide even that. If you
cannot abolish the hat, will you please ask Mr. Tait,
before he goes away, to get some guards about lift,
high? Or else get him to erect flagpoles at each end of
the railway platforms, with flags attached, so that the
guard can run them up when he wants us enginemen to
start the train. And your petitioner will, as in duty
bound, ever pray, etc., etc.
After a 17-years vice-presidency of the Fresh
Air League, Mrs. Matthew Harris has resigned
from the useful and successful charity.
An Australian writing me from the China says
that, between Colombo and Aden, they passed
the Commonwealth destroyers, Parramatta and
Yarra; and one wireless message they got from
them was so like home. After the usual exchange
of courtesies, the beginnings of the Australian
navy signalled anxiously : “Can you tell us the
favorites for the Melbourne Cup?” “Of course
we could, and did,” writes the man.
Yours iiffeetionately,
AKENEHI.
“ Baldie,” on the ways of the big land-
lord :
Tim Bulletin (20/10/10) rejoices that some Western
District (Vic.) tenants are being- given a chance to buy
their farms. There would be more cause for rejoicing if
the landlord weren’t hustling them into paying back-
breaking prices. In order to dodge the land tax,
certain big landowners had legal instruments manufac-
tured to their own order, containing conditions of
“ sale ” guaranteed to suit their own ends. The prices
fixed are greatly in excess of the value of the land, and
this and the conditions of sale will combine to keep the
“ purchasers” paying off till doomsday or thereabouts.
The whole business, in short, is a species of rack-renting
crossed with dummying.
Cold-tea Tommy Taylor, of Christchurch,
has a big chance to get into Maoriland’s Cabinet.
He has done good fighting for the Government
side this session. At the bye-election for Auckland
East it looked as if he were bidding for the leader-
ship of a Labor party ; but his experience on that
occasion was not encouraging. Frank Morton, in
a late article, says Taylor barks and snaps. Give
that in, and still he is a forcible speaker and keen
debater. His inclusion in Ward’s team would
please the Wowsers and some of the Laborites;
but it would sour Ward’s freehold following.
Laurenson, of Lyttelton, had been looked on as a
coming Minister, but his health has been poor of
late.
The State Frights people believe in giving
every encouragement to Australian defence. A
warder named Wise at Fremantle (W. A.) prison
was lately ordered by the State authorities to
resign from the defence force on the plea that his
military duties interfered with his job at the gaol.
He didn’t resign, pleading (1) that his military
work had never once interfered with his toil at
the State “jug,” and (2) that it was his duty as a
citizen to learn to defend his country. The State
authorities made no attempt to prove that the
defendant couldn’t be a satisfactory warder while
remaining a soldier; they simply handed out the
sack for “insubordination.” Then 21 other prison
officials signed a statement to the effect that Wise
had never once absented himself or neglected his
work or even asked for leave of absence on account
of his military aspect. Thatseemed to imply that
the State Government was a plain unvarnished
liar, and that it discharged Wise solely because it
was a mean, parochial, anti-Australian institu-
tion, and wanted to be nasty and disagreeable to
the Commonwealth. It was an unpleasant accu-
sation, but the State authorities haven’t attempted
to disprove it. They have only issued wild
threats to sack the whole 21. So now there are 22
Westralian gaol officials demanding an inquiry,
and not at all likely to get it.


■MUniiiiinimiihiM
rf/t
m
5
m
m\
"i ■ • !
mm\
i teis jy
!> • SM
iSS-2
>.rs
A
-M& i i :
i v i •• Jtt • /
«/j'. .. v ,s)£ 5* •
- V Jf- -
M,
ZmMSil
mm
ym \ W-.miw £ s
fail feair^
s&s
fir; • : BP ■■■ j
18l
TneMHif
&
\z
rm
,<! 9!S
WMW:
Hh
A:.
w
■VV'-
I
M
h-'k
m
m
«r 3
sottm*'
F3>
>s*
igssaifflfff
§P^f
Sa®3»
MSRS4
HV. V "."f
JK
'&■**
§mMk
9»H
JiSfplllS
SSi
:/^<f
£§§&&
';#!!§
o*jjKSg&s
3$
•■ ■■
XT*
ftfl
&
I
***>*>
ii
Hi
*c-r:a~ : ~'-' —*
xift
mp
lilt
m
M
m
5W*
fA
m
m
lAbf
I!
li
> -#
iw
J'i' ai
*«>•>
V
r
S'- Vi
: cr
•3,- ;:;•'
<C;-7
Vf'
gj®“sJ
11
*Wt
■-
3®E
fAAr...
ASI
liSfitft’ j !•.-i..;t%vis's>.t~^;.‘'; ,iW ~'! a! '
u* ••■•'** H^. l rf , rff^'':l/ 1 - »*'*«■-‘ " .' >■ vv(/• ir.'-^i'*'* l .'•
H 8
ili'. 1 -:
I'^"*
;4v^?
s
®
!i
i?
-Mi’;
1
Sii^»il»»iii
issiassjwa
ssr@
■T^vS
kliliilc.?
sf&ms&m
V-St'Vi. 'TS
■
> teki/ ■-;
tSS
sm
ISiiwiSiii
■
$3~?
-c. A:
m 1
■ ■
V-;
aafecßaScg iSaae
COBRA, fShe Floor Polish, is as
good as COBRA, Boot Polish.
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
With the cat
And dog for crew,
’Neath the tree-fern’s
Nodding frond
Floats upon
The Polish Pond.
Chunder thinks
It’s very fine
Just to fish with
Rod and line
While the cat
Keeps a look out
For a nice, big,
Juicy trout.


The South African cricketers have had to
encounter a wet pitch or two. And as this par is
about D.C.L. Whisky it also may be accused of
being a wet pitch. Anyway, it is the right sort
of wel." The wet of wisdom. And a big score
with the winning hit is often the result of an
inspiring moment with D.C.L., the Whisky of
the Wise*
pUNLOp
m..
y-
gs%v,;/ /iSgr 3
Sfe
, gg
w
W// ,
-W1
Rubber
£
HEELS
are used by everyone
who wants comfort
in walking.
They are heels of pure
rubber, that absorb all jarr-
ing, and outwear all others.
Accept only “ DUNLOP ” Brands.
Obtainable all Boot Stores.
* * *
PUNLOP RUBBER CO., All State. & N.Z.
HoYchiclcisComplrtc
Unless fitted with
DUNLOP-mrr
SOLID-RUBBER.
TYRES.
They double the life
of a vehicle—run for
years—absorb all vi-
bration, rattling, and
MAKE DRIVING A
PLEASURE.
Illustrated List on Application.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane
and Christchurch. N.Z.
$9
Medical & Toilet. Blacks. Green focket R e i*
GOLD MEDAL FRANCO-BRITISH EXHIBITION.
AN IDEAL TOILET SOAP . . .\1
A DELIGHTFUL NURSERY SOAP/
being absolutely Non-Irritating even to the
most delicate skin.
A Perfect BATH SOAP, being most Refreshing in use and at the same time Antiseptic.
AN IDEAL SOAP FOR THE HAIR, as it cleanses the Scalp perfectly, and makes the
hair Soft and Glossy.
A PERFECT SHAVING ISOAP, as it Lathers Freely in even the hardest water.
F. H. 8 CO., London, Adelaide, Perth, Sydney. _____
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 14, 1910.
Mr Dear Yarrie,—
The days after Race Week were filled with so
many farewells that, for the time being, morning
tea became as important socially as afternoon
tannin. It was really the only way out of an im-
mense difficulty. Butterflies at the Grand who
iiad begged a “day or two” when hubby de-
parted in haste on the express after Saturday’s
Steeplechase, slept or motored most of Sunday,
then revelled in morning tea and visitors. “So
sort v I’m late, dear,” was a popular feminine cry
at 11.30; “but I’ve just come on from Mrs.
fios .'.-all’s—it was so hard to get away.”
The Dudley Countess attended tenor Kirby’s
sparkling complimentary concert in the Town
Hall on Friday. .Kirby himself warbled no less
than 28 songs; and during the interval Chief
Justice Madden, on Walter’s behalf, distributed
thanks to the audience, the committee and the
press, and added a few words in praise of Aus-
tralia's output of top notes; while Archbishop
Carr, in crimson-purple robes, radiated blessings
from a front seat.
The Forrest dame, who fairly blazes as a
hostess, gave a tennis party (for young folk only)
in the gardens of Parliament Houses. The sedate
1 bnises seem to groan in horror when those lawns
are used for anything but a stodgy Federal Gar-
den party. Still, an occasional influx of youth
and gaiety would probably cheer up the flowers,
and remind the lawns that there are lighter
things in the world than politicians loaded with
opinions.
The Scottish Commissioners are still wandering
at large in this State. They are most canny men,
and will give an opinion on any subject except
the particular matter they have on hand. They
talc’ voluminous notes, each on his own particular
branch of agriculture.
As for opeenions, they dinna talk till they have
a oomplete report. They don’t drink whusky
much—at least, four of them are total-teetotalers,
and the others are vairy temperate. However,
the Scotsmen in Victoria who come in touch with
them are having a gladsome time. Several wives
have come along with their lords. Two of the party
are lonely bachelors and two are baronets. Lady
Martin* one of the wives, is employing her time
making exhaustive inquiries into educational
schemes; and Tate, of the Education Depart-
ment, enthuses about her cleverness. The Scotch-
man is a terror for the learnin’—as witness John
Shand’s burglarious attack on the Wyllie’s “ sax
yairds o’ bulces ” in Barrie’s “What Every
Woman Knows.”
The last trip the Commissioners took was to the
irrigation colony on the Goulburn. When they
saw the vastness of the Waranga Basin one re-
marked : “We wud na have been so enthusiastic
about Barren Jack if we had seen Waranga first.”
The Goulburn weir, now in full flood, impressed
them. “Ye maun be modest people, you Aus-
tralians,” said one. “If they had anything like this
in Canada, they’d hae a picture of it given away
with every pound o’ tea sold in the United
Kingdom.”
There is quite a rash of women’s clubs in
Melbourne. The Swastika Club came first; then
the Quamby. There is also a new retreat concealed
in the Block, while the culchawed Lyceum is pre-
paring for an early inauguration. The object of
most of them is to provide recreation and rest
from the tedium of being alive. They are all sup-
plied with couches and cushioned hollows, where
one may exchange the very worst on dits with the
Very Best People.
The Mia-Mia tea-room people have brightened
their patch of Collins-street by placing window
boxes in the grey face of their bun-retreat. The
nice girls who run it are trying to induce other
Collins-streeters to follow suit, and help make the
noble highway beautiful with flowers. They have
almost won over the wealthy old johnnies of the
Melbourne Club, and hope to convert the Taits,
who flat on the two floors above them when they are
not away piloting platform stars. The grey stone
solidity of Collins-street, with its switchback
slopes, would almost break into song and skip like
the young goat if it accumulated a few dozen
scarlet flowered window boxes. Tewksbury, of
the Oriental, intends to follow the flowery path
when his new buildings are complete. The
originators of the artistic scheme have engaged a
fine old gardener to tend the posies; so the blaze
of color will not be dependent on the casual
watering-pot of the ever-changing Mary Ann.
The same man is available for other decorators.
The Softgoods Sargoods gave a garden-party of
the very finest quality at Egoleen on Saturday.
All the Tooraketty millionaires and their people
thronged the well-barbered lawn in delectable gar-
ments. Garden-parties are really meant for frocks;
but in this instance the roses outdid the milliner.
The Sargood lady received, with daughter Charlie
for right-hand support. The St. Kilda Pierrots
nodded their tall, conical pom-pom hats at this
tine function ; but a boisterous wind kept on
grabbing the top notes and whisking them away.
Maie Peach Sydney, who is being farewelled
consistently over the loving tea-cup, has been
wearing a fresh “dream” in the way of frocks at
each fluttering. One was a white thing, ankle high,
covered with big, pink, appliqued cabbage roses
made of cretonne. The whole dress, roses and
all, was veiled in with white ninon till the
wearer looked like a bridesmaid’s bouquet. A
dinnerparty, whipped up in her honor, brought
her out in a Paddy-green evening dress veiled in
black and gleaming with jade embroidery. That
one made her look like a mermaid in the moon-
light. The small warbler is to depart on Wednes-
day of next week to N’Yark and Frohmann.
Mamma Peach stays in Melbourne to see her off.
The football indulged in by the athletic-girl
ballet in “ A Knight for a Day ” did some test
work on Saturday night. The inflated bag soared
into the stalls, and landed with a thump on the
curly head of one of Melbourne’s prettiest young
matrons. There was a sudden disconcerted pat-
patting by the lady over her head ; then a relieved
sigh and contented smile. Not a curl displaced !
In these days of hairdressers’ architecture it is
something to come through a severe public ordeal
like that without sustaining any damage. The
lady wort*.-a look of subdued triumph for the rest
of the evening.
I grieve to see that somebody has cut out Toby
Claude’s black-velvet dance in “A Knight for a
Day.” The shy, sidelong frolic sbemed insepar-
able from the black-velvet dress ; but the joyous
whirl is gone, and nothing is left the little woman
but her whimsical slavey part. Future audiences
of the farce will get only a hint of the small
comedienne’s grace and cleverness.
The cottage-by-the-seaside mania has Mel-
bourne in its grip, and builders are hard to get.
One woman of a frugal mind tried to buy a dis-
carded porter’s shed. She spied the thing lying
helplessly on its side in some grassy corner, and
straightway started to bargain. “ It’s no use
coming to us, you know,” muttered the people at
the nearest station. So the buyer is now pur-
suing the head of some rail and semaphore de-
partment. Somebody said to her, “Why not get
an old railway carriage while you are about
it?” “ I’m not a millionaire,” retorted the lady.
“The Victorian carriages never seem to be old
enough for scrapping. They are mended and
re-mended, artd used and re-used, and there is no
sign of a bargain-sale yet, even among the ancient
Hobson’s Bay arks.
It reminds one of the Adelaide woman who
bought seven of the old horse-cars when the new
electrics were installed. She had them taken out
and dumped down at convenient angles in the
hills that lie to the north of the city. That’s her
week-end house, and paying guests make it a very
profitable one.
The Automobile Club fixes a day once a year
when every member who can shake off the
shackles of business packs his motor full of
orphans and crippled mites from the various
Homes, and runs them out into the country.
There they are fed and amused until sundown,
when a present is found for every guest, and the
cars are loaded up again for the run home. Nearly
300 children had this treat on Saturday,
when 55 cars rushed out to Heidelberg Park,
where the Yarra is beautiful. Every car was
squashed full of flag-laden young humans, shriek-
ing with delight. They had a great and gorgeous
feeding and plenty of games ; then, tired, happy
and sticky, they were mustered and whisked back
through the twilight.
A.n interesting lady hovering about this city is
Miss Potter,, daughter of Potter, the shipping
magnate, who made the first bid to the Common-
wealth Government for the mail contract. She
is a Cambridge University woman, and has come
out in search of a thesis wherewith to wrench off
another degree for herself. The subject she has
chosen is the Federal Arbitration Act, and a
learned Judge who knows it from A to Z is acting
as pilot in her investigations. The highly Con-
servative Alexandra Club almost swooned away
when it found out for certain that she a
Socialist as well as a Suffragette.
A private cable message from America tells of
the death of John Howell, who, once on a time,
general-managed the great Broken Hill Prop.—
the mine which used to pour silver day and night
into the pockets of Bowes Kelly, W. Knox and
other Melbourne people; hence their present ton-
nage. Mr. Howell was about the most typical,
lean, long, goatee-bearded Uncle Sam that this
country ever saw. When he quitted Australia a
few years back he left two married daughters
behind him, of whom one survives—Mrs. George
Blakemore, who dwells on your side of the
Murray. The old gentleman had got past his
76th milestone.
It comes as a shock to learn that the Women’s
Political Association has an operatic society hang-
ing to its skirts. Superiah politics kicking its
best leg uppermost, and warbling, “ Chase me,
boys; I’m full of tenderness,” or words to that
effect! The W.P.A.O.S. i 3 to break out at St.
Kilda Town Hall on Monday, the 21st, in aid of
the W.P.A. funds, and the subject of its gambol
is “A Runaway Girl.” W. R. Furlong directs
the music, and veteran John Wallace coaches the
amateurs in the way they should walk, talk and
smile.
The very latest yelp is to wear an anklet clasped
round your best leg, and some girls are having
watches set in theirs. An auburn-haired lady,
very much in the public eye, has gone one better ;
she has a duck of a watch set in the toe-cap of
her shoe. Watched stockings will be a change—
clocked socks we have always had. The lady,
with the toed watch, or the watched toe, whirled
past me in a motor, coming from the races ; but
she wasn’t looking at the time as she passed. Per-
haps she was wearing the other pair that day.
The school miss who represents the half-way
stage between socks and flapperdorn, has a new
and striking method of hairdressing. It consists
of two prolonged Marguerite pigtails adorned
with enormous bows. It is the ambition of every
youngster to have these bell-ropes long enough to
enable her to sit on the ribbon decorations without
dragging her scalp off. To this end, the unfortu-
nate child whose hair is short makes up the de-
ficiency with twisted ribbon. The effect is
curiously Chinese. It cheers me immensely to
see a proud child prancing off to some suburban
academy with two immense blobs of ribbon
dancing behind her at the end of two almost in-
visible streaks of hair.
Seems that you simply can’t escape Her
Majesty the Cow. Cugnet, the Bleriot mono-
pianist, having made arrangements with solicitor
Croker or his friends, fixed on Altona Bay for his
trials. Hegotapreliininary moveon his bird; then,
after making a trial flight, the Bleriot disciple
found that a Cow disputed his descent; and in
trying to evade Her Majesty he got into trouble
with a tree. Cugnet wasn’t badly hurt; but it
will cost £BO to plaster up the wounded feelings
of the monoplane.
On Saturday afternoon the Victorian Profes-
sional Orchestra, under the baton of W. A. Laver,
attacked a programme which was all Beethoven,
Brahms and Wagner, and filled the Town Hall
with some people and a lot of melody. Notice-
able that each conductor draws his own particular
following of admirers. Laver the Soulful, with
his Mozart face, attracted an adoring clique that
had not previously been detected listening to the
V.P.O. music-makers.
Miss Lilian Pritchard, a skilful girl elocutionist,
is planning a recital in the Athenaeum Hall on
Saturday, November 26. At the last Carmichael
garden party, she was singled out and compli-
mented by the host and hostess. Some time ago
she won a medal presented by the Carmichael—
also £2O in prizes. The critic on that occasion
wrote: “Her facial expression is very remark-
able.” And she still has the same face.
A correspondence has broken out in Mel-
bourne Argus on the question, “Are Manners
Deteriorating ? ” It is mostly concerned with the
youth who does not surrender his seat in a railway
car to a stout woman or a hoary-whiskered man,
and the letters appear to be written by apoplectic
old persons who bully their servants and create
the Domestic Service Problem. A new note,
however, was struck by a youth who complained
of the beastly bad manners of elderly individuals,
a matter which the Young are generally too timid
or too considerate to notice. Yet it needs re-
cording. Stout, red-faced old men appear per-
petually in railway cars, trams and theatre crushes,
'where they roar loudly at the bad manners of the
F£St; bujj who has ever seen them considering the
comfort and feelings of others ? There comes a
time when polite Youth finds it necessary to re-
volt against the bellowing selfishness of the over-
ripe persons who have traded on their good
nature for 50 or 60 years. Manners do deteriorate
—especially when they are not exercised for half
a lifetime.
There can be no two opinions about it :
the African cricketers are both surprised and
delighted with Australia. They confirm, infor-
mally, all that has been rumored about the un-
popularity of Australians “over there.” The
younger members of the team evidently expected
the bulk of the population to be equal to the worst
sample left over from the farm-burning, while
the more experienced rather feared that the
opportunity would be taken to hit back. And
behold, they were accepted and treated as long-
lost relatives ! Within a week .the conviction that
it is at least 6 to 4 against an Australian being an
honest man or a decent fellow had melted right
away, and the tour is going to,, do a lot of good to
the mutual feeling between the*two countries.
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide :
Our vice-regalities have been in a dispersed condition
of late. His Ex. hurried over from Melbourne in time to
see our flannelled idols soundly trounced by the S’Afri-
cans. In the meantime his spouse and one twin were in
Sydney. The remaining member of the family stayed in
Melbourne.
Cards are out for an evening entertainment at the
Residence on the 16th.
By the way, their Exes, are losing their secretarial
prop, Mr. \V. S. Baillie-Hamilton. He sails for England
on November 18. An amiable, tactful and immaculately-
clothed young man he has ever shown himself, combining
the wisdom of the serpent with the small, mild appear-
ance of the dove.
Artist George Webb has been holding a public exhibi-
tion of pictures all the week at his private house on South
Terrace. There has Mrs. Webb supplied the multitude
with tea every afternoon ; and tea is a thing we have
been sternly discouraged from expecting at high art
shows in Adelaide.
There are gems in the Webb collection that I would
willingly sell my best millinery to possess, and the gush-
ing female who is given to raving about “ atmosphere,”
could do so here with good excuse. Mr. Webb has got
into the heart of our hills, and stolen some of their blue
hazes and golden hazes, and poured them over his pictures.
One charming little ’scape, not more than 12in. by 20in.,
shows a familiar Hills road, looking away across the
plains to Adelaide in the blue distance, as you can see
it any sunny day. The most remarkable thing in
the exhibition, however, is the almost life-size
and uncannily life-like portrait of Chief Justice
Way in his robes. The treatment is undoubtedly fine,
and many think the picture quite the best thing in por-
traiture any South Australian has achieved to date.
While the Chief Justice was a member of the library
board, Etiquette or something prevented its purchase for
the gallery. Now, however, that difficulty is removed, so
something may be done aboutit. His Ex. went along for
a private'and particular view of the show one morning.
Adelaide folk have been crowding to and casting
bouquets at the feet of Dolores all the week. As to the
first concert, a cream and silver-clad nightingale sang to
a Town Hall entirely devoid of vacant allotments. There
were present the Tom Barr Smiths and two sets o
daughters and sons-in-law (including the newly-wedded
aide, Captain Wright, and his pretty bride), the whole
musical nobility, the encore fetich and others. The
second evening the crowd arrived to find the Town Hall
gates closed, and an announcement attached that Dolores
was ill. Luckily, it was only a passing sore throat, and
the postponed burst of song happened on Friday, to
another packed house. On this occasion the star was a
vision of maize color and heavenly Irish lace.
The memorial to the late Charles Cameron Kingston
gets nearer. The market and parks committee of the
City Council has recommended the council to offer a site
in the central Victoria Square for the memorial statue.
Ruth Coles, next-to-youngest damsel of the Speaker
Coles’s large family, is receiving felicitations bn her en-
gagement to Mr. Harry True.
The Shakspearian Sylvan Salon is arranging a moon-
light pastoral, to take place at Unley on December 15.
Segments of “ The Merchant of Venice ” are in rehearsal
for it.
Open-air shows are out on all the beaches already. The
Glenelg contingent of merry-makers, who call themselves
“ The Follies,” are giving an invitation m atinbe on
Thursday afternoon, at the Pierrot Pavilion.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
A desperate small boy devastated Victoria
last week. A railway guard found the partially-
grown fiend uncoupling trucks with a view to
letting them run down an incline to eternal smash.
The boy dashed his head into the guard’s dinner
and fled. He was chased by an inspector, who
tripped with great damage over a rabbit hole,
and a fireman who fell and sprained his arm.
The boy escaped. These things happened at a
place called Wail. They ought to have happened
at a place called Jail, but they didn’t.
At Warrnambool (Vic.) Premier Weary’s
surprising J.P. has been distinguishing himself
some more, and no one can do that sort of thing
better than the Victorian J.P. when he takes a deep
breath and wades in. The circumstances were
rather out of the ordinary run. The defendant, a
ferocious dairyman, accused his daughters, the
eldest being aged 17, of having “interfered with
some fish in a cupboard.” They denied know-
ledge of it, and the maddened parent, with a
simple faith in the old method of extracting truth
by torture, announced his intention of flogging
the family continuously till someone confessed.
The after proceedings, which wore out a whip and
partly wore out a strong piece of harness, had
lasted nearly two hours before the eldest girl,
apparently in fear lest she and her sisters should
be killed, took the blame of the real or imaginary
fish. Then she received one more flogging on
a charge of previous prevarication, and after
that spent the night under a hedge. The
idea of committing the cow-fiend for trial with-
out bail may have occurred to John Murray’s
J.P., and again it may not. Anyhow, he compro-
mised with 60s. fine and 30s. costs. The average
fool J.P. puts such a low estimate on cruelty,
however horrible, and rates theft so highly, that it
might be well, in a case like the above,) to drop the
former Issue altogether. If the parent had been
charged with the embezzlement of sundry bits of
skin and about half a gill of blood from his eldest
daughter’s back, the Court would probably have
sat up in great fury, and made the sentence three
years, and also ordered him to replace the goods
where he took them from.
Inspector-General Garvin quits the N.S.W.
police at the end of the year. There is a prize
here for some superintendent. In most depart-
ments there is a jump of only a couple of hundred
or so between the chief and the first lieutenant;
but in the N S. W. police the senior superinten-
dents get £5OO, while the Inspector-General gets
£lOOO. Of course there are extras ; but even so,
the Inspector-General manages to about double
the next man. When the 1909-10 Estimates were
passed there were three superintendents on the
‘ top mark—Walker, Sherwood and Saunders ; but
it isn’t as certain even as to-morrow morning that
the next chief will come from the top-markers.


PATHE FRERES (AUSTRALIA)
SYDNEY: 73 York Street.
BRISBANE: King S King.
77=81 Queen
Street.
ADELAIDE: Cornell S Son,
95 Grenfell
Street.
9u,
D &
MELBOURNE : 50 Queen Street.
PERTH: Photo Supplies Co
NEW ZEALAND
(WELLINGTON): Mr. Hyams,
Box 45, G.P.O.
THE WORLD’S LARGEST MAKERS OF
Films, Moving Pictures, Cinematographs, Pathephones
Some of Pathe Frere’s Cinematograph Productions, produced only by Pathe Freres :
PATHE FRERE’S ANIMATED GAZETTE
A Weekly Illustrated Publication of vital interest to every Showman and Animated Picture Dealer.
RATHE'S NATURAL COLORED SUBJECTS.
RATHE'S ART DRAMAS from all parts of the World.
PAT HE'S SCIENTIFIC and EDUCATIONAL SUBJECTS .
PAT HE’S AMERICAN DRAMAS and COMEDIES .
PATHE’S ENGLISH MODEL No. 1 OUTFIT.
PATHE'S ENGLISH MODEL No. 2 Imperial OUTFIT.
PATHE’S ENGLISH MODEL IDEAL OUTFIT.
And our latest innovation, which will be put in circulation shortly, viz.:—
PATHE’S WEEKLY ILLUSTRATED MAGAZINE,
which will give to all Showmen an opportunity to know the latest news'in Cinematographic Art, and will be looked upon as the Intelligence Bureau of the Moving Picture Industry. Look
out for the first issue, and become a subscriber at once. This publication is being specially produced for Australia, and cannot fail to keep you in close touch with Cinematograph
interests throughout both Hemispheres. The first issue of PATHE’S WEEKLY MAGAZINE will be published early in December. Pnce 13s, for yearly subscnbers. Post free weekly.
PATHE FRERE’S HIRING DEPARTMENT
contains over 1,000,000 feet of Assorted and Picked Subjects to choose from, and embraces all our special features, including the Best Productions of other Makers, giving without doubt
THE BEST RENTAL SERVICE OBTAINABLE.
AN IMPORTANT ADVANTAGE: Please note that in dealing with Pathe Freres they do not stipulate A FULL PATHE PROGRAMME. On the contrary, they encourage a
MIXED PROGRAMME, and the entire choice of the London Market, which includes Films by the Best Manufacturers in the World, is at your disposal—an advantage which no other
Firm in the Commonwealth can offer.
REMEMBER, however, that a Programme without Pathos Gazette, Pathe’s Colored Subjects, Pathe’s American Dramas, Pathe's Art Dramas is NOT a Programme in the accepted sense
of the wmrd. If your Exchange cannot supply you with Pathe’s subjects, send to us direct. We hold the cream of the World s Pictures.
LOOK FOR THE PATHE TRADE MARK (THE CROWING COCK)
on all Pathe Films, Moving Pictures, Cinematographs and Accessories. Goods offered as Pathe’s without this brand are spurious imitations.
I
tH*
boh
Supreme among Disc Machines.
The Machine with the Human Voice.
PATHE FRERES ARE THE INVENTORS
of the PATHEPHONE, and the High Standard of Excellence they have achieved in this
instrument is only equalled by their pronounced success in CINEMATOGRAPHY.
«E
THE PATHEPHONE
Is the Cheapest of
any Disc Machine
of value on the
market—Cheapest
because it is
BEST.
THE BALL-POINTED SAPPHIRE
of the PATHEPHONE is the original invention of.Pathe Freres, and accounts largely for the vast superiority of this machine over all other
reproducing instruments. It brings out the tone-quality of the Record with clearer enunciation and greater charm; it does not scratch or
require changing like the needles, and neither wears itself out nor injures the Records. Users of the Pathephone appreciate these great
advantages, also the fact that
THE PATHE SOUND-BOX
is superior in construction and sound-producing material to that of any
other make of machine. The Pathd Sound-Box has always been
ahead of others —even when the science of of sound-reproduction was
in its infancy—and will fit any other Disc Machine, enabling owners
to play Pathe Records even if they are not fortunate enough to
possess a Pathe instrument.
THE PATHEPHONE is fitted with a long-running
spring motor, so silent in its movement that all you hear is the
VOICE ITSELF—absolutely true to Nature, with the most delicate
vocal inflection faithfully reproduced.
THE PATHE RECORDS are all Double-sided—
one selection on the front and another bn the back, thus giving two
selections where only one is given elsewhere. Particular artists like
Ada Crossley, Beii Davies and others declare the Pathe Records to
be faultless.
wm~
If you want to hear good music as you have
never heard it before, make it your business
to hear the PATHEPHONE—the instrument which stands
supreme among all other sound=reproducing machines.
Ada Crossley
Ben Davies,
Harry Lauder,
Kirkby Lunn,
Constantio,
H.M, Scots Guards’ Band,
! $
and miany other world-famed artists sing and
play for the PATHEPHONE.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE PATHEPHONE IN AUSTRALASIA—
W. Cornell 8 Son, 95 Grenfell St., Adelaide
(For
S. Australia)
Findlays’ Pty. Ltd., Launceston
(For
Tasmania)
A. Macrow 8 Sons, 274 Little Collins St., Melbourne
(For
Victoria)
King S King, 77-81 Queen St., Brisbane
(For
Queensland)
Max Wurcker, 99 8 101 York Street, Sydney
(For
N.S. Wales)
The Optical S Photo Supplies Co., Perth
(For W.
Australia)


A. SAUNDERS’ GIFTS IN SILVERPLATE
FOR XMAS AND THE NEW YEAR.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SERVER, Silver-plated Mounts,
Floral China Bowl, 15/6-
Other Styles, 12/6, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER KNIFE, Pure Silver plated Nickel Silver,
Nicely Engraved, 3/G-
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver, Crystal Glass
Dish, 8/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
SJJQAR BOWL and TONGS, Pure Silver-
plated, Blue Glass Lining,
4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPQT STAND, Pure Silver-plated; Frame,
wi,th Glazed; China Centre, in 3 Colours,
Size, 6x6 inches, 8/6-
ħ
A. SAUNDERS.
LUNCHEON CRUET, 4-Bottle, Pure Silver-
plated Frame, Crystal Glass Bottles,
21/-
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER STAND,
Pure Silver-plated,
Thistle Design,
Opal Tinted Glass,
Bin high,
r/o.
.v. SAUNDERS.
HONEY or JAM JAR, Sil-
ver-plated Frame, Fancy
Floral China, 8/6-
mm
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
by Jas, Dixon, Silver-
plated Nickel Silver,
Crystal Glass Bottles,
10/6
S 3
m
A. SAUNDERS.
SWEETS DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Frame, Fancy Floral
• China Dish, 6/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RING, Pure
SiJver-plated, Guaranteed
Finest Quality, 3/6.
WE PAY CARRIAGE.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS and TONGS, Pure
Silver-plated, Shell Design, in Velvet-lined Case,
10/«-
A. SAUNDERS.
FLOWER STAND,
Pure Silver-plated,
A 1 Quality, Bin
high, Strawberry
Design, Opal
Tinted Glass Tube,
5/6.
10/6
FRUIT DISH, Pure Silver-plated Frame, Fancy Floral
China Dish,
10/G.
10/6
WONDERFUL VALDES !
HANDSOME AND LONG WEARING.
12/6
SUGAR and CREAM STAND, Pure Silver-plated Frame
Fancy Floral China, J.2/G-
12/6
CAKE BASKET, Silver-plated, Handsomely Fluted and
Embossed, 20 h
OUR CATALOGUE
IS CRAMMED WITH
OTHER IDEAS—
LET’S SEND YOU
A COPY
moM
m
WE PAY
CARRIAGE
ON THESE
GOODS
A. SAUNDERS.
Handsome PRESERVE DISH. Pure Silver-plated, Nickel
Silver Frames, Art Hand-cl corated, Floral China
Dishes, 15/6-
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER JUG, Pure
Silver-plated, Hand-engraved,
15/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, Pure Sil-
ver-plated Mounts, Fancy
Floral China, 13/0-
A. SAUNDERS.
TEA-STRAINER nd DRIP-STAND,
Pure Silver-plated, 4/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Double EGO-STAND, Pure Sil-
ver-plated Nickel Silver, with
Spoons to match,
10/6-
Embossed Base, 12/6.
m
m
im
Si'S
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Silver-plated
Lid and Base, Crystal Glass
Dish, 5/6.
Other Styles, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
FERN POT, Pure Silver-plated,
Handsomely Embossed, A 1
Quality, 17/ti-
HONEY JAE, Crys-
tal Glass, Silver-
plated Lid and
Spoon, 3/6-
Other Styles, 8/6,
10/6.
A. SA ITNDEBS.
TEAPOT, Pure Silver-plated on White Metal,
Butterfly Design, Biehly Engraved, IT/6-
A. SAUNDERo.
CARD RECEIVER, Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely
Engraved and Embossed, Satin Finished, 31 inches
hieh. Handsomely Carved Base, IS/<F>,
I
A. SAUNDERS.
MEAT'CARVERS, Xylonite Handles, Carving Knife, Fork, and Steel, in Velvet-lined Case, 10/6-
Othf'r Styles, in Stasr, Xylonite, or Ivory Handles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/, up.
A. SAUNDERS.
4 O’CLOCK CAKE FORKS, Pure Silver-plated,
A 1 Quality, Full Size, in Silk-lined Case, 12/6.
Other Styles, 6/6, 10/6, 15/, 20£
JEWELLER,
.fljtfCHsczaflj.
V MAKER A
X
£3
1
~~~ SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER. —— *
807,809,811,815.815,817. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Srarton) SYDNEY.N.S.W.
i SILVERSMITH


GAUMONT’S
for Topicals
and Speed.
jgaanjoml
M
THE name “Gaumont” has been associated with Cinematography ever
since 1893. Many of the greatest improvements in the art must be
credited to this progressive firm, and it is worthy of note that, while they
were first in 1893, their productions are admittedly the best in 1910.
Gaumont Cinematograph Pictures are noted the world over for their excel-
lence, and combined with this is the reputation for producing quickly and satis-
factorily topical subjects of all kinds and in all places. An example of Gaumont’s
up-to-dateness was provided by the 1910 Melbourne Cup. The Gaumont pic-
ture of this great event was the only one to be shown at the matinees of the
principal halls of Sydney on the day following the famous race. Competent
judges unanimously agree that this is the iinest film of the race ever secured,
and crowded audiences at West’s, Spencer’s, the National Amphitheatre,
Clem Mason’s Queen’s Hall, and leading suburban shows endorse their opinion.
In addition to producing pictures of local topical interest, we are also
importing each week the choicest Gaumont Cinematograph Films—dramatic,
industrial, educational and humorous—as well as the best films of other well-
known producers. Call or write for our new Catalogue—the most; complete
ever issued in Australia.
h
THE CAUMONT MALTESE CROSS
CHRONO DE LUXE (as illustrated)
is fitted with patent fire extinguisher and safety spool boxes—
mounted on absolutely rigid iron collapsible stand—improved
and very large lamphouse, fitted on iron-covered baseboard,
with runners to permit lantern to be shifted from cinemato-
graph pictures to lantern slides, with the minimum of trouble.
The lamphouse takes a pair of the largest carbons, so that no
stop is necessary to retrim ARC during a full night’s show.
The condenser is entirely outside of the lamphouse, and is
easily removable during the show, thus allowing rapid replace-
ment in the event of a cracked condenser necessitating this
beings done.
The illustration gives a good idea of the appearance of the
complete outfit.
Price, £62 lOs.
Stand, quickly collapsible, but absolutely rigid, £8 10s.
extra. Fire extinguisher and safety boxes, £5 15s. extra.
These items may be omitted from either outfit if desired.
The Professional Chrono—
KINO OF BIOSCOPES
The Machine without a Flicker.
The latest model embodies several striking improvements
over any other machine employing the cam movement, and
represents the last word in projectors of this type.
Over 10,000 Oaumont machines are now in use—this fact
should speak for itself.
Price, £52 lOs.
Every operator should see the Gaumont Fire Extinguisher and
Safety Boxes—an absolute necessity and safeguard against fire.
The Gaumont Co., Ltd.,
AUSTRALIAN KODAK, LTD.,
Incorporating Baker & Rouse Prop., Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney; “ The Block,” 284 Collins St.,
Melbourne; 37 Rundle St., Adelaide; 78-80 Queen St.,
Brisbane ; Flinders St., Townsville ; Ruthven St., Toowoomba ;
346 Argent St., Broken Hill; 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
The above illustration shows the projecting
apparatus of the Gaumont Maltese Cross Chrono
De Luxe. It embodies many special features not
obtainable in other machines, and combines
simplicity of mechanism with perfect projection.
To JAVA,
“The Garden of the East,”
by the
“ROYAL PACKET.
99
h
&
>v
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS for
Java and tSmg'apore,
via Queensland Ports, Port Moresby, Thursday Island, Port Darwin and Dobo.
S.S. VAN HEEMSKERK, 3500 Tons
Leaves Melbourne Nov. 25; Sydney Dec. 1; Brisbane Dec. 3.
Calls at Port Darwin in- and outward.
S.S. VAN LINSCHOTEN, 3500 Tons
Leaves Melbourne Dec. 23; Sydney dan. 2 ; Brisbane dan. 4.
Calls at Dobo in- and outward.
New Steamers specially built and equipped for voyaging in the Tropics.
Large, airy two-berth cabins. Spacious promenade decks. English spoken
on board, and English Stewardess carried.
For further information apply to
ROYAL PACKET S. N. CO.,
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
JOHN SANDERSON & CO., Agents, Melbourne.
THE “BANKER”
AERATED WATER
MACHINE.^*-
Ho. 905—The “ Banker” 1910 Model, with Automatic Turnover Syrup Rack and latest improvements.
Sold on Easy Terms. Backed with our 5 Years’ Guarantee. •
WORKS LIKE A CLOCK.
THE “BANKER” produces perfectly aerated water—lo gallons can be thoroughly
saturated in three minutes. Better and snappier sodawater than produced by tiny
other machine. No failure of the working is possible. Connecting tin.
Water can be connected direct from the water main, every particle of gas being used. No
perishable rubber hose or tedious rocking of the cylinder.
ACCESSORIES.—Syrups, bottles, cases, gas and every requirement the mineral
water trade at-lowest market rates.
“ BANKER ” SYRUPING RACK.—The best on the world’s market. _ Note the solid
construction. The smallest detail has been attended to on the “ BANKER,” and 40 Dozen
eanbe tilled and syruped by a boy in one hour.
Marble Soda Fountains, Carbonators,
Draft Arms, Ice Boxes* write for particulars.
EVERYTHING SUPPLIED FROM A STRAW TO A SODA FOUNTAIN.
Complete Machines (Rocking System) - £3O
NELSON CARBONATING CO. LTD.,
167 QEORQE STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
Agents for Queensland » PAUL & CONNAN, Queen Street, Brisbane.
„ W.A. - - J. QUFFELD & CO., Perth.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair. '
. Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland. & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
STIFF JOINTS.
From whatever source arising, there can he no
greater cause of pain than that inflicted by stiff
joints. Like a badly fitting door the bending or
straightening of the leg or arm, or the part affec-
ted moves with a jar, so excruciatingly painful
that it is only a matter of time before the joints
become fixed. Bathing, friction, oils, liniments
and ointments have in thousands of cases proved
utterly unavailing. Stiff joints that have resisted
all other treatment have yielded to the powerful
influence of Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment.
Persevering use of this liniment will cause the
most stubborn case to relax.
Sold by all leading chemists and storekeepers,
price 2s. 6d.; or will be sent post free at same price
by The W. H. Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The last of the V.R.C. meeting was a great day
for two popular jockeys, and a deplorable day for punters
who allowed those jockeys’ mounts to run loose in three
cases out of four. Bolton steered Matouree (10 to 1) to
victory in the V.R.C. Handicap, and did likewise with
Kyeadgerie in the Final Handicap. Kyeadgerie’s starting
price was stated at 15 to 1 in the evening paper j
but this was, of course, fully 50 per cent, more
than could be got by the chance punter. The
15 to 1 quotation had no more existence in fact than
the 20 to 1 against St. Abbs for the 2-year-old race. Still,
anyone backing W. H. Smith’s mount could easily get 10’s
or even 12’s, which means that “ nobody,” in a way of
speaking, had a win over it. A totalisator on the Flem-
ington Stakes would have paid divs. equal to, say, 25 to
1 about St. Abbs, and 12 to 1 for Veneta, the runner-up.
Veneta’s price in the paper was 20 to 1, though the
owner accepted 100 to 6, and the general quotation to
small punters was 10’s.
* * * *
The time (6min. 43fsec.) for the Victoria
Steeplechase was the slowest in 14 years, and Squirm,
perhaps, was lucky in having been always allowed a long
lead of the middle division in an "absurdly strung-
out field. He was the one leader that neither blundered
nor tired. Had he come to grief the winner and runner-
up would have been the veterans Seymour and Nigel, who
ran a dead heat for the same race two years ago. Sey-
mour was not quite all out at the finish, but he had never
been near enough to Squirm to have a chance of beating
him in the last quarter of a mile.
# * -ft-
Alawa, who has made-a remarkable recovery
from his mysterious ailment, proved himself once again
a bit better than Trafalgar in the C. B. Fisher Plate
(lj mile). This was a great race, and very fast consider-
ing the state of the course. The two old opponents
chased Son of the Marsh till the 10-furlong sprinter had
spun himself out, and then they both passed him neck
and neck. Alawa had the bit of ginger which Trafalgar
lacks, and he won by a short head, whereat the lady who
owns him was exceeding glad.
* * * *
Matouree cut an important figure in the meet-
ing’s records by winning the Veteran Stakes and the
V.R.C. Handicap. But in neither case did the son of
Playbill have anything to beat, otherwise his soreness, as
the result of the Cup race, would have proved a fatal
drawback. In the V.R.C. Handicap, the only two horses
with pretensions to “ class ” were Apple Pie and Britain,
and these old opponents had seemingly “staled off,” like
Flavlnius.
* * * *
Of the 20 horses listed to start in the Rosehill
Club Handicap at Rosehill (Sydney) on Saturday, 11 were
scratched at the last minute. This sort of thing wants
looking into and legislating against. It’s part of the
game of cleaning out the public, and amounts to a
swindle on the people who keep the game going.
Death has been busy amongst the jumpers of
late. Woollahra and Chivalry were killed at the V.R.C.
Spring Meeting, Stockmaster was passed out at Williatns-
town on the Wednesday, and on the Saturday Larrikin,
having been injured at Caulfield, had to be put out of
pain by the friendly bullet. Yet they make a fuss about
boxing.
* * * *
The V.R.C. would appear to have had a golden
time with this year’s spring meeting, and the profits are
reported to be up in the neighborhood of £14,000. This
is curious when one comes to remember that a Labor
Government is in power.
* * * *
“ Huflfin-Guffin ” : He the succession of Cup
winners— Lord Nolan, Prince Foote and Comedy King.
If there is a horse named Mud or thereabouts in next
year’s race I intend to back him. (P.S. —“Emperor”
suggestion (B. 10/11/’10) notwithstanding, I am going to
stick to Mud. Ask Manoel of Portugal what he thinks.)
* * * *
The triumph of the bat which commenced the
previous week was continued in Sydney on Saturday,
when the bowling was slogged unmercifully. No less
than six centuries were placed on the board; one of
them—Folkard’s—being a double one, worth 241. M. A.
Noble carried his stick for 176 ; and G. Lowe, of Middle
Harbor, was not out for 131. W. Watson, of Glebe, made
113; J. S. Taylor, of Burwood, 101; and R. V. Minnett, of
North Sydney, the neat hundred. Besides these, 10
batsmen made 50 and over, mostly over. And yet, in
spite of this seeming debacle, some of the bowlers man-
aged to make good averages. Unsworth, of Peter-
sham, took three of Mr. O’Hara’s men for 20; Single,
of University, took three Middle Harbor sticks for
26; Rough, of Petersham, took six other O’Hara
wickets for 27. But the glory of the day was the
club scoring. University, which had made 339, beat
Middle Harbor (134 and six for 295) by 205 on the first
innings. Redfern, with 450, smashed up Central Cum-
berland by 316 on the first innings. Paddington, having
declared with 344 for eight wickets down, climbed over
Waverley’s 340 by two wickets and four runs. Balmain,
with 454, beat Sydney District’s 293 by 161 on the first
innings. Gordon, which had declared at 416 for five
wickets, was astounded at being only able to draw with
Glebe, which smacked up 329 for five wickets. Burwood,
with 278, beat North Sydney, with 245, by 33 on first in-
nings. Petersham downed Mr. O’Hara’s country team by
64 on the first innings.
* * * *
It goes without saying that the approach of the
South Africans has got the local cricketer on his mettle.
Wherefore Trumper’s friends were terrified when he made
only four against Glebe. Also Cotter’s friends were dis-
gusted to see that he could take only two wickets for 88
runs. But the Trumper and the Cotter are safely selected,
nevertheless, and Trumper is to be captain, ye gods !
Scott is included as the second hurricane bowler; but in
this case his season’s record justifies his inclusion. Cotter
is there —on the strength of his past glory, presumably.
Hordern and Emery, the local “googly” bowlers, will
supply guile while speed is having a rest; and Kelleway
and left-hander Macartney will give support. Trumper,
being captain, should absolutely coruscate, and, being
captain, will certainly do his darnedest. The question
is: Has he any coruscation left about him? He should
receive good support from Bardsley, the Waddy Brothers
and wicket-keeper Carter. Altogether, it looks like an
experimental eleven, and it is satisfactory to see that the
selectors have the backbone to make experiments. Reck-
less courage has never been too conspicuous a feature of
our selectors in the past, and variety is always interesting.
* * * *
Last Saturday was the batsman’s day generally,
and Adelaide bowlers had a bad time with the rest.
Smarting under the sting of annihilation—this reads
Irish, but no matter—by the Springboks, the players
lashed out, and the day closed with North Adelaide
scoring the mammoth total of 451 for five wickets against
Port Adelaide. Gehrs with 191 and Pellew with 112 were
the bright particular gems. Clem Hill smacked up 130
for Sturt against Glenelg. The only bowler who managed
to holdup the ball end of the log was E. B. Jones, who
smashed six wickets for 72. The rest of the bowlers are
reported to have taken to drink.
* * * *
The end of the Africans’ first match in this
country made Australian cricket look rather cheap. The
game at first closely followed the line of S. Australia’s win
over Vic., just finished on the same ground. On a bad
wicket, S.A. had a lead of 50 on the first innings ; but on
a good one 507 was the African total. Kourse (201 not
out), Strieker (146) and Schwarz (64) did all the damage.
Then S.A. could not play Schwarz. He got Clem Hill
comfortably stumped. He bowled Gehrs, who would
have been stumped off the same ball. He caught and
bowled Solly Hill. With Mayne run out, S.A.’s back was
broken. Pegler and Vogler did good work, too, but the
general opinion is that when once Australian batsmen
have mastered the little tricks of Schwarz, the Africans
will Have a lot of runs made off them. Meanwhile, they
won their first match by 281.
* * * *
“Kobbi”: Bananaland can’t get its hat on
since it recently defeated N.S.W. at cricket by 20 runs;
and you’ll get punched if you say that the Southern team
was not representative. Barstow, who plays for North
Brisbane, got four for 64 in the first, and eight for 51 in
the second; and Brisbane already pictures him a Com-
monwealth champion.
* * * *
A petty disturbance about free passes to the
M.C.C. ground marked the advent of the S’African team
to Melbourne. The S’Africans stipulated for a suspension
of the free list when the team is performing, and the
Australian Board of Control assented to the reasonable
demand. So the Vic. Association notified the members
of the local team that they must forego their ancient privi-
lege of franking a friend to the M.C.C. reserve, whereupon
Warwick Armstrong threatened a strike. No free 'pass
for a friend—no play. After an anxious conference with
the visiting business manager, the Association agreed to
issue one complimentary ticket apiece to Armstrong and
co., and the undignified little “ crisis ” was at an end. Re-
duced to a matter of figures, the Victorian Eleveners
demanded the equivalent of 2s. a day for their services,
and got it.
The old Australian system of issuing two ladies’
tickets to each member of a cricket club is a more serious
cause for complaint if the visiting team plays for half the
gross receipts. When they opened in Adelaide, the
S’Africans were staggered at finding their contract didn’t
protect them from a rush of lady deadheads. JTheir
manager protested. In Melbourne he protested again.
The V.C.A. explained that the M.C.C. ruled the members’
reserve, and that each member issued two free passes to
women. Then Fitzgerald, of the S’African side, asked
that a count shall be kept of all the female deadheads,
and if this is done, and the figures are published, the
public for the first time will get a fair notion of how
much an M.C.C. member gets in return for his annual
subscription.
Still, it is not the cricket clubs that give the
elected members so very much more than their subscrip-
tion is worth, whilst charging the multitude of outsiders
so dearly. Look at some of the racing clubs in Mel-
bourne, particularly the V.R.C. Certainly the entrance
fee of a V.R.C. member is £2O, though many of them
were admitted long ago for a modest fiver. Having paid
his footing, the member’s annual liability is only £5, for
which he gets admission for himself and two ladies
to the grandstand (10s. 6d.) to the “birdcage"
(another 55.) and a free pass by rail to the race-
course, which journey costs 2s. each to non-privileged
travellers. A non-member of the V.R.C., taking his
wife and daughter to Flemington every day of the Cup
Meeting has to part up 245. in railway fares, plus £7 6s.
for grandstand and birdcage tickets. This is for four
days only% A V.R.C. member can take himself arid two
ladies to all the meetings at Flemington—about 20 days
a year in all—for £5. If he is a persistent racegoer, he
saves the amount of his entrance fee in the first year of
his membership, and for the rest of his life he pays
little more than if he were taking his womenkind
to the gallery of a theatre. The multitude pays
dearly for the support of a show which comes
very cheap to the “frilly” minority. Sporting
clubs throughout Australia are seemingly managed on a
system of excessive privilege for members who, as a
class, could best afford to pay. The aristocrats of sport
are absurdly favored at the expense of the outsiders. Yet
these club grounds are held under Government grant,
and the Government of the country claims to be demo-
cratic.
■* * * *
“0.K.”: Looking at the first innings of the
S’Africans on the moderately difficult Melbourne pitch,
it seemed that their big score in Adelaide must have been
largely due to the bowling and fielding, especially the
latter. One can’t fancy Nourse making 200 odd not out
in a Test match. He and Faulkner (who is apparently
the safest bat in the team) made 100 runs be-
tween them in a sturdy, all-round style, but they
took a good many risks, and never were very
confident in their dealings with Armstrong. The
most impressive feature of the partnership was
the perfect understanding between the batsmen as
to running. Nourse favors the late cut, whilst Faulkner
has a leaning to leg strokes, but both men are versatile
enough without being brilliant. Llewellyn and Schwarz
made the game lively whilst they were together, though
the Welshman was cut short at 13 before Schwarz had
banged 26 to his credit. For the rest, the nuggety
Vogler scored 29, yet he shaped even less attractively than
some who were out almost as soon as they were
in. As a whole they were disappointing, the comparative
weakness of their defence not being atoned for by any
sensational slogging. And then their bowling ! The
most remarkable fact about “googlies” is that they don't
google. The artless infantility of cricket critics is fully
expressed in the foolishness of “ googly ” as a picturesque
term. One looks for justification of it, and sees only a
rather slow ball pitched rather high, which apparent!}'
has no particular terrors for a patient batsman. After
watching googlies for half an hour, and noting that they
were oftener snicked or placed than belted by the bats-
men, I came to the conclusion that I want something
more rapid than cricket to shake up my enthusiasm
nowadays.
* * * *
Charlie Gregory, one of the most promising of
the Ma State cricketers, died in Sydney this week at the
carl}' age of 29. He was the son of “ old Ned " Gregory,
who played against England in the first Australian XI.
at the first test in 1877. Another son, Sydney, has been
a mighty ball-banger before the Lord for years and
years and years. Four other Gregorys, relatives of the
deceased Charles, have held places in the Australian XI.,
and no Australian XI. was complete without a Gregory.
Charles represented the Ma State against Victoria, South
Aus. and Queensland for many years ; and against Queens-
land he amassed the record score of 383 for first-class
cricket. He will be sadly missed.
» * * *
W. Oldman, the Maoriland rider who some time
ago failed to burst the record for the Dunlop Co.’s 100
Miles Unpaced Road Record, revenged himself by smashing
Calder’s record for the Christchurch to Dunedin road
run. Calder was assisted by pace when he set up the
figures, but Oldman was on his dead own when he knocked
those figures down. Oldman ran the 243 miles in 17hr.
7min. 15 l-ssec. This was an average of 14 miles an hour,
which is mighty good travelling for that horrible road.
Calder, who ran through in 18hr. 20min., with pace as
aforementioned, is identical with the Calder who won
the first Warrnambool. The Christchurch to Dunedin run
starts well on the billiard-table plains of Canterbury.
Right away to the Waitaki the road is fairly good,
although it roughens considerably after leaving Timaru,
but among the shingle terraces of Hampden, on the
slopes of the Horse Range outside Palmerston, along
the muddy roads of Waikouaiti, and up the awful hills
of Kilmug and Waitati and Purakanui it is killing. The
ways are but little used—the shameless county councils
and boards see to that—and the result is that the
good roads over which all the traffic passed befpre there
were railways have become ghastly skeletons, which
convince the sweating cyclist that killing off road-
boarders is a virtue instead of a crime.
* * * *
Saturday, November 19, sees the close of the
entries for the Austral Wheel Race, which takes place on
the Melbourne Cricket Ground on December 3 and
10. The programme provides for £212, which will be
split into S 7 prizes. The days when a fortune could be
won on a single bike race are over in Australia—for the
present, anyhow. * The principal events will be the
Austral (two miles handicap), the M.B.C. Plate (1£
miles), the Derby (one mile scratch), and a Club Team
Race (two miles). It sounds imposing, but the
magniloquent names are all that is left of the
glory of the Austral. Cycling, like Rome, is
not what it used to be. Ten or 12 years ago the
One Mile Australasian Track Championship was a sort of
subluminary in the system of the Melbourne Cup.
Papers spread themselves over it, the possibilities were
discussed for weeks before, bets were made, and the re-
sult was awaited with intense anxiety. It was run off in
Sydney last week, and hardly anyone knew anything of
it. Even cyclists who follow such things with more or
less interest, were unaware of the happening. The
winner proved to be A. J. Davies, of Victoria, with C.
Dickson and G. Horder, both of N.S.W., second and
third. Davies covered the distance in 2min. ssec.
* * * *3
Will some Cornstalk who loves his native land
and its institutions please evolve a scheme whereby the
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen may save its face and yet
get out of the soup tureen? For the indecent haste with
which the N.S.W. body has espoused the cause of the
Cyclists’ Union has landed it in a pretty pickle. The
Union shot its bolt last week, and the bolt fell short. A
road race from Bendigo to Melbourne, baited with a £lOO
prize list, was to show the League and Australia how the
new concern was booming. But the powder only fizzed :
Only 82 nominated, and but 62 faced the starter. The
League fixture was a 50-miles open road race, and its
prize list'was a modest £5O. Bub 233 entered, and, in
spite of a heavy rainstorm, 176 started; and this lot
included most of the best and most widely-known riders
in the State, The Inter-Club Cycling Association, which
represents a very large crowd of riders—nearly 1000 —
is supporting the old body for all it is worth. So the
Union’s case looks hopeless. But where the N.S.W.
crowd has fallen in is that it is too hopelessly “ broke ” to
promote good events itself. There is but small bait to
allure Victorian riders to Sydney, while there are at least
substantial pickings in Victoria to draw the Ma Stater—
the Austral Wheel Race meeting, the A.N.A. Wheel
meeting, the Druids’, the Eight Hours, and the big
Warrnambool. And from all of these the Ma State Leaguer
is barred by the action of his fool council. Looks as
though it was time the N.S.W. League of Wheelmen got
a new council—a council that will put its own house in
order and keep its place and not set itself up to act as
judge, jury and executioner of the Leagues of other
States.
* * * *
Exasperated at being debarred from taking part
in the Austral and other big Melbourne cycling fixtures,
a number of N.S.W. cyclists contemplate breaking away
from N.S.W. League of Wheelmen and forming a new
body, to be affiliated with the Victorian League of
Wheelmen. The N.S.W. League, by throwing in its lot
with the doomed Cyclists’ Union, has made a great hash
of things, and is likely to set in motion a chain of events
that will lead to the destruction of the present League
itself.
* * * *
Frank Birtles, having recovered his wind in
Perth after his ride from the Northern Territory, should
have left Perth for Sydney on Saturday last, in his effort
to break Donald McKay’s record, which that lengthy
Port Hacking celebrity established as far back as 1900.
Somehow, writer fancies that Mac’s record will stand.
He’s mighty strong in the leg, is Donald. Of course, the
younger son of time has the advantage of improved
means, and is riding a Universal bike, made by A. Hor-
dern and Sons at their Redfern works (Sydney), of. B.S.A.
parts, and shod with Dunlop tyres. Birtles hopes to
cover the 1930 miles between Perth and Adelaide in 25
days, the 2504 miles to Melbourne in 30 days, and the
3079 miles to Sydney in 35 days. Donald McKay took 40
days 15 hours ; and to beat that Birtles will have to aver-
age about 90 miles per day right through. A tough
problem. Still, as said before, the new man has the
advantage of modern improvements, as the bike he is
riding is fitted with Eadie’s two-speed hub, with free
wheel on both gears. Birtles telegraphs that he has
accumulated a fund of data for the use of the Common-
wealth Defence Department.
* * * *
Sleepy old Tasmania will be stirred to its
centre this week. The blessed island is to have a Reli-
ability Motor Contest, in which both cars and bikes will
take part. The run is from Launceston to Hobart, and
at time of writing it is believed that the Ma State and
Vic. will send representatives. This will be the first time
anybody has shown signs of being in a hurry in
Appleland.
* * * *
The Birmingham Small Arms Co., the huge
English concern with a capital of £1,000,000, has taken
over the big Daimler Co. The B.S.A. people had estab-
lished a world-wide trade in bicycle pans, and the
Daimler Co., founded by Gottlieb Daimler at the begin-
ning 1 of the motor period, was, next to the. Napier Co.,
probably the biggest concern of its kind in England.
Both firms will stick to their old names and be apparently
independent. But they belong to the same people, and
it looks as though the motor and cycle industry of
Britain is about to undergo a process of consolidation.
* * * *
Seen at Hobart, on the steamship Ruapehu,
Dick Arnst blandly reiterated his statement that his race
with Barry was the hardest he has so far had. The way
Dick springs that soothing old yarn every time is just
amazing*, but the way he sticks to it bangs Banag*her. On-
lookers declared the Zambesi race a walk-over, and an
easy one at that. But Arnst sagely replies : “ Ah, but
they were not in the boat, and I was. Things are very
often not what they seem. At the word ‘Go! ’ I managed
to get a bound on, and was three lengths ahead almost
immediately. It was those three lengths that won me
the race. Make no error. The way Barry came at me
was an eye-opener. Gosh, I just did have to go for it!
And then he put his hand over his eye, presumably to
hide the wink. Dick has an idea of going on the land,
and the qualities he is acquiring and perfecting just now
should stand him in good stead in horse-dealing.
* * * *
Prince Alfred Yacht Club (Sydney) blew off
the first event in the contest for a new prize, the King
Edward VII. trophy, subscribed by the club members.
Messrs. Wadsworth'and Flemming won it, with Aoma, off
the 22min. mark. Yuelba and Magic were second and
third. Getting away excellently on the S.E. breeze, Aoma
was at Manly more than its handicap ahead of the others ;
and, being well handled and supplied with a favoring
breeze, it won easily. Magic and Yuelba put up a great
struggle for second place, Yuelba just pipping Magic
on the line. But the feature of the race was the struggle
between the giant Rawhiti and Culwulla 111. Rawhiti
passed Culwulla off Point Piper, and at Shark Beach they
indulged in a luffing match which filled the spectators with
admiration. Culwulla scored ; but Rawhiti was not to be
denied, and beat Culwulla by 2min. 26sec. Still, while
they luffed and sparred, Aoma won the race.^
S.A.’s monster pigeon-race became a plain dis-
aster this vear. Usually the birds are sent, to Oodnadatta
or elsewhere far north, and they generally have the
luck to strike a north wind, so that they have merely to
sit on the atmosphere till they sight home, and then
drop. This time they were flown from Benalla(Vie.), and
a south-west gale must have carried them off Broken Hill
way instead of home. In two days only five birds reached
Adelaide. A few others have straggled in since, but the
rest of the “ field ” of 350 are missing.
* * * *
The V.A. A. A. proposes to run a series of open-
air bruising and wrestling competitions in January or
February next. Only novices will be allowed to have a
say. The same association is conducting a series of
monthly sports meetings. Harry Abbott, the erstwhile
Sydneyite, has been appointed chairman of the special
Summer Sports committee, with J. Alex. Stillwell, the
champion cross-country ped. a few years ago. as hon. sec.
This committee intends to make the sport boom in Vic-
toria, or else die of a broken heart.
* * * *
The Malvern (Vic.) Harriers began their cham-
pionship sports on the Amateur Sports Grounds (Melb.)
last Saturday. Although no records were shattered some
satisfactory performances were put up, especially by Syd
Hewitt (“ mummer” by profession) who, though only a
novice, made a sure thing of the three-mile champion-
ship. The worst feature of the meeting was a rough-up
between a gang of hoodlums, who had pushed into the
dressing-rooms in search of trifles, and the athletes who
naturally didn’t want to lose their trifles.
* * * *
Owing to the ghastly failure of the N.S.W.
howlers who went south and got, butchered, the Wood-
Macleod Trophy has found a final resting place in the
treasure room of the Victorian Association. The three
tests went to Murray’s State, the first by 36, the second
by 46. and the third by seven. In the second mutch a
N.S.W. rink got slopped by 50 to eight, which must ba
about a record walloping, and the bump was too much
for the others to make good. Wherefore Ichabod, and
other sounds of woe.
* * * *
Johnny Thompson, one of the American boxing
team at present in Sydney, who pot-walloped Unholz at
the Stadium last week, is said to be very much annoyed
with the unfavorable reception he received from the
crowd and the press. Which is of small moment. Wha.tdow
matter is the annoyance of the several thousand persons
who paid to see what was advertised as “ a whirlwind con-
test,” and got neither whirl, wind nor contest. As a contest
it was all over before it could get a start. The weights
were called by the official announcer thus: “Both men
give theirweight. asunderlOst.” ; but when they stripped
Thompson looked all list., or so near it that the differ-
ence doesn’t matter, while Unholz was well below
the weight announced. It took as a joke at first; but
the amusement wore off as the ringsiders watched how the
comparatively vast American punctuated the point of it
on the miniature German. It was no joke ; also, it was
no fight—it was a lacing given by a big, determined,
stubborn man to a small, weak, game man, who
smothered, ducked, dodged, fell dowm, was beaten down,
took rests when he could, took all the punishment on the
premises, and always crawled back for more. In the
fifth and sixth (final) rounds Unholz was merely a dead
sheep being thumped for practice, until the police, after
having given “ Snowy ” Baker (the referee) an earlier tip
to call the showdown, ordered “Stop.” That sort of thing
is neither fight, scrap, nor good Maemanagement.
* * * *
Bill Turner, champion of Australia under the
residential clause, met Bill McCall, of Sydney, in Mel-
bourne Athletic Club’s ring the other night; and before
the crowd had quite settled in its seats the meeting was
over, and the referee was giving a decision. It was
another demonstration of the sal fact that the man who
pays to see a fight purchases a porker in a portmanteau.
McCall slammed his left at Turner’s jaw ; they clinched
and wriggled into a curious complication, in which Mac
was affectionately embracing the knees of his adversary.
It was a good chance for a flying fall ; so McCall arose,
still clinging to Turner’s knees, and hoisted the Tas-
manian over his shoulder, dropping him carelessly on his
neck. It wasn’t merely a foul—it was a whole hen farm.
Turner the winner.
* * * *
Alan Marsha], the Queensland cricketer, who
has been playing in the Cold Land for the last few
years, returned to Brisbane the other day. He has been
very successful in Bull’s country. In 1906 he played club
cricket in Fogtown and thereabouts, and made over 4000
runs. On the strength of that performance the com-
mittee of the Surrey County Club engaged him to play
for the county in 1907. He scored over 1000 runs that
year, but did much better the next season, when he
scored 1884 runs for Surrey and got an average of 40‘95,
beating such a fine batsman as Hobbs both in aggregate
and average. “ Wisden ” selected him as one of the four
cricketers of the year, and described him as the hardest
hitter and safest catch in the country.
THE RING AND THE BOOK—ALSO THE MUG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
The Chronic Backer stood beside
The Moneyed Bookie, open-eyed.
And questioned him about the vast
Amount of coin he had amassed.
The Book showed little diffidence.
“ ’Tis due,” he said, “ to cold horse-sense,
Conjointly with the fact that folks
Who punt are mostly brainless blokes.
“ This massive watch, this priceless pin.
These rings which gleam on either fin,
I gained by * stiffening ’ a lad
Whose mounts the public rushed like mad.
“ My seaside mansion, Stucco Court,
Likewise my motor-car, were bought
The year Held-hard—a useful horse—
Finished, at Rand wick, ‘ down the course.’
“ By always being resolute
At ‘ pinching prices,’ I compute
That I have swelled ni3 T bank account
By—well, a very large amount.
“ No, sir ; I never punt myself;
That way lies certain loss of pelf.
Knowing the game, I’d rather lay
The odds than take them, any day.”
The Backer’s foolish visage shone
With wonder. “ Why ! ” said he, “ you’re one
Who earns a princely salary
By betting on a certainty.”
“That,” said the Bookie, blandly, “ is
As true as death. Get wise to this :
We’ll always pouch, you’ll always pay,
From now right on to Judgment Day.”
The Backer bowed his large, fat head.
“ Why do we stand you ? Why }” he said.
“To that,” the Bookie answered, “ I
Am far too courteous to reply.”
N.s.w.
10-2-4.


30H£
ntfUSttftl
3HJL
Factory
SJ>
£
A
f
$
t
&
$
&
&
n
!j>
-a
Customer
207
<| Customers are being educated
to tbe fact that when a
dealer invariably offers boots
or shoes of tbe “nameless
variety there’s generally
something wrong with tbe
shoes—or tbe dealer.
It’s much tbe same thing
even when tbe shoes
have tbe retailer’s
name inside —it
counts for nothing
- he didn’t and
couldn’t make
the shoes !
Think!
Think!
€fl How can the
Retailer who
knows not shoe
construction, who
has never even been
on the inside of a well-
organized shoe factory,
who buys “nameless”
shoes because they are
“ cheap —how can he
know the quality of the
hidden parts : The toes—
the heels—the counters—the
innersole—the shank—and the
hundreds of parts and operations
that go to make up qucdity in
Marshall Shoes ?
If he attempts to persuade you
into the “ nameless ” kind then
there is something the matter.
If your dealer won't supply , write us and we
will have our nearest dealer fill your order.
Marshall Style Book mailed upon request.
MARSHALL SHOE CO.,
:: :: MAKERS OF MEN’S FINE SHOES, :: ::
RICHMOND, VIC.
BUY A PLUM!
This Razor has NO
equal as a Shaver !
We know it because we are practical Hairdressers and use it daily in our own. saloons.
Has a silver steel blade that keeps its keen edge and hardly ever needs stropping. VVe
guarantee to keep the PLUM in order for two years free of cost—that’s what we think of it.
ĥ
io/6
Post Free
Anywhere.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
PLUM Razor, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving - Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
Send for our Free Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
ħ
More Praise for B. & B. Cycles.
You had better get a B. & B. Cycle. They are the machines that every
rider finds satisfactory. Here is a letter just received :
“In the letter Mr. P. S. Hanslow wrote you he said his B. & B. Cycle
had been running l but six months. I can go one better. I have bad mine
out all of four years, and have ridden through a lot of New South Wales and
Victoria over the roughest roads imaginable. The only repairs I have had
done is to get a new set of tubes and covers. I think I ought to be able to recommend your cycles.
S. A. JARVIS, Wentworth Falls.—27/10/TO.”
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Largest Cycle Building House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and Castlereagrh Street,
Sydney.
MAKE A NOISE LIKE AN ORDER.
CADILLAC,
25-30 H.P. £,500.
450 in Australasia.
35,000 in the World.
J WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. |
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., Brisbane.
SAUL’S CO.. Launceston.
m
m
\
A little thing that
K«« a’long *»y. .
That’s wheie it* PERFECT PURITY wore*.
■MORE MILES"
means more money, that’s another point !
Shell
OTOR
PI HIT
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing' it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
The “MOTA” (Regd.).
The “ Mota ” Hat is conceded everywhere to be
the standard in style, quality and workmanship.
It is easily the most comfortable of hats, and
equally suitable for town or country wear, for busi-
ness or holidays, for walking-, driving or riding, for
week days or Sundays, for wet days or fine days,
for warm weather or cold weather.
The “ Mota” is the hat that suits every head and
every occasion. Stocked by leading houses through-
out Australia, in all fashionable colors. Prices,
7/6 to 12/6. If unobtainable in your district,
write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
h
&
DEAF PERSONS
CAN NOW HEAR.
Wonderful Invention has Delivered
Thousands from the Handicap
of Deafness.
Don’t think you have to worry alone: if you can’t hear
well. Every deaf person is at a hopeless disadvantage, de-
prived of social pleasure, barred from active business. Any
dul ness of hearing is a constant mortification.
But now this misery is unnecessary. Deaf persons hear as
well as ever before by simply wearing a pair of
WILSON’S EAR DRUMS,
a wonderful little device that fits into the ears without the
slightest discomfort. Invisible when inserted—so tiny, so
perfect, that you forget you are wearing them. And the
effect is magical.
This marvellous invention was perfected by Mr. Geo. H.
Wilson, after years of suffering from hopeless deafness. They
enabled him to hear perfectly ; and this miracle has been re-
peated for thousands of other sufferers.
Send to-day for pamphlet written by Mr. Wilson that tells
the whole story. Sent FREE to all deaf people. A post-
card will be sufficient. Address the Sole Agents for Aus
tralia, Tasmania and New Zealand—
STAR NOVELTY COMPANY,
103 Premier Building, 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
RIGNEY SHOES
are made along' quality lines for the man who wants style,
fit and individuality in his footwear.
Rigney Shoes cost a little more by the pair, but 1< ss by
the year.
The Shoe illustrated is a Willow Calf Shoe, Bespoka
style—the very latest perforations. In Black or Tan.
Ditto in Boots.
PRICES- 22/6, 25/-, 27/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for Booklet, “The Rigney Shoe for Men.”
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,” J
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY i
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
ĥ
200
UFFALO
M
Increase the Output of
Your Forge and Save Money!
Blacksmiths working the old bellows cannot realise what it
means to have a white heat blast with but a few turns of the
handle. This is possible with the famous “BUFFALO”
No. 200 SILENT BLOWER, the machine-cut gears of which
run in an oil bath in adust and weatherproof case. “Buffalo”
No. 200, with improved side and centre blast tuyere, thus
not requiring a clay lining. Price £5 10s.
Everything required for modern blacksmithing Is shown in
our Catalogue. Write and we’ll mail you a copy.
Thomas McPherson & Son
Established 50 Years,
582-588 Collins Street, Melbourne.
■ \m%\QUS WRITING
—and isn’t it a treat ?
Whether one writes much or little, it’s a delight to enjoy the ease of a
pen that suits. The
Ball-Pointed Pens
Glide smoothly—Don’t spurt or stick—Write in any position.
Ask for a 6d. Sample Box of “BALL-POINTED” Pens, pick the one that suits
you best, and then get a supply. This will ensure you real luxury in writing, p
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE, 6d. Packet of TEN, 54


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund’s Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
fNARRUNG .. ..! 5078 0. A. Millington .. J n n. 10
WAKOOL .. .. 5013lLingham .. ..Feb. 7
•Twin Screw. Calling; at Plymouth.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by this Steamer.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
SPECIAL ROUND TICKETS for return by P.O. Com-
pany’s Mail Steamers, First-class both ways, £lll 2s. ;
Second-class, Mail Steamer, £S4 6s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mrlhournr Aornts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l Williant-street.
APK.i.ainit & Fremanti.k Aornts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-'uxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Roour, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. ... .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manap-er.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manaprer: .T P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manaprer: R. R. LOVE.
Rankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout, QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
, and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Bankinpr Business.
Bank of |)ew Z ea,an(| .
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE.
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,042.960
PAID-UP £958,172
HEAP OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LON* ON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRI JTORS— Philip H. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Ciias.
H. Myles, Esq. ; Sir William P. Manning, Kt. ; Hon.
Sir Francis B. Suttor, Kt., M.L.C. ; Rowland H.
Ducker, Esq.; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns ot the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. • • • • £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. .. 413,368 18 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) .. .. .. 89,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: .lAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MIJNRO. Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General'Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
R. M. Phillips, Esq., J.P.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.R.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq.
V D. W. WatklNs, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary: Consulting Actuary:
Freeman J. Eaton. W. R. Day', F.I.A.
Head Office :
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland:
Metropolitan Buildings,
‘Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen St.,
Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan” always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
Nord D
FARES TO LONDON.
SINGLE .. 1., £66 11., £3B 10s. 111., £l6 to £l7
RETURN.. 1., 99 11., 67 155.. 111., 27 to 30125.
PASSENGERS hooked to Egypt. Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Arriving in London in good time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR - WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
* AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £37.500 0 0
Dirkctors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; J. H.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. : Alexander M‘Cracken.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ħ
Twin-screw Steamers.
SUEVIC, 12.500 tons, to sail about
November 23.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
December 21.
: RUNIC, MEDIC and AFRIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES-— Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 S 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
New fork, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal. &c. from 24 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Railing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Ajrents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
t New Steamer. * Twin Screw, a One class only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ... From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Oape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Branch Service.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way) ; £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
JL Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
Gd. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
h
HOLIDAY CRUISES <
to Papua and the Pacific Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £ 2O
Dec. 16, Jan. 27 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Dec. 2, Jan. 13 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
Pirst of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.-r-INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. -1 NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to ,£25,000 at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.— CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
Full particulars oh- application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
Office. ~ “ J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
DIRECTORS:
ĥ
£2,726,880
£1,806,720
£2,726,880
£7,260,480
The Hon. G. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt>, M.L.C
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq. ; Alfred George Milson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 317 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 159, Victoria 37,
Queensland 46, South Australia 5, West Australia 10, New Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1); and
Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and
the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
FURS,
The Largest Store in Aus-
tralasia. Established 1860.
TOST & ROHU,
Taxidermists, Furriers,
Tanners and Island
Curio Dealers,
10, 12 & 14 MOORE ST.,
Opp. C.P.0., SYDNEY
Central 2196.
And 605 CEORCE ST.,
SYDNEY. City 2374.
ħ
CURIOS, SHELLS § OPALS.
Large Showrooms and Museum, containing thousands of
Australian Souvenirs. Inspection invited.
Returning Boomerangs from 3/6 each. Carved Emu Eggs,
4/(3 each. Nat,ive,Grass Dresses, 4/6. Bow and Six Arrows,
2/6 the set. Spears, Clubs, Idols, Kava and Food Bowls,
Shields, Masks, Bark Belts, Tappa and Matting,
l’et Snakes, 20/- Snake Skin Ties and Watch Guards, 2/- each ;
Snake Skin Belts and Braces, 7/6 ; Slippers, 12/6 ; Boots,
£l/2/6 per pair. Skins made up into Ladies’ Furs, Mats,
Rugs and Foot Warmers.
Stuffed Birds and Animals in Large Variety.
All Purchasks Packed Free and Labelled.
Collections of Genuine Curios from £3.
Banking, Public Companies. &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. ===s====s
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
Af'l? AW Acc ‘ <lent & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood, Esq.; W. 0.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.) ; Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L.A. .; E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY. I
THE
Insurance.
The Colonial fljutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
HKAb Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154 —Assuring- £33,888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chirk Officb for New Sooth Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hot,. C. J, Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Brook Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRTE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Porn-',
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanovvna, Dec. 10
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
insr with Koombana,
leaving Fremantle Dec.
29 for North-West Ports.
BRISBANE
MAOKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oiirns.
S.S. Graptala, Nov. 19.
J S.S. Yonfrala, Nov. 26.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on li
services subject to conditions, >vhieh can be ascertained
on application at the Company's Ollice.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD,,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
t Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Laundry on board.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F.— H. 5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “AYRSHIRE,”
11.900 Tons. W. Chickkn, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE about 15th Nov.
„ „ „ SYDNEY .. 22nd Nov.
„ „ „ ADELAIDE „ 3rd Dec.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
Liverpool'!. \ £49 IPs - £IS 13s - £1515s - £1717s -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney;
B. I. and Q. A. Co.. Ltd., Brisbane ;
H. .JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
Hotels, &c.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel,
VICTORIA STREET,
LONDON,
Opposite Westminster
Abbey and the Houses
England. of Parliament.
A thoroughly comfortable Home-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms from 3/6, and Double Bedrooms
from 5/6 per day, and NO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet Sent on Request.
GEO. J. BRINKWORTH, Manager.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND,
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria,


Lung Trouble
can be cured
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Lung trouble, acute or
chronic, is cured by taking
Scott’s Emulsion. Scott’s
Emulsion permanently cures
lung trouble. This state-
ment is made because hun-
dreds of people have written
to say they were cured of
lung trouble by Scott’s
Emulsion. For example, Mrs.
A. Peters wrote, 24th July,
1909, from 79, Raglan Street,
Waterloo, Sydney, N.S.W.:
“My daughters were always delicate and
subject to lung and chest complaints, so 1
decided to give Scot?': Emulsion. In a
h
few weeks both hau gained
considerably in weight, were
eating heartily and sleeping
well. I had not thought it
possible they could so rapidly
be restored to complete good
health; they have no sign of
a cold and look bright and
well. This trademark was on
the emulsion I bought. ”
If you wish to get rid of your
lung trouble, and decide to
buy Scott’s Emulsion,decide
also to GET SCOTT’S
EMULSION. You may be
asked to buy another emul-
sion and told it is “just as
good as Scott’s.” Substitute
emulsions can only be sold
on the reputation of Scott's
Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion cures the disease-
no matter the age of the patient —and
will be approved by your Doctor for
Lung Trouble if you ask him.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
Weak Men!
■ * *
||a M
If you want
to be strong
and vigour-
ous, with
your veins
full of you-
thful fire,
your eyes
clear, your
muscles
strong and
active, then
send to-day
for our free
illustrated book, which fully
describes DR* ,v cLAUGHL N’S
ELECTRIC BELT
and our method of curing
ailments such as Weakness,
Backache, Nervousness, etc.
Send to-day for this Book, it
is full of things that make a
man feel like being a mail.
The McLaughlin Co.,
12 LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY
The
Tie
that
will not
Crease
'4_--
IRIS M
Real Poplin Ties
None'"
Genuine
without
thij
Red 4 Tab.
IRI
REAL POPLIN
silks. Wool.
REC?
Obtainable All Mercers
yOUNG AUSTRALIA, and Boys and Girls’ own
" Newspaper, invites the submission tf STORIES
VERSE, suitable PARAGRAPHS ana ILLUSTRA-
TIONS. Australian and General. “PARMER AND
SETTLER” OFFICE, 435 Kent Street, Sydney.
Ladies’ Stylish
Summer
Footwear
ĥ
PRICE,
16/6
Stylish Shoes srive any woman a well-bred
and up-to-date appi aranoe.
The Shoe illustrated is one of the finest im-
ported models, and is eminently suited to the
present fashions.
PRICE, 16/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/- extra.
Cazeka Shoe Paste, in Black and Brown,
large tin, 6d.
Write for our Booklet, “ Shoelijrht.”
LEEMINGS
BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
257-259 Bcurke Street, Melbourne:
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ;
1-3 Errol Street, North Melbourne. [2
An Interesting
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
ate grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s (u.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of —Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
“MAN TO MAN”
is the title ot a Valuable BOOKLET explaining
the Causes and Cure of
NERVOUSNESS and ALLIED TROUBLES,
which embitter life, and cause premature decay.
A copy of this Booklet will be sent FREE
(sealed) to anyone interested.
London Specialities Agency,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
,\v\Y"'l
G
SS
NET
BA
e
r
231
CLARENCE:
SYDNEY
STREE
ES
i\
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT;
In use since 1596.
ifUi
CURBS
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or writs
S. GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
The Elite
Eau deColoane
Mi '"TV's;.
/T
niin!iiiinininniin!Fim!iimuiiniiiiiniinDi!!inin!iM!i!''iu!ii!i!niifliiumii[nnii!S
BBIMSi
s?
FIDELITAS
iil
■?y
I
DWI
1 .
tfr y 1
<n
i’W.s
m
F.WOLFFaSOHN
•Karlsruhe
Baden
Triumph of
Modem Science
THIS FREE BOOK TELLS HOW
lsUuQ
CAN BE CURED,
even after the attacks have lasted for years.
Dr. Niblett’s Remedy Cures
the Disease Permanently,
It is the result of the most exhaustive research
by a London physician, who for 35 t ears made
epilepsy his special study.
CONFIDENCE may be placed in this remedy,
which for nearly 40 years has been used with the
greatest success. Letters of recommendation from
.Doctors, Clergymen and other persons of the
highest standing.
THE ONE REMEDY THAT CURES.
FREE.—Send for very interesting booklet, giving
particulars of cures, etc., post free. Rockb,
Tompsitt & Co., 292 to 298 Flinders St., Melbourne.
The Inky Way.
THE RHYMES THAT ARE OFF THE RAILS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
After a long study of “ Answers to Correspondents,” I
have decided that many of the raw Australian verse-
writers are no better than Shelley, Spenser, Dryden,
Pope, Coleridge, Oldham, Tennyson, Addison and a few
other “ standard ” poets—this particularly as to purity
of rhyme. The other evening I met that mysterious
party, the Sub-editor, in the Blue Anchor, wher# lie
was pouring beer over his head after the heat of
the day, and, in the course of conversation and
other drinks, the question of false rhyming cropped up.
From the classical library of the Blue Anchor we bor-
rowed a number of the poets (Tennyson we found incite
tap-room, where he was being usedi to keep a crib-score
for three men-o’-warsmen, which shows the strides that
intellectual refinement is making in the Navy), and here-
with I submit to you a few hastily-culled specimens of
their slovenly work—not by any means the worst —similar
to those which are weekly pilloried in The Bulletin :
“Ah, rather bid the perished pleasures move
A shadowy train across the soul of love.”— Coleridge.
Then he has another go at it: —
“ When by my native brook I wont to rove,
While hope with kisses nursed the infant love.”
Still, anything might be expected from a bloke (I say
bloke deliberately) who wrote an ode “ to an unfortunate
woman whom the author had known in the days of her
innocence.”
“Resistless through the war Camilla rode
In danger unappalled, and pleased with blood.”— Dryden.
“ For works may have more wit than does ’em good,
As bodies perish by excess of blood.”— Pope.
“Thus Pegasus, a nearer way to take,
May boldly deviate from the common track.” — Pope.
“ So draw him home to those that mourn
In vain ; a favorable speed
Ruffle thy mirrored mast, and lead
Through prosperous floods his holy urn.”— Tennyson.
“ One sees her thighs transformed ; another views
Her arms shoot out, and branching into boughs.”
— Addison.
“ When tempests war—
And the pale dalesmen watch with eager ear.”— Shelley.
Subsequently, I returned with the Sub-editor to I.is
office, where he read to me several local attempts at
poetry nearly as bad as those from which the above quota-
tions are taken. 1 took a shorthand note of his principal
objections as follows :
“Look ’ee here,” he said, quite scotty; “these d
pomes will drive me dotty,
With their rhythm all to blazes, and their rhymes that
amplify
Their insanty of metre. When I read them —Holy Peter !
I rise and cheer for Hades, and the Devil’s coal supply.
[Cheers.]
“Here'sa sawny set of verses, named ‘The Rumble of
the Hearses,’
By a chap whose rhymings stagger like the last drunk
rolling home—
Says he, ‘My heart is heavy when I think of Jim and
Jerry,
Who have headed for the bone-yard, whence they never
more will come.’
[Rip /]
“Listen to this ratty poet, who has started out to go it
As a limping standard author with a ‘ fragment ’ of his
own ;
Tis a sort of imitation, or a blasted dilatation,
Of that, nightmare versifying which would sweat a
block of stone.
[Reads.]
“‘Sweet Mathylda,’ so he has it, ‘blame not yourself
that cause it,
’Tis of little moment, sweetheart, since the ending is
the same ;
Bur, in farewell, you must hear me, where I’m lying dead
and weary
In a grave of hopeless passion—in the cold, tear-soddened
tomb.’
[Bash!]
“Take this rare, resplendent treasure, which will serve to
give the measure
Of the style they made a hit with in the slop-made long
ago :
‘ All the glasses they were smashing, and Magee, the
boots, was slashing
The bloke that stoush'ed the barmaid on the (red, for
short) boko ! ’”
[:Burning brimstone.]
Here the Sub rose wildly swearing, all the awful poems
tearing
Into pieces fine as snowflakes combed by cross-winds in
a rage—
“By the Devil’s red-haired sisters” (here his language
raised large blisters
On the varnish of the ceiling and the poet’s verbiage.)
[Throws three handsprings.]
“ It might do for Pope or Dryden, and for such as worked
and died in
The way-back tracks of Time, sir, when the mind of
man was green ;
But while critics have a mission, and we’re fighting com-
petition,
Johnny-cake won't rhyme with doughnutin this blanky
magazine ! ”
N-S.W.
The Snake.
“THE DEAD FINISH CHRONICLE” ADVERTISES
FOR AN EDITOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
T?DITOR. —Wanted, steady, reliable Man for country
newspaper, shorthand indispensable. Apply by
letter, with references, age, and salary required, to
, Box -—, G.P.O.— Advt. in Sydney morning
press.
Wanted, a steady, reliable editor ;
Fervent teetotaler strongly preferred ;
One with a hog’s skin —unlikely to shed it, or
Row with the boss if he lets out a word !
Knowledge of shorthand is quite indispensable—
Speed nothing under two hundred a minute !
So, when our council say words reprehensible,
Folk at Dead Finish know those who begin it 1
Also, when candidates speak at elections?
We can report them verbatim, and make
Twenty or thirty pounds out of both sections—
Which cash, of course, the owner will take.
Further, at Show time, when carefully sorted,
Minister, member and councillor feed,
Each speaker there must be fully reported—
Hence a tip-top shorthand-writer we need.
Duties remaining, of course, are not numerous—
Merely the cables, a leader or two,
Telegrams, paragraphs ( these must be humorous),
Sermons on Sunday—a couple will do.
Funerals, weddings—all “ pretty,” all “ solemnised
Weekly reports on the crops and the grass ;
Cattle and sheep-markets, carefully columnised,
Travelling shows— we supply a free pass.
This is a genuine, rare opportunity
Any bright man should immediately seize ;
He will find Dead Finish folk a community,
Eager to know him and easy to please !
Kindly apply to Elijah McGonigle
(State shorthand speed, and name someone to speak
As to your fitness)—the Dead Finish Chronicle ;
Salary, if you suit , three pounds a week !
N.S.W.
PETRONIOS E.


HOTEL DAN I ELL
(Late imperial), Brisbane, Queensland.
royal hotel,
Maryborough, Queensland.
A Home for Commercials and Others."^®
Write to me, love, with CALDWELL’S
INK
No hand of time its mark effaces,
’Twixt loving hearts it forms a link
Useful in breach of promise cases.
■
Toys for
the Kiddies
JUST set aside consideration of
Labor’s Policy and the Defence
Scheme, anil think of the
Youngsters’ Christmas.
We make up
5/- Parcels
10/- Parcels
20 1- Parcels
of toys, and post them free to any
address in Australia.
How many do you want ? What
are the ages and sex of the children?
and where shall we send the parcels ?
FINNEY, ISLES
& Co., Limited,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
Queensland learned as it went along, and
at the farewell banquet to the Scotch Farm Com-
missioners, though about 100 legislators attended,
only one of them made a speech. Of a previous
banquet one Commissioner had said : “ Eh, inon,
bagpipes was a fule to ut! ”
The State’s purchase of the Inkerman
estate, at a. very handsome figure, just on the
verge of the introduction of the Fisher land tax,
did not smell too sweet. Inkerman would have
had to be broken up for a certainty, and the
timely purchase just enabled the proprietors to
fall gently in the softest place. The repurchase
of estates in Queensland has unquestionably
helped to bloat the price of land, and has thus
kept more small men off the soil than it has put
on it.
Brisbane City Council has been consider-
ing a petition that Albert-street should be re-
named King-street. Albert-street is Brisbane’s
Flossie-street, and from every point of view is a
disgrace to the city ; and what has George V. done
that Flossie’s residential quarter should be named
after him? King Manoel-street, now, might be
all right. Besides, it would serve to remind Phid-
ston of a revolution that is due at the next
Queensland elections.
Queensland’s Education Department is
putting its way-out school inspectors into motor-
cars. ‘jJ Hooray ! ” says Brisbane, or some of it.
“The more official motor-cars the better.”
Already the honk of Government cars rushing
bigwigs’ wives to rag sales and other public
functions is the loudest thing in the land. There
is on record the case of an ex-Attorney-General
who made use of police horses for his private
carriages; but the scent from those old stables
was no worse than the smell from the new garages.
“Settled ” : When “ Bromide ” wrote (B.
20/10/T0) that on his recent journey from Bris-
bane to Cairns he barred hotels employing colored
labor, he did not say how he got on for food.
I’ve been long enough in North Queensland to
know that to adopt “Bromide’s” plan is the
shortest cut to tightening the belt. When I first
struck Cairns, I was laughed at because I asked
for white-labor pubs ; nevertheless, I succeeded
in finding one. In that town I had the mortifica-
tion to see Australians shaved by Chows ; and to
see my countrymen buying small goods and big
goods from the same breed to an extent that
made my indignation so hot it sizzled when I
threw a Jimmy Woodser over it. At Atherton I
couldn’t, at the time, find a white-labor hotel;
sameatKurandaand Mareeba. From latter town to
Atherton I had for fellow passengers 24 Pongs, six
Japs, five Hindus, three Kanakas, two white men
and one white woman. Do Southern Australians
know that the Queensland Government leaves
no option to white Australian women but to travel
in the company of such a horde? It’s so; and
but for the dashed unsatisfactory state of the law
I’d chase Phidston from Brisbane to Cape York
with blue metal.
It was announced last week that the
Licensing Act Amendment would be dropped—
for this session. Also, the Superannuation Bill
has perished, and no one hears a word now about
State Insurance or a Trades Disputes Bill. These
measures were all on the Government programme;
but the Kid-Philp, like most hybrids, has no
stomach for a fight.-
“ San Remo ” : In a case heard in Bris-
bane the other day it was shown that when an
inspector sought to buy some milk from a vendor,
the fluid was thrown from the can, and the evi-
dence of adulteration (if any) thereby removed.
The charges which might reasonably be laid
against this man work out thus : (1) Obstruct-
ing an inspector in performance of his duty ; (2)
perjury (the magistrate had his strong suspicions);
(3) selling milk which might reasonably be sus-
pected of being impure, and thereby endangering
the lives of the public. The maximum penalty is
£2O for obstruction ; men have been sent to gaol
for seven years for perjury; and 15 years for
manslaughter is a moderate thing. But the Bris-
bane P.M. merely fined this individual £5. If
the accused had been before a court in Paris or
Berlin he would have got three months’ hard for
obstructing the food inspector ; and in all cases
thereabouts proof of obstruction is held to be
prima facie evidence of adulteration. Switzer-
land now serves out as much as two years’ hard to
the food-faker, and 1 reckon Australia can afford
as much hospitality as Switzerland any day.
THE APPARENTLY DROWNED.
BOY: “Look, Sis, 'what I found in the milk-can!”
SIS: “Oh, the poor thing! Is it dead?”
C. B. Fitzgerald, who was Attorney-
General in Andy Dawson’s fleet-winged State
Ministry, has shifted back to Mitchell, the electo-
rate he represented in the long ago. For a while
he chased the elusive fee in Mount Morgan, and
he deserved to catch it oftener than he did.
Rockhampton’s Anglican Church has just
been celebrating its jubilee. The star attraction
was Canon Thomas Jones, who was the first
rector of the 50-year-old parish. Some four or
five of his earliest parishioners were there also to
give corroborative evidence as to the terrific dead-
liness of the tropics.
“ The-Prodigal ” : Out in the Far West
the coach is going. The motor-car and motor-
bike are everywhere. Longreach has a motor-
factory, and now there is to be a second one,
syndicated by several of the large motor firms.
Winton, Barcaldine, Hughenden and Charleville
have their motor repair-shops. In six months’
time the coach in most Western Queensland towns
will be an old-age pensioner. One can’t help feel-
ing a twinge of regret, for the old four-wheeled
lumberer was our best friend many a time.
Phidston has just obliged Rockhampton
by giving its Harbor Board more power to go into
pawn, which revives its hopes of getting a decent
passage up the river for fair-sized craft. Philp
lately remarked that he remembered when even
the Brisbane river “had only 10ft. of water,”
whereupon Rockhampton begins to think that it
ought to go on digging its drain, too. Nearly
every Queensland town is built some distance up
a drain. As for Rockhampton—the hamlet on the
rocks—it is built near the place where.theFitzroy
is crossed by a bar of boulders. These stopped
the progress of the earliest arks, otherwise only
the Lord knows how much further up the town
would have been built.
The Veteran.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
Article for Sale.—Grandfather’s Clock, belonging to an
English lady with brass face nearly 200 years -old.—
Recent ad. in Melbourne Age.
AND she has walked about—how strange a
story !
With brazen face some ten-score years
ago ;
Has felt the tide of Bonaparty’s glory,
Has seen his empire’s splendid ebb and flow ;
Has seen old Britain crush full many a Pagan,
And almost heard her guns at Copenhagen.
When she was young, unsung were Scotland’s
Trossachs
By brave Sir Walter’s dear and silver tongue ;
Great Russia sprawled, a land of cursing Cos-
sacks,
And all the fate of worlds uncertain hung ;
The first George ruled, O regal Bacchanalia !
And ne’er a soul gave thought to far Australia.
And now, two hundred years (the Press I’m
quoting)
Have bowed her head and turned her hair to
gray ;
And she, good soul, when other dames are doting,
Or mouldering deep beside their kindred clay,
Comes boldly forth and gives us this to gaze on—
A face two centuries old, but calm and brazen !
She must be tough, this dame of many summers ;
She must be hard, this ancient, brassy girl;
She’s played her part, no doubt, like other
mummers,
And tripped around in many a merry whirl;
And doubtless, in his day, some daring fellow,
Hag stolen kisses from that phizog yellow.
The centuries pass, but she can yet defy them,
No wrinkles sear her brow’s unruffled skin ;
And critics now—she passes calmly by them,
And values not their cant a single pin !
For she, who-twice has passed a-century’s portal,
May fairly dqe)n',herself a proud Immortal.
And now she seil'fsra clock —the sort that’s handed
From sire to son in ancient families down ;
The clock that’s named, therefore, the clock of
grandad,
The tick of which is heard by half the town ;
And Time himself, though none can bind and hold
him,
Must fain confess our Ancient Dame has sold him !
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, November 12, 1910.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Derby day was windy and sad ; but on Wednes-
day a big crowd sallied forth to Ascot, where
My Lad (I wish he were) upset all calculations
and won the Cup. Frocking ran to short skirts
and white socks with black shoes, while the
hobble skirt waved its dying abbreviation, and
foulards held undisputed sway. Mrs. Arthur
Feez, with Mrs. Gilbert Wilson and a maiden
named Pearce, took honors in clothes, and Ikey
Mo took the rest.
Mr. and Mrs. Ross-Munro, the owners of Per-
sian Jewel, the winner of the local Derby last
week, will shut tip the big chocolate-roofed house
at Indooroopilly early next year, and sail Britain-
wards to place the two pretty girleens where a
cold climate will bring out the roses, and a
scholastic laundry put on the final gloss of
cnlchure.
The charms of “The Prince and the Beggar
Maid ” on Friday evening at His Majesty’s drew
the Macgregor, and with him, of course, came the
clan, or what is left of it with the Vision away
south and an aide or so off duty. It is said that
the clan was pleased, and Bill Anderson’s Scotch
manager certainly was, for the piece, which has
been drawing for the last few nights like hot
linseed, closed with a mighty house. The remark-
able likeness of Harry Sweeney to Higginson in
the Hussar uniform was the talk of the town,
which shows what flights of intellectual discus-
sion the little old town can soar to when it tries.
A bomb was exploded last Friday, when, as a
result of the dissatisfaction expressed in the
Assembly and the lukewarm defence of the Gov-
ernment, Messrs. T. S. Sword and F. W. Wood-
bine, two members of the life-tenured Land
Court, offered to lay down their billets. They
didn’t fling them down and quit, but merely laid
them down gently, and sat on them while terms
could be arranged. The members of the Court
were appointed for life, but Sword and Woodbine
are not entitled to pensions. And S. and W.
reckon they ought to be; so they offer to swop
their jobs for 12 months’ leave on full pay and an
adequate annual allowance afterwards. One of
the chief grievances against the Court is that it
has let the big leaseholders off too lightly in the
way of rent.
While Tnave my pen upon my native land, let
me say that the good seasons have led to a battle
over the Tarong and Tabinga resumptions. The
present lessees pay the magnificent sum of £l7o
per annum, yet, by their own showing, make a
yearly profit of between £BOOO and £lO,OOO, and so
their claim is for £60,000 and £41,000 respectively
to get out. The two pieces of earth under dispute
measure 45,000 and 25,000 acres. The Govern-
ment’s estimate of a fair thing is to divide the
claim by about 10, and the matter has kept the
Land Court busy for the last month.
A letter from Bel Sorel tells me that she is to
sing at Milan for the Carnival, and that she hopes
to be back in'Wattle-land in the not-too-distant
future. That reminds me—word drifts through
that Lilian Myers (she w,as the red-headed girl
with Cuyler Hastings) has been married in America
to a Mr. Bacon, who, if he doesn’t get the credit
of writing plays like his illustrious namesake,
at least puts them on regardless of expense.
Wifey is to have a show at a handy date.
Blessed are they who have no history—the pre-
sent happy state of the Governesses’ Home.
Finances are all right, management is all right,
the house is full to overflowing, and there is really
nothing to say and little to do save to pass out lib.
of hand-clap and a quart of congratulation. This
s what was done when Mrs. Alfred Cowley pre-
sided over the annual meeting. Mrs. Alfred
Needham takes up the secretarial duties in place
of Mrs. Bousfield, the busy wife of the head-
master of the Boys’ Grammar School.
The name of one Heathcote, from Bundaberg
way, is spoken of as the shepherd to take charge
of the lambs who are to be rescued from the
heretical Anglican wolf, which ravening animal,
as I told you in my last letter, is being pushed
out of one of the finest old churches in the city
chiefly because his addresses are marked by
common-sense, and are listened to by unusually
large congregations.
Leonard Frances, the conductor who has led
the Ipswich Choir to victory, will sail for the
Cold Land by the Orsova this week. Last Thurs-
day he was loaded up with an illuminated
address and a travelling case by bis Brisbane
pupils. The loading took place at Eschenhagen’s,
where the Mayor said suitable things. In his
absence, the choir will keep its eye on the baton
of Miss Jose Byt’newav, the deputy conductor.
The Dental Board is itching to extinct every
tooth in the head of Home Sec. Appel. After
dallying with the idea for a longish period, he has
swooped down with a new Bill which, it is to be
feared, will open the way to a very undesirable
sort of gum-engineer. The local Board has always
held that a sound Australian training is generally
better than holding a Yankee diploma, which, as
a matter of fact, is not always recognised in the
State in which it is obtained. So far, the Board
has been able to insist that holders of Yankee
diplomas shall pass a final examination in Queens-
land before nailing up a brass plate; but evidently
some friction over the scion of a Sassiety house has
pushed Mr. Appel to take a step in a contrary
direction. Hence the gnashing of forceps.
The engagement of Mr. W. G. Hume, a one-
time well-known resident of this city, to Miss E.
Drake, sister of Mrs. F. Gore, once of Yandilla
Station, on the Downs, has set the tongues wag-
ging. For myself, I cannot see that because
people have passed the first spring-time that the
need of companionship is any the les’s. The bride
has a well-known cousin in Miss Sarah Brooke,
the actress.
I should have mentioned, with regard to the
Dutton Park entertainments, that they are run
(under license from the Tramways) by Hugh
Black, who has the help of W. F, O’Shea as
business manager.
As I lay down what serves me as a pen, my
dear, a friendly M.P. arrives with the rumor
piping hot that the Land Court resignations are
virtually accepted, and squatterdom can already
hear the footsteps of the rent-man in the distance
hurrying forward with that well-know n demand,
popularly accredited as having been originated by
one O. Twist.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
Weinholt dragged an old friend into the
Land Bill discussion in the Assembly, pro-
posing a free agricultural homestead as a reward
for a family of 10. But the House wouldn’t
embrace the old friend ; it evidently reckoned
that the couple who had accomplished 10 hadn’t
done so much more than the couple who had
accomplished nine—not so much more, anyway,
as to entitle them to a free farm while the
others got nothing at all. The whole thing
amounted to a proposal to put the vehicle in front
of the quadruped. What is wanted is cheap land
to encourage the young couple to accomplish 10.
When the free farm comes after the 10th has
arrived, it has come usually about 20 years too
late.
For the last 28 years the Queensland Rail-
way Commissioner and his staff have had their
desks in an old stone building in Roma-street,
which is to be pulled down to let the station yard
grow. This building was Brisbane’s first Gram-
mar School; youths were dragged up there from
1869 till 1881, when the present Grammar School
on Gregory-terrace took its place. The old place
was christened the Alfred Grammar-School by the
Duke of Edinburgh, who laid the foundation-
stone of it in February, 1868, and “dedicated at
for all time to the cause of education.” But
Brisbane resolutely refused to call it the Alfred,
and “all time” lasted only 12 years, anyhow.


Legal Notice.
tn the supreme court ok new south wales.
1 MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION.
No. 7456.
Between ELIZABETH ANN HEWITT Petitioner aiid
JAMES HENRY HEWITT Respondent.
To JAMES HENRY HEWITT late of Petersham in the
State of New South Wales. _
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELIZABETH ANN
HEWITT has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of desertion without just cause
and excuse during three years and upwards. AND TAKE
NOTICE that you are required to enter an appearance
to the said suit at the proper office of this Honorable
Court on or before the fourteenth day of February one
thousand nine hundred and eleven and in the event of
vour not doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined vour absence notwithstanding - .
A copy of the Petition filed'herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
Dated this first day of November, a.d. 1910.
WILLIAM CHARLES MOSELEY,
Solicitor for the Petitioner,
Mutual Life of New York Building,
Martin Place, Sydney.
For the Registrar,
JOHN GEO. LEARY, (n.s.)
Chief Clerk.
wm>
hm#
a#**’
imnw
<^umiiiiiiiii(lllTTpOT ,i ’ ii “ u fl3B >
2i&
1111 l
fedl
H
4 4-97
> V
'V.
7 1 *-
>
«L*
V
4*
'
WEDDING CAKE GOODNESS.
THE WEDDING CAKE that confers our added charm to the Wedding Breakfast
is the one made by Sargents'. There is little wonder at this when you con-
sider the superiority of Sargents' Wedding Cakes. The ingredients used are
the very finest and purest obtainable, and are scientifically prepared and baked by
the most modern appliances. Sargents' Wedding Cakes, besides being beautifully
designed and decorated, have reached the point of excellence in both flavor and
quality. S Prices, which are quite moderate, on application.
Sargents’ Ltd.,
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High=Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
(’Phone—Office, 3559;
Cafe, 1876 ; Catering, 4250).
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St.
(’Phone—City 1344).
For your BOOTS and SHOES.
MELTONIAN
CREAM.
Cannot be equalled for
renovating all kinds of
Glace Kid Boots and Shoes.
(Obtainable in White and Black).
LUTETIAN
CREAM.
For all kinds of Brown
Leather Boots and Shoes.
Has a world - wide reputation.
Made in light and dark colours.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Made by the Manufacturers of the Celebrated [1
«MELTONIAN ” BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN 8 SON ( B,aCk^ n S , ?a d ctu O re t rs PonBh) LTD - LONDON PARIS '
Missing Friends.
J>ITTS, WINIFRED, nee Sinclair, com-
municate Lloyds Missing Friends and
Inquiry Offices, 80 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
WHY IS
The Berket’s
Patent Bacon, Bread and
Meat Slicing Machine the
only one worth buying?
Because it is the cleanest slicer in soft
meats; and at the same time we
guarantee it will cut through every
Bone in the Pig, which no other
machine will do. NO WASTE.
&
1
A. WOODHEAD, Sole Agent,
50 Market Street, Melbourne.
or C. H. WOODHEAD,
Commercial Travellers’ Club, Sydney
Amusements.
ST. JAMES’S HALL, SYDNEY,
MONDAY N'EXT, NOVEMBER 21,
WALTER BENTLEY as .JOCK HOWIESON
”• “ORAMOND BRIG,”
and DOUGLAS ANOELON, STELLA CHAPMAN and
the Students of the College of Elocution and Dramatic
Art in SCENES FROM SHAKESPEARE.
Plan at Paling’s. Admission 1/- ; Reserved Seats, 2/-
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: J. 0. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
The Musical Success of our Generation,
OUR MISS GIBBS.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices as usual.
Theatre royal, sydimey.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Lid.
, EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON presents
KATHERINE GREY,
Supported by WILLIAM DESMOND and a Brilliant
Company of Dramatic Artists, in Edward Sheldon’s
Inspiration of Undoubted Popularity,
SALVATION NHL L.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. ALLAN HAMILTON.
LAST NIGHTS OF THE SEASON.
ALLAN HAMILTON and MAX MAXWELLS
DRAMATIC COMPANY
in the Grand Spectacular Military Drama,
REYHNG E.
Presented by Arrangement with Bland Holt, Esq.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
QRITERION
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Les-ee .. FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE and CLYDE MEYNELL SEASON.
For a few more nights only, and at a final matinee next
Wednesday, Rupert Clarke and Clyde Mevnell present
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY and his NEW ENGLISH
FARCICAL COMEDY CO.
(including Mr. David James and Miss Mab Paul), in
What HAPPENED to JON US
with GEORGE WILLOUGHBY as JONES.
This Funniest of all Fun-Makers preceded at each perform-
ance by “THE GREY PARROT.” Box Plan at ElvyV.
THE NEW OLYMPIA THEATRE, SYDNEY,
Located Corner of Elizabeth St. & Wentworth Avenue.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
WILLIAM ANDERSON
Presents THE GREAT PICTORIAL REPRESENTATION
OF THE FAMOUS PLAY,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER,
The Film taken by Messrs. Johnson & Gibson.
Popular Prices —Is. 6d., Is. and fid. Plan at Elvy’s.
H~E GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
Opposite Railway Station—Where all Id. trams stop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER!
WEST’S PICT a EES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. :T. J. Wkst.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA,
fid. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, fid. extra).
HE
EVERY
LYCEUM
EYENING AT 8.
MATI MECS-WEDNESDAYS. SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 230.
C PENCERSIfifATREJCOPE <?
J PICTURES
/» *RE SUPERIOR TO PLL OTHERS.
Popular Prices —»- plaw at Paling^
Amusements
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
BARNOLD’S ANIMAL ACTORS, consisting of 13 Dogs,
S Monkevs arid 1 Cat, headed by the Canine Wonder,
DAN, THE DRUNKEN DOG
LARRY LEWIS. VIOLET STOCKELLE.
CARL HOWARD and LILY FOY, Comedy Artists.
THE DANCING GILBERTS, Premier Dance Duettists.
BROWN and ROBINSON, Specialty Artists.
WOODS (Leslie) and FRASER (Hilda), Sketch Artists.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor <fe Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
NEIL KENYON, Scottish Character Comedian.
VAUDE and VERNE, Patter Comedians.
THE QUEALYS, Musical Sketch Artists.
BARNES and WEST, Fashion Plates of Vaudeville.
MDME. LYDIA-YEAMANS-TITUS, Mimic Impersonator
FREDERICK J. TITUS, Composer and Accompanist.
LES MARBAS, Humorists and Acrobatic Dancers.
Plan at Allan’s. X3T PRICES—as., 25., Is.
THE KINO’S THEATReT ME LB 6UR NE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager— William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING.
AUSTRALIA’S TWO FAVORITE ARTISTS.
RETURN OF THE EVER POPULAR FAVORITES.
Maggie mooiie and h. r. Roberts
in
THE SHADOWS of A GREAT CITY
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
LAST EIGHT NIGHTS.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW LONDON COMPANY
in the Greatest of Drury Lane Dramas, in
THE WHIP.
A SERIES OF SENSATIONAL SCENES,
SUPERLATIVE SPECTACULAR EFFECTS.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., Is.
1-HEAT RE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A POPULAR REVIVAL.
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S NEW ENGLISH
COMIC OPERA CO. in
Till] ARCADIANS.
FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE CONTINENTAL
DANCER, CHISTIE MULNIAH.
Plans at Allan’s. B*r PRICES AS USUAL.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
LAST NIGHTS.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEW COMIC OPERA CO.
in
A KNIGHT POP A DAY.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALIA.
MISS TOBY CLAUDE as TILLY DAY.
MR. BERT GILBERT as JEREMY JOY.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
yy ES T’S PALACE, M ELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THB IJESX
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
Thf, Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at (lien's.
"ARCADIA,” STT KILDA ESPLANADE.
M EVERY EVENING AT 5.30.
TESTERS
Reserved Seats, 1/6 (Booking’ 6d. extra); Admission 1/-
and 6d. Children Half-Price. Plans and Day Sales at
Glen’s, Ronald’s Central, and Haber’s, St. Kilda. Seats
may also be reserved bv ’phone, Windsor 105. COM-
PLETE CHANGE OF PROGRAMME EVERY MONDAY.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
JfcN.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices—,2/-, 1/6,
1/-, 6d. Matin6es —Wednesday, Saturday, All Holidays.
J. & N. TAIT’S
Q PEN- AIR THEATRE, ST. HILDA.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
THE FOLLIES
NEW COSTUME COMEDY CO.
PRICES—I/6. 1/-. 61.
IRTHS OLYMPIA
EVERY EVENING NT 8..
w
Matihees-Wedhesdays. Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30.
CPENCER'StfifATREJCOPt (?
J PICTURES
<a> rfRE SUPE/ZIOFZ. TO ELL OT/IER.S . o
Popular Prices —Plan as ushal^
WIRTH BROS.’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8 p.m.
HUGE CITY OP NEW, SNOW-WHITE
WATERPROOF TENTS.
WIRTHS’ PARK, MELBOURNE.
AN AVALANCHE of INCOMPARABLE NOVELTIES,
includin';' LIZZIE, LIZZIE,
THE ONLY LIVE HIPPO IN AUSTRALASIA.
Matinees—Wednesdays, Saturdays, and all Holidays.
ħ
Real Dutch Pipes
Cool and Sweet
THE PERFECTION OF SMOKING
Just Notice how Cheap tfyey are;
less than Half the Usual Prices
30 inches long, on!y 6/3
ONLY those who have
smoked a Real
Pipe know how different I'i
the Havor of tobacco. '! hey
are beautifully made of the
be<t material, and
we could not sell
them at these prices
if we had not made a
Special Purchase. Thete
are various styles no«t '
sizes: 2\ feet Ion? w.ih
decorated porcelain bow.,
at 6s. 6d ; 10i inches lone
with fine wooden bowl
ss. 6 i ; and it) inches lon*,
with either plain or deco
rated bowl, 4s. each. We
pack securely and pay
carriage. Make yourself a
present of one.
h
1034 Inches
only 5/6
The Union Manufacturing Go.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
FTIHE BEST STORIES written m Australia
JL appear in The Lone Hand eaeli month.
Price sixpence.
The old gang pours advice on N.S. W. j
Premier McGowen about how it is his duty to
“preserve the State'' from Federal “interfer-
ence” and “ encroachment ” ; and McGowen, who j
has always been with the anti-Australian party j
more or less, shows signs of lending his ear to
this narrative. Exactly how he will set about the
work, however, it is hard to see. The Federal
authority can’t “encroach ” except by the full
permission of the people signified per medium of
a referendum. McGowen can’t say that he is
against the referendum, either because the
people are too ignorant to be capable of
giving an intelligent decision or for any
other reason ; so what can he say ? He
is being invited to buck against the prin-
ciple of popular government; there is abso-
lutely nothing else for the State Frighters to buck
against. The Federal Labor party did that once
when it decided, largely at the instigation of the
remarkable Hughes, that the community was such
a hog-like lot that it couldn’t be trusted to give
an intelligent vote re the selection of a Federal
capital, but it isn’t safe to throw that kind of
brick at the community too often.
The miners’ and other unions of Maori-
l ind want to have the “domicile ” clause of the
Workers’ Compensation Act amended, so that
the dependents of the victim of a fatal accident,
no matter where they reside, shall be entitled to
the compensation. There are many Australians
working in Maoriland whose dependent relatives
mostly reside over the water ; and if any of those
workers are killed, the insurance cos. escape,
though they have bagged the premiums. The
Maoriland Government says it doesn’t feel justi-
fied in acting unless Australia reciprocates ;
and the big trouble in arranging the matter is that
the negotiations would have to be carried on, not
with one Australian authority, but with thesixsepa-
rate States. If the whole industrial business were
in the Commonwealth’s hands, the matter could
probably be arranged in a month. As it isn’t —
well, a few more widows and children must go
hungry.
Dr. Maloney moved the other day to get >
the Commonwealth to help mothers by making
them a payment of ss. weekly for three months
before, and six months after, the arrival of each
little Australian. Lack of time this session for-
bade prompt action ; but Acting-Prime Minister
Hughes admitted that the matter was of great
importance and must presently be dealt with—a
non-committal remark which almost every Euro-
pean country is making on the same subject,
though in one or two cases definite schemes have
been drafted.


UNSIGHTLY
YIELD
'w
yk
TO
£
rc?
m
m
m
h
CIITICURA
SOAP
Assisted by Cuticura Oint-
ment. For preserving, puri-
fying and beautifying the
skin, scalp, hair and hands,
for clearing the complexion,
for itching, scaly scalps with
dry, thin and falling hair,
for minor eruptions, rashes,
itchings and irritations, for
sanative, antiseptic cleans-
ing and for all the purposes
of the toilet, bath and nurs-
ery, Cuticura Soap and Cuti-
cura Ointment are unrivaled.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.: Paris, 10,
Rue de la Chaussee d’Antln: Australia, R. Towns <&
Co., Sydney; India, 13. K. Paul, Calcutta: China.
Hon? Kong Drug Co.; Japan, Z. P. Maruya, Ltd.,
Tokio; So. Africa, Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town, etc.;
U. S. A„ Potter Drug ft Chem. Corp., Sole Props.,
13k Columbus Avp., Boston.
Post-free, 32-page Cuticura Book, an Author-
ity on the Care and Treatment of S!:lu and Hair.
Mother
ppinrp - iT-“ *
SsJfc
Iv
//
Booms
LemonSm*
PEGDTEBEDTRfIOEfVIWt LEMOS
Brooke’s Lemon
Squash is a pure and
satisfying beverage of
the very highest stan-
dard of quality and as
a thirst-quencher it is
unequalled.
1,500,000 lemons
are used annually in
making this popular
beverage.
Made from Lemons
only
To PEARL Fishers, Dealers
in Pearls and Opal.
We have been continuously buying since 1880.
We pay the Highest Prices.
We buy the largest »r smallest parcels.
We pay Spot Cash to all.
Send through any Bank for our Inspection.
P. RLEEMO &. CO., Ltd.,
Pearl and Diamond Merchants,
8 Wynyard Street, SYDNEY.
Use the
“NUGGET” POLISHES
E
WATERPROOFS
MS
= TRADE MARK.
REGIS WmSf TERCO
iFATHER n»OI»C.R^
vFor Patent. Ouvct Kid.Bqo
\jCALfAND other
DOUBLE the LIFE of your BOOTS.
WHY STAY
FAT? e
Tea* thousand Fat Women
have been restored to
normali-iSo may you.
“FATCURE”
is a harmless and pleasant cure for Obesity.
In average cases it reduces by about 5 lbs.
per week, and the excess fat once removed
does not come back. Send 2d. stamp for
FREE TRIAL Sample and Free Book,
which explains how “ FATCURE ” cures.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Get an EDISON
Phonograph for Summer
Notwithstanding its great excellence,
the Edison Phonograph is not an ex-
pensive instrument. Here is an offqr
for £5/10/- of a machine and nine
records which conclusively proves that
the greatest of all entertainers is within
the reach of everybody.
The “Fireside” Combination is a
popular model of the Edison Phono-
graph, and it plays both Two- and
Four-minute Records. You can pur-
chase one complete with Five Amberol
(Four-minute) Records
and Four Standard (Two-
minute) Records for
£5/10/-
Any Edison dealer in Australia will
supply you, and you can make your
own choice of Records from the
thousands included in our lists.
We will send complete lists of
Machines and Records on application,
and supply the address of your nearest
dealer if you do not know it.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Dept. B, Kent Street, Sydney.
it
in
*
O
You will find far greater pleasure in spending your spare hours
at home if you have a “Bijou” table in the dining-room.
This table is specially designed for home use—it contains all the
merits of our standard tables, with the advantage of being readily
convertible into a dining-table by means of a simple adjustment of
leaves.
It is fitted with slate bed, fast-running cushions, covered with
superfine billiard cloth, beautifully made and nicely finished.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
Alcock & Co.
Pty.
Ltd.
397 George St., Sydney. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Murray St., Perth. [4
Business, Robbery, etc.
Thirteen tildes unions in N.S.W. have been
cancelled by the Registrar for a technical breach of the
Trades Union Act. In reality they have gone bung.
Most of them were minor affairs, but among them was
the Machine Shearers and Shed Employees’ Union. This
was the blackleg concern got up ostensibly to fight the
all-powerful A.W.U., but in reality to side-track the
Arbitration Court. The M.S.U. perished miserably some
time ago, and has now been formally buried at the cross-
roads with a stake through its middle.
*■ * * *
The fruitgrowers of Victoria stand accused of
“ topping up ” their produce in the packing for tfig de-
ception of guileless Dagoes who buy it at the market.
The Minister of Agriculture has promised a Bill to enforce
honest grading for “the trade.” Thusfar, there is no
talk of protection for the public. The guileless retailer will
continue to “ top up” as before, and will continue to lay
violent foreign hands on the purchaser who attempts to
probe the mysteries which lie hidden under the “ top-
pings.” What will it profit the public when the Dagoes,
buy their fruit graded, and sell it in the old confidence-’
tricky way ?
* * * *
Those Victorian pioneers who had a procession
and a holiday 50 j’ears ago over the building of their new
courthouse owned a well-developed sense of humor or an
ill-developed sense of honesty. In the foundation-stone
there was supposed to be a cavity in which reposed a
bottle containing a parchment record and a number of
current coins. The building is now being demolished,
and the stone was rooted out the other day. The cavity
was there all right—and so was an empty pickle-bottle.
•*•»**
“Melb”: The recently-opened Pekin Cafe
(Melb.) is not going to be allowed to monopolise ’the
business of distributing Chow-food. A Pong syndicate is
now guilty of the even more sumptuous Canton Cafb in
Swanston-street. The place was originally Clement’s
Cafe ; then it was Denat’s, next Bini's, and finally Airs.
Smerdon had a try with it. The Pagans advertise a big
programme of Chinese dishes, including edible birds’
nests, sharks’ fins, and the rest of the gastronomic
horrors that appeal to Yellow Brother.
* * * *
“Grateful Parent” : A while ago The B. had a
paragraph commenting on business colleges in Australia,
which struck me as being rough on the “ Stott ” business
school in Melbourne (no connection with any other insti-
tution elsewhere), where typing, book-keeping and short-
hand are taught with the happiest results. A guarantee
of efficiency from‘“ Stott’s ” is, to my own knowledge, the
best of recommendations to a junior-clerk billet in a Mel-
bourne office. It was the first of the business colleges in
Australia, and it is nowadays in regular receipt of appli-
cations from firms that have small vacancies in the office.
* * * *
“R.D.” : As the year is nearing its end, Raro-
tonga is hard at it praying for another hurricane to visit
Fiji. The last one they had there levelled pretty wellall
the banana plantations, so the export of the fruit to
Maoriland dropped to almost nil. - Consequently the fruit
merchants of Wellington had to turn to Rarotonga and
other islands of the Cook Group for their banana supply.
Formerly the fruit, barring a very small quantity, was
consigned to Auckland merchants, and as these persons
usually also owned the stores in Rarotonga and other
islands, the natives got paid mostly in “ trade.” But the
invaders from Wellington have been paying cash on the
beach, and big prices too ; so, ever since, Rarotonga has
been living in affluence. But it knows that, as soon as
Fiji recovers, its own fat time will be over ; wherefore its
daily prayer is for another hurricane to smite Fiji, and
smite it hard. If it doesn’t, the missionaries will be urged
to explain what’s the use of praying, anyhow.
* * * *
“ F.” testifies to the faithfulness of the Private
Enterprise’bus conductor : After a visit to Lake Taka-
puna (M.L.), I climbed aboard a three-horse ’bus, and
found a seat amongst some 20 other excursionists who
were looking forward to a nice drive back to
Auckland, the place whence we came. , The old
two-decker of the road eventually set sail, and
jogged along comfortably enough till, coming down the
last of three hills, something went wrong, and the speed
leaped to about 50 miles a minute and stayed there until
there was a last sickly lurch, and a wheel crashed up
through the floor. Next instant we were strewn about the
lonely road, with picnic baskets beneath us and
food everywhere. One of the horses was wearing a
lily over one ear, and an elderly gentleman was
crowned with a ham sandwich. There was still
some lingering doubt whether anyone had been killed,
when a du-ty mass of garments rose from the highway
and asked a dazed old lady, who was wearing her bonnet
upside down beneath her chin and sitting on a raspberry
tart, for Is. 6d.—the amount of the fare. Shrieks of
rage arose on every side, and a pink old gentleman, who
looked like the president of a Peace Society, scrambled
gallantly from the dust with a squashed cream puff on
his chin* and offered to fight the hold-up person on behalf
of the outfit in general and the raspberry tart lady in
particular. Overawed by the tumult, the dusty con-
ductor whined wretchedly, “.Well, Igotter c’lect th’ fares
or I’ll get th’ boot. I’ve arsked yer, any’ow 1 If yer
won’t pay, yer won’t.” Then he faded away and helped
the driver unharness his team, while the spilt excursion-
ists, snorting slaughter, gathered up the remnants and
started on the two-mile tramp to town.
* * •» *
“McFrill”: You can’t beat the back-country
storekeeper’s keen scent for the odd pence. In one
N.S.W. way-out township I know of—and there may be
more—the* storekeepers collect the old-age pension for
some patriarchs who can’t get into the office. It’s
£2 3s. 4d. a month, and the philanthropists hang on to
the 3s. 4d. for their trouble. As a matter of fact, they
hang on to all or most of the £2 as well; but they supply
some odds and ends of stores for that.
THE RESENTFUL DEBTOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
N.S.W.
I hate with all my soul
The man behind me ;
lie of my joy takes toll ;
He cannot blind me
By shouting when we meet
And being sunny.
I hate him, I repeat!
1 oive him, money !
I watch him coming in ;
He takes life gaily ;
Oh d — n his cheerful grin !
I say it daily !
His pants are badly frayed ;
But he could (blow him !)
Get new ones if I paid
Half what I owe him !
He thinks of that, I know;
Though he’d deny it /
If I should tell him so ;
I’d like to try it
And see the beggar wince,
’Twould stop his cravings
For cash ; (I’ve suffered since
I took his savings ! ).
His pants are frayed all round 1
Why can’t he mend them ?
Why can’t he get them bound
Or somewhere send them ?
It’s a reproach to me !
He thinks it’s funny !
I wish to Heaven he
Had kept his money !
I’d love to pay the debt!
I’d simply revel
In saying : “ Here ! Now get 1
Go to the Devil!’’
And yet, how mad it sounds !
Why should I say it ?
(I won’t! The debt’s ten pounds !
I cannot pay it 1)
H. BREATHLESS.


the demon of drink.
HAS HE
GOT YOU ?
Drunkenness, the curse of so many homes, has for
t ear j baffled scientists, but now a remedy has been
found. Dr. Shaw’s Anti-Alcoho! (Registered by the
fj-ovts. of Vic. and N.S. VV.)isa certain cure—is harm-
a j S ’- and cau "> v en secretly or taken voluntarily.
Advice Free. Write or Gall. Dr. Shaw’s Establish-
ments, 54 Russell Street, Melbourne; 1161 Hay
Street, Perth, W.A. [2
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
■
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd.. Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg-.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls. c/o Sydney Agents.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
383
' §M
Morriss i
tree Witches
CIOAR»TT«B
ittaifH*
for
PPmM?
Made
tendon
HIGHEST GRADE.
8s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, sydney.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
,i~3j
Borated Golden seal
Compound
/A safe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever '
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer*
atlonsof ALL mucous membranes
or linings of tlio nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise wl th jach bottle
or mailed on request.
. The Etui Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio,
U.S.A.
Early Spring'
Suiting's.
WE have made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest .productions in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to us,
and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Parmer’s).
Sole Agents lor AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good saleguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C.Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
gUNri p
Forest Devil.
The Roots Must Come Out,
as well as the Trunk.
POSITIVELY the hardest work the Farmer, Settler or Squatter is called upon to do is
grubbing. The old method of uprooting dry or green stumps and trees is now entirely
revolutionised by the introduction on the market of the most marvellous labor-saving
device for Farmers, etc., ever invented. It is called “The Bunyip Forest
Devil.” This particular Forest Devil is far superior to any other Forest Devil in the market,
in that it is the very essence of simplicity in adjusting and in manipulating. The most
admirable features of “ The Bunyip Forest Devil ” are that it is not only light in weight
and can be moved with the greatest ease from tree to tree, where it can be rapidly fixed and
adjusted, but it is absolutely certain to accomplish almost any task set to it. _
The tremendous strain which can be brought to bear with “The Bunyip Forest
Devil ” makes it absolutely imperative for the tree or stump to leave the ground entirely—
roots and all, no matter how big the tree or stump, how long it has been growing, or how
firmlv it be rooted in the ground. „ .
Many “land men,” once doubtful of the assertions claimed for it, are now loud in their
praises of the unbounded and entire satisfaction it has given in their case, and in many
instances they have paid for the cost of the machine in a very short while by hiring it to
their neighbors.
Convincing proof of its wonderful power and its durability, the quickness with which it
can be adjusted, the labor and monev it saves, will be found in a special and attractive
catalogue Messrs. John Cooper & Sons, 287-289 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, have just issued.
Copies will be sent free to every enquirer, together with any other information required.
When writing, please mention this paper.
John Cooper 8 Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth Street (opp. St.
Francis’s Church), MELBOURNE.
What You Get -Not What You Pa izCOUNTS.
TRY
THE
EAGLE
ĥ
Brand
Footwear
Builfc by men who know the
essentials of GOOD WORK.
The PERFECT PRODUCT of
practical experience.
Made from Australian Materials by Australians for Australians.
They meet the demand for STRICTLY RELIABLE and UP-TO-DATE FOOTWEAR.
They Will Satisfy YOU!
Obtainable from Leading MERCHANTS everywhere.
Sole Manufacturers and Proprietors —
The Davey Hailiday Company, Limited
Wholesale Only. BRISBANE.
UTIES
m onLY;
TYRE /
BUILT cr\
/CILIMiriC
PRItUIPIJg
&
V
* - \
DU
t~v
m
V V'
m
c>
&
LU 0*
. TnE
/ /ILVERTOY/n
/ RUBBER C
279 GEORGE / r
) /YDf\EY
Insist on your dealer supplying you
with socks, stockings, and underwear
marked
Then you have the finest unshrinkable all-wool hosiery that
can be bought. It isn’t a matter of greater cost,
cost no more than ordinary all-wool wear.
"Jason” Stockings, Socks, and Underwear, for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores.
If your dealer does not stock "gaier£
he can obtain it from his
wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for
** Jason ’’ Booklet and
name of nearest Agent,
to
Jason Hosiery Co„
Leicester, England.
ħ
h
ON THE HOP!
A superb library Volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
Mount Larcombe Estate.
THE Lease of this well-known Estate having expired,
the Trustees have been instructed by the bene-
ficiaries, who live in Scotland, to make an early
realisation of the Estate, with a view to winding up the
Trust. ......
The property has an area of 14,484 acres, and is highly
improved. It was for many years used as a fattening
propery, but the advent of the Gladstone to Rock-
hampton Railway, which runs right through the Estate,
has brought it within about 14 miles of Gladstone at the
nearest point, and this makes the property very suitable
for dairy farming and other close settlement.
A handsome profit should be available from sub-
division.
For further particulars apply to
TriK Trustees, Mount Larcombe Estate,
c/o David Stirrat, Esq.,
Mount Alma, via Gladstone ;
or J. F. Fitz Gerald & Power,
Solicitors, Brisbane.
lubricates the mechanism, prevents rust on the
metal parts and cleans ana polishes the stock.
For cleaning out the residue of burnt powder,
especially smokeless powder, it is unequalled.
Write for free sample to
REID & REID (Dept. A ), Australasian
Rep resentatives—
Wellington
V New Zealand. .
L
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles* Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68* PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
w
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
'\F"
F.WOLFF&SOHN
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
v KARLSRUHE
* LONDON
jj
Obtainable from all the Leading Stores.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
Custard
Bird’s
Custard with fruit
The delicious Fruits of New S>ith
Wales,When Stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
“The Waybacks Again.”
Another
stack of
joy and laughter about the famous family. Is.


EqSlNjilfcf
r'lPEßwt^S
Oh
f ' '/<
‘VL.;
na
' *i%
n
q .jfOC* *■> "
Good Day Sir,
If youplease coMyou fedme
hade some of your Fine Wool
for The Australian Knrrrms
Mills pure Woollen
Under Wear
Absolutely PURE
WOOL Underwear
for Australian Men,
Women 8 Children.
GUARANTEED UNSHRINKABLE.
“ MADE IN AUSTRALIA.”
Sec that our Registered Trade Mark, “ GOLDEN FLEECE/' is on every garment.
STOCKED BY ALL REPUTABLE RETAIL HOUSES.
If not obtainable locally, communicate with us direct.
Made in our own Mills, Richmond, Victoria.
Sole Proprietors
AUSTRALIAN KNITTING MILLS, LTD
IMPORTANT SUBDIVISIONS. SALE
OF THE WELL-KNOWN
WOLAROI ESTATE,
Orange District, N.S.W.
Magnificent Orchard, Vineyard, Dairying and Market Garden Lands, within two miles of
Orange Railway Station, accessible by good roads.
Adjoining East Orange, and in close proximity to W.ellwood, Suma Park and Rosehill Estates.
TITLE TORRENS. NO SURVEY FEES.
Almost the last opportunity for acquiring rich agricultural land close to the thriving town of Orange,
the Metropolis of the West.
1553 ACRES, Subdivided into 29 Blocks.
AREAS 23 to 119 ACRES. Highly Improved, Nearly All Cleared.
FOR AUCTION SALE AT THE FORESTERS’ HALL, ORANGE,
Thursday November 24, 1910, at 2 p.m.
The soil is a rich, volcanic and black loam, capable of intense cultivation, yielding a Jiigh return
to the farmer. The town of Orange, furnishes a permanent market for all produce grown in the
vicinity, while as an important Rail way J unction it commands the towns east and west, and also
the branch lines to Condobolin and Forbes.
Average rainfall 40 inches annually, ensuring certain-crops.
The climate is regarded as the most perfect in Australia, the elevation above sea level being
3000 feet.
Main road to Iceley runs through the centre of the property, and some of the blocks ,ar,e
approached from the Bathurst Road.
Permanent water in the Summer Hill Creek running through the subdivision, and otherwise
permanently watered.
The property is offered by the Vendors (The Orange Freehold Land Company, Ltd., Registered
Office, 35 Paling's Buildings.. Ash Street, Sydney).
TERMS : 10 per cent, deposit; no further payment for 12 months. Balance in six equal annual
payments, with interest at per cent, per annum.
The Auctioneers strongly recommend the subdivision to the attention of those desirous of
securing a small, rich, agricultural property in a progressive and reliable district, aiid ‘with' an
assured market olose at hand. Inspection particularly invited. Wolaroi affords an aliiiost last
opportunity of acquiring a farming property near to Orange.
Solicitors : McLACHLAN & MURRAY, Sydney and Orange.
PLANS and ALL PARTICULARS FROM THE AUCTIONEERS,
J. S. LEEDS & CO., Oranfge.
MABIE, TODD & CO.’S
/WA/TA/Af />£#
the most practical of all Gifts. It is a veritable boon to
people who have much 1 writing to do, and to whom a reliable,
always handy, easy-flowing pen is a constant need.
It would-be hard: to imagine a more desirable gift-
practical, dainfy and lasting—essentially a happy
expression of the utmost goodwill.
A “ SWAN ” Pen appeals to all—man, woman
or child; and the prices at which it can be
bought make it suitable for ordinary gift
purposes or for special presentations.
Write for descriptive list, sent post free.
-h
fzTx
&
%
YOUR
STATIONER
OR
JEWELLER
FOR, AND INSIST
UPON, THE
SWAN
Mabie,Todd & Co.,
■ London and Branches.
Australasian Representative
(Wholesale only)
J. A. BURKE, 15 Waltham Building,
24 Bond Street, SYDNEY. [1
Cheap Edition of “ON THE HOP!"
Price 2/6.
Postage —N.S.W., 7d. ; other States, 1/2.
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF
The Cornishman Gold-Mining Company,
NO LIABILITY.
(Six Miles South of Southern Cross Railway Station.)
CAPITAL—£SO.OOO in 100,000 SHARES of lOs. EACH.
100,000 Shares are offered for subscription by the public at Is. on application and Is. on allotment. To be issued as
paid up to 2s. eaeh.
NOTE. —There are no Promoters’ or Free Shares. The whole of the money subscribed, less brokerage and notation
expenses, to be placed to the credit of the Company as working capital.
PROVISIONAL DIRECTORS—(To be elected by the Shareholders).
SOLICITOR —R. H. Wallman, YVaymouth Street, Adelaide.
SECRETARY (pro tern.) —G. T. Lane, Grenfell Street, Adelaide. .
BROKERS —W. H. Hussey, Member Stock Exchange of Adelaide, King William Street, Adelaide ; C. M.
Yeomans, Member Stock Exchange of Adelaide, Altna Chambers, Adelaide ; Legoe and Bragg, Members Stock
Exchange of Sydney, Australasia Chambers, Sydney ; A. H. Tonkin, Member Melbourne Stock Exchange.
OBJECTS.—To acquire from the vendor, Mr. H. G. Stirling, of Perth, W.A., the whole of his interest in Mining
Lease No. 776 (formerly 682), Yilgarn Goldfield, Western Australia, for the sum of £4500 outright, which includes a
new winder, oil engine, etc., now on the property.
LOCALITY, &c.—Situated six miles south of Southern Cross Railway Station, Western Australia, the Cornish-
man Gold Mine consists of a lode 10 FEET WIDE, worth 15DWT. TO THE TON, and is opened up to a depth of 1..0
FEET. The walls of the lode have not yet been reached. It also has a quartz reef 2 FEET 6 INCHES WIDE, of the
value of 35DWT. TO THE TON. The chute has been proved for 200 FEET IN LENGTH, and is still in values.
The values at the bottom of the shaft are BETTER than the upper workings. The name of the registered holder is
John Henry Cooper. The transfer papers concerning the lease are all in order. The Cornishman milled 536 tons for
6710 z. of fine gold.
AREA, &c. —The area of the Cornishman property comprises 24 acres, and is contained in Yilgarn Mining Lease
No. 776 (formerly 582), the registered holder being John Henry Cooper. The property has been consistently' and
successfully worked by Mr. Cooper for some/time past, and who, up to the date of his recent breakdown in health
(which is his reason for selling this highly valuable property), developed the area in a thoroughly workmanlike
manner, and with considerable advantage to his fortunate successors.
WATER SUPPLY AND TIMBER.—There are no water difficulties to contend with on the property', which is
most fortuitously placed in the centre of a district that is celebrated for its excellent timber for mining purposes.
In fact, all that the Cornishmen is in need of is sufficient capital for the purchase of a 10-HEAD BATTERY, for the
occupation of which there is AMPLE ORE IN SIGHT to place the Company in a strong financial and dividend
position.
REPORTS. —Those of the investing public who desire an investment for their capital in a practically-developed
property, surrounded with every element for successful gold-mining, will do well to peruse the following remarks on
the Cornishman from Mr. A. M’inty're, who has watched its development from the first day the pick was put into
the ground up to the present time. On this subject Mr. M’lntyre, who is one of the oldest and most successful
mining magnates of Southern Cross, as well as proprietor of the Soutiikrn Cross Ti.mks, says:—“The Cornishman
lode is as represented. It is 10ft. wide, and worth 15dwt. to the ton. The walls have not yet been reached. There
is also a quartz reef of 30in., of the value of 35dwt. The chute has been proved for 200 ft. in length, and is still in
values. The values at the bottom of the shaft are better than the upper working. It has an area of 24 acres. The
name of the registered holder is John Henry Cooper. The transfer papers concerning the lease are all in order.”
Mr. M’lntyre, writing from Southern Cross under date of October 19, states: —“ I am enclosing receipt for con-
sent caveat over the Cornishman, also the acknowledgment of letter in escrow, and blank transfers from the bank.
The lease is six miles south of Southern Cross. Had the Vendor not been ill in the hospital, the lease could not
have been purchased. It is the best proposition in Yilgarn for a company'. There is 10ft. of ore in one lode worth
lndwt. per ton, and neither wall is yet reached, and there is a quartz reef in the lease opened up to a depth of
120 ft. ; it is 2ft. 6in. wide, worth 35dwt. per ton, and proved for a length of 200 ft. There is an oil-engine and also
a Winder, both new, on the mine, which will go to the purchasers. These were first put in when the vendor took ill,
and have only-been in use for about one month.” Mr. M’lntyre further adds:—“The Cornishman is a lease that
any man should be proud to offer to his friends.”
The Company shall be considered formed when 80,000 Shares shall have been applied for.
Application forms may be obtained from the Brokers.
NOTE.—ELEVEN THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED SHARES WERE APPLIED FOR IN THE CORNISHMAN
FROM WESTERN AUSTRALIA BEFORE THIS PROSPECTUS WAS ISSUED.
DT- FAMOUS FROM EARTH TO MARS.
Dr. Thomas Elouis Phenomenal Invention
THE ...
MARCONI
The Rapid Disease Destroyer
Can be worn on Any Part of the Body Without Inconvenience.
Cures immediately Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Weak, Back, Kidney Trouble, Varicose
Veins and other Diseases of the Nerves and Blood.
Eminent Scientists say that it Will bring about a revolution in therapeutic medicine, because it destroys
at once uric acid, albumen and other poisonous matter in the blood.
Read the daily papers what wireless telegraphy is doing. More wonderful still is THE MARCONIDON,
| alleviating suffering humanity.
Write for Our Book, “ Victory Over Disease,” which will be sent Free to All.
NO CURE. NO PAY.
THE DR! THOMAS ELOUIS “MARCONIDON” CO., 11 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
CAPMAEINE
u
HE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
\
OWN A FLOWING MOUSTACHE!
A man looks only half a man without a moustache. His friends
, condemn him as a weakling—a woman-man or g.n overgrown boy—
if he has not a good moustache ! You’ll notice all clean-shaven men
have grown a moustache at some time or other, just, as it were, to
advertise the fact that they CAN grow one. Don’t you advertise
the fact that you CAN’T. CAPILLARINE will give' you a strong
healthy moustache—mostly it’slso effective it seems to make the
hair fairly creep out of the upper lip—in every case it is success-
ful —has been so for 30 years.
Price 10/6 a Jar to any address in the World in Plain Package.
Craig: & Aitken, 654 George St., Sydney.
Ksr.ahlishpH SO Ypars.
f,
A
ĥ
PICTURE SHOWMEN
500,000 Feet Cinematograph
Film from One Penny a Foot.
I ...
They have been used in the city, but the subjects
are gpod and eminently suitable for Touring
Shows.
They consist of FIRST-CLASS DRAMATIC,
COMIC, SCENIC and ILLUSION
STUDIES—aII specially selected by us.
Send us your name and address, and we’ll send
you a list. Any film not approved of can
be exchanged.
WE PAY ALL POSTAGES.
We Stock Everything for the Picture Showman.
JERDANS,
“ My Opticians,”
“ Leading Cinematograph
Specialists, ”
393 George Street, Sydney.


B.S. A. RIFLES
A CHAMPION’S TESTIMONY
Miniature Rifle Shooting in South Australia has been brought
almost to a fine art, and the recognised champion of that State may
reasonably be considered a proved expert and authority. Mr. Rupert
J. Copeland, who recently won the South Australian Championship
with the aid of a
B.S.A. MARTINI RIFLE
After having had considerable experience with other English and
Americanriflessavs:—“The B.S.A. Martini is absolutely unapproachable
by anything on eur market.” And he is quite correct.
You have probably got as far as you can with your present rifle,
but just try one of the latest B.S.A. Martini Miniature Match Rifles
with extra heavy barrel and B.S.A. Aperture Sight and you will
realise the truth of Mr. Copeland’s assertion. Write for special
Martini Rifle Booklet mentioning the name of your gun maker to
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co., Ltd.),
5 Stock Exchange Buildings, Melbourne. “
A
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the larsrest and most successful rinks in America,
and bv all the Champions of the World, fast and fancv. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Reeords'for ‘l4 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing 1 Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
“RICHARDSON**
CHICAGO
\\\ U I I I I I I 111
An “A 1”
Thirst Quencher.
2
‘ MONTSERRAT ’
LIME JUICE.
Delicious also at lunch or dinner, and
a healthy drink at all times.
Made in two kinds—Unsweetened, t.e. $ Plain Lime Juice ,
Sweetened, i.e. . Lime Juice Cordial. Sold everywhere «
ħ
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
ffilHE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
I HAND, the National Monthly. I’rice 6d.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise $ Joke Novelties.
.THE SPRAY WATER PISTOL.
Durable, Reliable and Perfectly Safe.
h
Will stop the most vicious
dog or man without
permanent injury. In-
valuable for cyclists, un-
escorted ladies, cashiers,
night-watchmen, homes,
etc. Has more effect ort
beggars and tramps than
a watch-dog. Reloading
unlimited. It creates great amusement for young
and old. Length 5 inches, nickel-plated and nicely
ornamented. Price 1/6 post free anywhere.
NICKEL-PLATED CHANGE PURSE.
Beautifully chased, and guaranteed to wear white
throughout." Will hold any of the coins, as illus-
trated, and will also take sovereigns and half-
sovereigns in the 1/- and 6d. compartments, and
pennies and half-pennies in the 2/6 and 2/- com-
partments. Split ring: attached for affixing- to watch
or key chain. Price, post free anywhere, 1/2.
TRICK MATCHBOX.
THE “JOKER
The box can be filled with matches, and then closed,
and, to the amazement of your friends, upbn re-
opening the box, the matches have completely dis-
appeared. A great joke on cadgers, who, upon
begging a piatch, are showp the, empty,box, and the
next moment, if the owner chooses, he may help
hiniself to a match from the same box. Strongly
made of polished nickel, and can be carried in the
vest pocket. Price with full directions, 7d. post free.
Si?
}j
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO., LTD.,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. U. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarjcet Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
AUSTRAL AERATED WATER Machines
ĥ
There are ten times as many Austral Aerated
Water Machines in use to-day as any other make.
The Austral Machine is used by all the leading
Hospitals in both Sydney and Melbourne.
Being manufactured here, duplicate parts can
be obtained without delay.
From 250 to 300 dozen of superior quality
Aerated Waters can be made daily with these
machines.
All machines are fitted with the turnover
syruping rack.
Our latest machine is a distinct advance in con-
struction and usefulness on any other machine on
this market.
Write for illustrated and descriptive catalogue.
~~oIECKERSLEY & SONS,
3 Bond Street.
SYDNEY.
FURSKINS ARE BRINGING BIG PRICES!
TO GET THE BEST RESULTS SELL YOUR LOT THROUGH
New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Experts Carefully Supervise the Handling of Each Consignment.
AGENTS:
Melbourne—T. R. Jones & Co.,
366 Bourke Street.
Brisbane—Elliott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd., 108-110
Eagle Street.
Adelaide—Lord & Heseltine,
90 Pirie Street.
Launceston —John McKenzie
& Co.
Hobart —John Ferguson & Co.
o.o ; |
fallmufurWhi^;
L'ttfim.vfltH <» VIV '
s " y
y '
Old
orknev
The Merit of a
Whisky is not
dependent on its
name, but on its
Is a- Real Liqueur Scotch
from a century-old distillery,
reserving its whole output
for this one brand.
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London.
Proprietors of STROMNESS DISTILLERY, OrKney, Scotland.
BOOKS YOU
CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 190 S edition, ‘2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained,' ls 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
ls2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9dl Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Fiagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
1
i
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 124 S Pages.
IT IS FKEE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
TO THE
COMMONWEALTH. -«
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITX, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How To Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. , Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. , Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor. : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped tiie Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. W annan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s (id posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Nigiit, Is 3d. Woman’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. IST" Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FRO/T THIS ADVT.
4
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ui>, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. N ew Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. “Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, oloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


TRODT TACKLE!
We are the LARGEST and LEADING Wholesale
and Retail Distributors of Fishing
Tackle in Australia —i
We have Just Opened up a Magnificent Range of New Season’s Trout Tackle. We can supply you Cheaper and Better than any other House. Give us a Trial and he Convinced.
No. 2.—SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, lift, and 12ft., 3 joints, 2 tops,
cork grip, best fittings, lock joints, etc., £4/4/-
THE M.S. SPLIT CANE FLY RODS, lOJft. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, serrated ferrules, best fittings, £2.
NO ‘9 4^f^ U 7' N ]L TROIJ T RODS .> lift., 3 joints,
- tops, best winch fittings and snake rings, bronze mountings, 25/-.
No. B—SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, 12ft., 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
grip, snake rings, welted ferrules, solid fittings ‘22/6.
No 9 -SPLiT CANE TROUT RODS, lOJft and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, bronzed fittings, finely finished rod, 30/-.
No. JOS.-SHORT-JOINTED SPLIT CANE FLY RODS, 101 ft.,
ferrules C °' k grip ’ Solid reel P late . double-brazed welted
N °v!.fn7 G , R ?^ NHEA S T TROUT RODS > 12ft., 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
gup, lock joints, graduated winch fittings, 25/-.
GG,NE A GREENHEART ROD, lOJft. and lljft., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, bronzed winch fittings, snake rings, stained olive
£,reen ; splendid value, 21/- ; other rods from 7/6 to £7/10.
REELS, with tension screws and con-
tracted drum ; the best Trout Reel on the market; 3in., 25/-;
o£in., JU/= each. ’ 1 ’
M ' S with E wJ , H ATE ? EB °N ,TE BACK ROTARY CHECK REELS,
with wme drum for rapid winding; 2Jin., 13/6; 2fin., 15/6; 3in.,
17/6 each ; other reels from 2/- each. *
M.S. PERFECT COLLAPSIBLE TURNOVER TROUT NET, all of
the very best quality and highly finished, 17/6; other complete
Landing Nets from 3/6 each.
We are always pleased to receive Reports
from the various Trout Centres.
TROUT LINE'S.
We carry the finest assortment of Trout Lines to be found anywhere.
“KINGFISHER” PLAITED SILK LINES.
Highly Waterproofed.
30yds., Single Tapered .. No. 1, 7/6 No. 2, 8/6 No. 3, 10/-each.
40yds., Single Tapered .. No. 1, 10/- No. 2, 10/6 No. 3, 12/-each.
30yds., Double Tapered.. No. 2, 10/- No. 3, 11/6
40yds., Double Tapered.. No. 1,11/6 No. 2, 12/6 No. 3, 13/6each.
42yds., Double Tapered.. No. 4. 22/6 No. 6, 25/- No. 6, 27/6 each.
“ PERFECT ” WATERPROOF PLAITED SILK LINES.
Splendid level lines, made exclusively for us.
No. 40 .. .. 25yds., 2/6 OO.vds., 5/- each.
No. 30 .. .. 25yds., 3/- 50yds., 6/-each.
M S. waterproof thread lines.
Made from best Thread, and waterproofed by a new process.
No. 60 .. 50yds., l/= No. 40 .. 50yds., 1/3 each.
No. I.—PALLEY’S CAST BOOKS, with parchment pockets, 4/- each.
No. 2.—JAPANNED ROUND CAST BOXES, 1/6 each.
No. S.—ALUMINIUM ROUND CAST BOXES, very light, 2/- each.
No. 3.—TAN CANVAS FLY BOOKS, sin., 2/6 each.
No. 6-BEST QUALITY PIGSKIN FLY BOOKS, with xylonite leaf
fitted with 119 Spring Clips, 8/6 each.
Other Fly Books from 1/- to 17/6 each.
No. I.—BEST QUALITY JAPANNED EYED FLY BOXES, fitted
with Steel Spring Clips, mounted to xylonite.
51 Clips, 4/6 ; 85 Clips, 5/6 ; 119 Clips, 7/- each.
No. 3. —LOCH LEVEN EYED FLY BOX, fitted with Steel Spring
Clips, 2/- each.
SPINNING HEAD TROUT FLIES, 1/6 and 2/3 each.
ROUKE TROUT SPINNERS, 9d. each.
RINGED DEVONS, lin. and ljin., 1/4 ; l§in. and lfin., 1/6 each.
BEST QUILL PHANTOMS, Ifin., 2Jin., 2Jin., 2/- each.
FISHING BROGUES, made of Good Quality Leather, with Canvas
Uppers, all sizes, 22/6 pair.
Trout Casts, Creels, Spinners’ Gaffs, Bags and sundries in endless
variety.
For a comprehensive description and illustrations of all goods, see
.our “Australasian Fishing Tackle Catalogue ” —the finest book of its kind
ever published—a copy of which will be posted you immediately upon
request.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.
“ THE House That Sells the Best Tackle,”
Head Depot—
Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
Schute, Bell & Go.
limited.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Aooount
Bank of N.B.W.
Model ‘T” Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“ FORDS ” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials :
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-li.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
£5
GIVEN AWAY
For Correct Answers.
To each and every person sending in the Corre ct Solution of the following Puzzle we hereby undertab
and agree to send them the sum of f
FIVE POUNDS
subject to the conditions hereunder :
MeZd a fff^» t ? e - en ° r “ 4 .w\ d T an ? f “ r t T. ?ICTURE POS T CARDS, we have devised this simple
1911 object of making our name more widely known, and to intro duoe our
von win l? We e?P?f V this competition °f brams to make such an impression on your mind that
PICTUReVoST CARDS ab ° Utuato your friends - and the extraordinary value of our FINE ART
ALL WE ASK YOU TO OO IS THIS:
±lll in the missing letters in the following Puzzle :
O*R P**T C*R*S A*E T*E B**T V*L*E IN A*S RL A.
P c ! sted^- nd .addressed to the Manager of the Fine Art Post Card Co. ,*Hunter-
street, Sydney and received by him, and must agree with our solution, lodged in the Bank of N S W
PRIZES WILL BE SENT PROMPTLY
solution to the above Puzzle (to which there is no entry fee), send us a Postal Note for 2/6
vm,T=Mni We WIU S3nd you Fre ® a sample packet of thirty (30) Selected and Assorted Post Cards, and if
“ c ?i rect < W ® wJI . aU ° S ®? d * 3 ' d within a fortnight your prize of £5, and will ask you to
WPmrAnivTrr 0 .!, ?°“ r servl .°: sfor showing our Post Cards, and recommending them to your friends
GUAR ANTEE this Competition to be a straightforward Competition of brains and work. A copv
of the right solution we have lodged with our Bankers (Bank N.S.W.).
fi“® i " 0 ji o f 3^ 0 fr h 3 °f this Competition will appear in this paper, but if before the date of the
closing of the Competition more than 100 correct answers have been received, One Hundred Cash Prizes
of £5 each will be awarded to those sending correct answers in the orderin which their answers shall
have been read by the Manager of the FINE ART POST CARD CO. answers shall
Should your solution reach ue before the closing date, and be correct according to our conditions and
not be within the first 100, we will send you FREE A SOLID SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN (T a a
Gentleman’s). No person will be entitled to more than one prize. y ° r
1 competiUon,
FINE ART POSTCARD CO., HVK^%V Y REEr -
Sty Solution to your Puzzle is as follows :
And I AGREE TO ABIDE BY THE DECISION OF THE MANAGER OF THE FINE ART POST
CARD CO., which I accept as final and legally binding.
Signed..,
Address.
Date
BY APPOINTMENT TO
ħ
HIS MAJESTY THE KINC.
BOV R I L
makes delicious bouillon, rich, tasty gravies; adds flavour
and strength to stews, hashes, entrees, etc.
BOVRIL IS THE TRUE ECONOMIST IN THE KITCHEN.
HAVE YOU GOT?
1. A Tearing, Hacking Cough ?
2. A Stuffed-up Chest ?
3. A Teasing Irritation in your Throat ?
4* A Difficulty in Breathing?
5. A Cold in Your Head ?
6. A Fit of Sneezing ?
7- A Pain in Your Chest ?
8. A Shortness of Breath ?
9. “Only a Bit of a Cold?”
HAVE
YOU?
IF YOU HAVE, TAKE
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
THE GRANDEST REMEDY FOR
COUGHS & COLDS
“A STITCH IN TIME SAVES NINE.”
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS. AND
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
N S.W. Branch Office: 522 Geore'e Street. Svdn.v.
Brooks
For biKes may come and biKes may go,
But BROOKS go on for ever.
To get the test out of your bicycle,
■whatever its make, and the highest
degree of road comfort for yourself,
the secret is
BROOKS
Of all Dealers .
2E
o. r
15he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN sd.


J
eridente
I atHQME&atWORK (
p ACCIDENTS will happen even in
the best-regulated families,
p Healthy youngsters seem to be
f always “in the wars”; house-
f work abounds with mishaps for
busy wives and harassed mothers ;
and the bread-winner often returns
from work with a more or less serious
injury. Just what every home needs
is Zam-Buk. A pot and a bandage on
a handy shelf, where they are handy for
instant use, save untold pain, time and
money.
When the little one runs In from his play with a wry face and smarting, dirt-
filled scrape on his knee, simply wash the part and smear with Zam-Buk. When
father cuts or scrapes his hand, the handy pot of Zam-Buk again meets the
emergency, and the housewife or mother continually finds it a real friend in need
for the burns she receives while cooking, the scalds of a washing-day, or the
knocks and bruises of dusting.
Children like Zam-Buk because It is cooling, soothing and pleasant. Their
elders value it still more highly because it is also antiseptic and a powerful
germicide, preventing poisoning, festering and disease; because it is a natural
skin-repairer, growing new tissue in Nature’s way ; and because it is good for the
tenderest skin. Dally mishaps make Zam-Buk a dally need, therefore “keep
Zam-Buk handv ” is a sound home motto.
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK
CUTS, BRUISES and SORES.
Mr. J. Turnbull, of 29 Shemel Street,
Waterloo, Sydney, says : “I am a
carpenter by occupation, and am con-
stantly knocking my hands about. Cement
and lime get into the cuts and sores, causing
them to fester, and, if neglected, would
necessitate my leaving off work. Prompt
application of Zam-Buk, however, gives
instant relief. My ohildren have also found
Zam-Buk invaluable for burns, cuts, bruises
and chicken-pock sores, allaying the irrita-
tion and inflammation of the latter com-
plaint in a very short time.”
A MOTHER’S PRAISE.
Mrs. Jones, who resides at Albert
Park, Hartley District, Lithgow,
N.S.W., says: “ Zam-Buk is theever-
ready healer in my home for cuts, burns,
bruises, scalds, sores, chafed hands and other
troubles, and I have found nothing to equal
it. I have tried many other so-called healers
from time to time, but found none to com-
pare with Zam-Buk. No mother should be
without a pot handy in the home for use on
the children, as they are always hurting
themselves one way and another, and Zam-
Buk comes in very useful.”
Zam-Buk is invaluable for
eozema, ulcers, ringworm,
bad legs, rashes, erup-
tions, pimples, sores,
and all injured and
diseased conditions of the
skin and tissue. Of all
ohemiBts and stores at 1/6
and 3/6 per pot (3/6 holds
nearly four times the 1/6),
or from the Zam-Buk 00.,
39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
jfanßuk
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article wbicb excels all others
in improving the beauty of tbe sKin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. Tbis Has been tbe
acknowledged' and honoured
*
position beld by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and bas
maintained tbat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of tbose special emollient
properties wbicb soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tbe
skin. No otber soap possesses
tbese qualities in sucb a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Gun Trials.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
The gun trials of the new battleship Neptune (19,900
tons) were completely successful. Her 10 12-inch guns
were fired simultaneously—using either broadside and
full charges.— Cable.
THERE are ten great muzzles looking into
space,
And the battleship is sitting in a heap ;
Ev’ry man is standing ready in his place.
See J along the steely cliff the flashes leap !
O Lord!
Hear the thunder of it rolling !
There on board
Can they hear the echoes bowling
Like a world across the floor
Of the sea unto the shore?
No, son !
You are deafer than an adder when you serve a
Twelve-inch Gun !
1 here are ten wide muzzles grinning at the sea—
Ev’ry one of them an even foot across ;
And the message that they fling to such as we
Is a cheerless one: “The Twelve-inch is the
Boss! ”
Bow down
All you coastal city people !
When we frown
Tower, minaret and steeple
Crumble swiftly into dust!
If in treaties you put trust.
The Hun
Shall fling death into your dreaming with the
eager Twelve-inch Gun !
There are ten great muzzles levelled at the coast;
When they utter the command the mansions
fall;
On its journey speeds each flame-enveloped ghost
To its work beneath the trailing, smoky pall.
The end!
’Tis a helpless city burning !
God defend
From the hooded spoilers turning
Like blind dragons none can tame
While they vomit smoke and flame !
No one
Who has business by the ocean can ignore the
Twelve-inch Gun!
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.
The Spud Miners and the Poet
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
X INHERE had been an informal meeting
before the little windswept West Coast
pub. The deputation from Duck Creek
had exhausted itself. Certain other patriots had
remarked that the Arthur River—an incurably
bar-bound stream —was the port—a statement
objected to with the irrelevant remark that Cap-
tain Suard, the Arthur River punt man, was a
pirate. Other patriots had risen to “pints” of
order in a manner suggestive of quarts of dis-
.order, and there came to assuage the feelings of
all of them the comfortable sound of rain upon the
roof.
They had been “miners” up to then, talking
learnedly of “underlays” and “lodes” and “out-
crops,” talking almost recklessly of Bill Smith’s
“ winze,” criticising the “ rise” in the Mary, won-
dering whether Jim would beat the water or the
water would beat Jim. They talked of all these
things with a painful attempt at intimacy, trying to
remember that now they were miners of copper
and not of spuds. For Irish Blight was in the
land, and the Nor’-West Coast of Tasmania was
trying to forget Circular Head and learn the ways
of Mount Lyell. Some of them had haunted the
roads, waiting for the man who looked as if he
were bound for Balfour, and, finding him, had
taken him, with an air of great mystery, to the
scrub to show him clay-slate with a vegetable
stain on it, alleged to be copper carbonate, or a
ferruginous clay, or merely plain mud.
They played the impassive mining man well
enough until they heard the rain falling on the
roof. And then !
“ That’s fine rain, mate ! ”
“Why—what do you want more rain for,
mate?”
“ Why—ploughin’!”
A devil of perversity entered into him.
“ You can’t plough in the No. 2 level.”
“ There ! ’Course not—among the spuds I
mean.... ’Ope the blight ’ull gi v’ ’em a chance.”
“It would be awkward to strike blight in that
winze.”
“Tork sense, Mister—tork sense.”
I expect one day to see an idealised farmer’s
mining report, published something like this:
“Ploughed three acres towards main tunnel;
crops in main shaft backward ; No. 2 level struck
oaten hay worth 25 per cent. Withdrawn men
from both ends of No. 3 owing to Irish Plight
causing bad air.”
The door opened, admitting more wind with
chopped ice in it, and the groom brought to the
fire new logs. And, conversation being lulled,
the groom spoke as we watched the new drifts
of sparks flying up the chimney.
“All dose sharks,” said the groom, “isligke
der human ’opes.”
“You’re a pessimist, Gus,” said the mining
expert.
“An’vynodt? lam unlugky. Yonah was a
Yidt, und he catch a vhayal; but he was not
unlugky. He gedt his whayal to shore und sell
dot whayal for ham. So ? ”
The expert was too bored to reply.
“ Veil, if I was Yonah, I will lose my life undt
my whayal—bofe—eh ? So ! I haf now der bests
silfer-leadt mine in der vorldt. Poody soon I lose
him—l am unlugky.”
The expert woke up a great deal.
“ Is it a good show ? ” he asked.
“It is der highest mine in der gountry. Heah
is der lodte—it is two mile undt a hallef in der
long, undt it is six undert feedt widte.”
The expert quite woke up.
“ And ” he began, in further questioning ;
but the groom silenced him with a gesture truly
royal.
“I am,” said he, “most unlugky. lam a
boet —undt I garry voodt for firese. I haf gom-
posed much boetry. I tell you some now, eh?
So.”
The expert, apparently thinking of the great
silver-lead lode, was bored no longer; he even
graciously recognised the muses.
“Der boem I am now to recidte is nailed “Der
Star of Beace': —
“ Unde dis worldt of mein egshperience
Avarition takes der sway ;
Evil thoughdts by all abbearance
Lead a rogue proudt on his vay.
Beacefulness is disabbearing,
Avarition vil nodt cease,
In your port I hav’ appeared
Midt der ship der Star of Beace.
Now der gorus:—
“ Den mein advice is nodt to berish
Among rogues upondt der lease
Undt your coat of arms to flourish
Midt der words der Star of Beace.
“ Of you’re in der lawful svindle,
Graving for anoder’s landt,
Before you can turn der spindle
Your own es tookdt from your handt,
Oder handts your cash vill jingle,
Oder men vill holdt your lease—
Der’s no doubt you’dt shift midt Kringle
Sailing in der Star of Beace."
“Very good—very good, indeed !” said theex-
Eert. “And—er—what did you say the lode
ulks ?”
“ Ve vill nodt talgk of dot now—but of my new
boem. It is galled ‘ Der Blutstaint Willitch. ’ ”
“‘The Bloodstained Village’! I see,” said
the expert, with a polite air of interest.
“Yah! ‘ Der Blutstaint Willitch ’! I will now
recidte ‘Der Blutstaint Willitch.’ Before I re-
cidte I vill explain. . . I am of Pommern. I
arrife in Awstralia weighingk fifity-sigs bounts
owing to der badt tucker of der immigrandt ship.
I am twelf yearse of aitch, und I veigh fifity-sigs
bounts. I com from Wogentin—der blutstaint
willitch! I will now recidte ‘Der Blutstaint
Willitch.’ . . . Ha! Before I recidte ‘Der Blut-
staint Willitch ’ I will tell you vot it is that make
der willitch blutstaint! It is der reign of Gus-
tavus Adolphus of Sweeten—a religious war for
tirty yearce—make der willitch blutstaint—very
blutstaint. ... I will now recidte my boem—‘Der
Blutstaint Willitch ’!. . . Hohf! Before I recidte
der boem I will tell vot make der willitch some
more blutstaint. . . . Naboleon First come there,
kill people, make-a the willitch more blutstaint.
I will now recidte. .. . Hohf! Before I recidte I
tell you what make the willitch much more blut-
staint as efer. . . . Forty year after Naboleon go,
two gouples—two man, two voman—gedt mar-
ried, and come to der blutstaint willitch for der
honeymoons. Affeter liddle time one husbandt
take odder feller’s wife —der feller nodt know;
der woman know ; she tell oder feller; he kill his
vife undt one husbandt, then kill himselfs; then
oder woman she kill herselfs. Eferybody dedt;
der blutstaint willitch much more blutstaint.
. . . Hohf! I will now recidte ‘Der Blutstaint
Willitch ’: —
“ Oh, W’og’entine ! Oh, W’og’entine !
Dot I shouldt bart from you
For oh ! my blutstaint willitch
Though blutstaint you are true.”
He recited many yards of this, until the expert,
taking advantage of a stoppage for breath, turned
the conversation on to the poet’s marvellous
silver-lead lode.
“ You say it’s two miles long and GOOft. wide?”
“ Yah ; but I haf not finished, Der Blutst ”
“ And what’s the value of it? ”
“I haf nefer hadt no assays which is less as
tree ber cent, leadt undt five ounces of silfer.
Now ve go on to der second t bart of ‘ Der Blut-
staint Willitch.’ ”
“ Oh ! damn ‘ The Bloodstained Village,’ ” said
the disgusted expert. “ I’m going to bed.”
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
Again.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
BUT yesterday I saw the place,
Where once you lived in days gone by.
It had a glory on its face—
The glory of an ancient sky.
For then the sky was blue and gold,
And bright as ever sky could be—
Ah me, ah me, the times of old,
And ah, the days of memory !
The green verandah, and the room
Wherein, at twilight, unaware,
Your sister kissed me in the gloom,
Beside the statues on the stair!
Your sister Alice—God is good,
And may,for His own sins atone,
Her merry grace of maidenhood
Lies underneath a marble stone.
In that blue room above the stair,
Behind the curtains purple-furled,
I met, and met you unaware,
The Red Rose Blossom of the World !
I told you that the springtime stirred
My blood to go from land to land !
You would not listen to a word,
But placed a ring upon my hand.
The gold ring that I gave to you
It was with fateful opals set;
But yours, but yours, was of the true,
Remembering blue violet.
In that small room above the stair,
Where oak-leaves round the cornice run,
I kissed your golden-tawny hair—
And marvelled at the setting sun.
I wondered such a sight to see,
And vaguely spake of gods above,
Then came the Maid Philosophy—
The goddess grim who strangles love.
Your hair was round me like a net
That had the sunset caught and won ;
Your yellow hair was round me—yet
I marvelled at the setting sun.
What golden tress of hair is this,
And whose, undimmed by all the years,
’Tis yours —La Belle Dame Blanchelys,
And I have nought but futile tears.
I love you now. Ah, God, I love
You now, as once in days of old,
When earth and sea and sky above
Were all a dream of rose and gold.
What gods or devils made us part?
Or was it merely Foolish Fate?
My heart goes seeking for your heart—
And we are sole and separate.
VICTOR J. DALEY.


LIFE OR DEATH.
Keep the Kidneys Healthy and you
Will Live to a Good Old Age—Neglect
Them and Suffering and Death must
Soon Follow.
|
“Every
Pictur
Tells a
Story
NT
V 2
h&i
a
s
K
k
4
\
Weak Kidneys, Urinary and Bladder Troubles,
Rheumatism, Gout, Lame Back, Gravel, Bright's
Disease, Diabetes, and nearly all the Ills of Men
and Women can be traced to the Kidneys,
A Sydney Man
OWES HIS LIFE TO DOAN’S PILLS.
Mr. James Higgins, 97 Great Buckingham Street, Redfern, Sydney, says :
“ Some time ago I commenced to suffer with kidney trouble. I don’t know
howto account for it, unless several accidents were to blame. I consulted
three'doctors, and underwent treatment, and each one, failing to do me good,
advised me to go into the hospital for an operation. They said my case was
almost hopeless, and that an operation was my only chance, as one of the
kidneys was in a very diseased state. I took medicines of all sorts ; the empty
bottles alone being worth a considerable amount. Everything failed, and I was
in such pain and misery that I did not care if I lived or died. I had severe
pains in the back, giddiness, headaches and scalding urine. I was completely
done up, and scarcely able to lift anything. The day was appointed for the
operation, when a friend asked me if I had yet tried Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills. He told me he knew of a man who was as bad as I was, and had been
cured completely and for good by these pills. I postponed the operation, and
commenced using Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. A fortnight later I returned
to work, and the men there could not believe that the change they saw in me
would ever have been possible. There is no doubt it is wonderful. I am
quite cured, and as fit for work as a man could be.”
Six years later Mrs. Higgins says : —“ The above statement is true—every
word, and I can now add the important fact that my husband is still free of
every distressing symptom of kidney trouble. His lasting cure is proof positive
that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills will cure serious kidney complaint.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all Chemists and Storekeepers
at 2/9 per bottle (six bottles, 15/3), or will be posted on receipt of price by
Foster-McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
h
ĥ
I
ECZEMA CURED,
Mr. H. Watson, 3 Alfred Street,
Annandale, Sydney, says:—“A couple
of years ago I had eczema break out
very badly on my chest. It was shortly
after I returned from a trip to India,
where I had gone with horses. I had
fever badly in India, and the eczema
seemed to be the result of this sickness.
It was very severe, and spread rapidly,
until I was in such a state that the pain
and irritation nearly drove me mad.
When I went to bed at night my suffer-
ings were worst, and it was nearly morn-
ing ' before I could get to sleep. A
friend advised me to get Doan’s Oint-
ment, saying that he had heard of great
results by using this preparation. I
thought it a good idea, and obtained a
pot. . The. first application was cooling,
and the second soothed the itch, and
after that I got along splendidly. Every
time I applied the ointment there was a
marked improvement, until I was , ± uite
cured. Within a month from the flirt
time I used the ointment not one trace
of the ailment remained. Doan’s Oint-
ment is a splendid preparation for
eczema, skin irritation, to take inflam-
mation from the skin, and to heal.”
Six years later Mr. Watson says :
“ It is now six years since Doan’s Oint-
ment cured me of Eczema, and I am
pleased to say that the cure is permanent.
I am quite free of this dreadful complaint,
and have been during the past six years.”
The most obstinate of all skin diseases
—Eczema—is permanently cured by the
great skin remedy, Doan’s Ointment.
Doan’s Ointment is sold by all chemists
and storekeepers at 2/9 per pot, or will
be posted on receipt of price by Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street Sydney.
REMEMBER THE NAME
DOAN’S.
The Cafe Infernal.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
MY financial resources were represented
by half-a-crown, and there was a half week
to go before there was the slightest chance
of replenishing the treasury. The Cafe Infernal
was a threepenny restaurant.
I wandered round there in the shadow of the
evening, and as I passed the bronze effigy of Mort
in Macquarie Place I wondered if he had ever
been reduced to half-a-crown to supply food for
half a week. If he hadn’t, I pitied him. A
man cannot appreciate affluence unless he has
been reduced to half-a-crown. That is the sort of
thing that gives a zest to wealth.
Then I came to the steep steps that led down
to the Cafe Infernal, and paused. I had never
yet been to a threepenny restaurant, and the
cleanliness and quality of the food supplied at
threepence per meal gave me some concern. Bah !
I wanted things to write about. What could be
better ? There should be more material in that
thrum cafe than in the whole of the Arabian
Nights.
So I dived down the steps, and found myself in
a quaint place. The low ceiling made the air
heavy and oppressive, and as I looked round the
dimly-lit expanse between the huge pillars that
supported the warehouse above, I saw an innumer-
able company seated at small tables. Right
against the steps was a long counter, behind which
stood a man in soiled white clothes, regarding me
with some interest.
“ P’y here ! ” he said laconically, as I ended my
scrutiny.
I placed sixpence on the counter. He handed
back three little cardboard checks and a three-
penny bit, and waved his hand down the counter :
“They’ll fix you up along there!” he said
pleasantly, turning to rake in more coppers.
The fixing up was simple. In return for the first
check I received a round of the loaf and a dab of
butter on the side of a plate, and the knife the
butter was cut with. For No. 2 I had my choice
of roast rib of beef, stewed mutton and hot corned
beef. And No. 3 brought me a quart pot of tea.
With this load I made my way to a table and sat
down.
It was a depressed company. Not a laboring
man among it. Only shabby gentility and broken-
down clerkdom out of work filled that dolorous
dining-room, where laughter was rare and'conver-
sation was carried on mostly in whispers. It was
the feast of the broken-hearted, the gathering of
the utterly hopeless.
And yet, somehow, I did not feel depressed. I
felt that I was looking at a picture.
Through the recesses between the gloomy
pillars and gloomier diners there flitted to and fro
thin-faced and shabby girls, carrying the soiled
crockery to Cimmerian back regions, where a con-
stant clatter indicated washing up.
The girls were almost as gloomy as the diners.
One, with agate-tinted eyes glowing amidst a mass
of tawny hairy, and wearing a dress of faded blue
silk, carried in her hectic cheeks and transparent
flesh the mark of impending death. And that
foetid atmosphere was hurrying on the end.
I glanced at the young man opposite. He had
a well-cut face, nickel-rimmed glasses, hollow
cheeks and sunken eyes. His aquiline features
and the pointed tuft of soft, black, silky beard
gave him a curious expression, and I thought to
myself that, if I could only paint, I would do his
portrait and call it “ A Christ of the Nineteenth
Century.”
As day after day we met at the same table we
got into the habit of greeting one another with a
nod, and occasionally there were little scraps of
conversation; but we never became friendly.
Then things grew suddenly better. I went away
from Sydney, and when I returned and went to
the Cafe Infernal to see how things fared, the
place was closed, and my friend with the sombre
countenance that haunted me so strangely had
vanished into the wilderness of a great city. I
used to wonder why his face haunted me so.
I know now.
* * * *
The oculist sat back in his chair.
“ I’m sorry to have to admit it, but I can do
nothing more for you,” he said, sadly. “As you
want to know the truth—as far as I can tell, you
will be stone blind within a very few months.
No, you owe me nothing—l have fought a losing
battle, and I’m not going to charge a man who is
losing his sight for having done him no good.”
I rose to go. The oculist was still musing.
“Look here!” he said, suddenly. “An amazingly
clever fellow named Walden returned from
Vienna last week primed with all the latest
European discoveries. There’s just the ghost of
a hope he might be able to do something. Shall I
drive you round ?”
I thanked him, and agreed mechanically. I
was mentally watching the walls of life-long dark-
ness closing in relentlessly, and wondering what
the world would seem like when that little ring
of light and vision should be blotted right out,
and I stood alone, surrounded by impenetrable
gloom, and the Universe merely a scale of sounds.
I was still wondering when we arrived at Dr.
Walden’s home, and I was left in a sitting-room
while the two specialists talked. Then the oculist
returned and explained that Walden would see
me in a few minutes. He could not wait; but
Walden would let him know if I had any chance.
It might have been minutes, it might have been
hours afterwards. Still intent on the ring of light
and vision, I never noticed the flight of time. A
tall woman in a nurse’s uniform took me by the
arm and guided me into the doctor’s study, and
placed me on a chair. He was sitting at a desk,
and as he rose and came forward, stepping into
my little ring of light, I saw the sombre eyes, the
tuft of black, silky beard and the aquiline features
of my one-time table companion.
“ The Cafe Infernal ! ” I gasped.
He looked at me, and then gripped my hand.
“So this is how we meet! I had hoped for
happier circumstances.”
“I am surprised you remember me at all!”
“ Remember you ! I’ll never forget you. You
blew into that stagnant, dolorous place like a
great wind of hope. I was a struggling University
student in those days. The bank smash had
ruined the family, and it was scattered. They
wanted me to come away and try a fresh country,
but I was determined to see my course through.
I grafted all day, lived on threepenny meals, and
went to the Uni. at night. And just when I was
on the point of giving up and going on the land in
Argentina, provided I could work my passage
across, you blew in, and Hope came with you. I
stayed, and here I am.”
“Youpulled through?”
“ Yes ; and now, please God, I’m going to pull
you through. Let’s see how you stand !”
* -* * •* *
Marathon, Bannockburn, Chalons—mighty
battles, names that make the blood grow hot!
But they were nothing to the fight that man put
up for my failing sight, because I had come into
his life at the nadir and the zenith of his career.
But he had come too late, and the ring grew
smaller and smaller. The awful black walls closed
in day by day, and then came together. And
that was why his face made such an impression
on me the first time I saw it. It was to be the
last face I should see on earth.
C. A. JEFRIES.
Judas.
[FOR THE BULLETIN]
w ITH sleek, soft, restless hands and shifty
Alert and superficially kind.
With pilfered quips and gestures forced and
strained,
Mendacity disguised as honest zeal,
Self-scheming tricked to ape benevolence,
A traitor to the marrow, but of his tongue
A very model of good fellowship,
Judas among the people filched his way,
For ever dreaming of the price of blood.
He would, sirs, be as brave a gentleman
As any old Judaea ever spawned.
He marked the mien and speech of men whose
charm
Made them the masters of their time and place.
He fawned upon the cheap and easy fair,
And whispered honey in the ear of trulls,
When honest women would have none of him,
He would, just Heaven ! be a man of mark,
This gibbering pantaloon and graceless dolt,
This would-be wit who was at best buffoon.
Low-browed he was, and mean in all his looks,
His every motion branded him a boor ;
But he, egad, would turn a leg in town,
Would tread a measure at fastidious routs
And sit at meat with princes ! His attempt
Foredoomed to infamous failure, cost him gold,
And never a paltrier varlet skulked obscure
Than he. For pelf he would have sold his soul;
But no base ghoul of the obscenest deep
Was so put to’t for prey that he would waste
Upon a thing so nauseous half a groat.
So Judas slunk in darkness through the town,
Nosing for offal. Snatched the beggar’s dole
And plundered outcasts’ houses. He would lie
A million lies and thrice a million, such
As Satan must have shuddered at, to gain
The wherewithal to blot a public way
With his abhorred presence. But with that
He was a very perfect hypocrite,
And his behavior passed unnoticed, save
By such as stood too high to stoop so low
As dower him with a passing favor of
Their great contempt. He lived for all the world
Of fools and dupes a sober man and chaste ;
Though all the world, even of fools and dupes,
Laughed at his queer contortions and his scheme
To be a somebody in open day.
Then One came to the land, and when He caine
All men knew well here was at least a Man.
His name was on the lips of simple folk,
White virgins breathed it on their bridal eves,
Men dying spoke it and so died in peace ;
An honored name, though cold marauders shrieked
Their hatred of it, though the pads and bawds
Spat at it, though the knaves who lashed the
crowd
That writhed and crawled, looked lowering at the
Man,
And deemed Him ripe for judgment.
Judas marked
The Man’s strange coming, and he straightway
saw
That here, perchance, might be the chance he
lacked
To be a somebody in open day,
And have the wherewithal to boast at night
Of what he was and would be. So to that
Grave Stranger Judas went with lowered eyes,
And cringed in the high Presence of the Man,
And offered service. Then the Stranger gazed
Upon the hypocrite and pitied him
The while He hated his hypocrisy.
So J udas was made scavenger of those
That stood the nearest to the Man and owned
His splendid majesty and sovereign power.
It was .ordained. Judas could never be
A friend to any man. Judas must seek
To overthrow his friend, as naturally
As parched, starved beasts seek water. Judas
sought
Straightway how best he might betray the Man
For his own profit. So he went by night
And sold his Master in the public stews.
It was a matter easy to arrange,
Given a traitor vile enough. It was
He should do this, and this ; and so, and soon,
The greatest One in all the land should die;
And Judas, he should have the wherewithal
To be a somebody in open day
And work out his damnation as he chose.
By devious ways he so bestowed a kiss
It seemed his Master must be trapped and slain
And utterly overthrown. And Judas took
The price the Devil flung him, and went forth
To mix with such Judaean gentlemen
As had strong stomachs and would sit with him.
Judas went forth. But in his venomous heart
A voice unknown cried shrill : “ Thou sorry
knave ! ”
The night was hateful, with a myriad eyes
That glared contempt upon him. Every breeze
Shrieked maledictions. Something decent stirred
Within the knave, and such was his alarm
That this strange thing should stir in him, who
would
Be a glad blade and royster with the best,
That he fled puling to an honest tree
And hanged himself in terror.
Now, in Hell,
The meanest ghouls avoid him, and the damned,
Who sigh in sorrow for each other’s pains,
All flee at his approach.
So ends his tale.
MAORILAND.
FRANK MORTON.


■
h
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and Victoria, Thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas, More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
DR. J. COLLIS I
The Original and Only
Genu ,
Convincin';
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
MilcrcJlT
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
SOUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
W-L:
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
I
rhe Universal Remedy for Acidity of
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
lAGNESIAi
MAGNESIA
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
! NEURALGIA.
ĥ
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
ħ
tism that has stood the test of time
>1 Chemists and Stores at i/i$ & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT ft Co., 229, Strand,
London, England
h
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring- this business
** to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
8 Double-barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib. left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Price £3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price .. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 15 0
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
S Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellentstock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price £2 17 6
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price 13 9.
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
urnc
AJID'f
Superior to
, INJECTIONS
and
■ COPAIBA.
| same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours
ĥ
Back Capsule bears the name W
Yon Know What To Expect
in certain circumstances. All doubt is eliminated. The result is a
fore-gone conclusion. To persons in doubtful health this must surely
be welcome news : and yet how many spend good time and money in
useless experiments ! There is absolutely no excuse for this, because
in nearly every base of ordinary ailments a cure can be easily effected.
When Yon Kse
Beecham’s Pills you can safely predict the result. They have been
tried by so many people for so many causes, and in so many parts of
the world with such unvarying good results, that you know what to
expect. This can be said of very few medicines. It is surely consol-
ing when your food disagrees with you —or if you cannot sleep or you
are bilious and headachy—to know that all you require is a course of
jjMchattt’s pill;
This preparation ensures the healthy action of the
Stomach, Bowels , Liver, and Kidneys.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/1 h (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
THE BESSES O’ THE POCKET
qTKe Besses o’ the Bara
have gone, but the
Besses o’ the Pocket
have come to stay.
CRACKAJACK
(SENIOR)
Built to Beat the Band
f|The Reeds are made
of Bell Metal, and
are Tuned to Perfec-
tion.
Crackajack Mouth ° r s ans
ur MADE IN SIX STYLES
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/- Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds ... 1/-
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds . . . 2/- Boss Cracker, 20 Reeds ....... 17-
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds ... 1/6 Crackajack Cadet, 20 Reeds .... 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD. Melbourne
An Imperative Need.
Until you are free from the tendency to constipation you are
bound to suffer from the symptoms —torpid liver, inactive
kidneys, delicate stomach, loss of appetite, indigestion, bilious-
ness, headache, feverishne s, and the rest. In your condition
Cockle’s Pills are an imperative need. They will not only
speedily ease you of the distressing symptoms named, but will
recruit the impaired system, repair the whole alimentary tract,
and minimise the liability to a congested state of the organs.
Don’t resort to drastic purgatives.
D
KL
to
m
PILLS.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
1/-EACH POST FREE IAI
k Quality Not Better
I in a
■ Guinea Pipe
r MICK SIMMONS
r SYDNEY.
STOREKEEPERS* TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE LIST
' XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1910.
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 15.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gav), contributed
during the year by the foremost Australasian
writers.
The. illustrations by “ Hop,” Norman Lindsay
and other leading representative artists, will be
the finest Black and White work obtainable in
Australia, and will reflect the national humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number is the annual re-
flection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence of
the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, WO RETURNS will be allowed
■for.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 19th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d.;
- Foreign addresses, 9d. j
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULtS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression lmmediafi
relieved by GRIM AULT & Co’s INDIAN CIG
Sold by all ChemitU.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BtidgerreePort
Nature’s Oift
ftAv!
PORT
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0, for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
And at 19 MoKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIO.


The Perfect Oilskin.
h
The "Watershed” Oilskin is
Constructed of double material,-
well oiled and cured by our
special process. \lt is made
with a wide protective sheath-
lhjf, and will keep the wearer
perfectly dry, whether he be
ridinfr, driving or walking.
, The Dugrong Watershed is a
lightweight Oilskin, 30/-. The
Rainbow Watershed is for
rougher wear, 25/-
These splendid Oilskins are
obtainable from leading store-
keepers throughout Australia,
or direct from us. We pay the
carriage, and will gladly' send
a descriptive booklet, free of
charge, for your further in-
formation.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
BEFPSE DESTRUCTION.
Combined Electricity and
Destructor Undertaßing's
arc becoming general. The f* HEENAN ” Patent is the last thing in
Refuse Destruction—
PAYS FOR ITSELF IN A FEW YEARS,
Full particulars on application to
AUSTRALASIAN
AGENCY :
T, K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.,.
DICK S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADE
23E2
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
. Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d;
Packet of Ten. sd.
The
Seasons
Change
*
Just Whai the Doctor ordered
At
All
Seasons
“SENTINEL
JUNIOR.”
SIMPLE
ENGIN*.
DIRECT
DRIVING
A DYNAMO
FOR
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING
PURPOSES.
em,
E 3
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
if
■■ if
AIR COMPRESSORS
Highest Economj
and Efficier
Special Designs to meet all requirements.
HIGH-SPEED ENGINES
Economical in Steam Consumption and Thoroughly Reliable.
HIGH-PRESSURE STEAM TRAPS
The Best High-Pressure Trap now in use.
Feed Water Filter 8 Oil Separator
Simple and Efficient, with large Filtering Surface.
J. WILDRID<
Ltd.,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Prell’s Buildings,
Melbourne; & A.M.P. Buildings, Brisbane.
THE
ELECTRIC Sheep Shearing Machines
Simple— -Light Portable Economical.
WRITE
FOR INFORMATION
n
May be suspended from any position inside or outside of shed.
Np overhead shafting required. Same standard Woiseley Handpieces
Qm% fp
used.
DALGETY & COMPANY LTD.,
Sole Agents,
MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
m
TEL.
(3236
\5221
• KIUAL MINING MACHINERY SPECIALISTS.
WARBURTON, FRANKI & CO.
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED , GATESEND ON TYNE.
;e Street,
EY.
■
ĥ
Volume Blowers and Ex-
haust Fans, Steel Pressure
Blowers, Planing Mill Exhausters, Black-
smiths’ Drills, Forges, etc.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
Agents:
PARKE & LACY CO. LTD.,
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
ħ
h
or
is
w*
<®
6°
v>*
e*
s*
*V*
o®
W
o>
CX*
*V®
3®
\o
X.®*'
*®
**v
N. GUTHRIDGE Ltd.
263 George Street, Sydney; 525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
CONCENTRATOR - GVr Al
QU»^ W B and iVI
CARO
and IVI
AGITATING CYANIDE TANKS.
SCr EEN
ĥh
h
