

DEWAR’S -All that a perfect Whisky should be.
R. a. WATXUNS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. _
Stosw, .Sw&Ht 2?S&
Jeffrey Elevating and
Conveying Machinery
Saves Time and Labor.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
8. A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide.
HOBART.
«
[jadley s Orient Hotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING *V
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Let.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ĥ
ħ
"Take it back,
I must have-
MUTTONS
Pine-Apple Brand I
TT
CHUBB’S SAFES
for JEWELLERS.
HANSEN'S
J
h
GflkaM, X.
&
Ln IjoBJ
ft u ■&&&&£.
THE SECRET OF IT’S POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
vV* ys */_■
A'
%
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager,
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
MANNESMANN FAUCET & SPIGOT PIPES
possess a high elasticity, which obviates breakages as with Cast-Iron Pipes.
AGENTS - NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY) LTD., 109 PITT STREET.
A Complete
Shearing Plant
for £,100!
For £lOO you can get three stands of the famous Cooper Sheep=Shearing Machines
and a 2=B.H.P. Fairbanks=Morse Engine. It’s an offer too good to miss, for the
engine is economical to run, reliable and safe, while everyone knows that the
reputation of the Cooper Machines has been won on sheer merit.
Cooper Engineering Co., 16 Young Street, Sydney.
C QQp&L
1
M*
m
IWi
MALTHOID ROOFING has been used by the Federal Government
in the erection of the first buildings at the future Capital Site.
MALTHOID— a rooting suitable for every kind of building.
Send for sample and full information. -
THE PARAFF&TK PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE 1 CLYDE .
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
ĥ
THE- CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U?
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES.
CREAM COOLERS, BUTTER FACTORY REQUISITES.
C. A. MACDONALD LTD.,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“ Would be, could be ” Spa’s, drawn from coal measures, limestone
regions, or saline cordial room inventions, only perform “ Gas-bag ”
duties for the seller and for the buyer too.
DEWHURST
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol.3l—No. 1592.]
[Thursday, August 18, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper


REMOVAL NOTICE.
We have Removed to our new spacious and well-lighted premises at
238 PITT STREET,
Opposite Sydney School of Arts.
The public are cordially invited to visit our new premises, where our enormous stock of boobs in
every department of Literature is so arranged that customers can inspect the books on the shelves.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA. and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
CD
r ;v-
D.
The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
The Trachea or
Windpipe.
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Agencies in all
The RED PAGE
A Tragic Comedienne
It is raining Memoirs just now. Some of
the writers have stories to tell, some believe
it necessary to put themselves right with the
world, and ever so many wish to tell other
people’s stories over again. The methods of
journalism invaded book-production long
ago; but never were “ newsy ” books so
much in demand—traveller’s impressions,
novels about notabilities, letters, anecdotes,
and, especially, any chronique scandaleuse.
Every big incident that attracts attention is
quickly followed by its “ History ” ; every
notoriety publishes a “ Life.” To-day s
events, reported in the evening paper, will be
re-enacted to-morrow in the moving pictures,
and next day we may read in a portly volume
how and why they happened. The person-
age of the moment offers alms to Oblivion in
many ways. Inscriptions on town halls
and monuments of brass fail him, and a bio-
graphy on wood-pulp is stufi that will not
endure for long.
It is raining Memoirs, and those of women
make the biggest splash. The dear creatures
are so engagingly frank. They burn to tell
the truth, the whole truth—even about their
closest friends. And they tell it charmingly,
as a rule. “ Woman is Art,” said Mrs.
Jerome with a fine sweep last week. That
is the superlative. Positive —artful, com-
parative —artist, superlative—art. Here we
have a woman who was all three, who has
lived a long life and tells her own story.
Like the Countess of Cardigan, she has never
had a child ; but she has her memories.
Helene von Racowitza begins her auto-
biography (just translated into English)
artfully:
The following sketches are not intended for
timid souls or conventional thinkers, nor for
those who are prudishly inclined or narrow-
minded. Such people had better not take up this
book—not even glance through its pages—for the
result might be vexation of spirit!... The fol-
lowing reminiscences of a stormy life are offered
for emancipated people—to those independent
souls who, having reached the pinnacle which
stands above all conventions, look forward to the
time when each one will be free, etc. . . .
Everyone in his heart believes that he has
reached that pinnacle. Anyhow, the pro-
logue is like the advertiser’s “Don’t look
inside,” or the notice, “For men only,”
which, since the days of Bluebeard, never
failed to whet a woman’s curiosity. It is
admitted that men are just as bad ; particu-
larly when a woman announces unreserved
seats in the confessional.
Part of Helene’s story is already well
known. She published in 1879 a full account
of her relations with Ferdinand Lassalle, the
popular Socialist leader in Germany, whose
personality threatened to over-cloud Bis-
marck’s, and whose brilliant career was sum-
marily closed in a duel over Helene in 1864.
To English readers that passionate love story
received additional interest through its use
by George Meredith in The Tragic Comedians.
The novelist followed the lady’s version very
closely, and adapted her report of conversa-
tions written down from memory. There
was another version, unfavorable to Helene,
which Meredith ignored. The woman has
the last word, and Time gives her the
verdict.
The Autobiography (from Angus and
.Robertson) states that Helene von Don-
niges was descended from vikings on the
father’s side, and that her mother be-
longed to a cultured Jewish family. (Las-
salle was also a Jew, tall and handsome, and
Helene bore some resemblance to him.) In
her father’s house at Munich she met
many distinguished people—Hans Andersen,
Rubinstein, Paul Heyse, besides the notables
of the Bavarian Court.
Of course, in such company and amidst all these
celebrities I heard many things that were not
good for such a young and impressionable creature
as I was to hear. One must agree with me when
I say that the milieu in which I grew up was the
best imaginable? for the evdtivation of a sense of
the beautiful, for intellect, artistic fantasy and
social breeding; but the least favorable for all
one understands by the term morality.
Her parents were too busy amusing them-
selves to bother about the girl. At 12
she was engaged by them to marry an
Italian of 42 ; but this engagement was
broken off when she was 15, for she had
then met a young Russian naval officer, with
whom she fell violently in loye. They were
at Nice and it was springtime. Another
lover on the spot said afterwards : “I have
witnessed three elemental forces in my life.
I have been in a typlioon, I have seen one of
the greatest volcanic eruptions of this cen-
tury, and I was a spectator of Helene von
Donniges’s first love.” The tiresome Italian
being dismissed : “1 now abandoned myself
with every fibre of my heart to love ” —and
there follow some glowing passages about a
summer night and a bower of roses.
Love, youth, the glorious summer night: these
did as they have done since time began and youth-
ful love existed. Oh, blessed be that night of
flowers !
Not only was there intoxication in the
climate of Riviera, but the social atmosphere
was relaxing for a precocious girl resembling
in some ways her namesake of Troy.
The whole of society seemed to have been seized
with an erotic mania. I can remember no lady in
those days, whether married or single, who had
not her liaison ; and behavior which at other times
would have been severely judged was now winked
at.
At 17 she was in Berlin, where the people
were icebergs, and she longed for a southerner
with hot blood in his veins. He came in
the shape of Yanko von Racowitza, a Rou-
manian, who loved her, but failed to inspire
more than a sisterly return. There was an
informal engagement between them when
Lassalle appeared on the scene, swooped
down like an eagle and captured her at a
glance.
The bigoted father interfered disastrously.
Helene acted im), llsively. Lassalle made
tactical errors. Other, parties helped to
agg :avate the trouble. Lassalle challenged
her father. Yanko, who knew nothing of
firearms, took old Donniges’s place, and, by
accident, killed Lassalle. . . . The story is
told over again with ampler detail. It is
well worth telling, and for this alone the
book is valuable.
She married Yanko afterwards, and nursed
him until he died of consumption a few
months later. Then she went on the stage
and married again. After some few years of
calm she separated from No. 2. There
were many casual lovers afterwards,
but no striking adventures are recorded
until her meeting with Serge von
Scliewitscb, for whom arose “a mighty
love —one that has endured for over 30
years.” They went to America, he working
as a journalist, she as an actress, and there
she fell under the spell of Madame Blav-
atsky. Her pluck was shown in learning to
make her own clothes, in learning to paint
and selling her pictures. She also wrote a
novel or two.
She now lives with her husband in Russia,
and looking back over her stormy career,
she sees that it wars good. Of her personal
charms she had to speak frankly, as they
were so momentous a factor in her life. Her
art of life was merely “to enjoy to the full
the scent of the roses and all other gifts of
nature. ... I know it to be a form of
egotism.” She thinks well of men. She
loved many of them and gave her favors
regally; but never sold them. She had
the courage to face the consequences of
her actions. Helene von Racowitza is
assured of immortality, for she is one of the
great lovers of history.
Dowden's Essays
Dowden’s Essays Modern and Elizabethan
is a collection of occasional articles and
addresses, held together, loosely enough, by
the catholic taste and gracious power of
appreciation which make Dowden’s guidance
delightful, even when he leads us beside
waters that are still to stagnation. He him-
self is always modern. He could live for a
time contentedly in Arcadia, as he tells us,
but it would be as a visitor. He is not a
specialist or a bookworm ; and for that very
reason his views are wide and calm, restful
and unexciting, whereas, to quote his own
words, “ the enthusiasm of the specialist is
too often proportioned to the obscurity of
his toil ; he has departed from the centre
and cannot find his way back.”
In subject, the “modern” essays are
fairly cosmopolitan. There are careful
appreciations of Pater (and “that endless
dialogue with self which constituted his
life”), Ibsen (and his “third empire in
which the twin-natured shall reign ”) and
Heine, for example. And we work gradually
back through the centuries till we reach the
age of Shakespeare, by which time we have
narrowed our outlook to the little England of
Drake and Raleigh. An article on ‘ ‘ Goethe’s
West-Eastern Divan,” the lyric record of a
poet’s Indian Summer, enshrines a number
of delightful though unequal translations,
made by Dowden during a holiday in Corn-
wall. May I quote a single quatrain ?
Is it possible, sweet Love, I hold thee close,
Hear the divine voice pealing musical ?
Always impossible doth seem the rose,
And inconceivable the nightingale 1
But by an essay on “ Goethe’s Hermann and
Dorothea,” we are reminded that Dowden is
the president of the English Goethe Society,
and that, in that capacity, he has been ex-
pected to hold forth “ whether he wanted to
or not.”
Naturally we expect something good when
the author of Shakespere: his Mind and Art
—which was published 35 years ago—writes
on his favorite topic. Sidney Lee has been
telling us that the man Shakespeare cannot
be discovered through the work of the
dramatist—a natural statement for a man
who is so busy with facts that he misses the
truth—and Dowden is delighted to explain,
with infinite courtesy, suave humor and
gentle patience, that he is not much better
than an ass He proves, by reference to
authors of whose outward career we know
more than we know of Shakespeare’s, “ first,
that a writer may be truly dramatic and yet
betray much that is personal; secondly, that
a dramatist does not always ‘ summon out
of nothingness’ the emotions which he .ex-
presses in his art, but, on the contrary, often
recurs to the person who is nearest to him—
himself of the past or the present —and from
the inner experience of that person obtains
the material, which he re-handles, modifies,
varies, or transmutes.” Cautiously, on this
comparative method, the grave scholar pro-
ceeds to show what we can learn about
Shakespeare from his own plays. “In such
an interpretation we are rather putting
things together than making any great ven-
■tui'es of faith. But a venture of faith is
often warrantable, is often a part of science,
and has often received its justification from
evidence afterwards adduced.” But Sidney
Lee gets oli more easily than his Honor Judge
Webb, of whom we are told, xvith abundance
of proof on the last point, that ‘‘ He is
brilliant; he is dexterous; unhappily, lie is
not well-informed.” If you know nothing
about the Elizabethan Age you are a certain
prey of the Baconian theory. If you merely
know Shakespeare, it is still easy to be a
Baconian ; nor is it impossible to join the
ranks of the elect after studying the pages of
both poet and philosopher. But to have an
intimate acquaintance with Elizabethan
literature and still to believe that Bacon was
the author of the plays requires too violent
an exercise of faith. And, with a quiet
movement of his hand, Dowden brushes the
buzzing insect away.
An essay on “Elizabethan Psychology”
gives a clear, succinct account of a
subject of great importance to Shake-
spearian students, though its importance has
hardly been sufficiently recognised in the
past. Another on “The English Masque”
is necessarily in the main a eulogy of Jonson.
Finally, a neat little lecture on “Elizabethan
Romance ” tells as much as most of us need
know of the pdrished literary pleasures of our
Elizabethan ancestors. But, for mine own
poor part, lam sorry that Dowden, though he
confesses to having found pastime in Sidney’s
Arcadia, has been unable 1 ‘ to obtain more
than a moderate degree of pleasure ” from
Nasli’s picaresque novel, Jack Wilton, the
forerunner of liobinson Crusoe and jßoderick
Bandom. It is poor in structure, but there
is true comedy and tragedy in its episodes,
and the hero is a friend of mine. (Copy
from Dymock’s.)
WOLOMGIN.
The Jingles of “Dryblower”
Westralia, the youngest of the States, has
not produced any bards yet. , Some three or
four books of verse printed there were
written by t’other-siders. The best known'
rhymester in the West is “Dryblower,” who
hails from Castlemaine (Vic.), and now pub-
lishes a collection of his JarraHand Jiiu/ies
(“Sunday Times,” Ltd., Perth ; 2s. 6d.). The
canvas binding of this little volume is sym-
bolical of the contents—coarse in texture,
roughly finished, but strong. “Dryblower”
has set forth his own idea of what is wanted
in verse in “The Rhymes our Hearts can
Read.” .
We are sated of songs that drone the praise
Of a world beyond our ken ;
We are bored by the ballads of beaten ways
And milk-and-water men;
We are tired of the tales the lovers told
;■ To the cooing amorous dove ;
We have banished the. minstrelsy of old
And the lyric of languid love ;
We are done with the dirges cut and dried
In the Londonsquare and slum ; /
But we’re ripe for a rhyme whose metres stride
Through saltbush, scrub and gum.
Sing us the song unsung by men
Of the narrow and cautious creed ;
Write with a strong and strenuous pen
The rhymes our hearts can read.
“ Dryblower ” does not imagine that his
verses fill the bill. Though he is no milk-
and-water man, he has not disdained to
borrow some of his effects from “ the ballads
of beaten ways.” There is little of the
“ saltbush, schub or gum ” in these jingles ;
they reek of the mining camp and the boom
townships. How rapid the growth of W.A.
has been is indicated in “Ten Years Ago,”
one of the best things in the book :
Ten years aero Westralia slept,
A Cinderella lone and shy,
Within whose veins no ardor leapt,
For whom Hope gilded not the sky.
Ten years ago she waked and yawned,
Unconscious of her destined fate ;
Ten years ago her heyday dawned.
To lift her to her high estate ;
Her wond’rous wealth bewitched the world ;
Towards her turned the human flow,
When Bayley back the curtain hurled,
Ten years ago.
That was written in 1902; but the con-
trast is more vividly shown in verses called
“ ’93 and ’99.”
No library we boasted—mental pabulum we
found .
On the labels of the meat tins lying dereliot
around.
To-day a garcon hurries to the tinkle of the bell
Where once we gasped and sweltered in an
undiluted hell.
There is more than" one verse of praise for
the men who blazed the track, and a word
of sympathy for the men who’ve missed the
’bus. There is a good deal of imported slang
and there is much native humor, vigor and
humanity in these newspaper verses.
Dry blower” does not put his name on his
title page. For the West it is not necessary,
as most people there know that the pen-name
stands for Edwin Greenslade Murphy, who
humped his swag and took to dryblowing in
the early days of Coolgardie. After a varied
experience as miner and broker he has
settled down on the Inky Way.
“It is said that the English dearly love a
lord, but it may with equal truth be con-
ceded that the Australians fairly worship the
peerage.” This coticession is made by George
Forbes in a feeble story called An Australian
Peer (N.S.W. Bookstall Co.). The heroine,
apparently, is not a true Australian, as she
turns down a live English lord in favor of a
N.S.W. Labor member. Even the latter,
when he comes into his peerage, is too proud
to wear the title.
W. H. Lister, reprints an assortment of
sketches and yerse which have appeared in
Queensland papers oyer the signature of
“Heinrich Scheinloof.” They ,are written
in that sort of bad English with a cold in its
nose which has been a familiar “humorous
medium ” in American papers since the days
of Hans Breitmann. The humor of Me—und
Schmertzer (Wendt and Qo.) is fairly obvious,
arid does not gain much from the Anglo-
German patter.
Me und Schmertzer vos von day in der Nort
Coast, train, und lie vos saying to a schap dot vos
dere dot he could told by der look of any man vot
his bolitics vere. Dot odder schap said he don’d
could beliefe id. “ Veil,” says Schmertzer, “dot
man,” pointing to him, “vos been a Philpite.”
Der man said, “Kervite correct.” Den he
pointed to anodder und said, “Dot ven vos a
Labor! te.” He said. “Kervite correct.” But
der gliniax came ven he pointed to a third man
sitting in der corner : “ He is a Kidstonite,” said
Schmertzer. “You’re wrong,mid der man,
“ I’fe been sick, und dot’s vot makes me look like
dot.”
“Wang” finds the public taste for blood in
fiction shown by the frequency with which the
■Sword is brandished in the titles of novels:—
“The Shadow of the Sword,” by Robert Buchanan.
“The Sword Decides,” by Marjorie Bowen.
“Joan of the Sword Hand,” by S. R. Crockett.
“The Sword of the Lord,” by Joseph Hocking.
“By Right of Sword,” by A. W. Marchmont.
“The Sword of the King,” by Ronald McDonald.
‘ A Ladder of Swords”’ by Gilbert Parker. “A
Sword of the Old Frontier,” by Randall Parrish.
“My Sword for Lafayette,” by Max Pemberton.
“By Stroke of Sword,” by Andrew Balfour.
“The Sword in the Air,” by A. C. Gunter.
“Sword and Gown,” by Major Lawrence. “The
Trail of the Sword,” by Gilbert Parker. “The
Sword of Allah,” by T. R. Threlfall. “Won by
the Sword,” by G. A. Henty. “The Garden of
Swords,” by Max Pemberton. “Heart and
Sword,” by John Strange Winter. “By Fire
and Sword,” by Thomas Archer. “Freedoms
Sword,” by A. Swan. .. . When gentle Annie
Swan gets waving a sword about it is time to stop.
“ Caloola,” by Clement Pratt (Bookstall
Co.), does not live up to the bright cover-design
by Ben Jordan. The story is a commonplace
treatment of familiar properties—a new-
chum rouseabout and his adventures with
bush fires, blacks and a bad overseer. The
only change is in the girl he left behind him.
Most of her kind are “true till death”
heroines, and neither the titled admirer nor
the mortgage can affect their allegiance.
Some of them come out after the missing
hero and arrive on the spot just in time to
rescue the happy man from slow torture by
bushrangers. This one marries a baronet
in order to save her father’s job, and finds
that she loves him after all. She has the
unparalleled consideration to cable the joy-
ful news to her old love, and it fortunately
arrives at a crisis in the hero’s affair with
another girl. So everything is right as right
can be.


JL
n
For Guns, Rifles and all Sporting Requisites
try Anthony Horderns* Famous Low Prices.
h
Hollis & Sons’ Double-barrel Breech-loading 1 Gun,
“ The Empire,” 12-gauge, Damascus Barrels, Choke
Bore, Bar Locks, Pistol Hand Stock ... ... 456 10s.
liV.
-■
Hollis & Sons’ Special Pigeon Gun. 12-gauge, Damascus
Barrels, both Choke Bore, Greener Cross Bolt. Engine Turned
Rib, Hammers below line of sight, Chambered for 2? cases and
proved for all Nitro-Powders, Walnut Heart Stock, Pistol Grip,
neatly engraved ••• .£lO 2s. 6d.
ĥ
Scholefield’s Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun,
12-gauge, Twist Barrels, Left Choke, Bar Rebounding
Locks, Plain Hand Stock ... ... «£3 7s. 6d.
ħ
J. O. Mayne’s Double-barrel Breech-loading' Gun, 12-gauge, Twist
Barrels, Bar Locks, neatly finished ... 775.
The Liege Arms Co. Hammerless Guns, £4/18/=, £5/5/-
J. O. Mayne’s l2=Gauge Central Fire Double-Earrel Breech-
Loading Gun, Top Lever, Back Action Locks, Twist Barrels, Snap
Fore-end, Solid Strikers, Non-Reflecting Rib, Walnut Stock, 77/=
Hollis & Sons’ Double-Barrel Breech=loading Gun, Twist Barrels,
Bar Locks, Greener Cross Bolt, Walnut Stock, Left Barrel Choke Bore,
Half Pistol, Hand Stock, £5/5/=
Similar Gun, with Steel Barrels, £5/10/=
ISsISSss
Hollis & Sons’ Single-barrel Breech-loading Gun, Twist Barrels, Back
Action Rebounding Lock >£4 4s.
Blocked Leather Leg
o’ Mutton Gun Cover,
275.
0
J. O. OTayne’s Double-barrel Breech loading 1 Gun, Top Lever,
12-gauge, Twist Barrels, Back Action, Rebounding/ Locks, Snap
Fore-end, Solid Strikers, Pistol Hand, Walnut Stock, Hammers
below line of sight ... ... .. 975. 6d.
J. O. Mayne’s Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun, Steel
Barrels, Bar Locks, Greener Cross Bolt, Half Pistol, Hand
Stock ... ... ... ... ... ... ... j£4: 17s. 6d.
.
jMsy
!«
i&cSBMBm
m i
Hollis & Sons’ Hammerless Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun,
Top Lever, Damascus Barrels, Left Barrel Choke, Engine Turned Rib,
Greener Cross Bolt, Automatic Safe, Neatly Finished Walnut
Stock JEII 17s. 6d.
The illustrations of Guns on
this page are in every instance
drawn from photographs of
the actual weapon, while the
prices are
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices
Write for Illustrated Price
List of Guns and Rifles,
posted free on application.
mmim
wm&mm
mm
Scholefipld’s 12-Gauge Double-barrel Hammerless Gun, B.S.A. Steel Barrels, Extended Rib, Top Lever,
Spring Fore-end, Safety Block, neatly Engraved, Left parrel Choke, Nitro proved ... MS lOs.
W. W. Greener’s 12-Gauge Double-banel Breech-loading Hamnierless Gun, Steel Barrels,
Extended Rib with Treble Bolt on Cross Bolt Principle, Pistol Hand Stock, Deeley-edge Fore-end Fastener,
neatly engraved, both Barrels Choke Bore ... ... ... ... ... ... JEI7 10s.
W. W. Greener’s Special Pigeon Hammerless Gun £26 10s.
Small Bore Breech-
Loading Guns.
Useful to Orchardists and others
for Destroying- Vermin.
SUITABLE FOR LADIES’ USE.
The Tholet Arms Co.’s Collector
Gun, Single-barrel, 410-gauge,
33/6 ; Double-barrel, 47/6.
HOLLIS’ GUNS.
Single = barrel Breech - loading
Gun, 410-gauge Collector, 55/=
Double = barrel Breech * loading
Gun, 410-gauge Collector, Side
Lever, 87/6 ; Top Lever, £6/10/=
h
Hollis & Sons’ Double-barrel Breech-loading
Gun, “The Panmure,” Greener Gross Bolt, Sieman’s
Martin Steel Barrels, extended Rib, hammers below
line of sight, Left Barrel Choke Bore, good . Steel
Rebounding Locks, Half 'Pistol Hand Stock, flat file cut
rib. Snap Fore-end. Walnut Heart Stock, Nitro-proof,
and chambered for 2f cases .... ... ... ,£6.
aa?
Hollis & Sons’ 12-gang'e Double-barrel Breecli-loading 1
Gun, “ The Commonwealth,” Top Lever, Percussion
Fence, three Pin Bridle Locks, Left Barrel Ghoke Bore, Half
Pistol Hand, Walnut Stock, Deeley-edge Fore-end, Scroll
engraved, Engine-turned Rib, Greener Cross Bolt ... .£9.
ĥ
Hollis & Sons' Double-barrel Breech-loading Gun,
“The Stirling,” 12-gauge,' Damascus Barrels, Left
Choke, Bar Action Locks, Extended Rib, Greener
Cross Bolt, Deelev-edge Fore-end, Walnut Stock, highly
finished £7 15s.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
9
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Andrade »■ BOOKS
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
GREAT
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
1908 Edition.
Vastly Improved.
The ONLY GENUINE ~m
UNABRIDGED EDITION.
3/6, Post Free 4/-
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Prank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 1/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 124 S
pages, 400 colored plates
and engraving's, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
7 J
l
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing- Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling- the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing- some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage
no confederates and no special skill), post free any
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postage to any address.
MmoGUBs
2qi Bourke St., Melbourne
COUGHS
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and
Lung troubles quickly cured by
powelLs
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
Of All Stores
and Chemists,
BMSAM
*«ADE
Wholesa.Ee Agrents for Victoria: DU£ROEM & SAI.JSBURV, Melbourne
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
WHY BE BALDP
Aft Invitation to You to Prove the Efficacy of Harlene Free of Cost
UNIVERSAL HARLENE HAIR DRILL.
*• Harlene Hair-Drill ” is now the vogue.
“ Harlene Hair-Drill ” is not a mysterious
process. It is a scientific method of treat-
ing the scalp. It is, of course, the un-
healthy scalp that causes the hair to fall
out or become weak, dry, or brittle.
The scalp requires loosening, so that the
blood may circulate Ircely and generously
feed the roots of the hair and distribute
health. Why should men be bald and
women lose that rich blessing which is
their birthright—their beautiful, profuse
hair?
Messrs. Edwards, the proprietors of the
famous “ Harlene,” which has for so many
years done a great deal to check the alarm-
ing increase of baldness, and to check hair
troubles generally, desire to spare no ex-
pense to convince the public that Edwards’
“ Harlene-for-the-Hair ” can do what they
claim for it; with this object in view they
are distributing a free outfit sufficient for
one week’s trial.
The outfit comprises:—
(1) An instruction book that fully de-
scribes the nature of the hair and the cause
of hair troubles. It is illustrated and will be
found not only interesting, but instructive.
It fully explains the “ Harlene Hair-Drill,”
and the instructions are simple and concise.
(2) A Trial Bottle of Harlene. This trial
bottle contains' sufficient Harlene for the
scalp and hair to carry out the week's hair
drill with thoroughness.
Bemember this is a free trial. The outfit
will be sent on receipt of the coupon below.
Three penny stamps must be enclosed for
postage, although, if the package is called
for, there will be no charge whatever.
Further supplies of Harlene may be
obtained from all chemists at Is., 2s. 6d.,
and 4s.6d.per bottle, or will be sent on receipt
of Postal Order (which must includecarriage)
from the offices of Edwards’ Harlene Com-
pany, 35-96, High Holborn, London,
England.
To Messrs. EDWARDS’ HARLENE Co.,
95 & 96, High Holborn, London, England.
Sirs,—l desire to try your offer of one
week’s “ Harlene Hair-Drill,” and accept
your free trial offer of instruction and supply
of “ Harlene.”
1 enclose 3d. for postage or carriage to
any part of the world.
Name
Address
1 > »
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST-
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing- Borrowers the privilege of repaying
un to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors—The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.: The Hon. F.E. Winchcombe, M.L.C.;
. Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C. General Manager and Actuary: Richard Teeee. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
POSTAL INSTRUCTION.
Are You Ambitious ?
ħ
LET US PREPARE YOU BY POST
For any of the Following Positions.
Electrical Engineer
Mechanical Engineer
Sanitary Inspector
Architect
Mechanical Draughtsman
Surveyor
Mine Manager
Mine Engineer
Mine Electrician
Incorporated Accountant
Hospital Nurse
Shire or Municipal Clerk
Shire or Municipal Auditor
Public School Teacher
Commonwealth Official
State Official
Bank Official
Chemist
Engine Driver
Forest Guard
Station Bookkeeper
Let us know what subject you wish to learn, and
we will give you Instruction by Correspondence.
SEND TO-DAY FOR DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET. "S.”
STOTT & HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE,
Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
STEVENS
MAYNARD JR. RIFLE NO. 15.
I—
fMiti
Measures 33 inches over all. Weighs pounds. “Take Down" Feature.
Chambered for .22 Long Rifle —will also shoot C. B. caps and
.22 Short R. F. and .22 Long R. F. cartridges.
Ask your Dealer.
Insist on
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. 19
MISS COOPER, OF ADELAIDE,
who suffered from Indigestion and Varicose Veins,
■
■ •
MISS H. COOPER.
fA
declares she owes her splendid recovery to
CLEMENTS
TONIC.
Miss Cooper could not eat : everything turned
acid on her stomach. She also suffered from
Varicose Veins, which ulcerated on account of a
low condition of health. After the best doctors'
treatment failed. Miss Cooper cured herself.
People who are ill, with bad sleep, poor
appetite, biliousness, sick headache, sluggish
liver, or anaemia or poor blood, should read this
letter of this wonderful cure :
20 Franklin Street,
Adelaide, 22/6/10.
Clements Tonic Ltd.
I was a great sufferer from indigestion,
so bad that everything I took turned acid
in my stomach. I could not retain, my
food, and became weak and run down. I also suffered from Varicose
Veins, which ulcerated owing to my low condition of health.
I was told to try Clements Tonic, and felt great benefit from it.
I have no symptoms of indigestion; my appetite is good, my general
health good. The Ulcers have healed, and I feel sure will be quite
cured soon. I think everyone should know of the great benefits
obtained by this medicine. (Signed) HARRIET COOPER.
♦ -
A constipated condition of the bowels may result in serious organic
stomach disorders, abscess of the stomach,, chronic ulceration or indigos-
tion, periodic biliousness, sick headache, rheumatic neuralgia, and
kidney irregularities. By taking this medicine in time the stomach is
made regular in its action, the bowels become free from costiveness,
the blood is purified, and health maintained. Ask your chemist for it.
All stores and chemists keep it in Australasia.


A crown of glory —is a beautiful
head of hair. An Australian lady
Ai
m
%
now in London
writes under
, date Jan. 28,
1907:
“Ayer’s Hair Vigor
has done my hair
a world of good.
Thanks to it, my hair
is now thick, glossy,
and soft, and when
plaited is 55 inches
long. Ayer’s Hair Vigor
ought to be used by
every woman who
takes pride in her
appearance.”
You also may have
such a crown of
glory if you will
follow the ex-
ample of this lady and use
ytqer’s
Jtair Vigor
It will remove all dandruff and
make your hair rich and abundant.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Aver & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A-
h
TEN DAYS’FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought, of us. Your
money in full refunded with' ut question
If not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles 9
warranted five to ten year*, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim Brakes, variable gears
and all lates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to anr nort in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE. AGENTS
wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and onr eueeial offer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE DOmp Dept 280 Liverpool*
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Agent,
157 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
ĥ
f Always
Reliable !
Eley Cartridges
offer a degree of
V ~ accuracy and relia-
m' bility which the lead-
W iiig sportsmen of the
f world have not been
f slow to appreciate.
To Specify *ELEY’ when buying
cartridges is the easiest and quickest
way of ensuring complete satisfaction
ELEYi
CARTRIDGES J
Above is shown the
Eley ’44 Winches-
ter Central l ire Rifle
t artridge.
Ihe Eley * Univer-
sal.’ for Shot Guns, is
known throughout the
world as a reliable
black - powdet car-
tridge.
’Eley Smokeless’is
the popular low-
priced cartridge.
Eley ’22 Rim Fire
I Cartridge, black &
K smokeless powder
L Of y
Of Gunmafters
and Dealers
iiley Bros.
' Ltd.
Loudon.
m
i
s
•j
w
ħ
H. Hillier,
161CeorgreSt.West,
Sydney, N.8.W.,
Manufacturer, Importer.
Sporting- Suikies, £9 i os . Abhor,t Busies, solid
leather tnmmed £3l i os . Barries, from £ll 10s
G f tS ’ Pha>tonB - etc - Send for illustrated
catalogue Haruess, per set, £3 11s. Double Harness,
10s. Stock Saddles, £*2 10s. to £4 10s.
h
be sure you get
BONIMINGTON’S
IRISH MOSS.
Most chemists and retailers will give you
Bonnington s Irish Moss directly you ask for it.
Here and there, however, you will find one who
does not maintain the dignity of the profession,
and who will try to sell you a substitute, on
insidious argument “ t of makes a forger profit. You know the
ST. 7tT‘%t BonnmgtOnSi bUt have *«“ Wed my own
lri S h A MoI n ° ° ne de ° eiVe yOU ' There “ no remed y 80 88 Bonnington’s
FOR THE CHEST. THROAT AND LUNGS.
Try it the next time you have a cola, and you win be satisfied. n
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee.
"OUR JACK** Brand.
Obtainable Everywhere.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St.
Fulfils the requirements of the “ PURE FOODS" Act.
WO CUPS FOR 1/e . .
Sydney; Currie St.. Adelaide ; Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
VARICOSE
VEINS
IN THE LECS
ARE
CURABLE.
Veins have been
looked upon as
generally incur-
able, except
with the assist-
ance of the
surgeon’s knife,
and those who
understood the
subject realised
that method to
be one of pro-
crastination
P only, for the trouble invariably returned.
The VEC3EY METHOD OF TREAT-
MENT absolutely cures the worst cases by
external application only, and without laying
up. A method of cure that gives no unpleasant
trouble and that is painless and efficacious to
the utmost degree.
Only those who have seen many cases and
those who suffer can realise the dreadful
affliction that Varicose Veins are. A painless
Cure is, under the circumstances, a positive
boon to humanity.
FREE BOOK.
Let us send you our FREE HOOK, which
gives full particulars of this truly wonderful
remedy. Send 2d. Stamp to pay part postage
on same. Book sent to any address FREE.
CONSULTATION FREE. Call if possible.
The Vecsey Varixarium,
104 Linden Court, Sydney. 602
H
ORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
FOR
TIMES
AND
ALL
CLIMES
For all ages, from the nursery
\ upwards, Horlic k’s
Malted Milk is an
ideal food-beverage,
easily digested, nour-
ishing, invigorating.
It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and prov-
ides a full
diet in
sick-
ness
*
A t
break- \
fast \
time or\
supper time \
Honlick’sX
Malted Milk is
a delicious substitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute
and requires no cooking.
™ al ' Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples: 82T, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’a Malted Milk Co. Slough. Engi
the “TYPHOID FLY”
DANGEROUS DOMESTIC PEST.
This is our well-known domestic pest—the
common house fly. In addition to being a typhoi* l
carrier, the fly may carry nearly all the intestinal
diseases and is the prime spent in the spread of
summer dysentery, being in this way unquestion-
ably responsible for the death of many children
in summer. The fly also possesses importance as
a disseminator of the bacilli of tuberculosis, the
danger of human infection from tubercular fly
specks being by the ingestion of the specks
on food.
It is a startling thought that a person who
drinks a cup of tea or a glass of milk into which a
fly has fallen may take into his system 1,250,000
bacilli of typhoid, dysentery or tuberculosis.
Summing up the position, the typhoid or house
fly is a general or common carrier of pathogenic
bacteria. It may carry typhoid fever, Asiatic
cholera, dysentery, cholera morbus and other
intestinal diseases. It may carry the bacilli
of tuberculosis and certain eye diseases It
is everywhere present, and it is disposed
of with comparative ease by the uSe of
INSECTIBANE.
INSECTIBANE is sold everywhere, but it
is necessary to be careful to observe the spelling
of the name, as no other insect powder possesses
the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so
peculiarly efficacious.
Sole Proprietors ;
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.
''LINSEED COMPOUND« h, Cou e („
Colds. Loosens phlegm. Allays irritation.
%
A WISH :
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both*
Montserrat”
:: :: Sauce
the basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT" LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
M your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirelv new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease trom the first day’s use. No
ste~l bands to torture or galling pads or
1 eather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Tull Parfc’culars Posted Tree
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
Free for the Asking.
UJJ
Robert C. Swan# Co. Ltd.
The completest illus-
trated Catalogue and
Price List of Acety-
lene Burners ever
published in the
States. Shall we mail
it?
Sample Dozen
Assorted Burners,
Post Free, 10/-
304 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
IMPERIAL
°iktment
CUBES
■ i mi
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Going Down to Hell.
Going down to Hell to gather flowers,
For the roses and the lilies blossom there,
Where Marlowe sits, amid the brimstone bowers.
And Shakspeare occupies a sulphur chair.
The level meads of Heaven are dull and yellow,
The walls all set with jasper and with pearl,
And the music’s rather heavy for the fellow
Who prefers to sit with Omar and his girl.
But down below the ways are rich with roses,
Where Rosamond is walking in the shade,
And Cleopatra’s bosom still discloses
The little mocking wound the asp once made.
Down in Hell there’s really little to complain of,
Except perhaps a touch of summer heat,
And we hear a lot too much about the pain of
I he fiery lake that ripples at your feet.
Do you think when rare Ben .Tonson makes a
sally,
Or Aristophanes is out for fun,
That the legions of the damned can never rally
For the mirth the merry devil sought and won ?
In Hell the pretty girls are found in plenty,
You can pick Zenobia or Mary Ann,
And every dainty miss of sweet-and-twenty
Is sitting on the brimstone with a man.
Going down to Hell to gather flowers,
For the tulips and carnations blossom there.
Where Shakespeare sits amid the sulphur bowers,
And Mary Jane has roses in her hair.
N.S.W.
D.M.W.
Halt!
The stars in splendid order moved,
The wind upon its mission sped,
But, nigh to part with all he loved,
A man lay sick upon his bed.
He heard the sea upon the shore,
It thundered in wave after wave ;
An hour ... and he should be no more—
A still thing asking but a grave.
More fire,” he called, “ more wine, more fire
My blood is cold, my heart is chill ;
Is this the end of all desire,
The bounding pulse, the iron will ?
" ot lov e, not hate, not man, not God
Could keep me still a little time ;
Where winds have wandered I have trod,
Where eagles soar I sought to climb.
“ Worms’ food at last ! At rest to lie
While all is movement, life around—
Stars marching in the midnight sky,
Flowers springing in the fecund ground.
“Rest! Rest for me who hated rest,
Who made a fever of my life;
Who trod the East, who searched the West,
Who loved the clamor and the strife.
“ If I must fail, all things should fail,
All life, all motion cease to be—
The thunder voice, the shouting gale,
The turmoil of the savage sea.”
He struggled hard a-grip with death,
(A late moon waned in heaven’s vault)
With pallid lips and final breath
He called upon the stars to halt.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
The Breaking of the Drought.
She came down through the dry creek bed,
The hot winds played about her gown ;
A locust skirled, and, red as blood,
The sun went down.
A wild thing came at dusk to drink ;
But pools of yesterday were dry,
It slowly crawled back to the bush,
Alone to die.
A gust of wind, heat-laden, came
And rustled through the withered leaves.
The she-oaks bowed their heads and moaned
As one who grieves.
She came down through the dry creek bed ;
The winds played havoc with her hair;
She came as light as thistledown
That west winds bear.
She paused and stood near where I lay •
Her great eyes had a look of pain;
But, ah ! she bore a sweet perfume
The smell of rain.
She stooped and kissed my fevered brow,
Her breath to me was sweetly cool.
Her eyes gleamed in the twilight like
A sunlit pool.
She saw the wonder in my eyes,
The question in my lips she read.
“ See, for thy pain I bring relief,”
She softly said.
She fled along the dry creek bed,
A cool wind followed after her •
Through clouds the white moon shone, and white
I he great gums were.
I fell into an easy sleep,
And lost all sense of thirst and pain.
At dawn I was awakened by
The splash of rain.
N.3.W.
THE PARSON.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
» ¥- > ■*- >. v n *
i vi a i v i
KU
Put
"■3Sfes
CLOSED AS COUCH.
if.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155. ; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained Irom
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist \liesorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should, visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Comer* of Queen and T. C. TROEDSON,
George Streets, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
ss^
ibomoe^B
mi
i■ ■ n
nH
ii
iiu.iwye
ME
riMOTMit
flfUJßlrTQflia
till
yeae
lIHil
I^ll
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
UNDER VICE-REGAL
h
PATRONAGE.
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hairworkers and Dermatologists,
161 KING ST., SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereaph Sts.
Transformations, from £4 4s. Tails, from 7s. 6d. Natural Hair Pads, from 21s. Pring-es, from 7s. 6d.
TRY OUR. GLORIA HAIR TONIC. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Telephone 2138 Central. Country Orders Promptly Attended To.
The perfect metallic
filament lamp.
WELSBACH FILAMENT LAMPS have the
strongest filament, ensuring long and efficient
life ; instead of the fragile filament and short
life of other filament lamps.
EVERY FILAMENT IN WELSBACH
LAMPS is carefully standardised lor the
voltage, plainly marked on each lamp.
Welsbach Lamps do not blacken or carbonise
as other lamps do.
IN WELSBACH LAMPS each strand of fila-
ment is securely anchored. Imperfect attach-
ment of filament causes early collapse in
other lamps.
* t
SK
\\
5 0(*r:/xe PovJ £o
2 <k>VOLT
>N\
f/WKJ 1/
/ ' /ill
ll
\t
/¥/
METALLIC 7 /Ff Lid ME NT- L4IMPS-
-- See that your Electrician supplies WELSBACH Lamps. - *:;
v w r m% .
Highest candle power,
lowest consumption.
WELSBACH FILAMENT ELECTRIC
LAMPS will always give a far,more brilliant,
a clearer and better light than the ordinary
carbon lamps.
WELSBACH LAMPS not only have the
strongest metallic filament but have passed the
severest tests, proving them undoubtedly
superior in efficiency and economy.
WITH AN INCREASE IN LIGHT and con
venience comes a substantial decrease in con-
-1 sumption of current. WELSBACH Lamps
! pay for their installation in a quarter.
Stewart Dawson 8 C
Australia Ltd.
Strand Corner,
412 George St., Sydney.
THE SUPERIORITY OF THE WATCHES manu=
factured by Stewart Dawson & Co. is due to
the fact that every modern appliance is used
in their production. The highest possible skill for
perfection of workmanship, using only the best
material and the best mechanism that knowledge
and capital can command in their construction.
EVERYTHING THE BEST, AND NOTHING
BUT THE BEST, IS THE MOTTO OF THE FIRM.
For illustrations and details of our Watches
see Catalogue. It’s free on application.
0
m
m
Both the QUALIFY and VALUE of
Stewart Dawson’s Watches
ate famed throughout the
COMMONWEALTH.
Our Excelsior Keyless English Lever is un-
surpassed by any Watch. It is a Model
Watch, compact., convenient, reliable and
efficient. The. movement is a fine quality
|-plate, full jewelled in Rubies, and Brequet
Hair Spring: to counteract the effect of violent
exercise, also a cap to protect it from dust.
Price, £4/4/-
#
\
/
ri
1/1 %
“THE QUEEN LEVER.”
This is a high-grade Lady’s Silver
Lever Watch. It is not an ex-
pensive Watch, but it’s one that
we can recommend to you as a
first-class timekeeper. It’s a Key-
less, Jewelled, J-Plate Lever, with
nicely engraved Sterling Silver
Cases. Hunting Cases, £2/10/-
Open Face, £2/5/-
The Watch as shown h6re is a f-Plate Keyless
English Lever. It has 7 Ruby Jewels, with
a fine quality adjusted Gold Screwed Com-
pensating' Balance. It is fitted with a Special
Hair Spring, the essential advantage of which
is that the coils will not become displaced
nor catch in the regulator pins should the
watch receive a jar. Sterling Silver Cases,
and made extra strong. Special Price, £2/10/-
“THE PRINCESS.’’
This shows a really dainty little
Watch, popularly known as “The
Princess.” Although we sell many
of these every year, we seldom
have a complaint reach us, and this
should be a good guarantee that it
is a reliable article. Made in 18ct.
Gold Engraved and Plain Cases.
The movement is Keyless and
properly jewelled. Hunting Cases,
£5/10/-' ; Open Face, £4-/10/-
TERMS OF SALE.—A Written Guarantee with Every Watch. Every Watch sold in perfect confidence, and on a week’s trial;
will be exchanged if desired f or full price returned if the least dissatisfaction. Postage paid cn all Mail Orders.
“THE BUSHMANS LEVER.”
This is a Watch we can recommend.
country'wear.- We are sure it will pive y«u
every satisfaction. It is a Keyless Noti-
Maynetic Lever, Jewelled Movement, with-
dust- and damp-proof Oxydised' Steel
Cases. £1 Is.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vor,. SI.—No. 1592.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 18, 191 o;
Prick 6d.
HIS ELECTORAL EXTREMITIES.
AUSTRALIA ( anxiously): "What's the matter with him, doctor?"
DOCTOR: "Well, the fact Is, he’s got cold feet.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia lor the White Man.
Printed and Published by William Maclkod. of
Musgrave and Mc Leod Streets. Mosman. tor
Thk Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 Georgre-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384- Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ••• ° ®
Half-yearly 0 19 6
Quarterly ... ... 0 7 U
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tin Buixktin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to Wii.t.i am Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Buixktin would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods o f address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Buixktin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved oy
the publishers. .. ~
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A nstralian subjects, and- not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or A ewspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential. . , ,
Tim Buixktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS: will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tim Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand tliat it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Buixktin orii/inal humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
a (it/ interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture ivhich has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Thk Buixktin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand,'; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide —at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tim Buixktin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival,of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Hoiborn, London. W.C.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouvkr. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.,
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S. A. — IsserlisA., Seattle, Washington ; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Eotpt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hono Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Bong Kong .
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Thk Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6|in. x If An.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can oe
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 18, 1910.
THE CRYING NEED FOR BROWN
BANK MANAGERS.
Dear Bulletin, —One pleasant evening last
week, when the winds were still, and the stars
made a peaceful radiance against a background of
dark-blue, and the sea was a dead, dark calm tra-
versed by a pathway of light, and there was
nothing special abroad to infuriate the maddest
and least reliable Tory in the land, the iN.b.W.
Institute of Bankers met in Sydney and heard
Mr. J. Currie Elles discourse on “ European
Migration towards the Tropics and its Possibili-
ties.” The gentleman is described in the Sydney
Directory as a sharebroker —a member of'a wholly
non-productive class which doesn t carry 1 the
Flag of Empire further out, or break ‘up
the wilderness, or make the desert blossom worth
a cent or even a cuss. He was full of rage be-
cause many people who are not sharebrokers
and city-dwellers, having looked on the colored
races at close quarters, and lived alongside them,
and learned to know them from A to Z, have
acquired a deep objection to colored immigration.
Unless the S. M. Herald did him a gross in-
justice, these were the main features of share-
broker Elles’s discourse
Mr Elles said the result, of the migration of European
nations had been the conflict between the whitgaod the
colored races, the outcojne of which, he said, had been
little to the credit of the former, but had undoubtedly
showed the superiority of some of the latter, the occupa-
tion of Mexico and Peru by Spain being quoted as an
instance. Perhaps the greatest evil that existed by the
contact of the two races was the arrogant and over-
bearing assumption by white races of their superiority
over those of colored. That treatment of colored races
was causing, and would continue to cause, dangerous
trouble in the affairs of the world. He did not hold that
the white man was superior to the colored ; there were
various grades of each color, so the bases were equal in
an argument, BUT HE DID UNHESITATINGLY SAY,
FROM HIS OWN PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE AND RE-
SEARCH, THAT THE MAJORITY OF WHITE RACES
WERE VERY FAR BELOW THE ASIATICS IN INTEL-
LECT, ABILITY AND INTEGRITY The White
Australia policy was not only a standing menace to the
safety of tne continent, an insult to the intelligence of
any educated person, A COMPLETE AVOWAL OF THE
IGNORANCE OF HISTORY, but also being perpetuated
by iniquity and promulgated by ignorance it flouted the
dictates of the wisdom of the Great Architect of the
Universe.
I read these remarks first in the spirit of a
scoffer. I have always been under the impression
that whenever an affluent and hopelessly ignorant
Tory has some remarks to make that would dis-
grace the intelligence of a kindergarten, he
selects the Chamber of Commerce or the Institute
of Bankers as his audience, because it is
down to his level and to the level of his
observations. The mercantile class is com-
monly regarded in Australia as the most
hopelessly uneducated section of the community,
except as regards its ledgers, and its schemes for
adulteration* and its methods of faking the
assays ; so it would seem natural for the most un-
lettered species of Tory to select that sort of
audience. And, on the other hand, it is com-
monly supposed that the same Tory wouldn’t
willingly address himself to the Wharf Lumpers’
Union, because many of its members read his-
tory and political economy and such-like. In
fact, it is commonly supposed that many a man
is a shearer or a wharf-lumper or a laborer
instead of a financier, simply because he has de-
voted his spare time to books instead of to a deep
consideration of methods whereby he may
fleece his neighbor. These were the impressions
with which I first read Mr. J. Currie Ellf.s’s re-
marks ; but, on a second perusal, their obvious
justice struck me like a brick, and I became con-
verted.
* * * *
Mr. Ellks’s most notable point is his statement
that Asiatics are superior to the white races in
INTELLECT, ABILITY AND INTEGRITY.
I think the truth of that statement must be ad-
mitted. It speaks for itself and defies criticism.
Take the example of the European continent.
Turkey is controlled by an Asiatic race. The
modern Greeks, so-called, are largely adulterated
with Asiatic blood. The Russian was once a
pure European, so far as it is possible to dis-
cover ; but a long period of Tartar domination
and intermarriage made him partly Asiatic. The
Spaniard, once a pure white man, is now to a
great extent a Christianised Arab, and the Sicilian
has much Phoenician blood in his yeins by reason
of old-time Carthaginian domination. Yet these
are known to all students of history to be the
most enlightened, powerful and progressive
nations in Europe. Without the support of
Spain where would Britain be? Isn’t it the
Greek alliance which holds up Germany? No
person in his senses will deny that Abdul Hamid
of Turkey was a more brilliant, capable, humane
and intelligent monarch than the mere European
Edward VII. As for Hamid’s predecessor,
Abdul Aziz, any attempt to put, say, the late
Queen Victoria on a level with him is simply
ridiculous. Again, when one considers the self-
governing capacity of the Spaniards, Turks and
Russians, to say nothing of the Arabs, Persians,
Chinese and Tartars, as compared with the utter
incapacity in that direction shown by the British,
Swedes, Danes and Hollanders—when the cleanli-
ness and order of Constantinople and Teheran are
set against the state of London and Copenhagen,
where the streets are haunted by brigands and
packs of wild dogs—when the splendid tramway
arrangements of Damascus are compared with the
bullock-drays of Glasgow and the rickshaws of
Paris—it is impossible to avoid agreeing in full
with Mr. J. Currik Ellks. The superiority of
the Asiatic sticks out like the front tail of an
elephant—the one he drinks with. Mr. Elles is
especially Convincing when he quotes the instances
of Mexico and Peru. If they did not exist to
keep order on the American continent—if their
armies did not occupy chaotic New York and
disorderly Philadelphia—Heaven only knows what
would become of the American continent.
* * * *
Then, again, the person of reflective mind looks
back on the records of invention and scientific
achievement, and the more he considers the evi-
dence the more conspicuous does it become that
our scorn of the colored man is a mistake
and a delusion and the baseless fabric of
a dream. The locomotive, the telegraph and the
telephone were invented in Afghanistan. The
Huns devised asphalt pavements, city water sup-
plies, old-age pensions and book-keeping by double
entry, while the only double entry the white man
ever thought of was when he supplied two doors to
a public-house. The science of road-making comes
from Persia, and is still seen there at its best.
Macadam, the orginator of blue metal, was a Mede.
Aerial navigation has its headquarters in China.
Tramcars, steamships and “wireless” were de-
vised in Arabia. Drainage is a Siamese device,
and the higher education is centred in Corea.
And when one considers how many thousands of
British, French, German, Swiss and Scandinavian
students go regularly to Baloochistan to study
arts, underground medicine, geological religion,
marine agriculture and veterinary ballooning it is
impossible to deny that the white man is not quite
all that hisignorant and bumptioussupportershave
set him up to be. The ability of the Asiatic is
too conspicuous to be overlooked. The utter
failure of the British people to conquer India was
only one evidence among many that they had
under-rated the capacity of a great brown
race. Fortunately, when the Hindus occupied
London they proved a moderate and kindly
people, and didn’t push matters to extremes.
* * * *
But after all, it was not Mr. J. Currie Elles’s
remarks about the superior ability of the Asiatic
which most impressed me. I have seen the great
picture galleries of Seoul, and the statuary of
Formosa, and the universities of Moab, and these
things had become familiar—almost commonplace.
But when he assured the Institute of Bankers
that the Asiatic was ahead of the white
man in INTEGRITY, and the Institute,
apparently, didn’t contradict him, then I
grew anxious. Plainly, unless the Bank of
N.S.W. and the Corrfbiercial Banking Co. of
Sydney are under the control of niggers, the
money of the depositors isn’t safe —at least it is
much less safe than it might be. The idea of
there being men of inferior honesty at the head
of such vast concerns when perfectly reliable per-
sons might be imported from Cochin China
filled me with alarm. Under pretence of want-
ing change of a halfpenny I dropped in at the Com-
mercial Bank and asked to see the colored manager.
I was told that I couldn’t; there was no such
person. I inquired if there wasn’t a Chinese or
Hindu sub-manager or cashier or accountant to
keep an eye on the-white boss and serve as a safe-
guard for depositors, and I was told that not only
had the institution never possessed such a person,
but, so far as the officials knew, no other bank in
Australia had taken the precaution to lay in a
brown functionary of any kind. There wasn’t
even a Chaldean night-watchman or a Persian
cat. Further inquiry revealed that there
was no single Pathan on the directorate,
nor even a Corean or Calmuck or Arabian
auditor. I went away stunned, and tried to
find a reliable Burmese sharebroker to sell out
my few small investments, it being evident that
Australian finance rests on an unsound basis.
There isn’t a Burmese sharebroker in all Sydney.
I might have done business with Mr. J. Currie
Ellf.s if he had offered some compensation for
his apparent low opinion of himself in the shape
of a Mahratta managing clerk or a Cingalese
cashier ; but, so far as I can learn, there isn t
even a Pindaree in his office. Now I sit down
and think of all the years when droves of abso-
lutely honest and capable brown men could have
been brought in here without question to elevate
the moral tone of Australian commerce I
consider with grief the failure —doubtless owing
to White Australian bigotry—to import even one
cargo of Hairy Ainu or Bangkokites or Dacoits to
run the Bank of N.S.W., and thus put it above
suspicion. And, when I view that lost oppor-
tunity, I weep. What else is there to do ?
—Yours, etc., Henry Horsecollar.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Port Typhoid on Jervis Bay.
A sort of homeless ghost of a rumor has been
drifting around, to the effect that the Fisher
Government may yetspeakapieceinStatePremier
Wade sear to the effect that it wants a little
more land for the blessed capital site, and
epecially for the alleged Federal port. And if
Fisher and co. should decide to speak in Wades
ear regarding this matter it will be an eminently
justifiable proceeding. It is difficult to count up
the number of follies and incapacities and in-
sanities that are attached to the luckless Yass-
berra capital proposition, and if Wade had six
ears instead of two they would be insufficient to
hold the entire story. The site is in two pieces,
situated about 100 miles apart, which is much the
same as if half of London were on the Thames
and the rest away in Wales or over m France.
The proposed location of the city lies in the
driest part of the N. S.W. coastal and tableland
district. There is no big river flowing down
from a well-watered country elsewhere to make
up for the local deficiencies; there is a fairly
large river close at hand, but the State reserves
that to fill Barren Jack reservoir and irrigate
Riverina. There is no coal handy, and no water
power to make up for the lack of coal. The
capital is to be located on a small branch line of
railway. Its land communications with the outer
world will be those that the N.S. W. Government
feels disposed to allow it, and no more. Its
establishment will not open up new country and
attract population to any of the empty parts of
Australia which require population ; rather it is
crowded up as closely as possible to the most
densely congested area in all this continent. Many
of the advocates of Canberra declare that a
capital there will only be “a large country
town.” At least two of them stated openly
that they voted for the sith because it was one
where the growth of an imposing city—a city
worthy to be the one continental capital on earth
—was impossible. They didn’t want an imposing
capital which might detract from the importance
of the State cities. The selection of Yassberra
was the work of a discredited Tory Parliament,
and the people signified their disapproval—so far
as they could do, seeing that they were not
allowed a Referendum—by destroying that l ar-
liament root and branch at the first opportunity.
Nothing more drastic has happened in Australia
than the wiping out of the Yassberra Parliament.
Then, again, the area set aside as a Federal terri-
tory is so small that any comprehensive experi-
ment in the public ownership of land is impossible.
The lack of coal and water-power make manufac-
tures practically out of the question, so instead of
the Federal metropolis being a magnificent asset,
worth anything up to £100,000,000, it will be
simply a place to be supported out of the Federal
revenue. Its ‘•port,” being inside the prohi-
bited area, will be held on a dubious title,
and as it ends at high-water mark, and will
be separated from the sea at low
a strip of State property, its value as a “port’ is
very dubious. And the scrap of ground on the
shores of Jervis Bay, allotted to the Common-
wealth for the purposes of its “ port ” is so very
small that should a town spring up there, it will
have no water supply except by the consent or
forbearance of Wade or his successors. It has
been a sordid, rotten, unspeakable, parish-
minded muddle all through; but if the Fisher
Government really thinks of asking for a little
more ground at the alleged “port” rOom for a
water-catchment and a reservoir, and a galvan-
ised iron tank or two, and a sewage farm,
so that it won’t be necessary to empty the sewage
into Jervis Bay—it will do something to make at
least one aspect of the business a trifle more
respectable.
Some Bank-Notes and an Ass.
A POINT about which the advocates of Private
Enterprise, as against Government, bank notes,
made a heap of clamor lately was the alleged
superior convertibility of the Private Enterprise
paper. “ If every bank-note in the country were
presented to-morrow,” it was solemnly averred,
“ there would be abundance of gold to redeem
them, while the Government notes will only be
backed by enough gold to redeem a quarter of
them.” Nobody seems to know exactly which ass
first dashed down that very silly statement
on the table of publicity, but the statement
itself struck the Private Enterprise crowd
as a godsend, and the changes were rung
upon it in every possible fashion. Yet it
won’t stand a single moment’s inspection.
It is; of course, true that the banks could_give
gold'at any moment for every one of their Private
Enterprise notes — if the note-holders hod the luck ,
on the day of panic, to get in ahead of the depositors.
If they didn’t get in ahead of the depositors then
the banks, instead of promptly cashing all their
notes, would have to repudiate the whole lot. lor
it must be always borne in mind that there isn t a
single sovereign kept as a reserve against the
Private Enterprise bank note issue ; it just takes
its chance among the general assets, and on the day
of trouble the fastest runner will get paid and the
slow person with a club foot won’t. The Private
Enterprise note isn’t so much a note as a sprint,
and a sufficient numberof them makes a Marathon.
The Bank of England keeps a separate gold reserve
against its notes, and doesn’t mix them up with its
general business ; but the Australian bank mana-
gers have alwavs’ had an idea that they knew
more than the Bank of England. As regards the
statement' that the Federal Treasury, by reason of
its insufficient reserves, wouldn’t be able to cash
its notes on presentation in the impossible event of
them all arriving together, that is also rather reck-
less. The Federal note will have more than the
mere cash reserve behind it; it will also be backed
by all the cash that happens to be in the lreasury,
and that, on some occasions, may be a much
bigger item than the reserve. This fact puts it in
a very different category from the private bank
note, which depends for its convertibility solely
on the forbearance of the bank’s current account
depositors. The situation of the Federal Treasury,
if all its notes were presented for payment on one
day, wouldn’t be one-tenth so awful as that of the
banks if all their current account deposits turned
up for payment on one day. That would indeed
be a devil of a situation, and the thought of it
should make the private bank-manager a humbler
and less bumptious man.
♦
The Parson and the Nigger.
At the School of Arts, on Monday night, the Peace
Society held its first general meeting since the deatn oi
the late King. .. . The Rev. A. Rivett, «■ hose sub-
ject was “ Australia’s Real Peril —Not Yellow, but Whit ,
began by saving that as the Dean of Newcastle had de-
clared the great danger to Australia was the spirit oi
gambling, so he would say that the real danger was
within rather than from without, and he proceeded to
prove that that danger lay chiefly in our attitude of con-
temptuous hostility towards the colored races. .. . ne
did not believe in the Yellow Peril. If the Chinese or
Japanese ever became aggressive, it would be our own
fault for setting them the example of war and goading
them into retaliation for wrongs suffered at our tianas.
The basis of the whole problem was simply color, and
color was simply a question of latitude. White residents
at Thursday Island and surf-bathers at Manly were often
as dark-skinned as Malays. Jesus Christ and St. Paul
were colored people, yet if they came to Australia we
should refuse to admit them or should want to take their
finger-prints. The colored races in many points were
superior to us.— Sydney daily paper.
The love of a certain class of parson for his nigger
is regarded by many as an astonishing circum-
stance, but after all it is less surprising than it
looks. The nigger is fast developing into the
parson’s last hope. Among the white races the
orthodox divine has come to be regarded as rather
a back-number ; as adull expounder of impossible
legends ; as a person who is hardly to be regarded
in a serious spirit. He is tolerated with a sort of
good-humored contempt, and he has his value as
a subject for caricature ; but he is little regarded
in the pulpit, and when he takes to the lecture
platform his shameful inaccuracy makes him
about the least valuable recruit that any cause can
acquire. There was a time when he was a power
in the land—when he ranked with kings and
dictated to viceroys; but of these glories no
vestige remains. It is only when he gets hold
of a congregation of the simple, guileless nigger
that he becomes something like his old self.
Brown Brother doesn’t notice the huge discre-
pancies in the old theology. He doesn’t ask awk-
ward questions. He believes in Hell, and is will-
ing to give his cocoanut to keep out of it. It is
even possible at times to flog the congrega-
tion, and if a parson happens to feel that
way he likes that kind of congregation.
The Rev. Shirley Baker, for instance, did
marvels in the way of flogging in Tongo ; and
there was the recent case of the Rev. jnicholas
Hey, who chained up a girl student of his flock
and whipped her with a stingray tail. If the
Rev. Nicholas had ministered at Darling Point,
Sydney, and had publicly whipped, say, a
young lady of the choir—well, the results can
be left to the imagination. Away in the fast-
nesses of Brown Brother the preacher can
still rank as a small god, instead of as the
tail-end of things. Sometimes he attains to
political power, and becomes a species of dic-
tator, and then he is a very large god. He can
make much money by trade, which is a thing
that is hardly possible in his own country. And,
even in places where his message is rejected, lie
doesn’t bump against the “ Higher Criticism,
which is a very nasty thing to knock against; he
may be hated, but he isn’t necessarily despised.
So it is natural that a certain class of parson
should be filled with bitter anger at the white
man and should exalt the nigger. It may seem
amazing that any set of men should be will-
ing to sacrifice the white race and the
white civilisation to their own wounded
vanity, but more remarkable things have
happened. In his frenzied desire to exalt
his nigger, the preacher is as wildly inexact
as usual. He cheerfully gives a certificate
that the good, kind Asiatic will never attack
us unless we—the utterly degraded white
people—“ goad them into retaliation for wrongs
suffered at our hands.” It is true that the very
beginnings of trouble between Asia and Europe
were caused by Asiatic invasion ; that a vast
section of Europe was at least four times made a
desert by the brown men from the East; that
kindly Asiatics tramped all the way from the
borders of China to burn and plunder and massa-
cre in Greece, though the Greeks hadn’t so much
as sent them a telegram couched in offensive lan-
guage ; that even Paris narrowly escaped capture
by the hordes of Shkm ; and that the Asiatics hold
portion of Europe to this day—but the pfo-mgger
parson ignores these things. Russia was op-
pressed by invading Asiatics for centuries.
The last of the kingdoms of Asiatic sav-
ages in European Russia was not recovered by
the white man till a mere 118 years ago. In fact,
despite certain trivial Roman annexations in the
extreme corner of Asia, it can be truly averred
that it was only after some 1500 years of
Asiatic aggression, insolence and brutality that
the European went to call on Shem and
ask him what he meant by it. Anyone
who reads these old histories might reason-
ably consider that it is still well for the
white man to keep his powder dry, and put not
too much faith in kind-hearted Shem ; but the
maddened parson apparently doesn’t read. He is
so guiltless of knowledge that he apparently still
imagines (1) that the ,Tew is a black man ; (2)
that Australia takes finger-print records of Jews ;
and (3) that the Holy Ghost, the alleged father
of the Redeemer, is, or was, a nigger. And he
still imagines that color is “ simply a question of
latitude.” Apparently he hasn’t yet dropped to
the fact that some of the very dark-colored races
of the earth have been found in Alaska, Tierra
del Fuego, Mongolia, Tibet and other regions of
bitter cold, and that an absolutely black BiNGHI
used to hang out where Hobart stands to-day.
In Re “ Calumny,” “ Misrepresentation,” Etc.
It is diverting j ust now to hearken to the squeals of
the N.S.W. “Liberal” journals over the allegedly
frivolous, false and cruel accusations levelled at
their party by Labor. “ The Calumny Campaign,”
“ Misrepresentation,” “ The Campaign of Slan-
gier.” These are some of the daily paper head-
ings that have impinged the public eye in the last
few days. It is all on account of Labor starting
to play anti-Labor in a small way at the latter S
own game. And yet the reproaches that are
being handed out by Labor now are absurdly mild
by comparison with those which anti-Labor has
trafficked in in the past. The writer was glanc-
ing through an old Sydney Telegraph file the
other day, and presently he lighted on this (under
date 11/12/’O6) from the pen of G. Reid :
Thev (the Laborites), the enemies of private enterprise
—who seek to destroy industrial freedom-ymo hope to
BENEFIT THEMSELVES BY A SOCIAL REVOLUTION, Will poll all


their votes. Will you do less for liberty than they will
do for revolution ?
A cartoon in the same issue backed up this ami-
able assertion that the Labor party consisted of
recklessly-selfish revolutionaries, by picturing
Hughes, Lyne, Watson and others, as pirates
looting the ship of State. Has anyone accused
Wade of thieving? A couple of days later
Watson mentioned that he favored an Australian
as opposed to a hired navy. Reid at once assailed
him as a ‘‘miserable disloyalist,” and W. E.
Johnson opined darkly that “those who favored
an Australian navy did so with the intention of
one day turning its guns on the Mother Country.”
On November 29, Laborites were accused of being
“persistent boycotters,” on which text the Tele-
graph erupted as follows :
The truth is there is an intolerant, tyrannous, coercive
element in the temper of Labor-Socialism. It is willing
etc* 1 * 3^*16 un "British uses of its numbers and organisation,
On various occasions during the months of
October, November and December, ’O6, the
Labor party was charged with advocating An-
archy, Atheism, free love, the scotching of the
sacrament of marriage, the confiscation of all
savings, the abolition of the Christian religion,
ai ? an d defensive alliance with the
Church of Rome, and sundries. When the elec-
tion was over a candidate sued a paper for sub-
stantial damages solely because it had classed him
with this party—and, considering the outrage-
ously criminal sort of party “Liberalism” repre-
sented it to be, no one was surprised. Com-
pare with the above the worst that has been hurled
in the way of invective at “Liberalism.” Thecriti-
cism that has hit hardest is, seemingly, that which
has reference to the Coercion Act. The Wade ad-
ministration is accused by its opponents of having
caused men to be gaoled without the benefit of
trial by jury, and of having suffered them to be
paraded publicly in leg-irons. But these charges,
unlike anti-Labor’s anarchy and free-love fabrica-
tions happen to be strictly true. They are on
record for all who run to read. Wade has been
personally taxed with remitting the punishment
of one McKYE-a North Sydneyite, whose case
was described by the Judge who tried it as
peculiarly bad”—without consulting the Judge
who presided at the trial or anyone else. The
essential distinction between this charge and the
anti-Socialist allegation that Watson and his col-
leagues proposed, if they got office, to enrich
themselves at the expense of the Commonwealth,
is that the first is demonstrably true, while the
Sec ?. n v. ] ® n t. The Wade Government is overcome
with holy indignation at the suggestion that its
Saturday Half Holiday and Workmen’s Com-
pensation legislation, its money grants to civil ser-
vants, its extraordinary Superannuation Bill, and
its recent promises to “ do something ” for the for-
merly despised clerk are in the nature of bribes
Yet that suggestion is at least as justifiable as the
frequency-exploited anti-Socialist one to the
effect that Jos. Thomas, Fisher and such-like law-
abiding church-goers were on a moral and political
par with European Anarchists. The whole trouble
with Liberalism,” in this regard—the circum-
stance which accounts for the vigor and bitterness
of its lamentations—is that theindictments against
i are for the most part so painfully unanswerable.
iN o one much minds being accused hysterically of
highway robbery, murder with violence and
piracy on the high seas when he is able to call the
members of his church to prove he was worship-
ping at the time the crimes were committed. But
the grief and dismay of the citizen who, on being
charged with theft, is shown to have the pur-
loined goods about him, are real and must have
vent.
The Too-Numerous Employer.
When half a dozen Sydney carrying businesses
were put into the pot, the other day, and offered to
the public in the shape of one moderately bigco.,
the painful subject of workmen’s hours and wages
wasn t so much as hinted at. Still, if one dug
down deep enough into the minds of the carrier-
bosses, the recent Wages Board award would pro-
bably be found to be the real cause of the latest
move. Ihe parcel-delivery men’s hours used to
be simply appalling, and the longer the poor
wretches worked the less they seemed to
get for it. The bosses, with almost one
accord, said that really they were paying
the last fraction they could afford to pay
which meant, if it meant anything at all, that if
they paid their “hands” any more or worked
them any less, there wouldn’t be anything in the
business for themselves. Still, though they were
told that they would either have to do something
better for their “hands” or quit the business!
they now say the goodwill of these little concerns,
with tbe extra obligations thrown in, is worth
over £19,000. Apart from that, however, even
« i , lmiSSeH wouldn't pay better wages or
afford shorter hours, the reason why would be
pretty plain from the bosses’ own remarks ; for
they allege that the bosses were so unnecessarily
numerous that by re-organising the whole thing, and
putting an end to overlapping and waste, a better-
service can be provided for £6OOO a year less than
the old figure. \A hen an Arbitration Court or a
Vages Board proposes to do something, and the
boss cries out that he will have to go out of the busi-
ness it that particular thing is done, the argument
is generally expected to end right there—an Arbi-
tration Court or Wages Board mustn’t think of
driving a man out of business. Yet, on the
pydney boss : earriers’ own showing, it might often
be a good thing for the public as well as for the
employees if a few were driven out. In
tact, as long as the old number remain in
it is made quite clear that neither public
nor employees can get a square deal. Cer-
tainly, there were too many drivers in the
business as well as bosses. But the bosses haven’t
any compunction about squeezing out the sur-
plus drivers; and when the prospectus said that
expenses could be reduced by £6OOO a year, largely
by sacking the surplus “hands,” the public didn’t
say it was shocked. On the contrary, it said
Hooray . Here’s a chance to make a bit ’’—and
rushed for shares with enthusiasm in one hand
and a cheque in the other. Now, if it is a fair
and proper thing to squeeze out surplus or excess
employees like that, why shouldn’t an Arbitra-
tion Court or Wages Board frankly take the risk
ot squeezing out surplus employers, when it is ex-
cessive competition that stands in the way of
decent conditions for the workpeople ?
A Land-Jobbing Story.
Victoria has begun to once more remark that it
thinks it sme Is a rat. The odor was first
noticed through the insistence of farmer Plain
mem >e [ for , Geelong, and the Weary
Ministry was forced to inquire privily. Its in-
quiries disclosed so much that it then appointed
a County Court Judge to delve into the whole
business, bo far as is known with certainty, the
matter concerns the purchase of certain Cohuna
Lands for closer settlement—parti v by the pre-
vious Board and partly by thtf present one.
There were nine blocks of land altogether,
all of which save one were reported on and
valued by C. R. Anderson, the Water Com
mission’s engineer for the district, and in four of
the cases the name of J. J. O’Connor appeared
O Connor seemed to have amazing luck in buying
up estates on which the Closer Settlement Board
had its eye, and re-selling them to the State at a
good profit. His transfers were in no case duly
registered; the properties were merely trans-
ferred from the previous owners to the Board by
direction of J. J. O’Connor aforesaid. In the
case of one block of 1309 acres, the original owners
got £9159 175., while the Board paid O’Connor
£11,122 13s. 6d. ; in another, for 720 acres the
original owners got £5663 3s. 2d., while the Board
handed O’Connor £8629 11s. 6d. The pro-
perties were all valued, independent of Ander-
son, and the prices paid were mostly
at or under the independent valuation: the
mysterious circumstances about the cases being
how O’Connor came to be in the business and
how and why the Board couldn’t and didn’t
acquire the properties at the prices he paid for
them. In the ninth case, on which Anderson
didn’t act as valuer, the block of 240 acres had
been bought, like some of the others, from J. and
R. Fyffe by O’Connor for £lBB7 Bs. 7d. It is
alleged that O’Connor sold to Anderson for
£2276 18s. Bd., and that Anderson sold to the
Board for £2876 7s. Anderson couldn’t very
well value this block himself, so he got an inde-
pendent local valuer and O’Connor to take a look
at it. One of the C. S. Board members, Hastie,
.also sized it up. All their valuations were above
the price the Board paid for it, but that figure
was also a long way in advance of the price
O’Connor had got it for only a little while
previously. All these troubles, and many other
troubles that have attended the land resumption
business, speak eloquently for the wisdom of the
Fisher Government in sticking to the progressive
land-tax as a means of breaking up big estates.
Under that system the business works automati-
cally. With a sufficiently heavy tax the land cuts
itself up and stays cut up. There are no Closer
Settlement Boards, no big loans, no bad bargains
made with grasping landowners, no commission,
no intermediaries, no dark suspicions, no Bents,
and no O’Connors. Also there is, incidentally,
some revenue.
Maoriland’s New Labor Party.
The workers in M.aoriliind are slowly but; surely
moving into line against the so-called “Liberal
form of Government that, in the later years of
Skddon’s reign and the entire length of Joseph
Ward’s management, has done no more than
throw them an occasional bone to gnaw. In
reality it is the commercial and farming interests
which havelmdthepickingsfromM.L.’s legislative
table for the past 12 years or more. Now the vic-
tories of the workers in Australia have heartened
their brothers in the Loan Islands to get an axe
and join the procession. . For some years past
efforts have been made to form an independent
Labor party, but the disappointments and lethargy
of the mass have each time broken the spirit of
the pioneers. Seddon was always an insur-
mountable barrier ; a man of craft who knew just
when the clamor at his gate was in dead earnest.
When those occasions arose he seized the other
men’s ideas as though they were, his own, and
gave effect to such of them as were absolutely
unavoidable. Then the crowd dispersed, and the
original leader was, left disconsolate, leaning
against a dead end listening to the jeers of the press
and the chuckle of the big politician who had
made a £lO deal with tuppence worth of goods.
But Ward is not so wily,, and he lacks the power-
ful bluff of his predecessor. Since he .took over
the Premiership, four years ago,. Labor has been
eounting up just where it stands, and the tally
has impressed the mathematicians so little, that
they decided to take a hand in making up the
books themselves. So at a Dominion conference
of Trades and Labor Councils, held at Auckland
recently, the “ Maoriland Labor Pkrty”. was
formed, with the following general object
Xo maintain upon our statute books ail the progressive
legislation that has already been efiacted, and" to insist
upon its sympathetic andproper ndministratiomyto gnact
comprehensive measures and establish such conditionsas
will foster and ensure Equality bCopportunity, also the
moral, material and educational advancement, arid the
general comfort and well-being-of the whole people
based upon.the gradual public owner-hip of allthemeans
of jproductlon, distribution and exchange.
The adopted platform includes the irnrhedinte
nationalisation of monopolies, the establishment
of a btate ferry, ,ser-vic|s a«njl State,colliers, com-
petitive State factories, no further sale of State
lands, increment tax on all land sales to secure to
the State all socially-created values, the retention
and direct operation by the State of sufficient
land to meet the demands of the national food
supply, increased graduated land-tax, estab-
lishment of a State bank with sole right of
note issue, cessation of public borrowing
except for redemption of loans and completion of
works already authorised by Parliament, aboli-
legislative Council, full political rights to
all State employees, insurance against unemploy-
ment, a maximum eight-hour day, with a gradual
reduction to a 40-hour week, equal pay for equal
work for male and female workers, prohibition
of labor under contract, a graduated income-tax
based on scientific principles with a super-
tax on unearned incomes, a graduated
absentee tax, free State education from
primary school to university, pensions for
widows and orphans, State assistance in
maternity, and several other planks warranted to
stand the ravages of time and the wear and tear
of Fat. This notable kick-off was marked by the
hoots of Stout Persons and a simultaneous yell of
Socialism ! ” in 133 different centres, all of
which, if the triumph of Labor in the Common-
wealth may be taken as a guide, is the fore-token
of success.
»
The Queer Incompetents.
Probably no Civil Service in Australasia has
suffered more by reason of political influence
and jobbery than that of Maoriland. All
sorts of Queer Incompetents were shoved, pushed
or pitched into various departments, in past
years, by individual ministers or collective Govern-
ments. Some arrived as a reward for political
services ; some because a lady wished it so ; some
because they snapped their teeth, and said .
“ You’ve got to d well do something ” ;
some because they were good sorts ; some
because their fathers were good sorts ;
some because they wouldn’t go away from the
doorstep; and nearly all because they didn’t
deserve it. Many of these Q.l.’sat once clam-
bered over the heads of the poor clerks who had
nothing to recommend them but merit, and they
arrived so rapidly in Seddon’s long term as
Premier that the clerks were buried right out of
sight. When Ward took up the running, the
Service was just about as near chaos as it could be,
and although Joseph did not say as much, Joseph
knows that that is the truth of the matter.
Affairs were so bad that large quantities
of the Service had to be heaved out into
oblivion, and the operation cost the Premier
many a sleepless night. And now the same old
fill-’em-up-again methods seem to have com-
menced—this time through Ward’s soft-hearted-
ness. Recently, Commissioner for Police Dinnie,
imported from Cockneytown about three years
previously, was in a fair way to disaster. He
proclaimed to high Heaven, through the press,
that he was being done an injustice; with the
result that high Heaven or somebody else with a
strong pull, induced Premier Ward to make the
London John Hop, who, as has been said pre-
viously, is about a three-years’ resident of Maori-
land, chairman of a Maori Land Council! Naturally
there was something of an uproar when the public
recovered sufficient breath to gasp; but Ward
had this solid explanation of the appointment—
that if Dinnie hadn't got the billet somebody
else would ! Which settled the argument, every-
one at once recognising the truth and soundness
of the reply. Of course, there are a few people
who are still dissatisfied, among them being the
young men who have worked and sweated for
years through the brain-wearing intricacies of
Native Land affairs. They see the hope of
advancement pulled up again by the roots, and a
longer trudge down the dusty road that leads only
to despondency. Ward’s good intentions to im-
prove the Civil Service and give those in the ruck
a fairer deal than they have hitherto received,
seem to have gone, as usual, to help pave the
Sulphur Emporium; and the Queer Incompetents
are once more tracking down payable jobs with
the old tenacity.
«.
Race Suicide.
From the report of a recent speech by the pro-
tbgger and anti-white-man Parson Rivett,
delivered last week to the Sydney Peace Society :
Mr. Rivett made a comparison between the black races
and the white people in the matter of race suicide.
Amongst the dark nations, he said, no premiums were
necessary to give any impetus to the birth-rate. ... Mr
Rivett expressed the opinion that Asiatics should be
treated reasonably, kindly and in a Christian manner.
Of course, in his haste to be nasty about his own
people the reverend didn’t wait to worry about
his facts. So far from having no need to
trouble about the birth-rate, various colored
races—the Hawaiians, for example—are abso-
lutely and conspicuously dying out. Others,
like the Malagasy, are suspected of being on the
down grade. About a lot more—Moors, Berbers,
Tripolitans, Ashantees, Dahomans, Abyssinians]
Arabs, Beluchese, Afghans, Bokhariots, Thi-
betans, Borneans, Sumatrans, etc., the rev. gen-
tleman knows nothing, there being no reliable
statistics, and he was simply denouncing through
his hat and slandering at random. Probably he
would be a very staggered preacher to learn that,
in the 10 years between the last census and the
one before, the results in some of the principal
countries of the world were as follows :
Increase.
Russia .. .. .. .. ~ 22 799,903
United States (white people only) .. 11,792 147
Germany 8,361,377
India 7,046,385
Javan 5,558,412
Austria 4,004,533
China •.. .. .. .. ~ Unknown
So the Caucasian isn’t played out. True, one
white man’s country has a stationary population,
and one, through sheer misgovernment, is losing
population ; but these cases are not nearly so bad
as that of the native-governed States of India,
which lost 4,178,420 people between 1891 and 1901
(it was the growth of the part of India governed
direct by the despised white man which saved the
situation), and surely only a frantically malicious
person would use the single example of France as
a text on the strength of which to throw dirt at
the whole white race. Our danger doesn’t lie in
the wondrous increase of the Asiatic peoples. It
lies in the fact that Shem is a wretched incompe-
tent, and though Japan is only about half as
densely peopled as Belgium, and the Indian
Empire is thinly inhabited compared with France,
Germany, Britain or Switzerland, and even the
most lavish estimates of population show the
Chinese Empire to be. far less densely peopled
than Ireland and not half as densely occupied as
Poland, yet these countries are overcrowded.
Sheer incapacity to make the best of his land
starts Shem hunting for outlets for his surplus
I p'fpulation, when a European country in the same
! situation would be shouting for immigrants
! r I —♦
The jeffort . that was made a few weeks ago to
rouse the Walls of Derry in the interests of
N.S.W. Premier Wade fell rather flat, and the
Flames of Smithfield are burning very low at
present. Our Orange brother Cullah, however,
still plods along in the press with his yarn to the
effect that the long dead-and-gone tramway strike
was engineered by Roman Catholics, though no
one seems to take much interest in him. Some
points on which it might be worth while to get
Brother Cullam’s opinion are: (1) The folly of
putting the Federal capital, not only in the
most strongly R.C. State of the Common-
wealth (so the census returns show N.S.W.
to be), but as close as possible to the city
(Sydney) which is the headquarters of the
R.C. Church in Australia —putting it, in short,
right in the midst of R.C. influences; (2)
the absurdity of the proposal to divert
the Port Darwin railway into the two
States (N.S.W. and Queensland) which have
the largest proportion of Catholics, instead
of carrying it straight through S.A., which
has a far larger proportion of Protestants
than any other State. The blighting hand of
Rome sticks out so conspicuously in these trans-
actions that Brother Cullam ought to interfere.
And they are live subjects and things of the'pre-
sent; not dead topics like the tramway strike
and the doings of Blanky Mary.
♦
“J. 8.”: Premier Wade’s liberality to the
N.S.W. Public Service runs in patches, and while
he is willing to provide the railway and tramway
servants with a gorgeous superannuation fund
that has a real good chance of breaking down
with the weight of its own munificence, he is as
close-fisted as a three-ball trader when it comes to
a square financial deal with a single individual. A
case in point is that of Blenkin, of the State
Hansard staff, who for the past 12 months has
acted as secretary to the Standing Committee on
Public Works. The Hansard staff is not under
the Public Service Board; nevertheless, to
all intents and purposes, the reporters
belong to the Public Service. When secretary
Charles Lynk died, Blenkin was given the
acting appointment, and did his work so satisfac-
torily that he was in the front running for the
permanent appointment. In fact, it was offered
to him, but —and this is where Wade started in to
save a few pounds—at his then salary as a
Hansard reporter, which was £2OO a year less
than the salary paid toLYNE. In addition, Blen-
kin was required to do the shorthand reporting
work while the Committee was in the country on
investigations (which Lyne was not asked to do),
as well as all the secretarial work. Wade,
who knows nothing about the duties, says
that “ the work of the secretary in the
country is usually light. I see no reason why
he should not take the evidence in shorthand, and
'so save needless expense.” On the other hand,
Flowers, M.L.C., who is chairman of the Com-*
mittee, declares that “no man would dare to
undertake the joint work with an idea of giving
permanent satisfaction. My experience tells me
that that proposition is an impossible one. ” An
instance of this was given at Broken Hill, where
48 hours’shorthand evidence was taken that occu-
pied three solid weeks to transcribe. Evidently
Wade thinks that shorthand notes are put into a
mincer and rolled out as typewritten sausages.
Anyhow, Blenkin has declined the opportunity
to be sweated, although he will perspire at the
job until the end of the current session. After
that somebody else Can have a go at it, but it
won’t be a State Hansard man. Perhaps Wade
will want a job himself about that time.
Yic. Minister Baillieu is a clumsy apologist for
the Weary Government’s scheme of Melbourne
port improvement. Lately he has been shouting
on behalf of the antiquated idea of a pier by
urging that it would be about as cheap as a dock
to the importing community. He arrives at this
conclusion by comparing the cost of carrying
goods to Melbourne from a pier and a dock
respectively. His figures are somewhat as
follow :
Pier.
Cost per rail direct to
Melb., per ton .. 3/-
3/1
Dock.
Cost of removing goods
from ship to stores
on wharves, per ton SJd,
Rent of stores .. .. 3d.
Cartage by road to city 1/3
Allowance for wear
and tear of roads .. 9d.
2/lli
The last item, based on the theory that every ton
of traffic does 9d. worth of damage to the roads is
exceedingly gorgeous. And Baillieu carefully
fakes the figures by ignoring the fact that if
goods are carried by rail from the proposed
pier to Melbourne for 3s. per ton they haven’t
got to their destination after all, but have merely
arrived at a railway-station, and there is still
some costly cartage to be done. But Premier
Weary doesn’t want to be worried. The building
of a pier is a simple old process, and as there is
the old pier alongside the site of the proposed
structure to serve as a model, the job would in-
volve no mental strain. On the other hand, the
construction of a dock and a new short channel
from the bay to Melbourne would mean a new
departure and a lot of hard thinking. And
besides, Weary’s expert in England—a man who
has never even seen Australia—is said to have
reckoned that a pier would be all right, while the
idea of the dock and the straight cut only rests
on the advice of an expert Maoriland harbor
engineer who spent weeks inspecting the ground.
And John Weary hates to disparage his friend
in England.
■ +
P’ran (Melbourne) Council rose up the other day,
and issued a manifesto closing up a whole street
of 21 houses in one act. As the occupants were
to be pushed out into the open world within seven
days a number of people complained loudly re the
“drastic” decision; but, in reality, the only
thing that called for comment was the Council’s
gradualness in not condemning the huts long ago.
Somewhere in the boom days one Daly bought a
narrow strip of land behind the S. Yarra engine-
house. Instead of erecting two decent cottages
thereon, he conceived the idea of calling the
middle of the strip Daly-street, and planting a
terrace of one-storey, single-fronted cribs down
each side. It was a thrifty idea, and if Daly
could have got boom rents for his cribs he would
have had comfortable provision for his old age.
Unfortunately the bottom fell out of the boom,
and the huts for long remained empty. Then a
mortgagee began to pervade the scene, and
when Daly did, get the shanties let the rents
merely sufficed to square the mortgagee and
leave a bit over for Daly’s tucker. Meanwhile,
the boxes were getting more and more dilapi-
dated, and, though the council harried Daly per-
sistently,, that property-owner was either full of
vain promises of improvement or overloaded
with mortgagee. So now the council has decided
that the mansions are to be demolished. As to
the mortgagee, the council is nominally ignorant
of his existence; so apparently all he’ll get for
his good monish is a dismantled street and a pile
of old bricks, and'if he hasn’t got a wheelbarrow
with which to take the bricks home, he’ll have to
pay for the cartage.
Wade’s Forbearance.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I have exercised as much forbearance as can be
expected.— N.S. W. State Premier Wade.
Closed were the ports ; congested railways drew
To one swelled city all the wealth that grew
By plain and shore ;
Too well he saw the thing that should be done,
But clique or party made him shirk or shun
The path by which true greatness might be won,
So Wade forbore.
Wide were the lands, and well the leader knew
The sheep were many and the people few
The wide State o’er ;
In splendid inactivity he sat,
Making a thin pretence of this or that,
Himself a doormat for the feet of Fat,
He still forbore.
Around the muddled city suburbs grew ;
Bulged waistcoats of the aldermanic crew
Who held the floor
Left him untroubled at the helm of State,
Content to let a Greater Sydney wait,
And leave the city to its tinpot fate—
He yet forbore.
Large were his words, his deeds amazing few;
He knew that fatted votes must bear him through,
And evermore
In doing nothing labored mightily,
That Fat, triumphant, still in him might see
A miracle of moveless energy
Who e’er forbore.
But when Australia, with her wider, view,
Raised her, strong hand to shape some things
. anew,
His rest was. o’er,;
Then like a poodle puppy, small and vain,
Mad with curbed wrath he yelped arid yelped
again,
And tearing round the length of his short chain,
Of force forbore.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMONWEALTH.


Adams' TattersaUs Hotel,
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
£
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
Moving Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney—3B6 George Street; Melbourne—266 Collins
Street; Brisbane—93-95 Queen Street; Adelaide—
Gawler Place ; Perth —Tillys’ Photo. Stores.
Rockefeller soaking in a bath of whisky
must inflict a feeling of acute pain on ardent
imbibers. But enough is as good as a soak, and if
the amiable millionaire applied just enough
D.C.L. inwardly it would be better than swim-
ming in a whole lake Of any other brand. D.C.L.,
the Whisky of the Wise, inspires that benign
optimism which is the soul of success and the
spirit of cheerfulness.*
A Good Australian—Timothy Coghlan.
. A HURRIED British globe-skirmisher named
Foster Fraser lately glanced at Brisbane,
stopped a moment at Sydney and Melbourne,
tore through Adelaide like a fiend pursued by
dingbes, had a moment’s look at Fremantle and
Perth, skipped about two-thirds of the Australian
coast, skipped all the smaller towns (from Towns-
ville round to Albany) on the portion of the coast
which he was supposed to have visited, and gave
up the interior of Australia as a place he had no
time for. In his haste and his leaping capacity he
resembled the local kangaroo. In the rapidity with
which he arrived at conclusions he suggested the
English lady of 45 who went over to Calais by the
mofning boat to have her first glimpse of foreign
land's, came hack by the afternoon boat, and r e-
ported that the management of all countries
outside England was simply awful. Foster
Fraser’s report in London, after looking at Aus-
tralia from the Australia Hotel in Sydney and
Menzies’ in Melbourne, was that the people had
a tendency to degenerate. Of course, they tnay
have a tendency to degenerate, or again they may
not; but it is quite certain that Fraser, after his
brief and infuriated rush through a few cities,
wasn’t in a position to decide, and it was distinctly
up to some Australian official in London to tell
him so. George Reid, as the man who is supposed
to represent the whole Commonwealth, was the
person who should have thrown a weli-aimed
brick or boulder at Foster Fraser. Australia
hears a lot of George Reid in the cable news.
Hardly a day passes without the cheering infor-
mation that George Reid has been at a banquet
where there was much turtle soup, and illimitable
steak, and an acre of boiled vegetables, and a herd
of entries. But as a swift, vigorous, sudden Com-
batant who is ready to put up a fight for the
credjt of Australia every time, no one hears much
of George Reid. He seems too much buried in
sausage. Nor does anyone hear much of fat
Taverner of Victoria; or of Major Robinson of
Queensland ; or of old, grey-haired Kirkpatrick
of 8. A. ; or of Hare of Westralia ; or of McCall
of Tasmania. Always the news conies that
Timothy Coghlan, Agent-General for N.S.W.,
has fallen on the enemy with a heap of the facts
and figures that lie used to collect when he
was State Statistician of N.S.W., and has been
veyy nasty to the enemy. In the old days
Coghlan, though only State Statistician for
N.S, W. , used to compile and publish the records
of. Australia, Tasmania and Maoriland, and
British statisticians, like Mulhall and Giffen,
used to quote him as the first and last authority
on Australian affairs. He still seems to stick to his
ancient habitof beingtheall-round Australian—the
man who drops on the slanderer of this country and
smites him good and hard. Australia has seven
representatives in London, and the only one of
the crowd who seems to take a joy,in fighting for
his country—the only one who “clothes himself
with cursing as with his garment” when Australia
is aspersed—is the old Statistician of N.S. W. Con-
sidering the way in which he fell on Foster Fraser
and his tale of the “degenerate Australian” and
the way in which he has fallen on similar persons
at other times, it seems up to Australia to take
more careful stock of Timothy Coghlan. Pro-
bably the best thing it could do would be- to pay
Reid his salary up to the end of his term, and
give him the sack, and offer Coghlan his billet.
Australians who take an absolute joy in fighting
for their country are scarce, and when found they
should be encouraged.
A Charge That Remains Unanswered.
A tomb-like silence continues to brood over the
N.B.W. “Liberal ” camp, so far as the Bowling
jury panel business is concerned. The anti-Labor
press counters, with infinite verbosity, a chance
remark flung forth in a heated moment anent a
rock-chopper who died. It devotes columns of
argument to show that the Wade Government
isn’t really “the worst that N.S.W. has known,”
as vaguely alleged by certain Laborites. But to
the definite reproach that, before the Bowling
trial. Premier Wade, in his capacity of Minister
of Justice, had the jury panel shown to the police,
and caused the police thereafter to make inquiries
as to the jurors’ “ impartiality,” so that the Crown
might get a line as to who to “stand aside,”
when Bowling faced the music, no audible answer
had been made. And yet it is more important
from the “Liberal” standpoint to rebut this
accusation than any other. There is nothing that
is viewed with greater detestation in English-
speaking countries than any suspicion of an
attempt to tamper with jurors—if on no
higher ground than that the public’s confidence
in the only sort of criminal trial it knows is thereby
liable to be undermined. In England, last month,
George Elliott, K.C., a leader of the criminal
Bar, discussing certain rumors of juries having
been influenced from outside, went so far as to ad-
vocate a reversion to the old system, under which
juries were completely isolated. Yet there was no
question, there, of the sort of scandal that is agitat-
ing the N.S. W. public at the present time. It htjs
been suggested that it was essential that the
Crown should sound the panel of jurors who were
to try Bowling in order to guard against a bigoted
BoWLiNG-ite getting in among the 12 good men
and true, and nullifying the Crown’s efforts to
put a dangerous man out of the way; also, that
there is a difference between the agents of the
Crown Prosecutor sounding jurors as to their
“impartiality” and agents for the defence doing
the same sort of thing. But are such arguments cal-
culated to appeal toany fair-minded human being?
The one is tantamount to saying that the jury
is nothing but an instrument to convict, theother
to the suggestion that the Crown has a right to
inside knowledge, on a most vital point, that is
denied to the accused. In the case under discus-
sion the police—by examining prospective jurors
as to their “impartiality”—were guilty of an act
which would undoubtedly have caused the agents
of Bowling, had they indulged in it, to be gaoled.
The N.S. W.' Law Reports teem with instances of
the horror which the judiciary feels at any inter-
ference of this sort. In 1899, Darley (C.J.),
WindkYer and Foster thus delivered themselves
in the case of Parker v. Falkener :
The moment jurymen are summoned they become part
and parcel of the tribunal which may have to try the
case, and any party who attempts to approach any jury-
men when once summoned, is guilty of interfering with
the due administration of justice. It is not necessary
that the interference should be with the jurors who are
empanelled.
It was alleged, in the above ease, that one of the
parties had conversed with a juror about his view
of the case, some days before the trial, and had
struck him off when he found that the was no —to
use the phrase of Premier Waije —“impartial,”
C. G. Wade has gone to law pretty per istently
since he first snatched the reins of office. It
would be a fitting end to an amazingly litigious
career if he now proceeded to prosecute himself
and his policemen for “interfering with the due
administration of justice.” The odds are that he
would have an unprecedentedly bright chance of
success.
♦
“Grade Test” : Premier Wade has spent most of
the past session in a sort of panic-stricken attempt
to turn the great N.S.W. Public Service vote his
way in October, and has done it with poor
results. His first move was little short of com-
mon or variegated bribery. He raised the maxi-
mum pay in the clerical division from £l5O to
£lBO, and promised an all-round increase—osten-
sibly to meet the increased cost of living. About
£BO,OOO a year is to be spent on the public service
alone to Wade’s position ; but I prophesy
that the Service vote will not go in the trail of the
Deform herring. Already those clerks who are
to be raised from £l5O to £lBO find that the
operation . will occupy four years, and that the
Public Service Board can refuse any extra
promotion during that time. The re-grading of
the Public Service, for which the employees have
been wearily waiting for five years, is abolished by
Wade’s last P;S. Act, and it is gloomily apparent
that the £BO.OOO rise will take its place. Wade
says this doesn’t follow ; but it now rests with the
Board to raise salaries when it chooses, and the
Service doesn’t like anything that rests with the
Board. Also, the Appeal Court granted by Wade
is a botch of an affair. Its main provision is that
an aggtieved person can appeal to a Court con-
sisting of two members, of the Board who have
already decided his case anil a District Court
Judge. As a sporting bet the Judge’s chance
isn’t worth mentioning. Then Wade has arranged
to appoint all the temporary staff to the per-
manent staff, and the discontent at that move is
as thick as the satisfaction. Finally, Gregory’s
last trump, the Public Service superannuation
scheme, has been shelved ; and,taking it all round,
Charles seems to have fallen off the ’bus
in his hurry to pay the fare. Of course, the
Public Service superannuation scheme had to
be shelved. Wade has just fixed up a railway and
tramway men’s superannuation scheme whereby
liberal pensions and other advantages are to be
granted in return for a 1% per cent, levy oh the
men’s salaries. The Public Service offered to pay
5 per cent, for similar benefits, on the ground that
Wade’s per cent, meant the obvious, glaring,
hopeless bankruptcy of the fund, and it didn’t
want any bankrupt fund. How could Wade
either (1) put this 5 per cent, proposal before
Parliament and explain that his railway and tram-
way fund was a maddened and insolvent botch?
or (2) compel the civil servants to accept their
pensions in return for an annual payment of £1
10s. for every £lOO of salary, when they offered to
pay £5 ? The position would be too absurd.
The latest illustration of the folly of leaving the
administration of Health Acts and Pure Food
laws to local councillors and aldermen comes from
Braybrook (Vic.). Bray brook apparently sus-
pected that its babies were being starved and its
householders cheated, wherefore it sent three
samples of locally-vended milk to the Board of
Health. The Board did the necessary prospect-
ing and found that two of the samples easily
reached the standard, but that the third, which
started in a plainly exhausted condition, dropped
dead long before it arrived there. In fact, it gave
only 2T9 of fat while the standard is 3’5. It was
straining the name to call it milk at all ; and
it meant slow starvation to feed a child on it.
Yet when the matter came before the Braybrook
bumbles this happened :
Cr. Spong : It seems to me that it is very hard to
prosecute dairymen when the fault, may not be theirs.
At this season of the year it often happens that cows do
not give milk of the required standard.
Cr. McLagan : Are we compelled to prosecute?
The Secretary : Not unless councillors think a prose-
cution is warranted.
Cr. Mac Kay : We should give this man a caution.
Or. Smith : This is not a court of law. . . . There is
nothing to show that there has not been wilful adultera-
tion.
Cr. Derham : Oh, give the man a chance.
Cr. BenneMi : What’s the use of taking samples if we
don’t prosecute?
Cr. McLagan : We don’t ivant to harassour own people.
It was decided that no action be taken.
It boils down to this. Two people were vending
honest milk, above the standard, and they are
told in effect that they are fools for not cheating
the public by watering down their qow-product,
even to a point at which any self-respecting
milker would disown the goods.
>♦—
The Fisher Government has sound ideas on the
absentee question. For special taxation purposes
its definition includes not only absentee indivi-
duals, but also companies. Any company formed
outside Australia to do business here, and any
company doing business here in which more than
two-fifths of the shares are held by people non-
resident in Australia, are absent enough to qualify
fora trifle of extra taxation. There is, of course,
a wail in the Tory press over this tendency to dis-
courage foreign financial adventurers who want to
exploit the Commonwealth, and the advantages
of the “influx of foreign capital” (otherwise
foreign debt) are discoursed upon a good deal.
But Australia hasn't forgotten how the influx of
foreign capital made the heroic smash of 1893. “1 f
the Mother Country would only invest £200,000,000
in Australia,” wept the Sydney Telegraph last
week, “we should leap forward.” Well, Coghlan
•estimated that between 1886 and 1892 the Mother
Country invested £130,000,000 in Australia, and,
when the inevitable result came to pass a lot of
people who had lost their all leaped forward.
Sometimes the police leaped after them and
dragged them out, but more often the body was
only found floating around a few days later. Some
i people tied ropes round their necks and leaped off
chairs. Some disguised themselves and leaped for
the steamer. One ruined depositor leaped at
James Munro with a big stick. About 24 big
financial institutions leaped into oblivion ; and a
lot more leaped to the conclusion that they would
yet pull through, and found that they had made a
grievous error. It was indeed aleaping time, and
. Australia doesn’t want the Mother Country to
come here with another £200,000,000 and make
a second experience of the sort.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Orchid.”
Royal “When Knighthood was
Flower.”
Criterion “ The Arcadians.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Standard “Bad Mrs. Bennett”(24th).
I.IYCKUM Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciario.vi Ice Skating. .
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess Theatre “The Third Degree.”
Her Majesty’s “Madam Butterfly.”
Royal “Pete.”
Kino’s “The Work Girl.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Athenaeum Hall Taits’ Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
By a judicious interference with the ac-
cepted facts of history, Raul K ester, the author of
“When Knighthood was in Blower,” the new
show at Sydney Royal, has evolved a gay and
stirring play. It is impossible to place the
period. The programme suggests 151314. But
Henry VIII. is presented, not as a lithe, hand-
some boy of 23, an athlete whose tennis 1 was "the
prettiest thing in the world to see;” but as a
hannlessly-choleric middle-aged man—the typical
heavy father of melodrama. Wolsey turns
up in Act I.—and presumably 1513—as Bishop of
Lincoln ; actually he was then Bishop of Touruai.
Lady Jane Seymour, who in 1513 would have
been about four years old, is limned as a buxom
wench who is 25 if she is an hour; and Anne
Boleyn, instead of appearing in the brief frock
and modest bib of immaturity, is pictured as a
grown-up. Charles Brandon is made to marry
Louis Xil.’s widow a year earlier than history
says he did, and so on. One can see the neces-
sity for some of these amendments. The public
wouldn’t have stood a romantic drama which
represented Henry VIII. as differing from the
sort of monarch they were accustomed to meet at
fancy dress balls. On the other hand, Henry, at
the time he started to grow fat and wrinkled and
ferocious, would have immediately stopped with
an axe the goings-on of sentimentalists like
Brandon and Mary Tudor. A Hemy VIII. show,
that lacked at least a couple of Henry’s prospect-
ive and adult wives, were palpable Head Idea fruit
so far as modern playgoers are concerned—
which accounts for the ante-dated appearance at
court of the ladies Boleyn and Seymour.
Mary Tudor is shown as the gay, passionate
and wilful young woman she probably was. iSlie
chaffs her formidable brother freely, and he
storms, after the fashion of the kindly stage elder
the world over —and then mostly yields with the
blusterous laugh that avails not as a cloak for mas-
culine weakness. Many are the deeds of gallantry
achieved by Charles Brandon ere he wins his royal
mistress. Now he is discovered slaying a wretch
who sought to cast a slur on her fair fame. Anon
he faces a band of discourteous mariners in her
defence. When the Dauphin of France w'ould
have his licentious will of her Charles appears
opportunely, does seriousi damage to the dissolute
young foreigner, and bears the lady to England
and honorable matrimony. Miss Nellie Stewart
makes the loveliest and brightest little Mary
Tudor imaginable. If there is a flaw 7 in her
admirable performance, it lies in its tendency to
over-strenuousness. Harcourt Beatty is a dashing
and altogether satisfactory figure as Brandon.
Eardley Turner’s Henry VIII. is as impressive a
figure as an actor could achieve in the circum-
stances. J. B. AthoHvood (Duke of Buckingham)
and Gaston Mervale (Wolsey) do excellent work,
and the dressing and staging are exquisite.
At Her Majesty’s (Sydney), “The Brass
Bottle” is to be sealed up for the last time on
Friday night, for theDjinn who controls the J. C.
Williamson co.’s “dates” has arranged to spirit
it away to another State. The Royal Comics are
arriving in its place with “The Orchid.” Among
them are the divine Fan Dango, the modest and
shrinking Higginson, the waggish Leslie, and one
Bertie Wright, an English comedian, who is said
to be funnier than W. Elliot Johnson, of Lang.
* * #- *
With an eighth concert—on Monday night
—Mrs. Calve closed her season of melody in
Sydney, and next day departed for Maoriland.
A full Town Hall, otherwise 3000 persons, listened
and watched; the eyes of the real musical en-
thusiasts blazing with green fire as the singer
finished a Salome aria from “ Herodiade.” The
enraptured enthusiast on the floor of the hall is
apt to distract the moderate enthusiast in the
gallery. When the great Calve, disguised as
Marguerite, spun thread and song in the King of
Thule ballad, he looked much as the fanatic must
appear when he gets in sight of Mecca. Although
the Calve Sydney season has closed it is not
locked. Or, if it is, Mr. Nevin Tait has not
thrown the key into the Styx.
** * *
“The Arcadians” continues to draw the
populace with 700-horse power to the Criterion.
The management’s only trouble lies in a ceaseless
effort to placate would-be patrons who, on calling,
cash in hand, at Eivy’s, have been met with a
weary smile and the intimation that all stalls and
d.c. seats are booked till further notice. The
present need at the Cri. is not so much a reliable
body of ordinary officials as one skilled diplo-
matist, or soother-down, who has never been
dipped in any Well of Truth.
** * *
Music and cold weather come to us to-
gether, and depart in company. On Saturday
night the Chamber Music Concerts ceased, A
pause eight months long implies cessation, al-
though all musical Sydney knows that the con-
certs have been so artistically and financially
successful that they will start afresh next
May. Cyril Monk, Gladstone Bell, Lawrence
Smith, Tsehaikov, Janssen and the rest —
all fine artists —were thanked by Manager
Southwell in a neat circular, which also held out
hopes that the same musicians would carry on the
next series. Mrs. Grace Miller Ward’ssinging of
Nelson Illingworth’s three charming lyrics, “I’m
a Rover,” “Absence” and “TwoLittleßierrots,”
was a well-defined success.
** * *
When Pafche Freres get on to old-time
doings, historical episodes with love and Wood in
them, the great French firm does itself proud. At
the Palace, Wests Pictures are showing the
“Life Story of Marie Antoinette.” Of course,
Marie comes out as a saint, whereas there is but
little doubt that she was a reasonably giddy
charrher of somewhat varied tastes. But the film is
beautiful and gorgeous, excellently acted..and
superbly photographed. Half the women in the
audience w&uld willingly have endured Marie’s
dreadful fate to have had just one year’s
revel at Versailles or the Little Trianon.
From Trianon and the Place Grbve to Glebe
Island is a fair jump; but West does it and lands
his audience at the Sydney abattoirs to see what
a slaughterman’s lock-out is like. The abattoirs
are not the picturesque infernos described in
Sinclair’s “Jungly,” but they are grim enough.
The Australian slaughterman is said by those
who know him to be the best type of slaughter-
man on earth, and seen in West’s films he might
easily be mistaken for a journeyman gardener,
only he looks more intelligent. The Five Miles
Cross Country Championship makes an exciting
film, and the “ Weekly Journal ” includes a visit
to the Jenolan Caves and the salving of the
Salazie. Altogether a fine and interesting pro-
gramme.
THE ARCA-
DIANS,” at
the Sydney Cri.
Another view
of Tom Walls
as
Peter Doody.
The gem at Spencer’s Theatrescope, at the
Lyceum, is the comedy film entitled, “She
Wanted a Bow-wow.” It is an aggravated case
of dog- worship'on the wife’s part. The husband
objects. Then the lady’s uncle promises to buy
her a St. Bernard poodle, and when the St. Poodle
arrives it gets strangely mixed up with a baby,
after the manner of the old comedy called “ Con-
fusion.” The cannon duel is up to the level of the
rest of the Foolshead series, and the exploration
of Milan Cathedral throws a lurid light on the
mind of the average tourist, who is a really dread-
ful creature.
Miss Lillian Delany, daughter of the late
John Delany, is giving such a concert as depart-
ing musicians always do give at Sydney Town
Hall on the 13th of next month. The. lady mas-
tered the intricacies of both the piano and the
violin under the direction of her highly-distin-
guished father, and her trip to foreign parts is
being entered on with the object of adding to her
musical experience. Oneor two Sydney musicians,
who ought to have a smattering of information
upon the subject, have burst into prophecy on
Miss Delany’s behalf, and predicted for her
a bigger musical career than any Australian
woman has yet achieved.
* * sfc *
The ten members of th§ acrobatic Kremo
Family whirled themselves on to the stage of the
Tivoli last Saturday night, and started to pass
one another round the stage with their feet, ,4'hey
seem to make more use of their understandings
than any other troupe that has yet come this way.
A BRIGHT, NEW LIGHT ON A DARK,
OLD PERIOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“When Knighthood was in Flow’r,” then Eng-
land glowed
(So Kester holds) with gallantry and mirth :
Those were brave days when Mary Tudor strowed
(To use a mediaeval phrase) the earth
With wit, what time her royal brother showed
The utmost tolerance to men of worth.
No “Sadie monster” he, no Gilles de Rais,
As quick to kill a lad as kiss a lass ;
He did some kindly action ev’ry day,
And, though his temper somewhat hasty was,
He proved himself, in ev’ry other way,
A person of the highest moral class.
“When Knighthood was in Flow’r,” then Henry’s
frame
Did not, as has been hinted, cast a blight
On the surrounding scenery. The same
May of his frame of mind be said. A quite
Well-meaning sovereign he was. His aim
Was to be Good and to uphold the Right.
He did not gamble with “ the bones” alway—
As writers of the period aver.
He shunned those folks who favored reckless play.
Rather than dice this monarch would prefer
With his beloved Katherine to stray :
In Kester’s view he simply worshipped her.
Sweet Anne Boleyn—that “ marvellous brunette”
Whose golden voice and haunting beauty led
The Chronicler of Cherbury to let
Wild rapture loose—about The Person sped :
No more of Henry s notice did she get
Than if she had been old or bald or dead.
One weakness only had this sorely-wronged
And slandered monarch. Such a trifling thing
That, had it to another man belonged,
The sternest critic would have scorned to bring
It up to his discredit—Henry longed
To see his sister married to a king.
In short, this was a righteous age, when none
Of English birth fair Virtue’s code defied,
And men were brave and women good, and one
Could scarce have found a scoundrel had he tried.
No actual ill (or Kester errs) was done,
Save by the scurvy history-scribes—who lied.
N.S.W.
D.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS' LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Hates Charged.
’Pho ne No. 236 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
Undertakers are sighing,
Tombstone makers crying,
Their poor hearts are aching
’Cause business is poor.
It’s'no use denying
That people aren’t dying
Since they began taking
Woods’ Peppermint Cure.*
h
PR
Dr. B- Allen’s (U.S.A )
Mexican Walnut Stain
is guaranteed Washab.e
and absolutely harmless.
None genuine without the sig-
nature of Alfred Ardley
(Registered).
The lighter members of the band—including a
chubby and agreeable small boy—have the knack
of turning themselves at will into mere parcels of
bone and muscle, and allowing the senior members
to pitch and spin them in mid-air till the onlooker
is dizzy. The most joyous moment of the turn is
when the small boy, spreading his arms and
legs wide, makes himself into a V, and is
whirled rapidly round on the boot-soles of an in-
verted big brother. The trick makes the pair look
exactly like the governor of an engine. Mrs.
Yeamans Titus is another notable addition to the
bill. The imitation of the small child singing her
first song is her trump card ; but her sweet and
well-trained voice is a refreshing circumstance,
and the skilful accompaniments of Mr. Titus are
a joy. The rest of the entertainment is supplied
mostly by Powell and Vesey, Fred Keeton, De
Lyle and Brunin and Olga Grey. The Tivoli
management would confer a favor on both audi-
ence and performers by making better arrange-
ments than at present for enforcing order in the
amphitheatre.
* * * *
The Willoughby comedy co. has ended its
short season at Adelaide Royal. In “ Mr.
Preedy ” David James was very funny, though
hardly the amiable little bounder that the author
probably intended ; and that was followed for
two evenings by Jones That The Things Hap-
pened To. It is no disparagement to Willoughby
to say that the revival is chiefly interesting
because it recalls Charles Arnold. What a
man he was ! The Willoughby season was not
too well patronised. Neither was Frank Speaight
at the Victoria Hall, for Adelaide considers
it has in Edward Reeves a Dickens-expert of its
own who is about as good. Violet Paine has
given another of her Arral-like operatic evenings,
in costume. Presumably, she will gravitate to
the regular stage soon. The Conservatorium
under Frederick Bevan, a Sullivan lecturer and
enthusiast, has sung “The Golden Legend”;
and now there is another Golden Legend at the
Royal, in the shape of “The Dollar Princess.”
At the Exhibition a Jap jiu-jitsu expert has been
taking on all-comers; and the Tivoli is scoring
heavily with a new bill, which includes the ven-
triloquism of Frank Travis and the neat, clever
fun of the Charlenes.
* jfc *
For one night last week and this week
Melbourne had a revival of “ Madame Angot,”
at the Princess’s. Le Coq’s work (the composer
was not mentioned on the Princess’s programme)
counted as a brilliantly original comic opera in
its day. Outside
of its native
France, its plot
and dress i n g
were something
of an educa-
tion in the his-
tory of Paris be-
tween the Reign of
Terror and the es-
tablishment of Na-
poleonic rule. Citi-
zen Barras and all
things appertain-
ing to the Direc-
tory Government
had dropped out of
recollection ere
“Madame Angot ”
restored the extra-
vagances of 18th
century Paris
fashions to the
stage. Tin- Con-
spirators’ Chorus
sounded the death
knell of the old
Guy Fawkes gath-
erings in Italian
opera, which, up
to then, had been
taken seriously.
Thenceforth, when-
ever a chorus of
orthodox banditsin
long black cloaks
and terrible slouch
hats assembled
stealthily together
with a view to as-
sassinating , the
tenor on the sum-
mit of his top note,
people thought of
the conspirators in
Miss Lange’s bou-
doir—and tittered.
“ MADAM BUTTER-
FLY:" AT HER MAJES-
TYS, MELBOURNE.
Bel Sorel as Madam
Butterfly.
With the exception of the familiar melo-
dies, everything that had ever made “ Angot ”
interesting in professional performances of yore
was lacking in the outrage perpetrated by the
Melbourne amateur company last Saturday. The
orchestra—20 strong—did its work very well, and
Frederick Blarney as F. B.
Pinkerton.
theprincipals, with
no voices among
them to speak of,
sang tunefully
enough. In solo,
duet or concerted
piece they kept
an eye on the
conductor, and
the orchestra
pulled them
>' through. Other-
wise, they were
mostly exasperat-
ing young people
in all sorts and
conditions of inap-
propriate clothes.
Of all the ill-
dressed, angular,
false-accented and
utterly undramatic
crowds of amateurs
the present abusive
writer ever tried
to forgive this was
th e 1 east f orgi vable.
The one damsel
who spoke half
a dozen w o rd s
convincingly was a Miss Bentwich, who played
the handmaid of Miss Lange. Miss Carevv,
decorativfe in white satin and orange blossoms,
presented a buxom Clairette, whereas Miss
Buxton, as the stately actress Lange, was
slender and restless. The plump geniality of
Miss MacFarlane had nothing in common with
her character of a market woman, and the men
were painful pretenders to histrionic ability.
Pomponnet couldn’t even make himself audible
until after the first interval, when he presumably
sucked some jujubes. Ange Pitou, the revolu-
tionary song-writer, was so amazingly unlike
what he ought to have been that one of the
stage houses nearly fell at the first sight of him,
and Larivaudiere’s wig should have condemned
him to the guillotine. For the choristers, femi-
nine and masculine, this writer has only scorn
and indignation. The sacred cause of charity was
no excuse for their wicked garments. Among the
bevy of ladies at the Lange reception there were
so many appalling frocks that a reference to the
charmer in green would seem invidious. The
angels in blue, pink, crushed strawberry and ele-
phant’s breath were equally dreadful, but a
friendly audience remained fairly quiet under the
ordeal. When this report closed the house was
still sitting in expectation of the third act, where
some dancing was to take place.
* * *
The Mysterious Stranger is Passing for
the last times at Melbourne Royal, and on
Saturday the “Manxman” drama which is known
as “ Pete” will introduce Matheson Lang and Cos.
in characters more human than the residents at
Mrs. Sharpe’s boarding-house. Anyone who has
not yet been deeply ’ touched by the Christian
influence of Jerome’s comedy is herewith exhorted
to go and get touched for three “ bob” anyhow.
* * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) the merits
of “Madam Butterfly” continue to be recog-
nised by all who have music in their souls. Amy
Castles will prima-donna to-morrow (Friday) for
the third time this week, and Bel Sorel will ap-
pear to-night and on Saturday. Last week Miss
Parnpari was twice presented in the heroine part,
with charming results. The Italian lady, although
taller than the other Butterflies, plays the char-
acter more appealingly. In her unaffectedly
graceful and youthful style there ismoreJapane.se
color than they show, and in the second
act, where the tenor doesn’t come in to spoil the
illusion, she gets right hold of the audience. Her
naturalness radiates realism. Miss Buckman
becomes a still more convincing Suzuki when she
is hovering around the oval-faced Cho-Cho-San,
and Crane’s melodious singing of the letter has a
fuller ring of truth in it. Arthur Crane, for that
matter, is improving all the time, but the im-
provement was most marked when it was the
Parnpari lady whom he had to interview. One
supposes that she will get another show presently.
* * * #
This is the fifth and last week of Nat
Gould’s hippodrama at the King's. The Gold
Cup Race is now started by somebody’s new
patent machine, but the advt. doesn’t reveal the
name of the maker of Trixey’s victorious saddle.
There are only two more cups for Trixey to win.
On Saturday the Anderson co. will devote its
energies to “The Work Girl,” a riotous melo-
drama which Melbourne first met in the long ago
when Westmacott had a season at the Royal and
Scot Inglis braved the limelight in its glare.
There was a larrikin ballet of work girls in those
days, and some of the toilers kicked with great
vigor.
* * * *
Fortune hasn’t been too good to that
plucky Australian woman and writer of good
Australian verse, Mrs. Marie E. J. Pitt, and
partly on that account and partly because they
want to show their appreciation of her work and
her worth, a number of Melbourne friends have
arranged anew sort of “Pleasant Sunday After-
noon” for August 28. Prime Minister Andrew
Fisher will make the few well-chosen remarks
that are expected of a chairman, and there will
be a programme that will be worth more than a
shilling. The King’s Theatre has been put at
the disposal of the committee by W. Anderson,
and the aforementioned shilling can be sent in
advance to the hon. sec., 283 Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne.
* * *
The Town Hall season of Mary Conly and
Walter Kirby starts next Wednesday (24th).
They had capital Australian voices— i.e., one
voice apiece—before they went to Europe, and
are returning, it is said, with better voices, which
have been acquiring culchaw during the years
when Melbourne heard of them from afar. Victor
Busst will support them at the piano.
* # * *
“Jiomona,” a pathetic picture at the
Athenaeum, will strike sentimental persons as a
curiously frigid story of love. The yarn winds
around a passion between a Red Indian and a
half-breed girl, and these two coppery folk
exhibit none of the idiocies of infatuated whites.
The pair embrace with more reverence than
ecstasy, they do not giggle or simper, and they
never kiss. “Love’s Strategy ” is the other sort
—the sort in which the mugging becomes mono-
tonous and the hugging absurd. Of purely sensa-
tional films, “The King of the Beggars” is a
thrilling trifle. It deals with mystery, plotting
and sliding panels, and should appeal to all who
love Maupassant or dote on Poe.
4* * 4* '*
A pocket version of “Faust” is now
scorching across the screen at the Olympia. It is
a bright item, displaying a callow Faust, a sweet
Marguerite, and a luridly evil Mephistopheles.
Meph., indeed, is a fearsome and mephitic being,
and looks just the person to make deals in souls.
The story of “The Northern Schoolmaster” is
also throwing itself on the sheet. It concerns a
young man who rescues a damsel from a burning
building, and, of course, has to pay for it by keep-
ing the girl for life. “A Romance of Insect Life ”
should be of interest to the observant male. It
shows that Nature can produce a butterfly with
more skill than her rival, the modern dress-
maker.
* * * *
“ 0.K.” tells the story of an orchestra or
two: —
Preceded and followed by a burst of fireworks in the
press, there happened in Melbourne, the other day, what
was called “The Hundredth Marshall Hall Orchestral
Concert.” Seeing that the hero of the event in question
has been advertised outside of Victoria, and that he
is now at odds with a body of musicians who get no
newspaper boosting whatever, a brief history of his
“ Orchestra ’’should he interesting. Marshall Hall came to
Melbourne 20 years ago as the first occupant of the
Ormond Chair of Music at the University. He proved to
be aii enthusiastic schoolmaster, and although he was a
bigoted adherent of the old German order of things and
talked extravagant nonsense to his pupils, his influence
on the local musical world was for good. After some
years of practising the conductor’s art on his orchestral
class, Marshall Hall approached the professional instru-
mentalists on the question of giving orchestral concerts
under his direction. They werelto take the risk of profit
and loss, and he—the salaried professor—was to give his
services free. The musicians, recognising him as the best
possible in in to boom the show at that time, fell in with
his proposal, and for several seasons the Marshall Hall
Orohestra did capital work. The conductor had good
material at his command. The majority of the players
had been members of Fred Cowen’s orchestra at the
Exhibition, and of the subsequent Victorian Orchestra,
which Hamilton Clarke conducted for a year.
Marshall Hall, on the strength of this ready-made
orchestra, was getting great credit for his achievements,
when he foolishly published a book of verses which
shocked the wowser section of the musical world, and
caused him to retire from the Ormond Chair at the expira-
tion of his term of re-engagement. The attendance at
the concerts fell off, but the players—not being wowsers —
stuck to Hall, though their dividend for each perform-
ance shrank to less than half a sovereign. They were
playing for love of music rather than for money.
Marshall Hall, having lost the Ormond job, was estab-
lished by his moneyed supporters in anew Conserva-
torium of Music. Students of the M. H. Conservatorium
were admitted free to the rehearsals of the concerts, and
were granted concessions on the nominal prices of tickets.
And presently a few of the conductor’s students
were placed in the orchestra. As it was evident that the
professional players couldn’t be expected to go on
battling for such small remuneration, Marshall Hall
wrote to the papers, inviting subscriptions towards the
upkeep of the periodical orchestra. The result was the
formation of the present Marshall Hall B >ard of Manage-
ment, in 1903 or thereabouts. Up to that time the musi-
cians had elected their own Committee of Management,
but when the Board came to pass it took entire control of
affairs—financial and artistic. The players were engaged
on fair terms as regards public performances, but they
MISS LILIAN DELANY, a Most Promising
N.S.W. Musician.
The Swiss Studios, Melbourne.
had to concede extra rehearsals gratuitously. Also, the
orchestra now became a dumping ground for fledglings
from Marshall Hall’s school, to the exclusion of bona-fide
professionals who had supported from the start and had
helped to magnify the Marshall Hall name.
Three years ago the Marshall Hall management made
fresh terms with the professional musicians, and the new
agreement required them to give an extra concert,
gratuitously, at the end of the season if the guarantors
were threatened with a loss. In due course the loss was
announced, but the amount was not stated. The
musicians were willing to give the benefit concert if the
Board would give particulars re the deficit, with a
promise that if the receipts from this extra concert ex-
ceeded the deficit the surplus should be placed to the
Credit of their Union. The Board rejected this reason-
able demand. Next year the Board tried to carry on
the concerts with a new force composed of suburban
amateur performers, who were invited to join the
Marshall Hall orchestra on trial. Thus the name of the
organisation lost its original significance. At the be-
ginning of the 1909 season the Board re-engaged the
leading professionals on the understanding that none of
the old members was to be left out of the orchestra ;
nevertheless, some of them were dispensed with and
amateurs or semi-amateurs filled their places.
Therefore, in the following year, which is 1910, the
Pro. Musicians’ Union decided to enforce the rule which
forbids members to play with professional non-unionists,
or with amateurs who are being practically represented
to the public as professionals. This enforcement of the
Union principle broke off the strained relations between
Marshall Hall’s Board and the musicians who had made
the reputation of the orchestra in the past. They are
now allied in the new Vic. Professional Orchestra, which
has already given three or four concerts in opposition to
the non-unionist-cwm-arnateur orchestra, conducted by
Marshall Hall. Whilst the hybrid organisation gets
columns of praise from the fraternity of musical
“critics” who are hand-in-glove with the Marshall Hall
management, the vastly superior work of the Profes-
sional Orchestra; is barely noticed. The one-man show
has all the “ influence” at the back of it; the other is
struggling for recognition. The next V.P.O. concert,
however, seems bound to compel public attention to the
fact that Slapoffski has been invited to take the bfiton,
and that the musicians now rehearsing their programme
under Zelman’s direction are banded in a firm resolve to
beat their record.
* 5J6 * *
Morris Cronin and party are a latest
attraction at the Opera House in place of the
Kremos, the new turn being distinctly of the
boshter order. Cronin is a tall, willowy stranger
who juggles, mostly with clubs purporting to be
bottles, in an amazing manner. His assistants
are a principal comic butler and about five other
butlers who walk in and out of the room where he
is twirling the clubs and appear to be always the
same adroit one who happens to catch everything
that comes his way. The business. is equally
clever and humorous, and the act is loaded with
entertainment while Cronin and Co. remain
visible. Then the stage is blackened, and the
tail-end of the performance consists of colored
lights circulating mysteriously in the darkness.
Grade Grahame is another lively item in the
second part, and four good “ turns,” which didn’t
come direct from Europe under special engage-
ment, are supplied by Bluett, Dawson, Vaude
and Verne and Fanny Powers. Also, the rest of
the Bickards’s bill has redeeming features ; so just
now is one of the times when persistent visitors
to the Opera House must hustle for seats along
with people who go there occasionally.
** * *
The Sydney Stage Society intends to pre-
sent an entertainment at the Standard Theatre
on Friday night. It will be compounded of
Sudernmnn’s “Fritzchen.” Arthur Adams’s “Pier-
rot in Australia,” and “In a Workhouse Ward,”
by Lady Gregory and Douglas Hyde. For the
information of train-catchers and other outliers,
the society would have it known that the entire
show will" be over in the neighborhood of 10 p.m.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Billy B.”: “Jean Sibi ” (B. 4/8/’10) does Bilanderson
an injustice in his criticism of Nat Gould’s play, “The
Ohance of a Lifetime,” at Melbourne King’s. “ They
say,” remarks J.S., “that it would be an advantage if
Anderson supplied the Gold Cup nags with numbered
saddle-cloths.” So it might; but the race in question is
run at Ascot (England), where numbered saddle-cloths
are not used. Even Bilanderson wouldn’t publicly draw
attention to the shortcomings at Ascot (England).
Michael Joseph, his manager, might; but, then, Michael
has no reverence worth mentioning.
An interesting biograph show, called “ Australia at
Work,” isabout to be circulated by Path 6 Fr&res, and will
make a start in Victoria. The films already in hand de-
pict the local manufacture of confectionery, biscuits and
cakes, harvesting machinery, the inevitable beer and a
daily newspaper. These industrial subjects will be sup-
plemented by a number of everyday Pathb pictures, and
the price of the show is fixed at Cd., it is said. Foreign
manufactures have been filmed, time and again in Aus-
tralia, but this is the first attempt to advertise Australian
industries on the Protective patriotic ticket, and as such
it deserves success. “Australia at Work’’will tour 300
townships in Victoria, after it has been around Mel-
bourne ; and young M. P. Adams, an energetic citizen
who knows the ropes, will boost the show on its way.
The S. Aus. Labor party has taken the first chance to
show Premier Verran that, while faithful to him on poli-
tical questions, it does not regard “ wowsing ” as one of
those, and that, if he stands on the same platform as
Judkins, he does it “on his own.” Last week he intro-
duced into a Public Entertainment Bill a clause which
gave the Chief Secretary power to prohibit either the
holding, or showing by pictures, of “any prize-fight,
cock-fight, dog-fight, or other similar contest, whether
between men or animals.” Attorney-General Denny at
once attacked the proposal, and the Assembly remarked
by 24 to 12 that it didn’t think cock-fights or dog-fights
occur to any great extent on the public stage in S.A.,
and that, if' the Johnson-Jeffries films are aimed at, the
community is rather anxiously waiting to see them.
Meanwhile, willing stoush between amateurs—footballers
and others—who damage each other far more than wily
professionals do, goes on at the Stadium every week.
Frank Gerald writes from Bilanderson’s King’s Theatre
(Melb.):—“ Jean Sibi,” who carps at the racecourse
arrangements in “ The Ohance of a Lifetime ” (B. 4/8/T0),
may have some slight knowledge of racing in Australia,
but he is a “mug” as regards the game in England.
“Jean ” complains artlessly that Anderson provides “ no
clerk of the course for the Gold Cup race.” At Ascot
(England) they don’t have a clerk of the course. If
a person in a scarlet coat and velvet cap were discerned
galloping about the famous. Heath between the races, as
is the case at Ascot (Australia), he would be taken, in all
likelihood, for a demented Christy Minstrel, and arrested.
“Sibi’s” protest at the absence of “numbered saddle-
cloths” on the Gold Gup steeds at the King’s should
never have been lodged. Under English Jockey Club
rules -numbered saddle-cloths are not in use. There is
nothing unusual in “ the leading jockey of Ned Duggan’s
stable” attending to Trixie. On the contrary. Herbert
Jones, who rode for Edward VII., attended to every
lightest detail in connection with the famous Diamond
Jubilee. In regard to Gold Land racing, “Jean Sibi”
lacks, it seems to me, that which should be the basis of
all criticism —knowledge.
r Sydney friends of Brenda Barnett, who lived at Darling
Point with her mother, will be glad to hear that the
plucky girl has now got a 12 months’ engagement with
the Beecham Opera Comique Co., and was lately appear
ing at Her Majesty’s in London. Hatnish McCunn is
musical director of the Beecham co., whereof the name
suggests that a lot of money made out of pills is in the
treasury. Miss Brenda is a tall, good-looking brunette
and a forceful young person. She worried the mater into
giving her just a fair chance to make her own way m
Fogland, and, after a spell of concert singing in the
provinces, she has achieved a footing on the stage, and is
happy.
THE LAST STRAW,
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Swift’s Musical Comedy Company, of seven people,
whilst driving from Beulah to Hopetoun yesterday in a
drag with five horses, were emptied into a reservoir. The
members of the company had a miraculous escape from
drowning-. Mews item.
Hoots, cat-calls and derisive cheers
The mime has struck long since.
At Ridicule's envenomed spears
He has had cause to wince.
He’s stopped the egg, propelled ’mid jeers—
The cat, the ruined quince.
Bars have refused him harborage ;
And pubs, with cold contempt,
And cruel, biting persiflage
Have flung him forth perempt-
orily. Nor from howls of rage
Has he been, aye, exempt.
The ca sa order he has known,
The Judgment Debtor’s plaint,
The unpaid washer-lady’s inoan,
Sincere, albeit faint.
Full often he has wildly flown
Before the Ghoul Distraint.
Comes the unkindest cut of all.
The very Powers on Ham
Fat turn, and cause his mokes to fall
And spill him, with a slaui,
A-down a road-embankment tall
Into a deep, damp dam.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.
A PROPHECY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sacco Homan versus ßexo for the long-distance fasting
championship of Australia, is a sporting and dramatic
event now attracting public attention in Melbourne.
The pair of expert starvers are pent in the same glass
house, and the first to break out will be counted the
loser. The idea of penning the competitors in the same
compartment suggests hideous possibilities.
Some fifty weary days had fled—
The fast moved very slowly.
And Rexo had not tasted bread.
On soda-water wholly
Had Homan lived. And all this time
Game curious people peeping ;
Some chewing bun?—a wicked crime
That set the fasters weeping.
A fast life’s not the life to lead
In couples. Note the sequel:
With hunger Rexo groaned. His greed
In Homan’s had an equal.
But neither won the fasting cup—
One morn a startled showman
Found Saccho’d eaten Rexo up,
And Rexo’d eaten Homan ;
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


By Special
Appointment
ħ
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS,
MOONEE PONDS,
VICTORIA.
THE CATERER. Tel. No. 2, Ascot.
Wedding Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
OCCASIONAL CONSTIPATION is a fertile source of
many of the minor ills that flesh is heir to. The best way
of restoring a state of healthy activity to stomach and
bowels is by taking a wineglassful of “ Honyadi Janos ”
natural aperient water every alternate day before break-
fast.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most "centrally situated Hotel in Sydney. •
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
THE SMALL CAMERA that gives BIG RESULTS.
24 U
... THE ...
ENSIGNETTE
Vest Pocket
CAITERA
THE ENSIGNETTE CLOSED LIKE A PURSE. Takes PhotOS. X l^in.
The ENSIGNETTE FOLDING VEST-POCKET CAMERA is the most Delightful aiid Useful little Camera
yet invented. The Price, 3 5/m, is moderate for its excellent Materials, Fittings and Capabilities. Its
small picture can be enlarged if necessary, but is quite pleasing without. For all who hate bulk the
“ENSIGNETTE”is the very thing. The Camera fits easily, when folded, into a Vest Pocket. When opened
it is a perfect model of a Useful Camera. A Spool of “ Ensign ” Films, 6 Exposures, costs only 1/-
HARRINGTONS Ltd.
Australasia’s Progressive
Camera and Photo.
Material Merchants,
-woe ft,,,* «VI\WI?V BRISBANE—93 to 95 Queen Street.
joO lyeorge OTfCei, 011/ni/I. MELBOURNE—266coiiinsstreet. Adelaide—Gawierpiaoe.
SOCIETY
“ Oby ” complains from the bleak eleva-
tion of South Head :
The stupendously foolish notion that men’s best work
in life contributes to wdiat is called their immortality
among their species is discounted by the farrago of sensa-
tional nonsense now perpetrated over the Dunbar relics
at Watson’s Bay, Sydney. Anchors, right ones or wrong
ones, have been dragged up, and, after exhibition, are to
be treasured in a museum, and the capstan of the ill-fated
ship is to be placed on a pedestal in Gap Park. The
people who have taken this mortuary job in hand yell
maledictions on anybody’ who says that the incident was
tragic, that somebody blundered, and that the issue
confers no glory on Watson’s Bay. The municipal councils
in that quarter demand that the incident shall be one of
its feats—indeed, its greatest. A moment’s thought on
the multitude of ships laden with thousands upon thou-
sands of passengers that have successfully dodged the Gap,
passed through the Heads and landed their passengers in
Sydney' safe and sound, should prevent this foolishness.
But, so far, it hasn’t. The men who did good work are
ignored by the municipal bodies down there, and the
skull and crossbone incident of the little village is pre-
sented as something to be cherished as a national glory.
If there were some deed of heroism attached to the per-
formance, there might be cause for glorification ; but the
deplorable wreck was all stupidity or ignorance.
MORAL—KEEP HIS LETTERS.
HE: “ Actions speak louder than words!”
SHE: “ Yes; but a few words read out in court sometimes improve the action .”
The choice of Bertram McKennal to de-
sign the King’s head on the new Australian coin-
age looks like cold, malevolent satire on the part
of the British authorities. McKennal is one of
the mighty band of Australian artists who—
having been frozen out of the Commonwealth, as
a result of the local picture-buyer’s passion for
American oleographs and Austrian plaques to the
exclusion of Australian work—has made good
abroad.' And now his genius is to be employed
designing the only picture the average rich Aus-
tralians really cares, in his, heart, to look at.
THE WHISKY BATH.
LONDON, Tuesday.—The New York correspondent of
the Daily Mail states that Mr. J. D. Rockefeller’s physi-
cians have ordered him whisky baths, owing to the fact
that he is suffering from lowered vitality.
D OCTOR: “ Well, my man, and what’s wrong
with you ?”
P ATIENT: “ I dunno what per calls it ’xactly, but
it's the same as that cove Rockefeller’s got.”
The tribe of Bairnsdale (Vic.) aborigines
has dwindled down to one family, and the mis-
sion station property is to be converted to a more
useful purpose. Not but what the State’s mis-
sionising of blacks has been useful in its way. It
seems to have accelerated their departure to a
better land.
“Ah Too Soon” dashes out of the kitchen
and describes a murky function, which might be a
lecture or a cooking demonstration :
Some poor whites—the laziest ones—really do work
like niggers; others merely think like niggers. One of
the latter variety (he was appropriately named Currie or
Hash) recently upended himself before a roomful of
people in Sydney, and, lighting the fire of Wrath within
his bosom, started to sizzle about the White Australia
policy. As a preliminary, he spluttered passionately
that “ the result of the migration of European nations
had been the conflict between the white and colored
races, the result of which had been little to the credit of
the white.” At this stage, according to the recipe, the
occupation of Mexico and Peru by Spain was poured in.
The seasoning was pretty stale, and didn’t amalgamate
very well with the rest; but, apparently, there was
nothing else available. By this time, Currie was
warmed up nicely, and threw off a cloud of vapor
about “the arrogant and overbearing, assumption b3'
white races of their superiority over those of the colored.”
Some more stirring remarks were followed by the stifling
sentiments that Hash “ did not hold that the white man
was superior to the colored”; also, “though it was
beating the wind to remonstrate with the ignorant and
narrow-minded white man, the day was coming when he
would be compelled to alter his demeanor.” Then Stew
boiled over altogether, hissing that the White Australia
policy “ flouted the dictates of the Great Architect of
the Universe.” From that on it gradually cooled off,
and gave off dull and commonplace remarks with flakes
of fat floating on the surface of them. It ended up some
time after 10 by going stone-cold. Finally;, it put on its
lid or stove-pipe, turned off the gas and went out. Wing
Sam, my cousin, who had accompanied me to the
demonstration, asked me what I thought was in it. I
said “ Hi, yah ! ” Then we put on our boxer hats over
our coiled pigtails and trotted back to the cook-shop to
make a dish of hi poo muck (edible mare’s nest) for my
uncle Boong Soo, who is in the opium business.
* * * *
The other day one J. Currie Elies pro-
pelled this extraordinary sentiment at the
Bankers’ Institute (Sydney):—
The White Australia policy is not only a standing
menace to the safety of the continent, an insult to the
intelligence of any educated person, a complete avowal
of the ignorance of history ; but also, being perpetuated
b3 r iniquity and promulgated by ignorance, it flouts the
dictates of the wisdom of the Great Architect of the
Universe.
What lesson has history to teach unfavorable to a
White Australia? Rome went down, at the last,
largely because it was saturated with the poison
of alien slave blood. When, in desperation, it re-
cruited its armies with barbarian mercenaries,
they mutinied, as the British-Indian army has
mutinied in the past and shows signs of mutinying
in the future.
“Bloggs,” in defence of his countrymen :
The recent statements of Foster Fraser —the Cockney
Thinker, who keenly observed the characteristics of the
Commonwealth, the other day, from the Palm Courts of
the Australia and Menzies Hotels —re the lack of virility
and generally enfeebled physical state of Australasians,
aren’t endorsed by the books which concern themselves
with the world’s athletic records. Let the faithful
student of F. Fraser first absorb the circumstance that
the entire population of the Commonwealth and M.L.
combined is less than that of London and suburbs, and then
let him consider these facts. The Australian Cricket XI.
holds the championship of the world at the present time,
and has done so for the last six years, beating the
Britishers both here and in the Cold Country. For quite
a while Australia was, by general consent, in possession
of (1) the best batsman, (2) the best all-round cricketer
on earth. At football, a game which is handicapped in
these parts by the climate and other conditions, the
locals are able to face allcomers and win in their turn.
The world’s finest tennis player is a Victorian if he isn’t a
Maorilander. The two together represent the strongest
combination in the tennis-world ro-day. The world’s
champion sculler is an inhabitant of these parts.
What with Bill Beach, Searle, Towns, etc., Aus-
tralasia has got so used to having world’s cham-
pion scullers about the premises that it hardly
notices them. In the swimming world the official
records for 45, 50, 90, 110 and 116 yards are all held by
Australians. Also, the records for 200, 300, 400, 500, 600,
700, 800, 900 and 1000 yards. Likewise, the mile and five-
mile records. An Australian girl (Annette Kellerman)
holds the five-mile record for women, and she is the 011)3'
girl or woman who ever swam over 20 miles at a stretch.
She did it in the Danube on June 14,1906. London Daily
Mail, confirming the winning scores in the last Empire
Cup shoot, a few days ago said : —“The fine shooting of
the Australians is the outstanding feature of the com-
petition. That New South Wales should obtain four
places in the first seven is a truly wonderful perform-
ance.” Two out of the three world’s rifle-shooting records
stand to the credit of Australians. At pigeon-shooting—
which, however ignoble, requires all that a man may pos-
sess of quickness, keen vision and nerve —an Australian
holds the record with 99 birds killed out of
100 (30 yards rise and five traps); and a fellow-
countryman is known throughout Europe as the
most deadly of present-day bird-assassinators. Aus-
tralian professional boxers have been on top, or there-
abouts, from the beginning of things, and at last year’s
Amateur Boxing Championship competitions held in
London, an Australian was runner-up in the heavyweight
class. At billiards an Australian (aged 17) holds the
record for the highest break (836) made since the barring
of the “spot stroke” in 1898. The most finished and
persistent Diamond Sculls winner in history was an Aus-
tralian. According to London Sportsman, the last Ox-
ford v. Cambridge cricket match will go down to pos-
terity as “Le Couteur’s match.” (Le Couteur is a
Melbourne youth who scored 160 runs against Cam-
bridge, and afterwards created a panic among the Can-
tabs by his bowling. The only player on the light blue
side who could do anything with his deliveries was a
Maorilander.) Young Wootton, said by English critics to
be the best flat-race rider in the world, was born, trained
and taught to ride in Sydney.
One could go on like this almost indefinitely. The
above should suffice, however, to indicate that, whatever
he may be in other respects, the young Australian is,
physically, anything but the degenerate wreck Foster
Fraser conceives him. The trouble with social students
of the Fraser class lies, of course, in their habit of con-
ducting their researches in palm gardens, railway car-
riages, clubs and other cosy spots. It is a custom which,
however gratifying, doesn’t give them a chance to learn
things.
At Gisborne (M.L.) Court, a day or two
ago, counsel inquired of a witness: “Is the
accused, in your opinion, a man of weak intel-
lect?” “He is,” replied the witness. “I think
two pints of beer a day is about his limit.”
THE ROAD TO GREATNESS.
An American manager has offered the girl Ethel Le
Neve 1000 dollars (£200) a week to appear in vaudeville
after her release.
THE LADY: "Julius, darling! I have a brilliant
idea. You go and commit a ’arrible crime,
an ’ I’ll elope with, yer. Tut jest dyin' to go
on the siige.”
THE CURSE OF FOOD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wellington (Maoriland), Thursday'.—A resident, who
suffered from nervous dyspepsia and catarrh for five
years, fasted 52 days, his only nourishment being one
cup of hot milk and a little essence of fruit daily. His
weight was reduced 161 b. There were no other effects,
except a slight weakness in the legs. He is much better
in health, and intends repeating the experiment.— Mews
item.
In the midst of Life’s grim hurry, frequently I sit and
brood
On the weariness of chewing and the curse of hunting
food ;
From the dawning until midday—from the midday until
dusk,
There is naught but interruptions for the gnawing of the
husk ;
Ev’ry morning bright and early in the lodging where I
dwell
From my slumbers I am summoned by the greasy
breakfast-bell;
Through my toilet do I hurry, then pursue my frenzied
flight
Down the stair, with eggs and bacon to appease my
appetite ;
Glancing sideways at the paper, sawing fiercely at the
bread,
Sipping boiling tea and cursing—so I work till I am fed ;
Then I grab my hat and paper —take my brolly up and
run
For the tram that meets the ferry, conscious that I’m
stoked till One.
Sharp at nine I hit the office and upon a rusty nail
Hang my dusty hat and brolly and attack the morning
mail;
Asses come and ask me questions ; telephones ring in my
ear;
Beggars bail me up for thrippence for a long, delicious
beer ;
’Ere the morning heap of letters dwindles slowly out of
sight,
Once again I feel the prompting of my healthy appetite ;
So resignedly my office door I shut and hurry out
To a place where beefsteaks sizzle and the pewters
long and stout
Wait at mid-day for the famished and the thirsty of the
town ;
There I sit and chew and tipple till I get my dinner
down ;
Then once more I seek the office —though I’d rather find
a tree
And lie down and doze beneath it—bunkered for the
stretch to Tea.
Through the afternoon I struggle 'gainst a strong desire
to sleep ;
But the mid-day mail is waiting in another tott’ring
heap ;
So I doggedly dissect it with an old Afridi spear,
Whilst more beggars ask me sternly for some more de-
licious beer.
Paper curses, growls and orders from, far correspondents
drop
On my table’s polished surface. Someone from the busy
shop
Comes and bears them swiftly from me as I toil with
brain and hand
Trying to get through ere Waistcoat calls out with the
old demand ;
But my' strength keeps slowly' ebbing, and my wistful
thoughts will fly
To the lamp-lit dinner table and the fragrant, home-made
. pie.
“Knock-off time!” at last I mumble. “ Why, oh why
must people eat ? ”
Then methodically hurry homeward on reluctant feet.
Man is but the slave of Waistcoat—working so that he
may chew.
All our dreams are crushed and scattered ’neath an
avalanche of stew :
Beefsteaks, chops and eggs and bacon, mutton, bread-
and-butter, rolls,
Breakfast, dinner, tea and supper—haven’t time to save
our souls ;
Oysters plain and oysters devilled—beefsteaks fried and
- beefsteaks grilled—
Everything must go to blazes till the vacuum is filled.
Art and Science struggle madly whilst the wary fish is
hooked;
Industry drags on complaining till the last repast is
cooked.
Rise, O Brothers ; Strike for Freedom ! Long in slavery
we’ve knelt;
Let us crush the greedy Tyrant! Tighter pull each sag-
ging belt!
Starve, my Brothers ! Perish bravely ! Famine must be
sternly woo’d !
Save your Teeth, your Time, your Livers! Down with
Waistcoat! Down with Food !
N.S.W.
HORATIC BREATHLESS.


Perpetual Motion.
When George Stephenson was asked,
'■Do you believe in perpetual motion?”
he replied, “Yes, if you lift yourself bv
the waist-band of the trousers, and carry
yourself three times round the room.”
Just so, and a woman would just as
soon believe that she has not to pay dearly
ior common soaps, in the low quality
of soap, in ruined hands and'"clothes.
She would be kept in perpetual motion
trying to do with common soap what she
could so easily do with Sunlight Soap..
Croup at Toowoomba.
“My little sister Millie suffered from croup for
six weeks,” writes Mrs. F. Ford, Hill Street,
Toowoomba, Queensland. “We tried all sorts of
remedies without result, until we gave her Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery, which completely
cured her.” Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
The introduction of the Edison Amberola
Phonograph marks a new era in the history of sound-
reproducing instruments. The Amberola is, in short, a
greatly improved phonograph. Its horn and mechanism
are enclosed in a handsome cabinet, which also includes
drawers for holding 100 records. It will play both
Standard (2-minute) and Amberol(4-minute) records, and
may be had in several finishes of oak or mahogany to
match any room or woodwork. It is a most attractive
piece of furniture, and a decided ornament to any draw-
ing- or music-room. The Amberola is equipped with a
number of special features, entirely exclusive and intro-
duced for the first time. These improvements make for
sweeter, clearer and louder reproduction, with greater
ease in manipulation. We are informed that a special
series of Edison Grand Opera Amberol Records will
shortly be placed upon the Australasian market. In-
cluded among the contributors to this splendid series are
such famous stars as Leo Slezak, Riccardo Martin,
Florencio Constantino, Blanche Arral and Adelina
Agostinelli. Details of these records will be announced
upon their arrival.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
A BOOT OF CHARACTER.
h
Particular men often find it difficult to select footwear to suit thei r
tastes. These are the men whom we can please with our
assortment of High-Class Boots. We have gone to great pains
to show Footwear that will please all tastes.
Our illustration shows a very special boot—built to fit any
normal fpot—not too long and made on a modern last.
We have it in two qualities.
No. 1 QUALITY—
Black close-grained Box Calf, with
wide welts and heavy stitched double
soles.
16/6.
No. 2 QUALITY—
Fine Black Horsehide, waterproof, and
polishes like patent leather. 25 J m
Add 1/- Extra for Postage.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309=311 George Street, Sydney.
Seeing that the Church has been going it
with unusual energy during the past few days
about the equality, if not the superiority, of
our colored brother and the wickedness of the
reticent attitude which we assume towards him,
The Bulletin rises to propose that the deadlock
at St. James’s, Sydney, should be got over by the
appointment of a black incumbent—the blackest
one available. If the idea finds favor the
paper will do its best to help things along
by cordially advocating the free admission of
colorej clergymen to Australia. It is a shocking
example of clerical intolerance and hypocrisy
that, though a large section of the Church has
always advocated nigger immigration, there has
never been a colored bishop in Australia, nor even
a brown rector. So it is time the Church did
something by way of living up to its creed, and
St. James’s supplies the opportunity.
Sudden death has ended a black and white
alliance which once interested Port Hedland
(W.A.). In that village Mr. Dost Mohamed had
a quarrel with his white wife and her two
brothers. He had nearly strangled one brother,
and the other, after vainly giving him notice to
quit, smote him on the head with some timber,
and there was no more Dost. The law regarded
it as justifiable homicide, and that decision not
being satisfactory to the Afghan mind, the regu-
lation blood-feud started. Apparently mild and
insistent pressure was put on Mrs. Dost (the family
seems to have regarded her as the chief enemy) to
make her move to India and live among her loving
relatives there. She and her colored brother-in-
law informed the local magistrate, who was
fixing up the affairs of the late Dost, of their
GETTING ON THAT WAY.
The railway accidents during the 12 months resulted
in 8722 persons being killed.— Cable from the United.
States.
YOUNG VICTORIA: “My word, Uncle Sam! I'll
soon be catching up to you."
intended departure, and when the official warned
that she might be walking into the
middle of a feud, the wretched woman wept and
said it was as well to be killed in India as in Aus-
tralia. Apparently the unsleeping eye of the
family was on her, and she had given up hope,
So she went to the dreary seaport of Kurachi, the
last place on the Indian coast before you strike
Baloochistan. There her brown relatives by mar-
riage received her well. They gave her a pale
horse to ride on—the same color as the horse that
Death rode upon in the Book of Revelation when
Hell “ followed with him.” Hundreds of people
called on her, probably curious to see the woman
who had come to her execution. Then Mrs. Dost
Mohamed passed out by violence.
THE SAILOR BOLD.
“ Now, captain, you must sometimes get homesick .”
“No, really. I'm never at home long enough."
The “special inquiry” into the Richmond
(Vic.) railway disaster has evolved nothing sensa-
tional as yet; but a lot of the evidence serves to
show the casual way in which the Department
runs itself. The South Yarra stationmaster
talked about the fog-signalmen. “They were
pretty slow in turning up,” he admitted. “Some-
times they turn up when the fog is all over. . . .
The arrangements didn’t work out well, because
some of the men who were expected to attend
were sick.” At Richmond things were just as
cursory. Four of the men there did not turn up
on the day of the trouble because they didn’t live
near the station and weren’t notified. They were
expected to come of their own accord, but as the
fog was quite a local one they didn’t know there
was any fog. The S.M. sent a porter to
see that they were all placed properly.
The porter took the word of the box-
signalman that they had signed on, and
then went away to “arrange for their
meals.” He left at 7.30, and hadn’t got
back when the smash happened, at nine,
having had lengthy arguments with
restaurant-keepers, who insisted on having
cash on delivery. The Richmond signal-
man was fairly certain that his “ boy-
recorder” correctly entered all the signals
and times he called out; but, being ques-
tioned, he had to admit that recently a
train was entered and put through the
books which didn’t run at all; and,
being further pressed, he owned up that
such things happened fairly often ; also
that the recorders “ fairly often” failed
to make entries that had been called out.
Also, the needle on the block instrument
—worked from the next station, and thus
supposed to be a check on his own work
—didn’t show whether a train was coming
to or going from him, and was therefore
Of little use. As to the provision at
stations for dealing with accidents, it
seems that there was at Richmond Tait’s
usual set of regulations, a list of doctors
to be summoned—one for everj' five per-
sons injured—an ambulance stretcher,
and one axe. No hydraulic jacks, no
saws or other cutting tools, no crowbars
—just one lone, solitary axe. It is all
so feeble, so hopeless.
The simple-minded councillors of Rich-
mond (Vic.) have been wrestling at law, and have
discovered with pain that, though they got the
better of the argument, they had the worst of the
deal. The trouble arose through a noxious trader
persisting in his noxiousness. Him the council
had fined, the beak allowing it £4 4s. costs. The
offender appealed, but was “ outed,” and ordered
to pay the council’s costs up to £7 7s. This looked
fairly satisfactory for the council ; but unfortu-
nately its actual costs came to £3O Gs. 7d,, so it is
nearly £l9 out on the victory. This is one of the
law’s jests. You get a verdict for your claim,
“ with costs,” but the costs that the verdict
doesn’t carry are about twice the size of those it
does carry.
The Smith whom the cable mentioned
last month as having got libel damages
against Sievier’s Winning Post
turns out to be Robert Charles
of that ilk or tribe, formerly
well known in Maoriland and
Sydney. Smith, who had been
an amateur steeplechase jockey
in the Cold Land, came to
M.L. about 20 years ago, and
started farming. A year later
he married a Sydney girl with
money. It was mainly to vin-
dicate himself in the eyes of
this lady that he brought his
action. He claimed that the
Winning Post, in reprinting an
extract from the memoirs of an
actress, one Helena Odilon, wherein
a Smith who was a “gentleman
rider” figured, had so shocked and
alienated his wife that she “cut
down his allowance ” and refused to
take a farm she had promised him.
The defence was that Robert was
not the Smith referred to, that there
were 1500 Smiths in the “London
Directory, ” and so forth. Some queer
features of the case were—(l) the
rage of Mrs. Smith at the mere vague
suspicion or hint that her husband
had led any portion of the gay life
before she met him ; (2) the fact that
the Smith episode was reckoned by
Helena Odilon “the most tragic of
her life”.(it was an ordinary, drab
sort of affair, which consisted in
Helena’s lover arriving while she
was chatting innocently to Smith,
whereupon Smith decamped, the
lover broke some furniture, and then
made it tip with' her); and (3) the
exasperation of the Judge at a chance
remark of one of Sievier’s witnesses.
Thus the report: —
His Lordship asked whether the allegation
with regard to immoral conduct was not libellous
on the person referred to.
The Witness: Everybody has had adventures of
the sort, especially gentlemen riders. (Laughter.)
His Lordship (warmly) : I am sorry to hear you say
such things. It rouses my wrath. I don’t believe the
whole of mankind is so bad as you say. (Applause in
court.) You will find I am rijrht. If we are all to be
classed in the same condemnation I won’t stand it.
That little interlude probably settled the
Winning Post’s hash.
In its eagerness to feed the professional
shark, the Wade (N.S.W.) Government aimed a
cowardly blow at one branch of the Public Service
the other day. It was in connection with the
Justices (Amendment) Bill, whose object is to
empower the Public Service Board to lift legal
deadbeats into the comfortable chairs of police
and stipendiary magistrates. Wade, pushing the
Bill through, said that “ Clerks of Petty Ses-
sions, after 14 or 15 years’ service behind a coun-
ter, were not fitted for Bench duties.” Yet even
Wade should have known that one of the first
duties of a C.P.S. is to help the Bench
of Magistrates, and, as a matter of fact, in
country towns the local C.P.S., when a
Justice of the Peace, disposes of most of the
police-court cases. To get promotion to the
P.M.’s billet is the objective of most of the clerks
who are worth their salt, and for that they put in
years of study while getting invaluable practical
experience. Now Wade blows in with this provi-
sion whereby the promotion comes instead to the
political hanger-on, who may have been admitted to
the Bar, yet probably knows no law and as likely
as not has had no practical experience, simply
because the public has never trusted him with a
brief.
The big Australian newspapers are gradu-
ally getting rid of the last shred of reserve in the
rush to picture the Spot Where the Outrage Oc-
curred, the Axe With Which the Deed Was Perpe-
trated, the Maimed and Mutilated Bodies Being
Removed from the Wreckage and the Group of
Sorrow Stricken Relatives ; and in the struggle to
report the Dying Words of the Injured, and the
remarks by the gentleman with the Severed
Windpipe. The limit was about reached on
August 11 by Sydney Telegraph, in describing
the burial of the three children killed by a
demented mother:—
Mclntosh, father of the children, was plainly suffering
from intense grief, and when he left the mourning coach
to have a last look at the coffins before they were covered
he collapsed: Standing at the edge of the grave he cried
in an agonising tone, “Oh Dolly, my poor Dolly!’
referring to the eldest and his favorite child.
The Daily Ghoul may now be expected to publish
something to this effect any morning :
GREAT DROWNING HORROR.
mothers’ superb agony.
(Prom Our Special Death Representative.)
The drowned son of Mr. and Mrs. Jorines was brought
home to-night, and the sodden body laid on the front
room sofa. By gaslight it lo ked remarkably fine. Your
representative was enabled to obtain a “scoop story”
as the undertaker’s assistant, and took a full note of the
parents’ agony under pretence of unscrewing the coffin,
which stood impressively on the sideboard. The mother
wailed bitterly while undressing the lad and removing
the seaweed from round his neck. Unusually large
tears crept down the father’s face. As the supposed
assistant of Mr. Bones I remained in the room till
midnight and obtained several exclusive photographs of
the expressions of grief on the faces of the family.
* * * *
S. Australia’s long-drawn-out Maslin
divorce case has, according to present appear-
ances, laid itself finally on the shelf, after keep-
ing the State’s Supreme Court busy for over
three years. The case was one in which miscon-
duct on both sides was freely alleged, and was
therefore supposed to scream for the intervention
of the King’s Proctor. But S.A. does not possess
one, so the Crown Prosecutor was appointed to
act. He proved everything he alleged, except
collusion, and demanded anew trial to recon-
sider that point. By this time there had been
about six trials in the S.A. Supreme Court and
one in the High Court. The remaining one was
ANOTHER BLOW AT PRIVATE
ENTERPRISE.
THE TRAP: “ Why aren't you working ?”
SHADY PARTY: “ Well, what’s the good, since
they’re got this blooming wireless thing
jigging.”
the fiercest of the lot. It was as to whether the
Proctor should have his costs or not, John
Downer arguing forcibly that the Court had no
power to give him any. Judgment on this
question, horribly important to several lawyers,
has been “reserved ” since the middle of June ;
for Chief Justice Way is an old and overworked
man, and takes a long time to think over things.
Last week it was announced suddenly that the
petitioner—who had been almost forgotten in the
legal strife—had got tired and paid everybody’s
costs himself ! He is a rich squatter, and can
afford the amusement. So everything ends at
Nowhere-in-Particular.
LAWLESS LOVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Louis Bass, who had pleaded guilt}' to charges of lar-
ceny, forgery and uttering, and obtaining money under
false pretences, was brought up to allow of evidence of
character being submitted on his behalf. It was sub-
mitted that the young fellow had become enamored of a
girl, and in order to glorify himself in her eyes he had
committed the crime. Mr. Kiely said that accused had
tried to cut a dash in the girl’s eyes. —Sydney Telegraph.
Assume a rival looms upon the scene—
A football champion, possibly, or one
Who shines refulgent on the cricket green,
Or golfs or swims with skill surpassed by none—
There is no earthly need to yield to blank
Despair. Go out and break into a bank.
The loathly type of youth who fascinates
By comic singing, dancing and the like,
A b.v-word may be rendered ’midst his mates,
Provided you possess the nerve to strike
Some harmless citizen upon the jaw,
And thus arouse the anger of the law.
Even the actor’s multifarious wiles
May be defeated, if decisive steps
Are taken. Would you purloin Beauty’s smiles
From one of these grease-painted demi-reps
Then seize your pen and deftly forge a will,
Or burgle someone’s shop and rob the till.
Despite the patent fact that woman’s love
Is to be gained by these means in a trice,
The point remains, when it goes hand in glove
With gaol, the boon is rarely worth the price.
He were, in sooth, with ardor mad imbued,
Who’d win his girl with penal servitude.
N.S.W.
H. SINGEMOINE.
THE FEASTS OF THE FUTURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A meat famine is threatened.—Press item.
Bread made from ground cotton is largely
used in Texas.— Press item.
When goodly feasts of frizzled ox
Are dead and long forgotten.
Though lorn of herds and fatted flocks,
We still may live on cotton.
Oh, wondrous is this changing age
To frolic, feast or sin in ;
Perhaps upon the world’s next page
We’ll read of roasted linen.
Though many shake the warning head
And swear we go to wreck fast,
If sausages should fail, instead
We’ll have stewed tweed for breakfast.
And, oh, the days may bring at last
E’en stranger things than that in,
When for your afternoon repast
Come wafer cakes of satin.
When Sarah Jane is hardly pressed
No one will think it shocking
If, being hungry, though well dressed,
She cooks and eats her stocking.
And we, dear heart, if then as now
Clouds show no silver lining,
Instead of eating salted cow,
Will be on sackcloth dining.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMONWEALTH.


iV'ScVioU' /ou
school aJI weeK. |
2»d Scholar: -" Ko» ° n i
worm*# I *»*? *
e*a&A« £
a?-*•'-•
or „ e We J'V”"
.;a
\S "c lf
Co^s u,aPT 1 v E-
WARD
117 d< baildino impor^^
A p.titevT renwKea 'To be
/ Though rrj*y strive
" To AliVg
- pJeAcn i 5 brtsHTwt 'Cure
J'’ 5 ’ 1 ’ *» ye
-fiaT for », °''
■k. -f^. o ok "™ie
v/iM te
-tfeT&rv.loyj Oj^"
Another attempt will be made this
session to remove the alderman from
his entrenchments, and so violent an
anomaly is he in public life that even the
Legislative Council will hardly hesitate
to decree his abolition.
aorl7<>'t~
> picture;, KjW' l 0t1&
[orrje (oW,
Tir»te i*7
h-fce 'tev/*, s VtJj >
k. b&* rt^r »§ A+"
1?« >**« . orb
of nifiVT
%
Aider *>*»
d°e s n e
oc *>
Nellie Rooke, licensee of the Lome
Hotel, Lorre, sued J, T. Anderson for
£l9 19s. damages for trespass by a
cow. Mrs. Rooke’s evidence was to the
effect that the cow was simply incor-
rigible, going about the place seeking
what it might devour. On different
occasions it walked into eight bed-
rooms, ate a mattress, broke the furni-
ture and did other damage. It went
upstairs and on to the balcony, and
upset the whole place. It devoured a
bag of potatoes and a case of apples.
.. Anvhow, vou know what I think of“
you.” rejoined Mr. Solly, with the air
of a man determined not to ,ose *‘® h „
of the main question. “As t 0 13 ’
•replied Mr. Mackinnon, dropping h.s
conciliatory tone, “the hon. membe. ja-
opinion of me is worthless. “The
same to you.” retorted Mr. Solly.
s°My -'
-
<solU/ •• -
l'HjinK of you
jj doht'*yatt see-
%e whicS re«i*rl< is
Of Whdkt - you -tfjinK of me
The evil of cigarette smoking by young
lads is engaging the attention of the
Social Reform Bureau. The superintend-
ent (Mr. W. H. Judkins) has forwarded
a letter to the Premier (Mr. Murray)
asking if he will introduce legislation ti
prohibit the practice. The Anti-Cigarette
League is co-operating with the bureau.
Mr. Murray announced his intention to
take legislative action!in the matter.
i
of K'«c> S"V>o
te lieve 'tCe ool ,V
Of lot 5 I<.l €• "l^"
HAPPENINGS BY HOBSON’S BAY.


What’s the time? Just the time for
glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets. Chemists
refund money if it fails to cure. E. W. GROVE’S signa-
ture is on each box. 1/I*. 1
GOLDEN YELLOW AXLE GREASE.
A Pure Oil Lubricant for
nil Axles and Bearings.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney.
NECK SLIDES
Centre Diamond and
Choice Pearls, £5/5/-
on velvet ribbon, for evening wear, are the latest
rage, and charmingly dainty they look.
We are showing and making all the latest designs in every fashionable jewel and
combination of gems.
In fine gold and pearls, they range from £l/1/- to hundreds of pounds in diamonds.
Permit us to show them to you, or write for particulars.
Plain Figures
Cash.
]
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“ A. II.” : Be King’s Sound, lately recom-
mended by a correspondent as a suitable naval
base, in the Far Nor’-West, here is a leaf torn from
. a pearler’s diary :
VVe were making for King’s Sound and “the grave-
yard,” and were three days out from Broome when a
strong “cockeye” struck us from the NE., making
further progress impossible, as our fore-boom carried
away. So we anchored in Karrakatta Bay, close to where
the steamer of that name was wrecked. Next morning
we made a good start, and were just out of the bay when
we met another violent “cockeye,” this time
from SE., so we had to anchor again. Continuing our
journey, we entered Pearl Pass, one of the many
passages into King’s Sound. We steered pretty
carefully through reefs, rocks and small islands;
but in spite of precautions the lugger bumped heavily on
a coral reef. Then, as we managed to get her off, she
struck another, and we found we must await the next
tide to float. In these waters there is a tidal rise of 40ft.
to 45ft. VVe were then 160 miles from Broome, and on
our left was Sunday Island, where Syd Hadley, abandon-
ing the World, the Flesh and the Devil, has a station for
aborigines. By the evening tide, we crossed to Whirl-
pool Pass, not mi-named. No chance of diving there,
so on again to Endymion Pass —nothing but a mad,
ferocious rush of tide and eddying whirlpools. Only the
most careful navigation brought us safely through.
Coming back to the luggers we found still no chance of
any diving being done, though doubtless shell is plenti-
ful. Still, it would be certain death to a diver, so we
went on to “ the Graveyard.” Here our chances were
not much better. The rush of tide and the dirty water
made work impossible, except for an odd hour or so.
From my experience I judge that this part of the coast
is the most uncertain and dangerous in Australia ; that
is, in its normal condition, saying nothing of “cock-
eyes” and “ willy willies.”
What about that as a suitable naval base?
NO CAPTURE EFFECTED.
CONSTABLE BRIGGS (to teamster battling for a
drink on Sunday): “If I see yez hangin’
around this pub again I’ll arrest yez.”
TRAMSTER (with scorn): “You! You’re not
smart enough to arrest attention!"
“ Miloa Black’s ” moral :
The Papuan woman doesn’t have to battle for her
rights like her white-skinned sister in the Cold Country,
although if her husband were not afraid of his helpmeet’s
powers of witchcraft he would treat her badly enough.
Knew one girl who, after marriage, made such demand?,
upon her buck for tobacco that the fear of Sheol beir.g
let loose drove him to work. He went to Samarai, and
was signed on at one of the goldfields, where his exer-
tions enabled him to procure “ plenty feller tobacco ”
for his bride. But he only escaped one devil
to encounter another. A message came to him
from his home village that the snake was
in the garden and reaching for the apple. Jealousy
gripped the black Adam, and brooding, added to a long
course of bad food, broke down his constitution. He
ascribed his sickness to pouri-pouri (witchcraft), and
nothing would shake his belief that his wife had put her
grass dress in his food. His one desire was revenge, and
carrying death on his shoulders, he sneaked from the
camp and made for home, where he arrived one night
starving and emaciated. But he had strength enough to
strangle his wife—the gay Lothario fled from the scene
and left him doing it—and they were found dead to-
gether in the morning.
SUPERFLUOUS.
BARMAN: "’Ere, that counter-lunch isn’t for loafers!”
VISITOR (eating industriously): “ Who’s loafin'?”
“ Billy B.’s ” fight with Satan :
I walked to the End of the World last Saturday and had
a look over the edge. Didn’t think much of it; neither
did the Reverend. The journey is from Sydney city to
Watson’s Bay via the Old South Head-road, a desert of
sandhills, the Bondi cliffs (down and up again), and a
five-mile stretch of thirst that satisfied the Rev. as to
what Gehenna’ll be like. “Pubs,” said he, “have a
curious unreasonableness of always remaining in the
same spot. That’s the only thing I’ve got against them.
What sort of a trade would they do if they travelled
round on wheels?” “Bonzer,” I said. “Bonzer’snot
tiie word,” exclaimed the Rev., rasping his dry tongue
against his teeth. On and ever on we walked, until the
shadows began to lengthen, our feet moving by
instinct, and our minds a blank from suffering.
All I knew wa3 that away ahead of me, as a
mirage, I saw a gigantio tankard of beer with
the Devil leaning against it on the Edge of the World.
A deep cunning took possession of me. I would steal
upon the Devil and push him overboard ! Then I would
drink his beer. But there was the Rev. I must first
get away from him. So presently I dropped behind, and
stole into the scrub in order to make a flank movement
and slip ahead of him. Just at that moment he turned
and saw me. “ Here, what’s your game?” he called sus-
piciously. “Have you got a flask?” “No, no,” I
answered; “it’s a short cut.” “ Short cut be” (fill it in
yourself], he snarled, “you come’ere.” He caught me
by the collar, and for great eras of time we trudged
through droughts and sand and Prohibition and com-
munities lacking in sufficient intelligence to erect pubs,
and graveyards, and ostrich farms and motor-cars fleeing
out of the wilderness—and always I kept my eye on the
Devil at the Edge of the World. I had changed my mind
about him ; I had decided not to push him over till I had
lammed blazes out of him. Why should he stand loafingin
the Future with hisgiant beer, while I was toiling through
the eternal Present with blisters on my thirst! Who
was he, anyhow, that he should have any beer 1 “ There’ll
be a [anything you like] row when I get along a bit,” I
said to the Rev.” “If it’s not in a pub you’re on your
lonely,” he replied. “I wouldn’t stop to see a row
between the Horned Beasts of Revelation and a shipload
of Ohinamen.” We stumbled on for several more years.
I was growing light-headed. I know this because I
nearly drank from a lagoon. Strange sounds ran riot in
my head. I heard a choir of beer-pumps singing the
songs my father used to sing. Then I heard the Rev.
cheering a pub that was walking down the road to meet
us. I saw him run to shake hands with it, and I followed
as well as I could. I think I got lost, and I moved
slowly, holding tightly to the walls, for I knew that I
was on the Edge of the Earth. Suddenly I stepped within
a white light, and there, leaning on the bulwarks of the
world with a long beer tipped to his throat, was a blurred
and indistinct figure. But I knew him ! It was the
Devil! I couldn’t mistake his triumphant laugh as he
swamped his giant drink. With a wild yell I sprang
upon him, and the night rang resplendent with curses as
we fought on the floor. He was at his last gasp before
we we*-° separated, and I got a good look at him. It
was the Reverend ! I tried to explain—apologise. “ Aw,
go to H—ll ” ! was a he said.
* * * *
“Jimmie Pannikin ” : Rabbits (imported,
jf course) are a curse to the country ; but the
many rabbit poisons are worse. I have been
travelling in the Bush for the greater part of 1910,
and I note that the native birds get scarcer and
scarcer. I have not seen one wild duck this year.
Four years ago I saw them very often. Cattle,
horses and sheep chew the bones of the poisoned
rabbits; and suffer in consequence. It is beyond
question that phosphorus, etc., injuriously affect
the health of the men and boys (alas ! that boys
should be put to such work !) who do the poison-
ing. Fortunately, the comparative cheapness and
the indisputable effectiveness of digging-out and
netting are beginning to be realised ; but, unfor-
tunately, there are many men on the land, who,
being conservative and wastefully economical,
cannot bear to throw the pestiferous poison-cart,
the futile fumigator, etc., on to the scrapheap.
“ Machete ” : In a previous par writer had
occasion to refer to the fact that the brown lady
and the white gentleman are occasionally unhappy
in their experiences of matrimony or its island
equivalent. Still, all the ladies are not indifferent
to their white lords. There was one such damsel
whose protector was a storekeeper named
Jones—hereinafter called Smith for pur-
poses of disguise—and, as such, used to
■apply stores occasionally to the white
lady teachers of the mission. The visits
of these to the store always livened up
the somewhat languid brunette in the
most amazing manner, and Smith was
always in a state of terror until the 'mis-
sioners had departed. One day came an
urgent message from the mission, request-
ing Smith to attend there in person.
He went by boat, and when his Dulcinea
was bidden to stay behind, her universe
flew to pieces. She had, hitherto, always
gone with her Smith on his little trips.
Like the Duchess of Plaza Toro, “she
knew his Grace ” —and this was the first
time she had been called down. On the
high bank above the boat she danced a
can-can that lives in the memory of all who
saw it, while her objurgations rippled the
placid surface of the creek. Stopping for
breath she retreated beneath a flimsy shelter ™
built of saplings and palm leaves. With a final
yelp by way of peroration, she laid violent hands
on the sapling support, and was buried, a she-
Samson, in a smother of dry leaves and dust, to be
rescued; still cursing, by a couple of sympathetic
miners.
* * * *
“ Wang ” : T can vouch for the truth of
the statement made by Victorian Premier
Murray to a deputation the other day that
“ when a laborer becomes a boss cocky he has a
habitation like a palace.” I know lots of them.
Was standing with one at his moat and draw-
bridge the other day when he remarked : “Sorry I
carn’t ast y’up, ole chap. The factis that theblanky
cattle court-yard is under water ; the wynde has
blown ther turret down, and the flamin’ varlet—a
murrain in his throat for a pock-marked blackleg
—came home sozzled with sack, and busted the
postern gate. Come round next holyday and the
missus will e’en welcome thee at the festive board.
There’ll be a haunch of roast welkin and a bit er
tin dorg. Solong and Gadzooks to y\”
* • « *
“Yarrum”: A pious old South Cowst
(N.S.W.) lady keeps an African parrot that hangs
handy tajus. The other day she confided to me :
“Me and my husband had always thought he was
a male, until we found out he was a ben.” Asked
how she made the discovery, she explained that
the bird had laid an egg. Afterwards the husband
supplemented the yarn by grieving that after the
egg had happened the bird flapped round screech-
ing, “It’sablanky lie! It’s a blanky lie!” A
depraved joker told me later that he had slipped
a pigeon’s egg in with the green fiend. He con-
fessed it with some bitterness, for he had expected
the bird to see a joke of that size.
“ Bark Holden ” : Be “J.G.” on rabbit-
trapping (B. 30/6/T0). If he lugs 70 traps around
on his back for 10 miles, it’s time he swung the
billy and pulled out for fresh fields. A trapper
who can’t spread his traps on a four-mile sweep is
in country too poor to cling to. And a varied
assortment of game doesn’t worry the trapper.
On land out from Broadford (Vic.) one day’s tally
of what “J.G.” calls nuisances was as follows:
Six native cats, two black ’possums and four
foxes. The foxes, of course, removed the traps
and hurried into hollow logs to bite them off ;
but in two hours the dog and I tracked them down,
and their scalps and skins turned me in £2. The
’possum skins equalled 3s. 9d. each, and the six
native-cat skins I sold for 10s. The bunnies
panned out 40 pair at. 3d. each, so “J.G.” can
work out for himself which was the better haul.
On country where bunny is too plentiful the
trapper is on a good wicket with the squatter, and
the tea and sugar bag need never go empty ; in
fact, Fat sometimes pays the rabbiters on his
property a weekly wage in addition to what the
traps bring in. I admit that the wage is not
nearly as large as the accompanying groans, but it
can be put to a better use.
* * * *
When the N.S.W. Coal Unpleasantness
was over, a lot of people felt sorry for the mine
horses that had been having a sunny holiday on
top of the earth, and were being led back to their
old holes in the ground to labor until another
hitch happened along. In one U.9.A. coal-mine
where mules are used underground, a humane
foreman lately induced the management to have
a concrete bath made for the use of the poor
brutes, most of which will never see daylight,
green fields or running water again this side of
the Paddocks of Peter. The long-eared kickers
nearly went crazy with delight when they were
first driven into it ; and now, when the day’s work
is over, there is more happy mule to the square inch
in that underground tank than could be rounded
up by four angel cow-punchers in the place where
the good mules go when they die.
AN IMPOSSIBLE PROPOSITION.
F RIEND: “ You must get tired o’ livin’ on mutton.
Don’t y ’ ever have a bit of fowl, f'rinstance?”
COCKY: “I cant, very well; y' see, none o’ me
neighbors keep fowls.”
“Dandalup”: Pearling isn’t all that it’s
cracked up to be by romancers and others, so fai-
ns the man who explores the floor of the ocean is
concerned. Only a few days ago a Broome (W. A.)
diver was tackled by 10ft. of blue shark and badly
mauled. Fortunately for the diver the shark
went for the seat of his pants, on to which it
hung with ferocity. When the victim was hauled
to the surface the solicitor of the deep was still
there. The uniform with the much-damaged seat
is now a proud exhibit in the far nor’-western
pearling town.
THE LONG-BEER HUNT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They started out at the sunset-glow
On the track where the brave beer-hunters go.
They tracked the wild long-sleever down.
And their hearts were light, and the beer was brown.
Four bold boys on the long-beer track—
Bill and Joe and Jimmy and Jack.
Far down the gay pub-avenue
They cleared on the scent of a likely brew,
Each o’ them hunting his Saturday whack;
Bill
and
Joe
and
Jimmy
and-
Jack.
They hunted long in the haunts of beer
With many a loud, long laugh and cheer,
Until tiie end of the beer-chase, when
They beat the covers in vain. And then
From the long-beer hunt they all came back—•
Bill and a and Jack
*°C g.
S 3
3
VICTORIA.
P.H.
A SORROWFUL STAVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The world is fair, I do not care a rap,
Here seated on the bush-clad Maungatapu,
And by my side a maiden fair and comely
Who wears the ancient, noble name of Ch'olmondfcley.
If she were gone, I would not care a rap who
Might sit upon the top of Maungatapu ;
But, certain as her Christian name is Nelly,
I love to sit beside Miss Oholmondeley.
Which simple tale, in rhythm and in rhyme,
Reveals the glory of our tongue sublime,
And gives the needed explanation well
Why rhyming bardlets never learn to spell;
For, using English methods free and flowery,
We needs must get to work to mangle Maori.
N.S.W.
PATRICK O’MAODRI.


s The Old Blend
The White HorsrCellac.
Whisky
vfe
Direct prom distillers.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PORE MELLOW.,
MAT UA SO SCOTCH MALI* ...
Blood Impurity.
“ Having been a martyr for years to kidney and
liver complaint, and blood impurity, I have tried
scores of medicines and pills;” writes Mr. A. E.
Davis, 200 King William Street, Adelaide, S.A.
“ At last, when all failed, I took Laxo-Tonic Pills,
and they worked a miracle in my case.” Price
10£d. and Is. 6d.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
. Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprieior
ħ
THERE is absolutely NO
RISK when CASTRATING
with
DONALD ROSS
EMASCULATOR
Price, £3 3s.
Monet Back if not Satisfied.
DONALD ROSS 8 CO., LTD.,
Angel Place, Sydney,
THE VETERINARY SUPPLY STORE
“Iliverina” : One of the unwritten laws
of the Bush !s: See your mate home when he is
“shick.” Consider the pathos of this. Was
toiling on the Riverina. My two mates were
singularly alike. Also, each was named William.
Bill I. decided to take a trip to Sydney. Bill 11.
and I journeyed with him to the township—
many weary miles—to see him off. However, he
missed the train and decided to wait till morning.
He did most of his waiting in a near-by bar with
Bill 11. At shut-up time I saw a heap in front
of the pub. I roused it. “ Come home, Bill,” I
said. He started off grumbling, and I faced a
lengthy journey through rough scrub, half drag-
ging and half leading him.. Qn the way he
alternately wept, sang and Wanted to fight me—
whom he alluded to as “you blanky cow.” At
half-past one we struck the camp. Someone
was weeping softly at the fire. A horrible
suspicion assailed me and I struck a match. I
had dragged back the wrong Bill! Then a long,
dark bushman rose in all his length, and spake
bitter things into the night, and still descanting
pessimistically on the futility of human effort, he
pinched, a bottle of beer from the weeper and
retired with his bootsioil. j
ACCURACY.
FOREMAN ( who has sent Terence to measure the
distance that the pipes have to cover): "Did
you yet the measurement?”
TERENCE: “ Oi did that, sorr. Uts me arrum tree
toimes and a bit, two bricks, wan shtone and
a hop!”
“ Jiminie Pannikin Recently came across
these remarks in a bush boy’s nature study com-
positions :
Nature study is a fine thing, because it teaches us how
to find Out the best places to set our rabbit-traps in.
Nature study is not only pleasant,; it is also profitable!.
I told my teacher a curious fact about flowers. He sent
i photograph about the matter to !a Sydney newspaper,;
and got 3s. for what he wrote, and I found out. He gave
me the 35., which will help to buy pibbit-traps.
The übiquitous and iniquitous rabbit —there’s no
escape from hint.
HEAR! HEAR!
SUBURBAN ALDERMAN (to meeting considering a threatened poll on the extension of cleanliness):
“ Wot I sez is, an’ wot I sticks to is, this ’ere deep drainage may be orl very well' in
its way, but it oughtn’t ter be crammed down our throats.” (Loud and prolonged
cheering.)
“Vigilans” (lately from the Northern
Territory) : Tom Crush, member for the Terri-
tory, said the other day at a political meeting at
Moonta (S.A.), that the Chinese qpqstion in the
North was a horror, and that it wasdiisduty to
remedy the evil. A sky pilot from Shanghai
objected to Crush’s remarks, and made some
severe strictures. Well, we who know the Terri-
tory and the conditions prevailing there, recom-
mend such men to throw off the black toga of
parsondom and live for a month or two on the
mineral fields amongst the Pagans. I can speak
feelingly, because I know to my sorrow the habits
of the Mongolian. Crush at one time kept an
hotel at Brock’s Creek, where there is a Chow-
town—a reeking abomination of foul-smelling
heathen, opium, blackfellow and decaying matter.
There they entice young aboriginal children into
their dens of iniquity, and instil into them all the
vices known to the sons of the Land of Joss. On
■some of the outside camps deeds are committed by
these wretches that, to use our old friend Kruger’s
expression, would
stagger humanity.
The aliens that the
missionary gentle-
man has so much
sympathy for, and
whom he says we
should treat like
Christiansand visi-
tors, are thd scum
of the earth in
North Australia.
They have ruined
a good mining in-
dustry; introduced
the most loathsome
diseases known to
man; polluted the
natives, and
brought the North
almost to a crisis
and to the lowest
ebb of civilisnt'on.
Take a walk
through Cavanagh-
street, one of the
principal thorough-
fares of Palmer-
ston, on the beau-
tiful shores of Port
Darwin. There
you will see the
Celestial in all his
hideousness and
squalor, lounging
half naked on
counters, hags of
produce or boxes.
At one time I was
camped on a tin-
field where old,
diseased, heathen
monstrosities lived
openly with young
aboriginal children
of 10 or 12 years
of age. I got one
unnatural brute
arrested and pro-
secuted, hut he got
off on a technical point. Crush should be the
greatest authority on this matter that ever went
into the Legislature, and he should be able to
do some good there.
•*■ * * *
“ Janor ” : Don’t know what sort of bull-
ants “Jack Plane” has humped (B. 7/7/TO), that
they should smnoy him at this time of year, for
mostly they are doing their winter sleep about
now, and have as much fight in them as a pound
of tea. Anyhow, it doesn’t matter how unusual
the insects are, if “Jack Plane ” fuses three-parts
tallow with one of kerosene and pours it boiling
hot per small funnel into the openings of the nest,
he will rout the enemy. Let him see to it that
each opening is blocked with the stuff and the
antbed filled, even as a High Commissioner after
dinner. When bully wakes up he will not eat
the adipose intrusion, because kerosene is not
tasteful, and he’ll also be dead. And a dead ant
is a good ant.
“ Kaitangata ” : Be “Oldest Inhabi-
tant’s” plea (B. 28/7TO) that if you write a par.
about early Sydney you simply must mention a
pub before you are through. It may have been
hard enough to dodge the pub in old Sydney; but
1 will hack Coromandel (M.L.) against all-
comers—l'talk, of course, of the days of the gold
fever and just after. You could enter a pub by
every door in some blocks of the main street.
For the most part the publicans lived (I
am writing of the middle ’Bo’s) by patronising
each other. I remember one trip around.
I was a “commercial” in those days, and was
staying at Mick Corcoran’s Star and Garter for
the sake of Mick’s pretty daughter. I was leav-
ing that afternoon for Auckland, and Mick said
to me: “Let’s go for a bit av a walk.” We
went. After passing a vacant allotment we
came to O’Halloran’s pub, and big Mick
turned in. “Good-day, Misther
O’Halloran.” “Good-day, Misther
Corcoran.” “Will ye jine me
and me friend in a taste av sump-
thin?” “I will, Misther Cor-
coran.” We drank—whisky—
and repeated the risk at CTHal-
loran’s expense and mine.
“ Sure, there’s nothin’ doin’,
O’Halloran. Jine us in a hit
av awalk,” said Mick ; and
O’Halloran’s hat was on and
he in the street with us.
The same thing was repeated
at each adjoining pub. Men
who had glowered blackly
at each other for a fortnight,
maybe in jealousy of every
stray customer, drank and
joined the procession till, as
we got towards the end of the
second block, we burst into
each place like an invalding
army. As the crowd swelled
so did the cost of the shout
and the numerousness of it.
The whisky ranged from had
to fierce, and by the time
Mick and I, on the return
journey, had seen the last
of the mob fall out of the
Star and Garter, we neither
of us amounted to a bag of
oyster shells.
* ■ * *
‘ ‘ Timothy Tuf thunter ”:
What is the use of protect-
ing platypus, hears, kan-
garoos, ’possums, etc.,
when prices for their /
skins are quoted every <
week in the Sydney
papers, and a trapper can
dispose of them in any township ?
Opossums have been nearly wiped out with
snaring, shooting and cyanide, and there are
stretches of country where a blackfellovv would
die of starvation if he depended on the little
furry chap to fill his inward nigger. The out-
bush has been swarming with the cyanide
fiend during the winter, and the infernal stuff
has been sold openly in country towns where
it would be difficult to procure strychnine.
The only way I can see to check the murder is to
stop the exportation of the skins and prevent
local sales.
A tiny little worm
Bored in a luscious pear
And when the worm crawled out again.
It left destruction there.
So would the bad cold germ,
Which creeps into your chest,
Do damage—if Woods’ Peppermint Cure
Didn’t always come off best.
“A.H.” : The cry of the man-o’-war
hawk of nor’-west Australia is, of all night-calls
that I know, the most weird and uncanny. Pre-
vious to the typhoons (willy-willies) which
occurred on the nor’-west coast ill April arid
December of 1908, great companies of these birds
flew along the sea line between Broome and
Condon. They came with the dusk, apparently
from nowhere ; their flight was swift and noise-
less, and the first intimation of their presence
was a blood-curdling, awful shriek. The lie-
niggers bolted in terror, and the gins buried their
heads in the sands. Black Brother reckons
the birds are debil-debils that have played
it low down on a mysterious sea deity,
and he, roused to anger, is following the mischief-
makers in a storm. The morning after the April
blow subsided nearly 200 bird or debil-debil bodies
lay dead on the shores of Ninety-Mile Beach,
though the Indian Ocean lay as placid and un-
ruffled as usual, and the typhoon hawks seemed
—but for the corpses —the creations of a dis-
ordered brain. The second blow (December)
lasted longer. I happened to be in Barred Creek
on a schooner, just out of the track of the storm,
and again these mysterious birds made the night
gruesome and unforgettable. Here, too, the
natives exhibited the wildest and most abject
terror, and again prophesied “willy willy.” I
have camped out pretty well all over Westralia —
on the eastern and central goldfields, and up and
down the Gascoyne and De Grey rivers, and have
heard many varieties of night cries, eerie and
otherwise, but none was a circumstance to
the scream of the man-o’-war hawk. If these
birds are the spirits of the damned, as black
brother suspects, I wish the proprietor of the
Bottomless Hash Tower would keep his boarders
at home.
* * * *
“ Sheil Re “Machete’s ” par. about the
Papuan Armed Native Constabulary (B. 23/C/TO).
There ought to be white officers in charge of the
native police. In fact, complete re-organisation
of the force is very necessary. In some parts,
white women don’t care to venture out after dusk,
for fear of being molested by the nigger. A
change in the punishment meted out to natives is
also urgently wanted. They are far too leniently
treated. If you threaten a nigger with gaol he
replies “Gaol Aowsara” (good). In some cases
gaol has been actually the stepping-stone to a
Government billet—which is a humorous idea,
and therefore deserves to work out better than it
does.
HIS FOURTEEN-MILE RADIUS.
THE REV.: "But, my dear friend, do you never
drink water?”
THE OTHER: "Never within 14 mile iv a pub,
Mister. ”
“Tindog”: Broome, the hub of the
No'r’-West peayling business, is the cheapest place
for some sorts of tucker in the Commonwealth.
Meat can be got for a penny per pound ; and there
is fish galore at a shilling per bundle of six or
eight pounds. Fish are caught very simply.
Y-shaped wire netting yards are built, and when
the tide goes out for a mile or so the fish are left
stranded. Lately one fisherman was disappointed
to find only one big fat shark and no smaller fish.
He cut the brute open and found over a hundred-
weight of breakfast. The breakfast had evidently
mistaken the brute’s mouth for a hole in the
netting, and tried to swim through.
FOURPENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ileli!
Ft is sfirely Bell ;
Also It is a great curse,
And likewise the very devil.
Round me roars the city with all its wealth.
It brushes against me.
It crushes upon me.
And out of it all I have fourpence !
Fourpence !
Chosen, especial, particular sum of one-third of a shilling !
Thrippence had carried me under.
And sixpence had lifted me.
Fourpence holds me astonished, confounded, blas-
pheming—
Fourpence! ,< , . ;
Fourpence will fail me in buying tobacco,
And my pouch is empty.
Fourpence will fail me in buying a dinner,
And I am an-hnngered.
F mrpence will buy me a measure of foaming beer,
Rut I am not thirsty.
Wherefore hath fourpence remained to me?
Having it only and solely
Yet I have nothing !
bo, I have written and written,
bo, I have talked and talked.
This is my wage and my recompense.
This is the dole of the city.
The last and the end of it —
Fourpence !
N.S.W.
D. M. W.


Dear Bulletin,— One evening last week
the Institute of Bankers met in Sydney
and heard Mr. J. Currie Biles discourse on
“ European Migration Towards the Tropics
and its Possibilities.'’ Mr. Elies “did un-
hesitatingly say, from his own personal know-
, ledge and research, that the majority of white
races were very far below the Asiatics in intellect,
ability and integrity.” . . .
(Our artist hasn’t seen this Mr. Elies, but
he takes it for granted that he must be fat. j
Under pretence of wanting change of a half-
penny I dropped In at the Commercial Bank and
asked to see the colored manager. I was told
there was no such person.
I inquired if there wasn’t a Chinese or Hindu sub-manager or cashier or
accountant to keep an eye on the white boss and serve as a safeguard for
depositors ; and I was told that, not only had the institution never possessed
such a person, but, so far as the officials knew, no other bank in Australia
had taken the precaution to lay in a brown functionary of any kind.
The most exhaustive research failed to
disclose even a fellaheen floor-walker in
any of the shops in Sydney.
There wasn’t even all Egyptian night-watchman.
Further inquiry revealed that there
was not a Corean or Calmuck or
Arabian auditor.
I went away stunned, and tried to find
a reliable Burmese sharebroker to sell
out my few small investments, it being
evident that Australian finance rests on
an unsound basis. There isn't a Burmese
Sharebroker in all Sydney.
“THE BULLETIN” DIOGENES IN SEARCH OF MR. ELLES’S HONEST BROWN MAN.
(See also Leader in this issue.)


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
BEST FOB CROUP.
A child may go to bed at night in his usual health
except, perhaps, for a cold, only to awaken a few
hours later with a well-developed attack of croup,
and the remainder of the night is spent by the
anxious parents in trying to relieve his suffering,
which is usually more or less experimental. A
bottle of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy in the
house will save anxiety, expense and perhaps the
life of the child. When this medicine is given at
the first indication of croup the attack may be
avoided, and often after the croupy cough has
appeared it will prevent the attack.*
Coughs and
Lung Troubles
Dear Sirs, —During the past winter I suffered much with weak lungs
and a most irritating cough. I was induced to try Angier s Emulsion and
after taking two bottles the cough disappeared, the lungs became invigo-
rated and my general condition vastly improved. Two other members of
my family were benefited by taking the Emulsion, and we now intend to
always keep a bottle in the house. We strongly recommend it to all our
friends. (Signed) M. DEW,
Editor and Proprietor, Hawthorn and Camberwell Citizen.
ANCIER’S EMULSION
* (PETROLEUM WITH HYPO PHOSPHITE 5.)
Angier’s Emulsion is invaluable for coughs, bronchitis, asthma, con-
sumption, and all throat and lung affections ; a-lso for digestive disorders
and wasting diseases. It soothes and heals the lungs and air passages,
promotes normal, healthy action of the digestive organs, and builds up
health and strength. Angier’s Emulsion is pleasant to take and agrees
perfectly with delicate stomachs. Of all Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
A FREE SAMPLE
sent on receipt of 4d. postage. Mention this paper.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., Ltd., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“ His speeches always remind me of turtle
soup ."—Higgs, M.H.11., on Spruce Smith.
One of the most ancient of the estates that
are being broken up before the graduated land-
tax puts its little bit of pressure on is Bunda-
burra, up Forbes way (N.S.W.). It has been
occupied bv the Strickland family since 1837.
Mrs. Strickland, 85 not out, still lives at the old
homestead, and is said to have been the first white
woman on the Lachlan.
DR. COLE, MELBOURNE’S CITY
CORONER.
Dead, at the early age of 33, Harry Glede
Garlick, of Sydney, law clerk for bread and artist
for butter. Very few men have painted better
kangaroos than Garlick, and his black-and-whites
—animal subjects mostly—have several feet of
well-deserved space in the N.S.W. National Gal-
lery. He was an old Julian Ashton pupil.
“ Oby ” remembers an old citizen :
John Baptist’s fountain in Hyde Park, Sydney, partici-
pates in the bright new aspect which that one-time grimy
reserve now wears. Sydney’s first Baptist was a Portu-
guese. He understood plants and flowers, and laid out
fruit and vegetable gardens on the crown of Surry Hills.
He traded all over the settlement, and practically com-
manded his own prices, for very few were in the cabbage-
growing line at the time, and John from Canton hadn’t
organised cut rates. Baptist made a specialty of
flowers. Few people were buried without his wreaths,
and fewer married without a shower of his bouquets. He
rapidly amassed wealth, but his Spanish wife died and
his children died, and as he was an affectionate old
gardener he used to think himself the most miserable of
men. Then he married again, and there was a wonderful
transformation. He threw his vegetables to the four
winds, laid out streets, built houses, bought land, sold
land, boomed, speculated and went the whole commercial
hog. He died rich, and the usual fountain was thrown
at his memory.
R. H. LEVIEN, FATHER OF THE
HOUSE OF WADE.
James H. Attwood, a pioneer of Gippsland
(Yic.), died on Saturday, at the age of 70 years.
He and a mate, years ago, sold for £3 the lease
which now forms part of the famous Long Tunnel
mine.
Dead, at the age of 91, Florence Nightin-
gale, the famous nurse who tended the hospitals
of Scutari what time Britain backed the wrong
horse in the Crimea, nearly 60 years ago. She
wasn’t even made a duchess for her services, like
the Totties of Charles 11. But then, probably she
didn’t want to be a duchess.
“Well, there is one thing about Jack
Verran —he tries to speak the truth ” is the
general comment of friends and antagonists alike
concerning the S.A. Premier. He is even more
of a Jack Blunt than Tom Price was, and is as
outspoken to a deputation of laborers as to one
from the Chamber of Commerce.
Died at Goulburn (N.S.W.), aged 81,
William Bussell Riley, once a well-known jour-
nalist. It was about the year 1860 that he and
the late J. W. Chisholm bought the Goulburn
Herald. They ran in dpuble harness for 22
years; then Riley bought out Chisholm and sat
in the editorial chair for another 11 years, till
failing eyesight compelled him to resign in favor
of his soik Like Parkes and Reid, he held the
Cobden medal, by reason of, his attachment to the
old fiscal system of the aborigines.
By the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Dead recently, at Condobolin (N.S.W.), aged 82, George
Thomas Hassall, second son of pioneer parson Thomas
Hassall. George Thom is was born in the old house at
Denbigh, which is still standing and occupied by the
Macintosh family of cow-raisers. With the exception of
the Rev. J.S., who died at Brisbane about eight years
ago, there had been no previous death among the
Hassalls for over 70 years. Those of the family who still
survive are one son and four daughters, their ages run-
ning from 76 to 86 years. Mrs. Thomas Hassall, the mother,
passed hence at the age of 92. She was a daughter of the
Rev. Sam Marsden, the blacksmith-parson of the early
convict days. The original Hassall (Rowland) was one of
a band of missionaries who visited Tahiti in 1796; but,
being driven off by the natives, they moved their sacred
camp to New South Wales. Most of them dropped into
Government billets at small salaries—with a land-grant
for each man thrown in. John Batman’s father is said to
have been one of this crowd of discomfited preachers,
but on this point there is some doubt.
“Bill” Knox, the sick Tory gentleman
who has just taken his weird hat out of Federal
politics, made his first big rise when, after being
appointed secretary of the Broken Hill Pro-
prietary, he was sent to England to float off the
British Broken Hill. With him went George
McCulloch, since dead, the manager of the sheep-
run on which the great mine was found. Before
that Willie Knox had been a clerk in the Bank of
Victoria; but the British float put £lO,OOO or
thereabouts into his pocket in one lump. After
that William Orr—he who lately tried to shift
Palmer from his seat in the House of Reps.—and
Schlapp, the metallurgist, showed Knox the way
to Mount Lyell; and between Broken Hill and
Mount Lyell, “Willie” was able to throw up his
secretary’s job, join the fattest Boards, and finally
become a director of the bank wherein he, not so
very long before, had a tall stool.
The badly-treated McCluskv lady, who, a
few days ago, cut the throats of her three children
at Bendigo (Vic.), comes from the stock of the
Kilmore Kellys. Ned, the most distinguished
member of the family, was a cousin of hers.
Harry Thomson, the S.A. Rhodes scholar
who left for Oxford this month, is the son and a
grandson of former members of the Adelaide
Advertiser staff, and he was for a time a member
himself. In fact, it was while he was on the staff
that he did most of his earlier study for the Bar.
Rev. W. Temple, who was welcomed to
Sydney by the University magnates recently, is a
radical, out-spoken sort of citizen to be the son of
an Archbishop of Canterbury. He reckons that
the Anglican Church’s best hope of vitality lies in
“breaking away from the party to which it has
been bound for the last 300 years ” — i.e., Toryism.
Asked if he thought the Church had lost its hold
on the masses, he said: “No, for it never had
any.” He advocates Government control of the
liquor traffic, and, indeed, is in favor of the
Government controlling everything which con-
cerns the public good.
The Earl of Egmont, whose death at the
age of 54 is reported by cable, was an old Maori-
lander, born at Papanui, and was probably the
most restless man of his generation. It was
seldom possible to sit anywhere by the side of a
road for more than half an hour without the in-
domitable wanderer hurrying by, a,nd for close on
25 years he wasn’t so much a man in the ordinary
sense of the term as a crack splitting through the
atmosphere. When the Shifting Disease first
took him he went to sea as man before
the mast, and sailed to and fro between England
and Australia. He managed to earn a second
mate’s certificate, and then joined the London
Eire Brigade. His next job was as caretaker at
Chelsea Town Hall. There he turned the hose
on politicians who wished to say a few words, put
out the lights while a dancing party was in pro-
gress, and finally invited in the residents of the
slums and uproariously regaled them. After that
he went to work in a Cheshire salt mine. Big
sums dropped in on him from his uncle and aunt
—he got £BOOO in one lot—but money flew from
him. He married one of Spiers and Pond’s bar-
girls, but the pair soon separated. He succeeded
his cousin as Earl of Egmont in 1897, and has thus
had 13 years of high life—owner.of Oowdery Park,
one of the most beautiful country seats in Eng-
land, 35,000 acresof splendid land and half a million
of money. So he had begun to settle down to the
traditions of his order when death called for him,
and his unquiet spirit began roving once more.
“ Chink ” takes off his hat :
That fine old battler against odds, J. S. Clark, men-
tioned in a recent Bulletin, was in truth a brave soul,
albeit a trifle eccentric. By middle age he had acquired
considerable land in and around Melbourne, likewise at
Echuca and Kyneton. Things were moving well with
him and his English wife, when, on a flying visit to Eng-
land, he got into the web of Jabez Balfour, M.P.—he of
the Liberator Building Society, the Land Allotment Co.,
and the London and General Bank. Everything went—
including Mrs. Clark’s reason. Never a whimper escaped
Clark, but, thereafter, he was a grafter among grafters.
His time, while he was able to work, was divided between
prodding Maryborough for gold reefs and vending vari-
ous mysterious compounds, manufactured by himself.
“Clark’s Pure Lemon Food,” also his tomato sauce,
pickles, jams, etc., were well known to Maryborough
wives. At various times he ran a poultry farm, a dog
mart and a ham and beef and vegetable shop. But ham
and beef and cabbages and curs were only a means to
an end. Once he had got a few pounds together he was
away reefing again, satisfied that he would strike it this
time. It took a heap of argument to get the warrior to
accept an old-age pension when he went down finally ;
and no persuasion could make him shift to the hospital.
So he passed out in his little hut, begging for time and
strength to give the old field just one more prod.
A DREADFUL SUSPICION.
Willie Judkins says it will be necessary to exercise a
more stringent censorship over the literature admitted
into Australia.
JUD (reading): “‘ The boy stood on the burning
deck.' Frightful! Shocking! Not a word
about his having any trousers on. What
mightn’t one suppose?”
Two old-time N.S.W. engineers have
lately had their deeds commemorated in bronze.
One of the tablets has been nailed up in the valve
house below the Prospect Reservoir; it records
the services of E. O. Moriarty, the man who
designed and carried through the Upper Nepean
scheme, including Prospect Reservoir. W. C.
Bennett, engineer-in-chief for sewerage, has been
similarly tableted at the outlet house at Cook’s
River, he having carried out the main sewerage
scheme for the city.
THE LATE HARRY G. GARLICK—
ANIMAL PAINTER.
Since Johnson, M.P. for Lang, became
Opposition Whip, he has taken to calling himself
Elliot Johnson. It is understood to be short for
alligator, Johnson being the,man who, when ex-
ploring the Territory, sat on a chunk of wood and
found that it was alive.
“ Melb” writes a footnote :
O. F. Somerton is gone. Interesting for this reason,
among others, that he was one of J. F. Archibald’s early
press bosses. That was on the old Melbourne Telegraph,
where Willoughby, Somerton and Persse ruled. Somerton
was thought too “ near ” ; but he was always in an uphill
fight, which did not appear at the time. After a splendid
training in newspaper management with the Bristol
Mercury, owned by his family, he came to Melbourne 60
years ago. Soon he became immensely useful to the Morn-
ing Herald, which was older than the Argus : but some-
how th« Argus knocked it out in the gold rush. The Herald
people were under that most disastrous of misapprehen-
sions, that a daily newspaper can be run without news.
It tried to rely on its brilliant pens—Michie’s, Evans’s and
Aspinall’s. Akhurst, the pantomime-writer, was sub.
Then came the Age, which smothered the Herald, even
while Syme was on the verge pf ruin himself. Willoughby
left the Argus in ’66 to become a Hansard man. Three
years of this grind made him full up. He launched the
Telegraph with Somerton and Persse. One Bowden, of
“ The Peerybingle Papers,” had also an oar in the boat.
Even before the failure of the Telegraph—Willoughby
having left for the Argus again—Somerton flung up
journalism for ever, and went on the Stock Exchange.
Bill Plain (known also as Plain Bill),
M.L.A., of Victoria, who made
public the smelly transactions in
the purchase of land at Cohuna,
talks with a thick north-country
accent, but has been sufficiently
comprehensible in this matter.
Once P. Bill was talking on a
local Geelong topic, when aschool-
marm brought a batch of 10-year-
old college girls into the Assembly
Gallery. The flappers listened
with wonderment to the dis-
course in a foreign tongue, strivi g
vainly to comprehend. At ia t
a sentence came clear and un-
mistakable : “ And so we were
advised to drop the pans and
take to the sewerage.” The flus-
tered schoolmarm uttered a
startled command, and the flap-
pers fled.
Chaffey Baker, ex-President of the Senate,
j s s 0 jl] that hisrecovery is,considered impossible,
He WiUJ the '^ Bfe native South Australian to be
elected to either the Assembly or the Council, the
first to he made a Cabinet Minister, the first to get
a tag to his name, and the first to become Presi-
dent of the State Legislative Council. His father
was one of the earliest Premiers of S.A. ; hut he
never gofc that far hunsel£>
JANE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ballarat, Sunday.—Speaking on the sacredness of the
body in the Lydiard-street church to-night, the Rev.
S. J. Hoban said that self-respect was the first essential
to the sacredness of the body, and a girl had no right to
allow a man to call her by her Christian name unless he
was an intimate friend. She should insist upon being
called “Miss.” That word was the first part of her pro-
tection, and the use of it was a man’s first duty in regard
to social proprieties.— Argus 8/8/’ 10.
O ! let the ’Arsh World not dispise,
nor’lppocricks as well
Look down on me with Scornfull Eyes,
Bein’ a Maid wot Fell.
I mightuv never gawn Astray
but For one Reeson plain ;
I date my Rewin from th’ Day
Wen fust ’E called me “ Jane.”
*\
I see wen in a Novellette
A Virchin is perswaged
To let ’lm call ’Er “ Alysette,"
They’re reely arf-Engaged.
Bur, in th’ Clarss that I am From
Upon th’ Lower Deck,
It’s alwuz “Mary Ann" an’ “Tom”—
So wot can you Expeck ?
O ! Hinnocents wot let a man
Too Freely tork t’you,
They seek to’Atch a wickud plan
W’ich Weepin’ thou wilt Rue.
And many a Girl wot fell in Love
’As sunk in Orful shame
Thrugh bein’ far to Easy uv
The use uv ’er first name.
I would not Need th’ Contripe 'Eart,
nor at this Corner stand,
If I ’ad bin a careful Tart
of Mister ’Oban’s brand.
I mightuv Shund th’ Parth uv sin,
An’ bloomed a Rosebud still,
If we ’ad “ Miss” an’ “ Mister” bin
Hinsted uv “Jane” an’ “Bill.”
VICTORIA.
L.


sIIM
; r
it-
/t
;#S
- iff
'S
A.
ft
,'.',r
/ I-
BW»
•-,«/ "xt
*
<ara|
H *
S'-"
( f
|(%v
fe. V<
i®
/.«/"■
*
s*§*£fer
■#
£2
H
vm
m
m
jr!&
' /,
‘c
fTs
rJ
n
sr
r
//
sgj
Nsi
ft sssa"*jnr:
52a=C'
l • '
rS'S-’-''
r
& ,-••---- „.--< a
wSi-fST'’' :' '
I
SWAfc
•-'u
in )
» •■
SSSglt
11.I 1 . >J
hlllii-
rM
p**#
4J
»»*»
y m il ;
rtwrass
L_ W
— :
SK&*w;«S» s '
~_... . «sC*a _ _
•^rr ■
’"HZL


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” CAS ENGINE and PLANT « TV,
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented ft r th ur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
'lff'
“NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
WOYEB BROS. (SYDNEY), LTO., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Sydney and Suburban Hydraulic Power Co. :
Written To Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves. Deficit.
1899.. £11,614 10 p.c. = £8,438 £1250 £1926 £5,441
1900.. 16,498 10 ~ ~11,250 1000 4248 1,193
1901.. 10,058 10 „ ~11,250 2,385
1902.. 13,140 10 „ ~ 11,250 1890 495
Reserves.
1903.. 13,499 10 „ „ 11,250 2249 1,754
1904.. 13,889 10 ~ ~11,250 2639 4,393
1905.. 13,260 10 ~ ~ 11,250 2010 6,403
1906.. 14,187 10 ~ ~11,250 2937 9,340
1907.. 13,092 10 ~ ~11,250 1842 11,182
1908.. 12,636 10 ~ ~11,250 1386 12,568
1909.. 11,268 9 „ ~10,125 1143 13,711
June,
1910.. 5,691 8 „ „ 4,500 1191 14,902
This co. lives chiefly on passenger and goods lifts ; and
of recent years it lias found itself hard up against an
electrical competitor. Hence the shrinkage in profits, in
spite of the vast quantity of stone, steel and mortar piled
up lately in Sydney. According to its own showing, the
co. has reserves of £29,902 after providing for the
current dividend. On the other side, however, it shows :
“ Parliamentary rights and concessions, £15,000.” These
concessions are valuable so long as the business is profit-
able. In themselves, they are intangible and worth
nothing, and have therefore not been reckoned as an
asset in the table above. The reserves, according to the
co.’s reckoning, are as follows:—Plant renewal and con-
tingency fund, £21,250 ; Waterloo lease, plant and im-
provements, £7850 ; undivided profit, £BO2. These don’t
look the very best reserves either. So far, “mainte-
nance and renewals ” have been charged to profit and loss ;
and it seems, therefore, that the £21,250 is a provision in
part for anything unusual in the way of renewals that
may come along presently. For the rest it is intended to
provide for contingencies. So to a great extent this
may be a good reserve. The other one is more doubtful.
It is apparently a set-off against a wasting leasehold
security. But while the co. has been thus adding com
siderably to its strength on paper, it hasn’t made much
headway on a cash basis. For instance :
Dec., 1902. June, 1910.
Liquid assets .. .. £12,707 £10,996
Liabilities .. .. 4,104 1,387
Surplus .. .. £8,603 £9,609
That makes theco. only £lOO6 better off in the matter of
liquid assets in excess of liabilities than it was 7£ years
ago. All the rest of the undivided profit shown above
has gone into plant and other fixed assets; and the
trouble is that, in spite of that expenditure, the gross
revenue is less now than it was 71 years ago. The total
for the half-year to December, 1902, was £12,519, while
for the past term it was only £11,260. And while revenue
shrank, expenditure was for a good while expanding ; but
a few branches have been lopped off lately, and the
increase in the outgoings has been stopped. Thus the
Melbourne register has been abolished, and the directors,
at one time seven, and then five, may now be reduced to
three.
* * * *
Sydney Hydraulic and General Engineering
Co.
Carried to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1902.. £4400 15 per cent. = £2200 £2200 £2,200
New Share Premiums .. 579 2,779
1903.. 2264 10 per cent. = 1500 764 3 543
1904.. 2129 10 ■„ „ 1500 629 4,172
1905.. 2296 10 „ ~ 1500 796 4,968
1906.. 3226 15 „ „ 2250 976 5 944
1907.. 3540 llg „ „ 2625 915 6,859
1908.. 3437 Ilf ~ „ 2625 812 7 671
1909.. 4304 Ilf ~ „ 2625 1679 9,350
1910.. 6789 Ilf „ „ 2625 4164 13,514
The boy is beating his father. The Sydney Hydraulic
Power Co. was the father. It was, and still is, working
under an Act which says that, after its shareholders have
had 10 per cent., the Sydney municipality must go halves
in any further distribution. When the 10 per cent, had
been reached, a new co. was formed to do the old co.’s
engineering work ; and thus more profit was divided with-
out exceeding the parent co.’s 10 per cent. But while elec-
trical competition cut into the Hydraulic Power’s profits
and finally reduced the power co.’s divs. to 8 per cent.,
motor traction and other things of the sort supplied the
engineering co. with a good lot of entirely new business ;
so while the father faded the boy bloomed. The latter’s
capital is only £22,500, which means that the past year’s
profits were a shade over 30 per cent. Certainly a trifle
may have to come off that to cover depreciation, though
it seems to be the practice to debit renewals to profit and
loss, wherefore the depreciation to be otherwise provided
for is probably not very serious. Whether anything like
the past year’s profit can be maintained is another
matter; but if it were only half as much there would still
be an easy 10 per cent. div. in the business. The shares
are 15s. paid, with a ss. liability. While things are pros-
perous that ss. liability will be regarded with favor rather
than otherwise ; for it means that shareholders are liable
to be called on to come along and get a sweet 10 per cent,
or more on a further slice of capital.
* * * *
Goodlet and Smith, Ltd. (Sydney), who manu-
facture and deal in builders’ goods
„ „ To Re- Re.
June, Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1906.. £12,921 6 per cent. =£9,900 £3021 £22 424
1907.. 14,589 7 „ „ 11,550 3039 25,463
1908.. 16,944 8 „ „ 13,200 3744 29,207
1909.. 17,636 8 ~ ~ 13,200 4436 33,643
1910.. 14,160 8 ~ ~ 13,200 960 34,603
This co. carries one of the oldest trade names in Sydney ;
and the Goodlet part of the ancient firm is still managing
director, though out of harness for the moment. The
present co. is a reconstruction of one formed in 1892.
This latter lasted for 10 years, and didn’t have much
success—it was born at the wrong time. The old co.’s
capital was £220,000 ; that of the new one was reduced
to £165,000, the 20s. shares being issued as paid to 15s.
only. The new one started with a 6 per cent. div. ;
but this was cut down later on, and only restored
to 6 per cent, at the time the table opens. Since
then Sydney has had probably the biggest building boom
it ever has known, and Goodlet and Smith have had a
busy and profitable time—all the busier because of the
protection of the Commonwealth tariff. True, the profit
figures haven’t gone ahead as fast as might have been
expected. But it is at least possible that considerable
revenue has been put into new plant, etc., and isn’t dis-
closed as profit. Not much information is available, but
these movements can be followed
1906. 1908. 1909. 1910.
£>££>£
Liabilities .. .. 90,176 95,348 100,104 93,552
Properties .. .. 100,670 100,670 100,670 93,670
Machinery, plant, etc. 89,867 89,867 89,867 89,837
Ships 2,200 540 500 500
Stock 62,585 66,914 77,161 60,497
Cash and book debts.. 32,177 39,815 37,149 55,251
Thus no additions that have been made to either proper-
ties or plant during the past four years have been charged
up to capital; they have all been paid for out of undis-
closed profit. Whether those additions more than counter-
balance wear and tear isn’t ascertainable. It is pretty cer-
tain, though, that they have been large. So far as the past
year alone is concerned, profits eased off on account of the
coal strike; while the reduction in the “ properties ” item
18 " ue t 0 a sale. Cash and book debts have put on £18,102
of flesh, partly through this sale, partly through the re*
auction of stocks. But here again is a doubtful item :
Sundry debtors and bills receivable, £55,248.” Some
of these debts may have been written down severely ; in
that manner profits may have been stuffed away, though
there is no evidence on one side or the other. Lately it
has been said on the unimpeachable testimony of the
man on the street corner that the co. was going: to
do something—either call up the other £55,000 and
pay 8 per cent, on it, or increase the div. on
the present capital. Nothing has happened, however,
and the directors don’t hint that anything may
happen presently. On the contrary, the fact that
tne directors only show £960 put to reserves after paying
the 8 per cent, would normally be a strong hint that
nothing was contemplated. Unless the co. has been
seizing the opportunity offered by the building boom to
greatly strengthen its position internally, the results of
the past four years or so are not at all wonderful; for if the
co. can do no better in these years of great activity and
very high prices, it will reasonably do a good deal less in
average years; and it must be remembered that scarcely
another industry shows a bigger difference between
boom-time and slump-time than the building trade and
the trades that cater for it.
* * * *
The Pastoral Finance Association (Sydney):
Bonus
to Wool-
selling Xo
Visible Share- Written Reduce
ioo", 6 ’ Profifcs - holders. Off. Deficit. Deficit.
l;n)l .. £25 925
1902 .. £2,530 £1037 £1493 24 432
1903... 1,611 915 _ 696 23,736
1004 •• 3,117 1129 1988 21,748
1900 .. 3,983 1411 £2OOO 572 21,176
1009 •• 10.6 75 1819 8856 12,320
1907 .. 10,983 1982 9001 3,319
Divi- To Re- Re-
dends. serves. serves
1908 .. 6,668 1663 Nil 5005 1,686
1909 .. 13,749 1624 sp.c. =£6307 5818 7,504
1910 .. 12,418 2140 5 „ ~ 6307 3971 11,475
The Profit and Loss account for the p \st year shows a
balance of £.15,918 after providing* for depreciation and
various other things. That is £3500 more than is shown
above ; and apparently that amount has been written off.
It has dropped out of view, anyhow. No doubt it was like
this. There used to be a goodwill item of £24,516 among
the assets, and on the other side there was a formal re-
serve fund of £30,000. During the year the directors,
spurred probably hy new management, wiped out the
paper asset, which also meant writing the reserve
fund down to £5454. Then the directors, having their
axe sharpened, chopped another £3500 off the book
value of some other asset unspecified. These proceedings
don’t make the co. a penny the poorer. What has dis-
appeared was merely froth or hot air. The paid capital
is £126,147; hut that wasn’t enough to even pay for the
land, premises and machinery with which the co. started.
Tiie chief of the property assets is the big pile of build-
ings opposite Circular Quay, Sydney ; in addition to that
there are freezing works at Gunnedah, Young and
Dubbo. To ply for these and allow the co. a trifle for
financing clients, £75,966 has been raised on mortgages
and debentures. Ttiis heavy debt, represented partly by
property which seems to be a great deal too valu .ble for
its purpose, has been so heavy a handicap that in its first
17 years the co. paid only three dividends. Latterly,
however, the tide has been running the right w'ay. This
shows how it has carried the chief items along
„ 1902. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Mortgages, deben-
tures, etc £102,217 £74,771 £57,453 £75,966
Other debts .. .. 17,077 17,421 16,895 47,107
Freeholds, plant, etc. 125,700 136,310 133,538 157,997
Advances .. .. 87,412 72,432 74,287 103,019
Stocks 3,111 10,754 6,280 5,788
The co., having worked off the old dead-horse with which
it was left after the last pastoral boom, has thus been
launching out again during the year. To its freeholds,
plant, etc., it has added £24,459, mainly no doubt
through the building of a produce warehouse at Darling
Harbor; and there has been a spring of £28,732 in the
advances. The great bulk of this money has been bor-
rowed by the co., so the total liabilities have again reached
the pretty dizzy height of £123,073—0n1y a trifle less than
the co.’s own capital. This, while it ought to mean more
profit, means, in any case, more risk ; for the co. must
part up to its creditors, whether its own and its clients’
investments turn out a failure or a success. And if
advances are made on the basis of recent pastoral values,
there is a pretty large possibility of more dead-horse arriv-
ing presently, unless a widemargin is insisted on between
the advance and the market value. Whether the co. is
insisting on. that wide m irgin doesn’t, of course, tran-
spire from the published accounts. All that is certain is
that the directors, to their great credit, held off divs. for
many years, and thus wonderfully strengthened the posi-
tion. In the past nine years no less than £42,900 of profit
has gone into the business, and has been mostly used to
pay off old debts. A management that has been showing
so much determination to get rid of one dead-horse may
reasonably be expected to be taking a good deal of care
not to be left with another.
* * * *
The Cascade Brewery Co. (Hobart, Tas.)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £3408 6 p.c.= £3402 £6 £4,790
June, 1904.. 3917 6 „ „ 3402 515 5,305
Dec., 1904.. 3920 6,, ~ 3402 518 5,823
June, 1905.. 4606 6 ~ ~ 3402 1204 7 027
Dec., 1905.. 3472 6 ~ ~ 3402 70 7,’097
June, 1906.. 4266 6 ~ „ 3402 864 7 961
Dec., 1906.. 3497 6 ~ „ 3402 95 8,056
June, 1907.. 4734 6 „ „ 3402 1332 9,388
Dec., 1907.. 3637 6 „ „ 3402 235 9,623
June, 1908.. 4698 6 ~ „ 3402 1296 HK9I9
Dec., 1908.. 3298 6 „ ~ 3402 10,815
June, 1909.. 3823 6 „ ~ 3402 421 11,236
Dec., 1909.. 3092 6 ~ „ 3442 10,886
June, 1910.. 4871 6,, „ 3442 1429 12,315
The half-year’s profits are the best in the list, and that
isn’t due apparently to one successful punch, but to a
general improvement—a very fair balance on working
account, plus a little better return from rents, plus a
little reduction in management expenses, plus a
little reduction in interest paid. That last re-
mark touches the weak point in this co.’s affairs.
Apart from ordinary trade debts, its liabilities run
to £112,475, while the capital is only £lOB,OOO.
And, worse still, a great deal of this borrowed money
isn’t hustling to earn its own keep ; it is locked up in
the big Cascade estate which lies between Hobart and
Mount Wellington. The co. some time ago cut up part
of this property and hoisted the usual signal ; and,
though the directors’ report usually remarks that Sales
are progressing regularly, no details of the transactions
9re forthcoming. Also, there isn’t any visible rush of
population out that way, whatever there may be by-and-
bye. In fact, last census held old conservative Hobart
up to scorn as the one capital city in all Australasia
that was losing population, so it looks a most unprom-
ising place to run a big land sale in. Besides the estate,
the co. owns the usual pubs ; but how much of the
lumped item of £183,462 is pub, and how much beer-vat,
and how much scenery isn’t disclosed. This scarcity of
information doesn’t help one in getting a satisfactory
view of the real position. Prior to 1902 the capital was
£168,750. Then the axe was used, goodwill was chopped
off and some other pruning done ; and to counterbalance
this loss of dubious assets the capital was written down to
£lOB,OOO. Since that time the accounts have moved this
way
June, Dec., June,
1902. 1909. 1910.
Liabilities £103,037 £114,497 £112,475
Freeholds, hotels, etc. .. 170,013 184,292 183,462
Stock and plant .. .. 37,955 32,627 37,867
Book debts, less trade debts 9,486 20,295 15,368
Gross profit on goods .. 11,599 9,260 10,808
Rents 3,482 4,177 4,249
Management, discount, etc. 7,698 7,376 7,226
Interest paid 2,968 2,958
There isn’t anything about that to make it worth while
asking the printer to put it in red ink. The best feature,
from the co.’s point of view, is that, though “ freeholds,
hotels, etc.,” haven’t been greatly added to, rents have
improved considerably. Taking it all round, it must be
a pretty lucrative business to show up as well as it does,
considering the load of unproductive capital it is carry-
ing ; and if the eo. can manage to get rid of the unpro-
ductive scenery at remunerative prices, then there should
be some froth on the Cascade’s pot.
* * * *
The Queensland Woollen Manufacturing
Co. (Ipswich, Queensland): —
Dividends and Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
1900 .. £4168 Nil £12,000 £6,263
1901 .. 4151 2J p.c. =£1225 £2926 9,189
1902 .. 2140 Nil 5,000 6,329
Loss.
1903 .. 1386 Nil _ 4 943
1904 .. 2880 Nil 2’, 063
_ Deficit.
1905 .. 2795 Nil 7,175 7,907
1906 .. 446 Nil 5,733 14,086
Assets written down and losses written off, ,£5546 19,632
Reserves.
£23,339 (one-half the capital) written off, leaving 3,707
Loss.
1907 .. 411 Nil 3,296
1908 .. 514 Nil 7»->
Profit.
1909 .. 1657 Nil 500 1157 3,939
1910 ~. 2990 Nil 2000 990 4,929
That’s better. The Ma State weeps into its lace hanky
over the woes that have come to it through Federation ;
but concerns like this Queensland Woollen Co., which
really did suffer, dispensed with the lace hanky, and,
instead, took off their coat and buckled-to, knowing that
things would come right presently if they were given a
chance. In (4. Reid’s day they weren’t given a chance.
The State Protection under which this Ipswich
industry had been built up was cut away and
a mere make-believe was put in its place. From 1900
until Lyne improved the tariff the co. was steadily
moving towards destruction ; and finally the shareholders
had to formally acknowledge that one-half their capital
had gone and must be written off. Now, under new con-
ditions, things are improving rapidly. Not only is the
tariff better, but Queensland is better, and the national
feeling is better—the tradesman begins at last to realise
that it pays him to say his goods are Australian. But the
co. got into the bog so deep that it is a long way from
being free yet. The trouble with nearly all these industrial
concerns hasbeen the wantof capital. They either haven’t
had enough to start with, or they haven’t put by enough
to replace the machinery that has rapidly become
obsolete, wherefore, not venturing to go to the public
for more share capital, they have been driven to pawn
themselves. In this case the overdraft with the
Q. N. Bank was £26,200 in 1900. When things went
the wrong way the bank naturally wanted thedebt reduced,
and that meant sacrificing some assets. Even at June 3oj
however, the debt to the bank amounted to £21,083 ; for
most of the profit made during the past couple of years
has had to go, not in reduction of debt, but in the pur-
chase of new plant, etc. Still, though there is much
hard work yet to do, the future is a great deal brighter ;
and there is every reason to expect that these plucky
people will save the co., after all.
* * * +
The Deniliquin and Moama Railway Co.
(N.S.W.): —
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves.
June, 1903.. £636 4 p.c. =£2ooo £59 £39,772
Dec., 1903 .. 1393 3 „ „ 1500 39,665
June, 1904.. 691 2J „ „ 1250 60 39,046
Dec., 1904 .. 2412 2£ ~ ~ 1250 1 40,207
June, 1905 .. 436 2*,, ~ 1250 39,393
Dec., 1905 .. 3615 2£ ~ ~ 1250 41,758
June, 1906 .. 1143 2J ~ ~ 1250 41,651
Dec., 1906 .. 6515 5 ~ ~ 2500 45,666
June, 1907 .. 2189 5 ~ ~ 2500 46,355
Dec., 1907 .. 6863 5 ~ „ 2500 49 718
June, 1908 .. 2812 5 „ „ 2500 50,030
Dec., 1908 .. 4700 5 ~ ~ 2500 52,230
June, 1909 .. 1321 5 ~ ~ 2500 51,051
Dec., 1909 .. 5431 5 ~ ~ 2500 53,982
June, 1910 .. 1797 5. „ ~ 2500 53,279
The first half of the year is the “ off ” season, when the
traffic in wool and other pastoral goods is small. And
there isn’t much to carry besides pastoral goods; for the
big squatter mostly holds the Deniliquin country, and
when the local municipal council was asked the other
day to tell the Closer Settlement Board what big hold-
ings it thought should be cut up, the wretched body didn’t
have pluck enough to speak—it decided that “ interfer-
ence” with the big squatter was none of its business,
though non-interference has meant that the town has
been stagnant for years. Probably the council thought
it was doing what capitalists and all other “right-
thinking persons” would approve; yet by almost the
same mail that it got the report of the Deniliquin dis-
grace, The Bulletin had a letter from an English share-
holder asking what was the matter with the Deniliquin-
Moama Railway Co., complaining of its stagnation, and
inquiring whether there was any hope of improvement;
if not, he would sell—which proves over again that j?
isn’t always the Labor party that drives capital out of
the country. As a matter of fact, the co. has done very
well considering the circumstances. Nine years ago it
owed £30,0000n debentures, and had £5981 net of assets
apart from line and stock ; now it owes only £20,000 and
has £13,107 net of these movable assets. And appar-
ently renewals have been very well attended to ; apart
from maintenance, about £1650 a year is spent on that
account. Certainly this result has only been arrived at
by cutting down the div. whenever bad seasons have
come along; but the reduction of the Debenture Debt
will make it easier to face a bad season in future. And
the co. could now wipe off another £5OOO of the debt
quite comfortably.
* * ' * *
The Electric Light and Power Supply Cor-
poration, Ltd. (Sydney), which began business under a
contract with the Balmain suburban council, and started
with a deficit of £9876, representing Parliamentary rights
and other preliminary exes.
Loss. Dividends. Deficit.
May, 1908 .. £9,876
Dec., 1908 .. £304 10,180
June, 1909 .. 183 10,363
Dec., 1909 '.... 298 10,661
June, 1910 ..219 10,880
Lately the co. made a bargain with the neighboring
Newtown Council to supply light and power for 57
years, and as thiit meant more outlay a further 25,000
shares were offered (there were already 50,000). The
terms didn’t, however, suit the old shareholders; so a
debenture issue was substituted. Assuming that the
ordinary debenture conditions apply to this issue, it pro-
bably means that the shareholders will have to wait
longer for their first dividend ; for the debentures will he
carrying interest a good while before the works they
are put into will earn anything. However, later on, if
things go well, the presumably cheap debenture money
may be expected to earn something more than its own
keep. Thus, this debenture issue, like almost every other
debenture issue, has made the shares more speculative : in
dull times the fixed debenture interest may be more
than the debenture money is earning, in which case the
deficit will have to be made good at the expense of the
dividends; while in brisk times the surplus earnings of
the debenture capital will bloat the dividends. So E.L.
and P.S. shares are not as good an investment as they
were ; but for the man who believes that the concern has
a big future they are a better speculation. On June 30,
before any of the debenture money came in, the co. had
an overdraft of £lO,OlO, of which£B22l had been accumu-
lated during the half-year.
* * * *
The Perpetual Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. of Tasmania (Hobart):—
Divs. and Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Div. Tax. ■ Off: serves, serves.
1903.. £1473 8 p.c. = £B4O £713 £5,422
1904 .. 1361 8 „ „ 840 £521 5,943
1905 .. 1535 8 ~ „ 840 695 6,638
1906.. 1371 8 „ „ 840 531 7,169
1907 .. 1519 8 „ „ 840 -67 Q 7,848
1908 .. 1376 8 „ „ 840 536 8,384
1909 .. 1701 8 ~ „ 840 861 9,245
1910 .. 2395 9 ~ „ 956 1439 10,684
Earnings have taken a long jump ; but as all the income
is put into one heap, it isn’t possible to fix the responsi-
bility upon anything in particular. Paid capital is
£lO,OOO, and the reserves have now passed that mark.
The dividend for the latter half of the year was at the
rate of 10 per cent. ; and from the way it is put it seems
as if the directors will be disappointed if they are not
able to keep it at that. Of the funds £5OOO is deposited
with the Treasury, £3258 is in property, and £1683
was on deposit at June 30; the balance is in ad-
vances. And besides the co.’s own funds, it has made
itself responsible for £17,813 of borrowed money, all or
most of which has no doubt been advanced to clients—
presumably trust estates. As to this, however, the
accounts should be clearer. For while it may be proper
enough for a trustee co. to guarantee temporary accom-
modation to a trust estate, it would be a most unde-
sirable thing for such a co. to accept deposits for loan-
ing out again in the ordinary way.
* * * *
The Footscray Gas Co. (Vic.)
Dividends Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. During Year. Off. serves, serves.
1903 .. 6£ p.c. = £1560 £9,248
1904 .. £2055 6 „ „ 1440 £539 £76 9.324
1905 .. 2341 6 „ „ 1440 512 389 9,713
1906 .. 2516 61 ~ ~ 1560 608 648 10,361
Premiums on new shares .. 221 10,582
1907 .. 2584 7 p.c.= 1680 897 7 10,589
Premiums on new shares .. 290 10,879
1908 .. 2615 7 p.c. = 1912 94 609 11,488
Premiums on new shares .. 247 11,735
1909 .. 3527 7 p.c. = 2113 1174 240 11,975
1910 .. 2108 7 ~ ~ 2218 600 11,265
Owing to the increase of capital at odd times and the
complications arising therefrom, the divs. shown in the
table are those actually paid in each year. Next year’s little
lot will very likely be smaller, for the distribution now
being made has been reduced to 5 per cent, per annum for
the same old coal-strike reason. Upon which shareholders
will please observe that they have been asses if they have
ever hitherto thrown a brick at the proposal to give the
Commonwealth control over industrial matters. Until
the Commonwealth gets that control the Victorian and
S. Australian part of it can’t put in its word in
connection with a N. S. Wales strike, even though it
should affect every coal-mine in the Ma State. States
which hang their industries on to other industries in
other States, and then don’t make industrial regulation
a Commonwealth matter, are simply courting the
trouble which is hitting the Footscray Gas people when
they call for their dividend and get 5 per cent, instead
of the old familiar seven. Both this co. and the district
it is in are progressive. Receipts from gas and residuals
have bustled along this way : 1907, £8705 ; 1908, £9524 ;
1909, £11,545 ; 1910, £12,906. Certainly, the co. has
been getting in money to extend its works, but the
amounts have been small ; paid capital in 1907 was
£28,424, and nowjt is £32,000, plus £2600 money on de-
posit. Thus the earnings in proportion to capital in-
vested have improved substantially, and very handy
reserves are being put by that ought to keep dividends
stead}' by-and-bye, even if occasionally the business does
get bumped by some disrespectful pircumstance.
Rockhampton Gas and Coke Co. (Queensland):
Dividends.
—■ Written De-
Profits. Pref. Ord. Total. Off. licit.
Dec.,’o3.. £1614 9 p.c. 2£p.c. = £713. £747 £795
June,’o4.. 1501 9 „ ~116 706 116
Dec., ’04.. 1666 9 ~ 2J- ~ ~ 719 831
June, ’05,. 1237 9 ~ ~ 116 1237 116
Dec., ’05.. 1337 9 ~ 2J- „ ~ 717 504
June,’o6.. 1573 Nil 1573
Dec., ’06.. 1514 18 ~ 2J ~ „ 833 681
June,’o7.. 1855 9 ~ 2J ~ ~ 678 1177
Dec., ’07.. 1917 9 ~ 2A ~ ~ 678 1239
June,’oB.. 1880 9 ~ 2J ~ ~ 678 1202
Dec., ’OB.. 2047 9,, 2$ ~ ~ 678 1369 -re-
June,’o9.. 2229 9 ~ 3£ ~ ~ 902 1327
Re-
serves.
Dec., ’09.. 2504 9 ~ 3j ~ „ 902 1202 400
June,’lo.. 2332 9 ~ 3J ~ ~ 902 1430 400
This co. wore out the plant and didn’t provide for its
replacement. It ate not only all its cake, but one of its
two ovens as well, and it hadn’t paid for all of that oven
either. So during the past seven years it has had to
starve itself in order to wipe off the debt on the oven
that was worn oui. Luckily the other oven was doing-
pretty well, so the following progress has been made
Dec., ’O3. June, 'lO.
Liabilities .. .. £25,872 £13,966
Liquid assets.. .. 4,390 4,755
£21,482 £9,211
What may be called the cash position has thus improved
by £12,271 in 6£ years—that is, since the auditors threw
in a bomb by refusing to sign the balance-sheet without
putting a tag on to it to say that the figures didn’t mean
what they said. But that doesn’t imply that net profits
have been £12,271 in excess of dividends, because there
has been a good deal of current depreciation ; in other
words, a good deal of that £12,271 will have to be spent some
day in replacing plant which has been partly worn out
since 1903. Unless there is to be a repetition of the old
trouble, the directors will therefore have to keep a tight
rein on dividends. A small co. which has £7OOO or £BOOO
or more in worn-out electric-light works that don’t earn
i per cent, can’t expect to pay much on ordinary shares
when it is bound to pay 9 per cent, on its fortunately-
small issue of prefs., even though the gas part of its
undertaking is fairly profitable.
■* * # *.
The Warwick Gas Light, Power and Coal
Co. (Warwick, Q.):—
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1905 .. 5 p.c. =£394 £4O £235
June, 1906 ..£558 5,, ~ 394 100 £64 299
Dec., 1906 .. 517 5 ~ „ 394 100 23 322
June, 1907 ..624 5,, ~ 394 150 80 402
Dec., 1907 .. 572 5,, ~ 394 130 48 450
June, 1908 .. 642 5,, ~ 394 171 77 627
Dec., 1908 .. 584 5 ~ ~ 394 140 50 577
June, 1909 .. 662" 5,, „ 394 164 104 681
Dec., 1909 .. 693 5„ „ 394 150 149 830
June, 1910 ..677 5„ „ 394 200 83 913
This co. isn’t wasting its substance in riotous dividends.
Knowing that plant must be affected by rust even if it
isn’t by moth, the directors are keeping the divs. modest
and writing off what seems to be ample to cover the de-
preciation : that is to say, they are putting the equivalent
by and investing it in new plant, etc., as a set-off against
the depreciated value of the old plant, etc. In this way
shareholders can feel thkt their capital is being kept in-
tact. Altogether, it is a progressive little concern) in a
progressive district, and it appears to be in prudent
hands.
* * * *
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Sydney)
Writ- To Re-
ten duce De-
Loss. Dividends. off. Deficit, ficit.
June, 1904.. £99 Nil - • £l4 802
Profits.
Dec., 1904 . 120 Nil £l2O 14,682
June,1905.. 465 5 p.c.= £437 28 14 654
Dec., 1905.. 390 5 „ „ 437 _ 14)701
Loss.
June, 1906.. 640 Nil 15 341
Profits.
Dec., 1906.. 503 Nil 503 14,838
June, 1907.. 670 5 p.c.= 437 £lO9 124 14,714
Dec,, 1907.. 632 5 „ ~ 437 109 86 14,628
June, 1908.. 725 5 437 109 179 14,449
Dec., 1908.. 1156 5 ~ „ 437 109 610 13,839
Further payment for goodwill, £5063 .. 18,902
June, 1909.. 619 5 p.c.= 481 109 29 18,873
Dec., 1909.. 319 5 „ ~ 481 110 19,145
June, 1910.. 362 Nil 362 18,783
This co., with a paid capital of £17,500, started off with a
goodwill item of £15,000. Thus, £1 of substantial assets
had to struggle to earn divs. for £7. Worse still, the
premises were only held on a lease with 12 years to run.
An extension was, however, arranged ; but, a couple
of years ago, the co. had to argue with the


SAMPLE GRINDERS
FOR REDUCING SAMPLES TO
POWDER FOR ASSAYING. *
Write for particulars to
FRASER * CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
“Ferrodor” Paint. — Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected, by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort's
Dock and Mt. Lyell buildings; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. & O. and N.D.L. stearhers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
THE LOSS of LIVE Steam in generating
steam power through faulty joints, badly packed piston
glands and leaky boiler mountings and stop valves causes
waste of fuel which can be prevented by using Beil’s
Asbestos “Bellite” Jointing, “Dagger” Packing and
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Water Gauges, Blow-Off Cocks
and Stop Valves. Permanent economy is also ensured
by protecting steam pipes and boilers with Bell’s Asbesi os
Non-Conducting Composition or Flexible Rope Lagging.
Send for illustrated catalogue of engineering specialties to
BELL’S ASBESTOS AUSTRALIAN AGENCY LIMITED
(A. J. Borchert, General Manager), 315 Kent Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
The most modern, simple and effective Vacuum
Slimes Table is the “ Wilfley.” It is continuous, and con-
sists of a revolving drum which is partly submerged in a
tank of slimes or material to be filtered. The drum is
covered with a filter cloth supported on grooves on the
drum, which are connected by means of holes to the
interior to allow the liquid to be withdrawn. Through
the trunnions at the ends of the drum the vacuum pipe
passes to the interior. This pipe connects with the
interior of the drum, through which the liquid and air
are withdrawn by means of a vacuum pump. The filtered
slime is removed by a simple apparatus placed at or
below the level of the pulp in the tank. So that directly
the cake is removed the surface of the filter cloth as it
revolves is immediately re-immersed in the pulp ready to
receive a fresh cake, thereby preventing the sucking in
of air, and consequent loss of vacuum between the time
the cake is removed and a fresh one is forming. The
residual liquid in the slime cake is removed by distribu-
ting water over the surface of the semi-dried cake. Owing
to the fact that the filter is circular in form, it will be
seen that it is continuous in operation, and has no com-
plication of valves to get out of order ; furthermore,
work is being done continuously during the whole revolu-
tion of the filter drum. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have the sole manufactu-
ring rights of this filter.* [2
*** * ,
The original “Balata’ Belting, patented by
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its high standard
of excellence, and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand on every few feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* [4
* « * *
The Financial Times, London, in its issue of
9/10/’OB, comments as follows upon the last report of The
Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited“ We
cannot withhold admiration for the energy which in 12
months can secure proposals for more than a million and
three-quarters, and issue 4853 policies for £1,278,000.
However vigorous the driving may be, such a result
could not be attained if the Society did not offer what
many people want.”*
* * * #
WOOD PIPE SAVES MONEY, for it is 25%
to 65% cheaper than metal pipe, costs less for freight, re-
quires less labor to lav, and is practically everlasting.
Catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain, Svdney.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so,
write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney; and
9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [2
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Mine managers will be largely guided by the
wide experience of the N.S.W. Government Railways.
Half this year’s contract has been placed with Messrs.
Win. Adanis & Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, for
their Genuine Nobels Explosives. Large stocks of high
explosives on hand. Write for contract forms and
quotations.”*
* * *r *
Mine managers when requiring air compressors
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not fail
to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they will be
impressed by its simplicity, compactness and portability.
Owing to the working parts being entirely enclosed it can
be placed to work on any part of the mine, either on the
surface or underground. The number of repeat orders
which Messrs. Reavell have received from the mining
community proves how greatly their compressor is
appreciated. The representatives for Australia are
Messrs. Babcock and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
*•* * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Colwson & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * ■* *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout tho Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
landlord again. Naturally, the landlord said :
“ Almost all that the vendor had to sell you
was a lease, and you thought he had it at so low
a figure that you gave him £15,000 to take his place.
Clearly I was charging too little, so now I want better
terms.” And he commanded the better terms —a fact which
other investors in other more recently-floated concerns
had better note. Three or tour companies have been
floated lately with big goodwill items, and the goodwill
in each case mainly depends on a lease. Unless the
manners of landlords change radically in the next few
years, those cos. will most likely have the same argu-
ment and the same experience as Aarons’ Exchange, or a
worse one. The last extension cost thisco. £5063 ; and it
got off very lightly, because the money was put into the
property, and the co. will have the benefit of the expendi-
ture for another 20 years—provided the place keeps its
license and is therefore worth hanging on to. The pay-
ment may, in fact, be more than £5063 ; final adjustments
have to be made, and it is in view of this that a dividend
has not been declared for the past term. The original
goodwill item has never been touched—a very bad fea-
ture considering how utterly dependent it was upon a
lease which might or might not be renewed. However,
the sharemarket wrote most of it off long ago and quoted
the stock down to a few shillings.
Sanders, Sutton and Whitehead, Ltd.—This
is a Sydney flotation, put on to the market on Monday,
and rushed to an allotment on Tuesday mid-day. Since
then—a week ago—shares have gone along to a premium
of 35., and they are still moving. This being so, it may
be as well to at once consider impartially the streng. h of
the thing. The businesses to be acquired are those of
four parcel-delivery and light-carrying firms. Capital,
£35,000, with £lO,OOO unissued. Of the £35,000, the
vendors take £27,000—£13,300 in shares, and £13,700 in
cash. In return for the £27,000 they hand over
their plant, valued at £7950. Tims £19,050 is paid for
the goodwill; also the co. pays all preliminary expenses.
The profits of the old firms are not disclosed ; it is, howr-
ever, said that the amalgamation should save £6OOO a
year, “and if this be added to the profits of the present
businesses, the profits of the new co., on a conservative
calculation, should total £lO,OOO per annum.” Thus it
seems that the total profits of the old businesses have
been £4OOO or less. The old proprietors therefore take
five years’profits for their goodwill—very liberal pay-
ment for this class of business. No less than 60 percent,
of the estimated profics is to come, not from the busi-
nesses themselves, but from the amalgamation. This 60
p.c., of course, is purely hypothetical. The figures may
be realised with good management, or they may not.
Even, however, if £4OOO a year has been netted in
the past, not a word has been said about
any altered conditions as to w T ages, etc., which
may seriously affect profits in the future. This
trade was recently the subject of a Wages Board
award, when numerous changes were made in favor of
the employees. There is the further matter of motor
traction to be taken into account. One traction co. has
already been formed in Sydney; and this co. will also
make an immediate trial of motor vehicles, “and if suc-
cessful they will be used.” Which means that the out-
of-date plant which is the only tangible thing that the
vendors had to sell would be thrown on the co.’s hands.
The new co., which, with good organisation, may be
a pronounced success, is therefore highly speculative.
The profits earned in the past are no guide to future
profits; and the bulk of the estimated profits are to come
from economies which it may or may not be possible to
effect—if they are easy to effect the wonder is that the
proprietors haven’t effected them before this, and thus
more than doubled their profits. Finally, the only tan-
gible assets may presently be of little value. Under all
the circumstances, the price paid was large; and the
public ought to clearly understand, further, that when
it pays a premium for shares, it adds so much more to
the already excessive payment for goodwill.
Australian brokerdom has so far looked with a
rather cold eye on the Bowron Bros, flotation; for Aus-
tralian brokerdom doesn’t like a thing that doesn’t issue
in the first place from the office of one of the affiliated
craftsmen. Poaching on their preserves, they hint,
isn’t a thing to be encouraged under any circumstances.
Of course, reasons can always be found for applying the
cold eye. In this case, there was the Bowron Bros. ’ trouble
with the Maoriland income-tax department, ending in
the firm being invited by a court to pav up about £30,100.
The firm said its profits from 1902 to ’O6 inclusive totalled
£61,415 ; the tax department said £188.532. The courts
said that, on the whole, the taxation department was
right. This ought to be very good news for prospective
investors. If the profits have been bigger than the firm
or the vendors say, so much the better for the people who
come in. The one thing in connection with the income-
tax case that investors need trouble about is : “ Has the
suit prejudiced the business of the firm, and is the co.
buying any actions at law?” On the latter point the
prospectus clearly indicates that the new co. takes over
the assets and not the liabilities. For the rest, the pro-
position can be considered on the figures submitted.
* * * *
Melbourne Cope’s Creek Tin Sluicing Co.’s
record: —
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec., 1906 .. £3Oll 52 p.c. = £3OOO £ll
June, 1907 ... 6124 65 ~ „ 3750 £464 1921
Deficit.
Dec,, 1907 .. 1004 52 „,, 3000 420 495
Reserves.
June, 1908 ~ 894 Nil 198 201
Dec., 1908 .. 1211 Nil 386 1026
June, 1909 .. 2521 24 p.c. = 1500 187 1860
Dec,, 1909 .. 1792 24 ~ ~ 1500 180 1972
June, 1910 .. 925 12 ~ ~ 750 180 1967
So the people who went in at the start and paid par have
got their money back, at any rate : total Capital, £12,500;
total divs., £13,500, with another £l7OO or so in hand.
There isn’t much of the original claim left to turn over,
though the end is panning out better than had been ex-
pected ; and already one plant has been shifted to Albion
Flat, where another area which should give moderate
results has been secured. Both shows are in the New
England district of N.S. W.
Just now,4 the South mine is the apple of
Broken Hill’s eye. The thermometer of public confidence
rises and falls according to the nature of the develop-
ments at this mine’s bottom level. It used to be the
B. H. Prop, that was consulted when a Broken Hill man
thought about buying a house or raising the price of
sugar. The dogged determination of the Prop, directors
not to do any mining work under the 1909 Arbitration
award had tiie effect of gradually tiring out the public
gaze, and the eye of an anxious public has of late been
fixed on the South and Central mines. What the
South is going to turn out at depth no one
can do more than guess. But the available evidence
points all one way. The crosscut opposite the No. 3
shaft has been in high-grade ore, proving that the big
“shoe” of sulphides on the 970 ft. level has pitched
southward and has lived downwards, though probably
not to the same bulk, for an ther 100 ft. This is in the
Southend of the level. In the north end the ore body
which is pitching in from the Central should be found. A
winze, put down on the north end of the 970 ft. level, is
already in ore, and will no doubt carry the lode down to
the next level. So the'South mine is the peg on which
Broken Hill is hanging its hat at present,
* * * *
The Broken Hill South Extended expects to
cut its “big” lode within a week. This lode is situated
over 300 ft. east of the shaft, and is being approached by
the crosscut on the 930 ft. level along a pathway strewn
with patches of rich ore. What the “ big ” lode itself is
going to be like when it is opened up nobody knows.
But if it is better than the small streaks through which
the crosscut has been passing there won’t be any neces-
sity to erect a mill. The stuff can be sent direct to the
smelters. On the other hand, if, as the directors'of the
South Blocks seem to think, it is merely the continuation
of the zinciferous lode driven on from Block 5 shaft,
near the South Extended boundary, then buyers of South
Extended shares will find themselves with a very tough
proposition to tackle.
* * * *
8., M. and Co. have long been on the look-out
for a decent mine to go with the South Blocks at Broken
Hill. Now the firm is said to have its eye on the British.
General-manager Woodhead is very tired of the worry he
has had over the starting of the re-arranged mill and
flotation plant, and 8., M. arid Co. may take the re-
sponsibilities off his shoulders. Partner Loring made a
thorough inspection of the mine and mill when he was
in Broken Hill lately ; so there is evidently something on
the cards.
* * * *
Chairman Govett, of the Broken Hill South
Blocks, is a perennial spring of estimates. The other
day he told shareholders iri London that, allowing for a
monthly expenditure of £1250 on development, the co.
should earn, with lend at £l2 10s. per ton, £l3OO profits per
mouth, or £15,600 per annum. This, he added, was over
7£ per cent. on the Capital—and “the autumn” should
see the dividends start. Mr. Govett has had a deal of ex-
perience with big gold mines of the semi-investment
sort; and he got into the estimating habit in connec-
tion with them. Silver-lead zinc mines are different,
which explains why, so far, he hasn’t had much
luck as a tipster in his new sphere. Over 12 months
ago he told the same South Blocks shareholders
that with lead at £l3, “the monthly profits work out
at about £2200, or 13 per cent, per annum.” But
the shareholders haven’t yet tasted any of that 13 per
cent. Just over two years ago, talking to the same co.,
the same chairman based his estimates on the average
price of lead for 10 years, and on that “the
profits would work out at about £4OOO a month, or
£48,000 a year.” So it was £45,000 in 1908, and £26,400
in 1909, and £15,600 in 1910. And still the shareholders
haven’t had a taste. The tide very likely will turn some
day ; meantime perhaps it would be safer if chairman
Govett gave up the habit of dangling imaginary profits
before silver-lead shareholders.
* * * •»
Great Cobar (N.S.W.) will no doubt increase
its production of gold now that it has the Peak, the
Chesney and the Cobar Gold Mines to draw on. Last
year, before being acquired, the Cobar Gold Mines sent
6558 tons to the smelters, and the return speaks—
£lo,3B7 worth of gold and £1254 worth of copper. That
meant about 355. per ton. The total return for the last
four weeks was 651 tons blister copper, estimated to con-
tain 26920 z. gold and 11,5430 z. silver. Taking copper at
£5O, which, under the circumstances, seems a fair thing,
the value is £44,472, including £11,922 worth of precious
metals. Tonnage is still kept a secret, and so are average
extraction and working costs. The now long-overdue
annual report should, however, tell a few interesting
things on this and other points. Blister copper is in
these days being sent away unrefined, the eleei roly tic
works at Lithgow having been shut down. There are
works at Port Kembla quite capable of dealing with the
output; but the foreign Cobar concern evidently thinks
that t he country from which it digs its copper isn’t entitled
to the work of getting the stuff ready for the market.
Some day the worm will turn and bite companies like
that.
* * * *
The same old yarn with one important variation
was told at what was for all practical purposes the last
meeting of the Cobar Gold Mines. The utterly hope-
less directors couldn’t do anything themselves, and
so had agreed to sell the whole outfit for 20,000
shares in Great Cobar. At the end of 1904,
when the co. had about reached the end of
the oxidised ore, there was cash and gold in hand total-
ling £68,023, besides other liquid assets more than enough
to pay all creditors. The chairman told the meeting the
other day that £23,000 was left. So £45,000 has
been frittered away, besides a few thousands de-
rived from sales of ore; and the co. did not
have a thing to show for it. It was not a step
nearer turning its sulphide ore to account than it
was at the beginning. The price paid by the Great
Cobar people may not be large ; but almost anything is
better than leaving the property in the old hands. The
co. was in 176,414 shares ; so there should be a cash divi-
dend of about 2s. 3d. per share, and two Great Cobar
shares for about every 17 old shares—equal to another 12s.
per share, or a total of 14S. 3d.
# * * *
Kyloe (N.S.W.) report will be out pretty well
as soon as this, if it isn’t out first. It will make very
good reading, even though the expected 6d. a month
hasn’t been forthcoming. In view of the poor copper
market, three sixpences in four months isn’t to be
grumbled at. Further, Ashcroft’s last estimate of “ pro-
bable ” ore down to the bottom level has been more than
confirmed by the work since'done. Lately the furnace
has been shut down. This co. finds out, like a good many
others, that, heavy as the returning charges of custom
works seem to be, there isn’t much to be gained usually
by putting up local smelters to handle a small output.
No doubt, the furnace being there, it will be started again
when the summer comes round, and firewood can be hauled
more cheaply.' The worst thing that can be said about
the management is that it has dawdled over the sinking
of the shaft. It isn’t any answer that it had quite as
much ore developed as it could send out for, say, a couple
of years. It is the hand-to-mouth policy that makes
such a gamble of mining.
* * si *
Kangiara (N.S.W.) is up against a sixpenny
call. The output is less than it was last year. For the
12 months £34,504 worth of copper, lead, silver and gold
were sent away—936 tons of lead and 172 tons of
copper, the latter valued at over £lO,OOO. But good-
looking assays in a refractory ore create an erroneous
idea of values, which obviously depend on the market
price and the cost of mining and treatment. Last week
the ore output was 151 tons, the bulk of which was only of
milling grade. It is hoped now that when the Breadal-
bane smelter gets going, with a large deposit of hematite
to use as a flux, Kangiara will be able to make a better
smelting contract. But a mixture of lead, copper and
zinc is not easy to handle, and the man who expects least
from the Breadalbane spec, will be also the least dis-
appointed.
* * * *
Shareholders in Associated Northern (W.A.)
have often felt relieved when they thought of the
big amount of cash in hand—their cash, earned from the
mine. But many of them don’t feel so good about it
now ; they find out that cash in the co.’s hand isn’t quite
the same as cash in the share; older’s hand. The directors’
idea is to splash up the big hoard of savings in one or
more outlandish parts of the universe. No doubt this
will mean an all-right time for some people ; but for the
Board to gamble with funds which are profits and not
capital, and which shareholders have a right to get in
hard cash, is inexcusable.
Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) announces that the
reserves are likely to be larger at the end of the year, and
shareholders are informed that the “ worst has been
overcome, and that the position is improving.” What
the “ worst ” actually was is not stated, but it was pro-
bably the want of some rich faces to draw upon for
sweetening the outputs. From this out the monthly re-
turn is expected to gradually creep up to £50,000.
* * * *
After taking a long time to make up its mind,
Hannan’s Star (W.A.) now proposes to refund Is. 6d. of
the 38. per share called up at the end of last year, and to
give share for share in both the Lake View Star combine
and an about-to-be-formed finance corporation- with a
nominal capital of £70,000 in 2s. shares. Besides a bit of
working capital, the assets of the latter co. will comprise
the old Hannan’s Star residues and a few other odds and
ends.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) has resumed ore
treatment. Upwards of £50,000 —cash in hand and bor-
rowed money—lias been expended on plant since the fire,
and, on present appearances, it will be a long time before
the sum is got back in profits.
Mararoa (W.A.) has now done about 110 ft. of
driving in the “ danger zone ” at No. 7 level, and, except
for a small break, assays have been all right. It was
somewhere about this depth that the beginning of the
end of oiher once well-known but now forgotten mines
in the district started ; but present indications point to
the Mararoa being the exception 'that is alleged on poor
authority to prove the rule.
* * * *
Meekatharra mine-owners (W.A.) cannot be
accused of shirking development, as deep sinking is in
progress right along the main line of lode. The Ingliston
United, Ingliston Extended, Democrat and others are all
hurrying down to the sulphide zone, where such im-
proved prospects were obtained in the Fenian and
Ingliston Consols; and the newly-flouted Commodore is
making haste to follow suit. By next Christmas the dis-
trict should either be numbered among the permanently
established fields or added to the list of doomed ones.
* * # *
8., M. and Co. have sampled Gwalia South for
the adjoining Sons of Gwalia, and it now rests with the
latter to take or leave the property. A yarn is going the
rounds that, if a sale is effected, the Sons of Gwalia will
utilise the South mill for the purpose of lifting the
monthly output to 15,000 tons. This would mean bigger
profits and (unless the share issue wasincreased to enable
scrip to be given in exchange for the South mine) proba-
bly larger dividends.
* * * »
The Westralian gold output for July brought
the total for the year up to 853,368 fine oz., or 61,8170 z.
less than for the same period in 1909. The falling off is
attributed mainly to the stoppage at the Perseverance ;
but decreased returns from the Horseshoe, Associated
and other mines, and the gradual all-round decline of the
industry, have a lot to do with it as well.
* * * *
Duke and Main Leads, Maryborough (Vic.),
smiles with cold disdain at the plight of the Cathcart
mine. A mild buck to 10s. in Cathcart shares exhausts
all the buyers; wtiile even the shutting down of a
shaft by the Duke and Main Leads made hardly a ripple
in the market in that stock. No. 2 shaft was useful just
so long as it was possible that George Bryant bad left
shallow ground away in the upper leads of the old Main
Lead gutter. Bryant was too good a miner to do any
such thing ; but some of the Duke directors, thinking
differently, ran out a big prospecting drive and found
nothing. Now mining will be all from one shaft, there
won’t be two lots of work to supervise, there won’t
be two managers to pay, and there won’t be any more
fooling about in the Duke gutter so far from the shaft
that only oz. dirt will do. With it all, the Duke and
Main Le ds can’t afford to be perky over the events of
to-day. Its turn may come, and it may fade until it is
like Burnt Creek, lower down the lead, where 10 years
have been spent in search of the elusive dividend.
* * * *
When F. W. Holst fired his gun at the Ajax,
Davlesford (Vic.), he little dreamt that he would cause
three little fledglings to flutter out into the light.
One twitters from the Nugyetty-Bell-Vince cage,
and the other two are being turned out of
the Buchanan-Tom Harvey incubator. So, with
the North Nuggetty and the South Frenchman’s,
five little birdies will soon be piping in Stock Exchange at-
mosphere. If adecentamonnt of cash were beingput up to
give them comfort, there would be no need to worry.
But the subscribed funds won’t see them far on their
way, and more will have to be got long before they are
able to scratch their own living. It has to be seen
whether those who take up scrip will pay the seed bill
when the call is made by the collector on the second Wed-
nesday of every month. The luck of Ancient Henry has
clung to the Ajax group. Other Daylesford shows have
pegged along without result, or have petered out, but the
Ajax and the Nuggetty keep up their divs. and keep up
their market position, too, with Frenchman’s making a
very good show’ in the distance. No mine in Daylesford
shows its market price. That price is represented partly
by stone but more by faith. The bond of union among
big shareholders must be as of steel, too, for no market
weakness is ever visible.
# * * *
Exit New Brothers Home No. l(Tas.). Twenty
years ago the co. hung out its banners on the outer wall.
By one device or another they had been kept flying till
Lindesay, Clark hauled them dow n a week or two ago.
The mine has been a good friend to the market, also to
the legal manager. When it was shut in by the Briseis
and the Krushka Bros, the plan w'as to drive from an in-
cline shaft into the drift and try to hold up the ground
by timber. This was too precarious a job, and only justi-
fied by the price of the metal and the richness of
the drift. Engineers Lewis and Mackenzie really
gave the mine its chance with their scheme for
handling the overburden. Then chairman Joske made
terms with the Briseis to wash out the drift on a
royalty basis. Now' the shutters are up. It has taken
seven years to pitch out 503,000 cubic yards of over-
burden, and sluice 825,000 cubic yards of drift for 1526 J
tons of tin oxide. Out of £174,500 w'orth of ore won, the
Brothers No. 1 got £73,279. This gave 19s. 6d. per share
in divs. against 14s. 7d. paid up ; but as the 14s. 7d. was
furnished ages since, those who nibbled in scrip before
the Briseis tribute was fixed up did nicely. So the
Briseis is left the sole survivor of the half-dozen cos.
which chased fortune in the Briseis-Ringarooma drifts.
* # * *
Tasmania Gold Mine (Tas.) cables to its backers
on the other side of the earth that the 1370 ft. level show’s
a width of 12ft. of lOjdwt. stuff. As the 1250 ft. level
still contains some good patches, it is probable that the
co. will pull through its reconstruction—soo,ooo shares
in place of the old lot, with a liability of 2s. 6d. per
share. Sixpenny calls are to be made.
* * * »
Elliotts, Cloncurry (Q.), are the fashionable
copper stock of the moment. Years have been spent
getting read}' for a smelting campaign, and, when it
starts on the Elliott’s rich ore, it is calculated that a
profit of £13,000 per month will be shown. Operators
have been getting where they can catch some of the
shower of dividends, and they have a pretty good idea
that the more dividends that are paid, and the less there
will remain to pay, the bigger the price the fool-public
will give for the shares : wherefore the operators hope to
strike oil two ways. And, though the neighboring
Hampden isn’t ready to turn out copper in the same
way, Elliott’s fireworks will no doubt have an effect on
that stock too. Hence the nibbling in that quarter as
well.
* * * *
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, crushed
4930 tons for £10,370, inclusive of concentrates and cyan-
ide return. The profit for the month was £1902, or less
than 20 per cent, of the gross yield. This mine is deepen-
ing its shaft below the 2900 ft. vertical, but the immediate
prospects are not brilliant. The whole field has an
anxious eye on the deeps. Bonnie Dundee is a neighbor
of the Extended, and the latter has been driving a hang-
ing-wall crosscut in the hope that the formation which is
known to extend into the Dundee will disclose good
values. The improved quotation for Dundee shares is
based on the hope that a payable reef will be found. The
Dundee is also prospecting a formation at the 600 ft. level.
Brilliant Deep has crushed 129 tons for £754 ; but mining
near the 2413 ft. level is expensive, and the stone requires
a good deal of picking.
Waihi (M.L.) obtained £959,593 for 12 months’
work, and paid out £363,851 in costs. The revenue
shows a substantial improvement of £29,082 compared
with the previous year. But these good returns, backed
up by substantial and regular dividends, could not pre-
vent a slump in shares when the news got about that
the bottom level was showing some poor faces. There
are 500,000 shares, and the sensible view the market takes
is that the ore reserves ought to be Strong and consistent
to make that many shares worth £B, which is £4,000,000
for the mine.
* * * *
“Moana”: Some remarks by “Shareholder”
(B. 14/7/’10) apropos the Bank of N.Z. and the M.L.
Government have interested me, for I was in the storm
centre of that panic. “ Shareholder,” balancing himself
adroitly on the present prosperity of the once tottering
concern, accuses the State “of taking practically no
risk ” when it advanced £2,000,000 against a very doubt-
ful security said to be worth £1,500,000. Well do I
remember that memorable afternoon when the rumor
went round that unless the State advanced that £2,000,000
at once the bank’s doors would remain closed on the
morrow. Fat men, who would have foamed at the mouth
at the mere mention of Socialism and who would
have gone raving mad at the thought of a
State Bank, went about cursing wildly and declaring
that the State must come to the bank’s aid.
I don’t know whether “Shareholder” was a shareholder
then ; but to show what the shareholders themselves
thought of the security the State was getting, I would
point out that, even after the State had put its arm
round the staggering show, Fat made a wild dash to get
rid of all his shares. I could have got a truck-load of
scrip in M.L. for nothing if I’d been prepared to shoulder
the liability.
* * *• *
Australia produced zinc concentrates worth
£1,041,280 last year. The quantity was 373,906 tons, so
it is a larger output than that of Missouri and Kansas,
the big American zinc centres, with 304,581 tons of zinc
ore for 1909. A large proportion of_the American zinc
ore contains 60 percent, zinc,which is, say, 14 per cent,
better than the Australian average. But the Australian
stuff carries usually about 15oz. silver, and including that
metal it seems probable that the average extraction
from Australian zinc ore is nearly equal to the American,
and that the higher prices for ore in America are mainly
due to the better methods of treatment which high Pro-
tection has produced. In America'6o per cent, zinc ore
fetches £8 per ton ; but 40 per cent, is sold for £4.
* * * *
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*


CHARLES
HEIDSIECK’S
fc, CHAMPAGNE. /j
Dandruff is a very common affliction, but
this fact does not make it any less undesirable.
It is, undoubtedly, most unpleasant to see the
beauty of a well-arranged coiffure marred by any-
thing so unsightly. Those who are afflicted try
one thing after another, hoping to find a remedy
that will banish it for ever. But they fail every
time.
There is only one cure—expert individual
treatment. There is no case of dandruff that will
not yield to the Hygeia Individual Treatment,
which is prescribed for each patient by the
President, Mrs. Cowling, the Hair Specialist.
She may be consulted, free of charge, any day but
Saturday between 2.15 and 4.45, and on Wednes-
day between 6 and 7- Those who cannot call
may write, enclosing 3d. stamp to cover postage’,
etc. Letters may be addressed'to the President,
Dept. B, Hygeia Limited, Ocean House, Moore
Street, Sydney.*
ROB«R
f
O
ounjllkHwin'Kiy fgf/i
■JS'
When you’ve been selling
food-stuffs for years, as 1 have,
you get to know the things that
are good and those that are
not. for you’ve not only your
own judgement to depend on
—but the hundreds of customers
who come in every day tell you
what they think, and should
you happen to put a line into
stock that’s not up to the mark,
it’s not long before they let you
know about it. Likewise, when
an article is good, somebody
will be sure to mention it.
Now “Robur” tea is one
of the best selling lines I’ve
ever stocked, the quality doesn’t
vary, the flavour is always good
and the same people seem to
buy it from one year’s end to
another, excepting now and then
when a new customer has to
be added to the list. It’s the
hardest tea to change people
from, and you can bet I’ve tried a
good many times because the
profit is less upon it than any
other tea 1 sell.
Some customers say the No.
3 Grade is good enough for
anybody and whilst there’s no
doubt about its being good, if
l had to recommend I’d say
for everyday family use take
the No. 2 Grade.
The Grocer.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, August 16, 1910.
My Dear Arint, —
A few more Javanese items :
Dutch ladies and their children have surely the
finest hair in the world. Probably the no-hat
habit is one of the reasons. Little girl Holland,
startlingly large and wide for her years, runs hat-
less to and from school under a sun that smites
like an axe. Her mother, who always bears a
remarkable likeness to Queen Wilhelmina, stacks
up her splendid hair in the same old-fashioned
style as Juliana’s mother.
“Where do you hide your 32,000,000 of
people ?” I asked the question many times of my
host or guide for the time being. For Java
seems to be mostly a glorious jungle of stately
cocoa palms, bananas, bamboos, lemon grass and
areas of rice and cane-cultivation.
“O, they live in villages in what you call the
jungle, or beyond that and that,” waving a vague
hand towards the standing crops on either side of
the road; “and if you ask that question once
more you'll be set down as a ‘ Crater Miss.’ ”
“ What is a ‘ Crater Miss’ ?”
“Any lady-tourist, English, Australian or
American, whose questions make the Dutch
smile ; one who climbs the volcanoes and peers
into their craters, and wears a red hat with pink
flowers in it, or a white helmet with a feather.”
“ Can such things be ? ”
“Yes. A lot of American tourists travelled
inland to inspect Java’s holy wonder, the Bara-
budur Temple. They stopped for tea within a
few hundred yards of it at the Government rest-
house, and looked at it from there, saying. ‘O,
that’s the famous temple. It’s fine ! Landlord,
we want a lot of Barabudur labels for our lug-
gage.”
An agreeable phase of life in Soerabaya is its
open-air restaurants. At one of these, the Hellen-
aoorn, a fine Austrian orchestra, is under a year’s
engagement. It plays three nights in the week,
and the sextette (four comely damsels and two
men) is paid £2OOO for the year’s work. There is
always good music to be heard in Soerabaya, and
whilst we were there we were told that a noted
Dutch actor was playing “Hamlet.” At the Heh
lendoorn on a Sunday night we got a good view
of collective Heer Holland in all the glory of his
white linen tailoring or military uniform. After
viewing, we asked each other :
“Did we ever read in books of travel, or did
we ever hear, that all Dutchmen were eligible
entrants for a physical beauty competition?”
“ No, we didn’t.”
“ Then this congregation, which is listening de-
voutly to the music of the ‘Merry Widow’
opera, and drinking large quantities of Apollonaris
with small amounts of whisky, must be a selection
of the fittest for the military and civil services of
this tropical land.”
“Most likely. It looks as if it could resist the
malaria mosquito, kill the cholera germ, and non-
suit the terrors that come out of the insanitary
canals.
Mevrouw Holland was not present in numbers
at the open-air music and meat. Curiously enough,
what of her was present came hatted under the
starlight and electrics, after being hatless all day.
During the past week the Chelmsfords have
been trekking hard from one western town to
the other. Why do they leave their happy, if
horribly-furnished, Cranbrook home to do this
thing ? It can’t be for pleasure. There is no
drearier, more self-conscious and generally absurd
spot on earth than a backblocks town when it puts
on its glad clothes and prepares to receive a
Governor. Seemingly, the idea in vice-regal
circles is that they (the vice-regalities) are mis-
sioners of loyalty—licensed carriers of the Light,
in the matter of devotion to the Crown and Flag,
to the dark places of the State. And yet the de-
sired result is rarely accomplished. Unholy rows
among the social and other leaders of the locality
concerned are frequent attendants on these visits.
The initial trouble, which flames up with the vio-
lence of a bush fire, is in variably connected with the
problem of who shall dance in the vice-regal set
at the ball. Every sound loyalist, from the vil-
lage bellman to the mayor who brings round the
milk in the morning, puts forward some more or
less valid claim. In the end, the difficulty has to
be sorted out with the help of the Governor’s
A.D.Q. That drags the Governor into the em-
broglio. The slighted ones move apart darkly,
and mutter. The Empire seems to them a
less estimable institution than it did. There
are suggestions that it is Crumbling, and Re-
publican sentiments are voiced in unlikely
places. When the Governor materialises, his
well-meaning speech is criticised harshly
and accused of being platitudinous. His innocu-
ously merry remarks to the school-children are
sneered at with malevolence. Meanwhile those
who have been excluded from the reception com-
mittee at the railway station fume intolerantly
in the background, in company with those who,
having subscribed to the public banquet, have
discovered that their seats are remote from the
guest of honor. The numbers of the disaffected
are added to by the,local centenarian, who holds
that he should have been presented to the vice-
regal party and encouraged with liquor to give
his mendacious reminiscences ; and he is backed
up by the bogus Crimean veteran and others.
Thus is bitterness induced, and a tendency
arises to speak irreverently of the Person, and
put the latter’s representative on a par, for pur-
poses of criticism, with insurance canvassers and
itinerant tea-dealers.
At St. John’s Church, Cowra (N.S.W.), on
August 6, Edward, third son of Mrs. F. Cortis, of
North Sydney, was wedded to Annie Constance,
eldest daughter of Mr. J. H. Morell, manager of
the Australian Bank of Commerce at Cowra. The
bridegroom is a grandson of that Captain Foster
Fyans, of the 4th Regiment, who was at Norfolk
Island when Colonel Morrisett was commandant;
and with the Colonel he was doomed to death by
the mutinous convicts. The arrival pf Colonel
Anderson saved Fyans; Morrisett had scented
danger and cleared out. There was a great time
for the hangman afterwards; he had to attend
to a dozen or more in one batch.
Baronet Rupert Clarke has taken a habitation
in Beach-road, near Darling Point. It is close
enough to the footlights to be negotiated with a
taxi in a few minutes, provided the vehicle doesn’t
run over a policeman on the way. If it does, the
trip may take two hours.
“ A Grater Miss” (Javanese variety).
A wedding to occur this month at Singapore is
that of Miss Violet Marshall, of East Court,
Waverley, daughter of Mrs. Board-Marshall,
with Mr. Francis J. Benton, of the moist, warm
city of 10,000 rickshaws. My principal griev-
ances against Singapore are that it wouldn’t
shampoo my hair for less than 7s. (I tried three
hairdressers), and wouldn’t sell me any of its
grass lawns and thin silks except for a lot more
than Sydney prices. To live comfortably in the
interesting, over-Chinesed island one must be a
moneyed white. Miss Marshall is one of the
Marshall Brewery clan,
Mr. Fanshawe, R.N., a straight-featured young
man with immense feet, who, as flag-lieutenant,
saved the Empire from disruption at various balls
and race-meetings in these regions recently, has
got engaged. The bride-to-be is a Miss Crichton,
one of the extensive Erne family.
The recently-married Blackburns were the
thirteenth pair of newly-weds to honeymoon at
the Arthur Allen’s Port Hacking cottage. It is
said that there were some faint qualms at first,
but when it is a question of enjoying the prettiest
harbor view in N.S.W. at the most charming
season of the year, in the most comfortable sur-
roundings, effete superstitions are liable to be
pushed to the wall. What sensible person would
decline to walk into Eden simply because a ladder
happened to have got jammed across the top of
the golden doors ? And who, if offered £13,000,000
on a Friday, would refuse?
Mr. Clive Teece, of the Sydney Bar, and Miss
Grimwade, of Melbourne, are trying to cope with
the congratulations that pour in upon them over
their engagement—matrimonial, of course.
Miss Hilda Meade (a daughter of Mrs. Izett, of
Child Study fame), who has done some good
stage work in her still quite young life, will turn
her graceful back on the footlights and the audi-
ence in December, and marry a Maorilander
named Brodie, who is said to have more brains
than the law allows.
Mrs. Wright, wife of the bright, fresh Primate,
has been giving the Pointers palpitation of the
heart by returning their calls. It is as unusual
for the wife of a man who holds a billet so close to
the Pearly Gates to play (visiting) cards with his
flock as it is for a Governor’s consort to call on
his lieges. If the Pointer thus honored has
but one maid and the visitation occurs on the
not-at-home day, when the girl is capless and
wearing a doubtful apron and upturned sleeves,
the unnerved employer begins to believe in the
idea of clerical celibacy. No cardinal’s wife ever
calls in the middle of washing day.
Mrs. Ernest Brooke and her sister, Miss Burns,
are beguiling the latter half of this dullest of
winters by running to Port Moresby, Macassar
and Java. A steamship-owning father is one of
the most valuable properties a girl can possess.
The widow of Dr. James Norton, M.L.0., died
last week. The old lady was the successful family
solicitor’s second wife; his first was a daughter of
Thomas Walker, of Concord, the gentleman who
was a Deputy-Commissary-General for N.S. VV.
and piled up great wealth. Mr. Norton was a
Sydney native, born on the corner of King and
Elizabeth streets in 1824; and what he and his
widow knew about the first families wouldn t go
inside two ordinary bookcases.
The Hore-Ruthvens leave Australia next
month—Captain Ruthven having to rejoin Ins
regiment in India. The T. H. Kellys are going
along on a visit to the departing pair at U mballa,
at which famous spot the military man’s regiment
is stationed, and afterwards they mean to tour
India. Captain Rome is to take on Captain
Ruthven’s job of Military Secretary to the
G.-General.
Mrs. Philip Morton underwent a serious throat-
operation last week, a specialist being brought
over from Melbourne for the occasion. An
extraordinary feature of the business, redounding
to the lady’s dauntless pluck, was that she faced
the ordeal without an anaesthetic.
Enthusiasm at the Glaciarium Carnival was so
hot that it melted the ice of the skating floor. A
mile of motors on the street without, testified
(with acetylene force) that Persons of Quality
were within. The “ White II ns<nrs ” set was ad-
judged first prize-winner. “ C'-iutipler” crowed
second. There was a lovely “ Wistaria ” set, and
the “Christmas” girls were the prettiest group
of kittens that ever dressed like Red Riding
Hoods.
It has arrived at last. The “ Australian
accent” may now be said to be well on its way to
international fame. London STAR _ (25/6/10)
quotes this description of a nurse who is wanted
by the police for the strange, inexplicable offence
of kidnapping the infant whom she was hired to
attend to:—
Dorothy Ingles, aged 23 years, height sft. 2 or 3in.,
rather stout build, bright, clear, fresh complexion,
brown hair (somewhat untidy), speaks with an Aus-
tralian accent. Carrying a light brown leather suit case,
30in. long, 15in. deep, marked “ N. M. D., Shanghai.”
It revives the interminable old question of what,
anyhow, is an “Australian accent”? Gould, the
quickest ear tell an inhabitant of “ the’Loo,” by
Viis or her speech, from one whose parish church
was situate in (say) Poplar (London, E.)? Does
the Cockney accent of the employee in Hordern’s
or Lassetter’s differ materially from the Cockney
accent that may be heard in Marshall and Snel-
grove’s or Selfridge’s. Is there any noticeable
distinction between the Manly boat voice and the
Tuppenny Tube voice ? For myself I don’t be-
lieve there is.
A friend uses something less than a pint of
London ink to tell me of the luck the national
mourning brought to a “little dressmaker” of
her acquaintance. This “person”—the working
woman in England is a “ person ” —was a maker
of considerable taste and skill, but was working
in an obscure way in a mean street. Her prin-
cipal customers were the mother and seven grown
daughters of a rich Scottish family which dwelt
in some outlandish part of Caledonia. The
mother of this quiverful wrote telling of the
death of her husband and of the arrival in
London in three weeks’ time of her family and
three nieces. All would require “nice black”
for morning, street and dinner-wear. The
dressmaker took great risks and a lot of
new hands. She went in debt for “ nice
black” materials, and 48 hours before the
Scottish invasion she had 30 mourning frocks
ready. At the same time the King died. In a
few hours all the well-known shops and cos-
tumiers were sold out of black frocks, and any prices
were being offered for Smart woe-gowns. Little
dressmaker hired a room in a better street, rushed
an advt. into the Morning Post and trebled the
prices of her ready-to-wears. One of the swell
shops bought the lot—and her services as well.
The lady with the seven daughters and three
nieces all wanting “nice black ” don’t come again
into the story. Presumably they were thrown
overboard.
When the mail left the order for national
mourning had ceased, and many dressmakers were
“composing” white lingerie frocks over mauve.
The effectsignifies mitigated grief, and is gener-
ally becoming. Mauve and grey gowns were,
however, the most sought after.
Mrs. Dulcie Deamer Goldie’s work is improv-
ing. She is now the author of two little Austra-
lians. The second edition, following his brother’s
lead, has booked space for himself, from the age
of two weeks, at the Norland Nursery.
This invaluable Norland Nursery, it may
be mentioned, got into gala clothes last
Thursday afternoon, when Mrs. Greig-Smith,
its founder, entertained an army of Some-
bodies and Anybodies to witness Mrs. Primate
Wright’s presentation of certificates to the nurses.
If you searched Mrs. Primate’s remarks minutely
with a bloodhound and a microscope you
could not find anything to cavil at in grammar or
convention. And she handed the warrant papers
without crooking her elbow like Queen Hatsepu
on the Egyptian inscriptions. Then there was
tea, and most of the Anybodies ran back into
town to get their milliners to copy Mrs. Greig-
Smith’s hat from description. It was a magnificent
floral and Paisley event.
Some postcards from various Australians travel-
ling where the American Eagle screams loudest:
(1) “ Ada Crossley is coming over for a short tour
of Canada in September. She will be piloted by
Fred Spencer.” (2) “Heard George Majeroni
sing. His baritone is the best goods, and he will
presently give up the stage for the concert
platform.” (3) “ Curious, isn’t it, that both
Tittell Brune and Ola Humphrey should be
billed in London as ‘Australian actresses’?”
(4) “Marie Narelle has been engaged as one of
the entertainers of the Duke of Norfolk and a
party sixty strong who are coming to sundry
revels at Lake Champlain. Later she begins a forty
weeks’ tour, and will work through to the Pacific
coast. Up to the time she left N’York she was
busy making records for the Edison Company.
She will found a permanent home for herself in
this Republic, where her children will presently
join her.” (5) “ The Freddie Shipmans are pros-
pering under the knowledge that the Melba tour
is pretty well paid for in advance. Nordica has
also signed a contract to sing under F. S.’s
management, and Scotti is on his list. ’ (G) Dina
Cooper, of ‘Fatal Wedding’ fame, is quite
slender, but still handsome, and has a dancing act
in preparation.”
To America, also, at the beginning of this
month and a singing engagement, will depart
the ripening Peach girl of “The Arcadians.
Ada Crossley’s monster At Home at her house
in St. John’s Wood has been extensively para-
graphed. Every account begins : “ Owing to the
inclemency of the weather,” or “On account of
the wet weather,” or “The unpropitious weather.
There was nothing wrong with the festivity but
the weather, and it weathered that by resolving
itself from a garden party into an indoor recep-
tion. Most of Anglo-Australia and artistic Lon-
don were present, and the stately contralto in
exile looked well in a cream cloth gown with a big
black hat carrying ostrich feathering.
“Carrie Moore is getting £lOO a week at the
Halls,” writes an Australian in London. She
has a beautiful home at Surbiton, also a new
baby, and looks a happy and contented Mrs. .Big-
wood. Her sister Olive is coming here to play in
‘Our Miss Gibbs.’”
A clever bit of civil—so very civil—engineering
was done at Miss Lily Delaney s meeting at the
Australia on Monday. Each lady present was
handed an envelope addressed to the secretary.
An enclosed card urged the receiver to fill in
details re the number of tickets she would take.
Presumably it was taken for granted that she
would also enclose a cheque.
(Continued on page 30.)


HARDY
BROTHERS
LIMITED
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
ftY APPOINTMENT
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
WEDDING PRESENTS,
m
1
SIX SILVER-MOUNTED ENGLISH “STAFFORDSHIRE” CHINA CUPS AND SAUCERS
AND SIX SOLID SILVER SPOONS, IN CASE,
£9 10s.
LARGE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE.
Visitors to the City are invited to inspect the Showrooms.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
500,000 Copies already sold of the Popular
Bookstall Series of Australian Novels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia ,
THE DOUBLE ABDUCTION,
by H. K. BLOXHAM
(Author of “ On the Fringe of the Never-Never”).
With Four Full-Page Illustrations by Ben Jordan.
Illustrated Paper Cover. Price 1/- ; postage 3d.
THE
AB
Mr. Bloxham has
again succeeded in
weaving a web of
romance around the
belles of Wilcannia
which is likely to
prove as great a
favorite as his former
effort.
The plot is too
intricate and the in-
cidents too numer-
ous to mention in a
short paragraph, but
readers may be sure
of plenty of excite-
ment, told in this
author’s thrilling
style. The very
daring: of the abduction of the two girls, although
committed by two seemingly simple young men, is
worthy of the best bushranging traditions of Aus-
tralia.
LOVE AND THE AEROPLANE,
A Tale of To-Morrow. By JOHN SANDES.
With Six Full-Page Illustrations by Lionel Lindsay
Illustrated Paper Cover. Price 1/- ; postage 3d.
For many years
I the name of John
Sandes has been one
to conjure with so
far as smart articles,
humorous sketches
andliterarvcriticism
in the leading: Aus-
tralian newspapers
were concerned, and
now this talented
author has turned
his ability into the
“Novel” channel
with marked success.
The story is de-
lightful in its manv-
sided interests—
love, jealousy, hate
and their consequent
JOVE
AND THE
AEROPLANE
W A TALI OI
"‘r
§
y JOh.y S/NQf
tragedies—as influenced by the cominrr of the airship,
together with the quaint characters and quainter
philosophy to he met with in the hush environments
so ably featured in this story. The human interest is
all-absorbinsr and is splendidly handled. This tale
of to-morrow will be enjoyed wherever read.
Books by that Prince of Australian Writers,
STEELE RUDD.
“ BOOKSTALL SERIES.”
THE POOR PARSON.
SANDY’S SELECTION.
FROM SELECTION TO CITY.
DAD IN POLITICS.
OUR NEW SELECTION.
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM.
A LAUGH IN EVERY PAGE.
Price 1/- each ; Post Free 1/3.
DUNCAN McCLURE.
BACK AT OUR SELECTION.
FOR LIFE.
ON OUR SELECTION.
STOCKING OUR SELECTION.
BUSH RANGING BOOKS.
John Vane, Bushranger, by Charles White.
Short-Lived Bushrangers, by Charles White.
Three Years with Thunderbolt, by Ambrose Pratt,
Übiqrue,The Scientific Bushranger, by Clarence Martin
LISTS SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL COMPANY, 476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches and
Booksellers.
&
o
•<7
MADAM ELVEY, the
great singer, writes:
“The Hair Food is
really wonderful.”
Comely
Woman,
by
John Strange Winter.
A new edition of John Strange
Winter’s popular book, entitled
“ Comely Woman.” beautifully
illustrated and printed on art
paper, containing the latest por-
trait of the world-famous author-
ess of ‘‘Booties’ Baby,” will be
mailed free to your address on
request.
In addition to the interesting
story of how, after becoming
nearly bald as a result of a serious
illness, John Strange Winter
recovered her hair, it contains
valuable hints on the care of the
skin and a chapter on beauty
culture.
John vStrange Winter’s Hair Food
A FAMOUS NOVELIST’S GREAT DISCOVERY.
At this season of the year thousands of people find their hair becoming thinner and
thinner. Why is this? D;iv after day its owner has been too engrossed in the manifold cares
and pleasures of life to realise that it has been steadily deprived of its fair share of nervous
force, on which its vitality depends. No adequate effort has been made to compensate for the
continued drain upon the nerves caused by absorption in work and worry. The hair cannot
speak for itself ;it just gets tired out and gradually gives up the struggle to live. The ten-
dency of most people is to give it just enough attention to satisfy the claimsof appearance and
comfort, but to give little or no thought to its feeding and strengthening, that it may be able
to fight for its life. So it quietly steals away even when assiduously groomed. For the
majority of men and women the surest means of retaining hair to the end of life is the system-
atic use of a really good hair lotion, such as JOHN STRANGE WINTER’S HAIR-FOOD.
This is the famous formula discovered by the well-known author of “Booties’ Baby.” It
grew her a magnificent thatch of hair in circumstances when permanent baldness looked
almost certain.
Mr. Henry Labouchere, for over twenty years one of the most conspicuous figures in the
British Parliament, writes : “ The hair food is invented and sold by a lady well known in the
literary world as ‘John Strange Winter.’ Having the honor of her acquaintance myself, I
can say that anyone less likely to have anything to do with a sham does not move on the
face of the earth, and I confidently call all her acquaintances to witness the truth of that
statement. The article had been in use for years, with good results, before it was ever offered
to the public. The vendor is a lady of irreproachable character. She believes in what she
sells, and she has the strongest reasons for doing so.” ‘
Price 2/6 per Bottle; Post Free, 3/-
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
JoHn Strange Winter Coy.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
And at London, Paris, Vienna, Berlin.


Delicious
Drink.
O.T. I< a comforting drink, which warms, In.
vigoratet,'eod mtket you proof against the cold
atmospheres ol Wioter. It is a grand remedy
for Colds, Colic, aad Indigestion.
Take home a bottle to-day I
ħ
“ The True
Function
of
Corsetry ! *
The idea prevalent amongst many women
that the wearing of the Corset is merely a
matter of custom Is responsible for the great
number of those who are disappointed in
their experience. They buy any make so
long as the waist measurement is right-
trusting to chance for fit, style and setting.
In the famous French
Royal
D
<§>
Rustless Corsets
(however careless you may otherwise be
in your selection) you will find the true
shape and style of corset you want—at
the price you can pay—whatever size waist
you may have. Royal “ P.D.” Corsets are
distinctive in every feature for dress satis-
faction and personal comfort.
“ ASK YOUR DRAPER ! ”
TRADE
ml
P.D
9S*S
P D
MARK
CM?QH !
SQ.VIHRE TPEfID
. ,
jilllllilnsssassKgi^l
111 iiifliiii"
■sill I lliili-L
1
181
• -.- *.•<>*> •iCT.r/' <V- *
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, August 15, 1910.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The Vic. Artists’ Society has definitely arranged
its long-contemplated escape from the Gallery at
Eastern Hill —a very good “pitch” for Marshall
Hall’s conservatorinm but a rather out-of-the-
way place for picture exhibitions. The Society,
has got a lease of the Athenaeum Hall for two
months annually for the next four years, and the
owners of the Collins-street building are now fix-
ing in a top light and repainting the walls. Right
up to May, 1911, the rejuvenated hall is engaged;
so the V.A.S. move seems to have shaken things
up. On the strength of this new departure the
society has invited Australian artists beyond the
seas to send out a collection of their best work at
the inviter’s expense ; and these imported pictures
will be hung at the society’s exhibition in Octo-
ber. Just now the world of Art is fluttered in
anticipation of the bal masqu6, which will have its
giddy hours at the old Albert-street galleries on
Friday, the 26th. The card of admission to the
ball indicates 8.30 p.m. as the hour when the
game of dominoes is to begin, and mentions that
masks will be compulsory until 10.15. Seeing
that “no tickets will be sold or money taken at
the door,” intending frivollers are advised to buy
their pasteboards from the secretary or treasurer
without further deliberation.
The new Athenaeum picture room had its chris-
tening on Friday with Withers’s show of pictures.
The top-side- light is a great affair—it bays out
from a white ceiling and lets the radiance of
Heaven filter upon the good and the ungood
alike. It is wonderful that the Solid members
have moved so perceptibly as to re-model the
room, and the change is greatly to the credit of
Athenaeum Secretary Wilmot, who has fought his
way through heavy-barriers of Fat to get the im-
provement made. Lothian follows Withers with
black-and-white. Bernard Hall rounds up his
first show in Melbourne after Lothian. McCub-
bin comes in somewhere soon.
Withers very rarely gives a show, and when he
does it is worth while. He is a man who needs to
appear on his own to get his effect. The quiet
strength of his workgetsovershadowed in a general
exhibition. In this collection there are 100
paintings and they are good.
One canvas seems the masterpiece. It is full
of living color, and resolves itself into a cottage,
dim against the dark red-green of autumn gums.
There are some ragged fruit trees and a pool of
turquoise water in the foreground. Streeton, a
worshipper of color, used to sit for hours before
that canvas. Another has a country road turning
and turning with snowy white orchards in its
curves, and the clouds are worthy of a Turner.
And there is a lonely picture of a plain, with a
flare of autumn —a most baleful glare, breathing
tragedy.
Withers has Australian country in every mood.
His gum trees are spirits—living, breathing
things. Then he knows the Yarra, in the parts
where it has no knowledge of its city reputation ;
where there are wide, cool curves fringed to the
water with thick, soft native shrubs, and blazing
with gum-blossom and wattle. But Withers paints
the Yarra at its business end also—ships and ships
and ships, with a city blurred into the twilight
dusk of a background.
He has a few water colors and some strong
crayon work. There are four pastels, and thfty
are gems. In one is the divine greyness of our
river at dusk —with grey-green banks. Thereis also
a hurrah of wattle, and a sketch of a vi vid blue
sky through a vista of trees. And the finest has
a red blur of cattle mustered in a cloud of dust by
a man on a black horse. Pastels are tricky things
to have framed. A touch can spoil them. At
Withers’s last show the framers wiped a moon clean
out of a sketch and ruined it.
There is also a huge canvas, a wood-splitter
stopping in his tracks for billy-oh, and the tracks
are full of the vivid burnt sienna of splitters’
chips.
Governor Carmichael has been interested in
the show. He put in an appearance on one of
the opening days, in spite of an attack of rheu-
matic gout. But Carmichael has spent longer
times in the Withers’s studio itself—pottering
around'quietly.
Withers is lucky in one respect. He has none
of the nerve-racking worry of “ hanging.” Mrs.
Withers takes that out of his hands, as she
would out of those of a helpless child. She
does the arranging—and struggles with the awful
dilatoriness of picture-framers and men with car-
pentering fixtures. Mrs. Withers, with a couple
of enthusiastic galleryites, attacked that show like
an army, and vanquished it. Friday afternoon
was a big party day—a special view with Fashion
and tea and talk in the ascendency, but picture-
lovers have been prowling ever since.
Ambrose Patterson, our much-travelled brush-
man, has postponed, for six months or more, the
picture-show he was talking about when he re-
turned to Melbourne. In the meantmie he will
do some portrait painting, and put his views
of Australian bush and townscapeon canvas. The
studies he brought with him from Brittany, Spain,
Paris, Brussels and elsewhere “ abrawd ” are an
interesting collection ; but he reckons that the
show he has in view will need an infusion of
local color subjects. Recently he hit off a tennis
tournament at the picturesque Geelong court—a
lively impression of human movement, with bright
groupings and gay garden background. Mr. Pat-
terson’s decorative style, which found inspiration
in pictures of religious processions and busy
street scenes in quaint, old-world places,
should lend itself as readily to Australian
subjects, especially country horse carnivals. As a
portrait painter the wandering Ambrose com-
mands attention by his full-length portrait of his
father, George Patterson. This appeals at once
to old acquaintances of the original. There stands
citizen George—white-vested, spatted, with one
hand leaning on a ’brella, and the other fingering a
cigar, his tall hat rakishly tilted. It is a speaking
likeness and a picture. At his workroom in St.
James’s Buildings, overlooking the old pro-
Cathedral, the artist keeps a book of press notices,
in divers languages—paragraphs of glowing praise
or hard criticism tempered by notes of concession,
likewise a few photos of pictures he has sold. At
Brussels, where the impressionist manner is in
high favor, Ambrose Patterson scored his best
success. Out of 101 exhibits he sold 40 before the
show closed.
The gaud Mayor and Mrs. Burston had an
extra room to open in the Town Hall, so- they
gave a house warmbig. It is a new and gorgeous
council chamber t\ is fixed for municipal busi-
ness. The Town Hall has not had such a social
airing for a long time. Some 2000 people accepted
the situation. The whole of the hall proper
was carpeted as a salon, with Persian rugs
scattered over scarlet felt. The balconies made
more room for the roamers, and fern dells and
such bosky nooks sprang out of the desert of floor-
space, while wattle gloried round the balcony.
People sang from the platform, which was like an
island in the tropics. Every committee-room up-
stairs was open. Food was scattered there—the
brilliant sandwich and the reliable yet enthusias-
tic muffin.' The awnings were on the square por-
tico terrace, and people had room to spread, and
orchestras got going in the upper corridors. A
tantalising glimpse came to the Many from
a half-open door labelled “ Lord Mayor’s
Room” —a glimpse of most favored Fat
smacking its lips over something extra
special. The among-those-present made prac-
tically Everybody. Melbourne society scar-
cely runs to more than 2000, and society just
swamped the place. The frocking was a farcical
mixture. People have only their fur toggery just
now, and the wind blew warm from the north.
A half-hearted attempt at something spVing-like
fought with the sweltering weight of winter gar-
ments. Mrs.. Hostess Burston, in black, hung
just the last shriek in scarves over her shoulders.
The new scarf concentrates itself in its middle,
its softness scrunched up into a tight isthmus.
Lady Carmichael, all in black, stayed for about
an hour. The Governor and one of the gentle-
men helps came along, also. Mrs. Military-
Comm-odant Kirkpatrick wore the latest hat,
which. ds its trimming up wildly at tlife back,
like a calf kicking its heels in the air. Mrs.
Willoughby has re-appeared —a most grace-
fully handsome woman she is. The Forrest lady,
with purple about her bonnet, kept in the huge
and obliterating shadow of husband John. Mrs.
Deakin rose out of the crowd by reason of her
tallness. Black was the most usual gowning—
black that is surviving the Court mourning.
Black does last. That Court mourning will run
more than its six months’ tether. Fortunately,
royal blue is effective thrown on to black. Coro-
nation effects are now beginning, and the shout
of the blue will overcome the purple.
The salvation of the Jennings Carmichael
family is seemingly an accomplished fact. With
the money which has been raised in Melbourne —
some £23o—the youngsters will be properly out-
fitted before leaving England, and wifi be landed
here with visible means of support. The Federal
Government brings them out, and the btate
Government—per Mr. Watt—has promised to
take a practical interest in them on their arrival.
Reports agree in describing them as worthy off-
spring of their gifted and charming mother ; and
already there have been offers, two or three deep,
to adopt the vounger bairns. The eldest boy is to
be taken into" the office of solicitor Frank Russell
(Russell and Russell), who has exerted himself to
rescue the children of the luckless Australian
poetess f com the gloomy English fate that threat-
ened them.
Robert Murchison, that gay and wealthy
veteran who is Father of the Melbourne Club
and has several other impressive titles in Vic-
torian doings, has now attained another Import-
ance. He was elected last week to the com-
mittee of Melbourne Hospital, which is an even
more respectable establishment than the Mel-
bourne Club.A
A solicitor, of grey hairs and a gay dog air, is
left a mourning widower. What will the joyous
old man do now ? Go into a nunnery ?
Sam McCaughey is mooching round on the
highway again. * Grand opera and a new prima
donna draw him as honey lures the bee. He’s an
uncaught widower, and a most personable one at
that. The girls want to go out digging fresh
bait.
The manager of the restaurant which has the
smartest clientele is giving a supper this week to
his most valuable male clients—a whole lot of
them. Festivities, it is understood, will be pro-
longed far into the night, and the guests will be
expected to arrive home with the milk. In the
way of business, a managerial bachelor supper-
party is presumably a paying investment.
The purple goes down and the royal blue goes
up. Coronation time is beginning to swamp
lugubrious mourning, and the blue commences to
shout already. I saw on the head of.a Blockite a
hat that was a sheer half-acre of Old Man Plain
of royal blue plush. (Flatness is smartness in
hats.) A rival stroller showed several, inches of
bright blue spats to her hoots, and a blue-fringed
parasol shouted like a joyful parrot screaming in
the wilderness. Melbourne will soon be blue like
the Indian Ocean, which authorities say is as blue
as the distant hills that are wrongly alleged to
look green.
Cloak-rooms are unhealthy places in which to
leave one’s 60-guinea fur scarf, and fur motor boots
have a curious habit of walking away from such
places. A woman is gbttihg a : new scarf, or its
equivalent, from the unhappy management of the
Glassy Harem. She had pitid her penny fee for the
guardianship of the precious thing. So the man-
agement is liable. Some, cunning she-personage
has roped in an extra bit of pussy-fur. Wealthy
women will steal clothes. It is a curious fact that
women who shop to the tune of thousands will
“ nick” the hairpins and powder puff from a cloak-
room table if they can claw nothing else.
Faith in the softness and courtesy of women is
fading even as the withering wattle tree. At a
packed Amy Castles opera house there happened
a party of six. Booking had been difficult, and
the effort to get the six all together, had failed.
One man was islanded, with three strangers
between him and his jolly dress-circle party. The
men in the intermediary moved up one most
obligingly, but a she-lady sat as solidly as a brick
in a hat, and in a shrill, acid whisper told her
husband she “ would not move.” Thereiipon the
sheepish he-gentlemen returned to their former
places, and the man of the party jogged back
again to his isolated corner, which was made all
the colder by the frigidity of the female sitting
stiffly in her seat, with people gazing from round-
about and wondering what the procession had
been all about.
The case may have been, the exception, but
scuffling home in a packed Tait train was a
woman with two small children a child spread
carefully on the seat either side of her. People
standing like sardines suggested that one nipper
might sit on her knee. The lady haughtily re-
fused, and the poor little prigs of babies sat with
round eyes backing up their polite mother.
Talking of priggish children—what chance have
some nippers of escaping the awful prig-taint.
For instance, at Saint Something-or-Other s Goi-
lege for Young Ladies in a notable suburb there
is a charming school inarm who gives “lines to
any of her “ young ladies ” who chance to be dis-
covered speaking to the abhorred State-school
children, whose academy is in the same block.
Probably the lines are from “ Pope’s Essay on
Mani” Lines always were in my day.
A man, reading some talk of Amy Castles,
learned that one of the papers had a picture of
her “stepping out of her Limousine."’ He was
almost scared to ask his wife what was a
Limousine, in case the question were indelicate.
Anyhow, he thought it too much that, even for
advertisement purposes, a modest girl should step
out of any mysterious garment in the public
street. An American enlightened him on the
matter, and then he began to feel better. No one
ever mentions a Limousine here; but it is an
ordinary phrase among the American upper-
crusted. It is merely a species of motor. Mil-
lionaire America never owns a motor —always a
string of them. There is the touring car of vast
proportions and varied design used by the family
in general. Mr. Millionaire also has his run
about” for the city, and Mrs, Millionaire has her
Limousine—a dainty miniature electric “broom
—in which she scuffles around paying calls, etcet.
Anyone who knew the animal would drop to the
fact, when he read that phrase, that Miss Castles
owns, not a motor, but several of the expensive
toy.
Amy Castles is perching in an East Melbourne
house, which she has taken so as to gather the
mother and what is left of the sisters about her
while she is in Melbourne. Sisters Dolly and
Eileen are in London. Dolly has an engagement
for pantomime lead at Drury Lane this Christ-
mas, and Eileen is singing like a thrush. Wil-
liamson has booked her for Australia in the near
by-and-bye. Somebody alleged that Amy had a
bronchial cold, but the pleasant little person
takes everything that comes to her with a smile.
Report speaks of the awful experiences of the
manager of a much-boomed concert lady,
whilst piloting the beautiful and erratic
female about the country. Touring in this land
of big spaces is not all pie and velvet, and the
protesting lady has given a good imitation of
Patrick’s pig on a string. Performing pigs are
proverbially self-centred and full of charming but
disconcerting departures from the well-flogged
track.
Tenor Hal Cohen, who threw away the name
of the Chosen and masquerades under the noble
Dago cognomen of Colonna, is making his voice
heard in the tents of the mighty. The fat, smooth
young man has been pampered in noble drawing-
rooms. He has sung at Lord Brassey’s, without
that unstable gentleman falling off his chair or
going off his oats. It is another triumph for the
air of northern Victoria. Cohen is a Bendi-
gonian. In London he is batching with Ernest
Mitchell (Melba’s brother). Melba is very eulo-
gistic about the methods of Lederer, the voice-
chiropodist who extracted the defects from
Cohen’s top note. Donalda (a Canadian who has
warbled successfully at Covent Garden) is another
pupil; so is Marie George, of Drury Lane panto-
mime fame.
From “ Rosna,” in Adelaide :
Once more we are in an ungoverned, and consequently
more or less disorganised and forlorn state. The Com-
monwealth has borrowed our Admiral, and there are
fears in anti-Labor circles that Fisher may confiscate
him. , „ ,
The Hunt Club hied to Strathalbyn the other Satur-
day, and bounced over that mountainous landscape until
it caught a breathless aniseed bag. The Lancelot Stirl-
ings, on behalf of Strathalbyn, which likes being jumped
upon, entertained the aniseed-ehaseis at a feast. Miss
Stirling and a Reynell maid were among the hunt-
followers.
The undergraduates, past and present, of the Univer-
sity, massed in the Elder Hall on Friday eve and had a
party. There was a hilarious performance of “Cin-
derella up to Date,” in which a red gnome had some
mysterious dealings and communications with a Cin-
derella at a gas-stove and a prince in motor goggles ;
but nobody knew exactly what these dealings were.
Also, there were dances, supper, and the combined sing-
ing of student songs, regardless of tune ; tacked on to
which was some quite staid and respectable music.
The past and present students of the Conservatoire
will commit a dance on September 12.
On September 9 the Chinners, who look after the City
of Unley’s municipal affairs, are giving a revel to their
citizen-.
Large and influential deputations have permanently
taken up their residence on the Queen Adelaide Club
doormat, in the hope of persuading Mrs. Box and Mrs.
Anderson to make the Pageant walk again. Every best-
charitv-on-earth dreams Pageant by night and talks it by
day, and sees new wings sprouting all round it as a result
of Pageant. But Mrs. Box and Mrs. Anderson, from the
edge of the precipice of nervous prostration, say “not
on your life.” or the drawing-room substitute for that
expression.
Mr. Bevan, of the Conservatoire, has decided to repeat
his Arthur Sullivan lectures shortly. Mr. Bevan was a
friend of the late musical jester, and he intersperses his
remarks witlv plenteous extracts from Gilbert and Sulli-
van opera and other religious works, rendered by his \ ery
best nightingales. ,No less than 40 of these choice birds
"are to accompany his next lecture series.
The same feathered tribe performed the same Sulli-
van’s “Golden Legend” in the Elder Hall on Monday
night, with the same Mr. Bevan as baton-flourisher. The
performers turned on some heavenly warbles, and the
orchestra’s fell attempt to drown the same was un-
successful. Mary Roach and Muriel Cheek, Messrs.
Cooper, Wood and Halls lifted their high Z as
beauteouslv as usual, and a new and unsuspected
effect was contributed by Miss Forsaith, a maiden with a
lovelv contralto voice of good volume and even quality.
This normally-peaceful city brisked up the other week
and started to do things sensational. A train knocked
down a man and murdered him; and another citizen,
driving peacefully home, was thrown from his buggy and
killed. A third gentleman shot himself on Henley Beach
jetty, and a fourth, having successfully experimented on
his wife with a razor, tried the same on himself, with less
satisfying results. Meanwhile, several hundred tin-
workers went on strike, and the Sal. Army opened a
home for perfect gentlemen who have been leading a me
of retirement at the expense of the State. Despite our
culture, we are rapid enough when we put our minds
is basely plotting to plunder us of a nice
girl Florence, the eldest sweet and musical daughter ot
the medico Jiirs. Late in October, Mr. Monty White
will come out of the North and entice her away.
A performance of Arthur Adams’s three-act Pjay, Xhe
Wasters,” will cram the Unley City Hall on September
27 The hall holds 1200, and 1189* seats are already
booked. Ergo, we are a patriotic people. io oe
in keeping with the fitness of things, the show should
have been delayed till Manufacturers Day, a fortn ght
later, when we buy, sell, see, hear and feel only things
made in our own country. Herewith a modest sugges-
tion to the manufactures, that an Australian-made play
be produced every year on their special day—proceed. t
go to the poor playwright, of course. President Cleland
(of the said Chamber) may have a budding playwright m
his own nest of Australian maids. One of them, since
the advanced age of 11, has run a MS. P !, P e u r > tl ?it “V
HC Magazine for Kids, in which is thoughtfully pro-
vided a page for adults. This is meant as a gentle com-
pliment to those mere grown papers that sport a chil-
dren’s column. Aunt Amy’s Angels and Uncle Willie s
Wayfarers, however, are poor infants compared with the
aged contributors to the Ha ! Ha! A recent master-
piece was graphically called, Why Did ® he . R “ n k, h
Nipped in the Bud. A Story of Love and Death. The
Ha! Ha! is sternly Australian, so grown-ups -might
take a hint or two from it with advantage. _ .
The recent outburst of grand opera by YjP l „,, ®
and Lilian Davis’s other pupils at the Walkerville Hall was
surprisingly well done. Scenes from “ Traviata, . The
Flying Dutchman,” “ Der Freischutz Hamlet and
“ Mirella” were given, each with good frocky and scenic
effects, such simple matters as cherry orchards and
Dutch interiors being represented to the last detail.
Miss Paine has a-fine voice, and her acting would put a
o-ood many professionals into the bosky and umbrageous
shade. Her performance of Ophelia was a triumph, and she
looked a dream, but a clamoring audience persisted in
making her get up out of her dead faint, though her own
artistic instincts kept her firmly on the floor for no less
than four curtains. Lucy Doswell, Muriel Parsons and
sundry other nice girls managed small parts well, and
altogether the affair merited the crammed house, every
corner of which had been reserved at 3s. a head.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


<?</
PATHE FRERES (Australia)
9os
D i 9
73 York Street,
SYDNEY.
Films, Moving Pictures,
Rathe Freres’ New
Projector Mechanism
This Machine is the Model now being used
all over the Continent. It has found great
favor everywhere, and for durability cannot
be beaten. This Machine meets every possible
requirement, and can be adapted with large or
small lamphouses and arcs to suit either
permanent or travelling Shows.
CALL AND INSPECT THIS
NEW MECHANISM.
Manufactured only by Pathe Freres, the Inventors
and Patentees.
PATHE FRERES make and stock EVERY
POSSIBLE ACCESSORY required for
Cinematograph Exhibitions.
9u.
Indeed there are no
bigger Makers of
Cinematographs and
Accessories in the
World,
i ; .
STUDIOS and
FACTORIES
in all European
Countries, and others
in course of erection
in AMERICA.
I
J T
50 Queen Street,
fIELBOURNE.
Cinematographs, Pathephones
FILMS FOR HIRE
OR SALE.
Over 500,000 feet of assorted and picked subjects to choose Irom.
Nowhere will you find the variety so novel and extensive.
NEW SUBJECTS ARRIVING EVERY WEEK.
LOOK FOR THE
PATHE TRADE MARK
(The Crowing Cock)
on all PATHE FILMS, MOVING PICTURES, CINE-
MATOGRAPHS and ACCESSORIES. Goods offered as
Pathe Freres' without this brand are spurious imitations.
AN IMPORTANT ADVAN-
TAGE.— Please note that in dealing
with Pfthe Freres, they do not
stipulat -A FULL PATHE PRO-
GRAMME —on the contrary they
encourage a MIXED PRO-
GRAMME. In other words, the
entire choice of the London Market,
which embraces Films by all the best
Manufacturers in the "World, is at
your disposal. This is an advantage
which no other Firm in Australasia
can offer.
h
ĥ
ħ
THE PATHEPHONE is the
Cheapest of any Disc Machines
of value on the market—
Cheapest because it is
BEST.
The Supreme Achievement in Disc Machines.
The Machine with the Human Voice.
PATHE FRERES ARE THE INVENTORS
OF THE PATHEPHONE, and the High Standard of Excellence they have achieved in this
instrument is only equalled by their pronounced success in CINEMATOGRAPHY.
.
rm v •*
HEN you hear the Pathephone you hear
VV the VOICE ITSELF—absolutely true, with
no loss in tone quality or tempo* The most
delicate vocal inflection is faithfully reproduced,
and the singer's individuality is immediately
recognised by the listener.
THE PATHEPHONE is more than a
machine —it is a musical instrument, unanimously
acclaimed in England and on the Continent by
all sound scientists and lovers of musical art.
Ada Crossley,
Ben Davies,
Harry Lauder,
Kirkby Lunn,
Constantio,
H.M. Scots Guards’ Band,
and many other world=famed artists sing and
play for the PATHEPHONE.
h
T"HE PATHEPHONE requites no needles
' like other Disc Machines. A ball-pointed
Sapphire is used instead, which neither wears out
itself nor injures the Records. Users of the Pathe-
phone appreciate this great advantage. There is no
scratch or scrape, and greater clearness and charm
are gained in the reproduction of the voice.
THE PATHE SOUNDBOX fits any Disc
Machine, enabling owners to play Pathe Records
even if they are not fortunate enough to possess
a Pathe Machine.
THE PATHE RECORDS are all Double-sided
—one selection on the front and another on the
back, thus giving two selections where only one is
given elsewhere. Particular artists like Ada
Crossley, Ben Davies and others declare the Pathe
Records to be faultless.
If you want to hear Good Music as you have never
heard it before, make it your business to hear the
PATHEPHONE. Its supremacy is acknowledged
by the Leading Artists of the Musical World.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE PATHEPHONE IN AUSTRALASIA-
W. Cornell 8 Son, 95 Grenfell St., Adelaide
(For
S. Australia)
Findlays’ Pty. Ltd., Launceston
(For
Tasmania)_
A. Macrow S Sons, 274 Little Collins St., Melbourne
(For
Victoria)
King 8 King, 77-81 Queen St., Brisbane
(For
Queensland)
Max Wurcker, 99 8 1.01 York Street, Sydney
n n
(For
N.S. Wales)
The Optical 8 Photo. Supplies Co., Perth
(For W.
Australia)


BEAUTY’S BANE.
Immense Success op New Recipe for Cure of
Obesity.
Ladies who suffer from :i seemingly constitu-
tional tendency to store up fat in excess often
adopt repressive measures little short of the heroic ;
they fast to the point of exhaustion and perform
prodigies of physical self-torture. Obesity is not
to be conquered by such means, from which
nothing but discomfort, weakness and, very
often, much graver evils can be expected, not to
speak of loss of beauty, energy and good spirits.
Our stout readers are earnestly recommended to
try the following valuable prescription. They can
get the ingredients and make it up themselves, or
ask the chemist to do so. It is simplicity itself:—
One ounce of fluid Extract of Glycyrrhiza 8.P.,
one ounce of pure Glycerine 8.P., one half-ounce
of Marmola and Peppermint Water to make six
ounces in all. Take a dose of two teaspoonfuls
after each meal. This simple and harmless
remedy will soon take away all the disfiguring and
distressing fat deposits and restore you to your
normal weight. You may eat what you fancy,
and take plenty of rest.*
♦
In another column appears the abridged pro-
spectus of.the Great I’oseidon Alluvial Gold Mining-Co.,
Ltd. Tire company, having completed exhaustive boring
tests on their huge 960-acre lease at Tarnagulla , have
now increased their capital to 60,000 shares of fis. each, of
which 20,000 shares are being now offered to the public.
Dr. John Tremearne, of Collins Street, Melbourne, is
Chairman of Directors. The lease occupies such a position
that it catches the Poseidon, the Nick o’Time, and at
least six other famous leads of a famous field.*
ADVICE TO YOUNG MOTHERS.
Most mothers realise the great danger from
croup, but many do not know that an attack may
be prevented by proper treatment as soon as the
first symptoms appear. The first indication of
croup is hoarseness followed by a rough cough.
Give Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy according to
the printed directions at once, or even after the
croupy cough appears, and it will prevent the
attack. It is, in fact a certain cure for croup.*
Bacilli came in threes and fours
To a meeting in a chest,
In a human frame—it may be yours—
And there crocked many a jest.
With influenza in the chair,
They thought they were secure ;
They were—had not entered there
Some Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
IF yon will put Cherry Blos-
som Boot Polish to a fair
test., there’s not the slight-
est doubt but that it will please
you.
It preserves the leather and
resists the damp, while a few
slight rubs with a soft cloth or
pad will produce a beautiful
shine—a polish that will add a
fine finish to your appearance.
Most dealers sell Black and
Tan tins at 3d. and 6d. each—outfits, too. Write us if you
cannot get supplies. Managing Agents for Australia :
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
sum
BETTER HEALTH
AFTER MORE BLOOD.
«
This Woman's Health Broken
Down in Anaemia. Restored
by Increasing blood
Supply.
■ A
The whole health of the body depends on the
condition of the blood'. If the blood is deficient,
the way is opened for a host of ills, including
pale and sallow complexion, languor, indigestion,
headache, heart palpitation and backache.
To increase the blood supply and to banish all
anaemic symptoms, Dr. Williams’Pink Pills for
Pale People can be recommended with confidence.
Their great mission is to increase the blood
supply. It is an absolute scientific fact that they
combine with food and air to make new rich blood.
They have cured hundreds of people of Anaemia.
While so promptly effective these pills contain no
harmful stimulants or opiates. They are carefully
compounded in the most scientific manner with
the finest ingredients for the blood known to
medical science. Thirteen years’ record in Aus-
tralia shows how good they are.
Mrs. M. M. Mensforth, of Beryl Lane, Broken
Hill, knows how good they are, as they cured her
when she was apparently wasting" away in
Anaemia. Speaking of her case she said :
“I was always a strong healthy girl up to the age
of 16 years, atabout which time I gradually became
anaemic. My face became very pale and ray body
wasted away. My gums became very pale, also
the inner surface of my lips and eyelids. I com-
pletely lost my appetite. Sometimes when I
would eat a little I would vomit it all up again,
My hands and feet used to get very cold. I also
suffered from shortness of breath, so much so, I
could not walk any distance for want of breath. I
was subject to a ringing in my ears like the buz-
zing of a bee. I used to suffer much from head-
ache across the temples principally in the daytime.
I had neuralgia in my face. I was very despon-
dent and easily put out of temper. I became out-
patient at the Adelaide Hospital for about 18
months, but derived no benefit. One day I was
going out on a message for mother ; I was living
in Mill Street, and on reaching Victoria Square I
fainted from weakness. A Mrs. Wheatley was
one of those who was present when I came to, and
accompanied me home. Mrs. Wheatley advised
my mother to try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills.
Mother bought some from Mr. Faulding, the
chemist, in Bundle Street, and after using them
about three weeks my friends noticed the improve-
ment in my appearance. I continued their use,
and had no more fainting fits, and in about two
months’ time I felt completely cured.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are sold by chemists
and storekeepers, or sent by mail, post paid, on
receipt of price, 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d.,
by the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia
Ltd., Sydney.*
TRUE RELIEF
is available for all who are
ruptured by wearing-
RENTERS’ SPECIAL ELASTIC TRUSS
DENVER
It {fives all
the neces-
s a r y sup-
port, never
i r r i tat es,
causes no
incon v e n i-
ence, and is
perfectly comfortable. We are
experts at fitting-you properly.
Single, 17/6. Double, 22/6.
No Sprinos to Irritate.
DENYER BROS.,
TruBS Belt
2S1 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY,
POLITICAL
POINTS
IN 1935.
The secretary of the N.S. W. Royal Commission
on Railway Decentralisation prepares for a Board
meeting .
Joe Cook, clamoring for information (to
Attorney-General Hughes): “That’s the point I
want to bring out.” Hughes (suddenly becoming
aware of Cook’s existence): “Oh, is it? You
remind me of a boy trying to get worms out of a
bottle with an elephant’s leg. Anything you get
out is by chance.”
When “the Chapman sack” was intro-
duced it was going to bring countless woes to the
poor farmer. The States were urged to back up
the Commonwealth ; but the States were cantan-
kerous and, anyhow, they wanted to see the cat
jump first. The cat jumped all right in April ;
so now in Victoria Murray is taking steps to
block the carriage of the old back-breaking bags
on the railways, and in S.- Aus. Verran says he 'is
ready to chip in to the same effect. But Wade-
well, Wade can’t be relied upon to observe even a
bounding elephant let alone a jumping cat.
One shocking tiling lias been discovered
about the proposed new Commonwealth notes—
nominally, you must take them to Melbourne, or
wherever the seat of Government may be, to cash
them. -This, of course, is described as monstrous.
It is as bad, in fact, as the present arrangement
under which the bank note that circulates at, say.
Broken Hill is nominally cashable only at Sydney.
But somehow Private Hinderprise never noticed
how bad that arrangement was.
“The Religious Editor”: I was much
struck by the sage remark made by that staunch
Canadian Freetrader, Wilfred Laurier, in his
speech to the farmers of Southern Saskatchewan
—or Scratchmeback. Said Laurier
Protection was a great wrong. It made millions dis-
honest, one with another, and inculcated the vicious
principle of expecting value where there was none to
Rive.
Some years ago, in a sermon which brought tears
to the eyes of many harassed and hardworking
sinners, I said : “The Ten Commandments are a
great mistake. They make millions dishonest,
one with another, and inculcate the vicious princi-
ple of expecting virtue where there is none.”
Curious parallel, isn’t it?
The Law, in the person of Judge Moule
of Victoria, lately put a snowball on its head, and
sat down to ponder the momentous question,
“Can an estate be sequestrated if it doesn’t exist ?”
The argument arose over one Robert Law, whose
estate his creditors wanted to sequestrate ; but as
there wasn’t any estate, the chief clerk declined
to commit the desired assault on an invisible
object. Several learned counsel argued at length
pro and con.; and, finally, after much Costs had
accumulated, the Law said the chief clerk was
right, and, the momentous question being thus
decided, everybody was satisfied. Everybody,
that is, except Costs.
From the evidence of a witness in the
Richmond (Vic.) railway smash case:—
The rules had been constantly added to since witness
entered the service. [He had been a guard for II years.]
The book of rules was perhaps four times larger now than
it was then.
Just so. By the time the book attains the size of
a family Bible it achieves three results: (1)
There is at least one regulation to meet every
possible happening, bar cannibalismand Judgment
Day, and the management can always show that
the accident occurred through some ill-paid
minion’s failure to do as the great literary work
told him to do ; (2) there are so many rules that
no railway servant can remember half of them ;
(3) there are so many rules that to obey them all
would reduce the average speed to four miles an
hour.
A smash between Tait’s regulations is now
added to the roll of Victorian collisions. Con-
sider this from a report of the evidence oil the
Richmond disaster:—
Mr. Ohomley put it to witness that if regulation 75
were strictly observed, the guard or fireman would have
to step out and walk to the signal-box every time the
train pulled up at a home or starter signal.
The witness repeated what he had said before, that he
had never known the practice followed.
Mr. Ohomley: Suppose you send the fireman back to
the signal-box, you have to wait till his return. Then,
on his return, the signal may be at danger again, and,
according to the regulations, off he must go again. Have
you ever known a train run on such lines ?
The witness : No, sir.
Mr. Ohomley : You see regulation 59 savs that if the
home signal drops in your favor you must‘pull into the
station ; but regulation 75 says that your fireman must
go out, and you mustn’t go on without him. Can you
reconcile those two directions ?
Of course, the witness couldn’t reconcile the
directions, and neither can anybody else. The
two regulations telescoped one another, and
demanded a casualty van to cart away their re-
mains.
The atrocious clumsiness of the N.S.W.
Government’s bid for the goodwill of the railway
and tramway men continues to bring down mud
and bricks on its head even from friendly papers
like Sydney Tk'legbaph. The simple facts of the
case are that the railway and tramway servants
are to contribute to a superannuation fund £1 10s.
out of every £lOO of wages, and in return they
are to receive pensions and other benefits which,
according to the experience of other funds, can’t
be paid for by a contribution of less than about
£7 out of every £lOO of wages. In fact, ex-
statistician Coglilan, of N.S.W., a few years ago,
figured out the necessary contribution at £9 14s.
per £lOO. The general taxpayer is to make up
the difference, which is vaguely estimated, even
with the present staff, at £275,000 a year. When
the railways have increased four-fold the shortage
will probably be over £1,000,000 a year, but long
before then the taxpayer will have risen in fury
and wiped out the whole silly business. That,
however, is a matter for some years hence.
immediate point is that in October a very shaky
Government will want all the votes it can get.
The scandal of Melbourne’s new central
railway station is being ventilated before a local
Judge just now. The Judge sits as a Royal Com-
mission to inquire into the breaches of agreement
alleged by contractor Peter Rodger against the
Railway Commissioners. The public is not con-
cerned with the technicalities of the case, or with
the question as to whether the delay in the con-
struction of the station was partly due to Rodger,
or all due to Tait, but it is noted with particular
interest that—
(l) The original contract was entered into on Septem-
ber 23, 1905, the work to be completed 2.4 months after
date of contract.
(2) The contract was to be carried out in strict accord-
ance with drawings ; but the drawings supplied were only
in the nature of sketches. The substitution of new draw-
ings caused delay.
(3) The Railway Commissioners called for tenders long
before they were ready.
(4) The contractor did not get full possession of the
ground until two years and seven months after the con-
tract was signed.
(5) The contract for the girders (an essential part of
the framework) was not let for nearly a year after the
commencement of the work.
There are about 80 points of dispute between
Rodger and Tait, but what the public wants to
know is—could any other contractor have com-
pleted the job within two years from September,
1905, on the plans originally provided by Tait—
or within three years? If not, why was the con-
tract signed by Tait before he knew exactly what
he wanted, and was prepared to give the con-
tractor every necessary facility to a rapid per-
formance of the job.
A CATCHING COMPLAINT.
Committees of the House of Lords and the House of
Commons have joined in the Maritime League’s move-
ment to raise a defence loan of £100,000,000. — Cable.
STOUT PARTY: "Is the master in?”
FLUNKEY (sadly): “Sorry, sir; but I’m afraid,
sir, it’s no use o’ yer callin’ on ’im. He’s
out tryin' to raise the wind hisself.”
This notable paragraph appeared in Sydney
Telegraph one day last week :
It. has been decided by the Defence Department, that,
PROVIDED THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION FACILITIES ARK
FOUND TO BE adequate, the Military Staff College shall be
situated in the Yass-Oanberra territory, near the Federal
city site. . . . The Department of Home Affairs has been
asked to furnish a survey of the locality, together with
other particulars required.
That dismal ghost absolutely refuses to be laid,
even by the wildest assurances Concerning the
navigability of the Cotter for P. and O. steam-
boats.
Frantic is the only word to describe the
enthusiasm with which Melbourne Argus is sup-
porting Best in his assault on Knox’s old seat in
the House of Reps. And yet this is what the
same paper thought of Best in 1903 :
Senator Best’s fitness for the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment has to be judged not by what he did when member
for a State constituency, but by his record in the Senate.
That record probably makes very satisfactory reading for
the Socialists, but it contains nothing which gives Senator
Best the shadow of a claim on thoughtful electors.
Again :
Senator Best does not look to his Socialist friends to
send him back to Parliament. He appeals to people with
settled interests—the merchants, the traders, the farmers
of this State. He has helped already to make them blush
for their country, or for their legislators, and has not ex-
pressed a word of regret. With such a record he should
be left to the mercies of the Labor Socialists. Experi-
menters are not wanted in Parliament, particularly when
the experiments result so disastrously as have those sup-
ported by Senator Best.
ANTI-AUSTRALIAN ISM IN THE RAIL-
WAY DEPARTMENT.
At the monthly council meeting of the National Rifle
Association a letter was received front the Wallerawang
Rifle Club, complaining that members of the club who
were in the locomotive branch of the Railway Depart-
ment experienced difficulty in obtaining leave to com-
pete at the King’s shoot. One man, it was affirmed, was
told that he would either have to give up rifle shooting
or the railway.—Aretes Item.
THE BOSS: “Get back ter work. If all the men
were like you we'd have no railways in the
country .”
THE MAN: “ If they were all like you we’d have
no country at all.”
Melb. Argus urges the desirability of
disfranchising old-age pensioners :
When one comes down to the foundation principles of
the suffrage, one sees how completely out of harmony
with them is the idea of giving votes to people who,
instead of paying into the public revenue, draw upon it
for their maintenance.
So far, it has not occurred to the Argus to apply
this logic to retired Judges.
The following passage occurred between
Big John Forrest and Prime Minister Fisher, in
the Reps., recently :
Forrest : Awards that are made by the (Arbitration)
Court are not obeyed by unionists when they are against
the unionists.
Fisher: What about Broken Hill? The award there
was against the men, but they obeyed it.
Forrest : What I say is that the awards ought to be
obeyed in ail cases if we are to have industrial peace.
In fact, the particular misrepresentation having
been decisively nailed, the exploiter of it refuges
wildly in the feeblest sort of generalisation.
Which is very characteristic of J. Forrest, of the
female “Liberal” politician, of the political parson
and similar queer cattle.
Bronchitis Cured.
“ My little boy Ted was very bad with bron-
chitis, and nothing I gave him seemed to do him
any good,” writes Mrs. Eliz. Graham, 115 Union
Street, Spring Hill, Q’land. “I gave him Dr.
Sheldon’s New Discovery, and one bottle entirely
cured him.” Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
UNCOMMON KOOYONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Kooyong (Vic.) is to choose a new Rep. on the 24th
inst. According to the Aroiis (5/8/’10), “by tradition
the seat belongs to the Liberal as opposed to the Labor
party."*
We were never coarse nor common ; we were never rude
nor rough ;
We were never meant for contact with the toiler and the
tough ;
We were always most exclusive, most well mannered,
most remote
From the madding crowd of workers with their horrid
Labor vote.
We’re no common clay in Kooyong; we’re genteel, and
truly proud
Of the fact that we’re superior to the beastly Labor
crowd ;
So we’re trusting to Tradition now—and may Tradition
still
For long remain unbusted by the votes of folk named
Bill 1
We are fond of frill and grovel ; we despise the common
man
Who goes whistling to his workshop with his dinner in a
can ;
W'e are most of us descended from a quite superior caste,
And we love the very mention of Tradition and the Past
And Ancestors and Retainers ; we’re Slowgressives, front
and back,
And we live our lives some distance off the busy’, beaten
track ;
So there’d be despair in Kooyong—quite a keen, exces-
sive chill—
If Labor smote Tradition with the vote of that man Bill.
We were never coarse in Kooyong ; we were never used
to mix
With the type of man whose voice is like a load of falling
bricks.
Do you hear him? “ Blow yer rotten old Tradition !”
What a speech !
Is it possible that Kooyong is within the creature’s reach ?
Yes, that dreadful Bill is steadily advancing. Even now
He is plodding up towards .Koovong with a frown upon
his brow.
Will he win the seat of Culture ? Will he plod along until
He tramples down Tradition—stubborn, common, work-
ing Bill?
VICTORIA.
FRANKT HENTY.
A ROAR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Twenty years in Melbourne, and 20 years in Sydney.”
—The Argus, and certain Victorians.
“ Y-Y-Yass-C-C-Canberra I Ow ! Wow! Yowl”—
Wade and others.
This is the cry of the hapless Victorian,
The burdened Victorian, ’reft of a smile,
In the home of the bald M.L.C. dinosaurian :
“ Oh 1 leave us the Capital yet for a while ! ”
And this is the wail of the push of Port Jackson,
VVhere Wadelet is foaming and Woodkins doth roar:
“ Let ours be the wharves that they empty their sacks
on ;
Come, run up the city at Sydney’s back-door 1 ”
But this is the call of the people Australian—
The call that is heard where the planets revolve,
Sounding o’er seas from Siam to Saghalien,
And whacking the welkin with clamant resolve :
“ We look for a Capital we can be proud of,
The Beautiful City our union has made,
'Tis something surpassing the yammerings loud of
The arguing Argus or wearisome Wade ;
“ Down where the king of our mountains is flinging
His head in the sky to look far to the sea,
Where torrent and streamlet run shouting and singing,
In the air which is wine shall our Capital be.”
VICTORIA.
L.


RONISCH PIANOS.
fifth
--- ’l
We Have a line show of
these famous Pianos,
in both Uprights and
Grands.
Their tone Quality is
highly pleasing. The
more you hear it, the
more enamored you be-
come with it.
Their touch is light and
responsive, and their
case worK beautifully
finished.
We sell these Pianos on
Easy Terms if desired,
and Catalogues are Free
for the asKing.
W. H. PALING CO. LTD.,
338 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
And at . . .
BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
TD
The
k I
I *
UMP
Welt Sole
18/6
BEST
VALUE
TN
Australia,
Postage
Extra
9“
N? LB. 101.
Enamel Kid
Stra iG^ l osHeo
Lace Shoe,
Dull Kid Top, Straight Car
Buckley6Nunn,L t - d
MELBOURNE.
Fine
ħ
tnpißi!iiii»ggp^pnP TPUllluu,| iDll l>
-xo*^
D m
'||J
[J lts armn
SARGENTS’ is estab°
lished in popular regard
as the pleasantest resort
for LUNCHEONS and
DINNERS.
The Dining- Rooms are
spacious and tastefully-
appointed. The excel-
lent menu, apart from
beingf on quite an elab-
orate scale, represents
the most appetisingf and
wholesome dishes in
season.
•3<V9Q
/I
H
A commentary on the superior goodness of the cuisine is the
increasing number of connoisseurs who daily dine at the Cafe*
The tariff is extremely moderate* Tea Room from 6d.;
Dining Room from if-
SPECIALTIES : WEDDING CAKES, PASTRY, FRUIT PIES and MEAT PIES.
Sargents’ Ltd.,
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High-Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
(’Phone—Office, 3559;
Cafe, 1876; Catering 1 , 4250).
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St.
(’Phone, City 1344).


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour .for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 7s.', 10s. 6a. Sold by‘ Stores
Chemists, & A, Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
PILES CURED IN 6 to 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed ,to cure any
Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding Piles in
.days, or money refunded. 2/3.
case of
i 6 to 14
HEARTBURN AND INDIGESTION.
Heartburn is a symptom of indigestion, and
consists of a most distressing and gnawing pain in
the stomach, often with sour, acid belchitigs,
nausea and fainting. When the food is only par-
tially digested, it gives rise to an accumulation of
wind or gas generated from the excess of acidity
from the imperfectly-digested food. To overcome
this complaint, you should eat sparingly of plain,
digestible foods, and take a course of Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills, which will strengthen the
digestive organs and remove all acidity from the
stomach. These pills do not merely alleviate the
trouble, but get at the cause, and thus per-
manently overcome the trouble.
Mr. E. B. Garland, “Henbury,” Rnthven
Mr. K i> Uarland.
(From a photo.)
Street, Waverley, Sydney,
states “ For some consid-
erable time I have suffered
greatly from heartburn, indi-
gestion and liver and kidney
troubles, and at times the
pain would be very great. I
was recommended by a friend
to try Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills. I started on a
course, and found on con-
tinuing that they gave me
great relief, and although I
have had a return of the
symptoms, a dose of Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
never fails to put me right,
and restore me to health
again. We always keep a bottle handy in case of
need. I have pleasure in sending you this testi-
mony, which you may use as you think proper. I
have recommended Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills
to many friends, who now always use them.”*
h
TRY IT m YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
ĥ
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
ħ
S SELECT
ALE & LASER
E. RESCH. Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALCOCRUE and COOLCAP.DIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The past week has been a phenomenal one in
aviation. All records have been broken and quite a new
era entered upon. Although Roberts the Australian
electrician, had done some marvellous things with his
wireless controlled dirigible, he bad not managed to gain
recognition, and to build or control a dirigible was con-
sidered quite beyond British genius. So much was this
the case that a public .-übscription had made up the cost
of a Clement-Bayard war-balloon to be presented to the
British Government. The British Government did not
seem impressed, and at first declined the gift on the
ground that it was unnecessary ; but the refusal caused
such an infernal uproar that the Government did a hasty
climb-down and gratefully accepted the proffered aerostat.
The Clement-Bayard made its trial voyage over and around
Paris on Sunday week, and the British Government was
advised that the ship was ready to proceed to London on
its own power immediately Monsieur Bull would be
pleased to take delivery. While'the Clement-Bayard was
making its trial trips Englishman Willows, of" Cardiff
(Wales), inflated his all-English dirigible with 20,000 ft. of
gas, started his 30-h.p. motor, and sailed away to the
Crystal Palace in London in the wake of an illuminated
motor-car. He arrived safely after a pleasant trip, while
the motorist was half-frozen. This was the first all-
English aerostat since the ill-fated Nulli Secundus was
built by the British War Office in response to popular
demand.
» * * *
Monday was comparatively quiet, no San
Francisco happenings disturbing the public mind. The
big aviation meeting at Lanark (Scotland) got under
way, and the people of that district received notice that
attempts would be made on Brookings’s record, so it
would, be necessary to be ready to jump from under.
Brookings was the Yankee who, fired by Latham’s
“climb” of 4659 ft. at Rheims on July 7, started out a
few days afterwards to break that record to bits. When
he returned, it was found on his barometer that he had
scaled 6100 ft. and beaten Latham badly. This was the
performance the gentlemen at Lanark were out to beat.
The first attempt was made on the Tuesday by
Chavege, the Gaul, on a Bleriot monoplane. He was
seen to vanish through the clouds, and, when he was
again visible, he was sailing in vast spiral sweeps, which .
brought him safely to earth in about three minutes.
His barometer registered 5250 ft., and Brookings
was still champion of the upper air. On Wednes-
day, in New York, the unfortunate Brookings lost
control at an elevation of 250 ft., and, flashing down
to earth, ploughed , his way through the spectators, and
was dashed to pieces. Hischampionship died with him, for
on the Thursday J. A. Drexel, the Englishman, of Bourne-
mouth, got on a Bleriot monoplane and scaled 6750 ft.
above Lanark. How long he took to climb is not stated,
but he timed his descent at approximately-four minutes
—which is a blood-curdling thing to contemplate. He,
too, returned on a sweeping spiral course. He reported
that at 6750 ft. he had reached the limit, as, owing to the
rarefaction of the atmosphere, the engine began to spit
and show signs of failing. Also, he was numbed, and for
the last 350 ft. it was a case of literally forcing the
machine. And it isn’t safe to force things too hard at
that altitude.
* * * *
The inauguration of the Zeppelin and other
German passenger dirigible services revealed another
horror for mankind. Air-sickness is much more dr< adful
than sea-sickness, and the German airliners now supply
pills to counteract it. To be gripped with air-sick-
ness is a terrible experience, and it is said to be due to
the effect of gravitation on weak systems. The patient
becomes sick with fear, and the bodily suffering is supple-
mented by a nervous and mental terror which may lead
to rpadness and death. What sort of nerves must these
fellows have who soar over a thousand feet?
* * * *
Aviation is levying a heavy toll. Hardly a day
passes but there conies news "that another couple of
fliers have rebounded off a hard world. In the early
days of aviation (about the week before last), except for
the case of Lillienthal, the glider, fatal accidents were
unknown. Now there arrives about six times a week the
information that some aeroplane has fallen anything
from 40fc. to 1000 ft., with fatal 1 results to the parties on
board. Mostly the aeroplane and the aviator were too
utterly smashed to give any clue to the cause of accident;
but in the majority of instances there is little doubt
that the fall was due to the failure of the motor. And
the motor that fails seems to be horribly prevalent just
now. Of course, there are more people flying than the
world wots of, and the proportion of accidents is not
nearly so large as it looks. But what the man in the
street wants to know is why the motor that is reliable
enough in the car or launch should fail in the air. As a
matter of fact, the motor in the car or the boat is not
over reliable. But in the car and the boat reliability
doesn’t count for so much. The engine that is reliable
enough for a car is not always so for a boat. In the car,
if it is a powerful one, the clutch rarely remains in for
more than three miles. More often, stops and slacks
occur at every mile or so. In the boat the engine is
often run for hours together at full speed in the teeth of
a head sea, and so it was discovered that a
first-class motor in a car may be named Mud
in a boat. And, again, the motor that is reliable
enough in a boat is not reliable enough for an
aeroplane. If one cylinder in four or six fails,
the speed slackens and danger threatens immedi-
ately. Then if the ’plane dashes into a hollow
funnel of the atmosphere trouble comes immedi-
ately. In a car or a bout, this sort of failure would
make little or no difference ; in an aeroplane it means
anything up to sudden death. Reliability in an aero-
plane engine is a sweeping and far-reaching term, which
includes continuous running, regular firing, perfect car-
buration and absolute evenness of power production. By
the way, has anyone such an engine about him? They
are fetching high prices around Paris just now,
* * * * -
The recent press announcement that a little
Miss Defries had come “ home,” supplied a belated reason
why Colin Defries, who came out here with the Wright
biplane, suddenly threw up his position. Defries ha'd
plenty of scorn thrown at him for retiring ; but it proba-
bly took more courage to throw up the billet than it
would have to make a flight. When Defines signed his
contract he was unmarried, and it was not till bis wife
whispered in his ear that a full and proper 6ense of his
responsibilities suddenly burst upon him; Then, he
passed in his resignation of the dangerous though lucra-
tive billet.
'^ de ®, ans ’ once lightweight champion of the
,Tr’if'" 1 C ""’'''°'! ,y k ' ,own as “ The old Master,” is dead
in Baltimore (U.S.A.) at the earlv aye of 36 years.
Between 1891 and 1908 he piled up over £60,000 in vari-
ous prize rings, but he died worth only £2OOO, having
flittered most of his assets away over the dice. He was
a most inveterate gambler, and is said to have alwavs
had a box and hones in his clothes. These instruments
ll ! Produce at the slightest provocation,
?"! with them he generally managed to lose his monev as
He Co i '! ld ' nake h - He owned what was once a
prosperous cafe and saloon in Baltimore; but owing to
his generous nature, and his readiness to gamble with
the overdue customers on a double or quits basis, and
a f en ' y ° f 1 K dice to torn up quits, and the ten-
aency of the overdue customers to go insolvent when
~pdoubI '*’ the saloon wasn’t the goldmine
it should have been when the personality of its proprie-
tor was taken into account. But he was a wonderful
bruiser, and fought close upon 200 battles in his career.
He starting bashing at, Baltimore aivav hack in 1891 and
it was not till October 6, 1896. that he knew whar defeat
was like. On that occasion Dal Hawkins, at New York,
got the decision in 15 rounds. In December of the same
year Cans was again beaten, this time by Bobby Dobbs at
Brooklyn, in 20rounds. Among Gans’s victims wasGriffo,
whom he nized to the ground at Coney Island in eight
rounds. On October 19 Joe Grim met him in a six-round
® Philadelphia. No decisions are permissible in
Philadelphia. The press decides who is the winner, and
on that occasion the press was a voice divided against
itself. But on January 22. the following vear, the pair
again met at Baltimore, and Grim was decisively walloped
.in 10« rounds. It was Battling Nelson who ended
Ganss career, beating him twice—at Colrna and San
t rancisco, in 17 and 21 rounds, on July 4 and
September 4, 1901. But “The Old Master” was a mere
shadow’ of his former self, and was even then in the grip
of the tubercular trouble which killed him. The fact
that he died worth £2OOO came as a welcome surprise, as
it, was generally understood that he was about stone,
motherless broke.
♦ * * *
Just before Jeffries was due to go into the ring
his men gave him a glass of champagne, and quite a lot
of people are regarding that glass of fizz with grave sus-
picion. After taking it Jeffries felt “ off,” and delayed the
fight an hour. Curiously enough, the suggestion "of dope
did not, emanate from his corner nor from Jeffries him-
self, but wis started by several doctors, who declared
that the actions of the once mighty boiler-maker in the
ring were not those of a man who was w ell, but of one
who had been drugged. Usually, when he entered the
ring, Jeffries appeared nervous ; lie walked about un-
easily, tested the mat with his feet, did everv-
thmg but keep still. When lie met Mr. Johnson
he sat down in his chair, folded his arms, and looked
steadily at the floor. When his men made him get up
and took away the chair he sat down on the ropes. When
Johnson hit him he looked at the black man wonder-
tngly. He seemed devoid of energy, of initiative, of the
power and will to resist Johnson’s little attentions in the
in-fighting department. This is the way medical men
speak of his showing. Examined afterwards by doctors,
he was found to be in superb physical condition, and his
failure to make a bel ter showing completely mystified
them. Jeffries is reported to believe that, he had been
doped in some mysterious way and is anxious to meet
Johnson again. It’s a w’eird business. Certainly, con-
sidering the absurd odds available, there was a heap of
money to be made by doping Jeffries.
* * * *r
u O.J£.”: A selection of cabled newspaper
moralisings on the Jeff-Johnsnn fight is instructive read-
ing. The DatliY Chronicle remarked: “The greatness
of the money reward is in itself an evidence of the great-,
ness of the public interest, and thus we come back to this
question : Why so much interest in so trivial and,as many
people will think, so unedif.ving a business?” And the
Morning Post, arguing in defence of the professional
stoushing craze, said ; “ The class of writers who are
always endeavoring to frighten mankind into the belief
that there is something intrinsically disgusting in thedis-
play of the primitive qualities of courage and physical
endurance are merely degenerates in a more subtle dis-
guise. A nation afflicted with a physical nausea of all
kinds of violence has reached a pitch where, even in
modern times, a ruder race is hound to displace it in the
struggle for existence.” To which philosophical assertion
the people who deprecate the glorification of prize-fight-
u'd continue to say “Rats!” In another word
“ Rubbish ! ” The ancient Roman nation was devoted
to spectacles of violence when it reached the point where
ruder races were bound to shatter its sovereign power.
The professional gladiators were harbingers of national
d cay. Modern opponents of boxing are not “afflicted
with a physical nausea of ail kinds of violence.” Wowsers
are only a small proportion of them. A man may snort
at the ugly violence of a prize-fight, whilst taking an
interest, in wrest,ling, football or the most violent feats of
gymnastics. Are the Germans (supreme in wrestling and
gymnastics) to be classed as decadents because they have
never had a liking for the “old English sports” of
fist-fighting, football and cricket? Does the fact
that there are more broken noses in England
than in Germany indicate that the strongest of
the European continental races is infeiior to the
British in courage, endurance and fighting power? No
“ ruder race ” threatens to displace the Germans in the
struggle for existence, yet there is no people with a
stronger physical distaste—an educated distaste—for the
kind of “sport”'in which the criminal classes of the
English-speaking peoples have always taken a savage
delight. If criminals be degenerates, then, by all that’s
undeniable, stoushing is the game, that, appeals most
strongly to degenerate human nature. All this talk
about, the superior virility of the ruder races suggests
the question whether the object of encouraging the noble
art of stoush is to keep us rude? What’s the good of
civilisation if it is tending steadily to the abolition of
rudeness? And what price the noble art of “self-
defence ” as a gate-money attraction if it, werb so true to
its name that, two expert professors could box all day
without being able to hit one another on the boko? (This
in parenthesis.) Defenders of the “ miedifying business ”
of assault and battery are consistently dishonest in their
reasoning. They always wu-iggle away from the argu-
ment that circumstances alter cases. Displays of “ the
primitive qualities of courage and physical endurance”
cease to be admirable when the dispiavees have passed
through their early stages of physical and moral develop-
ment. Civilisation deals gently with voting children.
They are left to stuff food into their mouths with their
hands, to dabble in dirt for dirt’s. sake, to make
much noise, and to doi many tilings which would
be condemned as a public nuisance if done by their
elders. A w’ise father allows his male infant to
put up his fists in harmless combat/ The nipper,
the urchin and the lad are still in a primitive'state,
anij it is good for them to act accordingly, ’that they
may feel a proper pride in their civilisation, when, they
grow up to it. But as-fnm—weighing-15st. in the buff i
"!pheir stoushing then stamps them as persons who have
not emerged from savagery, and their fervent admirers,
if,civilised, are unconscious degenerates of the-sort who
would find entertainment in a simple dog fight. This is
the argument of its who would persuade humanity that,
u-hqteas the youthful progeny of Jim Jeffries may
fittingly fight with other children, there is “somethin'
intrinsically disgusting ”in their dad’s exhibitions. A
for Johnson—well, he's a nigger. If the color line be a
fair thing, and it seems to he a very fair thing—stoushing
between adult, niggers is not so essentially disgustihg.
We call them children. Bet them show their courage
anil endurance in childish wavs, but, don’t let us pay
them enormous sums of money for giving brutal displays
to white folk.
>** * - r
When the Rev. F. Hulton Sums got hack' to
his own corner of the stockyard in Western Queensland
he let.'the Ideal papers kn-nv he hid had a ripping holiday.
Parson Sams didn’t go off to any conference to discuss
the right amount of passementerie to wear on the
chasuble; he just dropped in on Charters Towers in
time for the North Queensland champion'boxing tourna-
ment. He biffed out the rest of the lightweights and
won the gold medal, and he reckons ’hat, afier knocking'
out his blacksmith in the “middles,” he could have won
in that class too, for he was giving away 2st, to the
blacksmith. But at that stage the flock bleated for him,
and he couldn’t wait to land a dirty left on any other
sinner.
* * * *
After the clash of brilliant international teams,
football in Sydney seems dressed in quiet grey with drab
trimmings, till one gets to the field, and then one is
astonished to find that the local interest is as keen, if not
keener, than the national. That’s the trouble in Aus-
tralia, sad to say. In the Rugby League competition,
South Sydney climbed over the mangled remains of
Newtown to top position, with 16 points, having
downed the former cock of the walk by 15 points to
eight. Annandale made a draw against the formidable
East Sydney crowd with 12 points each. Glebe fairly
“ ate up ” Western Suburbs by 35 points to 15, and Bal-
main obliterated North Sydney, with 16 points to 12—
which was a close thing in a Northern Union game. The
sting of defeat for Newtown lies in the fact that it had
held pride of place right away from the very first match
of the season. South has been showing remarkable im-
provement of form, and everybody looked forward to a
battle royal when they met. And it was a struggle grim
and great that sent 12,000 people mad with excitement.
* * * *
In the Rugby Union competition Newtown was
able to maintain its position at the head of the poll, de-
feating Manly by 25 points to six. University downed
St. George by 11 points to three. Glebe overthrew Wes-
tern Suburbs by 16 points to 11. Balmain just passed
Sydney by 11 points to nine. South Sydney accounted
for N rtli bv 14 points to six. Eastern Suburbs had the
bye. Next S Uurday will see the close of the first round
of Union Rugby, and the four first, clubs in the competi-
tion will play off to see who kisses Polly. At present
the leading teams are Newtown with 20 points ; Glebe,
University and South Sydney with 16 each. Eastern
Suburbs has only 14, and unless something startling hap-
pens, is going to be left out of the second round. The
premiership looks a specially easy thing for Newtown.
*****
The Australian Rules section had a tough day
•n Saturday, when it had to meet two invading teams,
one from Geelong and the other from Fitzroy. The
invaders won both struggles, but’ the match against
Fitzroy was strenuous, and after a mighty go ’Roy just
managed to scratch through with nine points to the
good. Geelong had an easier task and arrived with 107
points to 64. Fitzroy sc red 53 to the 44 of the Metro-
polis. The matches showed that the standard of Sydney
play has improved enormously during last, year, and wit h
the ability to charge for admission the League
will have the means of fostering its game till the
Sydney players will be quite on a par with those
of the southern capital. The ground trouble has been at
the root of the slow advance of the Australian game in
Sydney, and now that the difficulty is in a fair way to
be overcome, the standard of play begins to improve.
The only drawback about the Erskineville Oval is the fact
that the boundary lines are too close to the picket fence.
This was evidenced during the visit of the Melbournians,
when one of the Sydney men fell against the fence and
damaged his cranium considerably. How the fence
fared is not stated, but it certainly was not improved by
the impact. This matter should be attended to, or the
fence may one dav be mortally wounded.
* ' * * *
S. Ans. has been having a lot of inter-State
football of various sorts (other titan Rugby, of course.
Rugby somehow won’t flourish anywhere west of
Albury, and it seems too busy with internal squabbles
to do the. proselytising that “ Australian Rules” and
Soccer are both busy with). Adelaide University had a
visit from the Melbourne students, and got beaten. Ttie
visitors had the great advantage of being a prominent
League team, whereas the S. A. League clings tight to the
district system, and consistently refuses to let the
’Varsity join in. Then a combined S. A. team boat Vic-
toria after a keen struggle. With 10 minutes to go-the
Melbourne men needed four goals to win, and they got
three and a half of them. This goes down to history as
S. A. beating Victoria; but in reality it is only the Vic-
torian Association ; the League, having fallen out with
S.A. four or five years back, allows its claim to be jumped.
On the other hand, the best S.A. team, Port Adelaide,
was away in Westralia giving the game there a boost up.
And now Adelaide has sent west a combined Soccer
team. Most, of its members have at some time learned
the game in Britain.
* * * *
League football in Melbourne, on Saturday, was
practic lly confined to the despairingdash of the Students
to squeeze into the final four. They still have a chance;
hm it is first cousin to * Buckley’s. On Saturday they
were up against Carlton, and for a whilestrove valiantly,
but before half-time disaster could be seen in the offing.
They were brilliant in patches, but directly the ball was
passed forward the game became an effort by the Uni-
versity individual to overpower or outplay the .combined
Carlton backs. Naturally, the individual failed. Those
Carlton backs could teach any team a lesson. Only one
man sprang to mark the ball : a second stood off to
grab it if the first missed the mark ; and a third
shepherded him from interference. Another hint—the
Old Blues’ captain marked the ball right.in front of
’Varsity’s goal, hut 40 yards out. It was a fairly easy
kick, hut there was an unguarded mate 15yds. nearer.
Quick as thought he sent, it on, and the otherpur.it
through with certainty. That sort of play chiefly ac-
counted for Carlton’s 11 goals 12 beiiinds to 'Varsity’s 6
goals 14 behinds. Down on the E. Melbourne ground the
humorous Melbourne 18 practically had Essendon on
toast the whole afternoon, getting a 20-point lead at the
start and sticking t o most of it till the bell rang, when
the tally was—Melbourne 54 points, Essendon 42. The
Ret) Legs hat e ever had a tendency to dilettantism when
everything counts, and a habit of bogging in when
nothing matters, and that policy leads to disaster.
*** * *
None of the Ass. football arguments amounted
to much, inasmuch as the four teams in the semi-finals
must, he North, Essendon and Brunswick, with P’ran,
unless it. loses two of the ensuing three games. On Satur-
day P’ran met Essendon, and the encounter wasn’t cal-
culated to give it swelled head. When the episode closed
it had pushed only 41 points on the hoard to Essendon’s
92. Simultaneously North ran round and over ’Town,
and captured 86 points to 44. Port, which has a small
chance if P’ran collapses, kept its grip on the said chance
by outing Brighton (58 to 51); Footseray downed North-
cote (86 to 67), and ’Wick dittoed Preston (122 to 31).
* * * *
This being tbe season when the weaker teams
see their hopes fade, the barrackers get extra-nasty.
Thus the “supporters” of ’Town Juniors nd ’Roy
Juniors tan amok on the’Roy ground on Saturday. As
’Town saw its hopes wilt it made things willing, and ’Roy
responded. The barrackers joined in, and the law had a
busy time clearing- the ground after each irruption.
Th ; catastrophe closed long after sunset, with’Roy Juniors
97 points, ’Town Juniors 38 points, and the wearers of the
blue and yellow rosettes departed in a sour frame of
mind, with a firm conviction that the ’Roys were swine and
the umpire a cow.
* * * *
So the S’ African cricketers are to come after ail.
Abe Bailey and the Transvaal Cricket Union between
them guaranteeing the requisite £5OOO, without which
the South African sportsmen would not move a peg.
The chances are that their visit will infuse new interest
into the ancient job. Thousands will go down to see
what “ the Boers ” are like. Under other circumstances,
the season would probably have been deadly dull, but
the inauguration of the triangular scheme may galvanise
the game for a little longer. Certainly, public interest
in cricket is considerably on the wane.
* * * *
P. A. Vaile, an authority on the game of lawn
tennis and a dog of considerable size and importance in
the circles devoted thereto, has recently lashed out in
M.A.P. on the corruption of the racquety game. Pro-
fessionalism in lawn tennis is somewhat different from
that in other games. The veiled pros, do not take money
for playing, but for using certain brands of r cquets and
for stipulating for certain makes in balls. According to
Vaile, one firm in England has got the game practically
under its thumb, and quite an army of the best players
are its touts. Vaile is hanged if he’ll interest himself in
raising the social status of the game by getting the King
to take part in the tournaments till this horror is broken
up, removed, and scrubbed out with Monkey soap.
■*■*-*■*
Beaurepaire’s capture of the 100yds. swimming
championship of England is an interesting episode in
several ways. One is struck bv the fact that the swim-
ming championship of the Mistress of the Seas was
seriously disputed by gentlemen bearing such un-English
and dubious-sounding names as Meyboom and Radmilovic.
The man who upheld the English supremacy was J. H.
Derbyshire, who is such an old hand as to be almost ripe
for the title of Has-Been. Away hack in 1901 and before,
Derbyshire was getting his name into the record books,
but since then a whole crop of latter-day swimmers, like
the dead Kieran, Daniels, De Halmay, Wickham and a
crowd of others too numerous to mention has
sprouted. There was a time when the English-
man was top dog of the swimming world, as he
was of most other divisions of athletics. Now the
best swimmers are Australians, Americans, French-
men and others. Beaurepaire’s time (59 4-ssec.) is any-
thing but a record. Cecil Healy, in 1908, did the distance
in 55sec. over a straight course ; and C. M. Daniels, in
1907, at Manchester, threw the distance behind in
55 2-ssec. Beaurepaire is evidently better over the longer
stretches. But what a wonder Kieran was: his records
for 400yds., 440yds., 500yds., 600yds., 700yds., 800yds.,
880.vds., 900yds., 1000yds. and a mile are still the world’s
best. And Kieran was an Australian.
* * * *
Kaiser Bill, who is, in his own peculiar way, a
great yachtsman, was up against it recently at Cowes,
Isle of Wight. England. When the race is in his own
territorial waters, or under his own auspices, he changes
the course to suit his own yacht Meteor whenever any-
one gets ahead of him. But at Cowes he couldn’t play
that game, and the result was that his Meteor was left
miles behind by a Yankee schooner named the West-
ward. Although a great yachtsman, the Kaiser is a
mighty bad sportsman, and this walloping will probably
make his intellect go right off its pivot.
* * * *
It seems that this year the amateur billiard
championship of Australia is more than likely to be
wrested from N.S.W. Last year Tricks, of Melbourne,
nearly took it from Runtball, of Sydney, and the former
is now undoubtedly a bit.better than he ever was before.
The game should be an exciting go.
* * * *
Only three out of 15 starters finished the four
miles journey for the Australian Steeplechase at Caulfield
last Saturday ; but, luckily for punters in general, Graf-
nax —the hot favorite—came first of the surviving trio.
Grafnax is only one of several that have scored the Flem-
ington and Caulfield steeplechase double. But with a
12xt. 121 b. burden atid record time to his credit, the son
of Grafton and Xantippe must be one of the very best.
The pace he set the field on Saturday accounted for the
downfall of so many. A pretty good performer in Coir
fell to rise no more.


tfp
A
THE MOTA
»>
(Regd.).
The “ Mota ” Hat simply leapt into popular
favor this season.
Young men and old men, city men and country
men, travellers, sportsmen, business men—all
recognise in the “ Mota ” a particularly smart
soft felt hat with materials and workmanship
decidedly above the average to recommend it.
Stocked by all leading Houses throughout Aus-
tralia in all fashionable colors.
Prices 7/6 to 12/6.
If unobtainable in your district write to us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS LIMITED,
Abbotsford, Melbourne.
Shell Motor Spirit.
“ MORE MILES on ‘ SHELL’
THAN ANY OTHER.”
At “The Tarrant,”
MELBOURNE.
h
ĥ
G
We can give immediate
delivery of Latest Models
of the World-Renowned
Car,
F.N.
10;i4 and 14/18 h.p.
Write as at once for
particulars.
CALL for a TRIAL RUN.
Sole Agents—
Tarrant Motor Co.
108 Russell St., Melbourne.
MAKE A NOISE LIKE AN ODDER.
CADILLAC,
25-30 H P £5OO.
450 in Australasia.
35,000 in the World.
\ WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. J
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., Brisbane.
SAUL’S MOTOR CO., Launceston.
DRUNKENNESS CURED.
It is now generally admitted that Drunkenness is
not a vice, but a disease—happily one that is curable.
DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered by the
Govts. Vic. and N.S.W.) is a certain cure—is harmless
and can be given secretly or taken voluntarily.
Advice Free. Write or Call.
DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISHMENTS: 54 Russell Street,
Melbourne; 1161 Hay Street, Perth,W.A. []
Why you should buy a
B. & B. Standard Bicycle
Because the price— £15 —represents a low figure for the value )
received. Nothing but B.S.A. parts are Used in the construction
of the cycle, and consequently dependability is the keynote of the
success it has attained. Call and inspect, or write for catalogue.
ar-v
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Largest Cycle Building House in the State,
234 Pitt Street, opp. School of Arts,
Sydney.
A SHOE FOR A GENTLEMAN !
Here’s a splendid shoe for a gentleman !
It’s made as perfect as a shoe can be /rom the very
best of leathers by skilled workmen.
Smart in style, fine finish and extremely serviceable.
It’s a Willow Calf Derby Shoe, Fine Stitched
Welts, in Black or Tan. Also in boots.
Price 21/-
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for Booklet.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.
• v " r - . j
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
ħ
h
ĥ
POLKEY MOTOR LAMPS
ALL BRITISH.'
ACETYLENE and ELECTRIC.
Supplied from stock. Write for Catalogue.
SCHEELE # GIBBES, 2 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Tel. 864
City.
A. M. L. 8 F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stock and Station Agents.
CAPITAL ... 1 ... £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
' RESERVE FUND ... £300.000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral Pro-
perties and Stock, and on the Growing: Wool Clip and Wheat Crop.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in Australia, being all
recently constructed. i
Australian Mortgage, Land 8 Finance Co.
LIMITED,
William Street, MELBOURNE;
Bligk Street, SYDNEY;
Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
DUNLOP
r~j
i
*
M
> ,
>:
mm
M
i
%
GARDEN - DEUVERY-SUCTION-STEAM
AIR S BREWERS MOSES
Are Urteoualled for Quality a Price
THERE ARE
JDITNJLOP RyBBEjR CQ- Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane, and Christchurch, N.Z,-
Minister Wood, of N.S.W., hasn’t yet
began to explain to his constituents down on
Monaro how the Government to which he be-
longs toiled manfully and successfully to prevent
the Australian capital being built in their district,
on the ground that it was an utterly rotten place
and of no account. Wood is a very irritable man
these days, and barks at everything and every-
body, from which it is inferred that he is losing a
good deal of sleep in the struggle to think up
feasible theories.
A newspaper item tliat has not appeared
to date :
At 8.30 last night Inspector Dunn, accompanied by
Detective Hop and a posse of police, unexpectedly raided
the Oddfellows’Tabernacle, VVaverfield, having reason to
believe that a gambling school was operating there. A
number of Starr-Bowkett gamblers of both sexes were
arrested and taken to the lockup, where they will be duly
charged this morning. Stakes amounting to some hun-
dreds sterling' were at issue, and the principals—known
by the cant terms of “ chairman,” “ scrutineers,” etc. —
were caught flagrante delicto with the ballot-marbles and
other instruments for gaming about them. One of the
parties made a clean breast of it and owned that some
£lO,OOO had changed hands since the school started.
Two clergymen, the president of the local Liberal league,
several church elders, and other militant Right Thinkers
are among the incarcerated.
As mentioned above, this sort of item has not ap-
peared so far, and yet there is no reason in the
world why it shouldn’t. The local policeman
wastes a lot of time chasing the gentle Chow who
gambles at pak-a-pu. Yet the Chow isn’t thereby
checked from gaming. Nothing but Death is
going to do that to him. On the other hand, the
average Star-Bowkett gambler would probably be
reformed right out of existence by one good raid.
But not a disapproving word is said ; in fact, this
is the kind of notice the cult gees from respect-
able anti-gambling sheets
At an appropriation meeting of the Northern Suburbs
Starr-Bowkett Society, held at the Friendly Societies’
Hall, North Sydney, last night, when Messrs. John Adair,
W. A. Morris, and A. T. Cowan were chairman and
scrutineers respectively, and Misses Eileen Greathead and
Clarice De Ley drew the marbles, the results were as
follow No. 481, Miss M. Capon, £5OO ; and No. 379, Mr.
F. G. Newell, £5OO. These members will receive their
loans free of premium and interest, and repay them by
weekly instalments during ten years. The society has
now balloted £9500, and another ballot, will be held in a
few weeks.
Miss Capon and Mr. Newell, by the mere luck of
the marble—the same old marble that is whizzing
round every roulette board at Monte Carlo at the
present moment—won anything from £l5O to
£250 apiece last week—that being the approxi-
mate value of £5OO, free of interest for 10 years.
There aren’t many two-up or fan-tan establish-
ments where punters stand to have as profitable
an evening’s flutter as that.
By The Bulletin’s tame lawyer :
If Judge Backhouse’s method of dealing with a recent
embezzlement matter in Sydney is legally sound, then a
tolerable quantity of crime may be committed without
punishment, provided a cash payment is 'forthcoming.
The case iri point was that of a trusted clerk, who, being
in the employ of the State Government’ had for five years
suffered from an affection of the chgst. The avow’ed
shortage was £4OO. He apparently came to the decision
that, under the law of averages, even Government auditors
must wake up sooner or later; *6 he confessed his
shortage and threw himself headlorjg on the mercy
of the Judge. He was thereupon sentenced to two
years’ imprisonment; but ids Honor offered to
make a deal. Had he any money? “No,” said
the prisoner. That seemed to settle the matter,
but Backhouse was willing to sell clemency, and
announced that if the absent £4OO wasjpaid by accused’s
friends he (the accused) would be recommended for
release on license. So the position iof the embezzler
becomes simple. If he lifts, say, £5OO and fakes
the books scientifically, he has la good chance
of escaping detection altogether. [That gives him
£5OO to the good. Even if his 1 , operations are
uncovered by an inquisitive auditor, there is always
a chance that the auditor won’t drop on to more than
£300; so when that is refunded the accused will still be
£2OO to the good. Of course, he will lose his billet; but
then there are plenty more billets. In fact, ic’s heart-
breaking to think of all the billets a man might be offered
—especially if he didn’t want one.
Britain, which used to boast of keeping its
door open to the poor and the oppressed and the
scum of all nations, violently slammed its portal a
year or two ago, and it reckons that the slam was
none too soon, for there is verv much scum inside.
Almost every British city has‘its Chinatown these
days, and that at Cardiff is so large that it was
able to run a little civil war all on its Own, lasb
week, with revolvers and other appliances. Of
course, the Chinamen were only trying to shoot
each other; but Bull objects to be butchered, even
by accident, to make an Ah Fat holiday.
According to the papers ;
Mr. W. E. Johnson (Liberal, N.S.W.)complained of 6ho
long hour's worked in the G.P.0., Sydney. For a Labor
Government to allow this tocontinue was shocking’.
The distinction having been made regarding,a,
Labor Government, the natural deduction is that
with a Liberal Government overwork would not
be so shocking. While most people suspected
that it is flattering to Labor for Johnson to say so.
But it is pretty rough pn Johnson himself and his
crowd, as they evidently fought Labor knowing
that Labor was opposed to sweating. Perhaps
that was generally suspected also ; but this candor
on the part of Johnson is amazing. It seems to
be the habit of Johnsons to be amazing.


A. SAUNDERS’ HANDSOME PRESENTS
A. SAUNDERS.
PICKLE JAR and FORK, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
Crystal Glass Jar,
17/C.
Other Styles 22/6, 25/, 30/, 35/
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, Silver-
plated Mounts, Fancy Floral
China, 10/C.
Other Styles, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6,
12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
THOUSANDS OF OTHER BEAUTIFUL IDEAS IN STOCK.
USEFUL PRACTICAL MODERATELY PRICED.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOT, Pure Silver-plated on White Metal,
Handsomely Embossed, Waratah Design,
35/
m
WINCFICLD RoWBOTHAM A C*
BI
PM855.7.,.-
A. SAUNDERS.
MEAT CARVERS, 3 Pieces, Xylonite Handles,
Silver-plated Mounts,
27/6-
With Poultry Carvers, 45/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SWEETS DISH, Pure Silver-plated
Frame, Fancy Floral China Shell
Pattern Dish, S/6-
Other Styles, 4/6, 6/6, 7/6.
aaiiaM*
KHMMM
aanua
BHH
A. SAUNDERS.
INKSTAND, Silver-plated Stand, Crystal Glass Bottles.
12/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 16/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RING, Pure Silver-plated,
A 1 Quality, Satin Finish,
7/6.
Other Styles, 1/6, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6, 6/6,
6/6, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG STAND, 2 Cups and Spoons, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, Gilt-lined,
Richly Fluted, 25/-
Other Styles, 21/, 25/, 30/, 35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
DIVISION VEGETABLE DISH, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, 2 Com-
partments,
30/-
Other Styles, 45/, 50/. 60/.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts, Porcelain China
Lining, 7/6.
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER JUG, Pure Sil-
ver-plated, Hand-engraved,
Highly Burnished,
15/6-
Other Styles, 25/, 30/, 35/.
vm
m
7Xi
n
(I'ESS
r
!r|r(
Nr|rj
u
nr
im
ryr
Fir
A. SAUNDERS.
CRUET, 4-Bottle, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, Guaranteed
Quality, Crystal Glass Bottles,
17/6.
Other Styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
ggggfiKj
m.
; s ''-
r
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Sterling Silver, Handsomely Em-
bossed, Pure Crystal Cut Glass Lining,
20/-
In Silk-lined Case, with Knife, 25/.
wr
a*iu4isct(yz4
LONDON SYDNEY
- :
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON DESSERT KNIVES and FORKS, Pure
Silver-Plated, A 1 Quality, in Silk-lined Case,
50/-
With Ivory or Pearl Handles, 60/.
With Half-dozen Afternoon Teaspoons and Tongs, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL AND SERVERS, Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, Handsome Floral Decoration, China Bowl,
207-
Other Styles, 12/6, 17/6, 25/„ 30/, 35/, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Imitation Seal PEGGY PAG, Good, Strong Lining,
Nickel Frame, Well Finished Throughout,
5/6-
O.her Styles, 6/6, 7/6. S/6, 9/6, 10/6, 11/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDJERS.
FRUIT SALAD or (PRESERVE DISH, Art Hand-
decorated Floral Dish, Silver-elated Nickel Silver
Frame, 15/6-
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
h
ĥ
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR and CREAM STAND,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Sil-
ver, Floral China Jug and
Dish, Handsomely Finished,
20/-
Other Styles, 10/6, 15/6,
20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
FERN POT, Pure Silver-
plated Richly Embossed,
10/6-
Other Styles, 8/6, 13/6,
17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOT STAND, Fancy China Base, Silver-
plated Frame, 5/6-
Other Style, with Handles, 8/6.
ft
A. SAUNDERS.
5-BRANCH FLOWER EPERGNE, Pure Silver-
Plated, Fancy Glass Tubes, in Ruby or Crystal
20/-
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
by Jas. Dixon, Silver-
plated Nickel Silver,
Crystal Glass Bottles,
10/6.
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6,
12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, Crystal
Glass Dish, 8/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
HANDSOME PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver Frame, Art Hand-decorated, Floral
China Dishes, 15/6-
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS and TONGS
Silver-plated, Shell Design, in Velvet-lined
10/6-
Other Styles, 7/6, 12/6, 15/6, 20/.
Pure
Case,
JEWELLER,*
Cloc/fj
£ MAKER A
via
yj}
V
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
$T. (Opposite Railway Snrion) SYDNEY.N.S.W
SILVERSMITH
C OHSULTj/y c i


*T ...
1
iu
.
:
get
n*
in
IS
«
. •
'
m
m
S:
IB
a
i
R
s»asM
8
lllii
I
1
ill
i
■■■■l i s
-. :
m
mm
»
1
■ .
.
i- and
s in each
18
N.C? LIMITED
IS. C 9 LIP t
f
.
UDAHI PARKER & C? PITLTP
Will
ITH, M<
■
L- *
OFFICES & AGENTS AT ALL PORTS


Lung Trouble
can be cured
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Lung trouble, acute or
chronic, is cured by taking
Scott’s Emulsion. Scott’s
Emulsion permanently cures
lung trouble. This state-
ment is made because hun-
dreds of people have written
to say they were cured of
lung trouble by Scott’s
Emulsion. For example, Mrs.
A. Peters wrote, 24th July,
1909, from 79, Raglan Street,
Waterloo, Sydney, N.S.W.:
“My daughters were always delicate and
subject to lung and chest complaints, so I
decided to give Scott': Emulsion. In a
h
few weeks both hau gained
considerably in weight, were
eating heartily and sleeping
well. I had not thought it
possible they could so rapidly
be restored to complete good
health; they have no sign of
a cold and look bright and
well. This trademark was on
the emulsion I bought.”
If you wish to get rid of your
lung trouble; and decide to
buy Scott’s Emulsion, decide
also to GET SCOTT’S
EMULSION. You may be
asked to buy another emul-
sion and told it is “just as
good as Scott’s.” Substitute
emulsions can only be sold
on the reputation.of Scott's
Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion cures the disease
no matter the age of the patient—and
will be approved by your Doctor for
Lung Trouble if you ask him.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
“MAIM TO MAN’’
is the title of a Valuable BOOKLET explaining
the Causes and Cure of
NERVOUSNESS and ALLIED TROUBLES,
which embitter life, and cause premature decay.
A copy of this Booklet will be sent FREE
(sealed) to anyone interested.
London Specialities Agency,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
/
\J
m
C=3
G >
Borated Golden teal
Compound
r A safe and simple remedy for'
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the noße, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
At CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise with each bottle
or mailed on request.
k Hi Etui Chemical Co.
Cmcbaati, Ohio, .
V^O.S.A.
r I\HE BULLETIN- POST CARDS.—New
JL Series. IV.. V.. VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten, sd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
“LINSEED COMPOUND.” —The “Stockport
Remedy ” for Couirhs & Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
The
Tie
that
[Will not
"Crease
IKIS (&
Real Poplin Ties
None'"
Genuine
without
th ij
Re£<* Tab.
IRISIUWI-POPLIN
REC?
' silk & Wool.
Obtainable All Mercerj
Helping Nature
in Nature’s Way.
“ All things which are done according to Nature
are to be accounted for good.”— Cicero.
Constipation, sluggish liver, biliousness, indigestion, depression,
feverishness, loss of appetite, headache, and kindred com-
plaints, whether in the robust man or the delicate child, can only
be overcome by the gentle means which are akin to Nature.
California Syrup of Figs fulfils
every requirement that can be
demanded of a corrective
remedy, being not only perfectly
natural in its action, but prompt
and pleasant as well.
California Syrup of
Figs cleanses the
system of all im-
purities, and leaves
the liver, stomach,
bowels and kid-
neys corrected,
§
i
Of
NSW
(MS' 1
ni^jnvjw-
it**!?
iw*9
strengthened, and permanently
benefited. The genuine Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs is an
ethical product which has met
with the approval of the most
eminent physicians and given
universal satisfaction. It is
the first and best of family
laxatives, and may be given
with perfect confidence in
every case where the symp-
toms indicate a constipated
condition.
You must ask for
CALIFORNIA
SYRUP of FIGS
“ Nature’s Pleasant Laxative.”
Of Chemists, in two sizes.
Seasonable FOOTWEAR
PRICE,
&
0
for
MEN.
This Stylish Bal. Boot
can be had in five shapes,
either Tan or Black—is
the very latest style for
Winter Wear.
PRICE, 18/6.
Send for our Booklet, “ Shoelight.”
Post free on application.
LEEMING’S,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ;
1 & 3 Errol Street North Melbourne.
PERFECT
IOORIED
are not flat-chested.
and thin-limbed.
Nature intended
every woman to be
decently developed,
with a full, well-
rounded bosom.
Don’t stay thin.
[5
ris.
DR. FALLIERE’S
“ FLESH=FOOD”
will increase your weight by as much as five
pounds a week, and will add inches to your
measurements. It is a scientific bust
developer, a medicated tissue food, harmless
and efficacious. Send 2d. stamp for Free
Trial Sample and Free Descriptive Book.
FALLIERE “FLESH-FOOD” CO.,
Dept. 5,
Linden Court,
Castlereagh St. ,
SYDNEY
“LINSEED COMPOUND ’’-Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coug’hs and Colds.
QREME
LA FRANCE
An Exquisite Lotion and
Cosmetic for Beautifying
and giving Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion, Neck and
Arms —is most bene-
ficial to the skin
when showing a
tendency to be-
come thin, flabby
and discolored.
It softens a hard,
dry skin, and is
perfectly harmless to
the most delicate skin.
Price 2/6, Posted 3/-
‘ Obtainable only from
MADAME LEIGH, Hairand
Skin Specialist and Ladies'
.Hairdresser, 23 The Block Arcade, COLLINS STREET
ENTRANCE. MELBOURNE.
\
ĥ
ħ
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 for 101 m
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tun Bulletin.] [5
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache —a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properJy, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
The adoption by European women of the native
dress of a non-civilised people is an unusual de-
parture. At Port Moresby the resident Austra-
liennes have not taken to the Papuan woman’s
grass kilt and shark’s-tooth bangle with a hibiscus
blossom at the bend of the elbow. But in Java
the Dutch lady adequately covers herself with the
sarong and kabayah of the native woman. The
first is a length of printed cotton adjusted skirt-
wise round the waist; the second is a short, quite
plain muslin jacket. These two garments, with
small-toed sandals on her bare feet, are her day
wear. When she comes out after sunset for driv-
DUTCH LADY WEARING THE SARONG
AND KABAYAH.
ing and shopping she gets her Brunhilde propor-
tions into a muslin Empire gown. She is
generally of Valkyrie build, and her husband is of
Viking tonnage.
For the last six months a preposterous rumor of
a divorce suit, in which a gentleman in a high
position was supposed to be involved, has been
careering tirelessly up and down the streets of
this city. Last week it came to a head, in a
manner of speaking, and the outraged husband
was solemnly alleged to have whistled his detec-
tives off the trail, filed his petition, and briefed
an immense herd of barristers to accomplish the
divorce proceedings in creditable style. As a
matter of fact, no petition has been filed, nor are
any barristers briefed, norhastheoutraged husband
at any time been other than a myth. Still, there are
found soeially-ignorant folk who joyfully repeat
this tale. If asked for their authorities they fall
back, in disorder, on the excuse that they heard
an unknown female in a red skirt, a puce-
colored hat and white boots vouch for it on a
tram the previous Friday ; or else they remark
that they got it from one who first swore them to
secrecy.
I remember, years ago, being told a stirring
anecdote about two Orangemen (their initials
were given in the most generous fashion in the
world) who were accidentally locked up for the
night in a “ well-known R.C. cathedral not 100
miles from Sydney.” Presently a score of
priests entered, dragging a white-clad female
figure, what time the organ boomed deafeningly
and drowned her yells of protest. A short Service
was held, after which a flagstone was raised, and
the lady was heaved violently into the resulting
cavity and left to die. In due course, the Sydney
Watchman printed this cheerful anecdote (boldly
giving the initials of the witnesses by way of
proof), and now, I doubt not, the tale ranks, for
verity, with the gospel in many a family.
Who starts these queer lies in the first in-
stance? The divorce rumor, referred to above, is
known to have emanated many months ago from
a moneyed old party who considers that the male
victim of it has somehow slighted or insulted her,
and it has always been regarded as a wild joke in
knowledgable circles. But that is in the nature
of a special case, or jest.
Countess von Arnhim, the one-time Sydney
girl whose “Elizabeth and Her German Garden”
had a great vogue a few years back, has written a
play, “Priscilla Runs Away.” which was being
produced at the London Haymarket when the
last mail left. The countess lady is the daughter
of a Mr. H. H. Beauchamp, who was a merchant
of Barrack-street, Sydney, in the ’so’s and ’6o’s.
The family’s private residence was Beulah, at
Kirribilli Point, and daughter Mary was born
there in 1866. She is a niece of Mr. Fred
Lassetter, who recently celebrated the diamond
jubilee of his business management in Sydney.
Miss Nellie MeQuade, who has been studying
melody in German territory, is in Australian
waters on her return journey. Her mother’s
serious illness is the cause. Betty Ohls MeQuade,
the relative by marriage, and her husband have
been sighted by various Sydney-siders in various
theatre stalls of New York.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


To INTENDING PIANO BUYERS
We invite you to see and examine the
Beale Pianos
before you make your final decision' in the matter of a purchase. No matter what grade you
choose you will get a first-class musical instrument. They have no superior. A Jury of five
European musical experts awarded them
THE GRAND PRIX
for TONAL QUALITY and GENERAL EXCELLENCE. Tone quality is the first essential
in a piano, and by this award you are assured that the BEALE PIANOS possess it. The chief
features of BEALE PIANOS are the brilliancy of the treble, the rich round singing quality of
the middle octaves, and the magnificent bass. Besides, the award of the Grand Prix, others were
made, totalling a greater number than ever before received by one manufacturer. There was a
“DIPLOMA OF HONOR”
(next to the Grand Prix) for the METAL FRAME with our PATENT TUNING SYSTEM,
the only positive and scientific tuning system yet invented. The union of the latter with the iron
frame makes the BEALE PIANO absolutely the most durably-constructed instrument turned out by
any manufacturer. It is destructible; only by violence. 1 '
was granted for PERFECTION OF CABINET WORK and workmanship generally, and a further
GOLD HE DAL for inventions and organisation. These awards were made at the Franco-British
Exhibition, London, 1908,, and to-day there are close upon 14,000 BEALE PIANOS in use through-
out Australia and the Islands, and even in France and England. We trust that after reading this you will
favor us with a call. If you have an old piano you want to dispose of, we shall allow you a fair
valuation for it, and accept it as part payment, We have a very large range of designs to choose
from, placing the BEALE PIANOS within reach of all buyers.
BEALE CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
-378 Ceorge Street, Sydney 3 Do o°Z£r 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 Queen Street, Brisbane (next G.P.O. —our Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Bundle Street, Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Goulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. Write for Catalogue f or for Representative to call.
Head Offices & Factories: Trafalgar Street, Annandaie, Sydney.
Cash or Easy Terms. 25 Years’ guarantee. Repairs and Tuning.
Old Pianos Allowed For. Direct from Factory to Family.
Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


ANY CYCLIST CAN WIN
the big Road Race IF he has a sufficiently generous
start allotted to him, but to accomplish FASTEST
TIME must mean either that the rider was the best
man in the race, OR that his bicycle was the speed-
iest and most reliable.
It is therefore interesting to note that, although
the fastest times in each of the following principal
road events of 1909 were put up by DIFFERENT
RIDERS, in each and every race they were res-
pectively riding a machine built of the famous
B.S.A. FITTINGS
WILL THIS CONVINCE YOU ?
WARRNAMBOOL- MELBOURNE ROAD RACE,
1909.
Fastest Time and World’s Record by I. R.
Munro on a B.S.A.
WARRNAMBOOL-MELBOURNE ROAD RACE,
1908.
Fastest Time and Championship by M.
Chappell on a B.S.A.
GOULBURN-SYDNEY ROAD RACE, 1909.
Fastest Time by H. Lundie on a B.S.A.
VICTORIAN TRADERS’ ASSOCIATION 100-MILE
ROAD RACE, 1909.
Fastest Time by S. Barker on a B.S.A.
BATHURST-SYDNEY ROAD RACE, 1909.
Fastest Time, F. D. Walcott, on a B.S.A.
TIMARU-CHRISTCHURCH ROAD RACE, 1909.
Fastest Time and Record by Jack Arnst
on a B.S.A.
LAUNCESTON-HOBART ROAD RACE, 1909.
Fastest Time by B. M. Duffy on a B.S.A.
BEVERLEY TO PERTH ROAD RACE, 1909.
First and Fastest Time by A. Pianto on a
B.S.A.
NORTHERN DISTRICT TRADERS’ ROAD RACE,
1909.
Fastest Time by C. J. Datson on a B.S.A.
SYDNEY TO MELBOURNE ROAD RECORD, 1909.
Lowered by J. Salvana on a B.S.A.
In the above important races, riders of locally-built
B.S.A. Bicycles won over £lOOO value in prizes. Your
local maker can build you a machine exactly the same as
ridden by the above ; but, before placing your order, get
a copy of the latest B.S.A. Handbook (Australasian
edition), and read all about the latest models of B.S.A.
Fittings, Eadie Coaster, Two-Speed Hubs, etc. It'will
interest you. Post free from
D.Y. RENNIE
(Representing the B.S.A.
Co., Ltd.),
5 Stock Exchange Buildings, Melbourne.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
A
#
I
9
The Milk Foods closely approximate In composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLJRYS Ltd., LONDON. * 15 - 17 Market Street, Sydney
h
ĥ
ħ
Patent
applied
for.
Send for free booklet,
“The Sole of Steel” —
or better still, order a
pair of Ruthstein’s
Steel Boots to-day.
Workers! Wear
RUTH STEIN’S
STEEL BOOTS
These wonderful working boots with soles
of steel, last 3 to 6 times as long
as best all leather boots—cost less,
need no repairs, give greater
protection and comfort.
The soles and an inch all round are pressed out
of one piece of light, thin, rust-resisting special
process steel. N o seams or ridges to hold mud or
moisture like ordinary boots.
Soles are studded with adjustable steel rivets
which take all wear, give firm, sure footing on
slippery surfaces, are easily renewed when worn
down—so extra rivets, costing 1/3, will keep boots
good as new for at least two vears. Lined with
soft, springy, comfortable hair cushion inner
soles, which rest feet, prevent chafing, soreness,
bunions, etc.
My Steel Boots protect feet agamst gravel,
jagg=d rocks, protruding nails, molten metal,
acid, etc. My Steel Boots are best working boots
for farmers, bushtnen, station-hands, miners,
navvies, foundrymen, chemical workers and
factory workers —in fact, for every man whose
feet are exposed to wet, to hard usage, or damage
from stones, etc.
Uppers are finest pliable waterproof leather
riveted to steel soles. My Steel Boots never
lose their shape, because the steel sole prevents
ippers crackirig, twisting, or warping. Leather
never becomes hard.
No wet or moisture can penetrate my Steel
Boots. Wearer is protected against colds, rheu-
matism, neuralgia, and all other ailments caused
by cold and wet feet. Outdoor workers who
wear my Steel Boots lose no time in wet weather,
and avoid many a visit to doctor.
My Steel Boots are strongest, most
durable, most comfortable, best looking,
cheapest working boots in the world. They have
6
6
9
My Steel Boots are made in all sizes from 5 to 12-
inches high
inches high, high quality leather, very durable
inches high, specially recommended for those who work ii
water or in mines ~
Give size of Boots you now wear.
10/6
12/6
14/6
done more for the working man's feet than any
other invention of the last hundred years. They
never requite soleing or heeling.
Mv Steel Boots are worn by farmers and
working men in all parts of the United Kingdom,
Canada, and the U.S.A,
Order a pair of my Steel Boots to-day. Try
them in your own home. If you don’t see at
once that my Steel Boots are easier, lighter,
warmer, drier, better for your money and better
for your feet than any working boots you have
ever had in your life—if you don’t want my
Steel Boots more than you want your money,
return them instantly, and every penny of your
money will be returned to you at once.
For information as to mv reliability and stan-
ding I refer you to the publisher of this paper.
Postage (Australia, 21-; New Zealand, 1/6) should be added to your
remittance. I strongly recommend every purchaser to buy 50 extra rivets,
costing 1/3. These will keep my Steel Boots in repair for two years.
NM D T nr H QTF I ISI Dept E Steel Boot Manufacturer,
. IVI. rvu 1 no 1 Din, Northampton. England.
Bankers —London, City and Midland Bank, Ltd., Northampton
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTL.ES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
The same blade
but a new edge every
h
morning
Don’t
confuse
the
Auto Strop
with any
other
Safety
Razor.
To strop the Auto Strop Safety Razor, insert the
strop through the razor itself—move the razor to and
fro —the blade reverses automatically at the end of each stroke,
thus stropping itself—in an instant you have a keen edge. The
i4uto&ti t op
Razoß
is far quicker, handier, and cheaper than a no-stropping razor—
gives an easy and luxurious shave—obviates the continual expense
for new blades necessary with ordinary safety razors.
25/-
and no The Standard Outfit consists of quadruple silver-plated, self-stropping razor!
further one dozen specially tested lancet-steel blades; one horsehide strop; the whole
expense contained iri handsome leather case, size 2 in. by 3! in.
Sold by all high-class dealers. You see it everywhere.
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., LTD.,
The Rialto. Collins Street, Melbourne, and
222, Clarence Street, Sydney.
Useful, Instructive, Handsome
Height 12 Inches.
IS
S. SMITH & SON S
{LTD.)
“EMPIRE"
AS Supplied ryj IJT h.m.
to AV* The Kin &
SHOWS THE EXACT TIME IN ANY PART OF THE WORLD
GLOBE BEAUTIFULLY COLOURED.
BASE HANDSOMELY-CHASED BRASS.
Price .. £3 3 O
Larger Size (15 inches) £6 6 O
Write for Catalogue, WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY
SPECIAL TERMS TO SHIPPERS.
9 Strand, London.
The EMPIRE CLOCK
may be obtained at the CUTLERY DEPARTMENT
of THE NEW PALACE EMPORIUM.
Anthony Hordern & Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium.
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
c?
8-HOUR
PRIZES Value £2250
ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 29,1910.
Ist Prize, value £5OO. 2nd Prize, value £250.
3rd Prize, value £lOO. And 297 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. J. Sawdv, Warner
Avenue, North Bondi, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 3.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from JOHN TRAVERS, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney.


TANDARD THEATRE, SYDNE
AUGUST 24th, 1910, 8 p.m.
PLAYGOERS’ DRAMATIC CLUB
will Present the Farcical Comedy,
BAD MBS. BENNETT,
Y,
By Agnes Chambers and J. Clarence Lee,
in Aid ol the District Nursing Association.
Act 11. generously staged ■ by Messrs. Anthony Hordern
and Sons. Prices—2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Mariajrer : J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
New English Farce Comedy Company
in THE BRASS BOTTLE.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT. AUG. 20,
THE FAMOUS ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY in
THE ODCHID.
Box Plan at Paling's. . Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE & CLYDE MEYNELL SEASON.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
THU AD.C ADI ANS.
Played by RUPERT CLARKE and CLYDE MEYNELL’S
NEW ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
First Appearance in Sydney of “ CHANTECLER,”
introduced by THE SHOW GIRLS.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
-l-HEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
I Lessee & Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
TO-NIGHT, AT 8,
NELLIE STEWAItT, Australia’s Idol,
in Paul Kester’s Romantic Play,
WHEN KNIGHTHOOD WAS
IN PLOWED.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Palinsr’s.
V. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
collectionof his best Verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, ss.
h
The “Home” Battery
for Home Use.
The JERDAN “HOME” BATTERY
for family use has won its way to
popularity by reason of its power
to give relief.
You never know when headaches,
toothaches, neuralgia, nervous
collapses are likely to occur, not
to mention rheumatism, sciatica,
lumbago, etc.
hi ALL these cases Jerdan’s “HOME”
BATTERY gives almost instant
relief and a speedy cure.
Simple to use —it can be' regulated for
man or child.
PRICE
Post Free,
JERDAN’S
(Formerly OSBORN 8 JERDAN),
“ MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS and ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
PAGING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE 3429.
ec'* L APPO ' Nr^
ft
HER EXCELLENCY
THE COUNTESS OF DUDLEY.
TELEPHONE 3429.
THE LEADING
HOUSE for
ALL RINDS
of
EXCLUSIVE
PERFUMERY,
LATEST
STYLES
of
ORNAMENTAL
HAIR SLIDES,
PINS and
NOVELTIES
for
COIFFEURS.
8S»
EXPERTS and
RELIABLE
SPECIALISTS
for COLORING
THE HAIR.
Advice in any
Matters
regarding
Fashicnable
Hairdressing
and Hairwork
Free of Charge
Personally
and by Corres-
pondence.
Novelty,
‘THE CURE TURBAN.”
The smart and soft effect obtained by the use of the Curl Turban is shown
in our illustration. Particulars and Prices forwarded on application.
JITEIDUE. <a LUX,
“THE. BLOCK,*’
294 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
SYDNEY.
Amusements.
pALACE THEATRE,
WEST’S "PICTURES,
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. :T. J, West.
WEST’S PICTORIAL JOURNAL OF EVENTS.
“ What the Papers give you for Breakfast West’s Pic-
tures will illustrate for your amusement Supper.’’
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
HE. _
.EVERY EYENIN6
UM
AT S.
Matinees -Wednesdays Satubdays and Holidays at 2 -30.
CPENCER'SHitATREJCOPE <?.
J PICTURES
///?/; SUPER.IO& TO PLL * OTHERS.
POPULAR PHIC.ES PLAW AT PALINGS.
SYDNEY GLACIARIUM.
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAIRY
10 co 12 Noon ; 3 to 5 p.m. ; 8 co 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION, 2s. ; SKATE HIRE, SIXPENCE.
CHlLDREN—Admission Morning:and Afternoon Only, Is.
Saturday Morning: Only, Sixpence.
Particulars of Season Ticket s will be sent on Application.
LAST THREE WEEKS OE THE SEASON.
’Phone, 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
| V O L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manaerer—Mr. llariiy Richards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
KREMO FAMILY, the Greatest of all Risley Acrobats.
MDE. LYDIA YEAMANS TITUS, High-class Vocalist.
PIP POWELL and KATE VESEY, presenting: a Rustic
Trifle —“ Where Are You Going: To ?”
FRED KEETON, England's Popular Comedian.
LIANE DE LYLE , and M. BRUNIN in their original
scena, “In a Billiard Room.”
BERT TERRELL, Dutch Comedian and Yodeller.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
MORRIS CRONIN AND PARTY, Jugglers.
GRACIE GRAHAME.
FANNY POWERS, Mimetic Artiste.
DONNELLY TRIO, Song and Dance Artists.
MENDEL, Blind Pianist.
LES WARTON. IRVING SAYLES.
RAYMOND TRIO.
VAUDE and VERNE, Comedians.
Plan at Allan’s. ISS" PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager— William Anderson.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 20,
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co. in
one of the Most Successful Dramas Ever Written,
THU WORK GIRL.
Magnificent New Scenery and Effects.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s, and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. .Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
THE WORLD-FAMOUS LYRIC TRAGEDY,
MADAM BUTTERFLY.
First Appearance in Grand Opera in Melbourne
of BEL SOREL and AMY CASTLES.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —os, 3s, 2s, Is.
I*HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 20,
MATHESON LANG and HUTIN BRITTON in the
Enormously Successful Play,
PETE,
Dramatised from Hall Caine’s Famous Play,
“THE MANXMAN.”
Plans at Allan’s. E® 1 "" PRICES AS USUAL.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 20,
JULIUS KNIGHT, KATHERINE GREY,
and a Brilliant Supporting- Co.
—IN—
THE THIRD DEGREE.
Prices as Usual. Plan at Allan’s.
tifEST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THE BEST
OF ALU. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
Tiie Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
p r i ces _6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
|y| ELBOURNE GLACIARIUIU,
ICE-SKATING
EVERY AFTERNOON
AND
EVENING.
IRTHS 01-YMPIA.
EVERY EVENING AT ——
Matinees-Wednesdays. Saturdays and Holidays atZOO.
C PENCER'SIbeatREJCOPE <?
Si RE SUPER. 108 ro *LL OTHERS.*
Popular Prices
pi am as Usual-*.
A™
E N AS. U M
Lessees
HALL. MELBOURNE.
J. & N. TAIT.
J.&N.TAIT’S
P ICT UR ES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS* Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan's.
TOWN OF GEELONG,
VICTORIA.
His Majesty’s Theatre
TENDERS are invited and will be received no
till 12 o’clock noon on SATURDAY, the
20th inst., for the lease of His Majesty’s Theatre,
Geelong, from 12th JUNE, 1911, until 31st
Conditions may be seen at Town Clerk’s Office.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted. WALTER, Town Clerk.
Town Clerk’s Office,
Geelong, Ist August, 1910.
Missing; Friends.
DARNES. —Anyone knowing the whereabouts of
D BENJAMIN and MATTHEW BARNES, squatters,
last heard of in New South Wales about the year 1865,
please communicate with their niece,
G. M. COLLISHAW (nie Price),
1 Garton Street, Petersborough, England.
/HARROW. —Anyone knowing the whereabouts of
JOHN GARROW, supposed to be either in Sydney
(N.S.W.) or Tasmania, please communicate with ins
nephew, JOHN GARROW,
22GIeneagles Terrace, Scotstown,
via Glasgow, Scotland.
Public Notices.
New Zealand Insurance Co.
Ltd.
SHAREHOLDERS ill the above Company are
hereby notified that a Dividend of Two
Shillings per Share for half-year ended 31st May
last, is now payable at the Company’s Office,
81 Pitt Street.
J. A. MINNETT, Manager.
£2OO REWARD.
Stolen from Westgrove
(UPPER DAWSON, QUEENSLAND),
About February this year, eighteen (18) unbroken
HORSES—seven fillies and eleven colts (two saddle and
balance draft), majority bays—branded BVS over distin-
guishing number on off shoulder, with number seven (7)
on cheek.
The above reward will be paid to any one (not being
the principal offender) giving information which will
lead to tiie conviction of the thief or thieves and the re-
covery of the stolen horses. For further information
refer to-the police or to the undersigned.
JOHN COLLINS & SONS.
Tamrookum, Beaudesert, Queensland.
August 4, 1910. ’
For Sale.
HIGH-CLASS DAIRYING FARM IN
FULL WORK.
FINEST LAND IN THIS STATE, 100 yards from
Wharf, and three miles from factory. Stocked with
the best of cattle, piggeries, and complete with
every modern equipment, comprising a Model Up-to-date
DAIRY FARM OF ABOUT 127 ACRES, thoroughly wtll
watered and securely fenced. Excellent opportunity
Gentleman’s Son desiring to walk into a highly remuner-
ative farming industry. Easy Terms.
I R. C. WATKINS & 00., 107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Legal Notices.
PURSUANT to an Older of the Court of Chancery of
the County Palatine of Lancaster Manchester Dis-
trict made in the matter of the Estate of: WILLIAM
PEILL deceased in an Action wherein John Peill is Plain-
tiff and Christopher Ashburner is Defendant 1910 Letter
P No. 118 whereby an enquiry was directed whether
MARIA ASHBURNER is now living or dead and if dead
whether she attained the age of 21 years or died under
that age leaving lawful issue and in either of such cases
when she died and who is her legal personal representa-
tive. ALL persons claiming to be the said Maria Ashburner
or to be her legal personal representative are by their
Solicitors on or before the 12th day of October 1910 to
come in and prove their claims at the Chambers of the
Registrar of the Manchester District of the said Court
situate at Duchy Chambers 4 Clarence Street in the City
of Manchester England or in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the said Order.
Thursday the 27th day of October 1910 at 11 o’clock in
the forenoon at the said Chambers is appointed for hear-
ing and adjudicating upon the claims. ALL persons
having knowledge of the whereabouts of the said Maria
Ashburner if living or if she has died of the time or place
of her death are requested to communicate with Messrs.
George Gatey &Son Ambleside England Solicitors.
NOTE.—The said Maria Ashburner is believed to have
left Bolton in the County of Lancaster England for Aus-
tralia in the year 1881 in the service of one Robert
Gregson of Bolton aforesaid.
Dated the 11th day of July 1910.
HUBERT WINSTANLEY,
Registrar.
gOUTH AUSTRALIA—IN THE SUPREME COURT
IN THE ESTATE OF HENRY PARKER (DECEASEI )
PURSUANT to the Trustee Act 1893 and to an Order of
Sir John Hannah Gordon one of the Judges of the Supreme
Court of South Australia made in the matter of the Estate
of HENRY PARKER late of Temora in the State <f
New South Wales Miner deceased the persons claiming
to be next of kin of the said Henry Parker deceased
whose supposed birth-place was Bromley Kent England
who left Birmingham for South Australia in or about
1851 and who died intestate on the Fourth day of June
1908 are hereby required to come in and prove their
claims at the office of the Master of the said Supreme
Court Victoria Square Adelaide in the State of South
Australia or in default thereof they may he excluded
from participation in the distribution of the Estate of the
said deceased. The Ist day of February 1911 at 11 o’clock
in the forenoon at the said office is appointed for hearing
and adjudicating upon the claims.
Dated the 29th day of July 1910.
W. & T. POPE,
Eagle Chambers, Adelaide,
South Australia,
Solicitors for the Public Trustee the Administrator of
the above Estate.
... Our ...
Dreadnought
has Arrived.
/
s
There is
Nothing to
Approach if
“Our Dreadnought ” is a watch, a pkrfkct watch
and TIMKKKEPRtt specially made for us, and is without,
doubt the best moderate-priced Watch ever
offered. The price—l7/G, post free anywhere.
Nickel-cased, keyless, 'they are regulated to the
second, and we guarantee to send watch that
will not vary in the slightest from one week’s end to
another. Our written warranty to keep in perfect
order for two years accompanies every watch.
OSBORN 8 CO., LTD.
(formerly of
Osborn & Jerdan),
Jewellers & Opticians, 480 George Street. Sydney.
CHEAP EDITION of “ON THE HOP,”
Price 2/6. Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The BuM-ETIN Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
The Tasmanian Government, although it
has until April, 1912, before it meets its antici-
pated doom at the hands of the electors, is already
showing signs of a suspicion that the abbreviated
remarks of Daniel are upon the wall, or there-
abouts. It has just introduced a whole batch of
democratic measures, including a Factories Bill
for the protection of women and children, a
Wages Board Bill, an amendment of the Closer
Settlement Act providing for the compulsory
acquisition of some of the huge estates which
heel-rope progress in the Flyspeck, a Pure Foods
Bill on up-to-date lines ; and, in addition, it pro-
mises an Unimproved Land-value Tax Bill and an
Income Tax Bill with reasonable exemptions. As
it is not improbable that 10, at least, of the dis-
creet 18 in the House of Dodery have also
seen the hieroglyphics on the fence, some of
these proposals may even become law. At any
rate, the Government will have to its credit the
passage of the measures through one House, and
will appeal to the electors, when the time comes,
for the reward due to good intentions.


Shipping;.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund’s Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
f Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by this Steamer.
BOUND THE WOULD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mki.so'jrnk Aohnts ; JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
A met Ainu & Erkmantlk Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
ORVIETO .
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO .
OTWAY
ORSOVA .
ORONTES.
OMRAH .
OPHIR
ORMUZ .
Twin-Screw
12,130 Tons.
12.120 „
12,124 ~
12,077 ~
12,036 „
9,023 „
8,282 „
6,814 ~
6,465 „
Sailing- every fortnight from BRISBANE,. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking;, Public Companies, &c.
of Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office; Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co.. Ltd.), j
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET. 1
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britaih
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at I n t e res t fdr
fixed periods, and
transacts nil other usual Baiikitur business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000.009
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydneyt
LONDON OFFICE-2 King William Street, E.C. \
DIRECTORS— PhiIip H. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Hon,
Sir Francis B. Suttor, Ivt., M.L.O. ; Ciiarlks H. Mylf.s : ,
Esq. ; Rowland H. Duckkr, Esq. ; Sir William P.
Manning, Kt. ; Gkorgk J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth and
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world;
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. £513,632 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,449 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 74,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. i
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews!
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Canrion Street, London
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial ffjutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Hica d Ofvic'k : ■ j
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3.000.60(1.
Policies IssvT|p<T''ll6.ls4—Assuring £33.888.510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Oil IKK O FRICK FOR Nl«\V SOUTH WALKS I
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hoi., C. J. Rowans, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
.The Hon. Bruch Smith, K.C., M.P. \
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary, j
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
THE OCEAN
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood, Esq.; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.); Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L. A. ; E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
'THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
• * ' AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne,
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £30,000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C. M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; J. H.
MacFarland, Esci., M.A., LL.D. ; AlexanderM‘Oracken.
JAMES BORROYVMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
Nord Deutscher Lloyd.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Arriving in London in good time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR - WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
Gd. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
TH€ RB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
• Twin Screw, a One class only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ~ From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Branch Service.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &.C., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
OALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ĥ
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
August 31.
MEDIC, 12.000 tons, to sail about
September 28.
AFRIC, *SUEVIC and *PERSIC to follow
* Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Only One Class of Accommodation*
FARES—Capetown or Durban j-JS 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne 1 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
ħ
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
WINTER TOURS i
to Papua and the Pac.fic Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Sept. 23, Nov. 4 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Sept. 9, Oct. 21 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
h
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT. —INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to £25,000 at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.— CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
Full particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
Office. j. h. DAVIES, Secretary.
BANK
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liabilii;
Proprietors
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
- - ’ - £2,500,000
£1,750,000
|[7SPP) £2,500,000
DIRECTORS:
£6,750,000
Tiie lion. C. K. MacKcUar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Nomiand MaeLaurin, lit., M.L.O.
Senator The Hon. Janies Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors : William Harrington Palmer, Esq. ; Siiepheard Edgecliff Laid ley, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 305 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua ; and Agents and Correspondents
throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the
United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on* Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J- RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
i
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and Victoria. Thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE 1
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Grantala, Aug. 19.
S.S. Yongala, Aug. 26
(Melbourne only).
'S.S. Kanowna, Sept. 17
(To Fremantle without
transhipment).
BRISBANE
MACIiAT
TOWNSVILLE
And Pores North to Oiirns.
S.S. Gran tala, Aug. 27.
S.S. Yong-ala, Sept. 3.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Pore of call with other inter-State Companies on ai
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
T o VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER,
t Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Laundry on board.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-street., Sydney.
F.—H. —5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “SOMERSET,”
11.300 Tons. B. G. Hayward Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE about 2nd Sept.
„ „ SYDNEY ~ 7th Sept.
~ ~ MELBOURNE ~ 10th Sept.
,i ~ ~ ADELAIDE ~ 14th Sept.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL*!. } £49 10s - £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER, SMITH & Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Hotels, &c.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX ” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing' it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.


The WORLD S
. fjread
4 r*rk
A <V'n
7. ss.fa/A
1(7,, - r
v / '/*
7 w /V ' l l' I /J ' W
, 'l foW'i V /'A / dp f(japeople realize
l Jfuhlstonishing fact that
it Vl A, i(n '/ “fyk^Cormick’
inders hajj)e J toPfhe past due
cokside
■TV- :\V
r
*7®
A
w
rxi
\
?tr-
safe /o estimate that \io\e ffian One Million of these
(years considerably more than One Half the
\world’s supply of Wtteat, Oat§-Tsarley, and Rye.
The sale of these machines has, dufryg invariably exppeded One
hundred Thousand per an
\ln the Harvest of 1909
Binder were engaged.
It wmld require approximately Twenty Million men to do tfiei\
than the combined armies ofdhe world.
No offier machines (ff (apy character or for any purpose are so universally
pre-eminet
They pr\tically stdnd between Humanity and Starvation.
Their solid merit has enabled them to distance al (^competition.
N-m
k - far more
v
:.xF,O:
than
:■
A larger number of them will be put out in 1910
has
ever previously been sold in any one year,
-M
s3s
S
LA
V*.
&
&
&
£r\
*
r*
kV
e
K 7
h
ITS
A
j+m
R
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
Roma Street, Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney.
545 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
17 Bank Street, Adelaide. 75 York Street, Launceston.
(INCORPORATED)
GEO. WILLS & CO., Perth. General Agents for W.A. (Deering)
WM. SANDOVER & CO . Perth, General Agents for W.A. (McCormick)
no7i
ĥ
“I WON’T HAVE A GREY MOUSTACHE!” WM
It doesn’t pay nowadays—you MUST look as voung as you feel 1
McGEE’S MOUSTACHE DYE
> will give your moustache a beautiful natural Brown or Black color
within 30 minutes of application—and it won’t wasli off.
3/- a Bottle; N.S.W. post -free, 3/2 Inter-State.
McGEE’S CELEBRATED HAIR STAIN, 4/6 and 8/6 a bottle ;
Postage—9d. extra N.S.W., 1/2 Interstate.
ANDREW McGEE,
GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSER,
5 and' 7 Castlereag'h Street, corner Hunter Street, Sydney.
CAPILLARIftre the moustache producer
*2
\
Don’t Look Too Youthful!
CAPILLARINE
is a certain producer of a lons', soft moustache in a
shorter time than any other pomade on the market.
It has been an unqualified success for the last 25 years. TRY IT NOW,
and you will have a strong moustache very early.
PRICE 10/6 A JAR, Post Free Anywhere.
Craig & Aitken, 654 George St,, Sydney,
Established 30 Years.
s 5l
S
J


IN
BANANA LAND
Surveyor Amos, of the Queensland De-
partment of Lands, has just come back from a
motor-car trip through Western Queensland. He
was sent out by the Government to report on the
proposed routes for the transcontinental railway,
and he reckons the people down south have no
idea of the splendid country the proposed line
would pass through. Possibly the prospect of
getting the line to pass through the country has
improved the country; but, somehow, Amos
doesn’t mention whether the dragging of the line
a few hundred miles out of its course would im-
prove the line. Yet that’s the aspect that Aus-
tralia has to consider. It is wondeiful, by the
way, how circumstances alter cases. A year or
two ago the North Gregory Rabbit Board, which
supervises a vast area of south-western Queens-
land, declared it to be “ the worst country in
Australia” ; but then it was looking for a subsidy
from the Treasury at Brisbane—not setting up a
case for a railway.
One W. H. Ramm, of Ulam, near Rock-
hampton, is calling the Queensland Government
various hard names. He alleges that in 1896 he
wrote to the Department of Agriculture announc-
ing that he had found out how to prevent the
spread of red water caused by ticks; his method
was to inoculate the clean stock with the blood
of a recovered beast. The Department told
him that his supposed discovery was mere
conjecture, as he had not thoroughly tested it.
Ramm asserts that the Government, neverthe-
less, subsequently used his discovery as its own,
and then refused to pay him anything. Recently
he renewed his claim for payment, and in a letter
to Minister Barlow stated that he had also dis-
covered a simple remedy for tick fever, which was
effective even when the animals had reached the
gone-in-the-legs stage; and that he had formu-
lated a method by which, at a cost of about £lOOO,
the spread of ticks could be prevented. The
Department of Agriculture told him this time
that if he confidentially disclosed his plans to the
Minister they would be considered, and something
would be done for him if they turned out all right.
He replied briefly that he had been taken down
once and wasn’t going to risk it a second time.
And that’s how the matter stands at present.
Labor member Maughan put up a strong
plea in the Queensland Parliament, a"few nights
ago, for the encouragement, of the State’s iron
trade, and urged the Phidston Fusionists to jetti-
son the craze for importing iron implements.
Said Maughan :
I cannot understand the attitude taken up by the
Premier some time ago when it was understood that we
were going to indent dredges that, could easily be made
in the State. It is on a par with the extraordinary action
of the Government in importing locomotives involving a
cost of £60,000 in connection with which the taxpayers
had to find no less than £20,000 in freight, every penny
of which could have been saved by a little more sympathy
on the part of the Administration. That magnificent
structure, the Victoria Bridge, was manufactured in
Queensland; the superstructures of the Indooroopillv
Bridge, the Fitzroy Bridge, the Sadlier’s Crossing Bridge
are all standing monuments to the splendid work that
can be done by our own artisans. And if they are capable
of turning out work of that charactar, surely we can
build a few tinpot dredges and locomotives.
Queensland was one of the first States to start the
manufacture of locomotives, railway carriages,
dredges, irqn bridges and the like. Walker’s, of
Maryborough, was a-flame of note in the early
history of the Australian iron industry. In these
degenerate Phidston days Queensland is falling
away somewhat from its.good old reputation, but
even in the worst Phidston times it is surely an
insult to; import locomotives. Queensland is still
capable of exporting locomotives.
The Queensland Inspector of Orphanages
is a hard, matter-of-fact individual, and he lays
the axe to the root of a certain iniquity in this
fashion: —
It is strange to have to report that the results obtained
from boarding children with their own mothers has not
been so satisfactory as that obtained by boarding
children with foster-mothers. ... It is only when a
mother goes to extremes that the charge of neglect can
be brought against her. . . . Religious and moral training
of children with their own mothers is in puny cases ab-
solutely neglected. . . . The reports on the work of
foster-mothers are entirely satisfactory.
Even so does the official iconoclast knock the
bottom out of countless tuns of sentimental
poetry re the virtues of “ Mother,” and set up a
new image in her stead. We may yet see Society
trotting round, wearing a rose in honor of Foster-
Mothers’ Day.
The Queensland Railway Department has
accepted tenders for the construction locally of 60
locomotives of the 815 passenger class. This
means spending over £200,000 within the State,
which is a far better thing than putting it into
the pocket of J. Bull or Uncle Sam or Hans
Sauerkraut. Walkers Limited, of Maryborough,
will build 30 of the engines; the Toowoomba
Foundry Co., 20; and Evans, Anderson and
Phelan, of Brisbane-, 10. The Walker people
have undertaken to have their lot finished by the
end of August, 1911. They recently completed a
similar contract, and turned the locomotives out
at the rate of three a month ; so they don’t talk
without knowing what they are talking about.
When they have finished the present 30, this one
company’s score will be 170 not out.
KEEPING THEIR SPIRITS UP.
“ What is the meaning of all those saddle-horses outside the pub on Sunday afternoon?”
“ There's a funeral on the track a bit ahead. Most of them will catch up to it again.”
F. W. S. Cumbrae Stew r art, appointed
first Registrar of the Queensland University, is a
Maorilander by birth and a barrister by profes-
sion. He was educated at the Melbourne and
Geelong Grammar Schools and afterwards at
Oxford and on the Continent, and was admitted
to the English Bar in 1887 ; but, though he has
since been admitted to the Bar in three Aus-
tralian States—N.S.W., Victoria and Queensland
—he hasn’t managed to make much of a success
of the pursuit of Costs. He isn’t built that way.
A quiet registrarship, with books all around him,
will suit him a heap better.
The Queensland Licensing Act Amend-
ment Bill th reatens to break up parties this
session. The Government following contains a
powerful Beer Brigade and also an influential
temperance crowd. The Labor party has also a
section that slopes towards Boniface, and a more
powerful subdivision that looks for State control
as a road to ultimate prohibition. The Amending
Bill provides compensation for dispossessed pub-
licans on the lines of the Victorian Act—which
proposition fills both gangs with rage. The public-
house multitude holds that the proposed compen-
sation is so insufficient that the thing is sheer rob-
bery ; while the pump-water myriad reckons that
the publican is accursed and the spawn of Beelze-
bub, and should get no compensation at all, but
should simply he hanged and have his pub burned
down. A middle push, clan or horde says that
the roar of the combatants makes its head ache.
It isn’t expected that anything special will
happen.
“ Caber ” : “ Cleo’s ” remarks about seven
year old kiddies being offered up as sacrifices to the
goddess Cow (B. 21/7/TO) reminds me that a little
Queenslander, aged 5j years, living down on the
Brisbane River, was, till lately, milking six cows
twice a day, while his father, who was sickly,
milked four. When the father died the kiddie
took up the old man’s burden, as well as his own,
and milked the whole ten.
*‘ Quan ” : Be Bananaland’s volcanic lakes.
There are two on the top of Mount Maroon, near
Boonah. The Binghi name for them is Dahl-
moor-uhn—Maroon is a corruption of part of the
word—which means “ the big waterholes of the
bunyip.” Like the Coalstoun lakes mentioned
by “Itan”(B. 16/6/TO), they have no visible inlet
or outlet. During the big drought, a few years
ago, they provided drinkables to 350 head of
stock, and the supply went down only about a
foot. Mount Maroon is 3300 ft. high.
The first case under the clause of the
Queensland Mining Act dealing with the valu-
ation of freehold allotments within the bound-
aries of mining leases, came up for hearing at
Charters Towers the other day. One Peter
Ericsen asked that the value of the gold on his
allotment within Pfeiffer’s Day Dawn lease should
be estimated. The reef in the allotment is 4000 ft.
from the surface and 1500 ft. away from the nearest
workings. The warden assessed the value at £lO,
which the Pfeiffer Co. will have to pay if it ever
wants to dig two-thirds of a mile below Ericsen’s
allotment—an event which may happen next cen-
tury, or again it may not.
J. C. Kent, who has been Acting-Collector
of Customs in Queensland since W. H. Irving
retired from the billet on six months’ leave in
February last, has been nailed down to the job.
He is a Brisbane native and has been in the Cus-
toms 44 years, and can now scent bogus invoices
before they have turned round the last corner.
“Bill Sticker”: The severest sufferers
under Boodle Booth’s sweating system are the
femaleofficers “stationed” way-out in thedull,dis-
mal, stony-broke, one-horse bush townships. Dur-
ing some 17 years of swag-hutnping in the backblox
of every State in the Commonwealth, I have hap-
pened across some heart-rending distress amongst
female Salv’army officers. In one small mulga
township the lady “capting” and her “lieu-
tenant ” had long forgotten what three decent
square meals a day were like! For one whole
week the two unfortunate lasses lived solely on
stale bread and dripping ! As for salary—during
their 11 weeks’ campaign against Old Sin in
that forgotten hamlet, they never knew the pos-
session of.a single copper ! Their pathetic banjo-
tinkling and drum-banging on dreary, sultry
nights at the entrance of the pub didn’t coax
enough of the elusive coppers into the collection-
box to pay for the rent of the dilapidated old
hall! Fearing headquarters’ reprimand for their
lack of cadging ability, they starved, did their
own washing, and camped on the hard floor of
the draughty, semi-private old hall rather than
report their abject failure to persuade the denizens
of that Mulga town to pay their spare silver into
Booth’s account. Sweated city factory damsels
lead a life of ease and luxury compared to the
Blood and Fire bush coin-collectors !
The Blending.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fpHEY tell in Syria how, when Life was
young
-®- And all the fate of worlds uncertain hung,
That Allah took a lily and a rose,
An apple, too, that by the Dead Sea grows,
A little honey, sweet as buds o’ May,
A handful, too, of white and dainty clay,
A serpent then, whose sinuous twist and wile
Proclaimed him versed in manj’ ways of guile—
These blended Allah all in careless wise,
And gazed thereon with calm, expectant eyes.
The rose concealed a thorn ; the flower was frail;
The Dead Sea apple reeked of Sodom’s vale ;
The honey cloyed ; the serpent hissed alway;
And then the clay—what could it be but clay?
Upon the form gazed Allah unimpassioned,
And lo! ’twas Woman that his hand had
fashioned !
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, August 13, 1910.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The Governor-General Dudleys have upset us
dreadfully. They had accepted the clan Mae-
gregor’s invitation for “the week,” and the clan
had got in a new one or two of everything; and
then the bomb fell—the G.-G.’s had thought
better of it. Then the clan began to see
that it must think better of a few things, too.
Among other items, the great reception had to
go. A thousand invitations were out and accepted,
and several gross of costumes had been ordered
from Melbourne and Paris, Sydney and Siam ; so
when a bald notification appeared in the columns
of the dailies to the effect that, as Full Court
Mourning was still in force, no public entertain-
ments were possible, the women folk simply sat
down and wept. Of course, let us be respectful
or die ; but why—oh, why couldn’t they have
found out the letter of the law a little sooner ?
Queenslanders are true to old loves, and
the appearance of the Chelmsford couple on the
showground was the signal for a rush of popular
enthusiasm. The Exhibition was a record of
records, and entirely blew out last year’s Jubilee
effort. The attendance was thick, and people
were so completely lost that they had to advertise
for themselves in the lost-dog column next morn-
ing. It was a show of strange things, notable
among them being a wonderful animal on a tea
cosy, alleged to be a horse; and several objects in
the art section, said to secrete a fluid much used by
infants. There were also two real Queensland-bred
ostriches and several eggs, the latter supposed to be
the result of each morning’s attention to business
by Mrs. O. In reality, the eggs were blown speci-
mens, and the aforesaid lady thoughtfully turned
them over now and then, so that the general
public might not be hoodwinked.
The most sensational incident was provided by
Mr. Ernest Baynes, who, with a thoughtfulness
becoming a councillor of the society, had his
single-harness gee-gee make a bolt for the outer
gate and clear it in fine style just at the moment
when the vice-regal box. and every other available
spot in the grand-stand was overflowing on opening
day. It was the cheering hurled at him for win-
ning the Governor’s special prize that set Comet
capering through space, and the turn at least
■erved to show what a horse and a man can do
without getting themselves hurt.
At the official lunch, some kindly waiter emptied
a bottle of soda down the back of your Excellency
lady, just to remind her of flood times in Queens-
land. The harmless fluid distributed itself like
the milk of human kindness upon her gown, and
sundry agitated waiters mopped it up with swabs
and apologies.
The Chelmsford couple spent a short but strenu-
ous time here. The lady visited her Institute
(where the babies are supplied with pure milk),
and afterwards he and she prowled over the new,
carotty-headed Cathedral that will soon be
opened, and looked in at the various hospitals and
the creche. Finally, they were entertained by a
mixed gathering under the auspices of the National
Council of Women, where his Ex. explained that,
as he had been informed that men were allowed
in only on sufferance, he was doing simply what
he was told to do. The Vision attended the
visitors as the prop and stay of local vice-royalty.
The Sydney tennis team arrived in the midst;
of the excitement, and after enjoying President
Love’s annual outing, is now busy reducing the
hope of Queensland in the championships to fine
powder.
The smartest among the visitors within our
gates is Mrs. A. White, from Sydnevside, whose
Irish crochet robe was the finest millinery effort
at the Saturday’s races. Other well-turned-out
shes were Mrs. Vi vers, Miss Celia Cooper and
Mrs. .Adolph Feez —the last in a cunning white
mushroom on top of a blue gown.
Quite the finest thing in balls was the final
“ Assembly ”on Thursday evening. Upon it the
accumulated funds of the concern were lavished,
with the result that it put into the shade any other
entertainment of its kind in this city. The deco-
rations—hollyhocks prevailed—were the work of a
local flower-worker, who ought to be proud of them;
and there was an elaborate supper, and an entirely
illegal arrangement of sitting-out nooks. Most
wonderful of all, there were enough young and
enegetic dancing men to go round.
There was another notable ball during this
whirling week—the Mater, hop, when several
hundreds, watched by several other hundreds,
revolved at great speed in the Exhibition Hall to
the music of the Moreton Band. There was one
debutante—Miss Ivy Nichols —a pretty damsel in
begathered draperies. The financial results are
said to be as large as the list of- J. Cook’s grie-
vances.
Another engagement—Miss Libette Shand, a
Toowong maiden, to Mr, H. Hughes, who hails
from the woolly wilds.
Dolores is in Cairns, among the sugar-canes and
bananas. Chillagoe was a voice crying from the
wilderness for a visit, but the time-limit prevented
Dolores going 140 miles to reply in song. She will
be back here presently on her way to Dubbo,
which in friendly rivalry with its neighbor, Well-
ington, is trying to see which will have the bigger
house.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
At the Telephone.
A CONFIDENTIAL CHAT.
HE: That you, sweetheart?
SHE: Yes, darling; what is it?
HE: Oh, I want you to do something for me. I quite
forgot to ask you, before I came away this morning, to buy
me a bottle of Odol.
SHE: Speak louder; I can’t hear. A bottle of what?
HE: Odol; O-d-o-1, Odol. You know, the famous pre-
paration for the teeth.
She : All right; I won’t
forget. 111 make a memo-
landum at once that you
want something for your
teeth. I’ll ask them at the
shop to give me the best
powder they have for the teeth.
lle (shouting) : No, no, no ! I don’t want tooth-powder.
She : All right; I’ll get get you tooth-soap.
He : No, no, no ; I don’t want tooth-soap, either.
She (rather irritably) : Then what do you want, darling?
He : Odol, sweetheart. Tooth-powders and tooth-soaps
are no good. They don’t get into the crevices and between
the teeth, so they are useless for preventing fermentation, which
causes the teeth to decay. Odol gets into every crevice of
the 1 mouth, and washes away everything that may do harm.
It penetrates the interstices of the teeth and the mucous
membrane of the mouth. It is an antiseptic, and its refreshing
effect lasts for several hours after using it. That is why I
don’t want you to get me anything else but Odol. All my
friends use it now.
She : All right, darling; I’ll get you a bottle of Odol-
Good-bye.
He : Stop a minute ; don’t ring off. Say, sweetheart !
She : What is it ?
He : There are two sizes of Odol —one at eighteenpcnce
and one at half-a-crown. Buy the half-crown bottle, for ii
is much more economical, as it contains double the quantity
of the other flask.
She : All right. Good-bye, darling.
They ring off.


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS of the
Great poseidon Diluvial Gold mining Company
NO LIABILITY, TARNAGULLA,
Increased capital, £15,000, in 60,000 Shares of ss. each, being' an increase of 50 000 Shares on the original capital
of the Company.
10,000 Shares fully paid up to ss. each will be issued to the shareholders in proportion to their present holdings.
10,000 Shares fully paid up to ss. eath will be issued for Underwriting, Brokerage, etc.
20,000 Shares will be issued to the Public in terms of Is. on application, and Is. on allotment.
10,000 Shares will be held in reserve.
50,000
Directors :
Dr. J. TREMEARNE, Collins Street, Melbourne.
BENJAMIN HOADLEY, Esq., St. Kilda Road, Melbourne.
HERBERT M. S. COX, Esq., Daylesford.
WILLIAM H. QUICK, Esq., Collins Street, Melbourne.
SEPTIMUS G. BROWN, Esq., Railway Offices, Melbourne.
JOHN B. THOMAS, Esq., Collins Street, Melbourne.
Manager :
FRANK A. RUSSELL, 19 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Bankers :
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
Solicitors :
RUSSELL AND RUSSELL, South British Buildings, Queen Street, Melbourne.
Auditor :
THOMAS HAMILTON, 60 Queen Street, Melbourne.
THE Company was formed with a small capital of £2500 to acquire and test Lease No. 8538, Bendigo, containing
90l acres of virgin country (about miles in extent). The property is 5 miles from Tarnagulla, and from its
peculiar position, as the basin which catches nearly all the famous rich leads of the district, the lease is con-
t? f J ne °. the „ nche!,t alluvial mining properties in Australia. These leads are the Nick o’ Time, Poseidon,
olshed, Federation, German Gully, Chisholm's Flat, Stony Creek, Growler’s Lead, Slip Up and Doggett’s.
the Govern -— 1 -‘• 1 ‘ ■ - r ~
Having thus fully proved the value of their property, and substantiated the theories of Government and private
perts, the Shareholders now think the time is ripe to coniiiieime a vigorous police of development, and for this
comm l enced Caßltal ° £ tHe ooill P a,,y is bein S increaBed to £16,000, and work on shaft sinking will be immediately
The management of the mining operations is in the hands of thoroughly tried and competent men.
Ihe record of this district is a sensational one. The Nick o’ Time lead, f-nnle long, yielded about £200,000. The
famous I oseidon gutter is 300 feet wide at present, and gets richer as it approaches the Great Poseidon lease. No
lead has yet been found in Australia so rich and consistent.
The leads thus converging towards this ground are precisely similar to those which united to form the “Madame
ciflebrated * &S P olllted out ' by Mr. Reginald Murray, come from the same line of reef passing through that
REPORTS,
H 2"’L tfc : rainincr ex P ert , writes in his official report on nuggets found in the Poseidon lead
„„„ l u h ® h f a( of the Poseidon lead, the shallow sinking is in dark brown surface soil and clav, and it was in this
h,n d , the J“ r !?est nuggets were found. The ‘ Poseidon,’ weighing 9530 z. in the gross, was found within 10
! £ bes °! , t o<?- Burfnc< V the ‘ Xmas Box '’ 37:10z - I the ‘ Hazel,’ 5020 z. ; the ‘ Georgina,’ 86Aoz. ; the ‘ Leila,’ 6750 z. ; the
f„i,* a ’ 3870z '.> a,ld a smaller specimen of 210 z., were all discovered in this surface clay. All this gold was
taken from a strip of ground 84 feet in length. The gross yield was 3000 oz.”
H°"' t ' f ' then deals seriatim with ihe various claims on the lead, and the aggregate amount of gold won in
nuggets alone up to 1907 totalled 5200bz.) *
i'iiK S / ,a "^ y H'inter, engineer in charge of extensive boring operations, reports on the Nick o’ Time lead, one of
the tribut iry leads making for the Company’s lease
1 0 Time, four miles eastward from Tarnagulla, commenced about the end of 1904, and within a
K" jf ¥'i of gutter from 10 to 40 feet wide, about £200,000 worth of gold was won. Manv nuggets were
H.ri a . u °" B ' t,he WHrk,r, kB. and eighteen of the largest totalled 1200 oz. of gold. Sinking varied 'from surface of
the lead of the gutter to 102 feet at the lower end.”
i Latest reports from the district show that two new leads have been discovered, making for the Great Poseidon
lease, l artieulars of all bores may be obtained and plans inspected at the Company's office, 19 Queen Street, Melbourne.
CUT 1 HIS OUT
To FRANK A. RUSSELL, 19 Queen Street,, Melbourne.
Dear Sir, Please allot me shares in the Great Poseidon Alluvial G.M. Co. N.L. in terms of
prospectus, for ivhich I enclose the sum of £ , being, at the rate of Is. on application, and 1 agree to
accept the said shares, or any less number that may be allotted to me, subject to the Rules and Regulations of
the Company, and to pay the further sum of Is. per share 6n the allotment of the shares to me.
Dated this day of 1910.
Name in full ;
Address > _ ........i.
Occupation ;
Signature
9ir
<6.
Self-Shaving a Pleasure!
For the man who shaves himself there is no razor like
the PLUM. Its blade is of pure silver steel, tempered
and hollow ground to a fine shaving- edge, and used by
a large number of barbers all over the Sl ate. We guar-
antee and keep it in order two years free of charge.
Price 10/6
Post Free in the
Commonwealth.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Strong Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop. 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above. Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITREN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
Do You see that WV
ASBESTOS SOCK ?
Asbesto=Plims DO NOT DRAW THE
FEET, and this is the reason.
SAND SHOES.
Postage extra —
Adult sixes, 9d. ; Children's, 6d.
THE ASBESTO-PLIM is furnished with an Asbestos
Sock, vulcanised on so that it cannot get out of place.
Asbestos is a perfect insulator, and used as a sock
prevents the heat from external influences striking
through to the foot, thus reducing perspiration to a minimum
and greatty increasing the comfort.
That unpleasant and even painful burning sensation, usually referred to as “drawing the feet,”complained
of by wearers of the ordinary piiinsoll and other rubber-soled shoes, has always been a drawback in the rubber
shoe trade. Every retailer knows that many buyers of plimsolls, especially of children’s sizes, have grave mis-
givings about doing while a very great number will not purchase rubber shoes of this description at all,
because of this complaint. The cause of all the trouble we have now successfully overcome. Allay
the fears of your friends by recommending
NOVELTY RUBBER CO.’s ASBESTO-PUMS
which from a hygienic point of view have nothing but advantages.
IT IS THE ONLY RUBBER SHOE ON THE MARKET WITH AN ASBESTOS SOCK.
We cut these insoles to fit any size shoes—a boon to those who suffer from
tender feet. Men’s, 1/6; Women’s, 1/3 per pair. Postage Free.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NOVELTY RUBBER CO., 250 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS. Write for Catalogue “B,” posted free.
»Sfi
SS »»»IH*V lIV
s.oxsisoa
“PARROT
BRAND”
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
3
Bosisto’s “ Parrot Brand ” Eucalyptus Oil,
the Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
Bruises, Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
THE
OS
Emulsion
A COD LIVER OIL EMULSION as prescribed for the Patients in the Melbourne Women's
and Children’s Hospitals and Consumptive Sanatoria at Echuca and Macedon.
HYPOL is a scientifically-prepared Emulsion, containing 50 per cent, of COD LIVER OIL. It is highly
recommended for all pulmonary affections, loss of weight, weakness following on Influenza, and
wasting diseases generally. Children especially are very fond of this delicately-flavored preparation.
HYPOL will be found a strengthening and weight-producing‘food, and it is particularly valuable in the
Winter months in counteracting the
iil-effects of cold and damp weather.
To be obtained of Leading Chemists.


Eruption Spread Over Face and
Body—Shamefully Disfigured —
Had to Tie Hands and Feet and
Bandage Face to Stop Agonized
Scratching—Even Specialists
THOUGHT IT INCURABLE
BUT CUTICURA CURED HER
“Some three years ago I suffered from
a slight rash which grew gradually to
such a pitch that it developed into
weeping eczema. So bad was I, the
disease spreading over my face and
whole body, that I would only* go out
wearing a veil so extremely thick that
my features were unrecognizable and I
myself could hardly see. In addition
to this, every night, on account of the
terrible itching and sores, my hands had
to be bound up and then tightly tied
behind my back and as even then so
intolerable was the agony that I would
scratch where possible with my feet and
rub my face against the bed clothes; my
parents had eventually to firmly tie my
feet together and bind a silk handker-
chief all over my face.
“I mention these facts with reluc-
tance but they show the condition to
which I was reduced. This went on for
nearly two years in spite of specialists
and treatments at two hospitals, but
all gave mo up as incurable. I was then
advised to try Cuticura and, being des-
perate, did so. I slept better the first
night, and persevering, the itching grad-
ually grew less, and the sores disap-
peared. Now lam free from blemish,
rid of the irksome bandages and can
dispense with a veil. My cure is so
wonderful and complete that I feel I
should like others to know of this and,
though you will quite appreciate from
the above facts my not disclosing my
name, I hope that you will see fit to
publish this letter for the benefit of
others. lam now only twenty, so you
will understand what my cure means
to me. L y G m, Grand Pa-
rade, Eastbourne, Eng., Aug. 27, 1909.”
lt. Towns & Co., Sydney.
Cuticura la the most economical treatment known
for the skin, scalp, hair and hands, of infants,
children and adults. A tablet of Cuticura Soap and
a box of Cuticura Ointment are orten sufficient to
cure. Sold throughout the world. Depots: London,
27, Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 10, Rue de la Chaussee
d'Antin; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney: U.S.A.,
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
f!®'Post-free 32-page Cuticura Book, a complete
Guide to the Care of the Skin and Scalp and the
Best Treatment of their Diseases.
HOW “ANTINEURASThTn"
REMEDIES NERVOUS BREAKDOWN.
It is, in the first place, essentially a food —not a mere
drug stimulant. It is a food that feeds the whole of the
nervous system with those elements the lack of which in
the structural tissues constitutes the neurasthenic con-
dition. It is so easily assimilated that in one hour it is
fully assimilated, thus creating quickly a renewed mental
and physical vigor. This is not mere stimulation ; but is
really the sensati >n produced by the actual assimilation
and storage of those refined elements necessary to nerve
comfort and vigor. This uplifting is not—as in the case
of tonics and stimulants—a mere transient whipping up,
but an actual addition to the nerve-structure and nerve-
strength of the individual. Readers of The Bulletin are
invited to test “ Antineurasthin,” as also to read the
wo helpfully-informing pamphlets enclosed with the trial
supply of “ Antineurasthin,” which can be obtained by
sending your name and address (together with stamps or
postal notes for Is.) to the Wholesale Distributor for Aus
tralia and New Zealand, H. A. GODDARD, Eagle Street
Brisbane.
WHY STAY
FAT? „
Ten thousand Fat Women
have been restored to
normal. So may yon.
“FATCURE ”
is a harmless and pleasant cure for Obesity.
In average cases it reduces by .about 5 lbs.
per week, and the excess fat once removed
does not come back. Send 2d. stamp for
FREE TRIAL Sample and Free Book,
which explains how “ FATCURE cures.
.A- ~ 7 K '_
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
EASY AS EATING LOLLIES, effective as the
most expensive medical prescription—more effec-
tive than most—
LAXATINE,
THE . . .
LOZENGE .
LAXATIVE,
flushes and cleanses the bowels without pain or
strain. IN BOXES, Is.
FAOM ALL CHEMISTS. [4
LITTLE
Ailments
SUCH AS
LOSS OF APPETITE, WIND,
HEADACHES, WEARINESS, ARE
SIGNS OF
INDIGESTION
To neglect them is dangerous.
They weaken your system,
because undigested food
poisons your blood instead of
giving you nourishment and
strength, and may lead to
serious illness.
Take Mother
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
Mrs. N. Durand, 26, Botany
Road, Alexandria, N.S W. t
suffered a long time from in-
digestion and biliousness,
but she says: '* Mother
Seigel’s Syrup thoroughly
cured meof both complaints. 1 '
THE IDEAL
DIGESTIVE TONIC
= FOR:
ICOMFORT-SPEEDS
I& DURABILITY^
ON THE
ROAD'
ARB UNBQUABBBP.
BARNET GLASS
RUBBER CO. LTD.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney;
13 Perkins Street, Newcastle.
AND ALL STATES.
For your everyday use,
and your everyday
comfort, buy . . .
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Toilet Soap,
For you want a soap that is pure
and cleansing, you like a soap that
is pleasant and refreshing, and an
antiseptic soap like this, containing
10% pure Carbolic—an ample
proportion —protects you against risk of
contagion. Sold at Local Stores and
Chemists, in three-tablet boxes.
Makers, F. C. CALVERT & Co..
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Cougl
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing'.
is and
Macmillan’s Books
on AGRICULTURE,
GARDENING, etc.
WORKS by PROFESSOR L. H. BAILEY
The Principles of Agriculture. A
Text-Book for Schools and Rural
Societies. Edited by L. H. Bailey.
ss. net.
The Principle of Vegetable Gardening.
6s. 6d. net.
Plant Breeding. Fourth Edition. ss. net.
The Nursery Book. A complete Guide
to the Multiplication of Plants. Third
Edition. 6s. 6d. net.
The Forcing Book. A Manual of the
Cultivation of Vegetables in Glasshouses.
6s. 6d. net.
The Principles of Fruit Growing.
6s. 6d. net.
The Pruning Book. 6s. 6d. net.
Garden Making. 6s. 6d. net.
Manual of Gardening. Bs. 6d. net.
Lessons with Plants. 7s. 6d.
First Lessons with Plants. 2s. 6d.
The Horticulturist’s Rule Book. 3s.
net.
Cyclopaedia of American Agriculture.
In 4 vols. 21s. net each.
Cyclopaedia of American Horticul-
ture. In 4 vols. 2is. net each.
The Fertility of the Land. A Summary
Sketch of the Relationship of Fartn-
Practice to the Maintaining and
Increasing of the Productivity of the
Soil. By Isaac Phillips Roberts.
6s. 6d. net.
The Farmstead. The Making of the
Rural Home and the Lay Out of the
Farm. By I. P. Roberts. 6s. 6d. net.
The Farmer’s Business Handbook.
By I. P. Roberts. ss. net.
How to Choose a Farm : with a Discus-
sion of American Lands. By Prof. T.
F. Hunt. Illustrated. 7s. 6d. net.
The Feeding of Animals. By YV. 11.
Jordan. 6s. 6d. net.
The Diseases of Animals. By Nelson
S. Mayo. 6s. 6d. net.
Manual of Dairy Work. By Professor
James Muir. is.
Chemistry of Plant and Animal Life*
By H. Snyder, B.Sc. 6s. net.
Dairy Chemistry. By H. Snyder,
B.Sc. 4s. 6d. net.
Soils and Fertilizers. By IT. Snyder,
B.Sc. Third Edition ss. net.
Farm Poultry. A Popular Sketch of
Domestic Fowls. By George C.
Watson. 6s. 6d. net."
Milk and Its Products. A Treatise
upon the Nature and Qualities of Dairy
Milk and the Manufacture of Butter and
Cheese, By Henry H. Wing. 6s. 6s.
net.
The Book of the Rose. By the Rev.
A. Foster-Mei.liar, M.A,. Illus-
trated. Fourth Edition, ss. net.
The Amateur’s Practical Garden
Book. ByC. E. Hunn and L. H.
Bailey. 3s. 6d. net.
Irrigation and Drainage. By Professor
F. IT. King. 65.,6d. net., "
The Soil. Its Nature, Relations and
Fundamental Principles of Management.
By Professor F. H. King. 6s. 6d. net.
The Principles of Soil Management.
By Professor T. L. Lyon, Ph.l)., and
Professor E. O. .Fibrin, B.S.A.
7s. 6d. net.
Fertilizers. By Professor Edward B.
Voorhees. ss.
Forage Crops for Soiling, Silage,
Hay and Pasture. By Professor
Edward B. Voorhees. Illustrated.
6s. 6d. net.
The Book of Vegetables and Garden
Herbs. By Allen French. Illus-
trated. 7s. 6d. net.
Shilling Gardening Books
by Experts.
The Primer of Practical HorticuL
ture. By J. Wright, E.R.H.S. is.
Greenhouse and Window Plants.
By Charles CoLlins. Edited by J.
Wright, E.R.H.S. With 38 illustra-
tions. is.
Garden Flowers and Plants. By J.
Wright, F.R. H.S. With 50 illustra-
tions. is.
Vegetable Culture. By Alexander
Dean, F.R. H.S. Edited by J.
Wright. With 38 illustrations, is.
Farm and Garden Insects. By Wil-
liam Somerville, D.CEc., D.Sc.
With 46 illustrations, is.
The Chemistry of the Garden. By
Herbert 11. Cousins, M.A. With
an Introduction by T. Wright,
E.R.H.S. is.
The Food of P*ants. By A. P. Laurie,
M.A., B.Sc. is.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD.
LONDON and MELBOURNE.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or haiuled in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Phiz : According to you, if it came to a test,
10,000 out of the 16,000 civil servants in M.L. would vote
for the extinction of the Ward Government, and 80 out
of every 100 general electors. Well, the elections are to
be held next year, and the Religious Editor (the only
gambler in the office) says they will prove you to be out
several furlongs. He’s prepared to bet two pints of ruin
on the issue....H.H.: “Gospel of Hate’’didn’t quite
catch on. It is a stirring but low-spirited effort Swa-
stika : Well enough written ; but you’ve found nothing
to write about. Out of respect for the pig, there should
be at the least a bristle in a pork sausage Juryman : Too
late : the thing’s forgotten. And you’re not very intel-
ligible, anyway Scraper: You send it to us
because you like us. Heavens, then, how those
you don’t like must suffer! M. Douglas: That
joke has been going round for many years..
Cornwall : Well, it isn’t so many years since an
Anglican parson in England published a sort of catechism
for the use of schools, in which work he described
Roman Catholics as “ brethren,” and Methodists, Bap-
tists, etc., as heretics. The Anglican Church in its own
country is more tolerant of, and more akin to, Roman
Catholicism than to what it calls “ Dissent.” And the
Anglican parson just loves to call himself a “priest,”and
to ape, as far as he dares, the clobber of the R.C. ecclesi-
astic. Look at him any day in the street with his murky
coat and his black flat hat, and consider the resemblance.
Jean (V.): A weak batch Sam Spry (Q.): The
yarn is a literary blank cartridge Kelpie : Unsuitable.
....R.C. : “ Silence ”is dully told. You lack experience
in the art of yarn-spinning... H. S. Creek : Bullocky’s
song is fairly forcible, but jolts heavily at several stages.
A.Y. : The rebellious verses are too windv ; the
others are commonplace J. Rudd : Sergeant O’B. re-
duced to the ranks and awarded three months’ C. 8...
Cynic : Mild, curate-like humor, commendably brief and
cleanly typed Ema V.: Sketch is badlv written and
ends nowhere—Tike the cart. . ~E. McC. : A monotonous
jingle with a very slight flavoring of fun and several
moth-holes Taffy : Very clumsy production. Guess
you wrote it with a shovel M’Liss : Have known that
plot and its brothers for 40 years. Shook hands with it,
and told it to make itself at home in the basket. It im-
mediately took off its boots and turned in like an old
campaigner home from the farm-burning M.D.
(Preston, V.): Sorry, unable to use it H. Howell:
Have extracted two verses from your severely plain but
disjointed pastoral:
Bird melody all around
Trickling mirth to heart
Broken in the afar
By a Tingle, Tingle.
’Tis a bovine—’tis a sheep
Ringing out the noise
Each step and nearer
To the Tingle, Tingle.
E.P.P. (London, S.W.): Unable to use them... E.P.
(Cnesterfield, England): Unsuitable D.M.: The elon-
gated rhyme has mighty little originality, and it ends up
by stamping on its own tail H.E.W. (M.L.): Amended
version of the poem is almost as rough as the original.
Better take your-hammer and nails and make a new one.
G.B.A. (V.): Your hostile address to Railway Commis-
sioner Tait collided with the basket. Poem entitled
“The Table” is only interesting when it lays it down
that: “For fair ladies fruit is the proper fare.” G. M.
Field (Q.) : “ On the Paroo ” is a cheerful contrast to the
usual gloomy bush poem ; but it needs to be chanted by
camp-fire. Haven’t got a camp-fire about us
Echuca : Your pathetic poem on No License has numer-
ous defects ; but we print one verse in hopes that it will
bring you some solace :
The rich may go to their clubs, you know,
And call for a B. and S. ;
The poor may walk the streets of the town
Till they walk the cold off their chests.
. ...V.J.: Dully told. You might have explained how
the bogus parents got on to the job Peggie :It isn’t a
very large idea... .Tibby (S.A.): Send it to a medical
journal.. ..R.J.E. (W.A.): Practically it is a rhymed
statement to the effect that there is nothing better at
any time of the year than a pint of beer—unless it be
two pints of beer, or a barrel. This has been said many
times before with more or less vehemence by better poets
than yourself Mignon (S.A.): Unmitigated hash Ur.
Fred X.: The cheap and lazy device of repeating the
same phrase twice merely to fill up the line is the trade
mark of the slop poet. Counted out D.M.: This is
your thirteenth—and most unlucky—whoop :
And now when we stand where the wild waters leap
And over the boulders are thrown,
We say to the visitor, “ This is the Gap,
And Herb’s where the Dunbar went down ! ”
Unhappily for chronic gloaters like yourself, there seems
to be a good deal of uncertainty about the exact spot...:
George B. A. : You are an extremely affable author, but
are lacking somewhat in originality and force. Byway
of illustration, we have extracted two or three paces
from,your “ Evening Walk ” : “ I often walk beneath the
moon and stars. Occasionally I meet another person on
foot, or am passed by someone on a bicycle, and some of
them say a word or two of greeting. It reminds meof
‘ Ships that pass in the night and speak each other in
passing.’ It is pleasant to say ‘ Good-night ’to those you
meet on the road. A mutual exchange of goodwill sends
us ‘ rejoicing on our way.’ There are many fine houses
in this place. I am glad of it, and I wish that every
family in the world had a decent house to live in.” Your
sentiments do you credit H.R.H. : The initials and
the absence of an ordinary name and address incline us
to believe that youare a member of some Royal house.
We will print one verse just to show what an anarchist a
Royal Highness can be on the Inky Way :
Australia loves the Noble!
Australia loves the Brave !
, Australia watches with us
" V From the Cradle through the Grave !
Louis M. : An outrageous performance. You con-
duct the reader amidst thunder and lightning to the
exhumation, and when he is peering into the yawning
grave you knock off and go home to bed N. Nook
(V.): A vain hope. “ These few lines ” are of no earthly
use; you couldn’t even catch fish or hang yourself with
them Kalmin : They don’t quite arrive Charles
_J. Y. : Rather tired of the geographical and mournfully-
reminiscent poem. It seems to be dashed easy for some
waters to slop over, and moan, and carry on generally
about the “ dear, blur hills of Dryandusty,” and the
• “ dear dead love,” who died young and was buried in the
graveyard by the sea. Worst of it is that all this grief
arid rhymed mourning is mostly bogus. Some verse-
writers are really only fit for the undertaking trade.
TO ARXISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W. Murphy : That kind of faint pencil drawing is of no
value. It wouldn’t reproduce J.J.D. : The matter of
that Chinaman’s bath is rather belated. Also your style
doek not recall the late Rembrandt to any great extent.
Aida : The admiral might have been worth picturing
when he was a fresh arrival, but he is about as familiar
now as the post office ...H. Clay : The Question about
the spelling of “me” doesn’t lend itself to pictorial art.
J.T.H. : A very good portrait if it had only been a
little like the man. It is always good to have at least a
slight resemblance.. ..Smith : The lady with the bare
shoulders didn’t catch on R.T.L. : Well, it might be
worse... .P.C.: Chestnuts that the mice of ages have
chewed -over M. McM., M.P., J. Campbell, Pull-
through,'®. Scott: Won’t do C.G.C.C.: Not a bad
idea; but that’bus has got too far along the track of
time... C.L.T.: Sketches suspended on Mrs. Mulvaney’s
underwear disrespectfully declined.
The Weary Government has added a third
motor-car to its stable. The price paid for the
new second-hand arrival is a paltry £400; but
many people want to know why the machine
was bought at all. Their idea is that what Weary
really wants is a comfortable stretcher.


Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
The Grandest Remedy in the World for
COUGHS & COLDS
ONE DOSE IS GENERALLY SUFFICIENT.
THOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at
its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, Difficulty
of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience
delightful and rapid relief; and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a
complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irrita-
tion in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice,
and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is
not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appear-
SMALL
SIZE:
2/6
ance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without
it, as, talcen at the beginning,, a dose or
two is generally sufficient, and a com-
plete cure is certain.
LARGE
SIZE:
4/6
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE VENDORS, and
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
N.S.'W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney.
0
■ -
On
Z
Aa
wool,.
When buying
stockings, half-hose,
or socks ask for .
That is if you want the best.
■%£22i> have all the good features of the
highest quality all-wool hosiery.
More than this. hosiery is unshrinkable.
Do you realise the importance of this ? It means foot-comfort
and longer life for the stockings.
Next time you are buying ask for
Men's Socks and Stockings, Ladies and Children's Stockings and Babies’ Socks.
In all prices and colours. Of Men s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores,
If your dealer does not stock be can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for ' Jason" Booklet and name of nearest Agent, to
Jason Hosier? Co., Leicester, England.
Aa3
{/.
Runri
p
Fo
Devi
rest
Pulls Trees and
Stumps Out by
the Roots. *
This is the latest device for putting out trees and stumps. It is
small, compact, quickly adjusted and easily worked. The ropes
withstand a terrific strain—the tree or stump must come out.
Illustrated Catalogue free.
This is the very latest and only fully patented “ Forest Devil” in
the Commonwealth. Ask for illustrated Booklet.
Anyone infringing'any of our Patent Rights (No. 6875) in regard to
the “ BUNYIP” FOREST DEVIL, which cover 1,2, 3 or more circular
rack wheels, either maker, seller or user, will be prosecuted. .
JOHN COOPER & SONS
287-9 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
*'**'mJ*'
O
ww/.v:
UV**v**S:v.v
Unfortunately all
whiskies look alike
—that’s the trouble.
t; * .
Johnnie Walker
tastes different —
That’s the remedy !
Its the Purity and
Maturity that tells.
Johnnie Walker is obtainable
wherever good whisky is sold.
John Walker & Sons, Scotch Whisky
Distillers, Kilmarnock.
Born
1820
Still
going
strong
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Cataloguhs Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORD EON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds; price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, post free.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
©
132
H
Iw
n
y
V
m
m
u:
H
'vS
ma
-
P&3
The “Bijou” for Home Billiards.
The “ Bijou ” is an ideal table for home billiards, fitted with slate
bed and fast-running cushions, and covered in superfine billiard cloth
and beautifully finished. By a simple adjustment of leaves it is readily
converted into a fine dining-table. Easy terms arranged if desired.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALGOGK & Go, Pty. Ltd,
3«J7 George St., Sydney. 7 King Willinm St., Adelaide. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Murray St., Perth.


EXHIBITION
OF
ORIGINAL “BILLETIN’’ PICTURES
IN MELBOURNE,
Upper Athenaeum Hall, Collins Street.
Admission //- Illustrated Catalogue Free.
THIS Exhibition comprises 500 Original
Pictures which have been reproduced
in The Bulletin. All the best Aus-
tralian Artists, including work by “ Hop,”
Norman Lindsay, Alt’ Vincent, B. E. Minns,
Lionel Lindsay, Geo. Lambert, Mahony,
etc., will be shown. The Exhibition will be
open from August 27 to September 10, from
10 a. m. to 6 p. m.
Those unable to visit this unique picture
show are advised to ivrite for the Catalogue,
and to send along their cheque for the amount
they wish to spend, mentioning their favorite
artist. A good picture guaranteed.
The Private View of the Pictures will be
opened on August 26, at 3 o’clock, by his
Excellency Sir Thomas Gibson-Carmichael.
EXHIBITION open 10 a.m.— 6 p.m.
'from August 27 to September 10.
Thomas C. Lothian, Manager.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
SragKS&BKaffS
qit
BIRDS
Custard
$
Bird’s
Custard with Sruil
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
A REMARKABLE OFFER
COMPLEXION GLOVE
GIVEN AWAY
a
"9
'T'HE Complexion Glove is the
A ■_ moat effective means ever
devised for clearing the skin
from Blackheads, Pimples,
Discolorations, and other blem-
ishes: it smoothes out Wrinkles
and rehtores the Softness and
Freshness of Youth. Easy and
pleasant of application and
certain in its results.
It is the common-sense way
of improving the complexion.
The benefit is clear y aprarent
the very first, time it is used. SPECIAL
OFFER.— To make our Liquid Face
Powder generally known, we have
decided to give one of these
Complexion Glove s to every new customer.
TheBummeriB here, and Indies who are careful of their ap-
pearance should use our Com jileiene. It preserves the
skin, and removes all traces of sunburn and any roughness
caused by the heat or wind. It keeps the face delicate and
produces that velv.-ty softness and
beauty so generally admired. One trial will satisfy you
that this Toilet Preparation is the very article
you have long desired. It is made in three
lints—Pearl, Pink and Cream. Please mention which you
desire. The price is on y 2s. 6d., including postage (securely
tacked from observation! to any address in the world, with
full printed direct ons for use.
OBTAINABLE ONLY EROM
The Union Mfg. & Agency Go.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRIS'S i
hinee Witches
CIJASITTIS
1 lUtffffl
10
Made
London
HIGHEST GRADE.
6s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
Department of Lands,
Sydney, Bth August, 1910.
CLOSER SETTLEMENT.
LARRAS LAKE ESTATE
('NEAR MOLONQ)
MOLONG LAND DISTRICT.
29 FARMS will become available 12th September, 1910.
Applications lodged from 12th to 17th September, 1910, will be treated as simultaneous.
Full particulars, Lithographs, Application Forms, etc., may be obtained at the Information Bureau,
Department of Lands, Sydney, or any Crown Land Agent throughout the State.
5e2. ROBERT McDONALD, Under-Secretary.
PALMER TYRE,
SHOWING SQUARE
TREAD WITH
CIRCUMFERENTIAL
GROOVES.
Palmer Cord Tyres ■
It is what OTHERS say that is
popularising Palmer Cord Tyres.
“The Daily News” Office, London.
I have just returned from following the Scottish trials. In
all, I have driven close on 1000 miles. - My car has a pair
of CANVAS Tyres of a well-known make on the front
wheels and two PALMER CORDS on the drivers. The
front tyres are cut and scarred all over; the tyres which
have done the harder work— THE PALMER CORDS—
appear to have been scarcely used at all.—“ KUKLOSS ”
“IT’S ALL IN THE CORDS.” PRICE CATALOGUE FREE.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY,
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
I y
Model “T” Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“ FORDS ” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials:—
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castkreagh St., Sydney.
MarK Foy’s Ltd.
SYDNEY
No. 1024.—“ Dinna
Forget ” Charm,
gold, 5/6.
No. 1130— Gold
Heart Pendant,
pearl set, 10/-
N >. 1034 —L ! nks—
Silver, 2/6; Gold, 10/6.
WE PAY
CARRIAGE
ON ALL
THESE
GOODS.
©
No. 1148— 9 ct. Gold Band Bangle, 22/6 ; otfiers 25/* &30/-
The Home of Good Values.
f i
m
km
No. 1080— 9 ct. Gold Crescent and Star Brooch, 15/6.
SEND CASH
with ORDER.
We Buy for
Cash and Sell
for Cash.
m
YTr*
No. 1046 —Sapphire
and Diamond Dress
Ring, 15ct. Gold, 25/«
Others to 50/«
9ct. Gold Wishbone and
Comet Brooch, pearl set, 10/-
O her Designs to 17/6.
No. 1047— Betrothal
Ring, olivine and
diamonds, £6/10/-
73he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN sd.
The
EDISON
Amberola
Phonograph.
The Amberola is a work of art both in appear-
■ ance and performance.
It is a greatly improved Phonograph. Its horn
and mechanism are enclosed in a handsome
cabinet, which also includes drawers for holding
100 records. I
The Amberola will play both Standard (2-minute)
and' Amberol (4-minute) Records. 1 It can be had
in several finishes of oak and mahogany, to match
any room or woodwork.
The price of the Amberola is £46. Any Edison
dealer can supply you. If you do not know the
address of one send us a postcard, and we will
tell you that of the nearest.
Watch for details of Edison Grand
Opera Amberol Records which
are to arrive shortly.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA,
LTD.,
Dept. B, Kent Street, Sydney.
Early
Suiting's.
WE have made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fottnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest productions in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to ug.
We have received the first two consign-
ments, and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer’s).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
S’i Britisb*jnisfralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and .published by Australians in London.
Price 6d
POST PRBE, £1
in advance, all over
per year,
tlie world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Heading 'Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers, may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Austkalasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address-
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at r/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London, England
ħ
M vsrtUe Your
: ■ I
TP*
&
By using- an unsightly device, when
you can obtain Wilson’s Common
sense Ear Drums They relieve
Deafness and Head Noises, and are 1
, invisible and comfortable ; help ears as 1
glasses lie’|> eyes. Hundreds long consid-
ered past help now hear. If yon suffer, why
not get particulars free? Write—
STAR NOVELTY CO., f 29 Collins St., Me’brur-e.
A
POLICY Fou THE COMMONWEALTH
Price, Gd. The Bulletin Office.


“The Waybacks Again.”
Another
stack of
joy anti laughter about the famous family, ts.
4
*
A FOOD OF GREAT
NUTRITIVE VALUE
which can be made suitable for any
degree of digestive power by the simple
process of letting it stand for a longer or
shorter period at one stage of its preparation.
For INFANTS , INVALIDS and the AGED .
It is used mixed with fresh new milk, and forms a
delicate and nutritive cream, which is enjoyed and
assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely free from rough
and indigestible particles which produce irritation in delicate stomachs.
The Lancet describes it as “ Mr. Benger s admirable preparation.
The British Medical Journal says: “ Benger's Food has, by its excellence , established a reputation of its own
BENGER S FOOD, LTD., .Otter. Works, Manchester, Eng.
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Druggists , etc., everywhere.
8 33
A Boon to Good
A Blessing to Bad
Writers!
“BALL-POINTED” PENS
' glide smoothly oyer the roughest surface without spurting, sticking or
spluttering. By hsing “ Ball-Pointed ” fens you dispense with blot-
tings, scratchings and—bad language.
Buy a 6d. Assorted Sample Box- -choose a nib tp. suit you,
and you will be delighted.
BALL-POINTED” PENS WRITE ON BALL POINTS.
h
POLICY for thk ■ COMMONWEALTH
Price Gd, from The Bulletin Office.
‘ COAGULINE,’ ‘KLINX,’ ‘ TENASITINE
Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE B.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL.
mail
£ss©®3:
will stop the most
Vicious dog (or man)
without permanent
injury. Invaluable
for cyclists, unpro-
tected ladies, night-
watchmen, and
others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids, anu will
carry a distance of 25 feet. It creates great
amusement for both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the
mast useful, durable, reliable and economical
novelties ever produced. Price 2/9,. or post free
anywhere for 3/-
NICKEL-PLATED CHANCE PURSE.
Beautifully chased, and guaranteed to wear white
throughout. Will hold any of the coins, as illus-
trated,, and will also take sovereigns and half-
sovereigns in the 1/- and fid. compartments, and
pennies and half-pennies in the 2/6 and 2/- com-
partments. Split ring- attached for affixing to watch
or key chain.. Price, post free anywhere, I/ 2 -
THE “JOKER” TRICK MATCHBOX.
The box can be filled with matches, and then closed,
and, to the amazement of your friends, upon re-
opening the box, the matches have completely dis-
appeared. A great joke on cadgers, who, upon
begging a match, are shown the empty box, and the
next moment, if the owner, chooses, he may help
himself to a match from the same box. Strongly
made of polished nickel, and can be carried in the
vest pocket. Price, with full directions, 7d. post free.
■O
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET.
Hay market, SYDNEY.
NO.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
2 Branch : 111 King: Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
AGENTS:
Melbourne—T. R. Jones & Co.,
366 Bourke Street.
Brisbane—Elliott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd., 108-110
Eagle Street.
Adelaide—Lord & Heseltine,
90 Pirie Street.
Launceston—John McKenzie
& Co.
Hobart—John Ferguson & Co.
.0.0; | I
fcillHiueurWM^
tSfffiral
YA
Schute, Bell & Co.
LIMITED i-r-H
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow f etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
The Merit of a
Whisky is not
dependent on its
name, but on its
*
Old
qrknev
Is a Real Liqueur Scotch
from a century-old distillery,
reserving its whole output
for this one brand.
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London.
Proprietors of STROMNESS DISTILLERY, Orkney, Scotland,
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition,. 2s 6d posted. llerrie
England,' 6d.' How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr- Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Fl'anders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
‘Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tiie
HOrse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
.Toys of Life, 1s : 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window-Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d, Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is.' Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2(1. AII Theßulletin spries, Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illusi, Is. . Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune TeLling Book of Fate
(Dreamer's Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids,, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9'd. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of. the Bod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
fnrd), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is. 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. Ho.w" to Bead Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is. 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How tq Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, is 2d. New
Tricks- with Coins, is posted. House. Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
■I
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY: FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win .at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated,’ Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d.. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. . Pian_o Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, IS. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all' Gaines), Is. .How. to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own .Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2<t Electricity Made Slmple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMHRACTNG
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Cliromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions'that occur to the minds of young' and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth'-eovered edition of this, great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements ok Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other. Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wan'nan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash, ipf Established 25 Years.
ĥ
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking. .
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How To Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. IS! ew Tricks with Cards,. Is. . .Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. . Dr.. Milford's Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s. (id. Clog . Dancing Made -East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. fid. Secret
History . Court of England, Is 3d post. Lgveiis’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d .posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. liow to Read Heads
(Jas.: Coates), Is 3d posted. Chbvasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series; 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’. Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is fid. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages,, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-iDAY.
F. A.R.” appears for the accused :
' It is time someone arose to throw the Gent-One slan-
der (as fathered by “ J.G.” in Bulletin 7/7/10) from the
top storey. “ J.G.” wants the lawyer to be paid by re-
sults. So he is. Probably the smallest part of a success-
ful solicitor’s business is'litigation. Ninety per cent, of
cases are settled out of court by the efforts of solicitors*
while barristers wail through the keyhole at the dearth
of court work. The main cause of hideously-wrecked
cases before a Judge or jury is not the Gentleman One at
the steering: wheel, but the stubborn or unscrupulous or
infuriated client who doesn’t put real facts or neces-
sary admissions before his adviser. Sometimes
strict cross-examination in • the office may r show a
glimpse of another side of the case, but it not
infrequently happens that the damning facts come to,
light for the, first tihie in the witness-box, and then
simple people like “J.G.” rise up and talk something
tremendous about “ sharks” and other burglars. Again,,
and othep J.’s.have to get over the fact that in
almost every case in which Costs is likely to rampage to
any extent, the whole mass of facts and evidence is
turned over to counsel skilled in the treatment of evi-
dence, the handling of witness.es and the siftingof wheat
from chaff. Few solicitors pursue a case condemned by
these experts, and a little reflection will show that a
good reputation is of far more commercial value (to leave
the moral side out) than a few paltry pounds rooked
from a client by two thieves. And, in the event
of a lost case, the majority of the profession very rarely
ask a man who has been hard hit to pay the full amount
of costs. The commonest thing about the average bill of
costs—made up strictly according to prescribed scale and
taxable thereunder—is something like this: “Total, £5O;
say, £30.” The root of the old slander against the law-
yer is public ignorance of the numerous steps in litigation
after generations of scientific legal thought, and
the high fees and disbursements exacted by the Govern-
ment; and if “ J.G.” knew how he was safeguarded by
the law’s delays and technicalities he would be less prone
to mistake a horsehair wig for a steel trap.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, and
Hunter Street, Newcastle.
THE LEADING HOUSE FOR
CANY
B
BEAT
Sporting Goods,
Fishing Tackle and Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS-FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the lararest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON”
CHICAGO
DISTINCTION IN DRESS
No dress looks so rich and feels so soft and silky as one of Louis
Velveteen or Chiffon Vel-Duvet. Its lines are graceful and
flowing, and for Pile, Lustre, and
Brilliancy, it is unsurpassed. It is famed
for its exquisite Colours and won’t crush
OUIS
Velveteen
JMalljjiapers throughout the World. Manufacturers 57, Newton St., Manchester, Eng.
The Association of Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
When ordering from Agents please insist
upon every article of plate being stamped: —
@1
ħ
tm
m
h
Ififa
King’s, Queen’s, Piddle,
Rat-Tall, Old English, Albany,
Oadroon and Fancy Patterns.
Crests and
Monograms
Engraved,
4s. per dozen.
izusurnuj
Si
We have the
finest
selection of
CANTEENS
in
LONDON,
prices from
£4 4s. Od.
£lOO.
Please write tor
SPECIAL
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET.
YOU CAN BUY FROM ENGLAND. Pay your Duty and purchase cheaper
and better than you are now doing. Write for our Illustrated Cata-
logue. 6.000 Illustrations Post Free to any part of the world.
6, Grand Hotel Buildings, London, W.C.
National Rifle Association
Meeting, 1910.
£lOO Special Prize
given by Mick Simmons to the Winner of the
KING’S PRIZE.
on the condition that he purchases and uses a
Mick Simmons* Special Quality Steel
or Nickel Steel Barrel
throughout the King’s Match.
Barrels manufactured by Westley Richards, 8.5. A., and other makers.
The British & Colonial Aeroplane
Company, Limited.
Directors.
SIR GEORGE WHITE. BART.
SAMUEL WHITE. JP.
G. STANLEY WHITE.
Bankers— THE BANK OF ENGLAND.
Builders of the British
Zodiac Aeroplanes
D!
“Zodiac” Biplanes
50/60 h.p. - - Price £l,OOO.
“Zodiac” Monoplanes
25/30 h.p. - - Price £5OO.
o'LLTo
ERS*
Terms —One-third with order, balance before delivery.
Delivered F.O B. any port in Great Britain in one month from receipt of order,
Write for Catalogue and full particulars.
Offices and Works - • BRISTOL, ENG.
Flying Ground - SALISBURY PLAIN (W.D.)
Telegrams: -Aviation, BRISTOL." Codes-A I, A.8.C.. and MoreiNG.
WOOL,
Grain, Hides, Furskins,
Fat Stock or Store Stock
WILL BRING GOOD PRICES ALWAYS
WHEN THE SALE IS ENTRUSTED TO
New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY
Small Lots and Large Lots receive the same careful attention.
[2
COOLS AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
LA IT LAROLA
Invaluable
forfheSKlN
in HOT
orCOLD
climates.
Removes all
IRRITATION
andTAN.
S£ETHAA/$
Lait
(WO
Reg? l
Sole
Makers
M.BEETHAM &SON,
CHELTENHAM,ENGLAND.
Dives a
Perfect
Complexion
Soft
as
Velvet.
LAITLAR OLA
VERY SOOTHING AFTER SHAVING
S T JACOBS
OIL
Cures
RHEUMATISM
Bodily Aches and
all Chemists and Stores
Points
inventors
BY LETTER. Reliable informa-
tion and advice on all matters con-
cerning- the obtaining of Patents,
and the best means of keeping the
a. *
titles thereof inviolate during' the term of grant.
If you have an invention and wish to patent it, forward
an accurate description of it, and you will receive an
answer by return of post as to whether it is patentable,
and what will be the cost of completely protecting it (in-
cluding drawings, etc.). No charge made for such report,
and all communications treated strictly confidentially.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
ON THE HOP ” —Cheap Edition Now' On
Sale—2/6; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
Send in your Application
NOW, and we will send
one to your Address
Absolutely FREE
mpion
-0> V
o
(Drawn from Photo)
“The
Champion
Senior,”
Phonograph
List Price,
£6/10/-
of course, useless to anyone without a Phonograph. Picture yourself with plenty of ammunition, but
no GUN. We propose to give you the GUN to make you feel the need of our ammunition—in
other words we give you a Phonograph to create an increased demand for our Records. Do
you see our reason Now? We will send you one of our “ Champion Senior Phono®
graphs” Free of any charge whatever if you promise to give a practical demon-
stration of its wonderful merits in your own home circle and among your friends,
using our new and popular Records and distributing our Circulars and Price Uists,
which are sent free for this purpose witli each machine. Write at once to
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING COMPANY
Opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY', New South Wales.
A FREE PHONOGRAPH
FOR—YOU!
Owing to the enormously increased demand for our Records
as the result of our last Distribution of Free Phono*
graphs we have decided to GIVE SWAY a further
ONE THOUSAND PHONOGRAPHS FREE.
You may choose the machine you prefer from our various
styles, including our latest and best,
“ The Champion Senior,”
exactly as illustrated, which is listed at and Guaran-
teed for 5 years.
How can we afford to give away these expensive
machines without charge ? The explanation is a
simple one. We hold and control enormous
stocks of Phonograph Records. Records are
Ate
CUT THIS OUT
and mail to the
ANGIO-AUSTRALIAN
IMPORTING CO, SYDNEY
I hereby make application for a
FREE Phonograph as advertised by
your Company.
Name..., •
V“
Street
WU.. .State


Coughing All Day and Night.
“ I was laid up with Bronchitis and
could find nothing to cure me.”
Mr. Thomas Colling, 59 Wellington Street, Newtown, N.S.W.,
tells how Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery remedied all this.
I consider Dr. Sheldon s New Discovery is rightly named, for I have found it to
contain something that will cure bronchitis when a dozen other medicines have proved
rank failures. Till I discovered Dr. Sheldon’s remedy for bronchitis I was in a regular
nx, as when I was laid up with bronchitis I could find nothing to relieve or cure me. I
got this bronchitis just from taking a cold and neglecting it. As time went on the cold
grew worse a.nd worse till it changed into a settled bronchitis. Sometimes I would feel
well for weeks, then I would get a bit of a chill, and the bronchitis would lay hold of me
with awful suddenness. There would be a tightness of the chest and a pain in the throat,
coupled with a headache. I would be hawking and spitting and coughing all day and
night. Large quantities of phlegm would collect in my throat and half choke me. I
wouldn t be able to sleep at night, and I would get paler and paler and weaker till I had
‘°. la y. up ' I was m this condition when I first discovered Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery.
Ihe bronchitis had been on me for some weeks. I had tried various remedies
and treatments till I was sick of them, for they none of them did me the least
good. Nothing would make the bronchitis leave go its hold on my chest and
throat. I was laid up in bed. I asked my wife to get me a bottle. The very first
dose loosened the tightness in my chest and throat. The phlegm grew loose, and I could
cough it up with but little effort. After more doses I was able to get out of bed, feeling
brighter and better than I had been for weeks. This remedy seemed to cut away all the
phlegm and other stuff in my throat and lungs, and I could breathe quite freely in twenty-
four hours after I first started taking Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Bronchitis. In
two or three days I was completely cured, and have not suffered from bronchitis since,
and that is many months ago. If I get a cold lat once fly to Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery,
and ward off any bronchitis that might be hanging about my system. By keeping a bottle
in the house I save myself pounds in the course of a year, for I lose no working time as I
used to do.
The latest and most successful remedy for Bronchitis is Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery for Coughs,
Colds, Bronchitis, etc. The old-fashioned remedies acted so slowly that they could be hardly said
to act at all. It is entirely different with Dr. Sheldon’s, which acts with exceeding: promptness and
thoroughness. Sold everywhere, with the manufacturers’ guarantee, at 1/6 and 3/-
D? Sheldons
saio
a n v
SHono
Buyers of
Horrockses*
GRAND PRIZE
FRANCO - BRITISH
EXHIBITION, 1908
G. & G. 603
LONGCLOTHS and
MADAPOLAMS
have a guarantee if HORROCKSES’
name is on the Selvedges, that they
are getting the very best that the
Old Country Produces.
Decline all Substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
THE ACCORPEON for Country Residents.
ĥ
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
lar;re bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d. ;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/=
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AUcock^
Plasters
APPLY
Wherever there is Pain.
Pains in the Chest
Coughs, Colds, Weak Lungs.
Allcock's Plasters are a preventive
as well as a curative.
Rheumatism in the Shoulder
Pains, Stiffness or Soreness in the
joints or muscles. Relieved by
the use of Allcock’s Plasters.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, Indigestion, etc. Purely Vegetable.
Established 1763.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., BIRKENHEAD, ENG.
Crooked River.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A LEAGUE o’ brown with lights o’ gold,
And ’gainst bine sky’s resistance,
Far hilltops gleaming white and cold
Across the purple distance.
Beyond the hum of city streets,
Their strife and stress and scorning,
Again through worn world-pulses beats
The magic of the morning.
I see the lone hawk wheeling high.
The blown, brown reed-beds shiver,
And faint and far the hills that lie
Beyond the Crooked River.
O, haunted hills ! O, holy hills !
Where wizard lights are streaming
O’er Youth’s enchanted window sills,
From hinter-skies of dreaming.
Whereon we heard in hushed respite
Of Echo’s elfin laughter,
Faint footsteps of the Infinite
: On floors of His Hereafcer.
O, hills behind the hollow dark
Where human wisdom falters,
And Hate keeps vigil, stern and stark
By Unfaith’s petty altars !
It seems so long since life was love,
From God’s heart brimming over,
The lark-song in the blue above,
The brown bee ’mong the clover.
Australian Alps ? Nay, nay, there thrills
Through Memory skies a-quiver
The glory of my hills—the hills
Beyond the Crooked River.
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
By Rail and Semaphore.
OLD MORALITY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WHEN Romahapa Section learned
that Manager Mackenzie had given
up smoking, and abolished the use of
table wines in his private house as an example to
the staff, it gave one gasp and then burst into an
irreverent guffaw. It knew its Old Man better
than the ancient one knew himself.
But for once the Old Man was in deadly
earnest, and, having reformed himself with a
sudden wrench, he proceeded to reclaim the rest
of the staff from the error of its ways with great
violence. Stationmasters were circularised to the
effect that they were expected to take more than a
business interest in their young men, and see that
they kept good company and lived wholesome
and cleanly lives. Stationmasters were invited,
in the event of any officers proving thoroughly
reprobate, to send a confidential report to the
manager personally, and acquaint that dignitary
with sufficient particulars to enable him to
exercise pressure.
Then Manager Mackenzie woke up one morn-
ing and discovered that the Section was getting
vexed T and had nicknamed him “ Old Morality."
The Section had never been a Paradise, but with
the stationmasters privileged to send long confi-
dential reports to the manager, which reports would
never be available for refutation, there was every
prospect of it becoming Sheol. The circular was
dead against the letter of the service rules, which
were that every employee was entitled to see all
reports sent against him in order to give him an
opportunity to refute them ; and there were possi-
trouble over that circular—possibilities
which in a few weeks turned the hair of the Traffic
Office grey with worry.
* * •* *
John Ashby, usually known as “The Wicked,”
was guard of No. 5 Puketapu Junction to Roma-
hapa, which left the junction at 6.10 a.m. and
arrived in Romahapa, after having cleaned up the
road, at 9.30 a.m. It left Romahapa again at
4.30 p.m. as No. 32 North, and, after cleaning up
the road again, arrived dog-tired at Puketapu
Junction at 8.10 p.m. So, from 10 a.m. till
4 p.m., The Wicked was free in Romahapa with
absolutely nothing to do,; and The Wicked’s chief
form of recreation, minid-improvement, exercise
and amusement was getting married. Which ex-
plains how it was Jack .Ashby had one establish-
ment in Romahapa and another in Puketapu
Junction. He might hawe had more wives if he
could have afforded them.
When Stationmaster Lord received the circular
re confidential reports on the staff, he said to his
sub.: “I think we’ll get The Wicked fired.
Write me out the most scotching report ever
written out of Hades—it’s confidential, so he’ll
never see it—and I’ll sign it and send it in by
the express to-morrow.”
Now I was the sub., and I had a sneaking re-
gard for The Wioked. Truly Jlie was something
of a bore; but he was hilarious, good-
natured, and always ready to dk» anything, barring
murder and forgery, to oblige a fellow-scoundrel.
He was a little scrap of a man,, with a distant re-
semblance to Napoleon 111., and no matter what
sort of weather it was, Jack would hurry into the
office with his coat over his arm, duck back to
look at the sky, and then flopping the garment on
the table, exclaim :
“Good mornin’—’ell of a mornin’, ain’t it?”
Then he would wash his hands! in dumb show,
and proceed to pick his teeth with his pocket-
knife, and marvel at the inability of the Maori-
land farmer to cure ham or bacon properly. Still,
I liked him in a distant sort of way, for the rest
of the guards on that run were oppressively re-
spectable.
But I had my orders, so when Jack’s train was
safely shunted away, the engine gone to its shed,
and the office empty, I locked the door, opened
the window, and sat down to write the most
scorching report ever indited outside Hades. I
don’t know if it quite attained that distinction,
but it was certainly very warm. Anyhow, here
it is as well as I can remember it after the lapse
of many years :
PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL.
(In accordance with Circular J3U/785.)
The District Traffic Manager, Romahapa.
Sir, —I have the honor to report that, cm the whole, I
have a most excellent staff, myehief'clerk;being themost
reliable, hard-working, strictly honorable officer it has
ever been my good fortune to control. He stands alone,
and is in a class in himself. (AS PREVIOUSLY EX-
PLAINED, I WAS THE CHIEF CLERK.) When he has
been here the statutory six months I shall have much
pleasure in officially recommending him to your special
notice.
The lad porters, shunters, and tiwo platform porters
are also careful and trustworthy, and under the super-
\ision of my brilliant sub, the etatiipn works very
smoothly and with clock-like precision.
Unfortunately I feel that it is my sorrowful duty
to request that you will take steps to either mend
or end Guard John Ashby. This man is thoroughly
reprobate, and I am kept in a state of constant fear that
his pernicious example and influence will be the cause
of bringing about the corruption of the finest staff on the
Maoriland railways. His language is foul, he is without
even the crudest ideas of respectability, and he does not
know the meaning of morality. His amours are the scan-
dal of the place, and his vice is of the flagrant, aggres-
sive kind, which first blunts the edge of sensibility and
then creates a wild fury of emulation. Ido not think I
am exaggerating the case against Guard John Ashby
when I say that he is utterly unfit to have charge of any
train in which women travel without escort.
I sincerely hope that if you cannot see your way to dis-
rate, you will at least transfer him. Ido not wish my
unusually clean and creditable staff to be exposed to his
pernicious company and degrading example.
I am, Sir, your obedient servant,
ARTHUR J. LORD,
Stationmaster.
Apparently someone in Romahapa Traffic Office
got drunk, for two nights later that awful report
came back to Guard Ashby for his explanation,
and the stationmaster and I took refuge in an
obscure bar down by the Chinese gardens, and
held one another up while we administered strong
drinks. It was a terrible position, and I wished
that either Guard Ashby or Lord would fall dead,
so that I could wriggle out of it.
Then I began to realise that Lord would have
to carry the baby. He had signed the report,
and although my beautiful, bold handwriting
proved conclusively that I had written it, I argued
that I was no more to blame than the pen with
which I had done it. But Jack was not to be
mollified. He tookitreally badly and was actually
offensive, or as offensive as he dared to be while
on duty. He regarded me with a gloomy eye,
and said nothing to the disadvantage of the morn-
ing when he entered the office. Then I found out
that Lord had assured, him that the whole thing
was my composition, and that he had signed it
without reading it. He pointed out that he
would never have allowed such a lot of rot about
my own excellence to go in had he read the thing,
and he was under the impression that the report
said that all our lives were beautiful and our rela-
tions most cordial and harmonious.
Jack, I am glad to say, received the explanation
with sniffs.
The last I saw of Jack that night was a back
view of him as he entered the office of the only
lawyer in the town. Then I settled down to
finish up my books. I was just half-way through
when the door opened softly. A whiff of a heavenly
cigar floated in, followed by a suggestion of wall-
flower. And then the pink face and silvery beard
of Old Morality came round the corner of the
ticket cabinet. He smiled cheerfully, and held
out his gloved hand.
“ Where’s Mr. Lord ? ”
“The Lord knows ! ” I remarked.
“There is no necessity, my boy, for him to
know of my presence here to-night, or any other
time.”
“Certainly not, sir.”
“Have you a pound in the till—a pound’s
worth of silver, I mean ? ”
“ Yes, do you want change for a note ? ”
“ Yes, my boy ; here’s the note.”
He handed me a small slip of paper on which
was scrawled “ lOU £l, John Smith.”
I looked at him sternly.
“If the Raven comes down and finds me with
John Smith’s I O U, he will report me one quid
short. If I have the District Traffic Manager’s
lOU, everything will be all right.”
“Well, you won’t get the Manager’s lOU,
and the Raven won’t come down. (Give me that
adjective silver, you whelp.”
“ I won’t,” I said.
He smiled. “Give me the IOU,” he said,
and scribbled his name across it and passed it
back. “Keep it in your pocket-book and not in
the till. Lord might get hold of it.”
Then he distributed the silver among his
pockets.
“ Have you a cap you can spare for an hour or
two ” ?
“Only the one I am wearing; but I’ll get you
a slouched hat from the hotel, if you like.”
“No, no, give me the cap. And you might
loan me your overcoat—l think I can smell rain
about. Be careful and don’t mention to a living
soul that you have set eyes on me.”
Then he vanished into the sultry darkness that
brooded over the little town.
The sound of hurried footsteps coming along the
platform caused me to let the little dressmaker
out of the side door in a hurry. I knew that
those fleeing feet belonged to Old Morality, and
that evil-minded old man might think that it was
against the dignity of the service to get a dress-
maker to put fresh buttons on my coat in the
office.
He flung himself against the door. I opened it
in a hurry.
“Put on your hat and coat and run like h
up the street—quick ! ” Then, grabbing me sud-
denly : “ No, no, you might get shot. Can’t you
hide me somewhere, anywhere ? They’ll burst in
here—get me away, quick, anywhere.”
I put the light out suddenly, and rushed him
across three lines of rails, between trucks and
over carriage platforms, and shot him into the
first closed-in waggon I came to that had pad-
locks on it. Then I locked him in securely. I heard
him tumbling round in the darkness, and a
terrible cackling arose from the poultry it con-
tained as he fell over their crates.
I went back to the office. As I stepped up on
to the platform dark figures fled down it and
spread themselves among the trucks. I went into
the office, put Old Morality’s belltopper hat into
the safe, hung my coat behind the door and my
cap on the back of my cranium, just as Donald
McTurk and Auctioneer Burton hurled them-
selves into the office.
“Don’t knock,” I said, facetiously; “just
come right in sudden-like, and you’ll run a good
chance of stopping a bullet or two. What the
blazes do you mean, anyhow ? ”
McTurk staggered to the table and placed both
hands over the region of his heart and gasped.
He wasn’t accustomed to violent exercise, and it
didn’t agree with him. Burton, who was short
and stout, flopped into a chair and breathed
loudly.
I grasped the water-bottle and poured it over
Burton. He sprang to his feet with an oath and
demanded luridly what I meant. I explained that
I thought he was going to faint, and I didn’t want
him to faint in the office, as there were suspicious-
looking characters dodging around among the
trucks, and I was going for the police.
“It’s the sergeant himself and some volun-
teers,” gasped McTurk.
“Well, get out till I investigate.”
They staggered out, and I went down into the
shunting-yard, and met them coming back in a
group.
“Excuse us, please,” said the sergeant” ; but
we’re chasing a burglar.”
“ A burglar ! ” I yelled.
‘ ‘ Yes, a burglar. He was seen getting out of Mrs.
McTurk’s window, and the lady reports that all
'Continued on next page.)


RUNNING ULCERS
Whole Leg a Swollen Mass of Inflammation—Bedridden for Months
together—Hospital & every description of treatment completely fails
Zam-Buk effects the most Remarkable Triumph of
Skin-growing and Disease-dispelling ever recorded..?
As a triumph of skin-healing and disease-
dispelling, the victory hy Zam-Buk in the case of
Mrs. S. Clifford, of 67 Gold Street, Collingwood, Mel-
bourne, is without parallel. This lady
says“ While going upstairs I slipped
and scraped the skin off one of my legs. I
neglected to give the wound any special
attention, and simply hound it up, thinking
it would he all right; hut instead of getting
better, the leg gradually grew worse, and
at the end of three months it had developed
alarming symptoms. The wound dis-
charged and presented the appearance of a
running ulcer, the pain being almost un-
bearable. I thought blood-poisoning had
set in.
“ The climax came one night, when my leg got so
bad and presented such serious indications, that I
made up my mind to go into the hospital the next
morning. I did so, and there I was a patient, un-
dergoing continuous treatment, for eighteen
months. The doctors scraped the bone in the leg,
and the agony afterwards was indescribable.
“ In the hospital the doctors applied hot fomen-
tations and ointments to draw out the inflammation and
reduce the fearful swelling; but their efforts were
powerless to do me any good. At last my leg got so bad
that I had to become a resident in the hospital, where
the doctors applied hot fomentations to the wound every
hour incessantly for two days.
“ Then the doctors resolved to graft some skin over
the wound. They did so, but the ‘ graft ’ remained on
only two or three days when it came away and a fresh
wound broke out and formed an outlet near the ankle-
bone, increasing tenfold my already overflowing cup of
misery.
“ I was an inmate of the hospital for a mouth. I then
left that institution for home, and thankful I was to do so.
m
m
MRS. S. CLIFFORD.
“ I was in the depths of the direst despair when my mother happened to he talking to a
neighbor about me one day, and telling her how I was suffering., She immediately asked mother
if I had tried Zam-Buk, and so great was her faith in it that she strongly advised mother to get
a supply, and let me try it on my leg. •
“So mother, fortunately, followed her kindly advice, and procured a pot of Zam-Buk. I
applied a dressing, and under the wonderful influence of Zam-Buk the pain ceased almost im-
mediately, the inflammation and swelling subsided, and I could actually .feel the soothing powers
of Zam-Buk at work. With ajoyful heart I continued with the treatment of Zam-Buk,, and applied a
dressing every two or three hours, each application bringing additional relief. After a week of
this treatment the wound on the ankle had healed completely .
“ It was a harder fight with the larger wound, however, but I knew that my case was a bad
one, and I kept on and persevered with Zam-Buk. The big ulcerated hole began to contract, the
bottom of the wound looked healthier in every way, and at the end of six weeks Zam-Buk had
completed its miraculous work, and the wound was healed right up with clean, new, healthy skin. *
Bilk
am
NATURE’S OWN ANTISEPTIC HEALBR.
It remained for Zam-
Buk to restore Mrs.
Clifford s diseased limb
to soundness and health.
Zam-Buk is a natural
skin healer and disease
dispeller. 1/6 and 3/6
per pot everywhere.
THE-
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on tHe otHer Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
her jewels have gone. He was disguised in a
white beard, wore a skull-cap like you’re wearing
yourself, and an overcoat with a cape to it.’’
“Wasn’t that like mine, too?” I inquired, sar-
castically.
“ Everybody wears ’em,” said the sergeant;
“ but what we want you to do is give us permis-
sion to search the trucks, look in the carriages
and under the tarpaulins, for he was seen to make
for here and is hidden among the rolling stock
somewhere.”
“Certainly, I’ll come round with you and give
you a hand. We’ll take them in order, and some
of you had better scatter round to intercept him
if he makes a dash. I hope to Heaven he hasn’t
got a gun.”
“ I hope not,” said the sergeant, fervently.
For two hours we searched up and down the
sidings, prodding and creeping under the tar-
paulins which covered trucks, and investigating
under seats and in dog-boxes in the vans. Then
we came to the closed-in truck which Old
Morality was sharing with some scores of fowls.
“Might be in here,” said McTurk, tapping the
door with the muzzle of his gun.
“Be hanged—it’s locked.”
“ Well, he might have locked it.”
“ Ring off ! How the Hades could he get in,
shut the door behind him, and padlock it on the
outside, you Gaelic idiot?”
“ He might hae a freend ! ”,
“Well, his freend wouldn’t have a key that
would fit that lock. Anyhow, I’m not going to
start searching the closed-in waggons —we’ll be
here all night if we dp. Get along, Donald.”
Donald got into a very bad temper, but
brightened up under the influence of sundry
whiskies at the South-Eastern Hotel 10 minutes
later.
* * * ■*
It was after 1 a.m. when I managed to slide
down the balcony post and stagger across to where
Old Morality was locked up. I would have gone
before, but the effects of the whisky hadn’t passed
off, and it was wonderful what a lot those High-
landers could take before getting helplessly stone-
blind-paralvtic. Half my month’s screw wouldn’t
wipe out the score on the slate, and if they shot
the old boy in the morning I’d never get it
back. I must save him at any cost.
I opened the door softly and hiccoughed at
him.
“ You’re drunk, damn you. What the blazes”—
“Shut up!” I said, boldly. “I had to make
them drunk to get across, and, by Heavens, I’m
nearly a dead bird myself. Are you coming out ?
Yoq can sleep in the office.”
“No adjective fear! They’ll be abroad first
thing to-morrow morning. Isn’t there another
closed-in truck on the infernal train? This is
something just too awful.”
“No,” I said. “All the roadsiders are fixed.
Haven’t got an empty box truck in the yard.
Could you ride my bike, and get away by road ?”
“Bike be Why don’t you ask me if I
could ride the Devil ? I’d run a special, only it
would disclose the fact that I was here, and that’s
what I mustn’t let leak out at any cost.”
“ There’s six quids worth of drinks on the slate
at Marley’s,” I said, insinuatingly.
“ I don’t care if there’s £60 —all I want to do is
get out of this infernal hole.”
“ Well, get out. Walk down the track to
Hillgrove.”
‘ ‘ Who’s on early shift ? ”
“lam,” I said, “and a nice lot of sleep I’ll
get, too.”
“ Well, don’t turn up. Ride your beastly bike
down to Hillgrove, and keep out of sierbt till the
train stops to pick up the, trucks, and then, while
he’s shunting round the curve, dash out and
unlock the door and let me out. Don’t forget rnv
hat. Suppose I’ll have to put up with these
fowls—it’s better than getting shot.”
“ Well, I’ll do that. When you hear them
moving about be sure and keep well behind the
hack crates, as they may put a crate or two in
from here; although I don’t think it’s likely.”
“Be sure and beat Hillgrove, my boy—you’ll
rise like one o’clock after this if I’m still alive to
manage the Section. He’s a murderous brute,
that McTurk. Good night, and God bless you.”
“Goo’ ni’,” I said; and, carefully locking
him up, I staggered off, and after nearly half a
dozen attempts, managed to climb up the
balcony post and get to my bedroom.
* * * *
A frightful clanging awoke me. It was the
noise of my alarm clock travelling across the top
of the inverted washstand basin, and rolling and
bounding across the floor. The man in the next
room threatened murder.
I got up and looked at my watch. It was just
5 a.m., and the train would be at Hillgrove at
6.25, so I had plenty of time. Still I was afraid
to lie down again. I stole downstairs and got
out the bike without making any noise. I tried
to burgle the pantry, but it was no go, and the
only food I could find consisted of some fragments
of very salt ham, some cheese crumbs and one
cream puff in the dining-room cupboard. I ate
the lot, and started to climb the hill towards
Hillgrove. It was slow work. My legs were
stiff and my head ached. I cursed Old Morality
with a mighty curse, and then fell off the
machine and staggered up the remaining yards of
the hill. Something had gone wrong. The place
seemed to swim, and every time I tried to mount
the machine I promptly fell off. I was beginning
to pay the penalty for trying to ride on an empty
stomach that had nothing in it but whisky, as
Boyle Roche might have put it. However, I got
to the top and ran down the hill by gravitation,
and started to pedal feebly up the other side of
the valley.
Frightful pains seized me. A great streak of
red blurred the landscape and the stars splashed
round.
A girl came by driving some cows before her. I
bribed her to run back home and bring me some-
thing to eat and, above all, something hot to
drink. It seemed an awful time before she
returned, and then she came loaded with a bottle
of hot tea, three saveloys and some bread and
butter. I ate them, drank the hot tea rind felt
better. Then I once more started for Hillgrove.
It was at the bottom of the next hill.
When I reached the top of the last I saw
the train just steaming out of Hillgrove. I was
too late, and Old Morality was still in his truck
with the fowls, en route for the A shed, Roma-
hapa. I fell off the machine with horror. I con-
jured up a vision of that angry old man being
discovered by his grinning unloaders, of the
scandal in the papers, the gossip and general
wreck which would follow. Anyhow, the sooner
I was off Romahapa Section the better for me.
I turned and rode slowly back to Puketapu. It
was nearly eight o’clock as I walked into the hotel.
A storm of blasphemous abuse nearly blew me
back into the street; and Lord hurled, himself
upon me, hit me in the eye, banged me down on to
the floor, and then, sitting on my chest, de-
manded where I had been.
After all, his rage was understandable. He
had spent the night away from home, and when
the porter found my bed empty and myself not
on duty he went down to the stationmaster’s house
and found him absent also. So he went back to
the station and took charge, and there was a
stand-up fight between him and The Wicked to
decide who was really bossing the show ; and, as
bad luck would have it, the correspondents of
both the Romahapa papers were on the spot, and
took notes of the battle, and were very enthusi-
astic over the skilful way in which The Wicked
back-heeled and knocked out the porter in the
third round.
So he reckoned someone was to be sacked for it,
and. as a preliminary, he suspended me—just for
form's sake, he said.
•* * * *
When Old Morality felt the train start from
Hillgrove without me putting in an appearance
he nearly died of shock. He knew the tight
place he was in, and settled down to think harder
than he had ever done before. There was only
one thing for it; he must trust Guard Ashby, if
he could only attract that worthy’s attention.
When the train stopped at Sylvester’s Siding,
and Ashby came running along to shunt, the Old
Man called out:
“Hold on, Ashby; come to the door of the
box-truck.”
Jack stopped short and craned his neck.
“Are you there, Ashby?” inquired the mana-
ger again, more quietly.
“Yes, sir,” said The Wicked, with wild
thoughts of driving a hard bargain rushing
through his mind as he cautiously unlocked and
opened the door.
“ Phew ! There’s no one about, sir, if you want
to get out without being seen ; but, perhaps you’d
better wait till the engine is down the siding and
slip out and make down to the van on the other
side.”
“1 can’t. I have no hat. I must slip into the
bush. Send a wire to that mutton-brained,
blundering idiot of a chief clerk at Puketapu, and
tell him to bring food, money and a hat to this
siding as soon as possible, and I’ll forgive every-
thing. Don’t mention names, He will under-
stand.”
“Yes, sir!” And Jack prepared to go off to
shunt.
“One moment, Ashby. By the way, how long
have you been on the road now ? ”,
“Fourteen years, sir, come next May.”
“Well, Ashby, it’s time you had a spell. A
nice little country station outside the block zone,
with plenty of garden and a paddock to run a
couple of cows in ought to be about up to your
handle, eh?”
“ I think so, sir,” said Jack delightedly.
“Very well. I’ll remembet it and fix you up
sometime within the next three months.”
Then Jack went off to uncouple in response to
an abusive shout from the engine.
3 * • *
It was 4 p.m. when I arrived at Sylvester’s on
my bike, with two bottles of beer, a parcel, a
belltopper hat, and a supply of smdwiches. I
found the Old Man in the bush close to the
siding. He fairly sprang at the food, and
knocked the head off the bottle with his pocket
knife in an artistic manner which bespoke much
hard practice.
He sat down there in the tussock with a bottle
of beer in one hand and four sandwiches in the
other and ate fiercely, if such disgraceful wolfing
can be called eating ; and all the while I poured
into his ear a full account of the horrible things
which had happened at Puketapu Junction.
He went on eating and drinking till there was
nothing edible left, and then he smoothed the nap
of his silk hat and gazed fixedly at the floods of
golden sunlight pouring through the great rifts in
the'hills.
“Darned fine view, isn’t it?” I said. “Sort
of thing an artist would just revel in.”
“View, be . Well, I’ll fix all these things
up when I get back to the Traffic Office, the day
after to-morrow. In the meantime, I’m going to
walk down the line to Castle Cliff and catch the
express. If you haven’t got some fine plausible
lies ready for the general-manager by the time
I start investigating these disgraceful happen-
ings, you’ll be darned well sacked. So-long ! ”
I had the lies ready.
C. A. JEFFREIES.
The Glimmer in the Dark.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I HIED by strange ways ever
On a remote wild shore,
Where dim paths meet and sever,
And none has passed before ;
With wearied heart and sore
■ I hied by strange ways ever,
On a remote wild shore.
Lonely, as death is lonely,
Still, as the dead are still;
Naught but the night-wind only
Woke by the looming hill,
Sighing some ancient ill;
Lonely, as death is lonely,
Still, as the dead are still.
The sky-vaults all were shrouded,
The ways were strange and steep ;
The starlight overclouded,
And the passes dark and deep ;
My soul was weighed with sleep,
And the vaults of Heaven were shrouded,
And the ways were strange and steep.
Yet up, through a gap abysmal,
1 saw a dim, far light
Glimmering out of the dismal
Tenebrous swathe of night;
Filtering into my sight,
Up, through a gap abysmal
I saw a dim, far light.
Between lay a world chaotic, .
Dangerous, unexplored ;
And fear, like a strange narcotic,
Bound my limbs as a cord.
Yet, constant, the ray upsoared ;
Between lay a world chaotic,
Dangerous, unexplored.
My feet at the great gulf linger ;
I peer at the changing light,
A weird and a mystic finger
Beckoning through the night;
Slowly it grows more bright.
But my feet at the great gulf linger,
And I peer at the changing light.
Though I come to that far glow never.
Till some linkman goes before
Where the dim paths meet and sever.
On a remote, wild shore,
I have seen the ray upsoar—
Though I come to its far glow never
Till some linkman goes before.
VICTORIA.
C.G.A. COLLES.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’S 'FRUIT salt' assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
C AUTION. - Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by i. C. ENO Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS. London,
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
DINNEFORD’S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affection*.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
IT 15 GOOD to KNOW
that Beecham’s Pills never fail to have a beneficial effect; and
that when taken according to directions they are equally suit-
able for old and young. Such disorders and affections as are
due to functional irregularities of the stomach, bowels, liver
and kidneys are speedily corrected by a course of this world-
famous medicine. Beecham’s Pills cleanse and brace up the
stomach, liver and bowels, and, by improving the appetite and
digestion, produce a tonic effect upon the whole system.
Compounded from the purest ingredients, these pills are pre-
pared specially for the relief and cure of all stomachic ailments.
That they are really efficacious in so doing—that they indeed
perform what they promise—is abundantly proved by many
years of enormous popularity, and by their gigantic sale.
BEECHAMS
PILLS
have a universal reputation and enjoy the patronage of all
classes of society. They are, simple, safe and speedy. They
give relief at once to the sufferer from constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, pains after eating, lack of appetite, etc.
When “ liverish,’*' run-down or seedy, Beecham’s Pills will be
found the best of all pick-me-ups, while the benefits they
confer do not pass away. A periodical dose of this medicine
is excellent for man and woman alike. Beecham’s Pills have
for years been the one and only household medicine in
thousands of homes. Their worth has been proved again
And again. You can depend upon them. They do not
vary. They are mild in action and in every way
ARE AN IDEAL
FAMILY MEDICINE.
SOLD IN BOXES, LABELLED,
Price 10>£d. (36 pills), 1/1 % (56 pills) and 2/9 (168 pills).
ħ
Owing to its cleansing
action on tke kidneys
and other organs it is
a real Health tonic.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V . Badger rcc Port
Nature’s Gift.
'TAV?
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0. for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC
h
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending' all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your case
and I will advise you
; charge.
S.H. HENSHALL,
Regd. Chemist,
by Examination
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne,
R. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
I Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
ĥ
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm In
D/ARRHOEA, and is the only
2HOLERA and
.C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
'Circular Pointed
Seven
Prize Medals^
Works s
Birmingham, England,
ħ
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention *>s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Biotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
h
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE & BREAKS PEAR,
ĥ
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
J/-EACH POST FREE 1/2
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDWEY.
’STVfftkeepers A: roBACco/vur.s
SHOULD SEAD FOR OUR TRADE LIST
ASTHMA CURE
BRIIHIAULT'S INPN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GIUMAULT <fc Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
E'l TBS. Sold by all Chemut*.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibault. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines, sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
ħ
Superior to
INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
I COPAIBA.
' Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
MIDY
Each Capsule bears the name
i*-
“LINSEED COMPOUND 53 for dough, and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.


Good Sporting
Footwear——
lMtal 0 i r Tini h comfor°t to a ?i Sh ° eS are sha P ed fecial
’ comiort to the wearer, the uppers are of
h
best quality, insoles are of
leather, and soles are of best
red rubber.
tS'smock BUCKSKIN
TENNIS SHOES, plain or with
ca P , strap, leather insole,
stitched at toes and heels, with
iin. Best Bed Rubber Soles.
Price, 21s.
w .<?OLF,NQ BOOT of Tan
W! low Calf or Best Black Box
2 alf - » er by pattern, rubber
studded soles and leather lined.
Price, 30s. Postage Is. extra.
Write for Free Copy of our Price List
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“ Best House for All Rubber Goods," ,
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PUMPS.
Tlie Victoria Turbo-Pumps
Manufadured by
Willans (El Robinson Ltd., Rugby.
We can quote for High or Low Lift Pumps, either Belt or Electric Drive.
Apply— t. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney
Fibro-Ccment
WHAT IS IT? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with Asbestos. It has the strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
hght, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made In Slates for roofing, Red, Grey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2Jin. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “B ” to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY ; and
581-583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, XV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Paoket of Ten, fid.
“ Clayton 8 Shuttleworth”
Portable STEAM ENGINE.
Where firewood is plentiful these Engines can't
be beaten. They are wonderfully economical
and reliable. Send for Illustrated Lists.
STATION OWNERS
would do well to Instal only
THE
MACHINES.
They mean More Money and No Lost Time.
A
“TANGYE”
PORTfIBL - OIL ENGINE.
The Ideal Engine for the Sheepowner and
Farmer. Handy for driving Sheep Shearing
Machines, Chaffcutters, Saws, etc.
®. CO. LTD.,
SOLE
AGENTS
ĥ
V
' .
• \ .
ANY
ħ
CAN
LAMP
h
SUPPLY
FROM
ĥ
YOU
STOCK.
ħ
M e + h . a X? S6CU : ed Clty Council s and Government Contracts for A.EG
Metal-filament Lamps. Balmain Contract for 108 Arc Lamps!
STAERKER 8 FISCHER,
40 Clarence St., Sydney;
172 William St., Melbourne.
NOYES BROS.
Electric Motors and
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
155-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, DVDTU
St. George’s Terrace, * "til 11 ■
7 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
Dynamos.
Large Stocks
Carried.
Parke* Dev €o“
engineers and
machinery merebanis
60
Clarence st.
Sydney
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
263 George Street, Sydney; 525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Send for particulars of Practical Tests of the
CARD CONCENTRATOR.
Made in two styles—for COARSE SANDS and for FINE SLIMES.
ii.-.-.*. -
The Model “C” Pattern.
Ask for Bulletin No. 9.
