

DEWARS —All that a perfect Whisky should be.
R. Gr. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
d
Herbert’s
Machine Tools.
Economy in Labor, Increased Output.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
Collins Street, Melbourne.
3BCQ3E»A.»X.
fiad!e§s Orient fiotel.
PIONEEH
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
</. C. Ludowioi & Son, Ld,
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
đsg
Take it back,
I must have-
HUTTON’S
|! fine Apple Brand
dsg
CHUBB’S SAFES
FOR JEWELLERS.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
J
HANSELS
unlcet,
TABLETS
fo. INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prise Medals.
aU,
■a
a
• *,v;L "*'lV*,
-vV.
A/
THE SECRET OF IT’S POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
Jr..*
\
w v*
o 0
V* S>
¥
& K < & A’
A
$
e>
0
&
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
MANNESMANN SPIGOT & FAUCET TUBES
Tho light weight of these Tubes makes transport easy .
AGENTS ... NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY) LTD., 109 PITT STREET.
CqqdqJl
Shearing
Machines
sgd
sgd
ďs
•sam
16 YOUNG STREET,
SYDNEY.
(ml
ML
m
s
MALTHOID is just as permanent in character as slates, tiles, or even
lead. It is made of wool-felt saturated with a mineral Hydro-Carbon,
which is absolutely waterproof, and coated on top of that with a non-
oxidising substance which makes it absolutely waterproof. Two excellent
qualifications for a roofing—WATERPROOF and -AVE^THERPROOI.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), CHALLIS HOUSE, M
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T °
I SS&Vi!
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES.
C. A. MACDONALD LTD.,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CREAM COOLERS, BUTTER FACTORY REQUISITES.
The Bulletin
mSL—No. 1580.]
[Thursday, May 26, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


SOME GREAT BOOKS TO BE READY SHORTLY,
A Marriage Under the Terror , 3s. 6d., posted 4s.
(winner of 250 Guineas Prize Novel Competition). . By PATRICIA WENT WORTH,
The Green Mouse, 3s. ed., posted 4s.
By R. W. CHAMBERS, author of “ The Danger Mark,” “ Firing Line,” “ Special Messenger.”
The Rosary, 3s. 6d., posted 4s.
By FLORENCE BARCLAY. “ This is a rare book, a source of genuine delight.”
The Danger Trait, A great yarn. 3s. 6rf., posted 4S.
By JAMES O. OUR WOOD.
The Australasian Students’ Song Book, posted 4s.
Arranged for male voices ; will contain all the best University songs.
Printer’s Pie, 1910 , * Is. 3d., posted Is. Bd.
Wonderful value in new tales, new pictures, new poems, new notes.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says “ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
c?
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
ds
MAY TIME.
With morn-mists grey and golden
The May-time journeys west,
And hill by hill is folden
In beauty to her breast.
Oh ! sweet are her embraces.
And with her mists of grey
She smooths their troubled faces
And hides them from the day ;
And knowing well they weary
Of April’s plaintive moans,
She sings them sleep-songs cheery
In leaf-wet undertones.
Yea! with white clouds a-smother
She sings her rain-soft croon,
And like a loving mother.
Leads on to latent June.
And, for her children’s waking,
She kneels beneath the trees
And sets the heath-bells shaking
With bloom-time melodies.
Oh, dear old mother May-time !
The Old World May is sweet.
And glad with flow’r and\ fay-time,
Strews daisies at men’s feet.
But here thou art no maiden,
With mating songs to sing,
But our dear mother laden
With promises of Spring.
For what thou hast of sadness
And what thou hast of gloom,
The gums put on their gladness,
The wattles strain to bloom ;
And though thy ways are sere ways
Where Old World tree leaves fall,
Thou leadest us by near ways
To where the thrushes call;
And maybe ere thy-going,
The misty mountain dells
Will set thy garments flowing
With wild boronia bells.
N.S.W.
E. S. EMERSON.
The RED PAGE
Spooks.
Two of the most prominent persons claim-
ing to be mediums between this and the
spook world are under a shadow at present.
It is alleged that Charles Bailey, of Aus-
tralia, bought two dicky birds, and produced
them in their little nest as “apports” at a
spiritualistic seance in Grenoble. The Mel-
bourne Harbinger of Light may be consulted
for further particulars. Eusapia Paladino,
whose occult performances have convinced
some of the most sceptical—Caesar Lombroso,
for instance—has been again convicted of
trickery. Some’ years, ago Eusapia was
bowled out; but the Psychic Research
Society took her up again, made further in-
vestigations, and gave her their imprimatur
as a genuine spook-raiser. Since then Prof.
Hugo Miinsterberg, an American authority
on psychology and kindred subjects, attended
Eusapia’s seance with two other men, and
caught her in the act of producing the
“apports” from a cabinet with her foot.
At the beginning of the seance she placed
each foot and hand on the feet and hands of
Miinsterberg and one of his friends ; but she
managed to withdraw one foot from its shoe
without being noticed, and by dexterous
manoeuvring reached backwards with it for
the guitar which was to be produced.
Unknown to her, the third man had slipped
on to the floor and crawled into the cabinet,
where he arrested the lady’s foot in flagrante
delicto.
Miinsterberg declares in the Metropolitan
Magazine that Eusapia is a fraud and humbug.
Prof. William James in The Cosmopolitan for
February thinks she might be all right, and
many other eminent men besides Lombroso
were satisfied as to the genuineness of the
phenomena for which she was responsible.'
\!>
A mass of evidence and authority is
brought together by Dr. Heysinger in Spirit
and Matter before the Bar of Modern Science
(Sydney Book Club). He claims that
materialism has been proven bankrupt,
whereas spiritualism, which is the basis of
all religions, is more vigorously alive than
ever. He points to the eminent scientists
who are now investigating spiritualistic
phenomena, and says that that Is the only
way in which the explanation of the mys-
teries of life can be discovered. On the
question of miracles he writes more breezily
than the usual spook advocate :
“Do you believe in miracles?” I was asked
sneeringly in one of our discussions. I asked the
questioner what he meant by “ miracles,” and he
replied, “I mean the Nqw Testament miracles,
such as chancing the water into wine, and the
like.”
“ Oh,” I said, “ I thought that you referred to
real miracles, such as the growing of a stalk of
grass, or the chick in the egg.” Whereat he was
surprised, for he evidently knew all about such
matters, which doubtless were not miraculous at
all.
Then I told him that, while I had nothing to say
pro or con. as to the actual occurrences in question,
yet I fully believed in the scientific possibility of a
great many of the so-called Bible miracles, and
that without considering their Divine origin in
anv exceptional sense at all; and that it seemed
Strange to me that, while sceptics readily accept
production by a fortuitous clashing of chemical
atoms, of living protoplasm, a most complicated
substance, they are ready to deny the possibility
of a like production, when mind and purpose are
super-added, of mere wine, a hardly com-
plicated in its composition at all. The difference
chemically between water and wine is very slight,
and if wedding parties in those days were like
some that I have attended, there would have been
quite enough carbon dioxide in the atmosphere to
supply that element, outside of other possible
sources.
If you put the Bible miracles on the same
basis as the wine faker’s conversion of water
into “ wine,” or the raising of the dead who
were only “dead” by grossly exaggerated
report, it seems absurd to give credence to
the “miracles” of spiritualism as Heysinger
does, especially as so many have been de-
clared bogus. He warns his readers against
accepting the work of professional mediums.
Yet if the evidence of the Homes and Pala-
dinos be taken away there is nothing much
left to build upon. The notorious Mrs.
Piper, in whom the late Francis Myers be-
lieved absolutely, was exposed by Frank
Podmore, and Podmore’s remarks on the
subject of mediums are worth remembering
by those inclined to spookishness :
The whole history of spiritualism and psychical
research should convince us that we are never
entitled to assume the honesty of the medium.
We know at once too much and too little of
mediumship. Too much, for we know that almost
every type of mediumship has been connected
with dishonesty in the past; too little, for if there
are honest mediums we don’t know by what signs
to distinguish them from dishonest ones.
Hey singer’s book is a bulky one, and a lot
of it is twaddle ; but there is some good
reading in the quotations. A more interest-
ing talk on “Death and afterwards ” is to
be found in Hugh Farrie’s Highways and
Byways in Literature (Angus and Robert-
son). It is a string of little essays on death,
Andrew Lang and ghosts, Daniel Home,
Mrs. Piper, Eusapia Paladino, etc. He
tells a little story of a conjurer and a boy
whom he taught to do his tricks. The boy
deceived the old man with the best of his
own tricks; but when the pupil tried it on
another boy the latter spotted the decep-
tion. “Eusapia,” says Farrie, “simply
practises on the egregious innocence of very
learned men and their strange incapacity to
observe and report trivial things correctly.
Let Eusapia be watched by half a dozen
small boys instead of by as many professors
of the Academy of Sciences, and I guarantee
that her table will never rise this side of
Judgment Day.”
Farrie also points out the difference
between certainty, which is a mental con-
dition, and objective truth, or what the
world agrees to regard as objective truth.
“Perfect and absolute certainty is consistent
with absolute and constant error,” as in the
case of the one-time universal belief in
the flatness of the earth. This knocks the
bottom out of all the authorities from the
beginning of history who are gathered to-
gether by Heysinger and others to give
evidence in favor of spiritualism. They do
no more than prove that there is in weak
mortality a wish that is father to the
thought of immortality, a continual han-
kering after evidence to support a
shaky belief ; and all .the exposures
and disproofs of their evidences will
not prevent men who have the will to
believe from finding in the quagmire a fresh
foundation for belief. Herr Paulus, in
Besant’s story of that name, had the
spiritualistic supports knocked from under
him time and again ; but always came along
afterwards with the declaration that be had
found solid rock at last.
4
Farrie’s Highways and Byways contains
much other matter of interest besides the
chapter on mediums. Its main concern, in
fact, is literature old and new, and the author
ambles along the highways of old love stories,
Sappho, Petronius, Rabelais and Homer,
and the byways of Sturm’s Reflections, The
Female Quixote, Casanova and Captain Mar-
ryat, with stray remarks about Euclid and
“The Importance of Being Scotch.” To
anyone of literary tastes all this is very
pleasant reading. Perhaps the most fas-
cinating essay lets are those on the forgotten
writers such as Charlotte Lennox, much ad-
mired by Dr. Johnson ; or Tryphiodorus,
whose Destruction of Troy is written in 24
books, each of which is without one letter of
the alphabet. “ A ” does not occur in the first
book, “b ” in the second, and so on. Farrie
is a reader with a catholic taste who writes in a
gossipy fashion about a great many interest-
ing matters.
4
Some charming remarks by the London
Athenceum in a notice of Prof. Tucker’s
Things Worth Thinking About:
Prof. Tucker is known to us in England as a
scholar who valiantly pursues his studies under
somewhat depressing circumstances.
(This may explain the depressing heaviness
of his lectures.)
An astonished Melbourne audience learns from
its professor what Plato taught above two thou-
sand years ago, what a later teacher summed up
in the profound aphorism, “Man shall not live
by bread alone.”
Marvellous Melbourne! Fancy your being
astonished at that after the pulpit-thumping
of half a century !
It learns that tramcars and telephones do nob
constitute a civilisation ; that work in itself is
worthless ; that success is no criterion of virtue ;
and that peoples and periods must ultimately be
judged by their richness or poverty in good states
of mind. ... To readers of The Athenceum these
ideas are familiar; but we doubt whether the
people of Melbourne have given them much
thought, . . . To the cultivated minority we do nob
recommend his book ; too often its arguments are
obsolete, its attitude commonplace, its illus-
trations trite. Most of the lectures contain plenty
of good sense ; but they contain also much poor
writing, much that is tedious, and nothing that is
profound.
Bub it is good and profitable reading for the
majority of Melbournians ! The barbarous
utilitarians must ponder over Things Worth
Thinking About until they get the good state
of mind. They little thought as they went
the giddy business pace that a punishment
would be found to fit their crime.
4
In The Diverting Adventures of Maurin
Jean Aicarcl (now a member of the Academy)
strung together some hilarious episodes in
the lives of Provencal rustics who are un-
familiar subjects to English readers. Felix
Gras in The Reds of the Midi and The Terror
gave some idea of the Marseilles folk at the
time of the Revolution ; but Aicard has
drawn the villagers of to-day with their
cunning, impulsiveness and drollery. The
central figure, Maurin, is a trapper of game,
quick-witted and adroit, with elements of
Don Quixote and Don Juan, and in every
way a fascinating chap. His adventures are
continued in Maurin the Illustrious (Sydney
Book Club), and they are just as diverting
as the first lot. Maurin is a born raconteur,
with a knack of phrasing which is almost
American.
“Sir,” says I, quiet like and as polite as could
be, “if thas were a set of dominoes made up of
fools, you’d be double-six, you would.”
There are a good many little stories scattered
through the book, some of them like the tale
of Captain Cougourdan, of the port of Les
Marbigues:
Out at sea one day he was studying his chart,
this Captain Cougourdan, and having verified the
position of his ship, which was running free before
a spanking breeze, and heading right for the
bottom of his chart, where there was nothing
more but the blank edge of the sheet: “’Bout
ship!” he yelled. “ Hard a-port! Hard a-port,
for God’s sake !. . . orWe shall all go slap off the
chart.”
The pursuit of Maurin by the gendarmes and
his appearance as a bull fighter are very
amusing. It is worth while making the
acquaintance of valiant Provencal.
Joan Moreas
The death of Jean Moreas is reported as
having occurred in Paris on the 30th March.
He was bom at Athens in 1850, educated in
Marseilles, and spent the best part of his
life in Paris. In his day he was leader of a
literary clan, and his work has a small place
between that of Verlaine and Mallarme, In
many respects it resembles the English verse
of Ezra Pound. There is an account of Moreas
in Vance Thompson's French Portraits,
which gives the man as lie appeared in the
cafe where he was king :
He wears a long, monkish great-coat reaching
to his heels, a silk hat tipped over his eyebrows.
His moustache is twisted up truculently. He has
the air of Bobddil, of Draweansir—of a pirate of
the Spanish Main. Across his face runs a sneer
like* sabre-cut. Hestalks in sombrely, a monocle
glued in his right eye—which is absurd—and
takes a seat in Verlaine’s old corner.
“ Rhum & I’eau ! ” he cries to the waiter ; it is
as though he were giving the order for the storm-
ing of a convent.
“Of all poets,” he adds benignly, “only I and
Verlaine have found inspiration in rum and
water.”
He draws off one of his gloves, and with a hand
white and slight as a woman’s, caresses his
piratical moustache. Opposite him is a qiirror,
and he catches his reflection in it. For a long
time he stares at it as though in an ecstasy of
satisfaction.
Suddenly in his gruff, funereal voice, he cries
aloud: “ «7e suis beau! Je suis beau! ,: and
drinks his rum and water. No one speaks. One
and all, with the mien of little dogs, his disciples
watch him in silent admiration. Ah, my friends,
it is a great thing to he a poet —in the Latin
Quarter.
I watch him, not without admiration. He be-
longed to a past that was other than mine ; there
are few places where our paths cross in the pre-
sent ; and yet I know Jean Moreas, and—l have
said it—l admire him. I admire his colossal
vanity, his mirthless egotism, his profound lack
of humor—oh, abysmally deep ! —but more than
all I admire him for the seriousness with which
he takes himself and his business of being a
poet. It is so rare, this quality. Our generation
is so levelled up to the commonplace and
proper that there is little picturesqueness left.
We all wear hodden grey. And to iny mind
there is something infinitely attractive in Moreas’
flaunting of the purple rags of poetry. You may
remember Joly, the keeper of the cockpit, of
whom Lavengro has written. He held that dog-
fighting—“and when I talk of dog-fighting, I, of
course, mean rat-catching and badger-baiting-
aye, and bull-baiting”—was an immeasurably
finer occupation than any other. It is in much
the same way that Jean Moreas looks upon
poetry. He has the true autolatry of the
old poets; he can conceive genius only under a
literary form; he entertains the obsolete
prejudice that poetry is something so
hugely superior to everything else that it confers
a sort of sacred character—such as used to attach
to idiots and kings. And it is for this wholesome,
artistic seriousness, this salutary, artistic ego-
tism that I admire Jean Moreas. He says, “I
am a poet,” as calmly as other men announce
that they are greengrocers or journalists, or
manufacturers of wooden toothpicks.
I draw up my chair to the table at which
Moreas sits—superb over his rum and water. We
shake hands limply and doff our hats.
“ When did you arrive?” he asks.
“ The other day.”
“ Have you heard the news ? ”
“ Upon my word I don’t know ; what news ? ”
“The great news—l have abolished the sym-
bolists.”
It was grandly said ; thus might Napoleon
have spoken of Marengo or Austerlitz.
“It was I who invented symbolism; I, it was
I who applied the term to my school; and
I defended it, I, in a pamphlet which is not yet
forgotten, I believe,” said Moreas.
A murmur of assent came from his disciples; it
was not forgotten.
“ And now I abolish it; the decree has gone
forth —there is no symbolism more. It did well
enough in its day. It expressed well enough the
quality of our art, and, indeed, of art in general;
but it has been debased and transformed ; it has
become the gonfalon of a sect; it has become
common. Nowadays everyone is on the lookout
for symbols—the surest way not to find them.
The poet is a symbolist, but he does not proclaim
it.” . . . “ You have destroyed symbolism,” I say,
“even as you created it—what will your poetry be
in the future?”
“It will be—as it has been in the past—
poetry,” Jean Morisas retorts, and then, falling
into a grandiose sing-song, he goes on: —“I
have found another name for my school, and now
my poetry is the poesie Romane. That name ex-
presses my intention. It covers the art of the
Midi of Europe—that art which has reached its
highest development in the French literature.
To-day my culture has attained such a height that
I can comprehend this development from begin-
ning to end ; there is no line marking off the
Middle Age from the Renaissance; there is no
hiatus between the folk-lore of the land of
Romanie, and my poetry, which is the perfection
of art; they are of the same race and family;
thus it is I bring back the poesie~Romane. Ido
not refer to my early prose-works ; I have*never
taken them seriously. I speak of my poetry — les
Series, les CantiUnes, le Pilerin Passionne, de
Eriphyle. -
“ Yes, my children, I have always been a rebel.
The fierce blood of the Klepht is in my veins. I
am a Greek—a true Greek—in fact, I believe lam
the last representative of the Greek race—the
last descendant of Pindar and Plato and Meleager
and the 300 of Thermopylae—l, Jean Moreas. My
family is of Epirus. It is illustrious. It is called
Papadiamantopoulos. It is a long name—almost
ridiculous to little minds. It signifies merely
diamond, papa indicating that there was a priest
among my ancestors, and ponlos being equiavlent
to the Irish 0, the Scotch Mac or the Slavonic
ski or vitch. Thus I am Son-of-a-Diamond-in-
whose-Family-was-a-Priest. My family eifiigrated
early in the century to the Peloponnesus—Morea
—whence my name. My grandfather, my great-
uncle fought in the war for independence. My
race engenders heroes. My father lived at Athens,
at the court of King Otto —the Bavarian ! He
wished to send me to Germany to school. I re-
volted. I wished to see France. In my childish
heart was the nostalgia for Paris. Twice I ran
away from home —at last I reached Paris.
Destiny pointed the way—my star led me
—to become the greatest of French poets. I
suffered horribly. I knew hunger, thirst and
homelessness. But always I held myself
erect—my hour came. It is here. The time of
youth and folly is past; the time has come for a
lofty conception of art and life.”
~~ f — 1 '
The lines placed by Mark Twain over the
grave of his daughter are not his own, as
stated by the Sydney D.T. They are a
variant of the concluding lines of “Annette,”
a poem by Robert Richardson, who was born
in N.S.W. This is how they appear in his
booklet, Willow and Wattle :
Warm summer sun, shine friendly here ;
Warm western wind, blow kindly here ;
Green sod above, rest light, rest light;
Good night, Annette!
Sweetheart, good night!
The “ cheechako ” of Robert Service’s
Ballads is (according to an American paper)
the Indian equivalent for Tenderfoot or New-
comer.


Jk
w aee
49
99
• x • 49— Brown Opossum Stole, 20/-; similar
desisrns, 17/6, 19/6, 24/-, 35/-
Ko. 99—Muffs to match, 11/6, 13/6.
So. 8325— Light and Dark
Brown Bear Stoles, 63/-;
also smaller sizes at 30/-,
38/-, 42/6, SO/-, 67/6.
No. S'"]— Huffs to match, 25/-,
35/-
No. 200—Dark Brown
French Hare Fur
Stole, 8/6, 14/6 ;
smaller size, 5/3.
No. 230—French Hare
Muff, round shape,
6/9.
FOR
Fashionable 8 Reliable Furs
... PUT PERFECT TRUST IN ...
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices
No. 331—Stone Marten Fur
Stole, finished heads and
tails, £ll ; similardesig’ns
£l4/14/-, £l7/17/-
No. 325— Black French Hare Fur
Stole, 17/6; similar designs,
10/-, 13/6.
No. 303— Marmot Throw-
over, Dark Brown, 33/6
Other Charming FUR SETS.
Many other Magnificent Fur Sets are shown in the Green Room,
including the following:—
Real Sable Stoles, new shapes, finished Heads and Tails, £l7/17/-, £l9, £25, £32. Real
Sable Muffs, to match, £ 12/12/= and £l7/17/
Real Stone Marten Stoles, all new shapes, finished Heads and Tails. £7/7/-, £B/8/-, £lO,
£l4/14/-, £l7/17/-, £l9, to £2B/10/-. Muffs, to match, £B/8/-, £ll, £l2/15/=,
£l3/15/-
Fitch Sable Stoles, finished Tails and Heads, 56/-, 67/6, 77/6, 90/=, 97/6, to £5/15/=
Muffs, to match, 38/6, 45/=, 50/=
One Only Skunk Set New Shape Stole and Muff, £l3/15/=
Black-Pohited Fox Stoles, finished Handsome Brushes, £7/10/-, £B/8/=, £9. Muffs, to
match, £6/6/=, £7/7/=
Kid Fox Stoles, 57/6, 84/=. Muffs, to match, 38/6.
Canadian Red Fox Stoles, finished Head and Brushes, £5/10/=, £6/6/=. Muffs, to
match, 97/6.
White Arctic Fox Stoles, new Shapes, finished Heads and Brushes, 80/=, £6/6/=, £7/7/=,
£ll/11/-, £l4/14/=. Muffs, to match, £6/10/= and £B/15/-
One Only Celestial Fox Set Stole and Muff. £2l.
Light Grey Squirrel Throwover Stoles, 45/=, 60/-. Muffs, to match, 52/6.
Brown Bear Stoles, 30/=, 38/-, 42/6, 50/-, 52/6, 67/6. Muffs, to match, ba<>-
shape, 25/=, 35/=
Isabella (Light Brown) Bear Stoles, 40/-, 45/=, 50/=, 63/=. Muffs, to match, 25/=, 35/=
i'Vfl
V ,; V
5J
237
c/ Mai
■ M *
i y v
V
839
No. B39—White or Brown Poxallne Fur Stole,
20/-; similar designs in White Foxaline, 18/6,
23/-, 27/-, 35/-
No. 237 — White Foxaline Muff, finished heads and
tails, 15/6; Plain Bag Muff, 10/6.
No. C— Stone Marten
Muff, in the new shape,
finished heads and tails,
£B/8/=
313
No. 313— Marmot Muff,
new Baar Shape, finished
Heads and Tails, 27/6;
plain Bag- Muffs, 14/6,
No. 306— Marmot Stole, Light
and Dark Brown, finished
Heads and Tails, 45/= ;
similar styles at 18/6, 25/=,
No. 134— Brown French Hare Fur Stole, 17/6.
No. 231 —French Hare Muff, to match, plain bag
shape, 8/9.
No. 8937— Canadian Red Fox Fur Stole.
£5/15/-
No. 936—Muffs, to match, plain bagr
shape, 97/6.
No. 307— Marmot Fur Stole, Lijrht
and Dark Brown, 47/5; larger
size, 57/6
No. C 81 — Fitch Sable Stole, finished Heads and Tails, 83/-
similar designs, 55/=, 67/6, 77/6.
No. 332—Muff, to match, in the new Ba<; Shape, finished Heads
and Tails, 50/-
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium
Brickfield Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH &. CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Anprape ~ BOOKS.
Plays,
Comedies,
Farces, etc.
The Largest Stock in
Australasia.
Write for new PLAY
CATALOCUE,
also Supplementary Cata-
logue of FREE-ACTING
EDITIONS.
SPECIAL AGENT for
Samuel French, London,
and American Publishers.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Goteh, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
116 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 1/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engraving's, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
.
Marvellously Simple 1
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls.
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perforin it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Flve Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Mayric, 2 o.
Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postape to any address.
Stamps or
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
ENO's ‘FRUIT salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels. Skin, and Kidneys
bv Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
CAUTION.- Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'FRUIT SALT,’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
Prepared only by J. C. ENO, Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London,
y S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
The Association of Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
When ordering from Agents please insist
upon every article of plate being stamped:
ds
King’s, Queen’s, Piddle,
Rat-Tall, Old English, Albany,
Gadroon and Fancy Patterns.
Crests and
Monograms
Engraved,
4s. per dozen.
sank
iiiiu IbH-nnrniH.
We have the
finest
selection of
CANTEENS
in
LONDON,
prices from
£4 4s. Od.
£lOO.
Please write lor
SPECIAL
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET.
YOU CAN BUY FROM ENGLAND. Pay your Duty and purchase cheaper
and better than you are now doing. Write tor our Illustrated Cata-
logue. 6,000 Illustrations Post Free to any part ot the world.
6, Grand Hotel Buildings, London, W.C.
mmsum
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Afiections.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
-■ - for
Regular Use.
MAGNESIA
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Establishkd 1549. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leasehcll
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
Of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST-
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repayme-
nt) to 20 per cent. of the loan during- any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Dirkctors—The Hon. A. YY. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black. M.L.C.; The Hon. F. E. YYinchcombe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox, E«q., K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
STEVENS
FAVORITE RIFLE NO. 19
UNERRINGLY ACCURATE.
The Ideal Rifle for Miniature Rifle Clubs.
Same Specifications as Favorite No. 17, except fitted with Lyman Front,
Stevens Leaf and Lyman Rear Peep Sights.
Insist on
STEVENS
when ordering
from your Dealer.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues.
[5
A GENEROUS OFFER.
To Prove that
Harlene Hair Drill grows hair.
r A MILLION FREE OUTFITS to bz DISTRIBUTED.
If yon would like to make your hair grow in healthy and beautiful
profußiou, you can receive free for the mere asking a complete “ Harlene
Hair Drill ” outfit.
Let any woman conjure up the vision of how much younger and how much
more attractive she would be if her hair was as it was, say, five to ten or fifteen
years back.
Let any man similarly summon before his mind’s eye the picture of the differ-
ence that his hair as it was five to fifteen years previous would make to him to-day.
And it is this great difference that it is possible to restore. No woman’s—or man’s—
hair is to-day what it might— what it can— be, unless it has had the natural and
physiological cultivating and beautifying benefit of “ Harlene Hair Drill.”
After using " Harlene ” you will be surprised—agreeably surprised. Mind, this we
promise:
Your hair will stop falling out by the end of the week.
The scalp will feel “ alive ” instead of dead, hot, hard, scurfy, greasy, sticky,
damp, or dry.
Note.—All the accessories required will be sent you without a penny cost. It costs
threepence to send you the package, and it is suggested that you do Messrs. Edwards
the courtesy of sending threepence for postage or carriage mentioned on the following
Coupon (of which you can send a copy if you would rather not cut i t from your paper).
Further supplies of ” Harlene ” wherewith to continue the practice and benefits
of "Harlene Hair Drill” maybe obtained of all chemists and stores throughout
the world at Is., 2s. 6d„ and 4s. 6d. per bottle, or sent direct and post paid on
receipt of postal order.
OOUPON for Free Trial Outfit.
To Messrs. EDWARDS’ HARLENE CO.,
95 and 96, High Holborn, London, England.
Sirs,—l wish to try " Harlene Hair Drill ” for one week in accordance
with your offer to readers of this paper, and shall be glad if
you will send me the “Harlene Hair-Drill” Outfit, with in-
structions, free of charge.
I enclose 3d. stamps for postage to any part of the world.
Name
Address
106"
d
Mr. GEORGE TITHERADGE.
THOSE WHO
SEEK HEALTH
should read this letter from that popular actor,
Mr. George S. Titheradge, who speaks elo-
quently of the good derived from the standard
Australian nerve remedy,
CLEMENTS
TONIC.
People who take an interest in the theatre
will remember that the popular actor, Mr.
George S. Titheradge, was not at all well when
he arrived from England. This culminated in
a severe attack of appendicitis with compli-
cations. On reaching convalescence, he was,
with great difficulty, induced to try Clements
Tonic, with the gratifying result that he was
often taken for his own son. The following
letter speaks for itself :
Dear Sirs, f
I promised to let yoli know what good (if any)
Clements Tonic did me. This is the result:
Two or three times recently I have had occasion, in
the course of business, to mention my name to people
who were unacquainted with me off the stage.
In each case the query has been put to me: “ How’s
your father’s health ? ” Verb. sap.
Yours faithfully,
GEORGE S. TITHERADGE.
There is no equal to this remarkable medicine for the relief of Insomnia, Brain-fag
(caused through excessive study or business cares), Imperfect Digestion, Poor Appetite, or
Nerve Breakdown. It has also a healthful toning effect upon the Liver and Kid ey..
All Stores and Chemists sell it throughout the Commonwealth. It saves life. Send for it.


e'
Ml
The woman on the right never
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor. She neg-
lected her hair, and now herself suf-
fers from neglect. On the contrary,
the woman on the left has always
used Ayer’s Hair Vigor, and owes
to it much of her youthful appear-
ance and attractiveness.
Mger’s
Jtair *Viger
produces beautiful hair. Long,
rich, heavy hair. Soft and silky
hair, free from dandruff.
Prepared by Dr, J. C, flyer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U.S.A-
sd
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
s allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money In full refunded without question
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles 9
warranted five to ten yearn, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
MODM £3.10 to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Him brakes, variable gears
and all latest improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee safe delivery.
APTIWC APCMTO wanted in each district.
HU I IVC HUCII I O Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our M vecial offer on sample machine. r
MEAD CYCLE COa, Sept. 280 Liverpool .
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Agent,
157 Clarence Streets SYDNEY*
WINCHESTER
Always
Reliable !
As is the case with
all ‘ ELEY * Goods,
the accuracy of/the
Eley *44 Winchester
Central Eire Car-
tridge is such as
should commend it
to the attention of
critical sportsmen.
* Eley Smokeless ’— pop-
ular low-priced cartridge.
‘Eley 22 Rim Fire Car -
tridge’ - black and smoke-
less powder.
All Eley Cartridges
are made in London
Of Gunmakers
and Dealers
See the
name
*Eley'
on all
tridges
ď
sďs
Eley
Bros.,
Ltd.,
London
śgd
H. Hiilier,
161 George St. West,
Sydney, N.S.W.,
Manufacturer, Importer.
Sporting- Sulkies, £9 10s. Abbott Buggies, solid
leather trimmed, £3l 10s. Buggies, from £ll 10s.
Governess Carts, Pbastons, etc. Send for illustrated
catalogue. Harness, per set, £3 11s. Double Harness,
£5 10s. Stock Saddles, £2 10s. to £4 10s.
sgd
BE- SURE YOU GET
BONIMIIMGTOIM’S
IRISH MOSS.
Most chemists and retailers will give you
Bonnington’s Irish Moss directly you ask for it.
Here and there, however, you will find one who
does not maintain the dignity of the profession,
and who will try to sell you a substitute, on
which he makes a larger profit. You know the
insidious argument, “Yes, I stock Bonnington’s; but have you tried my own
mixture ? It is ‘just as good.’”,
Allow no one to deceive you. There is no remedy so good as Bonnington’s
Irish Moss. '
FOR THE CHEST, THROAT AND LUNGS.
Try it the next time you have a cola, ana you will be satisfiea.
[1
HEALTHFUL* ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“OUR. JACK'* Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 116.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Fitt St., Sydney; Currie St„ Adelaide ; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Let
Us
Cure
You
VARICOSE |
VEINS
IF you have learned to look upon your
Varicose Vein affliction as incurable,
you will have to alter your point of
view. A few years ago, but temporary
relief, and then only by recourse to the
surgeon’s knife, was all a sufferer from this
complaint could expect. Now the knife
is obsolete.
The Vecsey Method of Treat-
ment offers not only permanent relief,
but an absolute cure, even in the very
worst cases.
FREE Rflfllf Send a 2d. stamp for
rncc DUUIl. our Free Book, which
gives full particulars. Write or call.
The Vecsey V arix=arium,
104 Linden Court, Sydney.
IDEAL FOOD
For children From birth is
Horlick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constit-
uents in their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch, and is therefore . .
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infant Foods containing: Starch.
No Cooking-. No added Milk.
Of all Chemists. Wholesale & Retail Stores.
Samples: 82 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough, Eng;.
Free for the Asking.
sdg
sdg
The completest illus-
trated Catalogue and
Price List of Acety-
lene Burners ever
published in the
States. Shall we mail
it?
Sample Dozen
Assorted Burners,
Post Free, 10/-
Robert C. Swan S Co. Ltd. 304 RE£T>
WOOD-MILNE
SHOESHINE
ia the latest and best thing in
boot polishes. It makes boots
waterproof ; keeps leather soft and
pliable; prevents cracking, and
gives a brighter and more lasting
shine than any other polish.
WHOLESALE AGENTS—
D. U W. MURRAY,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE, S. AUS,
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to becured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirelv new—is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease from the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Poited Free f*
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
EYE
°ihtmeht
CURES
ESTAB? 1750
/
English
Prize Awards.- London 1851. Paris 1889.
London IB6Z. Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH.
N
ROTHE
SHAMS
DON
Watch es
SOLD BY
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLTIN.]
The Song of the Kain.
At my window I sit
With a fire burning 1 by,
While the rain pat-a-pit
Tumbles down from the sky
With the throb
And the sob
Of the languishing earth in its gladsome refrain ;
And I watch and I listen,
As pearly beads glisten.
And splatter and splash like a frost on the pane,
As they beat.
Softly sweet,
On the roof.
Like the hum of a drum, or as cavalry come
From aloof
To the ting
Of the drops,
As they sing
Through the crops—
The beautiful land-waking song of the rain.
Then I think of the times when my lamp was a star,
When I camped ’neath the pines and the waitin'/
belar,
And the firing with wet wood was labor in vain —
But the rain is a blessing wherever you arc /
I hear a shrill voice
Of the winds as they pass,
Loud crying “ Rejoice ”
To the trees and the grass,
With the leaves
By the eaves
Like a swarm of brown butterflies borne in its
train;
And the rain slants and lightens,
It swishes and brightens,
Or sweeps with a roar over ridges and plain ;
And the wheat
In retreat ,
Lowly bends
To the wail of the gale and the hard-pelting hail
That attends;
While the frogs
In their might
Cry in logs
With delight
At the glorious, soul-soothing song of the rain.
Then come visions of pens and yards sticky as tar ,
Where the cow is supreme, and her husband is Czar,
And of low river-farms where the flood leaves its
stain —
But the rain is a blessing wherever you are 1
Through the smothering haze
That the high world enshrouds,
Strikes a sudden white blaze
’Cross the scurrying clouds
That awhile
Seems to smile
On the freshening flower and the quickening
grain;
And the roof trembles under
The peals of loud thunder
That echo and rumble and echo again ;
Then the sound
All around
Of small rills,
And the slush and the gush of wild waters that
rush
Down the hills;
While the trees,
Shedding spray,
In the breeze
Toss and sway
To the magical, murmuring song of the rain.
Then I’m riding old rides 'mid the tall coolabah.
Where the thunderbolts hurtle and shatter and scar,
And the hurricane rips the deep forest in twain—
But the rain is a blessing wherever you are 1
I see the ducks pass
From their home-waters cool,
To disport on the grass,
And in puddle and pool
On the low
Lands aglow;
But the swallows are sharing my cosy domain ;
And they snuggle and chattel-,
They tweet to the patter.
They guggle and gurgle in gutter and drain ;
To the drip
From the whip
Of the squall;
And the dash and the splash of the pluvial lash
On the wall;
While the gray
Plover cries
As the day
Slowly dies,
To the comforting, soft lulling song of the rain.
Ihen I dream of the days when I wandered afar ,
With no handy decanter , no bulging ai</ar ;
And my lot is a lot that no swain would disdain —
But the rain is a blessing wherever you are J
N.S.W.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.
The River.
From tne plains of Murumutu I have watched the
sun sink low,
Pouring red on Ruapehu till her snovvfields
burned aglow ;
Watched the smoke from Ngauruhoe shadow-
black against the sky ;
Heard the violet gullies, echo with the weka’s
lonely cry.
I have danced before the sunset ; sung beneath its
arch of gold
A song of hate, a song of love; the new things
and the old ;
In praise of death, in praise of life, in praise of
things to be—
I am the River winning out to all eternity. 1
I have crept to meet the Promise over Deso-
lation s stones;
I have left the skull of Failure where I mourned
xLndeavor 3 bones. i ,:
Past, Present, and the Future—their loss and
gam—are mine :
I am the tireless mother-womb that bears the
Child of Time.
N.S.W.
PUKETAPU.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
* ■* i * '■ ‘.'ll- tv
*■ v v v v v.-v ff »
gSPfeL*• i •«■ V * *4 V >
Kla
m
CLOSED AS COUCH.
vfcxSfe
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY,
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful Country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets, Brisb
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: ARCHIBALD ME6TON (since Dec. Ist).
sgďs
HOTEL
METROPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
Hfiii
Under Vice-Reg»l
Patronage.
THE NEW TURBAN FRAME,
in two sizes, 1/6 and 2/6, postage 3d. extra; covered with natural
hair, 21/- Light, dull and grey shades extra. Obtainable only at
UICCVC Ki ATC Ladies’ Hairdressers. Hairworkers, etc.,
Ihe WllOOliO IOAAIrO, 16( KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Telephone 213 S Central.
Combines Made U.p.
between Elizabeth and Oastlerea<rh Streets.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
dsg
H
E,
C
A
S
B
Filament ELECTRIC Lamps.
WELSBACH
LAMPS
pay for
themselves
in a
quarter.
Welsbach Lamps are the only perfect Metallic Filament
Lamps. They have the strongest Metallic Filament, making
them as immune from breakage as the ordinary Carbon
Lamp, and giving a vastly superior light with the lowest
consumption of current.
For strength, efficiency and economy, Welsbach Filament
Lamps are unequalled. But be sure they are Welsbach —
the name on every Lamp is your safeguard. Beware of
“ cheap ” so-called Metallic Filament Lamps. Order now
for prompt delivery. Write for Lamp Catalogue.
Electric Light Department —
Welsbach Light Co. of Australasia Ltd
Welsbach House—3o2 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.; 380 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne, Victoria; 102 Victoria Street, Wellington, N.Z.
Write for
particulars
of our
Special
Reinstallation
Offer.
Stewart Dawsons Co.
Australia Ltd.
Strand Corner,
412 George St., Sydney.
THE SUPERIORITY OF THE WATCHES manu-
factured by Stewart Dawson & Co. is due to
the fact that every modern appliance is used
in their production. The highest possible skill for
perfection of workmanship, using only the best
material and the best mechanism that knowledge
and capital can command in their construction.
EVERYTHING THE BEST, AND NOTHING
BUT THE BEST, IS THE MOTTO OF THE FIRM.
For illustrations and details of our Watches
see Catalogue. It’s free on application.
m
m
vm
\
Both the QUALITY and VALUE of
Stewart Dawson's Watches
are famed throughout the
COMMONWEALTH.
Our Excelsior Keyless English Lever is un-
surpassed by any Watch. It is a Model
Watch, compact, convenient, reliable and
efficient. The movement is a line quality
J-plate, full jewelled in Rubies, and Brequet
Hair Spring- to counteract the effect of violent
exercise, also a cap to protect it from dust.
Price, £4/4/-
N
m
A
%
/
“ THE QUEEN LEVER.”
This is a high-grade Lady’s Silver
Lever Watch. It is not an ex-
pensive Watch, but it’s one that
we can recommend to you as a
first-class timekeeper. It’s a Key-
less, Jewelled, f-Plate Lever, with
nicely engraved Sterling Silver
Cases. Hunting Cases, £2/10/-
Open Face, £2/5/-
The Watch as shown here is a J-Plate Keyless
English Lever. It has 7 Ruby Jewels, with
a fine quality adjusted Gold Screwed Com-
pensating' Balance, It is fitted with a Special
Hair Spring, the essential advantage of which
is that the coils will not become displaced
nor catch in the regulator pins should the
watch receive a jar. Sterling Silver Cases,
and made extra strong. Special Price, JB2/10/-
“THE PRINCESS.”
This shows a really dainty little
Watch, known as “The
Princess.” Although we sell many
of these every year, we seldom
have a complaint reach us, and this
should be a good guarantee that it
is a reliable article. Made in 18ct.
Gold Engraved and Plain Cases.
The movement is Keyless and
properly jewelled. Hunting Cases*
£5/10/- ; Open Face, £4/10/-
TERMS OF SALE.—A Written Guarantee with Every Watch. Every Watch sold in perfect confidence, and on a week’s trial
will be exchanged if desired, or full price returned if the least dissatisfaction. Postage paid on all Mail Orders.
“THE BUSHMANS LEVER.”
This is a YVatch we can recommend for
country wear. We are sure it will give you
every satisfaction. It is a Ket'less Jfon-
Magnetic Lever, Jewelled Movement, with
dust- and damp-proof Oxydised Steel
Gases. £1 Is.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 31.—N0. 1580.
THURSDAY, MAY 26, 1910.
Pkice 6d.
THE SINKING FUND.
Premier Ward, of Maoriland, proposes to establish a sinking fund for the repayment of the Dominion’s debt. He says that thereby the Dominion
will be able to. borrow more money on better terms.
WARD (who has already popped his coat and vest): “Here, Cohen! Lend us sixpence more on my coat, and I’ll pay
you back tuppence off my weskit!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
TYinted and Published by William Maclkod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Go.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PURTJSHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES! Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUESCR JEERS.
(in Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Tty sen a inn direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling von can have Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you, every v'eel: for a year.
Cft elites, .Drafts, etc., mid all Business Com muni cations
tobeaddressed to Wilmam Maoleoh, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Bum,twin would oblige the paper
(and, to ail extent, them selves) by taking some, care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the .Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a pood, thing to address editorial letters to
anyone, by name. “ 'J’he Editor, Bum,twin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy .” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
ahva ys is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be. refused.
77 te contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
One Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing until A ustralian subjects, and not exceeding
tin columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Betters, or Ncwspaper Clippings,
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential
Tim Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are. observed. When MS. is forwarded ivithout stamps
for return it. will be. understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot, receive attention. Tim Bullktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible, for the. preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
u’ill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotcli (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Jjiidyate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 liigh llolborn, London, If. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetoivn ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S. A.— lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington; International
Nervs Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
llong Kong. Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tim. Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6jSin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, MAY 26, 1910.
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE AND “THE
PRODUCER.”
The Fat Man and the Tory, who are generally
the same m in, labor incessantly to persuade the
person who is neither very fat nor very lean that
the so-called Socialism of the Labor party is
merely intended to put more money into the
pocket of “ the working-man.” As a matter of
fact, the Labor party does aim at that; but when
the Tory speaks of the working-man he means the
wages man, and there isn’t necessarily any con-
nection between the two, as the Labor party
is well aware. There are really only two parties
jn any State—the laborer and the loafer, the pro-
ducer and the parasite. While the Tory thinks of
the working-man as a wages man, and of the
Labor party as a wages man’s party, the Labor
party thinks of itself as embracing all who are not
loafers or parasites ; and in the main its object is
to make things easier for the producer, whoever
he is. It goes, certainly, a step farther than that:
itsaysthat, if there is one producer and athousand
others who more or less depend upon the first
one, then, in the interests of the thousand,
the business of the one should be in the hands of
some body which is not interested in squeezing a
profit out of the thousand. The plank in the
Labor platform simply runs—“ The nationalisation
of monopolies.” That is to say—“ The non-
squeezing of the producer.”
* * * *
In one State, at least—South Australia—the
Labor party has had a chance to show what it
really aims at. Almost by accident, Tom Price
became Premier ; and, if he disappointed some of
the more narrow-minded of the Labor follow-
ing, he at any rate took the scales off thou-
sands of other eyes. He did not bring down a
bill to fix wages at 10s. a day of seven hours, with
two half-holidays a week. The men who sup-
ported him and knew what his party really aimed
at never expected that he would ; that absurd ex-
pectation was left for those who had been fooled
into believing the lies that had been told about
the party. Instead of doing anything like that,
he proceeded almost at once to extend the cold-
storage facilities at Port Adelaide; and, though
some wanted to know what that had to do
with the Labor policy, it was soon shown in
a remarkable growth in the local business of
lamb-breeding, especially among the smaller land-
holders. Then he took in hand the question of
an outer harbor. Up to that time, practically all
the shipping had to be done at privately-owned
wharves at Port Adelaide, which “port” is
merely the dead-end of a winding creek. The
vessels that did use the creek had mostly to pay
toll to the Private Enterprise which consists,
chiefly, of getting in early and sitting down and
doing nothing ; the bigger vessels that dared mot
use the creek had to pay toll to the lightering
companies. Nominally the vessels paid this
toll; really it was the producers of the
State who paid it. Price, the one Australian
Premier who has had a fair chance to show what
the Labor party really aims at, sought to end all
that with his now-completed Outer Harbor scheme.
Like most of his plans, it had little direct connec-
tion with the wages man ; but it had everything
to do with the producer.
* * * • *
It is the same with most Socialistic enterprises.
Take the railways. The “ working-man ”—mean-
ing the wages man, the man who is liable to be
seen without a coat and with some dirt on his face
—certainly gets a rather cheaper ride than if the
concern were owned by a co. whose chief object in
life was to make dividends. But, comparatively
speaking, the “working-man’s” gain in that way
is not worth considering. The whole of the
passenger traffic on the N. S. Wales railways last
year brought in only £54G,904, as against
£2,544,457 derived from goods traffic; and
whereas the amount paid per 100 pissengers per
mile was 3s. 6d., the amount paid per 100 tons of
grain, flour, etc., per mile was only 35., and per
100 tons of hay, straw and chaff only 3s. Gd.
Thus 100 passengers, including those in the
first-class carriages, paid on the average
exactly the same amount per mile as
the farmers paid for sending down their
100 tons of hay, chaff or straw, and sixpence
more than they paid for sending 100 tons of grain,
flour, etc. Yet, though “the working man ” gets
such an insignificant direct advantage out of the
nationalisation of the railways, the Labor party
remains deeply interested in the subject; and
when it is proposed to saddle any other sort of
railway upon the country—which is to Say, upon
the producer—it is the Labor party that has to do
practically all the opposition fighting.
* * *
While the Labor party thus gets far less credit
in this matter than it is entitled to, Private
Enterprise gets far more. For so frequently
Private Enterprise is such an obvious liar and
hypocrite. It yells at the top of its voice that it
believes in itself, that the salvation of the world
rests with itself, and that nothing but smash and
misery can cotne out of the dreadful Socialism of
its political enemies. Yet, while it alleges its
faith in Private Enterprise, it is utterly in-
different about what becomes of any enterprise
except its own. Some of the biggest mines at
Broken Hill are closed because the owners say it
will not pay to work them at the present
prices of metals. When they closed down,
the Silverton Tramway Co., which does all
their railage from the mines to South Aus., was
paying dividends at the rate of 65 per cent, per
annum on the paid capital; and the Broken Hill
Water Supply Co., which supplied them with the
water for their ore-dressing mills, etc., was mak-
ing profits at the rate of over 80 per cent, per
annum. Yet, so far as the public knows, neither
of these companies offered to abate a farthing in
order that the other Private Enterprise concerns
might continue to grind out even small profits for
their shareholders. In Newcastle, two or three
months ago, Private Enterprise held very con-
siderable stocks of coal; yet other Private Enter-
prise concerns had to shut down because the
people who held the coal stocks demanded famine
prices. There are millions of feet of splendid
timbers in Northern Queensland ; employment
might be found there in that industry for tens of
thousands of pounds of capital and for hundreds
of men. But the freights which Private Enter-
prise demands are so prodigious that the Mount
Molloy Co. and others that have tried the busi-
ness have been crushed; and, though some of
these freight cos. are making profits of over 25
per cent, on their capital, they have not offered
to abate their charges a fraction. Private Enter-
prise makes the boxes that are necessary in the
great butter industry ; but little by little it has
put up the price, until now the cost is so heavy a
charge on the output that every producer feels the
pinch. Yet Private Enterprise doesn’t mind ;
for it is in the business wholly and solely to make
the biggest profits that can possibly be squeezed
out of it, and the Devil can take the hindmost.
* * * *
Such cases might be multiplied almost without
end ; and they all throw scorn on the fiction that
the Private Enterprise which the Fat Man talks
about is more the friend of Private Enterprise
than the so-called Socialism which the Labor part
has adopted. That Socialism, as before remarked,
runs merely to “the nationalisation of monopo-
lies ” ; and as Theßullktin has shown, monopoly,
instead of being the friend, is the callous enemy
of Private Enterprise—an enemy which doesn’t
aim at killing, but does aim at keeping the thing
alive merely in order that it may have something
to fatten itself upon. When the wheat-farmer,
and the wool-raiser, and the cow-cultivator, and
the digger, and the gouger, and the country
blacksmith, and the sugar-grower, and the saw-
miller—when these and a hundred other people
are asked by the Fat party to throw clods at the
Labor party, and to remember that “ we stand for
Private Enterprise,” the cow-cultivator and the
wheat-farmer and the rest of them had much better
ask themselves if they can ever remember a time
when Private Enterprise has given a hand to help
when it has had the chance to squeeze. And
because Private Enterprise has the chance to
squeeze whenever it is a monopoly, the Labor
party says “Nationalise monopolies,” so that the
great army of producers may be saved from the
inevitable squeezing process.
SOCIALISE THE HOSPITALS.
Last Thursday Sydney Daily Telegram, like
the sturdy anti-Socialist sheet it is, definitely
demanded the nationalisation of the hospitals of
N. S. Wales. “It is the Government’s duty,”
said the Telegraph, as blandly as though it had
never assailed the nationalisation principle in its
life, “ to see that they are provided for. It should
make the hospitals a charge on all taxpayers
alike.” Which is sound Socialistic common-sense.
And so, within a week or two, the panic-stricken
Wade Administration may be expected to come
out with an intimation that the time is now
ripe for socialised hospitals. Wade can’t jetti-
son this piece of Anti-Sosh ballast from his
battered old Government craft a minute too soon.
The state of most of the big Sydney hospitals
amounts to a scandal. It is a matter of notoriety
that all of them are turning away sick people,
daily and nightly, for lack of accommodation.
The nurses are sweated, and in many cases vil-
lainously housed. And N.S.W. enjoys just now a
period of comparative healthiness. If the small-
pox epidemic with which Sydney was menaced
last month had materialised, the only place for a
large proportion of those afflicted, after the first
24 hours, would have been the public streets.
A mild epidemic of diphtheria is raging at pre-
sent —so mild that many people don’t know
it exists at all. Yet already the Coast Hospital
is full to its last bed. The Officials connected
with the great hospitals do their level best at a
generous sacrifice of time, convenience and even
health. The secretary of the Prince Alfred Hos-
pital actually mentioned last week that 50 of the
nurses were sleeping in the wards, and that “if
there were not always some nurses away on holi-
day there would be no place for many of them to
sleep at all.’’ Despite the “ economy ’’ that is evi-
denced by this sort of thing, the Prince Alfred
Hospital is, like the rest of the big institutions of
the kind, in a chronically-bankrupt condition. It
lost £l5OO on last year’s working, which brought
its total deficit to £BOOO. It is automatically
growing less efficient ; as a consequence of which it
expects next year to put up its record annual loss,
and to swell its deficit proportionately.
* * * *
Hitherto, the anti-Sooialist papers have opposed
the nationalisation of hospitals, on the ground,
chiefly, that it would inequitably prejudice the
“long-established and well-conducted” private-
enterprise placds of healing. In fact, the ancient
“vested interests” arguments were advanced
that Toryism exploited in the dim, past ages
when struggle the between national and private
schools was in progress. The plain truth is
there would be no harm done'if the majority of pri-
vate hospitals were prej ud i eed righ t out of existence.
They treat st certain number of serious cases—
cases which, anyhow, might be better handled at
perfectly-eqi|ipped public hospitals—but they
make the bulk of their profit out of “rest-cure,”
influenza, sine vitis, and such-like simple troubles,
which would be as well or better attended to in
the sufferers’homes ; and they make a lot more
by entertaining wealthy faddists. In the latter
case they amount simply to exorbitantly-
expensive boarding-houses, where the hypo-
chondriacal are humored and fleeced. The
prevalence of these private hospitals—specula-
lative concerns, run, generally, by doctors and
nurses in partnership—is largely responsible for
the financial chaos in which the Prince Alfred,
the and the rest of the big general hos-
pitals live and have their being. It is, to an
extent, a matter of convention. As things are,
the well-to-do are as coy about patronising public
hospitals as they are about patronising the shilling
ring at Randwick. They feel that to do so renders
them ddclassees; and so they go where, though the
conveniences and the appliances for operating and
so on are vastly inferior, yet the prices are high
enough to satisfy the most exclusive spirits.
There occurred last week a cab-buggy smash in
Pitt-street. As the Evening News put it—
A traveller, Mr. A. E. Wittey, was seated in the buggy’,
and both he and the driver were pitched into the roadway,
and their vehicle was overturned. Mr. Wittey sought
private medical assistance, while Millington was taken
by the police to Sydney Hospital.
The mere cabman to the Sydney hospital; the
haughtier “commercial” to a private institution !
It is an epitome of the whole position.
* * * *
The public hospitals, whose prosperity is so
vital a necessity to the national welfare, are not
going to pay their way, much less show a
reasonable return on the money expended
on them, till it becomes as natural for an
affluent citizen to use them as it is now
for the same citizen to use a city tram.
To that end they might be made a shade more
human. There is no more reason why a hospital
attendant should deny a patient the courtesy-
prefix of ordinary social life than that a Strath-
field railway-station porter should habitually
address Bruce Smith by his last name. The
regulation about hospital clothes seems needlessly
gaol-suggestive. Patients whose garb wasn’t in-
sanitary might be allowed to adhere to it. The
State Hospital ought not to lie, in any sense, a
charity concern. Patients should not only be ex-
pected but compelled to pay what they could
afford for services rendered. Of course, the
State would be swindled to a certain extent.
No vigilance can prevent the habitual “scaler”
getting in his subtle work. But that applies to
other than Socialistic enterprises. It should, at
least, be no more difficult for the Hospital Com-
missioners to make a fair assessment of what a
patient was able to pay (a question capa-
ble of settlement by reference to the latter sbusi-
ness, salary, mode of living, and so forth) than it
is for the Land and Income Tax Commissioners
to do the same thing. Even the wail of the
very-rich, that in a State Hospital they
would be denied the comforts to which they were
accustomed, might be stilled. As in the
excellently-managed State lunatic asylums, the
inmate who was able to pay the piper could be
accommodated with the sort of tune he required.
* * * *
The State requires a hospital system under
which no invalid shall be refused who asks for
treatment. It is as much a matter of national
concern that the citizen should be offered the
best possible chance of casting off illness when
it seizes him, as of side-stepping illness when
he is in good health. It is wildly illogical
for the State to take all sorts of precautions to
guard against epidemics, and at the same time to
turn people adrift to shift for themselves when
epidemics afflict them. Municipal hospitals are
really the corollaries to municipal drains.; A hos-
pital service run fin the same rational business
lines as the N.S.W. tramway service or the City
electric lighting service would do more than
remove an inequitable burden from the few
charitable folk who struggle to keep the big heal-
ing institutions out of the Insolvency Court; it
would do more than end the present discreditable
orgy of public cadging on the part of young
women, which occurs annually all over the State ;
it would even do more than pay its wa y plus 3 or
4 per cent, on the capital invested. But. its real
service would be to the health of the people, and
that is a factor whose value is inestimable.
THE RIGHT TO STRIKE.
A PEW years ago the Australian working-man was
all for Arbitration. He had had enough of strikes.
They were barbarous, they were uncertain ; they
caused a great deal of suffering to people who had
no connection with the quarrel ; they were waste-
ful, and as often as not they ended in the wrong
side winning. For all that right and reason had
to do with the decision, the parties might
just as well have met and tossed for it,
or played a game of show-poker. The Bul-
letin took the same view ; and the first Labor
parties were to a very great extent built upon it.
We need not pretend that it was all virtue. It
wasn’t—some of it was necessity. Industrial
organisation h, ! undergone a change. It was no
longer a qoes.v;) of the trades union meeting the
obstreperous employer and fighting him with the
help of his competitors in the same business.
Not only had the workmen united, but the
employers had united too; and finally the em-
ployers’ union nearly always won, for the simple
reason that the employers’ cupboards invariably
had more in them to start with. Strike after
strike consequently failed, even though they
were organised as strikes never before had been
in Australia. So the soil was made ready for the
anti-strike seed.
* * * *
But presently a new industrial army came
along which had not passed through the old
bitter experience. These new men saw plainly
that the papers wrote a prodigious lot of rubbish
and cant about strikes and the distress they
caused. They saw that no sooner did a strike
begin than these papers began to figure up the
men’s losses and weep floods of crocodile tears
over their distress. For the most part, these
papers were of the class which preach thrift, which
tell the working-man that capital is the fruit of
self-sacrifice, and that men become prosperous by
denying themselves; and these papers preach
that this self-sacrifice and self-denial is a virtue.
Yet no sooner do working-men proceed to sacri-
fice and deny themselves than the very same
papers denounce them as fools who are ruining
themselvesand the country. It is not surprising,
therefore, that such press warnings are treated
with scorn and contempt. The men who are
warned know that if they were gardeners who
cut a tree back to-day, sacrificing one season’s
fruit in order to reap a richer harvest in after
seasons, they would have no stones cast their way.
And they put themselves in the position of the
gardener. His scheme of pruning does not always
succeed ; but that the general results are good is
enough for him.
* * * *
If he wants to strike, the working-man of the
new generation asks himself and his fellows what
right anyone has to stop him. And therein he
asks a question that takes some answering. It
would, it seems to him, be a tyranny to
compel a man to sell bis labor—the one
thing he might have to sell —on terms
and conditions which he was not willing
to accept. It would be monstrous to tell
McMillan that he must sell his calico for 2£d.
when he thought it was worth 2^d.; and it would
be equally monstrous to tell a man that he must
sell his labor at Cs. when he thinks he ought to
get Cs. Gd. for it. To refuse a> man the right to
quit a job with which he is dissatisfied, provided
no agreement had been entered into, would be to
at once reduce that man to an unquestionable
form of slavery. The law does,not, however, seek
to deprive one man of that right when he stands
alone. But if 100 or 1000 men are dissatisfied,
then in N. S. Wales at least, and more or less
in other States, it does take away that right.
The situation is just this. McMillan is entitled
to refuse to sell his calico at 2jd. when he thinks
he ought to get 2£d. for it. Or if rents go
up, or fire-insurance rates, or if the office-boy gets
a rise from 2s. Gd. to 3s. per week, then McMillan
is entitled to demand 2fd. for his calico ; and if
lie won’t sell it for less, McMillan may still wear
his belltopper in Pitt-street undisturbed, or in
the same circumstances O. H. Goode may pie-
side at the Adelaide Y.M.C.A. without a
stain on his character. If the wages of office-
boys go up all round, and fire-insurance
premiums are universally increased, every rag-
shop, from * Paterson, Laing and Bruce’s
down to the little reach-me-down parlor with the
buttoner in the doorway, may put up the price of
calico, and nobody will be fined and nobody will
go to gaoi Every week of the year there are
such “ trade movements.” The banks agree to
put up the rates of exchange; the refiners make a
habit of putting up the price of sugar; the price
of butter-boxes was “ advanced ” the other day.
And nobody is fined and nobody goes to gaol over
it. But Peter Bowling is in gaol, and a
dozen others are either there now or have
been there lately; and their offence was
simply that they put up the price of their
calico from 2Ad. to 2fd., and when the cus-
tomers wouldn’t take it at the price they put it
back on the shelves. Logically no defence can be
offered of a system which makes fish of one and
dead birds of others in this fashion. And, smother
it over as the daily papers may, the working-men
know it.
* * * *
But two wrongs don’t make one right any more
to-day than they did yesterday ; and strikes don’t
become any the more reliable or any the less
wasteful because McMillan i& allowed to do
something which Bowling isn’t allowed to do. If
McMillan’s liberty was not to be touched under
any circumstances, thensomethi ngmightbesaidfor
making Bowling free, also, to do exactly as he
pleased. But national progress isn’t made along
those lines : it is achieved by securing the greatest
good to the greatest number, and not the greatest
good to either W. McMillan or P. Bowling.
The McMillans can no longer employ what labor
they please at what wages they please in their
shops; and practically the whole body of working
men approve of the restriction, and thereby accept
the principle that a third party is to be consulted
in regard to the relations between employer and
employed—that, in other words, it does not lie
with the employer and the employee to make what-
ever terms they please. And that is the point upon
which the appeal must be made to the working-
man, who obviously has, during the last two or
three years, become less and less disposed to give
up his right to strike. If he ins sts upon his
personal liberty, then, in fairness, he must give
the other man his personal liberty too. If he in-
sists upon the right to take or to refuse whatever
conditions he pleases, he must concede the same
right to other people. If the employee is
to have freedom, it will be hard for him
to convince the majority that the employer
should not have freedom too. And, plainly, if
employer and employee thus meet on equal terms,
each unrestricted in his personal freedom, the
employee will go down. Of course it he proceeds
the whole hog, goes in for revolution, and take's
the food and clothing he wants, well and good;
he may possibly win that way; or, again, lie may
possibly become a riddled corpse. 1 f he does not
revolush, then, unless he adopts political methods,
his numbers are a source of weakness instead Of
strength, because the greater the number of men
the greater the number of stomachs to fill and
frames to cover. But if he relies upon political
methods he must win in the long run, because
under a democratic form of government the
ballot-booth is the one place where num-
bers cannot be a weakness. He may be
baulked once or twice; he may be thwarted for
a month or two, or a year or two, by ancient
Parliamentary and other practices; but, in the
long run, he must win, or it isn’t a democracy


that he belongs to. There is certainty that way ;
there is ndne any other way. Moreover, if he
embraces this method, and renounces his liberty
to strike—renounces it for the good of the com-
munity—he puts himself in a position to demand
the same thing from others who make far more
profit out of their privileges than ever he has
done out of the few he has had.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Dread of the Big Landlord.
Last week the Deniliquin (N.S.W.) Municipal
Council received a letter from the Under Secre-
tary for Lands, asking for particulars of estates
which might be inspected by the Closer Settle-
ment Advisory Board with a view to resumption.
And this, according to the PASTORAL Times
(14/5/TO), is what occurred :—•
Aid. Evans : It would be no trouble to name the estates
lie would like to see cut up ; but he didn’t suppose the
owners would be of the same mind. They were a land-
locked people, and the stations they should ask to have
cut up were Mundiwa, VVarbreccan, YVandook and Tuppal.
Aid. WiNDKYEit: And the commons !
Aid. Evans : Yes, some of the commons. It was a
very simple duty for the Council to name the estates th t
should be inspected by the Board, with a view to getting
a few thousand acres of the rich agricultural land now
at our door. If they got 20,000 acres from each of the
stations named'it would be a grand thing for Deniliquin.
He moved that a reply be sent naming the stations men-
tioned by him.
The motion was not seconded.
Aid. Evans : Well, evidently you don’t want the land
cut up!
Aid. Jane: Let the Advisory Board do its own
business !
Aid. Evans : Well, you are a lot of cocktails.
Whereupon the Council passed on, shudderingly,
to other business. It is a tragic instance of the
Dread of the Big Landlord. Deniliquin is one of
the stagnant towns of N.S.W. Its population,
which in 1889 was 2506, had oidy swelled to 2644
in 1906—138 additional souls in 17 years ! Trade
is in arliculo mortis. Every shopkeeper, business-
man and farmer, for miles around, harps gloomily
and unceasingly on that fact in pubs and other
appropriate places. Its young men make a habit
of clearing out to other States or districts as soon
as they reach an age to earn their own living.
They don’t start fresh businesses in Deniliquin
because the moribund old spot can’t support the
businesses it has already. They gain nothing by
aspiring to go on the adjacent land, because,
though plentiful enough and fertile for the most
part, it is under sheep and is not for sale. As a
result, Deniliquin is a dreary town of old married
couples and young unmarried women. One
would expect that when the City Fathers of a
place like this—-the men who are elected for the
purpose of doinp their best by the town—were
accorded a change to give Closer Settlement a
mild leg-up, they would rush to do it, and
dash the consequences. Not so, however.
The backblocks alderman who sells tea, meat,
law and other commodities to the surrounding
land-monopolists, shivers at the idea of offending
those affluent customers; he is too blind to see
the more numerous customers whom closer
settlement would bring, as it has brought, for in-
stance, to the traders Of Taniworth. now trans-
formed into one of the most flourishing inland
towns in all Australia. Still Deniliquin is no ex-
ception to the general rule. Somehow, the wilting,
land-locked up-country town always does evolve
a truckling brand of alderman, whose delight it is
to vote the ticket of the land-monopolist at elec-
tion times and to grovel at that potentate’s feet
generally. No doubt, these ruined places get the
sort of municipal legislators they deserve. But it
is calamitous from a national standpoint, all the
same.
4
The Lascar in M L. Waters.
Maoriland begins to kick energetically against
the alleged blessing of a P. and O. service between
its ports. The objections are mainly to the P. and ,
O.’s nigger-employing habits, and to the conse-
quent ousting of white men from the sea job ; also,
to the certain prospects of lowered wages in the
local mercantile marine, as a result of the P. and
O. ' and other cheap-labor overseas companies ;
taking up the coastal running. As regards the
relative rate of wages per month paid by foreign
and Australian cos., the following table, which
is being circulated in a pamphlet through the two
islands, is illuminative :
A.B’s. Firemen. Trimmers.
Australian rate.. £7 0 0 £9 0 0 £7 0 0
Orient .. .. 4 0 0 410 0 4 0 0
P. & 0 4 5 0 1 4 0 0 16 8
North German . . 2 17 0 3 10 0 2 10 0
The Maorilander regards the P. & O.’s stock
claim, that the Lascar is hired, not because he is
cheaper than the white man, but solely because
he is more trustworthy, as intelligence-insulting
guff. Recent experience indicates that the Lascar
is growing more and more mutinous at sea and on
land. The day when he could bo quelled by a few
cuffs from a serang, or by a passing kick from an
officer, has vanished, seemingly for ever. His
lately-developed uproariousness and contempt of
authority, white or black, appears to he connected
with the education which Britain has dowered
him with. The more book-learning he gets the
more liable he becomes to rise up suddenly in a
compact, murderous body, and spill blood in
quest of one or other of his “ rights.” Apart from
the unpleasantness of having hordes of insanitary
and gore-lustful savages pervading their peaceful
towns, Maorilanders recognise that the encoura°-e-
-ment of the P. and O. or other alien tends to
lower the standard of marine living, and amounts
to a national peril in other directions. Thus
the Dunedin (M.L.) Evening Star (30/4/T0): —
When the locally-owned Aparima was run to the East
by a white crew under Maoriland conditions the wages
bill came to about £l7O per month for the stokehold
department; and when these men were replaced bv
Lascars, at the ratio of about three blacks to one white,
the wages hill amounted to somewhere about £6B per
month. It is always the case that one white man is ex-
pected to do just about as much as three Lascars.
These black salts are herded into quarters that
no decent white men could inhabit. Their
morals are unspeakable, and their manners,
customs and diseases likewise. And, what is
perhaps worse, their presence operates to abort
the local movement in favor of creating a white mari-
time force which would be of naval service in war-
time. From the defence standpoint M.L. doesn’t
want niggers who are here to-day and gone to-
morrow ; it wants a body of white sea-farers whose
interests are bound up with the country which
'pays them their wages. All round, M.L. has a
sound case for the exclusion of nigger-employing
steamship services from its waters. ’ The trouble
lies with the imperial veto, which can be exer-
cised in regard to all Australasian shipping legis-
lation, and which mostly is exercised in eases where
the influential British shipping interests stand a
chance of being prejudiced. This anomalous
and out-of-date stumbling-block is only going to
be pushed aside, in the present case, by concerted
action on the part of M.L. and the Commonwealth.
Assuming, as was foreshadowed during the
Kitchener visit to M.L., that M.L. and Aus-
tralia will co-operate ultimately in defence mat-
ters, they should have a common interest in any
movement designed to build up a white mercan-
tile marine. A protest against the pervasion of
the colored sailor in Australasian waters is the
most necessary step in that direction, and a joint
note to London from the Commonwealth and
M.L. should do a lot of good.
Thirst Will Be Served.
Concerning the Curse in Maori land :
The old row concerning the looker system of keeping
liquor in olubs and the no-license areas of Maorilainl con-
tinues to break out with great regularity. At present it
is raging round the Sydenham Working Men’s Club
(Christchurch), and the existence of Premier Waud lias
become a burden to him owing to the deputations that
have worried him from the club people and the Rasp-
berry Vinegar people. In Maoriland the clubs are under
the Licensing Act, and have to observe the same bar
iiours as the hotels. Closing time for the pubs,
therefore, is closing time for the clubs, and then
the opening of lockers is like the clatter of a
falling box-factory. The Sydenham Club manage-
ment, while admitting that several members have
been in the habit of purchasing quantities of liquor
on Saturday night for consumption on Sunday, urges that
if anybody gets sozzled a fine is inflicted. Which is a good
scheme for the club, and enables it to get a profit at
both ends. In an interview with Ward, the secretary
showed that in the last nine months a large
number of members had been warned, suspended, or
expelled for drunkenness, foul language, and creating
disturbances. Ward told the deputation that the locker
system was quite contrary to the intention of the Act,
“ but it seemed that all clubs had a similar system.” He
didn’t threaten to do any more than think it over.
The first lockers operated in M.L. after the passing of
the 1904 Licensing Act were in the Parliamentary press-
room. SkddQN, in a spirit of “ let her rip,” agreed to the
House refreshment-room being included under the
clauses regulating clubs and pubs, which, in Wellington,
meant 10 o’clock closing. After that hour the Parlia-
mentary liquor depbt was shut, and the press gang—-
probably the hardest and longest worked in the world in
Skddon’s day—yvas faced with a spell of drought that
might, and often did, extend until 6 a.m., when the bar
was re-opened. It was too much of a bad thing, so
lockers were fixed up. Each sitting night after that,
as soon as 10 p.m. struck, the common locker, sup-
plied out of the proceeds of a levy, was opened, and
tiie thirsty helped themselves. The system spread to
other parts of the building, and out of the building,
until to-day lockers are a national institution. The
public-house boss, who wouldn’t be happy' until the
clubs were brought under the Act, complains about it
more bitterly than ever ; and the Water Cart Alliance
urges the police to get a hustle on ; and the police bang
at the pub door just when the landlord is getting to
sleep, and rush in and turn the pub inside out. But they
don’t do a thing to the club.
The life of John Hop, Esq., in M.L., is made a misery
to him by the liquor restrictions, the persistent efforts
at evasion, and the constant demand of the Cold Tea
brigade that he should keep the restrictions from being
assaulted. The result is that J. Hop becomes desperate
at times, as he did at Greymouth last week. A banquet
had been tendered, by the Mayor and citizens, toMASSRV
(leader of the Opposition) in one of the chief hotels ;
and when the local Hop saw that the proceedings did not
shut at 11 p.m., he sat up all night making out sum-
monses against the guests, the Mayor, the man who was
Mayor last year, the man who will be Mayor next year,
12 Jay Pays, and the publican, the last-named for allow-
ing a room in the hotel to be used as a place of common
resort during prohibited hours, and exposing liquor
for sale and permitting it to be consumed
during closing hours, and the others for being
illegally on the premises. The magistrate never had such
an arra.v of talent before him in hislife. The Gent. One who
appeared for Bung submitted that a dining-room could
not be a place of “common resort” since there was no
repetition of the assemblage, and the magistrate said,
“ Jusso ; case dismissed.” Next, the man who had been
Mayor submitted that he got up the banquet and
arranged for the supply of liquor at his own expense, and
had not yet paid the amount, and the magistrate again
said, “Jusso.” Finally, all the defendants submitted
that no liquor was consumed after 11 o’clock, and the
magistrate said “Jusso” once more. So all the cases
were dismissed; and once more it was a case of labor
in vain, and the harassed Law walked out of court amid
the applause of not a living soul.
♦
The Great German Aerial Wild-Cat.
It is about two years since the German aerial
bogey began to roost on the chest of Europe ; and
the nightmare has grown more intense with the
passing of each month, till it reached its climax
in the published statement that the German Im-
perial Government had formed the whole of the
dirigibles in theqountry into areserve force, which,
including the Imperial aerial squadron, gave the
Fatherland an aerial fleet of something like 40
dirigibles. The only people who did not seem
impressed were the military authorities of the
neighboring Powers. Russia certainly ordered
Pne dirigible ; but one only. France set to work
to build a few on the lines of the lost La Patrie ;
Italy ignored the subject; and the British autho-
rities seemed dead, dumb and deaf. Yet, on paper,
the nation that had 40 skv-ships was the dominant
Power in Europe. Why the contest didn’t start
instanter, before any of the other Powers could
get dirigibles, was one of the great mysteries of
the age. The air was certainly full of big ideas
concerning aviation, even if the ships had not
materialised. Prince Henry of Prussia, Kaiser
Bill’s little brother, became associated with
Count Zeppelin in a scheme to explore and map
out the Arctic regions, per dirigible. A base was
to be established in Spitsbergen, or thereabouts,
where one dirigible would remain as a reserve,
and the other with a crew of about 15 would make
vast circular expeditions, survey and map out
the country, and make depdts from which the
Pole itself would eventually be explored. It
was a noble scheme. At home, the dirigible
was to enter into competition with the railways
and steamer services. Companies were formed to
run aerial lines over practically the whole Empire ;
and at least one of them was to include Sweden,
Denmark, Holland and England in its circuit.
Specific dates on which the lines would come into
operation were fixed, and the empire of the air
and the commerce thereof seemed a close Teutonic
monopoly. The Kaiser was so interested that he
took shares in some of these companies. So far
the only one to start is that which takes 15
tourists over Lake Constance. The others are
still anywhere but in the air. Nothing has hap-
pened, and the significant silence was broken
lately by Count Zeppelin, according to cable,
complaining bitterly in public that the mind of the
Kaiser had come under the influence of someone
who had poisoned it against any reliance being
placed in dirigibles for either military or
packet purposes. At the same time, some severe
criticisms of the rigid type of dirigible appeared in
German publications, and the fear was expressed
that these clumsy and gigantic craft would never
come into practical use. Then, last month, the
Automobile Club of France flung a bombshell by
offering a prize of £2OOO to any dirigible that
could keep to a reasonable time-table in a flight
from, Paris to Brussels. It was a best-and-best,
all-comers’ affair; and, at time of writing, no
word as to any entries has been received. There is
more than a suspicion, therefore, that the whole
German aerial nightmare is nothing more nor less
than a huge wild-cat; a miniature South Sea
bubble, into which thousands of people have
placed their money only to see it vanish
down the sink of experiment. The Empire of
the Air is still an undiscovered territory, and the
military authorities, who declined to be bustled
by the German dirigible bogey, are being justified.
Both Britain and Germany have, nevertheless,
designed special artillery to deal with these
monsters, even before they arrive. The British
method is a dark secret; but the German
agent is a Krupp-made gun, mounted like a tele-
scope, designed to fire a flame-shell which will fire
any balloon within 300yds. of the bursting centre.
As the gun is a quick-firer, it is capable of having
something like 14 flame shells in the air at once.
And the liability of the dirigible to fire is evi-
denced by the fact that the wireless paraphernalia
has been removed from all the German High Sky
Squadron, because the electric sparks in the
vicinity of a big bag from which hydrogen is exud-
ing continually are simply tempting Providence.
There will, it seems clear, be no aerial conquest of
Britain or any other country till the dirigible has
been developed into the “ hoverer,” capable of
carrying artillery and making a sink-or-fly battle
in the clouds. When that happens along it will
be a case of stand from under ; till then—pooh !
The Fisher Government, which is in doubt
whether it ought to go on with the Yassberra
conspiracy, or appeal to the people, ought to turn
up page 4923 of Hansard (Oct. 28, 1909). It will
find there the division list on Senator Givens’
test amendment, and it will also find that not one
single Senator who voted against that amendment
was returned by the people at the recent elec-
tions. On the other side, of those who voted for
the amendment, barring Trenwith, there wasn’t
a single man defeated at the elections. Every
man who in that division voted on the Yassberra
side and who went up for election was defeated ;
not a man (except Trenwith) who voted either for
Dalgety or a referendum was turned down. Ab-
solutely the one and only conclusion to be drawn
from this is that the men who “ fixed ” the capital
at Yassberra are utterly unrepresentative of the
people. The people didn’t have a chance to say
directly what they thought of the choice ; but
they did the only thing they could—they defeated
the Yassberraites, and they returned the men
who opposed Yassberra. If that isn’t an argu-
ment for dropping Yassberra for good, it certainly
is an argument for not doing a single thing more
at Yassberra until a direct question has been put
to the people.
Vic. Opposition leader Prendergast brings a
piece of heavy artillery to bear on the elections
for the House of Fat, which transpire on June 2,
by the issue of a “black-and-white list”—mostlv
black—showing exactly how the Landlords voted
last session on measures sent up by the Weary
Government; also a chronological table showing
the obstructive habits of Fat since the House’s
inception. It is an awful reoord ; but, bad as it
is, its publication won’t do Prenperoast’s partv
more good than the knowledge that Murray has
truckled to the 16 Tories of the Assembly, and has
assured them that his new Land Tax Bill will he
quite taine and will take the boot cheerfully, and
that his Government isn’t going to develop the
Powlett coal field on State lines, but will merely
supply the railways and let Private Enterprise do
the rest. The Victorian coal consumer has first to
be got to realise that Weary’s decision means
that, instead of getting fuel at 14s. a ton, as the
railways are doing, he is to keep on paying 20s.
and 225. to the combine ; and when the consumer
realises tha t depressing fact, he will givePRKNPER-
gast such an enthusiastic support that Murray
will wonder what hit him.
A recent advertisement should serve as a re-
minder to the Labor Government that felt-hat
manufacture is one of the least adequately pro-
tected of Australian industries. In the advertise-
ment in question, the solicitors for certain Mel-
bourne mills announced that they were
“instructed to take proceedings against any
person who manufactures, imports or sells any
felt hat infringing the design or trade-mark” of
a certain “snappy ” head-gear, registered under
the Commonwealth Designs Act as the “ Mota.”
This particular appeal to the harmless vanity of
mankind is a felt hat of old type, distinguished
by a, new back-kick in the rim. Its individuality
justified its registration, and the local manu-
facturer evidently finds-the “Mota” a happy
idea. But, immediately the Australian manu-
facturer had made a market for the goods, in
came the foreign pirate, vyho, not content with
merely stealing the other man’s idea, proceeded
to dump the proceeds of the steal into the Austra-
lian market. No doubt the law can deal with the
thief; but it is a long and weary process
by “injunction to restrain,” and the Australian
manufacturer is mostly not in a position to pursue
long legal processes. The most effective way to
protect the local man is to clap on a duty high
enough to shut out the thief-products; and until
Australian manufacturers get that protection
their industries will always be liable to be knocked
out in their infancy by foreign rivals, who will not
mind losing a bit for a few months in order to
secure a market for a subsequent few years.
♦ *
During the rough-up between Premier Wade and
Count Mornkr concerning what N. S. Wales does
not do for immigrants, a herd of ill-informed per-
sons jumped in with the information that the Ma
State and other States in the Commonwealth do
as much for the immigrant as any other country
in the world. On the standard that half a lb. of
solid fact is worth a cwt. of vapor, a few remarks
concerning what the Argentine does for immi-
grants are appended. That Republic—
(l) Conditionally offers land free or for lease or for
sale at cheap rates.
(2) Insists that ships carrying immigrants shall comply
with conditions as to hygiene, accommodation, provision-
ing during the voyage, medical attention, ventilation,
life-saving appliances, healthfulness of cargo, etc.
(3) Conveys immigrants on arrival to the Immigration
Hotel ; gives them free board and lodging for five days
(longer in case of sickness), and free medical attention.
(4) Allows immigrants to choose what part of the
country they will settle in.
(5) Finds land or work for them in the particular
locality selected, or. failing that, somewhere else.
(0) Despatches all immigrants and baggage free of cost
to chosen district, where they are met on arrival bv
agents, and hoarded and lodged free of cost for 10 days
while places are being found for them or until they leave
for some fixed destination.
(7) En,powers officers to secure advantageous terms
for the employment of immigrants, to see that the em-
ployer is of good repute, and to subsequently make sure
that the employed gets a square deal.
(8) Prevents the aggregation of estates in settlements.
(9) Establishes communicating services with settle-
ments.
(10) Offers premiums for the manufacture of butter,
the export of flour, the cultivation of cotton, vines, olives,
nuts, and trees whose woods are used for construction.
And the Argentine has been getting about 200,000
immigrants a year, and has been handing out
farms on demand, while Wade and other like-
minded Premiers in the Australian States have
been busy keeping their immigrants as landless
as possible by resisting all attempts to impose a
tax that would have the effect- of unlocking the
great areas whereon Fat bloats like a national
fungus.
When the Weary Government struck coal at
Powlett River, it occurred to one of the least
weary members of the Ministry— Peter Mac-
Bride —not only to make a State mine there, but
also to set up a State township. So he bought a
block of land right away, and got it for £l5 per
acre. Now Peter is cutting the land up into
blocks for business sites, and is laying out streets ;
and he is, at intervals, leasing—not selling—these
blocks for business and residential purposes, The
first sale, of only five acres, brought in a yearly
rental of £1470; and this in spite of a strong local
attempt to make the sale a failure. Later on a
second setof blocks, totallingfive acres, was leased,
and this time the Government obtained a yearly
rent of £2281. The important point is that, under
the bad old system, the whole of this remarkable
profit would have gone to people who had not
done a thing to give the land its extra value. In
this case the extra value has been given wholly by
the Government coal-mine ; and every penny of it
ought to belong to the Government—that is, to
the community in general. The longsighted
Peter Macßiude has thus for once put the un-
earned increment into the right pockets ; and this
paper gives him three cheers to go on with.
♦
The other day Premier John Weary made an
eminently truthful rejoinder to somebody who,
whilst urging the Government to do something
with a view to the future, said “Look what our
forefathers did for us!” Whereupon John:
“ They didn’t look after us at all. They let us
look after ourselves.” It was a welcome glimpse
of the old rebellious John. In Victoria there
was Eureka certainly ; the stockaders struck a
telling blow for liberty even though their own
mining grievance was all they were thinking
about at the time. But leaving Eureka out of the
question, what did Victoria’s forefathers do for it?
They framed and passed on the unblessed Consti-
tution which is ruled by the House of Fat. They
formed the Governments which sold millions of
acres of land over the counter —blocks of soil for
the price of blocks of toffee—with never a
thought for future generations who would have to
pay dearly for the right to live on it. Ere the
first Government was formed, other forefathers
had auctioned the Melbourne city sites to anyone
who would bid for them. Their plans for the
future ignored the questions of health and pros-
perity for folks unborn. They planted the seeds
of typhoid in undrained cities, laid foundations of
muck forundesirable villaresidences, and neglected
a thousand easy opportunities to provide for the
inevitable needs of posterity. They loaded future
generations with debt; and as they sold lands
and cut down forests, and gathered in nuggets
and the rich gold from the surface reefs, they did
not use a penny of the proceeds to reduce the
load. Greatest perhaps of all their sins they
created that Legislative Council which abater
generation of forefathers positively strengthened
in its accursedness. Therefore, in a political
way, Blow our Forefathers !
♦
“ Boswell”:
Justice Bring, assisted by the infallible “expert”
Ciiilds, of the N.S.IV. Finger-print Brigade, has placed
the halter round a man’s neck at Goulburn over the
murder of a Chinaman. A portion of the imprint of a
thumb was found on a tin box, and a man is to be taken
out and hanged mainly because Childs says “ You’re ihe
one.” These dexterous finger-print gentlemen ought to
be put in a sack with some of their hand wi itingcollengues.
Chief Justice Maddkn, of Victoria, has no time at all for
the policeman who flourishes a photographed digit unless
he produces something tangible in support of the yarn.
Mr. Maddkn would, I believe, have thrown out the indict-
ment under review; but Mr. Bring is not built that
way. Herewith I present the Police Department’s ex-
pert Childs with a bone to pick. Less that 12 months
hack a man was committed for trial on the Northern
Rivers, tie was detained two months awaiting trial for
want of bail, and during that time his “prints” were in-
dustriously circulated throughout the Commonwealth to
ascertain how many “previous convictions” he had.
The report was 0. Even Judge Dockkr was so satisfied of
the prisoner’s previous spotlessness that, he gave him
his sympathy and three months only. During that three
months the researches were diligently continued; but
the 0 was the final and only reply. Now, I happen to
know that this man served nine sentences in one other
State alone, and he doesn’t deny it to anybody but police
and gaolers. A “crock’’name in his case was sufficient
to bulldoze all the “experts” in the six States and M.L.
as well. Such personal knowledge as this compels me as
a conscientious individual to stamp the finger-print as
one of the greatest frauds and confidence tricks of our
time.
“ Satlor ” : One aspect of the conditions of the
officers in the coastal trade, not mentioned in The
Bulletin’s true tale- (14/4/T0), was the greater
freedom of the seaman. If he gets fired, or thinks
he’d feel better for a change, he can step into the
next ship, at the same pay, and possibly find even
more overtime waiting for him. There’s always a
job waiting for a good man. But the unfortunate
orficer, ” who has spent several years struggling
up to mate, must put up with whatever the owner
or his longshore understrappers like to throw at
him, because to leave means starting all over
For Next September.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
He would bring: the matter before the Cabinet, and
hoped that some tangible form of relief would be dis-
covered before the time for the meeting: of Parliament. —
Wade.
There was really nothing: in all the woes of the
men that were chopping rock
Till the Federal Fusion went pshore with an awfu
bump and shock;
It was just the usual kind of job, and could do no
harm at all,
Till Labor rose in its awful might, and Deakin
went to the wall;
Now the roekchoppers’ pains are a thing of dread,
which Wade cannot but remember
In the light of the coming reckoning-day that is
fixed for next September.
Dust in the lungs was a simple thing, and the
workers’ own concern—
There are troubles attached to every job where a
bloke has a wage to earn.
Should a Liberal statesman trouble his head o’er
the breathing of .Toe or Pat ?
The Liberal statesman pays no heed to a little
affair like that!
But, Loud, it's a different matter to-day, and
Wade cannot but remember—
It tugs at his large, sympathetic heart when he
thinks about next September.
If a workman perished through chewing grit he
went to an unwept grave,
And a statesman needn’t go out of his way with a
fancy to help and save;
And as for the poor bloke’s missus and kids, they
must manage as others have done.
And that is how it would still have been if the
Laborites hadn’t won ;
But now it’s a horse of a different sort, and Wade
cannot but remember
That something that looks Like a human heart
might count for votes in September.
N.a.w.
D.M.W.


Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
pgr Moving' Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney—3B6 George St. ; Melbourne—266 Collins St.
Brisbane—93-95 Queen St. ; Adelaide—Gawler Place
Franz Josef Lag'er Beer.
SPARKLING, REFRESHING, EXHILARATING AND PURE.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality and character, being sharp, clean, and of light gravity.
Adams’ Tattersall’s Hotel,
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
ğdsds
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
again, further, there is so much “ honorable un-
derstanding ” between theoos. that if he falls foul
of one his name is Bilge with them all. Another
thing that will soon reduee the market quotation
of the ‘‘orfleer” is the steady importation of
mates, who are bumped ahead of the looal produot
wholesale. Those who struggled through the bad
old days and fought so hard for an improvement
see the new men come and take advantage of
what little has been'won for the profession in our
own waters. They can have it as far as I’m con-
cerned —I’m doing better for’ard.
“ Fagin ” writes from the vicinity of the Federal
Survey Clamp, Yassberra
There are certainly more things perpetrated in Parlia-
ment than are dreamt of in Bill’s philosophy, or even
Willum’b. But then, of course, there are always the
Big Dailies to reveal and explain things. Before coming
to Yassberra I didn’t quite see the advisability of selecting
suoli a site for the capital of our young Commonwealth
although some of the journals did vaguely indicate rather
potent advantages. But since I have arrived in this
embryo city the solution seems farther away than ever.
In Melbourne or Sydney I could walk down the street
any day and meet a soore of people who could explain
why this vague address was the only thing on the map
that could possibly fit the necessities of the case.
As a contrast to the Melbourne, and especially the Syd-
ney, people’s perspiouity, it seems strange enough that
none of the people one meets here evinces any disposition
to justify the wisdom of this selection. It may be that
they have had no previous experience in the construction
of capital cities; but beyond the assertion that the sur-
rounding hills are burglar-proof, or something of the
sort, they have only the vaguest ideas of the facilities it
is supposed to afford for the arrangements that civilised
requirements make indispensable in any metropolitan
area. The Minister for Home Affairs has been saying,
inlet' alia, big things about the water supply ; but at the
present moment the men at the survey camp have their
attention rudely drawn to this “advantage” on the
tucker account, for a certain percentage of their 6s. per
diem is hypothecated to this item. Actually water is so
scarce that we are oharged specially for it. If the mem-
bers who jaunted here last year had had to drink water,
they mightn’t have been quite so enthusiastic. And the
fact that they didn’t have to drink water appears to be
about the principal reason for going on with the mad
scheme.
The one agonised wail that gets no sympathy in
this world is the bitter cry of the stout, influential
oity man as he tots up the .amount of his annual
subscriptions to “charities.” The “charities,”
as is generally unobserved, owe much of their
support to non-charitable subscribers —apart from
the Government, which is inevitably a cold dis-
penser of other people’s money. For the moder-
ately unwilling givers there is something to be
said, and a while ago one of them said it as
follows:
If you take the whole of the subscription lists of the
metropolitan charities you will find the same names
figuring again and again—the names of city merchants.
When any speoial effort is made because some disaster
hag ooourred it is the same men who are once
more called upon to stand and deliver. A meeting is
held and a committee formed of the same men in each
department of business who are deputed to go round and
rally up their rivals. In my own line that duty generally
falls upon me. Here is my book of subscriptions. The
names of the same people appear time after time for £lOO
each. Then the second list is of men who gave through
me £6O each. Smaller firms gave £26, and so on. They
gave freely enough ; but they think the call should he
made all round. Again, when our travellers go into the
country they are expected to subscribe to churches
and sports and anything else. Now, what about
those who enjoy large incomes from squatting pro-
perties, or oity lands, or bank shares, etc. ? We
city business men are thinking, whether we like it.or
not, that a oharity tax should be made on all our
respective incomes. It would, at all events, give us fair
play. There would be no fear that the flower of real
charity would wither whilst so many minor calls on us
remained.
From the merchants’ point of view this is an un-
answerable plea for a definite oharity tax. They
are not asking to be let off much more lightly than
at present} but they want a lot of their financial
equals, or superiors, to be let in, who have hitherto
been let off altogether. For the wealthy business
man or firm located on the spot there is no escape
from the subscription-raiser. For the globe-
trotting squatters and the host of folk who fatten
in privaoy on unearned increment there are easy
means of escape. As for the chronic absentee
landlord, he escapes all the time. Nothing save
the long arm of a Government tax-collector can
reaeh him. So it happens that many a business
man pays away a large sum per annum in sub-
scriptions to looal charities as a matter of course,
whilst bis sinfully-rich landlord lives at ease
abroad and subscribes only to foreign charities, if
he subscribes at all. The large number of
wealthy non-workers who give little or nothing to
hospitals and other benevolent institutions ought
to he squeezed by a Oharity Tax. A large num-
ber of commercial workers who give a good deal
to the hospitals would prefer to be taxed directly
rather than indirectly. Nobody else has any
serious objections to offer. Why, then, don’t the
State Governments cry “ Fair Play ! ” and let slip
a Charity Tax ?
• » ■
Commonwealth Statistician Knibb.s has just got
out the third annual issue of his Official Year
Book. Each'one has been better than its prede-
cessor, though the general plan has not been
altered —a very important point to anyone who is
in the habit of frequently turning to the book for
reference purposes. It covers practically the
whole range of Australian public and private
activity in respect to which statistics or official
data are available. It is more than a volume of
statistics : it briefly describes, for instance, the
land, mining and industrial legislation of every
State, and the whole system of government—
Federal, State, and local. But while the general
plan has not been altered, new sections have been
introduced : a very valuable addition has been
made this year under the heading, “ Public
Hygiene.” For the public man and the man who
wants to be able to discuss Australian affairs and
movements intelligently, there is no other single
publication half so valuable.
The Law in the State of Weary lias got
into such tired habits that its capacity for
letting criminals go is as conspicuous as
its incapacity for capturing them. The Ballarat
gaol-keepers were lately handed for safe-keeping
one Ball, who, a while back, made an escape from
Maryborough < prison ; but once more, having
locked him in a cell at 11.30 a.m., they were sur-
prised when they strolled along at 3.30 p.m. to
find the cell empty. It seems to be easier, nowa-
days, to get out of Weary’s gaols than to get in.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Dollar Princess.”
Royal “The Third Degree.”
Town Hall Madame Calv 6.
Criterion “ Pete.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Standard .. _ London Vaudeville Stars.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “A Waltz Dream.”
Princess’s “The Girl from Rector’s.”
Royal “The Arcadians.”
Kino’s “Thunderbolt.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Wirths’ Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
4.
Last Saturday night Calve, amidst a heavy
fire of applause, advanced to the edge of Sydney
Town Hall platform, lifted up her rich, expensive
voice, and sang :
Where am I ?
All, yes ! Now I remember !
All which ere this to life has bound me is destroy’d ;
Nought now is left me but shades of night eternal,
Where my poor heart may rest, all worn bj r its woe.
Of course, she didn’t mean it; the house was full
to the doors of people who had paid to get in.
After Gounod’s gloomy aria, which served to ex-
hibit the range of her voice, she swam gaily into
the same composer’s “ Au Printemps,” gently
waving her right arm in time to the joyous
melody. At the close of the number, the house
broke loose and pounded on the floor until the beam-
ing, dark-haired singer came back with her accom-
panist and a fair young man bearing a flute. The
encore turned out tobe Gounod’sserenade, “Quand
tu Chantes.” The favorite air made the applause
break out afresh ; and before the house could be
stilled, the singer had to add, as a second encore,
a fifteenth century trifle. Calve’s
best number, however, was the “ Habanera”
from “Carmen.” For this she wore a flame-tree
blossom in her hair and carried another in her
hand. Then the confirmed concert-goers sat up
straight in order to see clearly into how many
fragments Madame was going to knock the chill
conventions of the platform. She splintered
them very effectually. But one shudders to
think what sort of performance the ordinary
singing girl would put up under the same cir-
cumstances.
* * * *
From an artistic point of view the
same theatrical methods were not so suc-
cessful in the duet from “ Cavalleria Rusticana
with tenor Gasparri. As the distracted Sautuzza
pleading to Turiddu, the singer had to act with
hysterical vehemence, and the absence of or-
chestra, costumes and scenery became suddenly
painful. Santuzza. in a faultless evening toilet,
kneeling at the feet of a pained iuriddu in
ordinary evening dress, required a strong effort
of the imagination; and, even then, one had
occasionally to crush down the thought that it
was a modern domestic quarrel, and that one
ought not to be looking at it. Despite the great
handicap, both artists scored a genuine cheer ;
but although their performance was admirable,
one had the uncomfortable suspicion that the
audience would not have got quite so excited
at the close of the number if the singers had
not given them the cue by getting excited
first. The Calve voice is mostly remarkable
for its range and intense sympathy; but it
isn’t wonderful. It is the emotional warmth
and the electric personality of the singer
that score so heavily. Gasparri was successful
from his first number—Tosti’s “ Non t’ amo piu.
This was bracketed with the tragic * Vesta la
Giubba ” from “ I Pagliaeci.” His voice is round
and full, and he sings without trace of effort;
moreover, he is young and handsome, and carols
his numerous love songs with a soulful earnestness
as if he meant every word of them. Jacques
Pin tel, of Russia, the unobtrusive pianist, had his
happiest moments after Liszt’s Rhapsody No. 8
and the same composer’s setting of the waltz from
Gounod’s “ Faust ” ; but the sweetest morsel lie
gave the clamoring crowd was Mendelssohn s
“The Bee’s Wedding”—an encore, of course.
The three remaining concerts of the series of four
are announced for to-night (May 26), Saturday
(May 28), and Wednesday (June 1).
* * * *
“ Pete,” introduced by the Matheson
Lang Co. at Sydney Criterion last Saturday
night, is bound to be a popular success. There is
a sob in'every other line of it. It has the spice of
impropriety'essential to the money-spinner. It
teaches an edifying moral lesson. It is full of the
innocuous humor which seems to characterise
Thrums, Ultima Thule, the Isle of Man, and
other outlying parts of the United Kingdom, in
common with Sunday-school picnics the world over.
There are no baffling psychological problems to
embarrass the simple-minded amusement-seeker.
The philosophy is that of the plain suburban
chapel-goer. As a play, however, it does not stand
scrutiny. Probability, the unities, all the canons
of dramatic art are flouted most cheerfully. Now
the action is held up while a band of Manx
villagers surges uproariously in to see the heroine s
baby ; now while two maidens intone a hymn or
religious carol ; again to allow the hero to tell a
story, or chaff the infant aforesaid, or play the
big drum, or otherwise display his overpoweringly
genial and kindly temperament. “ Pete ” is not
so much a coherent dramatic work as a series of
interesting and bizarre but mostly irrelevant
incidents which circle round a heart-rending-
domestic incident.
*• * * *
Pete, the hero, is at sea when the curtain
rises. He has been away from home and from
Kate Cregeen, his sweetheart, for five years, and
is believed to be dead. Meanwhile, Kate and
Philip Christian (a tall, dreary person who sports
the riding-breeches and hunting-crop that bespeak
high society and low morals) have grown to love
each other—with unfortunate results. I hat is
the position when Pete returns and claims
his bride. Philip is ambitious; he aspires to
be Deemster. He therefore passes the bitterly-
protesting Kate on to Pete, who marries her.
The rest of the play is occupied with the miseries
of Kate and the miseries she causes. After the
christening of her child (and Philip s) she dons
the formless, sable over-garment of stage distress,
and flees into the remote parts of the 30 x 10-mile
island which she inhabits. She thus becomes, m
a small way, a wanderer upon the face of the
earth. Pete—a good man but a bad detective—
seeks her tirelessly, but without avail. She meets
the erring Philip in a castle, which is also, seem-
ingly, a temporary police court. He wears the
snow-white wig of a blameless Deemster, and is
just about to start on his judicial duties. Kate
gives him a thoroughly bad time. One of
her master-shafts is the horrifying suggestion
that she shall attend at the first court over
which he presides, and tell those present the story
of their liaison. Kate is one whom a capable
student of character would hesitate to betray on
other than ethical grounds. Finally, the harassed
Deemster turns up in a frenzied state at Pete’s
cottage —-where Kate has also repaired in quest of
her child—and confesses all. Pete advances on
him with an axe, and Philip warmly encourages
the idea of his own extinction. Yet, when Pete
lowers the weapon and makes the obvious sugges-
tion that Philip shall do the right thing by the
lady, after a divorce, he firmly declines. The
episode rings false, and suggests that it has been
introduced solely to allow Pete to intimate that if
Kate’s betrayer—aye, the whole world—spurn her,
he (Pete) will not. (Loud cheers.)
Matheson Lang is an unimpeachable Pete.
With his handsome face and fine figure, he looks
the idealised smacksman whom we meet in
magazine illustrations—a Gibson man in fisher-
man’s garb. His voice and personality are win-
ning. To see him deftly rescue one frankly melo-
dramatic situation after another from banality is
to experience the sensation one gets while watch-
ing Cinquevalli juggling his best. Miss Hutin
Britton has a trying part as the lachrymose Kate.
She is in tears, or on the brink thereof, from
the beginning to the end of the play. She accom-
plishes the feat of always being lifelike and never
being tiresome—a triumph in the circumstances.
Arthur Styan (Caesar Cregeen) provides a fine
picture of an intolerant, text-quoting humbug.
The recent seekers after the light in regard to the
meaning of the term “ wowser ” may have their
darkness dispelled by a consideration of Styan’s
methods at the Criterion. Jerrold Robertshaw
(Philip Christian) expresses remorse, fear, mute
anguish and so forth with much effectiveness.
E. W. Tyrer is a convincing young ne’er-do-well.
Miss Jennie Pollock plays Nancy. Kate’s maid,
for all the part is worth ; and good character work
is done by Miss Maggie Knight and Tom Cannam.
The Manx crowd is the best-drilled .thing of the
sort that Sydney has seen for years.
“THE THIRD DEG RED,” AT THE
SYDNEY ROYAL.
Suicide , not murder. —Richard Brewster (Julius
Knight) exhibits proof'positive to Jeffries, senr.
(Winter Hall).
“The Third Degree'’ continues to per-
vade Sydney Theatre Royal, and the tears in the
front of the house are, for numerousness, as the
leaves in Vallambrosa during the autumn season.
In addition to Pathos this show runs a taking
line in Horror, and also provides some attractive
sentimental and humorous goods.
** * *
The brief reign of “The King of
Cadonia ” at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) comes to an
end to-morrow (Friday) evening. The sort of
monarch that leaps on to the throne and off again
within one calendar week is too sudden altogether
for a weekly paper. this journal has met
the King before and fixed his place in theatrical
history; so it feels no pang of remorse when it
dismisses him with the remark that he is only
supporting the Sydney crown till Saturday, the
28th, when “The Dollar Princess” arrives'from
Melbourne to take charge. And her reign will be
much longer.
** * *
Carter the Great, magician and illusionist,
is the latest trump card to be played by Sydney
Tivoli. The Great isn’t new to Sydney ; but his
performance is smart and baffling, and arouses the
enthusiasm of a people who have got so used to
being baffled by false-alarm Treasurers and other
conjurers that the sensation has become almost a
national bad-habit. The thought-reading Howards
are the other performers now on the bill who
cater for the public thirst for amazement. At the
end of this week Alburtus and Millar are due to
fold up their humorous Aunt Sally show and take
the road. Olive Lenton and her company of eight
girls are still infusing a lot of pretty melody into
the proceedings; and Fred Bluett continues to do
noble work with his Boy Scout burlesque, for
which this city is properly grateful. Two other
performers to whom words of praise are due are
Baby Watson and Fanny Powers.
The Standard Theatre (Sydney) is a much
inquired-after house since William Anderson’s
team of merry-makers hung their sign out, and o’
nights in Castlereagh-street hurrying pedestrians
are stopped every 20yds. with a request for the
longitude and latitude of the building. Owing to
this a lot of Bilanderson’s customers have been kid-
napped by the agents of other joyful amusements.
Dozens of ladies, dressed in glad duds, no doubt in
honor of the ascension of George V., offer their ser-
vices as guides, philosophers and friends to the in-
quiring stranger, and lead him off to where
the girls provide the fun—but not Bilanderson’s
girls. Scores of tugs lie in wait, too, and pilot
the lost pleasure-seeker to a “ bosker place”
where the warm beer bubbles and the songandance
is hot stuff—but it is not William’s beer, nor does
Michael Joseph manage the songandance. Never-
theless, the Standard is getting its share of
patronage, and Nat Clifford, the shapely Lilian
Lea, Forman and Fannan, and several other
entertaining people are keeping the wolf so far
from the pay box that his howl cannot be heard
even over the telephone.
# * *
At Sydney Palace West’s Pictures have
brought our old friend George Reid to light once
more, and shown us his familiar form at the
launching of the Australian torpedo gunboat
Yarra. Judging by his antics he is still the
Same Old George. Another film calculated
to make one commit embezzlement is that de-
picting a night out, the real thing, in gay
Paree. But the picture of the lot is the
artistic, colored Path*; film depicting the life
of that father of all spielers, Cagliostro. This
is the gentleman who, when interrogated by the
French prefect of police, owned up to having
murdered Julius Caesar under the name of
Brutus, whereupon the cucumbery Frenchman
wrote it down and added a marginal note to the
effect that, as this crime was committed under
another administration, he attached no import-
ance to that part of the confession. Some other
good films show how people who have a surplus of
snow manage to get lots of fun out of it.
* * *
At Sydney Lyceum Spencer is beginning
to force the pace. Growing weary of turning
money away at nights, the management has now
decided to give two shows every day. one in the
afternoon and one in the evening. The present
show goes strong on Windsor Castle and its sur-
roundings, including the Royal Mausoleum at
Frogmore. The picturesque memorial service in
the vast Centennial Park at Sydney is
also shown on films taken by the Spencer
staff. Our old friend Moses, son of Arnran, the
gentleman who thought it better to reign in the
hell of the wilderness than serve in the heaven of
Egypt, again waddles into view. Writer has his
doubts about the authenticity of these later films;
Moses does not seem to have lost flesh as he
should have done in the wilderness. For the rest
the “comics” are up to the usual Lyceum
standard-, and the sensational element is well in
evidence in a lurid representation of a duel in
mid-air.
# * *
“A Waltz Dream,” which first struck
Sydney with its solid melodiousness four months _
ago, and kept on striking the same city for several
weeks, commenced to knock Melbourne at Her
Majesty’s on Saturday last. Presumably the pro-
cess will be long, for the present performance is
an improvement on the first innings in one im-
portant respect, apart from the mellowing in-
fluence of Time on the ensemble. And in the
matter of rehearsals Time is a great assist-
ant stage-manager. He bevels the rough
edges of things and planes their original un-
evenness'—-until at last he grows stale and apa-
thetic on the job. This by the way. “ A Waltz
Dream,” as this journal remarked in February, is
a comic opera that owes much to its music, some-
thing to its plot and lyrics, and nothing to the
dialogue. It carries the dialogue along as a con-
vict drags his chain. The story deserved brighter
narrating. Lieut. Reg Roberts, from Austria, is
brought to the tiny principality of Flausenthurn
to marry Princess Florence Young and help
towards a dynasty. The etiquette of the Court,
prescribed by a pair of low comedians, would
reduce the new Prince Consort to the position of
a mere groom of the royal bedchamber ; so
he rebels at the outset of his matrimonial career,
and goes forth on his bridal night to a bier-garten.
Where Fanny Dango conducts a Ladies’ Band, and
where the Princess and her ridiculous male rela-
tives find him disposed to provide grounds for a
divorce in company with Fanny aforesaid. There-
upon he is tried by the rules of etiquette and found
wanting. But the Princess breaks the rules and
embraces the young man for his human possibili-
ties ; wherefore the blessed dynasty seems in a
fair way to be taken care of when the cur-
tain falls. Fanny Dango’s only consolation
is in the thought that, although the Prince
Consort had allured her to the most lingering
stage-kiss on record, he was really thinking of his
wife all the time (which was about lQsec. by the
watch), and would never have done for a co-
conductor of her Ladies’ Band, anyhow.
* * * *
The opera depends mainly on Roberts
and Florence Young for vocal support. Lacking
the assistance of such robust principals, the sus-
tained efforts of Andrew MacCunn’s orchestra
would hardly suffice to get due appreciation for
the heaviest musical effects. The music is strong
and tuneful, but it has no distinctive
quality, nor much variety to speak of. Even the
easiest of the lyrical numbers need capable sing-
ing. Some of the music that verges on “grand”
opera requires a good voice with a durable
method of production, and here the two principals
show at their best. The nuggety Roberts puts
no tender sentiment into his histrionics, but he
vocalises like a warrior bold, and stirs the
audience very considerably. Miss Young, with
less to do, is admirable in at least a couple of her
solos, and ever to the fore in the largest concerted
pieces. Moreover, she makes a handsome figure
in a character which keeps her busily engaged
in assuming the simplicity of youth. Miss
Dango is dainty and clever in her lighter
scenes, and gracefully unequal to the demand on
her dramatic powers after the lOsec. kiss has
given a tragic turn to her perplexities. The part
is pretty, and she fills it attractively save when she
warbles to Princess Young in the third act. Then
she so frequently sings sharp, or flat, or out of
plumb, that it becomes a question whether she is
oftener “off the note” than on it. Higginson
and Miss Alma Vaughan are both useful and


CINEMATOGRAPH Films ior hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Modern Saw Mill Machinery.
I WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
“THE GIRL FROM RECTOR’S,” AT
MELBOURNE PRINCESS’S.
Robert Greig as Judge Caperton.
tuneful in the minor parts of Roberts’ aide-de-
camp and Miss Young’s lady-in-waiting. Arthur
Hunter presents a grotesque make-up as a waiter
who might otherwise be funnier; Miss Flor-
ence Vie resumes her laboriously droll character
of the stout young bandswoman with a lisp;
and there are the two comedians who, for
want of humorous material to deal with, are
forced to buffoonery. Their success, as far as it
goes, is due entirely to themselves. Langford
Kirby, new to Melbourne, capers cheerfully,
though rather angularly, through the part of the
Count, without making it clear whether he is
meant to be a young old man, or an old young
man. Bertie Wright, new to Australia, comes to
light as the old Prince of Flausenthurn, whom
Bantock represented in Sydney. The difference
between Bantock and Bertie Wright is vast.
Wright stands about sft. short, and is nimble in
proportion. Also he seems humorous by nature,
and likely to put in some capital comedy when a
better opportunity offers.
*# * *
At the Princess’s the plain, unvarnished
giddiness of “The Girl from Rector’s” is appeal-
ing to the taste of the multitude, and Hugh Ward
announces the repetition of that riotously naughty
comedy until further notice. The advt. further
states that it’s a “ snipper,” which is supposed to
be Anglo-French for hot stuff or rather sultry.
The Bulletin would describe it as a bit thick,
from close to the knuckle, but the term
“snipper” fits the subject well enough. This
journal has not yet recovered from the first im-
pression of what happened to Loute, but is
still hanging on to the hope that the young
woman has definitely repented of her indiscretions
and renounced her dissolute hat once and for all.
In a hat like that no matron could be quite as
virtuous as she wished to be, or half as wicked as
she looked. Men ought to be protected against
such millinery by Act of Parliament. Even the
Archbishop of Canterbury, who gets £lO,OOO a
vear for being good, might easily go astray in
pursuit of Loute’s hat, or, rather, her way of
wearing it, which is the broad way that leadeth to
destruction.
** * *
Thunderbolt, who expiates his fracture of
the Eighth Commandment by underlining the
“nots ” of all the others, has turned up again at
Melbourne King’s. Time has dealt gaily with
this girlish ruffian, for he still retains his virtuosic
pallor, because it is chic, and declines to rob
women, because it is chivalrous. The uplifting of
forgers is his hobby. Young Jack Mason, who
copied his father’s name on his father’s cheque, is
turned from a wicked career and restored to home
and honor with a present of maxims for Sabbath
use. Moreover, Ben Morgan, Thunderbolt’s
vulgar, unlovely rival, is shot because he brought
to the art of bushranging the manners and
morals of a hog. Pleasing revelation as he is of
the good in bushrangers, Thunderbolt is neverthe-
less scarcely so supportable a figure as the Hon.
Algernon Chetwynd. Algernon, who strikes
the attitudes of English lordlings, is a brilliant
person, who, in other hands than Bert
Bailey’s, might end by becoming a bloke.
Geoffrey Morrow, J.P., is slightly fascinating as
a reptile who is washed in decency as brummagem
might be washed in gold. Rutland Beckett plays
him. as a vitriolic echo of his other villains. Ned
Duggan’s Irish “ trap ” employs a brogue as an
overcoat for his attenuated wit; sister Eugenie is
the unfragile little flower she always is; and
heaps of other people deserve the worst that
could be said of them. As for George Gross, he
buries himself in the psychology of Thunderbolt
as he might bury himself in his little brother’s
pants. There is precious little reason in the
absurd character, though Cross’s impersonation is
said to reflect the intentions of the character’s
creators. In which case it holds a mirror up to a
myth. Finally, the scenery may be commended
for its Andersonian virtues and general effective-
ness.
* -* * *
At the Athenteum Hall, which was hardly
large enough for his first audience, Joseph M’Cabe
began his series of Evolution lectures last
Saturday. A. clean-cut man with a style to match
his appearance, M’Cabe talked of things astro-
nomical, and discussed the end of the world in a
way that warmed his least-informed hearers to an
interest in the subject. A popular science
lecturer can do no more. With fine collections of
photographic views to illustrate his remarks, the
instructive entertainer should be equally success-
ful with all of them. To-night (Thursday) brings
him to the fifth and last of the series; but pre-
sumably there will be some repetitions before he
gets away from Melbourne.
This is the ninth week of “ The Arcadians
at the Royal, and there are two more to follow ere
the season of the present co. closes. Then the
pipes of Pan will be put out, and Melbourne will
get the Asches again.
** * *
The Town Hall echoes no more with the
dulcet brazen strains of the banded “Besses,”
who played two nights this week at the Glaci-
arium before starting on a round trip. The event
in view at the hall with the sliding rent is Carreno,
the delightful Teresa of the pianoforte. She
makes her first reappearance on Saturday next
(28th) under the direction of Benno Scherek, and
is due to depart for Maoriland on June 8.
** * *
Lieut. Frank Travis, re-engaged to illu-
minate the bill at Melbourne Opera House, pro-
vides a turn that is almost wholly ventriloquial;
but, shorn of its somewhat obtrusive padding, it
seems no perceptible ad vance on that of Winton
and McGinty. He has one figure that belongs to
the McGinty family: a doll that sings “ Daddy ”
in a voice of 70. Respecting two other items, it
may be said that Bert Terrell has returned with
his dental pomp undimmed ; and M. Brunin and
lady continue their billiard trickery—inelegancies
and all.'
In Adelaide the “ Royal Comics ” dropped
Fred Wright, just off an English boat, into Ban-
tock’s part in “A Waltz Dream.” As the new-
comer is small and mercurial, the change was
remarkable. Wright is
going to be popular in
Australia. The co. kept
only three performances
open for “ The Catch of
the Season,” a very
thin and very Londony
modern version of the
Cinderella story.
Higginson and Fanny
Dango had all the
fun, with O’Connor in
a stuttering part giving
him a better chance
than he usually gets. Fred
“ THE GIRL FROM
RECTOR’S,”
AT MELBOURNE
PRINCESS’S.
Hugh J. Ward as Pro-
fessor Aubrey Maboon.
Leslie and Connie Milne, however, hardly get a
show. There are several good songs—notably the
“Fame ’’ ballad, with encore verses that continue
as long as the posed picture-figures in the back-
ground hold out. Higginson has some engag-
ing Robertsonian humor with a teacup and a
thick slice of bread and butter ; for the rest,
he and O’Connor say “Damn” whenever things
seem getting slow, and the house laughs joyously
every time. There is no low comedian in the
piece. The author has worked hard with refined
jests about cold feet and matrimony, but the
light-comedy noblemen have to utter them.
lan Maxwell had one sudden chance in the
“Dream” as understudy, and rose well to the
occasion. But all this is rapidly becoming ancient
history, for Oscar Asche is now taming the
shrewish Katherine at the Royal, and the house
(at raised prices) was sold out for the first week
before the season began. Meanwhile, Rickards
at the Tivoli is getting reckless. In the menu, all
at once, are the china-smashing Dardinis ; Vasco,
who makes music with his hands, feet and mouth
all over the furniture ; and Alexandra and Bertie
on their trapeze and silver balancing-ladder. And
the Apache dance of the young Macleans is equal
to anything of the kind imported. Other shows
are legion. They include a Town Hall full of
pictures, projected on a silvery wall instead of a
sheet; a clever chimpanzee unnecessarily named
“Casey” (at which a great and friendly nation
has taken some offence): and several “stadiums ”
of Saturday-night boxing, a sport which Adelaide
has taken up late and is zealously rushing.
At Powlett the Victorian Government has
almost as good achance to show what a town can
be as the Commonwealth Government will have
at the Federal capital by-and-bye. And the
Murray people have made a good start, too. For
a foundation the town has the railway, the brick-
works, the State hotel and the township lease-
holds. Presently there will come electric light,
heat and power, and water supply. What the
ground revenues will mean can be gauged by the
fact that the 70 or 80 lots already sold on building
lease for 21 years have realised at the rate of
nearly £6OOO per acre ; and the State has reserved
18 acres so far, and has four square miles to draw
upon. Should the place become another New-
castle, the revenue would be multiplied tenfold at
the end of the first lease-term. This pleasing
prospect gives a hint of what may be done by the
builders of the capital, providing they put it in
the right place and use their opportunities to the
best advantage.
Every fancier of Tommy Tanna, every
Chow barracker—every lover, in fact, of the
cullud brother as a cheap machine for grinding
out dividends—snorts that rubber production in
Australia is impossible with white labor. The
same yarn was told about the sugar industry,
and in fact nearly every other industry. And now
as to rubber, Tom Binnie, an ex-North Queens-
lander, who is managing a rubber plantation in
the Philippines, has gone into the witness box :
I see a lot of very clever men are giving as their opinion
that the labor difficulty will be too great to enable one to
grow rubber successfully in Queensland. Now, I think
thesepeopleshould know something of the country before
opening their mouths to put their feet in them. From
my knowledge of the conditions obtaining in the sugar
districts, rubber in connection with sugar is just the
thing to enable the farmers to keep the labor in constant
employment, as the tapping can be done in the slack
season ; and, even if there is a scarcity of labor at times,
there is no direct loss, as the trees will not be over-ripe,
and if tapping is not done during one month it can be
done next —or even next year.
AT POVERTY POINT.
The fact that Edward VII. had been for some time sub-
ject to an indisposition which took the form of a violent
choking fit was not generally known outside his immedi-
ate circle. On one occasion before any warning as to
the state of his health had been published, one of those
attacks took him so swiftly that he remained rigid in his
chair for some minutes. At Berlin he had another bad
attack; and when he left the performance of “Chan-
tecler,” in Paris, before the last act, presumably for the
same cause, it was looked upon as very significant. Only
once before had the King left a theatre before the con-
clusion of a play without previously announcing his in-
tention to do so ; that was at Marienbad, when he passed
Out of the show as a protest against the singing, of some
verses insulting to the abbot of the famous local
monastery.
In an excess of grief some of the theatrical shows
burst into foreign languages on the day of Ed. Vll.’s
funeral. F’rinstance :
rjIHE LYCEUM.
VIVE LE EST ROI.
CLOSED TO-NIGHT (FRIDAY).
It is impressive, even if it be a shade obscure.
“ Cove ” : Justice must be done to old Manager Tolano
as a man of considerable ability. There is more about
him in Jefferson’s Autobiography than almost anywhere.
Jefferson always calls him Rolamo. There w'as the cus-
tomary haggling between the Australian manager and
the Yankee actor ; but Jeff does every justice to Tolano’s
probity as well as calibre. Jefferson was astonished
at the excellence of Tolano’s actors, from Rogers
downwards. He found it as hard to keep his
head above the “stock” as in America. However, he
had played ball down at rehearsals of “ Our American
Cousin” and “Rip Van Winkle.” Tolano was taken in,
like Coppin, by Williamson in “Struck Oil.” Yet he gave
Jefferson all the proper recognition. What remarkable
performances of Dundreary were those both by Rogers in
Sydney and Stewart in Melbourne! Then Stewart was
equally astonishing in the utterly different Uncle Pete, of
“The Octoroon.” Young Joe Tolano was first known in
the profession as pantaloon to Bland Holt’s clown. Both
supplied the real thing.
“Snell”: American farce and French comedy fail to
assimilate. You get two distinct atmospheres in “The
Girl from Rector’s ”in Melbourne Princess’s. “ The Girl ”
is the attempt of Paul to reproduce Pierre in Paul’s
native American. “Loute,” Pierre’s rapid French
comedy, is peculiarly saucy. Possibly because they do
not take their naughtiness so seriously in Paris, French
giddiness in farce seems absolutely harmless. You may
touch the pitch, but it doesn’t stick. But immediately
the philandering is done into English it becomes por-
tentous. Loute, the wife who in hubby’s presence
is pale and cold, but who leads the crimson,
giddy life of a minx when he is away, might
pass in French, leaving no suggestion but of a
butterfly flutter. But in English (or, worse, American)
she is a substantial infamy ; there is some nauseousness
in all the situations which you cannot escape, and instead
of being amused by the razzle, the sensitive observer sits
back hard, keenly regretting the abolition of the ducking
stool for the treatment of such rebellious Susans.
“P. Freshfield ”: lie the elder Boucicault changing his
name from Bourcicault (B. 19/s’/10). He seems to have
made another change. An old Dublin man who claimed
to have known him when both were boys told me that
Boucicault’s front name was originally Dionysius, not
Dion. It was a fair thing to drop the latter end of that
monniker, anyway. The toning down or touching up of
names is not confined to artists of the stage. The English
painter Keeley Halswelle, whose version of the “ Not
Angles but Angels ” story is familiar to Sydney Gallery
visitors, was always Haswell in the signatures to his
earliest illustrations.
“Singe”: The long-expected and the much-dreaded
has transpired. The Boy Scout has broken into serious
drama. In London, by latest advices, “ a sensational
and emotional play ” was in progress, whose hero was a
cool, resolute, resourceful Scout aged 14. Of course, the
role was taken by a young woman ; and the woman in
forked clothes is ai ways unconvincing and often revolting.
A visit to the “Aladdin” pantomime would serve as a
warning to dramatists. Ninety-nine and a half per cent,
of the “ Aladdin ” “boys” are developed in the wrong
direction for the costume they are wearing, a fact which
their spirited wall scaling act betrays with horrible
frankness. The Boy Scout portrayed by a female, as
an adjunct to a leg-show, is acceptable : it is one more
method of offering that development-exhibition which
the haldhead in the stalls best loves. But the same
Scout portrayed by the same female in serious drama is
on a par with the peroxided maidens portrayed in the
streets by University youths on Commem. Day—which is
to say, an outrage.
“D.”: What a picture of the immemorial wooden-
headedness of policemen is presented by Captain Clinton
in “The Third Degree”! The Captain finds Howard
Jeffries drunk in the same house as a suicide. He con-
cludes that Jeffries slew the suicide, and builds up a story
in support. It is incorrect from start to finish, but be
clings to it like a starving hound to a beefsteak.
Subsequently the accused man’s wife is able to shake
his theory about her husband’s guilt. Immediately
the fatuous official invents a yarn connecting her with
the tragedy. Herein, also, he is grotesquely wrorig. In
Act 11. Brewster, counsel for Jeffries, reads to Clinton a
list of some of his busted theories regarding accused per-
sons’ guilt. In no recorded case was the detective
right. In the Jeffries case he fails to see the most ob-
vious things. Yet this idiotic being is a “ captain ” and
a leader ! Watching a crime-investigator of the Clinton
stamp at work, one begins to understand why Bauer
murders and such-like are never cleared up, and to mildly
regret that one wasn’t educated for the easy and safe job
of burglary-with-violence.
“Furore”: The troupe of Maoris who will leave M.L.
for Australia in October, will eventually pitch their
kainga in London in March, 1911. The tour as mapped
at present will occupy 2£ years, and will include Europe
and Japan. The venture should be a financial success, as
Poi dancing and haka troupes rake in the dollars even in
Ward’s tremulous isles, where such shows lack the ele-
ment of novelty. The “ Dancers ” (hailing from Napier)
—a curious conglomeration of Maori performers, Scottish
bagpipers and cornstalk warblers—are at present playing
to packed houses in the North Island. A haka to the
accompaniment of the bagpipes ought to be an oddment
in horrors unsurpassed by 7 the dance of a thousand devils
to the accompaniment of the howls of the damned.
"0.T," i Though, as “ 0.K.” says (B. 12/S/TO), Tobin’s
old Spanish oomedy, “ The Honeymoon,” probably hasn’t
been played in Melbourne for many years, a scene from it
was only th 6 other day put on at a “ benefit” promoted
by a few artistic people of the Melbourne Government
Printing Office. At the same “benefit,” by the way,
Labor-leader Prendergast’s daughter, who can sing, con-
tributed “Poor Wandering One !” A political tip?
“Micawber”: Re Fred Bluett (B. 5/5/TO) as “ Aus-
tralia’s representative comedian.” Though so hilled,
Fred is a Cockney with an accent as thick as Bow Bells
in a fog, and if he were to mislay this asset he might just
as well turn the game up. As a Dago or Chow, Bluett’s
individuality would be entirely lost. True, a “push”
song might be introduced to advantage ; but who isgoing
to compose songs at approximately eightpence apiece?
That is about the price paid Australian authors for such
commodities.
“Jimpan”: Last month, there was produced at the
Royal Opera House, Berlin, a Redskin opera, “ Poia,”
composed by Arthur Nevin. “Poia” is not only the
first American opera produced iri Europe, but it is the
first attempt to employ Redskin life as a basis for serious
operatic music. The scene is laid in the Far North-West
of the U.S., at a time when the palefaces had not intro-
duced rum, rifles and religion to the Indians. It is said
that the weird melodies of the wigwams and the plains
have amazed the German musicians, and shown them the
great extent to which genuine Indian themes lend them-
selves to melodious and artistic treatment. The com-
poser lived a year among the Blackfeet Indians of Mon-
tana, studying their language and voices for translation
into operatic form. Alfred Hill ought to take his Maori
opera to German} 7 . In music, as in education and in-
vention and commerce and sausages, the Germans are up-
to-date. I wait for the great Australian Outback opera
and the splendid Saltbush Symphony.
“ D." : I see that “ S.S.” (B. 5/5/TO) asks why affluent
Australian theatre-goers have dropped pervading the
dress circle and taken, instead, to the stalls. In my view,
the explanation is twofold. One is the indifferent, not to
say rotten, ventilation of the theatres, notably the Royal
in'Sydney and Her Majesty’s in Melbourne ; the other,
the "bad acoustics of the majority of the play-houses,
coupled with the fact that the actor of to-day is not the
elocutionist his predecessor was, while the actress is mostly
no sort of elocutionist at all. I know no more dreary
experience than to have to sit in the d.c. of, say, the
Sydney Theatre Royal on a warm summer’s night while
one of the genteel Yankee bellow-dramas, which the
Williamson management has taken to importing, rages
mildly below, and the fragrance of the local playgoer
rises up, and, finding no adequate exit, fills the house
and transforms it into a fair imitation of the Black Hole
of Calcutta. A doctor assured me the other day that
the upper parts of the theatres did his profession more
good in the way of influenza, pneumonia and such
like cases than any other known factor. When it is
furthermore considered that the modern mime either
can’t or won’t make him or herself audible at a distance
(people of acute hearing, who frequented the d.c. at Her
Majesty’s during Margaret Anglin’s season, owned to
missing half her fine points) it seems but natural that
those who can afford it should get as near to the seat of
stage-muttering as possible.
“Mareheur”: London has started a Theatre Club,
where members may first get an unimpeachable dinner,
then stroll into a perfectly equipped theatre, and after-
wards have supper and a dance in a ballroom adjacent.
It is the answer to a puritanical county council’s legisla-
tion against night-clubs and late-closing restaurants.
Ten years ago the West End of London was dotted with
places like the “ Alsatians,” the “ Gardenia,” and so on,
where the frivolous youths of the town who didn’t want
to go to bed at midnight, could drink, dance and eat till
morn. The police exterminated these cheery resorts on
the grounds that the ladies who went there were too un-
conventional. LaGr, a species of theatre-supper club was
started off Leicester-square, but it was dull at the best,
and a series of drunken rows discredited it. At intervals
establishments where the well-to-do could feed and dance
without having their moral characters (or, at any rate,
reputations) undermined got going. Somehow, none of
them boomed. And yet there is every reason why they
should have done so. Here in Sydney the need of some-
thing of the kind will soon be felt, if it isn’t felt already.
Asche’s “Count Hannibal” show had a queer expert-
ence during its closing days in Sydney. After an extra-
ordinarily successful run, business had begun to fall off.
Suddenly the booking started afresh. Faces that were
utterly unfamiliar to the attendants, and to playgoers
generally, gleamed from every second stall, circle and
gallery seat. And then the explanation dawned on the
management. The recent sectarian rows, which pro-
duced a number of references to the St. Bart.’s
massacre, had inspired the local “ Wowser” and his wife
to drown their anti-theatrical principles and view the
Scarlet Wummun’s gory stage-work at first hand. On the
closing night of “ Hannibal” aggressive righteousness (in
weird whiskerings) was more in evidence than at any
time in the recollection of those associated with the
Criterion.
An ingenious and enterprising citizen,
named Rogers, has been bested in a tussle with
the Law. Rogers proposed that any person de-
siring to clear his land cheaply and expeditiously
should use the Rogers’ Patent Tree-Slayer. The
scheme was to cut a square hole in an old-man
blackbutt or red-gum ; into this orifice jamb a
dead log and set it on fire ; and by means of a
tripod or forked-stick so poise the log that as the
end burned away it would continue to burn
into the hole in the trunk until the tree was
felled. Rogers’ scheme was apparently a great suc-
cess, except that the Commonwealth refused to
patent the tree-slayer. So Rogers went to the
High Court for a mandamus. But the Chief Jus-
tice refused to mandame the Patents Office, on the
ground that, while Rogers’ idea was novel per-
haps, it was not patentable. It was not a manu-
facture. Rogers didn’t make the log, or a new
kind of log, or a new sort of hole in the tree. So
Rogers’ tree-slayer was beaten by 28 costs to nil,
which is not a matter for undue regret. It is too
easy already to cut, burn or break down trees.
What Australia wants is a man with a patent to
make them grow up quickly.
If George V. does only moderately well
he will shine conspicuously among the Georges.
Not one of the previous four w;ts better than
stodgy ; and the long-lived Third was 90 degrees
worse than that. Soon after his coronation that
George came on a mousetrap for the first time in
his life. It was in the house of a widow at Salt
Hill, London. “ What’s this ?” he cried ; “this,
this?” The widow explained, but George could
not understand. Peter Pindar, the iconoclast
rhymester of the day, describes the King as
crying, “Mouse, mouse, where doth he go in?”
The widow shows him. Then, according to
Pindar: —
In he pushed his finger ’midst the wire,
That with such pains the finger did inspire,
He wished it out again with all his soul.
There is a pretty awkward mousetrap waiting for
the fifth George; but the suggestion just at pre-
sent is that he be given 12 months’ breathing time
before he tries his finger in it.
The hank robbery at Box Hill (Vic.) last
Sunday week, which has shown up the monu-
mental incapacity of O’Callaghan’s police, was an
almost exact repiica of an attempt on the Oak-
leierh branch of the same bank in December,
1904. In that case the manager’s wife happened
into the vestibule of the dwelling about 11 p.m.,
and, finding an unauthorised stranger there,
asked him “ Whaffor ? ” The uncivil reply was,
“ Bring the boss. If you scream I’ll shoot you.’
Just then her two sons ran in, whereupon the
intruder covered them and told them to put up
their hands. The nippers, however, dived into
the street, with the robber after them. The lady
immediately slammed the door, at which he
turned and fired twice through the panels, one
bullet grazing her shoulder. The would-be thief,
whose physical appearance corresponded with last
week’s exploiter, then ran across the street,
mounted a bike he had presumably left there,
and rode away. And that is all that was ever
known of him.
MISERY IN THE STALLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Really,” remarked a Sydney society lady, coming
away from a performance of “ The Third Degree ” during
the week, “ this is a most unbecoming play. My eyes
are red, and I’m sure my nose wants powdering. I’m a
rag. I don’t know when my emotions have been so
stirred up.” This open confession might be made by
most of the smart women attending the Theatre Royal,
for the traces of tears are visible on all sides. — Sunday
Sun.
Judge what “ The Third Degree ” must be
When ladies, in Society,
Weep till they nearly have a fit
With poignant grief and pain, at it.
You can imagine the extent
Of utter, hopeless anguish pent,
This play undams, when it is known
It makes our smartest women moan.
No more these dames, as heretofore,
Yawn and proclaim the piece a bore,
In tones aloofly cold and proud.
No ! no ! They cry and sob aloud.
The tears course down their haughty cheeks
As though their eyes with fresh-culled leeks
Had just been rubbed. Noses grow red.
Powder falls off and Pride falls dead.
The floor, the very aisles grow wet —
A fact which operates to set
Success’s seal upon the play,
And makes the management feel gay.
What time the luxury of Grief
The women taste, the men relief
Obtain by hurling curses, low
Yet earnest, at the whole damp show.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


Severe Cold.
“ I had a very bad cold in the head, with pains
in the chest, and I was quite deaf.” writes Mrs.
Kate Murray, 031 Main Street, Kangaroo Pt.,
Q’land. “ I used Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery,
which wonderful remedy cured me in a very short
time.” Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centraily situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
By Special
Appointment
gdsg
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS,™S S -
THE CATERER, Tel. No. 2, Ascot.
Wedding Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Ring up No. 2 Asoot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
dgs
Halley’s Comet.
The Sight of a Lifetime.
VIEW IT THROUGH
The GOERZ “PAGOR”
Beinsr corrected for Color
Vision, renders Heavenly
Bodies marvellously True, Clear and Brilliant.
The GOERZ “ PACOR ” is a triumph of Optical Science.
It transmits everything as the Human Eye does, but
with a Brilliancy never before attained.
IT IS A MARVELLOUS BINOCULAR.
For Sportsmen, Tourists, Pastoralists, Ladies, etc.
BINOCULAR.
PRICE (including- Slines and Leather Case),
Magnification, X 6 ; Weight, lOoz.
&s>
Half Real Size. XB, £9 5 X 10 > £lO. OTHER SIZES STOCKED.
SOLE AUSTRALASIAN AGENTS-
HARRINGTONS LTD.
Photo. Material and
Camera Merchants,
SYDNEY—3B6 George Street, near G.PO.
MELBOURNE—266 Collins Street.
BRISBANE—93 to 95 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE—GawIer Place.
SOCIETY
Chelmsford, his Excrescency of N.S.W.,
has a trouble that doesn’t hit the public eye.
When the Sydney Harbor Trust Act was passed
in 1901, vesting in the trust the public wharves in
Port Jackson, the ramshackle Rose Bay wharf
was not taken over. Time went past, and the
structure became so dangerous that even the bar-
nacles shifted. About that time the State Govern-
ment secured Oran brook, and the wharf was the
usual vice-regal landing-place. The first worry >
came when an A.D.C. put his‘patent-leathers
throughagirder. A long argument ensued between
the Works Department and the Harbor Trust as
to which of them owned the dilapidation. As
nothing in the nature of a decision could be
arrived at, the Crown Law people were appealed
to, and they apparently gave it up. So the
wharf marked time, while the dry rot marched
on. Presently his Ex.’s private secretary leaned
absentmindedly against a pile, and it snapped off
like a wax candle. The outrage couldn’t be over-
looked; and the Harbor Trust hurriedly tore the
wharf out by the roots. Then all was peace—for
aboutfive minutes. At the endof thattimeChelms-
ford began to holler for a new wharf ; but the
number of deaf people in the neighborhood was
astounding. Eventually the Harbor Trust was
awakened, and remembered that the Wooll.thra
Council was the proper authority to build wharves
in the municipality. But the council doesn’t feel
up to wharf construction, and has replied that if
the Works Department will build the wharf, it
(the council) will take the thing over and collect
revenue from it, the intention evidently being to
make the aides pay thrippence each when coming
from Garden Island at 2 a.m. Meanwhile, every
time the Governor jumps ashore in the dark from
the launch he takes a horrible risk of landing
oil a drowned dog. and pitching the Constitution
head first into the malodorous seaweed.
TAXING HER MEMORY.
THE BUDDING SASLOME (finished dressing): "Now,
I wonder if I've forgotten anything! ”
“L.E.”on the struggle to be “beautiful”:
Surely Sydney will not follow Melbourne’s example in
the matter of official “ beautification ” ! Sydney is rich in
fine old trees and shrubs and rocks, designed by Nature,
not by the City Fathers. The preservation of such
natural features, which turn up in odd corners, not
only all round the Harbor, but even in old and mean
streets, gives Sydney an eternal charm and freshness.
The parks and gardens, though less perfect than those of
Melbourne, make a more intimate appeal owing to their
unaffeetedness. The aldermanic Attilas, who threaten
to “ beautify ” the city, and, in the meantime, to slice off
some pieces of ai public park, must be kept in their
place. If not suppressed, they will, for their own glorifica-
tion, turn a kind of gracefully-clad mermaid into an
overdressed suburban housewife. There is some excuse
for embellishing Melbourne, for Melbourne has no natural
beauty at stake. Yet many of the recent “ decorations ”
have been for the worse. In the Fitzroy Gardens, for
example, some fine gum-trees, which were interesting in
themselves and formed a relief for other parts of the
gardens, were ruthlessly slaughtered to make way for some
pretty-pretty English trees. Aldermen have no pity. All
over Melbourne avenues have been made on the model of
a scene in a cheap pantomime. There are trees in pots ;
everywhere rocks and stones arranged in heaps like
cheese cakes; tiny grass plots with flowers, in diagrams,
stuck in the centre ; and all manner of needless arti-
ficiality. Such fripperies look as foolish on a sedate,
well-behaved place like Melbourne as gaudy ribbons and
an open-work blouse on a dowager duchess. Aldermen
will not seek counsel from artists ; they prefer to follow
their own ideas and aberrations. Given free sway, they
would be capable of adding an Albert bun-rockery to
Mont Blanc, or a Corso of pantomime trees to Home or
Florence.
*■ * * *
“ Melb” : Two of our suburbs are due for
celebrations. Preston is the first. It had a
curious origin ; 50 men, women and children
from an English rural district came out together
in the ship Harpley, in 1850, and squatted there.
They even fetched their parson, the Rev. J.
Turner. Yet, strange to say, Preston was first
called Irishtown. The other celebrator, Haw-
thorn, or Haw-Hawthorn, better deserved that
tag. Almost the first landowner was Mike
Lynch ; he bought the very valuable Grace Park
Estate in 1847 for £2 an acre (there were 18 acres).
Then Pat O’Brien came and founded Kinkora.
Then Jack O’Shanassy founded Tara. And in
1860 it was Mike O’Grady who caused the nitini-
pality to be formed. iSo the jubilay is being
celebrated this year with high jinks.
* * * *
The Religious Editor on the ewes of his
flock:—
Yesterday I opened the morning paper at Ihe cable
page, and “Women Found Wanting” I read. It was
merely about the unsatisfactory work done by women on
an American railroad ; but I fell to thinking how easy it
is to find women wanting. The things they want range
from the love and affection of A Decent Man in a Good
Position to a Chanticleer hat or a chance to snub the
woman next door. Sometimes women are even found
wanting other women—generally to clean and scrub.
And when the wanted woman arrives and has broken .the
conversational ice at the tub, it generally transpires that
she at least wants a new hat, a Nellie Stewart bangle and
a divorce from her husband—who drinks. When Tittell
Brune, in “ The Girl of the Golden West,” turned up her
eyes and spoke soulfully of “reaching up higher”—for
culture—l always thought of drapers’ windows and bats.
I had seen the same mesmerised look on women who bad
been caught and fascinated by the shopmen’s display of
headgear. So T. Brun -’s fine acting only moved me to smile
—and groan. I give Woman credit for a lot of things ; but
her capacity for wanting is too staggering. When
she is not yearning for an absolute impossibility,
she is found wanting the thing- that is most
inaccessible at the moment. When it is winter
she is found wanting summer ; and when a bracing cold
wind is blowing steadily from the south she wants the
hot wind from the north. Two days after she has in-
duced her husband to take a throe years’ lease of a villa
opposite the sea, she is called upon by a friend, and
thereafter is found wanting a two-storeyed house .on a
mountain far inland. A woman has a camera which she
doesn’t use, and so lends it to a girl friend who is going
to Greenland for a long stay. Then she goes off with her
husband on a voyagp. One day, when they are in mid-
ocean, she interrupts h r husband when he is telling a
humorous dog-story, and informs him that she wants
her camera. Of course she knows that he can’t possibly
g-et it for her. But she wants it all the same, and won’t
rest until she lets him know it. Notwithstanding the
later American novelists, I don’t think that ant' sane man
ever set out deliberately of his own free will to keep an
average female from wanting altogether So when I read
in a hook that the tall, handsome youth with the motor-
car, who ants as chauffeur and errand hoy to the cold,
proud beauty, “anticipated her every wish,” I say
“Liar!” and instruct the Chooser of Books to go again
to the circulating library.
* * * s
“Snake Bite”: Apropos the distressing
prevalence of Smiths (B. 5/5/TO). Some men
don’t want the directory simplified. One of them
used to live in a northern township in Victoria
where there were Ryans by the dozen.
T w -s taken up there once as an assist-
ant in a store. Arriving fresh, of
course I didn’t know about the preva-
lence of Ryans. So when a man
came to the store and ordered a bag
of flour, and said his name was Rvan,
f just put it down to Ryan—plain
Ryan. There was a drought on at
the time, and so the bills were only
sent out at long intervals ; but when
they were sent out, not knowing which
Ryan to bill for this particular damper-
dust, we billed 15 of them. Nobody paid
just then ; but when the drought broke
seven Ryans came in and cashed up. It is
an ill wind indeed if the country store-
keeper can’t punch a bit of profit out of it.
What good it does the trader to hang a
scroll in his window declaring that the Governor
has appointed him shrimp-purveyor to his Excel-
lency is not easy to fathom ; but the way the
parchment is struggled for implies gain either to
pocket or to imagination. Lately, in Sj’dney, a
couple of snubs have been pointedly adminis-
tered to persistent ones ; but, though repulsed for
the present, they “ humbly hope ” to come again.
In Fitzroy’s time there was a Sydney ironmonger,
founder of a wealthy family, who yearned for the
shrimp-purveyor distinction, and soon after that
gay Governor’s arrival trotted to Government
House to obtain it. Two or three flunkeys
beat him off for a while; but the tradesman
dodged around so disconsolately that Lady
Mary Fitzroy, taking pity, went to him. She
was a quiet, easy-going, plainly-dressed body,
without side or airs, and the ironmonger set
her down as the housekeeper. He told the object
of his visit, and slipped a £5 note into her hand.
Next day the lady disclosed herself in a letter in-
forming him that she had distributed the £5 in
charity, and that it was the Governor’s order that
he should not again enter the grounds of Govern-
ment House.
A BRIGHT PAIR.
THE OLD ’UN : "By yad, my dear, you outshone
everybody on the stage.”
THE DANCER: “And you outshone everybody in
the audience .”
“ J.” on the law’s methods :
America has no monopoly of the “ third degree ” busi-
ness now on exhibition at Sydney Theatre lioyal. It is
worked even in simple, virtuous, old Sydney. A friend
of mine looked on the wine when it was red, and started
unsteadily for home at a late hour of the night. Presently
two men stepped from a lonely side-street and grabbed
his gold watch. Feigning a perfectly paralysed con-
dition of intoxication, and doing it the more easily for the
reason that his assailants were powerful and villainous-
looking, he leant against a wall and let them have their
will of his property. Thus he was spared the knock-out
biff which puts an end to all reprisals. As they departed
at a slow, confident dog-trot he pulled himself together
and found a policeman. One of the criminals was stiff in
SPORT, 1910. —TRAPPING THE COMET.
sight, or, anyhow, someone whom my friend thought
looked like one of them. The officer sdrted in pursuit-
Meanwhile my friend sit down and brooded. At last the
policeman came back and my friend was taken to the
lockup to identifv the Law’s prey. He couldn’t be
sure,, and, furthermore, no watcli bad been found on
the captured one. The case for the prosecution
looked black. With much firmness the accused was
taken to a cell and dealt a stunning blow under the left
ear. “ Where’s yer mate ?” he was asked. He said he
hadn’t got a mate, which earned him another on the side
of the head, and a demand for the mate’s present
address. After this had proceeded for about 25 minutes,
to the horror and agony of the watch-owner, the
assaulted one broke down, and mentioned a street and
number in Surry Hills. There the police proceeded with
despatch, and found the mate and watch in bed together.
Subsequently, one of the parties got two years and the
other five. No mention was made at the trial of the
Force’s resolute and astute method of eliciting their
guilt.
Some Maori-
lunders wlio have
never done a stroke
for their country in
their lives, have a
chance to do one
now. At Hamilton
the undertakery
business is in a state
of violent commo-
tion, and Private
Enterprise is claw-
ing its brother and
trying to find his
vitals. Consequent-
ly, when the Hospi-
tal Board called for
the annual tenders
for planting, one
fiim offered to do
adults for Is. and
children half-price ;
another offered to
do them for noth-
ing at all, all round ;
while a third offered
to give the hospital
a bonus of £2 per
funeral. The Board
t bought over it
prayerfully, an d
wondered whether
it was quite the
right thing to make
a profit out of its
corpses ; but all the
time there was no
doubt about the re-
sult, and the man
who offered the
bonus got the job.
Hamilton will now
therefore presum-
ably sack its Hos-
pital doctor if he
can’t provide 11
corpses a month ; in
fact, it might even
encourage the
gentleman in the
good work by offer-
ing to give him 25
per cent, of the
net profits on any-
thing over 13 corpses a month.
* # # *
“ Billy B.” : I sit and think of all tho
cash that I have wasted buying beers and other
kinds of liquid trash for more than fifty blessed
years ; but do I start and kick the cat, and suffer
much remorse and pain, and sign the pledge?
Not on your hat! I’d like to waste it all again.
And when I ponder on the girls that I have loved
and never won (Oh, faithless lips and treach’rous
curls !) do I rise up and cuss, or shun the female
race ? No earthly chance ! I do not rant, or
rage, or roar ; but gaily grab my hat and prance
around the town to look for more. At frequent
times 1 spend an hour reflecting on the debts 1
owe. Placed one on each they’d build a tower to
reach the clouds. Do 1 go slow? No hope in
life ! I make a bound, and, in a way of speaking,
mount the Bird of Hope and tear around to open
up a new account.
Maori justice, as administered by the
“committees,” is a fearful and wonderful thing.
At Thames lately the
conjugal ties between a
middle-aged male and a
17-year-old wahine
having been duly rivet-
ed, an interval of do-
mestic felicity ensued,
after which Henare
hazarded a brief jour-
ney. In his absence a
youthful admirer of the
lady took up the run-
ning. Young Lochin-
var was warned off the
kumera patch; but,
lover-like, he disre-
garded the advice, and
an appeal was, there-
fore, made to the Maori
“committee.” This as-
tute body held that, as
the damsel had enter-
tained Locliin var at tea
in her whare, an error of
judgment hid been committed by both parties.
And the judgment of the "court” was that the
absent benedict be fined 50s. "That’ll teach
him to stay home,” sa jd the "committee” in
explanation.
* * * *
Australian mariners are shaking their
, .
heads over another lughly-probaLle disaster on
. , . Ar-
these coasts. Ihe Danish barque Princesse Mane
is now 100 days out from bydney Heads to Streaky
Bay, South Aus., and not a word about her has
been heard since March 2, when she was spoken
h y the Loch Garry off the Victorian coast. I here
ems bu * o,,e ° h ' UlC « al >? tllat ,S , tllat f the
1 rincess Mane misunderstood the orders she £ot as
she was beating about off Sydney Heads. Some
rears ago a British ship received signals from the
.s iime place to go to Chili. She turned up ill
(j hina having misunderstood the instructions;
, e . ° t i \ ..... ....a
! inci . lf the same sort of accident ha.Mi t happened
m this ease, the chances are that Davey Jones has
her now in his locker.
NEWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Sartorial cunning is now pushing out further, and lias
taken severely in hand that admittedly inartistic but
comfortable g-arment, the sac coat. The cutter ap-
proached it warily, lengthening it by degrees, until he
liad given it quite an additional 12 inches. Then he
stopped, and, taking it in the rear, slit the back, which
suggested embryo tails. So far the old sac has received
a fair knock-out; bu the evolution of its successor is not
yet complete.— Argus editorial (6/5/’10).
Have you noticed ?—Poor old Granny is no longer taking
any !
She is sitting in her arm-chair with her ancient feet
a-freeze ;
She is not inclined to bluster since her last almighty
buster,
Since the blowing-out of Alfred by the wild Australian
breeze.
And the news she lately offers
Is a joy to simple scoffers —
“ T ley are wearing sacs in Lunnon hanging right down
to the knees ! ”
In her corner gran’ma’s sitting, occupied with easy knit-
ting ;
She is sitting there, unhappy, through the long,
despairing day ;
With her shrieks and foolish tattle she has failed her foes
to rattle,
And she babbles now of nothing in a discontented bray.
On the things that do not matter
She pursues a plaintive chatter—
“ They are wearing clothes in Lunnon in a Rather
Different way ! ”
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


No! No! No! No!
This word is used four times by Prof.
W. Hodgson Ellis, Official Analyst to the
Canadian Government, in reporting the
result of his analyses of Sunlight Soap.
“No unsaponified fat ” ; that means no
waste.
“No free alkali” ; that means no damage
to clothes or hands.
“No loading mixture ”; that means every
atom is pure soap.
—“ N o adulteration whatever ” ; that fneans
pure ingredients.
Try Sunlight Soap, and you will see
Prof. Ellis is right. He should know.
gd
A SPECIAL RUG AT
A LOW PRICE.
A really fine Rug at a low price. It is of Scotch Wool,
with one side of a check design, while the other side is
of a different pattern, in Browns, Greens, Greys, etc.
It is a heavy Rug, capable of giving great warmth, and is
full size.
Our business as Men’s Wear Specialists exclusively enables
us to offer this well-designed Rug at the low price of
16/6 each.
Postage I/- extra.
Inter-State, 1/6.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
“ Men's
Outfitters,"
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The undergraduates of Sydney University
are to be barred from the Town Hall next Com-
memoration. Last month one of them fired a
“ throwdown ” at the bewildered old Chancellor
while he was havering uncertainly through his
address. It exploded and ruined the old gentle-
man’s nerves and shirt-front. Also, the insensate
row the rest of these misguided lads kicked
up prevented him from making a solitary
one of bis remarks heard. The Undergraduates’
Association hasn’t apologised for the outrage; and
so at the last of the monthly Senate meetings a
resolution was come to, and next Commem. should
be conducted with a certain amount of decency.
It will be an improvement from several view-
points. Thus, although it is contended that
Commem. is not the Students’ Day, all the
galleries in the Town Hall have been reserved for
the undergrads, while the graduates—a tried and
sober crowd —have had to fight for seats or remain
outside.
•# *
“ W.T.” : Let “J.S.” (B. 5/5/10) and
everyone interested in the welfare of travellers by
sea, arise and smite hard the trombone or other
handy utensil in praise of Captain Simpson, of
the Pericles, for keeping himself and crew up to
the knocker in boat-drill. But wouldn’t it also be
as well to remember that the 400 people were
saved with boats “loaded to sinking point”?
According to newspaper reports there was
an insufficient number of boats available
four miles’ journey in a “smooth” sea without
grave risk of being swamped. What would be
the odds about such overloaded boats reaching:
safety in a “ choppy ” sea ? Were the reports all
wrong? And if they were not all wrong, isn’t it
anybody’s business to see that ships that leave
Australia have enough boats to carry all on board
without being so loaded that even in a smooth sea
they are in danger of swamping?
* * * *
A Box Hill (Vic.) bank manager, after a re-
cent early-morning interview with aburglar, could
not call up the police because the telephone at
the local station was in a corner of the building
remote from the quarters in which the Law
slumbered. The burglar is still at large. Also at
large are the O’Oallaghati and other authorities
who were responsible for this beautiful arrange-
ment. The profession of burglars still have hopes
that the Criminals’ Help Department will notify
that police telephones are disconnected between
midnight and 6 a.m. This would greatly simplify
matters, and relieve bank managers and others of
some useless exertion.
HOME BEFORE SUNRISE.
MISS G USHINGTON: “ Seen the cornel ?”
MR. K NOWTIME: “Hr—no; I've — well, I've re-
formed.”
“Gunner”: Apropos guns and military
salutes (B. 19/5/TO). There is a whole battery of
brand-new, latest-pattern field guns in store in
Sydney. They have been lying there for many
long months, because the Defence Department
cannot make up its mind whether to let the per-
manent men have them or raise a new militia unit
to take charge of them. The rumor that they are
not intended to be used until they are obsolete in
pattern and rusted with age is believed to be
unfounded.
HIS HOBBY.
PARSON (to lady of the house): “Has your husband any particular hobby!"
LADY (emphatically): “ Well, he do take his pint of beer."
The Herald, Adelaide’s youthful Labor
daily, got a mild scoop in connection with the
King’s death, its “Independent” cable reaching
the city over half an hour before the other papers’
“Combined” message. The Advertiser, however,
made the usual remarks about its own lowered
flag being the first intimation to the public. Then
the Herald turned itself loose, and made sober,
staid Adelaide rub its eyes as it read things like
—“ Advertiser emulates Ananias,” “ Our jealous
contemporary,” “Reeks with baseness and
innuendo,” and “Faugh! the colossal mendacity
of these Advertiser statements makes one sick
with loathing.”
* * * *
“ Jakay ” hitches up his slacks :
Without wishing to take away any of the honor and
glory that “ J.S.” hands to Captain Simpson (B. 5/5/’10)
for getting the Pericles’ boats away as he did, let me
point out that, if the skipper couldn’t get his passengers
off without any trouble in the smoothest of water and on
the finest of days, the Lord help him and those with him
in bad weather !
The gag that it takes most ships 25 minutes to put out
a boat and fill it with people is all piffle, and “ J. 5.,” with
his 60 years’ experience, should know it. In years gone
by, when sailing-ships’ boats were used as a sort of store-
room, and were hung up on skids that had no gear for
putting them over but the main yard, it might have taken
10 minutes to do the trick ; but with modern steamers,
fitted with the latest boat-lowering appliances, thingsare
different. The Board of Trade, in London, examines all
these appliances every time the ship enters the port, and
there is not much chance of their being allowed to rust.
The ships that “ J.S.” served on must have been very
badly managed. I have done the best part of my life at
sea, and I can honestly say that I never saw 25 minutes
taken to put out a boat. I had the bad luck once to be
wrecked on the Maoriland coast at night and in very bad
weather ; hut it did not take us half that time to put the
boats out. If it had, there would have been a collection
of corpses to man them.
If “J.S.” would care for an illustration of modern
boat-lowering, let him go on hoard any one of the newer
coastal boats at the terminal port. He will then have
his old ideas knocked into something like modern shape.
I have frequently seen 12 boats put into the water out of
their chocks and manned with their crews in under
two minutes, and then the skipper growled, and said it
was slow work. This was on the Bombala, in charge of
Captain Douton.
The days of rusty blocks and jamming ropes are things
of the past; and the sweeping assertion of “ J.S.” that,
“ in the case of 99 vessels out of 100, 25 minutes will be
occupied in launching and loading one boat alone,
assuming that no hitch occurred," is a libel on modern
shipping.
* * * *
“Vectis”: Lillias Gordon f(B. 12/5/’10)
avers that a chloroform-soaked handkerchief is a
sure cure for life’s fever. Here are a few facts,
which can be checked by reference to any work
on anaesthetics. They are submitted solely in the
cause of sacred Truth, and with no desire to be
critical of Lillias Gordon’s excellent work. A
large handkerchief well soaked with chloroform
will be found to become nearly dry in seven
minutes, and quite dry in ten minutes, in a
draughtless room at 60deg. Fahrenheit. Warmer
air would make the time much shorter. Experi-
ments have shown that the air inhaled through
such a handkerchief would contain about 15 per
cent, of chloroform vapor at first. The amount
would steadily lessen as the drug evaporated ; in
five minutes it would probably be down to 2
per cent. Average the figures liberally and
the question comes to this: Would death
result from 10 minutes’ breathing of air con-
taining 10 per cent, of chloroform ? In the
vast majority of eases, no. In the,early days of
chloroform, with the folded-towel method, the
patient probably received quite 10 per cent, of
vapor for an hour or so at a stretch. (Some people
seem to think, by the way, that a patient is sim-
ply “chloroformed” before an operation, and that
once he’s unconscious he gets no more anaesthetic.
It isn’t so. The anaesthetic is inhaled continu-
ously throughout the operation.) Undoubtedly,
death has resulted from very small doses of chloro-
form vapor, as in many cases of “death under
chloroform ” ; but such cases are not examples of
the normal action of the drug.
“ String him up,” the diggers cried,
“ Yes, hang him ! ” said the boss,
“ That’s the plan for every man
Who steals a comrade’s hoss.”
The doomed man coughed, then craved a boon,
“ I know I am a wrong ’un,
Bur fptch some Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure,
For my journey is a long ’un.”*
“Machete”: Squatter Jones, of Queens-
land, who is a rigid Roman and a rabid anti-
Laborite, -had occasion to go out on his run last
Friday. With him went his blackboy. At lunch
time the boss reduced himself to a tin of sardines,
while the darky dined on beef. An offer of the
beef brought a moody refusal from the boss.
“By eripes, boss,” said Binghi, “that plurry
Labor party close-up bin settle you, minet’ink it.”
* * * *
“ The Undersigned ” :
I want to hurl a few half-bricks at the general public
bore as he appears when on his daily travels. On the
ferry he is bad ; hut one can move aw’ay from him. On
the tram he is worse, because one cannot get quit of him
without dropping off and waiting for the next car. But
on the train he is met in all his pestiferous noisomeness.
This is specially so on the Melbourne suburban trains,
with their small cross-compartments. To regular travel-
lers on particular lines, many of these unnatural wretches
are known, and they are shunned as they should be. If seen
on platforms, those who know the power of their jaws move
along to avoid getting into the same conveyance. But woe
to the unhappy travellers if one of the hogs comes
late! Then he has the whole load at his mercy.
These malignant brutes all have loud, assertive voices, all
talk intolerable rot, and most of them live at or near ter-
minal stations, so that those whose miserable fate it is to
be cooped up with them must suffer till the end of their
trip. I have in my mind one animal especially. Hastily
boarding a train at Flinders-street, I discovered to my
horror that he was at my side. Apparently he had no
acquaintance along, but that did not stop him. Before
We were clear of the station he was wide open, his
prey being the man opposite him, a polite chap
who obviously did nor. know the bore. The
p.c. looked up from his paper for a moment to
give a civil response to some unnecessary remark, and we
were lost. The bore fixed him with his eye, got him by
the ear, and .. . He cleared his voice and began to talk
to the other 19 of us (Tait’s compartments for 10 often
carry 30). We all had papers or books in our hands, and
obviously all were trying to read. His troubles ! The
polite man had no need for further civilities. The '303
bore was fairly started and he talked, and he talked, and
he talked—mostly slush of a personal nature. It was
pathetic to see the victims brighten up for a moment as
we approached stations, in the hope that the villain would
get out. But, no ;he stayed on, and gloom would again
fall upon the passengers. It seemed that I alone
knew what was to be the extent of the tragedy: he
was going all the way to Sandringham. After
a few stations were passed, the unhappy wretches
gave way to the resignation of despair. It was useless to
hurry to another compartment; that might have con-
tained two of the genus, for this line carries more of the
beasts than any other on the planet. When I got out at
Brighton he was telling in a loud voice, that the whole
train might have heard, something that his mother
had said to him at the age of 17. I don’t know whether
he or the parent was 17 ; but the talk was bosh, anyway.
If any of these skunks read these scathing lines will they
be so ashamed of themselves that they will reform? I
guess not. They are not built that way. It may be con-
tended that a man has just as much right to talk in a
train as any other man has to read. But when the
“ gentle reader ” outnumbers the loud talker in the pro-
portion of 20 to one, the minority should shut up. lam
angry.
The following par, which has just been
republished in the Yorkshire (Eng.) Evening Post
from the Leeds Intelligencer of 50 years ago,
should provoke some classical slanguage from
many a harassed Australian cocky :
The game shipped by the Lightning for Mr. Thomas
Austin, of Bar won Park, Victoria, was landed on Che
evening of the 6th December at the wharf at Geelong.
One partridge died on the way from Melbourne, but there
were still living 56 partridges, four hares and 26 wild
rabbits.
For some inscrutable reason Providence allowed
“the game” to land; but soon afterwards—no
doubt by way of an afterthought—the Lightning
was burned in Corio Bay.
* * * *
The Law, in the person of Justice Cussen,
of Victoria, is cogitating whether to declare
Flossie a noxious weed or thistle, or to ukase that
the oldest profession in the world, while dis-
respectable, is nevertheless legally practisable.
The matter arose through the persistence of Mary
Jones —Jones being manifestly an alias for Mag-
dalen—who was ordered three months’ gaol last
February for not having sufficient lawful visible
means of support. Mary produced receipts for
furniture she owned and a Savings Bank book
showing considerable deposits ; but the beaks de-
clined to consider these properties as lawful, they
having been earned immorally. Mary appealed ;
and, though Judge Box dismissed the appeal, he
was so doubtful of the law of the matter that he
stated a case, which Justice Cussen is now pon-
dering. Though Magdalen will probably win her
case, it is doubtful if the achievement will give
her much satisfaction. She had to prosecute her
last appeal in person, Costs having swallowed her
Savings Bank book.
* * * *
Weird disclosures continue to be made in
police court cases under the Victorian Factories
Act. At Geelong, the other day, a damsel was
proceeded against by the Department for a
breach of her apprenticeship contract with a
clothes engineer. The hussy had left her kind
master without provocation, and had turned a
deaf ear to his pleadings for her return. Every-
body considered the engineer a much-wronged
man until the defence started to ask a few ques-
tions. Then it appeared that the contract gave
the boss the right to put off the apprentice, with-
out pay, whenever he thought fit; and he
seems to have thought fit whenever business
was slack. The result was that the girl had been
out of work, receiving no wages and prevented
from obtaining other employment, for five months
in four years. Once, when she turned up late
and explained that she had been delayed because
of the illness of her mother, the philanthropist,
remembering that the quality of mercy is not
strained, decreed a week without work or pay.
It was at the end of the week that the ungrateful
minx refused to return to her benevolent em-
ployer, having secured another job in the mean-
time. The Court sighed, and remarked that she
had no right to break her contract; but it also
intimated that it considered the man’s conduct
“ outrageous,” and merely asked the criminal to
pay Is. It is left to the wheels of God to deal
with the tailor.
* * * *
From the S. M. Herald (17/5/’io): —
The [Sydney] coroner returned a verdict of accidental
death regarding Cleburne, who died from injuries re-
ceived in the prize-ring.
The attention of the Government is to be called to the
necessity for regulations to control ring contests.
Melbourne bluestone is to be used.
Really the old paper’s accidents are the most en-
tertaining part of it these days.
* * * *
The lady of Kent (England), who lately
left £25,000 for the maintenance of “a home for
homeless and lonely ladies who have been deserted
by their husbands,” has bequeathed to J. Bull
the makings of something even more cheerless
than the workhouse. An institution that aims at
gathering to its stone bosom as many deserted and
helpless women as it can hold, should, to give it a
chance, be situated in a land of sunshine, where
the deserted ones could get away from one another
when they were tired to death of swapping his-
tories. In dark, damp Fogland they will have to
huddle together indoors in an atmosphere of
sniffles and coughs, with nothing to interrupt the
vicious, metallic clicking of the knitting-needles
save an occasional gloomy confidence as to the last
words he uttered ere he slammed the front door
for the last time and went out into the Un-
known :
(1) “ And he said to me, ‘ Well, that settles it! ’ And
out he went! ”
(2) “ I heard him brushing his hat at four o’clock in
the morning, and I asked him where he was going. ‘My
dear,’ he said, sarcastic to the last, ‘I am going to the
dogs!”’
(3) “ He was a quiet man and never complained about
anything. But one morning, at breakfast, he looked at
me in a queer way, and muttered, ‘Bacon and eggs
again ! My God !’ ”
(4) “ We hadn’t spent a day apart in all our 20 years of
married life ; but every night I used to allow him to go
round the corner to get a glass of beer for himself. That
night he looked in at the door of the sitting-room and
said, ‘My dear, I may be a little longer than usual. Don’t
sit up for me!’ It was just as well I didn’t! He has
now been gone 15 years ! ”
If some kind gentleman of Kent doesn’t now come
along with £25,000 to endow a sort of supplemen-
tary lunatic asylum, with plenty of padded cells,
there will probably be a large increase in the
murder-rate of the county.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
SAME OLD GIRL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
How glad everyone is that the petticoat is once more
an indispensable part of the toilette ! “ Frillies ” are far
too attractive to be dispensed with, and a trim ankle
looks trimmer when framed in lace and furbelows.—
Court Journal (London).
The girls of old were gentle things,
And furbelows their strongest stunt;
They did not practise ju-jit slings,
Or toss the clubs, or golf balls hunt.
But though the customs differ so,
The woman doesn’t change. I note
That, while the muscle’s all the go,
Her strength is still the petticoat.
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” CAS ENCINE and PLANT «'tSfrS
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
“ NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented fl r thur Leplasther & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
EXPLOSIVES FOR. ALL PURPOSES.
Gelignite. Blasting Gelatine. Dynamite.
I m~NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE.'WK
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD. ;
■ Cape Colony.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street,
Sydney (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Maoriland press reports of Premier Ward’s
policy speech make his proposals for the abolition of the
local debt not much clearer than mud. There is one
simple way to get a country rid of debt—(l) Leave off
borrowing ; and (2) pay off what you owe. So far as can
be gathered, the M.L. Treasurer doesn’t propose to do
anything so simple as that. He seems, at the most, to
intend to provide a sinking fund for the extermination
b 'th of existing and future debts. He mentions 75 years
as the sinking-fund period. The only way, of course, in
which the country can get outof debt in that time, with a
75-year sinking fund, is by borrowing- no more at all. But
it is plain that his object in providing for a Sinking fund
is, not that he may get out of debt, but that he may get
into debt more easily. “ The benefit of sinking funds to
the country’s credit would be great,” he says.
Still, as between Ward’s scheme and nothing at
all. The Bulletin prefers Ward’s scheme. To get rid of
existing debt even in 75 years is something gained. That
debt can only be honestly got rid of by putting some
actual surplus of revenue over expenditure into the
hands of sinking fund commissioners. The trouble is
that, when this goes on contemporaneously with bor-
rowing, the sinking fund contribution may be to all
intents and purposes borrowed. If a coun try is borrowing
nothing—.if it is relying wholly and solely upon itself —
then every contribution to the sinking fund must be the
real thing. But if a country is borrowing, then it may
pay out of loans for something that ought to be paid for
with revenue, and pass the amount to the sinking fund—
an indirect way of providing the sinking fund out of
loans. No country can be sure, then, that its sinking
fund is the real thing while it also pursues a borrowing
policy.
Treasurer Ward says he is prepared—and he
believes the Dominion is—to pay a small sinking fund
contribution not only to get rid of existing loans, but
also future loans. In that case, why borrow? Suppos-
ing the State is prepared to pay £lOO,OOO a year towards
the new-loans sinking fund. Why not invest that in works
which will produce 4 percent.? The next year another
£lOO,OOO provided by the people and the interest pro-
vided by the work would give £104,000 for investment.
Then the thing would go on like this: —
Ist.. ..£lOO,OOO 6th... ..£121,665
2nd .. 104,000 7th.. .. 126,532
3rd.. .. 108,160 Bth.. .. 131,593
4th.. .. 112,486 9t.h.. .. 136,857
sth.. .. 116,985 10th.. .. 142,331
Thereafter the figures would rush along at a breathless
rate. In 50 years, if the Dominion puts up only £200,000
a year, and invests it in works producing 4 per cent.,
and invests the interest-earnings also in the same
kind of works, it will have £30,500,000 worth
of works absolutely free from debt. And of that
£30,500,000 it will have put up in the shape of annual
instalments only £10,000,000. By putting up £200,000
a year and investing it in works returning 4 per cent,
it can have £284,662 to spend in 10 years. It can have
£421,368 to spend in 20 years. It can have £1,366,665 to
spend in 50 years. No borrowing policy will give that
result. The vast wealth of the Rothscliildren has been
made in the way described. They lent, and they lent the
interest, and they went on lending. They got fabulously
rich ; but theircustomers are still horrowingfrom them, if
Maoriland will lend itself, say, £200,000 a year, and invest
it well, it can make a Rothschild of its Public Works
Department. Which is a good deal better than pursuing
the old policy and making theforeign Rothschild agreater
Colossus that he is to-day.
* * * *
The Maoriland Government Life Insurance
Department :
Added
Claims Provided to Iri-
an d Sur- Ex- against De-surance
Dec., Revenue, renders, penses. preciation. Fund.
1898 .. £410,148 £210,245 £58,825 £4,650 £136,428
1899 .. 421,569 211,383 59,639 14,400 136,147
1900 .. 423,700 219,993 61,431 142,276
1901 .. 460,753 256,100 59,194 145,459
1902 .. 451,348 271,268 59,895 22,783 97,402
1903 .. 463.380 269,413 64,723 129,244
1904 .. 480,716 266,704 60,490 153,522
1905 .. 490,924 263,148 63,829 6,953 156,994
1906 .. 507,070 270,220 67,828 169,022
1907 .. 526,712 304,230 66,670 155,812
1908 .. 534,440 328,763 68,403 20,000 117,274
1909 .. 546,566 333,990 72,120 140,456
This office, the one State life-assurance business in Aus-
tralasia, confines itself to Maoriland, and works on
ordinary life-assurance society lines. That is to say, it
goes out into the high ways and byways and compels the
dilatory' insurer to come in. Of course, that means
money. You can’t go out by r prox.y into the high-
ways and by'Ways without paying- commission; and,
with the representatives of a dozen other offices also
drumming in the same streets, the commission is liable to
be high. It really is a question whether the office
wouldn’t do a great deal better if it didn’t go out at all,
but merely invited the insurer to come in. The “old
Equitable,” which has given such splendid bonus results
in England, works on those lines ; and the saving in com-
mission, followed by good bonus results, might attract
more business than the agents are able to bring in. It is
mainly a question whether poor bonuses plus agents can
bring in as much business as good bonuses with-
out agents. If the public has been educated
up to the advantages of insurance there is no question
as to which system should get the business. The man
who knoivs that he wants insurance will, of course, go
where he can get it at practically cost price. The man
who doesn’t know that he wants it, but has to be per-
suaded into taking it, must, on the other hand, be pre-
pared to pay the wages of the persuader. There are,
liowever, so many people who know that insurance is
good, and who don’t have to be persuaded to take it,
that it seems quite time the Governments offered them
the chance of getting it without loading them with
agents’ commission.
The Maoriland Department is not making very
rapid progress under the old, ordinary', competitive con-
ditions. For one thing, its figures are not of the eye-
arresting, colossal sort, because it confines itself to its’
own country, where the field is limited. For another
thing, its rates of premiums are very low, which is one
reason why' its bonuses are not very high ; and the pub-
lic, or a big section of the public, takes more notice of
bonuses than of premiums. It seems to be, therefore,
well worth considering whether the time has not come
when, if it does not turn itself wholly into a non-commis-
sion office, it ought to establish a non-commission
branch. It need not hide its light under a bushel or
any other utensil. In fact, it could advertise just
about as hard as it advertises now. But it would
be able to advertise —“Come to us and take in bonuses
the tens of thousands which the other people spend in
commissions.” Certainly the agents are not likely to be
in love with any' such scheme. The best of them would,
however, easily place themselves elsewhere. The worst'
of them ought to be doing something else. And it isn’t
likely that any of them would be harshly treated, anyway
On the basis of total income, the expense rate
shows a further slight increase over that for last year:—
Expenses in Proportion to Total Income.
1900 ..£l4 10 0 per cent. I 1905 ..£l3 0 Onercent.
1901 .. 12 16 11 ~ 1906 .. 13 7 6 ~
1902 .. 13 5 5 ~ | 1907 .. 12 13 2 ~
1903 .. 13 19 4 ~ 1908 .. 12 16 0 ~
1904 .. 12 11 8 ~ I 1909 .. 13 3 10 „
The expenses of the triennial valuation have been
heavier than they were in 1908 ; and that accounts for
some of the extra cost. For the rest, Maoriland’s boom
has been on the wane ; and it has therefore been harder,
no doubt, to get business. As a matter of depressing
fact, the cost of getting new business is greater
than one might judge from the general expense
rate shown above. That is another way of say-
ing that the new business in proportion to old
business is small. Allowing 7 per cent, to cover old
or renewal business, and 3 per cent, for annuity and
single-premium business, and throwing the balance of
the expenses on to the new business, the cost of the
latter w'ould be no less than 224 per cent, of the year’s
premiums. Admittedly, this is an arbitrary division of
costs ; every division must, in fact, be so. But the un-
pleasant fact is that, proceeding on exactly the same arbit-
rary lines, there are two or three Australian offices doing
business in Maoriland whose new-businessrate works outat
considerably under 100 per cent. It is pretty clear that the
office makes no effective appeal to the people on the
ground of State ownership. Which pushes forward the
question whether it couldn’t make a more effective
appeal if it offered State ownership plus cost-price insur-
ance.
The lapse rate is far too high. Of 2491 policies
which came to an end last year no less 1033 went out of
existence in that most unsatisfactory' way. That means
over 41 per cent, of the total. Actuary Teece’s report on
the A.M.P. the other day showed 2213 lapses in a total of
8892, or slightly under 25 per cent, for that society. It is
highly probable that the fact that the Maoriland Depart-
ment has no branches outside the Dominion explains
many lapses. A man with a comparatively new policy
goes away, and, rather than send money from Australia
or elsewhere, lets the thing slide. When the Common-
wealth Insurance Department comes along—and notwith-
standingtherecentlnsurance Commission’s insufficiently-
considered report, it is coming—there should be reci-
procity between the two offices.
With Maoriland’a wonderfully good death rate,
and with the high interest earnings, the ner. cost of
insurance with the Department would be remarkably low
if only the expense rate could be brought down. Cer-
tainly the bonuses will always be affected by the low rate
of premiums charged. But the net cost is the thing to
watch —premiums, that is, less bonuses. As for interest
earnings, the record is one of the best. For some two
years past the averages have been as follows :
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1902 ..£4 7 5 percent. 1906 ..£4 8 5 per cent.
1903 .. 4 6 11 ~ 1907 .. 4 8 10 „
1904 .. 4 6 10 „ 1908 .. 4 10 9
1905 .. 4 8 11 „ 1909 .. 4 11 1 „
The only fly in that pot of ointment is the fact that so
large a proportion of the funds is in mortgages, .yvhich
are shrinkable things. Of the total assets no less than
58 per cent, are in this class of security. The possible,
not to say probable losses, are to some extent provided
for by an investment fluctuation reserve, which now
amounts to £83,663. This is, of course, mainly, if not
entirely, provided out of the earnings ; and when"£2o.ooo
is written off earnings in one year, it has the same effect
as if the interest were cut down by about J per cent.
* * * *
The Maoriland Government Accident In-
surance Department l
Carried to To
Reserve General Total
Gross Gross for Unex- Re- Re-
Income. Profit, pired Risks, serves. serves
1901 ..£11,897. £4096 £3780 £316 £4 096
1902 .. 14,171 931 240 691 5,027
1903 .. 24,449 4758 4510 248 9785
1904 .. 24,188 5418 978 4440 15’203
1905 .. 24,876 6572 80 6492 21 775
1906 .. 21,929 1604 1604 23’ 379
1907 .. 22,835 4901 4901 28’280
1908 .. 22,688 4094 4094 32 374
1909 .. 28,515 8528 2264 9598 40^902
The total reserves are made up this way :—General re-
serve fund, £21,785 ; investment fluctuation, £1000; for
unearned premiums (which are not the best sort of re-
serve), £11,852; and a general accident fund (£6265),
which last has been drawn upon to the extent of £3334
during the year. Progress has been much more consider-
able during the past year ; and the business continues
very profitable. The office started with State backing ;
but it now owes no man anything—it has provided all its
own capital. In other words, its reserves are its capital;
they are invested in mortgages. From the start every
£lOO of gross income has been out up as follows :
Claims. Expenses. Reserves.
1901 .. £2O 8 2 p.c. £45 3 4 p.c. £34 8 6pc
1902 ... 51 19 3 „ 41 9 4 „ 6 11 5
1903 .. 54 2 3 „ 26 8 6 „ 19 9 3 ”
1904 .. 50 1 3 „ 27 11 3 ~ 22 7 6 ”
1905 .. 45 3 10 ~ 28 7 9 „ 26 8 5
1906 .. 62 11 4 „ 30 2 3 „ 7 6 5 ”
1907 .. 49 8 8 ~ 29 2 1 „ 21 9 3 ” .
1908 .. 5211 4 „ 29 710 „ 18 010 ”
1909 ~ 44 11 0 „ 25 3 7 „ 29 18 5 ”
So the increase in premiums in the past year has not been
accompanied by a proportionate increase in either claims
or expenses; though as to the former it has to be remem-
bered that the increased risks have not yet expired.
The general results have been most satisfactory; and the
office has more than justified itself. It is inevitable that,
sooner or later, with the reserves increasing so solidly’
there will be a readjustment of premiums; and competing
offices will have to be prepared for it. It will be inadvis-
able to do anything of the sort, perhaps, till the true
reserve fund reaches £50,000, and even then the fund
ought to be kept up to, say, 150 per cent, of the year’s
premiums. But if things go on as at present, insurers
certainly have the right to look forward to cheaper
accident insurance in Maoriland in the not very distant
future. And it is very doqbtful if that would have hap-
pened if the State had not stepped into the business.
* * * *
The London Bank of Australia :
Dividends.
Pref. Ord. Carried to
Dec., Profits. s£p.c. 2J p.c. Reserves. Deficit.
1899.. £15,056 £9,456 £5,600 £13,468
1900.. 14,816 9,456 5,360 8,108
Reserves.
1901.. 23,354 9,456 13,898 5 790
1902.. 13,690 9,456 4,234 10 024
1903.. 22,956 9,456 £9,207 4,293 14,317
From
Reserves.
1904.. 15,893 9,456 9,192 2,755 11,562
Added to
Reserves.
1905.. 23,194 9,456 9,193 4,545 16,107
1906.. 36,454 9,456 9,197 17,801 33,908
3 2 p.c.
1907.. 34,951 9,456 12,876 12,619 46,527
4 p.c.
1905.. 34,212 9,456 14,716 10,040 56,567
5 p.c.
1909.. 42,971 9,456 18,402 15,113 71,680
After the big trouble, this bank made a worse bargain
with it-depositors than any other Australian institution.
Its management, was English ; the head office was in
London, as it is now. To be quite frank about it, J.
Bull’s financial morals—at that time, at any rate—were
not so elastic as the Australian article. J. Bull still had
an idea that it was a pretty bad thing to bang the door
of a bank in a depositor’s face ; the Australian idea was
that it wasn’t much to worry about. Strictly, of
course, while there is a single shot in the
shareholders’ locker, the depositors ought not to
lose a ha’penny; and that was recognised much
more clearly' in Bull’s country than in temporarily
demoralised Australia. While, therefore, an Australian
bank made an arrangement to pay 3 per cent, to its de-
positors (which amount, by the way, it is still paying),
and while it was quite proud of the “good bargain ” it
made with them, this London bank gave its depositors
their choice of taking 5£ per cent, cumulative preference
shares or 4J per cent, deposit receipts. No doubt it was
too heroic ; and the struggle to keep things going has
been pretty severe at times. In fact, when things were
bad later on, authority was got to withhold one-third of
the depositors’ interest. However, the whole 4j per
cent, has been paid, and there is no accumulation
of unpaid dividend either. The bank deserves a
great deal of credit—first, for the spirit in which
depositors were met ; and, second, for the reso-
lute way in which the onerous conditions have been
carried out. There is a danger in such circumstances,
when too much is demanded of a bank, that for the sake
of immediate profit it will take business which on ac-
count of its perils had best be left alone. There was a
time when the London was suspected of that policy.
Fortunately things have been going the right way in
Australia, and the bank no doubt thus escaped the
heavy losses which it would probably have made if things
had turned the other way. Now, no doubt, the manage-
ment doesn’t feel itself propelled so strongly towards the
same risks, for it has more reserves to help it, more of
the cheaper new-deposit money, and less of the dear old-
deposit money. Not, certainly, that those old-deposits
have latterly been cleared off very fast. This table shows
the progress:—
Old 4J Per
Cent. Deposits Paid Off Interest Paid
Outstanding. During Year. During Year.
1899 .. £2,232,675 £956,423 £115,640
1900 .. 1,911,964 320,711 91,335
1901 .. 1,591,092 320,872 71,611
1902 .. 1,589,271 1,821 71,516
1903 .. 1,586,865 2,406 71,457
1904 .. 1,586,366 499 71,365
1905 .. 1,258,090 328,276 62,587
1906 .. 942,227 315,863 47,098
1907 .. 939,220 3,007 42,311
1908 .. 935,523 3,697 42,117
1909 .. 925,606 9,917 41,769
From this it looks as though the bank has found even
4£ per cent, money profitable during the last few years.
Still, it will be a very good thing when the last of it has
to go in 1917. By that time the bank, given good seasons
in Australia, should be in a position to command the re-
newal of a good deal of the money on much easier terms.
The first table shows how greatly the profits
have varied from year to year. That feature is explained
chiefly by the large payments which have to be made on
account of the old deposits, at a rate of interest which
hasn’t varied no matter whether money has been cheap
or dear. For the same reason, of course, profits calcu-
lated on the basis of total capital and reserves have also
been very erratic :
1904.. £2 16 7 per cent. I 1907 ..£6 0 2 per cent.
1905 .. 4 211 ~ 1908 .. 515 2
1906 ..6 9 3 ~ | 1909 .. 7 2 2
The chief items in the present accounts compare with
those of 12 months ago as follows ;
1908. 1909.
Notes in circulation.. £131,309 £131,761 Inc. £452
Bills, etc 720,327 641,927 Dec. 78,400
Deposits .. .. 3,392,486 3,636,917 Inc. 244,431
Liquid assets .. .. 1,586,691 1,945,229 Inc. 358,538
Advances .. 3,838,130 3,653,713 Dec. 184,417
Premises .. .. 383,584 384,959 Inc. 1,375
That shows a pretiy larg-e increase in deposits and a
pretty large decrease in advances ; and the two together
mean a large increase in liquid assets. Still this isn’t all
idle money; some of it is at work on remittance
business and some more of it is earning its keep
on short call in London. Further, a reduction of
advances isn’t something to worry over in this
bank. Ten years ago “ bills discounted, advances,
and other assets of the bank” totalled £4,272,381 ;
the corresponding item, as shown above, is now
£3,653,713. The fact is that this bank has for many years
been to a great extent a realisation co. ; it was left with
a lot of old boom-time assets on its hands, and the pros-
perous conditions of the last few years have no doubt
allowed it to unload large quantities of these possessions.
Therefore, though new business may have come in satis-
factorily, the equally satisfactory realisation of oldassets
has spoiled the surface appearance of the “advances”
line in the balance-sheet. But under the surface it is
pretty certain that there has been a steady improvement.
* * * *
The Melbourne Trust, Ltd., formed in 1903,
to take over what was left of the wrecks of the City of
Melbourne Bank, the Federal Bank of Australia, and the
English and Australian Mortgage Bank :
Deficit
(Preliminary
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Expenses).
1903 .. £3,116
Dec., ' Reserves.
1904 .. £4,899 Nil 1,783
1905 .. 4,610 Nil 6,393
1906 .. 9,925 41 per cent. = £11,389 4,929
1907 .. 15,965 6 „ „ 17,083 3,811
1908 .. 23,616 8 „ „ 22,777 4,650
Accumulated profits on sales, £148,709 153,359
1909 .. 25,183 20 per cent. = 56,944 121,598
When the three boom banks mentioned above were on
their deathbed, they passed their affairs over to the Mel-
bourne Assets Co., the Federal Assets Co., and the Eng-
lish and Australian Assets Co. But, after a few years,
unification was decided upon, in order to secure economy
and efficiency ; and thus the Melbourne Trust, Ltd., was
formed. The new concern issued 1,366,666 shares of 4s.
each and £392,485 worth of debentures; besides,
two of the old assets cos* were permitted to
distribute some cash. To arrive at the proper
distribution of the debentures and shares, a valuation on
a common basis was made of all assets as at August, 1899.
One of the terms of the amalgamation was that the de-
bentures should he got rid of as properties were sold, and
that no surpluses derived from these sales should be paid
away in divs. until the last of the debentures had gone.
Things began to improve very soon after 1899. Federa-
tion, which arrived in the next year, suited Melbourne
best in the beginning; for Victoria, having had Protec-
tion for many years, had its industries more or less
established and waiting for inter-State Freetrade. That
gave Melbourne a fillip ; and the subsequent good seasons
and high prices carried the movement on. Therefore,
when properties were got rid of, surpluses wvre the usual
thing with the Melbourne Trust, Ltd. Twelve months
ago the accumulation amounted to £97,330. The deben-
tures carried 4 per cent. ; and especially in the early days
of the Trust’s business, these were repurchasable at a
discount, which, in the aggregate, amounted to another
£3936. As properties were sold debentures were bought
up ; and the following progress was made in that respect:
Profit on
Redeemed Purchase Profit on
Debentures During of De- Property
Outstanding. Year. bentures. Bold.
Oct., 1903 .. £392,485
Dec., 1904.. 304,514 £87,971 £2107 £12,175
Dec., 1905.. 262,383 42,131 858 26,817
Dec., 1906 .. 189,579 72,804 648 31,274
Dec., 1907.. 150.693 38,886 213 15,545
Dec., 1908.. 89,241 61,452 110 11,519
Dec., 1909.. Nil 89,241 7 47,435
So all the debentures are gone ; and now the shareholders
can do what they like with the surpluses derived from
sales, hitherto treated as a realisation rsserve account.
The directors—a London Board—a few months
ago proposed a distribution of assets, along with the re-
moval of certain restrictions as to new business. The
idea was not merely to cut up the actually realised
surplus, but also the expected surplus from the unsold
assets. The total estimated at the time was £255,239,
of which it was proposed to divide £239,167, partly
in cash and partly in 4 per cent, debentures.
The shareholders did not unanimously fall upon
the neck of the proposals and kiss them ; so all
that has so far been done has been to pay the usual 8 per
cent, div., and cut another 12 percent, by way' of bonus
out of the reserves, making the 20 per cent, shown in the
div. column above. There was no objection at all to a
division of cash ; the objection was to the issue of 4 per
cent, debentures, accompanied by the pursuit of new
business. “ No,” said the objectors in effect, “what you
want us to do is to leave about £200,000 in the business at
4 per cent. ; and it isn’t good enough.” The directors are
now chewing over a modified scheme.
The properties remaining in the co.’s hands
stand in the books at £267,928; that is, according to the
1899 valuation. But according to a valuation made
in 1906 they are worth about £366,500. Hence the “ ex-
pected surplus,” against which, as mentioned above, the
directors proposed to issue debentures. Besides these
properties, which include stations and a Fiji sugar planta-
tion, the co. has £113,333 of outstanding purchasers’
balances ; and on Dec. 31 there was £79,803 in liquid
assets, mostly cash. The dividend and bonus won’t,
therefore, run the co. into an overdraft. Yet after these
payments have been made there will not be more than
about £23,000 liquid— phis, of course, anything
further that has been got in during this cur-
rent year. If the shareholders are not content
to take debentures, they cannot, therefore, expect to get
very much in the way of an immediate cash distribution.
A further amalgamation is now in sight. It always has
been the idea that sooner or later the Mercantile Bank
Assets Co. should come into the same stable as the other
three wrecks; and as the M. B. Assets Co. has now also
got rid of its debentures the way has been cleared for
more unification. It will, of course, mean a revaluation
of the assets of both concerns in order to arrange an
equitable division of the stock in the joint housekeeping
concern.
* * * *
The Illawarra and South Coast Steam
Navigation Co. (N.S.W.):—
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Sept., 1903.. £2319 Bfp.C. = £2490 £26,820
Mar., 1904.. 2692 8J ~ „ 2490 £202 27,022
Sept., 1904. 2192 8J ~ „ 2490 26,724
Profit made on sale of wharf .. 21,061 47,775
Assets written down, £15,377 .. .. 32,398
£24,898 of reserves transferred to capital 7,600
Mar., 1905.. 3562 7 p.e.= 2614 948 8,448
Sept., 1905.. 2086 7 „ ~ 2614 7,920
Mar., 1906.. 3062 7 ~ ~ 2614 448 8,368
Sept., 1906.. 3079 7 „ „ 2625 454 8,822
Mar., 1907.. 3348 7 „ ~ 2625 723 9,545
Sept., 1907.. 2628 7 ~ ~ 2625 3 9,548
Mar., 1908.. 2466 7 ~ ~ 2625 9,389
Loss.
Sept., 1908.. 1507 Nil 7,882
Profit.
Mar., 1909.. 3456 7 p.c. = 2625 831 8,713
Sept., 1909.. 2335 7 ~ „ 2625 8,423
Mar., 1910., 2636 7 ~ ~ 2625 11 8,434
Almost everything depends upon how much revenue a
shipping co. writes off to cover depreciation. If it writes
off too little it makes its profit look large ; but the time
then comes when the co. finds itself with worn-out or
obsolete ships, and nothing put by to buy others with.
On the other hand, it may write off too much. In that
case the immediate effect is to make the profits look
over-modest; but the ultimate effect is the accumulation
of a great quantity of probably revenue-producing assets
which don’t appear in the balance-sheet at all; and the
longer this goes on the more difficult it becomes to stuff
the profits away, till at last the co., provided it doesn’t
meet with any disaster, eases the strain by issuing bonus
shares or practising some other stock-watering dodge.
It isn’t, therefore, much use looking at a shipping co.’sac-
counts for one year, oreven two or three years. It is neces-
sary to consider them over a long- run of years ; and even
then the results are only moderately certain. According
to the directors of this co., the profits have been just
enough to pay the 7 per cent. div. In the past half-yegr
there was £ll to put by ; in the previous half-year £290
had to be bitten out of the reserves. As the directors
have frequently gone to the reserves in this way, it is
hardly likely that they are knowingly stuffing away profits.
They may no doubt be making a very liberal allowance
for depreciation; yet there is no proof of it. On the
contrary, a few years ago, when they saw the chance,
they were evidently glad to be able to write off a special
£15,377, which was a pretty good sign that the regular
writing-down had not been emphatic enough. A good
deal of money has been put into ship property in the last
few years ; in 1907 the item was down to £40,376, and it
is now up to £95,839, which has meant a considerable
increase in liabilities (these total £19,426). In conse-
quence of this change in policy, it may be quite wrong to
judge the future by the past. Results of an examination
of this co.’s accounts are therefore mainly negative. On
the co.’s long record of even dividends, “ Illawarras’’look
an unexciting investment, into which one might almost
venture to put the widow’s mite ; but for the reasons
mentioned above the future may be either a good deal
better or rather worse than the past.
* * * *
Block 14, Broken Hill, in its last half-year,
made a profit of £14,539, which it cut up as follows :
10 per cent, on pref. shares .. .. £1,500
Written off (depreciation) 3,347
To reserves 9,692
Total £14,539
Its surplus of liquid assets over liabilities is now £70,324;
and almost the whole of this is cash. That reads very
nice—a great deal too nice. Block 14 mine is just about
done for, as far as one can see, and the directors know it.
All the profit it has made lately has been from the
gouging out of overlooked bodies of carbonates—a free
smelting ore which other cos. simply rush. It doesn’t
know ho w much of this stuff it has left; but it can’t be very
much, because carbonates are essentially a surface ore.
As for sulphides, of which the B. H. lode is composed at
the deeper levels, the co. has no luck at all. The small
quantity it has in reserve it is saving up. till the metal-
market improves, just like its big neighbor on the south.
Meantime it is looking around for other mines, and the
Murex people are making experiments with the tailings
dumps in the hope of getting out the zinc profitably.
The dumps, however, are not of high quality—they are
not in the same class, for instance, as those of Block 10.
Once or twice before “Fourteen” has been in great
trouble, and it has had to raise the wind at a serious
sacrifice. To get some pref. capital it once had to offer
not only 10 per cent, interest, but full participation in all
dividends. That explains the cut into the half-year’s
profits shown above, though no dividend in the ordinary
way has been declared. And the past tough financial
battles explain why the co. is hanging on so hard to the
profits it made during the burst of big metal prices a few
years ago.
* * * *
The Broken Hill Junction North directors
must be feeling sorry now they paid that dividend. For
weeks past the mill has been on the frivol, treating
small tonnages and making smaller profits. When is
that mill going to run steadily, week in and week out,
as promised by the directors away somewhere in the hazy
past? Another fear is now raising goos<flesh on the
shareholders. What has become of the lode at the 1300 ft.
level? There used to be a yarn about the lode slipping
out of the North mine into the Junction North ; but not
quite so much is heard about that now. The Junction
North knocked the bottom out of its own argument by
sinking a winze from the 1100 ft. level which holed
into the footwall before getting anywhere near
the 1300 ft. It was so unexpected, too. The explanation
is that the lode has gone away west with a very
flat underlay. But if, just below the 1100 ft. level, the
footwall is so far in from the North’s boundary, what is
the North doing with 40ft. of ore, and a nearly perpen-
dicular footwall, at the 1100 ft. ?
* * * *
On the strength of various glowing accounts of the
fine ore body that had been passed through in the shaft of
the B. H. South Extended, the shares doubled theirmarket
value, and became for a time the livest thing in Broken
Hill stock. The faithful, who had hearkened unto the
prophetic words of the “ bull,” waited expectantly for the
fulfilment of the promise that the big lode was to be
crosscut when the shaft had been sunk to 1000 ft. They
are still waiting. Meantime shares have slumped down.
Glowing reports in mining are all very well, but what
they promise must be realised within a reasonable time, or
people begin to sniff. The crosscut, for which acontract
has been let, is to be put out eastward to prove some ore
sampled by the diamond drill, and which will probably
prove to be the zinciferous lode driven on by the South
Blocks from their Block 5 shaft.


SAMPLE GRINDERS
FOR REDUCING SAMPLES TO
POWDER FOR ASSAYING. V?
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
[2
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Tolwong Mineral Co. (N.S.W.) has found great
difficulty in getting- assavers to agree to the value of
stannite ore; so apparently the foreign ore-buyer
doesn't consider the bait very tempting. On one side of
the gorge Aiere is a body of ore lift, wide, and assavs (no
doubt from picked samples) give 14 per cent, copper and
12 per cent. tin. On the other side of the gorge some of
the stuff assays up to 16 per cent, copper and 13-7 per
cent, tin ; so, all told, it must contain nearly 30 percent,
of metal, besides arsenic, sulphur and other impurities
The directors naturally express satisfaction at those
assays, and the elaborate steam, electric and aerial plants
indicate the faith they have in the value of their refrac-
tory mineral proposition. The Oonah (Zeehan, Tas.) is
held up by Tolwong as an example of what can be done
with stannite ore ; but although the Oonah has been
handling 50 tons a day, and has recently shipped 100 tons
of copper matte to Europe, it is uncertain what the
recoveries of tin are.
* •> * *
Main Ridge Deep Lead, Rockley (N.S.W*), is
showing an improvement in the vicinity of No. 1 north
rise. According to dish prospects the wash is worth
about lodwt. per ton, but it is only a few inches thick.
The official report remarks that prospects, though good
are irregular—which means that the stuff is patchy.’
The best show is at the end of the northern drive from
No. 2 air shaft, which has prospected up to loz. per ton,
with Ift. of wash. But, generally speaking, dish prospects
are horribly deceptive, and it would be much better to
sluice or cradle a few loads at the nearest waterhole
Not far from the ridge a shaft struck wash at 65ft., and
another hole is now down 40ft., with water making freely.
Mount David is also close by, and there the alluvial shaft
made.water s.o quickly that sinking has been suspended.
If the Ridge can turn out 15dwt. dirt, there don’t seem
insurmountable difficulties in the way of getting water to
wash some of it.
* * * *
Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) has to keep the
pump going, and has only recently mastered a burst of
water. The trouble seems to be that seams of drift some-
times occur in between layers of pipeclay. The eastern
drive appears to be crossing a bar. There are probably
bars both up and down the lead, forthev were frequently
met with higher up stream. When the water eases it is
intended to block out some of the wash.
* * * *
When Lobb’s Hole (N.S.W.) has finished its
brief smelting campaign, it will probably be passed over
to the manager, who has made an offer to work it on
tribute. The claim is more suitable for that or for a
small party than for a big co.
* * * *
Another look at the Boulder Perseverance mill
(W.A.) shows it to be well on towards completion, and
the end of August should see this disabled property again
figuring bn the producing list. Costs are expected to be
substantially benefited by the alterations and additions
effected to the plant; but, although the latter is expected
to treat more ore than the old mill did, the increased
tonnage, if any, will probably be offset by a further drop
in the grade. Underground, the mine is looking moder-
ately well; but, seeing that there are over 1,400,000 issued
shares, and an occasional dividend has to be paid to keep
the stock from going to seed, the workings have to be in
fair nick, otherwise the market would soon tumble. Even
now it hasn’t too firm a grip of its perch.
* * * *
Golden Ridge (W. A.) now estimates its re-
serves at 60,000 tons of 48s. ore, which is 2s. less than the
grade given out six months ago. The reduction, how-
ever, was anticipated at the last half-yearly meeting, and
with the'slimes plant in operation it will be met without
any diminution of regular profits. Leastways, the direc-
tors’ report says so. In addition to the reserves and a
substantial cash reserve, the co. has.the following array of
hidden wealth lying loose on the surface : 10,000 tons of
9s. sands,. 20,000 tons of 16s. slimes, and 191 tons of 140 s.
concentrates. The bottom of the mine at 500 ft. hasn’t
shown much so far, but, according to official reports, the
shoot is still some distance away from the present
workings, i
, * * * *
Sous of Gwalia (W.A.) treated 159,057 tons
during 1909 for a return of £259,608. The net profit
amounted to £50,417, and after lumping this sum with
the balance of £6946 brought forward from the previous
year, and deducting £65,000 for dividends and £15,000
placed to reserve, and making a few more small bites,
there remained £6064 or thereabouts to carry forward.
The directors state that during the period under review
some £37,000 was spent in development, with satisfactory
results. On the main lode at the N 6. 16 level a shoot of
ore has been exposed for a length of 227 ft., showing
fair values. Another chuck-in has been the discovery of
what is known as the west lode, and further work on this
body is expected to considerably swell the ore reserves,
which are now officially given as three years and three
months’ supplies, worth 355. per ton. When the year
closed the co. had liquid assets amounting to about 4s! 6d.
per share.
* * * *
Hannan’s Reward (W.A.) has been shut down,
and the manager has gone to Lunnon to see the Board.
Since 1907 the co. has taken £240,000 out of the mine and
paid a 3d. dividend absorbing £1748. The big discrepancy
between these two amounts is explained by the fact that
a very hig tonnage had to be mined and treated to get
the revenue mentioned, otherwise shareholders might
have got a good deal more. Latterly parties of tributors
have been paying their way and keeping the co. in spend-
ing silver on a recovery of a trifle over 2dwt. per ton;
but from all accounts, even this grade of ore isn’t as
plentiful as it was. All that now seems to be left to
hazard upon is, sinking, but a doubt exists in the minds
"f some of the directors as to the advisableness of doing
this, and the manager’s mission is to try to remove that
doubt.
■. * * * *
Ida H. (W.A.) reports that the deep incline
winze has.passed,through 2ft. of ounce ore at 910 ft. This
winze goes down from the No. 5 level, and is used as a
main hauling way below that point. It is a costly
arrangement, owing to the distance from the main shaft
(1300 ft.), but the values in the deeper workings warrant
the extra expenditure, and it is intended to continue
sinking to 1000 ft., when it is probable the winze will be
connected with the surface and used as the main hauling
way for the mine. So far the co. has crushed about
12 i,OOO. .tons for a recovery of nearly' £400,000, out of
which £74,000 has been paid to shareholders. No divi-
dends have, however, been paid since 1906, and, despite
occasional developments like the one mentioned above,
it is not at all certain that the co. will ever pay another.
* * ■* *
Great Fingall (W.A.) has had Dr. McLaren,
the geologist, roaming about underground, and, buoyed
up by his assurance that there is no geological reason
why apother good run of values should not be picked up
in depth, the co. has its eyes fixed on _the bottom work-
ings at No. 17 level, where some fair assays have recently
been obtained. The chief developments in this part of
the mine to date have been as follows North drive :
At,7oft. a crosscut to the hanging wall exposed 155 in. of
ore assaying 27s ; at 110 ft. crosscut No.' 2 proved the
reef to average 28s. over a thickness of 133 in. South
drive : At 58ft. a crosscut laid bare 147 in. of 16s. ore, and
at 98ft. the reef assays 31 s. for 56in. There is a chance,
therefore, of the co. getting a turn-up in deep ground.
* * ‘ . *
Whim Well (W.A.) gives its output for the
quarter ended March 31 as 420 tons of fine copper from
5104 tons smelted ore ; but, as a local paper points out,
this is only a trifle over 8 per cent., whereas noshipments
under 20 per cent, or thereabouts have been talked about.
According to the manager, the ore in hand at the close of
1909 totalled 29,000 tons, averaging 6 per cent., which
sefems to indicate that all the cream has now been
skimmed, and explains the co.’s anxiety, on the top of
paying a dividend, to raise more capital to erect suitable
plant to treat the skim milk.
* * * *
Charters Towers crushed 15,692 tons during
April, two-thirds of it from three big mines that also pay
most of the dividends. The field’s total output for the
month was £64,174. Brilliant Block is anxious to sink
deeper in search of Day Dawn “deeps,” but unfortu-
nately it has struck nearly as big a flow of water as
the Brilliant St. George plumped into at 1870 ft. The
latter co. is in 144,000 shares, only half of which are con-
tributing. Kelly’s, next door, has also 144,000 shares,
only 48,000 of which are contributing. There appear to
be many forfeited shares, too. The constitution of these
concerns, with any amount of expensive prospecting to
do, requires amendment. Brilliant Central (100,000, all
contributing)is more reasonably constituted. This mine
crushed 227 tons for £1135 ; but this lot was gathered
from numerous blocks of stone. The best prospect just
now is in a rise from No. 3 level, where the reef has
shown heavy mineral. No. 10 level from the bottom of
the winze is in a few feet; but the reef doesn’t appear
to be so good as when followed down in the winze.
Brilliant Block, Charters Towers, is preparing
to sink its shaft deeper. It is hopeful that the formation
followed from the Freehold into the Brilliant lease will
improve with depth. Mills’ United is the parent mine of
this eastern section of the Day Dawn, and the improve-
ment shown in Mills’ deep levels, which are deeper than
the Brilliant Block has explored, is some encouragement
to sink. The two leases are about 1200 ft. apart.
Acting on the advice of Chief-Inspector Jack-
son, of the Mines Department, the Queensland Govern-
ment decided some time ago not to purchase the Aider-
shot Smelting Works, near Maryborough, and tenders
were called by a firm of Maryborough auctioneers for the
purchase of the works or any part of them. Since then,
however, the State members for Maryborough have per-
suaded Minister for Mines Appel to re-open the question,
and Chief-Inspector Jackson has been instructed to
submit some more observations. As a matter of fact,
the works are placed in such a position that they
are liable to be flooded ; and that actually happened
twice during the disastrous career of the J. Bull co.
which last ran them.
* * * *
The Great Northern, Herberton (Q.), has a bit
of mining history beneath its poppet legs. It was opened
in ’79, and so reckons itself a pioneer among Australian
lode-tin producers. It certainly brought the tin fever to
the neighborhood, because within four years of the Great
Northern’s birthday, no less than 160 mining shows were
after reef-tin in the same district. Most of them soon
dropped out, and the Great Northern itself turned up its
toes after producing 4000 tons. It remained dead for
about nine years, only occasional tributors picking at it.
In 1902 it was resurrected, and the co. built a milling
plant on the Wild River. Last year it handled 1534 tons
of its own ore for 78 tons metal worth £6614. Then the
water gradually became troublesome, and things were
delayed pending the setting up of pumping machinery.
The yield for April this year gave only 8 tons 9cwt.,
valued at £331; and the year’s output so far has been no
more than £1357.
* * * *
Stannary Hills (Q.) has started prospecting
again. Most of the work will be done on contract. The
best news about tin mines comes from Herberton, where
tributors are getting some rich returns from the Brad-
laugh. A crushing of 50 tons returned 13 tons 17cwt. of
concentrates, and panned out an average of 37 per cent,
tin oxide. The Bradlaugh behaved like this 20 years ago ;
but it is unreliable, like most tin-lode mines.
* * *
The new Mount Emu field continues to attract
some attention at Charters Towers (Q.). Granite Castle
P.C. has put through about five tons for an average of
£9 7s. 6d. per ton. This lot, it is said, was taken from
all parts of the lode. The Proprietary reckons to have a
run of 1320 ft. of lode ; but so far only about 35ft. of sink-
ing has been done. The lode is 18in. wide, so it is worked
out nice and pretty that there are 4000 tons of ore already
proved. Which they are not, by a long way. Beamish
and party have sunk 85ft. on the lode, and a few cvvt.,
sent for a trial, returned 12dwt. gold, 18oz. silver, and loz.
Bdwt. of lead. Marks, the Government Geologist, likes
the prospects for the continuity of the lode, so the local
people report. Nothing is said as to the continuity of
the metals, which is quite as important.
* * * * 1
The Oaks (N.Q.) has now 60 auriferous lode
claims to its credit, employing some 130 men, with an
additional 40 on alluvial, and 30 on the prospecting trail.
The Oaks Rush Co. is putting its shaft down to 200 ft. ;
a,nd that is the most interesting work that the field is
likely to see this side of Christmas. The Wexford, a
three-man claim, has had some good erushings; 25 tons
Of stone lately gave 2300 z. gold without residues. But
the reef is a mere streak of from 4in. to 18in. The field
has now two milling batteries, one of them fitted with
Berdan pans and a Wilfley concentrator, A cyanide plant,
is also under order.
i * * * *
The Adelaide people who were nipped over the
O.K. (Queensland) still show some signs of life. Their
chief grievance—solid enough—is that ore is being pulled
out to be treated at a loss, t,his loss being mainly due to
the smelter plant being unsuitable. C. S. Wesley, who
made a special report for the Adelaide investigation
committee, says that, taking the run for the four
weeks and three days ending February 23, blister
copper cost £7B 2s. 9d. to produce; and that
means a loss of say £2B per ton. Mining, he says,
ran to 21s. 3d. per ton of ore and smelting to 255. 6d.
“ When the furnace was first erected they had 20 to 25
per cent, ore to treat ; but since the ore has been of low
grade it is impossible to make the furnace pay.” Hisideais
that the furnace should be closed down, and nothing done
except development work—which really means prospect-
ing. Practically there are no proved reserves at present
apart from the 1J to 2£ percent, ore in the western lehs and
the kaolin on the dump ; but there are quite good enough
prospects to justify further work on both the original
and the North leases. Six months ago—as soon, in fact,
as the Hirsch lawsuit was settled —the co. ought to have
settled down to the fact that it had to go on the search
for ore ; and it should have saved what ore it had in the
hope of being able to treat it much cheaper later on. If
no more ore had been found the co. would have been no
worse off for waiting; if enough had been found to
justify a bigger furnace, it would have saved money,
through a reduction of costs. It is not too late even
now to adopt this policy.
* * * *
John Mulrooney, of the Nuggety Ajax, Dayles-
ford(Vie.), has taken out £36,546 worth of gold, and
has paid almost exactly half of it in dividends. It is a
feat that does John proud. Curiously, wages took
£lB,OOO, so miners and shareholders have had an
almost equal bite. The miner has had to work,
certainly; but the shareholders have had to drop
in £19,000, of which they have so far only
got back £18,750. Fuel and plant represent another
£6200; and the worker got most of that too. “Oi can
confidintly say the mine nivir looked better,” Mr. Mul-
rooney reports. He has three makes of stone to punch
at over No. 4 level ; but, most important of all, it is whis-
pered that some development is in sight in the north end
to ruffle up the market again. So, long life to Mulrooney !
* * * *
There a yarn that an enterprising solicitor in-
tends to have a shot at a libel action over the story
circulated in Melbourne that some of the bores at the
West Berry Consols, Creswiek, have been salted. The
assertion is that 13£gr. of gold of a splendid sample were
got from a bore, and that shares were snapped by the
early birds of the district at the magnificent price of 2s.
Now that a rise has been put up on the site of the bore,
littleornogoldisthere. So the salting story was hatched.
But everyone knows, or should know, how gold gets
concentrated in the bores. Also if one bore is to make a
mine, the business of managers would be wonderfully
simplified. Creswiek bit off a hunk before the cake was
baked. If it suffers for its greediness, it ought to pine in
silence, and not dribble nasty charges between the
spasms.
* * * *
Gathcart Margaret, Ararat (Vic.), is one of the
[floats that got into smooth water before the Cathcart
wave burst. It has put up six months’ hard graft, and at
a cost of £1458 has got £26 worth of gold. Hence, by the
ordinary rules of arithmetic, there is a shortage of £1432.
This does not daunt the spirit of the Board. It avows
that with “ prompt and punctual assistance, the work of
development at present being carried on will result in
.vour propert.y becoming one of the best on the field."
This is on the strength of £26 worth of gold, helped
by this little slab of reasoning from the mine
manager—“ Have every reason to believe that the wes-
tern run of wash will prove good. The eastern gutter is
the poorest I have ever seen—have washed a machine for
12 grains of gold. Some of the wash is better-looking
than the western run. Gut the western run in two
places ; both worth about loz. per fathom. Shall have a
better idea as regards the value shortly. Am afraid the
payable run is not very wide going north or up the lead.”
First, it is said that the western run “ will prove good ” ;
next, that the “ eastern run is the poorest I have ever
seen ” but some of the wash “is better-looking than the
western.” Gould anything be less convincing? Yet
shareholders are asked to give “prompt and punctual
assistance 1 ” This means calls. What for -!
* * * *
Balfour Prospecting (Tas.) has fluttered out to
show its feathers after six months’ strenuous life. It is
worth while recounting - its experience for the information
of the deluded people whobelieved that Balfour was going
to out-L.vell the North Lyell. No. 1 tunnel lode is solid
q uartz, charged vvi th iron pyrites and a little copper pyrites.
No. 2 lode is solid mineral and quartz, but no copper.
No. 3 lode carries solid veins of iron pyrites and splashes
of galena. No. 4 lode contains “ a lot of mineral and
copper pyrites, splashes of galena and a little covellite.”
The Balfour Pioneer tells pretty well the same story,
only' less of lode, less of mineral, a bit of copper pyrites,
and about the same quantity of heavy water. All of this
work proves what The Bulletin all along contended, that
the Balfour field deserves to be approached with the same
amount of caution as a strange maid in a railway car.
* * * *
Shares in Brown and Bradstreet’s Northern
Territory mining syndicate, the Mt. Maroomba, have
been pummelled in Melbourne. Bushed up to £46, they
have been knocked down to about half that. The boom-
let wasn’t warranted by anything the prospectors had
reported. “ Here is a big outcrop,” they said ; “go and
prove it.” Andrew Wilson is the man chosen for the
job ; and a fairly rough one he is likely to find it, though
the distances are nothing tremendous. A lugger will
have to take the party across “ the Gulf” to the Roper,
and with fair luck they ought to get 90 miles up that
stream. After that there is an 80-mile journey. The
distance some people put at 120 miles, and that was one
of the pegs on which the knock out was hung ; but in a
matter of this sort Brown and Bradstreet’s word can be
safely taken.
* * * *
Advices from the Lakekamu rush, Papua, tell
of frightful mortality among the black “boys.” Dysen-
tery is the trouble. There have been from 100 to 120
deaths since January 1. The field doesn’t get any better
from the gold-getting point of view, either. As antici-
pated, attention has now been turned from the creek bed
to the terraces, and these, though not as rich as the
former, are more easily sluiced. The creek claims go
from half an ounce to an ounce per day. There has been
a good deal of prospecting in the surrounding country,
and though good prospects are reported, it is impossible
to g - et tucker carried out as yet. Governor Murray has
been there ; as a result, recruiting for the field has been
stopped, so only those who have “boys” already on the
spot have any hope of doing anything.
* * * *
Mining at Woodlark Island, off Papua, has
taken a new lease from Kalamadau’s improvement. One
sticker lias put through a crushing of 75 tons for 102 oz.
It is not stated which show it comes from, but there are
several which have been idle for years.
* * * *
The remarks of <J. L. Wharton and Currie, who
went to the Tongkah to report for the Baillieu-Lempriere
optionists, have been published. Wharton, after allow-
ing for capital expenditure and the commutation of the
dock and channel obligation, can see no profit at all with
tin below £l4O a ton. The tin-bearing area is, he thinks,
much smaller than had been supposed, and the
average value much lower. The directors’ answer is
simply that Wharton and Currie don’t know be-
cause they didn’t take the trouble to find out.
Their borings, the management reports, were done
by coolies without supervision, and the dredges were not
used for testing purposes, though it was asked that they
should be. The directors’ reply doesn’t, of course, prove
that there is a valuable property under the harbor waters ;
but it certainly suggests strongly that the adverse report
is by no means conclusive, either. Tongkah, therefore,
remains what it always has been —a gamble, with very
fair chances of turning out a lot of dividends.
» * * *
According to H. R. Merton, the world's output
of copper for 1909 amounted to 839,255 tons ; so it takes
about £45,600,000 a year to lift the copper out of pro-
ducers’ hands ; and £45,000,000 is a lot of money. The
rapid increase of production and the increased quantities
put through the somewhat lengthy and elaborate elec-
trolytic process make a heavy stock of metal unavoidable
—recently there was as much as 63,386 tons in America
and a vast accumulation in Europe. The old yarn is told
that production is being overtaken by consumption ; but
the efforts in America to restrict the output don’t bear
this out.
* * * *
There is trouble over some more of the Ma
State’s permanent and reproductive works. Some years
ago the Government lent Moataa some money to build
waterworks, which sum was to be repaid by instalments.
Moama, however, didn’t take the Government seriously,
and didn’t bother about paying up ; and now it owes the
State £3297. Moama knew that Ma couldn’t root up the
waterworks and let a whole community die of thirst; so
instead of striking a decent rate, it collared the works
and declined to pay. The Treasurer then went to the
Supreme Court for an order to seize Moama’s rates and
revenues, leaving the ratepayers to find some more money
in order to pay theirother municipal charges. This action
has paralysed Moama, and even the town goat looks
gloomy these days.
* * * *
Something over £9.000,000 was raised in S’Africa
last year for development and equipment of new mines
and for extending operations at old ones. Meanwhile
20,0000 z. of fine gold is being dug out of the ground
daily ; but this output is expected to be beaten out of
sighr, when a full supply of black labor is obtainable. At
present about 190,000 Kaffirs are on the pay roll, and more
are wanted badly.
* * * *
“ Bilbax A recent Bulletin reference to the
increase of the reward paid to Pat Hannan for his dis-
covery of the Golden Mile, Kalgoorlie—he is now to get
£l5O a year—brings to mind the reward of £0 os. Od. in
cash down, and the same sum per annum, which the
Westraliah Government granted to Tom Cue, the dis-
coverer of the Cue (Murchison) goldfield. In ’96,1 saw the
correspondence in which payment of Cue’s claim, then
long held over, was urged and evaded. The Government
of that day was purely Groper, and dog-mean ; but its
refusal to pay the reward was probably owing partly to
its general illfeeling towards the Murchison, partly to
the high moral principle that guided it in refusing to
pay wherever legal compulsion could not enter, and partly
because “Old Tom” wasn’t likely to be lured into a
friendly game of poker at the Club.
* * * *
- In 1897 the world’s production of gold was
£48,196,000. In 1908 it had got up to £91,450,000; that
is to say, it had very nearly doubled. In the formeryear
the Commonwealth’s proportion to the whole was 20 - 52
percent.; in the latter year, only 14 "28 per cent.. This
show's the movements so far as the three big producers
are concerned :
1897. 1908.
Australia... .. £9,890,000 £13,059,000
United States ... 11,787,000 19,566,000
Transvaal .. 11,654,000 29,973,000
Thus in 1908 the United States and the Transvaal alone
produced more than all the world did only 11 years
before. How much effect this tremendous increase in
gold production has upon prices of commodities is dis-
puted ; practically every economist, however, admits
that, as gold has thus become so very much more plenti-
ful, more of it must be given in return for a given
quantity of other goods ; and as long as the production
of gold increases, this upward movement in prices is
likely- to continue. For this reason statistics showing
what prices were a few years ago are not much value as a
guide to what they are likely to be in the future.
“Joe”: Australia is understood to want to
equal the other fellow in manufacturing enterprise ; but
there is a place called the Patents Office in Melbourne
which plays the deuce with the ambitions of inverttivb
aspirants to.fame and fortune. I lodged a patent last
November, got the acknowledgment ttf it early in Deeehr-
ber, and have had no news sinCe then. All ihquirieS restilt iii
the one stereotyped answer, that the matter must take its
turn; and vVhile the turn is comingbusiness is blocked. A
Serious side of the case is that, when the Australian in-
ventor lodges an application for a patent, he is entitled to
protection for 12 months in many other countries under
the international agreement; and the delays in Mel-
bourne are calculated to make him lose the benefits of
that protection. If the Commonwealth Patents Office is
four or five months behind with its work, why? And
will the Attorney-General please see that it doesn’t con-
tinue that way ?
* * * *■
Some fine blue sapphires have lately been got
at Sapphiretown (Q.). The field, being thus in better
heart, has ideas of establishing gem-cutting on the pre-
mises ; most gems at present go south to be operated on-.
-* * * *
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power Wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt {'legible ftoller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* * * *
“Ferrodor” Paint.—Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort’s
Dock and Mt. L.vell buildings; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges ; P. & O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
COAL IS SAVED in the generation of steam
by r absolutely reliable boiler mountings and stop valves,
steam tight piston glands and steam joints, also perfect
insulation of boilers and pipes to prevent radiation and
ensure transmission of heat. Bell’s Asbestos-Packed
Water Gauges, Blow-off Cocks and “ Belfry ” Patent
Steam Valves, Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing and
“Bellite” Jointing and Bell’s Asbestos Non-Conduct-
ing Composition will ensure economy and safety
to steam users.—BELL’S ASBESTOS
AGENCY LTD., 315 Kent Street, Sydney. Also agents
for THE FARNLEY IRON CO., LTD., and FRASER &
CHALMERS, LTD., Mining Machinery,*
The New Water Jacketted Copper Smelting
Furnace for the Hampden Cloncurry Copper Mines is at
present in course of construction. This furnace will have a
capacity offrom 100 to 120 tons per day, and isof thelatest
design. The water jackets are of steel, in two tiers,
extending to a height of 18 feet above the crucible
bottom and surmounted by a hopper frame to the level
of the feed floor. Both jackets and hopper are carried by
steel columns. Above the feed floor is arranged a hood
over the furnace with a smoke stack about 50 feet high.
A steel goose-neck flue is carried from the hood down to
the dust chamber in the main flue on the ground level,
and thence to the steel stack 150 feet in height. As
the furnace site is quite level a steel sub-structure is pro-
vided to carry the weight of the whole furnace. This,
when filled will give a height of 12 feet over which to
dump the slag. This blast furnace is being manufactured
by the Austral Otis Engineering Company of South
Melbourne, and will be ready for delivery in about six
weeks.*
* * * *
The original “Balata’ Belting, patented by
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its high standard
of excellence, and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand on every few feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* [4
* » * *
The Insurance Freeman, Liverpool, under
date October, 1908, writes re The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society' Limited;—“ln every branch of busi-
ness success has been marked with, sagacious management,
and it must be highly gratifying to all concerned to note
that the huge surplus at the last valuation has been put
to most excellent and practical use in strengthening its
resources. ”*
* * * *
Mining Engineers will find much interesting
information about Wood Pipe in our catalogue. It shows
how widely the pipe is now being used, and tells of its
durability and economy'. The Australian Wood Pipe Co.,
Ltd., Balmain, Sy'driey.*
* - * * *
The Torrington Wolfram Proprietary, Limited,
Torrington, and the Cosmopolitan Gold Mines, Hillgrove,
have wisely decided upon installing Dowson Suction Gas
Plants for the supply of power for their new' ore treat-
ment works, and have accordingly placed their orders
with Noyes Brothers, Limited, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney,
who are the sole agents for the Dowson Company. Any
one who wishes to obtain the most reliable and efficient
plant on the market will do well to investigate the
Dowson Suction Plant for utilising bituminous coal.
Steel Belting transmits power without loss, and effects
considerable savings. Noyes Brothers, Limited, Sydney,
carry large stocks of this Belting.*
* * *• *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so,
write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney; and
9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [2
* * * *
Nobels (Hamburg) Explosives.—Messrs. Wm.
Adams & Co. Ltd., of 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, have
now' taken over the sole agency in N.S.W. for the above
high-grade explosives. Large stocks on hand. Please
note these are the genuine Nobels.*
Mine managers when requiring air compressors
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not fail
to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, w'hen they will be
impressed by its simplicity, compactness and portability.
Owing to the working parts being entirely enclosed it can
be placed to work on any part of the mine, either on the
surface or underground. The number of repeat orders
which Messrs. Reavell have received from the mining
community proves how greatly their compressor is
appreciated. The representatives for Australia are
Messrs. Babcock and Wilcox, Hayinarket, Sydney.* [2
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, w'hich is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and rnanu.
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers .to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan's crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*


Whooping Cough and Influenza.
“My three children had whooping cough and
influenza, and were very bad,” writes Mr. G.
Gilyard, Gilyard Street, Glenorchy, Tas. “We
could get no sleep at night. A friend recom-
mended Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery, which
soon cured their coughs.” Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
GOLDEN YELLOW AXLE GREASE.
A Pure Oil Lubricant for
all Axles and Bearings.
Manufactured by LEW 15 & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
FOR
K'(«,
wmm
P?i^%nfhlfXnviSl
VACUUM MOBIL OIL
Saves One-Third of Your Running Cost.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
ON EVIL DAYS.
YOUNG ACTOR: “Hullo, Guv’nor! What have
you been doing lately?”
OLD S TAGER: “ Landladies , my boy; landladies .”
“ U. N. Hoo ” : “ Myrtle ” is wrong when
he says bulrushes are a pest up north (Queens-
land). They used to be when the bore stream
was allowed to flow down the creek ; but now we
cut two drains for the water, and that cooks the
goose. This way. The water is turned on in one
drain till the rushes grow about a couple of
feet high ; then it"is turned into the other
drain. Very soon the rushes in the first drain
dry off and are burnt; whereupon the ditch is fit
to receive the flow again. Handled this way the
rushes are far from being an unmitigated curse.
When they are young, stock eat a good lot of
them, especially if the grass is dry. Besides, if
they are not allowed to grow too rank they stop
evaporation, and the water runs farther in the
summer months when it gets a bit of protection
that way.
“Jimmie Pannikin ” in reply :
“ Jacko” asserts that Ido not know a lot about bush-
folk. lam content to leave the decision to you and to
the expert bushinen who contribute to Aboriginalities.
I have travelled in the bush for many years, working,
shooting, fishing, studying, so that I have met all sorts
and conditions of bush-dwellers. I did not always stay
at “Government House,” because lam who I be. I have
enjoyed and appreciated the hospitality of all classes
Outback, from the big Tory squatters down to tne old-
age pensioners camped at various places on The Big
Trickle. My hosts were often quite unaware of my exalted
official dignity. My weskit is not fat. I have not even
the shadow of a suspicion of a bow-window. I strip like an
athlete born of athletic stock. Imaintain thatitisnotonly
the Fat man who gets hospitality Outback. In all my divi-
gations Weat-o’-Darling, I never saw a man or woman
turned away with empty tucker-bags. If “Jacko”
knows the nooks and corners of Outback better than I
do, he must, indeed, have traversed every part where
humans have their habitation, and where there were five
or six bairnies. It is possible that the publication of
“Jacko’s” picture would eloquently explain why a
station-manager hunted him out of an old crib into the
pouring rain. The Outbackers never cared for wan-
derers who looked at all like South African farm-burners.
Anyhow, a solitary experience of that kind is but the
exception to the generous rule of Outback folk, rich or
poor. Years ago I told Tiie Bulletin how a white
station-manager turned the driver and myself away from
his homestead and let us camp all night on the banks of
the weird Warrego ; -but he was the only white man on
that big station. He preferred the society of blacks,
Ohows, Kanakas, etc. ; but such starved souls, such
empty husks of humanity as he, are the rare exceptions
Outback. Possibly it was “ Pannikin’s ” personality, and
not his position that helped him to have good times Out-
back. Anyhow, I dinna forget.
What’s the time? Just the time for a
glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
“Snake Bite”: Re “ Mallarapoonie ” on
the “dark subject” (B. 14/4/’10). In the early
’eighties and again in ’94, I made several trips
aoross the centre of Australia. Starting from
Oodnadatta with camels, we worked the country
above Alice Springs from Queensland to the
Westralian border, and consequently came much
into contact with the gaunt tribes that then
inhabited the rough country between Arltunga
and the moving place that is shown in the school
maps as Lake Amadeus. We had many good
chances of studying the queer habits and customs
of the blacks, and once we put in two months
with a tribe when two of our men were down with
Barcoo rot. The blacks’ wonderful divination—
and possibly diversion—of sex that “Mallara-
poonie ” writes about came repeatedly under
notice. Nearly every tribe had an old hag of a
gin with them, who seemed to have as much influ-
ence in the camp as the chief, and who always had
a prominent place in their mysterious yabbers.
She was a sort of domestic adviser and midwife
(not an unskilful one either), and the young
lubras seemed to stand in much awe of her. She
was nearly always present at the big meetings of
the old men of the tribe. At least we presumed
so, as she disappeared with them for a couple of
days. These mysterious meetings were generally
the forerunners of one of their hideous “stone
surgery” bouts, the victims of which, as “Mal-
larapoonie ” says, were doomed to sub-incision—
which, by the way, isn’t what old bushmen and
drovers call it.
“ Benita ” : “Cict” reckons that the
koala ought to be in a strong-man show ; but that
performer is a feeble thing compared with the
goanna. I was working for a cocky who had an
old-man goanna for a neighbor. The go. made
regular raids on the eggs, so one day Cocky de-
cided to settle him. He fixed a spring rat-trap in
front of a kerosene case, wherein the lady chanti-
cleer used to deposit her shell-fish, and waited in
unholy glee. To make things safer, he hooked the
trap on to the box. ’Twasn’t long before go.
appeared and struck the trap first time of asking,
and the yell of exultation that burst from the boss
was nothing to the roar of execration that
followed when he saw the box begin to bounce
down the yard. An outraged piece of poultry
fell out, along with half a dozen eggs, as the box
mounted the paling fence. More eggs and straw
followed when it started up a blue gum tree. The
boss arrived underneath the tree, cursing vividly,
just in time to see the go. crawl into a hollow.
There was a convulsive heave or two as the box
tried to follow, then a snap, and the kerosene
case fell on top of a surprised old man. After
that it was as much as our lives were worth to
mention goanna or boxes. We dared not even
have an egg for Sunday breakfast if the old man
was about.
“Chloe”: Re “Jimmie Pannikin,”
“Lad,” and “Jacko,”on bush hunger and bush
hospitality. I agree with “Lad” about the call
of the Wide West; but I most emphatically agree
with “Jacko” about station in hospitality.
In ’9Bl was on a squattage in the Far North-West,
just on the confines of the desert, and 38 miles
from the nearest telegraph station. One day,
during the November heat-wave of that year, a
messenger rode up with an urgent wire. He was
a kangarooer who had obliged the boss several
times before in the same way. The luncheon
gong rang as he came up dead beat, with his horse
at its last gasp. The boss, who had been
lounging in a hammock on the verandah, took
the wire, growled a scarcely audible “ Thank
you,” and added as an afterthought, “If you like,
the nigger will take you to the spring [about a mile
up the creek]. You’ll get splendid water there,
and a shady camp.” “Thanks, boss,” said the
messenger ; “ but I’ll take my cheque first. I’ve
come 18 miles out of my way to oblige you—and
the allowance is 3s. 6d. a mile, both ways.” With
a pained expression, the mean man went to write
the cheque, and the messenger murmured as he
spat vigorously, “You’d ha’ found it cheaper,
sonny, to have offered me and the nag a feed.”
If “ Jimmie Pannikin ” wants further and candid
opinion about squatters’ hospitality, let him get
in touch with ill-paid governesses or jackeroos, and
he will have a unanimous reply. The hospitality
extended to them is, without exception, of the
variety known as “ cold shoulder.”
* * * *
“Phil Harum” : I cannot say anything
of the go.’s powers of hanging on to life under
water (B. 14/4/TO), but I can vouch for his grip
upon it on land. I have seen him dosed with
almost every drug from a chemist’s stock without
turning a scale ; yet he has finally succumbed to
a potion of nicotine. Have tried young go.’s with
the juice from an ancient pipe. This stiffened
them out for a while, but they invariably re-
covered. When a trifle younger, and before I
joined the anti-vivisectionists, I once killed and
dissected an old warrior, and found the heart still
beating 20 minutes after I had severed it from
the rest of the body. My theory is that the heart
would continue to keep things going long enough
to work off the effect of any poison that might
be introduced into the go.’s system. Perhaps
some McOooey, jun., may be able to shed light
on the subject. Have heard that the go. can be
poisoned with balls of mutton fat, flavored with
strychnine, but cannot swear to it.
* * * *
“W.D.Y.”: Read in a South Aus. paperthe
other day that 9000 Oft. palings had been obtained
from one local tree. In Cape Otway forest (Vie.),
where the trees grow as high as anywhere in Aus-
tralia, I have often heard of 7000 6ft. palings
coming from one tree, in addition to about 200
rails. Evidently the tree the 9000 were taken
from was a very free one, or else it was an out-size
in vegetables. As a rule, you cannot split palings
from the butt, that part being .usually cut for
rails; so a difference in the character of the butt
makes all the difference in the crop of palings you
can reap. Apropos of the above, what is the record
number of palings split by one man in a day ? I
know one who split 1500 in 8| hours and did his
own billeting, the latter being a great considera-
tion. It was the record in that woody district,
but the tree was a particularly free one. The pre-
vious record thereabouts was 1250.
HE WANTED IT CURSED.
P ARSON: “ Allow me to ask a blessing on the meat."
C OOKIE: “ Don’t bless it, your reverence; it’s rabbit!”
“ Claypan ” : Be “ Jimmie Pannikin ” and
bush hospitality. I don’t think Jim has travelled
much ; but if he has his looks or some other asset
must have stood him in good stead when he was
taken into the bosom of the family, and made free
of the phonograph and the postcard album, and
shown to a comfortable room. I’m satisfied he
isn’t of the ordinary variety, who calls at a place
on any of the rivers, say, to ask for “a pint of
dust,” else he would know the usual procedure of
being ordered to see the Chinese or Japanese
cook, and having his nosebags handed back by
the Yellow Mongrel with a contemptuous grin.
Again, has “J.P.” ever called on a cocky when
harvesting is on and labor is plentiful ? If he
has, no doubt he remembers how much hos-
pitality there was about that wheat-raiser. And
in the cow country the article is even scarcer.
Let “J.P.” buy a pair of blankets—l’ll fit him
with everything else he’ll need—and hit the track
with me. In less than a month he’ll learn more
of bush charity than he will in years of swell
visits to jackeroo-infested homesteads.
THE STRANGER AND THE TRUTH.
BACKBLOX: “I tell you Sydney's a red-hot place.
You mayn't notice it, being here all the time;
but us country blokes"
SUBBURS: “ Oh, yes; you know where to look!"
An M.H.R. in Melbourne, gibing at Alf
Deakin’s tale of woe re the assaults, batteries
and calumniation to which Fusion was subjected
at election time :
Deakin’s a squeaker. Look here, I can remember the
time when I was hit with 13 eggs in the course of one
electioneering speech, and every egg had a chicken in it.
When I went home I found that 13 eggs had been stolen
from under a sitting hen in my fowlhouse.
“Larrikin”: Black brother Bill can fight
as cunning as any of them. Paddy, a Westralian
nigger of the dark North-West, was located on a
station in the Murchison district. One day in a
spirit of gentle reproof he stabbed a gin fiye
times with a sheath-knife, whereupon the gin’s
official husband and 19 brother warriors, armed to
the teeth, transpired with great fury and skilfully
rounded Paddy up. Paddy didn’t run. He
allowed the avengers to form a ring round him,
and he didn’t blink an eyelash when they com-
menced silently to close in. When they had
drawn near enough for his purpose, he dived his
right hand into his shirt front and dragged out
something short and bright that glittered omin-
ously. Like one nigger the would-be'murderers
broke and fled from the levelled revolver, leaving
their weapons behind them. Then Paddy
chuckled softly and shoved his killing-iron back
into his bosom. It was a short piece of iron pipe.
(Now let 445 Abo. liars rise up and ask me as one
prevaricator how he came to be carrying lengths
of iron pipe next his skin. I don’t know ; per-
haps he was a plumber.)
* * * *
“ Jakay ” : Your chance of getting to the
end of your journey if you are navigating one of
the North Queensland rivers is
not a thing to take your oath
on. I’ve had some, and I
know. We were bound up the
Tully in the good old Civility.
The skipper, a mariner of many
years, was at the wheel, and
“Mac” combined the duties of
engineer with that of cook. We
were steaming up about two
miles an hour. Mac was getting
the tucker ready for the evening
meal. The engines were on
their own. The Old Man
reckoned we were a good thing
for that night’s tide, if Mac
would shake her up a bit.
Mac allowed that when he
had finished making the bit
of Irish stew he would attend
to it. My sympathy was with
the stew. The skipper, who was
steering, suddenly yelled, “Stop
her ! ” “ Stop her yourself,” yelled
back the engineer, “I’m just put-
ting the Irish on.” “’Ow can I
stop her ? ” shouted back the Old
Man. “Ain’t I steering her in
narrer waters?” “Pull that
’andle back,” says the chief to me.
“Right oh,” says I. “Not that
one, you fool.” Bump went the
good old ship. “ ’Tain’t my fault,”
says the skipper. “I was steering
up for those two white marks on
the trees, keeping them in line,
and when we get up close they
were two blasted white cocka-
toos.” “It ain’t a ticket you ought
to ’ave,” says Mac; “a dorg
license is your mark.” We were
done for that tide, but we got her
off next morning with the assist-
ance of a kedge and a strong flow
off language^
“ 5.0.” ; Does the Govern-
ment select fools for J’s. P.., or
when a man is made a J..P„ does
it also make him a fool? I expect
it is the latter, because men, who
previous to the “honor” were
sane, respectable fellows, afterwards act worse
than goats. At our last District Court a
new J.P. took his seat. He tried to get his
brother “Jays” to introduce him to his Honor.
No fear; they wanted’s Honor for themselves.. So
our new man collared the chair nearest to the
Judge, and nearly drove the others wild with
jealousy by smoodging and smirking to’s Honor,
and offering little attentions, to which ’s Honor
turned a glassy eye. When lunch-time came the
Judge announced the adjournment, whereupon
our new fool jumped up and. roared out, “His
Honor wishes me to adjourn the Court.” His
Honor gathered up his robes and fled, while his
brother Jays fell upon the new Jay and scorched
him with fiery language. But he only smiled and
said it was worth it.
WANTED, A KNIGHT-ERRANT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IV/TB. EDWARDS, Contractor, please call for your
Dog. Mrs. Stevens.
—Advt. in S. M. Herald (ISIS/' 10).
There’s a plaintive appeal in the paper to-day,
’Tis the wail of a woman with Fortune at bay ;
She seeks a contractor’s poor memory to jog,
And implores Mister Edwards to call for his dog.
In fancy I see her, that woman bereft
Of her sweet peace of mind by the dog that was “ left ” ;
Her garden uprooted, her Thomas-cat fled,
And most of her Langshans bedraggled or dead.
He’s bitten the milkman and frightened the girl.
And left the half-crazed cockatoo in a whirl;
He’s stolen the mutton and gobbled it up—
Oh, ivhy doesn’t Edwards call round for his pup?
He’s bayed at the comet, the moon and the stars,
He’s dashed from the front gate to chase motor-cars,
And, covered with mud, scampered madly indoors,
Depositing filth on the carpets and floors.
He’s broken a basin, three cups and a jug,
And pretty well murdered the woman’s pet pug ;
He howls half the night, like a boat in a fog—
It’s up to you, Edwards, to call for that dog !
Flint-hearted contractor, relent! Get your bike
And rescue ye dame from ye grip of ye tyke !
Is chivalry dead? We have many a knight—
Won’t one of them offer to go forth and fight?
Help ho ! ’Tis the cry of a dame in distress
(And really her home’s in a terrible mess),
The piteous appeal would enliven a log—
Oh, please. Mister Edwards, call round for your dog !
N.S.W.
CLARRNGE O’H.


d
THERE is absolutely NO
RISK when CASTRATING
• with
DONALD ROSS
EMASCULATOR
Price, £3 3s.
Money Back if not Satisfied.
DONALD ROSS 8 CO., LTD.,
Angel Place, Sydney,
THE VETERINARY SUPPLY STORE
DIAMONDS Reduced
Enormously.
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Ring's and Pendants,
and Jewellery generally, at prices never before attempted in
Australia.
WHY ?
Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls for an
enormous output, and we have to live up to it —and so, to
increase our already large output, we are offering All Diamond
Goods at merely a commission on the actual cost. It will pay
us—because of the advertisements and the increase of customers.
Superb Diamond and Pearls, set in
Firm Gold and Platinum, £5O.
Plain Figures'
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldesc Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“ F.C.L.’s ” damp yarn :
Denis Doolan was a fossicker who made a nightly
pilgrimage, accompanied by two quart billy cans, to the
pub across the creek. He used a plank for a footbridge,
and, the plank not being very wide and Denis’ gait not
over-steady, he used to get up a bit of pace in coining
down the bank so as to aid him in maintaining his
equilibrium during his passage across his improvised
viaduct. One evening the plank had been carried away
by' a sudden rise in the creek. Denis didn’t observe the
fact until It was too late. He applied his brakes as hard
as he could, but he had so much way on that the impetus
carried him into the stream, still clutching wildly at the
can handles. Denis couldn’t swim enough to save
himself in a horse-trough, but the fact of the billies
being empty and Denis falling head downwards
caused the cans to act as air-tight compartments,
and he floated gaily down stream with his legs projecting
skywards. As he drifted past McGrabb’s shanty, a few
chains lower down, McGrabb noticed the phenomenon,
and, having nothing particular to do at the time, he
hauled Denis out in an oblivious condition. After going
through Doolan’s pockets and extracting a small parcel
of gold-dust and a little odd silver by way of rendering
first aid, he hied off to the local arm of the law and in-
formed him that Dinny Doolan was a dead corpse. But
to McGrabb’s surprise Denis was still a live corpse. When
he dragged him to the bank McGrabb had left Denis with
his head downwards. This allowed the water that Denis
had absorbed to gravitate away from his engine-
room, and artificial respiration was brought about in
the following remarkable manner. There happened
to be a fence within a few feet of where Denis
was lying, and, a mob of sheep that was
penned therein being stampeded by some mongrel,
they commenced to jump the fence at the exact spot
opposite to where Denis was lying, so that as each one
cleared the fence it landed on Denis’ chest. This pro-
cedure was as effective as the most up-to-date method of
artificial respiration, for it alternately compressed and
released Denis’ lungs. When the constable arrived, Denis
wept upon his shoulder. “ Have ye ever a drop in yez
flask,” he said, “for, as my' mother’s a saint, it’s the
whole river I’ve swallowed this night?” Since that ex-
perience, he has taken the precaution to affix a red flag
to his plank, which he can see before he gets up steam
for the descent. If there is no flag there is no bridge,
and, incidentally, no beer.
IN TOPHET.
The men who dropped the peel upon which
other people slipped.
“Snowflakes”: Re bush hospitality. I
called at a tin structure in the left-hand corner of
a huge wheat paddock the other day. I was met
on the door-mat by a woman and a dog. It was a
big dog, and it seemed hungry. Under the circs.
I contented myself with blandly inquiring the
way. “The road straight out,” replied mine
hostess, giving the dog a foot more rope.
ANOTHER KIND OF MISSILE.
COUNSEL, FOR THE P ROSECUTION: "My client then states that the witness hurled an insulting
epithet at him."
THE WITNESS (excitedly): “ Don’t believe it, y’ Worship. Don't believe it. It was me billy-
can I threw at him."
“ KIM.” : My experience of Outback hos-
pitality. I started from Wentworth to navigate
the Darling per boot, having absolutely nothing
in the way of a swag or tucker-bag. I reached
Tarcoola station in company with a lot of jim-
jams that were born soon after I finished the last
bottle, and were now full grown. Liberal doses
of painkiller, administered by the station store-
keeper, restored me to sanity. For three days,
though, I was laid up in the travellers’ hut, and
while there I was visited daily by the cook on
the manager’s instructions. When I left, I had a
complete set of tucker bags, all full, and the
nucleus of a swag. I can say the same of every
station and homestead along the river to Bourke.
Outback hospitality is no empty phrase. It’s
full to the brim.
* * * *
“ Giddap ” : Let me warn all and sundry
if they find a corpse on the tracks Outback to let
it lie, and keep inurn. The
average Matilda-hawker,
if he happens on a “stiff ”
mate, rushes into the near-
est town with the news.
My advice is : Don’t. It’s
too expensive. I was
taking a pack of wool (to
wit, two blankets) from
Leonora to Lake Darlot
(W.A.), and I lighted on
the remains of some chap
who had perished on the
track. In my innocence, I
fractured records into the
nearest township and im-
parted the tidings to the
Law. It was my mistake.
The Law made me escort
him, per boot, the 12 miles
back to my find, and, after
a lengthy examination of
the body, dragged me back
to the town with him.
Next day he produced a
cart, and we journeyed
out and brought the de-
ceased in. I was then
ordered to stay in the
township and await the
inquest. It was an ex-
pensive township to await
in. Drinks were a shil-
ling, and the beer was
thundering good, as it
always is Outback. (That’s
the “Call of Outback”
that “Jim Pannikin” talks of.) I decided to
subject it to a critical test. The test lasted
the three days till the inquest. After that
function, I was handed 10 bob for expenses.
But the Law remarked generously, “There’s
a good pair of drags on that cove if they’re any
good to y’.”
“The Prooshan”: Away back some 40 years
ago there was a somewhat famous bullock-driver
engaged hauling cedar from along the Kangaroo
River, a tributary of the Shoalhaven, to Goulburn
and thereabouts. His dray was a novelty even in
those rough-and-ready times, and was, with the
exception of the axle, tyres, boxes, stay irons and
tongue-pin, made by himself. No iron bolts were
used, wooden pins serving instead. But,
strangest of all, the entire tug-chains and bows
were made by Rouse, the driver in question, out
of “supple jack,” whose strength is known to all
bushmen who have seen it. The bow-pins or keys
were of mahogany wood. He drove eight small
bullocks, carrying about two tons at a load. The
supple-jack gear proved quite satisfactory, and
Rouse and his equipment became notorious in
the circle of “Up Sailor, jee Jimmy, come-me-
the-way Puddler! ”
Here’s to a chubby, dirty face,
A pair of sticky hands;
A coat that’s really a disgrace
With its half a dozen strands.
This lad is healthy, youll agree,
He takes Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure ;
He feels no colds or agony,
He’s well, you may be sure.*
FOR THE GLORY OF THE LORD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ We just go to the Presbytery and we tight like devils
lor the glory of God.”—Hew. J. K. Elliott, introducing
the new Moderator at Wellington (M.L.).
When the sun has oast its shadows and the peace of dark-
ness falls
For a moment on a labor-wearied world,
A sudden clamor echoes, yells arise and frantic calls ;
Shrieks and groans are raised, and awful curses hurled.
And the panic-stricken passer, ere he flees across the
night,
Glances wildly at the church from whence the din
Crashes madly on his ear-drums, and he sees the biff and
fight;
Through the open door he views the sight within.
Frenzied parsons claw and batter, lashing at each other’s
nose;
Gouging swift to lift an eyeball with a thumb—
Here, a pair have got to strangles ; there, another set of
foes
Kick each other where they fall beneath the scrum.
Heavy Bibles whiz and whistle, felling fighters to the
board,
And, as flattened faces still are flatter trod,
High above the Devil’s racket swells the war-cry—“ For
the Lord!
Put the boot in for the glorying of God ! ”
And the terrified beholder, overcoming all his fears,
Gazes gladly through the open swinging door.
As the row and biff increases so he cheers and cheers and
cheers,
Like a joyful savage wallowing in gore.
Till at last they fall exhausted, or are belted down and
out,
And silence rests above the battered horde.
Then he moves across the night-way, satisfied beyond a
doubt
They’ were fighting for the glory of the Lord.
MAORILAND.
THE SNAKE.
IRON AND THE LODGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ I well know my nerves need iron,” said the lodger,
roughly hacking 1
Like a soldier of the Legion ere he tastes his last
defeat,
“ Bat I tell you frankly, Madam, that I’ll go and do some
packing
Long before I’ll chew the fish-plates that your cook
serves up as meat! ”
“ You will take,” observed the hostess, in a soulless, icy
manner,
“Just exactly what’s supplied you. And I’ll thank
you now to pass
Those two vegetable dishes. For my own part, Mr.
Fanner,
I don’t know about your iron, but you seem to need
more brass ! ”
Then a sly and furtive snigger ran aroand the cheerless
table,
And the carving lodger snorted, red as roses grew his
ears ;
By an insult veiled and bitter had the landlady been
able
To get back upon her lodger—his room-rent was in
arrears.
Carving hard, the breathless Fanner tried to think of
something crushing
To remark unto his hostess as she doled the cabbage
out;
To the servile crew and cringing she kept purring, cooing,
gushing
While he gashed the cindered mutton with a right arm
strong and stout.
Like a cricket in the silence piped the household’s Con-
stant Header :
“ Did you see that in the paper about iron yesterday ?
It was mentioned, I remember, in a Daily Herald leader.
That it’s no use taking iron in the plain, old-fashioned
way.
“ You should take it with your greenstuff and your fruit.
That's what they’re preaching,
All the doctors. Spinach, cherries, apples, hazel nuts
and beet—
All of these contain some iron ; but it’s grand to hear
them teaching
That asparagus contains a tot. Now, that’s the stuff to
eat! "
Then uprose the white-faced carver with a leer of joy
unlawful,
And he muttered : “ I perceive now why my nerves are
red and raw ;
Even cheap fruit in this castle is a long-felt want and
awful,
But the luxury just mentioned 1 Why, this hole it
never saw !”
In her chair, the old hash-lady reeled as though the words
were missiles ;
But the sturdy old campaigner had one single bomb-
shell yet.
For she instantly retorted, “My greengrocer won’t sell
thistles,
So I have to feed my ass, sir, on whatever I can get!”
Then and there the wretched boarder rose and staggered
from the table,
For his self-respect was shattered and a voiceless man
was he;
With a purpose dark and deadly, he reeled streetwards
from the babel;
’Twas his worst and oh Ihe did it! He did not come
home to tea !
N.S.W.
KODAN.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (exceutof a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address mast appear on .1 ISS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voUuitarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no J IS. will be
returned unless stamps (of hay State) accompany.
Mus : Offer a weekly prize for the worst poem ?
Heavens, no ! Our trials are already so sore that one of
usds an invalid, and two of us are nosing about the earth
trying to pick up a bit of health, and another one of us
will go out looking for a patch as soon as ever the chance
offers Tronson: Corned beef and carrots, and you’ve
left out the mustard Scalpel: All right; you can
have your way that chloroform is no good for suiciding
purposes; and Lillias Gordon insists on having hers.
Hikurangi: Given a graduated land-tax. The Bulle-
tin won’t get excited over the leasehold v. free
hold agitation Annie K. : Too long for u 5....
Sad Rags: Bright; wish it had come earlier.. A.J.E.:
Poor, treacly stuff... Tom Dick: Worn out and useless
L.A.W. : A fortnight too late. Not that it would
have made much difference if it had been a fortnight,
earlier, because the thing is too ragged.. „J.M.C.. JNo ;
the capital question is far from finished yet. Even if this Do.
vernment decides that the people don’t matter, and goes
ahead, some other Government will probably decide that
the people do matter, and will therefore go back if the
people tell them t0....G.5.R. : Can’t you give us the
titles ? And verse or what'?..., W.F. : Personal grievance
only J.D.G. : The first is lifted bodily from
The Bulletin. The rest are poor enough to
have been lifted in pieces from the basket....
Nomad (V.) : Very good ; but can you put your hand on
your heart and say that it isn’t plain Yankee!....
W.E.C. : Belated. Can’t allow you to mix politics with
the comet’s tail....DC. : “Ode” received. Thanks.
But butter doesn’t suit u5...-D.G. : Regret unsuitable.
.. ..Phoenix : You have improved it by the introduction
of the devils ; but it is still below print level. The under-
taker seems to have been omitted this time ; he is a
distinct 1055.... H. D. Avis (M.L.): Interesting and
graphic in spots ; but too long and discursive... .Benita .
Some good lines in it; but it needs a lot more planing
down. . ~J.S.(M.L.): Neat enough verses ; buttheydon t
arouse any interest... .H.T. (M.L.): Two verses of your
“ Beer Rubaiyat”:
Ah, love, could you and I with some foresight
See in To-night’s glad time To-morrow’s plight,
Would we not safely lock away
Something to make the morning glad and bright?
So when we’d wake at dawn with aching brow,
And with sad thoughts sullen repentance vow,
Sudden remembrance of our stock
And Sunday were Paradise enow.
Asterisk : Poem rather slight and a trifle bumpy
A.S. (M.L.): It is jagged, but here go three verses :
WHAT EVERY WOMAN KNOWS.
Just divulge a secret
With a dear lady friend,
And she straightway tells her mother,
But that’s not the end.
For the mother tells her sister,
And the whole secret goes
From one to the other,
And every woman knows
If I could write a play
What Women Don’t Know,
I’d simply make a fortune,
As far as women go.
L.C. : Brightly told, but the conclusion spoils it
O.'b. ; Too slight I.B.: Excellent sentiments, but the
verse's are rather juvenile R.S. : Sorry; neither arrives.
O.S. : You start off well by firing the reader’s interest
with the criminal’s elaborate plan for mixing up his
tracks and eluding the police. Then, when one fever-
ishly turns the page to see what went wrong first and
how many troopers were killed, it is found that nothing
went wrong at all, and that Spider got clear away without
the slightest trouble. Don’t do it again !.,..S.F.C.:
Two lines for the truth that is in them :
Tf hearty,laughter keeps us sane
Then what a doctor was Mark Twain !
Sorrv to say the rest is du11... .George Eden : This opti-
mistic poem is the best of the last batch :
UN BROKE WITH A BROWN.
That I am broke, do not say that;
I am not broke by miles—
I have my trousers, shirt and hat
Each cut to latest styles.
What if my coat and vest’s in pawn,
Nor hope of coming out;
What if my boots are weird and worn
From tramping much about !
I’ve still a brown, oh breathe it low,
Nor thief assassin near,
Till at the nearest pub I go
A pennyworth of beer.
Emu: The yarn is cheerful, but unusable. Verses
weak Labour: True, but heavy... .W.M.: Ring off!
Southern Cross : Story uhsuitable. Afraid r.he sug-
gestions were basketed 1.0. C. : Pretty, commonplace
verse W.H.L.M. : We can’t sing it at all Nikmar :
Only worth a paragraph and abrief one at that.. ..S.B. :
A very bald-headed address R.W. : Yarn ambles
leisurely along to the expected end and says nothing new
on the way... .Corinthian : Horse yarn labors heavily
most of the time and clouts all the fences Zero:
Merely the usual travelling girl’s letter... .A.D. : Unsuit-
able.
“Snake Bite”: Some time ago a par.
of mine dealt with the peculiar cylindrical
stones that have been found in various parts of
Australia. These stones are a matter of great
interest to bushmen, as the blacks are extremely
reticent concerning them. They are from Ift. to
18in. long, cylindrical in shape, and carry carved
signs that look like shorthand. I have never seen
any that differed much, wherever they were found,
except in the markings. They were generally, if
not always, placed onthegraves of malesonly, and,
it seems, removed after three days. Since writing
on the subject last, I have come to the conclusion
that they are a sort of diary of a blackfellow’s life.
I remember a stone that an old drover showed me.
It was the same as the others, but it only had two
little marks near the top. The o.d. told me that
he and a mate were bringing cattle down the
Queensland border when they came on a male and
two gins—one old, the other young—sitting over a
little fire in a dry creek. The blacks made off ;
but the drovers inspected the camp, and came on
the body of a recently-dead male baby in a cleft
of rock. The stone with the two small marks on
it was beside the body.


'fije Mill.
roVWr j$ still *? /^e
W,tf ivn
hoW |o«K«4
U|)Oh
bl’ci Ok)
t?c
“ We feel that we perhaps tried to do
too much at one stroke last year,” added
Mr. Murray, •• and So we intend to have
.j —■" ® shorter and simpler measure for th*
cn preju*)€. year.*'
hoVy of-feK
Among the accounts passed for pay-
ment at the quarterly meeting bf the
City Council this afternoon was one
Amounting to £2 Ns., ?*fOr renewal oi
burgiary Insurance oh the Cbrd Mayor’s
chain:’’
Wvw whole Lord ?
jf- really Sa\fe. »«% f* ce °f'
Kccco^l <2^ve
4feis Sort" °f J
lv« ■ ^s r° *d
ge-Htr tfk" «\W.r
Mr. Hansen, who formerly lived In the
Goulburn Valley,, has been engaged to
bring before the farmers of Denmark,
; who are noted as dairymen and irrlga-
’ tors, the opportunities awaiting farmers
In the Victorian irrigation districts. He
: is to receive £1 per head for all settlers
' whom he secures.
Mr. AHan, having made some calcula--
tions on a slip of paper, said that the
best results were now being obtained
from the sale of skins. Taking every*
thing into account, the net
return to the trapper per
rabbit would be about 2#d.
—Argus.
of-lfc
it'wv* \
-fte. Cfn *rc\j S'h ould nyteresT \
in -To ifie. hoTel & \
da.nc-mp room esta^l &■ ifye «
formation "order of-Chi*&jy-
'siufferirTp \lUfr,^rnhj
Al©W ’ta v « '^ K ' c ‘*S
|o«p sleev'cK bf^e-
Hcbi c °|' 2JI
-f-lesK Joined fty cVioi r t
>r.
ws 1 r
\J»Fe
"vAS 08*11*1 bu'bfic^
1 A good old floderxfbi’
Wjundity
o», -ffe deserf
&jr, so.+o
, fi
)
to
|>Ml>lic&*>j,
We Kn©v>/ /
Ihe Qngeir
Of "tn€ Corr))r)Ur)i'ly wi II \
Jj\We "to fa** ‘b'S /con)">^^S\
■+Q "'ifii'n |>as'rt?)<rs > to ire Centre i-' c - fro**)
jbe i?cv.
C. hi'/'&Jry. of- course
off- yove i$ Wund
-fo b^ v c dr&wWKs
brotW MilKenbuii v/ill s«ef« it”
iHicTVi* ( donah goes
”Vjow>t- 4 "by ’*tn OcloeK •
A VICTORIAN PAGE.


Tfc FbR
l * >• fU) /4 /: Q\, % *fy^
: - i
3815 ®F * ' ‘ ♦sc* \
5/ }//„, A ,- ( .
THE PREMIERS MEET AGAIN.
It has been practically decided that the State Premiers shall again meet the Prime Minister with regard to the Financial Agreement. It is,
however, realised that Mr. Fisher will command the situation after December next.— News Hem.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
TIME trieth truth, as the old
saying: is, but the surest
way to prove the excel-
lence of Cherry Blossom Polish
is to try a tin yourself.
It preserves the leather and re-
sists the damp, while a few sligrht
rubs with a soft cloth or pad will
produce a beautiful shine—a
polish that will add a fine finish
to your appearance.
Most dealers sell Black and Tan
tins at 3d. and 6d. each —outfits,
ďs
too. Write us if you cannot get supplies. Managing Agents
for Australia — Swift & Company, 32 O’Connell St., Sydney.
MfflßHftU
JHOt
wm a
©
Look for
Name on
Strap.
Marshall Shoe Co.,
Richmond, Victoria.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
George Y. is an LL.D. of Sydney Uni-
versity. The distinction was thrust upon him
when he was here in 1901.
Queen Alexandra Coronation Irene Point
was bitten by a dog at Geelong (Yic.) the other
day. Reporters were particularly requested not
to keep Irene’s name out of the papers.
It is proposed to put a memorial over the
grave of Bryan O’Loghlen, one time Premier of
Victoria. Bryan’s father, the first baronet, was
the first R.C. Judge appointed in Ireland after
the Reformation.
From London :
I saw Albert Dorrington in the Strand. He has just,
sold a serial, dealing with lif£ amongst cattle in North
Queensland, to the London DaiLy Trlk,graph. The foggy
city has not changed him in the slightest; he looks more
like George-street than George-street itself, swimming in
a sea of silk hats and monocles.
James Smith, Melbourne’s veteran press-
man, left £2250. He was an exceedingly hard
grafter; he had put in fully 50years of toilsome
literary digging and delving ; he died in harness ;
and he had lived the simple life always. The
pen is only mighty in a pecuniary sense when it
is a pig pen.
Behold what is draining the Melbourne
populace of its reserve of tears :
An interesting souvenir of the late King Edward is on
view at Messrs. ’s windows, Flinders-street. It
is one of the first pair of gloves worn by his late Majesty
when he was a chubby infant two years old. It is a single-
buttoned kid glove but slightly worn.
If only some beastly rival trader had thought of
it, he might have knocked the other one out by
exhibiting a bottle containing half a pint of his
late Majesty’s first bathwater, preserved for ad-
vertising purposes through the remarkable fore-
sight of a devoted nurse.
W. L. Allardyce, Governor of the Falk-
land Islands, who is coming to say a word for the
Royal Colonial Institute from Australian plat-
forms, is not wholly a stranger in these parts.
He married his wife in Melbourne some years
back; then or thereabouts he was Colonial
Secretary in Fiji and Acting-High Commissioner
for the Western Pacific. He is still under 50, but
has sat a while in many chairs of authority.
When Government appointments slackened, he
picked up a pen to prove that Allardyce was still
in form. He edited a native newspaper and com-
piled law digests and delivered lectures at a
moment’s notice. The Royal Colonial Institute,
his present hobby, has never won Australian
homage; its early habits were against it. But
Allardyce hopes to show that it has moulted its
old feathers, and may now be taken to the demo-
cratic bosom.
There is talk of reproducing some of Isaac
Nathan’s old aboriginal melodies. Very few
Australians, even in Sydney, where Nathan was
once a musical guide, can show a copy of any of
the author’s numerous productions. His work
ranged from oratorios to aboriginal songs; and his
setting of Byron’s Hebrew melodies won the praise
of England and the Continent of Europe. A local
piece, consisting of solo, quartette and chorus,
intended to represent aboriginal life, was taken as
a work of genius by the public of the ’4o’s and
’so’s; it would certainly be worth reproduc-
tion now. Nathan arrived in Sydney in his prime
in 1841, threw himself heartily into the local
musical life, and worked up a splendid organisa-
tion for the development of local talent. He
might have achieved a great deal more, but a
Pitt-street tram shook him suddenly off the foot-
board and ended his career.
Toby, who was the reigning monarch of
Mlssabotti, died in the blacks’ camp at Bowra-
ville (N.S.W.) lately. Toby’s one and only claim
to greatness was that he was alleged to be any-
thing over 120. W. F. Sullivan, who was the
first selector in the district, says that in the early
’6o’s Toby was then worn with age, and looked 70
or 80. But there is a still more ancient (though
vague) record of our departed brother. In the
convict days a white woman was kidnapped by
the blacks, and was recovered by two prisoners at
a corroboree at which Toby was master of the
ceremonies.
Various N.S.W. Premiers, from the
“roundsman’s” point of view :
Parkes, Dibbs, Lyne, See and Carruthers all had their
own peculiar methods of dealing with pressmen. Pro-
bably the most notable of the bunch—if I except Parkes in
his later days—were Dibbs and Carruthers. If you repre-
sented an Opposition rag, Dibbs was liable to meet you
with a flow of language calculated to make your hair
stand at attention ; at times he might even, by
way of a bonus, mention that he would like to
kick you. But in five minutes after the earth-
quake you were generally smoking one of his
Prince of Wales cigars. Carruthers’peculiarity was that
he was never able to hear any awkward question, even if
shouted in his ear ; but the next moment he would catch
up a whispered remark dropped by one of the seekers
after copy. Wade is the most frigid of the bunch ; he
doesn’t even condescend to a “Good-morning” or a
“ Good-afternoon.”
THE DOOMED HALF-CROWN.
“The half-crown will have to go, I fear," said the Prime Minister (Mr. Fisher) yesterday, in referring to the
protest of the council of the Chamber of Commerce against the abolition of the half-crown in the Australian
currency. He went on to say that no provision was made in the Australian Coinage Act for the retention of
the half-crown.
D. BEAT: “Could yer give a poor bloke tuppence toward a bed[?] I've only got a half-crown.”
Andrew Bent, who finished dying at Gee-
long (Vic.) the other day, was brought up on ink
in the infancy of himself and the nineteenth cen-
tury. He was born in Hobart, where his father,
the first Government printer, founded the Hobart
Town Gazette in 1816. Subsequently adopt-
ing his father’s trade, he worked with
Johnny Fawkner in Melbourne’s lively youth,
and helped to drive the presses of the Geelong
Advertiser for over 40 years.
M. H. Donohue, Paris correspondent of
London Daily Chronicle, who is due in
Sydney on a holiday trip, was, until a dozen years
ago, a well-known Australian pressman. It was
he who ferreted out the story of De Rougemont,
and he, too, was largely responsible for the police
seriously looking up one Butler, who was later
on hanged for what were known as the “moun-
tain murders.” Donohue went to S’Africa with
the N.S.W. Lancers in 1899, but obtained his dis-
charge in order to succeed one of the Daily
Chronicle’s war correspondents who had died.
He promptly made a name by getting through the
first news of one of the leading events of the first
part of the war, and has been on the up-grade
among the pressmen of Europe ever since. He
was in Manchuria with the Japs, and in Constan-
tinople when the late Sultan abdicated.
Dan O’Connor in England is the same
blarneying old Demosthenes that he was in Aus-
tralia. He delivered a Freetrade oration at
Deptford last month, and got rid of this: —
We have opened a country that the Eternal God has
rained fertility upon. I take off my hat and bow my
head to the splendid achievements of John Bright and
Richard Cobden. (Cheers.) I am not here to flatter
you, but to cultivate a little ignorance that may prevail.
I will proveto you to-morrow morning—(laughter)—is it
not true that the ladies of England are lovely? The
moon may disappear, the stars become sightless, and a
cataract come on the eye of the sun, but the ladies of
England will still remain the loveliest in the world. (Roars
of laughter.)
It is an unusual method of boosting the foreign-
trade foolishness, but as good, doubtless, as any
other.
If with cold your throat is bitten,
If with hacking cough you’re smitten,
In plain English it is written,
“ You must get it off your chest.”
Do not let the trouble stick,
Cure it now and cure it quick ;
To make quite sure you’ll do the trick
Take Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure—it’s best.*
Amongst the deluge of pictures published
about the Seventh Edward was one obtained by
Queensland’s official photographer, Mobsby, while
in the Fog Country during the Franco show. The
King and his party were driving to Gloucester,
and as the vehicle was drawn up at a gateway
Mobsby poked out his camera and snapped.
Attendants were horrified, and a policeman
promptly demanded the plate. Mobsby protested
and explained who he was. He was informed
that an order had been made against snapshotting
the King ; but as he was a Queenslander he wasn’t
even hanged.
Ernest Hoben, formerly sub-editor of
Sydney Mail, now proprietor and editor of the
North Palmerston Times (M.L.), is to be married
on June 1 to an enterprising Maoriland journalist.
The bride will dwell in a cottage at Wellington,
because her work and most of her friends are
there, while the groom will continue to reside at
Palmerston, a2\ hours’ train journey away. Max
O’Rell, Ada Cambridge and Maurice Hewlett,
among many others, assert that it is the excessive
intimacy of married life that so quickly dissipates
the golden mists surrounding courtship; but about
the only previous case of a couple openly starting
married life under different rooftrees was that of
the G. Bernard Shaws. G.B. took two houses in
London when he married, one for himself and one
for Mrs. Pshaw. Any other arrangement would
be to him, he said, obnoxious.
The Federal Labor party can’t make up
its mind, as yet, about the selection of a President
of the Senate. From among its own men Turley
and Hugh de Largie have hopes ; but there is a
cohort which has a fancy for Senator’Siah Symon.
’Siah, a sound Constitutional lawyer and a good
Australian Nationalist, certainly has the makings
of a very good President. He has the required
judicial sense and independence of character that
would override partisanship, and he might always
be expected to hold the scales without doctoring
the weights or giving 13oz. for a lb.
Frederick E. Baume, K.C., and M.H.R.
for Auckland City East, who handed in his
earthly brief while conducting the case for his
health in Germany the other day, was one of the
brainiest men in the Maoriland Parliament.
After a brilliant course at the Otago University,
where he was prizeman in French, mental science
and political economy, he mixed commerce and
journalism for six years; then he took to the law,
and was on the most friendly terms with Costs.
In 1902 he won his way to Parliament, and served
under Seddon, whose right-hand man he was in
regard to educational legislation. 111-health had
pursued him for years, and that probably was the
reason he was not appointed Minister for Public
Instruction when lon Ward reconstructed the
Ministry. Baume was a good Jew and an un-
assuming citizen, and in calling for him at 48
years of age there seems to be something wrong
with Death’s methods.
OCCASIONAL CONSTIPATION is a fertile source of
many of the minor ills that flesh is heir to. The best way
of restoring a state of healthy activity to stomach and
bowels is by taking a wineglassful of “ Hunyadi Janos ”
natural aperient water every alternate day before break-
fast.*
Norman Lindsay’s boy-yarns—illustrated,
of course, by himself—are to be published shortly
in London.
The London correspondent of N. Y.
World says G. Reid is President Taft’s double.
“Not only has he the same genial smile and in-
gratiating manner, but almost a similar girth.”
Come to think of it, they are alike in more
respects than their circumference at the equa-
tor. For one thing, they are both failures. Taft
was elected to succeed Roosevelt, not on his
merits, but as Roosevelt’s nominee to carry out
Roosevelt’s policy. After holding the Presi-
dency for just about a year, he has shown himself
a worse failure than almost any previous Presi-
dent. He has not even been able to keep his
party together, but has split the Republican
machine which gave Roosevelt all the more or less
qualified successes he had. Taft’s double, George
Reid, only failed to smash his party because it
was so nebulous that it could not be smashed—it
simply dissolved.
William Dalgety Moore, who died recently,
aged 74, was one of Westralia’s hardiest and most
strenuous ’Groper citizens. Born on the Swan,
at 15 he commenced his career with Surveyor-
General Roe. Four years later he trekked north
to Hammersley’s Irwin River station, where he
soon became manager. Then he pushed further
north, exploring and opening up some of the finest
pastoral land in the State. But the South called,
and in 1862 he founded the merchant firm of
W. D. Moore and Co. at Fremantle ; and ever
since then he has cut a figure in Westralian
history. He was 10 years President of the
Chamber of Commerce, and a director of
the W.A. Bank and the A.M.P. Society.
In 1870, under the old order, he was elected
first representative for Fremantle in the
first Legislative Council, and, in 1890, when the
new order arrived under Responsible Govern-
ment, he was again elevated to the House of Fat.
Beside these trifles, he became, with the Forrests,
Copleys, Edgars, etc., one of the biggest props
of squattocracy. He was a pioneer in the
pearling industry, started Westralia’s first flour-
mill, and was manager of one of the first timber
mills which cut into the heart of the jarr-h
forests. Still, in spite of his Fat, he was wc.l
liked for his cheery smile, his flannel shirt, and
his readiness to help along young Australians and
young Australian industries.
Richardson Rae explains (more or less)
the late James Smith’s remarkable outbreak into
occultism:—
Somewhere about the 30-year-old period mentioned by
“N. ” (B. 21/4/10), I, then at Bendigo, received a wire
from .John Quick, with whom I had worked on the Ben-
digo Advertiser, teilimr me there was a vacancy for an
editor on the Maryborough Advertiser, and suggesting
that I should fill it. The paper was then owned by a
practical and common-sense business man named Evans,
and I got On with the work in the usual local-journal
wav. But not long after my appointment Evans (who
had paid some mysterious visits to Melbourne) was
absorbed in deep thought, and everybody wondered what
change had come over him. Things became more inex-
plicable when the town awoke one morning to find the
walls and hoardings placarded with the picture of a for-
bidding-looking female with nothing much on, and with-
out a word to explain what she was doing there. It was
discovered that these extraordinary prints had been
pasted up in the dead of night by order of Evans,
who, however, would say nothing about it all. Shortly
afterwards Evans informed me that I need write no more
leading articles ; also, that all local news was to be con-
densed as much as possible, for Mr. James Smith, of the
Argus, was going to fill the paper with astounding
matter! And he did ! Three times a week large packets
arrived from him, and all on one subject—reincarnation.
There was mind in everything, he taught, especially trees.
“There is mind in this,” said Evans to me once, tapping
the table. “N.”is wrong in suggesting that I collaborated
with Smith. All I had to do with him was to curse him
three times a week, which I did very heartily. On one
occasion when an important trial was pending, I wrote
to him and asked him to give us a rest until the Court
sitting was over. He replied in two words—“ Co-
ndense ! Condense 1 ” Nobody that I know of ever got
to the bottom of this business, which, of course, ruined
the Advertiser as a commercial concern. The Woman
on the Wall, too, remained as mysterious as women in
general, and never explained herself. But suddenly the
whole thing burst up, and the paper assumed its proper
function in the scheme of things.
THE WORLDLING PROTESTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ General ” Booth, the head of the Salvation “Army,”
celebrated his 81st birthday recently. To the'London
Evening News he has sent the following message :
The secret of long- life lies in these Shree simple little
rules :
Eat little.
Drink water.
Work hard. — News item.
“ Three simple little rules ” 3'ou think them, Booth !
Maybe they are to one who leads the van
Daily against the Devil ; but, in sooth,
They’re rough on the mere Epicurean.
Eat little ! When the crottte an pot appears
Simmering richly in its silver stoup!
He were an arrant cur who cherished fears
About his health before that peerless soup.
Bant! When truite mefmiere figures on the bill!
Go slow when faced with teal, done skilfully !
For me, not only would I lack the will
To do the deed—l’d simply scorn to try.
Then, as to drinks. You blandly recommend
That water—cold, dead water —shall replace
Fizz, hock et al. ! Nay, nay, my sainted friend,
I am astounded that you have the “ face.”
And last, “ Work hard! ” It seems to me, you’d have
The would-be centenarian imbued
With all the habits—if he’d dodge the grave—
Of those who suffer penal servitude.
No, “ General ” ! The merits of .your plan
For balking Death I wholly fail to see.
Live long and sparsely if you will, old man—
A brief but gay and well-fed life for me.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


T
:
vs
it
V
\
A
V
%
■h
N
m
*|^V
p{
/s
it
\
/
r
M 7
/
A
J*
vr
1
bC
1
x
>
V,
y
\
is
n:
mm
a
“ There s no sweeter Tobacco comes from Virginia , and no better brand
than the Three Castles .”
THACKERAY . “ VIRGINIANS ”
The “Three Castles” Cigarettes
(HEAVY WEIGHTS).
P.S. —W. D. & H. O. Wills draw particular attention to the above Cigarettes, which,
in response to repeated requests from Smokers, are made of especially heavy weight
and increased size, but are packed without paper mouthpieces.


A SIMPLE PRESCRIPTION.
Said to Cure Rheumatism, Kidney Trouble and
Bladder Troubles.
We know that the readers of this paper appre-
ciate good advice, and we are glad, therefore, to
he able to publish the following from a prominent
physician.
It is astonishing to know the prevalence of
kidney trouble and other diseases, such as rheu-
matism, bladder and liver troubles, which are
almost invariably caused by weak kidneys. It is
said on good authority that fully one-third of the
people in Australia who have reached the age of
maturity are more or less afflicted with kidney
trouble in some form. The most dangerous feature
of this disease is the fact that many people have it
without their knowledge, and consequently neglect
it until it has reached a dangerous stage.
The least symptom of kidney trouble, such as
backache, must be given prompt attention, and a
good reliable treatment should be taken, until
every trace of the disease has been eliminated.
We are glad to be able to give our readers a pre-
scription which we have seldom known to fail in
any case. It contains no harmful ingredients, is
pleasant to take, not expensive, and can be sup-
plied by any good chemist. It is as follows :
Tincture Gentian Compound, one ounce ; Syrup
Rhubarb, one ounce ; Liquid Barkola Compound,
one ounce; Syrup of Ginger, five ounces.
Take a teaspoonful after each meal, and one at
bed-time.
We are glad to publish this prescription, as we
know it w r ill help our afflicted readers who give it
a fair trial. If taken continuously for a few
weeks it will be found to be an almost absolutely
certain cure for Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder
trouble, Backache and all allied complaints.
Note.—Other papers are privilegd to copy the
above. —Advt<-
HELPLESS AND ILL
FOR THREE YEARS.
«►
Weak, Run Down Woman
Tells how She got
Strength*
o
For three years Mrs. Stella Kraft, 123 Palmers-
ton Street, Perth, was weak, bloodless and ill.
She couldn’t do a hand’s turn, had fainting fits,
and her friends thought she would never be better.
She told a reporter how she became the strong,
active woman she is to day. These are her
words:— , t
“ I was in good health till about 18 years or
age, and then I began to fail. I became more run
down day by day. My appetite fell away till on
some days I simply could not look at food. I had
to live chiefly on beef tea and milk foods. Solids
would lie heavy on my chest and make it ache
right through to my shoulder blades. My face,
gums and lips were bloodless. I had dark rings
round my eyes, and my eyes were sunken. I
grew so thin that everyone remarked on it. I
could not stand long without my ankles and feet
swelling and puffing so that at times I couldn t
put a jboot on. For three years I did not do a
hand’s turn, I was too weak to do anything, but
just lie about the house on the verandah or on a
couch ; and often I had to stay in bed. I never
went out beyond the garden. If a hot day camel
would get a fainting turn, and without warning I
would go off unconscious. Wlien I would be
brought round, my head would be aching fit to
split, iny temples would throb with shooting pains,
and when vinegar bandages were put on they
would dry almost directly, the skin was so hot and
feverish. At night 1 would, perhaps, drop off to
sleep for an hour, and the rest of the time I would
be tossing about unable to close my eyes. Only my
spirits kept me up, for no one could have been
more run down than I was for years. I went away
for trips to Wallaroo and Moonta and other
towns; but the little relief I would get was only
temporary, and I would fall away again almost
directly. ' People didn’t think I would ever get
better.' Neuralgia used to trouble me very much
in both cheeks, my nerves were so unstrung. My
blood was just like water. After so much medical
advice, and getting no relief, I began to think a cure
would never come to me, but it was brought about
by a course of Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. I attended
most carefully to directions, and as I kept on
I noticed I was shaking off the weariness. I could
feel new blood in my veins. Presently I picked
up a little appetite and some color came to my
face. I was glad to keep on with them, as I felt
myself stronger with every box. By the time the
sixth box was empty I was a different being, and
I have kept well ever since.”
The price is 2s. 9d. per box, six boxes 15s. 3d. ;
and if you have trouble in getting them send a
postal note for the amount to the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney, aid
they will Lie sent post free by return mail.*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
n
"V/;
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emascuiators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St.
(ovp. Hunter St.)
BYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
A. J. Fraser, who was beaten by Carty
Salmon for the Laanecoorie (Vic.) seat in the
House of Reps., alleges or implies that the late
Speaker’s majority of 295 was secured by means
that contravened the electoral law ; wherefore, he
proposes to file a protest with the Committee of
Disputed Returns.
This, from a leading American paper, the
Buffalo Express, shows how the “no encum-
brance ” advts. are coming home to roost:—
London, April 2.—The rush of English emigrants to
Canada is unabated. Thirty thousand people are booked
to sail from Glasgow, Liverpool and London during the
present month, filling 23 steamers. The effort of the
Australian officials to divert part of the stream to Aus-
tralia is failing because that country has served notice
that it prefers emigrants without children.
As Wade is in the promising humor, suppose he
offers 2-| years’ gaol to any newspaper proprietor
who hereafter prints the damaging advt. in his
sheet. That advt. has done more damage
to Australia than ever Peter Bowling did ; and
Wade provided 2i years’ gaol for him.
Minahan, a boot manufacturer, easily won
E. W. O’Sullivan’s old seat for Belmore(N.S.W.),
and at the announcement of the figures started off
badly by saying that, as he was a man of indepen-
dent means, he would hand over his Parliamentary
salary to the Labor League for the good of Bel-
more. This is a species of Fat man bribery which
the league ought to answer very decisively.
A taste for graceful expression is not the
least of the talents of Treasurer Watt, of Victoria.
Recently Labor-leader Prendergast described the
Weary (Government as “ a fusion,” to which W att
responded :
The Government is not a fusion Government. When
it was originally formed it was a composite Government,
and it is now one unified and harmonious whole.
True, true —a compound of soft soap and mar-
garine.
The thorough German again :
An Australian correspondent of an English shipping
journal has made the rather astonishing statement that
experienced navigators declare that, frequently they have
to rely more on their own knowledge than oti the Admi-
ralty charts, and hint that the German charts are becom-
ing the most reliable by reason of the captains of the
German liners officially reporting to the German maritime
authorities all deficiencies or misleading information with
which they may become acquainted.
It becomes more apparent almost every day and
night—mostly night—that, if Britain rules the
waves, it does the job in a very sloppy, untidy
fashion.
Wade showed his hopelessness as a party
leader at the “Liberal rally” before the by-
election for Belmore. The hall was packed, and
undoubtedly hostile to Wade, but quite prepared
to give him a fair show. It was such a
crowd as George Reid could have
managed easily, and obtained a
splendid hearing from ; but Wade
blundered along, treading on corns
and getting on nerves at almost
every sentence. Finally he blurted
out something about “Bowling
and his fellow convicts” ; and after
that Bedlam broke loose. Vainly
did he try to quell the storm. He
gave the dictionary meaning of
“convict,” he parsed it, he analysed
it, all in vain. The crowd to a man
had lost all sympathy with him.
and the meeting broke up in disorder and double-
decked hoots.
The Wade party is trying to minimise the
significance of the Labor majority (1064) fit the
Belmore by-election, held last Saturday, by saying
in an offhand manner that the state of parties is
unchanged and that Belmore has always been
Labor, anyhow. As a matter of fact, it has not
always been Labor. Both “ Jimmy ’’ Graham
and Eden George held the seat for long terms,
and even the late E. W. O’Sullivan, notwith-
standing that he afterwards joined the Labor
party, won it as an independent.
The hopelessly Tory Melbourne City Coun-
cil seems determined to flout public opinion by ex-
tending its cattle sale-yards at Kensington, instead
of shifting them, lock, stock and barrel, some
miles further out. The idea of keeping cattle-
yards in the middle of a group of thickly popu-
lated suburbs is eminently characteristic of the
Tory habit of thought. The health of the citizens
doesn’t count compared with the revenue the
council receives from its yards. Revenue means
lower rates, and Toryism's first commandment is,
“ Thou shalt keep down the rates ! ”
WHEN THE LAND-TAX COMES.
The difference between encouraging immigration dur-
ing the next three years and discouraging it, might equal
that between the making and the marring of Australia
as a white man’s country. It would be interesting,
therefore, to hear from Mr. Fisher. —Tory Press.
It soon will hear, hut it won't he Mr. Fisher
that will make the noise.
A difficulty that has struck two Scottish
immigrants to Victoria shows the need for a
proper Federal immigration policy in place of
the competitive efforts at present made by the
various States. These two immigrants came to
Victoria with the help of the Government, and
for some months sought remunerative work.
Owing to the coal strike they didn’t succeed too
' well, so they thoughtlessly went to Broken Hill
and got steady jobs—working, no doubt, for
Victorian companies. Thereupon the Murray
Government, whose imports they were, demanded
£4 each from them, the amount of the assisted
passage. Of course, they knew that the Victorian
Government had helped them to come to Australia;
but work being scarce in one part of Australia and
plentiful in another, they naturally went where
it was plentiful. In fact, they comprehended
Australia , but not the blessed States. So they
appealed to Josiah Thomas, their Federal mem-
ber, and were surprised when Thomas —a Minister
of the Commonwealth—told them that, though he
would speak softly to Premier Murray on their
behalf, he had no legal power to do any mortal
thing for them.
Cured of Biliousness.
“No one, I feel sure, can speak more gratefully
of Laxo-Tonic Pills than I can,” writes Mrs.
Corbett, 116 Fitzroy Street, Surry Hills, N.S.W.
“They cured me of settled biliousness, which
seemed as though it would never leave me. I
took Laxo-Tonic Pills, and they proved a perfect
remedy.” Price and Is. 6d.*
Tass, where the Federal capital is to be if
this continent has enough bad luck, grows
nothing but sheep and rabbits. And though the
sheep are not numerous, and the year hasn’t been
a particularly droughty one. Yass squatters have
actually been compelled during the last few weeks
to get fodder up by rail to keep the flocks alive.
THE FISHERMAN.
Thus Mahon, M.P., at Bunyip (Vic.) one
evening lately :
Mr. Mahon said he would never give a vote to alter the
site from Yass-Canberra, as it would be breaking faith
with 37 percent, of the people of Australia. He was one
who had made a bargain, and he would stand to it
loyally.
Mahon’s devout regard for the “37 percent, of
the people of Australia” would be exemplary if he
could show that that “37 per cent.” were parties
to a bargain. He omits, however, to mention
when the 37 per cent, made the bargain. Ap-
parently the 37 per cent, referred to are the people
of N. S. Wales,"and they certainly haven’t made
any. A lawyer named Wade did make some sort
of arrangement with Deakin. He also made
some arrangement in regard to the finances ; but
when that matter was referred to the people, it
was made quite clear that Wade and the people
are not exactly the same party.
This from a man in Southern Monaro
(N.S.W.) shows how the Deform policy of drag-
ging everything through Sydney has strangled
some of the best districts in the State :
Commencing 60 miles from the fine harbor of Twofold'
Bav is Southern Monaro. In 1897 and for two or three
years thereafter the Government, struggling then to
encourage a foreign trade in meat, gave large prizes for
fat sheep and lambs most suitable for the export trade.
It invited competition, and the invitation was responded
to from every part of the States and Maoriland ; but
Southern Monaro generally came out first with sheep, in
most cases off the natural pastures, and though they
had travelled long distances. Now, notwithstanding
that fact, and although we have this beautiful harbor
almost at our doors, we have never since that date, or
before it, with the exception of those prize winners, been
able to export a single carcase, simply because the
N.S.W. railway policy compels us to send all our produce
via Sydney, and'the expenses, risks, etc., are too great
to make it payable.
Premier Weary has set forth his pro-
gramme for the coming session. It is rather a
leaflet than a proper programme, and appears to
have been designed specially to save Weary from
the hard toil of bollocking things through. So
far, it consists of three items—a Bill to embody
the principle of the compulsory purchase of land
for closer settlement; a bowdlerised Education
Act Amending Bill, the one slaughtered last
session being thought too cumbrous; and an
Electoral Law Amendment Bill. This last, which
is to take first place on the menu, will be a modi-
fication of the one the Landlords heaved out last
December. It will contain no provision for
preferential or other effective voting, nor for
compulsory voting; also, “in order that the
measure may have a chance of passing the Upper
House without amendment, it has been decided
to leave out the controversial provisions.” In
short, John Weary has decided to let the Eat
Landlords have their way.
At Belmore, last Thursday night, Chief
Secretary Wood drew what Sydney Daily Tele-
graph naively described next morning as “an
effective comparison between the progressiveness
of the Government of which the late member for
Belmore (Mr. O’Sullivan) was a Minister, and the
Wade Government.” Said Wood :
While the expenditure of the Works Department during
Mr. O’Sullivan’s time was, in his middle year, £3,407,000,
Mr. Lee, the present Minister for Works, had last year
expended £3,900,000 for the same services, and would this
year expend over £4,000,000. During the interval the
present Government had increased the rate of pay for
unskilled laborers from 7s. to Bs. While the department
under Mr. O’Sullivan had employed 5438 men, the Works
Department to-day employed 9609. The present Govern-
ment had purchased nearly 3,000,000 acres of land, etc.
As in a dream or drink the paralysed elector asks
himself whether this is the Reform Administra-
tion which won office in 1904 on the “sound
finance” ticket—the crowd which asked for the
Ministerial salaries mainly because they proposed
to alter the See-O’Sullivan policy of “boom,
borrow and burst” for the rigid economy “in-
separable from government by educated business
and professional men.” Or are the Deformers
merely political spielers who, having got the
other fellow’s job on false pretences, never tried
to economise a cent, and actually glory in the
shameful fact ?
BEST FOR CROUP.
A child may go to bed at night in his usual
health, except perhaps for a cold, only to awaken
a few hours later with a well-developed attack of
croup ; and the remainder of the night is spent by
the anxious parents in trying to relieve his suffer-
ing, which is usually more or less experimental.
of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy in the
house will save anxiety, expense and perhaps the
life of the child. When this medicine is given at
the first indication of croup the attack may be
avoided and often after the croupy cough has
appeared it will prevent the attack.*
“ Cyn ” ; What a grand thing this pat-
riotism is ! “The death of the King consolidates
the Empire,” I read. Among others, the N.S.W.
Government sent off to say how devoted it was
to Britain. And then, just to prove it, having
need to buy some stuff for mourning bands for its
policemen, it sent out and bought black stuff
made in Germany, so as to feed the mouths of a
few of Britain’s potential enemies.
The fury of the methods of Melbourne
city fathers would bring a blush to the cheeks of
a rheumatic snail. Four years ago, the amalgam-
ation of the municipalities of Melbourne and
South Melbourne was gravely mooted, and the
mooters almost died from the consequent ex-
haustion of mooting the moot. Now the matter
has reappeared once more, and gaud Mayor
Burston and his aldermen and councillors are
gently pawing the question, with a view to giving
it “early consideration” —apparently the very
same non-fruiting species of early consideration
that it had before.
Lately it has been suggested that some
thousands of acres of waste country lying around
Bendigo (Vic.) should have water-races cut through
it, and thus be made available for small holdings.
Patches of it have already been cultivated
with astonishing results; as much as £4OO has
been realised in one favorable season from an acre
of tomatoes grown on the worked-out mining land.
There are thousands of acresj ust like these patches;
so it has been mentioned that it would be a good
thing to turn the whole lot of the wilderness into
a garden. But the bare thought of it is making
the gold kings rave, their idea being that the
land, though it is public estate, should be held for
the benefit of the “great mining industry.”
What benefit it is to the mining industry Heaven
only knows, as, barring a few acres round about
an odd mine, not an inch of the land has
been utilised by the mining cos. for the last
50 years, and is likely not to be utilised
for another 50. In spite of the hostility of the
Mine Owners, the Stock Exchange and other fat
institutions, it is, therefore, up to Murray,
McKenzie and Mcßride to say firmly that the
land about the mines belongs to the people
generally, and if they give an odd lease or two to
cos. it doesn’t mean that the cos. have a pre-
emptive right to all the country from Bendigo to
the Murray ; also that, if gold-seekers are not
anxious to use the land, and agriculturists and
horticulturists are, then the people who wish to
use it should be given the chance to do so. On
the whole, Australia has been very good to the
mining people; but the idea that land can be
locked up for ever because it happens to go a few
grains of gold to the cubic yard is about due for a
violent explosion.
ADVICE TO A PERPLEXED POLITICIAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ministers (N.S.W.) have been busily engaged in the
formulation of the Government policy....
Provision has now been made generally for an altera-
tion in the classification of the status of teachers, and a
consequent improvement in their salaries. . . .
A substantial sum has been set apart to provide for an
increase in the remuneration of the police.
Consideration has been given to the general body of
the poorly-paid members of the Public Service. ...
It has been decided to release some of the men im-
prisoned in connection with the Newcastle miners’ strike
at once, and to shorten the sentence of the others.
—High-minded Government “ Policydeclared in a
■ religious daily.
In a state of deep dejection,
Face to face with an election
Which you feel is going against you and your crew,
When you have a premonition
That you’re drifting to Perdition,
What’s the wisest, and the safest, thing to do?
First, receive all deputations
As if they were close relations—
Long-lost brothers, dearly loved in days gone by !
Be as soft as milk-and-honey,
Hand ’em out the public money
(Which Posterity will mourn for by-and-bye !).
Some will want you to release men ;
Some, more money for policemen ;
Some, an increase in the Civil servants’ “ screw ” ;
Some will seek more cash for teachers,
Some, State aid for wowser preachers—
Say, “ Certainly ! And damn the I 0 U 1”
Show bonhomie, and be funny
(But be sure to grant the money,
Never bother who must find it — your dashed cares !)
Make a joke about the weather ;
Say, “ All hands must pull together
In this great crisis in the State’s affairs ! ”
Say the poor man is your neighbor,
That you “ love and honor Labor,”
That you think it is “ a high and noble cause" ;
That it “ yet may save the nation ” ;
Also, tell the deputation
You will possibly repeal obnoxious laws.
Hide the scorn and detestation
That you feel—dissimulation
Is the “joker” in the politician’s hand ;
Cease being grim, and cold and proper,
Like a sanctimonious “ copper,”
And pretend to be good-natured, gay and bland.
For threi years you may forbid them ;
For three months you have to “ kid” them —
And I do not know of any better plan.
Though your policy’s a sad one,
And your record is a bad one,
You might scrape in, so promise all you can !
In a state of vast dejection,
With an iniminent election
In which your outlook’s positively blue,
When constituents are wavering
Your only hope is havering,
So bribe ’em ! That’s my friendly tip to you.
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


m
m.
m
m
■til
' ■ *-• '
-vj.
MODEL 1 (New Construction) can be specially recommended for
its clearness of tone. Just the Piano for the drawing-room.
REMEMBER, we are SOLE AGENTS for the
Genuine RICH LIPP and SOHN PIANOS.
There is a subtle charm in
the LiPP PIANOS that cannot
be explained—but is felt by all
who hear them ; our custom-
ers seem irresistibly drawn
to them as by a magnet.
Their tone is delightfully full,
yet delicate, their touch per-
fectly balanced.
Durability is a special feature,
the material used in construc-
tion being the very best
obtainable. The Pianos are
BUILT by experts of life-long
training, and they BUILD
THEM TO LAST A LIFETIME.
We sell these Pianos with our
full guarantee and on easy
payments.
If you have an old Piano we
will take it as part payment
and allow you the highest
value for it.
Catalogues post free.
W. H. PALING <&. CO., LTD.,
And at BRISBANE
and NEWCASTLE.
338 George Street, SYDNEY.
ocKur, /lira, d
Melb?ume,S,£.
m
WVr,
%
} 4 \
/
•Jk
Ti\
\ '4' I
m.
p
'lll
n
\W
h
u
» \\ »
Ik. VI
< /
RIDINCBmCHES
TOLO BREECKEs
IS
IHITEOTLL
Castoos.
WRITE
Foe.
MEASURE
-POEMS
a
mnac
SARGENTS’
Wedding' Cakes.
i.V
3 .'V.
W®.
m
a
£
'Rsl
a
%k
s?S
¥*
«43ff a
-
WEDDING CAKE
BAKING requires
more than usual care.
SARGENTS' Head Baker
has a knowledge of the
proper selecting and blending
of ingredients which pro-
duces cakes that excel all
others. Whenever you want
a cake for Wedding, Birth-
day, Christening, or other
special occasions, we will
make it according to your
orders, in one, two or three
tiers, but all alike in one
respect —deliciousness of taste.
Prices are most reasonable.
Pastry, Meat
Pies and
Apple Pies
a Speciality.
Sargents’ Ltd
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High-Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
(’Phone—Office, 3559;
Cafe, 1876 j Catering:, 4250),
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St.
(’Phone, City, 1344).


f/
CHARLES "
HEIDSIECK’S
CHAMPAGNE
NE PLUS ULTRA,
Both men and women who are prematurely
grey will be glad to know of the Hygeia Individual
Treatment, which absolutely cures premature greyness
without using any stain or dye whatever. This letter
is from one of the many grateful patients who are
constantly writing their praise of the good results
obtained from it.
A New South Wales gentleman, whose hair was falling
very badly and going quite grey, though he was only
25, after just three months’ treatment, writes :—
“My hair is changing color very nicely now, only a
few hajrs come out at washing; there is a nice, new
growth all over, and the whole of it is a beautiful
bright brown. Please send so and so.”—J. P., Singleton,
New South Wales.
The President may be consulted, free of charge, any day
but Saturday, between 2.15 and 4.45, and on Wednesday
between 6 and 7. Those who wish to know more about
this treatment and cannot call, may write, enclosing 3d.
8tamps for booklet and many more testimonials, to the
President, Dept. B., Hygeia Limited, Ocean House,
Moore Street, Sydney.*
afore l starts ter milk the
cow 1 lights th’ fire fer th’ cook,
an’ by th’ time I’m done she
has a cup o’ tea ready—l don’t
know nothin’ as goes down so
natural like as a cup o’ tea early
in th’ mornin’.
Ro bur’s th’ best tea ye can
get —th’ grocer’s chap told me
so, an’ 1 agrees with him, an’
so does th’ boss, and he’s a’
analyser! an’ knows if any-
body does.
The Handy Man
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, Mat 24, 1910.
Mt Peak A hint, —
The district nursing scheme has got a firm hold
on our returning Countess; and at Fremantle she
bpgan to talk about her pet plan ere yet the screw
of the Osterley had ceased churning. It is a good
scheme, and one that ought to go. The problem
is: Here are so many sick women ; here are so
many trained nurses. How can we get those
nurses to the help of those sick women ? The ob-
jection raised when Lady Dudley was having a
preliminary pow-wow about her plan, previous to
hurrying to England, chiefly meant that the
nurses were not “dispoged” to put in the day
crafting in the kitchen and the night nursing in
the bedroom. But that is not an insuperable
obstacle, though it appears to be the only hostile
plea put forward by the Devil’s advocate. With
a yawn—for the subject is not thrilling—yours
truly humbly submits that the nurse herself would
see to that obstacle. If she allowed herself to be
put upon—well, on her own head be it ! Therefore,
if the women of Australia can wake up sufficiently
to put themselves wise to this district nursing
scheme, they will find that it is sound and sensible.
When the flags either fluttered to the mast-
heads or were furled altogether on Saturday, and
the gloomsters decided to relax somewhat, things
took a turn for the better. A crop of first-nights
was the first sign of convalescence. The theatre
zone burst into brightness. Motors lined the
kerbs in glittering array. The flash of brilliant
hues showed that colored theatre coats were not
tabooed, though the dressing in Town Hall and
theatres was still white, black and violet.
Oalv4’s concert was on the ascending scale
as to the enthusiasm. With Gasparri, the
soprano gave some scenes which went
with fervor, and her magnetism and force
woke everybody up. Her gown was the sort of
garment that every woman present realised as a
dream that wasn’t possible outside Paris, or inside
a limited pin-money allowance. It was glittering
and scaly, suggesting mermaids and such. A
gun-metal coloring was given by a coating of
finely-cut beads enmeshed in net on a moonlight
satin; the sleeves were long and ended with
tassels, and were everywhere over her dress except
on her arms. A tiny crown of the same misty
color sat upon her hair. As the glittering stuff
tailed behind and around her, she looked like a
substantial comet. A scarlet boa of flowers was
banded up amongst other items, and this, when
she put it around her neck, just gave the touch
she needed to warm the nebulous robe with a
glow. No gloves and a string of big pearls were
the punctuation to this poem of a gown. For the
“Habanera” she carried a poinsettia, and at the
end threw it away, Dr. Macarthy in the front
seats doing gallantly Don Jose’s part. Then he
handed the blood-red leaves to Mrs. Jerome’s
little girl, who was sitting near by.
Cilv4 has strong support in her two artists.
Gasparri’s singing provided a succession of thrills,
and his platform appearance quite came up to its
face-value in private life. He has a haughty
Roman face mitigated by an Italian smile.
How would he look in a toga ? He is the sort of
Italian you couldn’t presume to call a Dago.
Pianist Pintel appears to be the odd man out of
the party. After a passionate duet between
Calve and the tenor, Pintel would glide on and
play his piano pieces in a kind of lonesome way.
Born in Russia, but educated in Paris, Jacques
Pintel, the pianist of the Calve concerts, is an
interesting youth to chat withal. He would not
live in Russia; he loves the country but hates its
“goings on.” Russian music he thinks the most
expressive of emotion of any school. You can get
the sorrow of the serfs and students, the melan-
choly of hopeless revolt, and the quick, resilient
temperament of the Slavs in the Russian music,
be says. Rachmaninoff is, seemingly, the best-
known Russian composer amongst musical Mel-
bourne and Sydney folk, and, according to Mr.
Pintel, we couldn’t hear a better interpreter
of the Slav all round than the gentle-
man whose name I can only spell once
on my present salary. The pianist, who speaks
excellent English, gave a picturesque impression
of his first Sunday in Sydney. “I wandered
about,” he said, vaguely. “When I was inside,
I wished to be outside ; and when I was outside,
I wished to be inside. Oh, what a day of gloom ! ”
He studied in the Paris Conservatoire, and learnt
his piano-playing from de Beriot, whose father
was the great violinist and his mother Mali bran,
sister of old Manuel Garcia and aunt of Yiardot
Garcia, whose death was cabled last week. So
his surroundings have made for good music.
“Carreno? ’’ said Mr. Pintel, reverently. “Oh,
she is superb. She is one of the great pianists of
the world.” No nasty professional jealousy
there, was there ? Talking of the different
schools: “ There is only one really bad school of
piano-playing. And that, as de Bohain said to
Heine about writing, is the boresome school.”
How fashionable jet is in the hair now ! So
many women banded their tresses with it for
Calvb’s concert. The favorite way is to have a
knobby snood wound in and out among the hair.
It is not pretty, much too heavy for a hair adorn-
ment, unless the locks are undeniably golden.
Jet as a trinket presents no allurement for the
brunette. A dark woman, topped with jetty
knobs and hung with glittering black necklace
and earrings, looks like the ghost of the coal
strike. Jet is 011I3’ for the fair-haired and snowy-
skinned type of beauty.
“ Pete,” at the Criterion, was blessed with a
full house for the opening. Matheson Lang was
hailed as “Pete” by the gods, and as Pete he
made a neat speech. It is not a dressy drama,
and Miss Hutin Britton, as Kitty, makes her chief
effect in pink print and white muslin. A pink
sunbonnet hanging round her neck by its ribbon
reveals her raven’s-wing black hair done up in
a becoming queue. It is a very fat queue, and
women in the audience with similar hair were, on
Saturday night, rather dubious about that queue.
“I know by mv own hair, dear; such a lot
goes to make a tail like that.” The baby comes
back from the christening such a vision” of lace
and frillery as to suggest that the time-payment
system is flourishing in Man. No sailor could pay
spot cash for those baby clothes. A description
of guests’ dresses would not tax the society re-
porter, being chiefly print frocks, sweaters," top
boots, bare arms and head shawls. Pete, in blue
cloth clothes, sweater and sea boots, looks manly
enough, and makes all the women in the theatre
envious of Kitty for owning the one who wears
the get-up. Jennie Pollock’s head-shawl becomes
her well. This head-dress would be a boon if sported
by our own damsels on their homeward way from
“doin’ a bit o’ graft” in city factories, instead of
the “cloche” hats stabbed through and through
by bloodthirsty hatpins that gleam around the
crown like bayonets in a charge. Jennie Pollock,
as the maid, need never be out of a place. When
Pete and Kitty are done with her, any mistress
would gladly snap her up and let her name her
own wages.
The mere sight of a stage Mary Jane wakes a
pang of longing in the breast of many a would-be
“Missis” who can’t obtain the needful help
literally for love or money. The dearth has
entered a new phase. The trouble now is that
visitors should be treated as extras and paid for
accordingly. “Must I wait at table ?” inquired an
alleged house and parlor maid. “ Certainly,” was
the reply of the hopeful employer. “Many
dinner guests ? ” was the next shaft. “ Ye-yes, a
good many,” faltered the “lydy.” “Oh, well,
the place wouldn’t suit me,” was the dictum. “ I
don’t mind waiting on you, but I wouldn’t wait
on everybody.” Sometimes a pact is made that,
for every visitor after whom “washing-up” has
to be done, a shilling extra is to be paid the
hireling. Dinner parties will soon become un-
popular at that rate. It will be cheaper to take
the casual dinner-bore to the nearest restaurant
and feed him d la carte.
To meet Mr. and Mrs. Matheson Lang, Miss
Julia Glasheen (the Daily Telegkaph’s social
scribe) invited several persons, interesting and
otherwise, to a tea party at the Australia on
Monday afternoon. Lions are plentiful this
season, and many roared gently over their tea in
the winter garden annexe, among them being Miss
Kathleen Grey, Jacques Pintel, and Julius
Knight. It was a pleasant little party, for the
Lang-Britton couple’s social talent is as well
developed as their acting capacity.
The proper way to wear a velvet gown is shown
by Miss Ethel Warwick in “The Third Degree,”
now running at the Royal; wherein, likewise, the
correct shade of black that goes with a man’s
evening suit is displayed by Julius Knight. Two
valuable sartorial hints in the same play—this is
generous treatment on the part, of the manage-
ment, for nothing extra is charged for the informa-
tion. Miss Warwick glides gracefully about in
black velvet, relieved with bright pink touches,
while the sombre hue of the swallow-tails of
Julius makes the other man’s coat look pale
black. Miss Grey wears continually the “tailor
suit” of the woman who means business. “The
Third Degree” is quite American. No little
Howard Jeffrieses run around the hero’s flat. The
whole moral of the play hangs on that fact. If
Mr. and Mrs. Howard Jeffries, jun., had had a
family, he couldn't have stayed out of work. He
would have had a job long before the play opens,
and would have had no time to become inebriated
in Underwood’s front parlor. Also, he couldn’t
have had enough money to do it on. Children
keep their parents out of much mischief.
Anxious to make the most of our brief winter,
the Glaciarium opened itself on Thursday after-
noon to a discreetly invited crowd of skaters and
lookers-on. The band played something that was
not a Dead March—which was an innovation in
the funereal week—and skaters glided around on
the clean glassy floor, which was “fruz” extra-hard,
or looked so because it had not been cut up by
many skates. Manager Dunbar Poole was in his
usual calm form. During our summer D. Poole
flies to northern climes and skates on the fields of
ice in Scandinavia with princesses and duchesses
and such. Quite a magnate in the world that
skates is Manager Dunbar. The crowd on the
ice was sombre, and the girls wisely kept to the
short pleated skirt. One or two of the new
strapped-in skirts merely served as shocking ex-
amples of what should not be worn when rinking.
A few children were on the ice. It is a lovely
frivol for youngsters—if dad’s income can stand
the strain, for the amusement soon runs up a tidy
little account. Hence the high-toned nature of
the gathering any day at “ the ice.” Most of the
Sydney girls who have taken up the rinking craze
have developed the mania badly, and they were
there on opening day. Miss Burdekin, the two
Anderson girls, “Sammy” Moore’s daughters,
Mrs. Rich and her little son, a bevy with Mrs.
Harry Levy, and the two Turland girls (one is
shortly to be married to a scion of the Hugh
Dixson family) were among the experts.
Weeping skies, gloomy, shrouded streets, and a
company more or less in the trappings and the
suits of woe—these things in no wise quenched
the sparkle of the Charvan-Leverrier wedding,
at St. Patrick’s Church and afterwards at Petty’s,
on Wednesday, the 18th. Among the guests
“our lively neighbor, the Gaul,” as Mr.
Micawber used to call him, figured largely, and
lent immense verve and gaiety to the proceedings,
so that this knot-tying stands out as the most
brilliant function of its kind held in Sydney for
many a day. .The gifted Yvonne made a poetic-
looking bride ; she managed her court train with
an easy grace as though half a dozen yards of
satin and an acre or so of tulle billowing behind
her were her daily wear. Even on ordinary
occasions Yvonne’s expression is so spirituelle
and her manner so delicately detached and aloof
that one can’t imagine her wrestling with the
hard facts of Mary Ann’s day out or a callous
butcher’s imposition of sole-leather for fillet.
But, after a romantic honeymoon at the New
Hebrides, these newly-weds will settle in Paris,
where the rough places of domesticity are made
smooth and and the crooked ways of servant gal-
ism plain.
The bridegroom’s little speech was in French,
which made the plain and unvarnished Australians
present think hard till he arrived at the word
“bridesmaids”—something thej’ knew and greeted
with applause. The confectioner threw a great
deal of expression and poetry, along with other
ingredients, into the wedding cake. “Cleo”
wishes Yvonne and her newly-acquired husband
Men dcs choses, meillcurs souhaits, and in plain
English, good luck.
The Brompton Oratory, London, was the scene
of the Doriner-Toohey wedding, when Josey
Toohej' was wedded to the cousin of a real live
lord. Miss Eileen Toohev, the bride’s sister, was
one of the bridesmaids, and the subsequent rejoic-
ings were held at the very swagger Hyde Park
Hotel. Mrs. Toohey, step-mother of the two
girls and of brother Maurice, was the hostess.
One of the clergy, Abbot Egan, is Mrs. Toohey’s
brother, and he and another priest were there to see
that the knot was well and truly tied. The Sydney
home of Mrs. Toohey and her step-children
is one of the show places of Wahroonga. But the
family are seldom there. When they are there,
Mrs. Toohey is given to inviting celebrities for
week-end parties. They are very well-known
celebrities, as a rule, and their telephone bell
ceaseth not day nor night. (You can gauge a
woman’s social importance by the number of
times she is rung up during the 24 hours.) Mrs.
Toohey, a distinguished-looking dame with white
hair, has been a social trier for years, and now
she has climbed into the seats of the mighty. Hot
long ago there was some talk about making the
Wahroonga house over to the Government as a
vice-regal residence instead of Cranbrook; but
an official located so far from the madding
crowd might feel that he was shelved altogether
so the project was “off.”
A Sydney girl has just got engaged to a man she
has never seen. He lives in America. The
acquaintance began through a post-card exchange,
a medium of international correspondence which
was started with thesplendid intention of making
all men brothers, and seems likely, anyhow, to
make some of them brothers-in-law. Postcards
led to letters, and letters to photographs. The
Sydney girl now wears the American’s picture
around her neck, and reads the less torrid sections
of his letters to her friends. Everything is fixed—
the date of the marriage, the number of brides-
maids, the maiden’s bridal costume; even, I
believe, the precise brand of fizz that is to be
absorbed at the breakfast.
News of a wedding soon to be celebrated in
Palmerston (Maoriland) comes to hand. The
bridegroom will be Mr. Ernest Hoben, formerly
of Sydney, now editor of the Palmerston North
Thunderer, and the bride Miss Imrie, who
writes for Mr. Hoben’s paper, as well as the
Wellington Post, which she has been represent-
ing in the Commonwealth. The marriage is fixed
for the beginning of June.
Two interesting engagements have just been
announced. Miss Fanny Gwendoline Friend,
who lately lived at Greenknowe, one of the
prettiest Potts Point houses, is to marry an army
man. Major Archibald Koe. Miss Flora Gordon,
of Kainilaroi, Darling Point, is engaged to Mr.
Geo. P. Sayers, of North Sydney.
Darling Point is depressed. There was a
rumor abroad that Archbishop Wright was
coming to live at Glanworth. But the Church did
not bid high enough, and the old house (formerly
the property of the late John Watson, M.L.C.)
has just been bought by and is being rebuilt for
that commercial Macpherson who married Miss
Florrie Carter, a Darling Point belle. How
I)arling Pointers chop and change, by the way !
The modern inhabitant of the Point travels and
lets his house to an adjacent friend who wants a
larger house for entertaining. The friend, in
turn, lets to another Pointer. Others are in
their houses temporarily while new ones are
being built. One D.P. couple have been married
25 years and moved 26 times.
Here is a bit of good news. Pockets are to be
revived. In the new skirts there are places where
the pocket may lurk unseen, and pursue its modest
but useful career without bulging the contour of
the frock. Bags will pot be so indispensable, and
cutpurses will mourn ; but their profession has
become too common to be pleasant of late. The
trick probably formed a few cells of that “ honey-
comb ” of crime we heard about lately. One recent
window-gazer found that she was holding the
handles of her bag, the bag itself having been deftly
cut off. With the less obvious pocket to search
for, the cutpurse’s lot will become harder than it
is at present.
Your “ Akenehi ” post-carded this office from
Townsville on her way to Java. Beyond a rave
about the comet, which filled three cards, she had
little news, and that is always the best news.
The sea was like glass, and the stewardess a
Mascotte. She was born with a caul, and hits
been in her time stewardess on board the Elinga-
mite, the Nemesis and the Bega, all of which were
lost —after she had left them. Therefore, pas-
sengers have that safe feeling on any vessel now
if that stewardess is on the ship’s articles.
Beatrice Day was seen about Sydney of late.
This clever actress was studying “ Pete ” for the
purpose of producing it in Maoriland, whence she
has departed with a co. on tour.
The Royal Commission on Divorce, sitting in
London, collects, as it goes on, some valuable
opinions on the subject. “ Fear of publicity ”is
shown by most witnesses to be the great force
that keeps injured married persons from seeking
relief in the Divorce Court. The “show-
ing tip” in the papers is too painful to
sensitive souls, who prefer to suffer in
silence. "Keep out the details” is the general
request. Publication does harm to business
men, shopkeepers, hotelkeepers. Hotel people
are asserted to lie freely when asked to identify a
photo, or recollect incidents. It is very natural,
because it does their hotel harm. On the other
hand, the publicity does an immense amount of
good, because the dread of it keeps some folk
straight. “Thou shalt not be found out” is a
rigorously-kept commandment. Dr. Johnson, as
the great divorce authority, still holds good,
in spite of women’s emancipation. Samuel held
that the wife’s infidelity was a greater crime
against society than the husband’s, because the
woman can deceive the man as to the paternity of
her children. After all, nothing more sensible
has been put forward concerning divorce than this
remark from Boswell, since the day it was uttered.
Divorce is of serious import to the State only as it
concerns the children of the divorced couple.
“ One man one family ” is the State’s notion of
conjugal morality. With the loves and hates of
the individual John and Jane it has absolutely no
concern.
Miss Muriel Matters, the young woman who
was chained to the grille in the House of Com-
mons, has arrived in Perth and started lecturing.
She will come on here afterwards and tell us some
of her adventures in trying to get votes for
women. A lady who has been chained up in
Parliament, flown over London in an airship, been
in gaol and toured in a gipsy van should have
adventures galore to tell of. A South Australian
by birth, Miss Matters went off to join the
militant suffragettes in 1905.
A new College of Elocution was opened on
Saturday evening, when about 150 persons assisted
at the revel which celebrated the event. Walter
Bentley and Douglas Anceton are the directors of
the new school, which is housed at 109 Phillip-
street. Walter Bentley, William Holman and
Ellis Price recited, and the entertainment was
livened by the songs of Phil Newbury, Brookes
and H. De Lissa, and the instrumental music of
Lily Delaney, M. E. Price, Torzillo and A.
Tschaikov. Many alleged “colleges” resolve
themselves, on exploration, into one small room
and a dark entrance hall; but this Bentley enter-
prise possesses several apartments, and a large
hall for the display of the results of the teaching.
Yours, as of old,
CLEO.
“ Pintle ” : When the Commonwefilth
Navigation Bill is launched a clause should go in
to prevent the captain of a vessel being the ship’s
providore. Ido not know of an Australian instance!
at present, though there have been some in the
past (not very distant past either); but I know
more than one British steamer trading to Aus-
tralia in which the skipper runs the cupboard.
There was a big tank lying near us recently at
Bunbury (W.A.) whose skipper was allowed
Is. 6d. a day per man to feed the crew, and she
was a hungry ship. The officers and crew were
praying to get back to the home port so that they
could raise a dust. But I’ll bet they don’t raise
half the dust the old man will.
Then the fingers of a man’s hand wrote
over against the wall: —
April 13. —Darling Harbor: J. P. Cochran (Labor), 1592 ;
H. E. Kelly (Liberal), 164.
April 13.—Northumberland : W. Kearsley (Labor), un-
opposed.
April 13. —Queanbeyan : J. J. Cusack (Labor), 2090 ;
H. A. Beegling (Liberal), 1939.
Ditto.—Upper Hunter : W. G. Ashford (Labor), 2366 ;
J. H. F. Waller (Liberal), 1977.
May 21. Belmore : P. J. Minahan (Labor), 1559 ; G. T.
Clarke (Liberal), 525.
And Belshazzar Wade’s thoughts troubled him so
that his knees smote one against another, and he
sent for his chief seer to read the sign. And the
chief seer read it as follows: “Belshazzar, thou
art sent for.”


HARDY
BROTHERS
MMl’fBD
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
RY APPOINTMENT
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
“THE EMPIRE.”
This Solid Silver Hand
Mirror illustrates one
of the many new
designs in Hand-
Engraved Toilet
Requisites.
INSPECTION INVITED.
sdg
Hardy Brothers, Ltd., have just issued
A NEW LARGE CATALOGUE,
containing' over 900 illustrations of the latest designs of up-
to-date goods in every department of their extensive busi-
ness. Posted free of charge on application to any address.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
The Ever-Increasing Popularity of the
FEURICH PIANO
is shown in the vast number that are
being sold. The FEU RICH is an
instrument that gives unbounded satis-
faction wherever introduced. There is
a subtle charm about the exquisite tone
of the FEUR I C H that instantly
appeals to all Musicians.
We will be pleased to show and discuss
THE FEURICH PIANO
with you at any time.
MODERATE EXTENDED PAYMENTS ARRANGED.
OLD INSTRUMENTS TAKEN IN PART PAYMENT.
SOLE AGENTS:—
NICHOLSON 8 CO. LIMITED
542 George Street, Sydney; and at Newcastle.
m
y
*
“5
SSI
its
sags
Aleock Billiard
Tables Excel.
Consult any competent judge of billiard tables, and he’ll
promptly tell you that there are no tables equal to “ Alcock’s.”
Many of the leading billiard matches have been played on
these tables —the last that with George Gray v. Fred Lindrum,
jun., when Gray scored 836, 831 coming off the red, making a
world’s record, for which Gray recently received a gold medal.
This score is but an example of the marvellous accuracy and
perfect construction of our billiard tables.
Each table is fitted with Imperial Low Cushions, and
bears our trade mark.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALCOCK 8? CO. Fty. Ltd.
397 George St., Sydney; 114 Edvards St., Brisbane; Lower Cuba St., Wellington
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne; 7 King William St., Adelaide; Murray St., Perth
THe
/2r
ROYAL MERCEDES
THE ROYAL MERCEDES.
(The Exclusive Car)
Owned by every Crowned
Head in Europe, and the
Nobility of the World.
The MERCEDES Car is
known by everyone to stand
by itself, and is without
doubt the finest ear money
can buy. Year in and year
out it sets the fashion to the
motoring world. If you want
the best car that money can
buy, well there is only one
car for you, and remember
that although the Mercedes
is by far the most expensive
car in the world, we sell them
for less than other cars of the
same power on the market
here. Why? because we are
satisfied with a fair profit.
B.S.A. CARS (Birmingham Small Arms Co.)
Undoubtedly the very best English car manufactured. The firm who manufacture these cars have a world-
famous reputation for workmanship and quality of material used in the manufacture of their products.
S. C. A. T. (Societa Ceirano Automobili Torino)
The Italian car that is designed and manufactured by that motor genius Ceirano, and the only car in
the world that has a reliable pneumatic self-starter and tyre inflater. See the new 15-h.p. S.C.A.T.
before deciding on a car.
THE “COMMER” COMMERCIAL CAR.
British-made, the most substantial, powerful and economical motor lorry made, owned by most of the
leading firms in England ; and all firms that have bought these ears have given repeat orders. We can
prove to intending purchasers that the COMMER is doing work without the slightest hitch that many
other Commercial cars have broken down at. Call and see us and have the COMMER shown you.
The Reliable DAYTON MOTOR BUGGY.
A Motor Car on buggy wheels, 20-h.p. 2-c.vlinder water-cooled engine, dual ignition, Bosh magneto.
We only ask you to see and try the DAYTON before deciding. If you will do this, we have your order.
Motor Body Building Department
We would like the trade, and everyone interested in this
elass of work, to inspect our up-to-date plant of machinery
and factory. We are in a position to turn out the best
work at the lowest cost, and in the shortest time. Give
us your orders for this class of work ; we guarantee to
give you satisfaction.
MOTOR lES LIMITED,
280 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Tel. 4902 Central. Body Building Dept., 470 Paddington.
COMMERCIAL CARS,
LTD.,
4IV
See the CHALLENGE REINFORCED INNER TUBE. It prevents blow-outs, and aNows of old blown-out
and discarded covers to be used. By usingr them you will reduce your tyre bill by more than half.
CAPILLARINE the moustache producer
&
©
A Moustacheless Man is at a Disadvantage.
Your too-youthful appearance has lost many a rise in position and
salary. You can alter that NOW ! CAPILLARINE will produce for
a certainty a strong:, permanent moustache, where at present you can
show only a little “down.” Send for a jar to-day—it is undetectable
in use—a little rubbed in each night is all that is required.
10/6 per Jar.
Posted in Plain racket to
Any Address in the World.
Craig' & Aitken, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years.
a
r*


1
Quality
Wins
Confidence”
And thousands of dis-
criminating women are
realising the wondrous
beauty and finish of
the Famous French
Royal
Q
Rustless Corsets
Graceful Carriage —Suppleness of Figure
and the Preservation of those lines
of Beauty indispensable to particular
women—these essentials to attractive-
ness are assured to the wearers of these
celebrated Corsets. Each pair perfect
in fit —faultless in workmanship.
“ASK YOUR DRAPER!”
TRADE
MARK
SQVJftPE -TREAD
mm
m mm \ wmm
m&m
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, May 23, 1910.
My Dear Yarrik, —
The Federal Memorial Service of Black Friday
was tremendously impressive. Picture to yourself
people clad in black and purple massed decorously
on every inch of the great grey steps of Parlia-
ment House; a black-roped gangway leading up
to the centre group of blazing uniforms ; and the
white-robed chaplain intoning the solemn “earth
to earth” in a voice that was audible at the
extreme edges of the vast silent crowd and be-
yond. A rigid line of. Guards hemmed in the
elect on the steps. Against the heavy stone balus-
trade, at the foot of the steps, khaki-clothed volun-
teers were pressed like a stretch of tawny desert
sand ; beyond the khaki a strip of scarlet (the
Scottish) glowed warmly, and then the eye rested
on the black and purple crowd of 80,000 all packed
within the one square.
The color scheme was a thing for a stage-
manager to gloat over. High above all towered
the great grey pillars of the House; the black
cloth drapings hung from the great fagade as from
the face of a precipice. The scene only wanted
music; when the Marche Funebre roiled out,
with the exactitude of massed military bands, the
thing was complete.
The troops marched to the service with muffled
drums, as to an ordinary military burying. They
left crashing out their most inspiriting marches
and with the crape torn from the guns. It is so
to hearten the men.
The loyalty, or else the curiosity, of the Quan-
tity there was forcibly impressed on the Quality
when the invited ones tried to reach their re-
served seats on the steps of the House. Direc-
tions for entrance were given explicitly ; but how
to burrow to that entrance was the problem that
checked all but the earliest arrivals. Hours before
the time fixed for the ceremony the people had
blocked every entrauce to the square. Bourke-
street was an impregnable fortress—Collins-street
was choked. To drive right round the eastern
suburb and back to the House Gardens was the only
solution. The unfortunate Quality who were afoot
mostly grew hot and dishevelled, pushing the
crowd about, before they found out that much for
themselves. Passes had no effect; busy police-
men only looked helpless and unhappy, and the
crowd merely laughed at their occasional futile
efforts, and hustled them in the good-tempered
way crowds have. It scarcely improved chimney-
pot hats, frock coats and millinery. Tempers
everywhere were in shreds. The Quality does
not deal in philosophy when it encounters
humanity compressed.
The Grand, opposite, was guarded like a prison;
watchful officials stood by doors, lift and stairs,
and played sentinels outside locked drawing-room
doors to protect themourning “parties”on the vari-
ous balconies. ManagerHoldenand his pretty wife
had an elevated party—a most decorously elevated
party on a second floor balcony, with tea to
follow. But the levity of all was stilled by the
Man with the Voice—the military chaplain who
spread out his surpliced arms and blessed the
Dead. Even the frivolity of the Grand Hotel
loungers was subdued ; and the gossips drooped
back to their places crushed.
In the crowd that quietly and good-naturedly
crushed and squashed round the steps,
women were fainting in a wholesale manner.
Something between 80,000 and 100,000 people,
however quiet, can do some elephantine crushing
when penned up in so small a place. One girl of
14 or so had her dress completely torn off her;
not a shred remained. A fatherly policeman
hastily covered her shoulders with a potato bag
or something similar, and led her down the
passage-way left free for the Governors’ carriages.
Dudley and Carmichael arrived together in
a decorous closed-in “broom,” and departed in
the open-air of a landau. Four advance riders
and four post-riders, followed by a mounted
guard of honor, overshadowed the small, dose
carriage that had footmen with lovely white-
tighted legs and black tail-coats hopping on and
off it like performing dogs. They were real foot-
men—the sort that drop with the carriage almost
at full speed, and are waiting alertly at the door
to collect cloaks and rugs the instant it stops.
Lord Dick Nevill was with the two gorgeous
.Personages.
The Countess is back again. Instead of the
darling twins, she has brought out another con-
tingent of relatives from Fogland. When the
lady departed from these shores, ’twas given out
that she was going home for the babies because
life was not worth living without them. As the
chicks have been left in London, the return visit
will presumably be a short one.
The* Best lady hasn’t lost sight of her political
salon scheme. After her most strenuous campaign
at the elbow of her Confused Knight, she intends
to drop out of social things for a time and take
the rest cure. But the political tea meetings are
merely postponed. The Bests have bought a
farm and a darling house out among the rural
beauties of Balwyn, and have left Caulfield and
the Orotava house. As soon as they shake down
into new quarters, and feel happily housed again,
the dainty, energetic fair lady intends to get to
work on her salon in real earnest. A local hall
will be engaged so that everyone will have room
to fluff and rustle whilst absorbing delectably-
served fillets of politics. The lady’s continued
enthusiasm is most commendable; she has had so
much to suppress, working among the fickle,
fashionable sensation-seekers, who are as hard to
catch and handle as butterflies or thistledown.
The big guns of the Army Challenge Club Re-
gatta—it took three inches of type to set forth the
names and titles of the guns—Asked Sassiety to an
At Home at the Engineers’ depdt on the river on
Saturday. But something horribly mysterious
happened. There was no notification that the
affair was postponed or cancelled or missing, and
the boat-race itself was rowed. Nevertheless
Quality, arriving in decorous garb, could find none
of the three inches .of hosts to whom it could
politely report itself arrived. A few faint-looking
military creations hovered in a worried way about
the Yarra bank, and murmured disjointedly that
“ Colonel Stanley would be back in a minute”;
and a large military band did its best
to deafen any coherent talk. Still, except for the
vague, nigbtmare-ish worry of not being able to
discover the basis of the At Home or the party that
purported to be At Home, things were passable.
The public schools were having their boat-races on
the selfsame bend of the Yarra, and they.*were
making the day lively.
The schools’ mothers and aunts, with regiments
of precocious school-misses, crammed the banks
joyously. “ Scotch ” had the pipers playing, and
there were other bands at intervals blowing
themselves into apoplexy to smash the military
band of the Ghost party. “Wesley” and “Gee-
long Grammar” and the “English Grammar”
and all the rest of them were flaunting colors and
Bursting themselves in a gorgeous blow-out. The
14-vear-olds of high society had comman-
rl»*pv(*rl the family motor chariot for the after-
noon, and Chauff. dashed them up in car-loads
waving their favored school colors. Such a
descent of young, bright faces, and the flaming of
weeds not black and purple, was a relief in this
King-moaning city. The pale blue of a winning
crew after the race made a glory; motors flung
blue banners to the breeze, and girls made pen-
nantsof sea-blue ribbon. Therefore did the militia-
invited party have a goodly time despite that its
own show was but a wraith. Possibly the “guns”
had been eating of the funeral meats the day
before and had forgotten the postponement cards
in their indigestion.
Talking of funeral meats. One ridiculous tuck-
shop sported a special cake in its show place. The
cake was iced in purple and banded with black,
and buried in its surface was a portrait of the
King..- Assuredly the chef thought the people
would eat the bread of sorrow.
Mrs. Colonel Ryan came in black, beneath an
amazing hat. Mrs. Captain Waters (once your 1
pretty Enid Whiting, of Sydney) glowed in grey
and mixed furs. “ Mixed furs” is a new keynote
in fashionable symphonies; in this case it was
squirrel and ermine—the rustic and the royal.
Captain Waters was at the hunt, and baby
Waters, aged four, was riding with him. Mrs.
Captain Hall tried to help hubby to look like a
regiment full of officers. Captain Curly Crespin
eschewed uniform, and folded black suede gloves
over the equator of his green overcoat. Dolly
Clegg ran about like a little tabby cat in squirrel
cap and mufflings over a black sheath. Mrs.
Stuart-Murray carried half an ounce of dog—real
dog; the barky kind. The new muff is growing
to alarming proportions. One woman brought
along a laundry bag of panne velvet—-and looked,
supremely happy.
The Small Boy lives eternal in the Fatmen of
the Stock Exchange. On Thursday the members
were assembled for the morning: “call,” which, I am
informed, is an impressive rite that belongs only
to Exchanges. Approaching mid-day one of the
Baillieux called on Mr. President to note that in a
few moments the comet’s tail would envelop the
earth. Just then came a crash, and the smell of
singeing and sulphur climbed into the atmosphere.
For one brief moment the weighty assemblage
half-believed that the worst had happened. But
it was merely the Joke. The small boy, unsup-
pressed even in the envelopment of Fat, had put
a harmless bomb under the President’s chair.
There is a movement to commemorate Janet
Lady by erecting a pagoda, most likely at the
back of the Immigrants’ Home, on the St. Kilda-
road. The City Council will have-the heathenish
affair in its hands, and the idea is to make it use-
ful as a band-stand.
At the meeting the other day a committee was
formed to get the late Jennings Carmichael’s
three laddies out of the cold English workhouse,
and set them on their feet in Australia. Henry
Gyles Turner is chairman and L. F. S. Robinson,
of Selborrie-chambers, Chancery-lane, is the sec. ;i
and contributions will not be a bother to either of
them. The committee wants to raise about £120.,
A fourth of it is in hand, and Jennings Car-
michael’s verse ought to be well enough remem-'
bered to charm the other three-fourths into the;
committee’s purse.
Hugh Ward is bringing laughter to people who
are tired of depression and mourning. Grace
Palotta is at her happiest in the two-sided part —
the decorous wife of a Judge and the girl of the
Rector razzle. Bhe can look as demure as an
angel or an iceberg, and then in five minutes turn
into a beautifully-gowned Champagne Charlotte.
She has a new dress added to her earlier triumphs.
It is the color of desert sand, and it clings ; then
comes a faint-gold raggy overdress, hung with
jellyfish Or seaweed or something, and a mer-
maid-green band wound in her flatly-swathed
hair. The township where the scenes rush to
when they are not in New York is Battle Creek.
Here there is a wedding with a telling touch just!
stippled in. The “relations” arrive. They are,
ivery quiet and have few lines, but they are so
obviously “relations.” They turn up in every-
body’s house at some time, at a burying or a
marrying ; then drift off to unknown seas. These
“relations” in the Hugh Ward show have all the
detached look of the species—a criticising, sniffing,
detached look. They don’t seem to belong to the
place or the people any more than barnacles do
to a ship.
Hugh Ward has a small part; he has given it
to himself apparently for the pure joy of creating.
So he has worked up this lugubrious, eccentric
Professor creature until be has a Dickens-like
flavor.
Freddie Beard—that sad dog of a bachelor —is
to wave a matinee baton over the Victorian
Festival Choir and the Victorian Professional
Orchestra for an outburst on Saturday. Elgar’s
“ King Olaf ” is the principal theme of exposition,
and Governors and Right Honorables head the
list of patrons and to-be-presents.
The Victorian Professional Orchestra gave its
first concert on Thursday,afternoon, with Alberto
Zelman conducting. In the Marshall Hall or-
chestra much amateur talent has latterly been
taking up the chairs and crowding the profes-
sionals, whose Union rule forbids them to join
with the non-unionists in making music. The
Professional Orchestra is made up of people
who make their living by making melody. There
will be a cycle of conductors, of whom Mr.
Zelman is the first. The concert—a matinee—was
held in the Town Hall, and drew a splendid house)
which heard a fine programme of purely classical
music. Just at the beginning there was a certain
thinness, but it will probably tone up in time
with more work. Schraeder and Weston, two
splendid old-timers in orchestral violin work, are
solidly in the fore.
A recent discussion in “Poverty Point” re-
garding Miss Grey’s dressing in “The Lion and
the Mouse” brings up many things. It’s a
temeritous subject for man to approach. There
is a play called “Captain Jinks,” written by
Clyde Fitch for Miss Ethel Barrymore, in which
the central figure is an actress. In one scene she
is interviewedby a pressman. “You won’t forget
to mention my 42 trunks of dresses,” murmurs
the enchanting heroine. “Why,” ejaculates the
reporter, “Adelina Patti had only three trunks !”
“Oh,” snorts the fluffy heroine, “she had to
depend on her voice.”
Norah Delaney, a clever girl who won the
musical scholarship of the Royal Academy of
London and went along to the Smoke to follow
up the triumph, sends a joyful coo-ee. She says
Mr. and Mrs. Hinton (Mrs. Hinton was Katharine
Goodson) are “bucking her up” a good bit, and
that the lady is helping her in a valuable course
of work during the recess of the college
where she is studving under FitzHartvigsbn, a
man who can’t help his name, but is an eminent
pupil of Liszt’s. The Fitz gentleman has not
altered Miss Delaney’s style of technique,
and gives much praise to her Melbourne teacher,
Mr. J: Alfred Johnstone, who has written
a dozen "or so of musical books, one of which
is in use all over Australia, and has been taken up
by English musical publishers. He hails from Ire-
land and was for many years teaching at Geelong.
Now he is a cock of the roost in Melbourne, and
dashes about in a motor-car —which is very fiery
for a musician. But then his wife is a niece of
Earl Roberts.
On the deck of the outgoing Orvieto was a
charming figure in a mustard-colored gown, with
furs and toque to match. Figure, gown, mus-
tard, furs and all belonged to Miss Illingworth,
the pretty girl protegee of the Bendigo Lansells,
who splashed up a trifle of their gold on a special
train from Bendigo.
There seem to have been gay doings on the
boat that carried the Empire Meaths back to
England. In imitation of the Earl. Mrs. Meath .
also broke out into lectures. One day she dis-
coursed about Ministering Children’s Leagues, and
began by apologising for being afflicted with an
Irish name, as she happened to be really Scotch,
A second-saloon puss, discussing it acidly next
day with a friend, was horrified to see a cabin
window open and the face of Mrs. Meath appear,
livid with rage. “You unspeakable person ! I
shall talk to you in the morning!” Then the
window was slammed down, and the unhappy
second-saloonist in question swooned away in
agonised anticipation of what was to happen
to her.
“ Bob ” Horne, one of a family of doctors who
learned the beginnings of their trade at Mel-
bourne Uni.,. died the other day at Broken
Hill. All of the Hornes were athletes; one
was chopped to pieces in a row in China, yet
came back alive, only to be killed later on irt
Victoria. But, in spite of their burly youth,
they don’t make old bones. “ Bob” died at 45.
There is still one left, in practice at Clifton ; and
a sister is married to one of the Age Symes.
The little lady who used to he Ida Csborne
and is now Mrs. Amps Norcott, had a rather bad
accident lately. Returning on her bicycle—she
had been singing at the Macrow wedding recep-
tion—her machine skidded, and she was thrown
against the kerbstone. She was unconscious when
a policeman found her, and with quite rare intelli-
gence took her to Dr. Stirling's private hospital.
But she is almost past the convalescent stage,
now, thank you.
From “ Rosna,” Adelaide :
Adelaide has at least one intimate connection with the
Throne, in the person of Miss Dessan, the bright little
French woman who was guiding and governing the little
Tennysons when papa Tennyson was guiding and govern-
ing us. She went from the Tennysons to governess the
small Waleseg, and still continues that task. Miss Dessan
made several firm friends in Adelaide, and still sheds an
occasional letter among them. Once she was persuaded
to give a series of lectures in her native lip, on some
literary topic or other, at Adelaide University: and the
peerage went to them in its best hat and a profound ex-
pression, and understood quite two words of the dis-
courses.
Friday in the’city of churches was one long memorial
service. At the cathedral, their Excellencies, surrounded
by a compact body of the sub-peerage, and guarded
by the army and alleged navy, were addressed by the
Bishop, and urged to go and do as much likewise as they
could. To add to the general sorrow, a dozen or so bands
played the Dead March all together and one after
another, and they didn’t succeed in making it a dead
heat either. In the afternoon, another service packed
every available hole and corner of the Exhibition, while
all the churches and most of the town halls w ere similarly
employed. When all this grief was over the peerage went
home, hauled up its flag and played “God Save the
King.”
The British Royal College of Music speaks well of two
nighting-ales we sent it last year. Cly tie Hine, the slim
and pretty maiden of the bird-like high C’s, has worked
so well that a year’s tuition has been pressed upon her free
of shekels or other incumbrances. Clara Kleinschmidt,
of the stupendous contralto warble, has won equally
golden rhetoric front her maestros, who have pronounced
her industry and punctuality above suspicion, her dispo-
sition excellent, and her general progress scintillating.
When last heard from the S. J. Mitchells W'ere between
Calcutta and Singapore, whence they leave for S.A.’s
cream-elephant Territory. There they will dispense
justice and society till further notice. The Government
sent the ex-Attorney-General to India to look carefully
into the way wheat grows in a tropic climate, the said
elephant to benefit by his observations. And so the
journeyings have been of a somewhat warm character ;
they have consisted chiefly of tearing over experi-
mental farms by day and railroads by night. Mr.
Mitchell is convinced that wheat can grow in the Terri-
tory, and that the people who think otherwise will h&ve
to take a seat as far back as they did over Pinaroo, the
West Coast, and other “ desert ” places of South Aus.
The diamond tiara is out for a fortnight’s airing, and
the peerage is wearing it every night in the presence of
Lily Brayton and her Petruchio, Royal mourning not-
withstanding. The peerage is certain King Edwmd
would not have liked it to neglect its culture on Ins
account. In spite of slightly raised prices (a rare experi-
ment in canny Adelaide) the box-plan has been blushing
under its unaccustomed load of attention.
Rivers of rain and torrents of mud didn’t keep Adelaide
from the Literary Theatre’s first two-night outburst at
the Walkerville Hall. The first evening some 40 or
50 folk , arrived a few moments late, and found
the doors shut in their faces. A wait of 40
minutes in the damp and darkness, until the first
curtain, provoked scarcely a solitary groan of com-
plaint. The players, many of them quite youngsters,
exhibited a deal of artistry. Charles McEvoy’s brilliant
but bitter little tragedy, “His Helpmate,” was in the
hands of Wilfred Neil, who played the part of a ruined
sharebroker ; clever Maud Plunkett, who was his hard,
worldly and callous “ helpmate ” ; small Viola Byrne, an
awful spoilt little imp of boyhood ; and Muriel Craigie, a
clinging,, sentimental, very domesticated friend. The
longer Galsworthy play, “The Silver Box,” had one or
two brilliant slices among generally commendable acting.
Violet Matthews, as the broken-spirited, miserable, meek
Mrs. Jones, the charwoman, took the whole palm planta-
tion ; and Leslie McDonald played the irresponsible, weak,
shielded Barthwick junior to the life. Ivy Stacey, a little
damsel still in short frocks, macje the small part of the
bold, bad, unknown lady shine afar.
Mr. Henry “ Anlaby ” Dutton walks on air and
trails shining clouds of glory behind him. He has
been elected a member of the Royal Yacht Squad-
ron at Cowes. This is the institution which “pills” Sir
Tummas Lipfeoti every year or so—for the sole reason, so
far as can be gathered, that he made' his money “in
trade ” Mr. Dutton has sailed every Governor he could
find, and now the Dudley Excellence, having proposed
him for membership to the haughtycratic squadron, and
our own Admiral Ex. having put in a good word for him,
he has got his reward.
Cattle-monarch Kidman’s two elder daughters are
seeking a new sensation. The other day, you may recall,
they went to Britain to buy Miss Kidman’s wedding frills,
there being no shops in wild Australia. Now, bfck in
this untamed country, they are going to turn buShmen
and ride from Hergott Springs to Brisbane with their
father. This, at least, ought to be a braw adventure.
Sincerely yours,
JOHNNA.
King George V., when Prince of Wales,
was honorary colonel of the 18 regiments of
Australian Light Horse. It is expected that he
will retain the position now that he is King, and
already there is speculation among officers and in
the non-commissioned ranks as to whether a
special delegation will be sent from the regiment;
to the coronation.
Patrick Hill, the Melbourne gentleman
who assured Harper, M.H.R., that the Rev. ex-
M.H.R. Ronald told naughty stories and did
other irreverend things, and who swore to it all,
and induced other people to swear to it, felt the
comet’s tail on Monday. It had been threatening
for some time; but at last it swept him into
gaol, whereupon Madden, C.J., remarked that
the world would be much the better for his
absence for five years and nine months.
“ Cynicus ” :
The Sydne}' papers lately burst forth into big head-
lines, telling a story of the thrilling adventure of the
yawl Onone at North Head, and her prompt rescue by
the pilot steamer Captain Cook. The truth is that the
Onone and her human freight of two almost went to
destruction through the bad coal carried by the Cook.
When the signal was given to the pilot boat to proceed to
the rescue, she had not enough steam up to frighten the
mackerel around her propeller ; and this at a time when,
owing to the mountainous seas running, her assistance
might at any moment be required. The bunkersiof the
Cook are filled with the Indian coal imported by the
Wade Government during the recent strike. This has to
be sifted before it can be used. Its steam-producing
qualities are, even then, so inferior that if were it riot for
the language of the exasperated stokers the craft jwould
scarcely be able to get a move on sometimes, even if 20
yawls were in danger.
It is seldom one has the pleasure of being
invited to one’s own funeral ; but a Melbpurne
woman lias just had that joy. She had been
separated from bet husband for 10 years. One
day a friend drew her attention to an invitation
in the paper requesting mourners to follow her
remains to the cemetery. Pinching herself to
make sure she was not dead, the wife began to
understand things. A very recent divorce case
was the result.


The New Edison Records are
Now on Sale at all Dealers
• ' \
Forty New Records are on the June Lists, and they include
some of the finest successes of the star artists of the world.
You should certainly secure a few for your collection.
Call on your dealer and have those you fancy played over.
Write for Complete Lists.
Amberol Records for June
(Four Minutes)
318 Annie Laurie .. Knickerbocker Quartette
319 Manhattan and El Oapitan Marches ..
Sousa’s Band
320 In the Gloaming- .. .. Oakland and Chorus
322 Medley of Country Dances .. Eugene A. Jaudas
324 To Thee Waltz .. .. New York Band
325 Washington Post and High School Marches
Sousa’s Band
327 Annie Laurie and Home, Sweet Home
F. Burckhardt
329 The Bird with Broken Wing .. Edison Quartette
331 When You Were Sweet Sixteen .. Romaic
332 Gobble Duet from “The Mascot”
Wheeler and Anthony
333 Monte Oristo Waltz.. Jorda-Rocabruna Quintette
12104 Selection from “The Merry Widow" ..
National Band
12106 The Village Blacksmith .. Peter Dawson
12107 Come Into the Garden, John .. Williams
12108 Ring o’ Roses from “ The Dollar Princess”
Lorraine and Pike
12113 Strauss Memories Waltz .. National Band
12116 Mikado Lancers, Pigs. 1 and 2 National Band
12117 Mikado Lancers, Figs. 3 and 4 National Band
12118 Mikado Lancers, Pig. 5 .. National Band
Three Amberol Records In Italian,
i 5001 Del tempio al Limitar—“ Pescatori di Perle” ..
Daddi and Reschiglian
5004 Ah! lo vedi—“ Cavalleria Rusticana "
Avezza and Daddi
5005 Verranno a te sull’aure—“Lucia, ”
Avezza and Daddi
Standard Records for June
(Two Minutes)
10251 lb’s Hard to Kiss Your Sweetheart C. Clough
10252 Ripples—A Serenade Symphony Orchestra
10253 Uncle Josh at the Opera .. .. Stewart
10254 Zep Green’s Airship .. Jones and Spencer
10255 Dublin Daisies .. .. Peerless Quartette
10256 Daughters of America March New York Band
10257 While Shepherds Watched .. Edison Band
10258 You Can’t Stop Me from Loving You Roniain
10259 I’m Going to Do What I Please Ada Jones
10260 Mendelssohn’s Spring Song
Herbert and Orchestra
10261 In the Shadow of the Carolina Hills C. Clough
10263 Ring Me Up Heaven, Please, Central Oakland
10264 Lincoln Centennial March United States Band
13907 The Light Horse March .. .. National Band
13910 The Rejected Territorial .. Morny Cash
13913 If the World Were Mine to Give .. Pike
13914 Ship Ahoy Harry Fay
13915 The Hoozier Slide .. .. National Band
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
sgd
You
cannot
strop it
Wrongly
Insert the
strop in the Auto Strop
Safety Razor —move the
Razor to and fro —the
blade reverses automatically
at the end of each stroke,
thus stropping itself —in an v
instant you have a keen edge*]
That is why the
i4uto&trop
ktToR
always gives a smooth and luxurious shave. And the Auto Strop user avoids
continual outlay for new blades —required by any ordinary safety razor.
l There is nothing to take apart to strop or clean. Far quicker, handier j
anti cheaper than a no-stropping razor.
The Standard Outfit consists of quadruple silver-
plated, self-stropping razor ; one dozen specially
tested lancet - steel blades; one horsehide
strop ; the whole contained in handsome
leather case, size 2 in. by 3| in. The
price complete is
25/-
and no
further
expense.
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO.,LTD
The Rialto, Collins St., Melbourne; and '
222, Clarence St„ Sydney.
H
Strap
"Andrew McGee
The Famous “Thistle” Razor
owes its undiminished popularity to One thing—the
evenness of its quality. The “ Thistle ” Razor you bought
two years ago and the “ Thistle ” Razor you buy to-day (
are one and the same keen-edged dependable articles.
10/6; Ivory Handle, 12/6; Pairs in Cases, 21/- 8 25/-
SYDNEY’S LEADING TOBACCONIST AND GENTLEMEN’S HAIRDRESSER,
5 and 7 Castlereagh Street, corner Hunter Street, Sydney,
Saloon open all day Wednesday.
MSTi.I
m
wt G.sni
AND
For JUNE
is, liKe the May issue,
“A MARVELLOUS SIXPEN’ORTH.”
THE striking article, “What Kitchener Did Not Say/’ by
J. H. M. Abbott, is a sermon On Defence that brings
home to Australians the probability of war in Australia,
and the meaning of that war when it comes.
“Every Australian is a shareholder, and an employee, of one
of the biggest trading concerns of the world.” The article,
“Australia, Unlimited,” shows, by means of illuminative
diagrams, exactly the extent, direction and variety of that trade.
You will be surprised at some of the facts brought out in this
balance-sheet of a continent.
Another typically Australian article is “ The Biography of a
Platypus,” by E. S. Sorenson. Much has been written by
scientists about this unique animal —or bird—or fish ; but the
author knows more than all the scientists about its habits.
The naive account of “A Westralian Boy’s Impressions of
the Eastern States,” will interest dwellers in every State, if
only as a sample of the sturdy patriotism that is being fostered
in young Australia.
Edmund Fisher, that incomparable critic of the drama,
gives a gossipy account of the Australians who have raised
themselves to eminence in the “ legitimate ” drama. This article
is only the first part of a surprisingly long list of Australian
mummers who have made good.
“ The Stage ” furnishes a batch of full-page portraits of
the actresses and actors that you want to know about.
Theodore Roosevelt’s serial, “African Game Trails” breaks
new ground this month with his adventures, “ Hunting the
African Elephant.”
“The Dictates of Fashion” for Australian women, and
“The World’s Doings ” for everybody, complete the informative
side (always prominent in “The Lone Hand”) of the June
number.
The Fiction comprises humorous stories by C. A. Jeffries,
Rose Jardine and Ruth Murray-Prior, Chas. P. Smith, May
Siede, and 0. M. Peat; and a story of pathos by that skilled
craftsman, G. B. Lancaster —a finer story than any of this
author’s that have recently appeared in “ Harper’s Magazine.”
Published
June Ist.
Price 6d.
As the May issue, the first that was sold for Sixpence, was sold out a few
days after its appearance on the bookstalls, and our agents clamored in vain for
thousands more, it will be wise for LONE HAND readers to subscribe. Why not
cut out the enclosed order and remit (at once) with 6s. ? And why not do it NOW ?
The Manager, THE LONE HAND,
214 George Street, Sydney.
Enclosed find Six Shillings [P.O. Order, Postal Note, Stamps (of any State),
or Cheque (with exchange added)] for One Year's Subscription to THE LONE
HAND, post free.
Name
Address
LOOK OUT FOR THE
GREEN COVER!


A. SAUNDERS’ WEDDING GIFT IDEAS
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, Silver-
plated Mounts, Fancy Floral
China,
10/6-
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6, 9/6,
12/6, 15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG STAND, 2 Cups and Spoons,
Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver, Gilt-
lined, Richly Fluted,
25/.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, CO/, 35/.
u
m
&
A. SAUNDERS.
FERN POT, Pure Silver-plated, Hand Fluted,
8/«.
Embossed and Engfaved, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SWEETS DISH, Pure
plated Frame, Fancy-
China Dish,
6/G
Other styles, 4/6, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
Silver-
Floral
, 6/6,
nr
m
a
m
m
I MS
SoEe
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
Pare Silver-plated, A 1
Quality, Crystal Cut Glass
Bottles,
12/6
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6,
15/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD FORK, Pure
Silver-plated, Nickel
Silver, Pearl Handle,
9in long,
6/<i
Other styles, 4/6, 6/6,
8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARD RECEIVER, Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely
Engraved and Embossed, Satin Finished, 3| inches High,
Beautifully Carved Base,
17/6.
Um
m
tiilpa
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver Lid
and Base, A 1 Quality, Crystal Glass Dish,
10/6.
Other styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 16/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Sugar SCUTTLE, Pure Sil-
ver-plated, Hand Engraved,
Richly Finished, Fern Design,
20/.
Other styles, 15/6, 21/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR and CREAM STAND,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Sil-
ver Floral China Jug and Dish,
Handsomely finished,
17/6.
Other styles, 10/6, 15/6, 25/,
30/.
Will you
Select ?
THAT WEDDING GIFT
YOU HAVE IN VIEW
FROM THIS PAGE.
YOUR ORDER WILL
RECEIVE OUR
PROMPT AND PERSO-
NAL ATTENTION, AND
WE ASSURE YOUR
PERFECT SATISFACTION
sgd
Will you
Send ?
FOR OUR FREE CATA-
LOGUE. ANY ORDER
THEREFROM IS SENT
CARRIAGE PAID TO
ANY ADDRESS IN
AUSTRALIA, WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF
CLOCKS AND CHINA-
WARE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation 3-Branch Flower EPERGNE, James
Dixon’s, Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely Embossed,
Crystal Cut Glass Tubes,
£3/10/.
Other styles, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/, 70/.
ďsg
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAD KNIFE, Pure
Silver-plated, Richly
Embossed, Finest Shef-
field Steel Blade,
8/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Hot Water KETTLE and STAND, James
Dixon’s, Pure Silver-plated, A 1 quality, Rus-
tic Stand, Richly Embossed,
£2-
Other styles, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
1
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOT, Jas. Dixon’s, Pure Silver-plated,
on White Metal, Hand Engraved,
21/.
Other styles, 17/6, 20/, 22/6, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Presentation 6-BOTTLE DINNER CRUET,
Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, Hobnail
Cut Glass Bottles,
£3/15/.
Other styles, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Four o’clock CAKE FORKS, Pure Sil-
ver-plated, A 1 Quality, Full Size, in
Silk-lined Case,
12/6.
Other styles 6/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE BASKET, Pure Silver-plated, Nickel Silver,
Richly Embossed, Highly Burned, Carved Feet,
45/ •
Other styles, 30, 35/, 40/, 50/, 55/, 60/.
A. SAUNDERS.
ENTREE DISH, Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Sil-
ver, Detachable Handle, making 2 Dishes, 11 inches
long,
£3*
Other styles, £2, £2/10/,' £3/10/, £4.
; 'l ''
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS and TONGS, Pure
Silver-plated, Handsomely Finished, in Silk-lined
Case,
t 2/«.
Other styles, 10/6, 15/, 20/, 25/. 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CAKE or BREAD and BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-
plated, Art Hand Decorated, China Dish,
11/6.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Four o’clock TEA SET, Jas. Dixon’s Pure Silver-plated, Butterly Design,
Handsomely Engraved, complete, with Highly-finished Oak Salver,
£3/10/-
SPECIAL VALUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL and SERVERS. Pare Silver-
Nick ' Silver, Handsome Floral Decoration,
—iV/-
Other styles, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 25/, 30/.
•plated.
China
JEWELLER,
CIOch
k MAKER A
SAJJNDERs
is— SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER:
807,809.811.815.815.817. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Srarion) SYDNEY.N.S.W.
» SILVERSMITH
k O OSSVLT//y c i


Shipping;.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling' at Plymouth.
And Kegularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £i6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by these Steamers.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Frkmantlk Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA—-ENGLAN D.
Sailing- every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO,, Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking;, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial (|)utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116,154 —Assuring £33,888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hor., C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
of llorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood, Esq.; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.); Hon. W.
H. Wood, ILL. A. ; E. Owen Cox (Bird & Company, Ltd.)
Leneral Manager lor Australia : JOHN GOODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
THE SAVINGS BANK,
MELBOURNE.
Competitive Designs
for New Head Office.
The Commissioners oi Savings Banks invite
Architects to submit designs in Competition for
new Savings Bank Premises to be erected in
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Premiums will be awarded to the designs ad-
judged first, second and third in order of merit.
All designs must be delivered at the Head
Office, Market Street, Melbourne, not later than
noon on the first day of July, 1910.
Particulars and Conditions may be obtained
on application to the Branch Secretary at Head
Office.
GEO. E. EMERY,
Inspector-General.
Market Street, Melbourne,
9th May, 1910.
Hotels, &c.
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Laiicst Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Shipping:.
Nord D
eutscher
'loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples. Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar. London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents,
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANILA,
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA.
LOHMANN & CO.,
Tel. 698. 7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies, &c.
Bank of |)eiu Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £710,998
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
GRANTS DRAFTS
EXECUTORS
'THE TRUSTEES,
AND
AGENCY COM PAN it LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £36,000 0 0
Dirkctohs : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; J. H.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Craclten.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
gdsd
Twin-screw Steamers.
AFR/C, 12,C00 tons, to sail about
June 8.
SUEVIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
July 6.
PERSIC, RUNIC and MEDIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FAKES —Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne . .. 1 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Lid.,
Agenis in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
• Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ... From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Oape or Durban From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
OALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
NOLIDAy
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
By Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown, and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo tc
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports).
Solomon Islands (about 8
ĝd
CRUISES.
AND
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PH/LP & CO., Ltd., lO Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT. —INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts..
ADVANCES made up to ,£25,000 at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.— CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
Full particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
Office. J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
%
DIRLCIORS:
£2,500,000
£1,650,000
£2,500,000
£6,650,000
The Hon. O. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bucklarid, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, Esq. ; Shepheaid Edgeeliff Laidley, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand and P’iji, and Agents and Correspondents through-,
out Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the
United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
ď
Price 35/-» Post Free
Aft Electric Battery
at Small Cost.
A Battery NO Home should be
without these Winter Months.
Efficacious for Rheumatism—reliable
for Lassitude, Want of Tone, Nervous-
ness and all similar Ailments.
A Battery easily worked —can be
adapted fiorn the youngest to the eldest
member of the family, and costs nothing
to maintain.
Try the
“Home” Battery
JERDANS
(Formerly Osborn & Jerdan),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS.
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
UOYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE Co and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Yongala, June 4.
(Melbourne only.)
'S.S. Koombana (from Fre-
mantle), May3l and June
29, callin<r at all N.-West
Ports to Derby.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Pores North bo Oairns.
LS.S. Grant-ala, June 4.
| S.S. Yongala, June 11.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can he ascertained
on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
TH E ALL-R E D ItO UT E.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER.
t Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F.— H.
5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “AYRSHIRE.”
11,900 Tons.
W. Clucken, Commander
Will be despatched from SYDNEY about 24th June
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) SueH
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL| d \ £49 108, £l3 13s ' £l5 15s ' £l7 17a -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To he followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney ;
8.1. and Q.A. Co., Ltd., Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEAOHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
Business Announcements.
a. a
Zaw Points
£»• /ni/entors
BY LETTER. Reliable informa-
tion and advice on all matters con-
cerning' the obtaining of Patents,
and the best means of keeping the
titles thereof inviolate during' the term of grant.
If you have an invention and wish to patent it, forward
an accurate description of it, and you will receive an
answer by return of post as to whether it is patentable,
and what will be the cost of completely protecting it (in.
eluding drawings, etc.). No etiarge made for such report
and all communications treated strictly confidential.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
the “TYPHOID FLY”
DANGEROUS DOMESTIC PEST.
This is our well-known domestic pest—the
common house fly. In addition to being a typhoid
carrier, the fly may carry nearly all the intestinal
diseases and is the prime agent in the spread of
summer dysentery, being in this way unquestion-
ably responsible for the death of many children
in summer. The fly also possesses importance as
a disseminator of the bacilli of tuberculosis, the
danger of human infection from tubercular fly
specks being by the ingestion of the specks
on food.
It is a startling thought that a person who
drinks a cup of tea or a glass of milk into which a
fly has fallen may take into his system 1,250,000
bacilli of typhoid, dysentery or tuberculosis.
Summing up the position, the typhoid or house
fly is a general or common carrier of pathogenic
bacteria. It may carry typhoid fever, Asiatic
cholera, dysentery, cholera morbus and other
intestinal diseases. • It may carry the bacilli
of tuberculosis and certain eye diseases. It
is everywhere present, and it is disposed
of with comparative ease by the use of
INSECTIBANE.
INSECTIBANE is sold everywhere, but it
is necessary to be careful to observe the'spelling
of the name, as no other insect powder possesses
the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so
peculiarly efficacious.
Sole Proprietors :
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents. baldness, eradicates scurf, _ is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by "Stores
Cheitjists, & A. Rowland. & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
w c oWST OCXs
11/ HEAD SHOT”
fOfiMpFtP
For sale by all chemists, price Is. 6d.; or will be
sent post paid on receipt of price by The W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street, Sydney.*
Missing: Friends.
MCGRATH, PATRICK.—Wanted information of
the whereabouts of Patrick McGrath, who was
born at Ball.vlanders, County Tipperary, Ireland,
and who last resided at Boulder Gold Field, West Aus-
tralia. Please communicate with Queensland Trustees
Limited, Brisbane.
Lega.l Notices.
TN THE WARDEN’S COURT FOR THE WESTERN
- 1 - DIVISION OF TASMANIA.
Between ERNEST PLUMMER Plaintiff and FREDERICK
HENRY SMITH, THOMAS CHARLES MURRAY
and WILLIAM MURRAY Defendants.
To the Defendant FREDERICK HENRY SMITH.—
Take notice that a plaint has been entered and a
summons issued against THOMAS CHARLES MURRAY
and WILLIAM MURRAY and you in the above Court by
ERNEST PLUMMER of Stanley in Tasmania General
Agent whereby the Plaintiff prays (inter alia) for a
declaration that a partnership exists between you and
the said THOMAS CHARLES MURRAY and others in
respect of a mining lease No. 123 M at Mount Balfour in
Tasmania (which lease is commonly known as Murray’s
Reward claim and is reputed to be of great value) and
that the interest of each partner in the said partnership
may be ascertained and that the Plaintiff may be declared
to be the assignee of one-half of your share in the partner-
ship and that an account may be taken of the partnership
dealings AND take further notice that an order has been
made by the Warden of this Court that service of a copy
of the said Order and of the said Summons by sending a
copy of each by prepaid post addressed to you at Mount
Balfour aforesaid and by inserting on or before the
twenty-sixth day of June One thousand nine hundred
and ten advertisements of the commencement of this
action and of the said Order once each in the Argus and
Australasian (being newspapers published in Melbourne
in the State of Victoria) and once in Thk Bulletin (being-
a newspaper published in Sydney in the State of New
South YVales) and that you are required to enter a defence
thereto in the above Court on or before the twenty-
second day of July One thousand nine hundred and ten
otherwise the said action will proceed against you shall
be good and sufficient service of the said Summons on
you the said FREDERICK HENRY SMITH.
The Summons will be heard at the Court House
Zeehan in Tasmania on Tuesday the twenty-sixth day of
July next at 10 o’clock in the forenoon on which day you are
required to appear and if you do not appear either in
person or by your Solicitor at the time and place above
mentioned such Order will be made and proceedings
taken as the Court may think just and expedient.
Dated this fourteenth day of May One thousand nine
hundred and ten.
SIMMONS CRISP & SIMMONS, Franklin Chambers,
Hobart, Plaintiff’s Attorneys.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES\
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
With the aid of Luck and a tnan named Jubb,
Glebe Rugby Union team managed to score by 10 points
to eight over Eastern Suburbs on Saturday. Letting
loose a series of fine dribbling charges, the East men had
the red line of Glebe right back on its goal line again and
again ; and every time it was the mighty hoof of Jubb
that sent the ball soaring back to mid-field or over the
touch line. The hoof of Jubb was mightier than the
jawbone of the ass in the hand of Samson, and once when
the leather bounded and rolled about three-parts of the
field, the Reds, following up, rushed it over and
drew first blood. Then came the interval, after
which East did some more fine dribbling, and
at length scored a try and a goal, which put
it in the lead by eight to five. But just on time
Glebe tried a dribbling rush, got it over, and added the
extra points, winning out by 10 to eight. It was Glebe’s
lucky day. North Sydney met University, and the
students, knowing exactly what they wanted, like Julius
Caesar, went straight for it. Good passing charges broke
up North by 19 points to eight. That combination has
not yet been achieved. Newtown’s smashing of Balmain
was another evidence of the value of concerted
play. Balmain showed up well in the opening rushes,
and then the Newtown machine got to work with
the crushing result of 25 points to nil. Which was
a dog’s walloping. The South Sydney v. Sydney scrap at
the Rushcut.ter’s Bay oval was a sad sample of much cry
and little wool. Never did teams rush, wrestle, puff
and sweat like them ; and in the end it was South which
was on top with a miserable six points to a ridiculous
three. The way they bullocked and toiled should have
brought them a score or two at the least. Manly bumped
Western Suburbs, and a nicer balanced team than that
from the Village would be hard to imagine. It played a
really nippy game, had Western Suburbs in difficulties
all the time, and finished up 17 to six.
The result of the upheaval was to reduce the
first line in the competition to two —Glebe and Newtown
—which have eight competition points each. Eastern
Suburbs, South Sydney, Manly, and University are all
tog-ether in the second row with six points ; Western
Suburbs has four ; Sydney and St. George two each ; and
Balmain and North Sydney have not yet hatched out.
* * * *
But the glory of Saturday rested with the
Leagrie, and the site of it was the astounding struggle
between South SjAney and the Eastern Suburbs, with
the terrific Messenger raging on the side of the East.
East Sydney team is being demoralised by its possession
of Messenger, and apparently imagines that it is there to
watch him win the match on his own. And how did he
play! It was magnificent, tremendous. It was, as the
Frenchman said when he wished to express glory in
the highest, “first-rate, by gar!” He converted
five out of eight free kicks, and off his own
hoof scored the whole 10 points his side made.
Had the rest of the team played like the captain, history
ha’d told another tale. It was right on time when South,
trailing in the rear with nine points to 10, suddenly shot
over the line and converted, changing what looked like a
certain defeatinto a win by 14 points to 10. Glebe managed
to down Annandale by 17 to 10; but again the baby team
covered itself with glory, playing a game that was
monumental in its fairness and brilliancy. Newtown’s
defeat of North Sydney was a gallop over, the figures
being 33 to seven. Western Suburbs also had a bad time,
going under to Balmain by 25 points to two.
The result is that Newtown and South Sydney
are together in the van with six points each, and Eastern
Suburbs and Balmain are together in the second with
four each ; North Sydney and Glebe have two each, and
Annandale and Western Suburbs have not yet scored.
* * * *
There was some disappointment in the Aus-
tralian section when Y.M.C.A. and the Training Col-
lege came'along to find a Soccer match in full blast on
the ground they had marked for their battlefield.
The heavenly aspirants tried to claim the match, but
were over-ruled by those having authority. East Sydney
played a good solid game with Sydney and beat it by 44
points to .14; Newtown downed North Sydney with
plenty to spare, the figures being 59 to 41; and Redfern
managed to beat Paddington by the narrowmargin of eight
points. All the same, the win is no credit to Redfern, as it
was obtained by rough and foul play. Finding Padding-
ton in the lead, Redfern hoodlums began to play the man
instead of the ball, and, as usual, it was the smallest men
in the Paddington team that were picked out for “ treat-
ment.” Holland, one of the victims, is a mere boy, and
Leplastrier, the other, is barely sft. high.’ The latter
was trying to stop the ball going out of bounds when he
received a. bash that would havevoodened Johnson him-
self, and after the match his face suggested that he had
been taking part in a butchery instead of a friendly game.
If the League is wise it will deal with the toughs respon-
sible for this disgrace to the game, and, as a horrible
example, pass them out for-life, even if the.extreme step
of initiating a prosecution is not resorted to.
* * * *
Something like a League crowd turned up to
see Ports shape up to North in the Ass. competition ; but
it wasn’t Ports’ day out, and the best they could do
agaipst the hired ex-Leaguers was 22 points to North’s 76.
P’ran collided with ’Scray, and after some violent'exercise
returned to Chapel-street with 52 laurel leaves to’Scray’s
38. Brunswick encountered Essendon and sustained
another thrashing—by 76 to 40. Brunswick ap-
pears to -be suffering from* "cometitis or some-
thing. Williamstown visited Brighton, and sur-
prised that League-reinforced team by totting up
57 points to 37. Brighton has lately circularised the local
denizens, urging them to join the club ; ' but it may be
explained in this connection that 10consecutive victories,
especially at Che beginning of the season, are worth 1000
circulars, and that the victories can only be accomplished
by systematic and persistent practice. A footballer is
made, not bought. A disturbance somewhere out
Preston way is alleged to have resulted in that team
sustaining another reverse, at the feet of Northcote, by
81 points to 50 ; but the information is of no moment.
* * * *.
In Vic. League football the only occurrences of
note on Saturday were the continued progress of Gee-
long and the-further capsizing of Souths, the premiers.
After the latter team’s defeat by- Collingwood, its
managers realised that something was wrong, so the
“strong young team that needed no alteration ” (vide
Akgus) was hacked about, no less than five alterations
being made in the 18. They were up against Essendon,
and though the rout wasn’t as grievous as against
Wood, the disaster arrived just the same. For
the first three-quarters both teams played an open
and pretty frame, fast and even. Starting the last
quarter the Red-and-Whites held a point lead—
-7 froals 7 behinds to 7 goals 6 behinds. Then the ’Dons
notched a goal and a behind, and South replied
with a goal, and the points were level. For lOmins. the
Red and Blacks simply carried all before them and put up
three more goals. “Skinner’s hirelings” became
demoralised; they were on their own ground, and the
barrackers raved and shrieked. It looked as though
trouble was coming when a ’Don was laid out and had to
he carried off; but the authorities had remembered what
had happened to ’Roy on the same ground last year, and
the appearance of mounted troopers in the crowd and a
score of foot police around the rails spelt a warning.
South steadied itself, and in the last smins. forced a
couple of goals(one disputed). Butthey weren’t enough,
and again the premiers tasted defeat—by 73 points
to 67. Compared to this uproar, the disturbance at
Fitzroy was elegant and courteous; yet it was fast and
strenuous right through, with Geelong always ahead.
That team seems to have discarded its ancient passen-
gers and replaced them with lively youths of good
muscle. The final showing was 67 points to 53. Rich-
mond, having acquired some new heavy-weights, per-
suaded itself it was going to roll over ’Varsity ; but its
men became topheavy, and the swifter students ran
over it—73 points to 52. ’Wood encountered St. Kilda
and passed it out practically in one act, the curtain finally
falling on 91 to 18. Carlton stressed its superiority over
Melbourne by 69 to 36.
During the week the League passed out for four
weeks an Essendon ’bailer, who mistook the’Varsity con-
test of the previous Saturday for a boxing match ; and a
Fitzroy bench handed out “£6or five weeks” to a barracker
with a gift of language but no discrimination in using it .
Also, Collingwood’s committee has adopted a sort of
scheme for pensioning players who remain with the club
for any length of time. To its credit, ’Wood has for years
trained its players—it gets promising recruits from all
parts, hut it does not buy the ready-made star —and for
years it has played no man who is not regularly engaged
in some occupation. Last week it granted a clearance
to one of its best men to play for Footscray, because
it would not pay his fare from Oastlemaine, and he was
unable to reside in Melbourne. Last season, of a revenue
0f.£1848, it nevertheless spent £421 on players’ travelling
and training exes., £l2l on their insurances and “in-
jury ” allowances, £154 on uniforms, boots, doctor and
chemist, and £433 on a holiday tour. That is to say, it
tries to be as amateur as it can, and succeeds rather
badly. Now it adopts a scheme whereby £lOO is to be
set aside every year, and continued, so that £5OO shall
always be in hand for the special purpose of “ compen-
sating loyalty to the club,” said “compensation ” taking
the form of a gratuity, on his retirement, of £lO to every
player of three years’ standing, £l5 for four years, £2O
for five years, and so on up to £45 for a 10-year
’bailer. Doubtless ’Wood’s plan is an honest attempt
to block the traffic in players, but it has its weak
points. It is disguised professionalism, for one thing ;
for another, the gratuities, offered are not high enough
to deter the’bailer who would play for the Devil if be
offered the highest price. For instance, that Carlton
top-noteher who accepted a valuable wedding-gift from
his committee, yet joined an Ass. team the very next
week, would laugh at a £lO gratuity for three years’ cort-
tinuous play. The traffic in players can only be stopped
by a rigid agreement between League ana Ass., or, surer
and more lasting, by an honest scheme of district
football.
* * •* *
Switzerland has lately taken to football, parti-
cular brand unknown ; but whatever it is’twould seem
to be a very strenuous make. Recently they caugbt the
man with the ball, dealt roughly with him and fell upon
him in a manner that would have turned a Newtown bar-
racker pink with admiration. However, the Law seems
to be fairly strenuous there also, for as the mangled
corpse was carried off the ground, the police ran in every
member of the opposing team, the umpire, and every-
body connected, barring the dead man’s team mates.
* * * *
“ Moana ” : Why does The Bulletin raise such
a howl and a yell about the many weaknesses of the
modern aeroplane, and why is the Australian Govern-
ment quite contented to sit down and wait 10 years, or
50 years, or 5684 years until a new type of aeroplane
comes along that will “hover’’and generally perform a
dot of other gymnastic tricks? Why doesn’t the Govern-
ment encourage the present flyer, so that Australians —
and a lot of them—may get experience in the air, and
thereby have some chance of turning out the needed im-
provements? The present aeroplane is the result of long
years of experiments made by the Wright Brothers, whose
ideas and discoveries were promptly stolen by Farman,
Voisin, Bldriot and co. No aeroplane was ever perfected
on the ground. The inventor has to get up into the air
to do that; and if Australia encourages men to climb
skyward, even if only in the present so-called, gim-crack
flyers, it will get its big, fighting airship many years
earlier.
.Why does “Moana” raise such a howl and a
yell about the many virtues of the Wright biplane ; and
why does he persist in yapping that the Wright Brothers
are the inventors of aviation ? The Australian Govern-
ment isn’t content to wait 5684 years, therefore it offers a
substantial money prize for the working model of the
sort of helicoptere it requires. : Encouragement of the
modern aeroplane glider, is no more likely to produce the
aerial armored fighting ship than practice at steering
racing ponies is likely to inculcate a knowledge of navi-
gation. The present aeroplane is not the result of long
years of experiments made by the Wright Bros. Colonel
Renard, the Frenchman, was the first man to scientifically
evolve the theory of aviation ; and his ideal aeroplane
would have flown had the gallant and brainy Frenchman
been able to get the modern light motor. A monoplane
was actually'made in England in 1846, to be driven bv
a steam engine, and the thing did rise from the ground
and skim over it; but the weight of the steam engine and
the necessary water and fuel killed it. Maxim, in England,
and Langley, in the U.S.A., had evolved flying machines
which flew before the Wright Bros, were heard of; and,
if it comes to a matter of “ stealing,” what is the Wright
biplane anyhow but a steal of Lawrence Hargreaves’ box-
kite with a motor stuck in it?
* * * *
The progress of Hagney will be the chief event
of interest in N.S.W. this coming Saturday, as on that
date the' young ex-cyclist will row H. Pearce on the
Parramatta River (Sydney) for the championship of Aus-
tralia and £lOO aside. Hagney’s successes have been his
victory over Thoroughgood and his excellent showing in
the Wanganui Handicap against the great god Arnst
himself. Dick’s praise on that occasion spilled all
over Hagney; but as Dick’s habit is to let his
grease go in unlimited quantities, nobody, except
the man he has licked, takes much notice of its
quantity or quality nowadays. That Hagney is a good
rower is, however, beyond dispute ; but that he is not as
excellent a craftsman with the sculls as Pearce is also
known. The question is whether he has a sufficient
margin of bullock strength to counterbalance his shortage
in dexterity. A more equal race it would be hard to
imagine, for at time of writing both men weigh 12st. 61b.
and both are in the pink of condition. Therefore we shall
see—what we shall see.
* . * * *
The great Amurkan nation is going to have a
rowing carnival, which, like most other things in that
great country, is to lick creation. The place is the
Potomac River; the time, August this year; and the
competitors, it is fondly hoped, crews representing
Britain, France, Germanv, Italy, Belgium, Canada and
any others that care to blow in.
* * * *
Arnst took his defeat in the Parramatta
Hundred very philosophically. When asked why he
finished only fourth, he replied with a laugh, “Because
the three in front went too fast! ” Later on when about
two dozen bores had asked him questions about why he
had been beaten, the burly champion said it was a good
thing for the game that he didn’t win. On Wednesday
he left for Africa, and there he is going to do things in
style. \ Over his camp in Zambesi will wave a flag bearing
a silver fern, presumably rampant, on a ground
sinister, its corners bearing the names of the men
he has beaten, and the fourth corner left vacant
for Barry’s monniker. Barry, by the way, has been
having hard luck, striking- omens and other uncomfort-
able things. His racing boat, having been finished, was
christened Queen Alexandra by the Hon. Edward Cado-
gan at Putney. Cadogan is one of the choicest of the
salt o,f the earth, and the baptism was a triumph in it-
self. Then Barry went for a trial spin and was run down
by a triple sculler, which shore through his shell as
though it had been silk, and impaled it on the sculler’s
nose. Of'course, the omen may have been for the august
lady the boat was named after, but the men along the
towpath regard Barry as good as already walloped.
* * * *
“Miles”: About this timing dispute (8.,
12/5/’lO and previous). I don’t profess to know any-
thing about the speed at which anyone ran any extra-
ordinary distance, but I do want to say that the method
of timing is at fault. To attempt to take the precise
time occupied by any person or thing in moving from the
point A to the point B, under the circumstances usually
adopted in races, is impossible. I; have seen scores of
races, competitions against time, etc., and only once have
I seen scientific timing. The method of pressing the
catch lever of a more or less accurate stop-watch when
the observer sees the runner or horse start (or thinks lie
sees it), and again pressing it when he thinks he sees it
reach the next point, is quite useless. Probably the most
correct method, within a very small percentage of error,
is the Bashforth chronograph. A projectile in its flight
cuts a wire, the cutting of which makes or breaks an
electrical circuit, and at a measured distance cuts a
second wire, which in its turn breaks or makes the cir-
cuit. A clockwork mechanism, actuated by the circuit,
records the time elapsing between the two breaks.
Another method, and possibly more correct, is the pen-
dulum method. • A pendulum of given length will swing
a given number of times per second at a given distance
from the earth’s centre. With thq pendulum already
swinging, start the moving object, be it runner, projec-
tile or horse, and, in starting, let it break a circuit,
which action releases the break on a drum of sensitised
paper. A luminous point on a calculated pendulum will
then give a record of beats, and the cessation of move-
ment on the sensitised paper caused by the breaking of
another circuit when the moving body reaches the second
point, gives an absolute record. As one who, by reason
of his profession, has to deal with minute and accurate
calculations of time-space-motion facts, let me state that
the ordinary stop-watch, controlled by the hand of a pro-
bably excited individual, is hopelessly inaccurate. For
all work requiring comparative accuracy (i.e., within,
say, - 01 per cent.) I use the pendulum, corrected for
temperature and specific attraction, and for more accu-
rate work X use the pendulum-light ray apparatus. Of
course, in these calculations, due allowance must be
made for the retardation of the electric current and the
dilatory manner in which light travels ; but, after making
the necessary corrections, one arrives at a very close result.
But don’t make bets on the information given by a stop-
watch, for, to mention only a few factors that affect its
accuracy, there are :
(1) Temperature of the surroundings.
(2) Height above sea-level.
(3) Barometer reading.
(4) Speed at which escapement works accurately.
(5) Time required for escapement to gain this speed.
* * * *
“Moana”: Apropos the manufacturing of
world’s sprint records. Three years ago at Yale (U.S. A.)
I saw a Yankee hurdler make an exhibition attempt on
the world’s figures for 120 hurdles (then 15 l-ssec., since
reduced at the last Olympic Games in London to 15sec.).
The Yankee got a flying start, beating the gun by about
three yards ; he had a fair wind behind him, and the time
was given as 15 l-ssec.—equalling the world’s best. The
track (which was on the far side of the ground, away
from the majority of the spectators) was a very short
120yds.—it looked'about 115yds.—and ongoingacross to in-
spect it at the close of the meeting, I discovered that it was
slightly downhill and that the hurdles were 3ft. instead
of the regulation 3ft. din. So much for Yankee records.
All freak records inside evens ought to be passed out
unless on the evidence of a special clock, with a minute
dial not less than 6in. in diameter, so that it can be
divided into tenths of a second, and still leave the hand a
definite distance to move to record that fraction ; this
clock to be started automatically by electricity through
the ped. breaking a fine thread as he leaves the mark,
and to be stopped by the record-breaker hitting the
worsted at the finish. Such a device would biff the
9 2-sth seconds trip into outer darkness. Incidentally, it
would also burst a few reputations.
H. Rice, the Veteran tennis player, will make
his 24th appearance for N.S.W. against Victoria this
week end. There is nothing squeamish about the Tennis
Selection Committee, and his inclusion proves con-
clusively that the committee firmly believes he is the best
man for the job.
Boxing has been made to retain its grip on
popular affection in Melbourne during the last two years or
so by reason Of a series of district tournaments in which
the cute promoter carefully pits “Sowth” against
“’Roy,” “’Wood” against “Ports,” Richmond against
Carlton, Brunswick against “ ’Stown,” and so on. The
’oofballing sensibilities of the grand army of barrackers
are deftly worked upon, and “ ’Roy ” rolls up to see
“Sowth” bashed awfully on the “jore,” and “Sowth”
rushes the kip to be regaled with the spectacle of
“ ’Wood ” being smitten mightily in the wind. When, as
sometimes happens, two representative ’oofballers meet
to exchange terrific biff, the other ’bawlers shake Eastern
Hill to its base with their wild cries of rage and rapture.
The scheme has been a decided success, having produced
excellent crops of beans, and some very promising dis-
ciples of swipe.
Two district champions collided in Melb. Sports
Club’s brick-pot. the other Monday evening, when R.
Sanderson undertook to demolish Percy Melrose for a
purse and all the glory. The result was a good, hard fight,
much more satisfactory as a trial of human strength and
skill than the ordinary tricky battles of experienced ring
fighters, to whom self-preservation is the first law of
art and science. The commotion ended in the ninth
round, when Melrose, the lighter man, who had made
most vigorous war, petered out, and was beaten, to the
enormous sorrow of all Collingwood, and the great joy of
adjacent places.
The recent riot in the U.S. A. as to who should
referee the Jeffries-Johnson fight has ended in Tex
Rickard, one of the alleged promoters, being chosen for
the job! How the settlement was effected isn’t told, but
it looks as though, Jeffries and Johnson being unable to
agree on the subject, Jeffries’ dummy promoters stepped
in, with their tongues in their cheeks, and appointed Tex
to the job on the well-known and commendable system of
keeping the cash in the family. How Johnson views the
latest development is not yet known here ; and over there
Johnson’s opinions are the one bundle in which nobody is
interested. Johnson will win this fight if he can send
Jeffries to sleep ; otherwise his name is Slush. And if he
does win it, there seems to be more than a possibility that
his name will be Cold Meat.
* * * *
England has a magistrate who is likely to either
strike trouble or become a Radical leader. Dealing with
some cases of betting at athletic sports he addressed the
defendants : “ Betting is allowed only where rich people
bet. Apparently none of you are rich, and you do not
seem to have taken the precaution of having rich people
betting at your sports. In that case the Law would have
been afraid to interfere, as it confines itself to stopping
betting in the streets, in gambling houses—unless they
are rich men’s clubs—and so on. It connives entirely at
betting at horse-racing meets. You are fined.” And
then he got down to details as to amounts and time in
which to pay. But he is a man with horse sense, while
the Law is the usual animal.
* * * *
The Yellow Race went under at Broken Hill,
recently when, after six tearing, awful bouts, Professor
Stevenson downed K. Kameda, the Jap, three times out
of six, was thrown himself twice, and made an indecisive
affair of the sixth. The Jap heaved in the towel, and the
Professor, on leaving the arena, declared that never again
would he meet a Jap in a “friendly” tussle. Next time
the Professor manhandles a Jap it will apparently be to
kill.
* *• * *
How the “ new blood ” is creeping into N.S.W.
Rugby ! In the inter-State match between Queensland
and N.S.W. on Saturday, seven of the Ma’s XV. are new to
the fixture; and the sprinkling of country players
suggests that the present selection committee is a good
one, which turns things over thoroughly in the eager
desire to pick a good team.
* * * *
Victorian Cricket Association recently opened
its bulging purse and is scattering dividends about.
Thirteen district clubs will receive £5O each, and 10 sub-
district bodies will receive £25 each. This infusion-of
£9OO into the body of cricket is expected to have a
reviving effect, which will result in a whole crop of bright
youngi players.
* * * * i
That famous old swimmer. Marquis Bibbero, is
dead in his eighty-sixth year. He played a big- part in
the training of Captain Webb for his famous Channel
paddle, and had enough medals to his own credit to fit
out an army after a successful campaign. Even as late
as last year he gave an exhibition .swim in London. 1
* * * *
Paulhan, the French aviator, who recently won
the £lO,OOO for the aero flight from London to Manches-
ter, is after the £6OOO offered by the Automobile Club of
France for the first flight from Paris to Brussels. Land-
ings will be allowed on the trip. But in this case it is
likely that Paulhan will have to fly metaphorically as
well as actually, as he is almost certain to have the oppo-
sition of Latham ; and that Antoinette machine of
Latham’s is capable of some hair-raising speeds.
* * * *
The record-smashing crusade in Victoria con-
tinues, J. L. Davis (440yds. champion hurdler of the
world) being a serious offender. Competing at the ’Var-
sity sports, he practically scooped the pool, pulling off
the 100yds., 440yds., 120yds. hurdles, and the long-jump
championships. In the last event he bounded over
23ft. sJin. of the earth, thus shattering the previous Vic.
record of 22ft. 2in., put up by H. H. Hunter at St. Kilda
in 1901. The Australasian record is held by M. M. Rosein-
grave, who'flew 23ft. 7£in. The world’s record (24ft.
llfin.) was done by Pat O’Connor, at Dublin, in 1901. On
the last day of the Uni. meeting Davis won the 300yds.
handicap, off scratch, the timekeepers making him do
the distance in 32 4-ssec., which 1 equals G. A. Moi’r’s Vic.
record. The Australasian record (31seC.)iS'the property
of Nigel Barker, and the world’s (30sec.) belongs to that
famous old pro., H. Hutchings, his derd being done at
Edinburgh (Scotland) on January 2, ISI7. The world’s
amateur record is 30 3-ssec.
One rather astonishing result of the registration
of automobiles is the discovery that, although N.S.W.
has 1135 motor-cars, it has only 564 motor-bikes. One
would have thought that, in a country of long distances
like’NfS.W., the motor-bike would have beeri intensely
popular. But .somehow ,it has not caught,on,; and the
average man who must go a-wheeling and cannot afford
a car sticks to the old hoof-propelled bike., Victorian
figures are not yet available ; but it is expected that that
State will clean up for about 1500 motor-cars. What its
motor-bikes are likely to run to no 'man k.noweth.
WORMS-THE CHILDREN’S ENEMY.
Undoubtedly there is no greater enemy to the
health, happiness and comfort, of . children than
the presence of worms. Parents should be oh
their guard if a child shows any of the marked
symptoms, such as disturbed sleep; grinding of the
teeth, restlessness, irritation and picking the
nose, to ascertain for certain if the child ife afflicted
with these parasites, and if they are, to at once
administer Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets according to directions. They are a safe,
sure and reliable remedy, prepared in the form of
a lolly, and children take them without any
hesitation. ;•


Snappy Styles in Men's Shoes
Rigney footwear is high-grade in every detail.
If you appreciate dressy, comfortable, stylish and
serviceable footwear you ought to trv a nair
of Rigney Shoes.
The Shoe illustrated is a Willow Calf Shoe-
Bespoke style, latest perforations in Black or
Tan. Also in Shoes.
Prices—22/6, 25/- and 27/6.
Postage 9d. Extra.
Write for Booklet, “ The Rigney Shoe for Men.”
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place). *
s
śdsd
SHE
Purity
The Highest Standard of
Used by leading} Aviators and Motorists
throughout the world.
sd
THE “MOTA” (Regd.)
i
y.-i
m
The man who studies style and comfort in hats
has more than a DESIRE for the “ Mota”—he ha's
a NEED for one. For the “ Mota” at a small price
is the most comfortable and most distinctively
stylish soft felt of the day.
The material is good—it will wear well; the brim
and crown is easily adapted—it will suit your style.
Prices 7/6 to 12/6, in all fashionable colors, at
leading stores throughout Australia.
The name “Mota” is registered, and the design
also, j Beware of infringements.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
The Austral Hat Mills, Ltd.,
Abbotsford, Melbourne.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
Commencing NEXT SATURDAY, MAY 28.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY
m .Cfc in the Bright Musical Comedy,
THE DOLLAR PRINCESS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
* Lessee & Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
TO-NIGHT, AT 8,
MR. JULIUS KNIGHT, in con]unction with
MISS KATHERINE GREY and a
Company of Exceptional Artistic Calibre,
in a New Play of New Interest and New Situations,
THE THIRD DEGREE,
t>v Charles Klein, author of “ The Lion and the Mouse.”
Prices as usual. Plan at Paling’s.
“|T O W N HALL, SYDNEY.
DIRECTION of J. & N. TAIT.
THURSDAY, MAY 26th;
SATURDAY, MAY 28th ;
WEDNESDAY, JUNE Ist.
CALVE.
Supporting Artists
SIGNOR GALILIO GASPARRI. “ The finest Lyric Tenor
that has ever been heard in Australia.”
M. JACQUES PINTEL, The Brilliant Russian Pianist.
“ An artist of the very Highest Rank.”
PRICES —10s. 6d. (Reserved), ss. and 35.; Special Re-
serve, 21s. Plans at Paling’s. Country Residents may
book by post.
STANDARD THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction WILLIAM ANDERSON.
MATINEES, WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
A SENSATION IN VAUDEVILLE.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
LONDON VAUDEVILLE STARS,
Including NAT CLIFFORD, the Nimble One ; LILIAN
LEE, England’s Foremost Pantomime Artist (her First.
Appearance in Sydney); FORMAN—FANNAN, Patter
Comedians; supported by a First-class Combination of
Vaudeville Artists. Box Plan now' open at Elvy’s.
Prices—3/-, 2/- and ONE SHILLING.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
THE WINTER HOME of the Popular and Unrivalled
WERT’S PICTURES,
Managing Director : T. J. West.
WEST’S PICTURES Stand Alone Superior to
All Others, and are “The Window of the World.”
6d. to 2/- People’s Popular Prices 6d. to 2/-
Owing to Limited Capacity, Seats should be secured
at Nicholson’s.
HE
LYCEUM
EVENING AT 8
T
EVERY
Matinees-Wednesdays. Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30
CPENCER'S-fHEATREJCOPE (°
J PICTURES
/»/*?fill svpek.ioh ro Hiu or it Efts.
Popular Prices —Plans at Palinos.
Amusements.
SYDNEY GLACIAMUM.
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY
10 to 12 Nogn ; 3 to 5 p.m. ; 8 to 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION, 2s. ; SKATE HIRE, SIXPENCE.
CHlLDREN—Admission Morning and Afternoon Only, Is.
Saturday Morning Only, Sixpence.
Particulars of Season Tickets will be sent on Application
’Phone, 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
CARTER, THE GREAT, Mysterious and Psychic Marvel.
MISS OLIVE LENTON, and her Company of Eight
Singers, Dancers and Specialty Performers.
THE MYSTERIOUS HOWARDS, thought Readers.
THE WHEELERS.
MR. FRED BLUETT.
DROWN and ROBINSON.
PRICES—Bs., 2s. and Is.
SAM LAMERT.
VAUDE and VERNE.
BABY WATSON.
Plan ac Palinjr’s.
O Lf,** HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
LIANE DE LYLE & M. BRUNIN, Sketch Artists.
MORRISSEY BROS., Stockwhip, Lasso,
Sharpshooting- Act.
LILLIE LANGTRY, The Electric Spark.
LIEUT. TRANK TRAVIS, the Tramp Ventriloquist.
DEAN, Burlesque Actress and Danseuse.
TWO BELLS, Charming Song and Dance Artists.
BERT TERRELL, Dutch Comedian.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
JEREBA CARRENO tour.
Direction : Bf.nno Schkkkk.
TOWN HALL, MELBOURNE,
Saturday Evening, 28th May.
CARRENO
(Pronounce Car-rain-yo).
THE CELEBRATED PIANIST.
MELBOURNE Saturday and Tuesday Even-
ings, May 28 and 31; Thursday Afternoon,
-Tune 2; Saturday and Tuesday Evenings
June 4 and 7.
NEW ZEALAND Open Dunedin June 15.
T H^,^ ING ’ S THEATRE i MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager— William Anduhson.
William Anderson s Famous Dramatic Co. in
the Great Australian Drama,
THUNDERBOLT,
including GOVETT’S LEAP FOR LIFE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES-3s, 2s, and Is.
L.JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager: J. O. Williamson'.
First Production in Melbourne of
■> A WALTZ DREAM.
Cast includes Florence Young, Fanny Dango, Andrew
Higginson, Bertie Wright, Langford Kirby, Florence Vie.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
yHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
LAST THREE WEEKS OF THE SEASON.
NEVER SURPASSED.
RUPERT CLARKE & CLYDE MEYNELL’S
NEW ENGLISH COMIC OPERA GO
in the Fantastical Musical Play, in Three Acts
THE ARCADIANS. ’
Prices—ss., 35., Is. 6d. Plan at Alim’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE
lr Direction of HUGH J. WARD.
A GREAT SUCCESS,
HUGH J. WARD’S Company of Comedians,
including MISS GRACE PALOTTA,
in America’s Latest Laughing Craze,
THE GIRL EROYf RECTOR’S
Prices as iisiial.
Plan at Alim’s.
IRTHS'OLYMPIA..
.EVERY EYENING AT 8 __
Matinees -Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30.
C PENCERSUTeaTREJCOPE <°
J PICTURES
/5. PRE EUPERfOR TO /ILL OTft EPS.
Popular Prices —plan as Usual-*. I
G LAC
ARIUM, MELBOURNE.
Lessees .. J. & N. TAIT.
J.fcN.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
\Af E S T'S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THE BEST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT S.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2 30
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's’.
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, Gd. The Bulletin Office.
A. M. L. 8 F. Co. M
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia,
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
StocK and Station Agents.
CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300,000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral Pro-
perties and Stock, and on the Growing Wool Clip and Wheat Crop.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in Australia, being all
recently constructed.
Australian Mortgage, Land U Finance Co.
LIMITED,
William Street, MELBOURNE;
BligH Street, SYDNEY;
Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
Big Bargains in SECOND-HAND CYCLES
We have overhauled them—fitted new parts and new tyres
where needed, and you can have one at a deep price cut.
Buy Now ! FROM 50/- EACH.
They consist of Rovers, Humbers, Clevelands, Red Birds,
Massey=Harris, Speedwells, B. & B.’s, etc.
Our Pitt Street Dep6t is open every Friday till 9 p.m.
n u
j 0
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Specialists in Modern
Oycle Buildin
234 Pitt Street, and
Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
For four blocks of land balloted for at
Murwillumbah (N.S.W.) the other day there
were three Hindu applicants. But the Devil
didn’t look after his own that time; so mere
white Australian trash grot the land. Still, it
wasn’t the fault of the N.S.W. land law, or of
.Wade (who won’t alter the law), that Ram Bux
didn’t get his fist on a scrap more of Australia.
The recent wreck of the North Coast Co.’s
Minimbah at the Manning River entrance
(N.S.W.) makes the sixteenth for which the
North Coast bar entrances have been wholly
responsible during the past 10 years, to say
nothing of more or less serious strandings.
Steamers attempt to negotiate these entrances
only in calm weather, and are often bar-bound for
over a week at a stretch. Still, nine lives have
been lost, and £lOO,OOO worth of shipping lias
been scrapped in the vicinity of the breakwaters
in 10 years. The record is a grand tribute to the
Governments whose fool-policy has led them to
bribe localities by attempting to construct
seven harbors at great expense, when there
were a couple of good natural harbors which,
with half the outlay, would have met all re-
quirements.
DUNLO
IT
“fi
i£S£%
or
epaiKS
2g
i!
.
; • Always Carry a
Midget Outfit
Outwear all Others
Dunlop
Rubber
C?
of Aus
Ltd
Melb
Sydney. Adelaide
Brisbane S ChristchurcWZ
Perth


Rickets
can be cured
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Scott’s Emulsion perman-
ently cures rickets. This
statement is made because
hundreds of parents have
written to say their children
were cured of rickets by
Scott’s Emulsion. For ex-
ample, Mrs. Grant, jr., wrote,
September 18th, 1908, from
43, Merriman Street, Miller’s
Point, Sydney, N.S.W.:
“Diphtheria left my daughter, aged cue
year and eight months, with a nasty cough,
and she was unable to walk, owing to
rickets. I gave Scott’s Emulsion, ana
sd
her cough uas quite cured
after the second bottle.
Scott’s made her flesh quite
firm and solid, and she was
soon able to walk. She is now
stronger and better than she
has ever been, and looks
bright and healthy. This
trademark was on the emul-
sion I bought. ”
If you wish to get rid of
rickets, and decide to buy
Scott’s Emulsion, decide
also to GET SCOTT’S
EMULSION. You may be
asked to buy another emul-
sion and told it is “just as
good as Scott’s.” Substitute
emulsions can only be sold
on the reputation of Scott’s
Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion cures the disease-
no matter the age of the patient- and
will be approved by your Doctor for
Rickets if you ask him.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
how “ANTINEURASTHIN ”
REMEDIES NERVOUS BREAKDOWN.
It is, in ttie first place, essentially a food—not a mere
drug stimulant. It is a food that feeds the whole of the
nervous system with those elements the lack of which in
the structural tissues constitutes the neurasthenic con-
dition. It is so easily assimilated that in one hour it is
fully assimilated, thus creating- quickly a renewed mental
and physical vigor. This is not mere stimulation ; but is
really the sensati m produced by the actual assimilation
and storage of those refined elements necessary to nerve
comfort and vigor. This uplifting is not —as in the case
of tonics and stimulants—a mere transient whipping up,
but an actuvl addition to the nerve-structure and nerve-
strength of the individual. R -aders of The Bulletin are
invited to test “ Antineurasthin,” as also to read the
two helpfully-informing pamphlets enclosed with the trial
supply of “ Antineurasthin,” which can be obtained by
sending your name and address (together with stamps or
postal notes for Is.) to the Wholesale Distributor for Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, H. A. GODDARD, Eagle Street,
Brisbane.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO.
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at 1/1J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
sďs
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
| PIPES
ALL SHAPES
11/- EACH POST FREE 1/2
\ Quality Not Better
I in a
I Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
'storekeepers* TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND TOR OUR TRADE LIST
m
w
or
m*
**%*&.«
'rtf?
V-
• J r *
©<#*a
HAPPY, HEALTHY CHILDREN
fill the home with sunshine. When they become fretful
and out of sorts, it is generally because a mild laxative
is required —not a purgative, mind ! Nothing is so truly
beneficial in such cases as a dose of California Syrup of
Figs, which the little ones accept eagerly for its delicious
flavour: and it causes no discomfort: just relieves and
corrects gently, naturally, comfortingly, overcoming the
tendency to constipation. For its perfect purity and
harmlessness, as well as for its truly beneficial effects,
it is cordially endorsed by the medical profession.
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
Ask for California Syrup of Figs, and see that the package bears
the name and trade mark of the California Fig Syrup Co.
Of all Chemists, in two sizes.
TRADE MARK
COUCHS
TRADE
MARK
For Coughs of
rail kinds Freeman’s
—the Original—Chlorodyne brings quick and sure relief. It stops
the trying night cough, enabling ithe sufferer to secure restful sleep.
In cases of Influenza, Bronchitis, Asthma, and other Chest complaints
FREEMAN’S effects the most gratifying results. 1/IJ, 2/9&4/6 per bottle.
Used by Doctors all over the World. Refuse imitations, which
cannot possibly possess the wonderful healing powers of Freeman’s.
If your chemist
is out of stock,
order a bottle,
quickly
FREEMANS
CHLORODYNE
A
*
OS
0^
fO p
&
LO
cor
•J
&
&
c»ei> T
CO*
m
<*&
&
m
m
K l A THIKOOP
a glass
or OT
fA^*
' 'iWITn
, RUM
&LS OR BEE«
fWkrAA.
tr^AuToTHt
BEiT
A^AIQuEUR.
“Vd? xxtER MEAIS
OTumited
(j DIXON &C 0
>YDNEVA rAELEOUR
o T
The Most
Beneficial
Non-Alcoholic
Beverage
in the
World.
Beware !
This wonderful Recipe is in
our sole possession.
Imitations contain totally different
ingredients.
KEEP IT IN YOUR HOME.
“O.T.,"the wonderful blend of choicest
Fruit and Herb Extracts, is now
recognised as the best of all non-
alcoholic drinks.
There is nothing but goodness about it.
It is made of good, wholesome in-
gredients.
And it is good for those who drink it.
Its splendid qualities have won the
good opinionsand praises of legions
of friends all over the world.
“O.T.”is a delicious, healthy beverage
and a favourite wherever intro-
duced.
It blends perfectly with Spirits, Wines,
Aerated Waters, or Hot or Cold
Water.
A bottle should be in every Home!
Traders are warned against selling other beverages when
P 1 “0.T.” is asked for.
SEE THAT PEN? W
It’s BALL-POINTED ?
Never Sticks in tlie Paper, Never Spurts, Never Splutters. It will write
in any position and glide over any paper.
Ball-Pointed Pens Make Writing a Luxury!
Get a 6d. Assorted Box of Ball-Pointed Pens from your Stationer and just try them.
They’ll give you great pleasure.
sd
JL
Business, Robbery, etc.
Hindoo Kush, hawking in northern N.S.W.,
appeared with a red rap tied round his horse’s neck. Of
course, the cookies wanted to know why. Hindoo Kush
made some bones about telling ; bur, at last it was dragged
out of him. The bot tl.v had made its appearance, as all
he cookies knew, and in India it was well known that a
bot fly has a curious dislike for red. It didn’t always
save the animal ; bi* it did three times out of four.
(N.B. —Hindoo Kush has now taken off the red rag. He
has sold out his big job line of turkey twill.)
* * * *
“D.M.W.”: Time was when Maorilanders
were so proud of their red-funnel line that they wouldn’t
hear a word against the co. ; but the enthusiasm seems
to have got frozen somewhere. Particularly is this the
casein regard to the Australian-M.K. services, where in-
creased rates, put fin to meet extra expense over plague
scares, strikes, etc., never seem to come off again. Apart
from that, the geographical situation of the Rickety Isles
is such that the main sea-ferry services are as important
to the inhabitants as the railways, and the people who
will not have privately-owned railways are beginning to
think that privately-owned ferries are equally reprehen-
sible. Certainly, national ferries betue.n Wellington
and Lyttelton and Wellington and Picton cannot long be
delayed, although Seddon delayed the question until he
died. Joe Ward is said to be keeping the matter stei dily
in view; and as it provides a great opportunity for rais-
ing an able-bodied loan, lOU may be heard from at any
minute.
* * * *
“The Mug”: Toowoomba (Queensland) is
almost being offered a premium to see painted snakes in
its boots. One pub started to cut prices, and re-
duced beer from 6d. to sd. per bottle. Trade
hounded that way, and barley and oats started
to grow on the other Bungs’ doorsteps; wherefore
an association was formed, and the breweries made
concessions to pubs in the vicinity of the price-cutter to
enable them to sell beer at 3d. a bottle. It is—’sense me
glorioush, and fel’r who shaid was only one Hallev'sh
shcomet’s aw wrong-—zherzh dozhenzh.
* * * *
“ Camperdovvn ” : The few fines that have been
inflicted in the N.S.W. Industrial Court by Judge Heydon
on the thief employer who pays a worker less than the
wage fixed by the Wages Board, while forcing him to
-ign a receipt for the stipulated rate, have not put an
end to the practice. How many hotel rouseabouts, for
instance, are actually getting£l a week and keep? How
uany are receiving only 155., and signing for a quid?
This shameful trick is being played upon many of these
unfortunates by more than one “genial host” who has
he reputation, on the public’s side of the bar, of being a
real good sort. The chances of exposure are infinitesimal,
because the poor devil of a rouseabout won’t squeak—
unless he can gpt, another job right out of his old line.
* * * *
It is said that a lot of intricate machinery has
lately been devised that can squeeze better and purer
butter out of cocoannts than our old friend the eqiw ever
provided, and can do it at 4d. per lb. A French facto: y
is already turning out the patent grease, and others are
to arise and multiply, and presently butter at 4d. per lb.
will be a greasy fact. Therefore, if all the yarn is trui ,
cow can be expected to shortly join the horse in a mad
rush over the horizon, wildly pursued by modern inven-
tions. Cocky will then head his milk producers fpr the
sausage factory, and will frantically plant eocoanut palms
where M jfly and Strawberry were wont to graze, Apd
Cocky, j tin., instead of having to “milk his 15” before
breakfast, will have to learn how to climb his 1,5 and toss
the nuts down to the old man.
* c * *
“Vectis”: Let us leave out the devilish fakes
which profess to cure incurable diseases, and consider
only the more innocent members of the tribe. An in-
stanee : Bill Outback has a boil. The storekeeper sup-
plies him with a box of Goole’s Hyena Ointment—a
horrid mess of resin, beeswax and lard. Bill suffers the
tortures of the damned, gets a crop of half a dozen more
boils, sees a doctor in the end, and from first to last loses
perhaps a fortnight’s work. Now, if Bill had known
where to get it, he could have put something on that
boil which would have cured it in its earliest stages, and
my point is that it ought to be possible for Bill to get it.
Bill knows just what he wants ; we can’t call him a fool
for daring to diagnose his own case ; nor should we
compel Bill to pay a doctor 10s. (id. to tell him what
he knows already. Remedies which will “abort” a
boil, however, are not to be found among the “ patents."
Why not? Mainly because they are not dirt-cheap
Is it Utopian, absurd, preposterous and beyond all
reason that the State should run a medicine department?
Let a State-appointed council of medical men decide
upon a list of remedies for minor ailments; let these be
prepared under State supervision ; and let a concise hand-
b >ok be issued free, describing in plain language what
these remedies will cure—and also what they will not
cure. There is no self-respecting medical man who would
nor, heartily agree with at least the intention of this
srheme. And so I encourage myself to dream of a golden
age when “Cough Mixture 5B” shall have bumped
“Sliarke’s Lungine” off the face; when the bilious
person shall prefer “Liver Fills, Formula X,” price 6d.,
to “ Bal ’s Boweloids ” at half a crown. In short, I
dream, no doubt, of an utterly insane and impossible
state of affairs, which never will or could exist on this
earth.
* * * ■*
“Kangaroo Paw”: Have you ever seen the
mug-fly at work ? It is a curious insect which visits the
pub about closing-time. Generally it has just looked in
to see if Bill McCarty is there. Bill never is there. But
Spender and Shicker Bill are there. Spender has just
offered to stand oysters or cold fowl for the barmaid’s
supper; but there’s nobody to go and get it. “Oh,
here’s Bluey” (the mug-fly), says the barmaid. “Just
the very man. This gentleman’s shouting supper. Will
you fetch it from the Greek’s?” Bluey at first “’asn’t
time,” but he finally consents to take the gentleman’s
quid and procure “ whatever’s to be had.” “ Is he all right,
though?” asks Spender of the Hebe, as a pound-note
vanishes into Bluey’s pocket. “What! Me! Does hemean
met" inquires Bluey, indignantly ; and the barmaid has
an anxious few minutes in mollifying the special com-
missioner and explaining his virtues to the dubious
Spender. Bluey is a long time away, but he returns with
a tin of herrings, several saveloys, a loaf of bread and 6s.
change. “ That’s all I could get,” says the mug-fly.
“ Well, hooroo ! ” and he prepares to depart 10 bob richer
than when he first appeared. “ What! 14 boh for that?”
asks Spender. “ I arsked ’im fer a good blow,” says
Bluey; “an’ that’s wot ’e gimme, jes as yer see it.
Blime, d’ye think I’m a bloomin’take-down, er what?
So long, Cis.” He always seems to know Cis very well.
* * * *
“D.M.W.”: The nigger plague that infests
the P. and O. steamers is not likely to pass unchallenged
in Maoriland. Auckland is supposed to be cock-a-whoop
over the advent of the big steamers to the port, but
white Maoriland is beginning to rear up and forcefully
voice its objections to periodical nigger.
THE EVERLASTING CADGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Volunteer workers wanted to labor without remun-
eration, and at their own expense, in the promotion of
the Empire movement. Also wanted Union Jacks for
nothing.— Meath (Earl by trade) in the Australian papers.
On Hospital Saturday in Sydney £6BOO was collected.
State Premiers are again appealing to the people for
office.
The farmers want further railway concessions.
William was sentenced to 14 days’imprisonment
for begginv.— News item, any day, anyivhere.
On Sund iv at the church (any church) Rev. Blight will
preach. Collection.
Captain Scott acknowledges subscriptions to assist him
in his South Polar Expedition.
And so on eternally, likewise ad, lib.
The world is full of cadgers, and they never seem to rest;
They’re on the bite from morn to night, each by-way
they infest
With private hat, religious plate, or with official badge—
From northern south they work the earth and cadge,
cadge, cadge.
There’s the churches, and the farmers, and the fat-face 1
German band;
There’s Meath who boosts the Empire, and Scott the
Polar land ;
There’s Bill for beer, and Wade for jobs; the hospital
for Madge—
Our greatest natural resource is cadge, cadge, cadge.
N.S.W.
BILLY B.


The Beginning's of the BEALE, PIANOS
UK
St 4
* »
J9*
St .Tt>
:-A ./
JaWTr
-*vT
¥Sr»
A •?.
N*
,
'
ss*siasav-,«,
•-
XAillA?
**“■*“"— —— «— > ".■ *-— ■
T”””
r H" ■» ' ■■»
g-rf ■'. ~ 1
x:- :
■A *
MEM
rag* jn
' iV>: -
*
- «-.»•
r. - ~ '•'' j
A-Av';
•~ < X AC ,'A - sto* *zr**-iM ■
' ■a* v . ■
■•: ■ ' '. ‘*;
-I, _ • •~ ' -
i■ * • .„,■' X • •
k
;> •, >•«*(;
AAXv
.
i V,-n-'V^ : '-' ' • ' XAtAA
.;' : ■ ■'■ ' • ---.=■ "£<.£
** *•*-■*, ->.i- .r -• *- x ' .. >*
-/■'•■ ’-- - r
\- ■ ■ AX.
-X
THIS illustration takes us back to an earlier stage in the manufacture of the Beale Pianos than the “beginnings” pictured and described in The
Bulletin a foitmght ago even before they find a birthplace at our Annandale Factories, as shown in a previous advertisement. In these
°£ s ’ CLlt f rom our own reserves, loaded upon our own jinkers and drawn by our own team of oxen, bred and fed upon our own farm, lies
the Beale Piano tn posse. vv e have already claimed that we make more of the parts of a piano than any other maker in the world. To that claim we
can add that we begin the handling of the raw materials of piano manufacture at an earlier stage than any other manufacturer. We go right
back to the growing tiee in our own forests, and our own axemen with the first swing of their axes begin the Beale Pianos at a point
beyon w ich it is impossible to go further back. We have already described some of the forward operations of piano manufacture, and
how the completed product has won the Grand Prix, a Diploma of Honor, and Two Gold Medals at the Franco-British Exhibition, London, 'l9OB,
J
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
-378 George Street, Sydney 3D^ s 0 f r, om 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 Queen Street, Brisbane (next G. P.O. —our Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Goulburn, N.S.W.;
Maryborough, Rockhampton, Mackay and Townsville, Queensland; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
Travellers Everywhere. Write for Catalogue, cr for Representative to call.
Cash or Easy Terms. 25 Years’ Guarantee. Repairs and Tuning.
Head Offices and Fatfories: TRAFALGAR STREET, ANNANDALE, SYDNEY.
Old Pianos Allowed For. Direct from Factory to Family. Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


BY APPOINTMENT
TO H.M. THE KING.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
sd
SORUBB’S—AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
gsdg
1N
BANANA LAND
About 12 months ago 50 German families
went to Queensland and settled on the Binjour
Plateau, in the Gayndah district; and another
hatch of 38 families is due shortly for the same
locality. The birth-rate of the new-comers is
healthy. The 38 have scored 260, and the innings
isn’t yet closed.
Ituby Yale, the gem district in Central
Bananaland, wants to turn Andrew Fisher into a
walking advt., and is at present holding euchre
parties and fierce dances to buy a beautiful
sapphire pin, which he is to be asked to wear
above his top weskit button.
When a seaside town falls asleep, it takes
a lot of kicking in the ribs to wake it up. Yep-
poon recently was given a railway, but the station
merely pushed its nose inside the outer folds of
the township. The place nodded as the stately
concern lifted its roof to the sea breeze. Then a
fortnight after the line had been opened, the
township woke up and started to petition for the
station to be shifted further in. ' .
Some £2OOO is being spent in decorating
Queensland Houses of Parliament. According to
the inspired paragraphist, “ the chandeliers in
the Legislative Council are being painted white,
picked out with gold ; the pillars at the President’s
end of the Legislative Council are white, with
caps feathered in gold ; and all the panelling
on the vice-regal dais has been edged with gold.”
All this white on a political deadhouse is seemly
enough ; but isn’t the gilt out of place?
Railway Commissioner Thallon proposes
to build new and extensive offices between the
present Brisbane Central Railway Station and
Wickham Terrace. A Brisbane paper ferrets out
the interesting fact that this was the spot where
immigrants by the Chesney in 1849 were permitted
to build bark and bough huts, but were forbidden
to follow agricultural pursuits. How the Austra-
lian has been hobbled ! Once he was forbidden to
mine for gold, for fear of upsetting the established
order of things ; then he wasn’t allowed to follow
agricultural pursuits, except under difficult condi-
tions ; and nowadays there are many people who
believe he ought not to manufacture things for
himself, raise his own defence force or build his
own navy.
“ Oxie’s ” allegation :
The sort of thing school teachers have to put up with
in Phidsland. Not long ago a girl teacher was landed by
coach 15 miles from anywhere, and with no idea how to
get to her destination. She wandered about until she
was picked up by a fuddled cocky, who informed her that
he was the secretary of the committee of her new' school.
He helped her into a German waggon, and after a long
journey they arrived at the house where she was to
reside. .There she was shown to her “ room,” which was
one end of an old' barri partitioned off by ill-hung and
somewhat holey bags. The other half of the ramshackle
was inhabited by a Chow cook, and when the girl pro-
tested the family was consumed with surprise. In Vic-
toria and N. S. Wales during the last few years pretty
satisfactory steps have been taken to save female teachers
from the possibility of experiences of this sort ; but the
Queensland Department is evidently still in need of the
shaking-up that has happened down south.
“Ossian ” ; Kidston could do some good
for Queensland by improving the look of Pin-
kenba, where the Orient liners and other over-
sea craft berth. Pinkenba—more commonly
“Stinkenba”—is nine miles by rail from Bris-
bane; and the tourist who hits up against the
unfinished hamlet, with its odoriferous meatworks
atmosphere, its cattle-yards, its rickety 1 ail way
station, its fences hung with bleaching hides, its
mangroves, and its wholly uninviting appearance,
must form a, poor opinion of Bananaland. A bite
or two out of that £5OOO .appropriated “for
advertising the State” could be spent on making
the place presentable. At present it’s an un-
sightly cattle-yard, from which not a glimpse of
any more cheerful-looking settlement can be got.
The comet, having waggled the earth a
cheerful farewell with "its festive tail, is off on its
Cook’s ,tour of the universe. But, comet or no
comet, the tides in the affairs of men continue
tlieiir erratic courses. And that they may be
taKen at that flow which leads on to fortune it is
best to seek judicious and regular inspiration from
D.C.L., the Whisky of the Wise.*
On page 2 of this issue appears a very fine
portrait of that ever popular dramatic actor, Mr. George
Titheradge. It will be remembered that after bis return
from England recently, be suffered from the after-effects
of appendicitis, but recovered his health rapidly through
the use of a splendid strength-restoring remedy, to which
he u-ives great tribute. Mr. Titheradge’s letter is pub-
lished with his photo., and it is worth while for our
readers to peruse it. This medicine is said to work
wonders.*
Some time ago an English shindicate,
which said it proposed to manufacture alcohol and
varnish from grass-trees, got a concession cover-
ing a large portion of coastal Queensland. Similar
concessions were obtained in some of the other
States. Since then nothing has been heard about
the matter, and as far as Bananaland is concerned
the business is at an end. The shindicate was
under an obligation to start by May 1 or quit;
and as it didn’t start, it quits.
The almost inaccessible Mount Lindsay, on
the Dividing Range, was successfully climbed
lately by a road contractor named R. .T. Cullen,
who had with him Peter Ronald and J. Aider-
man. First Borchgrevinck. the Antarctic ex-
plorer, and afterwards Pears (now P.M. in
Warwick) and Murray-Prior (Maroon station)
reached the top; but the party which made the
ascent the other day found also the names
“Campbell,” “Paul” and “Boyd,” and the date
“1903” carved on a tree on the head-piece. The
height of the upheaval—soooft. —is not the chief
obstacle, but a precipice with which the top is
surrounded. The top is a fairly level plateau of
about 40 acres, covered in parts with white sassa-
fras and a kind of ti-tree, neither of which is to
be found anywhere near the base. The oldest
inhabitant says the mountain cannot be climbed
now. on account of the burning of the vines that
helped Pears and Prior up ; but Alderman is
prepared to escort another party skywards.
AN ADMISSION WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
FUZZER (to pal who has quarreled with his wife): “ Oh, make it up. After all, the grey mare
may he the best horse.”
PAL (nastily): “ Perhaps! Anyhow, she's the best nag."
The Queensland Director of Forests re-
cently reported that “he saw, waiting at Herber-
ton for clearing-fires, timber which at any seaport
in Australia would be cheap at £1,000,000.” The
Queensland coast and tableland between Towns-
ville and the Mossman contains practically all
the cedar trees now left in the continent. Yet
the cocky is so feverishly anxious to get the cow
on to the land that he is attacking the remnant as
if he were slaughtering an enemy.
Four years or so back, a good deal of noise
was made in Queensland about the possibilities
of sisal-hemp. It was said that the vegetable
would crush £l7 an acre per year, after paying
for labor, etc. But somehow the thing never took
on. So far as The Bulletin knows, only one man
—Wells by name, of Childers —went in for sisal
bald-headed, and stuck to it. Lately he an-
nounced the erection of a mill to turn the aloe-
leaves into fibre —and possibly to turn the fibre
into ropes, thread, fishing-twine and hundreds of
etceteras. The thing will grow almost anywhere,
and it may solve the problem of what to do with
worn-out sugar lands.
Extract from the weekly Proserpine (Q.)
letter to a North Queensland paper, setting forth
one of the awful calamities inflicted oii Queens-
land by the abolition of colored labor
There is evidence that the stream ot incoming farmers
which has been spreading itself throughout l ife district
for some time past .is likely to continue. The flow of
white workers who yearly arrive here to harvest the cane
crop has much to do with the above satisfactory state of
affairs. Many of these young men are sons of Southern
farmers, who return to the parent home in the South
with good tidings of the possibilities ahead of this dis-
trict, and, thus induce other intending settlers to pro-
ceed hither and spy out the land. In this way the old
prejudice against settlement in the North is gradually
being broken down, and, instead of being tabooed, the
North is gradually coming into favor as a desirable pla.ce
to obtain a holding.
ADVICE TO YOUNG MOTHERS.
Most mothers realise the great danger from
croup, but many do not know that an attack may
be prevented by proper treatment as soon as the
first symptoms appear. The first indication of
croup is hoarseness, followed by a rough cough.
Give Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy according to
the printed directions at once, or even after the
croupy cough appears, and it will prevent the
attack. It is, in fact, a certain cure for croup. '
When the Curfew Goes A-Tolling!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A deputation recently approached the Queensland
Chief Secretary with a request that legislation might be
introduced to compel all young people to be indoors by a
certain hour. —News item.
Ye shall shut up the Barman and ye shall cut off the
Booze;
The Songs shall all be stifled of the merry-making crews ;
The Wicked Pub shall dowse at nine its sinful, shining
glim,
And all the street shall echo with a burst of holy hymn ;
Ye shall not touch the nobbier when the Night begins to
fall,
Ye shall not join in carnal joys at merry Carnival;
Both young and old shall wear a garb of grievous hodden
grey,
When the Curfew gets a-tolling at the close of Day !
The man who loveth cocktails he shall love them never-
more ;
The wight who loveth merriment must seek another
shore ;
The Giber and the Joker and the Jester with his Jest
Must take a quick departure for the Regions of the Blest;
No subtle wink shall tell a tale of witching woman’s wile ;
A round of sermons purgative shall purify the vile ;
And ne’era laugh shall ripple out, and ne’er a smile snail
, play,
When the Curfew gets a-tolling at the close of Day !
the merry boys who race around shall stop their jolly
din,
And hearken to a godly one who turneth us from sin ;
The giddy girls who foot it in the mazes of th< dance
Shall drop their mad manoeuvres when the Righteous look
askance ;
The Song of gay Frivolity in sudden fear shall drop,
The Voice of Light Hilarity shall find a sudden stop,
And they who come to crack a joke may find it well to
pray—
When the Curfew gets a-tolling at the close of Day !
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, Mat 21, 1910.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Friday, the day of the dead King’s burial, saw
the largest gathering on record at the Exhibition
Ground. There the military and the naval boys
were drawn up in hollow square, and combined
choirs and massed bands with erhpe-muffled drums
led the singing and played the “ Dead
March.” The volume of song that went
skywards was as the sound of a mighty
host deeply stirred, and the turning of the
programme-leaves as the sighing of the wind that
comes with the sunset. Funeral drapery was
universal. The “flowery” reporter had a chance
to say that even the sky was hung in grey and
purple.
In the midst of the black draperies that shroud
the city, a few little parties have struggled
through in breathless silence. For the first time
the Pioneer (Women’s) Club opened its sacred
precincts to mere man and cards (that other in-
vention of the Devil) during the week, and in an
atmosphere of fraternity and roses the bidden
guests dealt the wily knave and hung on to the
treasured ace, and were fed when they could be
reached —for the crowd was as the multitude on
the banks of the Red Sea. The night might have
been cooler, but the city was still frying on the
gridiron tail of the comet, so that couldn t be
helped. The new rooms are, however, such an
improvement upon the Pioneer’s former habi-
tations that the weather is now of less conse-
quence. For years the club has been one of
simple goodness, and this outbreak of frivolity
shook some of the original members to their very
foundations. One of them confided to me : “My
dear, isn’t it frightfully jolly ! But I feel as if I
was proceeding to perdition on a toboggan run-
ning on a buttered slide.” I hear that the male
guests contemplate a return entertainment upon
the same daring lines.
As I fought my way through the multitude
waiting outside Paling’s to book seats for the
“Aladdin” pantomime, on Thursday, I hap-
pened upon the wife of a high official displaying
acutesymptomsof mental wear and tear. Underthe
delusion that she had been in the panto, fray and
had come out second best, I offered my sympathy;
but she replied in broken accents, “I’m not booking
seats, but searching the city for a black boa to
wear at the memorial service.” We mingled our
tears. There’s not a black cat that remains
unskinned in the metropolitan area.
Death has been busy in Brisbane. Among the
last to answer the call is Geo. Washington Power,
barrister-at-law and member of the Queensland
University Council. “G.W.,”as he was usually
called, was well beloved, and quite recently his
professional attainments were recognised by an
appointment to an acting-District Court Judge-
ship. He went on circuit to Barcaldine and Cler-
mont, after a somewhat severe attack of dengue,
and returned to town ill on Sunday last. Even then
nothing serious was suspected ; but he was placed
in the Mater Misericordise Hospital, where he ex-
pired on Thursday. Mr. Power was a Victorian
by birth, but was schooled in Brisbane, whence he
passed the Sydney Junior and Senior in brilliant
style, and finally went to Melbourne on a scholar-
ship. There he won several more scholarships,
and thus pushed through to a Law degree. He
was admitted to the Bar in 1891, and subsequently
married Miss Josie Kennedy, a daughter of an
old Government servant in the Immigration De-
partment. He leaves a family of three children,
and a mourning circle of three thousand and
three friends.
Owing chiefly to the solid common-sense of
Health Commissioner Elkington, Myora, a charm-
ing spot upon Stradbroke Island, Moreton Bay,
and beloved by boating men, is to preserved from
leper contamination. Who first conceived the
foolish idea of dumping the half-dozen white vic-
tims of the scourge there is a mystery; they would
certainly be worse off than in their present
quarters. And as Myora is within the catchment
area of the proposed new city water supply,
that is sufficient reason why it shouldn’t be
made into a leper station, quite apart from
the pity of spoiling such a favorite beauty spot.
The Elkington report concluded with the re-
minder that in view of the very limited know-
ledge of the disease, too much care could hardly
be taken against possible infection. Now,, I hear
that the Commonwealth authorities will have
their will, and the white sufferers will be sent to
Little Bay, in N.8.W.. while the colored ones
will probably be sent to Magnetic Island —that is,
if the Townsville people don't object.
At the time of writing, the Crown Solicitor,
Mr. Geo. Hellicar, is lying in a precarious con-
dition, and the utmost anxiety is felt about him.
One of the handsome Godsall girls, of Too-
woomba, is to give her hand and heart away next
week. Otherwise, there seems to be a temporary
slump in the recently active orange-blossom busi-
ness.
A, daughter of sub-editor Stephens, of the Mel-
bourne Agk, struck this city during the week, cn
route for Townsville, where she is towed a mining
engineer. She is to take up her residence at
Charleston, which is, roughly, about 100 miles
beyond Chillagoe, and so far west that you can
touch the setting sun with an umbrella.
There was a gathering of the Royal Geographi-
cal Society last week, when an elderly traveller
told a tale of Stinking Fish, and was gently but
firmly reproved for its smellfulness by Wee
Macgregor. By the way, did not one of the
learned gentlemen of the society get a large ex- v
pense slip to go to Papua and take photographs, or
track down the wily rubber-tree? And isn’t it
time he issued a balance-sheet or produced the
photos, or something?
Pretty Lattie Cameron is back from Europe
with a head full of music and Old World lore.
After all, the comet has proved a much over-
rated affair. No one suffered from cyanogemc
acid, although most of the timid spent two hours
in an atmosphere of blue funk, partly because our
old friend Inclement Wragge had written to say
that there really was some risk of an unpleasant
shock. The folk who like their lurich went forth
to seize it, and ate as if every morsel might be
their last. And all that happened them was in-
digestion. As an engine of destruction the star
with the long train has been a keen disappoint-
ment.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
The churches’ which set their thoughts on
things above, have been fighting again in Banana-
land for the wealth that makes it hard to enter
Heaven. In both cases the Full Court was called
in. In one case Father Byrne, of Dalby, had got
a bequest involving something like £30,000 of the
curse. A brother of the reverend rich man
claimed a big share of it; but the Full Court saw
no reason why he should get anything. In the
second case £40,000 of Mrs. Mary Peattie’s handi-
cap was shed on the Anglican churches of
Brisbane; and instead of mentioning the camel
and the needle’s eye, and rejecting the riches with
loathing, they reached out with both hands.
The squatter doesn’t usually paint the lily
if the lily’s rent is up for consideration ; still the
remarks made by J. K. Cudmcfre to the Band
Court at Barcaldine include some figures which
ought to be accurate. Cudmore is manager of
Tara, and his yarn was as follows
There was only one bore on the Dunraven selections.
The nearest bore was on Tara, a mile away. It was
2856 ft. deep, with a flow of 10,000 gallons per day. Two
miles and a half away was another bore over 3000 ft. deep.
At one time this had a flow of 250,000 gallons; but now
the water was 50ft. below the surface.' Another bore over
3000 ft. deep had a flow of 500,000 gallons ; it was now 80ft.
below the surface. These bores were on the same water-
shed as the Dum aven selections. He put down a bore in
1906 to 3033 ft. It gave a flow of 75,000 gallons for two
years ; but now the water was 15ft. from the surface.
Another bore be put down in 1892 to over 3000 ft. It gave
200 000 gallons; but the water now was 36ft. below the
surface. He deepened it in 1903, when it gave 1700
gallons; but the supply afterwards dropped off alto-
gether.
With bores which used to spurt out half a million
gallons a day. but now give merely a pumping
supply; and with others which used to give a
pumping supply, but are now quite dry, those
Queensland squatters who are protesting against
“ State interference” or “State regulation ” have
a pretty hopeless case. Instead of not coming at
all, the “interference” ought to have come 10
years earlier.


CAIRNS
o
Up
TO
D/itf
/IND
(OMFOR*
MBLf
Steam
SHIPS
JO?
Mb'
mUt*
MR. DONALD McDONALD (the well-known
writer) describes the Trip as follows:
FOR the greater part of the journey on the Queensland
coast the steamer runs between the Great Barrier
Reef and the mainland, making it one of the
smoothest of the sea trips of Australasia. The route is
dotted with picturesque islands, covered with foliage strange
to southern eyes, and the boat is ever ropnding headlands,
steaming into fine bays and estuaries. The famous
Whitsunday Passage, between Mackay and Bowen, is
extremely picturesque.
mi
r .
3
•■•. V
-
RSI
Isa
MM
?sai
m
m
m
i
K
§
*
Wwiill
Mulliii
«aa® ; . v „r
•in
m
w
a
REGULAR & .
and all porfs in each
AUSTRALIAN STATE
sKla
ADELAIDE $. C? LT D A.U.S.N.C? LIMITED
HOWARD SMITH C9LTP HUDDART PARKER &C? PIT L!°
Mora
TD
sd
*Notk. Second Single Fares apply to all steamers engaged in Queensland trade.
By the Magnificent Steamships of
Howard Smith Co. Ltd.
The Adelaide Steamship Co. Ltd.
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
STONY CREEK BRIDGE.
“In a short railway ride of 20 miles
from Cairns one may travel through
some of the finest scenery in Aus-
tralasia, culminating in the magnificent
Barron Falls—the king of cataracts. The
trains run most of the way along the
Barron Gorge, in scenery wild and
majestic, and the trip is one which
no tourist going northwards should
miss. I have ridden on the box
seat of a coach through the famous
Buller and Otira Gorges of New Zealand,
and looked practically down into eter-
nity, with only a solid foot of roadway
intervening; but it is not more thrilling
than this railway run through the Barron
Gorge, where there is always a com-
forting feeling that your lease of life is
not terminable by a false step on the
part of one of the leading horses. The
train stops at the Falls, of which there is
a superb view. There is no necessity to
rhapsodise—go and see it.”
- # -
CAIRNS
IS picturesquely situated, has a
healthy climate, and the tempera-
ture in winter seldom falls below
50°. First-class hotel accommo-
dation at Cairns and Kuranda
(Barron Falls) can be obtained at
a reasonable tariff, and the fishing
at Cairns is excellent, A trip to
the Barron Falls and gorgeous
scenery about that part of North
Queensland should not be missed*
**
m
-
IKS
$d s
fi
BARRON FALLS IN FLOOD.-7CO FEET


REALLY TERRIBLE
SKIN TROUBLES
Girl’s Head a Mass of Humour—Grew
Thin and Weak —Despaired of
Ever Curing Her—Baby was Even
Worsewith Running Eczema —No
Signs of Eruption Left Now.
MOTHER TELLS HOW
CUTICURA CURED BOTH
“My little girl’s head started with a
lot of pimples and then they began to
-in
fill with matter and
discharge. As
fast as one broke
there was a lot
more came out un-
til her head was a
complete mass of
running sores. For
j days she would not
' take any notice of
us. She began to
get thin and weak
and I gave up all
, hope of ever get-
ting her head well
again until I saw
about the Cuticura
Remedies. But
Cuticura made it
quite well again (it was bad for about
six months). Her hair is getting lovely
and thick now. , , , ,
“Cutieura cured my baby s face at
the same time. His dear little nose and
chin were raw with this same complaint
and used to run and bleed awfully. When
I have carried him down from his sleep
his pillow would be covered with blood.
One day my neighbour carried him down
and she screamed to see him covered
with blood where the places had been
running. But now _he is entirely free
from anything and is such a lovely fat
boy. His nose was nearly eaten away
with it. I was told by people in the
village that it was the running eczema.
I tried endless ointments but none did
it any good till I received the Cutieura
and I am glad to say that it has cured
both of them. Mrs. L. Brown, Manor
Cottages, Stanwick, nr. Wellingborough,
Northamptonshire, Eng., Nov. 12,1909.
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
Cutieura la the most economical treatment known
for .the skin, scalp, hair and hands, of infants,
children and adults. A tablet of Cutieura Soap and
a box of Cutieura Ointment are often sufficient to
cure. Sold throughout the world. Depots: London,
27, Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 10. Rue de la Chaussee
d’Antin: Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney; U.S.A.,
Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
.OS-Post-free, 32-page Cutieura book, containing
Invaluable advice on the Treatment of Skin Troubles.
AftNET
'M
g
F
e
BA
234 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
AND ALL STATES
CHANGE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR ME.
LAXATINE The Peerless Aperient.
LAXATINE The Gentle Regulator.
LAXATtNE The Lollie-like Laxative.
LAXATINE 7he Cure for Constipation.
LAXATtNE Soid by AH Chemists.
LAXATINE Equally Good for Children and
LAX 1 TINE Adults.
LAXA TINE ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
-
a
POISONS THE
as surely as a serpent’s bite.
It lowers vitality, produces
languor, headaches, nervous
depression, sleeplessness, and
causes nearly all our other
ailments. Mother Seigel’s
Syrup, the standard herbal
medicine, is
The SURE REMEDY
It tones and strengthens
stomach, liver and bowels;
restores’ them to healthy action.
“ I began to suffer most severely
, from stomach disorder and kin-
dred troubles. I had retching
and vomiting after almost every
meal. I felt heavy, languid, out
of sorts—lost strength, vigour
and energy. Four bottles of
Mother Seigel’s Syrup restored
me to sound health.” Mr.
Charles 1160001,. 2, Antonio Place,
off Halifax Street, Adelaide.
MOTHER
SEIGEL*
SYRUP.
Seasonable FOOTWEAR
PRICE,
IS/6
$
o.
for
MEN.
This St.vlish Bal. Boot
can be had in five shapes,
either Tan or Black —is
the very latest style for
Winter Wear.
PRICE, 18/6.
Send for our Booklet, “ Shoelijrht.”
LEE MING’S Boot Stores,
109 Swanston Melbourne : 257-259 Bourke
St., Melbourne ; 303 Chapel St., Prahran ; 1 & 3
Errol St., North Melbourne.
ONCE FAT !
NOW NORMAL!
Yon are now fat, but can be made nor-
mal. You would be under treatment
to-day and rapidly reducing your weight,
only that you have listened to foolish
advice from one who should know better,
or have, for lack of complete information,
forfned a judgment that is daily rebound-
ing/,on you.
You are just like other fat people—each
one has individual symptoms, but all are
the same in general. Your notion that
vour fat is “natural,” or “can’t be helped,”
misleads you. Your weight can be quickly
redivped to normal, no matter how long
you have been obese or corpulent.
f FATCURE”
is a natural, harmless, vegetable home treatment,
beneficial to the heart, and spells annihilation
to the obese tissue.
Many cases lose overlive pounds a week—some
bver'a pound a day. Do at least investigate our
claims. Let us send you fuller particulars.
Send 2d. stamp for FREE TRIAL TREAT-
MENT. Any address in closed wrapper. [604
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
System
of Induced Draught for Mine Workings,
Tunnels, etc., and of Forced Draught for
Combustion, is Effective and Economical.
ESTIMATES SUBMITTED.
THE. HYDROBLAST CO.,
Patentees and Makers,
FLETCHER STREET, WOOLLAHRA, SYDNEY, N.S.W
F»
3>
VI
THE STRONG
and Vigorous Man will always succeed
where the weak, nervous and debilitated
man must fail. We restore health,
strength and vitality with Nature’s
Remedies. Our advice is free to all
HERBAL DISPENSARY,
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
Established 27 Years.
SELECTED LIST OF
N.S.W. Bookstall Publications
THE SIGN OF THE SERPENT, by J. U. M. Abbott,
Author of “Tommy Cornstalk,” “ Letters from
Queer Street.”
Illustrated Paper Cover, 1/- (postage 3d.).
Something sensational? Well, this should
satisfy the most exacting in that direction. A
secret society, instituted in England in the
smuggling days of “The Georges,” has the scene
of its operations transferred to Australia, where
the descendants of the smugglers happen to be.
A priceless jewel, in the form of a serpent
encrusted with precious stones, that has been
the sign of the society for three generations, is
coveted by the remaining members, and there is
lots of trouble before the ownership is definitely
settled. There is much scheming and shedding
of blood ; while Cupid, in his usual irresistible
way, decides the vexed question to the satisfac-
tion of all concerned. And how? Well, it is
worth while to find out ; and you won’t be dis-
appointed. Mr. Percy F. S. Spence is responsible
for the illustrations, and that means a lot.
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM, by “ Stekle Ruud,”
Author of “ On Our Selection,” “ The Poor
Parson,” “Duncan McClure," etc.
Illustrated Paper Cover, price 1/- (post free, 1/3).
This is “ Steele Rudd’s” latest, and in it we are
introduced to a higher circle of Bushdom—the
Australian farm. The struggling selector gives
place to the prosperous farmer, and one feels
more inclined to enjoy the many humorous
situations, knowing that “ the farmer can afford
it.’’ The same rollicking fun pervades this book
that obtained in the Selection Series, for Mr.
Davis’s keen sense of humor is his best asset, and
he distributes largesse with a generous hand. Few
authors have such a host of friends all over
Australia, and bis “ Australian Farm ” must win
him many more. There are numerous illustra-
tions from the facile pen of Mr. Ben Jordan,
whose work is always appreciated.
sdsd
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
476 George Street,
SYDNEY.
All Branches
and
Book-
sellers.
ST JACOBS
OIL
Cures
RHEUMATISM
and Bodily Aches and Pains.
Of all Chemists and Stores
THROW DOWN THE BOTTLE.
Cease beinjr a curse in your home and a nuisance to
■ vour friends. The Devil of Drink can be banished
forever bv DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered
by the Govts. Vic. and N.S.W.). A harmless remedy
—can be iriven secretly or taken voluntarily. Advice
Free. Write or call. DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISH-
MENTS: 54 Russell Street, Melbourne; 1161 Hay
Street, Perth, W.A. $
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
9
MORRIS* '
hree Witches
b cMARKTTCS
-
10
6° for
tondow
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
The Inky Way.
Among compositors, the late E. W. O’Sullivan was
notable for more than his public words and actions.
Years ago, when lie was the masthead light of
the Seamen’s Union, he was a working journalist;
but his pen was wild and his “fist”' so shock-
ing that even double rates of pay were not
enough to make the printers fight for “takes” from
E.W.O’S. His biggest journalistic job, perhaps, was
the editorship of the Tribune, the Sydney.DAlLY Tele-
graph's first baby ; but it was a premature infant, and
weakly from its birth. In late years he wrote much less ;
but he still occasionally dropped something into The
Bulletin—the last contribution, by the way, being a
striking account, some months ago, of the remarkable
manner in which the Berry estates in North Sydney and
on the South* Coast (N.S.W.) were obtained.
• * * *
The journalists of Adelaide are asking what is the good
pf their new association, and complain that the com-
mittee does nothing but pass accounts and congratula-
tory resolutions. A forward step has now been at-
tempted, for a subcommittee has been appointed to con-
sider rates of wages, and the relation of the ordinary
journalist with the proprietors. Some progressive spirits
even aim at (shame !) a journalists’ trade union.
* * * *
“Quilp”: The Coolgardie Miner (W.A.) passed out
recently in a dignified 4-page-morning-paper fashion. A
little over 12 years ago Coolgardie was a roaring printing
centre, and the Coolgardie Typographical Society was
the first trades union established on the goldfields after
Bayley’s discovery. At one time two morning, two even-
ing and four weekly journals were published in the town.
To-day the only relic of those champagne days is the old
Miner plant. In its lifetime the Miner established a few
records, not the least of which was that in its first three
or four years it earned a small fortune, a belltopper, and
an expensive holiday in Ehrope for its founder, B.illy
Clare, an ex-Melbourne Argus comp. Other probable
records were the number of wild-caf
adv£s. it published in the early ’nineties, and
the multitude of its editors. The writer only
remembers a few of the latter—Williams, Vosper (of the
hair), Keith, Manhattan, Drake, Cameron. Drayton, Toy,
Chandler, McFarlane, Feldwick, Brown, Kneebone ; but
there were others. G. H. Kingswell bought Billy Clare
out, and fell in badly, as the Coolgardie rot set in with
marvellous rapidity soon afterwards, and after b&mping
up against two or three expensive libel actions, G.H.
struck out for China, or some place. The Miner,then fell
into the hands of a local syndicate, which, later, Included
the comps., machinist and other employees. But after a
few years’ plucky fighting the ghost only walke'dvwith
great difficulty, and then the end came. '
* * * *
Manning, who has tried to make a do of the Gladstone
(Queensland) Observer for the last 20 years, has seem-
ingly been crushed between the railway and the Rock-
hampton Bulletin. For many a year he had the city on
the unused harbor to himself; shut the linking up of
Rockhampton and Gladstone was his death-knell. So he
goes on to Maokay with his ink-pot. No one would
accuse Mackay of having any dangerous railway facilities.
*** . *
Rockhampton’s Record, which was Stewart Hartley’s
concern before he died, .has been committing some
serious indiscretions for a Conservative paper. A
newspaper’s policy is m diilv shaped by the policy of the
other fellow, and when Die Rooky Bulletin took up the
ink on behalf of the now faded Archer there was nothing
left for the Record but to write Labor up; and Higgs
and the Labor Senators owe it some thanks.
*.* * *
Archdeacon Moxop,'who died the other day and left a
good name behind him, got into the Inky Way once at
Insist. It was on one of the famous old John Dpthie’slast
vovages. Moxon, who wasn’t then a churchman, started
a paper on b >ard, the John Dutiiie Express. After one
issue he found that the passengers who were not in the
.saloon bad been thinking of the same thing ; so he called
a conference with the after-part, and the Oceanic Ex-
press took its place for the rest of the 96 days’ voyage.
To that R. A. Dtllen, now Deputy-Registrar of Sydney
University, was also a contributor.
* * * *
“ The Snake ” : I took this from the Sydney Gazette of
Feb. 20, 1823:— “We are reduced to the necessity of
printing the Gazette on china paper. Of ail other evils
thjs is one of those much wished to be avoided, more
particularly as it increases our labor twofold. Eversince
the Regalia sailed from hence in July, 1821, a supply of
the proper kind of paper has been sent for, which, how-
ever, we have as Vet been disappointed in receiving; as
well as the reinforcement of type, of which we are be-
ginning to feel ttie certain absence; and since that
period we have sent home for large supplies of paper,
which are shortly expected. Therefore, as soon as the
evil, if such it can he termed, can be remedied, we shall
feel much profitable satisfaction in printing the Gazette
on its own paper.” Still, worse things than that, have
happened in Australia even within the last 15 years.
There was the Croydon (Q.) paper, for instance, which
printed all or part of one issue on brown wrapping paper ;
and iu the early days of Broken Hill one paper was
driven hack on to “ rainbow ” poster sheets.
TUE WED BOHEMIAN.
(FOR THE BULLEIN.)
The poor Bohemian, when he’s wed,
While yet ’tis night retires to bed
And, as a joyous rout | "
Goes by with liquid joys elate.
And gibes at his pyjamaed state,
lie puts the milk-jug out.
And, insult unto injury,
A sleepy voice complains that he
Should go out thus attired ;
It adds that “ all those dreadful ways ”
He learnt in his Bohemian days
Are not to be admired.
And this, of course, reminder bears
That, everything he does or wears
Gives Order some offence :
His boots are laced with knotted cords ;
His ancient tie a theme affords
For bitter eloquence.
He’s short of buttons on his dress,
And has too much untidiness
Of whisker on his face ;
His p .pers, pipes and other things
In every place he lightly flings—
Except the proper place.
A hundred details thus are piled
To show that he is like a child
And wants much looking after ;
With perfect truth he might retort
That he wants nothing of the sort —
But turns the theme to laughter.
And so, when in pained tones he’s told
His love for vestments that are old
Is simply a disgrace,
And that, by captious neighbors blamed
For his neglect, his wife’s ashamed
To go about the place,
He damns the world in scoffing phrase,
But promises to mend his wavs
And let her mend his clothes ;
And of himself learns nicer things
Than in most vain imaginings
He ever did suppose.
Next day he wakes in haste to dress,
Dons all his old untidiness,
And does not tie his shoes ;
Still lets offending whiskers stand,
And, with his breakfast in his hand,
The fleeting tram pursues.
N.S.W.
HAMER.


Arxiott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
BRANDT DE LUXE.
THE LATEST ACETYLENE BURNER,
THE BBAHDT PE LUXE
Gives the most light and the least trouble. No metal
arms to warp, only the best lava used in the manufac-
ture. Solid hexagon base, will not crush when screwed
on with pliers.
Send us 10/- and we will forward SAMPLE
PARCEL OF ASSORTED BURNERS.
Booklets on Air Cas and Acetylene Gratis.
BRANDT BROS.’ LAMP HOUSE,
197-199 Elizabeth St., Melbourne; and 236 Pitt St., Sydney.
S. SMITH & SON’S
(. L.TD.)
30 35
m
fENT
From S Guineas.
Perfect
SPEED
INDICATORS
ARE FITTED TO
Over 20,000 Cars
AND HAVE COVERED
200,000,000 Miles.
IN USE ALL OVER THE WORLD.
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF
SPEED INDICATORS, MOTOR WATCHES, MILOMETERS,
PETROL-METERS and MOTOR ACCESSORIES.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue. Special Terms to Shippers.
9 Strand, London.
HAVE YOU GOT?
1. A Tearing, Hacking Cough ?
2. A Stuffed-up Chest ?
3. A Teasing Irritation in your Throat ?
4. A Difficulty in Breathing ?
5. A Cold in your Head ?
6. A Fit of Sneezing ?
7. A Pain in your Chest ?
8. A Shortness of Breath ?
9. “ Only a Bit of a Cold ? ”
HAVE YOU?
IF YOU HAVE, TAKE
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
THE GRANDEST REMEDY FOR
COUGHS&COLDS
“A Stitch in Time Saves. Nine.”
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND MEDICINE VENDORS, and
W. G. HEARNE & CO. LTD., Geelong, VICTORIA.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney.
0.0
fejUniueurWhi
inn * viV
The Merit of a
Whisky is not
dependent on its
name, but on its
Old
ORKNEY
Is a Real Liqueur ScotcH
from a century-old distillery,
reserving its whole output
for tbis one brand.
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London.
Proprietors of STROM NESS DISTILLERY, Orkney, Scotland.
ZERCHO’S
correspondence
College.
Let us teach you
Shorthand,
Typewriting,
Bookkeeping,
Accountancy,
Electrical & Steam
Engineering,
Surveying,
Mechanical
Drawing,
Building
Construction.
©osj3^
Y V -TftJITIOK.
Brings all the ad-
vantages of a city
College to your door
Thousands
testify to
of our Country Students
the excellence of our
instruction.
Let us coach you
for any exam.
University,
Commonwealth &
State Entrance.
Pharmacy,
Bankers’ Institute.
Etc., etc.
Write for free copy
of Schedule of Fees
IS7 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
coo
LAI T LAROLA
Invaluable.
forlheSKlN
in HOT
orCOLD
climates.
Removes all
IRRITATION
andTAN.
StETHAAfS
Lait
wro
Peg*
Sole
Makers
M.BEETHAM &SON,
CHELTENHAM, ENGLAND.
Gives a
Perfect
Complexion
Soft
as
Velvet.
Kamraasres
m. 3 Jill.? ai i ;».H: >■ vj i; ta
....,
|ap
1 ..
m
y
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
. -
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest lliuminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by tli
and Victoria,
e Y.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
.thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN S CO., 5 Spring Street, Sydney.


Public Notices.
RYLOE COPPER MINES, NO LIABILITY.
XTOTICE is hereby piven that an interim dividend (the
-L’ second) of 6d. per share has been made payable on
the PREFERENCE and ORDINARY SHARES alike in
i he above Company, payable on TUESDAY, the 31st day
of MAY, 1910. ' . . „, J
Transfer Rooks close from WEDNESDAY, the 25th day
of MAY to JUNE Ist next, both days inclusive.
By order of the Board.
It. D. HARTWELL, Secretary.
Castlereaph House, Sydney, April 29, 1910.
‘ Invincible ’ BICYCLES
ONLY £S 15s. CARRIAGE PAID.
Free Wheel, 2 Rim Brakes, Nickel Rims
and Spokes, Roller Chain, etc.
12 MONTHS GUARANTEE ‘"VB
Absolutely the Best on the Market.
gds
WE import these ma-
chines from England
and sell them direct
to the public at whole-
sale price, thereby
doing away with the
exorbitant profits of
the middleman and
the big commissions
paid to agents. It is
the most up-to-date
Bicycle on the market,
being fitted with FREE WHEEL, FRONT AND BACK RIM
BRAKES, “ Westwood” Nickel-plated Rims and Spokes (guaran-
teed rust-proof), imt-class Tyres and Tubes, etc., etc., beautifully
enamelled and finished, and guaranteed for 12 months.
PRICE (complete! only £8 15s. -'Smm
Carriage paid to anv address in Autralia, or £9 10S to any address
in New Zealand. ' IER.MS—2Os. deposit, balance on delivery.
Write for further particulars and handsome catalogue of Bicycles
and Sundries, etc. FREE.
A. J. SMITH S Cl , 338 Kent Strcat, Sydney
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDWSp
SsC-USTARD^^^/
oyr^
Bird’s
Custard with Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
, Adults and the Youthful alike.
mffliSS MFAWm
\m
I MADE 25/-JDaj
Selling this 16-piece Harness Kit
This is the Statement of one of our
HGENTS
Greatest
Hit
Known.
Hustlers
apply to
Box 1163.
G.P.0.,
Sydney.
N.S.W.
«»AWL-YOU-WANT." ,
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags. Belts, Straps,' Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2s. Posted.
<A wl, 2 needles,
x reel cotton.)
dsg
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCII.
1 Its immense value in repairs to Hoots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
lis the “ Awl-you-w.int.” Thread front the
Free) (which maybe kept in one’s pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, I arpaulins, etc.
Need.es are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed. Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles— l bent, x straight—t reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post tree. Extras: Cotton,
rd post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
Dost free: 2 for ?d., set of 8 for 2s. Send-postil note to
STAR NOVELTY CO.. 229 Coiiins Street, Melbourne.
i)
throw
&WA.IC -SOUR
trtjMßß' l
dsg
1 You can cure dca'ness and head noises
at home by our invisible device, even
when other remedies have tailed. Helps (
ears as good s; lasses help eyes. Fits com-
fortably and is invisible. Want to hear
- pertect'y? Then write ;or booklet, liee, (men-
tioning this paper) to
STAR NOVELTY CO,. 229 Collins St., Melbourne.
%
M KURLO
produces beautiful curls or waves in
a few days without the aid of tongs or
pins. Makes the hair soft and silky,
strengthens the roots, and prevents
hair falling out. Curls the straightest
hair if not cut too short Pleasant,
perfectly harmless. Not, affected by
sea air,damn weather, or heated rooms
Price 2'6 PER BOTTLE
(Post Free anywhere, full directions)
Send Postal Note to
American Toilet Agency, Box 4bb fcr.P.O. kre.touiui-
The KEEN EDGE of THE PLUM RAZOR
remains long- after you expected to send it to the razor
ddetor The PLUM has an extra hollow-ground, keen-
ed"-ed blade—guaranteed and kept in order for at least
t,wo years. That’s the reason you car# rely on your
tnornin" shave being thoroughly comfortable with
the PLUM. Try it.
PRICK
10(6
post free
to any
country.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Strong Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
Send for our Free Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
a
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY,
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
ipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
5
f The Bunch,
/ m Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
LOVELY
WOMAN
Rich Silken Tresses are a Woman’s
Crowning Glory—Grey hairs mar
all claims to youthful
appearance.
IS YOUR HAIR TURNING GREY ?
It won’t if you use
NERD S HAIR TINT
Harmless, Effective, and Lasting. Can be
applied in an instant. Thoroughly successful
in every case known. Obtainable in Chest-
nut, Auburn, Light Brown, Bnown, Dark
Brown, or Black.
ALL CHEMISTS SELL IT!
Minimum Selling Price 3/6; or 3'6 post tree
direct from the sole agent for the
Commonwealth,
J. GEDDES,
GEORGE STREET,
BRISBANE.
Wholesale Agents, Elliott Bros. & Australian Drug Co.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PRR.NIX” carbide:.
Addresses of Merchants distributing: it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial' effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache —a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
Briar
Pipes
GBD
Briar
Pipes
They copy us
They follow us
They never catch us.
You tmy
and you buy
ĝds
i*
Conjuring Tricks. Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE U.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL ,
will stop the most
vicious dog (or man)
without permanent
injury. Invaluable
for cyclists, unpro-
tected ladies, night-
watchmen, and
others. Ca n b e .... , ...
charged with water or other liquids, and will
carry a distance of 25 feet. It creates great
amusement for both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical
novelties ever produced. Price 2/9, or post free
anywhere for 31-
The TOUCH-ME-NOT SUR-
PRISE MATCH BOX. Can be
carried in the vest pocket, and
never fails to give the match-
cadger a shock. When your
friend asks for a match, just
hand him the box, and im-
mediately he attempts to open
same he receives a very sudden
shock. Nicely made of nickel,
and finished in leather. Price,
post free anywhere for 1/2.
gds
THE SEBACKROSCOPE, or Detective’s Assistant.
OF THE
v:
Cl
No. 73.
Attach to the
eyeinthe.safne
manner as the
common mag-
nifying lens in
use by watch
repairers,being
careful to turn
the small open-
ing in square
tube to the
outside, that
is, away from
the nose. When
placed to the eye you can see what is taking place
behind and in from of you at the same tune. No
need to wish for eyes in the back of your head, as
with this article you can observe all that occurs in
that direction without even turning your head. You
will find lots of fun in owning a Sebackroscope.
Made of hard rubber, and finished in an excellent
manner. Price, securely packed and posted to any
address free on receipt of 1/-
“ PICKITOUT.’’ A perfect Puzzler
to the uninitiated. JUST OUT.
The Effect—Three cards are shown
the ace, deuce and three of
hearts. Someone is requested to
pick out the ace when the cards
are placed on the table. But it is
absolutely impossible to pick it
out. Price complete, with full in-
structions, 7d. post free anywhere.
sgďsg
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Hay market, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
Postal Address: Box 3, Havmarket Post Office.
No.
No. 1 Branch : 25 and 27 Oxford' stEit., Sydney.
2 Branch : 111 King: Street, between George and Pitt Streexs, —y »_
T
Runri
p
DEV
Fo
REST
Pulls Trees and
Stumps Out by
the Roots.
This, is the latest device for pulling out trees and stumps. It is
small compact, quickly adjusted and easily worked. The ropes
withstand a terrific strain-the tree or stump must come out.
Illustrated Catalogue free. . . , ,<p„- pa r nevil” in
This is the very latest and only fully patented * orest uevu in
the Commonwealth. Ask for illustrated Booklet.
Anvone infringing anv of our Patent Eights (No. 6875) in regard to
the BUNYIP” FOREST DEVIL, which cover 1,2, 3or more circular
rack wheels, either maker, seller or user, will be prosecuted.
JOHN COOPER & SONS,
287-9 Elizabeth Btreet,
MELBOURNE.
PALMER TYRE,
SHOWING SQUARE
TREAD WITH
CIRCUMFERENTIAL
GROOVES.
The Reason Why
The Palmer Cord Tyres
take precedence with
experienced motorists.
Absence of internal friction makes them the
coolest running tyre.
r ppey increase the speed at a lower con-
sumption of petrol.
Tnev raise less dust —have greater wearing
powers than other tyres.
Their immunity from side slip make them a
safe;and gilt-edge tyre investment.
PRICE list free.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY,
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Model “ T ” Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p„ 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.,
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. .Reliability.
a i arS r e f„|| and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydneftwhich enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
TTsed exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks"
Fnd hv all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for
n._, la Vin . v t 0 open and operate Roller Rinks.—Richardson Ball-Bearing
Skate Co 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S. A. Sole Distributing Agents
?. ka A? hTkai n ° nil 1 rcland —Messrs. J. C. Pliii pton&Oo- Liverpool-
“RICHARDSON’
CHICAGO
Schute, Bell & Co.
limited.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins •
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.


“ Moana ” : Par. (B. 21/4/’10) apropos the
religious denominations that have homes for de-
serted children sooling the police on to the unfor-
tunate women who have been leaving their babies
in the churches, forces me to remark that the
saving of the baby is one of the things they do
better in America. The swinging door of the
State loundling Hospital in N’York has not been
locked for over 40 years. In the reception room
there stands a white cradle, which receives over
2000 babies a year. Think of it! Two thousand-
people will make a decent country town. That
is why America saves its babies, and saves them
m the right way. A mother can walk into that
waiting-room, leave her baby in the cradle, and
walk out again without a question being asked.
A matron, however, is always near who tries to
persuade the mother not to desert her child. The
mother can make a confession if she chooses ; but
the choice is with her as to whether she does so,
and she is usually given 15 minutes to consider
whether she will not start life over again and
make an effort to keep her baby. Her name is
not asked, nor does any cat inquire whether she
is married, if a mother wishes it she can usually
be taken into the hospital to nurse her own baby
and to help with two others ; and if she proves
her: fitness in that wav she can take her baby out
again when she leaves: But ohce a child is put
down in the rescue cradle in the hall and the
mo.ther goes out through the ever-open door, that
baby belongs to her no longer. It has been
adppted by the State—bhs entered a world where
its origin will never be known, and where the
names of its parents are not recorded. It gets a
new name, the best,of attention and a fair start
in life.
“The Way backs Again.” An ao °X
joy and laughter about the famous family. 1s
''fau’s.P!' l ° ff
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GENASCO
READY ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing in
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe 8 Company Ltd.
383-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
For your everyday use,
and your everyday
comfort, buy . . .
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Toilet Soap,
For you want a soap that is pure
and cleansing, you like a soap that
is pleasant and refreshing, and an
antiseptic soap like this, containing
10% ■ pure Carbolic—an ample
proportion—protects you against risk of
contagion. Sold at Local Stores and
Chemists, in three-tablet boxes.
Makers, F. C. CALVERT & Co..
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
as
i
t
$
0
I
The Milk Foods closely approximate In composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as' easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
f*
ALLEN & HANBLIRYS Ltd., LONDON. « Bridge Sts., Sydney
VALUABLE BOOK FREE
If You Are Sick or Afflicted I Will Send This Valuable Book
and a Proof Treatment Free
Ten Thousand
Medical Books Free
I have succeeded beyond my fondest ambition
in doing good in the world, in Benefiting
humanity.; I have acquired a liberal share of
worldly goods. For all of this I am grateful.
I am thankful. To show my gratitude, to prove
my appreciation of the skill with which I have been
endowed and the success with which I have met in
thq medical profession, I propose to do a great
kindness to humanity—l propose to help the sick
and suffering free of charge.
This is my plan: I will positively give away
10,000 home medical books and 10,000 free treat-
ments to the first 10,000 people who write to me.
My book contains 192 pages of professional infor-
mation and private advice. Every man and
woman should read it. It is well illustrated.
It describes all diseases, explains all symptoms,
gives the causes of diseases, tells how to prevent
sickness, and explains how a great many diseases
can be cured in your own home. If you want to
be well and remain well this is the book for you
—arid it is free. Only one member of a family
should apply.
Diseases I Treat
I don’t claim to cure cancer, leprosy and incurable
diseases'; but I do claim to cure and actually,
positively cure many that others consider in-
curable. I have cured thousands of serous chronic
cases—many cases that others have failed to cure.
I want to prove what my treatment will do for you.
My free treatment is the best test -it is the one
convincing proof. No matter what disease you have
or how long you have suffered, be one of the first
10,000 to accept this free offer. ,
Positive Proof Free.
Send xio money—no stamps. Simply mail me the coupon
below filled in with your name and address and the diseases
with which ybu suffer and I will send you, absolutely free,
postage paid, this valuable medical book for the home, and a
generous proof treatment. 1 will do this to prove my ability
to cure you. Read the instructions below, then send the
coupon sit one©— before it is too late to accept tne most
generous, the most liberal offer ever made.
gds
lIP
dm
H
CIV
A Free Treatment
To All Who Write
If you are sick—if you suffer —if you are afflicted
with any ailment —if you are worn out, tired or
failing—if you have an ache or a pain—if you need
medical advice —if you are not in perfect health —if
you lack the energy, vim, vigour and go that
make life worth living—whether you are rich or
poor, young or old, man or woman —you need this
wonderful treatment.
I Will Send It To You Free
Not one remedy, but as many kinds of remedies
as I find advisable in your case. Remedies that will
strike straight at your disease and remove the cause-
upbuilding, strength-giving, life-saving remedies.
The medicines I give are pure, effective, curative—
the products of the most modern medical science.
They cure where others fail. I have cured thousands
of desperate chronic cases —many cases no doubt just
like yours. My skill is known in every civilized
country in the world. I want to prove that I can
cure you, and to prove it at my own cost, without a
penny of expense to you. Fill the coupon to-day.
I ASK NOTHING
this book and treatment. I want to prove that my
treatment will do in your case what it has done in
thousands of cases. By proving my skill to you I
will prove it to your friends and neighbours. If I
cure you I want your goodwill, and I know you will
speak a kindly word for me to your sick friends when
convenient to do so. This is all I ask. The book
and free treatment will cost you nothing now or at
any time. You will be under no obligations to me.
Fill the coupon now.
Cut or tear off this coupon along this line, mark a cross X after the diseases you have, fill in the coupon and mail to
NOTE.-Mark a cross X after the disease or
diseases you have.
DOCTOR KIDD, —Please send me, free of charge, postage paid, your 192-page Home Medical Book
and a free proof treatment for my case. It is understood that this book and treatment is not to cost me one
cent now or at any time, and it does not obligate me in any way.
(Write name on this line) (Age)
(Address) (How long afflicted)
(Name or describe here the disease with which you suffer most)
NOTE.— Postage to U.S.A. is two a;nd half pence
NOTE..— If you have any disease or affliction nor mentioned in this list, describe on another sheet of paper and
send with coupon ; or, if you prefer, describe your condition in your own words in a letter to me.
gd
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/>
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TON ED^VIELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30 /-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL 7
2 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15 postfree.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing: On#
Dozen Assorted Large Bottles, 25/-.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
*
*
Food.
In the preparation of Benger’s Food.the natural digestive principles
are combined in proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain life. It assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s Food is sold
in tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


* §
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels
left choke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved,
bar locks, nitro proof, weight
of 12-gauge, about 7Jib. ;of 16-gauge, about 6|lb. ;
Greener cross-bolt. DELIVERED,
£4 12s. 6d.
gsdsgd
Stevens' “Little Krag,"
22 Calibre Rim Fire, bolt action, blued steel
round barrel, 20in. long, walnut stock, steel scroll trigger
guard, V-sight, length over all, 36in. ; weight about 3Jlb.
Postage—l/6 N.S.W. ; 2/8 Inter-State.
18s. 6d,
MICK SIMMONS,
OUR SPECIAL SNAPS.
©
ff
a
The “ Continental” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Krupp Steel Barrels, bar locks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full choke, 12-
and 16-gauge shot, 25/20 and 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, weight about 7ilh.
sol G&
SEND FOR ODR
Illustrated SPORTS,
FISHING and
TOBACCO LISTS,
FREE!
gsd
“ Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy
round steel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
all, 37 iir
which wi
~ bead front, sight, with patent alloyed tip,
1 not tarnish ; weight, about 41b.
Postage—l/9 N.S.W. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
245. 6d,
Head Depot. HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N. S. W.
Branches—Hunter Street, Newcastle ; 273 Darling Street, Balmain ; 197 Oxford
Street, Sydney ; Church Street, Parramatta; 311 King Street, Newtown. [.5
STOTT 6- HOARE’S
We can improve your
position and help you
to realise your ambi-
tions. Write to us and
we will tell you how
you may become an
ELECTRICAL
ENGINEEP*
STEAM ENGINEER,
SURVEYOR,
ARCHITECT,
DRAFTSMAN,
SHIRE CLERK,
AUDITOR, or
ACCOUNTANT.
Send for Descriptive
Pamphlet.
EDUOATIONbvMAIL
PS
a i*
Let us know
what you want
to learn,
and we will
teach you.
Only Address: MOORE ST., SYDNEY.
BUSINESS
COLLEGE.
We coach successfully
for all Exams., and in
the following subjects:
SHORTHAND,
TYPEWRITING,
BOOKKEEPING,
ACCOUNTANCY,
PENMANSHIP,
ARITHMETIC,
ENGLISH,
LATIN,
FRENCH,
MATHEMATICS,
COMMERCIAL ART,
Etc., etc.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
We don’t believe any Aceordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Aceordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
large bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop,
gsd
gsdg
p ■*
r live dW I •
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
’Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE .
A WISH: V
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both*
“ Montserrat”
:: :: Sauce
the basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT" LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Jsk your Storekeeper for it.
Cuaranteed free from Preservatives.
Send in your Application
NOW, and we will send
one<x> to your Address
Absolutely FREE
MPIO
(Drawn from Photo)
“The
Champion
Senior,”
Phonograph
List Price,
£6/10/-
A FREE PHONOGRAPH
FOR —YOU!
Owing to the enormously increased demand for our Records
as the result of our last Distribution of Free Phono®
qraphs we have decided to GIVE AWAY a further
ONE THOUSAND PHONOGRAPHS FREE.
You may choose the machine you prefer from our various
styles, including our latest and best,
“ The Champion Senior,”
exactly as illustrated, which is listed at £6/10/- and Guaran-
teed for 5 years.
How can we afford to give away these expensive
machines without charge ? The explanation is a
simple one. We hold and control enormous
stocks of Phonograph Records. Records are
of course, useless to anyone without a Phonograph. Picture yourself with plenty of ammunition, but
no GUN We propose to give you the GUN to make you feel the need of our ammumtion m
other words we give you a Phonograph to create an increased demand for our Records. Do
vousee our reason Now? We will send you one of our “ Champion Senior Phono®
aranhs” Free of any charge whatever if you promise to give a practical demon-
stration of its wonderful merits in your own home circle and among your friends,
using our new and popular Records and distributing our Circulars and Price Lists,
which are sent free for this purpose with each machine. Write at once to
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING COMPANY,
Opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY, New South Wales.
CUT, THIS OUT
and mail to the
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN
IMPORTING CO, SYDNEY
I hereby make application for a
FREE Phonograph as advertised by
your Company.
Name
Street
Town
State.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1008 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings. Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book oy De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Aolas,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, lavorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.,
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop llandybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario 2s Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. ’ Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the ’ Flagellants), scarce, Us. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
fordl 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train FOR ALL Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowlers Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
s
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with lull directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads ok Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., lg 3d
?ost. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
hat Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyles
Card Games (Rules for all Gaines), Is. Book of
100 Games,- Is. Man From Snowt River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEPIR
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
Bt Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage; Which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Evert Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hf.ptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. iXF" Established, S 5 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot —
16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
-♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
is. Odd Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Ur. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle 3s 6d. Clog Uancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers*
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevassk’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book! over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. Tiie Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win; Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1,700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
Dlete) is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, is 2d? WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


jMetoo
Mamma!
The
Best
For
Children
and
Grown
Folk
Too.
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY has won the confidence of the
parents and the love of the children by its wonderful curative effect upon
the throat, chest and lungs. Children are particularly susceptible to
coughs and colds, and the medicine which always cures and protects them
from all dangers is the one the mothers recognise as best.
It is a wise mother who prepares for trouble in time of peace. She
places Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery on the shelf, and rests secure against
all winter dangers, knowing well she has the remedy which will protect
her little ones against the vicissitudes of cold weather.
"DR. SHELDON’S NEW DISCOVERY SAVED MY LITTLE GIRL’S LIFE.”
on „!• H tt,e fr * rl > affed four y ears » took a very bad turn of croup in the night,” writes Mrs. Cotter,
30 Windmill Street, Valley, Brisbane (Q.). “ She was so bad I really thought she would choke and did
not know what to do for her. Having the good fortune to have a bottle of Dr. Sheldon's New Discovery
for Coughs anc} Colds in the house, I gave her a dose, and, wonderful to say, it loosened the phlegm in
her throat and relieved her instantly, and in a few days she was entirely cured. I consider Dr
Sheldon’s New Discovery saved my little girl’s life, and in future will never be without a bottle of it
in the house in case she should ever have another attack of croup.”
D« Sheldons
New Discovery
sgsd
OUGHS
AND
OI,DS
tean unequalled preparation for the immediate relief and permanent cure of all diseases of the
I hroat, Bronchial Tubes and Lungs, including Influenza, Bronchitis, Coughs, Colds, Asthma,
Quinsy, Sore Throat, Hoarseness, Difficult Respiration, and Pains in the Chest. When used
according to directions is a sure preventive of Pneumonia and Consumption. Every bottle
guaranteed to give satisfaction, or money refunded. *
Price : 1/6, and in larger bottles holding two and a half times as much, 3/-
If you want the very best
Flannelette
the Old Country Produces
buy HORROCKSES’
GRAND PRIZE
FRANCO-BRITISH
EXHIBITION
1908
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON
SELVEDGES and decline all substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
T
Here
is the Hub
of Many Merits,
so called because it embodies in one shell
a high gear for the level, a low gear for the
hill, a free wheel on both gears, and a brake of
absolute efficiency. It was the first hub to demonstrate
the practicability of such a combination, and is to-day the
only one that has successfully and consistently accom-
plished all that has been claimed for it. It is known all over the
world as the
Eadie Two-speed Coaster
and is now manufactured at the famous B.S.A. Works. You know what that
means, you know the world-wide reputation of B.S.A. Goods. If you are an expert
cychst you are pretty sure to be riding a B.S.A. Bicycle yourself and know the
value or the B.S.A. Trade Mark.
,* A S y ea^er ca . n . Ac Eadie Two-speed Coaster to your bicycle. If you have any
dimcultj or would like particulars of these and other B.S.A. goods, write for the
latest B.S.A. Handbook (just out) to
D. Y, RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.).
5 Stock Exchange Building, Melbourne.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two=speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern <§L £ons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Green Gravel.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Green gravel, green gravel, the grass is so green,
The fairest young lady that ever I’ve seen.
Children’s Rhyme.
OH Molly, when the grass was green,
When I was King and you were Queen ;
When underneath the gumtree’s shade,
As children of the Bush we played—
“ Green gravel, oh. the grass is green,”
And I was King and you were Queen!
Oft, through the smoke of my cigar,
I see the schoolhouse stand afar ;
And, through the mists of long-ago,
The hats and bonnets in a row,
While sits beside me on our stool
My sweetheart of the old bush-school.
The years, with all their burdens, seem
But mourning echoes of a dream ;
The cares of life, its loss and pain,
Are yet unlearnt; again, again
On buoyant feet I tread the cool
Bush track that turns towards the school.
Though climbs the sun above the hill,
The grass is hung with jewels still;
And fresh as youth the morning glows
With clover and with briar rose ;
While sweet as music falls the chime
Of all the birds of summertime.
Higli overhead, where branches meet,
Loud screams the busy parrakeet;
The bright rosellas onward pass,
With diving flight across the grass;
The scarlet lories, two by two,
Their rubies flash along the blue ;
And Molly with her schoolbag stands
Awaiting at the fallow lands,
Where, seated on a log we’ll share,
In “ bite for bite,” the plundered pear;
And dare, as comrades should, again
For “coming late” the stinging cane.
“ She loved me true ! ” “I loved her best.”
But one goes east and one goes west;
And nevermore, amid thy brown
And glossy hair, the bluebell crown
In azure stars I’ll weave and twine
Beneath the sun, 0 sweetheart mine.
In after years, to manhood sprung,
With step still light and heart yet young
I came, unrecognised, alone,
To read her name upon a stone
That stood among the grasses green,
For . . . Molly died at seventeen !
And though the air was sweet in chime
Of all the bells of summertime;
And though the briar roses red
Their well-remembered fragrance shed,
I only saw, I only knew,
That at her feet the bluebells grew ;
Like angels’ eyes to me they shone,
With some kind knowledge of their own,
Of other lives, in other spheres,
That haply lie beyond the tears
And all the tragic grief and mirth
Of this fantasia of earth.
Their slender stems, as innocent
As childhood’s love, above her bent;
And as the murmur of the school
Still drifted o’er the paddocks cool,
They swayed and shook from out their blue
Pathetic eyes the tears of dew.
All on a sudden rose the chime
Of all the bells of summer time;
And once again, upon my ear,
I heard a chorus rising clear :
“ Green gravel, oh, the grass is green,
The fairest lady that I've seen.”
Had I but dreamed? The years between
Seemed then as they had never been.
I, half-expectant, turned to see
If by the hills she waited me.
Alas, but, at morning play,
The children of another day.
Long, long ago her lampless Flame
Re-found the realm from whence it came ;
And still my feeble light is whirled
And eddied with the living world.
Green gravel, oh, the grass is green.
But... Molly died at seventeen !
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
A Development of Friendship.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
XT was before the wedded pair returned
from their honeymoon that Morton stumbled
on the conviction that, whatever modification
his relations with Scott were to undergo, the foot-
ing between Mrs. Scott and himself was to be far
more affected. She was now a new creature in
his horizon, and invested with privileges which,
while insisting on his reverence, added to her
attractiveness. He had not at any time experi-
enced much advantage in their mutual attitude of
easy familiarity ; but in being robbed of it he felt
a definite loss, and rose to a protest against the
absurd canons of our civilisation.
He nursed the idea of their changed relations
for the sake of a whimsical satisfaction he felt in
the oddity of it. Meeting her again would almost
carry with it the irritating sense of a sub-conscious
existence, and she, being a woman and partly
superficial, would so calmly accept their new rela-
tions as to be insensible of any alteration. Of
certain inward change in facing the world she
could not fail to be aware. With a husband at
her side, life itself would not seem such an un-
fathomable immensity as it must have in the days
of her girlhood. He found himself envying her
the sense of odd newness that old facts of her
existence would now present.
In viewing more closely his past connection
with her, he became aware that it depicted her
in an attitude slightly different from that which
she assumed to the rest of the world. It seemed
strange that he had never noticed it before: it
was that she seemed to have known a good deal
more of him than he had of her. He had judged
her less on individual grounds than as a type of
feminine nature. In recalling that she had once
been distressed at the trials of a novelist’s
heroine, he saw the fact invested with a subtlety
that had not been apparent at the time. The
explanation of it seemed to connect itself with
the fact that unconsciously, at least, she regarded
herself as an uncertain figure in the world, rather
than that she looked upon the adumbrative
heroine as a reality. What endless phases the
emotional nature was capable of ! And A lick was
to be so fortunate as to live side by side with
her, contemplating the sweet, mysterious depths
of a spirit that was not intrinsically responsible
to itself, yet would regard itself as responsible to
him. He was to enjoy her confidences that
in their perplexing capriciousness would be
ravishingly captivating. She was to be part of
her husband’s life, and at the same time be faith-
ful to her womanly instincts.
In his intercourse with them after their return
he had further occasion, in her manner towards
him, to speculate on the changes she had under-
gone. It seemed as if she at times avoided him,
and yet at others wished to show how deeply sin-
cere was her appreciation of him.
He went up one evening to spend an hour
there, and learned on his arrival that Alick had
gone to Toowoomba on a business matter, and
would be away for some days.
“Four whole days!” said his wife with exag-
gerated emphasis. “ How am I to get through
the time?”
“It will be dreadful. And this is the first time
you have been separated.”
“Alick insisted that it would be worse for him
—as if that would be any comfort to me.”
“ And, of course, you are grieving now on his
account as well as your own.”
“ And, of course, the ironical condolence of an
unsympathetic bachelor improves matters immen-
sely. Oh, I would be ashamed of myself if I were
a big man like you.”
“ I am not making fun of you ; I am really in-
terested. It is all so new to me that lam anxious
to note the effect of the separation.”
“ Oh, I have cried already. You ought to have
been here in the afternoon.”
“When is the next cry due, then? I would
like to leave before it comes on, as I am afraid I
wouldn’t know what to do in such a crisis.”
“Well, if you’ll promise to stay a little while
and talk to me, I’ll promise not to cry again till
after. It has been dreadfully lonely all day.”
They sat on the verandah to enjoy the coolness
of the evening air. Morton was conscious of a
rapture in the strangeness of his sensations. It
seemed to him as if he were enjoying something
forbidden ; not, indeed, by society’s laws, but by
a Divine Power, whose supremacy he acknow-
ledged even in his defiance. He felt that the
inner meaning of his presence with her was not
the mere passing of an idle hour, but touched on
indefinable phases of his existence.
In his vivid susceptibility to fanciful wayward
impressions, he nursed the belief that she was
treasuring their meeting as something entirely
apart from her life as Alick’s wife. And it was
with the feeling that he was making some sacri-
fices to his own severe sense of moral rectitude
that he rose to depart.
“ Oh, don’t go yet,” she said.
“D*n’t you think it is time?” he asked,
smiling.
“Here is the rain, and you can’t go.”
She had risen, and now stood beside him, look-
ing out into the night. His eyes rested on her,
and he became aware how real was the tempta-
tion that her physical presence aroused. The
remembrance of what was due to her as the wife
of his friend seemed to increase the madness of
his impulse. She turned a smiling face to him,
and he, carried to the height of recklessness by
that evidence of her sense of safety, enfolded her
in a passionate embrace and kissed her on the
mouth. He waited for her angry protest, but
heard only a sigh that died away in a shivering
sob. The vivid significance of her yieldance shot
through him, and he felt a thrilling happiness in
the silence that for a moment remedied all.
“Oh, what a fool I have been!” he broke
out at last. “ Can’t we do something to put
these few months aside? My darling, darling
Marian.”
“Ah, you love me now—when it is too late,”
she murmured, quiveringly. “But I have loved
you from the first.”
* * * *
The next few days were a period of ceaseless
torture to Morton. He had awakened to love of
her, when, as she said, it was too late, and he
cursed the criminal indifference of earlier days
that had shut him out from a knowledge of his
need of her.
The voice of conscience, with its denunciatory
insistence on the fact that he had betrayed his
friend, came to rescue him from merely selfish
considerations of himself and her. He must not
attempt to repair his error at a cost of sacrificing
Alick. He would take himself out of the lives of
both husband and wife. That would be the simplest
and most praiseworthy thing to do. Her future
was assured in Alick’s tenderness for her. As
regarded himself, he must go away, and time would
dull the acuteness of his torment.
He heard of Alick’s return, and prepared to go
up to the house. He could explain that he was
leaving Brisbane with the intention of going to
England for a holiday, and was not sure when he
would return. Alick would, of course, be a good
deal surprised, but could scarcely arrive at any
ground of suspicion, while Marian would under-
stand that he had taken the most honorable course
open to him.
But, before he was ready to go, Scott was
announced. It was not, however, till he met the
man face to face that he had any suspicion of his
errand.
“What is the matter, Alick?” he cried,
attempting to still his own alarm. “You look
ill.”
“It isn’t about my health that I came to see
you,” said the other, with an effort to steady his
voice that was apparent in the measured slowness
of his words. “ Don’t you worry about me,” he
continued. “ I am all right. And, besides,
you’ll find you have got something else to worry
about.”
(Continued on next page.)


m
I
V/.
■
evM'^O
spims
10 Months’
Agony
with
Terrible
Burns—
Leg and
Arm
Roasted.
ONE of the most astounding feats of wound-healing
and skin-growing ever recorded has been accom-
plished by Zam-Buk, the case being a severe, yet
conclusive, test of the powers of this wonderful healing
balm. Mrs. W. Bewick, of Euambeline, Dandaloo,
N.S.W., sustained terrible burns through her clothes
catching fire whilst cooking at an open fireplace on
Weetawaa Station, Wee Waa, northern New South
Wales. Her injuries, which were extensive and
serious, defied all ordinary ointments and lotions, and
baffled the skill of doctors and hospitals. Scores and
scores of stubborn wounds of all sorts have done the
same, but they have ail surrendered completely, just
as Mrs. Bewick’s case has done, to the invincible
healing powers of Zam-Buk.
Mrs. Bewick says“ I cannot sufficiently express my gratitude for the benefits
I have derived from the use of Zam-Buk Balm, and I have the greatest pleasure in
sending you the following details of my wonderful cure.
“ Some sixteen months ago, through an accident while cooking at an open fire-
place at Weetawaa Station, Wee Waa, I was severely burnt through my clothes
catching fire. My right leg and arm were almost roasted, the leg being one great
wound from the knee to the thigh.
“I was an inmate of the Wee Waa Hospital for three months, but received no benefit from their
treatment I was then transferred to St. Vincent’s Hospital, Sydney, where I lay for another three long
months with the same disappointing: results—all the efforts of doctors and nurses failed to do me an v good.
At the end of that time the doctors at the hospital told me they could do no more for me, and I was sent
nome ' 1 was an invalid ai. home for nearly four months, using the treatment prescribed at St. Vincent’s
Hospital, but still 'remaining the same, and, What was more disheartening to me, without seeing a
glimmer of hope of my ever being cured.
ZAM-BUK is In-
valuable for Cuts,
Bruises, Burns,
Scalds, Abrasions,
Boils, Eczema, Pim-
ples, Scalp Diseases,
Poisoned Wounds,
Festering Sores, Bad
Legs, Ulcers, Ab-
scesses, Ringworm,
Psoriasis, Bar-
ber’s Rash, and all
injured and diseased
conditions of the
Skin. Zam-Buk is ob-
tainable from all
Chemists and Stores
at Is. 6d. per pot, and
3s. 6d. family size
(containing nearly
four times the Is. 6d.
pot).
At this time a friend dropped in to see me, and on telling' her a few facts
relative to my trouble, she strongly urged me to give Zam-Buk a trial. lat
once acted on her recommendation, and am thankful to say that after three
months’ treatment with Zam-Buk lam perfectly cured. It is now four
months since the last wound on my leg healed, and, as there is no sign what-
ever of any break-out, I have every reason to believe that my cure is a
permanent one.
“ I would also like to add that, through Ivingin bed for so long, the sinews of
my right knee were contracted, the leg being doubled almost right under, and
I was obliged to walk on a crutch when I first got up. However, by perse-
vering with Zam-Buk, rubbing it well into the sinews, I can now walk as well
as ever I could.
You have m,v assurance of always keeping a pot of Zam-Buk Balm in my
home, and again tender my deepest gratitude for my wonderful cure.”
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK
Srnvßuk
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on the otber Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally —you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.*
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
I don’t understand you, I am afraid.” Mor-
ton was conscious of making a definite call on his
energies to meet the situation.
‘ I came to ask you what you think of yourself
as the damnedest scoundrel in existence.”
“Is that all ?” he asked, derisively. “ I see you
have been working yourself up to this.”
“And what have you been working yourself up
to? Merely to ruin two lives—each of them
worth a million of your own. You are the
blackest villain God ever put life into.”
“ Now, Alick, that’s enough. If I didn’t recog-
nise that there is considerable excuse for you I
wouldn t take so much. I honestly swear to you
that it is no real fault of mine ”
“ That I hadn’t a dishonored wife to come home
to ! Oh, you needn’t swear to it. I understand
you perfectly. Your little plot is all upset; but
it is too late to parade your innocence to me. You
never imagined that Marian would tell me all.
But she, poor girl, can’t see how she was to do
anything else. She can’t understand the little
game you were playing. Why, she would sooner
be dead than the thing you would make of her.”
“What has she told you?” asked Morton,
making an effort to keep angry feelings in subjec-
tion. . Did she tell you I was to blame? I know
she did not. It is no fault of mine, and that is
the simple God’s truth of the matter.”
“Yes, that’s you all over. Trade on the fact
that she holds you guiltless. You fool, can’t you
see that shows up only her purity ? She wants me
to punish her—to do something. She is tortured
with the idea of a terrible wrong she has done me.
She can think of nothing else.”
“ And you can think of nothing else than a con-
spiracy to ruin your home. You have tried to
persuade yourself that I have had the thing in
view from the first; and you have done it pretty
successfully, too. Oh! but man is a noble
animal! ”
“ You are a lovely object to question anyone’s
conduct. I see it all too plainly to be deceived
for an instant. You knew all along that she was
not in love with me, but you were too deep to let
drop any hint—even to her.”
“ That is all absolutely untrue.”
“ I’ll admit you played your cards well,” Scott
went on, wholly occupied in his own statement of
the case. “It has been a splendidly managed
piece of business on your part. Mind you, I don’t
withhold my admiration for the way it was
worked. But you made a fatal mistake in your
judgment of her.”
“Oh no, it is in you that I have been so fatally
mistaken.”
“Ah well, that state of affairs was mutual.
But let there be no further mistake. Let us per-
fectly understand one another. I have taken a
hand in the game now, and I’ll lead trumps. I’ll
give you three days in which to clear out of this
part of the world.”
“You’ll what?” he cried, in angry amazement.
To find his own purpose presented as another’s
ultimatum roused him to decisively reject it.
“You are going to leave the colony. That is
what. Can’t you understand so simple a thing as
that?”
“Fancy your thinking I can be bluffed in that
way. When you are sane you’ll see the absurdity
of it.”
“ Three days, I said. You’ll find how much I
am in deadly earnest. It is a life or death matter
to me. I am still in love with her—and always
shall be, I suppose. But I’ll have her free from
the contamination of your presence. By God. I
won’t have you within a thousand miles of her.”
“ Now don’t rave any further, Aliek ; you have
had a fair innings.” He was ridiculously confi-
dent that by adopting a tone of quiet persuasion
he could calm the other’s vehemence, and went
on : “I admit there is a good deal of excuse for
you ; that is why I have been so patient. It is a
damnable business, and I am heartily sorry for
you—for us all. But go home now, and when
you are calmer we’ll discuss it all quietly. Never
fear but we’ll come to some decent arrangement.”
“Decent arrangement!” Scott cried, his angry
protest choking him. “Damn you, I have
arranged it. lam here to see you do your part.
Do you refuse to clear out?”
“At your bidding ! Most emphatically I do.”
“You absolutely refuse ? ”
“You seem to be hard to convince,” said
Morton, in sneering derision.
“Stay then, if you dare. I warn you I am a
desperate man. It is a life or death matter to
me; and, by God ! you’ll find it is the same to you.”
* * * *
Morton was conscious of some impatience to
meet the final phase of the wretched quarrel. He
had a clear recognition that Alick’s irresponsible
mood might urge him into violence; but he
would not confess to any fear. He was deter-
mined to face the matter out, until an ending
satisfactory to his own dignity could be arrived
at.
It was not that he wanted any approval of his
course, not so much that he wanted Alick’s recog-
nition of his sacrifices as that his standing as an
honorable man insisted on consideration. Un-
doubtedly, he had betrayed his friend ; but then
it was in a way sufficiently innocent to be capable
of atonement. He would leave Australia and
never see Marian again; but Alick must under-
stand that it was from his own sense of what was
right, and not from cowardly fear. Alick must
first acknowledge that his base imputations had
had no foundation other than in mad jealousy. So
much he had a right to demand.
He found himself contemplating with some
uncertainty her share in it all. It was tragic
that she had no voice in her future, but must
accept the part assigned to her. The attitude of
absolute defencelessness to which civilisation had
elevated her sex, mocked at them both.
But he was surprised to find how indefinite was
his regret for the incident that had discovered to
them their mutual love. Did he regret it at all?
Emphatically no, if it were not for the unhappi-
ness it had brought her. For himself it was the
most vivid moment of his life—a moment that had
given him a glimpse of the incalculable wealth of
love.
On the second morning after Alick’s visit he was
startled to find her waiting for him at his
chambers. It was plainly evident in her looks
that she had passed through hours of cruel suffer-
ing, and he felt, on a wave of loving pity, that the
thing most demanded of him was to save her
from herself.
“ I have come to you about I want you to
help me. I feel sure you will,” she said, softly.
Her eyes were eloquent evidence of her distress,
though she made the effort to smile at her own
confusion.
“ Anything I can do.” he answered. It was in
some dim suspicion of her errand that he cor-
rected himself. “Anything reasonable—any-
thing you want
“ It is to ask you to go away.”
“I feared so. lam sorry, but I must refuse to
go just at present.”
“ But it is just now that it matters most,” she
said, hurriedly. “It matters so much. Oh, if it
didn’t, do you think I could have come ? Believe
llie, I know all it means—to begin your life again.
It is dreadful to ask so much. But I have tried to
consider you—and there is nothing. But if you
could do it ! ”
It was evident to him that a clear statement of
it all was a torture beyond her strength, and he
made the effort to fill in her half thoughts. “You
are afraid something will happen if I stay,” he
suggested.
“ Yes, that is it,” she answered gratefully. But
the vivid, womanly recognition that such ad-
mission betrayed her husband, urged her to a
confused correction. “ That is, I hope not,” she
said. “Only it would be best. Don’t you think
so yourself? If anything did happen it would
be my fault. That is why”— : —
He looked at her steadily a moment; her
piteous self-condemnation had” intensified a phase
of the matter he had hitherto neglected. “My
God! it doesn’t need much of an imagination to
see what you have been through,” he broke out.
But l l brought it all on myself,” she insisted
with shivering emphasis. “lam to blame for it
all—for what you both suffer. I wonder why I
was born at all! ”
“ Well, I can tell you it wasn’t to go through
this kind of torture. It is killing you.”
“ Ah, if it would but do that,” she breathed.
“But I won’t have it,” he said. “I have a
say in the matter and I won’t have you die.” He
was holding her hand in a tender grasp, and she
seemed conscious of it only as the vain effort to
make his words mean something to her. “Look
here ! he said suddenly. “ You ask me to go
away. Well, I will if you’ll come with me.”
“Oh spare me. Don’t talk so.”
“But if I go, what is to become of you ? Are
you never to have any happiness in life ?”
That doesn’t matter in the least,” she said.
“ But it does matter to me.”
“ I must first atone.”
“But you said you loved me, Marian.”
Ah, that you must forget,” she murmured in
her shame.
He seized her in his arms in passionate protest,
and held her close. “I will never forget. It
means everything to me.”
“ \ ou must find someone else.”
‘My darling, there is no one like you in all the
world ! ”
“ Let me go,” she murmured. “ Have pity ! ”
“Will you promise?”
“ I can’t, I can’t! Oh, how can you ask me ? ”
she reproached.
“ I ask you to choose between a life of happi-
ness and a life of senseless sacrifice.”
“It is all too late. I have chosen.”
He was conscious of a sudden inspiration. “If
not for your own sake, Marian, then for mine.”
He saw her glance of feminine alarm and felt in
the mad beatings of her heart how much he had
startled her. “For my sake—for my happiness,”
he repeated.
“Don’t tempt me,” she whispered shiveringlv.
You have promised, darling.”
No, no, no. I have not.” It was the last,
weak resistance of one who was conquered.
“ Hut you have,” he insisted.
I love you, I love you,” she murmured help-
lessly. 1
“ Then for our love’s sake, come,”
She was lifted from the realm of feminine fears
and faced him in her freedom. “Take me, take
me, she murmured.
But at the touch of his lips a wave of womanly
shame swept through her. And he encountered
some doubt of his power to make up to her all she
was sacrificing for his sake in his confused help-
lessness at her abandoned outburst of tears.
JOHN REAY WATSON.
Our Kid Discovers His Toes.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LIKE Columbus, alone
On an ocean unknown,
Our kid sails away ;
And new worlds arise
To his wondering eyes—
A dozen a day.
It’s a marvellous earth,
And it’s made for his mirth,
And humors each whim ;
It’s so ready for fun—
And everything’s done
Expressly for him..
For at his commands
The trees wave their hands,
And, on clothes-lines hung out,
The white linen flaps
Just to interest chaps
Who like looking about.
So, everything strange
That comes into range
Of his swivelling eye,
You can tell by his frown
He is noting it down
For useby-and-bye.
But a young lady’s hat—
How he chuckled at that!
Why, his laugh almost said
“ There is something absurd
In three flowers and a bird
On the top of a head ! ”
And when we converse
His comments are terse,
Though it must be confessed
That, in talking, somehow
It is language like “ Wow 1 ”
That he understands best!
Stout Cortez who saw
A new ocean with awe
Never looked, I suppose,
On so wondrous a sight
As our kid did that night
He discovered his toes !
They were quaint things to see,'
So he grabbed them with glee ;
They were soft and looked sweet.
And a moment he frowned
At the problem he’d found :
What’s the good of your feet 1
He wriggled and peered ;
Then his countenance cleared :
The answer he’d struck !
For every one knows
That little pink toes
Are just made to suck !
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
mv*: i
o
mm
Vi«V*'* i vV»»
::
Unfortunately all
whiskies look alike
—that’s the trouble.
Johnnie Walker
tastes different—
That’s the remedy!
Its the Purity and
Maturity that tells.
' A*. •* V ‘V ; ' '•
Johnnie Walker is obtainable
wherever good whisky is sold.
Johw Walker & Sons, Scotch Whisky
Distillers, Kilmarnock.
5
Born 1820.
«Still going
strong.
sgd
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
The Medicine
For The Million
IS a title which may be legitimately applied to
Beecham’s Pills. It is a noteworthy fact that
millions of people the world over have derived
great and lasting benefit from them. In the matter
of medicine continued popularity is a distinct and
irrefutable proof of merit. If, after a period of
sixty years, it is an indisputable fact that Beecham’s
Pills are more popular than ever, surely there can
be no better testimony to their valuable medicinal
properties. Again, Beecham’s Pills have established
their great reputation without the aid of published
testimonials, they have spoken for themselves, and
have been recommended by friends to friends. In
the case of Beecham’s Pills you have a medicine
which is absolutely unique in the immense curative
extent of its activities. It does good to all sorts
and conditions of people of every race, clime and age.
You, also, will receive benefit from taking
Sold everywhere In boxes labelled, price 10'Ad. (36 pills), Is. Ij£d.
(56 pills) and 2s. 9d. (168 pills).
OLFE’S
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
The Family Stimulant.
SCHNAPPS
c
ritchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6di
Thibadlx. 230 pages, demy octavo, j
Ventilation of Mines, sarvaas. 2s. 6<j.
West Australian Mining Industry. §s.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals,
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining, Donald Clark. 12s. id.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. od.
IN PREPARATION. /
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard 0!
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
£ »
r-H-
-honestly and without eha
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending- all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about yoitir case
and I will advijse you
S.H.HENSHALL,
Reg-d. Ohemist,
by Examination
, South
Melbourne.
DR. J. COLDS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
with each
bottle.
*
g
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
t/1i,2/9&4/6
g
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
C. BRANOAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
F>fize Medals.,
sd
Works: Birmingham, England,
sdg
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. 1 hey glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention >s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Senes.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
SSffiS
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
■
Government
Contractors.
& BREAKSPEAR,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Tile Standard Kemedy which has outlived the Cehtune*
iIMGLETOrs EYE OINTMENT
In use since 1896.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road. Loudon, Eng.
THE BALLET GIRL
dsdg
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froo, Is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lieu of Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0.. SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Herrons Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIHAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
E'i I KS. Sold 07/ all Chemist*.
—
Stßrifisb-Hustralasiait
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
(\r\ POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, ail over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Austealasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.C.
Price
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.—New
Series. IV.. V.. VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d;
Packet of Ten, sd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
sgd
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
46 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name
sdgs
A POLICY fok the COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.


The “Watershed”—
Best of Oilskins.
m
It is impossible for the rain
or wind to get through a
Perdriau “ Watershed” Oilskin
—the coat that is adjustable
for riding, driving or walking.
The materials used are of the
very best quality, the work-
manship is excellent, the value
good.
The “Dugrongr Watershed"
is a light coat of superior qual-
ity. Price 30/- The “Rain-
bow Watershed ” is for rougher
wear. Price, 25/-. You may have these Goats in either
Yellow or Black, whichever color you prefer.
“Watersheds” can be bought from leading store-
keepers all over Australia, or direct from us. We pay
the postage on all orders.
Our “Watershed" Booklet will interest you. Write
for a free copy.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“The Best House for all Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ELECTRIC HAULAGE
AND OTHER
Electric
PLANT
gds
FOR
MINES.
Sole Agent: T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
' Fibro-Cement
WHAT IS IT? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with. Asbestos. It has the strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made in Slates for roofing, Red, Grey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2Jin. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “ B ’’ to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney
The bulletin post cards-Nbw
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, fid ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
Reliable 8 Cheap Motive Power for Sheep Shearing Machines
-
THE WORLD-FAMED
“TANGYE ” Oil Engines.
SIMPLE and DURABLE.
DALGETY &
“Clayton 8 Shuttleworth”
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES.
STRONG and ECONOM ICAL.
THE
are now fitting Screwless
Joints to their machines.
Send your HANDPIECES to our
Up-to-date Workshop and »have
fitted.
dg
COMPANY, LIMITED,
Depet, Showroom and Workshop,
MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
Transfon
lers
4
‘‘Mr
sP
-aO
%
cc
%
S>\'
V
gs
Staerker 8 Fischer.
40 Clarence St., Sydney; 172 William St., Melbourne.
Electrical Engineers
and Contractors.
INSPECTION OF STOCKS INVITED.
All Machines Guaranteed.
śgdg
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) PropyLtd .
155-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, PFDTH
St. George’s Terrace,
7 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
Electrical Accessories,
Motors, Dynamos and Cables
IN STOCK.
♦
engineers and
machinery merchants
60
Clarence Si.
Sydney
;
Process
rith |G
OR TES
Cheap, Simple, but a Sure Kill. Used on many large Stations with
PROVED BEYOND DOUBT AS THE QUICKEST AND BEST SYSTEM. WRITE FOR T
Guaranteed to penetrate and destroy to the furthest dead-ends.
reat Success.
STIMONIALS .
sdg
Sole Manufacturers j and Agents,
263 George St., Sydney; 525 iollins St., Melbourne.
)
