

DEWAR'S THE WHISKY OF WHISKIES
R. G. WATKINS «SZ> CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney*
—FOB —
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ĥ
sr
Wheels and Axles,
By Sami. Osborn & Co., Ltd.
Mining Steel, High-Speed
Twist Drills, etc., etc.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne,
S.A. Agent: G. C. DELANO, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide.
HOBART,
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING *'■
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowioi & Son, Ld.
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ms
llflliiiiiifw
Take it back.
Imust have-
HUTTON’S
fine Apple Brand
HAMS S
BACON.
NEW DOOR LATCH
WITH THE SMALLEST OF KEYS.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
ħ
HA N S E N’S
h
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals•
a/jb. (OftLf&v o° tfas
TiUs 'Qj&izt o£- tdrtMty tAX/iy "GlrfHe^
Qj’&,
»vV */* v
Money upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And a* MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
ĥ
ħ
h
mi
IN STOCK.
. Send fob Catalogues
Sole Australian Representatives, 32 8 34 Clarence Street, Sydney
M MALTHOID
MALTHOID M
ĥ
MALT H 0 I D
THE READY ROOFING THAT IS SUPERIOR TO ALE OTHERS.
Absolutely Impervious to the Worst Weather in the World.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), OHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY.
A
L
T
H
O
I
D
qioh±iviai-
QIOHiIVIAI-
aiOH±HVIAI—
mm
-aiOH±nviAi
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T ?
ħ
THF CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY V°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
ECONOMY
sh t tirrmlra
o
♦
REFRICERATO
SIMPLICITY
C. A. MacDONALD LTD., 03 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA WATER
HELIDON SPA performs a primary function.
It dissolves and carries away effete matter.
DEWHBRST ff HAiLORAN, Ltd.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Tpl. 31.—N0. 1610. ]
[Thursday, December 22, 1910.
Registered at the General Poet Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


THE BEST NOVELS FOB CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
3s. 6d. each,
posted 4s.
Barclay, F.: The Rosary.
Chambers, R. W.: Ailsa Page.
Chambers, R. W.: The Green Mouse.
Orczy, Baroness : Lady Molly of Scotland iara.
Williamson : Golden Silence.
De Morgan : An Affair of Honor.
Henry O.: Strictly Business.
Locke,’w.: Simon the Jester. Hewlett, M.: Rest Harrow.
Benson, E. F.: The Osbornes. Dehan, R.: TheDop Doctor.
Reef), Myrtle: The Master of the Vineyard.
Reed, Myrtle : Old Rose and Silver.
Kipling's Rewards and Fairies.
McGrath : The Splendid Hazard.
Fowler, E. T.: The Wisdom of Folly.
Mason, A. E. W.: At the Villa Rose.
Vance, L. J.: The Pool of Flame.
Palmer, F.: Danbury Rodd, Aviator.
Thurston, K. C.:, Max. Diver, M.: Candles in the Wind.
•A3NQAS ‘X33>IXS XXI <1 scs ‘S«NOSXM3aO«
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
bronchitis, influenza, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION,
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.
The Lancet says “ Proved to be as effective
TO
A. The Larynx, or
Organ of Voice.
Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
bactericidally as is creosote.”
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHQL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
A* encies in all
THE RED PAGE
Miranda ! dreaming through the starry night,
Thine, the far innocence of dead Elaine,
Thine, the rapt beauty of Cecilia’s face,
Thine, the white fire of Mary’s last embrace,
Thine, life’s mad phantasy of love-in-pain.
Till, seraph-winged, our wedded soul takes flight.
Thine, the far innocence of dead Elaine,
When thirsty boyhood knelt beside the spring
Of life, and drank'her crystal beauty there :
Not dead—but vanished from the noontide glare,
In the deep blue her soul is quivering—
In thy great tears she’ll eome to me again.
Thine, the rapt beauty of Cecilia’s face.
Touched with the light that shines beyond the
stars.
What though her soul to Heaven was dedicate !
Her woman-heart fled its celestial fate.
Down-fluttering wildly through earth’s passion-
bars,
To find in love her final resting-place.
Thine, the white fire of Mary’s last embrace,
And terror-stricken eyes, wherein there bled
Immortal love, by mortal anguish slain ;
Wrapped in the splendor of her passion-pain,
She snatched herself away, and left me dead
To sorrow—in the wonder of her face.
Thine, life’s mad phantasy of love-in-pain':
A lurid flash, in dazzled downpour shriven !
Wan guiding-stars confounded in black night!
O Love ! until our sundered souls unite
My heart can never rest, but still is driven
To find, in seeking thee, that search is vain,
Till, seraph-winged, our wedded soul takes flight.
Thine, life’s mad phantasy of love-in-pain,
Thine, the white fire of Mary’s last embrace,
Thine, the rapt beauty of Cecilia’s face,
Thine, the far innocence of dead Elaine,
Miranda ! dreaming through the starry night.
D.
Good ; but not correct in form.
A bit too much Esoteric Juddism in this.
* * * *
The best contribution in O’Dowd’s form is
from D”—slightly flawed by the rhyme
of “ night-unite.” The prize has been
awarded to the sender—Dowell O’Reilly.
Miranda let lease
Writers by the score, hoping to re-unite
the severed parts of Miranda’s soul, have
gallantly gone down and come back in miran-
delays. One weak step on the ladder and
many of them went plump to the bottom.
“F.M.R.” and L. Sparrow did the journey
correctly, but tamely. “ Electro-plate ”
stumbled over this :
Till my spectre Styx-wards stalks
and passed out of sight. “M. Sweeney”
tried to rhyme “ gala ” with “ time-payment
tailor,” and is now writhing with the tailor
in the pit. “Caro” stepped out bravely
with
Smile that tilts the banners of romance,
and came to grief further on. “Austin
Dodd ” made a brilliant effort in imitation of
Austin Dobson, but the Muse was deaf that
night and he fell:
Six lines, one stanza x the job is done—
Kiss that weds the pewter and the beer;
Mirandelay for the cash I’ll try ;
My purse is empty, my throat is dry.
Brown beer at thrippene'e is passing dear—
Help, O Muse, to earn me one pound one !
* * * *
“ Priam ” —Bernard O’Dowd has made a dis-
covery ; his mirandelay deserves a classic
place among set forms of verse ; and even the
ballade, in spite of the perfection with which it
locks the door on itself at the end, may welcome
a companion. I have been making mirandelays
all this blessed sunshiny day, and there seems to
be no mood to which the mirandelay will not
accommodate itself, though O’Dowd brands it as
“For Reverie Only.” I beseech you to read no
fewer than three of them—attached.
Here is one of them:
THE TRYST.
Dear, I have made myself a happy song
Out of the tender dreams I have of you:
“ She soon will know I lo ve her so / ”
When all the earth is fresh with dawn and dew
I sing it lilting as I stride along.
Out of the tender dreams I have of you
The waking day is filled with sweetness rare :
Dear lady mine of dreams divine !
I would not with the rapt Endymion share
One perfect moment for his long night through.
She soon will knoiv I love her so 1
Her eyes will fall,
Hear lady mine of dreams divine,
To guess it all ;
Her heart shall strain with joy and pain
At love's mad call.
When all the earth is fresh with dawn and dew
My lips will stop her lips ere they confess :
Her heart shall strain with joy and pain ;
And her shut eyes may hide her glad distress
Did Love not faintly flame the white lids through.
I sing it lilting as I stride along,
When all the air is fresh with dawn and dew :
“ She soon will know I lore her so ! ”
Out of the tender dreams I have of you,
Dear, I have made myself a happy song !
PRIAM.
ALL THINGS FLOW.
(A Mystical Mirandelay.)
Sun, moon and stars and All Things are the same.
Judkins is Pope, the Wowser Angel-Man.
With silent music of the biograph
God sifts the gnostic crayfish from the chaff,
While Housemaid Love exalts Death’s frying-
pan. .
The soul, a sausage, smiles with mystic name.
Judkins is Pope, the Wowser Angel-man.
Part God, more worm, with whiskers large and
bold.
He aims his poisoned bath-buns at the dawn.
From Sabbatarian wantonness withdrawn
He shoves the sacred Plate for righteous gold,
And rival shows, with Weary’s aid, doth ban.
With silent music of the biograph
The colloid tablets of unprinted bard
Hold Keats’s radium. Bernard makes the worst
Pomer, deaf-mute, stand equal to the first. >
He who discriminates is cold and hard,
And academic critics swill stale draff.
God sifts the gnostic crayfish from the chaff.
Sol Green’s enigma, ’mid the punters’ storm
Of angry groans, with wise McLaehlan up.
And ’spite lumbago, wins the Melbourne Cup,
Defying logic and statistic form.
Yea, beats the favorite by a neck, or half.
While Housemaid Love exalts Death’s frying-pan
Gay whitebait wriggles, beans and bacon hiss
A pious Pagan hymn to epicures
No Health Food Cafd evermore allures
With vapid, vaporish, vegetarian kiss.
Man lives on Worms, and Worms’ Delight is Man.
The soul, a sausage, smiles with mystic flame
While Housemaid Love exalts Death’s frying-pan.
God sifts the gnostic crayfish from the chaff
With silent music of the Biograph.
Judkins is Pope, the Wowser Angel-Man.
Sun, Moon and Stars, and All Things are the
Same.
GANESHA.
LOVE’S MIRANDALABOR'S LOST.
That was the end of their love-tale, then —
The soul descended to earth again ! . . .
Said Ferdy the Ant to the Ladybird : “ When
Will you marry me, ’Randa, and ease my pain ?”
The sole descended to earth again,
Sole of a Poet whose boots were new,
Who strolled, unconscious, of insects vain,
Qominuning with Nature, as poets do.
Said Ferdy the Ant to the Ladybird when
The Poet drew close to them, tramping slow :
“ I hear the thunder ! I fear ’twill rain
But give me an answer before I go—
“ Will you marry me, ’Randa, and ease my pain ?”
Lo, the boot o’er their heads was balancing even,
While the Poet mused, in ecstatic vein :
“ My soul this moment soars up to Heaven I”
“Will you marry me, ’Randa, and ease my pain ?”
Said Ferdy the Ant to the Ladybird,—when
The sole descended to earth again :
That was the cad of their love-tale then.
H. C. McKAY.
A Bounder at the Pole
v It is conceded that Peary got to the North
Pole. For one thing, no one hereabouts is
able to prove that he didn’t; and for
another, it doesn’t matter. As somebody,
some day or other, had to stand on that
geographical expression, hoist a flag and give
three cheers, let it be granted that Peary has
done it, so that attention may be turned to
other things. There are still the South Pole
and the centre of the earth, besides the
moon and Mars and other such places left for
the adventurous explorer.
Peary is entitled to all the credit that
accrues to the snatcher of a record which
many men have been after, and for which he
himself tried eight'times during 25 years.
He had pluck, endurance, determination and
luck—and he has been amply rewarded.
The actual attainment of the point at which
the north end of the Axis sticks out is not a
matter of much importance ; the world is
made no better or worse by the feat. But
the getting there is a test of manhood, and
some of those who tried and failed were
brave men and true heroes. The man,
Robert E. Peary, as he appears in his book
—The North Pole (Dymock’s)—does not in-
spire admiration.
It is unfortunate for him that his story
should follow Shackleton’s Heart of the Ant-
arctic while the latter is still fresh in
memory, for the comparison between the
two men and the two books is damaging to
Peary. The egotism of the American is
offensive. Other members of the expedition,
are mentioned and praised with condescen-
sion ; but it is “Peary, Peary ” all the way.
No other white man was allowed to share the
Polar record with Peary. Alone (except for
a nigger and some Eskimos, who don’t count
in America) he did it. Yet how small he
looks beside Franklin and other Arctic
heroes, and beside Shackleton !
The book is not nearly so interesting a
narrative as The Heart of the Antarctic, in
which all the members of the little community
—besides the penguins, seals and even the
rotifers—were pictured so faithfully. The
journeys in the Antarctic were more varied
and exciting ; the biological and geographical
knowledge added by the southern expedition
more valuable.
The best part of Peary’s book is that in
which he describes the Eskimos on the
western coast of North Greenland. These
people of a land where for 110 days in
summer the sun never sets, and for 110 days
in winter the sun never rises, live in a con-
dition of primitive communism.
The trial marriage is an ineradicable custom
among the Eskimos. If a young man and
woman are not suited with each other they try
again, and sometimes several times; but when
they find mates to whom they are adapted, the
arrangement is generally permanent. If two
men want to marry the same woman they settle
the question by a trial of strength, and the better
man- has his way. . . . Their fundamental accept-
ance of the proposition that might is right in
such matters sometimes extends to a man saying
to the husband of a wonhan : “ I am the V etter
man.” In such case, the husband has either to
prove his superiority in strength or yield the
woman to the other. If a man grows tired of his
wife he simply tejls her there is not room for her
in his igloo.
Illustrated Books
Color-printing is so good nowadays that
the artists’ work can be reproduced with
almost the same tonal values and general
effect as the originals. At any rate, the
majority of people will get as much aesthetic
pleasure from the prints of Rackham’s and
Dulac’s illustrations as they would from the
paintings, and the prints are vastly cheaper.
Books with illustrations by these men are
very popular at Christmas time, and new
men are coming along to share in the harvest.
W. J, Simmonds has made some fine
pictures for Hamlet (Hodder and Stoughton,
12s, 6d. net) ; the text is beautifully printed,
and there is a neat prefatory note by “ Q.”
The Pickwickians have found many illus-
trators since “Phiz ” tried his prentice hand
upon them, and Frank Reynolds in Mr. Pick-
ivick (Hodder and Stoughton, 18s. net) has
given as good a Pickwick as any, though his
Sam Weller is not a success. In binding and
other respects this book of selected passages
would make for young people a charming in-
troduction to a humorous classic.
Hugh Thomson is an old hand, and few
have excelled him in delineation of 18th-
century and Early Victorian characters.
Austin Dobson, whose verse Thomson has
illustrated perfectly, paid a handsome tribute
to his art in Be Libris. He was hardly the
man for The Merry Wiyes of Windsor (Heine-
mann, 15s. net), yet many of the pictures
have a freakish humor which fits the comedy.
The Golden Legend of Longfellow (Hodder
and Stoughton) depends upon its religious
sentiment rather than its poetry ; and S. H.
Meteyard has illustrated it appropriately.
The angels are clad correctly and look very
respectable.
Great Painters of the Nineteenth Century ,
by L. Benedite (Pitman, 10s. fid. net) has
13 bad colored plates and 400 other illustra-
tions, most of which are poor. Half the
space is devoted to French painters, and for
those who know nothing of them the criti-
cism and information will be useful. The
English and other schools are treated in-
adequately.
“Australia,” by Spence and Fox
A. & C. Black have added to their well-
known series of color books, at 20s. net, an
account of Australia, by Frank Fox, with 75
pictures by Percy Spence. Fox, who knows
something about this country, has sketched
its history, political institutions and principal
industries in a way that will convey useful
information to people down under. His
plain tale is seasoned with some old yarns,
a bit of his own “ rough-hewn Whitmanic
verse,” and a tribute to his friend, the late
Harry Morant. As a matter of politeness,
it should have been acknowledged that
some of the contents originally appeared
in The Lone Hand. Accuracy has been
sacrificed to rhetoric in one place, and there
are some small errors which, however, do not
matter in a book of this kind. It is the
pictures that count. Percy Spence had
a great opportunity, but his work is very
uneven. The human figures are generally
wooden, the raw reds in “A Harbor Pic-
nic ” hurt the eye, and “ ■ Mooning Opos-
sums ” is an absurd representation of
moonlight effects. But in the majority of
the landscapes he has risen to the occasion,
and some of the work is very fine. “Barron
Falls,” “Sydney Town Hall,” “A Silver
Morning,” and “ Perth ” are as good as the
average illustrations in this series, and that
average is high.
The Poster that Sings
Yvette Guilbert has not yet “ graced these
shores,” as the newspapers used to say, but
her name has been wafted out from Parisian
music halls, and caricatures of her' by
Leandre and others have drifted over here,
so that there may be some interest in the
story of her career : Y. G. — Struggles and
Victories, by herself and H. Simpson
(Dymoek’s). ’ Yvette tells her tale in French,
and there is a rough English translation
opposite each page. Simpson gives a more
formal appreciation. It is, like the story of
most artists, a record of self-confidence and
pluck overcoming hundreds of obstacles.
Her girlhood was one of poverty and hard
work while helping her mother as a milliner :
I had learnt a good deal of the wickedness of
men and was well acquainted with their little
ways.* At 18 I was possessed of a virtue that was
proof against all comers.
She met a man in the street, and he enabled
her to get a position at the theatre. After fill-
ing some small palrts in four successive fail-
ures, and watching her dressmaker’s bill
steadily mount upwards, she asked the
manager when she would get a proper
engagement:
Oh, in about 10 or 15 years’ time. In Paris
a woman’s career is a very slow achievement.
But keep up your courage, my dear ; courage is a
virtue—though in the theatre one ‘virtue isn’t
half so useful as two good vices.
Her triumph came soon afterwards, and
since then the ball has been at her feet.
She was known on the concert stage as “ The
Extending Comedienne,” on account of her
long neck. She says that the effect she
aimed at was that of a poster. Apparently
she got it, for Henri Lavedan wrote of her :
Yvette Guilbert is a poster, which speaks and
sings and moves ; but still a poster, a big, ghastly,
impudent poster, which sends a shiver down your
back. lam reminded when I see her of E. A.
Poe’s woman in wax with a phonograph inside it.
Is she really alive?
<*. ■
H. G. Wells has a good deal to say about
current politics in his story, “The New
Machiavelli,” just concluded in The English
Review. This is a characteristic passage
on India :
The English rule in India is surely one of the
most extraordinary accidents that has ever hap-
pened in history. We are there like a man who
has fallen off a ladder on to the neck of an ele-
phant, and doesn’t know what to do or how to get
down. Until something happens he remains.
Our functions in India are absurd. We English
do not own that country, do not. even rule it. We
make nothing happen ; at the most we prevent
things happening. We suppress our own litera-
ture there. Most English people cannot even go
to this land they possess ; the authorities would
prevent it. If Messrs. Perowne or Cook organ-
ised a cheap tour of Manchester operatives it
would be stopped. No one dare bring the average
English voter face to face with the reality of
India.
J. Ramsay Macdonald, the English Labor
M.P. who visited Australia, also paid a fly-
ing visit to India. He found it, as many
others have done, a land of the poverty-
stricken in a state of unrest, with a move-
ment in the direction of Home Rule. He
has put his impressions and opinions into a
book, The Awakening of India (Hodder and
Stoughton), which is intended for the British
elector, but has some general interest.
“L.”: A writer in the London Saturday Review,
which hunts in interesting places for its literary
gleanings, objects to the use of the word
“Tragedy” in the Orippen case and similar press
sensations. Says that this is a degradation of a
noble Greek word, associated with some of the
grandest poetic and dramatic achievements of the
human intellect. But surely this squeamish fellow
is wrong. The Orippen case, according to what is
alleged, is Tragedy of the purest and most
passionate kind. Its emotions and incidents are
primitively human, and monstrously grand. Love,
Passion, Adultery, Slaughter; and the viewless
Furies of the “ wireless ” carrying vengeance over
illimitable miles of ocean—l do not know what
fiercer material any Greek tragedian could have
desired. Agamemnon slaughtered by 01ytemnes»
tra is not more shuddersome than Belle Elmore
dissected and buried; the only difference is that
Agamemnon was a mythical king and Orippen is
a modern dentist; and in the eternal changeless-
ness of human passion that is no difference at all.
“ Tragedy ” is the right word, and the only word.
The Spectator has “the just word” on
Holman Hunt: “If his technical equipment had
equalled his sincerity and strength of character,
he would have been one of the greatest of modern
English painters ; as it. is, he remains the noblest
example of the artist as preacher.” Hunt’s body,
like Meredith’s, was cremated, and the ashes
placed in the artists’ corner, St, Paul’s.
All Johnsonians will welcome Walter Raleigh’s
Six Essays on Johnson (Oxford Press); especially
“Johnson Without Boswell” and “Johnson’s
Lives Of the Poets.”
« ■
Frank Henty’s In Summer Time (Labor
Gall, Melb.) collects some light verse and
prose in a pretty cover
decorated by O. Fischer.
It is a rather flirrisy-
looking booklet fot
sixpence ; but worth
the* money, as the
stuff is fresh and
cheerful, “ The
Jackeroo’s Love
Song ” has a new
image :
The first lone thrup-
pence in the
plate of night—
A far, faint moon—
lies on the even-
ing blue.
And here is a new
word :
To see the thick
youth, wildly gay
And evidently weak
of mind
Dunlopped and very stout before.


A.
a
tfcii 1883—Sterling Silver-mounted Hair Brush, chased design,
7s. 6d-
For High-Class TOILET REQUISITES
put Perfect Trust in
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
No. 1885 —Sterling Silver-mounted Hair Brush, Bs.
No. 1801 a Sterling: Silver-
mounted Hair Brush, best
bristles, floral design, cast
border, its.
No. 1843—. Stirling Silver-mounted Flair Brush, Watteau design',
10s., 21s.
No. 1871—Sterling' fcilver-mounted Hair Brush, Empire Wreath,
15a. 21s.
No. 1799x—Polished Oak Rack,
with Bevelled Glass Minor,
Hollow Rack, Cloth and Hat
Brushes, 9s.
No. 1892 —Sterling- Silver-mounted Hair Brush, Knot design, 21s.
TERMS—SPOT CASH.
No. 1805—Ebony Board, fitted
with Embossed Nickel-mounted
Cloth and Hat Brushes, 13s. 6d.
No. 1874—Sterling Silver-mounted
Hair Brush, best Bristles, Rose
design, cast border, 425. 6d.
No. 1893—Sterling Silver-mounted Hair Brush, Fern design, 19s. 6d.
Navy Blue Velvet-covered Wood Hairpin Box,
Nickel-plated Top, with Miniature Heads and
Scenes in colors in centre of lid. Unique in
style and will give everlasting wear. Is. 6d.
.VSs? ■ . _J ■'■
'“X
No. 1868— Sterling Silver-mounted Hair Brush, Festoon design, 28s. 6d.
No. 1803c—Shaving Set, in
White . Celluloid, with 6in.
Bevelled Mirror, Shaving- Cup
and Brush, 12s. 6d.
Illustrated Price Lists posted
free on request.
No. 351—The “Austral” Brush Case,
containing two Gentlemen’s Hair
Brushes, Comb and Mirror, made in
attractive Grained Leather. 10s. 6d.,
12s. <sd., 155., 17s. 6d., 19s. 6d.
as
ji
i 1
1
rim
VJ
m
P
Cut-Glass Globe Perfume Bottle,
Sterling Silver Cap Top, three sizeb,
7s. 6d., 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d. each.
Top Quality at Bottom Price is
the Golden Rule at the New
Palace Emporium.
Improved Moulded Glass Pin Bottle, with
Nickel-plated Press on top lid, Embossed
Chariot Metal Centre, in round and long:
shapes, Is., Is. 3d., Is. 9d. each.
No. 1800a—Nickel Shaving Stand,
Polished Oak Base, 6in. Bevelled
Mirror, three China Cups, and
Shaving Brush, 16s. 6d.
No. 1818—Handsome Nickel Stand, Bevelled Glass
Mirror, Brushes with Black Polished Wood Back,
Nickel Mounts, 28s. 6d.
No. 1818a— (As 1818), only Swinging- Glass and Cloth
and Hat Brush, 265. 6d.
Sponge and Soap Holder, for hanging on
Bath, Nickel-plated on Brass, Bs. 6d.
mr<mm
illiilll
Sponge and Soap Holder, for hanging on Bath,
Nickel-plated on Brass, 7s. 6d.
No. 1818b—Handsome Nickel Stand, Bevelled Swinging
Mirror, Brushes with Black Polished Wooden Backs,
Nickel Mounts, 28s. 6d.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Add Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
A PHENOMENAL BREAK-
-44
836
4
>5
3275
m %
NO more positive proof of the worthiness of an “Alcock” billiard table could
be giveu than by the splendid performance of George Gray, the young
Queensland player, in his match with Fred Lindrum, jun.
A Standard ‘‘Alcock” Billiard Table was used, and certified to by the
Amateur Billiard Association of Victoria (which is affiliated with the Billiard
Association of Great Britain and Ireland).
Gray, who made 836—831 coming off the red, and thus made two world’s
records—used Crystallite balls, and the marvellous accuracy with which they came
off the cushions, the ease with which the most difficult shots were accomplished,
speaks for itself of the merit and superiority of “ Alcock ” Billiard Tables.
Write for illustrated catalogue—it’s full of information.
ALCOCK & Go.
h
397 George. St., Sydney. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Murray St., Perth. [3.
S. SMITH & SON’S (Ltd.)
WORLD-RENOWNED WATCHES.
Ladies’ Lever Watches,
in Solid Silver Cases,
£1 10 0
In Iron Clad Cases, £l.
a ?
%
'S'
Ladies’ Lever latches,
in fine Gold Cases,
£3 IS 0
In Half-Hunting 18ct. Gold
Cases, £5 5 0
By Appointment to
H.M. The King.
Write for
New
Illustrated
Catalogues.
Watches, Clocks,
Jewellery,
Speed Indicators,
separate volumes.
Special Terms
to Shippers.
The “Charing X,” All-English Lever,
fully Jewelled, in Silver Case, £2.
/
N
Cnoßll\JG
The “Trafalgar,” All-English Lever,
in Iron Clad Case, £l.
TUB “STRAND” ALL-ENGLISH GENTS’LEVER, in massive 18ct. Gold Cases,
best quajjty obtainable. Crystal, £l3 15s. Full or Half Hunters, £l6 16s.
Watchmakers ftp the Admiralty,
0 STRAND, LONDON
Australian flutual Provident Society.
Next Distribution of Cash Surp/us as at 31st December, 1910.
POLICIES EFFECTED IN THE ORDINARY DEPARTMENT BEFORE THE <DLOSE
OF THE YEAR WILL SHARE IN THE CASH BONUS TO BE THEN ALLO
Surplus divided for the year 1909, £779,692. Total bonuses distributed, £15,116,584.
The Society being a purely mutual institution the whole of the profits IheSodTtv’tohis friend
pating policy holders. It is therefore to the advantage of every member to recommend the Society to his menus.
Accumulated Funds, £25,750,000 Annual Income, £3,380,000.
Policies can be effected for any sum up to £lO,OOO. Write at once to the Head Office 87 Pitt Street, Sydney, or
any District Office or Agent of the Society, for full particulars.
RICHARD TEECE, P.I.A, F.F.A., F.S.S.,
General Manager and Actuary.
H. W APPERLY.
Secretary.
HAVE YOU GOT?
1. A Tearing, Hacking Cough?
2. A Stuffed-up Chest?
3. A Teasing Irritation in your Throat
4- A Difficulty in Breathing ?
5. A Cold in Your Head ?
6. A Fit of Sneezing ?
7. A Pain in Your Chest?
8. A Shortness of Breath ?
9. “Only a Bit of a Cold?”
HAVE
YOU?
IF YOU HAVE, TAKE
BRONCHITIS CURE
THE GRANDEST REMEDY FOR
COUGHS & COLDS
“A STITCH IN TIME SAVES NINE.”
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS, AND
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
N-S.W. Branch Office s 522 George Street, Sydney.
Clements Tonic Saved!!”!Life
It may Save Yours if You Need Health. Read this Wonderful Letter.
(Exact copy of letter received.)
CLEMENTS TONIC LIMITED.
It is with the deepest feeling of gratitude that I write to tell you that in my
opinion Clements Tonic is a remedy of most marvellous powers and the most
wonderful medicine known.
I have been for 28 years in business in Hobart. lam well known to every-
one there, and 24 years ago I was taken very ill with Hydatids of the Liver,
which resulted in several serious operations, and which led to continuous ill-
health afterwards. Like a sick woman will, I tried many experts and their
medicines, and these failing, I resorted to advertised medicines, without regain-
ing my health or strength.
I suffered, as the result of the operations, from LOSS OF MEMORY,
NERVOUS BREAKDOWN, DIZZINESS, CHRONIC INSOMNIA or
LOSS OF SLEEP, POOR APPETITE and INDIGESTION. I could not
walk across the room I was so weak; in fact, I thought I would never be able
to attend to my business again.
Seeing Clements Tonic advertised, I decided to try a bottle, and found it to
act like magic in giving me an appetite and better nerve strength, sol decided
to continue it, and this is the result: To-day lam alive and well. Although
this critical period of my life happened 24 years ago, I am here in the flesh
to-dav, thanks to that splendid medicine, which cured me of the ailments
specified in this letter, NERVOUS BREAKDOWN IN PARTICULAR. \
had no more sleepless nights, and in a few weeks, after taking it, I was strong
and well, and used to rise in the morning as happy as a lark. I can give you
the names of dozens of Hobart citizens who know these words are true, also the
name of the chemist there who sold me the tonic, Mr. A. P. Miller, Liverpool
Street, Hobart, and from whose pharmacy I have often bought it since.
I always recommend Clements Tonic to persons in ill-health, because I
know what it is and what its use means for women, and I hope you will use this
letter in the great cause of suffering humanity.
(Signed) MRS. MINNIE NIETOM,
Witness to signature :
Mr. F. Fowler, J.P.,
Enmore, W.S.W.
132 Liverpool Street,
Hobart,
21st November, 1910.
All the Clements Tonic testimonies can be fully verified. In this instance Mrs. Nietom called in person
whilst on a visit to Sydney, and gave this splendid testimony without any request for it. It proves what
this splendid medicine can really do, and what a boon it is to thfe run-down man or woman continuously
out of sorts and ill through worry, over-work or study, hereditary weakness, insomnia or loss of sleep
constipation, sluggish liver, or kidney irregularities. Women who have a tendency to anaemia, sick
headache, neuralgia, melancholia, nervous breakdown, the result of fever, periodic illness or shock
should get it and get well. Thousands swear by it and recommend it for use all over Australia, and to this
general end all Chemists and Stores sell it throughout the Commonwealth. Get it


n
m
Makes
The
Hair
Grow
We are talking about Ayer’s
Hair Vigor. Just note that word
“Ayer’s.” You are perfectly
safe with it. No to you or
to your hair. Makes the hair
grow ? It certainly does. Stops
falling hair, too. Remember, it’s
“Ayer’s ” we are talking about.
Ask your doctor about your hair
and about Ayer’s Hair Vigor.
Get his approval. Your own
doctor and “Ayer’s” make a
strong combination. It means
faith, confidence, satisfaction.
Ayer’s Hair Vigor
DOES NOT COLOR THE HAIR
Prepared by Dr. J. C, Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL.
Packed Free. All charges Prepaid to your
Port direct from our Factory. Highest*
grade British-made MEAD
Coventry FByers
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS.
Defiance Puncture-Resisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters, Variable-Speed Gears,
Flyer or Brook’s Saddles, etc.
ĥ
LATEST
[MODELS
£3, 10 to £9
I Tyres and accessories half usual prices.
APFNTQ wantefl in each district. Write
AUI-lllu at once, using sufficient postage,
for Free Art Catalogue and out
Special Offer on sample machine.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. 280. LIVERPOOL.
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Agent, 157 Clarence St., Sydney.
UNIVERSAL
The name'Eley*
on any cartridge is
recognised by all
spor.smen the world
over as a hall-mark of
excellence and reliability
The * Universal * i2-Bore Cartridge
is one of the most popular of all
‘Eley Smokeless’— the popular low-
price cartridge
‘Eley 22 Rim Cartridge’— accurate
and clean.
Obtainable through your Gunmaker o* Dealer.
Seethe !
name
, Bley*
on an
car-
tridges
w
mi
>4
(4
Eley
Bros.,
Ltd.,
London
THROW DOWN THE BOTTLE.
Cease being' a curse in your home and a nuisance to
your friends. The Devil of Drink can be banished
for ever by DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered
by the Govts. Vic. and N.S. W.). A harmless remedy
—can be given secretly or taken voluntarily. Advice
Free. Write or call. DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISH-
MENTS : 54 Russell Street, Melbourne ; 1161 Hay
Street, Perth, W.A. [3
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
ifter publication there are none left.
BONNINGTON’S WILL ANSWER YES
$
■5
a«N«!.»S7.?"r
tfOSS
iRiSH.r';;
hi
Sold Everywhere.
I/O (SL 2/6.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly tl*P
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “Bonnington’s’' of 40 years fame.
BONNINCTON’S
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from- harmful narcotics.
N W«**
HOW
IRISH
Do not take imitations—just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“ OUR. JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR Ij6 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide ; Elizabeth St„ Melbourne.
)
IDEAL FOOD
for children from birth is
Horlick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constit-
uents in their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch, and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infant Foods containing' Starch.
No Cooking-. No added Milk.
Of all Chemists, Wholesale <S Retail Stores.
Samples: 82 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough, Eng.
Flat-Chested
Women ;
Cannot Appear to
the Best Advantage.
Every woman is entitled to
have a full, rounded bosom
with pleasing curves and
figure. Don’t Stay Thin.
DR. FALLIERE’S
“Flesh-Food’
puts on flesh at the rate of five pounds a
week, and rapidly develops tjfie bust to nor-
mal. Your measurements increase rapidly,
and the improvement is lasting. This treat-
ment is positively harmless. Send 2d. stamp
for free trial and full particulars.
Falliere “ Flesh-Food ” Co-
Dept. 5,
Linden Court,
Castlerkagh St.,
SYDNEY.
GOLCRYST
THE HEALTH SALT
for edl
BLOOD DISORDERS
and
RHEUMATISM
IS SOLD EVERYWHERE IN
3° 6“& 1- Pkts
Agents in N.S.W.—ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Sydney.
Proprietors— ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be'cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send opt. Perfect
comfort and ease from the first day’s use. No
ste<=l bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
ON THE HOP ” —Cheap Edition Now On
Sale —2/6; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 Geogre
Street, Sydney.
The Association ot Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
When ordering from Agents please insist
upon every article of plate being stamped: —
ħ
®>
h
Hi
Crests and
Monograms
Engraved,
4s. per dozen.
We have the
finest
selection of
CANTEENS
in
LONDON,
prices from
£4 4s. Od.
£lOO.
Please write for
SPECIAL
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET.
King's, Queen’s, Piddle,
Rat-Tail, Old English, Albany,
Gadroon and Fancy Patterns.
YOU CAN BUY FROM ENGLAND. Pay your Daty and purchase cheaper
and better than you are now doing. Write tor our Illustrated Cata-
logue. 6.000 Illustrations Post Free to any part oi the world.
6, Grand Hotel Buildings, London, W.C.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Reckoning-Hour.
The city streets were lit like day—
Though night it was, a starless night—
And lips were red, and hearts were gay,
And every eye was shining bright.
Good Fellowship he caught my sleeve —
“ Come speed the hour with wine,” said he.
“ ’Tis only fools that joy or grieve
O’er that which may or may not be.’’
A troop of youths moved to and fro
With witless laughter, oaths and yells ;
They minded me of long ago
When fools went garbed in cap and bells.
All coarse of jowl and thick of speech
Two roysterers with hats awry—
Each mumbling in the ear of each —
With swinging limbs went rolling by.
Dame Five-and-Fifty (bless her heart!)
Came by on whitely-satined feet;
Her cheeks were rouged, her lips apart,
The flowers she wore at least were sweet.
Great Paunch, the lord of lands and gold
(He heeds not how his fellow fares),
His tale of pounds and shillings told.
And sang, his song of stocks and shares.
A slow bell boomed, an hour rang out,
A silence fell upon th 6 street,
And then a noise of sudden rout —
A panic sound of flying feet.
Through highway, byway, park and square,
Wide-eyed and pallid as the dead,
With out-thrust arms and lifted hair
The motley horde in madness sped.
There went the madcap and the dame,
Sir Paunch, the lord of share and scrip,
The roysterer, with eyes aflame.
All devil-lashed, as with a whip.
Then, through the lit and lonely street,
Where winds of woe and warning flew.
There camethe march of measured feet,
A sudden, alien trumpet blew.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.
M’linder.
“Mother’s in the ’Orspitle,
Father’s doin’ time ! ”
A face so sad and destitute-
Of youth is someone’s crime!
M’linder’s troubles soon began ....
God knows when they’ll be o’er!
An infant with a woman’s face—
M’linder mothers four.
Blind lane in front, dead wall behind,
Two dark rooms eight feet wide ;
The rain soaks through the rotten bricks
Upon the weather side.
Abouc the dingy window-sill
Half-dead geraniums trail;
M’linder looks as colorless
As lifeless and as pale.
Wan and drooping on the step,
She broods at even-time.
While four small children in the lane
Play mimic pantomime.
Her mirthless smile’s a dreadful smile,
Her eyes are hard and dry.
She is the saddest thing on earth—
I wish the child would cry.
“ Mother’s in the ’Orspitle,
Father’s doin’ time ! ” ...
M’linder, years and years ago,
Played at pantomime !
M’linder never had her youth—
It went as nightmares go ;
A few dazed years and she was old.
God never meant it so.
Her heart’s a weary woman’s heart,
You’d never guess her years.
Her sad eyes might look glad again
If they were washed with tears.
(
M’linder, twelve yet twenty-wise,
Knows her dream is o’er ; {
Fearing life far more than death, ]
M’linder mothers four.
N.S.W.
W. M. W.
A Memory of Eden.
They had tarried ; they had striven
’Neath the shady Eden trees
Till, alas ! they twain were driven—
From the blossoms and the bees —
From the apples that were hanging
(Luscious fruit amidst the leaves !)
And the gates have since been banging
On how many erring Eves !
Did it matter much, my brothers,
If they tarried or remained ?
(There would surely have been others
Who would never be restrained !)
But they plucked the fruit (how plucky !),
Saw the seeds profusely fall . . .
Ah, my brothers, we are lucky
That they plucked the fruit at all !
N.S.W.
GILLROONEY.


Combination Couch and Bed.
changed instantly.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. • in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£ 4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
We don’t believe any Aceordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Aceordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
larjre bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d. ;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
K3S
<£•*l
xuo
ICDU#
ii
■3D
■Hi"
i •
ocicc»™
m
m
filll
II il
0:1
Niiiisdii
WQI
tils
■(111
IHli
IN
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may be secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
&
Mil
ituia
THe CONVINCING MERIT
of the Eadie Coaster should appeal strongly to
every cyclist who appreciates combined sim-
plicity and lightness, together with unequalled
efficiency. The
EADIE COASTER
contains the brake "that always acts” —a brake
that is efficient under any circumstances and
one which answers immediately to the slightest
backward pressure of the pedals. There ure no
troublesome rods or levers to operate and the
bicycle is always under p.rfect control. With
the
EADIE TWO-SPEED COASTER
you have the Eadie Coaster Efficiency combined
with the advantage of a variab e gear. S<nd
for a free copy of the I .S A. Handbook and
learn more about these famous Hubs, and the
equally famous B.S.A. Fittings.
D. Y. RENNIE
(Representing B-S.A. Co- Limited)
5 Stock Exchange Building, MELBOURNE
«.*Q.
h
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern ®. sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
CHRISTMAS (Sifts
THE heavy shipments of Christmas Gifts received by us from our (Hatton
Garden) London House make it a difficult matter to convey an
adequate idea of the comprehensiveness of our assortments, the variety
. necessarily comprising many Exclusive Designs in quantities so small as to
make it inadvisable to include them in our Christmas Catalogue,
The illustrations shown here are taken from the actual goods, and in
all cases faithfully portray the articles as they are seen in our stock. For
other suitable gifts write for our Christmas Catalogue. We Post it Free.
STEWART DAWSON « CO.
(AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.
J 4252 —Amethyst Set, 9et.
Gold Brooch, 16/6.
J 3231—Tourmaline
Amethyst and Pearl Set,
9et. Gold Pendant, 25/.
J4GBl—Fine Amethyst and Pearl Set, 9et. Gold
Brooch, £2.
J4GB2—Peridot, Amethyst and Pearl Set, 9et.
Gold Brooch, £2.
J 3546 —Pine Pearl and 15ot. Gold Brooch
£l/15/-
J3232—Pearl and Tourma-
line Set, 9cc. GolcJ
Brooch, 18/6.
SS5
J2995— Fine Aquamarine
and Pearl Set, 15ct. Gold
Pendant, £3/10/-
J447s—Solid Silver and Cut Glass;
Powder Box, 9/6.
Smaller sizes, 5/-,'. 6/6, 7/6.
J37l6—Silver-plated “ Scotch.;
Thistle ” Sugar Basin, 25/-.
J 4529 —Lady’s Superior Quality Black
Leather B/6.
Others at 9/6, 14/6, 15/6, 16/6, 21/-.
CllOB/7 —Solid Silver Manicure Set, in Case.
7 pieces, £2/15/-
G 6697 —Richly Decorated Solid
Silver Smelling- Salts Bottle, 30/-.
v - '■ [>
If
J 4238 —Glass Tumbler and
Silver Plated Holder, 8/6.
The New “ Britannic ” Expanding Watch Bracelet.
9et. Gold, with Fine Lever Watch, £B/10/-
15ct. Gold, with Fine Lever Watch, £l2/10/-
G 2640 —Opal, Ruby and Pearl Set, 9ct. Gold Bangle, £2/10/-
ssl
GBs9—Solid Silver and N.Z. Greenstone Glove Hook, 4/6.
J2576—Amethyst and
Peridot Set, 9ct. Gold
Pendant, 17/6.
G1680—Pearl and Tur-
quoise Set, 15ct. Gold
Pendant, £3/10/-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Von. 31.—N0. 1610.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 22, 1910.
Prior Bn.
THE INTENTIONS OF JOHN SMITH, DECEASED.
The proposed referendum has caused a whole lot of Tories to rise up once more and state that when the Federal Constitution was drafted the
changes in question were not contemplated.
AUSTRALIA: “NOW, THAT’S VERY INTERESTING; BUT HOW DOES IT AFFECT Mt?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd., at'the
Office of the Co.. 214 Georgre-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central,
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tiik Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tiik Bulletin yosted
regularly to you every ween for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to Wim.iam M aglkoii, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tun Bulletin would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to addfess editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Buli.ktin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “Correspondence " column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short I'ales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
two columns in length, or, say, 3000 ivoris, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Buli.ktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the.
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The. conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Tiie Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (ivholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tiik Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, US High Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vanconvei, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Borman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S. A .—lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago 'Newspaper Agency,
VO Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
llons Kong. —Brewer and Co., Redder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents' Special Notice.
Tub Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6'| in. x lfin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 22, 1910.
IRISH AUTONOMY AND SOME
REFLECTIONS.
Unless the signs of the times are more deceptive
than usual, Irish autonomy (commonly described
as Home Rule) has almost arrived. But for the
House of Wooden Gods it would have come to
pass many years ago, and apparently the House
of Wooden Gods is now very near the end of its
greatness, and its veto has almost departed from
it. The new Home Rule movement will probably
prove a larger and wider affair than the one of
Gladstone’s day. That aimed simply at Supply-
ing Ireland with a local Parliament for the
management of purely local affairs; but now the
idea hasspread, and Wales and Scotland begin to
demand their own Legislatures also. If they get
them there will, presumably, be a similar
body in England for uniformity’s sake, and
the Imperial Parliament will cease from troubling
about dogs and drains, and try to be really
imperial, and there will be a British Federation in
which, perhaps, the white self-governing States of
Greater Britain will be later on invited to join,
thereby reviving the Imperial Federation dream
which used to be so much heard of in the blatant
days of a quarter-century ago. (Those were the
times when Edward VII. was still Prince of
Wales, and Battenbeeg was a fresh young
object of mirth and joyfulness, and there
was a Primrose League in Australia, and
crazed women wrote addresses to Queen
Victoria saving she was “pre-eminent in grief.”)
It is a notable evidence of how the old order-
changes that the roaring Orangemen of Ulster
should now be advertising in Germany, of all
places, for rifles and ammunition, and announcing
that civil war—the old blanky variety of carnage
—will start as soon as Home Rule is granted, and
that they will resist any Parliament at Dublin to
the bitter end. No one seriously expects that the
men of the Orange push will fight, and even if
they invite Kaiser Wilhelm to invade Britain
with promises of armed assistance, the chances are
that Kaiser Wilhelm will turn the offer down as
not sufficiently attractive. But this shriek of
wrath and treason from the old brigade—such a
shriek as it hasn’t raised since the earl}' days of
last century, when the Orange lodges conspired
to snatch the throne away from 3'ouug Victoria
and give it to the Duke of Cumberland—is a
matter of interest.
It is a fair assumption that John Bull is tired
of the long struggle, and wants peace in his old
age. As a ruler, or benevolent despot, or plain
despot without benevolence, over subject white
races he hasn’t been a success, though he has
probably been as great a success as many other
people in a similar situation. He tried to govern
the Celts of Ireland according to Bull ideas,
and the result has been that he several times
brought the race to the verge of ruin, that it is a
vanishing people, and that the brick of obloquy and
wrath which has been flyingin the land for someTOO
years is still ftying at the old address, lie tried to
rule the Celts of north-western Scotland on Bull
principles (the folk of southern and especially
south-eastern Scotland are mostly of his own
race, so he got on better with them), and there
also the result has been depopulation. There is
no such active hostility as in Ireland, but the
1 emnant of a red-headed community looks upon
the Englishman as a foreigner to this day. Wales
has been only a moderate success as a case of
assimilation; there is still a fair proportion of
Welshmen who don’t even speak the English
language. The Scandinavian people of Man and
the Franco-Norn.ans of the Channel Islands have
been pacified with a grant of Home llule, and
stand practically outside the limits of the British
folk. Looking further afield, the attempt to
assimilate the Dutchmen of South Africa
has fallen in badly, and the same has been the
case with the French of Canada. In both in-
stances peace has been purchased by the grant of
self-governing powers which amount to little
short of separation. To put the matter shortly,
the old idea of imperial domination only survives
in two sets of instances. It remains in poor, iso-
lated, flattened-out little white communities like
St. Helena and the Falkland Islands, where the
population is too small and hopeless to have poli-
tical aspirations; and it still lives in places like
India and Ceylon, where the white man is a mere
bird of passage, and doesn’t stay long enough to
identify himself with the country.
* * * *
The empire may therefore be subdivided into
seven sections. There is (1) the Anglo-Saxon
nucleus governed by a sovereign who is
mostly German and a “ruling class” whose
names reveal that it is largely of French
or Norman descent. Then follow (2) the
small adjacent Scandinavian and Franco-Norman
communities with their local Legislatures, and in
some cases their local languages; (3) the unassimi-
lated Celt, reasonably friendly in Wales and the
Scotch Highlands, distinctly hostile in Ireland;
(4) the conquered white races outside which have
only been persuaded to give up the habit of
furious insurrection by the grant of an autonomy
which leaves Bull practically pledged to their
defence while they are in no way pledged to his;
(5) the big Anglo-Saxon races beyond the sea
which, sometimes alone and sometimes in partner-
ship with conquered white races, have also set up
for themselves on no-liability principles; (0) the
petty white communities which don’t matter; (7j
the illimitable mass of undigested and mostly
embittered nigger, some of him clothed and some
not.
* * * *
Ireland has been the boss failure of the empire.
Its people represent the largest of the conquered
white races. They are probably the most warlike
and the most patriotic of these races. The island
was England’s earliest conquest, and the,insane
effort to mould it according to strictly Bull ideas
has been the longest continued; therefore it stands
for the worst record of internal war, the greatest
bloodshed, and the oldest-established hatreds. It is
i ight alongside England, and has been a reproach-
ful voice calling in Bull’s ear for centuries, and
that hasn’t improved his sleep. It has come nearer
than any other of the British conquests to turning
the tables on its conqueror, and that hasn’t im-
proved his sleep either. In a sense it has turned
the tables, for the expatriated Irishman in the
United States is numerous enough to make that
country a menace to Britain ; and when, in the
18th century, English officialsin Ireland improved
their incomes by selling able-bodied Irishmen to
be slave-soldiers in the Prussian armies, they did
something to save Prussia from destruction so that
it might become the nucleus of that German
Empire which now makes Bull very much afraid.
Bull’s one great success in Ireland was the
colonisation of Ulster with an alien race of
Protestants; and now that Ulster is advertising for
guns to fire at him, even that success seems
hardly all that it might be. The Irish row
is really the oldest imperial property that England
possesses. The first empire that had its centre in
England—Cnut’s Empire of England, Norway
and Denmark—lasted only part of one reign. The
second, or Angevin Empire, which extended from
the north of Scotland to the Spanish border, lasted
out two reigns and portion of a third, and when
it fell to pieces it left Ireland and the Irish shindy
on Bull’s hands. That was the only debris that
was saved when the ship went down. The third
empire practically vanished in George Washing-
ton’s day. The fourth one was almost wholly
built up in the reign of Victoria ; when she came
to the throne there was very little property of any
kind outside the United Kingdom apart from
two flags flying on the coasts of Canada and
Australia, to indicate vague claims upon unknown
lands beyond, and a sort of suzerainty
over the East India Company. The result is
that nowhere save in Ireland lias J. Bull
keot up the attempt to rule, pacify and assimilate
a conquered white people long enough to make it
a real test of his capacity. As a ruler and
assimilator his reputation must stand or fall by
Ireland, and if it doesn’t absolutely fall it at least
slopes considerably, not to say disastrously.
* * * *
There are, of course, wild alarms in certain
quarters to the effect that the grant of partial
autonomy to the oldest of Bull’s possessions—
almost the only one on which the paint is really
t ] r y_ _will have appalling consequences. The sud-
denly-thrown-together empire—almost the sud-
, denest empire since the days of Jonah’s gourd—
is to fall to pieces when there is a local Parlia-
ment at Dublin, and its component parts are to
slither wildly to perdition like the, famous pork
in Galilee. In other quarters it is reckoned that
‘ Home Buie will bring about a prompt millennium.
It isn’t likely to do either one or the other.
When the matter has been fixed up, and the
excited Ulster person has had liis alleged gun
taken from him, and he has been hit on the lower
back with the thick end of it and bidden
to be as little of a fool as possible, there
will probably be a spell of comparative calm
in that corner of the earth such as Bull
hasn’t known since he made his first disastrous
attempt to spread himself over sea. Beyond that
feeling of restfulness on Bull’s part, nothing
special is likely to ensue outside Ireland itself.
If the empire disintegrates, it isn’t likely to dis-
integrate any faster because of Irish Home Rule ;
though, if it doesdisintegrate, Irish Home Rule will
be blamed for it in certain quarters, especially if
Dill Macky isn’t dead. Tlie only possible reason
for thinking that fearsome consequences will ensue
is that the Tory mind dreads change and regards
the shifting of old institutions as a reckless fooling
with the pillars of the temple. And the Irish
difficulty is older than the blessed Constitution,
or the Established Church, or the Bank of Eng-
land, or the naval supremacy, or the army, or the
Higher Criticism, or the modern conception of the
Devil, and is only a shade younger than the
Tower of London. The Roman Empire was still
going strong when the English intruder began to
muddle things at Dublin, and the Tartar conquest
of Russia was still in the future, and Persia was
yet a fairly great Bovver which gave “sass” to
Europe, and the Dutchmen were just building
Berlin in the land of the Prussian idolaters, who
still worshipped wooden gods. Tlie loss of the
Irish problem, if it can be really lost, will be the
removal of a landmark, and will almost amount to
a starting of history afresh. United England
dates back less than 1000 years, and this one
trouble covers more than 700 of them. A quarrel
of such exceeding venerableness as that strikes
the Conservative mind as a thing that is not to
be lightly ended, and to lose it and the veto of the
House of Lords simultaneously is almost heart-
breaking.
CONCERNING SYDNEY, A CITY THAT
COVERS 500 SQUARE MILES,
AND OTHER MATTERS.
Mr. McGowkn explains that his Government has not
agreed to transfer 10 square miles at Jervis liay to the
Commonwealth instead of one, as had been arranged.
What happened, lie says, was that he told the Acting
Prime Minister that “ he thought there would be no diffi-
culty with regard to the increased area.” Which means,
in the only intelligible significance, that Mr. McGowen
confirmsthe statement of Mr. Hughes, which he desires
to represent as having been too positive. When the
head of one Government assures the head of another that
“ there will be no difficulty about that,” hands are struck
on the bargain ; if it were not so, what would be the use
of these gentlemen discussing things? The explanation
called for, however, is not that of an obviously made
arrangement, but of what the Federal Government wants
10 square miles for. In view of the understanding that
the Commonwealth should have access to Jervis
Bay the allotment to it of one square mile as
port space was reasonable, but the desire for
10 times that area is unpleasantly suggestive. . . .
In the capital territory 100 square miles w'as only one-
t.enth of what would satisfy it; and now that Ministers
have the privilege of being advised by a comic gentleman
from America, where sage-bush grows and prairie-dogs
abound, it would not be likely to accept any such substi-
tute. Remains the question of what the 10 square miles
are required for. The Home Minister savs, because “ we
will want that.” WHAT FOR, EXCEPT TO THY TO
CREATE AND OWN A CITY THERE ‘i-Sydney Tele-
graph (8/12/10).
On which subject “Henry Horsecollar” writes:
The Huns, an energetic people in their day and gener-
ation, used to destroy cities, and all authorities admit
that they did it very well. In fact, the destruction of
cities was their strong suit. The Sydney Telegraph
believes rather in prohibiting the erection of cities. It
regards prevention as better than cure. Towns and sea-
ports—all save Sydney—are, I gather, regarded by the
Telegraph as a curse, and an obvious curse at that. It
asks darkly : What on earth the Australian Government
can want with 10 square miles of country at Jervis Bay
“except to try to create a city there?" In its view,
apparently, the sin, the shame, the infamy, the blighting
horror of any attempt to create a city in Australia are
plain for everyone to see. It is only necessary to show
that the city is contemplated to bring down anathema
on the Federal cranium ; to explain how or why it ought
not to be contemplated is superfluous. The Telegraph
isn’t known to have any objection to people who build
new cities in other lands, but in its own land it seems to
regard the business as just infernal. In that respect it
lags behind the Hun, for lie rather liked cities. When he
went out looting in liis own ancient, squat, bow-legged
fashion they were among his chief sources of pleasure.
* * * *
It really seems, as a matter of fact, that the original
Yassberra crowd has been a little too successful. It
didn’t intend the alleged Federal “port” at Jervis Bay
to be a port at all—only a thing to arouse the world’s
laughter and derision. There can be no real port unless
there is a town or a city on the site, for a port
without wharves, cranes, workshops, customs house,
stores, warehouses, shops, dwellings and the like is merely
a bare and savage sea beach where a scanty trade may'
possibly be done with naked aborigines per medium of
surf-boats, and goods of the less perishable sort may be
floated ashore. And the town or city which constitutes
a real port can’t be contained on one square mile of
country' (even if that country didn’t stop short at high
water mark as does the Federal grant at Jervis Bay).
Sydney occupies more than 500 square miles, and even
that is found to be wholly insufficient—that is to say, the
area occupied by Sydney itself, and the area occupied by
the city’s water catchment, reservoirs, pipe lines, sewage
outlet and the other essentials of its civilisation
cover over half a thousand miles, and more land
is already required. The genial fools who devised
the Federal capital arrangements contrived that the
Federal sea outlet should be so many miles away from
the Federal city that, unless water was sent by train from
Canberra to Jervis Bay'in a bottle, the place must depend
on its own resources in the way of water catchment and
reservoirs. Then they contrived that it should have no
resources at all, except what rain fell on the local roof
and was caught in the local tank ; for one square mile of
streets and seashore isn’t worth mentioning in such a
connection, and an area of 10 miles is very' little better.
It is so very little better, in fact, that it is certainly
not worth while laying out a Federal township
beside Jervis Bay, or trying to construct wharves there
(even supposing a bit of territory which stops at high-
water mark had any place whereon to put wharves), and
the building of a railway to it looks like sheer drunken-
ness and waste of money. That is to say, all these
things are not worth while—they are simple beer-
madness —if the one-square-mile, or even the ten-square-
mile, port is to be a permanency.
* * * *
As already mentioned, the joke has been too success-
ful. The anti-Federal push has won such a brilliant vic-
tory that the Australian Government finds itself in-
structed to build a railway down to a penn’orth of
bare sea-shore where it hasn’t the right to put up
even a toy quay that will extend two feet into the water.
It was an"absurdly weak and unwise Government to get
into such a fix, but there are limits to the endurance of
even the weakest Government. Apparently it doesn’t
appreciate the idea of making itself a subj ct for the
world’s mirth, and already it lias demanded that the
Federal area at Jervis Bay shall be multiplied by 10.
Something of the sort was inevitable, but the Telegraph
apparently didn’t see it; hence it boils with fury as it
begins to fear that its unseemly jest has miscarried. It
wants to know if it is actually proposed to build a Federal
town at J ervis Bay. That, so far as can be seen, is just what
is proposed, and when once town-building commences,
thesuggested lOsquaremiles will probably soon expand to
a hundred, and then a thousand and more. The people
of the Federal port will get tired of depending on gal-
vanised-iron tanks filled with such water as falls on their
roofs from Heaven, of digging wells in their back
gardens, of burning their refuse outside the front door,
and of burying their dead on the sea-beach within the
town limits. So that clause in the Constitution which
authorises the Commonwealth to acquire “property on
just terms from any State or person ” will get into
motion, and compulsory land resumption on a big scale
will set in. The fact that the Federal city and “port”
are over 100 miles apart, which looked like an interesting
but obscene bit of mirth put up on the Commonwealth
by the State Frights push, will only make the land
resumptions all tlie bigger in tlie end, for there are two
water catchments to provide for instead of one.
And when, in the inevitable course of events, the big
resumptions begin, the loudest lion in the path will be
the wail of Old State Frights, to the effect that no ex-
pansion beyond the scanty area at Yassberra and the
absurd (540 acres at Jervis Bay was “ contemplated.” In
fact, the scanty Yassberra area and the insane 040 acres
at Jervis Bay are beginning to burst their impossible
limitations before even the first stone of the Federal city
is laid, and Old State Frights is uttering that wail
already. It has used the same argument many times be-
fore when Australia refused to leave off progressing,
and always the argument was used to no purpose, but
apparently it hasn’t yet learned the futility of
the thing. Affairs have been very sudden. Last
month it was proud of the success of its anti-
Australian policy; this month it tears its hair
and wonders if, in its blindness, it has really laid tlie
foundations of a big rival port right at Sydney’s door
when it might, by accepting the original agreement,
have kept that competitor at Twofold Bay, a good 350
miles away. Wildly and impotently Old State Frights
opines that the Australian Government intends “ to try to
create and own a city"—a rival sea-coast city—just 87
miles from the Telegraph’s own office doorstep ; and with
the very extensive powers of land resumption which the
Commonwealth possesses, it is hard to see how the deed
is to be prevented. It might have been indefinitely post-
poned if Joseph Cook had remained in power, but Cook
is apparently out of power for good. The bitter lamenta-
tion of the Sydney Tory papers is : (1) That the Com-
monwealth is an enemy—especially an enemy to their
city ; (2) that they have, with great trouble, dragged the
den and permanent residence of that enemy as close to
Sydney as possible, taking care, however, to shut him
in a brown paper cage to prevent him doing damage ; (3)
that he has broken the brown paper cage ; (4) that lie
shouldn’t have done so ; (5) that his conduct is quite
unexpected ; and (G) that it is just like him to act as he
has done. And out of all these statements Old State
Frights gets little satisfaction.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The Transcontinental.
Those northern politicians who are trying to force
the deviation of the transcontinental railway into
Queensland by building a section of narrow-gauge
line in the western part of the State and then
clamoring at the door of the Commonwealth to get
the work completed along their personally selected
route, are not a retiring body of men. They are far
from bashful, nor do they propose to blush un-
seen to any extent. As a sample of their style of
argument "take this discourse by S WAYNE, member
for Mack ay
I think it is quite probable that by building this line
we shall find we are doing good, not only for Queensland,
but for the whole of Australia. We know that if the
South Australian-Port Darwin line is made, the existing
lines to Oodnadatta and Pine Oreek will have to be re-
built, and with them 1100 or 1200 miles of new line
through unproductive wastes. If the line now under
consideration is run out to Camooweal to what has been
called a dead end, but is instead the centre of a splendid
pastoral district, it is extremely probable that the Federal
Government will make a connection from Pine Creek ;
and if that is done it will be a great saving in distance as
compared to the Oodnadatta-Pine Creek route between
our eastern seaboard and Port Darwin, as shown by a
plan I have and the distances in connection with a similar
line a little to the westward, which will be a great advan-
tage from a defence point of view. The distance from
Rockhampton to Port Darwin, if this proposal is adopted,
will be, roughly, 1880 miles ; but if it is necessary to go
by the desert line from Adelaide via Oodnadatta, the
distance will be 4186 miles ; so that the saving
by our line would be 2306 miles. Going from
Brisbane by Adelaide would be 3790 miles ; and
going by the proposed railway would be 2123 miles
—a saving of 1667 miles. The distance from Syd-
ney, going by Adelaide, would be 3065 miles ; and by this
route it would be 2508 miles, or a saving of 557 miles.
The distance from Melbourne, going by Adelaide, would
be 2453 miles, and going by way of our railway it would
be 2320 miles —a saving of 163 miles. The only important
city at a greater distance going by our railway than by
the Oodnadatta route is Adelaide ; and in that case the
difference is only 159 miles. Therefore, in case of the
unfortunate necessity of sending troops from the eastern
seaboard to Port Darwin, the Commonwealth line is not
in it as compared with the line now projected.
That deranged mass of figures and misrepresenta-
tion is the favorite style of Queensland argument.
The Queensland theory is : (1) That its present
railways go west a certain distance from
Brisbane, Rockhampton, etc. (2) That if
the transcontinental railway takes a huge
circuit east to join them they can be joined. (3)
That if it goes as straight as possible north and
south these local narrow-gauge railways can’t, for
some wholly unexplained reason, be joined at all,
for they have stuck fast and come to a conclusion,
and are bogged to all eternity. Queensland, it
seems, bad the brains to build its lines as far
west as Cloncurry, Longreach and Charleville ;
but, its intellect having given Out, it can’t carry
them any further even for the satisfaction of
hitching on to the great ’cross Australia railway.
Out of this amazing proposition come these
insane calculations about the thousands and thou-
sands of miles that must be traversed to
'get from Rockhampton to Port Darwin unless the
Federal transcontinental line is carried through
Western Queensland so that that State can annex
the trade and the unearned increment. They are
made by measuring the distance from, say, Cairns
south to Melbourne, then west to Adelaide, and
then north to Port Darwin, and they are just as
reasonable as it would he if the distance from
Brisbane to Toowoomba was measured via
New York and Cape Horn. So far as real
distances are concerned, this is all the dif-
ference between the straight road combined
with the idea of letting Queensland’s narrow
gauge branch lines go west to meet it, as against
the cheeky proposition that the great main line
should crawl round a gigantic semi-circle to meet
Queensland’s narrow-gauge branches :
Eastern Deviation (Port Darwin via Queensland and
N.S.W. to Melbourne and S.A.).
Mile.-.
Townsville to Port Darwin 1551
~ ~ Adelaide 1756
Rockhampton to Port Darwin 1708
~ ~ Adelaide * .. 1643
Brisbane to Port Darwin.. .. .. .. .. 2234
~ ~ Adelaide 1389
Sydney to Port Darwin .. .. 2238
~ ~ Adelaide 1065
Melbourne to Port Darwin 2381
~ ~ Adelaide 483
Adelaide to Port Darwin.. .. 2195
Perth to Port Darwin 3670
Railway to be built, 2375 miles.
And as regards the direct line, the figures are as
follows:
Straight Line (Port Darwin to Port Augusta, S.A.),
Miles.
Townsville to Port Darwin 1741
~ ~ Adelaide 2117
Rockhampton to Port Darwin 1898
~ ~ Adelaide 2274
Brisbane to Port Darwin .. .. .. 2489
~ ~ Adelaide 1515
Sydney to Port Darwin 2640
~ ~ Adelaide 1073
Melbourne to Port Darwin .. 2359
~ ~ Adelaide 483
Adelaide to Port Darwin 1896
Perth to Port Darwin 3371
Railway to be built, 2553 miles.
The straight line would thus bring Perth, Ade-
laide, Melbourne and Ho'hart (four capital cities
out of six) nearer to Port Darwin than would the
Queensland deviation ; it would open up some
300,000 square miles more country ; and it would


traverse a much smaller dry area. And it would do
this at the paltry cost of the building of 178 miles
more line. But it wouldn’t give Queensland quite
the same chance to grab for its own profit the un-
earned increment created by a great Federal
work. And it wouldn’t supply quite so short a
road from Rockhampton (population 19,691, or
less than half that of Bendigo) and Townsville
(population 15,506, or about half that of Geelong)
to Port Darwin. Possibly Queensland takes a dis-
proportionate view of the importance of these
places, and of the urgent need to connect them
direct with London, Tirnbuctoo, and other great
centres of the world’s progress.
The Great Abundance of Cornstalk Money.
The fact that the first financial statement of the
McGowen Government of N.S.W. is really not
its own statement, but the one which its prede-
cessor dropped when doing a hurried exit, de-
prives it of a good deal of its
show what the new men can do, and it doesn t
matter much about the incapacity of the old men,
for they are gone. The Treasurer reckons that
this financial year the expenditure will be some
£660,000 more than the revenue, which will
eat up all that remains of the surplus, and
make it urgently necessary next year to
hunt round for new sources of income. It is
mentioned that the loan expenditure for the
past year was well over £3,000,000 ; that the
public debt is now over £90,000,000, and that
more than £11,000,000 will be required to finish
works on hand. All these and many other
figures are interesting in a dull and wooden sort
of way. But the most notable feature of the case
is that during the year N.S.W. borrowed
£2,750,000 in London, and repaid £2,540,300 ; so
the actual net borrowings from Uncle Bull were
only £209,700. Then the Commissioners of the
State’s alleged sinking fund bought up £127,500
worth of N.S.W. stock in London, thus reduc-
ing the total influx of Bull capital to £82,200.
All the rest of the borrowing was done
locally. And yet, with the influx of British
capital practically fallen down dead, the visible
stock of coin in the State increased between
June, 1909, and June, 1910, by £2,661,551—fr0m
£10,318,459 to £12,980,010—50 even the wretched
little influx of British capital that happened was
quite superfluous. It would really have been
much better if N.S.W. had paid off a million or
two of its British debt, if only to save its own
bullion from lying idle. There never was so much
money in N.S.W. before, in spite of the lamenta-
tion about how “advanced ” legislation is driving
capital out of the country; in fact, it seems
as if it would soon be urgently neces-
sary to chase or shove a good deal of
foreign capital out of the country to make
room for our own capital, which threatens to be
smothered unless the dense jungle of cash is some-
what weeded out. It is a remarkable fact that
the year when the least money came into the
State was also the year when there was most
money in the State, and the largest increase in
the amount of money in the State. A few years
of Federation and Protection have created such
amazing prosperity that the old doctrines about
the need for foreign loans, and the country’s
absolute dependence on the influx of foreign
capital, and the necessity for being abjectly
polite to the foreign capitalist require com-
I plete revision. They looked plausible in the
lean and hungry days of Separatism, Toryism and
Freetrade, but now they are wholly ridiculous.
It is a thousand pities that the Fisher Govern-
ment didn’t avail itself of this rare opportunity,
and take its failing courage in both hands, and
build its new note system on the Canadian policy
which requires every bank to hold 40 per cent, of
its cash reserves in Government paper, and start
the repayment of the State debts forthwith.
There was £30,143,555 of coin and bullion in the
banks of the Commonwealth on June 30, and out
of that the Federal authority could have obtained
the use of £12,000,000 on sound, safe, well-tried
principles, quite apart from the proceeds of notes
in circulation. And if it had applied £10,000,000
to the repurchase of State securities its sink-
ing fund would have overtaken and wiped out
the whole existing public debt before the.last
of this year’s crop of infants is dead, and would
have done it without costing the country a cent.
Of course, large, heavy financial authorities would
say that anything of the sort was a shocking de-
parture from precedent; but when Federated
Australia actually begins to have money of its
own —money that it hasn’t borrowed from Eng-
land—precedent is so badly knocked out that it is
suffering from compound fracture of the base of
the skull. And a dark suspicion begins to go
around that the only people whose views on money
matters are never worth anything even by accident
are large, heavy financial authorities.
♦
Some Facts About Arbitration.
“ Lex ” writes :
N.S.W.’s anti-Labor press laid itself out, as in duty
bound, to carp at Minister Beeby’s proposed amendments
in the State industrial law ; and the moan of Wadb was
unusually loud and bitter. But Toryism found the job a
tough one. “ The Labor Council,” said the S. M. Herald,
“ asked for certain amendments in industrial legislation ;
but Mr. Beeby, with a fine, dramatic air, exclaimed, in
effect, reform it altogether. . . . Mr. Beeby made a really
noble effort to rise to a great occasion. Did the deputa-
tion ask much? He would promise much more.
Accordingly as their faith in Mr. McGowen, so be it unto
them. This utterance would scarcely be worthy of com-
ment but for the fact that it is the first clear and determi-
nate expression of what the Government intends to do to
satisfy its followers. All our experience of industrial
arbitration, it seems, is to go overboard .” Immedi-
ately after whigh outburst of rant, the Herald re-
moved the strap’s from its hair, and spoke frankly
as follows: “ Mr. Beeby has selected precisely that
feature of the Industrial Disputes Act which is essentially
Mr. Wade’s contribution to the subject as that which is
to be preserved. Wages Boards are retained, and what-
ever the new Bill may do in the matter of grouping of
trades or of the reorganisation of the legal machinery of
industrial arbitration, the two things which Mr. Beeby
sees to be essential are the maintenance of the Boards
and the maintenance of disciplinary measures; in other
words, coercion in some form or other. These essentials
thoroughly secured, it may be doubted whether Mr. Wade
will find very much to object to in the outlines of Labor’s
new measure."
During the late elections a charge constantly levelled
by Toryism at Labor was that the McGowen Ministry
meant $° do away with Wages Boards. When the re-
sults were known, the Telegraph requested the new
(Government to “ make good its pledge to instantly
destroy the Wages Boards.” The Herald’s effort above-
quoted is along the same line of suggestion. Yet
this impudent claim that “ Liberalism ” is the
author of Wages Boards, and that Labor stands
for opposition to them, doesn’t bear a moment’s
inspection. Peculiarly grotesque is the idea that C. G.
Wade had anything whatever to do with initiating them.
As early as 1896 (when Wade was a babe unborn, in a
political manner of speaking) the Victorian Parliament
provided for the appointment of Wages Boards to deal
with the clothing, breadmaking, furniture-making and
butchering industries. Afterwards—always with the
keen hostility of Toryism generally and the N.S.W. morn-
ing papers in particular— two Arbitration schemes forced
themselves upon the notice of N.S.W. In Victoria
there was a system of Arbitration by means of in-
dependent Wages Boards. They only applied to a
few industries. Each individual Board depended for
success on the chance of achieving a capable chairman.
Capable chairmen are, however, rare fauna where the
pay is moderate and the billet precarious ; so the Vic-
torian Washes Board arrangement proved, to a large
extent, futile. After a few years it was found necessary
to institute a special Court of Appeal to correct the
various Boards’errors and inequities. This was the sys-
tem which Toryism in N.S.W. decided would be likely to
hurt its pocket least.
On the other hand stood the Arbitration system in
operation in M.L.—one which, on the face of it, was
immeasurably more likely to produce industrial peace
than that of Victoria. Amid the frantic protests of the
folks who now call themselves “Liberals,” the M.L.
system was adopted by the then N.S.W. Government.
Under the original N.S.W, Arbitration Act a Central
Court was instituted, with extensive powers to refer
technical matters to technical experts, whose reports
were taken as evidence. Also, the Court was authorised
to appoint assessors. Fines and penalties for breaches of
the, Act. could be recovered before a Police Magistrate.
In short, provision was made for what in effect were
Wages Boards, and for the enforcement of their awards.
As Minister Beeby put it last week : “ The policy of the
Labor party ever since 1903 has been the recognition of the
principle of Wages Boards, such Boards to act as auxili-
aries of the Court. In the whole of the discussion of the
original Act I urged as part of the policy of the Labor
party Chy adoption of minor tribunals to assist the Court.”
The breakdown of the old N.S.W. Arbitration Act was
not due to its intrinsic demerits. The first President of
the Court took the view that, since Arbitration was in
the nature of “ experimental legislation,” there would be
more general satisfaction if, instead of delegating the
work to Boards, he undertook it all himself in open court.
For the same reason he elected to deal personally with
breaches. It was hot surprising that the Court should
become hopelessly congested. The High Court’s decision
in regard to the impossibility of enforcing an industrial
agreement that- has not been arrived at after a dispute
between the parties dealt the final blow to the Act.
Followed the Industrial Disputes Act. As originally
introduced, it was foredoomed to failure, being practi-
cally a return to the system which had proved insufficient
in Victoria nearly a decade before. Under the fire of Labor
criticism Wade established a Central Court after the
model of the original Arbitration Court. But a big pro-
portion of the briefless barristers who acted as chairmen
of Wages Boards continued to proye incompetent, and the
congestion trouble raged as briskly as ever. A month ago,
Judge Heydon, who should know, was constrained to say :
“It seems to me that this Wages Board system will
break down. We have industries divided and sub-
divided, and again re-subdivided, or the employers may
have as few or as many as they think fit.” At that
time an Industrial Court had been forced to go out-
side Sydney for the first time in history to deal
with some 90 cases which had accumulated in the North-
ern District alone. Apropos of which, Tiie Bulletin
remarked (27/10/T0): “ What is expected of the McGowkn
Administration is not that it shall butt in wildly and
uproot the Industrial Court, but that it shall rationalise
the institution. What would probably meet the case
would be the institution of one or more tribunals with
the power to group together co-related industries, and
consider them in the mass. Thus it would be feasible for
one Court to handle all the industries connected—say—
with the business of coal-mining, just as, under the old
Act, one Court successfully handled all the industries
connected with silver-mining.”
Minister Beeby proposes the reasonable step of in-
augurating a system of experienced permanent chairmen
for the different Boards. Also, to use his own words, as
reported in the daily press : “ At present a great deal of
the time of the Court was taken up in dealing with minor
matters. All these matters under the new Bill would be
referred to the minor tribunals, and the Court’s attention
would be confined to the big matters of finally fixing the
awards. They would not hesitate in making another
Court if it were needed to keep up with the work.
Then it was proposed to group the industries. The
iron industry, for example, covered engineers, black-
smiths, boilermakers, moulders and other allied trades.
Those Boards would have one chairman fixed as the head
of the iron trade, and he would become familiar with that
industry.”
They are horse-sense reforms, at which it is hard for
the most irreconcilable Tory to aim a convincing Brick
of Scorn.
—♦>
Jervis Bay.
On Wednesday of last week the S.,M. Herald
published a statement to the effect that Jervis
Bay had been practically decided upon as the
chief naval base of the Australian fleet, and it
printed an interview with someone whom it
described as “an authority on the subject.” Said
the “authority,” among other things
Sydney is a great commercial port, arid always will be—
it will become, I believe, one of the greatest in the world
before very long—AND IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO HAVE
A GREAT NAVAL BASE AND A GREAT COM-
MERCIAL PORT COMBINED. Even when the
American fleet was here, there was a considerable
dislocation of harbor traffic, and the American
squadron was a small thing compared to what the Aus-
tralian navy will probably be in 20 years’ time. Battle-
ships must have room to move about in. When you get
a large number of ships over 600 ft. in length and begin to
swing them about, you will find that a large amount of
space will be necessary, and in view of the proportions of
merchant shipping in Port Jackson, and the tendency to
increase the size of the big liners, it would be impractic-
able to make Svdnev a naval base. YOU MUST KEEP
YOUR NAVAL PORTS SEPARATE FROM YOUR COM-
MERCIAL PORTS.
In other words, the Herald’s authority sets forth
that The Bulletin was right in this matter, and
clearly implies that the Herald and Telegraph
and Evening News were unspeakable incompe-
tents which couldn’t see a thing that should be
plain to a schoolboy’s intelligence. Over and over
again, during the years in which this question has
hung fire (the last time in its issue of December 8
under the heading “A Naval Congestion Policy ”),
The Bulletin urged that the experience of all
great naval nations showed that naval ports must
be kept separate from commercial ones, while the
local Tory press professed to regard naval ex-
perience as mere superfluity, and clamored
for Sydney, and no place save Sydney, as
the naval headquarters. Now the local Tory
press is practically bidden by the Herald’s naval
expert to go away and for Heaven’s sake get a
shred of information and a scrap of common
sense, and if the Herald is correct the
Admiral implies the same thing. Why papers
which couldn’t see a small thing like that
should be accepted by anybody as authorities on
anything—fiscalism, State Rights, Government
note issue, the proper site fo: a Federal capital,
the best route for a transcontinental railway, or
any other national question—passes comprehen-
sion, but there is no reason to suppose that their
pose of infallibility will suffer the least diminu-
tion. The successful false prophet is a person of
ineffable cheek. He shoves behind him the
wreckage of his busted prophecies, and goes right
on with business. The ruin that was to arise
from Federation, from Protection, from industrial
legislation, from the establishment of a Labor
Government, from the issue of Government notes,
and from a dozen other things may fail to turn
up ; the Tory triumph which he foresaw may ab-
solutely refuse to arrive ; his Tory hero who went
valiantly into the burning mine mity prove to be
all a dreadful mistake. But he just takes a long
breath and foretells things with a littlemore
vigor and cocksureness than before.
The Suburban Alderman and Greater Sydney.
Hitherto the main reason why the Greater
Sydney movement has not taken a firmer hold on
the public is that those who might reasonably be
supposed to welcome a big movement for better
civic government; viz., aldermen in the councils
in the greater area, have been incorrigibly hostile
to it. There can only be one reason for this—the
suburban aldermen’s objection to being shorn of
their own little tinsel glory, even though the
fittest who survived might be able to do things
undreamed of now for theipeople. Either these
suburban aldermen are so ignorant that they are
not aware of the great movements in other coun-
tries which have transformed and beautified the
cities, have made huge savings and profits for the
citizens by co-operative ownership of common
services, and have reduced the risks arid increased
the comforts arid happiness of the town-dwellers ;
or, though well aware of all this, they prefer their
own interest and petty dignities to the benefit of
the citizens. Whichever may be the cause of their
opposition, this class of alderman must go.
In January next the whole of the suburban coun-
cils expire by effluxion of time. They cannot ex-
pire too thoroughly, either by effluxion or by any
other means. Much depends on the men who are
elected for the next three years after the councils
have effluxed. If the members of the old gang are
re-elected, although they will not be able to stop
the Greater Sydney movement, they will be able
to embarrass it, hang on around its neck and try
to hamstring it. In order to obviate this the
citizens must support some organised party which
will give the old regime the coup-de-yrace , or the
boot, or any other suitable substance. The Labor
party is pledged to Greater Sydney, and, if it
secures a majority, or even a decent representa-
tion in the various councils, it will be prepared to
co-operate with the Greater Sydney men, and its
aldermen will be prepared to cheerfully commit
hari-kari at the moment when the new council of
the greater city is ready for birth. For these'and
other reasons the best hope lies in a wholesale
return of Labor candidates in February next.
Greater Sydney may thus have a straight run, so
that the citizens may presently attain a complete
corporate existence, instead of being divided into
44 different and distinct pumpkin patches,
separated from each other by an imaginary line
in the middle of 176 different dog-legged streets.
♦
Iron.
A SERMON by “ Australian Ores”: —
Firstly :
“The existence of large deposits of iron ore in N. S.
Wales has been known since the early years of the history
of the State. . . . According to a report furnished by the
Government Geologist in 1905, the total quantity of ore
available for exploitation was 53,000,000 tons.
“ Iron ore has been located in various places in Vic-
toria. . . .
“Queensland possesses some extensive deposits of iron
ore. ...
“The estimated quantity of iron ore in sight at the
Iron Knob and Iron Monarch has been set down at
21,000,000 tons . . . etc., etc., etc.”
—“ Official Year Book of the Commonwealth of Aus-
tralia,” 1909.
Secondly:
“ Why the devil don’t we use it building ships and
forging guns?”—The Bulletin.
Thirdly :
“... I let him understand that besides the pleasure of
paying him a visit, I came to be instructed by so great a
master in the mystery of making of iron, wherein he had
led the way, and was the Tubal Cain of Virginia. He
corrected me a little there by assuring me he was not
only the first in this country, but the first in North
America who had erected a regular furnace. That they
ran altogether upon bloomerys in New England and
Pennsylvania, till his example had made them attempt
greater works.... That he hoped he had done the coun-
try very great service by setting so good an example.
That the four furnaces now at work in Virginia circu-
lated a great sum of money for provisions and all other
necessaries.... Then I inquired into their own mines,
and hoped, as he was the first engaged in this great
undertaking, that he had brought them to the most
perfection. He told me he had iron in several parts
of his great tract of land, but that the mine
he was at work upon was 13 miles below Ger-
manna. That his ore, which was very rich, he
raised a mile from his furnace, and was obliged
to cart the iron when it was made, 15 miles to
Massaponux, a plantation he had upon Rappahannock
Riv.er. ... He had been building an air furnace at
Massaponux, which he had now brought to perfection,
and should be thereby able to furnish the whole country
with all sorts of cast iron, as cheap and as good as ever
came from England. From hence we proceeded to the
furnace, which is built of rough stone, having been the
first of that kind erected in the country. Here the
wheel that carried the bellows was no more than 20ft.
diameter ; but was an overshot wheel that went with
little water. This was necessary here, because water is
something scarce, notwithstanding ’tis supplied by two
streams, one of which is conveyed 1900 ft. through
wooden pipes, and the 'other 60ft. The name of the
founder employed at present is one Godfrey, of the
Kingdom of Ireland, whose wages are 3s. 6d. per tun for
all the iron,he runs, and his provisions.”—“ History of
Virginia" (1738).
Fourthly:
“ . . . . Henry Oort accumulated a fortune of more than
1120,000 as a navy broker, furnishing supplies for the
British navy, at a period when England stood at bay,
fighting for her colonial possessions in North America,
and almost for her own national existence, and when the
power and prowess of her navy was her chief, if not her
only, reliance. Yet no forge or furnace in England could
make iron fit for navy use. The nation, though endowed
with vast deposits of iron-ore and of coal, was dependent
upon the purer raw materials of Sweden and Kussia for
wrought iron of good quality ; and the Admiralty speci-
fications called for Swedish or Russian iron. While Oort
was in business as a navy broker, the demand for these
foreign irons increased the price nearly 200 per cent.
What was even worse, the dependence of England upon
this foreign supply might possibly, at any moment, be-
come a source of fatal weakness in war. No doubt it was
the perception of this critical situation which stimulated
Henry Cort, both as a patriot and as an intelligent in-
ventor, to risk his eutire fortune and future upon the
attempt to render his country independent of the world
in. a particular so essential to her prosperity. Before
1735, England paid annually to Sweden alone .e 1,500,000
for wrought iron.—Charles H. Morgan, Amer.
“ Transactions” 1905.
Fifthly :
America United
(U.S.A.). Kingdom.
Pig'iron produced .. 15,936,018 tons 9,287,840 tons
Production of steel .. 14,023,247 ~ 5,295,642 ~
Production of rails .. 1,921,011 ~ 907,932 ~
Ironandsteel exports. .$151,113,114 £78,914,315
—“ Mineral Industry, "for 190 S.
And in Conclusion (as to Australia):
“For there's nothing being done—
Building neither ship nor gun.”
—The Bulletin.
The following remarkable com in uni cat ion ap-
peared in a recent Melbourne AItGUS :
LAND FOB THE LANDLESS.
A Sporting Offer.
Camperdown, Thursday.—Mr. Scullin, M.11.R., having
complained that he could bring to Parliament House
within 24 hours 100 strapping young men, with some
plant, energy, experience and a little capital, who had
been looking vainly for land within the past 12 months,
Mr. T. Turner Shaw, of Wooriwyrite, has publicly made
an offer to find good land at a reasonable rental, and
under a liberal lease, for 10 of the 100 men. They will
get entry forfallowing from July to December, 1911, free,
and then will have no rent to pay untill March 1, 1913 —
i.e., until their crop is gathered, 20 months after entry.
Another resident of Camperdown district has made a
somewhat similar offer. ■ -
The awfulness of' 'the land monopoly of the.
State is really exposed in Shaw of Woori-
wyrite’s amazing belief that, in proposing this,
he is proposing something generous. Out of
Scollin’s complaint and Shaw’s offer can be ex-
tracted the following confession :
(1) That,there are capable farmers in hundreds, willing
to buy land, who cannot get it.
(2) That the State, having given its rich acres to the
squatters, has not land left to offer them.
(3) That the squatters have immense areas of agricul-
tural land ; so immense, in fact, that one man named
Siiaw, of Wooriwyrite, can, at a moment’s notice, cut 10
farm's out of his sheep-run.
(4) That Shaw will hot sell bis land, but demands that
the 10 farmers shall pay him tribute in the sin pe of rent
—and so enable him to meet his laud tax comfortably.
In brief, Schllin says he has 100 men who want
to keep themselves ; while Shaw, of Wooriwyrite.
says he wants 10 men who will keep him. And
because the hundred are not prepared to keep
Shaw as well as themselves —or rather a vast deal
better than themselves — Shaw, of VVoorietcetera,
infers that the 100 are frauds and wasters, if they
are not actually myths.
; *
“ Henby Horsecollar” writes
Who is this non-contemplative dead body that all the
fuss is about? Now it is Joseph Carrutiikrs who rises
to state, on his word of “honor, that when the Federal
Constitution was drawn up, sue!) changes as those on
which the people are to vote next April were never con-
templated. About 600,000 people have died and been
buried since the Federal Constitution was drafted, and
we are told that all these deaders had fixed views upon
the matter now under discussion—strictly hostile views.
Then a million or a million and a half new adults have
arrived in one way and another to fill the gap,
and they are solemnly warned that if they
vote “Yes” next April they will thereby run
counter to the opinions of the 600,000 or more
deceased folk whose bones, it seems, call aloud for
consideration. Of course, the living- survivors of the
pre-Federation period can look after themselves. If,
when they voted on the Federal Constitution, they either
did or didn’t contemplate this or that, they know the fact
a great deal better than Oarruthers can explain it to
them. And if they want to perpetrate an outrage on
themselves by doing something that they didn’t intend
doing a dozen years ago, that is strictly their own
affair. Not even the greatest State Frights ass
that was ever born can tie anybody to his
dead self of last centuoq and compel him not
to advance or improve or change his mind. But
the situation of the unfortunate dead folk is different.
They all thought the way Oarruthers thinks ; he has
dug up all their remains and investigated. And though
the views of a dead Socialist or Anarchist or Bible-in-
schools person don’t count, the opinions of a dead State
Frighter do. As they can’t speak for themselves, Joseph
Carruthers kindly speaks for them. And according to
him the bones of the 600,000 buried progenitors howl to
the warm flesh of the 1,000,000 or 1,500,000 living who
have come to take their places, and forbid them to sup-
port the Fisher Government’s proposals. And if, the
living people don’t heed, the dead generation will rise in
wrath and throw its coffin at them.
A featcre of the N.S.W. Government’s new
Electoral Bill is the extension of the franchise to
the people who live on Government aid in old
men’s homes and such like places, thus put-
ting them on a level with retired Judges,
who draw big pensions and live on Govern-
ment aid, each old man in his own home.
These establishments are mostly in three electo-
rates which have hitherto returned Tory mem-
bers, and if all the ancients vote the Labor
ticket, which is wholly improbable, the said elec-
torates will be Tory no longer. On this subject
that eminently intelligent citizen, Colonel Onslow,
M.L. A., foamed as follows, unless the daily paper
belies him :
Colonel Onslow said it was a great honor to the Govern-
ment that in one of their first measures they should
collect the flotsam and jetsam of the State—the ignor-
ance of the whole country —in order to handicap the
voting power of three great and intelligent electorates.
It was a piece of political jerrymandering, being engi-
neered with one object, to get a large mass of unintelli-
gent ignorant voters composing the lowest dregs of
humanity into three electorates which so far had never
returned a representative of Labor.
Thus does the Tory sort out the social status of
his kind. It is all a matter of money. If a man
is poor in his old age that proves, without further
question, that he belongs to “ the lowest dregs of
humanity.” On the other hand, if he is any kind
of a large, copious brute with wealth he is an
estimable citizen. That is where the difference
between Onslow and the Redeemer asserts itself.
The Redeemee said : “ Lay not up for yourselves
treasures upon earth,” and Onslow adds that if
you don’t you are the lowest dregs of humanity.
The discrepancy is so tremendous that it seems
best to leave Onslow to argue the point with the
Redeemee.
*
A breathless cable mentioned the other day
that there was almost a state of anarchy in
Portugal, and in explanation it was added that
the labor unions were having things their own
way. Apparently nobody was having his ear
shifted or even his window smashed ; but the old
social order was being rooted up vigorously. And
the cable-person called it anarchy. For years
other people lmd had things their own way.
They robbed and rooked in a wholesale manner.
Manokl’s father was in the swindle; in fact,
he probably wouldn’t have been killed if he
hadn’t been helped by his Ministers to make a
secret raid on the Treasury to buy and fit up a
luxurious villa for his latest Flossie. The public
Treasury was looted by the King and his para-
sites and the Ministers; and, to let the Opposi-
tion have a cut as well, the control of the semi-
State bank was practically handed over to the
political party that was “out.” The swindle
that was worked there was colossal. Big divi-
dends were declared that were never earned ;
13,500,000 francs were paid away like that.
But the ordinary processes of robbery didn’t
fatten this crowd fast enough, so 5,000,000 francs
worth of bogus scrip was sold. That is a
mere sample of the things that were happening
before the Revolution. Yet the cable person
never sent a word about “anarchy” in those
days. If a coatless crowd goes down a street sing-
ing loud songs, and if two or three grab a loaf of
bread, the stodgy Jeames yells about “disorder.”
But a black-coated, black-hatted crowd can scoot
along in motor-cars that make far more row and a
worse smell, and that crowd can rob the other
crowd of so much that the latter can’t afford to
buy a coat, and the stodgy Jeames person would
explode rather than.call thut “disorder.”
The other day, Mayor Allen Taylor, of Sydney,
inaugurated an extension of the municipal
fish markets. He was driven to thus vio-
late his anti-Socialistic principles, owing to
the size of the bite that was taken out of
the public by the sharks in the Private
Enterprise markets. A recently-issued report of
Fisheries Inspector DANNEViGsuggests the wisdom
of further extending the Socialistic principle.
After figuring out a year’s results of the Common-
wealth trawler. Endeavor, he says that fish could
be landed in Melbourne for Id. per lb. and leave a
profit that would pay for a £3OOO trawler in one
year. Having a large regular supply to depend
on, the proprietors could establish their own
retail shops, sell the choicest sorts of fish at 4d. a
lb: and reap a further handsome profit. As prime
flathead now. sells in Sydney, at 6d. and in
Melbourne af Is. per lb'., it should be simply
wolfed at 4d. Delving further intp details
Dannevig assumes the case of a trawler working
on the Flinders Bank and taking its catch to
Melbourne, and he shows a net annual profit of
26 per cent, yn a capital of about £6OOO. A further
calculation, allowing for the sale of offal, for the
drying or storing of surplus' catches, for the
delivery to the public, per carts, at 4d. a lb.,
shows a net profit of £4500 per annum on a total
outlay of £lo,ooo—or per cent.! A State
trawler looks like a sound business proposition on
those figures. Choice fish for the public at 4d. a
lb. and a profit to the State of from 40 to 50 per
cent, represents a sizeable all-round improvement
on the existing state of things.


HARRINGTONS LTD.,
The Cinematograph
Supply House.
The largest assortment of CINEMATOGRAPHS AND
FILMS always in stock by the World’s best makers.
If you want to procure a better supply of Films than
you are obtaining at present, get into communication
with us and state your requirements. Our Film
Library is the largest in the Commonwealth.
We are the people to give you satisfaction.
SYDNEY-MELBOURNE—BRIBBANE—ADELAIDE.
The holiday season again frolics on the
scene. But the cheerful worker keeps the holiday
spirit ever-smiling within by judicious good fellow-
ship with D.C.L. wisdom. And to participate in
the joys proffered by the Holiday Goddess with
just the right enthusiasm one must seek wise
inspiration from the Tightest of right brands,
D.C.L., the Whisky of the Wise and the Wisest.
ZENOBIA
Perfumes
As supplied to H.M.
QUEEN ALEXANDRA.
Sweet Pea
Bloisom.
Lily of the
Valley
Natural.
NigHt-
iScented
Stock.
The Zenobia Per-
fumes char m
everyone by their
absolute fidelity
to Nature and
their Refreshing
and Lasting
Fragrance.
m
Manufactured at the Zenobia Laboratories, Lough-
borough, England. To be obtained from leading
Chemists and Stores.
Wholesale Agents for Australia:
THE AUSTRALIAN MFC. & IMPORTING GO. LTD.,
108 Pitt Street, Bydney.
The carters and draymen of S. Aus., who have
been on strike, have had almost enough gibes and
curses thrown at them to ballast the Transconti-
nental. This fact may be freely admitted —they
had a Wages Board determination, gazetted early
in the year, and yet they came out on strike for
better wages and conditions. Many things can,
however, he said in extenuation. S. Australia has
been booming lately as it never boomed before.
Yet, though streams of coin have been flowing
into the pockets of a few, and though labor has
been in such demand that some of the northern
farmers are paying as much as £3 a week for
harvesters, the carters and drivers of delivery
drays in city and suburbs have scarcely had
an extra bite out of the extra fatness.
The extra fatness has indeed put more work on
them ; they have had to toil harder and for longer
hours to shift the extra goods that other people
have been able to buy. They knew they were
not being treated as the circumstances of the
State justified; and most other people know
and admit it, too. But they struck—hence the
gibes and the curses. Instead of gibing and
cursing, S. Aus. would show its common-sense
better by considering whether the ponderous and
slow-moving machinery of the State’s Arbitration
Court doesn’t conduce to these impatient out-
bursts. There was a time when workmen could be
fooled by a mere pretence of reform—when they
could be choked off with the shadow instead of the
substance. Arbitration machinery which is so
slow in its action that the advantage of good
seasons is lost before it can be won, is obviously
only the shadow of a reform. If strikes are to
go, then whatever is put in their place ought to be
at least as rapid in its action. So when the
angry citizens whose toes are being trodden on
are saying, “You have your arbitration law—you
have your Labor Government—what more do you
want ? ” it is a fair thing to reply that, while there
is arbitration, it is a gun so slow in its action that
the bird is liable to be miles away before the ex-
plosion happens, and while the Labor people have
their Labor Government', they also have a Legis-
lative Council in which they have practically no
representation, and which persistently fires out
their Bills.
This last session of the Tasmanian Parliament
will probably be known to history as the Syndi-
cate Session, no fewer than five Bills having been
pushed in with the object of granting concessions
to PrivateeringEnterprisers. These are disguised as
the Derwent Manufacturing Co., which gets the
. right to dam up the Derwent River for the alleged
purpose of generating electricity and manufactur-
ing carbide, of calcium ; the Metals Extraction
Co., which demands extensive mining areas at a
nominal rent, on the West Coast; a Timber
Products Co., bent upon a big concession of forest
land for paper-making, etc., in the Huon district;
the Stanley to Mount Balfour Railway Co., whereby
the Table Cape municipality borrows £lO,OOO from
the State Government and hands it to the mining
syndicates of Mount Balfour to spend on a railway
to the copper shows; and the Huon Electric
Railway Co., which proposes to get permission to
fix up an agreement with the Huon municipalities
similar to that arranged between the Table Capers
and Mount Balfour, plus land and timber conces-
sions of considerable size a,nd value. Despite
the opposition of some of the members
of the Labor party, most of those pro-
posals ran into law without much trouble.
During the last two sessions of the Flyspeck
Parliament about 10 syndicates have in this way
made a successful grab at Tasmania’s natural
assets. The biggest concession of the lot is the
monopoly of the Great Lake waters, secured by
the Complex Ores Co.; and when the prospectus
of that concern is issued, the public will be able
to see what the concession-grabbers think is the
value of the rights which the State has given
away. One of the worst features of the business
is that several members of the Labor party, in-
cluding Opposition-leader Earle, have more or
less actively supported the syndicate grabs. They
were evidently obsessed with the idea that they
were thus advancing the progress of an island
whose chief curse is that there are already too
many natural resources—including land —in the
power of monopolies. So it seems that the Dis-
tressful Island must stew in its own syndicate
juice ; though when a State gives away one of the
finest power-producing water sites in the world
for 21 years or more, the circumstance raises a
serious question whether it is fit to be trusted
with sovereign rights.
—♦
The Argus forgot its cue the other day, and
addressed its hero just as though he were the
villain of the piece. It was talking about the
need of a better Companies Act, and remarked
that its hero, the Fat man, is persistently guilty
of faking balance-sheets, and is frequently a fraud
and a swindler. For instance :
To those who have experience as investors in com-
panies, the extreme care with which the real position of
company finance is hidden in balance-sheets is a matter
of daily knowledge.
And it gave a set of reasons for the fakes :
(1) In some instances it is done to evade the income
tax.
(2) In others the desire is to keep competitors out of
the same field of enterprise.
(3) Or to hide profits from employees who may want
to share in them....
(4) Then there are businesses which “stack away
profits”... to secure tariff concessions... .
(5) There are other cases where the profits are hidden
with the object of making the position of the company
as, impregnable as possible.
There are other cases in which the directors,
instead of stuffing away real profits, show bogus
profits and pay bogus dividends in order to get
more credit. But even without including the
rogues of that brand, the Argus mentions quite
enough to produce a sniff next time the old paper
says that Wages Boards are not necessary because
these lily-white princes of finance and industry
can be relied upon to give everybody a fair deal.
; +
The railways built during the last year or so are
making a glorious harvest for the N.S.W. land
shark. Canowindra, in the woeful Waddell’s
electorate, is a peach of an example in this regard.
From the laying of the first rail there started a
gorgeous land boom, and values are simply ter-
rific. Up to £l5 per acre is being given for wheat
land, and somewhere near £5O for lucerne land.
Yet right alongside the town, and running parallel
with the railway, is a stretch of dirty, ringbarked
country carrying nothing but rubbish. The land-
tax won’t hit the owners very hard ; so they will
probably go on holding for a further rise. The
one glimmer of hope in the murky atmosphere is ■
that the tax may reduce values all round, and
thus spoil this old game. If it doesn’t, then
something harder will have to be tried. Australia
has just about reached the point at which it will
have to decide that land shall not be a counter in
a gambling game. Use or lose —the law as to
land must come to that.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majestt’s “The Whip.”
ROYAL “ Our Miss Gibbs.”
Criterion “The Arcadians.”
Palace “The Girl from Rector’s.*’
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaciariu.m West’s Pictures.
i.YCKUM Spencer’s Pictures.
Olympia “Living' Melbourne.”
Standard “A Moorish Maid.”
Clontarf Maori Village.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “The Bad Girl of the Family."
Her Majesty's, “ Jack and the Beanstalk.”
Royal “ The Gay Gordons.”
Kino’s “ The Ladder of Life.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athenasum Taits’ Pictures.
Open Air, St. Hilda.. The Follies Comedy Co,
West's Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
All these things happen in the two strange
kingdoms which lie by the Green Sea, and that is
close to the Globular Blue Lake, and the Bottom-
less Mountain is adjacent, and on the top thereof
is the Forest with the Boiled Owl in it. The
period is partly ancient and partly modern and
partly any old period that happens to be lying
around loose and disengaged ; and the exact date
is an uncertain number of centuries and half a
pound of cheese and an old pair of boots. There
are in the story the Lean Prince and the Lame
Prince and the Fat Prince. The second has a
hunch on his back (his name is Michael, so he might
be called Michael Hump for short), and the third
has the same on his waistcoat. The Lean Prince
hasn’t a redeeming feature in his character except
his red uniform. The Lame Prince has a soul,
and is one of Nature’s gentlemen. The Fat
Prince looks as if he had eaten too many
sausages. It is the evil habit of the Lean Prince
to scoff at the Lame Prince, who takes his
deformity much too seriously. The hump is in
his conversation ; even when he goes as his
brother’s emissary to demand the surrender of the
besieged city which is the capital of the queen
with the bare feet, he speaks long and earnestly
about his protuberance to the captain of the
guard before getting to business. The Fat
Prince, who is supposed to be the hero, patronises
the Lame Prince, and throws out his chest at him,
and shakes his hand every minutes to show
that he thinks no worse of him for his hump. He
even goes so 1 far as to remind his brother that he
never threw a half-brick or the family palace at
him, or ran behind him and barked, or otherwise
published his deformity, and he declares a divi-
dend and bonus, payable to himself, on tbo
strength of this forbearance. Then he straight-
way gets angry and howls about the Lame Prince’s
shape. History tells of a wooden-legged President
in Mexico and a stunted and hunchbacked duke
in France, and a frantic military dwarf in
Germany, any one of whom would have planted
his cloven hoof in the waistcoat of the Fat Prince
before he was half-through with his ill-selected
remark, but they were fierce and joyful pagan de-
formities who took no “sass” from man or beast.
The Lame Prince just weeps.
• * * *
When they were both children the shoe-
less queen of the land on the other side of the
Green Sea was affianced to the Lean Prince.
She hates him, and he doesn’t,enthuse about her.
The Lame Prince and the Fat Prince love her,
and she simply worships the Fat Prince.
So it happens that the Lean Prince besieges
her capital to enforce the marriage contract.
The Lame Prince and the Fat Prince both
state that they regard him as a blot upon the
moral landscape, but he only wears his red clothes
more furiously than ever and scoffs a redder scoff.
His army storms the Bottomless Mountain, and
the Forest with the Boiled Owl in it doesn’t pre-
vail against him. . Then when the shoeless queen
explains that she would rather die of ingrowing
melancholy than marry him, he offers to leave off
burning her country if she will wed the Lame
Prince instead. He explains candidly that he
does this out of unspeakable sin because he can’t
imagine any worse fate for her, and the Fat Prince
takes the satne view. Seeing that the Lame Prince
is the only perfect (though needlessly humble)
gentleman in the whole family, the situation is
absurd. In the end, the Humped Prince, in a
spirit of self-sacrifice, refuses to marry the girl.
The ensuing domestic complications lead to a
devoted servitor throwing the Lean Prince over
the palace wall, and he rebounds for a second Or
three months or thereabouts on the hard rock be-
neath. Then he lies quite still. Not to ufidhly
conceal the facts of the case, he is dead.
* * •* #
These few hasty remarks refer to “ The
Prince and the Beggar Maid ” at Sydney Criterion.
It is a picturesque and" well-staged plajfy and'is
run by a good company, among whom Miss Eugenie
Duggan as the shoeless cfueen and Roy Redgrave
as Prince Michael stand out conspicuously. The
beggar maid is a rather confusing and irrelevant
item in'the story ; but as the show ends itfe career
to-morrow (Friday) night, she may paSS.j “ The
Arcadians” will resume business on Saturday.
** * *
“The Whip,” the new show at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney), is plain rnelodranimer. .There
is a virtuous and high-born, but grievously fat-
headed young hero, who goes through his money
as a preliminary to being salvaged—Socially,
financially and otherwise —by a Pure Woman’s
love. Also, there is an infamous captain,
with a sneering laugh and a passion for in-
trigue, and an adventuress, with a sneer and
a laugh which are own sisters to the captain’s.
The w'rOnged Gyurl is there, the impossibly
waggish trainer and the unusually honhst joOkey.
The dialogue is a shade less flamboyant than that
which does service in a Bilanderson production,
and the sporting element is powerful throughout.
But all these things are subordinated to the
scenery, and to the exploitation of ,local color.
Her Majesty’s, with its spacious stage and its vast
auditorium, is well suited to a production of this
kind. The horse-race is as convincing as any
stage function of the sort can be, and the railway
accident, if below the Tait standard in
the matter of noise, blood and lifelike howls, is a
marrow-cooling circumstance enough. Amazingly
good is the presentation of the wax monstrosities
that infest Madame Tussaud’s.
,** * *
Miss Marie Illingfcon wears a number of
Paris frocks with unimpeachable grade, arid acts
with a restraint and finish that are almost im-
proper in such an environment. Alfred Bucklaw
presents a probable sort of hunting peer. Ambrose
Manning isgood ns Lambert, thebrainlessbutcheery
horse-trainer. Charles Blackall and Leonard At-
will do all that their lines demand as the villain and
hero respectively, which remark applies to (1)
Miss Kerry and (2) Miss Scott, as (a) the she-hero
and (6) she-villain. And there are others —scores
of them—ranging in merit from good to dreadful.
** * *
“Our Miss Gibbs” moved from Her
Majesty’s to Sydney Royal on Saturday. Ihe
public shows no disposition to weary of her,
her family, the farm whose merits she extols and
the friends with which she is surrounded, and the
odds are the combination will adhere to its new
pitch till Easter.
** * *
The bitter critic who goes to an amateur
show and condemns it by professional standards
deserves to be wrapped in barbed wire and left
all night in a freezing works; likewise the dan-
gero'us, honeyed nib-driver, who pours butter and
chloroform over amiable suburban performers,
and tells them that the professional boards are
fairly creaking for them, earns three months in a
dark cell, thickly strewn with sticky fly-papers.
These few introductory remarks are thrown
apologetically into the arena by a hesitating
Sundry Show sampler who went along to the
Palace Theatre (Sydney), to see the Mosinan
Musical Society’s production of Auber’s “Fra
Diavolo.” The show has a grand opera touch
about it, inasmuch as Harry Neil andE. J. Beau-
man divide the part of Fra Diavolo between them.
It is, therefore, necessary to go twice to see
exactly how much oil the brigand chief needs in
his joints and where his memory gives out often-
est. Mrs. Slapoffski, as Zerlina, and W. B.
Beattie, as Lord Allcash, make the opera effer-
vesce a little; but there isn’t much foam when
they are absent, and the cork never actually hits
the ceiling. Miss Muriel Barton, the Lady All-
cash of the production, does a lot better than
W. H. Clarke, who makes Lorenzo a mild and
muffled captain of carbineers. If D. B. Edward
and A. McMurtrie are the sort of brigands who
infest the fastnesses of the Mosman hills, the
Boy Scouts may safely be trusted to look after
them. W. H. R. Woods, as Matteo, the inn-
keeper, gracefully supplies one unsatisfac-
tory-looking free meal to the disguised
bushranger, but makes his tuneful remarks
as if he were rather afraid of being overheard.
The chorus does its share with enthusiasm ; but
the casual wayfarer would never mistake it for
the moving background of a Williamson Ltd.
frolic. The orchestra’s work is creditable; but
the soured critic would again insist that pro-
fessiohals could have done better. The six-nights’
season concludes on Friday, 23rd.
“OUR MISS GIBBS”
AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Leslie Holland as
Hughie, the ama-
teur crook.
Timothy Gibbs —“ Cocky ,
my boy ” (Bertie
Wright).
Walter Kelly, the Virginian Judge, started
to rattle through his excellent one-man show at
Sydney Tivoli just about the time the “Sundry
Shows ” column was turned off at the meter for
the Christmas Bulletin ; consequently, the Reli-
gious Editor, who attends the Tivoli every week
in disguise, bursts in with his notice a week or so
late. Kelly’s entertainment, delivered from
behind a green-covered table with the aid of an
open charge-book and a small gavel, is a quick-
fire stream of questions and retorts between a
Judge and a succession of niggers, who are run out
of the cells by a gaoler named Dan. One Irishman
and one Italian are used to vary the monologue
a little; and Kelly does them so well that
one is inclined to ask why he doesn’t use them
oftener. It is the smartest and most humorous
one-man turn that Manager Rickards has ever put
on ; in fact, it is so good that one almost forgets
and forgives the First Part. If the £05,000,000
worth of imported talent ordered by H.R. is up
near the Kelly standard, so much edge will be
taken off the critic’s hatchet that he will have to
use it as a butter-knife. Frank Harwood, the
Meymotts, Fred Bluett and Fanny Powers are
the other performers who help to keep the pro-
gramme waving.
** * *
Sydney will receive its opportunity of
saying good-bye and good luck to Hugh Ward
in his footlight capacity during the next couple of
weeks. On Saturday he and Grace Palotta and
the rest of the co. will open a season at the Palace
with “The Girl from Rector’s,” a bright extrava-
gance which has been raising the denunciation of
the kill-joys wherever it has been played in Aus-
tralasia.
*# * *
J. E. Sykes, who has'been for over .20
years music-making for the Sydney public and
teaching others to do likewise, leaves by the
Zieten on January 1. He goes to Milan, to. visit
the Hazons; to Pau, where he was educated ;
and to London, to see his sister. His holiday
will last but three months; and H. N. South-
well, who managed the Sykes benefit concert, is
asking for another hundred pounds to make the
Svkes holiday a fair thing in the way of playtime.
Continents and cities have short memo-
ries, however long Art may be; and Miss Hop-
wood-Foldi had been away from Australia and
Sydney for three years. Yet when she gave her
entertainment at the Y.M.C.A. Hall she found
that either she was still well remembered, or new
and interested friends had been made by the
stories of her European successes. She has a
store —a perfect warehouse of many storeys —of
humorous, grave and pathetic recitations in
prose and verse, which she delivers to her
own piano accompaniment. She has, as well,
a good hand on that instrument in a
higher order of interpretation, as was proved
by her playing of a Liszt Rhapsody. Both Miss
Hopwood-Foldi and her sister, Madge, who sings
acceptably, understand the values of dressing
and of platform deportment, and got good help
from these accessories. And Messrs. Staell and
E. Sussmilch gave valuable help too.
#* * *
At Sydney Lyceum Spencer’s Theatrescope
is still showing that splendid series of films which
the author has labelled “Marvellous Melbourne.”
It is as good as a week’s holiday in the southern
capital to see this film, and one doesn’t get the
wind and the dust doing it, either. Another
elegant number of a telegraphic drama, entitled
“ Dots and Dashes,” in which romance and busi-
ness are mixed inextricably together, gives an alto-
gether glorified idea of the life of a “lightning
jerker.” The Yankee film this week is a
reminiscence of the Yankee Civil War, labelled
“On the Road to Richmond.” Then John
Chinaman takes a hand in the person of the
Chink at the Golden Gulch, and the comics are at
their best in “ Tweedledum’s Sleeping Sickness.”
#* # *
The chief item at West’s Pictures, at
Sydney Glaciarium this week, is the great and
wonderful Sydney Beauty Contest. Scores of the
loveliest girls in Sydney have been cinemato-
graphed—not photoed in the'ordinary way, but
cinematographed, and on Saturday night they
will stream in a dazzling procession across the
screen, and the public, or as much of it as can be
squeezed into the Glaciarium, will decide in some
way which is the most beautiful of the beauties.
For the rest, the West programme is up to its
usual high standard, and the “comics” are liber-
ally sandwiched in among the usual tragic and
“soulful ” items in the usual way.
## * *
“Jack and the Beanstalk,” at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.), is less a pantomime of the
old'type than an extravaganza with a bashed bell-
topper and a bloodshot eye. It begins soberly
enough, but soon sacrifices its trace of sense to
incoherence and eccentricity. In the first scene
we get the Village of Arcadee, smiling in its
greens to the rippling strains of dulcet music.
Then suddenly the music changes to a sort of
patriotic, rag-time measure. , Naval cadets appear
with size nine smiles, and a model of the de-
stroyer Yarra floats into Arcadee, as if the rural
earth were its natural element. In other
scenes the same effects bewilder, even if
they also delight. In the scene of , “The
Giant’s Battlements,” the i suggestion of the
presence of something gross and grotesque is
destroyed by the introduction of a music-hall
turn. Similarly in “The Giant’s Kitchen,’’ a
lady commences to sing of “ Silvery Sands ” in a
costume as suitable in a kitchen as a pair of
pyjamas at a Coronation. And thus the show
goes on in a medley of crude fun and fairy-like
phantasy, mingling rough knockabout farce .with
charming melodies, juggling comic songs with
spectacular illusions, and filling in the gaps ivith
gags that have long since ceased to have any
birthdays. As to the story, it is so thin and
evanescent that the occasional intrusion of a plot
comes to appear as a mere concession on the part
of the management. One only knows that Jack
of the Beanstalk falls in love with the Princess
Edwidge, and that, after certain mild and super-
fluous adventures, they live ever after in a state
of kisses and kids—matrimony, and multipli-
cation. J O ' ■ I i
* * . * */|
Much of the entertainment's, success rests
On its specialties, some of which are captivating.
The Pantzer people, for, instance, give a clever
act of tumbling and balancing, distinguished by
the strength of the smallest member of the troupe.
The Doherty Sisters supply some vaudeville busi-
ness, in which the plumper Doherty raises a
forceful voice of gold, slightly tarnished. Less hila-
rious than expected are the plate-smashing tricks
of Samuel Elton. But the scenes and the girls
keep the mind awake. Especially attractive is
“The Golden Gates of Gloudland,” and decidedly
odd is the ballet of a vegetarian’s diet moving
about on multi-colored legs. Also, a harmony of
gay tints and sparkling eyes is afforded in “ The
March of the Wines and Spirits.” This last pic-
ture is exceptionally striking; the drinks are
given such lovely personalities that the least self-
indulgent of males feels a call to dipsomania.
* * * *
As Jack, Miss Arundale is bright and
pretty in moderation, and Miss Firmin, as Prin-
cess Edwidge, is the same with a little moie
moderation. Miss Eaton expends her vocal
wealth in the character of the, fairy, while the
fooling of Messrs. Darrell , and . Hassan seems
appropriate to the spirit of the piece. Possibly
one will have to acquire a taste for Neil Kenyon’s
Dame, as one acquires a taste for cod-liver oil or
birds’ nest soup. Kenyon’s humor is soft and
Scawtch, and is marked by the repetition of one
song and some talk, neither as fresh as they might
be. As regards the acting of Jack Cannot, as the
King, this paper isn’t yet prepared with its final
opinion, though the present impression is that his
name may convey a gentle hint of the truth.


JERDAN’S, the big Cinematograph people at
393 George Street, Sydney, have just got out
a Catalogue for Picture Showmen that’s just it,,
tf you’ve leanings that way you’d better write for
a copy. It’s free.*
For all..
Seasons
WOLFE’S
SCHNAPPS.
“ Her Second Time on Earth ” is misusing
a few nights at Anderson’s Theatre, Melbourne.
This drama is a Poe-esque story full of hurdy-
gurdy tunes and the fumes of brandy. The tunes
spring from an organ turned by a Dago, who is
later stabbed and buried while the lightning
flashes and the stage-sea sobs a requiem. The
spirituous vapors arise from a dame who has
soaked her past in the juice of the grape, and
speaks in a voice garnished with “ hies.” During
most of the time she is on the verge of a state when
people don’t need to pay tram fares to reach the
highly-colored zoo. The lady’s daughter, to whom
murder is a dissipation, also suffers from inter-
mittent delusions. During the best part of a
scene she moans and raves, and tries to grapple
with the ghostly creation of a sinful mind. Such
are some of the features of a play that deserves
the Grand Cross of the Order of the Demented.
It is fairly well acted —notably by Miss Harrie
Ireland ; but the best acting in the world will not
excuse its imbecility.
William Anderson’s Melbourne holiday
attractions will embrace the drammer, “The
Ladder of Life,” and a children’s panto., “The
Little Old Woman Who Lived in a Shoe.”
The former shocker will occupy the evenings,
while the panto, will occur at daily matinees.
The productions face the starter on Saturday
night next and Boxing afternoon respectively.
“ HER SECOND TIME ON EARTH ,” AT
MELBOURNE KING’S.
Harry Sweeney as Teddy
Butterfly (in woman’s
clothing).
Walter Dalgleish
as Guy Brand—
a parasite, also
villain of the
piece.
If the advt. has been composed in the
Well of Truth, “ The Gay Gordons ” should have
opened at the Melbourne Royal last (Wednesday)
night. Under these circumstances, The Bulletin
is forced to prolong its consideration of the show,
and reserve its few well-chosen remarks until the
issue of the 29th instant. In the meantime a few
observations may be expended on “ Miss Hook of
Holland.” This story of a Dutch idyll, inter-
rupted by music, concluded its revival last Satur-
day night. .Miss O’Connor was in the name part,
and atoned for her starched or frozen ways with
many an accomplished piece of warbling. Miss
Gilliam wasn’t the most effective Mina that
Melbourne has seen and heard, though her art is
less rococo and her converse less embroidered than
her predecessor’s. Tom Walls played “Daddy”
Hook with capital drollery ; Cromwell pattered
and gagged with his familiar zeal ; and as Van
Vuyt Harold Thorley wore a uniform and two
interchangeable expressions.
** * *
A troupe of George Marlow’s mummers
opensat the Melbourne Princess’s next Saturdavin
“The Bad Girl of the Family.” The Bad Girl,
it is understood, is a delightful person ; anyhow,
she is bound to be popular.
** * *
Marshall Hall’s students plodded through
an operatic programme at Her Majesty’s (Melb.)
the other Saturday afternoon. The Marshall
combed the.scented dark with a baton, as usual,
while a more or less priceless audience watched
his affectations. As might have been expected,
the orchestra lacked finesse, but the singing,
especially in the “Fra Diavolo ” and “ Mignon ”
items, was generally good. Some pleasant war-
bling was also heard in a bit of “ The Dalmatian,”
a work of value by Miss Mcßurney, a Victorian
composer.
** * *
At the Opera House Karl Howard is
giving the sort of mock magic that at last made
Bert Gilbert a weariness in “A Knight for a
Day.” Howard’s turn is occasionally funny, but
a little of it goes a long way. Julian Rose, whe
kodaks the manners of one Levinsky, is in his
last nights; and there is a bustle of preparation
for various fish that Harry the Angler landed on
his recent trawling expedition.
** # *
The historic contest between James J.
Jeffries and John Johnson will be pictured for the
first time at the Melbourne Glaciariurn next
Saturday. The film is 6000 ft. long, and when
you’ve seen it you will probably conclude that the
picture-people stipulated with John and Jim
that it shouldn’t be any less.
** * *
“The Iconoclast,” at West’s Pictures,
Melbourne, affects one like a heavy dinner. It is
as solid as pudding, and is over-sauced with senti-
mentality. “The Indian Raiders,” dealing with
cowboy love and stolen horses, has a thrill in
every flick ; while “ The Big Scoop,” a newspaper
tale,"jolts the spectator with frequent sensations.
For the rest, one remembers most vividly “The
Wooing o’t,” a photo of kisses and winks,
seraphic hugs and heaving bosoms.
** * #
The Follies are still earning their living at
St. Kilda (Vic.). Their programmes are now
marked by greater variety, while the worst
member of the team is ro longer chargeablewith
having been acquired in a sixpenny raffle. Extra
strength has also been obtained by the addition of
a person by the name of Crossley. To be sure.
Crossley’s humor is fat and loud, but it counter-
balances the stuff of the lovely tenor, whose songs
seem soaped and sugared.
** * *
Adelaide amusements have lately been
mainly American. “The Girl from Rector’s,” as
played by Hugh Ward at the Royal, is a weird
mixture. It brings from Paris its central dis-
regard of various conventions, drops them into a
U.S.A. setting, and adds local colloquialisms. It
makes the hero young and jolly, while one piece
of talk shows him to be elderly, plain and “well-
preserved ” ! These adapters are quaint people.
Ward’s new play, “ Glittering Gloria,” is utterly ;
Yankee in sentiment, yet it too has been wan-
tonly wrenched from its setting and dumped down
in London. Here are the usual carelessnesses in
making the transfer, such as making an English-
man call £4500 “45 hundred” —which was well
enough as first written, in dollars. Grace Palotta
works really hard to hold this play together, but
for some unexplained reason does not sing; and
the piece needs a few more songs badly. An in-
teligent bulldog plays a leading part. The trouble
with these recent plays is that, while they are
comic in situation, they are cheap in talk. Arm-
strong and Miss Verne gave off more American wit-
ticisms in 10 minutes at the Tivoli than could be
counted up in “Rector’s” and “Gloria” put to-
gether. Barnold’s animals, at the same house,
do not talk the language, but the “saloon” and the
“police waggon ” are all Yankee in idea. This is a
joyous turn. The intelligenthound need do nothing
but stroll in at a door and come out licking his
lips, and the oftener he does it the more the
crowded house yells with delight. As for the
various picture-shows, they are, of course, de-
voted as usual to U.S. submarines, the foul
tragedy of the Y-and-Dot ranch, and so on.
* * * *
The Literary Theatre is busy with its
summer season. Its first Triple Bill contained
two of Arthur Adams’s plays. The charming
“Pierrot in Australia” has already been played
elsewhere. It seems to be written solely
to emphasise the author’s idea that the
average Australian is the typical Pierrot:
fond of wandering, having the artistic tem-
perament, and careless of conventional mo-
rality. The play would have had a better
chance a year or two ago, before Australians had
begun to think of pierrot as a common noun,
standing for a seaside comic singer. “ Doctor
Death ” followed ; and the final piece of a memor-
able evening was Bernard Shaw’s “Press Cut-
tings,” which is brilliant in talk and frankly silly
in such action as it possesses. The acting honors
of the evening went to Wildfrid Neill, as the man
who defies Death, and Douglas Walsh, who put
up a remarkable double performance as Pierrot
first and General Kitchener afterwards. It was
not a ladies’ evening; but Dorothea Jacob did all
there was to be done with the girl who wavers
between Pierrot and plain Bill, her “ bloke.”
The N. S. Wales cold-water Alliance re-
ceived another unpleasant advt. a few days ago
when it was paraded before the court for paying
less wages to its employees in the “ model ” hotel
it runs in Sydney than is provided for under the
industrial award dealing with hotels and restau-
rants supplying meals to the public. The wowser
is so busy reforming the world as a going concern
that he hasn’t time to see whether the girl who
brushes the dust from his sanctimonious top-hat
in the morning is receiving sufficient payment for
the job to keep her in decent physical and moral
repair. In this case £8 in fines and costs will
serve to help his memory.
“ Orient ” : Again I demand a direct tele-
graphic service with China and Japan, giving
Australia every day’s intelligence. The London
Times considers Chinese news worth telegrams a
column long; our news, filtered through, is a
month old. The latest tells how the National
Convention in Pekin petitioned the Emperor to
summon a Parliament immediately. The Em-
peror replied that by an edict of the late Empress
Dowager the Parliament would not be summoned
for seven years more. However, he was grac-
iously pleased to shorten the term to three years.
A debate took place thereon. Only one speaker
supported the Emperor’s ruling, and he was lis-
tened to with much impatience. All the other
speakers expressed their profound respect for the
Emperor, but assured him that he was wrongly
advised. And that is where Australia has to
break off in the middle of November! Bear in
mind that this convention is not an independent
affair like the Indian National Congress, hostile
to the Government. It was summoned by the
Emperor; half the members were his nominees
and the other half were elected by provincial
assemblies. And this body, so constituted,
urgently asks for an immediate Parliament.
There is palpably a grave national danger some-
where—perhaps from an alliance of'Japan and
Russia ; and Australia’s eyes must be strained
that way.
“ Sairey Gamp ” from S. Aus. :
Hospital nurses are no better off in S. Aus. than in
N.S.W. and Victoria. The day shift are up at 5.30 a.m.,
and on duty from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m., the night shift taking
up the running for the other hours in the 24. When
extensions were made to the “Adelaide ” some time ago,
the nurses’ quarters were placed up three flights of
stairs in order to give the girls a little gentle exercise
before retiring, for no lift was provided until Premier
Verran’s attention was forcibly attracted that way. It
is a beautiful profession, lofty and full of sentiment; but
the glamor is beginning to wearthin in places. 'Afterall,
doctors are not gilded dukes, and they mostly marry Miss
Veryrich for preference. So a shortage of nurse is set-
ting in.
“Homo”: I’ve been rummaging in the
“ Melbourne Directory,” and here is the result. I
just throw in the names anyhow :
Cant, Drinkwater, Drinkmilk ; Chew, Dry, Dear,
Duck: Dam, Cool, Cunning, Cove; Catehlove, (Mrs.)
Chow, Pickup, Redhead, Gent, Fullalove ; Virtue, Nix ;
Hosher, Bill, Crimson, Crook, Villain; Boss, Bishop,
Divine, Dosser; Forty, Fouracre, Greengrass, Cow-
meadow ; Godwill, Golightly ; Goodenough, Mrs. Grundv ;
Godbehear; Unthank, Idle, Looney, Judkins; Great-
head, Pretty, Stiff, Neck ; Bragg, Pump, Tough, Mudd ;
Bravo; Early, Bird, Catchpole, Wurm; Beer, Brandi,e,
Heavyside- 1 ; Bunny, Rabbit, Pie; Ram, Mutton, Veal,
Bacon, Sack, Salt, Mustard, Pepper, Ginger, Pill ; Far-
thing, Halfpenny, Penny, Shilling, Pound; Shirt,
Shivers ; Toe, Tooth, Body, Soul, Coffin, Tomb.
THE OLD RELIABLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Let who will scoot in a motor-ear
Or a waggon hitched to a soaring star
A tandem pair or a taxiplane ;
A fly-the-garter-by-midnight train.
In the joy-ride game it’s the pace that kills
Galloping nags and fluttering frills—
So, although it’s left in the flying start,
It wins by a head, does the %vater-carr.
N.S.W.
BILLY B.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Some interesting: figures have just come out in conse-
quence of J.O. W.’s appeal against the proposed rating of
Her Majesty’s, Melbourne. Judge Eagleson heard the
case. The house was rated at £lOOO a .year for years, and
then the figure suddenly jumped to £2500 this year.
Williamson leased it in 1903 for 12 years, at £1252 for the
first seven years and £l5OO for the next five ; so he holds
it till 1915.' The executors of G. E. Porter own it; they
pay rates and taxes, and the insurance is £387 a year on
£lO,OOO. The question was whether the.valuation ought
to be on Williamson’s rent or on what others would pay.
It was agreed that the theatre was> in the gutter when
J.C.W. took it in 1900. On the other hand, anyone
would pay more than £l5OO for it now. Thus the Theatre
Itoyal is let to Meynell and Clarke for 10 years from 1908
at £lO5 a week. Anderson has the King’s for seven
years at £4420 a year. Incidentally, the advertising
drop-curtain at the Royal brings £3O a week, at the
King’s £25. Williamson won’t have one. The rent of the
Princess’s is £lOO a week ; and this house is assessed at
£2400, though often closed. The Royal is assessed at
£2500, King’s at £2lOO, and the Opera House at £2400.
The assessment all round is thus about half the rental.
In 1900, when Williamson started at Her Majesty’s, the
assessment was only £742. The assessors pleaded that,
through inadvertence, the amount had been left at £lOOO
from 1903 onwards. Judge Eagleson, after elaborate cal-
culations, cut down the valuation to £830,' with 30
guineas costs. There is certain to be a municipal appeal
against that, because it means a heavy loss to the City
Council, since, if this valuation stood, the other houses
would certainly come at the fathers for a reduction at
the earliest moment. -
The last night of the Hugh Ward season in Perth will
make a pink patch in the old town’s theatrical story.
Every part of the Royal was crowded. His Ex. and suite
were there ; also the Commonwealth Minister for De-
fence, the local military officers, and —most welcome of
all—the officers of Australia’s new war unit, the Parra-
matta and the Yarra, enjoying their first theatre party.
The auditorium was a mass of bunting, and above the
stage floated the naval ensigns of Britain and Australia.
Everybody made speeches, and the cheers threatened to
last till daylight.
“ Theorbo ” : The Marshall Hall Students’ operatic
matinee at Her Majesty’s, Melbourne, the other day, was
notable for excerpts from an original opera called “ The
Dalmatians,” by Miss Mona M’Burney. It pleased me
well, even though it was programmed with selections
from classics like' “Lohengrin,” “Fra Diavolo,”
“Martha,” and “Mignon.” The' inspiration is Wagner-
cwm-Puceini. A good deal of the selection was chorus-
ing behind scene in the dark, and here Hall conducted
weirdly with an electric light at the end of his baton.
Max Maxwell has got together a touring co. which
ought to keep the ticket-taker busy. It includes such
head-liners as Arthur Stvan, Beatrice Holloway, Charles
Brown and Caspar Middleton, the last a new importation
from Fogland. These, together with most of the mem-
bers of the old Bland Holt Co., will open at H. M. Theatre,
Brisbane, on Boxing Night. A feature in a very big tour
is the tenure of the King’s Theatre, Melbourne, in March
next by Australia’s youngest actor-manager. George D.
Porlus and Colin Campbell are the people who go ahead
and say the pleasant things to the press.
“Snod”: Nellie Stewart’s tour, which commenced in
Melbourne at the Princess’s Theatre on Easter Saturday,
with Barrie’s comedy, “ What Every Woman Knows,”
concluded at Invercargill (M.L.) on November 26. Did
Sweet Nell then take a holiday? Not much, even though
her journeyings for. J.C.W. had been from Broken Hill to
Beersheba. The company disbanded, and Nellie “ rested ”
for one night only. ' The re-organised co. then broke out
again at Gore, where, on Nov. 29, Sweet Nell in-
augurated another tour, which is to terminate in
North Queensland in September, 1911, or thereabouts.
The new concern numbers some 30 people, and there is
only one play in the repertoire, “ Sweet Nell of Old
Drury.” A feature of the venture is a travelling orchestra,
conducted by Sweet Nell’s own daughter Nancy, who
looks as young as her mother. The co. is streaking
through M.L., winding up at Cambridge, Jan. 21. Then
Sweet Nell takes a big breath, and rushes off to Auck-
land with her 30 followers to catch the boat for Sydney
on Jan. 23, arriving at Sydney on Jan. 27. Then a two-
days’rest, and off again by boat for Hobart. Truly, the
plucky little woman with the cart-wheel hat is a hustler
“Snaffle”: The horses interested me most in “The
Whip” and “The Winning Ticket.” Naturally, I in-
quired how it was done. It seems to me that Anderson
did not have so much trouble as Williamson. The kind
of machinery used was first introduced in Australia
long ago, with a play called “The County Fair,”
in which one Burgess appeared. Later on there was
something of the kind for the chariot race in “ Ben Hur.”
For the race in “ The Whip,” Stanford, Williamson’s
manager, tried 200 horses. Sixteen were picked, and on
Stanford’s advice they were bought, so as to have no
humbug. Still, the best horse of all, in the first trial,
never could be persuaded to get upon the apparatus
again. Nothing brings out more the individuality of
horses. You may see one standing still all through the
race, having reasoned it out that he will get there all the
same. This chap may as well be sold at once.
“Props”: The champion Tory of the drama is the
person who fixes up the pantomime librettos. He has
limited himself for decades to about half a dozen subjects.
Take two of the best-known: “Jack the Giant-killer,”
and “Jack and the Beanstalk.” As soon as either of
these subjects is given out, the Trade knows which book
is to be cockered up. It’s just another coat of paint.
Now look at how Australian librettists, like Akhurst, and
Garnet Walch, used to hit out for themselves. Never
was there such an appropriate panto, as that of the
Melbourne Royal in 1869. Fawkner had just died, so
Akhurst wrote “ The House that Jack Built,” meaning
Johnny Fawkner and Melbourne. Harwood was Jack,
and Maggie Stewart, Nell’s half-sister, little Victoria, a
sort of Mary, Mary Quite Contrary. Hennings’s panorama
of the birth of Melbourne (the city was then 34 years old)
was wonderfully significant, hard-hitting and thought
inspiring. Why not go the length of refurbishing this
for 1911 ? Even it might be possible for someone to think
out an altogether new theme. Things are always happen-
ing, and everything that happens represents a possible
panto, or other stage subject.
“G.D.P.”: A N.S.W. country paper reports the visit
of a theatrical co. this way: “ The Curlew Dramatic Co.
paid us a visit during the week, and were welcomed at
the Parish Hall by a small but appreciative audience on
Saturday night. On the second night of their season an
unpleasant incident occurred, for during the perform-
ance of “ East Lynne ” thieves broke into the building and
stole all the chairs and forms.”
“Norbell ”: Ever been a bushranger? I have. The
gang I belonged tp stuck up a bank and a police-station
within 25 miles of Melbourne, besides perpetrating many
other crimes.. We did it for a now well-known Kelly
Gang picture-drama. They engaged me and several
other out-of-work mummers to be bushrangers. We
lived for a week out’at Mitcham, beyond Box Hill, and
in the gullies and bush of that locality we did our deeds
of blood. We used to ride in and about the little town-
ship in full stage-bushranger rig, always with a large
quantity of explosive and other ironmongery. Every
boy for 10 miles round inspected us daily, and the district
got great joy out of our attack on the Mitcham police
station. The gre it event, however, was “ the attack on
the Glenrowan Inn.” An artistic signboard was fitted
up in front of a cottage in the main street, and the full
strength of our conspiracy attacked the place. While
the battle was raging a horseman appeared on the main
road. He pulled up some distance off, took in the scene,
then galloped in the direction of Ringwood. Seen a
man with a wild eye riding for his life past your place
lately ?
“Snell” : Have jnst been told of an instance of mar-
vellous intelligence irt an elephant. The elephant’s name
was Boomah, and he was the bulkiest feature of a small
Australian circus. Boomah was particularly useful as a
sort of gigantic honorary fireman j Whenever he saw
anything suggestive of a fire he' rushed to the fire
buckets and hurled their contents at the apparent-out.
break. One afternoon, when the tents were being pitched
in Melbourne, a plumber who was fixing a high circle of
gas pipes dropped a patch of melted solder on Boom ah s
back. Boomah trumpeted like a Salv’army band, and
loped for the buckets. He threw all the available water
over himself, and as the hot metal still gnawed at him he
lumbered through many obstructions into the street-
still blowing his bugle—and broke the fire-alarm on a
convenient telegraph post. Then he made haste to a fire
insurance office, and bursting in, with the rums of the
door hanging about him, he grabbed a proposal form
with his nose.
“ Squatting ”: Oscar Asche and his Lily have dropped
into a bed of roses. London likes “ Coun t Hannibal,” and
the receipts are pretty well the capacity of the New
Theatre—from £l6OO to £lBOO per tveek. The cast for
the opening was, with two exceptions, the same as here ;
Tignonville, the faint-hearted lover, is played in London
by that clever actor Ben Webster; and Miss Bessie Major,
who was induced by Oscar Asche to accompany the co.
to England, appears as the old Huguenot lady, Madame
Oarlat.
A small band of Australian players doing very well in
England in an unostentatious way is the John G. Bran-
don co. A leading member of the co. is Emma Bronton,
still remembered here as one of Brough and Boucicault’s
leading ladies in B. and B.’s better days. Emma Bronton
was an Australian actress. John Brandon is her son ; and
the Brandon co. produces Brandon’s own one-act play-
lets in the vaudeville halls of the Briddish Isles. John
Brandon was a journalist in Victoria before he fell off into
the maternal footsteps,
“ Gilgunnia ” : In these days of picture-drama you are
liable to run against all sorts of old friends playing all
sorts of new parts. Went, the other night, to witness
some of the desperate bushranging deeds that had been
done at Carcoar and thereabouts. Now, that picture-
drama was no doubt all right at most places ; but I hap-
pened to be taking the night’s rioting at Manly ; and
“the Bank of N.S. VV. at Carcoar,” which was held up,
was joyfully greeted by the small fry of the surfing suburb
as an old friend, to wit, an ancient pub at Brookvale ;
while the homestead at Coombing Park, which was sur-
rounded and captured after a desperate struggle, was
hailed as Smith’s dairy, a romantic spot two miles from
the ocean suburb. Mr. Keightly, the squatter of the
place, who was captured and then ransomed by the gang
for £5OO, was recognised as an old, prosaic inhabitant of
the same prosaic parts. After these discoveries the small
fry had some doubts about the authenticity of the drama.
“Vic.”: Well, I did go to a rum affair on a recent
Wednesday night—a Sacred Pageant at St. Leonard’s
Presbyterian Church, Brighton Beach, Melbourne. It
was ultra fashionable, crowded with ladies in white,
without hats, but with a magnificent display of aigrettes
and hair glitters. As high-toned as St. George’s Hanover
Square, where ladies are allowed to attend church in
evening dress after dinner. All the butterflies floated
out for a Midsummer Night’s Dream, a pious pantomime,
Wowserish waxworks, Gospel comic opera, puppet show
and holy fancy ball. I think a clever Miss Bean, pro-
grammed as the instructress, was the engineeress. Any-
how, she is as smart as Jennie Brenan, Minnie Everett,
Minnie Hooper or any of our theatrical ballet mistresses.
Here were Moses, Miriam, Aaron, Ruth, David, Esther
and the whole crowd. About 60 of them, gorgeously
costumed. No wealth was spared in the competitive
brilliancy of color and glittering spangle. I would not
like to say that anything was correct in this maze of
the Hebrew, Syrian, Babylonian, Egyptian and Indian.
Some of the Biblicals even looked Jappy in front of the
backcloth of Jerusalem. The dialogue was uncommonly
well put together. Music lent a charm ; and there were
effective marches, suggestive of Johnny Wallace, though
I don’t believe he had anything to do with it.
“ Pete ”: The Competition’s Festival, which has finished
up in Auckland (M.L.), saw packed houses for the entire
week—except on one night. That night there were six
cornet solos; and although the Aucklander loves his
money’s worth, six cornet solos, piled up in one solid
pyramid, proved too much even for him.
Gordon Inglis: Here, in London, the better-class
theatres, particularly in the West End, have frowned
with dignity on the flicker merchant until recently, when
Terry’s Theatre, hard by the Cecil and Savoy, was leased
to a cinematograph co. for 21 years. The first film will
be unreeled in November. Terry’s was started by Edward
Terry in 1887, and one of its many successes, " Sweet
Lavender,” is said to have cheered up the management to
the extent of £20,000. There are at present about 200
moving-picture theatres in London, making a profit of
anything from £5 to £lOO a week, and the coin-producing
capabilities of the ’graph may be gauged from the fact,
that one enterprising manager who went into the business
three years ago with only £5 between him and the Thames
Embankment, to-day draws £lO,OOO a year from his shows,
and swells it in a May'fair mansion with the best of them.
“ Vic.”: An entertainment has been held in Melbourne
Temperance Hall to raise funds for a Christmas-tree at
the Church of England mission, Lilly Buck-street. There
were some weird mixtures. Miss Suey Ming and Miss
Ruby Pon Pink co-operated in a Dutch song and dance,
“ Oh, Mein Frow.” Miss Eileen Ling Look sang a Hiber-
nian comic song, “ Rattigan, That’s Me.” Her name is
compounded of Erin and Asia. I recall the case of Biddy
M’Gee, who married Mr. Souchong in Austhraly and took
him to Tipperary. There he walked the streets with his
sleeves over his hands. When he turned there were a
dozen feminine heads popped back behind doors.
“ Aggora," exclaimed Mother Leary, “ she’s married a
Monkey! ” However, he contributed liberally to the
church, wherefore the Rev. Soggarth said he was as good
as anny mahn in Tipperary. Unfortunately, they don’t
all leave for Tipperary.
“ Stargazer ”: Once more the fatuity of theatrical
nomenclature. J. C. Williamson and some others are
building a new theatre in Bourke-street, Melbourne, for
picture shows mainly, with an all-day flight of films, and
the place is to be called the Colonial Theatre. There are
I forget how many millions of words in the many and
various human languages, dead and alive, but 1 doubt if
there is in the whole bunch —impious terms and bullockese
excluded —a more obnoxious word to dub on an Australian
theatre than “Colonial.” The public’s contempt for the
word, as adjective or noun, has been expressed in a
thousand ways—expressed so strongly that “ Colonial ”
has been withdrawn from official use as a concession to
public opinion. Yet now a bunch of theatrical caterers,
whose proud boast is that they know what the people
want, fish the debased term out of the dustbin and put
it into circulation again as the cognomen of a playhouse !
Australia has lost one Yes-No only to find
another. Thus the Age on October 20 :
. . . There are two Referendum Bills. One deals with
the enlargement of Federal powers on industrial matters ;
the other gives power to the Commonwealth to nationalise
monopolies. The four amendments relating to trade and
commerce, corporations, industrial disputes and trusts
and combinations are simply various phases of one
question. They hinge upon one another, and to a large
extent are interdependent. To put them in the shape of
four separate referenda would complicate and embarrass
ivhatisin itself a simple proposition. That proposition
is that to the Federation belongs the power to legislate
on all matters of wages, trusts and industry.
And then on December 8 the same paper :
In the referendum for extending the powers of the
Arbitration Court much confusion is likely to arise
owing to the interlocking of three or four distinct questions.
Powers are demanded for limiting the operations of
financial and trading corporations, whether foreign or
Australian, for checking combines and monopolies, for
regulating trade and commerce, and for controlling the
hours and wages of workers. The elector has no choice.
He may approve of one part of the reference and cor-
dially dislike the other. He must either vote for the lot
or reject them altogether. There is no middle course.
From those two admirable opinions it would
appear:—
(a) That the splitting of “ a simple proposition ” into
four separate questions would cause complication.
(b) That the interlocking of four separate questions in
“ a simple proposition ” is likely to cause confusion.
After giving that display of perfect wisdom, the
Age urges its readers to saj’ “No.” Yet, if the
readers took the Age seriously, they would vote
“ Yes-No ” without the slightest hesitation.


MEN’S ORIENT CLOTHING
Ready-to-Wear
Two-Piece Holiday Suits.
Made of Oatmeal Crash, light, cool and‘porous. Suitable for
Holiday or Country Wear.
Carriage Paid.
A Suit cut and tailored in the high-grade style characteristic of
“ Orient” Clothing. Coat maybe had with or without vent, round or
square corners and movable buttons. Trousers perfect fitting.
We guarantee these Suits not to shrink, having been already shrunk in
boiling soap and soda water. Wash in hot water—do not boil.
To Country Residents we are pleased to send patterns and measurement
forms and the goods carriage free, as we pay carriage. '
All Sizes
18/6
DAVID JONES LTD.,
Opp.
G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
riw*
• >
<ujl.
XMAS GIFTS !
It will pay you to call and inspect the immense
stock of
HARRINGTONS’ CAMERAS
(Selected from the World’s leading; Makers).
A Camera makes an Ideal Present for Young or Old.
Send for our fully illustrated Catalogue—over 400 pages.
A DAINTY GIFT FOR LADIES—
The Folding "ENSIGNETTE”
Takes Photos. 2J x I£.
Daylight Loading. No bigger
than a purse. One movement of
the hand brings the Camera into,
action. Price 35/- 6-exposure
Spool of Film, 1/-
...Compare...
Our Values!
MAGAZINE CAMERAS.
Reliable Daylight - Loading
Cameras from 5/-
Ask to see our No. 1 “Victor.”
The most popular Camera in Aus-
tralasia. Takes pictures 4£ x 3£.
Price 30/-
Harringtons ltd.,
Australasia’s Leading
Photographic Merchants,
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney; and at Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
The Victorian Railway revenue figures
show a big increase over last year’s, which is just
as well, for, up to date £lOO,OOO has been paid in
compensation to the victims of the Richmond
smash, and there are still a heap of claims to lie
settled. The cost of the Sunshine slaughter
finally worked out at £135,233 ; so by the time the
last splinter and jolt have been paid for, the two
smashes will have cost John Weary’s State
something like a quarter of a million. The enor-
mous cost of sizeable smashes like Sunshine and
Richmond may lead the Sydneysider to take a
THE PIONEERS.
Last Sunday Bishop Riley, of the Anglican Church,
held a service at Bullfinch (W.A.), using whisky cases
covered by Union Jacks for seats.— News Item.
new view of the nationalisation of his water-
transport services. A bad accident to a heavily-
laden ferry steamer would probably do more
damage than the Sunshine and Richmond smashes
put together; and the best-intentioned private
co. would have a desperate struggle to extract
.£25.0,000 from its reserves. The large co. might
consider it cheaper to fight the widow and the
■orphan in the courts: the small co. would pro-
bably stick a “ To Let ” sign in its office window
and file its schedule. When the Big Accident
happens, it is some comfort to the widow to know
that the bill is the nation’s; for the nation’s
pocket is deep and accessible.
Victoria really doesn’t appreciate the
thoughtfulness of its Railway Department.
That dead-end at Kilmore, where an
engine-driver and his train were re-
cently smashed, is a case in point.
For about 20 years there was
nothing to stop a bolting train
on the steep Bendigo-Wallan
line from scooting out of Leslie
and tearing through Kilmore
Junction and on to the main
North Eastern line, and,
maybe, crashing into the
Sydney express or some other
heavily-laden passenger
train. When this was pointed
outtoTaitand Co., they had
the before-mentioned stumb-
ling-block put in at the junc-
tion to catch any bolters that
might come along from the
badly-built Bendigo line.
Another sort of Railway
Department might have just
allowed bolting trains to take
their chance ; this one built
a nice dead-end a whole 60ft.
or so long ending in the face
of a big, stiff embankment,
so that a fast train, darting
on to the line, would be sure
to come to the end of its
misery at once. It couldn’t
do anything else except smash
itself against the end of the
cutting, or else climb the
embankment and smash it-
self more effectually 'by
tumbling down the other
side of the bank and on to
the main line. Certainly
there is no very obvious reason why the dead end
should have been put up against a big embank-
ment. If it had been taken a little to one side
and run up a bit of a gradient on to level ground
a bolting train would merely plough up a few feet
of soft earth, and do no damage to speak of. But
that would have cost a little more, and costs are
just about everything when you run your lines’
on “commercial principles.”
* * * *
“Ranzo”: “Bosun’s” statement of the
case re the (B. 1/12/TO) is wrong.
“ Bosun ” says (incorrectly) that the ship was in
charge of a Torres Strait pilot, whose fees don’t
go to the Queensland Government; notwith- 1
standing which there is talk of an action against
the Government on account of the damage done
to the vessel in Moreton Bay. The fact is that at
the time of the disaster the Waipara was in
charge of the master, the pilot having left before
he should have done so; further, the pilot was a
Moreton Bay pilot on a yearly salary paid by the
Queensland Government, and the Queensland
Government does receive the pilotage revenue
from that source. It is therefore up to “ Bosun ”
(if he is a seafaring man) to amend his article ;
and if he is not a seafaring man he should pass
along the writing of his next article on ships and
sailors to “Jimmie Pannikin.”
* * * *
Apropos the arrival of the destroyers. A
hostile shot was once—and probably only once—
fired in Hobson’s Bay. Forbes, captain of the
Black Ball liner Schomberg, afterwards wrecked
at Port Phillip Heads, was a noted martinet.
Four sailors, who shipped with him in Melbourne
for London, found out his quality soon after sails
were set; so they resolved to volunteer for the
navy, then desperately hard up for men, and hung
out four pairs of trousers on the Schomberg’s rig-
ging, towards the Fantome—a well-known sign of
men wanting to enlist. The telescope- of the
Fantome’s captain watched every ship for this
signal. He fired his swivel gun with “blank”
straight at the Schomberg as a hint for her to
stop. Forbes disregarded it. Then the gun was
shotted, and fired close to him. He reckoned it
was time to take notice, so he hove to, and the
men were taken off.
■***•*
To the Australian with any sort of imagi-
nation the recent arrival of the destroyers Yarra
and Parramatta in Port Phillip was an inspiring
circumstance. On the glad day a Ministerial
party took its pals (and some others) down the
bay in the Courier to hail the new ships, and the
Labor wolf lay down with the Fusion sheep for
quite a long, affable time. It was a splendid
opportunity for the Defence crowd, which put on
all ots stripes for the' Occasion ; and for the
womenfolk of the Federal legislators, who also
did themselves proud. Best-so-far Defence
Minister Pearce, with Bill, William or Billy
Hughes and Hon. Minister Charlie Frazer, repre-
sented the Ministry on board. Hume Cook, wearing
a death’s-head-at-the-beanfeast look, spent most of
his time glaring sadly at the brass band and
thinking, of how he wanted to give England a
Dreadnought. Anstey, M.H.R., who pushed
Cook off his Parliamentary perch on the Terrible
Thirteenth, pierced the proceedings with loud
and joyous laughs. Melbourne’s new Gaud Mayor
swam genially with the Labor tide, and Colonel
Stanley told tales in his best English accent to
an admiring circle of “the ladies.”. Youthful
Senator Russell tried to disguise his cheerfulness
in a black plug head-shelter and a black suit, but
kept his broad srnile all day; while Maloney, of
Melbourne, in an artistic hat and whiskers, rushed
continually up and down stairs with cups of tea
for clamorous feminines. It was a gay and tri-
umphant occasion, with Australia grinning a
pleased and triumphant grin all the time.
EXPLANATIONS.
JESS: “No. no, John , really; he was only hold-
ing my glove."
JOHN: “Rut your hand was in it."
JESS: “Oh, do he reasonable. That was a pure
inadvertence .”
Miss Beatrice Grimshaw, in her book
“The New New Guinea,” gives Australia a fine
large advt. After a lengthy residence in Papua
her verdict is that 22 j'ears of direct British con-
trol made up a sum total of unutterable failure,
while during three years of Australian manage-
ment the Possession has become prosperous and
civilised. In all the long period of British control
up to 1906, settlement didn’t get beyond a very
humble 29,000 acres. In 1909 it was about 320,000
acres and still growing fast. And everybody is
pleased except the missionary.
“Goril ” : A serious shooting affray took
place in my Sydney neighborhood last wehk. I
anxiously awaited the arrival of my newsagent
with the Daily Bloodstain that I might gloat
over the details and feast my eyes on the
cross marking the Spot where the policeman
discovered the whitewash brush. I was,
however, disappointed. There were no
startling headlines, no cross, not even
an interview with the milkman
who had told the baker that he
was not surprised, as lie had
had a creepy feeling that
something was going to
happen. In despair, I
consulted the “list of
contents,” and finally
tracked my prey to an
obscure corner of the
paper, condensed into
about a dozen lines,
under a heading not half
so large nor nearly so
black as one devoted to a
wowser blow-out. The
mystery seemed inexplic-
able until it dawned upon
me that the Daily Blood-
stain had recently been
fined £lOO for Contempt or
something in connection*
with another tragedy. And
this is the result! Cheated
out of my wallow by another
gross interference with Private
Enterprise ! What annoys me
most is that the Bloodstain is
voiceless under the wrong. Here
are we, robbed of the liberties for
which our forefathers shed their precious gore,
and the champion of Private Enterprise—now
trodden underfoot—preserves a dreadful dumb-
ness. I am losing faith in the Bloodstain.
■* * * *
The law and the cobwebs sustained a
shock in Sydney Supreme Court lately. A'
country hotelkeeper brought an action against a
gas co. for creating a nuisance—sulphuretted
hydrogen, to wit—in the vicinity of his hotel, and
the plaintiff’s case was conducted for over a fort-
night by his country solicitor, who appeared
before Chief Justice Cullen without gown or
horsehair. The gas co. was represented by a
K.C., a junior counsel, various gents one, chemists,
etc., while the only instructions the countty soli-
citor appeared to receive were from Bung’s comely
daughter. At the finish the jury awarded the
plaintiff £650 compensation, whereupon the Bar
gasped, and Precedent went out and got in a
disgraceful state.
When the Westralian police, after more
than two months’ earnest search, dug up what
they believed to be the mortal tenement of Ethel
Harris, a Sydney morning paper was inspired to
draw its manly frame to its full height and write
on its contents bill the fiercely original remark,
“Murder will out.” It was a comforting obser-
vation, but all the same it is advisable to make
the aboriginal with the axe walk in front just as
of old, and if a large man with a hammer is rush-
ing at you on a lonely road with his mouth full of
execrations, it is best not to pin your faith to the
ability of the law to avenge you, but to run like the
very devil. The solid evidence in the case seems to
be that when the body is found the fact generally
comes out that the cadaver is dead, though the
chance of anybody being convicted of killing the
remains is comparatively small—less than 50 per
cent. When the body isn’t found then nothing
comes out at all, and how often the body isn t
found no one knows. Judging by the amazing
amount of unclaimed luggage in the world,
mysterious disappearance must be pretty fre-
quent, and a heap of mysterious disappearance
must be unfound body. In the present instance
the police had one great ad vantage. Their suspect
owned up to bigamy, and on that charge
they jugged him for two years. So they
had all that time in which to search
for the other girl, and it is wonderful
how much girl can be found in 24 months, or even
in 24 minutes. But for that bigamy charge
the suspect would have had some 10 weeks
in which to take the wings of the morning and go
Crippening to the ends of the earth.
The deceased woman (who may or may not
be Ethel Harris) was found buried in the most
ordinary fashion under an old shed attached to
the foundry where accused worked. So, after
all, he (if he really did it) wasn’t much more original
than the person who buries his victim in a cellar.
But he seems to deserve the medal for
punctuality and business habits. In the last days
of his life with Ethel Harris he was getting the
house refurnished for his approaching marriage
with Mary Jane Pemberthy. Ethel knew nothing
of the approaching marriage, and apparently
thought the new furniture was for her, and lent
the glad hand to put it in order. Whatever her
fate was, a comparison of dates seems to imply
that she didn’t disappear tillalmost the day of the
marriage, so apparently her owner had the use of
her as a hard and earnest worker to the very latest
minute. This idea of getting the last possible
ounce of scrubbing out of the old love before
being on with the new looks ingenious, to put the
matter mildly. Even Queen Elizabeth, though
she had a thrifty mind, didn’t make Mary of
Scotland do plain sewing just priorto herexecution.
* * * *
The main charge levelled at the Australian
woman by her English relation is lack of Vere de
Yere repose, and of that polished “ culchaw ”
which marks the perfect she-gentleman. Never-
theless, there still remains to be discovered the
Australian woman, or even lydy, Who would mob
a public man and “ put the boot into him,” as was
“ DON'T ARGUE!"
HIM: “ There I If you'd hurried a hit we
wouldn't have missed the bloomin' boat.”
HER: “ And if you hadn't hurried so much ue
wouldn't have had so long to Wait for the
next one."
done to Prime Minister Asquith recently by Eng-
lish suffragettes. And they weren’t common clay,
either; the stiffragins included the quite tony
Mrs. Pankhurst, Mrs. Ayrton, Mrs. Cobden, Dr.
Garrett Anderson and Princess Dhuleep Singh
(she who was Lady Anne Coventry). Mrs. Mor-
rison, a sister of Papuan Judge Murray, was also
arrested, as well as Miss Ellen Gibb, who comes
by her predilection honestly, she being a de-
scendant of William Skirving, who was sent to
Botany Bay in 1793 for the crime of advocating
women’s suffrage.
A MEMORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Years hence,” says the S. M. Herali>, “some Maori-
land bard may be writing an ode to the last barmaid.”
That’s all right; but why not have it now in anticipation
of the dark days to be.
Tlie bosky woods are dark, the meads are grey,
Dryad and oread haunt the knolls no more,
Susan and Marv Jane have had their say.
And Joy, affrighted, seeks a kinder shore.
Once in the bowery' shades where youngest heer
Danced in the crystal chalice, I was ware
Of lucent curling locks as sunny clear
As sea-born Cytherea’s rosy hair.
Swift as Aurora pulls the corks of dawn,
And spills the wine of day with fingers pink,
My nectar from its frosted bliss was drawn
While Hebe called my thirsting soul to drink.
Her liquid accents fell upon my heart,
Her soft blue eyes resembled Heaven’s stars ;
She seemed of pubs an elemental part,
A thing akin to whisky and cigars.
Gemmed with the lustre of the storied vine,
Capsuled and corked, strong waters o’er her rose,
As round some clear, deep valley Appenine
Enchanted fountains in the sunset close.
A shepherdess of glasses, daughter bright
Of Dionysius and the mountain dew,
The elder melody of winey night
Breathed all about the lager that she drew.
Ah me, the ways are dark, the nymph and fay
Forsake the bosky woods this many a year,
But errant fancy fondly loves to stray
A-down remembered paths of elder beer.
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.


WON’T YOU USE
what is good and pure?
Those common soaps that
do as much injury as cleans-
ing are never tolerated where i
Sunlight Soap has once Ji
been tried.
No. 67. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
“PURE FOOD ACT, 1903,”
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY. N.S.W. No. 57.
Hunyadi
I Janos i
Is the Best y
Natural Aperient Water
, Bottled at the Springs
L Used the World Over i
B Drink on arising a wineglassful for M
INDIGESTION and
BILIOUSNESS
By Special
Appointment
ĥ
to
Lord Brassev.
ROBERT OVENS,
THE CATERER, Tel. No. 2, Ascot..
MOONEE PONDS,
VICTORIA.
Wedding: Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Ring: "P No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
If you want something really good in the way
of r; zors or razor strops, buy the Diamond Edge brand,
the best that money can buy. Razors 7s. fid. and 1(K fid.
each. Strops 6s. Sold only by the Sole Agent, T. Wild,
Vice-Regal Hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade; entrance
from George or King Streets, Sydney.*
ħ
Fancy Sox
So Fashion
able Now..
The extreme colors of seasons past have given place
to quieter tones —though Fancy Sox are to-day more
fashionable than ever.
Our selection is of fine Cashmere yarn—very durable,
and the color combinations include Myrtle, Black,
Browns and Marine Blue, relieved by harmonising colors.
Price 2/- Pair.
11/6 the Half=Dozen. Postage 6d.
Peapes (Si Co., Ltd.
“MEN'S OUTFITTERS,"
309=311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
From the Old Soldier :
There are some morals to be drawn from the sudden
death of Engineer-Lieutenant Robertson on board the
destroyer Yarra, just as the boat was reaching Melbourne.
The evidence of the commander and Dr. Mollison went
to show that he ought never to have been put in charge of
the vessel’s engines during a long voyage. Said the
doctor: “The autopsy showed that death was due to
suffocation from drowning and to heart disease. . . .
Owing to the marked heart disease, which might of
itself have been fatal, the combination of his fall into
the water with his unhealthy state produced his
death. He was liable to sudden death at any time.”
The Department of Defence should explain how it came
to pass that Robertson, aged 52, was put in charge when
he was in a state of health that rendered him liable to
sudden death. Age and health are the most important
considerations in choosing officers to serve on board
torpedo-craft. What would happen, for instance, if the
engineer-lieutenant in charge of the engines of a
destroyer, in a “ rush,” in the heat of a battle, had a
sudden attack of giddiness and fell? A responsible officer
with a weak heart is a perpetual danger in any executive
position in army or navy. He is liable to leave the men
for whose safety he is responsible in the lurch at the
very moment when there is no one available to take
up his duty. Only the other day a prominent
officer of the Permanent Force died suddenly in N.S.W.
of heart trouble. How many more are suffering in the
same way? Then there are others whose age incapaci-
tates them for efficient service. The great European
armies (and navies, too, for that matter) have set their
faces like flint against the grey-headed sergeant or subal-
tern. In Germany the subaltern who cannot qualify for
promotion within a reasonable time is dispensed with
and can seek service in Russia or Turkey, where he is
welcomed ; while the sergeant, after 12 years’ service,
gets a gratuity of £4O and a civil billet. In France and
Austria they give him another two years. No European
army will keep an officer under colonel till he is 55. But
in Australia—well, what can we think after the two
instances just cited ?
MAKING A CERTAINTY OF IT.
MINUTE: “If you had to choose between me and
half a million pounds, which would you
take? ”
JACK: “ I’d take the half million; after that
you'd be easy.”
Aa a rule, woman can in-
dulge the ruling passion in
regard to her age with-
out having to render
any embarrassing
account on this
side of the tomb,
at any rate; but
sometimes the
light and airy
fib comes home
to roost just
when it ought
to be lying low
in the backyard
of Time. A
venerable Vic-
torian recently
applied for the
old-age pension.
She landed in
Melbourne in
ISG7, then a
buxom young
thing of 34, but
flippantly en-
tered her age
as 20 in the
shipping records
of the time.
Though now 77.
the lie told 43
years ago found
her out, an d
showed her to ho
only C3—two years
under the then
statutory age; and
as she had no docu-
mentary evidence
to support her case,
and carries her
three score and
seventeen remark-
ably well, she had
to clamber over a
mountain range of
difficulties and de-
clarations to establish her claim to the satisfaction
of the Pensions officials. She vows to he strictly
truthful about her age next time she is 34.
* * * *
The fact that Australia is now building, at
Sydney, the first warship ever constructed in the
country, has induced the Freetrade papers, which
have always held that we couldn’t make anything
in this country, to rush in and wave their hats
amid great applause. As long as it dared, the
Freetrade press was a public enemy, and its
theory was that Australian-made clothing was
shoddy and furniture gimcrack ; that locally-made
machinery was no good, and that everything of
the slightest importance, from a dredge to a
Bishop, must be imported. And when, despite
its hostility and abuse and misrepresentation,
Australian industries are established, that same
Freetrade press is found in the front rank, whirl-
ing its ill-gotten tile, and looking as if it was re-
sponsible for the whole business.
■* * * *
So far as is known, the lake Queen Anne
of England never killed time at Windsor by bet-
ting which of two flies would move first; yet her
name was mentioned several times last week in
the Pligh Court in connection with a matter of
the kind. Quite a long time ago, two men, to
whom time was of no immediate value, gambled
heavily on flies, and a promissory note for £3OO
came into being. The 1.0. U. was afterwards dis-
honored, and a cyclone of legal proceedings
started and raged at enormous expense. The
loser took refuge behind a statute of Anne’s,
which provided that all notes given for money
won by gaming should be as worthless as a
maiden’s first spring pome—or words to that
effect. After months or years of hideously ex-
pensive argument, the High Court last week
finally disposed of the matter by remarking at
considerable length that Anne’s statute was as
dead as Anne herself, and that the cash would
have to be paid with Costs. As the two flies and
the 1.0. U. and 35 tons of argument were sifted
through several of the Law’s most valuable heaps
of horsehair. Costs must have been an unusually
gigantic animal.
* * * *
Moved by a recent disaster to a Mallee
farmer, Vic. Attorney-General Brown is said to
be considering how long previous convictions
should endure. The farmer in question, having
the idea that a philanderer was trying to damage
his marriage tie, fired some lead into the inter-
loper, and was convictpd of shooting with intent
to do grievous harm. There was so much excuse
for the lead that Justice Hood was about to re-
lease him as a first offender when he learned that
there stood against the man’s name one previous
conviction —for assault, 25 years ago —so, with
very obvious regrets, the Judge made the
sentence one month’s hard labor. Doubtless
the prosecution is compelled to state such facts,
and the Judge is compelled to take them into
account; and yet all the 25 years of strenuous
endeavor have gone for naught—2s years of such
a clean, honest life that not a soul in the district
knew of the conviction, and even the man’s wife
and children were surprised at it. As the same
Justice Hood said in another case a while back :
“ As society exists at present, a man’s offence is
never expiated.” But the Law needn’t set out to
deliberately repeat society’s foolish cackle and
endorse its silly rules.
THE FRIGHT.
SHE: “How are you , Mr. Brown? Did I tell
you what an awful fright I got at my
wedding?"
HE : “ Quite unnecessary. I went to school with
him.”
The recent appointment of Judge Heydon
as commissioner for the consolidation of the
N.S.W. statutes recalls the fact that it is 10
years since the same Judge acted in a similar
capacity. Members of the junior Bar who were
associated with him in the job split up four figures
among them as a recompense, and none of the
party was asked to pay sixpence for the luxuriant
crop of blunders that were made. One mistake
alone—the omission of the word “this” in a
section of the Public Service Act —cost the State
a mint of money. However, the consolidating
work is very necessary, and if the new Commission
does no more than clean up the existing chaos in
the Lands Acts it will be entitled to a decent
cheque, and Attorney-General Holman, who
appointed it, will have earned a halo very early
in his Ministerial life.
* * * *
When the results of the N.S.W. elections
were declared in October, the first excuse offered
for the Liberal rout was that the Roman Catholic
vote had gone solid for Labor, on the understand-
ing that the church was to receive something sub-
stantial in the education line. Hardly had the
first outraged howls of protest died down than
the Labor Government outlined its education
policy, including the inspection and classification
of all schools, and this is how Cardinal Moran has
returned thanks for his share:—
The politician (he has no claim to the time-honored
name of statesman) who proposes this is a deadly enemy
of every school outside the infidel monopoly of the Stat e.
A treacherous assassin, by deceitful words of glozing
courtesy he would bring us into snares and plunge the
poisoned dagger into the very heart of our Catholic
system.
So far, nobody has apologised for the original
misrepresentation regarding a Labor-R.C. con-
spiracy.
* « * *
“Jack Frosfc ” : Watching the Terra Nova
dipping away towards Taiaroa heads, Port
Chalmers (M.L.) recently, cn route to the South
Pole, I tried to persuade myself that it was the
Pole the party was bound for, and not Davy
Jones’s locker. An old-time whaler of about 500
tons, the ship left drawing 19ft. 3in., and had
considerably less than 2ft. of freeboard. The dogs
were accommodated on the top of the wheel-
house ; dozens of bags of coal were piled on the
ice-house and lashed to the mizzenmast; there
were some even in the crow’s nest. The quickest
way to get from the bow to the stern of the ship
was to drop overboard and float aft. With very
fine weather the party may get to its advertised
destination ; but if the weather is showing its
nasty temper down South, Jonesey will probably
have another consignment on his hands just at a
time when it is natural to expect peace and mirth
and good swill to all men.
Melbourne men have their eye on two
fair secretarial billets. Patterson has resigned
from the National Agricultural Society of Vic-
toria, and Wardill from the Melbourne Cricket-
Club. Each has served his generation of 30 years-
Patterson’s work has been particularly valuable.
He came on the scene when Joubert had been
showing how to run the N.S.W. society. The
Victorian started with the Farmers’ Society, and
had a show on Sydney-road, past the Royal Park.
Then the society moved to St. Kilda-road ; and,
lastly, to the pitch near Flemington racecourse.
Here Patterson has done about as well for his
society as Bagot and Byron Moore have for the
V.R.C. As for Ben Wardill, he found the Mel-
bourne Cricket Club with 572 members and £1513
a year, and leaves it with 5353 memoers and
£13,000 a year ; and he will probably reckon that
epitaph enough.
* * # *
Two of the nastiest knocks dealt out by
Maoriland’s new Licensing Act are aimed at the
locker system and the youth under 21 years. The
legal infant can’t now legally get a drink in a
pub, and Bung is going about scratching his poll
to discover some infallible test for a fledgling’s
age. Hair or lack of it is no good ; teeth are
mostly false; and nothing seems certain but a
birth certificate, and that is only certain when
there is solid evidence that the person men-
tioned in it is the person who wants the
drink. Bung doesn’t want to insult his cus-
tomers, and he doesn’t want to be fined. In
short, he’s between the profit and the deep blue
police. The prohibition of the use of buildings
for the storing or consumption of liquor by others
than the owner will give bowling clubs, Masonic
and other lodges, and sports clubs a twisted knot
to untie. The only way out of it is for the mem-
bers of the Holy Order of Hod Carriers and other
supporters of the Grand Order of the Ancient
Square-face to get loaded before arriving at the
meetings where the right bias is put on the com-
pass, and the Jack is tiled with honors.
MELBOURNE'S PLEASURE RESORTS.
“ Let's toss! Gordons grave or the Zoo!"
THE INTOLERABLE COURT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Counsel appearing before me in this court,” observed
Mr. Justice Pring, during the hearing of an action in No.
3 Jury Court, “ must not adopt the practice of the police
courts. I’ll not tolerate it.” —Neics item,.
There is a Court whose officers
Possess the power to sling
What mud they will; it is not bossed
By Mr. Justice Pring.
Unto that jurisdiction folks
Their foulest linen bring :
They may not wash such goods beneath
The nose of Justice Pring-.
The methods of the legal sharks
Who to that Law Court cling
Would fill with horrified disgust
The soul of Justice Pring.
Low-innuendoes, libels, jeers
Throughout the building ring—
Things that don’t sully the demesne
Of Mr. Justice Pring.
Embittered sneers and half-veiled threats
And sland’rous hints that sting
Go down with mere P. M.’s —but not
With Mr. Justice Pring.
Why the Police Court Justice stands
This noisome sort of tiling
None knows. Vie need not, any more
Than Mr. Justice Pring.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.
A CALL FOR AID!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Beer is running short at Adelaide. Two public-houses
are reported to have already sold out of this liquor and
are unable to obtain an additional supply. —Appalling
Strike Telegram.
Awful news arrives by wire—
News that brings us grief and ire—
News that makes us all perspire,
Ay ! and sets the land on fire,
While thermometers shoot higher
Than a Holy City spire ! . . .
We are Fortune’s sport.
Would the message were a liar !
But—ah, woe to son arid sire !
Dread and dolorous and dire
Comes from the infernal choir,
Dancing round Hope’s funeral pyre.
Tidings wowsers might desire
And teetotalers admire.
This it is—the law-defier,
And the would-be liquor-buyer
Are as Nineveh and Tyre !
Beer is running short !
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


DEAKIN TRIES HIS HAND AT HYPNOTISM.
What all the encronohments, invasions and seizures that will be covered by these amendments are, no legal authority can yetany; hut, assuredly, on the narrowest reading, they
anthorise the Caucns to precipitate a politieal, social and industrial rovolution, affecting the whole of the commonwealth and its continent.-Deakin, calling on the Australian people
to role against giving themsdves further power to govern themsehes.
SVENGALI DEAKIN: "Look into the glass, my Trilby, What do you see there? You see a monster who is going to rob you, and starve
you, and trample you underfoot,”
AUSTRALIA: “Garni Why, that’s my own reflection. You don’t think I’m going to trample myself underfoot, do you?"


GOLDEN YELLOW
AXLE GREASE.
A Pure Oil Lubricant for
a ll Axles and Bearing's.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
DIAMONDS
REDUCED
ENORMOUSLY.
Black Opal, surrounded by
choice Diamonds, £2O.
Choice Diamonds and one
Whole Pearl, £lO.
In all Diamonds,
£l2/12/-
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Bing's, Pendants, and Jewellery generally, at prices
never before attempted in Australia.
WHY? Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls for an enormous output, and we have
to live up to it, and so we are offering 1 all Diamond goods at merely a commission on the actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisement and the increase of customers.
Plain Figures'
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“ Oulax ” : The nimble mosquito in Wes-
tralia is up against it hard. .Recently he was
matched agaipst a host of tadpoles imported from
Barbadoes, one to win. Since then the Standard
Oil Trust has come to the help of the miniature
whales, and oil is being poured on the fluid
wherein Mosquito, jun., has his cradle. It is too
early to say which of the trio will thrive best on
the light diet; but my anticipations are: Oil
Trust, 1; Mosquito, 2; Tadpole, 3.
NAMING THE ANIMALS.
ADAM (as airship sails over Eden). " Heiph!
Quick, Ere! Herds another one. What’ll
we call it!”
Was watching a flock of close
on 50 ibises feeding the other day. All the birds
were black, with the exception of one, which was
a beautiful white, and I was struck by the fact
that this snowball invariably kept at least a chain
away from the others. Could Abo. writers say
whether the blacks draw the color line, or does
the white ibis consider himself above the com-
mon herd ?
IN THE GADFLY SEASON.
LITTLE REGINALD: “ We’re going abroad next week. You fellows ever been abroad?"
“Yarrum” A peculiarity of our Aus-
tralian darky is that he habitually double-banks
his questions Thus “ King Paddy,” who reigned
over the Wollongong (N.S.W. South Coast) blacks,
and held his court near the Tom Thumb lagoon
when writer was a small boy, used to ask : “ How
you parder? Old boy putty well?” or “ How
you rnarder? Old gal putty well?” or “ How all
at home? All at home putty well ?” Patsy, it is
said, died of a broken heart after his good Queen
Bess had been wiped out by rum, a bad leg and
other things. Anyhow, he never smiled again—
and he had been a beggar to smile. A son of the
old king was a famous batsman at Albion Park a
few years ago. His wrist-work was perfect, and
that’s one of the reasons why he was called Ranji.
* * * *
“L.M.R.”. “Miner” (B. 10/11/’10)
speaks of the savageness of the dingo, and in-
stances a mailman, near Coolgardie, who had the
run of his life to keep away from a starving pack.
I have done a fair bit of cycling, and have a few
“fastest times” to my credit; yet a cattle-dog,
which often accompanies me, finds no difficulty in
keeping in front on the best stretches of road.
Had those dingoes meant business, that Cool-
gardie rider would never have had the oppor-
tunity of buying the ale that must have given
birth to the incident. But they didn’t mean
business ; they never do. As a cur the real dingo
is the limit, and wouldn’t hurt pussy. When
crossed with other dogs, however, notably the
kangaroo dog, they become pretty savage, and
have been known to attack yearling calves. But
a man—rats ! In the district where lam at pre-
sent (Moonie Scrub, Queensland) dingoes are as
plentiful as foxes are in Yic.; but settlers don’t
lose any good sleep worrying about the safety of
their wives and kiddies.
*- * «
“ Pick ” . I want to bog into the wet sheep
disturbance, and claim right of way on the grounds
that (1) lam prepared to back my shearing tally
for drinks against any former writer on the sub-
ject, and (2) I took a hand in the formation of the
Shearers’ Union in 1885, previous to which shearers
had to barber the jumbucks at,the sweet will of
the shed bosses, whether wet or dry. The clamor
for a mechanical appliance to decide whether wool
is wet or dry is rot. Any station-hand except,
perhaps, the jackeroo, can pick out wet sheep at a
glance by the darkened and unfuzzied appearance
of the fleece ; or, if partly dry, by its clammy feel-
ing and absence of yoke-stickiness. Nevertheless,
disputes do arise among experts, and the reason is
invariably this : The squatter and his jacketers,
who want the sheep shorn at all hazards—because
when the shearers are off duty the weekly men’s
wages are going on—will examine the sheep on
the back, whence they can pluck handsful of dry
wool to exhibit in proof of their contention that
the sheep are fit to shear ; but the shearer, with
his health to preserve, feels under the neck or
brisket, where the wool will remain wet for hours,
or even days, after that on the back has become
quite dry. And it needn’t have rained, either, to
make sheep wet. I have run against more than
one owner who bested strike shearers in court
with weather-record evidence that proved there
had been no rain in the locality. In those cases
the Bench did not know, perhaps, that the yoke of
wool will mop up moisture, so that it requires only
a frost, dew or fog to make the sheep too wet to
shear. Or the Bench itself might have been a
sheep-owner, which would account for the milk in
the cocoanut and divers other things.
“E.S.S.” (B. 17/11/TO) writes
so glibly on the subject of black cockatoos that
one might easily be led to believe he had just read
all about them in a natural-history book ; but his
vivid description of the bird feeding its young
in November saves him from that charge. The
funereal cocky breeds in the early winter months,
so the young are playing a. lone hand long before
November. Moreover, the black cockatoos do
not saw branches right off. . Their bills are in-
capable of sawing anything. They get at con-
cealed grubs by pulling, tearing and splitting
great splinters off the generally dead tim-
her. Also, they do not fly especially low at
the approach of rain, though popular tra-
dition will have it so. They fly low
at the approach of any kind of
weather; in fact, whether weather
is approaching or quitting, they fly
low. Finally, half the species lays
one white egg only, and not two.
As to the great palm cockatoo,
“ E.S.S.” omitted to mention
what strikes me as the most in-
teresting fact that can be told
about it. This bird nests in a
hollow, open at the top, which it
fills to a foot in depth with chips,
carried in from neighboring trees.
On top of these the eggs are laid,
and when rain comes the mois-
ture percolates through the chips
to the bottom of the hollow, leaving
eggs or young high and dry.
“MaginnisMagee”: “Spear” (8.3/11/’10)
is evidently of the opinion that the Northern Ter-
ritory practice of bartering gins is confined to
black brother. Such is not the case. On several
stations upon which writer grafted and otherwise
worked we were allowed a fairly liberal scale of
rations. Nottheold “10, eight, two and aquarter”-
but a bit over and “ extras.” Amongst the latter
a gin was included if you were working away from
the station. Certainly you were not compelled to
accept her ; but few declined the lady’s company,
especially as nothing was offered in lieu thereof.
When you tired of your “housekeeper” you
simply exchanged her for somebody else’s, and
often gave or received “so much to boot.” Swap-
ping gins, in the part I write of, was as common
as swapping dogs—or lies. As to gins being pun-
ished by their tribal husbands for indiscretions,
the custom is still common. On Avon Downs
Station, via Camooweal, a gin who had an appar-
ently incurable habit of “walking about,” was
very effectually cured by having her walking
apparatus held in a fire until they were half
cooked. As for “Vigilans’s” remarks on stud
gins (B. 3/11/TO), I can assure him the ladies are
as common on several Queensland cattle stations
as stud cows, and on one station “ Vigilans ” can
have his pick of a haif-dozen. Nominally, they
are “housemaids” or “laundresses,” just as
Flossie in the cities gives her occupation on the
electoral rolls as “domestic duties.”
“ Solantes ”: An Abo scribe recently
went nap on the thrush as the most docile bird in
the Australian bush. Book me for the robin red-
breast. I don’t know his Latin name, but he is
usually to be found perched on the lowest twig of
the Gumleafus Eucalyptus, or the Roadum Sidum.
Up here, on the Blue Mountains (N.S.W;). he is
quite tame, and comes round the tents, and even
inside, in search of a square feed ; albeit blasting
operations are carried on all day close to the camp.
The male bird wears a bright, red breast, with
black wings slashed with white, and a white top-
knot or cap. The female is rather dingy'-looking,
and might be a WowSeress. I" have cultivated a
bowing acquaintance with quite a number Of these
birds by splitting dead timber, and, thus creating
an easily accessible supply of termites and other
insects. Last year an old couple, who had nested
near by, converted the domestic wood heap into a
nursery, and the young robs were supplied with
about 279 Australian quick lunches daily, what
time I did the catering, hy collecting pieces of
sodden bark containing insects. Anyhow, I’ll go
four on the robin.
“ Vigilans ” : Three years ago all the work
on the sheep stations in West Kimberley, on
the D'e Grey, Ashburton, Murchison and other
rivers, was done by the blacks.: The only white
men employed were the manager, storekeeper,
shear-sharpeners, a jaekeroo or two and a car-
penter. At shearing time the De Grey station
was a striking sight. The board comprised 24
black shearers ; picking up was,done by gins, and
sweeping by' piccaniniiies. A black did most' of
the classing. Pressing, sewing the bales and mark-
ing were all done by Binghis; and the bullock
waggons were driven to Condon by aboriginal
Billjims, who brought back the stores. As a
special inducement to get a move on, an
extra stick of tobacco was awarded each
barber who shaved over 50 jumbucks a day.
But their tucker was the reoord. ■ They
would noteat mutton, and kangaroo was used as
a substitute, a large number of dog's being kept to
supply requirements. Three times a day every
black brother and sister would go in one door, re-
ceive a junk of damper, and leave by another
door, dipping his jam-tin into the tea boiler as he
passed. Sunday was pay day. Great Dingoes !
Muster took place in front of the house. The
males wore dungaree trousers rind either a highly-
colored football jersey or a singlet; the females
had on a skirt and a singlet; the youngsters went
in the altogether. It was a weird sightbut the
payment was weirder. After the roll was called,
each nig. received his wages mostly in “ nigger
tobacco.” Shearing over, black brother was sent
off on his walk-about, the squatter supplying him
with a few bags of flour, a bag of sugar, some tea,
tobacco and a few garments. The fancy gins
received robes of a glaring pattern. They were
delighted. “Come back next shearing,the boss
would remark as a parting salute. Cheap labor !
What do you think ? A recent Bulletin contri-
butor mentioned that the . same thing is still
carried on ; but I hardly think so, for when I left
Kimberley rapid reforms were already being
made.
THE BLESS-
INGS OF
CIVILISA-
TION.
BOUNDARY
RIDER (to
black, yin,
crouched out-
side the hut):
“ What's the mat-
ter, Jinny? Where’s Jimmy?”
GIN (fearfully): "Me frightened. Jimmy in
debble temper puttin’ on new tshirt collar.”
“ J. 5.8.” : Souter’s swagman in “ A Half-
minute Job ” (B. 10/11/’lO) doesn’t know his job.
When will Australian artists learn that the swag-
man does not carry a stick, or tie his billycan to
hi£ swag?
»*■ - * *
“ Bidgee Be white hawks (B. 3/11/’10),
Tasmania has them, too. I have seen five on the
East Coast in the last 20 years. Albino swans
have also been seen on Moulting Lagoon. A few
years ago they were fairly numerous.
A SONG OF INCOHERENT SUMMER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
s.s.w.
The happy sun is shining
On bridal blossoms white ;
The happy bee is dining
From gleaming morn till night,
And every rose is twining
A wreath for my delight.
The world is full of glory,
And shining pound on pound
The sun that,warns the,Tory
Is drawing from the ground;
I love the old, old story
That tells how Fat grew round.
The happy snake is gliding
Amid Australia’s hair;
The native cat is hiding
Each wild and golden share ;
The land-tax is dividing
Broad acres everywhere.
The city lies a-dreaming,
The park is trim and sleek ;
The watered street is steaming
Along the tram way streak ;
And Celia’s rose is gleaming
On either satin cheek.
Cool evening down the harbor,
Cool night upon the steep,
I sit in Celia’s arbor
And feel the breezes sweep,
Or watch a shaky star bore
Holes in the water’s sleep.
The world is rich with beauty
On shining land and sea ;
The air is crisp and fruity
That quivers up to me ;
Delight has dreams of loot he
May {father like the bee.
The eve is good for loving,
lted lips are good to taste—
All pigeoning and doving
Should be devoid of haste —
Now, Celia, don’t get shoving
Your arm around my waist!
I love the summer season
That makes the fish go bad,
When thirst proclaims the treason
Of each unmalted fad,
When seas are void of reason,
And stars are gently mad.
Wherefore I sound the tabor,
Wherefore I break in song;
I want to love my neighbor
Whose lustrous hair is long,
And chant a stave of Labor
To prove that toil is wrong.
PAT O'MAORI.


Hotel
A ustra/ia
TARIFF :
From 13 - per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALT.; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Instrumental and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
Connected with Wireless.
J. URE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Don’t Persecute
your Bowels
Why use harsh purgatives ? They are brutal
—harsh—unnecessary. Try ““
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS.
Purely vegetable. Act
gently on the liver, elim-
inate bile, and soothe
the delicate membrane
of the bowel.
Cure
tion, Bilious-
ness, Sick
Headache, _
and Indigestion, as millions know.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
Carters
SPITTLE
■ IVER
l^s
The Rapid Healer
Rexona provides the latest short cut of science
to a complete remedy for pimples, boils, sores,
wounds and skin diseases generally. Which road
will you take, reader? The old-fashioned, tedious,
long way round, full of irritations, relapses and
delays, or the short cut to the rapid remedy which
modern science has provided you in the shape of
Rexona. Sold in triangular pots at Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Seasons change, Spring, Summer, Autumn,
Winter. Wolfe’s Schnapps at all seasons.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisme. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
“ J. 5.8.” : Re the maternal instinct in
animals. A couple of years ago, on a N.S.W.
station, I had a little bitch in an interesting con-
dition. For a fortnight before the event came off
she used to steal my two-weeks-old incubator-bred
chickens and carry them off to her kennel. In no
instance did she ever damage even a feather, and
I’m certain the little woman did it because she
reckoned the babies were short of a mother. Of
two half-Alderney heifers, broken in together on
the same station, one died, whereupon the other
took charge of the motherless calf, in addition to
her own. In a drought it is a common thing to see a
ewe drop her lamb, and then clear out from the spot
as if a warrant or a wowser was after her ; but I
have never seen any other four-legged animal do
the same.
THE REST OF THE WORLD BUT
AN ECHO.
STRUŤERLONG (of Australia's Premier Dramatic
Organisation): “We are going to give your
town a show for one night. How do you
think it will take?”
EDITOR OF THE SNAKE GULLY CHRONICLE: “I
wouldn't like to say. The last show we had
was about 20 years ago , and the citizens
didn't cotton to 'em. Mind you , the Snake
Gully audience is the most critical in the
world."
MINING IN-
SPECTION.
STRANGER : “ Any
chance of being
taken down here?”
MINER: "My oath,! Just you hup a lot of the company's scrip!”
“G.R.F.”: The Lacipede Islands, in the
Indian Ocean, a score or so of miles westward of
Beagle Bay (W.A.), are one of the favorite resorts
of the greenback turtle. In the evenings, they
climb out of the ocean, waddle up the beach above
high-water mark, scratch a hole in the sand
and deposit their eggs, some 80 at a time. The
males hang round and kind of superintend the
fob. The missus then covers over the eggs
with sand, and the pair waddle back into the
Indian Ocean. The sun hatches the eggs in
due course, and the babies, as soon as they
free themselves from sand, toddle off also
into tbe Indian Ocean, where they grow big
and juicy, like their parents, whom they never
saw. The turtle is a funny looking cuss,
with big brown eyes. The first one I
saw at close quarters was a big chap on
board a pearling lugger. I was inclined to
be friendly, and put my hand out to stroke
him on the forehead, when he shot out his
head to the full length of his telescopic neck
and nearly snapped my hand off. I lost
interest in him after that, until I saw how a
Malay deck-hand was treating him. The
Malay had turned him on his back and cut
off the breastplate, revealing all his internal
machinery. His hands were steeped in the
turtle’s gore as he cut off steaks. The turtle
was alive, and agony was shining out of his
eyes. “Here, kill that thing,” I said;
“chop off its head.” The Malay did so,
but the eyes still looked at me appealingly;
so I threw the head into the water, where it im-
mediately fastened on to a water snake and sank.
I then turned to the body of the turtle. It was
still alive, the muscles twitching and the heart
beating. It remained like that for hours.
* # * *
“ Languid Lou ”: Remember one of
“Pannikin’s” southern, vanity-stricken, bugle-
blowing coachdrivers on his first trip in the far
north-western Boiling Downs country. On enter-
ing the town he let loose a “ Here-I-come-get-
your-cheers-ready ” blast. None of the languid
inhabitants hurried to comply, so on drawing up
to the pub-post-office he let go another. The
only response was from the khaki-covered Law,
who emerged from the bar, and in a tired tone
remarked : “’Ere, if it’s liquor you’re blowin’ for,
sling us your bugle, and let’s fix you up. But
doan’do it again. The cimi try’s’and v, and we
aren’t too certain if Skinny Joe was dead or on’y
in a trarnse, and we don’t want to take any risks.”
“W.C.M.”: This rabbib inspection in
N. S. Wales is a miserably futile sort of a busi-
ness. A rabbit inspector generally has a district
as large as a couple of European duchies, and he
is expected to visit and report upon all the hold-
ings. The inspector is appointed by the Pas-
tures Protection Board, which is composed of
the most influential Squatters and station
managers in the district. Naturally, the
inspector gives a clean bill to the runs of
these squatters and their pals; but to
show he is in earnest, generally comes
down upon some selector, who is there-
upon dragged to a police court and fined
£1 and costs. Occasionally, I admit, odd
station-owners are brought up; and, in
that case, they also are fined a whole £1
and costs. If they have been really neg-
lecting the rabbits, they are then still in
pocket. The method of a rabbit inspector
is generally to go to the station home-
stead, put up for the night, and then be
driven by the owner or manager round
the run, where there are no rabbits,
or where a man is spreading a bit of pol-
lard. Report reads then : “ Rabbit
destruction well attended to ; rabbits
decreased since last visit.” A selec- ,
tor’s place will be driven through
and “ Good day ” said in a superior j
sort of tone ; and the report, if not
actually adverse, will be the faint \
praise that damns. The P.P. Board
demands that the selector shall kill
rabbits first, last and all the time.
Never mind if he hasn’t time to make
a dam to get a drink for his sheep or
family ; if he doesn’t start straight away on
the rabbit he is up before the “ beak ” at once.
Maybe his next door neighbor is swarming with
rabbits; but then he's on the P.P. Board. It
seems all so puerile—such a futile, paltry sort of
way of tackling the pest.
* * * *
A fresh aboriginal item from Penshurst
(Vie.) concerns a sheep with a starling’s nest in
its wool. The nest contained one egg. Anxious
inquiries are now being made for a pig with a hen
sitting in its ear.
* * * *
“Stan”: Re “J. 1.8.” on the subject of
Matildas (B. 10/11/T0). .1 rise without apology to
say that the type of swag which he describes as
the Queensland article was never yet seen
on Coast, “Out-West,” “Hinterland,” “Back
Country,” “ Gulf ”or any other track soever. I
have travelled with the maid all over the Downs,
the sugar centres, metal regions, the fly-cursed
West and some little of the Gulf, and have met
and camped with many hundreds of other bag-
men, but never yet have I seen such a fearsome
contraption as “J. 1.8.” incubates from his imag-
ination. The Queensland Matilda is rolled tight
in the shape of a log, and strapped up with three
straps (never six); a towel or broad strap of
leather is passed between the swag and straps
before buckling up, sufficient sag being allowed to
form a loop, which represents the carrier. The
nose-bag is tied on to the off shoulder-strap, and
hangs (when in action) on the opposite shoulder.
Modes of carrying differ with the peculiar ideas of
the bearers ; there is no common rule.
From the Secretary to the Foreign Affairs
Department in the Republic of Ants of North
Queensland :
Mv attention has been called to some remarks made by
one “ Leo Lear,” in the Bulletin of October 20,1910, con-
cerning the foolishness of ants. lam informed that
this “Leo Lear” is one of the race called humans,
and the Hon. the Minister declines to acknow-
ledge these animals as judges of what is folly.
The Hon. the Minister instructs me to say that he
was having his usual siesta beside a running creek north
of Cairns, when a man-animal suddenly shot out of the
scrub, carrying a dish of dirt. He dumped the dish into
the creek and scrubbed the muck in it with his hands,
agitating the mixture occasionally by violently shaking
the dish. Finally, when he had reduced the contents of
the dish to sand, he allowed the water to flow in and out
of the dish, and each wavelet was allowed to carry away
a small quantity of theeontents of the vessel until it w’as
empty. He then looked hard at the dish, and finally
kicked it into the middle of the creek. He also jumped
on his hat; after which he pulled off some encumbrances
from his legs, plunged into the water, and retrieved the
dish, calling himself many and varied kinds of idiots as
he disappeared once more in the thick scrub with the
dish under his arm. This confirmed the Hon. the Minis-
ter that, in the matter of foolishness, the man-animal
can lick creation.
* ** *
Tales told on the honor of “ Chloe ” :
Re the recuperative power of black brother — and sister.
Saw a gin on a station near Port Hedland (W.A.), who had
been attacked by her man with a bludgeon. Her skull
was horribly fractured, the brains protruding, and other
serious injuries had been inflicted, making first-aid a
tough and revolting proposition. Doctor and police were
sent for, Jennie—the injured gin—being meanwhile in
the care of the tribal medicine-man and other gins.
When the doctor came he pronounced the case hopeless,
though he removed the native dressing of charmed clay
and leaves, and substituted his own. By daylight next
morning the native dressings had been replaced, and
the patient was making a hard fight for life. The man
had been removed to the lockup at Port Hedland. The
next morning the Hedland doctor was awakened by the
sound of the crooning of a native song outside
his bungalow, and going out found the broken-skulled
gin lively enough to have walked the 11 miles from the
station to get her man out of a scrape. “ Look here, you
big pfeller doctor, you bin let my Kandy come back bush.
He no hit me down that time. Big pfeller debil-debil he
sit down alonga camp, him bin beat my head. No
Kandy, Him all right good pfeller. You bin let him go.”
And seeing that missing brain-cells and shattered skulls
were a bagatelle in the menage of Kandy and co., the
doctor let him go.
On a later occasion an old native found a bottle (quart)
of medicine known locally as “ corpse reviver,” used in
cases of divers’ paralysis. Mistaking it for rum, the old
nigger took a long, long drink —“ enough to kill four
Malay seamen,” said the doctor—and naturally was
soon tied up with the most violent spasms.
The rain-maker and medicine-man arrived on the
spot. He threw the patient on the ground, and
danced a long fandango on his abdominal regions to the
accompaniment of the weirdest yells—the latter to scare
away the debil, who was playing pranks with the old
man’s innards. When the patient showed signs of col-
lapse from the poison and treatment combined, the
dancer would stop long enough to allow him to be lifted
erect, turned upside down, rolled over and given brief
breathing space; and then the can-can commenced
again. The performance Was brought to a sudden close
by the patient gripping the feet of the energetic dancer
so forcibly and suddenly that he turned a somersault.
This was taken as a hint that he was now well enough to
be left severely alone. Next dav the old nigger was as
well ns ever.
THE SOCIAL CLIMBER.
“Why Mary Urn build te whare up so high ?”
"Oh, Mary she want be te stuck-up thing like te
pakeha lady!"
“Culax”: I hereby warn “Gil” to dis-
regard the insult that “Pick” (B. 10/11/TO)
heaves at the nimble rabbit when he accuses .Tack
of being unable to abstain from liquid refresh-
ment for more than three days or a week. Have
shaken paws with Mr. Bunny at various spots in
W.A. In the spinifex, east of Linden, there is
no water available for the domestic purposes of
the rabbit for months at a time. Yet Bunny
continues to move, live and keep his dust cloak in
fair repair. Likewise, I’ve known of a ’roo living
in a waterless paddock for two months. If
“ Pick ” disbelieves this he can go and inspect the
paddock for himself.
A MATERIALISTIC RHYME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Happiness is generally a thing of indirect approach.
The direct attack is short-lived, and its results shallow.
Eating and drinking, playing games and looking at sports,
theatre-going and novel-reading—these and such things
as these are the direct attack on happiness. They are
good so far as they go, but they go a very small distance.
The true solution is probably to have a hobby.—Mel-
bourne Argus, IS/D/MO.
The rainbow bubble of joy we hunt as hard as we
can —we do !
We follow the will-o’-the-wisp of bliss the hurrying
seasons through ;
We eat and play and swill and—well, existence is far
from drear
When hot roast beef is our daily lot, with vegetables and
beer 1
We punt, we go to the play, we spend our silver in
crowded bars,
We hunt for happiness in the smoke of our cronies’ best
cigars ;
By sixpenny dreadfuls do we seek our cobwebby minds to
clear.
And, every day, with luck, we grab at the pleasures of
beef and beer.
Yes, beer and beef, and greens to match, with a pudding
or so as well—
Our gloom and discontent these things undoubtedly help
to quell;
And, though a hobby for some men means their happi-
ness and good cheer —
Oh, well, a hobby is right enough ; but gimme the beef
and beer 1
In the raising of new sweet peas there may be joy for the
soul-sick one ;
The heavy of heart may cake to Sloyd and hammer his
thumb, for fun ;
Who knows in what of a thousand ways true happiness
may appear ? . . .
There must be lots for the bloke who makes a hobby of
beef and beer!
Some chaps, indeed, of a curious breed, And needlework
not amiss,
Their souls uplifted by silken strands to a level of perfect
bliss;
But I am happy when I am fed, and faddists may gibe
and sneer,
But I maintain that the joys of life are founded on beef
and beer.
A hobby is all very well, you know, for those who are
built that way ;
The amateur agriculturist may harvest his ounce of hay ;
The amateur fretwork-fiend may carve a frame for his
ownest dear,
And the limit of happiness thus be theirs— but me for the
beef and beer!
VICTORIA.
PRANK HENTY.


I. “Christmas comes but once’t a year 1 ” I
xclalmed the day the Christmas Bulletla went to
press.
111. « Come hither, Cafiow Youth,” he said, somewhat gentler “
teH do you fully realise the true significance of this here ho"y
11. “Yes, and thank Heaven for that!” grumbled
old “ Hop,” with his 11 children and a mother-law
with no other visible means of support.
IV. *'l think I do,” I says, “It signizes that you always swears a lot
when the Editor asks you to put up a page for the Christmas Number —
somethin’ quite fresh and new about ‘ Yule Tide.’ ”
V. " Well, I’ll tell you wot Christmas time meant to me when I was a
boy, and you shall illustrate it.”
f And this is what I done. See below. J
1. “Well,” continued old “Hop,” “I was generally woked by
candlelight on Christinas morn with an icycle thrust under the
blankets among my legs.”
[ 3. .«After which 1 proceeded to the
gooseipond, and dug a goose out of the
ice for dinner.— They generally got I
frozen-in onwinternights/V^^^^^J
2..“ Then, after lighting the kitchen
fire, I went out and ciiopped enough
■wood to last all day.”
& v° V
v>Vv°
*• % s<v „
Xv<V. V °
V
5. “ I forget whether 1 milked the cows
before or after 1 fed tne pigs ; but that,
after all, is a mere detail.”
6. “ After the cat
and the dog had been
fed ” ——
7. “ Then I had my Christmas
breakfast—simple, but filling.”
8. “After breakfast I went out add
shovelled a jfath through the snow to
the church in time for the morning
Christmas serviced”
9. “After Sunday-school 1 was taken
to the neighboring cemetery to see my
grandfather’s grave for a Christmas
treat. Then I watered and fed the stock
some more, chopped some more wood,
shelled corn till 10 p.m., said my
prayers, and went to bed.’*
CHRISTMAS IN THE OLDEN TIME .-(lllustrated by “Hop's" Understudy.)


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
IVPTAN CQQ
tn ML
We are Born to
offer Benefit*
THE INSURANCE OFFICE
1 OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Head Office-
-263 George St., Sydney.
Complete Cover will be
granted promptly against
your liability under
The Workmen’s Compen-
sation Act, 1910.
WRITE AT ONCE.
H. H. Stock feld \
B. 8. Doherty j
Joint
Manager*,
BEST FOB CHILDREN.
There is no narcotic or other harmful substance
in Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. It can be given
to a baby as confidently as to an adult. It is
pleasant to take, and always cures, and cures
quickly. It is a favorite with mothers of small
children.*
Collins Brothers send samples of their diaries;
and the man or woman who can’t get “the very thing
that was wanted ” out of the remarkably-diversified lot
will never be satisfied in this world,
Trade Mart
AND
rat
m
For...
Outdoor Workers
Cooling
Refreshing'
Thirst Quenching
PERSONAL
ITEMS
CALMING HIS FEARS.
Behind the Single Chamber conspiracy lurks Socialism.
— Mr. A. J. Balfour, London.
THE HIGH COMMISSIONER : “ Don’t be afraid,
old man. We tried it over in Australia,
and it’s quite harmless."
Captain Bremner, one of Botany Bay’s
oldest salts, badly wanted to live to be 100, but
reached port the other day at 92. He was one of
the first explorers of the IST.S.W. coast, and knew
a lot about Twofold Bay before Berry came and
saw and collared.
Telegraph Editor Ward’s athletic son is
the Ma State’s newest Rhodes scholar. The
young man, who cuts a fine figure as an oarsman,
has just got through a brilliant medical course,
and will patch humanity at Sydney Hospital
pending his shipment to Europe and more study
in patchwork.
Jack Verran, although Premier of S. Aus.,
has not given up his old miner’s home at Moonta.
There, every Sunday, his children and grand-
children meet regularly in a big family gathering.
He has 15 sons and daughters, so the congregation
is a pretty big one, for the third generation is
coming along well.
Donald Campbell, M.L.A., one of the
recruits of the S.A. Labor party, is studying law.
He passed in all his University subjects last year,
and again this year, being top or second in all of
them. Campbell is a quiet man with a weary
drawl, who loads his gun with humorous sarcasm,
and doesn’t often sit down without making some
pretentious “Liberal ” feel uncomfortable.
Bishop Wilson, who for 16 years has been
head of the Anglican missions in Melanesia, in-
tends to resign next year. He’s a married man
with a family, and has come to the opinion that
the head shepherd of the island sheep should be a
single man, with headquarters in the mission-
boat. It is not unlikely that he may presently
hang up his shovel hat in the Auckland Palace,
recently vacated by Brother lx el igan.
Melbourne’s new Dean, Stephen, is almost
the only one of his cloth who is a militant White
Australian. After he had spoken on this tack in
the last Church Congress, a prelate referred him
to the text which says that God has made the
nations of the earth of one blood. Stephen: “I
am extremely glad that this has been cited,
because it allows me to quote the other part,
which says that God has fixed the bounds of the
habitation of the different people.”
According to the particulars filed at
Somerset House—the establishment where John
Bull’s companies have to expose their hands, more
or less —L. D. Doolette receives £43,750 cash, his
father (G. P. Doolette) £37,500 cash, and V. F.
Shallcross £0250 cash out of the Bullfinch (W.A.)
flotation. They also get among the three of them
202,500 shares, nominally worth £l, but recently
worth as much as £3. Unfortunately for “first
robbers,” however, the London and some other
Stock Exchanges have a nasty habit of declaring
that “ vendors’ shares ” are not good tender for
six months or more after the co. has been formed.
Old John Mitchell, who had been pursuing
the Law and the Profits in Hobart for 40 years or
more, died lately, leaving a will that might easily
have been written on a Tasmanian postage stamp.
He was unmarried, and his,£9o,ooo or thereabouts
is cut up among his brother (the ex-Auditor
General) and his two sisters. There isn’t a child
among the three. Charities get nothing, and
John Mitchell’s old clerks get the same. They
didn’t even score a parcel of the tracts that lawyer
John used to distribute at the hospital on Sun-
days.
John Murray, it seems, is proud of his
excessive weariness. Blowing his bugle with the
rest on the occasion of the return of Beaurepaire,
he told a Melbourne crowd : “I was once a dis-
tinguished swimmer. I could slumber for hours
floating on my back.” If John Murray had won
the Battle of Waterloo, his dispatch would have
run something like this: “A great battle was
fought here yesterday. There was a good deal of
noise, but not enough to disturb me. I think the
British won. On this point, however, I am not
vet in a position to” . And at that stage
John would probably decide to let even the dis-
patch slide.
Dan Cooper, who holds the Australian
shearing record, the other day dropped a note to
Joseph Gilshewen, manager of Warrego Sheep
Shearing Co., mentioning that he would shear
George Delaney for £50 —which seems a good deal
to pay for shearing even a Warrego warrior. He
also stated that he wouldn’t mind shearing Fred
Liinmerlie, champion barber of South Queens-
land, but he wants anything from £lOO to £lOOO
for that job. Liinmerlie has accepted Cooper’s
challenge, and money has been put up. The bar-
bering will take place at Charleville ; and West-
ern Queensland, which simply overflows with
“ big gun ” shearers, will soon be a 3 excited over
it as the rest of the world was over the Jeffries-
Johnson tea-party. So “ the gate ” will be worth
having.
Jack Scaddan, leader of the W.A. Labor
party, is an unfathomable proposition to the
wowser. Being a total abstainer himself, the
wowser expected great things of him; yet
when the Licensing Bill was before the
Assembly recently he proposed to allow Bung
to trade during a few specified hours on
Sundays, under stringent control, with heavy
penalties for breaches. This was to meet the
present conditions on the goldfields, where
the Sunday-closing clauses of the existing
Act are practically ia dead letter. Scad-
dan’s idea—and he knows the goldfields—is
that it is better to have a little regulated
Sunday traffic than a lot of Sunday traffic
that isn’t regulated at all ; but the row that
he stirred up in the wowser camp was like
that of a menagerie wakened at midnight by
27 devils armed with hot pitchforks.
It is noteworthy that while Tait, the
Canadian gentleman who made such a heap of
history (or burial) as Chief Boss of Victorian
railways, started at £3OOO a year, rising to
£3500, his successor, the much more capable
Fitzpatrick, starts at £2750. The only visible
reason is that he has grown up in the Vic. rail-
ways, and his ability is well known, while Tait
was a rash imported experiment.
Education Minister Coneybeer (S.A.) has
broken down after a strenuous session, and for two
weeks was so ill that visitors were not allowed to
see him. He has been the most vigorous elec-
tioneering force in the State’s Labor party for 17
years, and it is largely due to his influence that
Labor has put in all five members for Torrens at
several successive elections.
STRIKING A DOUBLE.
PETER : “ Young Muggles’s intentions mag be
honorable, but I always fancy I detect the
cloven hoof."
MATER : “ Yes, and I've noticed the same thing
about his breath."
The iii’st brief J. L. Purves ever got came
from his cousin, the late Harry Budd. Pufves
was impatiently waiting for his “maiden,” so
Budd, then in his articles, prepared a fictitious
brief and had it passed on to the victim, who
proudly told his sisters, cousins and aunts, and
chortled over it to Budd as well. At this point
the yarns told by the two men stray apart.
Purves’s version was that he discovered the hoax
and the hoaxer, and hammered him ; but, even if
this was true, Budd ever afterwards told the
story with great glee.
Died at Elsternwick (Vic.), Dr. Abram-
owski, an extremist of the deepest dye in matters
of diet and sanitation. He lived for years at
Mildura, where he used to go bareheaded, and as
much unarrayed as decency and the conventions
would allow. Latterly he ran a “sun-sani-
tarium ” down Sandringham way, where the
patients practised the extra-simple life, mostly on
grapes, bananas and sunlight, with the certain
promise of living to a ripe old age. But in the
midst of his precepts the apostle’s doctrines turned
dog on him, and he died at a mere 58.
Jenkin Coles, Speaker of the S. Aus.
Assembly, lately completed 21 years in the
chair. He has never missed a sitting in all that
time, “Lance”, Stirling, President of the Leg,
Council, has not had the chance of equalling that
world’s record yet; but he has held office since
11)02, and has not missed a sitting so far either.
Gann, of N. S. Wales, only just succeeded in escap-
ing a miss the very first recent week he took on the
tiring job. A carbuncle .was Cann’s trouble, and
lie literally crawled out of bed into the chair,
Meagher, his deputy, being also ill and unable to
attend.
John Wotton, an , old paper-seller well
known on the Adelaide streets, is realising that
romance may have a profitable side. According to
his tale—and there is no one else to tell it—an
eccentric widow in the Salv. Army, locally known
as “ Hallelujah Mary,” asked him to marry her
three years ago ; and he did. Then she used to
call out “ Murder ! ” in her sleep, and he objected,
so she took all the furniture and left. What her
name was, this Casual bridegroom of 70-odd says
he never knew. It appears, however, to have
been Mrs. Patrick O’Connor, and as a lady of that
name has just died in Cornwall, and the lawyers
are inquiring for heirs in Adelaide, which she had
lately left, Wotton seems likely to have coin
forced on him as the reward for obliging a lady.
The representative >of a mighty heap of
unearned increment died last week, when Ciu is-
topher Crawley, of Junee (N.S. W.), passed out.
Away back in the early 70’s of the century
which lost its job 10 years ago, he took up a
selection at the ordinary rates. Then the State
built a railway at the public expense and a junc-
tion, built at public expense, happened to 1 lie on
Crawley’s selection ; and a town, created by all
this public expenditure, happened to grow up on
Crawley’s selection. As tiie Government lacked
the common sense to resume the land before
building the railway, all the profits of the town
went to Crawley, and he was on a good wicket
for. the rest of his days.
Two interesting ladies have just stepped
nut of an. English steamer. They are the Misses
Brace and Alcock, who are going on the land at
Glen Innes (N.S. W.). Miss Brace, whose hobbies
have hitherto been slumming and social reform,
is the energetic mover in the enterprise. She has
an English knowledge of agriculture, and pro-
poses to till her plot till it blossoms into a model
farm. Miss Alcock, who will assist her friend, is
an ex-secretary of the Lyceum Club, London, and
doesn’t admit to any special acquaintance with
pigs and pumpkins. Still, she is willing to learn,
and, maybe, will serve her novitiate in minor
rural duties, like combing the kine or changing
the sheets in the turnip beds.
Not many young mine managers, just off
the milk, have been given a tougher mouthful to
chew than young Greenway had when he was
sent to the claim next door the sensational Bull-
finch (W.A.). Just before he arrived gorgeous
stuff had been dug out in the best melodramatic
style, and the Chaffinch was boomed as a richer
thing than the Bull. Greenway,
round, pricked the bubble with a pointed report
that he couldn’t find any of the rich stuff, and that,
if the mine was worth anything, all the value had
yet to be found. Green way—a son of T. J., formerly
manager of Broken Hill Block 14 and the Chilla-
goe—is an almost morbidly-honest young man
and just as tremendously earnest as he is sensi-
tive; and that and the fact that the Bullfinch
district is full of “bulls” and boomsters, who
didn’t want any bubble pricked, explains a lot of
things.
Premier Joe Ward astonished the M.L.
Parliament recently by making a long statement
about his private business transac-
tions before and since his bank-
ruptcy. He declared that the
now defunct Colonial Bank gave
him only three months to adjust
his affairs, while all other credi-
tors got 10 years, and that
the liquidation cost him over
£lB,OOO, whereas it ought to
have been managed for£looo.
One of the old Ward
Farmers’ Co.’s assets, put
down as valueless, was
bought in by himself and
friends and netted £9200;
and his personal estate,
declared almost valueless,
was also bought in with the
assistance of friends, and
turned out worth £OOOO.
This is the first time Ward
has dug up this history;
no doubt he was goaded to
it by a pamphlet lately
hawked over the country.
Most Government sup-
porters suspected the Op-
position to be the instigators
of the pamphlet, but after
Ward’s speech the leading
men hastily declared they
wouldn’t be found dead within
smell of it, and three cheers were given for Ward
when he had finished his defence.
W. H. Williams, who lately had a funeral,
was not very far off the oldest Melbourne printer.
Sam Winter, afterwards Herald editor, was ap-
prenticed to him as a compositor—and that was a
good many years back. Williams, who had a
genuine literary bent, was early in the field with
the Colonial Magazine, to which Marcus Clarke,
Walstab and other good men contributed. He
was also a more than fair tenor, and sang as such
in “The Messiah,” etc., with the Melbourne
Philharmonic, and used also to be leading tenor of
St. Francis’s choir.
LIFE'S COMPENSATIONS.
THE FAT: “ Without being sarcastic, I must sag
that you've got the Yarra Bank face, old
man."
THE LEAN : “ Well, if I've got the Yarra Bank
face you've got the Union Bank stomach."
Queensland University is getting two of
its professors—Steele (Chemistry) and Gibson
(Engineering)—from within the Commonwealth,
and is importing two —Michie (Classics) and
Priestly (Mathematics)—from the Cold Country.
They are all young men, as professors go ; the in-
fant is 27 and the patriarch 40. Steele is at
present Acting-Professor of Chemistry in Mel-
bourne University, and Gibson is Assistant
Lecturer to the “Greasers” in the engineering
part of Sydney ’Varsity.
OUR JANE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Monargo, Saturday.—Miss Grace Watson, from Mel-
bourne, and Mrs. Richard Holmes, hon. secretary of the
Deniliquin branch of the Women’s National League,
drove from Deniliquin yesterday for the purpose of
addressing a meeting in the new Monargo Hall. Miss
Watson’s remarks were received with interest, it being
the first time many of the ladies had heard an address on
politics.— Tory press item from the Rioerina.
Our Jane kem back f’m th’ township ; her head was in a
whirl —
She hadn’t heard sech giddy tales since fust she was a
girl 1
There was wimmen f’m Deniliquin, and one f’m Mel-
bourne town,
Who was travelliiT through Monargo just to pull Jack
Chanter down ;
Kxackly why they wanted to Jane couldn’t rightly tell ;
But she says them city wimmen give the Labor party
Hell !
Jane isn’t strong on politics, but she can muster cows,
And ride a horse for fifty mile, and cook, and clean the
house,
And, if you put her to it, I believe she’d shear a sheep,
And I know the way that she can soothe a fevered kid to
sleep.
But Politics and Wimmen ! She had never gave it
thought,
And she kem back fairly bustin’ with the things she’d
just bin taught.
“ By gum, Jim Smith !” she hails me (with twinkles in
her eye),
“ D’yer know that we’ve bin votin’ fer the Busted-
Marriage Tie?
We're encouragin’ of husbands f’m their lawful wives to
roam,
And spoilin’ all the sanctity of Motherhood and Home ! ”
I'm feelin’ fer me matches, so I only answers : “ Rats ! ”
“I know,” says Jane; “ but—Jim ! I wish I had Miss
Watson’s hats!”
I thought it time (I’d lit me pipe) to say a word or two
To stop our Jane from goin’ mad behind that Tory crew.'
“ Don’t worry, Jim,” says she, and smiles, “ the Marriage
Tie’s all right;
And anyhow it doesn't count—l’ve no young man in
sight!
They’ve courted me, has several, bub they hadn’t time to
stay ;
The squatters kept ’em movin’, so they’ve kissed and rode
away !
“ I’ve heard from that Miss Watson ” (here our Jane was
gettin’ warm)
“ How ’Oine and Purity must quake before the coinin’
storm ;
How Labor is descendin’ like a ragin’ beast of prey,
And taxin’’elpless squatters what they can’t afford to
pay.
I thought of Sam McCaughe.v humpin’ bluey on the road,
And from me poor weak woman’s eyes the shiny teardrop
flowed.
“ I’ve talked to old Jack Chanter when he opened our
bazaar,
But I never seen Ins Tiger’s Claws —I wonder where they
are ?
I never seen no squatter goin’ a-beggin’ for liis bread —
But they squeezed Bill Brown when Bill was broke, and
very nearly dead ;
A hundred sheep are runnin’ on the farm he used to till,
And Miss Watson’s Home-and-Mother yarn don’t quite
make up for Bill.
“ If Bill and I had married ” (here her voice was choky-
like)
“ We’d have give ’em Home-and-Mother till their speakers
went on strike ;
And I’d like to tell Miss Watson, when she’s talkin’ in
her sleep,
To give us men to marry ; not starve men out for sheep !
I s’pose she preaches as she’s told, to boost the squatter’s
laws ;
But you and me know better, Jim ; we ll vote for Tiger’s
Claws.”
VICTORIA.
Q.


'J
pr
19
I
1
I
hr.nfC'A
xr n -*
44.
fcXr'
■8
■
H
r-
*2
■
'JSHp
is
\
t:
%
> >
! - * ’ •'*•"•
Yl
i
■ .
,■
RtSi
a
* ;
HH
■ ■
ags
M: . '
;: ?/
?■:■
StS
nns
ms
g\i j
e-is
sal
ISS
SB
t-j
ans
:; : :
, jrf
• - ■ . ~g. :
.■ ■.' ■.,.
s
■
mm
IttMflli
,r< x » ‘ -c y
- ' ;
:>
-<x' ! m -
'
. I ‘-git 1
r«£ *
vj
g! ___
f
1 K< t
£
I:
-':
A
3
»
g|'S4A
m
' •
xmmymimmnvwmsvmmi
O,
ii
ji'iS. -r. . iSiSrjil I *
fj«s
IW>
T :. k
g' --v,. ■' ' ;*■ • ■/ pj&'srt? 1
l , ‘ ■■


rt WILBERFORCE ” Sluicing 1 Pumps For Sale.
1 10in. Gravel Pump.
1 12in. Water Pump.
1 10in. Swivel Gland and Bend.
1 llin. Delivery Flap Valve and Bend.
1 Ejector and Cock complete.
1 11in. Giant Nozzle.
N.B. —These Pumps were selected by Experts and they are perfectly new, and can be inspected in our
Sydney Stores. Will sell 20 per cent, below cost, owing to a Sluicing Company, for whom they were
intended, going’ into liquidation. If required, we can offer 2 “ Robey '* Portable Steam Engines to
work the above Pumps, viz., 25 Nominal H.P. and 30 Nominal H.P.
Appiy-ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER 8 CO., Circular Quay, Sydney; 34 Queen St., Melbourne
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
mr “NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BBQB. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents tor N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
TF|e National Mutual Life Association of
Australasia
v Writ- Added
ten to
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses. Off. Funds.
1899 .. £499,753 £222,764 £91,058 £7219 £178,712
1900 .. 524,121 294,974 87,779 690 140,678
1901 .. 566,417 303,190 90,971 725 171,531
1902 .. 583,149 286,953 100,852 400 194,944
1903 .. 634,071 303,836 112,270 217,965
1904 .. 717,062 328,920 129,591 258,551
1905 .. 762,906 361,053 138,370 963 262,520
1906 .. 824,624 395,733 145,836 - 283,055
1907 .. 898,253 374,809 157,512 1993 363,939
1908 .. 970,611 407,168 162,342 4691 396,410
1909 .. 1,043,501 449,957 157,147 427 436,270
1910 .. 1,122,667 441,323 168,511 3640 509,193
This society owes the writer a few guineas for personal
wear and tear, depreciation of his fonr-.vear-old Waterman
pen and consumption of ink and paper. It is all because
the National Mutual management was so desperately
anxious to show big figures last year that it included
among its new premium revenue' £176,179 of business
which it didn’t get, after all. An arrangement had been
made—or the National Mutual evidently thought it had
been made—for taking over the old life business of the
Australian Alliance fire office, which had just permitted
itself to be swallowed by an English office that bars life
business. But, in spite of the fact that the business was
included in the 1909 accounts, it was never completed—
which isn’t any too good a testimonial to the reliability
of the accounts. One wonders whether the office is in
the habit of including uncompleted business among the
revenue. This year, to make the accounts square, the
£176,179, which was supposed to have been received last
year, is written off. In tiie tables printed above and
below these remarks, that are written more in sorrow
than in anger, the whole proposed transaction is disre-
garded, and the expense and other rates for 1909 have
been adjusted accordingly.
There is a fine supply of energy about the pre-
mises of the National Mutual. Certainly the office missed
the ’bus in one important particular ; for the late Colonel
Templeton stuck to his worn-out guns, even when he
ought to have abandoned them, and refused to establish
an industrial branch to feed the ordinary. Perhaps it is too
late now ; anyway, others have got where the National
Mutual should have been. Instead of breaking new-
ground in Australia, this office resolved on an energetic
campaign in other countries, S’Africa especially. Partly
on that account, and partly because of the large amount
of new business secured, the expense rate is high for so
big a co., though the figures for the past year are the
best for the decade, and the movement generally is the
right way:—
Expenses Compared with Total Income.
1901 .. £l6 1 3 per cent. 1906.. £l7 13 9 per cent.
1902 .. 17 5 11 ~ 1907 .. 17 10 8
1903 .. 17 14 1 ~ 1908 .. 16 14 6
1904 .. 18 1 5 ~ 1909 .. 15 1 1
1905 .. IS 2 9 ~ 1910 .. 15 0 3
But, as mentioned just now, the size of an expense rate
has to be considered in conjunction with the amount of
new’ insurance secured ; for clearly an office which simply
sat down and accepted premiums on old business could
manage on a very low rate. Assuming that'the old-busi-
ness premiums cost 7 per cent, to collect and the single-
premium and annuity business 3 per cent., then the new
business cost 104'2 per cent., which is not cheap, though
there are several worse experiences in Australia. And it is
vastly better than this office’s own rate used to be : 10
years ago, on the same basis, the new business cost was
158 per cent. This improvement, other things being
equal, should, of course, mean much better bonuses.
The interest earnings are high :
Interest Earned on Average Funds.
1902 .. £4 11 7 percent. 1907 .. £4 11 6 percent.
1903 .. 413 11 „ 1908 .. 4 11 8 ~
1904 .. 413 9 „ 1909 .. 41211
1905 .. 413 7 ~ 1910 .. 4 13 3
1906 .. 4 12 8 „ |
But the nature of the securities must be taken into
account. This shows the present division, along with
figures for 10 years ago :
1900. 1910.
Public securities.. .. 3’4 p.c. 5.1 p.c.
Mortgages.- .. .. 50'5 ~ 55T ~
Foreclosures .. .. 4’4 ~ I’3 ~
Freeholds 12-7 ~ 12’8 ~
Loans on policies .. 14'3 ~ 9’B ~
Other securities .. .. 147 ~ 15’9.„
The amount invested in public securities—the safest of
all assets —is deplorably small. This co.’s mortgages
and freeholds may be safe ; but, as a class, they
are liable to great fluctuations, and therefore the
co. that invests in them is liable to heavy losses—
a fact which has to be remembered in connection
with the high interest earnings. There is an in-
vestment fluctuation reserve, but it amounts tp only
£75,656. It would be sound policy to build this up by
transferring to it every penny of interest realised in ex-
cess of 4£ or even 4J per cent. Anything earned above
that implies risk ; and the extra earnings ought to be
ear-marked to meet that risk.
* * * *
Dalgety and Co., Ltd., pastoral finance, ship-
ping, merchant and timber people :
Written
Off Pre- To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. mises. serves, serves.
June, £ £ £ £ £
1899.. 85,537 8 p.c. = 80,000 5.537 155,976
1900 .. 90,686 8 ~ ~ SO,OOO 10,686 166,062
1901 .. 80,971 8 ~ ~ Mi,ooo 971 167,033
1902 .. 84,848 7 „ „ 70,000 14,848 181.881
1903 .. 48,825 5 „ „ 50,000 180,706
1904 .. 64,802 5 ~ ~ 50,000 14,802 195,508
1905 .. 85,892 6 ~ ~ 60,000 25,892 221,400
1906 .. 103,981 7 „ „ 70,000 33,981 255,381
1907 .. 142,743 7 „ ~ 70,000 30,000 42,743 298,124
1908 .. 142,187 7 „ „ 70,000 30,000 42,187 340,311
(5 p.c. on prefs.)
1909 .. 166,502 j 7 p V£ = 30,000 50,460 390,771
1910 .. 211,808 !!£,“• = } 40 ’ 000 66 ’ 808 457 ’ 579
This is one of the comparatively few’ Australian cos.
whose financial history doesn’t raise a blush. Being an
uncle to so many people in the pastoral business, it
might almost have been forgiven if it had gone the usual
way in the early ’9o’s. But, while other pastoral cos.
were suspending payment, this one kept on steadily not
only paying its creditors 20s. in the £, but paying its share-
holders not less than 8 per cent. It had the great advan-
tage of having raised most of its borrowed money on
irredeemable debentures ; so that when panic was smit-
ing ordinary depositors, and they were rushing to the
Australian banks and demanding their money, this co.
was able to sit back and thank Heaven and its own long-
headed management that the panic couldn’t do it any
harm w’orth mentioning. Thus, as remarked above, it
pulled through the disaster of the ’9o’s without hav-
ing to ask either shareholders or creditors to forfeit
a penny of capital or forego a penny of divi-
dend or interest. When the drought of 1902-3-4
arrived the co. at last reduced its dividend. It no doubt
could have kept up the old S per cent., but it evidently
had some doubts about the future, and probably it
wasn t any too well satisfied with the size of its reserves.
As everybody knows, there was a marvellous recovery
after that drought. But, though it must have benefited
by that recovery as much as almost any concern in Aus-
tralia, this most prudent co. has only now put up its
dividend as high as 8 p.c., while its pref. capital(£soo,ooo
of which w r as recently issued) carries only 5 p.c.
Some further Dalgety details :
1900. 1909. 1910.
Capital .. .. .. £1,000,000 £1,499,147 £1,500,000
Perpet. 4£ p.c. deben-
. fires 620,000 620,000 519,459
Perpet. 4 p.c. deben-
m l »res 1,643,210 1,780,000 1,780,000
Xermin. 4 p.c. deben-
m tores 86,720 544,778 573,63 S
Termiii. 3| p.c. deben-
tures 1,400 Nil Nil
Termin. 3£ p.c. deben-
tures 21,145 33,600 12,150
Termin. 3 p.c. deben-
tures 105,670 1,000 Nil
Sundry creditors.. .. 1,759,320 2,962,487 3,116,334
Advances, etc 4,609,575 6,832,372 6,018,136
Premis's, etc 277,189 601,257 615,729
Cash, deposits, etc. .. 196,763 479,198 1,446,295
That last line includes reserve fund investments of all
kinds ; £165,000 of the total is represented by London
freehold. Naturally a co. with a large amount of bor-
rowed capital drawing a fixed rate of interest will show 7
violent movements in the column devoted to profits. In
bad times and good alike, this co. has over £2,750,000 of
money entitled to 4or 4J percent. If times are good and
money can earn only 1 per cent, more than usual, it
means £27,500 more for the profits of this co. On the
other hand, if it can earn 1 per cent, less than usual,
there is £27,500 less for the profits. The ordinary share-
holders are in much the same position as third mort-
gagees. First, there are the debenture-holders with a
first mortgage ; then the preference shareholders ; after
them the ordinaries. It is quite true that the
profits for the past few years have been mag-
nificent ; but so they ought to have been under the
circumstances. If they were not, one would expect them
to be pretty shocking in bad times. Certainly, it may be
admitted that they would still be magnificent if they
were a g-ood deal less magnificent than they are. lit
the past four years, after allowing for all debenture and
pref.-share interest, there remained £622,198 of profit,
equal to over 15£ per cent, per annum on the ordinary
capital. And less than half of it has been divided. The
balance has been either written off or reserved (the
same thing in this case); so that the savings of
these four years, invested at only 4 per cent., now add
an annual £14,009 to the profits of the co. Probably
the Dalgety debenture-holder didn’t at any time lay
awake much o’ nights thinking of his security ; and there
are about 350,000 more golden reasons why he shouldn’t
lie awake now than there were four years ago. Also,
since the debenture-holder doesn’t get’ any more out of
the till whether it is brimming over or only half-full, the
fine results of the last few years have made the ordinary
shareholder much more certain of getting a steady 7 or
8 per cent, in the future, no matter how badly the seasons
may behave. No doubt the land tax won’t do the co.
any good instantly. Frankly, it is not intended to. But
the co. has got busy in so many new directions, and will
get busier still with the growth of population—and
especially country population—that in the long run the
coming of the land tax will quite likely be soon regarded,
even by a largely-absentee co. like Dalgety's, as a very
good thing after all.
* * * *
Union Steamship Co. op New Zealand (M.L.):
Added
to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1900.. 7 percent. =£42,000 £230,404
1901.. £91,620 8 ~ ~ 48,000 £43,620 274,024
1902.. 75,227 8 ~ ~ 48,000 27,227 301,251
1903.. 90,744 8 ~ ~ 48,000 42,744 343,995
1904.. 129,928 10 ~ .. 60,000 69,928 413,923
1905.. 96,764 S „ ~ 48,000 48,764 462,687
1906.. 94,906 10 ~ ~ 60,000 34,906 497,593
1907.. 144,324 10 „ „ 60,000 84,324 581,917
Transferred to Capital, £200,000, leaving.. 381,917
1908.. 241,334 9 percents 71,667 169,667 651,584
1909.. 98,022 9 „ ~ 71,667 26,355 577,939
1910.. 104,832 9 „ „ 71,667 33,165 611,104
The remark about language being given ns to conceal
our thoughts is even truer about balance-sheets than it
is about most other things. Figures, of course, can’t lie ;
but they often let the truth get ahead of them. They
may be all right as far as they go, just as the man is right
who says he is going to Colombo when he has really taken
a ticket to London. The Union Co. has developed
to the highest degree this art of taking a
ticket for London, and saying that it is going
to Colombo. The result is that every little
while it has to own up to a much larger amount of
travelling than it has previously admitted. In 1907, for
instance, an extra £50,000 dropped into the accumulated
profits or reserves ; the year after that, £150,000. Still this
sort of thing may not be as bad as it looks. A shipping
co. decides to take certain risks, and stores up the pre-
miums which it judges necessary. If, in a few years, it
finds that it has been favored by luck or good manage-
ment, and that the money hasn’t been called for, it is en-
titled to transfer the amount or part of it to profit. In ad-
dition to hidden reserves of this kind the Union Co. has a
very substantial insurance fund (£449,797). For some time
past a bonus of 1 per cent, has been paid out of this fund,
and is included with the dividends show r n in the table.
Practically this represents the dividend on the insurance
branch of the co.’s business. The total dividend (about 9
per cent.) is calculated on the entire capital (£800,000);
but, as the table shows, £200,000 of this consists of capi-
talised reserves—mostly gains of the sort previously men-
tioned. On the capital actually paid (£600,000), the divi-
dend is equal to about 12 per cent.
Besides the large amounts put to visible reserves
—£33,165 for the past year—an unknown sum is written
off revenue to cover depreciation. It may be too much
or it may be too little—or, again, it may be just enough.
In the past it is pretty certain that too liberal a provision
was made ; hence, no doubt, the big slabs that have
fallen into profits at various times. Some years ago it
was possible to follow the movements more closely than
can be done to-day. This is the best that can be done
now
Value Set Tonnage Change
Tonnage on Added in Value
of Shipping During During
Fleet. Propertv. Year. Year.
1900 .. 77,738 £746,300
Added.
1901 .. 82,847 748,300 '5109 £2,100
Reduced.
1902 .. 88,263 670,700 5416 77,700
Added.
1903 .. 89,851 678,100 1588 7,400
1904 .. 92,293 791,800 8442 113,700
Reduced.
1905 .. 103,75 S 708,600 5465 83,200
Added.
1906 .. 112,853 953,486 9095 244,886
1907 .. 1,060.451) 106,964
1908 .. 1,264,556 204,106
Reduced.
1900 .. 1,116,644 147,912
1910 .. 1,063,540 53,104
Practically the ships are valued at the same amount as
they were three years ago, which means that all vessels
added to the fleet have been paid for, and all payments
made on account of vessels now building have been pro-
vided, out of the undisclosed depreciation fund. Here is
a comparison which ought to be interesting:—
1900. 1907. 1910.
All liabilities .. ..£336,200 £509,793 £474,672
Assets—
Ships .. .. 746,300 1,060,450 1,063,540
Hulks, stores, etc... 95,215 92,959 138,558
Buildings, etc. .. 132,286 38,179 72,331
Liquid assets .. 216,804 536,122 656,347
In the last 10 years the co. has got in no new capital
and has added only £138,472 to its debts ; yet it has not
only made tremendous additions to its fleet, but has
added £439,543 to its liquid assets. That means that.,
out of profits , it has paid for all the great and little ships
it has added to its magnificent fleet during the past
decade, and besides has put £301,071 net into the safv,
notwithstanding that it has consistently paid a hand-
some dividend. It is not suggested that all this is net
profit, because allowance must be made for the fact that
the fleet which was in existence 10 years ago has most
likely depreciated a good deal in that period. Neverthe-
less the record must be a lot more cheerful to the co.’s
shareholders than to the co.’s customers.
* * ♦ •*
The National Bank of Tasmania (Launceston,
Tas.):—
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
May, 1903.. £4908 5 p.c. = £3991 £917 £31,053
Nov., 1903.. 4(199 5„ „ 3991 —70 S
May, 1904.. 5247 6 „ ~ 4789 458 32,219
Nov., 1904.. 5438 6„ „ 4789 649 32,868
May, 1905.. 5291 6„ ~ 4759 502 33,370
Nov., 1905.. 5752 6,, ~ 4789 963 34,333
May, 190(1.. 5696 6 ~ ~ 4789 £lOOO 34,240
Nov., 1906.. 6249 6„ ~ 4789 1460 35,700
May, 1907.. 9077 7„ ~ 5587 3490 39,190
Nov., 1907.. 8570 7,, ~ 5587 1000 1983 41,173
May, 1908.. 8793 7,, ~ 5587 1000 2206 43,379
Nov., 1908.. 8464 7.. ~ 5587 2877 46,256
May, 1909.. 8288 7 ~ ~ 5587 2701 48,957
Nov., 1909.. 7647 7 „ ~ 5654 1993 50,950
May, 1910.. 8115 7,, ~ 5654 2461 53,411
Nov., 1910.. 8058 7,, ~ 5654 2404 55,815
Paid capital is only £152,040, so this is one of the little
fellows among Australian banks. But you can’t tell the
strength of a bank by the size of the figures with which it
totals up the two sides of its balance-sheet. Prom
the depositors’ point of view, one of the first things
to look after is—What proportion of the money
in the business has been put up by the shareholders?
In other words, what is the strength of the fund which
guarantees the return of the depositors’ money? Clearly,
other things being equal, a bank which has borrowed
£lO for every £1 of its own doesn’t give the depositor as
good security as the one which has only borrowed £3 for
every £1 of its own. Of course, other things are not
always equal. For instance, some banks keep more in
liquid assets than others ; and where the bank has a big
holding of these assets, the depositor takes less risk than
in a concern where almost everything is lent out on
securities that are liable to shrinkage. In the case of the
National of Tasmania, capital and reserves combined total
£207,855; liabilities of all sorts total £611,600. It thus
owes a trifle less than £3 for every £1 of its own funds ;
which means that the creditors (depositors, etc.) are
unusually well covered. Thisshows things in more detail :
Nov., ’O9. Nov., ’lO.
Notes in circulation .. £61,308 £62,827 Inc. £1,519
Bills, etc 11,476 - 16,311 Inc. 4,835
Deposits at interest .. 269,361 272,689 Inc. 13,328
Deposits, free .. .. 261,587 259,773 Dec. 1,814
Liquid assets .. .. 147,743 166,962 Inc. 19,219
Advances .. .. 627,079 630,653 Inc. 3,574
Premises, etc 27,556 27,495 Dec. 61
But, though the position is strong from the point
of view from which it was considered just now, it
looks weak from another; for liquid assets represent
only 27$ per cent, of the debts. The bank could
out of the funds in hand pay only just half of the notes
and the current-account deposits supposing they were
called for—and the whole lot is payable on demand.
Though the bank has the use of comparatively little pub-
lic money, it thus uses so very large a proportion of what it
has got that its earnings are fairly high. Calculated on
capital and reserves profits work out this way :
May, 1906 ..£6 2 3 p.c. Nov., 1908 ..£8 13 3p.c.
Nov., 1906 .. 614 2,, Mav, 1909 .. 8 7 2,,
May, 1907 .. 913 5 „ Nov., 1909 .. 712 2 „
Nov., 1907 .. 819 3 „ Mav, 1910 .. 719 11 „
May, 1908 .. 9 2 0 „ Nov., 1910 .. 716 10 ~
Summed up on figures, the bank is in an unusually good
position to meet anything but a sudden shock. Give it
time to realise, and there are very few banks in Australia
that show up better.
The Derwent and Tamar Assurance Co.
(Hobart, Tas.), which used to be the Derwent and Tamar
Fire, Life and Marine Assurance Co. :
Dividends and To Re- • Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividend Tax. serves. serves.
1900 ..£7,152 10 p.c. = £5250 £1902 £60,711
1901 .. 3,028 6i „ „ 3281 60,458
1902 .. 8,909 10 „ ~ 5250 3659 64,117
1903 .. 4,140 7$ ~ ~ 3937 203 64,320
1904 .. 8,233 10 ~ ~ 5250 2983 67,303
1905 .. 9,684 10 „ „ 6250 4434 71,737
1906 .. 10,122 15 „ „ 7875 2247 73,984
1907 .. 7,014 10 ~ „ 5250 1764 75,748
190 S .. 10,944 15 „ „ 7875 3069 78,817
1909 .. 7,205 12$ „ „ 6609 596 79,413
1910 .. 10,297 15 „ „ 8061 2236 81,649
To slide down that first column gives you worse bumps
than a ride on a pack-camel. It is always that way,
though, with a small, or comparatively small, fire-and-
marine insurance co., because two or three fires or
losses more or less than the average will make all
the difference between a profit of £5OOO and one of
£lO,OOO. In the main, things have been going un-
usually well for the past five years. That, however,
isn’t due entirely to the fact that fires and wrecks have
been less numerous. In those five years the reserves
have grown £lO,OOO, and £lO,OOO at 5 per cent, means an
extra £5OO a year of profit. There are certainly many
Australian cos. which have added a great deal more to
reserves in these five fat years ; but this co. has its prin-
cipal connection in a land which suffers from mildew,
wherefore the premiums collected last year were actually
less than those collected 10 years back. Here is a
comparison :
Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses. penses. Rate. Rate.
1900.. £23,061 £13,910 £6115 60‘3 p.c. 26 op.c.
1905.. 19,795 8,208 6465 41‘5 ~ 32.7 ~
1906.. 20,485 8,585 6477 41’9 „ 31’6 „
1907.. 21,275 12,835 6379 60-3 ~ 29'9 „
1908.. 21,705 7,953 7159 36’6 ~ 32’9 ,<•
1909.. 21,380 10,944 7336 51'2 „ 34'3 „
1910.. 21,867 9,320 7443 42'6 ~ 34'0 ~
Things probably won’t improve much, if at all, until Tas-
mania improves ; and that won’t be until it has thrown
overboard some of its hoariest and most cherished
fetiches. As for the co.’s financial position, there is
nothing to give customets any anxiety whatever. In
fact, no matter what basis you like to judge it on, there
are few stronger cos. anywhere in proportion to risks. But
that again, though it looks a good thing to be able to say,
isn’t satisfactory if you dig underneath a bit; for it
simply means that, while reserves have been growing,
business has been standing still. There would be far
better reason to congratulate the co. if business was in-
creasing so fast that the reserves were being left behind.
But while the reserves are big (as they ought to be afti r
72 years’ business) a vast proportion (70per cent.) of the
whole of the funds is tied up in mortgages. Under most
circumstances that would be a very 7 grave defect ; in this
case the capital and reserves are so much greater than
the normal requirements of the business that the locking-
up of a large proportion of the capital and reserves doesn’t
call for any violent language.
* * * *
The Intercolonial Investment, Land and
Building Co. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Oct,. Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1889.. £4,235 7 per cent. = £2325 £l9lO £19,145
Forfeited capital .. 16 19,161
1900.. 4,392 7 percent. = 2339 2053 21,214
1901.. 4,911 7 „ „ 2448 2463 23,677
1902.. 5,261 7 „ ~ 2537 2724 26,401
1903.. 5,900 71 „ „ 2762 3138 29,539
1904 .. 6,591 9* „ „ 3355 3236 32,775
1905.. 7,639 10 ~ ~ 3792 3847 36,622
1906.. 8,952 12$ „ „ 4742 4210 40,832
1907.. 9,249 10 „ ~ 4126 5123 45,955
1908 .. 9,535 12$ ~ „ 5659 3876 49,831
1909 .. 12,018 12* „ . „ 5836 6182 56,013
1910.. 13,791 10' „ „ 5190 8501 64,514
A little remark near the top of that table is almost as
eloquent as Dan o’Connorv-“ Capital forfeited. Plainly
things hadn’t been very good in those distant days. Ten
years the 15s. shares were still worth a good deal less
than par. Then various things began to happen—chiefly
Federation, Protection and good seasons—and Sydney
bounded ahead as it had never bounded before. This co.
caught the bound by the tail and bounded too. It
bought estates wholesale and sold them retail, mostly
on 'time-payment, and there is great profit in time-
payment when things are good and the spectre of unpaid
instalments doesn’t roost on the ledger. Also, prices of
bricks and other similar substances moved along, and
the properties in hand became a trifle more valuable on
that account. Finally, while things still boomed, the
land tax pushed its nose in, and the co. had less trouble
to «>-et suburban paddocks thrown at it. Thus, one way
and another, and though various bonuses have been
distributed (in the shape of new capital issued at par),
the 15s. shares have climbed to about 335. The growth
of t.he business in various respects is shown hereunder :
1900. 1905. 1908. 1910.
Debts (deposits, etc.) £17,417 £26,219 £55,907 £44,218
Freeholds, etc. .. 29,999 26,163 65,303 35,203
Advances .. .. 43,611 75,149 88,314 130,10/
Other assets .. .. 154 1,551 165 3,193
The paid capital is £56,122, and the reserves are more
than that; so that, on paper at any rate, the 15s. shares
are represented by more than 30s. worth of net assets.
The assets consist mainly of two lines —Freeholds and
leaseholds, £35,203; borrowers’ and purchasers’ balances
after deducting suspense account, £130,107. If there
were a bad slump, no doubt some of this property would
be thrown on the co.’s hands. Fortunately, the great
bulk of it is, no doubt, of a revenue-producing character.
A suspense account is mentioned. This is, apparently,
an inner reserve —size unknown. It may be profit which
the co. will make if certain sales are completed. A re-
serve of that kind is a handy weapon for a co. of this
sort to keep, because if a slump comes, and even if pay-
ments on the sold portions of an estate are kept up, the
reserve can be used to write down the unsold part of the
estate. It mostly happens that, after a subdivision, a
co. is left with some blocks on its hands. The remnants
are generally the rubbish ; and mostly the only way to
get them cleared out is to sell them at the bargain counter.
Though the slump isn’t here yet, it is too much to expect
that the co. will continue to be as prosperous as it has
been the last few years; but it, at any rate, faces the
future with its feet planted on a remarkably solid
foundation.
* * * *
The country cousin is a capitalist these days,
and one of the concerns in which he is being invited to
put his money is the Farmers Fertilisers Corporation.
Ltd. The main idea is all right. Large and increasing
quantities of artificial manures are used. A diminishing
proportion is brought from Japan and other foreign parts.
The chief importer is A. H. Hasell, and A. H. Hasell is the
king-pin of this proposal. The co. is to erect a factory to
turn out 10,000 tons a year, and Mr. Hasell is to transfer
totheco. his trade-mark and his connection. For this he is
not only to receive 5000 ordinary £1 shares, but he is to get
the job of managing director for 15 years at “ not less than
£5OO a year,” and “ his Sydney office is to have the sole
agency for the sale and distribution of all the co.’s pro-
ducts fora term of not less than 15 years at a remunera-
tion of 7s. 6d. per ton on superphosphates, ss. per ton on
sulphuric acid, and 5 per cent, on all other products,”
and that remuneration is not to include “ country agents’
commission,” which will presumably be charged on top
of Mr. Hasell's commission. The co. will, therefore, be
tied to Mr. Hasell’s office for 15 years. That office may
conceivably handle the business very badly ; but even
if it does, the co. will not be able to sell any of its pro-
duct except through Mr. Hasell’s office, and it will not
have the right to tell Mr. Hasell to conduct his office
in some other way. It might possibly be a good thing
for the people who put their cash into the business ; there
is no doubt at all that it would be a remarkably good
thing for Mr. Hasell, who, so far as can be seen, puts in
no cash or any tangible assets whatever.
Now that Broken Hill cos. can make well over
10s. per ton out of their tailings alone by treating them
for zinc, a great quantity of low-grade ore which it for-
merly didn’t pay to haul out of the mines can be handled
at a profit, even at present prices of lead and silver.
Obviously if a co. actually loses a little money in
mining the ore and putting it through the lead mill, it
can still be on the right side of things by getting the
zinc out of what used to be refuse. Of course, zinc-
concentrating can be done at a loss like everything else ;■
but the Amalgamated Zinc, Zinc Corporation, and Sul-
phide Corporation show that it needn’t be done at a loss.
And of these three the Sulphide Corporation deserves
most credit for its pioneering. Also, it is satisfactory to
know, it is probably making as much profit as any. That
profit is certainly over 10s. per ton, and may possibly be
half as much again.
* * * *
Broken Hill South Blocks management issued
this note the other day:—“ln consequence of further
experimental work being required preliminary to the
erection of a zinc flotation plant, which will treat the
ore from the zinc lode, as well as accumulated and
current zinc middling from the main lode, the Board has
decided to postpone the payment of a dividend for the
present.” It would be more to the purpose if they said
what they had in hand to pay a dividend with. The
recent booming of S. Blocks, in the face of returns which
could have given very little, if any, profit, hasn’t been at
all creditable.
* * * *
Block 10 is at present the sick man of the
Broken Hill line of lode. The Junction, of course,
doesn’t count, because the Junction isn’t really a pro-
ductive mine under existing conditions. Block 10 has
the best equipment a mine need have; but all the
machinery won’t make the ore a bit better in quality or
quantity. The co. made a loss on its last half-
year’s mill work, and things are not improving. The
mill is doing poor service, even worse than the badly-
equipped Junction. Take a recent mill return Out of
1882 tons of crude ore only 139 tons of lead and 82940 z. of
silver were obtained. And it took 8J tons of crudes to
make one ton of concentrates. Putting Block 10’s total
costs at 225. a ton (which is lower than they were for the
half-year), and allowing £l3 ss. for lead and 2s. 3d. for
silver, with a returning charge of 91s. per ton of concen-
trates, a ton of the latter would be worth in thetrucks at
Broken Hill £l2 12s. As it takes SJ tons of crudes to
make one ton of concentrates, Block 10 must have lost
£250 on the week’s work, or (say) 2s. 6d. per ton of crudes.
This is getting worse and worse, and meantime develop-
ments underground don’t promise anything better. Also,
a higher wages scale promises to come along at the be-
ginning of the year.
* ■* * *
Why speculators recently bought British shares
at from 235. to 265. is a puzzle to many Broken Hill
people. The wail of these buyers is now heard in the
land, and is liable to bring the shares dowm a trifle lower
than they already are, or deserve to be. When the
British shut down its mill at the end of 1907 lead was at
£l4 98. 4d. per ton, and it was then found that work
could not be carried on at a profit. Operations were,
nevertheless, resumed with both lead and silver ata much
lower level, and, forgetful of the conditions which had
prevailed at the time of the shut-down, people rushed in
and bought the shares on a rapidly rising market. It has
taken the lead mill a long time to get into order, but
fairly decent work is now being done, and a modest profit
of about 6s. 6d. per ton of crude ore is being made.
Unfortunately for the shareholders, this profit is being
swallowed up by construction work, and as the co. is short
of cash it is very likely that it will borrow, possibly
on debentures. Still, if the British can keep up its present
rate of profit-making (and it really ought to do better
when the storage feed-tanks for the Elmore plant are
completed), the outlook for shareholders is by no means
hopeless.
* * * *
The shareholders of the Silver City and South
Range Blocks, Broken Hill, got tired of waiting for a
buyer, so the directors obtained a report on the mine.
The report told them what the shareholders had told
them—that the mine wasn’t a bonanza as it stood, and
that if i hey wanted to snare a buyer they had better sink
deeper and get something for him to look at, if it was to
be found. Now, sinking a shaft in Broken Hill costs
money, and the directors haven’t enough money to sink


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which tiie Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
US.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-U.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
Itn Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “ VIA PACIFIC ” are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4jd. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFfC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SY,DNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
BETTI NCTON
SMOKELESS BOILER
Adapted for Burning Slack.
Guaranteed Highest Efficiency.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building-, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
(1
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to ear boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* * • *
“Ferrodor” Paint. — Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel.. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort’s
Dock and Mt. Lvell buildings; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. &O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS&CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
It takes a long period of success to justify con-
fidence in manufacturers, but for many years the product
of Tun Farnlky Iron Company Limited, Leeds, has been
recognised by engineers as the highest class of iron (best
Yorkshire), safe under the most onerous tests. For
Rolling Stock, Ship Building and General Engineering
Work it is indispensable, being used by all Australian
State Railways. To be obtained from Sole Agents, Bell’s
Asbestos Australian Agency Limited, 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, and Fremantle, W.A. ; also Reid Brothers and
RussellProp'y, Ltd., Melbourne; and Chas. E. Bernays,
Brisbane.*
* * * *
Professor Richards, in the revised edition of his
celebrated edition of “Ore Dressing” 1909, devotes 14
pages to the Wilfiey concentrating table, and, among
other things remarks (p. 1465): —“The first table sold
was installed in the Puzzle Mill, at Breckenridge,
Colorado. Since then over 12,000 have been sold. This
machine has revolutionised ore dressing, and as such is a
phenomenal success. The original form, and forerunner
of all modern shaking tables with longitudinal riffles.. has
been greatly improved.” And further on (p. 1478) remarks:
“ One feature of the Wilfley table to which especial
attention should be called is its ability to separate sands
from slimes while making the ordinary concentration.
This separation is more complete and thorough than can
be made by any classifier, and should be taken advantage
of in designing mills.” In the extensive additions just
made to the Golden Horseshoe Mine (W.A.) a large
number of Wiifle.v Concentrators have been installed.
The Austral Otis Engineering Company, Limited, South
Melbourne, have the sole manufacturing rights.* [1
*• * * *
“ Fibro-Cement ” Asbestos Fireproof Sheets. In
large size, Bft. 2Jiri. x 4ft. x (about) Jin. thick, now largely
used for walls, for homesteads, hungalows, silos, cottages,
shearers’ quarters, dairies, stables. Fire, heat, acid and
ant proof. Strong, cheap, everlasting. Lower insurance
rate. Photos, and testimonials free from sole importers.
James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney, and
581-583 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.” [1
* * * #
The Insurance Observer, London, of 4/9’/08,
referring to The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society,
Limited, writes: “One can rest assured that the popu-
larity of this famous Melbourne office is still growing, and
one may reasonably hope that the current period will
yield even grander results.”*
• * * *
WOOD PIPE lasts as long as the best c.i. pipe
and four times as long as steel. Economy and ease in
handling are further strong points. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney.*
* * * *
Patents. — Have you an idea worth patenting?
If so, write to Griffiith and Hassell, registered Patent
Attorneys for information. Address, 163 King Street,
Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett’Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Nobel’s Dynamite Factory, Hamburg, at the
recent Brussels World Exhibition received the highest
awards, viz,, Three Grand Prix for explosives of all grades
for both mining and military purposes. This against all
comers. Mine managers in New South Wales, who are
experiencing trouble, write the agents, Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Large stocks on hand.*
* * *
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout Australia by Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinder are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangement of valves, and automatic lubrica-
tion, and these are testified to by Australian users. The
engine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annum.* [1
+ •* * *
One of the oldest and best-known engineering
concerns in the Commonwealth has been converted into
a proprietary company with a capital of 1:150,000, and will
now trade as Mephan Ferguson Proprietary Limited, the
governing directors being Mephan Ferguson and Robert
Shand. The head office and works are at Gordon Street,
Foocscray, Victoria.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * *
Assaykrs, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silbkiibkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 209
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 129 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety F use
Detonators
Cartridges
half the required depth. Very luckily indeed the man-
ager found a bunch of “rich-looking sulphides’ in the
north drive on the 115 ft. level, and, of course, that had
better be followed up. This gives the directors a little
breathing time, in the course of which a buyer may be
roped in from somewhere.
*** ,r
More trouble is threatening for Great Cobar.
Not in the mines or the plant this time, but in the
management. Bellinger, the first-class man the co. was
lucky enough to get to straighten things up, is finding
that the place isn’t good for his health, or something' of
that sort, and it is very doubtful whether he will remain
more than a few months longer.
* * * *
Chaffinch, which flew up to nearly 30s. on a
report that rich gold was showing in a surface schistose
deposit, flopped to ss. when the new manager, young
Greenway, reported that the rich schistose deposit vvas all
gone, and that if there was any value in the claim't bad
yet to be found. Somebody had put salt on the Chaf-
finch's tail, it was whispered ; and De J. Grut, of Kal-
goorlie, was deputed to audit Greenway’s work. He
doesn’t say anything about salt; but, anyway, he can t
find any of the rich stuff either. And down
the wounded bird fluttered to 4s. Yet the blow-
out puts the Chaffinch in no worse position than
any other claim on the field bar the Bullfinch. It has no
payable values, and neither has any other claim. In
fact, it is in a far better way than most, for it is right up
against the big Finch and has position to recommend it.
There may not be another mine except the Bullfinch in
the immediate Bullfinch neighborhood ; but the nearer a
claim is to the big Finch, provided it isn’t on the east,
the better its chances.
* # * *
From Randolph Bedford : “De Jersey Grut s
report on the Chaffinch refers to ‘ irresponsible and de-
scriptive journalism ’ relating to the find. I, with others,
signed a business-like statement of the facts concerning
the digging-out of rich dirt, and never did any journalism
of any sort on the matter. The Kalgoorlie Miner,
coming in later, described the scene at the grave in a
way that suggested the third act of a Dan Barry melo-
drama, and the wild rot about the hard-faced pioneers’
perspiration‘falling on the precious deposit ’ was wired
to the Perth West Australian, the Adelaide Registur,
the Melbourne Argus and the S. M. Herald. But there
was no flam of that kind iil_fche signed certificate. The
rich schistose vein teas there —we certified to that; and
Grut sampled the bags left in the bank by Greenway, and
assayed them for 20oz. to the ton after specimens had
been removed. As to the future: the rich vein may
make again, and, if it doesn’t, another probably will. It
looked like the capping of a big lode, and, outside of the
Kalgoorlie Miner’s melodrama, the statements made in
the Age and Daily Telegraph were careful enough and
absolutely warranted by facts.” ,
* * * *
Pegging around the Bullfinch was so mad that
Surveyor G. H. B. Macartney has had to be surveyor and
lawyer too. Some greedy ones who over-pegged have
been left with suburban allotments instead of lease areas,
and a few syndicates have had their holdings reduced to
mere atmosphere. One of the oversights of pegging was
the Scarlet Finch, a 6-acre block adjoining the Bull Ant,
where a big schistose body is being developed for good
values. Nobody knew that the Scarlet Finch existed—
other Finches came into the world with a whoop, but it
sneaked in and may make good.
* * * *
Ordinary finches being exhausted,' two original-
minded men turned up at Southern Cross the other day
desiring to name their new leases the Crayfinch and
the Lingfinch. They were/miles away from the Bull-
finch; but that’s nothing. The Bullfinch Proprietary
Consolidated Deeps is hanging over the edge of the
world, an horizon or two away from Doolette’s show.
* * * *
Lionel Robinson, of London, who handled the
Bullfinch Prop, float, took 49,993 shares at par, and also
has the right to 50,000 more for two years, likewise at
par.
* * * *
The prospectus of Pine Hill—a show with some
promise near the Bullfinch—makes pretty reading. The
pessimist who reported for the float estimated 3000 tons
of 2oz. ore in sight on the strength of a shaft then 45ft.
and without any driving. “ Strong is the eye of faith
that pierces through the rock.”
Golden Ridge, Westralia’s most successful
locally-managed mine—the office and directors are at
Kalgoorlie—had the luck to start on a small capitalisa-
tion. Present paid capital is only £46,352; and divs.
paid since the middle of 1907 total £78,798. The 10s.
shares have collected 175., and the co. could de-
clare another 2s. 6d. to-morrow. After providing
for depreciation and paying for all development,
£15,533 profit was made in the last six months
out of 14,386 tons ore and a little accumulated
slimes; and there is probably about five times that
amount in reserve. The figures can’t be put very defi-
nitely, because of recent good developments ; but, unless
previous calculations have been all wrong, there should
easily be £70,000 profit in sight. The deepest level is at
500 ft., and, as a good shoot has been found there lately,
the outlook is very cheerful. Regular quarterly divs.
of Is. 6d. can be kept up, and a lot of development work
done at the same time ; this latter should include a new
main shaft if the 500 ft. shoot behaves well.
* * * *
The tributor has come to the rescue of the Par-
inga (W.A.), a bucket-shop kind of a co. that has long
adorned the market list. Twelve months ago tributors
found a lode on the surface close to the main shaft. This
has given some nice crushings, and now the co. is cross-
cutting at the 100 ft. level. Here a lode has been proved 7ft.
without the wall showing, half assaying sdwt. and the
other half 21dwt. Thus far 297 tons have gone 25dwt.,
and 163 tons have cleaned up 13dwt.—both from tribu-
tors’ parcels—so the body has been fairly sampled. The
" ground is nicely situai ed between the Brown Hill and the
North Kalgurlij with the Associated Northern flanking it
on the south.
* * * *
The Bulletin a while ago said that the Black
Range (W.A.) co.’s costs were very high. The Black
Range people admit that the figures were right, but plead
extenuating circumstances. For a start, the Black Range
hasn’t adopted the Westralian habit of reckoning short
tons (20001 b.) ; and that has to be allowed for. If that is
done, costs are still a good deal higher than those of tiie
Golden Mile propositions ; but they compare very well
with those of the Oroya-Black Range, next door. The
costs shown are in shillings per short ton :
Oroya-B.R. Black Range,
s. d. 8. d.
March .. .. 26 5 26 2
April .. .. 24 10 21 7
May .. .. 24 10 22 0
June .. .. 24 8 22 7
July .. .. 25 0 22 10
August .. .. 26 4 22 5
Golden Mile mines get down under the level sovereign ;
but freights and wages are higher at Sandstone (Black
Range), and the Black Range reefs are also smaller and
flatter than those of Kalgoorlie. All of which excuses
the management, of course, but doesn’t add to the gilt on
the shareholder’s gingerbread.
* * * *
The report of the French engineer Kuss on the
Golden Horseshoe (VV.A.) is a knock-out. It is cabled
that he makes a bald statement to the effect that the
mine has 750,000 tons of ore containing 350,0000 z. gold.
The extraction isSdwt. Thus we have a value of 345. a
ton, and costs are 255. That leaves 9s. a ton profit. Out
of this has to come the £lOO,OOO debentures, which have
to be paid some time. The apparent value is thus about
17s. per share. Double this amount to allow for possible
developments, and double that again for luck, and the
result is still a long way off the existing valuation of four
guineas per share. Seeing the mine has only been clean-
ing up barely 7dwt. this year, the visiting expert’s esti-
mate, on that point at any rate, is on the bright side.
The mine may find something below the 2000 ft. level, and
also may have some short shoots in the Golden Treasure
leases, not long since acquired ; but, generally speaking,
it looks as though very few dividends are left, especially
as modern directors do not like parting with all the cash
reserves or profits. They stick to these to make a finance
corporation or something of the kind, whereby, no
matter how cold the world may be for shareholders, the
directors are kept warm with fees.
* * » *
Warrinilla, Ltd., is to be the name of a little
Leonora (W. A.) co. if the promoters can float it. The
midget is in 1000 shares of £5 each, of which the vendors
take half, but no cash, and they also pay brokerage. The
ore has been proved down to about 150 ft. ; and if they
can mill and cyanide the stuff at 16s. per ton, they
reckon there is over £7OOO profit in the ore proved.
Something usually goes wrong with prospectus esti-
mates ; but the modest venture has such an air of frank-
ness about it, and the promoters are so obviously after
the gold in the mine, that this paper is inclined to
believe the Leonoia vendors much more than a good
many other vendors it has met lately.
Mount Morgans touched 80s. a couple of
months ago, and some market operators tipped them to
see £5 when the results from the Many Peaks metal-
bearing flux are fully realised. Perhaps they may ; mean-
time, however, they have crawled down to /os., and
have even been sold forward at that price. About 27
different explanations are given to account for the slump;
and probably their numerousness is the best sign that
nothing in particular is flagrantly wrong. Certainly the
mine isn’t wrong; nevertheless, the copper output
since Many Peaks metal-bearing flux took the place of
barren ironstone has been very disappointing. What’s
the matter—the men or the tools, the tools in this case
being the new flux? What ought to be realised is that
the change to Many Peaks doesn’t simply mean tipping
one lot of ironstone into a furnace in place of another
lot. The whole metallurgical practice has had to be
altered ; and, much as the metallurgists may figure
beforehand, modifications are almost inevitable when it
comes to practice. Sometimes these modifications are
more than were expected, sometimes less. One would
judge that, in the Mount Morgan case, they are more.
Yet there is absolutely no need to worry about the tem-
porary ill-success of the new smelting business.
Gympie (Q.) last month crushed 12,078 tons for
61860 z., out of which £5066 was paid as dividends. Calls
amounted to £3160. Chief producers were Scottish
Gympie, 7900 tons, 23500 z. ; E. Oriental and Glanmire,
1125 tons, 13630 z. ; No. 2 S. Great Eastern, 840 tons,
9270 z.; South Glanmire and Monkland, 800 tons, 3150 z. ;
Columbia Extended, 304 tons, 2830 z. ; No. IN. Columbia,
489 tons, 2740 z. ; No. 4N. Phoenix, 350 tons, 1970 z. East
Oriental and Glanmire paid a 4d. div., equal to £2666. A
winze being sunk from the south drive is opening up
some good slate country ; arid as this is near the
Oriental Consols, the latter has improved in the market.
No. 2 South Great Eastern is still getting fairgold, and paid
a 4d. div., equal to £2400. The shaft is now down to
1720 ft., and a chamber is to be opened at 1750 ft., from
which, in conjunction with lower levels, the Inglewood
is to be worked iater on. Prospects, however, don’t war-
rant the market value. No. 1 North Victory is getting
on to better gold, and this co. will probably appear on
the dividend list early next year. Great Northern at the
Two Mile has bought an air compressor and another boiler,
which are now being erected. Rock drills should im-
prove this battler’s chances.
* * * *
The Mount Elliott (Q.) people met in London
the other day, and felt so good when they had heard the
figures that they voted general manager Corbould a
bonus of £lOOO. Well, he has had his troubles, and is
having them still, for iris supply of labor just now is
making him think hard, and he probably hungers for the
vocabulary of his friend Armstrong—the man who would
have got the job if Corbould hadn’t been available. The
London shareholders were told that in the four months
since smelting started, a profit of £58,400 had been made,
and that a div. would come very early in the new year.
“ It is probable,” says the cable reporting the meeting,
“ that the railway will be resumed by the Government.
If so, and if the balance of the capital is issued, owing
to the exercise of the option on the same, there will be
nearly £200,000 unexpended capital in the treasury on
June 30.”
Mount Elliott’s authorised capital is £750,000 in
150,000 shares of £5 ; but oniy 130,000 are issued—the
other 20,000 are optioned at par till June 30 next. Unless
something very bad happens to the copper market, there
should be about £1 per share in divs. next year—proba-
bly a shade more. But in earning these divs. the rich
part of the assets will be eaten up fast. The
last estimate of reserves showed 102,800 tons of
14 per cent, ore above the No. 3 level, 40,000
tons of 8 per cent, ore between that and No. 4,
and 125,000 tons of low-grade ore which can be dressed
up to, say, 8 per cent. There have been good develop-
ments of*7 to 10 per cent, sulphides since those figures
were made up. The monthly consumption of ore at pre-
sent is about 4400 tons. Say there are 300,000 tons
altogether, that quantity would last six years at the pre-
sent rate of extraction. This estimate of ore is liberal—
the tape couldn’t be put over so much at present, allow-
ing for the fact that some of it will have to be concen-
trated. The co.’s contribution to the building of the
railway line was £60,000, and it is just about certain that
the co. will get that amount back ; though if it doesn’t
own the line, it will, of course, have to pay freight.
The finances will thus have their appearance improved at
once; but it will be at the expense of future profits
—unless, of course, a rattling good investment js found
for the £60,000. Shares are worth about £5 ss. 6d. The
value seems to be there, though the man who reckons
his dividends as interest will by-and-bye wake up to the
painful truth that only a very little of the money was
interest.
* * * *
Vulcan tin mine (Q.) has had a development at
the 750 ft. level, where a make of ore has been found
north-east of the shaft. The new ore body is reckoned
to be worth 10 per cent, black tin ; if so, the next return
should be a sweet one. The last was £1654 worth of con-
centrates from 438 tons. There is considerable doubt as
to how far the new ore body will extend vertically, and
the winze below 750 ft. doesn’t give strong evidence in
favor of a big make of ore at depth. The 1220 ft. and
1400 ft. levels have proved very patchy. The 1050 ft.
has been fairly payable, but the crushings have been
sweetened up by rich patches from the shallow levels.
Since the start, about 21 years ago, the Vulcan has
averaged about £4 per ten ; it has produced from
£450,000 to £500,000 worth of tin and paid £148,830 in
dividends. It is Australia’s deepest lode tin mine; but
some alluvial tin shows in Tasmania leave it a long way
behind in the matter of dividends.
Brilliant Extended, Charters Towers, made a
profit of £13,797 last half-year, and paid two sixpenny
divs., totalling- £12,500. Reserves are reckoned at 60,000
tons of about the same grade as that taken out recently.
Going at the old speed, there is enough stone in sight
over No. 20 level (2850 ft.) to feed the mill for 12 months
and to pay £25,000 (2s. per share) in divs. The deepest
level (No. 20) has not yet turned up trumps ; but with a
strong make of stone overhead in No. 19, something
better may happen in rising and crosscutting. Ihe
Brilliant reef is split into two sections, and the hanging
wall section may brighten up the show.
* * * *
Brilliant P.C., Charters Towers, has drawn
£25.458 from its Stockholm mine in six months. Ex-
penses took £20,041. The stone averaged £3 9s. Bd. per
ton, but the blanks between the makes swell the costs..
The co. has acquired more ground on the Stockholm
line, and is driving No. 8 level with fair prospects. There
is about £5OOO available to pay for repairing the Brilliant
shaft and prospecting for the Day Dawn.
* * * *
East Mexican, Charters Towers, is making fair
progress with sinking and timbering its underlay shaft,
which was started from a chamber at 760 ft. vertical.
When the shaft reaches No. 6 level it will be more than
600 ft. in depth, and will provide a good chance to
explore the upper crust of the Day Dawn formation.
Sinking certainly did not disclose good values until the
shaft connected with the rise which was put up 230 ft.
above No. 6 level. No. 5 level is in more than 500 ft.
from Mills’ United boundary, and at last report appeared
to be traversing the blank expected before meeting with
the loop reef. Of course, it doesn’t follow that, because
the loop was good in the upper levels of the New
Brilliant Freehold, it will prove payable in the Mexican
or in the Freehold’s deeper levels. Values are very
capricious in this Day Dawn formation, and cannot be
calculated with certainty ahead of the pick. Still, a big
area in a likely locality w'ill always draw the speculator.
At the commencement of 1908 East Mexicans were quoted
at ts. and Freeholds at 3s. 4d. So scrippers who have
hung on to these claims have no reason to complain about
present prices. The man who probably feels sore is the
one who relieved Charters Towers of its Freeholds at any-
thing from 30s. to 40s. When Charters Towers is selling
Charters Towers stuff, outsiders don’t usually improve
their health by buying.
* * * *
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers, got
£9074 from 1147 tons and a general clean-up. A div. of
Is. has been declared, but that won’t empty the till, and
there is also £5OOO on fixed deposit. A dyke cutsacross the
lease in a north-westerly direction, and at deeper levels
there will be a larger area on the Day Dawn east of the
dyke, and towards the Brilliant Block boundary. Sink-
ing the Brilliant Block shaft will be continued next year,
and will help to prove these eastern formations. So far,
the only payable stone got in that part was obtained in a
winze from the 1613 ft. level in the Brilliant P.C., and
this make still remains to be driven on. The Brilliant
P. 0., after it gets its shaft in repair, will have to do a lot
of sinking and crosscutting to reach this deep shoot of
stone. The half-yearly return shows that the Freehold
crushed 16,066 tons for an average of £4 ss. 3d., and a
total profit of £38,080. The slump in the market is due
to the failure of No. 3 and No. 4 levels to pick up a good
reef.
* « « *
There has been some trouble over the Mam-
moth coal areas (Q.). The six leases were formerly held
by the Bluff, Co., but were allowed to run out. For six
months the land lay idle, till the Blair Athol Co. (Cler-
mont) turned greedy eyes on to the six idle blocks. Then
the Bluff people felt that the “ old love” was still theirs,
the co. having spent £lO,OOO on it. So they offered to
sell the lot to the Blair Athol folk for some cash and
shares. Blair Athol disputed ownership, and two lots of
directors hurried off to Wullie Kidston, each lot asking
him to put his foot down and squash the other lot. He
replied to the deputation mainly by putting his feet on
both. (1) The Bluff wouldn’t get the six leases back in
anv case. (2) It might get one 640-acre block round the
old shaft, if it found the necessary dollars.to develop it.
(3) It would get none if the intention was simply to sell
to Blair Athol. Then it was Blair Athol’s turn to ask.
But Kidston said: “I am not going to encourage a big
coal monopoly in the Central division. I am not sure
that I will not make it a State coal mine.” The sooner
he is sure the better.
* * * *
One can imagine Jimmy Warne purring over
the report of the New Jubilee, Scarsdale (Vic.). Alto-
gether £7125 of capital has been put up, £52,835 gold
won, and £13,500 paid in divs. Not a bad record !
If Mayne-Nickless do as well with their new motor-car
racket, James Warne’s stride will be something to see.
But, as a cold cynic, what does Warne really think of the
talk about making satisfactory banking arrangements
for a 30-head stamper mill ? Manager John Till gives his
assurance that “ more payable stone is in sight ” than there
was six months ago. That is not much for a 30-stamp
mill to chew up. Till has stacks of confidence that pay-
able stone will be met above and below the 700 ft. level.
But “confidence” doesn’t figure in any balance-
sheet as an asset that a calculating bank manager
will make an advance on. He prefers a joint and several,
with a bit of good collateral. Opening out from No. 2
shaft at 712 ft. so far hasn’t done much more than develop
a slab of disturbed country; and there would never be
sellers of shares and few buyers if there was a heap of
confidence in the investing mind about the level. So
would it not be better finanee for the co. to prove the
700 ft. level before going to the bank?
* * *
Like many another, Woah Hawp Canton, East
Ballarat, puts on a fine coat and gilt buttons when times
prosper.’ Two years ago it was a down-at-heels mining
tag-rag. But 6041 tons on the Ballarat East indicators
have since given £34,057 of gold, enabling £11,617 to be
paid in divs., Tinworth’s lease to be purchased, and re-
serves and cash of £4026 accumulated. This isn’t bad for
a derelict. As the co. is run in Geelong, the idea of pay-
ing every cent out in divs. has not taken refuge in the
board-room. So the world hears that a cash reserve
is to be built up, and that “ the same principle that
governs a well-managed trading concern shall be applic-
able to mine management.” On this system the co. is
punching the shaft down to 1100 ft., it is to drive out into
the eastern belt of reefs, it is to chase indicators in the
upper levels, and is to try whether Tinworth’s and the
once-famous Prince Regent have concealed riches left.
All this makes one gasp. But it isn’t Ballarat that is
doing all this. Only a bit of wool-and-tallow Geelong,
which, having cash to splash about, means to give it a
chance in mining.
* * * *
Johnson’s Reef, Bendigo, has launched a divi-
dend at last. Ten long years have gone since it went off
the div. list, and meanwhile it has had more downs than
ups. The last spasm was a year ago, when the
(tollman and Tacchi Co. was rocking out divs.,
and simple-minded folk thought Johnson’s, on the
other side of the big fault, ought to do ditto. Now
the ditto has come in the form of a Christmas bob. But
it is close sailing, as there won’t be much cash in the
locker after the div. has been paid. Johnson’s hope' a
lot from the big block" of undeveloped ground on the
Collman’s reef ; so a fair Christmas wish is that the
plugging crowd behind the show won’t be disappointed.
* * * *
Central Red, White and Blue, Bendigo, ends
the year with a 3s. div. as the result, of 5020 z. from 192
tons. This is better going than Bullfinch, 10s. per share
having passed as profits to shareholders since June, to
say nothing of scrip jumping from 6d. to over 80s. All
this comes of re-opening an old shaft on a neglected line,
and crosscutting a few feet at 311 ft. So far 130 ft. has
been opened north, all in good-grade ore, thus upsetting
the predictions of those who foretold patchiness. South
the drive is in 136 ft., with a little gold showing. Shaft-
sinking is in view, and the testing of the 211 ft. reef is
going on.
* * * *
“ M.S.J.” : A few months ago a Syrian hawker
was present at one of the last clean-ups of the now-
defunct Brothers Home Co., Derby (Tas.), and was sur-
prised to find that so much expense and trouble were in-
curred to get what he called black sand. “In my
countree plenty like that knock about everywhere, no
one pick him up,” he said. The incredulous Derby men
prompted Coffee to get a few bags of the black rubbish
sent along. In due time several samples, enclosed in
evil-smelling goat-skins, were delivered at Derby, and,
on analysis, were found to contain black tin, aver-
aging 72 per cent. The local people promptly formed a
syndicate to exploit the treasure, and VV. H. Sams, late
mining manager of the Brothers Home, was sent away to
prospect the ground, which is alleged to lie on the slope
of the Lebanon Mountains.
* * * *
Maplehurst: See last review, B. 3/11/’10; can’t
add to that Post: Prodigiously ignorant about both.
You can get into such things easily ; the trouble is to get
out Anxious : The mine will probably never look any
better than it does now, but the lead market most likely
wi11... .Nemo : Can’t advise about mining specs.
* * -t *
A little co. with a capital of £7500 has been
formed to chew over the tailings that have been washed
down the Tamar from the Tasmania goldmine. It is
reckoned that 400,000 tons can be scraped up at a profit
of over 4s. per ton—which, when one conies to think of
it, is about the hardest thing that has ever been said
about the Tasmania Co.
* * * *■
Maoriland’s new amending Mining Act puts an
extra thrum peroz. duty on gold toformasicknessand acci-
dent relief fund for miners. It also insists that men shall
be lowered and raised by cage where work is carried on
below 200 fr-. . This will touch up the Talisman, at Karan-
gahake. There the men have had to crawl up 450 ft. —no
joke after a day’s hard punching.


AT/
❖
4
*
fleering
Peter F
Brandy
Nothing doubtful in “Montserrat” Lime
Juice. It's good and pure. The genuine juice of
‘•cultivated lime fruit, it is an exquisite beverage
for all the year round. A healthy drink for
children.*
ROBUR
m
7//
7%
\
Useful to Hang
up in your home
'"jpHß pictures are copied from
works of art in the Sydney
and Melbourne National Gal-
leries.
The calendar portion has a
small blank space left so that
you may make a note against
each date to remind you of an
appointment made or anything
that has to be done.
When the calendar portion
has served its purpose, the
pictures are worth cutting off
and keeping.
We are only Supplying
grocers with about enough for
their regular Rob u r tea
customers, so if you want one
you had better ask your grocer,
before he gives them all away.
The Robijr Tea Co.
James Service & Co.,
Proprietors.
yor “high-class” family every-
day use we recommend the No. 1
Grade. It is excellent tea—it has a
full, rich flavour —is wonderfully
wholesome, and is very saving.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Syonky, December 19, 1910.
My Dear Arini,—
The springs of charity well up like an artesian
well that threatens to blow the lid off. In
response to my appeal for the Child Study
Charity, and since the publication of its tiny
balance-sheet, something under ten pounds ster-
ling has gladdened the heart of the executive.
Mrs. F. J. Carriok, of Yovonga, Glebe Point,
sent a cheque for £5; Mrs. Regan of Tam-
worth, a guinea; A Friend, (in Townsville)
a guinea ; a Benalla girl, who has previously con-
tributed, sent another five shillings; and two other
kind hearts deposited, on separate occasions, a
guinea apiece, at the counter of the Bulletin
office and departed without leaving their names.
All are hereby thanked most heartily.
Concerning another charity, a huge one this.
St. Vincent’s Hospital will have a debt of £4OOO
sitting with the weight of a Mount Kosciusko on
its gentle chest presently, when the extension
works are finished. To help remove this night-
mare, the lever of a fete, to be held in March,
will be used. Mrs. Allen Taylor, who is in her
third term as Mayoress of Sydney, presided at a
meeting of the committee last week, when stalls
for the ffite were apportioned. Further informa-
tion next letter.
“O polish’d perturbation ! golden care ! ” This
in reference to the fifth George’s crown which he
will put on next June. The ceremony will be
the cause of so many more of our well-known
citizens leaving us for many months that Sydney
shopdom agtees with the long dead-and-gone
young Harry V. The crown is a nuisance, and
it ought to be confiscated for diverting the traffic.
Amongst the latest-mentioned departers in time
for the ceremony are Mr. Edwardes, general mana-
ger of David Jones, Ltd., his wife and three chil-
dren ; the Leslie Nicholls, of Neutral Bay (one or
some of this family founded Haberfield, the new
Svdnev suburb that has been such a success);
Mrs. Freehill, widow of a well-known solicitor ;
and the wife of Senator Gould and her daughter.
All the pillars of the R.C. Church gave up the
noon and afternoon of Saturday, Dec. 10, to
attending the Hughes-Coffee wedding. The
actual ceremony, it is said, did not take more than
seven minutes, but the reception that followed at
Iroquois, the Coffees’ place at Chatswood, was a
crowded three hours of bridal pomp. The bride
had all the attributes and garnishings that the
spectator looks for at bridals. Early youth,
considerable beauty, and the white satin,
lace, tulle, orange buds, pearl, embroidery
and jewels—-nothing was missing. She re-
joices in the rare name of Holly, and is the
second daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Coffee.
Bridegroom, a young medical man, is second son
of Mr, John Hughes, M.L.C., and a nephew of
ex-Mayor Mr. Tom Hughes. He will take Dr.
U’Gorman Hughes’s practice at Paddington for a
year whilst that practitioner is in Europe.
Mr. Tom Hughes, by the way, writes to say
that there is no truth in the much-published state-
ment that Mrs. John Toohey has taken his house
for the space he proposes to spend in Europe.
The young lead in “ The Whip ” is Miss Kerry,
who as Lady Di—the playwright thinks it the
right touch to ticket the hunting, sporting girl
with the name Diana—gives her virgin heart to
Lord Beverley wearing a school-girlish frock of
white. The priceless gift is asked and granted
with the usual little bit of stage embracing, and
the audience watches the old chestnut work sym-
pathetically and respectfully. But when Lady Di,
dressed in a black pot hat, short divided-skirt
riding habit, top boots and a spur, turns to
weep on her grandfather’s shoulder when
she finds that Beverley belongs to another,
the auditorium rather sniggers. A bob-tailed
habit and high, black he hat and an armed
heel have no chance as sympathy-getters
against a long white skirt and a garden hat. It’s
more a question of raiment than acting. Evi-
dently Lady Di rides astride and her costume is
of the latest. Her “habit” looks exactly like
one of her grandfather’s tweed overcoats pu t on over
her knickers and high boots—a kilty-like thing.
The whole get-up is of the safest and most sports-
womanlike ; but to make love or act the stricken
heart whilst wearing it is to challenge sniggers.
A pale pink frock, worn with a beautiful black
hat with two short pink ostrich plumes, is one of
the successes of “The Whip” frocking. Miss
Marie Illington, who has a remarkable deep
voice, speaks from inside some first-rate gowns.
One, a grey charmeuse, is memorable.
In a George-street frock-creator’s workroom I
saw a gown intended for a first-nighter at “The
Whip.” It was a.cretonne, with a tunic of royal-
blue ninon. Round the edge of the tunic were
two rows of jet beads, big square ones, four
hundred in all. Their weight pulled' the ninon
taut and held it down as if fluted. An edging
of the same jetted the decolletage of the
gown, and the bright hues and rather stiff
patterns of the cretonne glowed under the royal-
blue veiling like something the Queen of Sheba
might have worn when she became Solomon’s
paying guest. She wore mighty little, according
to the picture in our National Gallery. Still, she
may have clothed her upper half also when in-
doors.
Mrs, Simpson, wife of ex-Justice Simpson, who
recently underwent .an operation for optical
trouble, has had to lose the use of one eye.
Her circle of friends —in fact, all Sydney—is
sympathetic.
The ancient of the Lassetter family celebrated
his 82nd birthday last week with a theatre party
at “ Our Miss Gibbs.” Colonel Carrington, some
McQuades and Stephens were of the stalled con-
signment.
M:.,s Gordon, of Kamilaroi, one of a well-known
Inverell squatting family, marries next month
Mi . S'iyi rs, a young wool man. Bride-elect is said
My her girl friends to be the brownest girl in
Sydney. She is the real out-of-doors damsel—a
first-class player of tennis, a surfer, rider and
skater. So her tan does not come from the one-
and-a-penny per bottle preparation that “defies
detection.”
Ar'tFw c^a O s ' lorne . one of the well-known
iN.S.W. clan of that ilk, was married quietly last
week to Mr. Thompson, chief officer of the Morea.
It is another of those matches for which the vasty
deep is responsible. The pair met on the Morea’s
last trip Australiawards. The ceremony was
undertaken in haste, more or less, since P. & O.
ships are among the things which wait for no
man. The new Mrs. Thompson follows her hus-
ba.nd to England on another ship, in accordance
with the P. & O. regulation forbidding officers’
wives to travel with them.
The Mr. Jack Harris, whose dead body was
found beneath the cliffs at South Head last Satur-
day, was one of the best-looking young men in
Sydney. He had the tall, lithe frame, the dark,
wavy hair and the clear-cut features of the
typical dragoon of fiction. His father, Matthew
Harris, ex-Mavorof Sydney, put him into the Gth
.Dragoon Guards—otherwise known as the Innis-
killings—and with that regiment the young man
saw service in South Africa. The Inniskillings
were sent to Ireland when the war was over, and
the vast expense of supporting a soldier-son on a
peace footing preyed on the mind of Harris, sen.,
so that he urged his offspring to send in his papers
and return to Sydney. Eor the past four years
the young man has been a well-known figure about
town.
You may remember the pretty, fair-haired
Florence Everett, who took considerable honors
in music, wrote musical notes for some of our
papers, and seized the chance of being in Italy
when part of that country was quaked to pieces
to write some good stuff about the catastrophe?
She married in London, less than it year ago, Mr.
Lewis Lett, engineer to a big rubber company at
Papua; and when I saw her at Port Moresby
some five months ago she -looked the happiest
thing in sight. Last week’s Sydney papers
chronicled her death.
EUGENIE DUGGAN, now appearing in “ The
Prince and the Beggar Maid,” at the Criterion
Theatre , Sydney.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney.
Mining-man Blakemore, who used to manage
the Great Cobar, left for Vancouver by the
American boat last week, taking his sturdy brood
with him. When that other and bigger mining
man, John Howell, sailed back to Uncle Sam, he
left two sons-in-law behind him. Now John
Howell has died, and the two young Australians
find themselves his executors. Hence the Blake-
more expedition to the Pacific Slope, where they
will find, it is said, a well-lined nest waiting for
them.
Countess Morner, who was Mrs, White of
Havilah, is on the Narrung, due to arrive here
next month. Her illustrious consort is not a
returner. He is a stayer in the land of fog and
frolic and etceteras.
The Fred McQuades —Mr., Mrs. and Miss
Nellie—leave by the Mooltan to winter in Cairo.
From thence they go a-visiting capital cities and
persons.
Another coronator of note announced—Maggie
Papakura. She and 50 of her people go hence to
help amuse the few million or so who won’t get a
look at even the procession to Westminster Abbey,
let alone the crowning. But before this invasion
of Britain the russet army will resume business
at the old address at Clontarf.' A young Maori
maid, named Iwa, said to be phenomenally well
voiced, is one of the stars of the host. The tribe
carries its own brass band, and Mr. C. B. W.est-
macott is the guardian angel and controller of the
tour in this and the other hemisphere.
A man with two attributes of the fairy god-
father—a large heart and a purse to match —is
running loose in these parts. He is from Jersey,
whence also come the famous Lily Langtry and
the pretty, little, bad-tempered cattle. Thebig-
hearted and much-moneyed person has made three
or four trips thisward, and always on board ship
coming and going he has “ adopted ” various girls
and sometimes young married women. He adopts
a bunch at a time and pours money like rain-
water on them. If the adoption occurs on the
homeward journey, lie takes them and their hus-
bands, if the “children” are married, to his
place in Jersey and gives them all a rose-pink
time.
Miss Ceska Rubinstein has been in Sydney for
a few days looking to the cuticle that will
coronate, and to that which cannot or does not care
to. The blue velvet bow on the top of Miss Ceska’s
sunburnt-straw hat is of , the widest and flattest,
and therefpre the smartest; and her coat and skirt
of' Saxe-blue puckered silk are of the classiest'cut.
They have a certain length without breadth, so
tlieir elegance is sure.
A brood of 12 fully-fledged students was turned
out of the Sydney Kindergarten Training College
nest last week. The authorities of the college
gave the white-clad 12 fledglings some farewell
seed-cake and coffee at St. James’s Hall. But
first the covey was addressed by Dr. Cullen,
C.J., who dwelt upon the inestimable value of
“ teaching the child to think.” A musical (Kin-
dergarten) programme was sung through by the
students, then their diplomas were handed to
them. Such a fresh, pretty, healthy-looking brood
the 12 were. They are now eligible for private
or school engagements.
Riviere College, at Woollahra, always ends
its scholastic year differently from other swell
schools. It holds its annual Speech Day on its
lawns, under the blue tent of the sky, in
a setting of flowering shrubs and ripen-
ing pomegranates. Last week the principal
(Miss Meares) and her staff entertained at the
last garden party for 1910. Flocks of children,
from the little kindergarteners up to the “ bud ”
girl who is looking to “come out” after
the 1911 garden party at the college, helped
with a musical and “playful” programme.
Parents and friends formed an appreciative audi-
ence, and, after tea, the students presented Miss
Meares with some dazzling silver ornaments, an
epergne and an oak tray. To the lady’s relief, no
volumes of Shakspeare wandered along. Miss
Meares is allowed to be one of the three best Bard-
of-Avon scholars in this State. The other two
are Messrs. Gullett and Librarian Anderson.
“Charley,” a farcical comedy by Mrs. Boult,
was staged for the first time on Thursday of last
week, at the Palace, by the Muffs. A packed
audience, by which the Lewisham Hospital will
benefit, received the clever bantling with enthu-
siasm. The play might have been called
“Charley and His Aunt,” for, though it hasn’t
a suggestion of “Charley’s Aunt,” the interest
centres in a young Australian squatter-youth and
the titled aunt, whom he goes to London to visit.
Miss Queenie Boult managed the English aunt
(imbued with profound ignorance of Australia) so
sweetly that one would not wish her soft darkness
illumined. Mr. Harry Thomas was a jolly
young scallywag in the part of Charley, and
Misses Stella Marshall, R. Cumming, F. Lewis,
M. Herbert and Ella Crone were ladies of title,
looking and dressing their parts quite prettily.
Miss Amy Woods, who did a small “freak”
part, deserves a special compliment for
her elocution. It was of the best.
Amongst the Hospital Committee
ladies present were Mrs. Sheridan of
Killara, Mrs. M. Deery, Miss Dimond
and Mrs. McDonald.
Beatrice Holloway, who has been
seriously' ill with enteric at a Mosman
Nursing Home, is now convalescing in
the mountains, and expects to rejoin
the Maxwell co., and once more forgive
the villain for ruining the happy old
home.
One of Harmsworth’s ha’pennies
mentions that the millionaires thronged
to the first night of “The Quaker
Girl,” tihe new musical comedy at the
Adelpbi., Noticed in the boxes were
Alfred Rothschild., Ernest Cassel, Solly
Joel, Lord Michelham, Tom Lipton,
Frank Jay Gould “with his new Gaiety
actress-bride”—and .T. C. Williamson,
“of Australia,” seated with George
Edwardes. In a private advice, Mr.
Williamson reports: “There are a
great many tuneful songs in the pro-
duction and a ripping waltz-melody.
The verdict at the finish was empha-
tically favorable, the authors of the
book, the lyrics, the composer, stage
manager and Mr. Edwardes himself
being called. The piece is playing to
capacity business, and the booking
ahead is phenomenal. There were talks
of “cuts ” on the first night, but it all
goes so well with the audiences that this
has been found a difficult matter, and the result
is that after the first week the piece is still
running till 11.20. “ The Quaker Girl” is
numbered among the other attractions J.C.W.
has secured for Australia.
Alfred Hill—he has “arrived” sufficiently to
forego the Mister prefix—will start a week of
comic Opera at the Standard Theatre on Boxing
Night. “ The Moorish Maid,” of which Mr. Hill
is the composer, will be put on, and the company
will include Mrs. Slapoffski and Messrs. Canham
and Appleby. With an orchestra of 17, led by
Mr. Cyril Monk, and with Miss Ruby Hooper to
look after the dances, the Maid ought to gallop to
success. Mr. Hill produces and conducts his
opera.
From a mashed contributor
“Incense is the subtlest of articulate caresses,” said
Oscar Wilde, who at one period of his life kept a censer
of rare filigree silver ever burning in his apartments. To
a lover of these concrete, golden, resinous juices, the la.st
scene but one In William Anderson’s romantic play,
“The Prince and the Beggar Maid,” is a physical as well
as a mental delight. The great altar in the old church
is ablaze with Candles for the unholv Royal marriage,
when the Princess Monica (Eugenie Duggan, for whose
acting, by the way, Georgiana Lady Dudley has ex-
pressed warm admiration), in rich array of silk and lace,
and jewel-threaded auburn hair, comes in and kneels
despairingly on the altar steps to pray. At this psycho-
logical moment Prince Olaf, the wrong man but the right
lover, appears and tries to break Monica’s allegiance to
her oath. Suddenly clouds of delicate incense float out
to the audience, and fill every nook and cranny of the
theatre with the balmy fragrance of the woods. It is a
new experience for the playgoer, and as fascinating as it
is fresh.
Miss Winifred O’Connor, of the Clarke-Meynell
Co., has taken a house in Roslyn Gardens for what
time she makes melody in this city.
How mumming runs in some families. Mr.
Bertie Wright, of the Gibbs Co., is a brother of
the Huntley Wright who nearly tickled Sydney to
death a few years ago. Their father at 80 is still
mumming strong. He was playing Dr. Minnett in
“The Only Way ” with Martin Harvey the other
day. A sister, Haidee Wright, is also a favorite
player.
From M.L. comes a note written by a shep-
herdess of my acquaintance telling that Miss
Nancy Musgrove, Nellie ,Stewart’s daughter, is
playing in the orchestra of her mother’s company.
The piano is her choice, and her fingers wander
masterfully over its ivory teeth.
One of the local Herald’s penladies wrote the
other day that man is “ frightfully conservative in
the matter of clothes,” and his dress is stupid.
Still, she added, “if we women really make up
our minds to it, there is no reason why we should
not in time educate men to a reasonable attitude
towards dress.” As to which a man sends me
this :
I haven’t the honor of the Hhrald writer’s acquaint-
ance, but the average Australian woman of fashion is
familiar. She goes forth (to educate poor dress-slave
man or otherwise) in a hobble skirt (because it was once
the proper thing in Paris), which mavgs her ridiculous
when boarding a tram or boar, or trying to get anywhere
in a hurry ; several layers of underwear, all unnecessarily
decorated with tucks and plea s and laces ; a stiff corser,
drawn in at the waist like a hale of half-dumped wool
hitched on a waggon, impeding her breathing and ruin-
ing her health and constitution; narrow-pointed shoes
much 100 small, with high, narrow heels that
injure her spine, and give her an unnatural
gait; a collar, stiffened with wire that reaches to
her ears, and props her chin so high that she has to
hold her foot out in front of her to see her toe ; jewellery
hanging to her ears, jewellery round her neck, arms and
fingers ; jewellery, pads, tortoiseshell, celluloid and iron-
mongery in her hair ; and wearing a hat like a wash-tub,
skewered on with foot-long pins that threaten every-
body’s eyes, and topped with either an aviary or a
garden. Then she has three yards of thick fur round her
neck and a furred drain-pipe to put her hands in. She
wears a veil over her face, tight-fitting gloves on her
hands, and assorted pads (if she isn’t shapely) on shoul-
ders, calves, hips—and elsewhere ; and she carries a sun-
shade over her on hot days and cold days alike. This is
the reformer, who is going to educate man to dress sen-
sibly ! What’s wrong with beginning dress reform at the
same place as charity—close home?
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HARDY
BROTHERS
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
LIMITED
©Y APPOINTMENT
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
THE LATEST LONDON AND CONTINENTAL DESIGNS.
BROOCHES
CHRISTMAS GIFTS
GOODS FORWARDED ON APPROVAL,
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
FREE.
LOCAL
AUSTRALIAN
TOBACCO
tel
/i
IMH
REFEREE
LOCAL .
rOBACCO
SELLING ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
IN TIN AND PLUG
AT 65 EACH
The Pen is Mightier Than the Sword,
’ J ' 5
* ft'
I
but .. .
THE FOUNTAIN PEN
IS MIGHTIER THAN BOTH.
THE “WARRIOR” Fountain Pen.
The Pen YOU will eventually buy. Price 7/6 Post Free.
Made in England expressly for the N.S.VV. BOOKSTALL CO.
Fitted with I4=carat Gold Nib ; Iridium=pointed. EACH PEN GUARANTEED.
THE feed of this pen is based on the most scientific principles, and ensures
a steady flow of ink, which is one of the secrets of a popular pen. Ihe
greatest care is bestowed on the working parts of this pen. *lhe result
is that, as a writing instrument, it is perfect, being entirely reliable, and, as
its name implies, a “ Warrior ” in the foremost fighting-line of Fountain 1 ens.
Our experience in the Fountain Pen trade extends over a period of 12
years. During this time we have handled pens made by the leading English,
American and Continental Manufacturers, and are, therefore, in a position to
know all the points worth knowing about these goods. In placing the
“ Wax*rior” Fountain Pen on the market, we have achieved the pinnacle of
our ambition in the pen world : that is, to offer a pen of the highest meiit at a
figure within the reach of all. We therefore claim for the “Warrior Pen
that it is the best pen offered at the price, 7/6.
NIBS-FINE, MEDIUM and BROAD.
“THE SWIFT” SELF-FILLING PEN.
“By far the Best Fountain Pen 1 ever used is ‘ THE
SWIFT’ Self=filler ” — writes A. G. Hales , the well-
known Australian War Correspondent.
PRICE 7/6 Post Free.
i ,ii '
IT is quite different to other Fountain Pens. It needs no filler ! Has no
parts to perish ! No complicated mechanism ! No rubber hag ! No twists
or turns! You simply pull out a piston ! Just like a syringe!, Nothing
to get out of order or wear out inside of two years. The nil) is best quality,
14-carat gold. Any style of point. We can fit your hand exactly ! The ink
feeds top and bottom of the nib. This ensures an absolutely even flow whether
you write lightly or heavily, with thick or thin strokes.
“ The Swift” pen writes equally well with plain, red, copying or Indian
Inks ! We guarantee that “ The Swift” pen will never give you a moment’s
trouble ! It takes no longer to till “ The Swift ” than to dip an ordinary pen !
It cannot leak in the pocket if you use our patent clips. You cannot ink vour
fingers ! It is just the pen for Doctors, Professional Men and Travellers, being
so clean to use and easily refilled from any inkpot.
The Price is only 7/6. COME IN AND TRY ONE !
We want to convince you it’s better than the one you are using !
NIBS-FINE, MEDIUM and BROAD.
Our Fountain Pens are the Best Value in Australia.
ONLY OBTAINABLE FROM
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL GO.,
476 George Street, Sydney, Q/V. Markets.
HP
nmfiliK 1
%
nn# allii m
dm
DUHU^
dfflhiuumijjuidflnnt>gn»»n |T nTnni>
ftmnmmiTfllP'
An Enjoyable
Dinner - - -
depends largely on
the quality of the
cooking !
When you partake of a
“Sargent” Dinner
there is a delicacy of
flavor—a goodness
that instantly reveals
the culinary skill of a
superior chef.
■v.
£
Every conceivable idea that forethought could suggest to make
dining perfect has been carried out by Sargents' for the comfort
of patrons. Moderate Tariff.
SPECIALTIES: Wedding Cakes. Pastry. Pies.
Sargents’ Ltd.,
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High-Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
(’Phone—Office, 3559;
Cafe, 1876; Catering:, 4250).
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St.
1■ t j \ ,
(Phone—City 1344).


rALPWELL’S
N INKS.
Made in
Australia.
ANTHONY HORDERN, SYDNEY.
The
Form
Divine.
*
iiMi
PD
m
Though this may
not be the birth-
right of all, there
Is no reason why
anyone should re-
gard a graceful
symmetry as out
of the question for
her.
Royal
Rustless Corsets
are famous for the graceful contour they
impart to every figure. Being constructed
on scientific, anatomical lines, “P.D.”
Corsets impart the desired beauty of form
without imposing any restraint on the
limbs. They are specially recommended
by learned medical men, who advise that
“ women should wear only Corsets built on
the most advanced hygienic and anatomical
principles.” There’s a model for your
figure.
ASK YOUR DRAPER.
VLQ
TRADE
MARK.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 19, 1910.
Mr Dear Yarrie,—
The Omrah, which arrived this week, contained
Leopold of Battenberg, a twig—or perhaps only a
l ea f__ o f the English royal tree. The young man,
who is travelling for the benefit of his health, is
receiving bed and board at Government House.
He is a pleasant-looking boy of 21, and, though he
is the second son of Princess Beatrice, his blue
blood has a stain of plebeian brown. His paternal
grandma was Miss Julia Hauke, the daughter of
a Russian General. In her early life she “ con-
tracted an alliance” with Prince Alec of Hesse,
and became the mother of the Princes Louis,
Alexander and the late Henry of Battenberg, the
last the parent of our youthful visitor.
The Mays and Marys of Victoria are being
pointedly informed of the scheme, hatched by
Mary, Marchioness of Bute, to provide a special
Mary Coronation gift to their Sovereign name-
sake, Mary of England. The idea is sponsored
here by Lady Carmichael, who happens to be one
of the Marys. Her Ex. urges the scheme upon
the cream, and the cream is expected to urge it
on the skim-milk. It is not yet known what
form the present will take, though it will prob-
ably be a casket bearing the inscription: “To
Mary, from Her Little Lambs.”
The Pantomime, which started on its long-
distance run at Her Majesty s last Saturday, had
a full-dress rehearsal on Friday night. The
scarlet ballet soldiers and, the gold-helmeted
amazons with black-tighted legs invaded the stalls,
and waited there in comfort for their cue. The
khaki of the holland-swathed seats made an
effective background for their brilliant attire.
Sori\e pretty pony ballerinas wrapped themselves
in kimonos and flowing hair in the orchestra
stalls. They are a fresh-looking tribe ; also their
hair is well-groomed and plentiful, and they have
a fine store of animation.
Everything happens in the castle in the Bean-
stalk, where, among other things, the giant
has a kitchen that is calculated to astonish the
most blase infant; the cups are the size of soup
tureens, and the dresser is as big as a cathedral.
Sybil Arundale, the new boy, makes a fine Jack.
She has the most delectable limbs and a fetching
smile. At the dress rehearsal Jack Sybil did her
giant-slaying arrayed simply in her bathing suit;
but she has much braver gear than that. The
paving-stones are already humming “ Oh, the
sands ! Oh, the sands !” the ditty that is respon-
sible for the appearance of Jack in the bathing
suit. Miss Sybil of the Arundales brings mamma
with her on her travels.
This “Jack and the Beanstalk” is unusually
melodious for a pantomime. Conductor Andrew
MacCunn evolved the music; he is becoming
almost as notable a composer as big brother
Hainish. And the ballets are as fascinating as
the music. A dance of glow worms at the foot
of the gigantic beanstalk has the charm of a
garden at twilight, especially when mists drop
down from the cold mechanical heavens and veil
the youngsters. The bean flowers materialise into
plump maidens clad each in seven layers of pneu-
monia gauze. A warrior ballet is fullof Princess Ida
amazons, who fight and fall with their toes turned
up and not a scratch on their beautiful uniforms.
The dance is led by a Kuudry-like person,
apparently the Spirit of War. Her draperies are
flame-colored, and she dances like thistledown.
The March of the Wines and Spirits is not de-
signed to draw the No-License crowd. For good,
strong vintages they walk very straight—even the
fluffy, frothy Champagne gets along without
missing a step. There is Claret and Moselle,
Burgundy and Sauterne, as well as a shelf of
others ; but good old Beer doesn’t get a look in.
They are extremely beautiful bottles, and there is
not the sign of a cobweb about one of them.
Grapes are hung all round the stage ; but there is
a painful lack of barrels and cellar steps.
The new Clarke pair last week occupied some
princely space on the outgoing Otway. They are
off on a honeymoon jaunt, first doing the Nile in
a dahabeah, and later trotting through Spain,
Portugal, France and England. The lady took
away trunks full of frocks, including some designed
to match some special emotions. Her real maiden
name was Constance Waugh Adams, but she was
simply Connie Waugh long before she was billed
as a co-respondent.
The Distressed Actors’ Fund had its innings on
Saturday afternoon. The Wirth brothers lent
their Park and all that-in-it-is for the affair. One
only paid a shilling to get in—but Heavens ! the
price to escape! After smilingly paying the
modest entrance fee, the incomer was waylaid by
irresistible mummerettes in their most fetching
attire with sweets and programmes for sale.
Gertie Gilliam and other Clarke-Meynell stage
idols ran the race-game, turning a fortune-wheel
for sweets and jars of jam and other cloying
joys. Under a huge canvas tent, nearly every
actor person with a voice made himself hoarse
shouting songs. In the vast space the accom-
panying piano tinkled thinly, and the creaking of
the canvas and ropes made it seem like a concert
aboard a sailing ship. The wind blew strongly
and the dust swirled; but, in spite of the
elements, dressed-up theatrical people raced
in the saucer track for the Kelbourne
Mup. Harrie Ireland, of the Titian locks,
entered the lion’s cage. The lions were quite
harmless—mere men-stars of the first magnitude,
dressed in “property” skins. Cromwell told for-
tunes in a tent, and had a joyous time with
romantic maidens. The Follies, the Jesters and
the Pierrots buried their rival hatchets in the St.
Kilda sands, and came to help things along. And
Manning ran the whole show so well that the
Distressed Actors owe him at least 39 cheers.
The first performance of “ The Geisha ” by the
Jennie Brenan children was such a success that
the public demanded to have it all over again, and
loyally rolled up to the extent of another houseful,
te the great delight of the Foundling Hospital’s
friends. At the second performance the G.-G.
Dudley youngsters had a box. Small girl Patricia
(“Pat”) and the small Dudley son squealed with
enjoyment; and the much-taxed Gentleman
Helps told off for the day had their work cut out to
keep them from overbalancing into the orchestra.
The two children had brought immense bouquets,
which they hid mysteriously under their chairs
until curtain-fall, when they presented the gor-
geous things to the smallest mummers in sight.
There were many complimentary vegetables
besides those; and little Phyllis Amery—she
played the middy who flirts with the French
maid in Geishaland—came in for a heavy barrow-
load.
The children of the play were very funny off-
stage. The prima-donna spent all her dressing
time sucking lemons—she had evidently been to a
football match lately. One star, aged about six,
got through a whole liquorice-stick “for her
voice,” and had to be made-up all over again,
having turned herself into a. coon.
A letter from some of the “ Sweet Nell” people
who have started their Australasian tour in Maori-
land suggests that they are going to strike some
trouble before they get through the “ Smalls.”
In a snow-topped hamlet on the West Coast the
advance agent proceeded to fix up hotel accommo-
dation. “Sorry,” replied Mr. Bung, “but no
hope ! Can’t get servants. Cook left to-day.
And the missus is ill. Can’t some of your crowd
cook?” The agent sadly replied that, though
“ the crowd ” was by that time fit for most things,
cooking wasn’t in the bill as yet.
There was a gay little function at Fasoli’s on
Friday evening, when Miss Maisie Maxwell was
rewarded with some silver goods for the bright
way she played Katie in Louis Esson’s recent
playlet, .“The Lion Tamer.” The press tribe had
a roll-up, and David Wright, man-of-law, made
the presentation in a speech laden with literary
garlands and chockful of flowers of oratory, and
the russet-haired damsel smiled her dimpled
thanks out of a hat as big as a circus-tent.
Mary Gaunt, novelist, journalist, explorer,
daughter of Melbourne’s Judge Gaunt and sister
of Captain Gaunt, R.N., has been impressing
London with the dauntlessness of Australians.
She is off on a voyage through the British and
French possessions on the West Coast of Africa,
the place where white tnen die wholesale. Also,
she proposes to visit Monrovia, the capital of the
nigger Republic of Liberia, a thing, it is said, no un-
chaperoned white woman has ever done. To the
remonstrances of interviewers she returned the
careless laugh of the' ultra-daring, “Oh,” she'
■ said, “ that sort of thing is in the blood. I’m an
Australian.”
Melbourne lost one of its brightest and best-
known women doctors, the other day, when Mary
Stone got into fatal trouble with her bicycle.
Constance was the first of the Stone family to
take to medicine; and she, too, was the first to
go. Now Cousin Mary follows, and leaves many
true friends grieving.
An Eastern Extension cable-man told me a
cheery story the other day about his confreres on
the Cocos Islands —those specks in the Indian
Ocean that pass the news of the world to
Fremantle in W.A. No regular boats call there ;
but one mail boat commander looks after the cable
men on Cocos. Captain Brown, of the Morea,
regularly every voyage, leans toward the currents
that wash the Cocos. He does not pull up or
approach land ; but ho regularly drops a barrel
overboard and steams away. In the barrel is
fresh meat and all the most recent literature.
He pins a bulletin on the notice-board before-
hand, asking passengers for contributions of books.
The cable men, watching for this gift, put off in a
boat and pick up the barrel. This has happened
every voyage for years ; yet the Cocos men have
never met Captain Brown. This trip they cabled
their mates in Fremantle, and told them the
story. “Buy a loving cup for us,” spoke
the far, faint voices, “and catch that Captain
Brown. Present it to him and fill it brimming
with champagne. Ask him to drink our health,
and tell him that the moment he is quaffing that,
we Cocos fellows are gratefully drinking his health
up here in this God-forsaken place in the ocean.”
The ceremony happened a week or two ago.
Commander Brown and his Morea are just leaving
Melbourne on the homeward trip as I write this.
There will probably be an extra joyous tilt to the
barrel he drops this voyage.
This cable-talk reminds me of a man’s story Of
a lazy sea trip. There was, of course, the Most
Fascinating Passenger on board. The popular
lady was dubbed the Merry Widow. At Suva,
officers and passengers were fighting wordy duels
as to who should act as escort to the lady
ashore. She averted trouble and possible blood-
shed byrefusing them all. “I’ll stay aboard,’
said she. A passenger, later, surprised her ashore
yarning happily with the cable-man in the
station. “Don’t interrupt,” commanded the
widow ;** I’m talking to Fanning Island.” The
cable-man had called up the island, introduced
the lady, and thereupon evolved a long-distance
conversation. The widow said it was the most
piquant flirtation she had had on the voyage.
The man with the little hammer has smashed
up and scattered the finest estate on the crown of
our Richmond Hill, known as the Malleson
estate. There was only five acres of it, but it
will split up into a large bunch of villas. Mrs.
Malleson, wife of the banking solicitor who owned
it, was the leader of Melbourne fashionable
society. She was never very rich, but she had
brains and a managing way. Her country .cot-
tage, the nicest going, was out Fern Tree Gully
way — an d that was another profitable cut-up.
Her reign lasted many years. Before that Sassiety
was ruled by the dashing Mrs. Throckmorton, wife
of the owner of a lot of wharfage. Her male
Smart Set, called the Poodles, was terribly scari-
fied by G. P. Smith, in the Age. There are a few
old warriors who feel the smart even to this day.
While the Christmas Bulletin was entertain-
ing you, your Johanna sampled some holiday
books, one of which was “ Mr. Ingleside,” by
E. V. Lucas. “Mr. Ingleside” only saw pub-
lishers’ ink in September of this dwindling year ;
yet it is now in its second edition. Its touches on
London life are, therefore, to-jthe-moment modern.
It is almost wicked for a lover of books to miss, for
instance, two and a-half pages of disjointed talk
on typewriters. Ann, who wants to be “of use,
becomes a pupil at a typewriting establishment
where all the girls are pale, round-shouldered and
joyless. At lunch-time one of them, Miss Moth,
chatters to her :
“ We had a visit from a suffragette hunting up recruits.
Miss Beautiman is a suffragette. She is a business woman
and wants a hand in things ; but the others only laughed.”
“ They don’t want votes,” continued Miss Moth ; “they
want lovers. What’s the good of talking to foolish, half-
starved typists about votes? You cannot make a girl
more sensible by giving her a vote ; but you can turn her
into a housekeeper and mother by giving hera husband.”
“ Then you don’t want a vote? ” Ann said.
“ Oh, I don’t mind,” Miss Moth replied wearily: “ I’m
tired , anyway."
In “Over Bemerton’s.” E. V. Lucas makes
familiar use of Kipling's Dan and Una, the child-
ren of “Puck of Pook’s Hill.” Dan and Una
appear'again in Kipling’s latest, so “Rewards
and Fairies” linked in harmoniously. This Kip-
ling book, by tjie way, is adding to the dis-
tress of a Melbourne man. Years ago he made
a wedding present to a club friend of a complete,
suitably-bound set of Kipling’s works. Next year,
Kipling having hatched out another book, the
bridegroom gave the present-giver a robust hint.
Said he : “That set of Kipling you gave me is not
complete.” The present-giver thereupon posted
off a copy, and duly chuckled over the .joke.
But KiphufJ swiftly produced another volume.
With rather-less delight the pr.esent:giver sent
that along to join its brothers on the shelf. Since
then Kipling has evolved quite a heap more
books ; further, he shows no signs of leaving off.
The present-giver has plodded doggedly along up
to “ Rewards and Fairies” ; but the next time he
chooses a wedding present, he will seize upon
some defunct author for a “complete edition. "
The fourth holiday book was O. B. Luffmann’s
“Quiet Days in Spain.’’ Luffmann planted him-
self for some years as principal of the School of
Horticulture, at Burnley (Vic.). There are a lot
of women gardeners about Melbourne, and most
of them went regularly to the school whilst Luff-
mann was in charge. When he departed, there
wasan exodus of women from the school, and the
gardens of Toorak suffered a gradual relapse.
Luffmann devoted his spare time to writing on
many subjects, ranging from trees to philosophy.
He made a fetich of trees. His views on men
and manners were always interesting, though at
times startling. He has been wandering ever
since he ran away to sea as a boy from Bristol,
and knows Australia as few Australians know it.
He knows its geology and its botany, and he
has hunted in the remote corners of the continent
for the pelts of its animals. His Victorian
sojourn, he said, was the longest “ sit-down in
liis restless life. Walking is his favorite method
of travelling. He boasts of a walk right through
Persia. I don’t like to bind myself in figures to
the length of that casual stroll. Now we have his
book, in which a lazy life in a lazy country is
happily descril>ed in pages sprinkled with Luff-
mann philosophy.
Australian journalist Carlyle Smvthe was one
of the guests at the dinner given by the bta-
tioners’ Company to the teetotal Gaud Mayor of
London, Sir Thomas Vesey Strong. To be en-
veloped in the Stationers’ packet of guests on such
an occasion is counted a very high honor, indeed,
in the Fog ; and one is expected to chew the soup
slowly, and to deny that the chicken is tough,
even if it resembles a common penny eraser.
Artist Tennyson Cole, late of Melbourne, has
just emerged successfully from a lawsuit in
London. A firm of engravers made alterations
in Cole’s well-known portrait of Ed. VII. lor
this offence they were ordered to pay the artist
£250 damages. The firm appealed, and, last
mouth, was bumped out with costs.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide: —
His Ex. was at the annual cricket match between St.
Peter’s and Prince Alfred Colleges; and most of the rest
of the last week or so has been spent by the vice-regal
twain in handing out school prizes. On these occasions
our Admiral is wont to specialise in advice to Australian
boys on the attractions of the navy as a profession.
Apropos of which, it would be interesting to know, if the
supply for Australia’s baby navy so far exceeds the
demand, that stupid obstacles have to be invented to
ward off applicants. Several S.A. boys have, at any
rate, been debarred because they had passed the ad-
vanced age of 12 years and eight months. They were
strong, intelligent youngsters, keen on the sea, with as
much training already as they could get as nava.l cadets.
And there was no money difficulty. According to a
Bulletin correspondent, the American age-limit is 17
years ; but Australia clings to British tradition, as usual.
The musical critics of Vienna, who are not always civil
to the world-famous, wrote many praises of Leila Double-
day and her dCbut last month. Leila, now a graceful girl
of 17, returned from a month’s holiday, spent without
her fiddle, to hear that she was to play a solo with full
orchestra at Slezak’s farewell concert. She had only a
fortnight for preparation, and only one rehearsal with
the orchestra, yet the critical audience recalled her
four times, and she had to play again. The
Rkiciispost said she was “already a finished artist,
possessing wonderfully sweet tone, perfect technique, »s
well as perception and soul in her interpretation.” The
Tageblatt remarked that “ extraordinary technique,
faultless purity of intonation and beautiful perception
are the most noteworthy characteristics of her playing,
and justify the greatest hopes.” The Zeitdngannounced
that her “technically sound and delightful perform-
ance ” was recognised by storms of applause. The Nkue
Erie Prksse and sundry others said the same in slightly
different words. The same night exactly four years ago
Adelaide was busy heaping bouquets on a smaller edition
of this same Leila. Which fact Adelaide now recalls
with a pride in its own discernment.
You will have heard of our strike. At the time of writing
the bakers are short of flour, and the butchers may be
called out at any minute. Sugar has gone up to sixpence
a pound, and butter is soaring. The local Fat person
connects the trouble, by some strange process of reason-
ing, with the fact that S.A. has a Labor Government;
and he prays daily that it (the Trouble) may continue
and wreak much damage. What is an extra Id. per lb.
for flour by comparison with a likely-looking anti-Labor
argument! Bather than lose the chance of such an
argument he would willingly pay even an extra three-
ha’pence. And he charges the extra three-ha’pence with
even more joy. ...
This year the University youths decided to play the
idiot in"public at the hour when sober-minded citizens
were beginning dinner. Their aim was to strike a happy
medium between the hot glare of daylight, and that
darkness which conceals street jokes as wit h a blanket.
Parliament sailed up the Murray in bulk recently, to
meet the Scottish agricultural delegates, who were sail-
ing down. At present the delegates are in the midst of a
roaring good time. That is to say, they are being per-
sistently over-fed and over-wined, and at intervals they
are forced to sit still and have Highland Flings danced at
them. ,
The Kindergarten Union had a graduation party the
other night. Eight bright damsels blossomed into fully-
qualified Kindergarteners, several with double first classes
concealed in their diplomas too.
0. T. Madigan has been chosen from 10 candidates as
S.A.’s Rhodes scholar for 1911. He has attacked and de-
feated the engineering course at the ’Varsity, and is a
champion at rowing, shooting and boxing.
Pianist Elsie Hamilton left on another world-tour last
week. She travels with her sister, Mrs. Harrold.
An obliging stranger writes to inform me that he and
a fellow-boating enthusiast have imported some Canadian
canoes—the first ever seen in this locality—for Torrens
Lake. So you may expect to hear of our shooting the
rapids or other wild-fowl at any minute. The canoes are
graceful craft, built of cedar and covered with canvas
varnished green ; and there’s already a plot on foot to
form a canoe club. „ . , . , ,
The newly-formed Liberal Union has induced Miss
Grace Watson, of Melbourne, to be its organiser and
general help. .
Anyone who builds himself a house in cur hills for the
future is to get a free railway pass for from one to five
years, and varying in class according to the magnificence
of the residence erected. This piece of Socialism is re-
garded with the more favor by the public because it is
practically impossible to beg, borrow, or rent a'house in
Adelaide or the suburbs, and even stable-lodging is
expensive.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
After six good harvests in S. Aus. :
The Girl had the bluest of blue eyes. That was the
circumstance that clung to you after she had left the car.
Other facts, almost equally impressive, were a blue frock,
blue stockings, and, on the third finder of the ungloved
slender left hand, a ring with a sapphire surrounded by
tiny snarkling diamonds. You said to yourself, She
has a sense of the eternal fitness of things.”
Then you began to draw a picture of her nance, rail,
athletic'bronzed—a Greek-god sort of person.
In the morning you met her in the street, doing the
block” with a fatuous-looking youth with gorgeous
socks. No, that couldn’t be the Greek god.
In the afternoon you saw her again having an ice in a
fashionable tea-room. This time her cavalier was corpu-
lent and his hair was thin. His ancestors were Moses
and Aaron. “ No,” you said ; “ he's not hers.”
In the tram-car, on the home journey, she sat opposite
vou. On her right was a hayseed with untidy whiskers.
On her left—the Greek god ! You almost shouted for
joy. But the god alighted at the next street without
SP The'n the whiskered hayseed squeezed her hand surrep-
titiously, darted to the door, and helped her out.
The Greek god at last!
Ex-Premier Wade, Y.C., in his “privi-
leged interviews” with the Sydney Tory dailies,
is showing no more inclination than usual to go
the whole facts of the ease. This past few days
he has been wailing bitterly about the application
of “the gag” to him during the progress of the
Treasury Estimates. Said this true sport last
Saturday (17/12/TO)
The same spirit that combined to howl down liberal
candidat es during the campaign is manifested inside the
walls of Parliament in a determination thatthe actions
of Ministers shall not be criticised, or their shortcomings
made known to the public. The tactics of the Govern-
ment during this week of forcing measures
the process of physical exhaustion is highly discredit-
able.
To listen to Wade, a sympathetic person who did
not know him would believe that he had been
practically prevented from speaking at all ;
whereas the truth is that he has been occupying
so much time on the floor of the Assembly that
either he or the proceedings had to be sacrificed.
The last Hansard (issued on December 16) shows
that between December 6 and December 8 Wade
spoke to the extent of about 620 inches, while
McGowen, the Premier of the Sbite, covered
only about 190 inches, including the Budget!
From the man who wrote ‘ ‘ By Bail and
Semaphore”:—
Sometime, some months ago, Mr. Arthur Angus wrote
to the N.S.W. railways that he had perfected an inven-
tion for the prevention of collisions between trains tinder
any circumstances. He briefly outlined the principles,
and asked to be given the opportunity to demonstrate it
under working conditions, and threw in the unujual pro-
viso that the whole cost should be borne by the inventor.
He didn’t ask the Railways to expend one solitary six-
pence. Everything would be paid for. And the Kail-
wavs, instead of jumping at so fair an offer, wrote
to * the OommiS'ioner of Patents and askedl him
forward a copy of Mr. Angus’s specification. The Coni-
missioner of Patents referred his brother Commissioners
to the inventor, and after some delay Mr. Angus was
requested to forward his specification. He replied that
his specification would not throw much light on the sub-
iect hut that an actual demonstration would prove or
disprove everything. The railway people then spoke Of
Hornsbv station as a testing ground, in a vague and
indefinite way. Eventually there was an interview'
between the Commissioner and the inventor, and after
that, the Commissioner declined to have anything to do
with the invention, or the inventor, or give any facilities
for testing or demonstrating.
The inventor was not crushed. He ignored the Rail-
ways after that, and went on perfecting his patent and
securing its legal position all over the world. Then the
Portland Cement Co. offered the use of its little scrap of
private line, which was accepted. The Mount Kembla
people did likewise, and on Saturday last, on the Mount
Kembla mine, the invention was demonstrated. The line
was divided into a number of sections, called “ danger
zones”; and Mr. Angus undertook that, while the line
was clear, an engine would run through without stop-
ping, but when another engine was introduced into the
danger zoned; la Richmond or Sunshine, a whistle would
blow without any human agency, a danger semaphore
in the cab would flash its warning in the driver’s eye, and
then, if he took no notice, the same agency would close the
throttle valve and bring the train to a standstill. And
all these things were done. Then the wires were cut and
the whole svstem was wrecked, and still the engine
stopped on 'entering the danger zone. It looked
m y‘et* there was nothing miraculous about it. At the
ends of each danger zone are contacts and controllers
connected with telegraph wires that traverse the whole
length of the danger zone. On the engine is an electric
venerator and the current flows out from the engine into
the controllers and through the contacts and back to the
battery. As long as that current flows freely the throttle
valve is held open by magnets, and the brakes are
held off the same way. Break the current, as must
he done if another engine enters the danger zone, and
the throttle valve closes automatically, and the brakes
fly on. There are similar systems at work in America
and England, in which the mechanism acts when anything
o-oes wrong. But if the mechanism itself is interfered
with then it doesn’t act and the train goes on to sudden
smash. The glory of the Angus system is that it apts
only while things are right, and keeps the valve open and
the brakes off. If anything goes wrong, it is like para-
lysing the brain of a human being—everything stops
Which is why it is so far a world-beater and a maker of
absolute safety. „ , . .
The demonstration at Mount Kembla was very decisive,
and prov. d that the appliance would do everything
claimed for it. The invention is the realisation of the
railway engineers* dreams —the perfect automatic
which does away absolutely with the human factor, and
which, instead of showing when anything is wrong, Shows
only when everything is all right.


SUMMER TROUBLES of the COMPLEXION.
HOW TO AVOID THEM.
from Mile. Helena. Rubinstein*
THAT the sun plays havoc with the complexion has been an accepted fact from
earliest days, but the why and wherefore Science has only recently succeeded
in discovering. do Doctor Finsen, the famous Danish physician and
scientist, the palm must be awarded for any knowledge that we now possess of the
true effect of the sun’s rays on the human skin.
Dr. Finsen discovered that it was not the heat rays of the sun, red, orange and
yellow in color, but the light rays—blue and violet—that cause discoloration, freckles,
tan and sunblister. The fact that severest sunburn occurs in mid-winter, on
the snow-clad Alps, where the heat is naturally out of the question,
was unanswerable evidence.
When these curious things had been proved, half the battle
was won, and it only remained to discover means of counter-
acting the influence of these blue and violet rays, and so not
only banish but prevent freckles, sunburn, tan and sallowness.
Ceaseless laboratory work of Continental Scientists has
solved the problem, and Mile. Rubinstein, the noted
Viennese authority on Beauty-Cult, has been given sole
control of these astonishing sun-expelling discoveries.
The first preparation, before which freckles, tan and
sunburn completely retreat, is Valaze. Distilled from a
beautiful flower herb, which grows on the wild slopes of
the Carpathian Mountains, its skin-clearing properties
are marvellous.
If beauty is at all worth while, then Valaze is the
trusted tool by which it is attained. For true beauty, I
maintain, is not merely conformity to an admired type or
regularity of features. It is a blend of .many things, but there
is one essential. There must be a good complexion. And
this Valaze creates, making it outlast happiest anticipations,
and with a charm of skin that many never realise they could
possess.
Valaze charms every particle of impurity out of the skin, and makes it pure
and radiant within from a fortnight to a month from its first application. Valaze is
supplied in porcelain jars at 3s. 6d. and 6s. 6d. ; 6d. postage.
The other discovery is Novena Sunproof Creme ; and the timely use of this
speciality, coupled with Valaze, destroys the tanning and freckling effects of the sun’s
rays, and renders the skin immune from discoloration. 2s. and 3s. 6d.
Mile. Rubinstein is emphatic in the assertion that Valaze is not a cure-all, and
she supplies the following exclusive preparations, which are as invaluable in their
particular sphere of usefulness as Valaze is in its own :
m
tm
■
•awpf
sap-
-IM*
'BPS l
y».
?y r ’
X
"cLr&
Valaze Herbal Powder, pure and wholesome, imparts a soft, fresh bloom of
health. 2s. and 3s.
Valaze Herbal Soap, made of rare herbs and almonds, pure and economical, a
perfect skin cleanser, lasts several months. 2s. 2d. posted.
Valaze Blackhead and Open-pore Cure banishes every trace of this disfigure-
ment, and is an unfailing remedy for coarse and greasy skins. It closes unduly
open pores, and refines the skin’s texture. It also whitens and softens the hands.
2s. iod. posted.
Valaze Liquidine dispels undue redness of the nose and face, and
prevents blackheads, greasiness, acne, open pores, pimples and
blotches. Where these blemishes have already made themselves
apparent, the Liquidine will positively remove the most obsti-
nate cases. It also prevents the skin from becoming shiny
and over-moist. Bs. 6d. a bottle ; 6d. postage.
Valaze Lip Lustre, for dull, blanched lips. Biting and
wetting will not displace the coloring it imparts. 2s. and
3s. 6d. Valaze Snow Lotion (a Viennese Liquid
Powder) is a preparation of rare distinction, which
cools, refreshens and whitens the skin, and prevents
greasiness and blotches. 3s. 6d. ; 6d. postage.
Novena Cerate is a most effective and natural skin
cleanser. Continual use of the Novena C rate in the
nursery will ensure perfect skin health during child-
hood. 2s. and 3s. a jar. Valaze Rouge Tenace, a natural
' coloring for the cheeks, which cannot be detected, or dis-
placed by heat or perspiration, is. 6d. and 3s. Novena
Hair Destroyer instantly makes every hair above the surface
disappear, without the slightest detriment to the complexion. It
has been declared to possess every quality which should
characterise a perfect depilatory. After application it leaves a delight-
fully cool sensation, which is so different from the usual effect of other
depilatories. 6s. 6d.; 6d. postage.
The Valaze Massage Institutes, in Pitt Street, Sydney, and Collins Street,
Melbourne, are the completest establishments known in Australasia for treatment of
complexion blemishes of every imaginable kind.
When ordering preparations or writing to Mile. Rubinstein, for further particu-
lars or advice, address your correspondence to Mile. Rubinstein, Dept. 20, Valaze
Massage Institute, 274 Collins Street, Melbourne yor 158 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Mile. Rubinstein will also send her valuable book, “ Beauty in the Making,” free
with order ; otherwise, 3d.
m
UNDER VICE-REGAL
h
PATRONAGE,
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
WATCH AND CHAIN AND RING ft|l/PM
For Selling Our High Grade Art Post Cards I w fate
We give absolutely FREE this handsome AMERICAN MADE, STEM WIND AND STEM SET. Watch, care-
fully tested and fully guaranteed for selling only twenty packages of our HIGH GRADES
ART POST CARDS at 5d a package. Send us your name and address (no money) and we
will send you the twenty packages of Beautiful Post Cards to sell at 5d per package.
When sold send us the 8 shillings and we will positively send you at once this beautiful
WATCH and CHAIN and RING. We will refund the money if you are not perfectly
satisfied. Write today for the cards.
PEERLESS WATCH COMPANY, 1137 East 63rd Street, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
ONIM
W3JLS
<YJ
TrtC OfUY
TYRE ,
BUILT on
/CIEIMinC
PRINCIPLE/
£2&)
v.
d-
V
£
CO
t~n
K
Cy
v
1
c>
%
?6?
1U Ol
UTIES
THE
] /ILVERTOY/h
/ RUBBER (?
279 GEORGE f T
) /YDftEY
An Ideal
■Xmas Gift!
A Barling
S.M. Pipe,-
9s. 6d.
The highest standard of quality—finished in a
perfect manner—and representing the‘greatest pipe
value obtainable. You can’t go wrong if you make
“ him a gift of these British-made Pipes.
G.M. Barlings from 10/6 to IS/6. G.M. L. & Co.’s
14/- to 21/-. L. & Co.’s Motor Pipes. Solid Silver Caps,
22/6 to 32/6. Write for Catalogue. A splendid assort-
ment of gift things to select from. Quality goods of the
highest order at prices within moderation.
ANDREW McGEE
Sydney’s Leading
Tobacconist,
5 & 7 CASTLEREAGH ST., corner Hunter St., SYDNEY.
I
wm.
mk
ifig
K^SSaS*
jsg^ngpg
111^1^1
SSjfecw
8l@»p
WHEN YOU ARE ON A GOOD THING - STICK TO IT
ĥ
IRI
REG
REALPOPLIN)
vS/z/rc? Woo/.
<%
THE REALGOOD THING IN NECKWEAR
IRIS
? e , C tJ lWear * s a Rightful production in
Real Poplin made from silk and wool —which
particularly commends itself by reason of its
tmcreasable character, and the immense variety
, °* color tones and effects in whch it is
produced. When purchasing Neckwear insist on “IRIS” brand—the
lie that never creases —there is no other just as good.
Obtainable from all Mercers.


SLENDER AND BEAUTIFUL.
How Stout People Regain a Perfect Shape.
When a person is too stout and contemplates a
special treatment in order to regain slenderness
and beauty-of form, there is one vital recommen-
dation to be borne in mind Do nothing, take
nothing that might possibly be detrimental to
health and strength. That means, do not go in for
fasting; avoid violent exercising ; but take plenty
of rest and enjoy rational meals. With this exor-
dium we will proceed to give the full recipe of the
preparation for reducing weight to normal and
restoring slenderness and beauty which is now in
vogue everywhere One ounce of pure Glycerine
8.P., one half-ounce of Marmola, one ounce of fluid
extract of Glycyrrhiza 8.P., and Peppermint
Water to make six ounces in all. Any chemist will
make up this prescription or supply the ingredients
to mix at home. Take two teaspoonfuls of this
harmless mixture after each meal. This truly
scientific remedy acts beneficially on the whole
organism, restoring vigor, appetite, digestive
power ; renewing the blood and re-beautifying the
complexion. The reduction leaves no wrinkles,
and there is a splendid re-development of muscular
fibre.*
aO>
CHERRY BLOSSOM BOOT
POLISH is easy to use and
sure in its results. Shines
brightly and preserves the
leather; renders the boots or
shoes moisture proof; 'makes
them easier to wear, and doubles
their wear. It is sold in 3d. and
6d. tins—Black and Tan—the
largest on the market at the
price. If you have any difficulty
iin securing- Cherry Blossom
Boot Polish write to us, and we
will see that you are supplied immediately.
Manajrinsr Aleuts for Australia :
SWIFT & COMPANY, t 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Speechless with Wonder
are the friends of those relieved of indigestion and
all stomach troubles by Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive
Tabules. Price 2s. Od. per tin.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
If your baby is teething during the summer
months you must guard against dysentery and
bowel complaints. Keep a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy in the'house,
and at the first unusual looseness of the bowels
give it a dose.*
h
OCNYER
©
is so common
that a perfect
[Truss is a boon.
DENVER’S
SPECIAL
ELASTIC
TRUSS
gives fullest security, without
undue pressure. No irritating'
springs. Cool. Fit guaranteed.
17/6 Single. 22/6 Double.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses and
Abdominal Belts,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St:), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
John Murray thus excuses the impotence
of the last Victorian session: “At any rate, I
have nothing on my conscience.” The same
reflection no doubt sustains the toad imprisoned
in the rock a thousand feet below the level of
everything.
Sydney is to get its gas for 3s. 9d. per
1000 ft., instead of the 4s. it has been paying for
many years. The Labor party didn’t bring this
bird down, of course. The bird simply said,
" Don't shoot, and I’ll come down.” Aud it does
come down—to a lower branch, at any rate.
Fat’s spokesmen, the secretaries of his
unions, are humorless bloques. The other day
Eldridge, the Melbourne Builders’ sec., an-
nounced that “ builders don’t want the Scaffold-
ing Bill now before the Vic. Assembly. It is
absolutely unnecessary.” Likewise, by the way,
this paper has received a circular from the secre-
tary of the Brotherhood of Burglars declaring
that the Crimes Act is quite superfluous.
On the Monday before the S.A. Assembly
closed its session, and while Deakin was prepar-
ing his manifesto telling Australia that it would
be simply sinful to take any power away from the
•State Houses, two billiard tables were installed in
the S.A. Parliament House. At 10 p.m. on
the day previous to the prorogation there were
seven members in the House (including the
Speaker and the talker) taking part in a constitu-
tional discussion, and 20 legislators watching the
billiard players upstairs. The sinfulness of taking
away an atom of its authority from a Parliament
like that is simply staggering.
The Westralian Midland line runs from
Midland Junction to Geraldton, and is fed by a
State railway at both ends. Now the Govern-
ment proposes a line parallel to the Midland and
40 miles from it. It would open up what is
declared to be fine agricultural country, and cut
about 160 miles off the distance from Perth to that
country. The Midland Co. is naturally moving
heaven and earth to suppress the project; but the
wail for consideration from a co. that manages its
own business so badly that it has arrears of in-
terest. on its 6 percent, cumulative debentures, is
deceiving nobody worth while, and the new rail-
wav will go on.
N.S.W. Chief Secretary Donald Mac-
donell said the other day that “it was a vile
slander to say that the Labor party aimed at an
equal distribution of wealth—what it sought to
give was equal opportunities to all.” That ought
to have pleased the Sydney D.T., and ridded it of
some of its dreadful Ant.i-Sosh fears. But no-
thing the Labor party can do will satisfy the
D.T. “You can’t give equal opportunities,” it
moaned, “ because men are not equal.” Presum-
ably, therefore, according to the D.T., the Labor
party shouldn’t try to give equal opportunities.
And, on the same grounds, the City Council
shouldn’t try to make level footpaths because
some people can’t walk at all, and others can walk
a heap faster than others ; and the D.T. should
stop publishing itself because one part of the
community is blind and another part can’t read.
John Murray lias lately exhibited the
stern courage of a rabbit and the backbone of a
cuttlefish. After he had boldly introduced a
Factories Bill to extend the Wages Boa.d system
to the whole State, the country members who
support him frowned ; so he squirmed, and pro-
posed separate and local Boards, so that the rich
Western District landowners might not labor
under the same “drastic” conditions as, say, the
small Gippsland dairy farmers. But Fat’s friends
still frowned, whereupon Weary wriggled again,
and accepted an amendment exemptingall country
industries from Wages Board legislation, except
creameries, butter factories and concentrated
milk foundries. The same night, Subservient
John, having heard more mutterings, announced
that liis proposed State land tax would be re-
duced from fd. in the £ to sd.>, with a reduction
also in the exemption. Weary knows quite well
that liis land tax is a joke as a land tax and a
farce as a revenue tax ; but he must make some
pretence of having a land tax, any way. And his
reward will be that he will probably be kicked by
both parties.
That quaint survival, Hobart (Tas.) City
Council, held one of its aldermanic elections the
other day, with the usual result: the rejection of
the candidate for whom most electors voted.
Plural voting is a Whole Hog affair in Hobart:
some electors have seven votes, some six, some
five ; more have four; more still have three; a
good many have two ; many have one ; and a
great many of the residents, like criminals and
lunatics, haven’t a vote of any sort or size This
last class exercises as many votes as any other
class in Parliamentary elections ; but, though they
may control the Legislatures that make the laws
regarding war, peace, taxation, life, death, liberty,
trade, commerce, education, etc., they are not
permitted to have the slightest say in the selection
of representatives to the august body that bosses
Hobart's abattoirs and waterworks and nightman,
and neglects the streets, sidewalks and cobble
gutters. Which probably explains why Hobart is
about the worst-governed municipality in the
British Empire, and the only-Australian capital
city that revels in the ancient delights of cobble-
stone gutters and the perfume thereof.
The blank impossibility of persuading
Premier Murray to do anything save wobble or
sit down gets on Victoria’s nerves. Lately the
Laziest Man on Earth struck the fine,_demo-
cratic idea of extending the Wages Board
system to country industries, and introduced
the necessary Bill. Then a voice was heard
objecting, and Murray, though he had a
majority, was too dead to argue, and he
agreed promptly that the Wages Board
system shouldn’t apply to any country in-
dustry at all unless it happens to be car-
ried on in a fa'ctory. That means that
everybody is shut out except the butter
and cheese maker. And later on. when
the Upper House excludes factories also,
Murray will just wake up for a minute
and say “ Orright.” He is such a placid
individual that if his budget came back to
him so amended that it was turned into
a measure to provide a close season for
sausages, the only thing he would say would be
“ Orright.”
Printed in Melbourne
The Earl of Harrowby, who is touring Victoria, is one
of the moneyed peers. Tie is a partner in the wealthy and
old-established Coutts and Co.’s Bank. It is understood,
that he is studying the overseas dominions as possible
places for investing capital forced out of England by
Lloyd-Georgeism.
Printed, too, in a real, old, mellow, Tory paper-
one that has always joined in theory that Labor
legislation was chasing capital out of Australia at
top speed. Capital is evidently having a hot and
hurried time of it nowadays.
When Andrew Fisher gets to the Im-
perial Conference lie will have the matter of the
naturalisation of aliens pushed at him. It may
seem absurd that an American-born comedian
like King O’Malley, though naturalised in Aus-
tralia, is still an alien in S’Africa or Canada or
England itself, and some people seem eager to
correct the anomaly ; but there is another side to
the question. In some of Britain’s colonies or
Eossessions it is an easy matter for Alcim 800 to
ecome naturalised, and if reciprocity in natu-
ralisation rights is to be granted, the coming rush
of colored “ Britishers ” to Australia is likely to be
considerable. Doubtless the proposers of the idea
would view this avalanche with equanimity, but a
lot more people would rather view it with a
pitchfork. And, in a matter like this, one pitch-
fork is worth 10 equanimities any day.
“In Summer-Time,” by Frank Henty, author
of “The Girl at Blue Creek,” is now on the bookstalls.
Price: Sixpence. “In Summer-Time” is a seasonable
collection of short stories, sketches and verse, and is
on sale throughout Australia by all the leading book-
sellers. The trade supplied by Frank Henty, Laboji
Call office, 23 Patrick Street, Melbourne ; four and six-
pence per dozen free, cash with order. Single copies
sevenpence, post paid.*
During Maoriland Parliament’s session,
just finished—a record one for length 8G public,
24 local, and five private Bills were passed. Apart
from the big loan Bills, the questions dealt with
covered almost everything from noxious weeds to
commercial trusts, and from kauri guin to the
alleged extinction of the public debt. .
was “reserved for his Majesty’s pleasure ; the
others now await the pleasure of Gent One and
the interest of posterity.
BLOCKING THE LINE.
[?]s been decided by the N.S.W. State Government
to import a signalling- expert for the Kailway Repar-
ment. It is stated on good authority that a suitable
man could be found in the State Service.— News Item.
YOUNG N.S.W.: “Hey, McGowcn! Don't you
think it's about time you pulled that signal
down?"
Premier Verran, in South Australia, has
a working majority of only one ; and, as neither
party has, therefore, much of a lead, hair and
blood will fly at the next general election—the
fight will be “all in.” And, under the present mad
system of government by party, one of the things
each party knows is thinly-disguised bribery. Of
course, local preacher Jack Verran isn t bribing
any constituency; still, if lie had a majority of 15
instead of only one, or if it didn’t matter whether
he had a majority or not, the chances are the
boom Loan Bill wouldn’t be the dreadful thing it is.
Weary John of Victoria is too languid to
even whistle for a policeman. The other night he
told Opposition-leader Prendergast that “lie wasin-
formed that certain employers deducted insurance
premiums and hospital subscriptions from their
employees’ wages. Such actions were quite
illegal, and he was sure if the men objected the
employers would cease the practice. it some
enterprising burglar breaks in at Weary s and
collars John’s softest easy-chair, John will also
presumably be satisfied to speak kindly to the
burglar and ask him to drop it. If he doesn t
drop it, then it seems that Weary will merely
curl himself up on the mat and sleep that way.
The idea of calling up the Law is too violent
altogether.
THE SOLOISTS.
The Fntnian’s habit of demanding an extra
shilling if he is compelled to spend an extra six-
pence is putting Advances for Workmen’s Dwell-
ings into most politicians’ minds. S. Aus. had
done something in that way already, arid last
session Parliament decided to do more; in Vic-
toria Treasurer Willie Watt is pondering a pro-
posal to give the Advances Department of the
Savings Bank the same power to help the city
man as it has to help the country settler; and
N.S. W. Ministers are feeling one another on the
game subject. The Fat landlord, who has made
the land tax an excuse to put up rents from 5 to
15 per cent., has been the last straw that has
broken many patient backs. And, anyhow, what
can Fat say in disapproval of a scheme to enable
tenants to become their own landlords—Fat who
has always preached thrift to the working-man .
Supposing, as the S. M. Herald prophe-
q:es Admiral Henderson recommends Jervis
Bay as the chief Australian naval base, a question
,v!u .1 to Whether ho W»s oWly
of the circumstances of the case. As the Hera .
“naval authority’’puts the case:- -
You must keep your ports separate from jour
commercial ports. - . , ,
On that principle Jervis Bay, as things stand
looks just the thing. Nothing could be less like
a commercial port than that lone and shent inlet,
where no great ocean liner ever comes n and
lands even a peanut on the beach. But the
Federal capital is to be built behind Jervis Bay,
and there is to be a railway to it, and it is under-
stood that the Lost Water is to Presently re-
sound to the howl of trade and the alarming
bellow of industry. If the Adnural doesn t fubj
realise this he may recommend Jems Baj tor
naval purposes under a complete misapprehension
of the case. .
From a S. M. Herald editorial (12/12/*L0);
cursing the proposal to bring the State railway
employees under the Federal Arbitration Act.
Imagine a private company being compelled to do the
best itTconld for its shareholders, and at the same time to
rest imder the obligation of allowing sonie uus.Vmjvithetm
outside organisation without an atom ot nnauciai re
spouslbility to arbitrarily dictate whatwagesit should
pay its hands, and what hours it should laboi . Tins
much the position we are asked to accept.
The Herald needn’t dive into its imagination to
seethe dreadful thing it pictures in ful blast
In fact, if the Herald has a look at its own
books it will find that it is sailing along pretty
serenely under a system which allows an outside
organisation without an atom of financial respon-
sibility to arbitrarily dictate? what wages it should
pay its hands, and wliat hours it should work.
Also, if the Herald refers to -its back files it will
find that its friend, ex-Premier Wade, embodied
the very principle which it says is horrible in ln»
Industrial Disputes Act—and the Herald helped
him to put it there,
An anaemic little Workmen’s Compeusa-
tion Bill, which was before the Tasmanian House
of Gloom the other day, had this hurled at it:
Hon. Ellis Dean said that the tendency of the Bill and
all such legislation would be to with that
Christian feeling between employer and employee winch
was found in every Christian country. At the present
time the employer did everything that lie could to allevi-
ate a man’s condition if he was hurt, but if the Bill "as
passed he would just pay his premium and let the man
stay where he was like a dog and die.
That beautiful Christian feeling between em-
ployer and employee is very prevalent in las-
mania. For instance, supposing the Hon. Ellis
Dean wants to pay an employee, be doesn’t count
out so much money and say: “Here are your
wages.” Instead, he hands over his purse, and
says: “For the sake of the Christian feeling
between us, take what you like.” Sometimes the
man takes £1 and sometimes he takes £2O. But
no matter what he takes, the Horn Ellis Dean is
quite content. So with all other Tasmanian Fat
employers* No wonder, then, that the Hon.
Ellis Dean feels hurt when an employee wants to
know exactly what he is going to get in case of
accident. It is such a poor return for the Fat
employer’s touching confidence ill his workman.
The congestion habit of mind is a severe
financial handicap to the Australian exporter of
produce in his struggle for the Britisher’s custom.
E. Bechervaise, the Australian agent, for the Hull
and Barnsley Railway, who recently returned
from the island that drags its dinner from the
ends of the earth, pointed out to a daily paper
interviewer that the bulk of Australia s contribu-
tion to Bull’s table, instead of being shipped
direct to the big English outports, is poured
through London, and thereby loaded at the
end of its long journey with unnecessary
coastal freights and rail charges. In the case of
frozen meat, it means that the carcases are sub-
jected to six handlings from the time the ship
moors in the London dock till the goods are hung
on the hooks by the Yorkshire butcher. Tlie pro-
cedure is just about as sensible as dumping goods
intended for Sydney on Port Melbourne pier and
having them railed overland at enormous expense;
yet it is being done cheerfully every day by bust-
ness men who have got used to looking at the
309,000 square miles of the Ma State through the
Red fern bottle-neck. It is a pathetic instance
of how expensive a bad habit may become in
commerce.
An extract from the words of N.S.W. ex-
Treasurer Waddell :
Referring to the recent issue of paper money by the
Commonwealth, Mr. Waddell said that the paper money
system had proved a curse in every country that had
t'ried it—(Opposition cheers)—and the people had been
reduced to abject poverty and compelled to take five
shillings in the &, and less, for the notes. Everyone who
had read the history of tVie world knew that this paper
money on the part of the'Government had been a curse.
Presumably Waddell knows—it is I hard to see
liow even lie can avoid knowing—that the above
tale is silly bosh. Government paper money cir-
culates in the Indian Empire, Canada, the United
States, Queensland, Mauritius, etc., and it doesn’t
reduce anybody to abject poverty, nor is anybody
compelled to take ss. in the £. The question here
arises—how far should the right of a member of
Parliament to make a shrieking and unbounded
exhibition of himself extend? Theoretically
lie has a right to say anything he likes so long as
he isn’t obscene or wildly profane. Practically
his claim to waste the time of his fellow-members
by assuring them that William the Conqueror
really landed at Cobar, and that Queen Victoria
was beheaded near Surry Hills, and that Julius
Caesar was a Cooktown .alderman, must bump up
against some limitation or other. And not one of
these remarks would be an iota more foolish than
the ancient dry (or tommy) rot which Waddell and
similar Tories are so fond of talking re tlife.
Government note issue.
THE BATTLE OF THE WOWSERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
They were confronted with political influence, which
tried to weaken Christianity. They should fight any
Government which threatened the sacred ness of the old
Puritan Sabbath Day. (Applause.)— Extract from speech
of militant Wowser.
Say ! Do you know how the Wowsers fight?
I had a horrible dream last night.
I marched with a crowd, and left and right
I saw fat brollies waving ;
A thin rat-a-plan two hatpins played
On a kettle’s base, while some old maid
To a tongue-sore curate lent first aid
And stilled his Cold Tea raving.
’ Before the terrible fight began,
A laden bun-ammunition van
Rolled on to the field, and ev’ry man
Rushed at it like a rocket ;
Then the gamps were piled and tea was brewed,
And keyed-up Wowsers the greensward strewed ;
Kach man at his ammunition chewed—
The cold dough in his pocket.
Then someone blew on a kettle-spout,
And we fell in who had fallen out,
And trudged along with a Cold Tea shout
To give the foeman battle ;
No sound was heard but the thud of feet,
And the feverish tune the hatpins beat
As down a silent and shuttered street
We swept like driven cattle.
Around a corner we swung, and there
Stood an undefended building where
Sat a drove of clerks with rumpled hair,
Who stared in consternation ;
With our gamps clutched tight we charged right in
Through the fortress of Red Tape and Sin ;
The garrison screamed above the din,
“ Another deputation ! ”
But on we surged at a reckless pace
Right to the top of the stone staircase,
And in where an anxious, care-lined face
Looked o’er a pile of papers
We opened fire with a long tirade
On Sunday apples and lemonade ;
Then rushed at him with the list we’d made
Of sly-keg party capers.
But ere the battle had well begun,
Up in a rage sprang the badgered one.
“ I’ll see, Gentlemen, what can be done,”
He said, “ And now, Good-morning ! ”
We streamed down the stairs on angry feet
And straggled away in full retreat,
While the hatpins on the kettle beat
A sharp, metallic warning.
Say, do you know how the Wowsers lost?
And how the battle turned out a frost?
1 fled from the awful holocaust
With those black-hatred rousers ;
Low moans of rage floated on the breeze ;
They limped along not at all at ease
And broke their brollies across their knees, .
That rabble of wild Wowsers.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


W/I.Ruling C? U?, 338 George nSX nSvdney.
Importers of Pianos,Organs®.Musical Instruments, Brisbane ‘S. Newcastle
You'//
Get
Va/ue
/oryour
Money
And
A//tAe
Tatest
Patents
As we//.
T/ne
Tone
and
Good
7buc/i.
TAey
Stand
, fn7iine
/n any
C/nna/e.
So/d
on
Pety
Tasy
Terms.
*
CEi
s—l5 — IV —f
Special Edison Records
for ——Christmas !
WHEN we remember that the number of Edison Records runs into
many thousands, it is but natural that there should be many gems
suitable for Christmas; Songs, stories, carols, hymns and band
selections make up a very interesting programme for the holiday season.
Some of these Records will surely be needed in your home at Christmas.
Your family and friends will be expecting a good time, and th re’s nothing
better than the Edison Records to supply it.
Call on your dealer and hear these Christmas Records, or write us for
the special list which we have published, giving details of some which we
consider most appropriate.
Would .you like to make a present to a friend of some Edison Records ?
Well, call at your dealer’s, and ask him to show you the folder We have
prepared for the purpose. It is beautifully printed in three colors, and you
can fill in the number of Records you wish your friend to receive. He will
select those he desires most.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
From Gentlemen to Ladies
DAINTY XMAS GIFTS
No. BXI.
Ladies’ Dressing Cases (as illustration), in Morocco,
Seal and Crocodile Calf, Xylo Brushes, E.P. Mounted
Bottles, etc 27/6, 40/=, 45/= each.
No. BX3.
Trapeze Bag (as illustration), in Black Seal Grain
Leather, Gun Metal Mounts, and Gilt Clips.
With Fittings 12/6 each
Larger Size, without Fittings .. 13/6 each
No. BX2.
Double Flap Bag (as illustration), with inside
fittings, in two sizes—
Morocco 18/6, 23/6 each
Roan .. .. 23/6, 26/6 each
Mongoose 27/6 each
No. BX4.
New Trapeze Bags (as illustration), in
Crocodilo-Russia and Mongoose; outside
pocket (as shown). One size only, 9in.
>°ng 23/6 each
FARMER’S,
Pitt, Market and
George Streets,
Sydney


KALYDOR
FOR ™ SKIN
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
213, 416, of Stores and Chemists.
No Household
Should ever be without a bottle of Dr. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment; a reliable remedy for cuts,
bruises, aches, pains, rheumatism and lumbago.
Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
LIVER AND KIDNEY TROUBLES.
A Sydney Woman’s Trials. Always lired
and Depressed, Yet Unable to Sleep.
“ I suffered from liver and kidney troubles foe,
over two years, and severe pain under the
shoulder which would not let me get any rest at
un <
m
#PS
Mrs. A.
(from a photo.)
night, and m the
daytime I would be
overcome withdrow -
siness,’’ writes Mrs.
Ada Lord, 45 George
Street, Erskineville,
Sydney. “I was
always ailing, al-
ways sleepy, tired
and depressed, and
had no appetite;
indeed, I could never
enjoy a meal. The doctor
first treated me for indi-
gestion, and I might as
well have taken water for
all the good his medicine
did me. I was recom-
mended to try Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Rills by
my nephew, who had been taking them 'Y I*'J] 1 *'J]
wonderful results for liver complaint, which had
affected his eyesight; and I can truly say the first
dose gave jne great relief. I was encouraged to
continue, and now I may say that I am completely
well and would not be without them. xou
may use this, as I recommend Dr. Morse s Indian
Root Pills to everybody I know.”*
MAKE A NOISE LIKE AN ORDER.
CADILLAC,
25-30 H.P. £5OO.
450 in Australasia.
35,000 in the World.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., Brisbane.
SAUL’S MOTOR CO., Launceston.
JASON
Unshrinkable
HOSIERY.
ALE & LA6CR
E„ RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agent3—RICKARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOOBLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Breweky and Offices t
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The first Test Match between Africa and
Australia was a curious affair. It started on Friday,
December 9, and dragged along, owing to rain, till
Wednesday, December 14. Australia made 528 in the
first innings, and Africa, responding with only 174, fol-
lowed on, and, adding 240, was beaten by an innings and
114 runs. Which was a fair-sized doing.
Still, it must be conceded that the Afrikanders
had shocking luck. Clem Hill won the toss, got to work
on a perfect wicket, and smacked up 420 for the loss of
two wickets. But by the sunset he had lost four more
wickets and added only 74 runs. Which was somewhat
of a falling-off. The second day was a blisterer, and the
Australians lifted their score to 528. Then the thunder-
clouds gathered and darkness fell—or what was darkness
after the garish glare the eyes had been accustomed to.
And then it was that Cotter got in his deadly work.
The way those Afrikanders stood up and smashed wildly at
the invisible balls which he sent shrieking through the
gloom was heroic. After that the rain came down, and
the wicket got steadily worse as the days wore on, and
Africa’s name was Slush. But had the toss gone to Africa
and the water to Australia, it might easily have been the
other wav about. So, dearly beloved brethren, let us
not speak disdainfully, or biow the loud trumpet that
marks the skiter. Our luck was in—that’s all.
To realise this just look at the scores. Our
Kangaroo had a deuce of tail. Cut out the 390 made
by Hill, Bardsley.and Gehrs, and what remains? Only
Armstrong’s 4S and Trumper’s 27. The other six men
amassed only 40 runs among them. Also, it is hard to
understand why all this flam has been let loose over the
bowling of Cotter. In the dark, on a damaged wicket,
he knocked down six for 69 ; but in the second innings,
when there was a better light, his two sticks cost 73 runs.
So, for the match, his performance was eight wickets for
142. It was a good performance; but, then, Whitty’s
was better, with eight for 108—and no bouquets have
been thrown at Whitty. Wherefore whaffor?
The Afrikanders never had a show to spread
themselves. But Faulkner’s 62, Schwarz’s 61, Nourse’s
64, Sherwell’s 60 and Faulkner’s 43 again, were gritty
fighting efforts which command respect. On the smooth
wicket the googlie bowling was a failure.
* * * *
Bardsley and Clem Hill madp 132 and 191 re-
spectively, a total of 323 for Australia. But, big as it is,
this score fades into insignificance compared to the 428
put up by M. A. Noble (284) and W. W. Armstrong (172
n. 0.) against Sussex, at Brighton (England) in 1902. In
the ’O2-’O3 season, Trumper and Duff put up 298 for the
first wicket in the match against South Aus. The highest
individual scores made in Test matches were the 287
made by Foster for England at Sydney in 1903, and the
211 made by W. L. Murdoch at Kennington Oval in 18S4.
But, perhaps the most curious feature of the
match was the fact that, in spite of the huge Australian
score, Schwarz took five Australian wickets for 102, and
Pearse three for 56. In the African first innings Cotter
took six wickets for 69, and Whitty got away with four
for 33. But in the second innings Cotter managed to
take only two wickets for 73, and in each innings Cotter
sent down four no-balls.
* * * *
The Springboks did some'hard hitting at
castle (N.S.W.). Sinclair lifted one into the pavilion and
landed it fairly and squarely on a lady spectator ; and
Faulkner, not to be outdone, sent a wattle-snoozer into
the bar and wrecked the show. It was like a cannon-
ball. But the gallant barman seized it and kept it as a
memento of a team in which eight of the men are cold-
tea followers.
it * * *
Grade cricket resumed in Sydney on Saturday
after being held over from November 26 owing to inter-
national fixtures. Gordon is at the head of the list with
10 competition points, and Redfern, Petersham and Uni-
versity are together in the second line, with six points
each. Paddington, Burwood and Glebe form another
line with four 6ach ; Balmain has one, and after that the
less said the better. It was a startling feature of the day
when a Sydney player piled up 136. Collins did it, and
the side swaggered out with 317 to its credit as a conse-
quence. It had won on the firstinningsfrom Paddington
(the latter’s first defeat) by 149 runs. University made a
fearsome splash against Burwood, closing itsinmngs with
363 for four wickets/ Bur wood’s tally was 224, and
following on, 107 were put up for the loss of two wickets,
leaving Uni. on top with 139 runs to spare on the first
innings. University’s terrific score was due to the fact
that Tozer carried his bat for 166 and McElhone made 119
before he dismissed by Docker. Waverley struck a
hopeless in the 418 that Central Cumberland had left -
on the board, and at the first attempt wiped off only 225,
falling short by 1930 n the first hi nings. Gordon had a great
time worrying North Sydney, which made only 89 in the
first innings. Gordon.smote um 237, and then North put
on a miserable 141, leaving Gordon on top by an innings
and seven runs. Balmain won a dreary sort of victory
over Middle Harbor by 111 runs, and at Sydney Cricket
Ground Pqtersham polished off Redfern by 89 runs. It
didn’t look easy either, as Redfern had left 313 on the
board. But with the aid of 108, accumulated by Andrews,
Petersham painted 402 on the board and came out on top.
1 ■ * * * *
N.'S.W. League of Wheelmen -recently ran a
carnival with a view to helping on the good work of pro-
viding Svdney Hospital with a Radium outfit. But the
public enthusiastically stayed away, and instead of
having anv profits to hand over to the hospital the un-
fortunate League will have to dip its hand into its pocket
to make good a deficit.
* * * *
However, thaLeague of Wheelmen is not the
only body that is in a tight; place just now. The Metro-
politan Rugby Union is said to be “ right up against it,”
and the funds to be in such a depleted state that there isn’t
enough in hand to give the winning teams their medals.
The Epping purchase arid the irruption of the League
would appear to have killed the Union dead. What it wants
now is a smart financier who can turn the Epping White
Elephant into a gilded bonanza, and arrange a pro-
gramme that will haul the people to the playing grounds
i„ s pite of themselves, The fall of the Union is unique.
Never did a great sporting organisation go to the dogs
more quickly and thoroughly.
Australia is likely to be wiped off the map ; as
far as international cycling is concerned, unless someone
in the continent finds some money reasonably soon.
The Union Cycliste Internationale, the world’s boss
cycling body, has just discovered that the Australasian
Cycling Council has not paid its subs, since 1903, and
has issued a peremptory order to pay up or get out. As a
matter of honor, the money ought to be paid, but when
the arrears are made up notice of withdrawal might as
well be given. The game is dead in this country for the
present.
* * * *
There were only three Australians in the great
Six Days’Cycle Track Race at Madison Square Gardens,
New York, this year. And they all secured places. A.
J. Clark was partnered with Rutt, of Germany, and they
ran second, the first place being occupied by two Yanks,
Root and Moran. The two other Australians were P.
Hehir and Goulett, and they formed a team of their own
and ran fourth. Clark and Rutt were apparently beaten
only in the final sprint, as their distance, 2545 miles and
three laps, is the same as that given for the winners.
Moran was a partner in last year’s winning team, his
mate that time being the well-known Floyd MacFarland,
the alleged handicap king. Together they covered 2737
miles in the run, which beats this season’s spin very
badly indeed.
* * * *
One satisfactory feature of this year’s Austral
Wheel meeting was the marked improvement in the
quality of the racing. Since the decadence commenced,
the Austral has been too prone to rely upon outside
attractions of a spectacular nature to make biz hum at
the gates. And as there wasn’t enough bike attraction
to secure the bike following, and not enough outside
spectacular magnet to draw the outside spectacular fol-
lowing, the meeting generally came to the ground
between the two stilts. The just-closed meeting
found an attendance that must be damned by the
faintly-appreciative adjective of “ fair.” But the
attendance got its money’s worth quite apart from
the smash-up of the aeroplane, for the racing was
good and some of the finishes were excellent; and,
further, the fact that all the crack events were won by
outsiders suggests that a new generation of wheelers
has arrived. The favorites were all beaten. I. R.
Munro, tipped for the Austral by scribe and
Pharisee alike, could run into only fourth place; and
O. A. Piercey, winner of the latest Warrnambool, who
was popular second favorite, was also out of it. F. P.
Oorry, who started off the 90yds. mark and won, rode an
excellently judged race.
* * * *
The destroyers Parramatta and Yarra reached
home on the day of the Austral wheel race final, and 100
times more people went to view the nucleus of Australia’s
navy than patronised the old-established biking fixture.
Nevertheless the “ final ” was a pleasing episode, and ap-
parently straight. That speedy wisp of a youth, I. R.
Munro, with 180yds. start (favorite at 2 to 1) led at the last
lap, but couldn’t hold the pace against F. P. Oorry, on
90yds., who beat Warrnambool winner C. A. Piercey by a
wheel. W. T. Bennett was third and Munro fourth. Track
racing doesn’t induce riotous living nowadays, as the
club offered only 10 per cent, of the gate (£lOO minimum)
for the Austral, of which Corry would get £4O, Piercey
£2O, Bennett £lO and Munro £5, the rest going to the
heat winners. Cugnet didn’t carry out his threat to
make a second aeroplane flight, his machine being still
in the hospital or thereabouts. Of the five starters in the
final for the Derby four came down in the last lap, and
B. P. Kett, who happened to be leading, finished alone.
There are points in being ahead in a bike race—especially
if you can stay ahead.
* * * *
A new duration aeroplane record was pub up
by M. Tabutqau on a Farman biplane at Paris recently.
He kept going round a circular course for 6hr. lmin.
25see., and as he covered 293 miles he must have main-
tained an average speed of close on 50 miles an hour.
There are some thrills about that spin.
# * * *
Just as there is no rage like that.of the sheep
when the animal is thoroughly aroused, so there is no
boycott like that of the johnnie who plays “ goff,” bai
jove ! For a long while Bertie was jolly proud of the
fact that the golf ball cost about three times its own
weight in silver. It was the hall-mark of his tony
pastime. And the cute manufacturer, with the greed of
gain all over him, worked that glorious idea till he worked
it to death. When the price of the rubber used in
making a ball increased one penny, he passed on the in-
crease and also charged a fee for making it, and then he
charged another fee for collecting both fees. Then he
doubled the lot on general principles and added another
penny just to round it off. In other words, he increased the
price of the balls by ninepence when the cost of production
rose one penny. But still the “goff” player did not
mind. Then something happened. The price of rubber
fell, and the price of the balls stayed exactly where it
was, if it didn’t show a tendency to go up. Then the
“goffer’’awoke to the fact that he was being got at.
His fury knew no bounds. All in a week or so he had
started a world-wide boycott. “ Reduce the price or we
manufacture the balls ourselves,” was the ultimatum.
But the makers still had their foreign markets, and
smiled contentedly. They reckoned Johnnydom would
catch a new butterfly the day after next, and held out.
But Johnnydom didn’t. And now the boycott is world-
wide, and has arrived in Australia, where the golfer
demands that the price of his playthings shall be half a
dollar apiece.
* * * *
Cecil Healy, hitherto a champion swimmer,
developed into a champion goat on Sunday last, when he
swam across Manly Bay outside the line of breakers
through water where sharks are usually as thick as
letfves in whatshisname. Nothing happened to Healy ;
but a crowd of other fools will probably go out and do
likewise, and Cecil will have the responsibility for a few
corpses and lost arms and legs slung on his doorstep.
This sort of foolishness should be discouraged by the
imposition of stiff fines.
• * * *
Champion swimmer Beaurepaire is back .in
Australia wearing a festoon of medals and seaweed.
The modest youth was receptioned at the Melbourne
Town Hall. Gaud Mayor Davey was there, his manners
beautifully manicured ; and Premier Murray, who was
almost awake ; and acting-Prime Minister Hughes, who
eyed a Chinese official in a blue pinny and an air of
Oriental toleration ; and ex-mayor “Talma” VVeedon, as
beautiful as a photogravure. As for poor Beaurepaire,
he valiantly endured a rain of oratory until he stood knee
deep in a pool of polysyllables.
* * * *
Beautiful weather and the absence of other
attractions brought a full house to theMelb. Swimming
Club’s meeting, at St. Hilda Baths, on Saturday, where
the 300yds. Victorian championship and inter-State Club
(Melb. ‘and Sydney) breast stroke and diving contests
were fought out. In the 300yds. only Claringbold and 0.
Powell made any sort of a show against the invincible
Beaurepaire, who won by 10yds. in 4min, lOsec. In the
breast stroke contest, Melbourne swimmers H. A. Bennett,
G. Mason and S. Crane came in first,-third and fifth ; and
in the diving, the Vic. reps, scored 63 points to Ma’s 51£.
The returned “ Bogey ” had a gorgeous reception.
• * *
Yic. Football Ass. has dravyn u-p. a scheme to
knock out the “ growing evil of professionalism.” It is a
quaint conception, inasmuch as it proposes to legalise
the thing it professes to squelch. Briefly, the idea is that
no player shall receive more than 10s. per week, plus
actual travelling expenses, if he dwells outside the
suburban radius; that every club shall register its
players, and shall not possess more than 22 regular
’bailers ; or, if it has more, it mustn’t scatter more than
£ll a week on them ; that each club shall contribute
£lOO a year to a fund, out of which players shall, on their
definite retirement, receive abonus (of indefinite amount);
and that each club’s accounts shall be annually audited
by an auditor appointed by the Ass. But, seeing that
some payment is proposed, docs the Ass. imagine it is
going to buy the best ’bailers in the State for a paltry 10s.
a week with a misty chance of a bonus in the dim future?
It won’t do it while the League lives and has a cheque-
book of its own, anyhow.
The annual report of Adelaide City Council
shows that the belt of Park Lauds running right round
the cits proper holds 237 athletic clubs i.e. ; duly
tered, and paying a trifle to the council to f R jj
reserved. Of these clubs 120 play cricket, 50 fooUuUi,
and 40 tennis, others, comprising odd corners’
bowls and croquet, in that order. All the odd cor " el *
too small for playgrounds, are now being laid out as
elaborate flower-gardens. # #
Rosehill (Sydney) race meeting on Saturday
left an excessively unpleasant taste in the mouth. There
were six events on the programme and in 0
them did the favorite win. That, of course, is nothing
unusual, but the amazing part of thetdid
prices laid by the bookmakers against the horses that am
win. 63 Sylvaiider, winner of the Hyde States went out at
20 to one against. Footlace, winner of the Granville
Siakes, started at 10 to one against. Sweet Raj, "inner
of the Two-Year-Old Handicap, went begging at 0
to one against. Little Lil, which appropriated I the *lj mg
Welter, went out at the same price. A A;
Noses will lay 20 to one against at a suburban meeting
immediately sounds dead, stiff-decomposed m fact-to
the punter. Somebody is overdoing things at these
suburban meetings, and one day the clubs w P
to find they have caught it where the chicken caught the
tomahawk. _ *
* * *
“ Adelaide ” : Just one more argument in favor
of the tote, in the light of the par. in B. 24/11/ 10 re
“Another glaring example of tlie scratching swindle,
“22 nominated, but only 10 faced the f, tar ,^ e .''’V, ®
been scratched at the last moment, etc. With the ;ote,
you can't back a non-starter, so late scratching benehts(or
injures) nobody. Even in the rare cases where a hoise
gets so far as to weigh out all right, but bolts or breaks
down on the way to the post, the money mvested on him
meantime is carefully deducted from the pool and
returned to his backers.
* * *
Tommy Burns’s ill-luck seems to follow him per-
sistently. Hardly had he started to recover from a
twiste/knee sustained playing baseball or some other
outlandish game, than he got mixed up in a ra '‘" a Y
smash. This time his injuries, according to the cable,
are so severe that they will probably put him out
of the sporting arena altogether. It is to he sincere y
hoped that the great little fighter s plight has been exa„-
gerated. # . * *
The death of Stanley Ketchell has left a com-
plicated state of affairs in the middleweight division.
Yankees appear to regard either Papke, ( “ P« sel) . n
Australia, or Jack (commonly known as Twin ) Si'll*
van as the legitimate heir; but, anyhow, it is ceitain
that whoever claims it will have to fight for it, and fight
hard In fact, some of the Yankee papers are proposing
“an elimination contest ” to decide to whom the title
belongs. This would probably suit Papke all right, and
by the time he is through with the Mclntosh Al,Bt J a . l '?'
and England he could cross the pond and have it out with
the boss of t he eliminators.
* * * *
“The ‘Doping’ of Jim Jeffries” is still agita-
ting the Yankee public, which seems to be immensely
concerned that a large beefy white man was walloped by
a grinning black one. Jeffries now declares he was
“doped **; but Jonel Sullivan says “ Rats I” and says it
loudly and persistently, and declares that Jeffues was
double-crossed and not doped. Jeffries, hearing of this
talk, immediately offered lOOOdol ars for P ro ° f . t n hat n tl ‘ l . 5
was any arrangement between him and Johnson, and
Sullivan retorted that if Mr. Jeffries would make it
50,000 dollars and put the money up . lnth ?
some reputable person he would cover it and prove all
sorts of " And then Mr. Jeffries and h.s friends
said “ Rats ! ” loudly and derisively. They re a lovelj lot,
those Yankee sports. * *
An interested spectator at the Jeffries-Johnson
fiasco at Reno was Thomas Sharkey, exrA.B. He had
always spoken contemptuously of Johnson s %
powers, and when Johnson came out on top Mr. Sharkey
left the enclosure quietly, and hied him away to his
home at historic Sheepshead Bay, in the far east. There
he was discovered later on, hard at work on a.punching
ball and taking swift runs along the beach.
explain he admitted that his intention was to challenge
Massa Johnson and recover the championship for the w bite
race. But the white race is not enthusiastic. It recalls
that, before he retired from the ring, Mr. Sharkey made
anything but a good showing. In 1899, after an inter-
view with the same Mr. Jeffries whom Johnson thumped
to mush, he left the ring for the hospital, suffering from
two fractured ribs and a broken nose. Somehow, he never
seemed the same old gamecock afterwards ; a y® ar * al,ei
old Bob Fitzsimmons outed him with a few well-directed
prods, and in 1903 he was soundly trounced by a gentleman
named Munroe in a six-round scrap at I hiladelphia. Still,
he believes he is the bit of stuff to whip Johnson. On
paper there is no reason why he shouldn’t, of course.
He is only 35 years of age—just one year older than Ins
intended victim—weighs about 1951 b., and ism thebestof
health and very fair condition. It seems he has con-
sistently taken care of himself since he dropped out of
the ring. But these affairs are not decided on paper. A
hard floor, where the only things that count are the
punches that get home, is the deciding place—a place
where paper calculations usuallj’ come to grief.
« * * *
Jeffries appears to be in a bad way. For weeks
after his walloping he was moody and despondent to an
extreme degree, and finally developed symptoms of acute
melancholia. He spent most of liis time alone, till his
friends insisted that he should pull himself together, talk
about things and set out to enjoy life on the loser s end
of the purse. Then he broke out in boils all over, till
Job, of ancient fame, was a regular clear-skin by com-
parison. When the mail left he was having a fiend of a
time, and demanding of his Maker why Johnson hadn t
been allowed to kill him off and have finished it.' Up to
the present there is no report of his Maker having vouch-
safed any reply. Which is a waj r the Maker lias.
“Sardonyx”: Re Mace getting nearly outed
by a cabman in Maoriland. Here are the facts, as I had
them from an eve-witness. There was a dispute about
the fare, and, while Mace was counting over some coins
in his hand, the Jehu, who was fighting drunk, let loose
a right-hander of much tonnage. It was a totally unex-
pected endearment, and nearly floored Mace, who was
much the lighter man of the two ; but he kept his feet,
and, of course, his head, so that, when cabbj r , thinking
he had a soft thing on, followed up with a shower of
swipes, he connected only with the atmosphere. It was
always a doctrine of Jem’s that a pro. should no more use
his best punch on a novice than he should use a deadly
weapon, but the thing looked so hot and ugly that ray
informant—himself a fistist of reputation—exclaimed :
“Danin it all, Mace—tip him just one for a lesson !
But,, at the mention of that name, the vehicle made
record time down the street —and the fighting cabman
was in it. . -
* * * *
Bob Fraser, Melbourne middleweight, a very
active participant of a few years back, made an
unwise reappearance in the Athletic Clubs toped
square, the other evening, putting 'em up to
Jack Clark, of Maoriland. Fraser, who used to
be particularly adept in the feet, was, compara-
tively speaking, a rooted object on this occasion,
and "only in one round did lie seem dangerous to an
opponent who would have been merely a snack for him
five years ago. Disuse is as fatal to a boxer as boose. In
the seventh the Maorilander was compelled to take 9sec.
rest on the flat ; but after that he suffered little perse-
cution, and got the favorable decision at the end of 20
rounds of not very inspiriting mijling.
Armstrong v. O’Grady, another recent event in
the same ring, was a brighter and busier battle. These
were lightweights. O’Grady is a Sydney scientist, and
had the Pettier mannerand
tion ; but A-rms \XLit* He let a lot of this loose on
8«S» Uft txASJItJW
exhibition of d , ? f) t ' he nut . when four rounfis
quickness on the ho : d dash , whereas Armstrong-
had gone O Grad} had ao unmercifully witn
sSSfe&s
licked, and the referee admitted it.
The fiscal policy affects other things besides
calico and clothes-pegs. At the recent Anglican
Synod meeting in Sydney all six representatives of
the Melbourne diocese were Australians trained
in Australia; of the six reps, of Sydney diocese
not one was Australian born or trained. Certainly
all Australia is Protectionist now ; but Sydney s
old curse of Calico Jimmyism takes years to live
The Maoriland Parliament a while ago
voted £l5O to Tyers, the income-tax inspector
wbo smelt something in connection "ffth Bowron
Bros ’ affairs, and thereupon put his Depaitment
on its biggest haul so far. But Tyers appears to
be a Spartan character, who says that it is a had
tinner to pay an inspector extra for finding out
s mething that he ought to find out in any case;
and at latest the £l5O was still lying at the
Treasury. *
John Blair, editor and part proprietor of the
Rockhampton Morning Bulletin, dropped dead
in the main street of that sunny town last
Monday. He was Scotch, like his paitner and
predecessor, William Mcllwraith, and was justly
regarded as one of the ablest pressmen in Queens-
land. (There are chances for able men on the
Queensland provincial press which, unlike that
of N.S.W. was never killed or stunned or petri-
fied by the congestion policy and the free postage
swindle.) Blair was still a comparatively young
man. Heart failure, the trouble that almost
everybody dies of nowadays, took him olt*
“ Melb ” introduces a lady :
Dora Montagu has come to settle among you. Who’s
she? Well at the Melbourne Socialist Club she
turned up, before a crowded audience of red-hot night-
caps-verv respectably dressed men, women and chil-
dren posing as Sans Culottes. The chairman informed
us that Dora had only been snatched on her voyage
from London to Sydney, where she would make things
Bal ,eal. Seriously, she is a lady of some aristocracy in
the blood, and speaks with the most tony accent of Bel-
graviah. That mildly-howling swell, H. H. Champion,
the former cavalry man, stts on her right hand. To
make that hull caper, put a red rag on the end of a stick,
approach the animal and say that his old comrade in the
Trafalgar Square insurrection, Jack Burns, now gets £lOO
a week capering round. Gawden Pawties in a Windsor
uniform. Bub to Dora Montagu. She talked enough
hot <>as to float Zeppelin s airship. Then she fired up
Ohrissy Cross, a Melbourne girl, who raised a breeze
enough to drive Cugnet’s aerojpdane over the trees of the
Melbourne Cricket Ground. The delicious thing was to
hear the speakers lambasting the Australian Laborparty.
Oh what is your Fisher doing? Talking big about the
Hompiah. What is Hughes doing? Chewing gum. What
is McGowen doing? Turning his back on his mates (this
re stokes), etc., etc. And what are the red-hot red-raggers
doing? Well, haven’t I been telling you ?


THE
SHOE
LOOK FOR NAME IN SHOE.
Style 1514
The Ram
\
V
V
A
Patent
Colt
Blucher
Bal.
Medium
“Swing”
Knob-Toe
Last.
Just Men’s Fine Shoes
That’s all we make —no surprise,
we make them right. Our difficulty
is in getting you to try the first
pair—no shoe troubles after that;
but back to the Marshall dealer for
another pair.
HALF &• QUARTER SIZES
All GOOD Shoe Stores keep them in Stock.
1/ yours don't , write and we will send you
address of the nearest Dealer , with Catalog
Marshall Shoe Co.
Makers of Men’s Fine Shoes
Richmond, Vic _
SHELL'
is the cheapest in the long run, because
it gives you more fuel mileage than
any other, owing to its perfect purity.
*
JOHN STBANOE WINTtK
DENTAL CPEAM
THK latest addition to the list of
“J.S.W.” Toilet Preparations is a
delightful antiseptic Dental Cream,
prepared scientifically from the purest
ingredients. Not only does this cream
thoroughly whiten and preserve the
teeth, but it also acts as a delicious anti-
septic wash, destroying all bacteria,
whilst imparting to the mouth a delect-
able piquancy of tone and flavor.
Price 1/6 per Tube ; Post Free, 1/9.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
John Strange Winter
London, Paris, Vienna.
Sydney Office: 82 Pitt Street.
FITZ’S
Genuine
Folding
Panamas,
Perfectly
Bleached,
1216
Post Free
Anywhere.
ħ
FITZGERALD BROS.,
Drapers, Importers, Manufacturers,
ERROL STREET, NORTH MELBOURNE.
The Only Manufacturers of the Genuine “ WEDGWOOD ” CHINA—
Josiah Wedgwood 8 Sons Ltd
Etruria, England.
Established 1760.
Oar Trade
Mark
is not'
h
Wedgwood
Ltd.
OUR REGISTERED TRADE MARK IS
WEDGWOOD
(ONE WORD ONLY)
Oar Trade
ĥ
Mark
is not
Wedgwood
Sole Australasian Representatives —
WM. HODGE 8 SON,
91a YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
29 ELLIOT ST., AUCKLAND, N.Z.
B. &B. Cycles Excel at all Points
ħ
They are essentially machines for men who want the best—at a nrice
within their reach. y
B ’ Sl ? ndilrd at s_is 5 _ is a fine example of how much cycle
worth can be purchased for a moderate price. Graceful in
appearance, the machine possesses points that distinguish it from
hnV% q ] A St T ? rdmary - 18 a,B .° exceedingly light, and nothing
but L.B.A. parts are used. Write for Catalogue or call for an
BENNETT & BBRKELL.
Largest Cycle-Building: House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Another RIQNEY SHOE Store.
Owing to the enormous increase in our business, we have
been compelled to open another Shoe Store.
Jlhe new shop is situated right in the very centre of the
city—in Pitt Street—three doors from King Street.
We invite you to call in and inspect our new store
whether you need shoes or not. ’
Send us your name and address for a copy of our new
Catalogue, which is now being prepared.
The Shoe illustrated is a Derby Willow Calf Shoe, Rope-
stitched Welts. Also in Boots.
21s. and 225. 6d.
In Tan Boots and Shoes, 16s. 6d. and 21s.
Postage 9d. extra.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Stores,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place),
And 179 a PITT STREET.
h
Reasons Why
You should Sell Your WHEAT through us
1. We have o.ver five acres of floor space in our Warehouse, and can handle a very large
.quantity without overcrowding and the attendant danger of mixing brands.
2. Each owner’s consignments stacked and sold separately.
3. The basement floors being of concrete and the ceilings unlined, there is no harbor for
rats and mice.
4. We allow you three or four months’ free storage, if required.
5. We give the-most careful attention to every consignment, no matter how small.
6. We guarantee accurate weighing, full market value and prompt returns.
7. If required, we make liberal advances on goods in store awaiting sale.
8. Remember the delay and annoyance occasioned last season through scarcity of
railway trucks, and get your wheat down as early as possible in order to be in a
position to take advantage of any sudden rise in the market. Your wheat is
fully covered by insurance whilst in our stores, and it is much better to have it
stored with us than lying at some country siding where it is not effectually
protected from the weather.
9. Our charges are as reasonable as we can make them, consistent with reliable agency,
which it is our intention to maintain.
SELLING CHARGE, 2| Per Cent.
Cartage from Railway to Store, 3/- per ton. (This charge is avoided
when the Wheat is sold ex Trucks.)
Insurance at ordinary rates when stored for any length of time. (This
charge is avoided when the Wheat is sold ex Trucks.)
When Wheat is sold ex Railway Trucks, the only charge to the consignor is 2V 2 per
cent, commission.
EXPERT VALUATIONS FURNISHED WHEN REQUIRED.
Sample Bags and Addressed Envelopes supplied on application to THE MANAGER,
WOOL and PRODUCE DEPARTMENT,
A. M. L. ®. F. CO. LTD.
BEIGH STREET, SYDNEY,
Wool, Produce and Grain Salesmen.
Also at MELBOURNE and BRISBANE.
• > : V, r i ••
* • . V-’ - ‘r v^v
sz
s>■
\. -.£‘V
• r : .• •>
«^ bb s
••
tot 4 * l ietff„»YieeV*
43©
V
Wei
m
- ■
r-x*i
IK*
SM2.««b?!
give
■ V ’ * $53
V,\e
cW
fa*
iiiSi
Ue
It, V>
, e ot 6 °; Vvote T*®* -«©»; ml
A »* A r o utvA»- ,\e a \\ 11
r e ** cot«9° \ fab® v \ e » at tvA ;' V
*ve»P eT, t s <e r\oO* * W
p fa va 2>t> u<A p - \ m
a fa abV ®. s? ecAy t 1
»‘ s 1
p«jnV°y b e
*V, . \vee‘ ® a t\pg °a Yb u&
»H et T»» tetvV vte\ JoV* w
i aB I , fae A tb eVv !*e*rfa® 9 -R*
I e»» e “ tforee ;.gL
•O*
\>efa® ; v/e» T \ \^ e
be* e * cb^ e^l^ ee V„ uS *«
. P a JV‘° UtV
S. Obfeo P ‘- Spe
b°° tS t - Ro^
i \ r\,lt\\OP . eice
• •
giving
-Tj
RUBBER CO,
tes and N.Z.
Apparently the Young Turk, that re-
formed Asiatic who was so widely advertised, is
just the Old Hog. The same old tales of outrage,
torture and murder leak through as in the days of
Abdul the Damned, and the old injunction, “Put
not your faith in Shem,” still holds good.
Travellers over the recently-opened Wes-
tern railway lines (N.S.W.) report that large
areas of wheat country are running sheep, and
there is no sign that the owners or lessees propose
to grow anything but sheep. Yet mention a tax
of any sort as a means of “persuading” the
holders to do something better with the territory,
and the cry about spoliation and new-fangled
theories and ill-digested schemes and ruination
gives the public a headache. These ignorant
howlers naturally never heard of the Babylonian
laws of Hammurabi, in force just about 2000 B.C.
Chilperie Edwards, in “The Oldest Laws in the
World,” quotes one of them :
If a man take a field to farm and grows no corn in that
field, he shall be accused of neglect ing to work that field ;
and he shall give to the lord of that field an amount of
corn according to the yield of that district.
There were no uncultivated squattages round
ancient Babylon.
“ Marinoa,” from the North Coast ("N. S.
Wales): —
The ways of Propputy are beyond the comprehension
of the man whose only freehold is a brain-box. In Graf-
ton (N.S. YV.), a town of 7000 people, there is no water
supply, although the climate is of the sort that shrieks
for water, and plenty of it. Novi', when years of work
and agitation on the part of many public-spirited men to
supply the deficiency were about to end in success, a
Ratepayers’ Association has put its heavy hoof down
upon the tenderest part of the scheme. The enabling Bill
was before Parliament this session, and would, in the
ordinary course, have been passed but for the decision of
the Ratepayers’ Ass. to petition the Government to delav
the scheme “till the time was ripe.” The added taxa-
tion would have amounted to only 1-Jd. in the £, and this
would have been balanced by the cheapening of insurance
rates, the cleansing of the town, and the reduction of
doctors’bills. But no ! Propputy saw nothing but the
tax. Glen Innes is just as bad as Grafton. Twice this
year the business portion of the town has been saved
from demolition "by fire only because the wind happened
to be blowing the right way. If it had been blowing the
wrong way Glen Innes would have been as completely
wiped out as Mimvillumbah was a couple of years ago.
They had the same quantity of water supply in Mur-
wi Hum bah then as there is at Glen Innes now, which in
turn is equal to the supplv/at Grafton, which is equiva-
lent to 'O. Personally, I wouldn’t care if Grafton did go
up in smoke, provided the Ratepayers’ Ass. was inciner-
ated hoofs, hair and tail. It’d be cheap at the price.


JE
i“ AKeR /*
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.811.815.815,817.GE0RCE ST. o,; SYDNEY. N.a.w.
) SILVERSMITH
tO HSULT|* c i
JJ
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Seal
PENDANT, Ame-
thyst or Topaz,
15/, 20/. ■
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold, set Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £4/10A
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold LINKS,
20/.
15ct Gold, 40/.
Initials Engraved Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Bird and Floral BROOCH,
7/6.
m
A. SAUNDERS.
9;‘t Gold BRACELET, set Red, Green, or Blue Stones,
357-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Sovereign
PURSE, Hand Chased,
10/
Larger, 12/6. 9ct Gold,
£2/10/; 15ct Gold, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PEN-
DANT, Set Pearls
and Amethysts,
17/0
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds, Ru-
bies, or Sapphires
£B/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold SAFETY PIN,
5/6.
Smaller size, 4/6; larger, 6/C, 7/6.
CHARMING
GIFT.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PENDANT and
-NECKLACE, set Fine Pearls and
Amethysts,
£3/15/.
15ct Gold, £5/5/. Pearls and
Tourmaline, £5/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires,
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct Gold, set
Diamond and Ruby,
35/. _
2 Diamonds, £2/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gol - Expanding WATCH-BRACELET, Lever
movement, full Jewelled, a perfect, accurate, and
reliable timekeeper,
£O/10/. . .
Extra Jewelled Movemen, Heavier Bangle,
£7/10/, £B/10 1, £lO/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold mounted
CIGAR CUTTER,
10/G
Gold and
Pearl Roller
CHARM,
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold
COLLAR
STUD,
5/6-
loct Gold, 8/6.
Silver, 1/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set Gold LINKS,
15/-
Extra heavy, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct 3-Bar BROOCH, Pure White
Pearls, 17/6.
mtch ? -
iFROM
* o T;Hi£i
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Mizpah and Ivy Leaf Spray
BROOCH, 112/6-
&s
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver MATCH BOX, B'./6-
Larger 1 , Embossed, 10/6..
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Horse-
shoe SCARF PIN,
7/C.
Smaller, 5/6.
XMAS GIFTS
FOR EVERYONE.
OUR FREE CATALOGUE IS FULL OF
OTHER IDEAS SEND FOR A COPY
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold
BARRINGS, set
Pearls and any
Colour Stones,
30/.
Extra Quality,
£2, £2/10/.
Our Catalogue
is full of
beautiful
suggestions
for Xmas
Oi'ts.
We pay
postage
on all these
Goods
to raddress
in Australasia.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold NECKLACE, feet Fine Pure White
Pearls and Diamond-cut Tourmalines or Peridots,
With Diamonds, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold EAR-
RINGS, set Pearls
and any colour
Stones,
25/-
Extra quality,
£2, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BAND
RING, set Red,
Green, or Blue
Stones, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PIN
and SLIPPER
CHARM,
5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Soid Silver Hunting:
Keyless WATCH, J-Plate, Full
Jewelled, Patent Adjusted
Balance,
25/.
Higher Grades, 30/, 35/, 40/.
Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4,
£4/10/, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold Photo. PENDANT,
Pearl and Red or Blue Stones,
12/6-
SILVER.
25/.
GOLL».
£3.
A. SAUNDERS..
15et Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Pure
Double-cut Diamond,
£2.
Large Diamond, £2/10/, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold' Half-chased Juvenile BRACELET,
15/G.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Circle BROOCH,
set Pearls and Turquoise,
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set Fine Quality
Opal,
£2/10/.
■/os
•aov-t
NMO
/
SAUNDERS
GcargeStreeE
SYDNEY
W >f
SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-faced Keyless Itnoek-about
WATCH, Patent Adjusted Balance, Non-
magnetic, Dust and Water Proof Cases,
20/-
Higher Grade, 25/. Guaranteed Free
Repair for 1 Year.
HIGHER
GRADE.
25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct Gold, 15
Fine Pure
Double-cut Dia-
monds, £l5-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
phires,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Set Gold NECKLACE, set Fine Pure White Pearls
and Amethysts,
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, 3
l ure Double-
cut Diamonds.
£5-
Diamond, 2
Rubies, or Sap-
phires,
£3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct Gold, Dia-
monds and Ru-
bies or Sap-
phires,
£7/10/-
All Diamonds,
£2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set 14
Dure Double-cut
Diamonds ana
Choice Black
Opal,
£ 15-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds, U' l
Dies, or Sapphires,
€ *i-
AH Diamonds, £5-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires,
20/-
SOLID
SILVER.
£2.
A. SAUNDERS. nannl
**°° w '“fK:
, £7/10/
HIGHER
GRADE.
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless
Lever WATCH, Full Jewelled, Non-
magnetic, a Perfect Timekeeper, 40/-
Extra Jewelled, with Patent Chrono-
meter Balance, High-grade Finish, 60/.


MEDLOW BATH. Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Bur tress') late of the Grand
■ Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors durin-r the forthcoming season ;
Sminn- . h680 f The c,is P A mountain air '<* a delight, and the mountains, in their
carriages andTidihl tours f plcturesc i ue - Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
to the°Majes[ic e Hot'l. be an - v fcime to start frotn the City Office-or your own residence-direct
hourifci^SpnM^f ,, . < r eu**” u.T'Z ry } n , g aUra , etions - Tlle view in the mountains are superb, and
nouis can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds. r
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Oaves.
rurther particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Oastlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
Is Your Boy of a Mechanical
Turn of Mind ?
Foster his inclination—it may influence for good his whole future welfare.
Give him a mechanical model this Xmas or New Year—it will please him
mensely, and will give him a practical training in mechanics.
Here are some suggestions—every one true working models, not mere toys:
im-
<«TiITO»
w
■►v
mm
mm
/ j. t \;
Electric Trains,
Dreadnoughts,
Cinematographs,
Steam Trains,
Aeroplanes,
Magic Lanterns,
Etc., etc.
Send for our Free Illustrated Catalogue now
It tells all about them I
JERDAN’S,
(Formerly Osborn & Jerdan),
“MY OPTICIANS.”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS
393 Georg'e Street
RoyaMHotei), Sydney.
CAPILLAMNE
THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
ĥ
ħ
h
DON’T LOOK A YOUNGSTER!
A moustache is a mark of manhood—it’s as bad for success in life to
look too young- as it is to look too old !
Even if you have only a soft light down on your upper IipCAPILLARINE
will make it sprout out into a strong hair growth—it just makes it
stow like lightnms. Lots of men have found a sinsle jar grow a
strong, lons moustache 1 J "
We sell a “ Moustache Trainer,” too, for half a crown, post free.
Price 10 6 Post Free Anywncre in Plain
1 U Package.
Craig & Aitken, 654 George St,, Sydney*
Established 30 Years.
9
r
Department of Lands,
Sydney, December 12, 1910.
CLOSER SETTLEMENT.
GUNNINGBLAND ESTATE,
(NEAR GUNNINGBLAND RAILWAY STATION),
PARKES land district.
19 Farms will become available January 16, 1911.
Applications lodged from January 16 to January 21, 1911, will be treated as simultaneous.
TIBBEREENAH ESTATE,
(ADJOINING NARRABRI),
narrabri land district.
78 Farms will become available January 16, 1911.
Applications lodged from January 16 to January 21, 1911, will be treated as simultaneous.
WANDARY ESTATE
(NEAR FORBES),
FORBES LAND DISTRICT.
18 Farms will become available January 30,1911.
Applications lodged from January 30 to February 4, 1911, will be treated as simultaneous.
lull par ll cu I,■ irs Lltbogr afi 1 is, App 1 ie l ll ion Forms etc., may be obtained at the Information Bureau,
Otpartment of Lands, Sydney, or any Grown Land Agent throughout the State.
ROBERT McDONALD, Under-Secretary.
ALCOCK & PIERCE,-
The people who sell Guns and Rifles
cheaper than anyone else in Australia.
This is our statement of a fact, and it is up to you to give us a chance
to prove it. Get our Catalogue—free for the asking —and compare the
pi ices with others, and you will see that we save you from ip to 30 per
cent. Isn’t it better to keep that money in your own pocket thari put it
in someone else’s ? Then send to-day for the money-saving Catalogue to
318 Little Collins St., flelbourne.
THeveryDrinß
for a Hot Day
and a healthy drink for any day
is a glass of ‘Montserrat’
n
N
(I
MONTSERRAT
99
LIME JUICE.
is prepared solely from the choice
cultivated limes of the beautiful island
of Montserrat, where the lime tree reaches
its highest perfection. The juice consti-
tutes a health drink for all the year round,
but is especially beneficial in hot weather;
it keeps the blood cool and the brain
clear. ‘Montserrat* Lime Juice is
essentially a home drink for the family;
its pleasant and refreshing taste makes
it appreciated by young and old*
To make sure you get the pure and unadul*
terated Lime*Fruit Juice order the Sweet*
ened orUns weetened genuine'Montserrat*
ĥ
Sold by all leading;
Storekeepers through-
out Australia.


r
1
'A
V-
-25§
An Interesting:
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. Ihe Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
onlv 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut-
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s <u.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It. contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of Alfred Ardley (Registered n the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
610
WOMEN
SUFFER More
Than MEN!
Corpulence and Obesity
inflict more hardship on
women than on men.
Excess fat takes away a
a woman's loveliness
gives her an ugly, ungainly appearance, im-
pedes her gait, interferes with her maternal
instincts, injures her general health and
makes life a burden, rather than a pleasure.
“ Fatcure”
by removing the excess fat, removes all
these unpleasant conditions. It is certain
and reliable, non-poisonous and harmless.
The fat, once reduced, does not return.
“ Fatcure is always dependable, and gives
absolute satisfaction. It is the only safe and
harmless treatment for Obesity. Send 2d.
stamp for FREE TRIAL Sample and full
particulars, or call if convenient. 9 till 5.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Ladies’ Stylish
Summer
Footwear
ħ
PRICE,
16/6
Stylish Shoes give any • woman a well-bred
and up-to-date appearance.
The Shoe illustrated is one of the finest im-
ported models, and is eminently suited to the
present fashions.
PRICE, 16/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; ot her States, 1/- extra.
Gazeka Shoe Paste, in Black and Brown,
large tin, 6d.
Write for our Booklet, “Shoelight.”
LEJLMING’S
BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
257=259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran;
I=3 Errol Street, North Melbourne. |2
THE Australian thinks in Continents, because
he is the only man who has a Continent
think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent.
r
THE FRIEND
OF THE
FAMILY
*>
*
to
o
Mother Seigel’s Syrup is the frifend of all who suffer
after meals, because it aids digestion 1 It is the friend
of all who have headaches, biliousness, constipation
or dizziness, because it banishes such ailments, root
and branch ! It is the friend of all who feel
because it clears away the poisonous products ofin-
digestion, which clog the syst-em and make you feel
run down, brain-fagged, out of sorts! Better still, it
tones and strengthens your stomach and liver, regu-
lates your bowels, makes food nourish thus
prevents, as well as cures, all stomach and liver dis-
orders. Mother Seigel’s Syrup is the standard
household remedy, “the friend in the cupboard _ in
hundreds of thousands of British homes, afid is un-
equalled as a digestive tonic and stomachic remedy.
MOTHER
SEISES
«« Six months ago, my life was a burden to me.
Food was always distasteful, and what little I
ate caused me to vomit. I also had violent pain, after
eating, which would often make me double up with
agony. I tried many medicines, but got no better.
Then I turned to Mother Seigel’s Syrup. My pains
grew less and I could sleep at night. Five bottles
m.
/**/
f
of Mother Seigel's
cured me completely.” Mrs.
Margaret Finlay, 21, Burton
Street, Camperdown, New
South Wales. Aug. 13, ’O9.
CURES
CONSTIPATION
BILIOUSNESS
HEADACHES
indigestion
take it daily after meals.
/s
<s
DIARRHOEA
wey Freeman’s Chlorodyne never fails to cure even the worst cases of
PbTarrhcea. It rapidly stops the pain, dispe s all.
rcollapse, and restores comfort. In such kindred troubles as Dysentery
Cramp, Spasms, Ague, and Colic, its value as a home remedy is priceless.
Price lllh 2/9, and 4/6 per bottle.
Used by doctors all over the world. Refuse imitations, which wnnot
possess the wonderful soothing and healing powers of Freemans.
h
TRADE
MARK
Star
If your Chemist
is out of stock,
order a bottle
he can quickly
it.
FREEMANS
CHLORODYNE
SMOKERS!!
Have you ruined your nerves,
enfeebled your heart, destroyed
your brain with tobacco poison ?
If so, regain health & strength
by taking
“SMOKURE” TABLETS.
Every medical man condemns the vice of
smoking because they see the destruction,
of life through tobacco or nicotine poison.
The number of youths and men diseased
in mind and body through excessive
tobacco and cigarette smoking is fearful.
“SMOKUKE” Tablets are theantidote.
They destroy the craving for tobacco,
health follows. Send stamps for free par-
ticulars to the
Nicoto-Mania Tablet Co» 9
75 Wentworth Court,
Elizabeth Street Sydney
BY PURCHASING The Lone Hand each
month you encourage Australian Art ana
Literature. It costs Sixpence.
ARTISTS. Why not Exhibit in
The World’s Art Market
Fourth Annual London Salon,
CORONATION YEAR?
Membership (10s. entrance and £IIS. p.a.) entitles artists
to show three works, on c on J l L n^ 0 . r Fc£a» < » ftenr l ATIf) H
sent. Particulars from ALLIED ARTISTS ASSOCIATION.
LTD., 68 Chancery Lane, London, w.c.
ĥ
DEAFNESS
A U d S ing E W?LSoS J BECOMMO8 E C0MM0N V IENaI
ear-drtjms.
A scientific invention entirely different
in construction from all other devices,
Thev have restored hearing when other
devices fai ed and medical skill gave-no
relief. Soft, comfortable and invisible ;
no wire or string attachment.
Write for Pamphlet. Mention this paper.
BXAR NOVELTY C 0„ ?29 Collins
Street, Melbourne;
(invisible)
ħ
“ KURLO”— Hair-Curling Fluid. Benut ful
wavy hair is most admired. " Kurlo produces
mo it natural-looking waves or curls in a lew
days. Very little trouble ; no tongs or pins re-
quired. “ Kurlo” curls are not affected by fog.
ie . air. heated ballrooms, etc. May be used
for T adie c ’ Gent 's or Childrens hair. Neither sticky
ior greasy ; makes the hair soft and silky. Bottles,
os ef port tree, in plain wrapper. American ToUet
Ag ncy Box 466 G.P.0., Melbourne.
£
•' GRO-A-MO " forces growth of moustache and whis
kers. Bottles, as., post free, in plain wrapper.
American Toilet Agency, Box 466 0.P.0.. Melbourne
The Inky Way.
The other day The Bulletin (“ Answers to Correspon-
dents,” 10/11/T0), inspired by the cloying sweetness of
some love-verse, asked the writer if the lady’s kisses really
tasted like raspberry jam. For its sins it gets this
strenuous reproach: “Raspberry jam 1 raspberry jam .
At you I hurl one mighty damn. That you should with
my ladv fair Such common stuff as jam compare. Like
jam, forsooth ! I’d have you know That all the wealth of
Bendigo, Or ainy other mining place, Has not the worth
of her dear face. Her hair, so brown, is more to me Than
all the wealth that’s in the sea. Her teeth of pearl—
ijood Lord above, How can I help but be in love . And
then her eyes! Why, ev’ry star That shines at night
from up afar Is as dull lead compared with gold, To her
dear eyes! I’m sure you’re old ! You Goth . You
ghoul! You awful man ! However in the world you can
Compare the height of lovers’bliss (A long-drawn-out, a
sweet, sweet kiss) With mashed-up fruit with sugar in,
That’s sold to us in pots of tin, Is more than I can under-
stand. You really do—you beat theband.”
* * * *
“Clarence O’Hagan”: I see Cardinal Moran is still
growling about the neglect of the cable-liar to furnish
Australia with news about Roman Catholics and their
shivoos in foreign parts. Apparently his Eminence
doesn’t look at the business side of things. The Cardinal
specifies two items, including the opening of a cathedral
in New York. Now, let his Eminence ask himself
seriously: What does it matter to Australia ? I believe
his Eminence himself has opened about three dozen
churches and chapels in his time, and I never heard of
anyone in Buenos Ayres, or Buda-Pesth, or Bologna com-
plaining that he couldn’t get any particulars telegraphed
to his local papers as to who was present, what the Car-
dinal wore, and the amount of the collection . Yet all
t hese things appeared at great length in our papers. Let
his Eminence devote the i; 120,000 he is going to raise for
St. Mary’s Cathedral to founding a new daily ; then he
could print everything about the Church that he likes, no
matter where it happens. Also, he would then see how
long such a daily paper would last.
The first number of the Australasian Army, Navy and
Defence Review, in its revised form, has been published
in Sydney. The editor announces that the publication
will be “ chatty, newsy, reliable, instructive and the real
journal wanted.” No'editor could offer more.
J * * *
“S. Cissors”: The Australian Writers and Artists’
Union, which was recently registered under the N.S.V .
Trades Union Act, announces that it is firmly rooted.
Norman Lillev is first president, and those wlio are help-
ing him fight the good fight of better treatment and pay-
ment include reporters, sub-editors, leader-writers verse
and story writers, advt. writers, cartoonists, illustrators
and commercial designers. Affiliation has ten attained
with the Labor Council, ‘ thus securing, as the pros-
pectus sets forth, “the support of organised labor.
Presumably, the next move will be an application for a
Wages Board, when some interesting proceedings
may be expected. I don’t know all the members
of the union, but I know that some of it is
shv of senior reporters. The explanation of that is
that senior reporters, earning £6 and more a week, are
not keen on a Wages Board, feeling pretty sure that the
minimum wage for their work would be fixed by a Board
at probably not more than £5 a week, in order to lei el
up the lower-paid men ; and they dread that the minimum
would be the maximum straight away So the senior re-
porters are sticking to the Institute of Journalists; and
the Institute of Journalists shows no disposition to listen
to the W. and A. Union when the latter proposes
absorption.
T C. Watson, who is announced as “provisional
director” of theproposed new Labor paper in Sydney, has
lately been pushing the scheme before the Miners Asso-
cHtion in the Newcastle district. He has been assured
that a lew of £1 per man (realising between £9OOO and
flO 0001 will be agreed upon. Mr. Watson estimates that
the A W U levy alone wall bring in over £20,000 by the
e d of this year, and, altogether, the promoters of the
new daily are taking a very cheerful view of things.
* * * *
“Konini”: Robert Stout, M.L.’s Chief Justice and
Incidental Faddist, again grumbles at the small space
given in London newspapers to the land of the dead moa
and the lively 1.0. U. Personally, I’d be much more obliged
to Robert if he would struggle to get more space in Aus-
tralian papers. I don’t live in London, and the number
of my countrymen who do is so small that the
: n the town are justified in not catering
For P them. But Australia is different. In N.S.W., for
instance there are thousands of resident Maonlanders, and
two or three big steamers, which arrive every week, pro-
vide a large floating population of Ward s constituents ,
vet the four dailies practically ignore them. The average
M-mrilander is a bigger glutton for politics than even the
a era' e Australiam Also, the average Maorilander is a
desperately fine patriot. He horns in or his country
whoever he may be, and he wants to know what his
country is doing in his absence. But the papers don t
tell him. The most important M.L. legislation (and
M L legislation is the most important thing in the world
Maorilanders) is given 10 lines—sometimes. And,
generally, the 10 lines convey nothing intelligible.
Richard Seddon, on his last' journey to Austraha, hoped
to arrange with the leading Australian papers for a sub-
sidised M.L. news-service, his idea being from what he
told me, that the M.L. Government should pay the bill
and supply the matter. But the old warrior did not live
to complete his scheme, and the service contimies to be
the worst in the world between two near and friendly
neighbors. # * * *
“ Scribe ” : It sounds incredible, but is a fact that the
Mail beat all the other London papers with the Portu-
guese revolution. On the second day the Chronicle
scored a win with an unparalleled description. The: poor
old Times could only compliment the others. The Mail,
getting a previous “scoop,” mercifully shared with the
Times its exclusive and long Marcomgram from the
Crippen ship. The Times, of course,; only put in a httle
bit: “It is naught, it is naught, saith the buyer. In-
structive to note, by the way, that this splendidly-
organised Portuguese revolution originated many months
„,, 0 with a demonstration in honor of the national poet
Camoens. Patriots exclaimed : “ How has our great
nation fallen away! Build it up again. And so the
revolution.” » * ■*
A resident of Gippsland (Vic.) owns a copy of the
Commonwealth Mercury, which was an organ of op'. nl °"
during the sway of the late Oliver Cromwell. The issue
is dated from September 2 to September 9, 1608, and is
almost wholly devoted to a quaint account of the demise
of “his Most Serene and Renowned Highness Oliver,
Lord Protector.” The paper, which consistsi of_ eight
mo-es Biin xsjin., and wears the imprint of Thos.
Newcomb, near Baynard’s Castle, in Thames-street
also contains a proclamation of Cromwell s son, Richaid,
as Lord Protector, and a page of advertisements of
which one is worth reprinting: “That exceHent, and
by all Physicians approved, China Drink, called by t
Chineans Tcha, by other Nations, Tay or Tee, is sold a,
the Sultaness-head, a cophee-house in Sweetings Rems
by the Royal Exchange,London.”
AVENGED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The late Count Tolstoi, celebrated author and con-
sistent crank, refused the Nobel Peace Prize of £BOOO,
and declined, firmly and without thanks, an offer from a
ring of publishers of £lOO,OOO for exclusive rights in
printing his works.
At length, at length, avenged are we
How many “little things” of ours
Do we with hating bosoms see
Returned by those infernal powers
That sit enthroned on high to say
What kind of reading men desire !
Our novels, serious and gay,
Our travel-books, the limpid lay
Infused with passion like a fire,
“Declined with thanks” or “ With regret,”
“Returned,” “Unsuitable,” “Unfit”
Like homing curses backward set
The flocks of wisdom and of wit.
Those publishers now know the spite
That curdles writers in the ranks;
Oh, what a whirlwind of delight
On cheques for hundred “ thous " to write :
“ Unsuitable, declined with thanks ! ”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


BEALE HIGH-GRADE PIANOS.
These Facts are Submitted to
any Intending Piano Purchaser.
MR, WILHELM GANZ, the accompanist to Madame Adelina Patti,
when visiting the Franco-British Exhibition at the “White City,**
Shepherds* Bush, London, played for some time upon a BEALE
Horizontal Grand, and examined it with all the care of an exacting
virtuoso. No name is better Known or respeded in musical circles of
the world’s metropolis. He expressed himself graciously, handsomely,
and altogether spontaneously, in a letter addressed to the Australian
firm of exhibitors, thus :
“It gives me great pleasure to tell you that I consider the Grand
Pianoforte which you exhibited at the Franco-British Exhibition a
very first-rate instrument. I much enjoyed playing on the same. The
touch is excellent, liKewise the tone.
“I specially admired the wonderful tone of the bass. In fact, I
hardly remember a pianoforte with a more resonant sound, and Aus-
tralia may be very proud of your having produced such fine instru-
ments.
“You have every good wish from me for your success in the
production of these pianofortes.”
That identical piano was purchased, with others, for the new
palatial hotel in the Strand, London. We are informed that the pro-
prietary desire another one, which will shortly be shipped to London,
to add to the fame ol Australian arts and crafts.
v . •
BEALE <& CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
-378 George Street, Sydney <3 D c°r s or> om 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 Queen Street, Brisbane (next G.P.O . —our Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Goulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Mackay and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. Write for Catalogue f or for Representative to call.
Head Offices & Factories: Trafalgar Street, Annanda/e, Sydney.
Cash or Easy Terms. 25 Years’ Guarantee. Repairs and Tuning.
Old Pianos Allowed For. Direct from Factory to Family.
Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


Illlilill
■
Hi
11*
55" *
■
■
H
■
■ *
mu
BliwSwW
»r
J?
|ilg|.:
.
■
Hi
■ k
v-" r ”
• tr
mm
m
■
dfeil
g» ' ::
|
■lll
■sis
89
■Hi
B|
*,*■ ,i-
- r£mi m”
lilli
lillifclllifc
If;
R
REGULAR &
FREQUENT SAILINGS BETWEEN
VICTORIA, NEW SOUTH WALES, QUEENSLAND
'
and all ports in each
AUSTRALIAN STATE
HOWARD SMITH C°L TD
A.U.S.N.C9 LIMITED
' 'l - ' ' ' '* -j<, % * s ~
MfILWRAITH, M9EACHARN &C° P TY L TD
OF FICES & AGENTS
ALL PORTS


Missing: Friends.
THOMAS SULLIVAN, formerly of Crook well,
New South Wales, last heard of at Mareeba,
Queensland, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please send present address or information as to
last known address to C. T. CLIFTON, Solicitor,
Crookwell, N.S.W., or A. J. MoDONALD,
Solicitor, 66 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Government Notices.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Treasury,
Melbourne, 30th September, 1910.
COUNTERFEIT COINAGE PLANT.
£2OO Reward.
\WHEREAS certain imitations of sold coins have
** recently been passed into circulation at Broken
Hill, in the State of New South Wales, NOTICE is hereby
given that a Reward of Two hundred pounds will be paid
by the Government of the Commonwealth for information
leading to the apprehension of the coiners and the dis-
covery of the plant used in the manufacture of the coins
referred to. The Commonwealth Government will request
the State Government to extend a full pardon to any
accomplice who will give the desired information. This
offer will remain open for three months from this date.
(Sgd.) ANDREW FISHER, Treasurer.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 2nd November, 1910.
Manager, Commonwealth
Woollen Mills.
A 1 PPLICATIONS are invited for appoint-
ment as MANAGER of the WOOLLEN
MTLLS about to be - established for the manufac-
ture of woollen cloths for the Defence Department,
Applicants, whose age must not exceed 45 years,
are required to send copies of testimonials, with a
statement of their service and qualifications.
General business qualifications, previous experi-
ence in connection with the manufacture of cloth,
cord, serge, flannel, stockingette, and a knowledge
of modern machine appliances will be regarded as
essential.
The salary will be £6OO per annum, and, before
selection, proof of medical fitness must be pro-
duced.
Applications will be received up to 31st Decem-
ber, 1910.
Forms of application may be obtained at this
office, or the Military Headquarters, Sydney,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth (Western Australia),
and Hobart.
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE, Secretary.
Business Announcements.
Tie Former and Celluloid Collar
With Silks to Form Two Handsome Ties
h
ChMpmd Good,
1/8 po»t«y
Only 1/6 the Lot, or with Sillcs for
Four Ties 2 /- post free.
A Great Bargain. Just what was wanted.
Tie always keeps its shape, wears much longer
and never slips out of place. Excellent Celluloid
Collar, fashionable shape, any size, washed in a
moment with a sponge. State size when ordering.
The Union Manufacturing Co*
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
Everyone c&d
Cut Hair with
The WIDE-AWAKE HAIR-CUPPER
The combs that fit on the Clipper
enable you to cut short, medium
or long, making it really equal
to Three Separate Clippers. It
■oon saves its cost in a family.
More easily managed than scis-
sors, impossible to cut the skin.
Men’s and Boys’ hair should be I
kept well cut for the sake of L
-or
good health and smart appearance. Price Bs., complete with
adjustable combs, protector and spare spring, we pay carriage.
THE UNION COMPANY, 299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
Wilwearwel LEATHER BRACES
1.
last a lifetime
Most Comfortable
No Lump in the Back.
Interlacing at cross allows
Vreatest freedom of move-
ment. Made entirely bf,
fine leather, with Spring
Hooks to save unbutoning. J
ĥ
Heavy 3i.. Soft 4s. per pair, postage paid.
Money Back if you say so. THE UNION
MANUFACTURING' CO., 299 Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
Lightning Needle Threader
ħ
For Machine or Hand
Needles. Saves Time
and Trouble.
You can thread a needle with It in the dark and without
trimming the end of the cot ton. Simple and easy, done in a
moment. Price SEVEN PENCE, posted anywhere, with fail
printed directions, Two for ONE SHILLING.
THE ONION CO., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
“THE HEART.OF THE AUTOMOBILE”—
Fame's Schebler Carburetor
The best Vaporising: Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Movingr. If you want to get more HORSE-
POWER, from your Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OF MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. 14 Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner House).
C'IHEAP EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
J Price 2/6. Postage, N.S.W., 7d.; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
r^\
A
W UX LJ
toMTiii
MfOD^
m
1 O
/
07 c my r\v.
(ausirauan stanoaroi®
MALT
WHISKY
&Sto£
Jojfuia^i
9
■nr
The Whiskyologist-
Who is he ?
WHO is the shrewd-looking, pleasant-faced old party
who has made himself so familiar to newspaper
readers under the name of the Whiskyologist, and
whose bull’s-eye questions brought the Whisky Importer to
his feet with a jump ?
Is it a portrait of anyone in particular ? Some people
have settled the question by identifying the picture with a
well-known Victorian .public man, who has from time to
time shown some of the Whiskyologist’s traits in his deter-
mination to get to the root of certain matters, and his utter
refusal to be fooled.
In point of fact, the Whiskyologist isn’t intended for
any particular individual. The picture is the artist’s con-
ception of the clear-headed, middle-aged man of the world,
typically Australian in character, proud of the fact that the
home product is in every respect equal to the imported
article, and ready to prove it by his own experience.
The Whiskyologist wears Australian clothes, boots and
hats; he eats and drinks Australian food and liquor. He
made his money in Australia, and he spends it on
Australian-made products.
In the matter of Whisky he has the Commonwealth
Government guarantee to support his judgment in selecting
Joshua’s. The “G.R.” label on the bottle is the official
proof of age, purity and quality.
Follow the old gentleman’s example—he knows.
JOSHUA S WHISKY
Ag'e, Quality and Purity
guaranteed by
your own Government.
Legal Notices.
RE JOHN SEWELL (deceased).
PURSUANT to a Judgment of the High Court
of Justice Chancery Division England in an
Action of COWAN and STUART v. SEWELL
and KING 1907 C. No. 3203 dated the 16th day
of November 1907 and of an Order in the said
Action dated the 3rd day of November 1910 dis-
pensing with service of notice of the said Judg-
ment upon the persons hereinafter named that is
to say on CHARLES EDWARD SEWELL,
FREDERICK RICHARD SEWELL, VICTOR
MURRAY SEWELL, THOMAS ROBERT
BRIGHT. WILLIAM STUART BRIGHT,
PERCY DOUGLAS BRIGHT and MARIAN
BESSIE HODGE and any person claiming by
through or under them or any of them the said
Charles Edward Sewell, Frederick Richard
Sewell, Victor Murray Sewell, Thomas Robert
Bright, William Stuart Bright, Percy Douglas
Bright and Marian Bessie Hodge and any
person claiming by through or under them
or any of them and all persons claiming ip,;
be interested in the property to which this?
Action relates who are not parties to the said
Action or have not been served with notice of the
said Judgment are hereby required to come in
and establish their respective claims in respect
thereof at the Chambers of Mr. Justice Warring-
ton Royal Courts of Justice Strand London Eng-
land on or before the 13th day of March 1911 or
in default thereof they will after the expiration
of the time so limited be bound by the proceed-
ings in the said Action as if they had been served
with notice of such Judgment.
TUESDAY the 21st day of March 1911 at 12
of the clock at noon at the said Chambers is
appointed for hearing and adjudicating upon the
claims.
Dated this 4th day of November 1910.
NOTE.—The property to which this Action
relates is certain freehold property known as Bel-
mont House Whetstone and 64 Maplin Street
Mile End both in the County of Middlesex Eng-
land and Central Lodge Central Hill Upper Nor-
wood in the County of Surrey England. The said
property formerly belonged to John Sewell of 106
Manor Street Clapfiam in the County of Surrey
England who died on the 28th September 1882
and who devised the said property to his grand-
sons John Thomas Sewell and the said Charles
Edward Sewell, Frederick Richard Sewell and
Victor Murray Sewell who are brothers in
equal shares. The three persons last named are
all believed to be resident in South Australia.
The Plaintiffs claim under the said Charles
Edward Sewell and Frederick Richard Sewell.
The said John Thomas Sewell has assigned his
share to one Henry Charles King who is a party
to this Action. The said Charles Edward Sewell
was in the year 1889 described as of STRATH-
ALBYN South Australia Solicitor., Frederick
Richard Sewell was in the year 1889 described as
of Adelaide South Australia Soft Goods Merchant.
It is alleged that Victor Murray Sewell by Deed
dated 21st January 1889 assigned all his share in
the property in question to the said Thomas
Robert Bright Solicitor of Unity Chambers Cur-
rey Street Adelaide South Australia and that by
Deed dated 17th August 1903 the said Thomas
Robert Bright assigned the same share to his
children the said William Stuart Bright. Percy
Douglas Bright and Marian Bessie Hodge all of
whom are believed to reside in Adelaide South
) Australia.
R. T. WATKIN WILLIAMS,
Master of the Supreme Court.
SYRETT AND SONS,
45 Finsbury Pavement, London. England,
Plaintiffs’ Solicitors.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. MATRIMONIAL
CAUSES JURISDICTION. No. 7436. Be-
tween DAVID JAMES POWRIE SHERRIFF
Petitioner and HARRIETT MARY SHERRIFF
Respondent SAMUEL HENRY JONES and
R. WEST Co-Respondents. To R. WEST late
of Coonamble district formerly of Woolloomooloo.
TAKE NOTICE that the said DAVID JAMES
POWRIE SHERRIFF has commenced a suit
against the above-named Respondent in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a divorce on
the ground of your adultery with the Respondent.
AND TAKE NOTICE that you are required to
enter an appearance to the said suit at the proper
office of thiA Honorable Court on or before the
thirty-first' of March 1911 and in the event of
your not doing so within the time limited or ob-
taining further time the Petitioner will proceed
and the suit be heard and determined your ab-
sence notwithstanding. A copy of the Petition
filed herein rnay be had on application to the
undersigned free of charge. Dated this 15th De-
cember, 1910. ROBERT WILLIAM FRASER,
Solicitor for Petitioner, Post Office Chambers, 114 a
Pitt Street, Sydney. For the Registrar (signed)
JOHN GEO. LEARY (1.5.), Chief Clerk.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
s
MORRIS'S |
hiree Witches
eijAiirma
mmn
10
for
Mods.
tondcß
HIGHEST GRADE.
Ss per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.


Shipping-.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund’s Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
} Carrying- one class of passengers only.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by this Steamer.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
SPECIAL ROUND TICKETS for return by P.O. Com-
pany’s Mail Steamers, First-class both ways, £lll 2s. ;
Second-class, Mail Steamer, £B4 6s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mkt.iio'uink Aok.nts : JOHN SANDERSON ife CO.,
11l William-street.
Adri.aidk & FnnMANTi.K Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-'-rte ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads: Single Berth Room'-, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE', ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &o.
™ e jjank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
head office - - Brisbane.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000.000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE.
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - ' - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,042.960
PAID-UP £958,172
HEAP OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LON* ON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRI JTORS— Philip H. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Ciias.
H. Myles, Esq. ; Sir William P. Manning, Kt.; Hon.
Sir Francis B. Suttor, Kt., M-L.C. ; Rowland H.
Mucker, Esq. ; George J . Sly, Esq., LL.D.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extend'
Subscribed Capital
Capital Paid Up
Reserve (in Gov. Stock)
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,09 L,
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO. Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
ng to J une 30, 1921.
£BOO,OOO 0 0
413,368 18 10
89,000 0 0
4 5
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. =====
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
fhe Colonial fljutual Life
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring £33,888.510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,2(55.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
♦ ravelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon. O. J. Roreets, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Brock Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. IIOSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
N ord Deutscher L/loyd.
FARES TO LONDON.
SINGLE .. 1., £66 11., £3S 10s. 111., £l5 to £l7
RETURN.. 1., 99 11., 57 15s. 111., 27 to 3012 s
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Arriving in London in good time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR - WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Colline-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Investedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £37.500 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C. M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; J. H.
MacFarland, Esu., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BOR ROW MAN, Manager.
FKEDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
h
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
January IS.
MEDIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
February IS.
AFRIC, SUEVIC and PERSIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegrapnv and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of* Accommodation*
FARES —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne 1 10 u
New York, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal. &c. from -*
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Ajft'ins in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€H LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
f New Steamer. ‘ Twin Screw, a One class only.
■tv Fitted Wireless Telegraphy. It Calls Hobart.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London „. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
p. & O. Branch Service.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £b:>
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of Chebigliest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
The bulletin post cards-Ncw
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
Gd. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post tree
to any address.
ĥ
HOLIDAY CRUISES i
to Papua and the Pacific Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Jan. 27, Mar. 10 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Jan. 13, Feb. 24 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing’ these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.— INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to £25,000 at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands. j
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.— CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
Full particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
Office. J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
m
£2,817,660
£1,872,695
£2,81 7,660
£7,508,015
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir NOiWiand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
° Auditors : Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 3ia Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 159, Victoria 37,
Queensland 47, South Australia 5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1); and
‘\o-ents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and
the East Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places v an<
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
FURS, Curios, Shells Ik Opals
The Largest Store in Australasia.
Established 1860.
Tost & Rohu,
Taxidermists, Furriers, Tanners
and Island Curio Dealers,
10, 12 & 14. MOORE STREET, opp. C.P.0.,
SYDNEY. Central 2196.
Large Showrooms and Museum, containing' thousands of
Australian Souvenirs. Inspection invited.
Returning Boomerangs from 1/6 each. Carved Emu Eggs,
4/6 each. Native Grass Dresses, 4/6. Bow and Six Arrows,
2/6 the set. Spears, Clubs, Idols, Kava and Food Bowls,
Shields, Masks, Stone Axes, Bark Belts, Tappa and Matting.
Pet Snakes, 20/- Snake Skin Ties and Watch Guards, 2/- each ;
Snake Skin Belts and Braces, 7/6; Slippers, 12/6 ; Boots,
£l/2/6 per pair. Skins made up into Ladies’ Furs, Mats,
Rugs and Foot Warmers.
And 605 CEORGE ST., SYDNEY. City 2874. Stuffed Birds and Animals in Large Variety.
All Purchases Packed Free and Labelled. Collections of Genuine Curios from £3.
TASMANIA FOR TOURISTS!
Temperature mild/; Atmosphere exhilarating ; Scenery magnificent. Tourists splendidly
looked after by the well-organised Tourist Association.
Highfield Hotel, Hobart.
The Leading Hotel-the Fashionable Resort of Tourists. Lavishly Furnished ; Excellent
Attendance; First-class Cuisine ; Kosher Meat; Telephone; Electric Light; Select Billia
Room, etc. Central Situation; close to River, Rail, Trams, G.P.0., Tourist Bureau,
Rooms now being booked for coming season. Early application requested.
S. H. MCDONALD, Manager, Highfield Hotel, Hobart, Tasmania.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP 00.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to arvl Irons
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhinninsr at Fremantle
to all North Western Porn*.
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S. S. Kanowna, Jan. 7 and
Feb. 4
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
ing with Koombana
in Fremantle for North-
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oiirns.
S.S. Yonsrala, Dec. 24.
S.s. Innamincka, Dec. 31.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Ollice.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE,
THF. ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by R<ail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
* Twin-screw Steamer.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney’.
F.—H . S.
Federal-Moulder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “ SOMERSET,”
11,300 Tons. B. G. Hayward, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE - - - 7th Feb.
~ „ „ SYDNEY- - - - 14th Feb.
„ „ „ MELBOURNE - - 21st Feb.
„ „ „ ■ ADELAIDE - • - 28th Feb.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
\ £49 108, £1313s - £IS 15s ’ £1717s -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To he followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdney and Brisbane ;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney : J. Camfbkll-YVood, Esq.; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.); Hon. W.
H. Wood, ALL.A. ;E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY,
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
Wk Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIO.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
yOUNG AUSTRALIA, and Boys and Gills’ own
" Newspaper, invites the subniission cf STORIES
VERSE, suitable PARAGRAPHS and ILLUSTRA-
TIONS. Australian and General. “FARMER AND
SETTLER” OFFICE, 435 Kent Street, Sydney.
Hotels, &c.
EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.


THIS FREE BOOK TELLS HOW
ħ
CAN BE CURED,
even after the attacks have lasted for years.
Dr. Niblett’s Remedy Cures
the Disease Permanently.
It is the result of the most exhaustive research
by a London physician, who for 35 years made
epilepsy his special study.
CONFIDENCE may be placed in this remedy,
which for nearly 40 years has been used with the
greatest success. Letters of recommendation from
Doctors, Clergymen and Other persons of the
highest standing.
THE ONE REMEDY THAT CURES.
FREE.—Send for very interesting booklel, giving
particulars of cures, etc., post free. Rocke,
Tompsitt & Co., 292 to 298 Flinders St., Melbourne.
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
NOTO
One
Home
Take
When
Xmas Comes
When Christmas comes and you are puzzled
how to adequately acknowledge the greeting of friend,
relative, customer or employee, remember the Onoto Safety Pen.
It is a present for every class on every occasion.
Fills'Uself in
five seconds
SEI/F
FILLING
SAFETY
FOUNTAIN
PEN
• British Manufacture
It is a present that will please the recipient not
only for its intrinsic value and usefulness, but
because it shows thoughtfulness in that it is of
real interest to him or her.
Take one home to-night for the boy, make your
wife a present of one, and if you do not yourself
carry an Onoto with you, get one to day.
Buy an ONOTO.
The Onoto Pen has many features that commend it.
It is the only pen that does not and cannot leak. It fills itself in
five seconds from any ink supply, thus doing away with the messy,
sticky ink squirt or bulb fillers.
It holds enough ink to write 20,000 words. The flow of ink can be
regulated to suit any hand. The slightest turn of the cap on the
top of the penholder positively regulates and controls the ink flow.
The large solid gold nib is tipped with iridium, and is therefore
unwearable, and practically indestructible.
12/-
And
Upwards
Booklet about it free from Thos. Dk La Rue & Co., Ltd., 250 Bunhill Row, London, E.C, or the Australasian
Representative, Norman Baker, 50 York Street, Sydney.
h
Imagine being able to get a Pen that never sticks nor spurts
And here it is !
A fine ball is formed on the point, and the pen becomes a “glider
You don’t know what a boon they are until you try the
Ball-Pointed
Ask your Stationer for a 6d. Assorted Box.
very finely-tempered steel, they write like
and last a long time.
Made of
a quill
ĥ
ħ
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and T. C. TROEDSON,
George Streets, Brisbane, General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
BOONHRH
31,344 ~W~ Acres,
land’s Greatest Agricultural Proposition
SITUATED in the famous Kingaroy District, at Goomerri Railway Station, right on the Kilkivan Railway Line,
eight and a half hours rail from Brisbane.
Described as a plnteau or steppe, on the coastal side of the Main Coast Range, about 60 miles from the sea,
807 feet above sea level, with a delightful climate, well sheltered in winter, yet cool and breezy in summer.
Excellently watered by numerous evor running creeks and large lagoons. Level roads throughout. Free from
pests. Proved drought proof. Ample rainfall of 35-13 inches. The home of the rich Queensland blue grass. Nearly
43% of first-class agricultural land and less than 1% of inferior land, certified by a Government expert. The best
potato, onion, and lucerne soil in Queensland.
Large new hotel on the estate. Butter factory in course of erection. Reserves for school, church, and show-
grounds. Motor cars meet every train for inspection. Fares paid from Brisbane to the Estate when inspecting and
when attending the sale, if you purchase.
Subdivided into 172 Farms from 32 to 423 acre s.
EXRERT OPINIONS
/Iff?. IV, D, LAMB, who was one of the Agricultural Pioneers of the
Darling Downs, where he has been farming for 48 years, says:—“The average
quality is exceptionally good. . . . The soil is specially adapted for producing
large crops of lucerne and potatoes. ... I can conscientiously recommend this
country, &c.”
MB, DAVID McCULLOCH of “ Roseneath,” Parkes,
N.S. W a prominent agriculturist, who will harve-t i.tiOO acres of wheat this
season, says :—“ Itidges and hats alike will compare favourably with the richest lands
of Victoria and N.S.W., and the potentialities for dairying and lamb raising are
practically unlimited.”
MR• PHIL» McGRATH f Snt who has been 4i years lucerne farming
in Laidley, says:— "l consider the Boonara Flats are exactly similar lucerne soil
. . . The ridges are exceptionally good soil.”
MR. H. RAFF , Surveyor , with 30 years experience of
Queensland, says:—‘‘l have subdivided many large estates in Southern, W< stern,
and Northern Queensland . . . Boonara leads them ail. Its physical features
combine to make it the finest farming and dairying proposition I have ever seen.”
MR. J. W. WALDRHN, who has had considerable farming experience
on the Tweed River and elsewhere, says :—" So adat table for fat ms . . . plenty
of permanent water . . . rich alluvial deep soil Hats for lucerne, potatoes, etc.”
To be Sold by Auction at The BOONARA HOTEL (on the Estate) on
TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY, 7th and Bth MARCH, 1911, at 2 o’clock p.m.
, Write TO-DA Y for Illustrated Plans to—
ISLES, LOVE & GOm Auctioneers, Brisbane. 6. W. MARTIN, Sworn Valuator, Bourke St., Melbourne.
E. C. Y. BROUGHTON, Auctioneer, 113 Pitt St., Sydney. YOUNG BROS., Auctioneers, Horsham (Vic.)
ENLARGED PHOTOS of the Estate may be seen at Spencer Street Railway Station, Melbourne; Ballarat,
Geelong, Hamilton, and Warrnambool; Central Railway Station, Brisbane; Wallangarra Railway Station,
Queensland; and at the offices of the various Agents.
MAGNETIC TERMS
20 Years at 5 per cent,, with one-tenth Cash Deposit j
and no payment except interest for 24 months .


h
Pike Brothers Limited,
The Australasian Emporium for Men’s Wear.
Our Famous Guinea Boot,
“THE WALDORF.
Especially Recommended for Business Wear.
Very Smart and Dressy in Appearance. Stocked
in the Best English Tan Willow Calf and Black
Glac6 Kid. Write for our Large Catalogue.
211-
Brisbane, Townsville, Toowoomba & London
HOTEL DAN I ELL
(Late Imperial), Brisbane, Queensland.
AND ROYAL HOTEL,
Maryborough, Queensland.
A Home for Commercials and Others.~3Kl
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
ĥ
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scruhb ft Co. on each Bottle.
IN BANANA LAND
It happened, quite accidentally of course,
that the proposed western transcontinental is to
run through a number of Labor electorates—a cir-
cumstance that considerably dulled the ardor of
the Opposition in combating the big boom scheme.
Also, 150 miles of the proposed coast line is to
traverse the electorate of Lennon, acting-leader of 1
the Labor party. They are strategical works
right enough.
A most commendable example of persever-
ance was afforded by one William Jack, who died
in a Mackay hospital the other day. William
wearied of life and took to the bush with intent
to starve himself into Nirvana. Failing to get
there quickly enough, he next swallowed a quan-
tity of matches, then dosed himself with a quaint
compound of ashes and nicotine, and finally
attempted drowning. In spite of it all, William
died peacefully at last in bed in the local in-
firmary. Some men have no luck.
Eleven Queensland barristers have now
taken silk : Charles Lilley (who became Chief
Justice), Pring (first Attorney-General), Blake,
Griffith (now Chief Justice of Australia), Beor,
Garrick, Chubb (now Supreme Court Judge),
Rutledge (now District Court Judge), Feez, E. M.
Lilley (sonof Charles) and Stumrn. Five of them
—Charles Lilley, Pring, Griffith, Chubb and
Rutledge—climbed on to the Bench ; Charles
Lilley, Pring, Blake, Beor and Garrick have gone
where Costs are probably not mentioned ; and
only Feez, the younger Lilley and Stumm toil at
the Bar.
Minister Appel has promised “to look
into a certain case ” of a Hindoo who recently ad-
vertised in the Brisbane press for a white wife.
But miscegenation is no novelty in Queensland.
In the year 1909, according to Statistician Wee-
don, 69 colored aliens (49 men and 20 women)
were married in Bananaland. Thirty-six of the
men married wives of colored race, including 18
aboriginal women, while 13 colored alien males
married white women. On the other hand, four
colored alien women and five aboriginal gins mar-
ried white men. In-Carolina-or'Georgia there
would be quite a quantity of penitentiary dealt
out over unions of that kind.
All Queensland State railways are now
built under the 1906 Act, which requires a
guarantee of 3 per cent, from the ratepayers of
the districts along the proposed line ; but these
ratepayers can block the railway by a majority
vote. Kidston’s new “ Transcontinental ” doesn’t,
however, propose to ask anybody’s consent; so it
may be a legal toss-up whether the settler along
the route will be liable to make up the deficiency.
In any case, the deficiency certainly won’t be
collected, especially when it is greatest —that is to
say, when there is a drought in those parts. In
fact, Commissioner Thallon can scarcely collect
the arrears at present on a paltry line like .the
Dalby-Bell branch, so he has Buckley’s chance of
gathering in the deficiency in drought time on a
thousand miles of line running through a poor
pastoral district.
The curse is spreading. Now it’s the
Proserpine Hospital that advertises this way :
A/TARRIED COUPLE (without encumbrance) re-
quired for above institution. Wife to cook
and perform other necessary duties; husband to
milk, garden, and otherwise act as required. Salary
£BO per annum.
It is time Kidston had a word to say to these
State-subsidised institutions which work on the
no-encumbrance racket. A State that wants
immigrants and is paying to get them surely isn’t
going to be mad enough to give its support to
concerns that will only employ childless couples.
Mount Elliott, where the beer-strike was,
broke out later on into an unrecorded strike
against threepenny rides for “kids” on the
merry-go-round. At least “the kids” did their
own striking—did the thing in due form, ap-
pointed a spokeskid, and demanded tuppenny
rides. And the boss did things in due form, too •
he said the time wasn’t ripe, or words to that
effect, and set the old jigger going. But the
jigger jigged in vain ; pickets told stragglers, who
eyed the whirling show, that if they went in they
would be branded for ever as scabs, and presently
the show shut down. Next night the bill was up
—“ Children 2d.” The victory was won.
NOT COMPLAINING.
TOURIST : "Do the missionaries trouble
you much?"
CANNIBAL BOSS: "Oh, no. My digestion is excellent."
From a Western newspaper :
THANKS.— Mr. —desires to thank'Mr. Munzen-
berjrer and Staff of the Club Hotel, Arrilalah,
for their kindness to him while staying at the hotel
ill from snakebite received at Weeumbah.
It sounds like an open confession.
Toowoomba has been having a municipal
jubilee. In the crowd at the chief shivoo there
were three interesting local notabilities —Mrs.
Groom, widow of W. H. Groom, the first mayor ;
James Peardon, the only surviving member of the
first council and the first white man to get mar-
ried in the Downs capital (that happened 55 years
ago); and 11. K. Alford, a member of the
present council and the first white child born in
Toowoomba. Alford’s parents went there in 1842,
and when he was born there were only three houses
in the township. It was his mother who
christened the place Toowoomba. Before that it
was The Swamp.
The Brisbane tramway people smell a
Wages Board in the distance, and opposition is
being whipped up within the service. The co., it
is pleaded, is “so considerate”; its bosses will
meet the men and discuss matters at anytime—
this and the other old gags are once more given
an airing. Why anybody should object to a
Wages Board if everybody is so satisfied isn’t clear.
All that everybody has to do is to go in and say
that no change is wanted, and there isn’t a Wages
Board or Arbitration Court in the world that would
disturb the conditions. When somebody objects
so strongly to a board or a court on the ground
that everybody is satisfied, it is pretty safe to say
that there is either a great liar or a great fool in
the neighborhood.
The Fading Kink.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
McClure’s Magazine gives a report of a series of in-
vestigations by Dr. Fischberg and others on Jewish
characteristics. It was shown by statistics that 60 per
cent, of New York Hebrews were fair and straight-
featured, and that the curved Hebraic nose of the carica-
turist occurred only in a minority of cases.
WE’VE thrown the dogs full many a
superstition,
We’ve ceased to care a curse for
Jonah’s whale ;
No longer have we faith in apparition,
Or mystic whispers caught behind the veil;
And now we read that Israel’s classic features
Are not as “ hooky ” as one might suppose,
And that old Time, that lord of earthly creatures,
Has taken out the kink in Ikey’s Nose !
His raven locks, so deftly oiled and glossy,
: It seems have turned to fair and sometimes red,
As if the gamboge gay of Tot or Flossie
i Had been applied to Israel’s giddy head;
That countenance whose cut was pure Phoenician,
Whose pallor minded one of Hermon’s snows,
Has changed to something regular and Grecian,
And all the curve has gone from Ikey’s Nose !
How curst is Time ! He damns the reputation
. Of many a bossy wight of days of yore ;
lie kicks great Rome from her imperial station
And strews proud Philip’s galleons on the shore;
St. George he brands as just a paltry peddler.
He drags Augustus from his mighty pose,
And now with ruthless hand the hoary meddler
. Has straightened out the curve in Ikey’s nose !
Make light, O Fate, of ev’ry proud tradition ;
Wipe out our foolish faith in legend old ;
Destroy our trust like some insane magician,
And lightly mock our mythic Age of Gold ;
Pull down the peaked moustache of proud Ger-
mania ;
Turn Austria’s eagles into carrion crows;
Make fish-forks of the trident of Britannia ;
But spare, O spare, the kink in Ikey’s Nose !
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisrane. December 17, 1910.
Mt Dear Thargomindah,—
The clan Macgregor availed themselves of the
first breath of cool air discovered this week to
embark a couple of hundred official folk on hoard
the Lucinda and run them down to the bay. The
most notable feature of the expedition, apart from
its healthy appetite, was the way in which the
political liotis lay down with the Bible-in-State-
Schools lambs. The exceptions to the amiability
were Frank McDonnell and the ancient Brent-
nall, who scowled at each other from afar off.
The rain which fell so prodigiously upon the
tail end of last week, and particularly on Saturday,
flooded out the Q.T.C. Summer Cup, with
the result that it had to be left to dry
until Monday, when its ownership was dis-
puted with diminished interest and less cash
takings. On Saturday the streets were ankle-deep
in water, and a gale hurled itself upon the male
and unmale pedestrian alike, wrenching his
umbrella from his frenzied grip, and swishing
moisture upon her new hat until it was fit only
for egg-setting purposes. Passengers by the
Orvieto (including Mr. 8-lade and Mr. and Mrs.
Jas. McWhirter, jun.) had a very trying journey
along the coast, and climbed several thousand
liquid staircases and fell down the other side
before reaching port. After the deluge, the
weather went to the other extreme, and we have
had such a frying that people are fleeing to
Townsville and Cairns to escape the heat.
A new flock of engagement congratulations
hover round, most of' them feathered with best
wishes to Dr. Jack Thomson and Miss Forsyth, a
pretty Sydneysider.
Mrs. Gilbert Wilson, with Mrs. and Miss M.
Ifeez, is to pay a flying visit to Maoriland ; the
party will leave this coming week. Our special
Voice is ordered rest and change in a lower tem-
perature.
Other lucky women have departed for your
Blue Mountains. Amongst them are Mrs. Church
and Mrs. .T. T. Isles and family. Evelyn
Thorn is spending a few days in bydney, and the
Denham shes are also within your hospitable
gates. Digby joins them as soon as the liana
Court row is settled.
Fancy a woman jury, my dear ! I have been
wondering what has been making me ee so
superior all the week. And the Judge compli-
mented the jurywomen upon their intelligence .
Well, we are coming into our own at last, even it
we have to import it from the land of fried nigger
and cooked Roosevelt. •
Thargomindah, have you ever read “ Eife’s
Little Ironies ? ” If you have you will thoroughly
enjoy a local irony quite worthy of being included
in Thomas Hardy’s classic collection. Ihappened
upon it the other day. A lady in (say) Blankville,
of the worthy wife-and-mother type, and a
bee-autiful cook, went to Europe, leaving her
husband to the care of a dear friend, a clever
bridge player and a tactful handler of the cards
in other games of life. The departing wife tear-
fully besought the dear friend “to look after
Charlie,” and the d.f. gave her solemn word to
be, if not a mother, at least a comfort to him.
She kept her word. In due course she thought out
a scheme for the re-decoration of his smoking-room
in a lovely harmony of brown (at Charlie s ex-
pense, of course). She even brought over
pots of brown orchids quite late at night
to finish the effect. The town stood on
tiptoe to listen to the wrath to come when
the estimable wife re appeared. But no storm
burst. She stepped into the house, took on
her bonnet, and after duly admiring the brown
study, got out her work basket and spent the
afternoon hemming the curtains. When the dear
friend heard of it, she snorted: “Hemmed the
curtains, indeed ! How absurd ! As if art serge
needed hemming ! ”
The boys have come back from the Austialian
officers’ camp at Albui v, looking very brown and
well cared for. They don’t say much ; but, like
the sailors’ Polly, think a deal; and the general
trend of their thoughts appears to be that, con-
sidering G.-G. Dudley’s interest in military
affairs, he might have found time to give
them at least one hurrah. Already local recruits
are asking for dates of enrolment, and first-aid
classes are booming. A number of energetic girls
Who have been under Dr. Hopkins’s eye have, I
am told, passed their first-aid examination with
credit.
A little person who has recently quitted the
Government service to engage in one of a more
domestic variety is MisS Kate Cowley. The bride-
to-be was one of the most popular of the official
feminine squad, and her friends both in and out the
service have been placing upon her a burden of
gifts and afternoon tea parties. On Wednesday
next she will accept her final offering of a plain
gold ring at the hands of one'Johnson, a sugar
man of Mosman way, North Queensland —a
stalwart person with over six feet of health to
prove that Money Bags was a prevaricator when
he assured the public that the white man couldn’t
live and thrive in the North. The moon of honey
will shine in Tasmania and Vic.
It seems that the newly appointed Professors
for our University are something quite exceptional
in the art of hammering in learning. One of them
at least is muscular enough to follow out the
methods put forward by poet Saxe, if necessary:—
Ye youngster’s pate to stimulate
Ye beat ye other end.
This is Professor Mitcliie, the youthful Aber-
donian, who in addition to estimable qualities as
a pedagogue has “ won his full Blue ” at Cam-
bridge.
A horrid divorce tangle has just been straight-
ened out by Justice Real. It had to do with a
very much married lady, and great difficulty was
experienced in discovering whose wife she really
was. The original husband appears to have got
himself divorced, and the second left for parts un-
known, where he has stayed e ver since. The third
brought up in court on a charge of running con-
trary to the conditions of the law. Subsequently,
it transpired that No. 2 was not dead, as hoped,
supposed or understood, and the Judge has now
declared that in those circs, the lady is still his
property, or words to that effect. No. 3 is, there-
fore, once more a gay eligible, and the grass
widow is as she was. The law is satisfied, but the
lady and No. 3 have so far not expressed an
opinion. I don’t expect to hear from No. 2 for
some time—quite a long time, in fact.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
“C.S.A.”: The Queensland Aborigines’
Protection Board has a big source of unexploited
revenue. Sugar mills and growers usually pay
Is. per lb. for cane-beetles ; and at a low estimate
half the weight paid for is snared by the blacks,
who, however, receive only a penny or two per
lb. The middleman—usually a policeman, publi-
can or other capitalist—thus makes a tidy profit
on the transaction. Were the police instructed
to receive grubs from the Binghis, sell them on
behalf of the Board, and return to Binghi a pro-
portion for tucker and “ tobac,” and if the law
also penalised anyone exploiting black innocence
for profit, the Board would have a very handy
sum to spend on Black Brother’s improvement.
“ Stan,” on the struggle to live white :
There are now at least seven hotels in Cairns from
whose cookery branch the colored person has disappeared,
never to poke his finger in asrain, I hope. Also, almost all
the boarding-houses have the white sign out. Mackay is
nearly all white. Townsville is rapidly getting into line,
and the signs and portents show the almost entire dis-
appearance of alien cooks throughout the Central,
Western and Northern areas within a few years. The
hotels, which cater for only the very “ naicest ” in the
larger towns, are still colored from the back parlors to
the front balcony; but you must remember that these
pubs are the feeding-places of that old black-labor crowd
which takes its grub better within smell of its old fetich.


/
\vx
" 1
■/
Z : ,
* % ,r^? :
sJ*
1*
5
o
f%
h
*+>*4
IS#
lL
3 s
KW/ S
'V
...'
H
I'ONCU
BETTER THAN A BULLFINCH.
Schweppes’ Aerated Sarsaparilla.
Prepared from Jamaica Sarsaparilla Root in
accordance with the British Pharmacopoeia.
A most refreshing and palatable drinK whilst being at the same time a Blood Purifier.
See that you get the Genuine “SCHWEPPES.
Schweppes have held Royal Warrants o/ Appointment for over Seventy Years.
99


PRESERVE
iiticura
NAJA
'A
e-
With
&7\
CUTICURA
SOAP
A lifetime of disfigurement and
suffering often results from the
neglect, in infancy or childhood,
of simple skin affections. In the
prevention and treatment of minor
eruptions and in the promotion of
permanent skin and hair health,
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Oint-
ment are absolutely unrivaled.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London, 27,
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 10, Hue do la Chaussea
d’Antin; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney; India,
B. K. Paul, Calcutta; China, Hong Kong Drug Co.,
Japan, Maruya, Ltd., Toklo; So. Atrica, Lennon,
Ltd., Cape Town, etc.; U. S. A., Potter Drug & Chem.
Corp., Sole Props., 133 Columbus Avc., Boston.
tsar 32-page Cuticura Booklet, post-free, tells all
about the Care and Treatment of Skin and Scalp.
MoT/lER
pßinrp-iT ;
* ,£<•
O
OOKIS
tmimS«m
REODTERCDTPfIDEfIfIWI LEHOS
Brooke’s Lemon
Squash is a pure and
satisfying beverage of
the very highest stan-
dard of quality and as
a thirst-quencher it is
unequalled.
1,500,000 lemons
are used annually in
making this popular
beverage.
Made from Lemons
only
To PEARL Fishers, Dealers
in Pearls and Opal.
We have been continuously buying since 1880.
We pay the Highest Prices.
We buy the largest or smallest parcels.
We pay Spot Cash to all.
Send through any Bank for our Inspection.
P. RLEEMO & CO., Ltd.,
Pearl and Diamond Merchants,
3 Wynyard Street. SYDNEY.
The Safest Laxative
for Delicate People.
To overcome Constipation it is of the utmost importance
to form regular habits daily, so that assistance to nature
may be gradually dispensed with, as the best of reme tes,
when needed, are to assist and not to supplant the natura
functions, which must depend ultimately upon proper
nourishment, proper efforts, and right living generally.
The assistance of California Syrup of Figs,
endeavouring to form regular habits, is most valuable, and
for delicate people, especially women and children, there is
nothing so safe or so truly beneficial.
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE,’ 1
•acts with extreme mildness, relieves congestion promptly yet gently,
overcomes sluggishness gradually, tones and soothes the entire organism
and thus encourages, not forces regularity. You can depend upon
California Syrup of Figs to have the desired effect without disturbing the
natural functions and without debilitating, while its flavour is so pleasant
that all children’s objections to medicine vanish at the first taste.
h
When purchasing ask emphatically for
California Syrup of Figs and see that you get
the genuine, which bears this circular trade
mark in blue at the top of the package.
Of Chemists, in two sizes.
Nothing can surpass
Horrockses’
SHEETINGS for
durability
GRAND PRIZE
FRANCO - BRITISH
EXHIBITION,
1908.
G. & G. 604
When buying see HORROCKSES’
name on Face-plait and decline
substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and
Storekeepers.
THE FOLLY OF DRUG
TAKING.
Do not take tonics for nervous breakdown. They will
spur your already-exhausted nervous system to further
effort,—but as they give no compensation for the further
consumption of nerve force, you must suffer a reaction
which will leave you in a worse condition than before.
There is only one way in which nervous breakdown can
be repaired, and that is by feeding the brain and nerve
centres with Lecithin in an active, organic form. Anti-
neurasthin does this, and actually builds up the nervous
system by administering to it its natural food.
If you suffer from brain fag, inability of concentration
of thought, want of application, dyspepsia, indigestion,
neuralgia, headaches, languor and irritability, send to
the wholesale distributor for Australia and New Zealand,
H. A. Goddard, Eagle Street, Brisbane, Q., enclosing
9d. in stamps, and a sample of Antineurasthin, with
panmhlet dealing with nervous troubles, will be for-
warded to you by return of post. [1
Weak Men!
V
pT/i
If you want
to be strong
and vigour-
ous, with
your veins
full of you-
thful fire,
your eyes
clear, your
muscles
strong and
active, then
send to-day
for our free
illustrated book, which fully
describes DR* cLAUGHL N S
ELECTRIC BELT
and our method of curing
ailments such as Weakness,
Backache, Nervousness, etc.
Send to-day for this Book, it
is full of things that make a
man feel like being a man.
The McLaughlin Co.,
12 LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY
ĥ
Zaw Points
is** Inventors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest way to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to
write to me describing 1 your invention, enclosing a small
sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult, me personally or by letter. In all cases
a Careful consideration of their plans, an hones opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings. Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Elite
Eau de Cologne
r.
M
n
Ji!» —cfcJ—rg
FIDELITAS
iflUis
. ' A.lit' • V :
SSS ,SSf. ; ' ..
«;i
tk
Ssr;
mJ\
'
1
<9*22^*
Triumph of
Modern Science
“The Waybacks Aga:n.”
Another
stack of
joy and laughter about the tamous family. Is.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name ami
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submittedwhether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
W.C.H.: It is no use sending stamps for return
a week or two after the MS. has been shot in—and out.
.. ..W.W.D.: We thought the whole world knew the yarn
about Paris—the shepherd boy who had to choose be-
tween three goddesses Hermit: Promising stuff.
Sorry most of it won’t keep long enough for print —In-
quirer (W.A.): In a case like that, local paper clipping
should always be sent to verify the yarn Kendrick D.:
“Lucy O’Dea” is much too long a Lucy for these
columns... .Norseman : All true, no doubt; but were
too much concerned about our own Houses of Landlords
to get very excited about Britain’s Beerage... .Court:
The man who first of all looks up some greasy paper and
then packs it with typed letters so tight that even a
fantod couldn’t wriggle between the lines discounts his
chances about 47 per cent.... Brooksby : Thanks....
J.F.K.: Deakin was born at Fitzroy (Melb.), August 3,
1856; didn’t take a degree Culux :If pars are accepted
they are printed. This column isn’t long enough to
allow them to be otherwise mentioned. If you weren’t
so infernally lazy yourself you'd have read that remark
before ; it has been made to 7659 other contributors....
R.J.E. : Previous publication knocks out “Unlucky
Jim." K.K.: Does Mr. write for The
Bulletin. Of course he does. All Australia does....
Dargo : Well written, but central idea not madly robust.
P.N.: Your humorous preacher isn’t so very funny
when you start to give extracts. It would have been
better just to say he was humorous without trying to
prove it. He reads rather like Scream O’Malley....
W.T.B. : E. J. Forbes, G. &C. Merriani Co., Spring-street,
Sydney.. ..T. Payne : Dunno when the Bible was written.
....M.S. : “No Mrs. Smerdon ever kept the ancient
Swanston-street Cafb.” Very we 11... N. T. B. Had:
Dunno what the prtsent swindle is; but the man has
been for years notorious as a Parisian take-down.. .
Bellerive: Always glad to get something cheerful for
Christmas:
THE BURGLAR.
Disturbed by a strange sound
The goldsmith arose,
Armed with a pistol crept down
The stairs on his toes,
And beheld a desperate
Thief of the night,
A-moving about with a
Pale lantern light;
He fired at the intruder
And missed his mark.
He climbed thro’ a window
And slid down in the dark ;
He was caught by two policemen,
Who brought him back,
To the goldsmith who gasped—
“My own son Jack” ;
“ We must take him,” they replied,
“ He’s a danger.ous thief.”
Alas, the old man broke down
And did piteously weep.
..B.K. ; This line shattered the poem’s chances:
“ And some there are who swell with sighs and some who
burst with song.”
It suggests a greedy cow that broke into the lucerne
paddock... Clarence: The dirge is hot and dusty with
several metrical boulders in its course.. Mattimore: A
tract, and a dull one at that Night Watch :It points
a good moral, but doesit roughly Doc T.: Our candid
opinion is that iv is very crude stuff. “ Assail you and
“avail you ” are poor .r 1 1 vines lor “Australia.” Poet’s
license cancelled EIW.C.: Average unskilful begin-
tier’s vvoik. Rvfu-e to prophesy as to your future or to
state definitely that you are “a poet at heart.” Please
don’t throw yourself on our chest so violently—it
knocks the breath but of us... Tadpole: A dry rhyme...
J.S.R. (North Coast): Skim-milk poem G.D.M.:
Truth cannot atone for inferior versecraft Snooker:
“The Greybeard’s Reverie” to hand. What were the
wongas hooting'at? The spectacle of an aged man writing
inferior verse has been known to make an educated
parrot swear, but we didn’t know the Australian pigeon
was so clever....L. M—D. (S.A.): Regret unsuit-
able! T.8.P.: Spirited but pointless A.F.
(V): “Bowls” fails gracefully. Go on P.J.M.:
Unsuitable Midge: Dingo poem poisoned
Mirielle : It isn’t a story—it is a dismal wail. Also, we
don’t know why you christened it “When the Gods
Slept.” It would have been just as reasonable to have
called it “The Estate Agent’s Beer,” or “Rain on the
Roof,” or “ Smoking Prohibited.”... Nomlas : Declined.
No stamps enclosed for return The Scapegoat: No.
Michael T.: “Stripping” dull Gem B.: Too
slight G.A. (N.S.W.): Sincere rough verse on a very
old theme....H.D. (M.L.): Not bad, but we can’t
enthuse over it T.H.M. : Cannot use it Sheoak :
Graceful, but not up to print Oscar S. :If you will
send a stamp, w'e will make you a present of “ The
Past.” 5.J.8.: Both unsuitable... .A.M.G. : Deepest
sympathy. Verse terrible.. ..Arthur L.: Poem smelt of
rum. Burnt Tracker: Verses bushed in the basket.
Pioneer: Regret unable to print it H.B.L. : Re-
jected with much bitterness.. ..0.A.G.: It didn’t grip
us Bill M. : Afraid not, Bill Roy R.: Your pen is a
trifle green.. Pierre: Unskilful work. You are too
slow on your feet for a surf poet; there is no thunder or
spray in your verse —it merely suggests a sea of treacle.
Go inland to a churchyard and try an elegy Mabel B.:
You need a lot more practice Mararoa (M.L.): Botn
unsuitable.. ..F.P.: “ 1 Met My Love at Morning Time ”
is altogether too cheerful. Two extracts:
I Saw my love a-standing there
Smiling her love to me.
Behind her stood Death’s spectre grim
Grinning gleefully.
The fear within my heart arose.
Into the night 1 fled,
There within my garden fair
I found my love but dead
A-lying there, her life-blood flown
For ever gone, leaving me alone.
It needs another verse to complete it. Something bright
and sparkling might be written about “ the Coroner
a-sitting there upon my love so pale.” A poem shouldn’t
leave the body lying abodt untidily and unaccounted for.
M.A.S. (Q.): To appreciate the opium reverie, it
would” be necessary to smoke about three pipes. We
haven’t the time to spare Cynicus: Unable to print
the poem. Nevertheless, cheer up, and put your name
and address on your copy. If you can’t cheer up, adopt
a defiant attitude towards Pain, and tell Sorrow to go
and get its hair cut; it is ever so much better than being-
limp and hopeless.. ..J.C.P. (M.L.): Poor stuff. Please
invent a new pen-name; another writer has a mortgage
on the one you attached to your MS F.E. (Sydney):
Verses not up C-W. (V.): Rather tame and clumsy.
Pariah: Fresh rough work 8010 : Whether the
Cotter River is or is not a mere chain of waterholes, :.s the
Sydney Telegraph alleges, the fact remains that C. It.
Scrivener, the N.S.W. engineer who was appointed to
report re Canberra, said that it “ cannot be regarded as a
satisfactory source from w hich to obtain a water supply.”
His plain and simple point is that if the supply is taken
from the low-er Cotter the water will have to be pumped
up to the Federal capital at enormous expense, and if it
is taken higher up, where a supply could reach the Federal
capital by gravitation, there is practically no waiter
Timothy : Gladstone brought in a Home Rule Bill in 1893
which passed its third reading in the Commons. It was
rejected in the Lords by a large majority Dux : That
Maori gag, “ Who told you about me?” was forwarded to
the old-age pensions office soon after the second voyage
of Captain Cook.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
A.R., P.L.H., Sauerbeer: Unsuitable Resigned:
Those that are not too old are too poor Tintaes : A bit
too labored... . Jack Warrigal: Same, only worse G.
Rob: Too obscure F.S.S.: No encouragement to offer.


Amott’s Milß Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE- CHILDREN’S FOOD.”
f
A
OLD
ORKNEY
WHISKY
OBW Tg**v
A
7
AGENTS:
Sydney—Tooheys Ltd.
Melbourne—T. It. Jones & Co.
Brisbane—Elliott, Donaldson &
Douglas, Ltd.
Adelaide—Lord & Heseltine.
Launceston—John McKenzie &
Co.
Hobart-r John Ferguson & Co.
" The Whisky of
Age & Flavour/ 9
M ade in the
old-time way.
And We hold a
10 Years 9 Supply
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St , W.C., London.
Proprietors of STROMNESS ‘DISTILLERY.
ORKNEY, SCOTLAND.
/
Cooling—Satisfying
\
Montserrat’
Lime Juice
A healthy drink for hot days and all days.
Good for the youngsters.
It communicates its own delightful purity and coolness to
the blood, and it quenches thirst better than stimulants.
Its delicious flavour appeals to everyone.
Made in two kinds—
r.e., Plain Lime Juice. Sweetened, i.e„ Lime Juice Cordial.
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS.
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
Contents—
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Post Free, 1/2.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Prank
Goteh, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, ]/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 124 S
pages, 400 colored plates
and engraving's, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
4
3
m
L
Marvellously Simplk 1
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Bails,
Produced from no-
where, appearing- at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6. ’
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
It is real economy to throw away a safety razor
that continually requires new blades. For if you
stick to it, in a short time the blades will cost
you double or quadruple what the razor cost.
Dull, hard, painful shaving makes you
buy new blades. The man who sells you
a “ throw-away-blade ” razor knows it.
Your discomfort is the essence of his
profit. Free yourself. Get the razor that
does not grow duller every time you use it
—the razor that automatically gives you a
perfect edge for every shave.
kX F z ET oR
STROPS ITSELF
This is the Razor used by His Excellency the Governor-General of Australia
25/-, and no further expense.
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., LTD., The Rialto
Collins Street, MELBOURNE; 222, Clarence Street, SYDNEY!
ZERCHO’S
CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE.
m
if&JZ
rr
Sips
11
c c
BE
a 1
555
=1 . '
I. sak«nimi™iS|nJ<j «•'• -■*■ *Mi
! V*V»:
wf
»i."
-Jmc
159 Collins St., Melbourne.
28 Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Currie Chambers, Adelaide.
Utilise your spare time by studying at borne some
of the following subjects :
Send for Descriptive Pamphlet “S” and state subject
in which you are interested.
Shorthand
Typewriting
Bookkeeping
Accountancy
English
Penmanship
Arithmetic
Correspondence
Latin
French
Greek
Algebra
Geometry
Trigonometry
Elementary Science
History
Geography
Surveying
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Draftsmanship
Freehand Drawing
Pen and Ink Drawing
Illustrating and Designing.
Let us coach you for a University, Local Government
(Shire Clerks or Auditors), Public Service, Sanitary
Inspectors’, or any other examination.
For your BOOTS and SHOES.
MELTONIAN
CREAM.
Cannot be equalled for
renovating all kinds of
Glace Kid Boots and Shoes.
(Obtainable in White and Black).
LUTETIAN”
CREAM.
For all kinds of Brown
Leather Boots and Shoes.
Has a world - wide reputation.
Made in light and dark colours.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Made by the Manufacturers of the Celebrated [1
“MELTONIAN ” BOOT POLISHES.
L BROWN 8 SON ( B 'a^^ n and c ßoot s Po.ish ) LT p LONDON and PARIS.


Amusements.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
" ■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Lid.
EVERY EVENING AT 7.45.
AN ABSOLUTE SENSATION,
BIGGER THAN THE BIGGEST PANTOMIME.
The Wonderful Drury Lane Drama, by Cecil Raleigh
and Henry Hamilton,
THE WHIP.
Interpreted by A COMPLETE LONDON COMPANY
Specially Selected by Mr. J. C. Williamson.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
“THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
* Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
OUR MISS GIBBS.
RESPLENDENT REVELRY, SENSATIONAL GOWN-
ING, GAY MUSIC and LOTS OF FUN.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Direction .. HUGH J. WARD.
Commencing XMAS EVE, SATURDAY, DEC. 24,
HUGH J. WARD’S COMPANY OF
COMEDIANS,
including MISS GRACE PALOTTA,
in a Laughing Paralysis in Four Fits,
THE GIRL FROM RECTOR'S
Plan at Elvy's. Prices—s/-, 3/-, 2/-, !/•
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
SATURDAY NIGHT, DECEMBER 24,
GRAND CHRISTMAS ATTRACTION.
Return of the CLARKE and MEYNELL COMIC OPERA
CO. in
THE ARCADIANS.
FIRST APPEARANCE IN SYDNEY of the New Prima
Donna, WINIFRED O’CONNOR, and Last Appearances
jn Australia of WILLIAM CROMWELL.
Box Plan now open at ELVY’S.
STANDARD THEATRE, SYDNEY.
BOXING NIGHT and FOLLOWING FORTNIGHT.
ALFRED HILL’S Bright, lUelodious, Extremely Comic
Opera, in two acts, entitled,
A MOORISH MAID.
The cast includes MADAME SLAPOFFSKI,
MISSES WOLINSKI, GUEST, BOULAIS, ROSS-BROWN,
and
MESSRS. TOM CANNAM, APPLEBY, PRICE, BROOKS.
Plan at Paling’s Now Open.
Prices of Admission —3/- Reserved, 2/-, 1/-
THE GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
Opposite Railway Station—Where all Id. trams stop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER!
WEST’S PICT U RES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. : T. J. West.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA. ' *
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
THE: LYCEUM ..
L EVERY EVENING AT S
M ATI MECS -V/EDtIESDAYS. SATURDAYS AMD HOLIDAYS AT 230.
i C PENCERSIftATREJCOPE <?.
J PICTURES
; « rffiE superior ro all others. «*
1 Popular Prices —i- Piah at Palings.
-|- H E (NEW) MAORI VILLAGE,
CLONTARF.
HAG GIE PAPAKUKA
and
I W A.
60 MAORI MEN AND MAIDS. 50
WAR SONGS, LOVE SONGS, HAKAS,
POI DANCES. BATTLE' CUSTOMS.
/(.(MISSION ONE SHILLING; CHILDREN SIXPENCE.
Steamers Fort Macquarie 2.15 and 7.45.
Ferry Service at Frequent Intervals from The Spit. . i
Tram to Adams’ Boatshed.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor * Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards i
! !MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
WALTER C. KELLY, THE VIRGINIAN JUDGE,
i America’s Greatest Monologue Entertainer.
Continued Success of MR. FRANK HARWOOD,
England’s Popular Descriptive Vocalist. :
MR. and MRS. H. A. MEYMOTT.
GODFREY JAMES, FRED BLUETT, WOODS and
FRASER. THE HARMONIOUS II TJX HA MS,
Ahd a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites:
FjUCpS —3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Pali list's.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
HOWARD and FOY in Comedy and Magic.
THE DANCING GILBERTS.
THE BLESSINGS, Strongest Lady Athlete and her
Partner.
ZBEXANDER PRINCE, King of Concertina Players.
! THE QUEALYS, Musical Sketch Artists.
BABY COPPARD, Clever Child Artist.
Plan at Allan s. . ,fgT PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
MAX MAXWELL’S DRAMATIC COMPANY
in BLAND HOLT PLAYS.
H.M. THEATRE, BRISBANE, Xmas Season.
First Production,WOMAN..AND WINE.”
Amusements.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager : William Anderson.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 24.
WILUAM ANDERSON'S NEW DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION
in a Great Spectacular Military Drama,
THE LADDER OE LIFE.
Re appearance of MISS EUGENIE DUGGAN.
Box Plan at Allan's. PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
-pHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
GREAT CHRISTMAS ATTRACTION.
FIRST APPEARANCE IN AUSTRALIA OF
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S ENTIRELY NEW
COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE GAY GORDONS.
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction of GEORGE HARLOW, Ltd.
Commencing- SATURDAY, DECEMBER 24,
GEORGE MARLOW’S DRAMATIC CO.
in Frederick Melville’s Great Bedroom Drama,
THE BAD GIRL of THE FAMILY.
Plan at Allan’s. Popular Prices—3/-, 2/-, 1/-
Early Doors, 6d. extra. Reserved Seats, 4/-
I |ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
" * Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON Presents Hewson’s Funny
Pantomime,
JACK AND THE BEANSTALK
For which a COMPANY OF COMEDIANS, SINGERS,
DANCERS and PANTOMIMISTS has been organised
such as has NEVER BEEN APPROACHED ON THE
AUSTRALIAN STAGE.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —5/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/-
tA/ E ST’S PAL AC E, M EL BOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THE BEST
OF ALL. LIMITED. ' OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
HE ATHEN/EUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.&N.TAIT'S
PICTURES
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANCE WEEKLY. Prices-2/-, 1/6,j
1/-, 6d. Matinees—Wednesday, Saturday, AH Holidays.
J. & N. TAIT’S
QPEN -AIR THEATRE, ST. KILDA.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
TH E F 0 L LIES
NEW COSTUME COMEDY CO.
' PRICES' —1/6,: l/-,~ 6d.
w
IRTHS OLYMPIA.
EVERY evening at B-
M ATI NEES-WEDNESDAYS. SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2 v3O.
CPENCER’S'IHEATREJCQPE <£>.
J PICTURES
fffi£ SUPERIOR TO /ILL OTHERS.™
Popular Prices —Plan as Usual.i»
Waterman's
(Ideal)
FouiitainPen
&
The
Pen
that
Does
the Work.
There is only one Fountain Pen which
gives universal satisfaction —Waterman's
Ideal. It is the simplest and most efficient
Fountain Pen made. Waterman's Ideal
starts to write immediately the nib touches
the surface of the’ paper. It is clean in use,
does not blot, will not leak. Nibs supplied
to suit any hand.
and upwards. From Stationers,
Jewellers, &c., throughout the World.
L. & C. HARDTMUTH, LTD„
Koh-i-noor House,
London, England.
Ask to see Waterman’s Ideal Safety Pens
and Pump-filling Pens.
ħ
Demonstrator Agents Wanted
Immense field open for Detroit Oil Engines. New invention permits operating on ordinary
lamp oil. Operates equally well on Petrol, Paraffin. Alcohol, Benzine, ' istillate. Naptha
or Coal Oil. No heating device required. Stationary Engines for farms, shops, and all
power purposes. Electric lighting outfits. Pumps and pumping outfits. Sawing out-
fits. Marine Engines for boats and Marine Reverse -ears Sizes 2-h.p. to ioo-h.p. One
to eight cylinders. Engines fully warranted and built to work. Liberal commissions
paid. Special wholesale price on first outfit in a community. Handsomely finished
demonstrator at no extra cost. Complete Illustrated Catalog mailed FREE.
Write for our proposition to agents and users o power. Bank references given.
Detroit Engine Works, 15 Meldrum Avenue, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
h
“VITA” BOTTLES
keep liquids Icy cold or Boiling hot for over 24 hours. They come in
beautifully finished and fitted enamel metal and real leather cases with
Aluminium Tops and Drinking: Cups. Either would make an ideal
Christmas Gift. Retail and Wholesale from the Sole Agents.
Scheele & Gibbs, Ltd.,
Hunter Street, Sydney.
Tel., City 864.
-7
AGIO
J*
m
YSTERY
m
AN
r>
iifl
IRT/i
f
%
TiSmK
m
TRICK CRICKET BAT. The peg is placed
in one hole, you breathe on the bat ;
the peg is then found in the next hole,
and jumps from one to the other. A
pretty trick. 7d. Post Free.
**
fl 6. I
THE “YOOI”
WONDER CARD
TRICK. Display
- four cards, ask
your friends to note one mentally. Put
pne in your pocket, and every time that
proves to be the one they noted. Very
entertaining'. 9d. Post Free'.
Heaps of jolly fun and laughter, puzzling
and mystery for the Christmas Gatherings,
are to be had from the Wonderful Tricks,
Surprises and Novelties we supply. Here
are a few from our Price List, all Postage
Free. Come in and see our splendid selec-
tion of China, Glass, Toys and other pretty
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS.
ĥ
THE WIZARD FORTUNE-
TELLING CARDS, endless
interest, lends a new
charm in predicting
fortune. Simple to use.
1/0 Post Free.
Free complete instruc-
tions with every Novelty
and Trick. Write for
Free Catalogue of Makers
of Mirth and Mystery;
WONDROUS DISAPPEARING HAND-
KERCHIEF TRICK. This handker-
chief makes anything disappear.
Very effective. 1/3 Post Free.
ħ
“PICKITOUT.”
The New Three-
Card Trick. The
performer c a rtf
always “spot” the
ace ; yet the
Card if pointer}
out by one of the
audience is
always the wrong
one.
7d. Post Free.
H.LHUTCHINSON L T - D HO GEORGES!HAYMARKEf.
“' ALSO AT HI KINGST«2S-27QXF0RD.STi
HAVE REGARD TO YOUR
BEST INTERESTS BY APPOINTING
The Permanent Trustee Company
of New South Wales Ltd.
Executors, Trustees, Administrators, Agents, etc.
AMPLE SECURITY ASSURED. TRUST ACCOUNTS ALWAYS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
\, RESERVES EXCEED THE PAID-UP CAPITAL.
ESTATES AND PROPERTIES EFFICIENTLY MANAGED.
EVERY DESCRIPTION OF TRUSTEE WORK UNDERTAKEN. FULL DETAILS ON APPLICATION.
17 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. A. PERCEVAL BEDFORD, Manager. [1
h
Get a Pair of “PLUM” RAZORS !
They have keen, ringing Silver-steel Blades that shave
the strongest stubble without a single drag. Being prac-
tical hairdressers, we know how to put the right edge on
them. We use "PLUMS” in our own saloons, and
guarantee to keep every one sold in order free of charge
Pair of Ivory-
handled “ Plums,”
in case,
30J-
Post Free. Single
“ Plum,” Black
Handle, in case,
10/6.
PLUM Razor, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
All the above Post Free.
We Grind and Set Razors, 1/- each
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
h
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant,
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and Victoria. Thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
* Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES. IV., V., vi.
Packet of Twelve
Packet or Test
0.0.


Early Spring'
Suitings.
WE have made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest productions in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to us,
and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer’s).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
m
<■•: ::.•:• J
\HFMW YttOVHG att AWVJ^lwt^^V\,a^ ? Vamv\'\e v
Mother sho\M he vhthout vt \ sexxt v ow revest..
U 3
V
J
M &£
A progressive dietary adapted to the growing digestive powers.
Milk Food No. 1
From birth to 3 months.
Milk Food No. 2
From 3 to 7 months.
Malted Food No. 3
From 7 months upwards.
15-17 Market Street, Sydney
What You Get
Not What You Pay—
COUNTS.
Brand
Footwear
™
THE
EAGLE
l/fly RJMJ
Built hv men who know the
essentials of GOOD WORK.
The PERFECT PRODUCT of
practical experience.
Made from Australian Materials by Australians for Australians.
They meet the demand for STRICTLY RELIABLE and UP-TO-DATE FOOTWEAR.
They Will Satisfy YOU!
Obtainable from Leading MERCHANTS everywhere.
Sofe Manufacturers and Proprietors —
The Davey Halliday Company, Limited
Wholesale Only.
BRISBANE.
STEVENS
Favorite rifle no. 17
ĥ
“THE BULL’S-EYE KIND.”
P/oneer Small Bore Arm of Efficiency. For .22 Long Rifle, .22-7-45 Winchester
R. F., .25 Stevens and .32 Long rim-fire cartridges.
ill Progressive
dealers handle
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to S e»d for |ategt Fire .
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent- arm, Telescope and
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co., Stevens-Pope Cata-
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia. lo9ues -
FURSKINS ARE BRINGING BIG PRICES!
TO GET THE BEST RESULTS SELL YOUR LOT THROUGH
New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY
Experts Carefully Supervise the Handling of Each Consignment.
ri
POLICY Foil the COMMON WEALTH
Price, fid. The Bulletin Office.
. ‘ ■' ■■ : S' .. •: S’S'- ■
nnHE Australian Magazine. THE LON]
I HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6c
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
'
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue,
'fells how to open and operate R’oller Rinks"
Richardson Bail-Bearing Skate Co., 31i Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
RICHARDSON
ħ
CHICAGO
h
GIVEN AWAY
For Correct Answers.
To each and every person sending in the Corre ct Solution of the following Puzzle we hereby undertake
and agree to send them the sum of
FIVE POUNDS
subject to the conditions hereunder :
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our PICTURE POST CARDS, we have devised this simple
Method of advertising, with the object of making our name more widely known, and to introduce our
1911 Series. We expect by this competition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that
you will be compelled to talk about us to your friends, aad the extraordinary value of our FINE ART
PICTURE POST CARDS.
ALL WE ASK YOU TO OO IS THIS!
Fill in the missing letters in the following Puzzle :
O*R P**T C*R*S A*E T*E B**T V*L.E IN A*S*R # L # A.
Your answer must be posted and addressed to the Manager of the Fine Art Post Oard Go., Hunter-
street, Sydney and received by him, and must agree with our solution, lodged in the BankofN.S.W.
PRIZES WILL BE SENT PROMPTLY.
With your solution to the above Puzzle (to which there is no entry fee), send us a Postal Note for 2/6,
for which we will send you Free a sample paoket of thirty (30) Selected and Assorted Post Cards, and if
your solution is correct, we will also send yon within a fortnight your prize of £5, and will ask you to
accept this reward for your services for showing our Post Cards, and reeommending them to your friends
WE GUARANTEE this Cempetition to be a straightforward Competition of brains and work. A copy
of the right solution we have lodged with our Bankers (Bank N.S.W.).
Duenotice of the closing of this Competition will appear in this paper, but if before the date of the
closing of the Competition more than 100 correct answers have been received, One Hundred Cash Prizes
of £5 each will be awarded to those sending correct answers in the orderin which their answers shall
have been read 1 by the Manager of the FINE ART POST CARD CO.
Should your solution reach us before the closing date, and be correct according to our conditions, and
not be within the first 100, we will send you FREE A SOLID SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN (Lady's or
Gentleman’s). No person will be entitled to more than one prize.
N.B. Your solution is to be accompanied by attached Coupon which forms part of this competition,
and addressed to THE MANAGER OF
FINE ART POST CARD CO.,
hdn s t y e b Vb t v reet ’
My Solution to your Puzzle is as follows: -
And I AGREE TO ABIDE BY THE DECISION OF THE MANAGER OF THE FINE ART POST
CARD CO., which I accept as final and legally binding.
Signed
Address
Date •••••
S7?e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET OF TEN sd.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIQE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston's Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tiucks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, lls. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is Gd.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
ĥ
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
jpp- BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
•BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
•Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
■ Win at Cards, Is ' 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
•-post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
’ That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
•Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
'Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
•posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
:Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
"and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
:for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
•to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
(.Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ HandybooK, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d.. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying- more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. ipr - Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE QOT FROn THIS ADVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s' 6d. Clog Dancing Made. Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring.
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. \est Pocket ]
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 2S. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievassf.’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of 'Philosophy, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


TRODT TACKLE!
We are the LARGEST and LEADING Wholesale
ħ
and Retail Distributors of Fishing
Tackle in Australia—
other House. Give us a Trial and be Convinced.
We have Just Opened up a Magnificent Range of New Season’s Trout Tackle. We can supply you Cheaper and Better than any
No. 2.—SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, lift, and 12ft., 3 joints, 2 tops,
cork grip, best fittings,lock joints, etc., £4/4/-
THE M.S. SPLIT CANE FLY RODS, 10|ft. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, serrated ferrules, best fittings, £2.
No. 4.—SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, lOJft. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, best winch fittings and snake rings, bronze mountings, 25/-.
No. B.—SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, 12ft., 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
grip, snake rings, welted ferrules, solid fittings, 22/6.
No. 9.-SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, 10i_ft. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, bronzed fittings, finely finished rod, 30/-.
No. 10S. —SHORT-JOINTED SPLIT CANE FLY RODS, lOJft
5 joints, 2 tops, cork grip, 66lid reel plate, double-brazed welted
ferrules, 21/-.
No. 18.—GREENHEART TROUT RODS, 12ft,., 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
grip, lock joints, graduated winch fittings, 25/-.
THE M.S. GUINEA GREENHEART ROD, lOift. and lljft., 3 joints,
2 tops, oork grip, bronzed winch fittings, snake rings, stained olive
green ; splendid value, 21/- ; other rods from 7/6 to £7/10.
M.S. PERFECTION TROUT REELS, with tension screws and con-
tracted drum; the best Trout Reel on the market; Sin., 25/«;
M.S.^VENTILATED EBONITE BACK ROTARY CHECK REELS,
with wire drum iOr rapid winding; 2Jtn., 13/6; 2fin., 15/6; 3in.,
17/6 each ; other reels from 2/- each.
M.S. PERFECT COLLAPSIBLE TURNOVER TROUT NET, all of
t.he very best quality and highly finished, 17/6; other complete
Landing Nets front 3/6 each.
We are always pleased to receive Reports
from the various Trout Centres.
TROUT LINES.
We carry the finest assortment of Trout Lines to be found anywhere.
“KINGFISHER” PLAITED SILK LINES.
Highly Waterproofed.
30vds.. Single Tapered .. No. 1, 7/6 No. 2, 8/6 No. 3, 10/-each.
40yds., Single Tapered .. No. 1, 10/- No. 2, 10/6 No. 3, 12/-each.
30vd9., Double Tapered.. No. 2, 10/- No. 3, 11/6
40yds., Double Tapered.. No. 1, 11/6 No. 2, 12/6 No. 3, 13/6each.
42yds. Double Tapered.. No. 4, 22/6 No. 5, 25/- No. 6, 27/6 each.
.« PERFECT ” WATERPROOF PLAITED SILK LINES.
Splendid level lines, made exclusively for us.
No. 40 .. .. 26yds., 2/6 50yds., 5/-each.
No. 30 .. .. 25yds., 3/- 50yds., 6/- each.
M.S. WATERPROOF THREAD LINES.
Made from best Thread, and waterproofed by a new process.
No. 60 .. 50yds., 1/- No. 40 .. 60yds., 1/3 each.
No 1 PALLEY’S CAST BOOKS, with parchment pockets, 4/-each.
No 2-JAPANNED ROUND CAST BOXES, 1/6 each.
No' s!—ALUMINIUM ROUND CAST BOXES, very light, 2/- each.
No 3.—TAN CANVAS FLY BOOKS, sm„ 2/6 each.
No 6-BEST QUALITY PIGSKIN FLY BOOKS, with xylonite leaf
' fitted with 119 Spring Clips, 8/6 each.
Other Flv Books from 1/- to 17/6 each.
No. I.—BEST QUALITY JAPANNED EYED FLY BOXbS, fitted
with Steel Serinir Clips, mounted to xylonite.
Wlth blee siS, 4/6 ; 85 Clips, 5/6 ; 119 Clips, 7/- each.
No. 3. LOCH LEVEN EYED FLY BOX, fitted with Steel Spring
SPINNINO HEAD TROUT FLIES, 1/6 and 2/3 each.
ROUKE TROUT SPINNERS, 9d. each.
RINGED DEVONS, lin. and Ijin., 1/4 ; ljin. and l}in., 1/6 each.
BEST QUILL PHANTOMS, l}in., 2iin., 2|in., 2/- each.
FISHING BROGUES, made of Good Quality Leather, with Canvas
Uppers, all sizes, 22/6 pair. ...
Trout Casts, Creels, Spinners’ Gaffs, Bags and sundries in endless
For a comprehensive description and illustrations of all foods, see
our “Australasian Fishing Tackle Catalogue ’’—the finest book of its kind
ever published—a copy of which will be posted you immediately upon
request.
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
"THE House That Sells the Best Tackle,”
Head Depot—
Haymarket, Sydney, n.s.w.
*
%
f *uihg
<k
$
V* \
h
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
O / A
*•1 "
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Feather Shop
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention This Bulletin.] [6
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDS
Custard
Bird’s
Custard m 3ru\t
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
l Adults and the Youthful alike.
rpHE BEST STORIES written
I appear in The Lone Hand
Price sixpence.
in Australia
each month.
A REMARKABLE CIGAR OFFER!
10.000 SAMPLE BOXES to be DISTRIBUTED
THE CIGAR SMOKER’S OPPORTUNITY.
This is a bonafide offer in order to introduce our well-known brands of
cigars to every smoker throughout the Commonwealth.
To-day we invite you to accept from us a test box of 5 of our Famous
No. 2 PLANTER’S SAMPLE cigars at the merely nominal price of 1/-. As
a matter of fact the 1/- barely covers the cost of cedar-wood box, packing *
and postage. Each box contains 5 choice full weight cigars, 4i ins. long,'
splendidly matured, and equal in value to cigars of three times the cost.
You must not judge the cigars by the price, but send to-day for a Sample
Box and give them a thorough test. The delicious aroma and exquisite
Havana-flavour will appeal to you.
1
V/7
m
Five
\ EXQUISITE
HAVANA-
FLAVOUR
CIGARS,
1/-
Post Free.
Actual
Size.
The Famous No. 2 PLANTER’S
SAMPLES, Mild Havana-Flavour Cigars
are cigars of exceptional merit, satisfying the
most delicate palate. We are in a position to
make the extraordinary 1/- Test Offer, men-
tioned above, as we are the largest firm in
Great Britain supplying cigars direct to the
public, through the post, and our extensive
business has been built up on the merits
of our famous brands.
We know we are introducing high-class
Havana-flavour cigars at prices unheard
of in Australasia, hence our Sampling
Offer. We want you to be the
judges and by your decision we
stand or fall.
By dealing with uo you save all
middle-men’s profits, as we
have no expenses for elabor-
ate establishments, mer-
chant’s profits, commis-
sions, etc. Further we
guarantee every box
we send out.
imsbm
HUM*
;;.^v
IH^KI
Si
ĥ
THE 5
CIGARS
ALL FULL
WEIGHT AND
SIZE (4J in. long).
A FURTHER TEST
After you have smoked the cigars we send
out in our Sample Box, you are sure to want
more and these we can supply in boxes of 50, 10/6
or two boxes 20/-, Post Free. We send out every
box of cigars on our FIVE-FREE-SMOKE-
SYSTEM, which means that you can, smoke five of
the cigars,, and if they in any way fail to please you,
return the balance of the box within seven days and we
will refund your money in full. This is further evidence
of the confidence wc have in our famous No. 2 Planter’s
Samples Cigars.
Our Head Offices
are at Alexandra
Dock, Grimsby,
ENGLAND
The above is a reduced facsimile \
of the Special if Test Box. The 5
cigars are full weight and size (4\ in. long);
carefully packed in an elegant cedar-wood box.
FILL IN THIS “SAMPLING” COUP" 4 'ON NOW
BOND CIGAR Co., (B), TEMPLE COURT, MELBOURNE.
Deac Sirs, —I enclose herewith 1/- for your box of No. 2 Planter s Samples as per
offer above. Same to be sent me post free.
Name
Address.
Cheques should be crossed
Bank of Australasia., Melbourne.
Bond Cigar Co.
Temple Court,
MELBOURNE.
Model “T” Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-157 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Schute, Bell & Go.
limited.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices : 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
rnm.S AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
LA I T LAftOlA
Invaluable
forfheSKlN
in HOT
or COLD
climates.
Removes all
IRRITATION
andTAN.
l’s
Lait
V
Sole ——Makers
M.BEETHAM &SON,
CHELTENHAM,ENGLAND.
Gives a
Perfect
Complexion
Soft
as
Velvet.
LAIT LAROLA
ħ


Good Dinners
are enjoyed
I
B
£
m
7a
m
*
i
&
m
M
=S§&
ii
■
.
Wrn
.
V,
:■ ssa
When you take
D ? Sheldons
Digestive
S<S»
*&S?r
m
3&S3S
-fcr
<9
Tabules
WAVEfiLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
h
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
ffiss'rs v g5 L ?s E N, s B fu^o D R o N E iffil E 1,1
iSK°?S D,^T^S NTA,N PENS ' ™B L FLWgP
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
;DEALERS :
Wholesale Agent; ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Eane, Melbourne
HOLLOWAY’S
Pills Ointment
A TRIAL of HOLLOWAY'S PILLS has m-ant
Tlie Dawning ©y a Brig liter Day
to many a sufferer from liver, kidney and stomach
troubles* For over three-score years and ten they
have been supreme in all cases of biliousness,
headache, indigestion, depression and other com-
plaints which usually arise from constipation*
Females of all ages find them unsurpassed* You
should also use HOLLOWAY'S OINT-
MENT, which possesses remarkable healing
virtues in cases of skin affections and sores,
rheumatism, lumbago, sciatica, etc* See to
it that you always have a box and pot handy*
To be obtained from all Chemists, Stores,
etc.
Manufactured only at
113 SOUTHWARK ST. (late 73 Oxford St.), LONDON, S.E.
The Parliament of Women.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A PARLIAMENT of women,” said
Gladiola, laying down the newspaper.
. “ A House of Ladies. That is rather a
fine idea, and quite original. I wonder how it
would work ? ”
“Rot!”
“Really Nettie, I do wish ”
“ That I would not be so hopelessly unlady-
like,” I burst in. “Well, I allow that ‘rot is an
inelegant word. I retract it. But what an extra-
ordinary contradiction you are. Indifferent to
your vote, opposed to female legislators. Indig-
nant with our militant sisters in England. I
thought you were dead against everything of the
kind ! ”
Gladiola is as imperial and dazzling as her
namesake. Her glowing beauty attracts; her
dignified aloofness repels. Men’s admiration for
her is somewhat grudging. She holds advanced
views which differ from the advanced views of
others. The ways of the brawler in petticoats
are to her anathema.
“ If you mean that I object to women behaving
like underbred men, of course I am against it,”
answered Gladiola loftily. “It is revolting.”
■•That is what they usually aim at—revolting ! ”
** Don’t be tiresome, Nettie ; you know what I
mean. Women ought, under all circumstances,
to be womanly. Now, this is quite another thing.
A House of Ladies ! It gives us our proper posi-
tion at once. It means Influence without Inter-
ference. Occupation without Obtrusiveness. The
Right of Speech without speechifying about our
Rights. Oh, it is most original ! ”
“You said that before, and I answered ‘Rot.’
Because it isn’t original at all. It’s imitative.”
“Why, Nettie?”'
“ Why, certainly. If I could whisk you off to
Samoa ”
“Oh, my dear, please !”
My friends are rather sick of the Samoan sub-
ject. I fear I have worn it threadbare.
“Sorry, but I cannot help it this time. Samoa
is necessary as an illustration. The Parlia-
ment of Women has existed there from time
immemorial.”
“You expect me to believe that in a land of
savages”
“ They are not savages. Shall I never make
you people understand that their civilisation is
older than ours ? ”
“ At any rate, it is not a progressive civilisa-
tion, and yet you suggest that what seems to us
an extremely advanced idea is with them a rooted
custom. Nettie, that is a traveller’s tale ! ”
“Isit ? Ask Sautanga.”
“ Who or what is Sautanga ? ”
“ She is—well —an experiment. Oh, not mine,”
I added hastily. “As an experiment T disapprove
of her. Personally, she is a great favorite of
mine.”
“Nettie, you are very perplexing to-day.”
“It is quite simple. A white man, who pro-
poses to marry her, wants to whiten his dark
bride. He has sent her to Sydney for a couple
of years’ schooling, and she will go back to him
utterly spoilt, neither indifferent white nor good
brown. lam supposed to supervise the process
of deterioration, and this happens to be my day
for taking her out. If you can give us a ride in
your motor it will be a joy to her, and you can
hear about the female Parliament.”
Gladiola agreed. When we throbbed up to the
school and Sautanga emerged, I regretted my
suggestion. Sautanga, in her native undress,
would have looked a Lovely Impropriety. In the
fine feathers of modern civilisation she looked an
Unlovely Vulgarity. I saw her with Gladiola’s
eyes and shuddered.
Sautanga’s shudders were of delight. The
motor was to her a bewildering excitement, the
crowded way fascinating, the gleaming shop-front
bewitching. When we passed along Macquarie-
street I directed her curious gaze to our Legisla-
tive House.
“Tell the chieftainess about your fonos, Sau-
tanga.”
Interest suddenly scattered Gladiola’s pre-
j udices.
“Is it true that in your country the womQji
meet and make laws ? ” she asked.
The girl’s antelope eyes widened.
“But, of course,” she answered, in her hesi-
tating, liquid tones, “the women have not
their fono with the men. It would not be so
very nice, you know. And they talk—yes, that
is, if they are big, big chieftainesses they do not
talk, they have one—how you say—one talk-
womari. She speak their thought. It is mere
correct.”
“But it is marvellous,” murmured Gladiola;
‘ magnificent. Such a dignified attitude ! And
your women decide things for the people, and the
men are told?”
“We decide what we want about what does
matter to women. Yes. And the chiefs are told.
Yes. It is good.”
“Good!” echoed Gladiola, “it is positively
ideal. Your women must be very happy?” I
had never seen her so excited.
Sautanga watched the harbor ships and con-
sidered.
“ I suppose so. Of course, Samoa is lelei. But
we have not all your fine things.”
“Yes, yes, I know that. But you have not
our bad things. You have what you wish. What
does a Samoan woman most wish for? ”
Again the antelope eyes widened. “If she is
old cjiieftainess, she wish men to obey her. If
she is young, like me, she wish for big chief or
white man husband.”
“Oh ! ” Gladiola was greatly annoyed.
“But I suppose you make laws that are good
for women? For instance, divorce—do you know
what divorce means?”
“ Tatofa!” exclaimed Sautanga. “My father,
he have four wives. My mother, she have three
husbands—not at one time, you see. It was
.divorce.”
Gladiola was aghast. “Do you mean to say
that Samoan women, who have power to make
laws, think only of making love ?”
Contempt indescribable lurked in the chilling
tones.
“When you are old,” quoth the Samoan maid,
her eyes dilating softly, “laws are good—per-
haps. When you are young, love is much better.
My husband-who-will-be, he say white women
make love too.”
“But love is not everything,” protested the
white woman.
“ No?” The brown one’s face grew thoughtful.
H ‘No, indeed! We have to influence men. To
improve them.”
“We have to please them,” corrected the girl.
“We have to love and be loved. Laws are good,
but see—my mother ”
“Yes?”
“ Well, she have one sister, fa’s Samoa, very big
woman in the fono, her talkwoman speak very
tall for her, and one chief she love he not big
enough for her. She may not marry him. One
day he catch her and run away, carry her into
the bush.”
“ How disgraceful! What did she do; how did
she punish him ?”
“ She scream very loud, it is correct. But she
like him so much. So she keep him.”
Gladiola is seldom talkative. But I thought
her silence especially marked as we drove home.
ROSE DE BOHEME.
The Extry Rabbit.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
last train from Dandenong was just
gliding out of the station when they fell
into my carriage—five dirty boys, a ferret
and a sugar-bag of rabbits.
“ That was a close shave,” panted the last one
in. “Another sec., and I’d ’ad to ride on the
buffers of the van. Push ’em under the seat,
Bill.”
The ferret snuggled in her box. The bag of
bunnies was pushed out of sight, but at intervals
it was dragged proudly forth again and inspected.
The owner of the ferret plunged into reminis-
cence.
“ ’Member the day we cot 50 ? ”
“ No,” sneered his next neighbor, “ I don’t.”
“ Oh, you weren’t with us. We struck a lot of
burrows under a old empty house, and the ferret
was bailin’ ’em out, one after another, as fast as
we lowered him down.”
“ Was they alive ? ” asked the boy, who had a
habit of being sceptical about everything.
“ Alive be blowed ! Do yer think we strncl a
bloomin’ rabbit cemetery ? ”
“ It’d be the only eharnst you’d have of gettin’
that many.” snorted the sceptic. The ferret-owner
howled at him above the roar of the train, and a
red-headed boy tried to restore peace.
“ People don’t eat live rabbits, anyhow,” he
said soothingly. “ Dead ’uns is all right, so long
as they ain’t too dead.’’
“ But they wasn’t dead, you silly coot,” shrieked
the other. “ Why, the ferret wouldn’t look at
’em, y How could there be all them de d
ones, anyhow ? ”
“ Pizon. ”
“ Ah, well, there! You’re out of it, for we eat
’em.”
“ Eat fifty dead rabbits ! ”
“No ! Fifty live rabbits ! ”
The company roared, and the ferret-owner refus-
ing to com promise hisdignhy by exp!, nation, sulked
for a season. The red-headed boy rose again and
counted the rabbits noisily, walloping them out of
the bag on to the floor.
“One, two, three, four, five, six,” he chanted;
“ one each and one over.”
“That extry one’s for me ,” said the sceptic,
with sudden conviction. The ferret boy burst
into fierce opposition,
“Well, it’s my turn, ain’t it?” queried the
sceptic, argumentatively. “Didn’t you have the
extry one last time?”
“ There wasn’t no extry one last time. There
wasn’t enough to go round, and ”
“And I had to go without,” said a fat boy,
awakening from slumber. “So it’s up to me to
get the extry one.”
“ You! You never do nothing,” bawled the
ferret boy; “ and you don’t deserve nothin’.
Why, you never cot a rabbit in your life.”
“ Neither have you.”
“ It’s up to me to get it, I tell yer,” continued
the sceptic. “ I carried the bag and done nearly
all the work.”
“ Done nearly ail the blanky talk, you mean,
same as you’re doing now.”
“I’ll hit yer in the jaw.”
“ You’ll get your head broke if you do.”
“ I ain’t goin’ to hit yer with me head.”
The train rushed on through the drizzly night,
and its monotonous roar strove in vain to drown
the shrill clamor of five angry boys. The ferret
boy raised his voice to a tremendous bellow, and,
shielding his open mouth with his hands, thun-
dered above the tumult: —
“None of yer cot no rabbits. The ferret cot
’em. Where’d any of yer be without the ferret?
And whose is the bloomin’ ferret, anyhow ? ”
“I suppose you want 'em all , then,” shrieked
the sceptic.
“Well, they all belong to me, by rights.”
The sceptic arose and smote him.
In the argument that followed, the whole party
took active part, and the only looker-on, having
some idea of restoring peace, picked up the rabbic
of contention, and, unseen, flung it out of the
window. The combat ceased with the stopping
of the train and the unwelcome sight of a
“ copper” passing the door. The fat boy began
to gather up the spilled rabbits and restore them
to their bag. At this juncture, it suddenly
occurred to the peace-maker that any sort of an
old seat would be preferable to the one he had,
and he left the compartment hastily and sat next
door with his ear glued to the partition.
The storm burst as the train cleared the plat-
form, but wore itself out before the next station
was reached, and the rabbiters discussed their loss
more rationally.
“ The ferret must ’ave got out and eat it,” ob-
served the fat boy, who didn’t know too much
about ferrets. The others treated the remark
with contemptuous silence.
“ I don’t believe there was an extry one,” said
the sceptic at last. “ Bill counted one twice.”
“ Remember the cove wot got out last station.
Perhaps”
At that moment the Devil prompted the red-
headed kid to rise and look over the partition.
He uttered a howl which brought every boy to
his feet, and the wall was immediately garnished
with a row of malignant eyes. The train slowed
down on a stretch ( of sedgy land where repairs
were being executed, and the desperate peace-
maker, seizing the opportunity, flung open the
door, admitting a drift of cold drizzle. There was
murder in the ferret-owner’s eyes.
Where s the rabbit ? ” he demanded, starting
to climb.
“ Down the line. I’ll go back and fetch it.”
The peacemaker swung out upon the footboard
and disappeared into the night.
MAUDE A. REID.


Zam-Buk is Cooling, Soothing & Healing
SUNBURN, tan and freckles, with the smarting and itching
they often set up, are particularly trying to the fair sex.
The hands, arms, neck and face are the parts chiefly
affected by these disfigurements. Under the armpits and round the
thighs soreness often arises from chafing and excessive perspiration,
while on the back and neck rashes and eruptions frequently appear
and call for gentle dressings with Zam-Buk.
The healing, antiseptic juices in Zam-Buk are so perfectly blended
that they are naturally absorbed by the skin, which immediately feels
a delightfully cooling and soothing sensation in pleasant contrast
with the itching irritability caused by the heat.
Zam-Buk purifies the skin-pores and ejects all bad matter, and
imparts a healthy softness, clearness and elasticity to the skin. Zam
also renders the skin germ-proof, and thus prevents the outbreak of serious
skin-disease such as eczema and blood-poison, which often result from a
scratched pimple or slight skin-sore. Zam-Buk is entirely free from the
rancid fats and mineral poisons that detract from ordinary ointments and
cheap salves. Zam-Buk, in short, is Nature’s own healer, and is always
ready for instant use and always reliable.
also
Buk
VJi
:\l
THE EVER-READY HEALING BALM & SKIN CURE
Mrs. A. Lamplough, of High Street, Chelmer Hill, Mt.
Morgan, Q., says “ One day during the holidays my boy,
who had been swimming, complained of a nasty pain on his
back and shoulders. On examining him I found that the
sun had burned him so badly that the skin was hanging m
water blisters, and the poor lad could not bear the weight
of his clothes on him. After pricking the blisters I
applied Zam-Buk all over his back, and in a week the
smarting and soreness had quite gone away. After washing-
days I always rub Zam-Buk over my hands, as I find it
makes them soft and supple and prevents chapping.”
Zam-Buk is not only
invaluable for the sum-
mer rashes and other
skin troubles of this
season, but is un-
equalled for Cuts,
Burns, Bruises, Scalds,
Piles, Bad Legs,
Eczema, Pimples, Boils,
and, in fact, all injuries
and diseases of the skin
and tissues. Is. 6d. and
3s. 6d. per pot, of all
chemists and stores, or
post free direct from
The Zam-Buk Co., 39
Pitt Street, Sydney.
Refuse All
Substitutes.
bm-Buk
THE,
QUESTION of the DAY.
The questions of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USfiD PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you. have not, you have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If. on tbe other band
—that is, on both bands, and on tbe
face, and on the skin generally -you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
happy, for you will have done tbe
best that possibly can be done tor
the skin’s health and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
for the Complexion.
Matchless
The Work Ahead.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
f trail gibbg jjlgdb to the beaten trabk; and
I the {jath td the irbn wn.fi
! I’he locos, Hurf-y them forth attd back ivllerb
dnce vVerit the slo'vi' did drat:
The s\teat rail salt thrddgh the blinding dlist—
■vtliete tllet tramped \tith the weary tearii:
Heat tide glidb-taltes swirig arid the pistons thrust
ih the hdstlirig df Stearii !
The barhpl-fires gWthbd, bre the tdads rdri straight;
tthere the bats gd blarridting now ;
Thd hngirles thtdb With theit mighty freight; the
gains df the lodtti arid plough.
Our Nation fronts to the toiling years—all doubts
are stark and dead ;
Hear Australia’s call to the Pioneers—the men
for the Work Ahead !
The Land cries out for the brave and strong, for
the men with the driving will ;
The years are filled with a fighting song—’tis a
psalm with a hqfty thrill !
Australia’s strength, and the lifting axe and the
effort of steel and steam —
So the Nation swings on the forward tracks and
drives to a goal supreme !
The master-souls of the foremost years, they are
born in this land anew ;
So To-day goes forth with the Pioneers —with the
White Men, brave and true !
They have heard the call of the Further Shore, of
the seas where the dawn glows red ;
Hear the land cry forth from its primal core :
“ All hands to the Work Ahead ! ”
The land breaks free from its careless ease, from
the creeds of a dim despair ;
Full-charged are we with its destinies and the
trust of a nation’s care !
The Forthright creed in Australia’s breast, new
faith of a toiling day ;
He prayeth best who worketh best —and strong is
that gospel’s sway !
Who prateth now of a Land grown sick ?—by the
swing of the blade and bar.
By the driving axe and the sinking pick shall they
know that our strength goes far !
The Land wins free from the mad old seers, and
the prophets cheap have fled ;
All the Land is filled with Australian cheers :
“ All hail to the Work Ahead ! ”
The craven days with their doubts and fears to
the days of toil give place,
And the Nation turns to the earnest years with
the strength of the Younger Race.
I hear the chant of the rolling-mill, and the psalm
of the flaming forge
Sounds loud and clear by the sundered hill and
the bridged and conquered gorge !
Dim, foolish days of a faithless faith—but a
stronger day succeeds ;
And the olden creed is a hopeless wraith that
moans through the broken reeds !
A stronger hope and a stronger will—yea, these
prevail instead ;
And the Land sings now with its heart a-thrill,
“God speed to the Work Ahead ! ”
The track gives place to the iron road, old faiths
to the gospels new ;
So the Nation lifted the white man’s load and it
strives with a purpose true !
Though sweat runs salt through the toiling years,
we know that the goal supreme
Still calls afar for the Pioneers—for the strength
and the steel and steam !
Our camps shall gleam ere the Roads run straight,
but ours is the forthright vow ;
And the cars shall swing with their heavy freight
where the wire leads lonely now !
The Nation steers by a nobler chart, for the pro-
phets vain are sped ;
And I hear this psalm from Australia’s heart,
“ All hands to the Work Ahead ! ”
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
Sheds, Cocky and Otherwise.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SHEARING on selections presents some
comical situations. Though the cocky may
not have enough stock to provide more than
a couple of days’ shearing for the family, he makes
more fuss about it than McCaughey would over
the operations of a 140-stand shed. If it is his
first shearing he can scarcely get around for ex-
citement. For three or four weeks he is making
preparations, speculating on the cut and the
weather, and fixing the date ; and every morning
the members of the family are reminded that
they’ll “have to bustle around a lot livelier when
shearing starts.’’ He talks largely of the wool-
shed, which may be merely a cart-shelter with a
barrowload of boughs for roof. Also, he informs
his neighbors and his friends in town of the com-
ing event.
The cocky shed is not showy, but it presents
many grotesque and humorous features. The
shearing is regarded in f;he light of a picnic. At
one place you will see a motley crew operating in
an ordinary sapling horse-yard, a tarpaulin spread
on the ground to shear on, a bit of hessian or
bagging stretched overhead for shelter, and shorn
sheep and woollies boxed together. There is
plenty of room for visitors to walk round and
watch Sarah taking the belly wool off for her
brother, or perhaps pinking a sheep as well as
her father. At another place the milking-yard
will be utilised, the calf-pen being used as a
catching pen, the cowbails for stands and bins,
and three or four planks for wool table. Most
cockies have small sheep-yards, built of logs and
brush, and an open shed. The flocks are some-
times large enough to warrant the employment of
regular shearers; but, as a rule, they are small,
'and when the selector calls the roll pretty near
the whole family, including mother and daughters,
must respond. Besides these, a couple of neigh-
bors may “lend a hand” (their services being
returned in kind), and perhaps a blackfellow or
two, if available, and their gins will be requi-
sitioned. , , ~,
A settler named Anderson, who had three easy-
going sons, had been in the habit of making a
week’s picnic of shearing 300 sheep and baling
the product. One day he rt’as an iriterested Visitor
it a big shed; and what he learnt there was at
OnCe exemplified when he commenced on his next
Clip; He laid down rfiles; which pettained mostly
td time, itiade the boys draw for pens, ahd ex-
plained that So. 1 ahd No. 3 Were mates; and
turned the grindstone fot eabh Other. An alarm
clock was installed and a talljr-board nailed up.
Then shfearifig Started, the Old man Cutting in as
though he had a Wager fill; the boys talking aboilt
the Ideal races between blows; They Were a long
Way behind When he let go, and When their fleeces
did fall; the gifl proceeded to carry them away so
leisurely that the stands were clogged With wool;
The old Chap shore another at express speed ; then
he drdpped the shears, Whipped up the fleece; and
bolted Up the board with it. “ That’s the way
they do it at Thompson’s;” he said, throwing it.
out on the table. Mother started to skirt it 5 but
he pushed her aside. “This is the way they do
it at Thompson’s,’’ he repeated, and hustled round
the fleece in three seconds. “ Get a hurry on y r
—all of y’r,” he said breathlessly. “ God bless me
soul, anybody would think y’ didn’t know it was
shearin’time ere 1” He trotted down the board again,
darted into the pen, and caught up a sheep in his
arms ; but, in hurrying out with it, he slipped and
fell heavily across the board, and the sheep got
away. “Dang it all!’’ he cried, rising slowly
and glaring at his delighted sons—" why didn t
y’r stop the thing, one of y’r? ” “Didn’t know,
said Jimmy Anderson; “thought that was the
way sheep ran at Thompson’s.”
Many cocky flocks are shorn, one after the
other, at squatter sheds immediately after the
station clip, thus providing the equivalent of a
good second shed for the shearers. Others have a
sort of co-operative Bhed in a central position,
where the several small flocks are shorn in rota-
tion. In such cases half a dozen good shearers
tnav be employed at the usual rates per hundred,
the owner of each flock and his sons acting as
rouseabouts in turn. Here each man cooks for
himself, or brings his lunch with him from his
home. .
From manv selections and small holdings where
agriculture is not carried on, the male members
go out at shearing time to make a cheque, and may
follow a run of sheds spread over two or three
hundred miles. The hand shears have been re-
placed by machines in so many of the big sheds
that these men are often expert machine shearers,
and yet novices when it comes to operating on a
little flock at home. Men follow machine sheds,
or hand sheds, though some take them as they
come. Very few new hand-shearers are turned
out now from any but cocky shdds. More money
is made with machines; there is less labor and
expense, and they are easier on the wrist of the
operator than the blades. These big sheds
present a fine spectacle when the whole
mechanism is in full swing. There is a lustre in
merino wool, as it falls from the sheep s
back, that gives the board a striking appearance
when the fleeces are falling quickly, and the bins
are filling. The little man, whose limited purse
compels him to buy cheap rains that have been
culled from station flocks, looks upon it with
envious eyes. His flocks have certainly improved
with the march of the merino, but nothing in com-
parison with those of his big brother, who has
bred up from the finest stock until his staple and
fleece win the plaudits of the world. Forty years
ago his clip averaged only 341 b. per fleece; now
the average is eight or nine pounds, worth,
roughly, £4O per hundred fleeces. Many flocks
run to 121 b. and 151 b., and in conjunction with
weight, there is a proportionate improvement in
quality. The increased weight means much heavier
work in shearing than was the case a few 7 years
ago. Quantity and quality of wool are what the
community in general wants to see, but the
shearer wants quantity of sheep, and hang the
quality.
A common hut is a long, narrow structure built
of galvanised iron. Bunks are ranged in tiers
along the sides, usually two tiers. There is
always a rush for bottom bunks. They are just
long enough for the average man to stretch in.
The men sleep feet to feet and head to head. Tfle
dining-table runs down the centre. It is made of
casing or sheet iron, tacked on to a rough frame,
the legs sunk in the ground, while the seats
are simply rough saplings, or narrow scant-
ling, laid' on rough forks or spiked on to
low posts. There is just enough room
for a man to walk between them and the bunks.
At night two or three evil-smelling slush-lamps
flicker and splutter and fizzle along the table, and
these, with the odor of drugs, liquor, soiled shed
clothes, stale boots and unaired blankets, have
not an improving effect on the meal. One doesn’t
need to be fastidious. The men seldom all sit
down together; some are sitting on the bunks,
with feet on the stools, puffing fragrant tobacco
smoke over the table while others are eating.
Some are shaving or dressing, others are shaking
out blankets and making beds. And there is the
everlasting smell of saddles and packs and
eucalyptus. , ~ ...
To a quiet man, or one fond of reading, that
hut is a den of horror.
There are men whose tongues are never still—
usually those who seldom say anything worth
hearing. There is the rattling of dice and the
shuffling and chatter of card-players —with the
never-ending “fifteen two, fifteen four. The
man who bangs his fist on the table with every
winning card he plays is particularly obnoxious.
Occasionally he gets his deserts in the form of a
flying boot. There are draught players, domino
enthusiasts, noughts-and-crosses cranks, and fox-
and-goose lunatics; there are loud discussions,
arguments—mostly about dogs and horses—yarns,
singing and whistling, and the blare of half a
dozen mouth organs, tin whistles and Jews harps,
also a cracked concertina. It’s hard to follow the
adventures of Reginald de Clancy through the
jungles of the Punjab under such disturbing con-
ditions; it is harder still to compose a soulful
epistle to your best girl.
At 10 o’clock a bucket of tea and another of
coffee are placed on the floor, and there is a rush
for pannikins and buns. You feel glad that there
will soon be peace ; but it is not unadulterated.
When the lights are out you learn the sleeping
characters of your shed mates. There are several
asthmatical nuisances who cough intermittently ,
some go pig-hunting, and are pursuing the spotted
one nearly all night; others fidget and kick and
roll, have nightmares and other nocturnal visita-
tions, and yell blue murder in their sleep; a tew
are troubled with insomnia, and get up at inter-
vals to fill and light their pipes. And there
are the town-goers, and those who are on visiting
terms with surrounding selectors’ daughters , they
come stumbling in about midnight with noise
enough to awaken the defunct. When that row
has subsided, the 30 or 40 dogs tied up outside
begin to corroboree in dismal and melanc o y
tones. Somebody yells at them to lie down, anc
one or two get up to throw firewood and jam tins
at them. The nights are pretty much alike, so
you don’t wonder at the number of temts and bush
gunyahs there are scattered about the neig or-
hood. The shearers’ hut is a mob’s hut, under
mob law.
EDWARD S. SORENSON.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
1 ' -i... 'agar-.i v:y,,.- - —i—
— AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog: Head Stout. Kingr’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers pf Aerated Waters and Cordials.
ĥ
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VQLUME OF TONE
ħ
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
-
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King', 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUF POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN & CO.. P ly. Ltd., 276 8 Collins St., Melb.. Bendi*o, Geelong.
i
i
The Universal Remedy for Acidity gf the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
re Physician G
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective. Aperie
for
Regular Use.
--V y
E
AGNES
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
PenSi
f*r*i*o Medal:
Works s Birmingham, England,
h
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Bioiiing Ser.es.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Samole Box.
*
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
ĥ
ħ
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known fo _
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
D/ARRHCEA , and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM.
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
h
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
ĥ
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/tj& 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT ft Co., 229. Strand.
London. England
Fi\ • il
ħ
ASTHMA CURE
GBIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NerronsCoughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immedintelv
reliercd by GRIMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR.
KITES. fin'd by all Chemitit*.
CANT
B
BEAT
PIPES
I/each post free 1/2
Quality Not Belter
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
Y SYDNEY.
storekeepers*, tobacconists
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE UST
SHAPES
mi g
Dorattd Gulden teal
Compound
A r.aia and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of tho nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
IVhy not cure yourself
Treatise with jach bottle
or mailed on request.
Tb* Enai denial Co.
Cutisoatj, Okie.
U.S.A.
djl
AN Australian’s Two Hands—THE DONE
. HAND and THE BULLETIN You
do without either, and they both cost the same.
7^5
m
M
IV
m
m
tu
SSSS
fiw
f
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing-it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion,' Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take ;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, (issues, and interna) organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will" on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in--
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
Standard Remedy which has outlirod the Centuries
SIHGLETOH-S EYE OINTMENT.
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
In use since IS9C.
' cures'""
h
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Boors, j
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
\mA£
fill Dt,
Superior to
INJECTIONS
kCUBEBS and
[COPAIBA.
r Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
yi; jujbu »qj sisaq »insd»3 qa*g
•sjnoq 8f
«!
m
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePort
Xature-s Gift
V A .V.
Kt'Dcf:iTßj:i
PORT.
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don't think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0. for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
find at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.


TROUT FISHERMEN!
ĥ
WATERPROOF WADINC TROUSERS, made
of superior Cashmerette. Very strong
and light, 425.
WATERPROOF FISH NC STOCKINGS,
reaching to hips, double texture, stout
Twill, 255.
FISHING CA n S, with Cape, 6s. 6d. each.
WATER-REPELLENT FISHING & SPORT-
ING JACKETS, Duck, 215. ; Gabardine,
from 60s.
WATER • REPELLENT DUCK FISHING
BAGS, fitted with detachable W.P.
Lining, 12s. 6d.
FISHING BROCUES, 21s. 6d. and 225. 6d.
per pair.
If you cannot call, send for our Sum-
mer Price List, giving all details. Write
to-day.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
••The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Willans & Robinson, Limited,
For . ..
Electrical Generators,
Blowers, Fans,
etc., etc.
AW
\j\% C
e
Mixed 1
High Pressure
and
Steam.
a^tralian
AGRNCY;
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney. [3 |
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING
THE ORIGINAL AND
CENUINE RALATA.
*ir
TRADk.
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a irttard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, I V*.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
ħ
THE
Has a Grand Reputation,
Would it not be advisable
to install it at once, in pre-
ference to experimenting
with a doubtful machine ?
Send us particulars of your SHED, and we will post you Plan and
Estimate of Cost of Installation Gratis.
nil
POPULAR
OIL ENGINE.
Popular on Account of its
Simplicity and Reliability,
Popular for Driving Shearing
Machines, Pumps, etc.
Sole Agents for above:
DALGETY (SI COMPANY LIMITED, Miller’s Point, Sydney.
_
IK
w
1
40 Clarence Street, Sydney ;
172 William Street, Melbourne.
We will quote you on
Complete A.E.G. Elec-
trical Equipment of
MINES, FACTORIES,
TIMBER MILLS.
DRINK
OX
UK’S LAG
NOYES BROS
( Sydney) Limited
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd .
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, PFDTH
St. George’s Terrace,
7 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
Country House and Station
Electric Lighting
Plants.
ROCK DRILLS.
The Simplest, Lightest and
Strong'est Rocß Drill made:
THE CHERSEN.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
Sole
Agents,
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY; 525 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
