

DEWAR'S -All that a perfect Whisky should be.
R. G. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining 1 and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and ‘ SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
Herbert’s
Ball=Bearing Drills.
Easy and Quick Drilling.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne,
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide.
KCOBART.
[jadleys Orient jjotel.
PIONEEP
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
sdf
sd
99
Take it back,
I must have
HUTTON’S
fine Apple Brand
TV.
CHUBB’S
Cfi £5 I?
r insi
RESISTING
SAFES.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
J
gsmmsmK
TABLETS
*>, INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
QM qM*
»•,».
THE SECRET OF IT’S POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE,
*
V s > V SP* ✓ t ±
\
> s fp
6
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
BENSDORPS
Dutch
mm
is the Queen of ?JI Cocoas
TQ\
l t-Puri t>c
Roof troubles have worried many
men during the late severe storms,
but no water came through any of
the many Malthoid Roofs.
M
m
Some Architects and Builders are ac-
tually taking off their other roofs and
replacing them with Malthoid. Save
this expense by using Malthoid first.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN. GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
REFRIGERATORS
ECONOMY
fsd
f
REFRIGERATORS
SIMPLICITY
C. A. MacDONALD LTD., 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
i
w -
's k
f?
ysrySKijsts
WORTHINGTON PUMPS
FOR ALL SERVICES KEPT
IN STOCK.
Send eor Catalogues.
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 32 8 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
THORNE’S
WHISKY.
MARTELL’S
BRANDY.
HELIDON SPA WATER
HELIDON SPA performs a primary function.
It dissolves and carries away effete matter.
DEWHURST 8 HALLORAN,
Agents. jj
The Bulletin
V 01.31— No. 1589.]
[Thursday, July 28, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS FOR HOME STUDY, Practical and Scientific.
Send for our Special Select List of Suitable Books on
Architectural Drawing and Lettering, Automobiles, Alternating Current Machinery, Boilers, etc,, Building Superin-
tendence Contracts and Specifications, Carpentry, Electricity, Electric Railways, Estimating in Building Trades,
Forging Foundry Work, Gas Engines, Highway Construction, Hydraulic Engineering, Indicators, Machine Shop
Work Masonry Construction, Pattern Making, Plumbing, Power Stations, Railroad Engineering, Refrigeration,
Reinforced Concrete, Sewers and Drains, Sheet Metal Work, Stair Building, Steel Square Steam Engines, Strength of
Materials, Surveying, Telegraphy, Telephony, Valve Gears, Water Supply.
Send a postcard to
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd., 71 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THffcOATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
o
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
fsd
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
Agencies in all
The RED PAGE
Ladies-Fair and Frail
To the common man, he who grabs his
hat and bag, kisses his wife, and ducks for
the morning train, there seems to be a
frightful lot of rot written about women.
Parsons and political orators make them
appear wise and superlatively angelic ; while
book-makers are exploiting the passions and
vices of woman to an extent that makes one
feel weary. The Phrynes and Jezebels of
history are subjects of perennial interest ;
and the demand of a growing mass of readers
is producing a large supply of memoirs,
scandalous or discreetly blue. Nearly all the
matter is second-hand, and original autho-
rities, which are not regularly acknowledged,
are often easily discoverable, such as Sainte-
Beuve for Emil Reich’s superficial and sense-
less hook called Woman Through the Ages,
and Madame Campari’s Memoirs, for all
these stories of Marie Antoinette. But
when a person by the pame of Thornton
Hall, author of a trashy thing called Love
Intrigues of Royal Courts, quotes Trow-
bridge, a contemporary blue-biography
monger, as an authority, it becomes a public
offence. A couple of books by Frank Hamel,
Famous French Salons, and later, The Dau-
phines of France, have in them more of the
philosophic and sympathetic spirit than we
generally get from this class of book. His
second book, also, has the advantage of
being fresher than the first.
Most of the recent volumes record the
perfumed scandals of Royal Courts with a
dull monotony. The authors are often at
some trouble to probe into the dirt and dis-
play affairs in their worst light ; but The
Trials of Five Queens, by R. Storry Deans,
reminds us that high ladies ultimately pay
highly for their frolics. It brings the
element of tragedy into the business. Deans
records carefully and with knowledge the
trials of Katherine of Aragon, Anne Boleyn,
Mary Queen of Scots, Marie Antoinette and
Caroline of Brunswick. Three of these
queens had to place their necks under the
axe, and the guilt of no one of the five is
satisfactorily proven to all sides.
The Marquis de Segur has written a bio-
graphy of Julie de Lespinasse , which has been
recently translated. A book upon this en-
chanting lady cannot but be interesting, for,
as Sainte-Beuve remarks, “ her claims to the
attention of posterity are positive and en-
during.” Julie had intellect of a kind, but
she threw herself into her passion head-first
and wildly, proving the remark of a famous
French epigrammatist, “ that the intellect of
women serves only to strengthen their
madness.”
“My friend,” she cries to Guibert, “I
love you as one ought to love, with excess,
with madness, transport and despair.”
Julie wrote reams and reams of this sort
of stuff. Every page of it was on fire, and
Guibert went about absent-mindedly, drop-
ping the letters out of his pocket and mixing
them with his business-papers. Even Sainte-
Beuve seems to get a little bit afraid of the
fiery Julie, and calls her passion a fatality
and a thunderbolt. She wants to live for
the love of one man and die for the love of
another all at the same time.
In the affairs of these salon ladies, and in
the case of Recamier especially, so cleverly do
they mix love and intellect, that it is some-
times very hard to discover where brain
leaves off and where passion begins. “It
was the age of the Genlis—those women of
gallant, light-hearted conduct, who became,
in due season, Mentors and Minervas, and
wrote moral treatises on education during
the short respite their lovers allowed them.”
These modern scandal authors work rumor
for all it is worth. Things are said about
Recamierand hergentleman friends (Chateau-
briand is very prominent here) which sug-
gest the usual looseness in her character
and morals; yet she must have been the
most delightful, enchanting and tactful
hostess the world has known. The greatest
literary critic says that he knows not by
what inward virtue she remained pure—but
he avows that she did remain pure. He says
that “she did not believe in - evil,” and
again, and with what subtlety! “she re-
membered with taste ! ” Davenport Adams
says somewhere that Recamier was the
greatest flirt that ever lived. Truly, she
seems to have enchanted men by being
the same to them all. She had a place in
her heart for all their secrets, and was full
of sympathy and kindness.
One of the more vulgar and heavy of these
books is The Courtships of Catherine the
Great, by Phillip W. Sargeant. It is quite
probable that all the author says of the lady’s
amours is quite true. But although she used
to look out of her window and beckon the
better-shaped corporals into her heart with
a dreadful monotony, Catherine was also
something of a stateswoman. Sargeant is
not bound by his title to say anything of
that aspect of her character ; but by stating
only the one side he makes the Queen of the
Russias appear more unb/ilanced than she
really was, especially when he dwells so
much on the disfigured and ugly face of
Potemkin and his vulgar manners. But, of
course, this is all in the game if you want
your book to sell.
In all this mixed business there is true
passion and there is real tragedy. Remem-
ber the German, Grimm, unremittingly
faithful in his irregular passion for Madame
d’Epinay for a period of 27 years, and then
ending it all very calmly by going away.
And remember Adrienne. Lecouvreur, an
actress, pouring out her heart-breaking re-
nunciation to the anxious mother of the rash
boy, Argental, who loved her (“I will write
to him what you please ; if you wish, I will
never see him again ”) in a letter that stands
honorably in literature beside those of Lan-
dor’s Aspasia, or even with the historic
epistles of Heloise. Not till he was 80
years of age was this letter shown to Argen-
tal, and it fairly broke the old man up.
(“ Madame, it is not a lady—it is an
actress ! ”)
The woman question drags itself into art and
literature and religion till one begins to sus-
pect some truth in Otto Weininger’s asser-
tion that man’s view of art is regulated only
by his sexual impulse.
Wrote the Marquise de Courcelles to her
lover, as she sat before her mirror :
I have a well-cut mouth, admirable lips, pearl-
colored teeth, handsome forehead, cheeks and
facial contour, a well-moulded bust, divine hands,
passable arms—that is to say, a little thin ; but I
find compensation for this misfortune in the
pleasure of possessing the shapeliest legs in the
world.
“All this is not very edifying,” says
Sainte-Beuve, “ but it is History.”
On the one side, and it is the side, La
Bruy ere says : “ There are women who
possess a simplicity and natural grandeur in-
dependent of gesture or movement. This
springs from the heart, and is the result of
good birth. They are gifted with a quiet,
unassuming superiority and many virtues,
which the greatest mod,esty cannot hide
from those who have eyes to see.” That, it
may be permissible to observe, is my kind of
lady, but perhaps the quotation is fired too
highly with French imagination ; let us con-
trast Bruyere’s utterance with the command
wrung by bitter experience from poor old
Socrates : “ Fear women and thunder,” lest
we become too cocksure in our attitude to
the eternal problem. And says Sainte-
Beuve of Madame de Pompadour, “ She had
some good in her—the species being ad-
mitted.” Madame du Deffaud has been
called an artist in wrong conduct. Joan of
Arc saved France by the sheer strength and
purity of her soul. There was Madame
Roland. There were pure women, there were
women who sinned hugely and escaped to
become the picturesque figures of history by
the eternal and morbid attractiveness of
their immorality. There were women who
sinned insignificantly, perhaps not at all,
but who had to die on suspicion. Yet the
reputations of these women are tossed down
to posterity on the biassed and bad judg-
ment of men. “ Help poor girls!” said
Dahlia Fleming to Robert. So let us end
here on solid ground with George Meredith,
an Englishman of clean, iinpassionate heart.
F. M.
Pen Portraits
A Motley , by John Galsworthy (Heine-
mann and the Sydney Book Club), is a
collection of “ snapshots a.t life,” similar to
those contained in A Commentary, but more
varied in character and not so hard in tone.
The man’s strong sympathy with human
suffering, and his passionate hatred of in-
justice, quivered behind his pen in writing
many of these little sketches ; but his in-
terest in life as a pageant has not been
quenched by his feelings. The first item in
the book is “a portrait” of “that rare
thing, a pure-blooded Englishman.”
It was often a matter of wonder amongst those
who knew him that a man of his ability and
judgment had never even sought to make his
mark in public affairs. Of the several reasons
for this, the chief was, undoubtedly, the extra-
ordinary balance of his temperament. To attain
pre-eminence in any definite department of life
would have warped and stunted too many of his
instincts, removed too many of his interests ;
and so he never specialised in anything. He was
quite unambitious, always taking the lead in
whatever field he happened to be by virtue of his
great capacity and will-power, but never pushing
himself, and apparently without any life-aim but
that of leading a sane, moderate and harmonious
existence. And it is for this that he remains
written on the national page as the type of a lost
and golden time, when life to each man seemed
worth living for its own sake, without thought of
its meaning as a whole or much speculation as to
its end.
There are other imaginary portraits in
the book as delicately drawn as this
one. Most of the contents, however,
are stories compressed into a few pages ;
occasionally a scene or chapter from a
story of which it is unnecessary to tell the
beginning and end. They are all as carefully
finished as the plays and novels which have
placed Galsworthy in the front rank of living
writers.
L. P. Jacks, editor of the Hibbert Journal,
has attempted literary portraiture, on a larger
scale than Galsworthy, in Mad Shepherds and
other Human Studies (Williams and Nor-
gate). The first study is that of a shoe-
maker who, like most shoemakers in fiction,
is an atheist. One character, however, over-
shadows all the others. “ Snarley Bob”
has points in common with the “hatters”
of the Australian bush who have died, un-
honored, with all their poetry in them.
He is a shepherd, scant of speech, mystical
ami liable to go on an occasional drunk,
when he has visions—not of snakes, but of
spirits. All the poetry in Snarley’s nature
concentrated itself in the breeding of sheep.
By intuition he had arrived at a knowledge
of Mendel’s theory of heredity, and applied
it with great profit to his employer.
The rams (of Snarley’s flock) are the direct
creations of genius working upon appropriate
material. None but a dreamer of dreams could
have brought them into being ; every one of them
is an embodied ideal. Don’t make the blunder
of thinking that Snarley’s sheep-raising has
nothing to do witli his star-gazings and* spirit-
rappings. It’s all one. Shakespeare writes
Hamlet and Snarley produces “Thunderbolt”—
(the greatest of the "rams, a brute “with more
decorations than a field-marshal.”)
Snarley had been a “medium,” but he gave
up that foolishness after he discovered the
stars. In one of his rare discourses he ex-
plained how the stars had “knocked him
silly.”
It wasn’t till I went to hear Sir Robert Ball as
the grand idea came to me. “Why not throw
yerself into the stars. Bob?” I sez to myself.
And, by gum, sir, I did it that very night. How
I did it I don’t know ; I won’t say as there wasn’t
a drop o’ drink in it; hut the minute I yot through
I felt as I’d stretched out wonderful, and blessed
if g I didn’t find myself standin’ wi’ millions of
other spirits, right in the middle o’ Saturn's rings.
And the things I see there I couldn’t tell you—no,
not if you was to give me a thousand pounds. Talk
o’ spirits! 1 tell you there was millions of’ern !. . .
There’s lots o’ spirits about, but they don’t talk —
at least not,, as a rule, and they don’t want to
talk; and when the mediums make ’em talk
they’re liars. Spirits. haS better ways of doin’
things than talkin’ on’em. That’s what you finds
out when you gives yourself a long line and gets
out to the edge o’ the world. . . . And when
you’ve seen it you-don’t bother any more wi’
makjn’ the spirits rap on tables and such like.
What’s the sense o’ try in’ to find out whether
you’ll be a spirit after you’re dead when you
know there’s nothing else any where?
“The Thrush.”
It is rough on a melodious bird like the
thrush that its name should be given to a
periodical, one half made up of plain and
fancy prose and the other half of verse
which is sometimes like unto the song of a
kookaburra with a sore throat, and at
all times minor. Every singing bird in
Bewick’s list has had its name taken in vain
in this fashion ; so The Thrush (London) is
as conventional in its title as it is in its con-
tents. It was announced as a receptacle for
verse which would not be likely to be pub-
lished anywhere else. Its first volume
contained much which should not have been
printed at all. There has been no adven-
turous verse, no breaking out of poetry in
new places. • This is not the editor’s
fault—but he is guilty of printing tripe.
Recent numbers show an improvement;
though the best verse is still that of
writers well enough known to secure
print anywhere. Australian writers are
represented by Furnley Maurice and G. B.
Lancaster. The Scotch-Australian, Will H.
Ogilvie, has a characteristic lilting piece in
the May number :
Ain’t it good to see again
Leaf an’ bud an’ bee.again—•
FriCfads a fellow knows;
Ain’t it good to feel again
Hook an’ rod an’ reel again
Where the ripple flows !
Ain’t it grand’to hear again
Larks'a-singin’ clear again,
To know that summer’s near again
An’pinnin’on her rose 1
The following lines are by a writer whose
name we have not noticed before :
An article in the same number on the
poetry of Wilfred W. Gibson quotes this as
“perhaps its author’s masterpiece ” :
THE WORD.
Of all the beautiful words that have flashed into
flower
From the wonder and passion of man in the dawn
of his days—
When he wandered in youth through the beckon-
ing, unknown ways,
Of a world that for every young heart is created
anew
In sunlight and moonlight and starlight and rain-
fall and dew—
Not one word leapt to my lips in that perilous
hour.
For none there is that may tell of the whole of
your praise.
No word that may breathe of the wonder and
passion of you.
Though all of the rapture of love that the ages
have stirred
In man’s passionate heart, and his pride and his
glory and power
He has breathed into sound ; and a triumphing,
somr-sweet word
Holds living for ever each fugitive sorrow and
mirth
That has kindled and quickened the hearts of all
lovers on earth ;
No word of man's making might tell of the won-
dering birth
Of my soul as I looked on your sorrowful soul, and
knew
The passion and pride and the wonder and glory
of you.
Oh, were hut the voice of my soul as the voice of
a bird
That sings at the end of the night in the scent and
the dew •
Of bloom-laden branches and glistening, burgeon-
ing sprays ;
Or the voice that was light when chaos and dark-
ness heard,
And brake into blossom of stars, as it field into
flower—
The passionate silence about us would quiver to
praise,
And a world should be horn of the soul of the
perishing hour
To sing for ever in all men’s hearts of you !
There is much informative reading in E.
Ray Lankester’s Science from an Easy Chair
(Geo. Robertson & Co.). Over 40 articles,
reprinted from newspapers, give interesting
data about oysters, sleep, protoplasm, comets
and similar things. The non-scientific reader
will be tickled by the story of the jumping
bean from Mexico, or the. hop-louse, Which,
at regular intervals, indulges in a spell of
parthenogenesis, and then falls back on the
old way of multiplying the species. He may
also learn to detect the clothes moth and the
poison plant, understand why the English
over-eat themselves at Christmas, and get an
up-to-date view of the prognathous Neander-
thal—one of the first families. Prof. Lan-
kester makes the popular exposition of
science his particular business, and he does
it very well.
•v ■ - •: ; _ ' ■» - ’:ij;
News has been received from America
that the joy-brmger, “O. Henry,” is dead.
Sidney Porter’s graduation from cow-boy to
short-story artist has already been told in
brief on this page, and most of his books
have met with warm appreciation as they
appeared. A collection of new stories about
the “ four million,” called Strictly Business,
is on its way from America. When it arrives
we will say something more about this man,
who extracted So much romance from the
life - around him and wove it into stories
which seldom failed to surprise or amuse the
reader.
MARBLE HILL, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
In England, when December skies are grey,
And trees are bare and roads are deep in mire,
The country folk go home at dusk of day
And light their lamps and sit beside the fire.
There the deep hearth is like an altar lit
To make the homes of England holy places ;
O’er leagues of ocean spreads the warmth of it,
And in the firelight shine remembered faces.
And when in time the blackbirds and the thrushes
Sing from sweet orchards in the dewy dawns,
And Flora’s eager host attendant rushes
To strew the woods and daisy-star the lawns.
Then every house is as a house enchanted—
Draw back the curtains, wide the casements
fling—
With sun and odorous breath the rooms are
haunted,
And all the happy music of the spring.
So run our homing thoughts ; but in the blue
Of Southern skies this summer land lies fair.
With yellow corn outspread and vineyards due
For yielding ; and a cool translucent air
Blows on these mountain slopes; beyond the haze
Which shimmers on the plain lies the wide sea.
Here an Australian home contents the days
Of those who know what English homes can be.
ARCHIDALD MARSHALL.
THE SPRING CALL.
Down Wessex way, when spring’s a-shine,
The blackbird’s ‘“pret-ty de-urr ! ”
In Wessex accents, marked as mine,
Is beard afar and near.
He flutes it strong, as if in song
No R’s of feebler tone
Than his appear in “ pretty dear,”
Have blackbirds ever known.
Yet they pipe “ prattie deerh !” I glean,
Beneath a Scottish sky,
And “ pehtv de-aw ! ” amid the treen
Of Middlesex or nigh.
While some folk say—perhaps in play—
Who know the Irish isle,
“’Tis purrity dare !” in treeland there .
When songsters would beguile.
Well, I’ll say what the listening birds
Say, hearing “pret-ty de-urr -
However strangers sound such words,
That’s how we sound them here.
Yes, in this clime at pairing time,
As soon as eyes can see her
At dawn of day, the proper way
To call is “ pret-ty de-urr! ”
THOMAS HARDT.


Jk
<aae
For Economy and
Satisfaction in
JEWELLERY
Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices.
/
THE FENCHORCH LEVER
ad E
The Fenchurch Non-Magnetic Lever Watch, a
reliahle timekeeper, with screw Bezel and back,
or hinged and Snap Cases--Nickel Case, 14/- ■
Oxydised Steel, 15/-
&
No. 683— Silver Pencil Case, Hall-mai;ked, Handsomely Engraved, 7/-
Gent.’B Nickel or Oxydised Steel Open Face Royal
Lever, Non-Magnetie, Stem Set; a Strong, Service-
able Watch, 12/6.
Nickel Keyless Lever Watches. A Serviceable
Timekeeper at a Nominal Cost, 6/6, 8/6, 11/6.
eQ3<2)IDC3Q
No. 632.
No. 631.
mm
No. 633.
No. 632— Lady’s Diamond Ring, single stone, 26/-, 42/-, 63/-, 105/-
No. 631— Lady’s Dress Ring, with Diamond and 2 Rubies or Sapphires,
21/-, 35/-, 45/-, 60/-, 75/-, 90/-, 105/- to £2l.
No. 633—With Diamond and 2 Sapphires, or Diamond and 2 Rubies.
35/-, 50/-, 65/-, 72/6, 80/-
No. 536.
No. 527.
No. 507.
No. 536— 18 ct. Gold Ring, Diamond Cluster, Diamonds and Rubies or
Diamonds and Sapphires, £lO 10s., £l2 125., £l5 15s.
No. 627—18 ct. Gold Ring, 1 Sapphire, 4 Diamonds, 43/*
No. 567— 15 ct. Gold Ring, Rubies and Diamonds or Sapphires and
Diamonds, 30/-
No. 519.
No. 537.
cn ia ki -
SSJfci
No. 528.
No. 513— 18 ct. Gold Ring, 3 Diamonds, fin»st quality. £l5/£l7 10s., £2O
No. 537— 18 ct. Gold Ring, i Diamonds, 5 Olivines, £4 15s.
No. 528— !8ct. Gold Ring, 5 Diamonds, £8 15s.
No. 562.
Wo. 531.
No. 042.
No. 562—18 ct. Gold Ring, 2 Diamonds, finest quality, £ll 13s.
No. 681—18 ct. Gold Ring, Diamonds and Rubies or Diamonds and
Sapphires, £7 10s., £8 Bs., £lO 10s.
No. 542—18 ct. Gold Ring, all Diamonds, £l9.
lIIIIUIIIIIIIIIII
■'COV~
a *
1 JS>
No. 770— Patent Expanding Waicn bracelet. The Watch is a strori
reliable Keyless Rotherham Lever, an accurate Timekeeper, i
Sterling Silver Case, and the Expanding Bangle is also Sterling
Silver. Price £4 4s. and £4 7s. 6d.
Similar design, in itot. Cold. £6 15s.
Similar design, 15ct. Gold Bracelet, with best Le\er Watch iu ISct.
Gold Case, £lO 10s. and £l5 15s.
be fi
No. 508.
003
No. 571.
No. 635.
No. 598— Gold Ring, set 7 Stones, £3 10s., £4 155., £5 ss. to £lB.
No. 571— 18 ct Gold Ring, 3 Diamonds, 35/-, 50/-, 65/-
No. 635 — Gold Ring, 3 Opals and 4 Diamonds, or Turquoise and 4 Dia-
monds, 84/-
No. 525.
flg o CTO jg
No. 634.
No. 573.
No. 525 — 18ct. Gold Ring, 2 Diamonds and 3 Rubies or 2 Diamonds and
3 Sapphires, 64/-
No. 634 — Lady’s Diamond Ring, 3 stones, 35/-, 63/-, 105/-
No. 573 — 18ct. Gold Ring, 5 Diamonds, 50/-
f
sdf
' No. 596.
No. 636—Lady’s Dress Ring, with 2 Sapphires or Rubies and 3 Diamonds,
or with 3 Diamonds and 2 Sapphires or 2 Rubies, 84/-, 90/-, 105/-,
to £l6 16s.
No. 595— With 5 Diamonds, 63/-, 100/-
No. 596 —With Rabies and Diamonds, or Sapphires and Diamonds, from
20/- ; all Opals, 32/6.
Lady’s SflverlDemi-Hunter Keyless Longine
Levers, 55/-, 84/-, £5 10 s., £9 9s.
Horizontal Movement, in Silver Case, 35/-
Top Quality at Bottom Price
is the Golden Rule at the
New Palace Emporium.
Gent.’s Nickel Open Face Stem Set Waterbury
Watch, improved pattern, with second-hand,
enamel dial. Series I, 8/6: Series G, 10/6 ;
Series J, 13/6 ; Series L (Lady’s Size), 11/6.
sdf
9ct. Gold Emu
Charm, 2/6.
No. 464— 9 ct. Gold
Bell Charm, 2/6
Terms:
Spot Cash
It
Folding Link Safety Bracelet. Easily fastened, no safety chain, cannot
be lost. The fastening is in the form of a triple folding link, and the
bracelet is slipped over the hand with the link unfolded. When placed
on the wrist the link is closed, shortening the circle and making a
secure fastening
9ct. Gold Curb Bracelet, as illustrated, 45/*, 47/6, 57/6, 67/6.
9ct. Gold Basket Pattern Bracelet, with Patent Folding Link, set Pearls,
Opal and Ruby, £4 17s. 6d. ; set Pearls and Turquoise, £4 9s.
9ct. Gold Closely Woven Links, no jewels, 3 bars, £2 4s. 9d. ; 4 bars,
£2 4s. 9d., £2 18s., £3 12s. 6d.
Consult our Price List of
Popular Presents. It illus-
trates Travelling Requisites,
Jewellery, Electroplate,
Clocks anti Fancy Goods.
Send for a copy, posted Free
on application.
Fifteen shillings expended at the New Palace Emporium
will go further than a sovereign spent at any other store.
The goods are fresher, the assortment is greater, and
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FAMOUS LOW PRICES are
the lowest in the land.
No. 459—9 ct.
Gold Bell
Charm, 4/6.
9ct. Gold Wish-
bone Charm, 3/-
We are Family
Drapers,
Manufacturing
Jewellers,
Complete
House Fur-
nishers, and
Universal Pro-
viders, and our
immense stock
of the World’s
Choicest Com-
modities offers
attractions not
to be found
elsewhere.
Lady’s Gold-Filled Hunting
Keyless Waltham Watch, 15
Jewels, guaranteed to wear
10 years, 77/6.:
14ct- Gold Hunting Keyless
Waltham, £9 ss.
<3ent.’s Non-Magnetic Sirdar Lever, fully
jewelled, Compensating Balance, Engine
Turned Sterling Silver. An Excellent Time-
keeper, 30/-
Oxydised Steel, 18/6 ; Nickel, 16/6.
Silver Hunting Case, 37/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH &. CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Andrape ~ BOOKS.
Freemasonry
Explained.
A GUIDE TO THE
CRAFT!
A LIGHT TO THE
UNENLIGHTENED
THE KEYS TO ALL
DEGREES!
COMPLETE, Is.
Post Free, Is. 3d.
Kblly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book ok Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 3/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pasdia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1 /-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
sd
fsd
f
L
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingrers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling: the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing: some-
thing: quite new in
mag:ic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage
no confederates and no special skill), post free any
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2.6.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Note 3 of any State will do.
c Tr^ es
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
NATURAL
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
df
’ Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELL’S
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
Of All Stores
and Chemists,
%
T«AD£. MAf 1 '**
Wholesale Agrents for Victoria: DUERDEN & SALISBURY, Melbourne.
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Bheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Begular Use.
DINNEFORDS
ES
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined'), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of fhe A us-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST-
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repay in"
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during: any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. Wincheombe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox, E«q.. K.C. General Manager ana Actuary : Richard Teece. P.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
ZERCHO’S
CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE.
tm
wmz
FT
■•'C.
6 ■'! 3
M
c c
'
nr
isSSiii
a 1)
,>V\
W\
3
•
—-F
159 Collins St., Melbourne.
28 Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Currie Chambers, Adelaide.
Utilise your spare time by studying at home some
of the following subjects :
Send for Descriptive Pamphlet “S" and state subject
in which you are interested.
Shorthand
Typewriting
Bookkeeping
Accountancy
English
Penmanship
Arithmetic
Correspondence
Latin
French
Greek
Algebra
Geometry
Trigonometry
Elementary Science
History
Geography
Surveying
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Draftsmanship
Freehand Drawing
Pen and Ink Drawing
Illustrating and Designing.
Let us coach you for a University, Local Government
(Shire Clerks or Auditors). Public Service, Sanitary
Inspectors', or any other examination.
STEVENS
LITTLE SCOUT RIFLE NO. 14
sd
fs
fsd
THE RIGHT RIFLE FOR THE YOUNGEST BOY.
Parts attached to action itself, making it very simple. Weighs pounds.
Chambered for .22 Long-rifle R. F. Cartridges. Will also shoot .22 Long
R. F. and .22 Short R. F.
All Progressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues.
[6
This Man was Rescued from the Grave , and Lives.
THE MIRACLE OF RUTHERGLEN, VIC.
m
Cured after every Treatment Failed
— with
Clements Tonic.
if YOU WISH TO BE CURED, READ THIS LETTER.
The medicine that saves and lengthens human life as
this one does; that brings back the health so long
despaired of ; that proves by restored vigor and mental
energy that professional verdicts have not been fulfilled,
and that out of years of pain and suffering men and
women recover and enjoy life, surely this is the medicine
for the people in every rank and walk of existence.
People who are ill, sickly, weak-nerved, etc., should read
this letter to a great medicine. The writer can be seen
at Rutherglen any day, after being in four hospitals and
having no less than 17 medical examinations.
On 19th May, 1910, Mr. Downes again writes to Clements Tonic Ltd. :
“ I have sent my photo., as you desire, i wish I could do
more to advertise Clements Tonic to sufferers of ill=health, for
scores of men and women came to me the last three months
from far and near to see me, and wanted to know if Clements
Tonic cured me. I am thankful I can assure them all, without
fear or doubt, it has. I can say that also to the hundreds of
people who know the truth, when 1 was ill in Clunes, Ballarat,
Wangaratta and Corowa, and to those who had no hope for me.
But, thanks to this medicine, I am here before them all this day a
cured man. I wish 1 could show you in person the look of surprise
many persons have (especially those connected with the hospitals)
who meet and see me alive. <( / Signed) PATRICK DOWNES.”
Great Southern Consuls Mine, Rutherglen, Vic. v
You will Live to a Green Old Age with the Medicine.
' ■ All Chemists and Stores sell it in Australia.


PURITY.
The very look of
Cerebos Salt suggests
purity, and indicates
the scrupulous care
with which it is made.
Cerebos
Saif
Agents—Harrison & Attwood t Sydney.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
We despatch direct from onr Coventry factory
to an one, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
MODEM £3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Frec to any port in the World.
dfg
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in ea<M dis-
trict. Large profit i
easily made. Write u. once, using sufficient pcstsge,
for free Art Catalogues and our Speolal Offer
en sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE Ca.rw.sso LIVERPOOL.
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Agent,
157 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
BLED TO DEATH.
♦
NOBODY KNEW FIRST-AID.
♦ '■—
MELBOURNE, Wednesday.
In the absence of the knowledge of the prin-
ciples of first-aid by those about him, Thomas
Howland, farmer, 50 years of age, bled to death
to-day at his home, four miles from Dimboola.
Howland knocked an ulcerous sore and burst a
varicose vein near the ankle. His daughter
attempted to stanch the bleeding by applying
flour, but this had no effect, and he died within
10 minutes.
The above news item will serve to show how fallacious
is the opinion held by many sufferers from Varicose
Veins that they are “ really not dangerous.”
If you suffer from Varicose Veins, or have a relation or
friend who does, and if the veins should burst, would you
know what to do ? Let us send you an illustrated free
book describing Varicose Veins in all their forms, the
methods to adopt in bandaging, and the course to pursue
if they should burst. This book also fully describes the
Vecsey Method of treating and curing Varicose Veins
without operations.
To sufferers from Varicose Veins the Vecsey Method of
Treatment comes as a great boon. Previous to its dis-
covery no painless, permanent palliative was known.
It cures the veins absolutely, and once cured they do
not return.
Do not fail to send for our free book, which gives full
information and particulars. Post free to any address
upon receipt of 2d. stamp. Call for free advice.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM,
104 Linden Court, Sydney.
Take Lift to Second Floor.
[606
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
PATENTS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write Us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired ot wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease trom the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm. Allays irritation.
IBJattJIQSS
- -
BOTTLE AFTER BOTH F—
of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully:
j
IT IS A REAL CURE FOR
COUCHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP 1
WHOOPING COUCH, SORE THROAT, ’
SORE LUNGS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHINC.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
OUR. JACK” Brand.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Fulfils the requirements of the “ PURE FOODS" Act.
100 CUPS FOR 1/e .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Fitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
%
f IDEAL FOOD
for children From birth is
Horlick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constit-
uents in their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch, and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infant Foods containing- Starch.
No Cooking. No added Milk.
Of all Chemists. Wholesale <g Retail Stores.
Samples : 82 PITT ST., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough, Eng.
ifiod
ttw'fd/L
i
r .
Aturuf'^2/ TUbnVts of1A&
Latest Evolution of Modern i-narmacy.
“ GOLCRYST ” is a Combination of
Epsom Salts, Senna, Sarsaparilla,
Dandelion, Liquorice and Ginger.
crystals dissolve in water, forming
a Blood-Purifying and Rheumatisrh-Curing
Aperient Medicine.
SOLD IN 3d., 6d, and Is. PACKETS.
Write for Free Sample to the Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO., MELBOURNE.
BARROWS
English Portable Engines
sdf
sdf
sdf
dsf
PASTORAL-
ISTS AND
FARMERS
USE NO
OTHER.
SOLE
AGENTS:
J. H. YOUNG g CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LONGREACH, CHARLEVILLE.
A LIGHT TREAD
When you wear Wood-Milne
Rubber Heels your foot comes
down softly—your step is light and
springy—hard pavements or stony
paths lose their terrors.
It’s good for you to avoid the
' nerve-racking jar of hard leather
heels; it’s also good for your purse,
because Wood-Milne heels wear
four times as long.
WOODMILNE
RUBBER HEELS
are made in Britain, from new,
resilient rubber: they enable you
to walk without fatigue, and give
a surprising feeling of buoyancy
and vigour.
Look for the name Wood-Milne on
every heel, and refuse all imi'ationr
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever=increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
AH the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO., London, England.
N.B. —The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
■SHRINK
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ben Boyd’s Tower.
Ben Boyd’s Tower is watching,
Watching o’er the sea ;
Ben Boyd’s Tower is waiting
Still for her and me.
We do not know the day.
We do not know the hour ;
But we know that we shall meet again
By Ben Boyd’s Tower.
Moonlight peoples Boyd Town,
Mystic are its walls ;
Lightly dance the lovers
In its haunted halls.
Ben Boyd’s Tower is watching,
Watching o’er the foam ;
Ben Boyd’s Tower is waiting
Till the Wanderer comes home.
O, he lay above us,
High above the surf,
Finger-nails and toe-caps
Digging in the turf.
We do not know the day,
We do not know the hour;
But Two and Two shall meet again
By Ben Boyd’s Tower.
There’s an ancient dame in Eden,
Basket on her arm,
And she goes down the main street
From the old, old farm ;
Hood drawn on her forehead,
Withered dame and grey.
She never looks on Boyd Town
Out across the bay.
N.s.w.
HENRY LAWSON.
Motoring Past the Cities of Silence.
Do they hear us, the Silent Dead ?
Do they stir in the narrow bed
As we clatter and bellow and tear overhead ;
Past the gleaming city of still repose.
The haunting, beckoning homes of those
To whom we can spare no reverent hour ?
For we dare not pause, lest we think and cower.
Away ! Away through the hastening day,
The night falls swift, who has time to pray ?
We whir and hurtle and pant o’erhead—
Do they hear us, the Silent Dead 1
Do they hear us, the Silent Dead l
Do they stir in the narrow bed ?
Are dim memories faintly shed
As we rattle and throttle and bound overhead ?
The city of stillness and endless rest
Feels a quivering sob through its grassy breast.
The small, quiet homes, in their marble white
Know the passion of life as we throb from sight.
Pale joys and pale sorrows, with stealthy tread,
Grope nigh to the tombstone at foot and head—
Do they hear us, the Silent Dead ?
N.S.W.
ROSE DE BOHEME.
Migration.
The song, that in past ages sprang
From English heart and German tongue—
The music, woven with the dance
In Tuscan groves and wines of France,
Goes down the way of antique lore—
A memory now, and nothing more.
For, as the looms of commerce heat,
Romance departs with hurrying feet.
The melody of mountain hells
Flies far from gaudy Swiss hotels ;
Or booths, where hucksters vend their wares,
Against the wrecks of Roman stairs.
Outgrown her romance and her song
The modern Europe swarms along ;
Her idle million pleasure takes
In kursaals on Italian lakes,
Where vandal advertisers scheme
With posters by the road or stream,
Or write upon some mountain crest:
“ Hans Schweizer’s Lager is the best!”
Small wonder, then, her soul is dead ;
Old Europe, which in music led
The feet of men in olden time
To datiee to themes and chords sublime.
And yet not wholly dead, for seeds
Of song that grew in English meads
Have sailed the winds, and, overseas,
Bloom in the sweet antipodes.
As once there issued stirring lays
In Europe in the olden days,
,So now they burgeon forth anew
In those fresh lands to which they flew.
(
For there, thought blossoms, strong and free
As winds that blow from sea to sea,
And mystery is in the nights
On dim untrodden mountain heights.
And forest glades and hollows throng
With strange untrammelled sprites of song.
Full is the sense and fair the script
Of njusic of the euoalypt;
The heirs of ages past are they
Who chant the sweet, the newer day ;
Whose native melody has right
Of wider field and sunnier height,
Wherewith is blent, in storm or tears,
The lyric-essence of the years.'
So, if the soul of Europe die,
Let it amidst its ashes lie.
Let the old bards be tucked away,
Who flourished in a simpler day ;
While the strong South, the home of song,
Chants its new music, dulcet, strong,
Out of its deserts and its trees.
There is its haven, overseas !
ITALY.
C. G. A. COLLES.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
■* * * « * •*. >. *.4
'v.- *■ ■■» >•> x- V.-v n *
y A A V 1 J
£. *vVv; \\V.\v :,'; v\'\;;v\\-:'\v\ v\W V» tovVES!
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. • in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155. ; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ... ... fid
Packet of Ten ... ... 5d
SAVE MONEY
by buying one of DWYER’S VEHICLES. They cannot he
equalled for Beauty of Design, Durability and Bight Running.
Fadories WOLLONGONG and NEWTOWN.
sd
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets, Brisb
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
9.x
m
&mm
VETCHES
IF THEIR COST WERE
TEN TIMES WHAT IT IS,
• OMEGA Watches would
still be “ worth the
money.” The enormous
facilities of production
in the OMEGA factory
have, however, brought
the price of OMEGA
Watches within the
scope of the most
modest purse.
In GOLD, SILVER, NICKEL and CUNMETAL CASES.
Stocked by Jewellers throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
fsd
CIGARETTES.
TURKISH, EGYPTIAN, VIRGINIAN.
DALGETY & CO. LTD., Wholesale Agents for Australia.
CORNER, 412 George Street, Sydney.
HANDSOME WEDDING PRESENTS in Sterling Silver and Electroplate.
THOSE of you who are interested in approaching Weddings should make a point of
inspecting our fine selection of High-Grade Goods. As we purchase direct from
only the actual manufacturers for Spot Cash, you may be sure of getting supreme
value for every shilling spent with us. Our stocks are always up-to-date—each week
sees new shipments arriving. If you are unable to call, write for our new Art
Catalogue, 112 pages, beautifully illustrated In fine art cover. We post it Free !
No. G42B6—Finest quality Silverplate on
Hard White Metal, Embossed Pattern
Biscuit Box, £2/7/6.
No. B499o—Finest quality Silverplate on Hard
White Metal, Revolving- Vegetable Dish. Each
dish can be removed and used separately.
£6/6/-
No. 52(53—Best quality Silver-plated
2-Bottle Inkstand, 16/6.
No. J26ls—Solid Silver
Flower Vase, 8 inches
high, 21/-
No. G4269—Finest quality Sheffield tSilverplate
Asparagus Dish, with Removable Rack, £2.
No. J2BB2 —Fine Out Glass and Silverplated
on Nickel Silver Dinner Cruet, 16/6.
Other designs at 27/6, 37/6, 50/-
No. F4B49—Embossed and Fluted
Silverplated Fern Pot—
4in., 22/6 4£in., 27/6
s}in., £2 Bin., £3/7/6
No. H2095—-Handsome Claret
Jug-, Finest Cut Glass and
Silverplate, £3/15/-
Others at 16/6, 25/-, 35/-, 60/-
No. G2s34—Finest quality Silverplated
on Nickel Silver Triple-Expanding
Biscuit Box, £B/10/-
No. F942l—Six Solid Silver Afternoon Cake Forks
with Mother of Pearl Handles, in Silk-lined Case, £3
No. H366—Fine Polished Oak Tray, with best
quality Silverplated Pierced Border Mounts,
20 inches long:, £4/10/-
Other designs from £l/5/-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Vol. 31.—N0. 1589.
THURSDAY, JULY 28, 1910.
Price to.
LOOKING AHEAD.
FAT M AN: Oh, yes I always have the grave dug ready. We see these things ahead. You know, the big empty estatesmake the railways lose
money, and then there's the delicit, and then comes the necessity for cheapness to make up the deficit, and then there's the smash.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William MaclkOD, _o:
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, tor
Tiik Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business , 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Aih ftin-e, <»ll <,\)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 5 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 13 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tim Bulletin O/lice 'Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to yon every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tube addressed to William Maclkod. Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tiik Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It. is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin.” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twc columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded, without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tint Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which, has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Tim Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, !Vest Australia, Queensland. Tasmania, and
New Zealand; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tiie Bullet in can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from M essrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London. lI'.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co.. Vanconver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S. A.— lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egy ft. — The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Dong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bullet in metal advertising places.size 6Hn. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied, if desired.
y^r^BxziiieZztii.
THURSDAY, JULY 28, 1910.
COLLISION, SUDDEN DEATH, RICH
LANDLORDS AND SUNDRIES.
The statement that every effect has a cause be-
hind it is a dreary truism, but the search for
the cause is often a matter of interest. Some-
times the cause is so far behind that it
escapes observation. When it is 40 or 50
years back from its natural and inevitable conse-
quence it is very apt to dodge observation, and
that is about the distance between the appalling
Richmond (Vic.) railway' disaster of last week,
and the beginning of the chain of circumstances
that led up to it. Of course there is, in the
visible front of things, some ill-paid, overworked
official in a rather decayed uniform—some engine-
driver or porter or signalman or stipendiary door-
banger or person of that sort. That kind of
cheap scapegoat is always in evidence. Then
there may be, in the second place, a stationmaster
or traffic manager or some such person. The
depressing figure of Railway Commissioner Tait,
with his eternal cigar, looms up further in the
rear. He is the man ultimately responsible, on
the face of things, for the system which led up to
the awful smash, and for the system which led up
to the still worse disaster at Braybroolc (with his
eternal desire to shift things about he had
changed the name of the place to Sunshine) two
years ago, and for the methods which brought
about the mishaps at Beaufort, Gem brook and
Kilmore. And behind Tait are the causes
which led to Tait, and without which there would
never have been any Tait, so far as Victoria is
concerned. Roughly speaking, it was about 1860
when the preparations for the Richmond railway
calamity began. Most of the people who were
killed last week-weren’t born when the first
arrangements were made for their destruction.
It was a case of digging the graves a long, long
wav ahead, but Fat (which is here quite distinct
from Fate) is a knowledgeable animal, and pos-
sessed of great foresight.
It was not very long past the middle of last
century when the policy of the Big Estates and
the Congested City began to show certain results
in Victoria—notably in the west. By the time of
the census of 1881 these results were well in
evidence. In 1881 the counties of Grenville,
Bogong, Ripon, Villiers, Grant, Dalhousie, Tal-
bot, Karkarooc and Wonnangatta, many of them
in the splendidly fertile Western District and
not far from Melbourne, were on the decaying
list. Each of these nine counties (there are 37
counties in Victoria) showed a smaller popu-
lation than it had done 10 years previously.
Between 1881 and 1891 there was again a decrease
in nine counties—Talbot, Grenville, Ripon, Nor-
manby, Kara Kara, Gladstone, Gunbower, Ben-
digo and Wonnangatta—so the downward move-
ment was still going strong. These counties
pretty well cover the rich Western District, and
Normanbv is the county which includes Portland,
a harbor incomparably superior to Melbourne, but
killed because, through Melbourne influences, its
railways are crooked and long-winded, and its
railway rates ruinously extortionate. Between
1891 and 1901 there were decreases in eight coun-
ties; Dalhousie, Talbot, Follett, Lowan, Millewa,
Gladstone, Gunbower and Rodney were all
on the down grade. In other words, all the
most level, most fertile and best-watered por-
tion of Victoria had been undergoing a
process of depopulation. The small land-
holders were being eaten up by the big ones.
When they weren’t inclined to sell out, the big
owners, who, to a great extent, ran the local
government bodies, sometimes helped them to
shift by putting extra high valuations on their
lands, thus making the small men carry the heavy
end of the local tax burden. An insane Govern-
ment leased out practically all the remaining
State lands in large areas, for long terms, at next
to nothing per annum, and by way of an extra
special madness it threw in the right of purchase
for a song. Very often these lands were
taken up by some adjacent big landlord. A
loony Administration set to work to kill the
industries of the smaller towns by giving
the Melbourne merchant and manufacturer
specially low railway rates, so that he might under-
sell his country rival even in the latter's own dis-
trict. It was all a policy of greed, madness,
rottenness, dishonesty and folly ; but the majority
of the members of the House of Bitch Landlords
stood solidly by the idea of the Great Empty
Estates and by the theory of the one Great City
of Bloat, and no Premier—not even Berry or
Turner —had the strength or courage to drag
them down. And all this time the graves were
being dug and the big railway accident was pre-
paring.
* * * *
The railway-building boom and the loan-mad-
ness came to pass between 1871 and 1891. Out of
Victoria’s 3456 miles of railway 2500 miles were
built inside these 20 years. Railways were rushed
out in all directions across the counties where
big landlordism was killing off the population,
and they proceeded to accelerate the decay of the
local human race. Towns that had been pros-
perous before the railway came, began to wither,
on its itrrival, as if it had been a blight. When
there were no railways in Australia, and all traffic
was carried on by bullock-dray or such-like primi-
tive contrivance, the trade of every district had a
chance to go to its natural port, and the big town
had no pull over the small one merely by reason
of its size. The bullockv refused to discriminate.
He would as soon haul to Portland as Melbourne,
if the roads were fairly equal; and Twofold
Bay was the same to him as Sydney. But with
the railways came the differential rates. It
was the business of the Railway Department,
under instructions from the potentates at
the capital city, to make it cheaper for
a man who lived close to Ballarat and a
darned long distance from Melbourne to bring his
goods from Melbourne, and not from Ballarat. It
was its business to see that the man who lived
near Portland and far from Melbourne found it
worth his while to export his wool and wheat via
Melbourne, despite the extra distance, and not
via Portland. To produce these results, not only
were the railway rates faked, but the railways
themselves were faked. They were brought
around in such amazing circles and semicircles
that if a place was 200 miles as the crow flies
from Melbourne, and 100 miles from any other
good port, the railway often managed to
make it nearer to Melbourne than to the other
port. The natural result of this policy was
that, when the railway came, many of
the peoule of the small towns which it
touched 'promptly went. They packed their
carpet bags and removed to Melbourne—the
favored place where the merchant or manufac-
turer had a “pull.” Everywhere else he was
penalised by extra high rates ; at Melbourne he
was subsidised by extra low ones. The idea
seemed to be that a new line was built for the
express purpose of driving away the people who
alone could make the line pay. Meanwhile the
tombs were being prepared and the disaster was
being gat ready.
« * *
While the loan boom and the land boom and
the banking boom kept afloat the effects of this
utterly deranged policy were not very apparen t,
but in time the whole conjoint boom burst and then
chaos fell on the State. The railway deficit became
tlie horror of each successive Treasurer. A very
large proportion of the railway mileage stretched
through country which the big landlords had
emptied of population, and the trains spent most
of their time stopping at towns which the iniq-
uitous differential railway rates had deliberately
ruined. It was impossible for any long-distance
country train to earn its oats and axle-grease under
these conditions. The counties which were
steadily losing population supplied fewer and
fewer paying passengers and less and less pay-
able freight, and as the possible passengers cleared
out of the decaying regions the hold of the big
landowners grew stronger. Yet the House of
Landlords steadily refused to do anything to the
great earth-monopolists, and the influence of
Melbourne was set steadily against any equitable
system of railway freights which would give the
small towns and the outports a show. So the
railway deficit continued to be a nightmare, and
the burials were arranged for, and the prepara-
tions for the tragedy went on apace.
The railway deficit couldn’t go on for ever, so
a new manager with a reputation for desperate
energy was imported from Canada, and instructed
to Make The System Pay. The Bulletin has
never felt excessively friendly towards that im-
ported manager. It has always regained him as
a hard and bitterly commercial man ; and it has
never felt any wild enthusiasm about his ability.
He got his training in a railway school which, if
its tally df accidents is a fair test, is the worst
one on earth, and that is no recommendation. At
the same time, it must be admitted that
his position was, and still is, a difficult
one. It wasn’t his fault that many of his
trains ran at great loss through the howling
wildernesses of the big earth-grabber’s grass and
jumbucks. He wasn’t responsible for the awfu-
House of Rich Landlords. He couldn’t help the
policy of differential railway rates, which, in the
supposed interests of the capital, was steadily
repressing the inland towns and making them
yield as little revenue as possible. There should
have been another Melbourne where Portland
now stands—another great revenue-earning city—
and the fact that, by reason of absurdly circuitous
lines and an impossible scale of charges, it had
been deliberately reduced to the status of a
sleepy, decaying, tenth-rate town was a matter
over which the Commissioner had no control.
He found Melbourne an absurdly large and
bloated city in proportion to the population
of the State, and it had a stupendous
railway traffic because every effort had been made
to concentrate all railway traffic there, and the
lines and the rolling-stock and the stations
were wholly inadequate. Yet, when enough
money had been screwed out of the earn-
ings of the Melbourne traffic to make up
for the losses on the country lines which the land
monopolies and the policy of differential rates
had deliberately ruined, there wasn’t enough left
to pay for putting things right. So far as these
matters go, Railway Commissioner Tait can’t in
fairness have any great quantity of corpse laid at
his door. His fault seems to be that he
identified himself with an utterly nefarious
system, and made no serious protest against it.
And all the time the graves were being dug
deeper and the big smash came nearer.
* * * *
Despite all drawbacks, the Victorian railways
were made to pay. Tait didn’t go the way of his
remote predecessor Speight, who signed his
death warrant by writing the simple word, “ Im-
possible” across the letter in which Premier Shiels
asked him to immediately save some absurd
amount out of the working expenses. “ Savings ”
were made by reducing the staff, by economising
on wages and possibly on repairs, and by using old
decayed rolling stock (one or two of the carriages
which crumpled up like eggs in the Richmond acci-
dent, to the injury of people who might have
escaped if they had been in newer and more solid
conveyances, were 40 years of age and dated back
to the days of the private Hobson’s Bay Railway
Co.). If the city population was too big, and the
lines were too few, and the rolling stock was too
scanty, it was always possible to accelerate things
by letting two trains in on one section so that one
might run closer behind the other than is possible
under the safe and careful block system. Where
one train ran too close behind the other, as at
Sunshine and Richmond, then, of course, it
bumped ; but when two things are too close to-
gether they are always liable to bump. The
method has at least this great merit—that all the
bad accidents happen at stations, and there aid is
more easily obtainable than elsewhere. Yet,
despite this strenuous effort to relieve the
pressure, there were allegations about 26
suburban passengers crowding into a compart-
ment built to carry only 10. Presumably if the
safe block system had been strictly adhered to,
and the trains had been in consequence run at
longer distances apart, there might have been 40
persons trying to get into a compartment built for
10. Then it would have been a case of death by
suffocation instead of by collision, There were loud
local complaints, yet it can’t be denied that many of
the Melbourne suburban residents were, and still
are, looking for the worst trouble that could come
to them. Every Tory voter of Brighton or
Elsternwick is a man who votes for the big
estates of the Western District, and votes against
the graduated land-tax that would break up
these big estates. He is a man who supports
the differential railway rate policy which de-
presses the country towns and crowds almost
all the manufactures of Victoria into Melbourne.
He is a supporter of the congestion idea which
practically makes Melbourne the only port of the
State. Therefore,. he throws in his influence
with the Tory methods which make so many of
the country railways unprofitable. And to make
up the loss, the lines around Melbourne must be
skimped of rolling stock, repairs and staff ; and
this same Tory, thanks to his own folly, must
take his life in both hands when he starts for
liis Melbourne office to attend to his daily job of
mercantile brokerage or calico or wild cattery.
Thus he keeps on putting a nice finish to his own
sepulchre and helping to bring the great smash
-closer.
* * * *
And last week the great smash arrived. What
else did Brighton expect—Brighton which created
Bent, who created Tait? It lias been voting for
the great smash ever since it threw out Higin-
BOTHAM.
RE-APPEARANCE OF THE FISCAL
SPECTRE.
The report of the British Labor Party’s Trades-Unionist
Commission of investigation into German industrial con-
ditions is clear-cut and decisive on the fiscal question.
While tiie views of its informants differed in regard to
the need or justification for tariffs, the report affirms that
“ the workers were practically unanimous ” in their
opposition to the German tariff. This confirms the testi-
mony of Mr. Kamsay Macdonald, M.P., which we com-
mented on last week, that “ there is not a trades-union
in Germany that believes the tariff has eased the problem
of unemployment,” and of the newspaper organ of the
General Federation of German Trades-Unions that
“without doubt the German working class have not
to thank the tariff for any good.” Another instructive
statement in the report is that the cost of living in Ger-
many is rising, and is attributed generally to tariffs.
There are many causes of this tendency, no doubt, but it
stands to reason that a Protective tariff contributes
toward it by levying taxes on food and other necessaries
of life. With regard to German conditions generally, the
report comments on the country’s progress, which it con-
siders is largely accounted for by industrial and social
discipline and organisation. This is precisely what Mr.
Macdonald thought. In confuting the exaggerated state-
ments of pervasive prosperity in Germany made by
English Protectionists, he explained that every proof pf
poverty which exists in England also exists in Germany.—
From leading article in Sydney shoddy paper.
The fact that the British workman begins to have
obvious doubts about the complete glories of the
gospel of Cobden is gall and wormwood to those
who stick to the antiquated theories of Free Com-
petition and the Survival of the Cheapest. Free-
trade was the policy of the cave-men, the
ancient Britons and the Australian aboriginals.
When the white man first found Australia
there wasn’t a Customs House or a tariff in all the
land, and the enlightened and wildly-affluent
natives lived up to the whole fiscal doctrine of the
Argus and S. M. Herald and Sydney Tele-
graph. The craving to be fiscal aborigines still
lingers in Australia, just as the desire to be fiscal
Ancient Britons isn’t yet dead in England. Yet
there is a tendency to inquiry, and not long ago
certain persons decided to send a party of
English workmen to explore industrial Germany
and see what the land was really like. This pro-
posed inquiry seemed so shocking to the irrecon-
cilable variety of CoBDEN-ite that a counter expe-
dition of hard-shell Foreign-traders was hastily
got up. Both parties gave their views. The
men who were convinced before they started
declared, as reported above, that Protection
had done the German workman no good, and
that he was just .about tired of it. The
party that went in a spirit of inquiry
returned with a report to the effect that Sauer-
krautland was booming; that it had no unem-
ployed as Britain understood the term; that it
had no slums like those in London and other
British towns; and that, wherever the Commis-
sion looked, buildings were going up rapidly.
Also, what was described as “squalid poverty ”
in Germany was comparative comfort in the
lower quarters of English cities. The British
delegates inquired into the why and wherefore of
this business, and, after much wrestling with the
subject, found themselves forced to admit that
the fiscal policy of the country kept practically
every able-bodied man in work.
* * ■» *
These were two remarkably divergent tales, and
it is as well to look for outside evidence. A good
deal can Vie found in very simple and accessible
books of reference like Whitaker’s Almanac and
the Statesman’s Year Book. These show that
Germany has no depopulated areas like Ireland,
which lias lost half its people since it gained
Freetrade. The German apparently doesn’t
want to leave his country, while the British person
does; at least the latest published statistics (those
for 1907) show that in that year only 31,690 Ger-
mans emigrated (30,431 of them to the highly
protected United States), while in the same year
395,680 English, Scotch or Irish emigrants left the
British Isles (321,398 of them bound for the U.S.
or Canada, both highly protected countries). The
German population increases much faster than
that of Britain. The savings banks—the banks of
the people—in the German State of Prussia
contain more deposits than those of the
United Kingdom. And in Germany, according
to the Statesman’s Year Book for 1909 (page
833), “poor-ratesare usually not levied.” Thesame
publication sets down the poor-rate levied in the
United Kingdom for a single year at £16,694,782.
But, beyond everything else, remains the fact
that Britain never showed the slightest anxiety
about German competition until Germany took
to high Protection, and that the German was
about the most persistent emigrant in Europe till
high Protection made it worth his while to stay
at home. Hans Schmidt may not have wholly
arrived yet—it would be surprising if he had,
for it is only 21 years since he made his
first experiments at Protection and began to
be a manufacturer —but there is no earthly
doubt that he is coming very fast. Even the
most bigoted devotee of the fiscal policy of the
cave-men and the Early Britons and the old-time
Australian aborigines begins to notice the fact.
* * *
When comparisons are made between the wage-
rates of two countries, the general custom is to
take the tyrades-union rates. That may or
may not be accurate; it all depends on what
proportion the unionists bear to the total com-
munity, and what wages are like outside the
unions. Trades unionists are the aristocracy of
Labor —good workmen belonging to well-defined
and permanent occupations. Below them are the
sweated and disorganised trades, the small,
scrappy businesses, the transient jobs, the home-
workers, the Song of the Shirt people, the child-
labor horrors and the submerged tenth. If these
stand for a very large class, then the average
wage may be low, despite the fairly good pay re-
ceived by the unionist class. If they stand for a
Very small class, then the average wage may be
better even though the unionist receives rather
less. A few years ago an Exhibition of Sweated
Industries filled England with alarm. The coun-
try had no idea that they were so many. It had
hardly dreamed of trades in which whole families
of home-workers toiled very long hours for a joint
result of about 12s. per week. It had lost the
run of the fact that the singer of the Song of the
Shirt is a little worse off now than she was
when her mournful ditty was written. These
things tend to adulterate the boasted statistics re
trades-union wages—though, when there are places
in the British Isles where a union carpenter’s
wage is sd. an hour, even these are, in some cases,
rmt so verv much to boast about.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Eleven Inches of Rain.
A small Federal capital item :
Mr. Matthews (Vic.) asked the Minister for Home
Affairs if he bad taken any notice of the adverse reports
on Yass-Canberra with regard to stock and rainfall.
The Minister for Home Affairs replied: “I have noticed
some of those reports, but I am afraid the newspapers
responsible for them are exaggerating.”
But there is surely no need for the Minister for
Home Affairs to remain buried in doubt or wal-
lowing in uncertainty over such a simple matter
as rainfall. The latest rather belated volume
(1907) of theN.y.W. Statistical Register shows
that there are 71 rain-recording stations on the
coast and tableland districts of N.S.W.. and in
1907 the two lowest rainfalls were those of Cooma.
the nearest station south of Yassberra, and
Queanbeyan, the nearest station east, while
Yass, the nearest station to the north, was also
down among the minium-ins. In 1902. out of the
81 recording stations on the coast, on the table-
land and on the slopes leading down from the
table-land to the western plain Queanbeyan,
alongside Yassberra, was the limit, the dead
finish, the absolutely driest. It scored 11 inches
of rain—the same as Deniliquin and a shade better
than Hay, Euston and Mount Hope. Cooma and
Yass had each 13 inches. There were places a
shade worse on the western slope, but so far as
the 71 stations on the coast and table-land were
concerned Queanbeyan, Cooma and Yass were the
absolute worst. Even far-out Dubbo and Forbes had
14 inches. And there is no big river coming down
from some well-watered region beyond to make
good the deficiency. During that same year of
awful drought, Kiandra, which helps to feed the
Snowy River, had 49 inches. On Sydney 43inches
of rain fell—nearly four times the record of Quean-
beyan, right alongside Yassberra—yet Sydney’s
gardens and lawns looked like Sahara. What do
the Yassberra-ites imagine the gardens and lawns
of the Australian capital will look like with 23
inches of rain in good years and 11 inches in bad
ones ?
The Coroner’s Delay.
The circumstances surrounding the Melbourne
smash were not more foggy than the subse-
quent circumstances surrounding Coroner Cole’s
attempt to postpone, for five weeks, the open-
ing of an inquiry into the causes thereof.
On top of the tragic railway catastrophe
came this inquest scandal, and for a few
hours it filled the Melbourne community with
a notion that all the “authorities” were conspir-
ing, like the Circumlocution Office in Dickens’s
“ Little Dorrit ” to deny information to them who
“ wanted to know.” At the formal opening of
the Coroner’s inquest two counsel, instructed by
the State Solicitor’s Office, appeared for the
Railway Commissioners, and these counsel (or,
rather, the leading one) suggested an ad-


journment of the inquiry for “at least
three weeks.” Whereupon, the foreman of
the jury—a party of seven selected by the
Coroner—stated that a four weeks’ adjournment
would be more convenient because one juryman
had arranged to go to Queensland in the mean-
time. Then the Coroner decided that an adjourn-
ment for nearly five weeks would be only reason-
able, and the public, as soon as it heard the news,
suluttered its indignation in the market place.
Up to then, it appeared that the action of the
Coroner in choosing a juryman who wanted to go
to Queensland, was explainable by the fact that an
adjournment had been already fixed up by the
Crown Solicitor and himself. But when the
scandal came on for discussion in the State
Parliament the same afternoon, the Premier
and the Attorney-General washed their hands
of all responsibility for the adjournment.
Furthermore, the Attorney-General suddenly
cancelled the State’s engagement of counsel for the
defence of the Railway Commissioners, and de-
cided that the State would brief counsel on behalf
of the public, leaving the Railway Commissioners
to run their own legal show with a private firm of
solicitors. This notwithstanding the fact that an
officer in the Attorney-General’s office, who gets
his salary from the Railway Department, had
already begun to prepare a case for the Commis-
sioners. Three questions present themselves to
an inquisitive public through the mist of the in-
quest scandal. (1) If the Vic. State Law
office didn’t intend to instruct counsel on be-
half of Commissioner Tait and Co., and
didn’t want an adjournment of the inquest,
how came it that an officer in the State
Solicitor’s office did instruct counsel who
did ask for an adjournment of at least three weeks?
(2) Why did the Coroner, in picking a jury more
or less identical with the jury that exonerated
Commissioner Tait and Co. from blame in the
awful Sunshine case, include a juryman whose in-
tention to go to Queensland should have put him
out of the team, anyhow? (3) And why, when
the request for an adjournment had been stretched
from three weeks to four weeks, did the Coroner
crown the outrage by proposing to stretch the
four to nearly five weeks? As to why the
Coroner, who had ordered the adjournment, as
being “only reasonable,” cancelled his order and
agreed that it was “desirable to proceed without
delay” when the Attorney-General told him there
was a row in the House—well, that is not a
question. It’s a joke.
A Played-Out Manoeuvre.
The other day William McMillan, of Sydney,
handed the press a scheme whereby the “ Liberal
Party ” might, he considered, be raised from its
present position of anguish. He wrote :
I would suggest as a beginning that, in Parliament, the
term “Labor” should never be used for the Socialist
party, also that in the announcement of candidates at
the next State election, our leading journals should use
the designation “ Socialist ” as contra-distinguished from
“ Liberal."
Which proposal was greeted with hopeful cheers
by a number of short-sighted Tories. One trouble
with the notion is that it has been tried before
and proved a dreary failure. In 1900, when George
Ricid was making his last frenzied grab at office,
not only were all Laborites styled “Socialists”
by the Tory press and Toryism generally, but
the same term was applied to those who were
suspected, however dimly, of being in sympathy
with Labor. Thus Deakin, who is now leader of
the Tory party, was in those days warmly damned
by anti-Soeialists—and, amongst them, by the
identical papers which printed McMillan’s
suggestion—as one whose Socialism was no less
menacing and revolutionary for the reason that
it was unavowed. The scheme of Reid, which
McMillan now seeks to revive, was to have the
Labor party’s title changed to that of “Socialist
party,” and then to represent Socialism as
Anarchy. With the latter aim in view,
Risid frankly asked the electors, in a news-
paper manifesto, to vote for his party,
and: “against Anarchy.” Deaicin jeered at
Risid’s somewhat crude assault upon office,
and charged the elderly humorist’s Menace with
being a bogus Horror. And, indeed, since what
Reid called “Socialism,” and, ergo, Anarchy, in
1906, has since come on top in the Commonwealth
and elsewhere without visible damage to any
honest, law-abiding section of the community, it
looks as though Deakin’s one-time gibe at the
party he now leads was merited. There are
other reasons why McMillan’s borrowed scheme
is bound to be a failure. A political party can’t
score, these days, by marrow-freezing alone. Anti-
Sosh has been wont to spend so much time bleat-
ing about the horrible Socialistic ways of Labor
in the past, that it never had a spare five
minutes to say what it meant to do itself if
given a show. As a result, the country has got a
fixed impression that Anti-Sosh stands for little
more construction, legislatively speaking, than a
series of interminable and depressing yelps about
utterly unconvincing Horrors. Which is a reputa-
tion that is no good to any party in a progressive
country like Australia. And, finally and chiefly,
McMillan’s proposal (which was originally
Reid’s) to render Labor a public by-word by
accusing it of Socialism is futile, for the reason
that the Australian people are indicating clearly
to-day not only that they don’t fear Socialism so
very much, but that Socialism, in one form or
another, is the identical line of legislative goods
they want. Glance, for example, at some of
the grossly Socialistic measures that even allegedly
anti-Socialistic Parliamentarians feel called on to
advocate just now in both Federal and State
Houses •-
(1) In the Reps., Wilms Kelly’s first deed on arriving
from Sydney the other day was to “give notice of his in-
tention to move for the establishment of a Commonwealth
horse-breeding station for military purposes.” Only Prime-
Minister Fisher's assurance that the Government had
already decided to establish Socialistic horse-breeding
stations in at least two, and possibly three, States, availed
to soothe William’s hankering for that which the Went-
worth electors expressly sent him to Parliament in 1906
to combat.
(2) In the N.S.W. Assembly, John Miller, a WADE-ite
and a sturdy opponent of “ the Socialists,” will shortly
move: “That, in the opinion of this House, anEight Hour
Bill should be introduced and passed into law.”
(3) Henley, M.L.A., advocates the nationalisation of
Sydney’s Private Enterprise gas company.
(4) Neville Mayman, the Liberal nominee for King
(N.S.W.) electorate, is urging the need for “ Young Age
Pensions.”
(5) G. G. Wade himself has favored about 74 flamingly
Socialistic measures in the last three or four months, and
the list looks like swelling as the position of his party
grows more desperate.
Certainly, the Socialistic measures advocated by
these bogus auti-Socialists seldom get on to the
Statute books. Most of them aren’t meant to,
even by their own advocates. But the fact that
the old Parliamentary hand feels he must shove
such enactments forward, from time to time, if he
is to retain a reputation for usefulness, is sufficient
indication that the modern Australian elector has
as little prejudice against Socialism per se, as he
lias time for a party whose chief excuse for ex-
istence lies in being “ anti-Socialist.”
A Remedy for Political Lying.
Almost any day the daily paper reader is liable
to pick up the journal which most appeals to his
sense of the absurd, and be confronted with a
couple of columns of frantic disclaimer from some-
one whose political party has been allegedly
libelled. Now it is Wade who controverts at
great length the charge that his is a. “ Leg-iron
Ministry”; according to Wade, the leg-ironing
of Bowling was the work of one of his menials,
and he (Wade) refuses to be held responsible for
it. Now it is McGowen denying heatedly
that he—a Methodist and a non-drinker—is
allied with Rome and Rum. Now it is Fisher
or Hughes or both Who explain in an exhaustive
fashion that the Federal Labor party does not
stand for the disruption of the Empire ; that
W. E. Johnson’s charge that Labor’s only object
in planning an Australian navy is to compass the
destruction of the British fleet is incorrect;
that the party does not favor revolution and
anarchy ; that Laborites have never pushed ship-
wrecked niggers into the sea in accordance with
the provisions of the Alien Immigration
Act; that British subjects weren’t shooed off
Australian soil at the instance of the Sydney
Trades Hall; and so on ad infinitum. An
immense amount of newspaper space, ink,
energy, time, temper, etc., is wasted'over these
interminable denials. And yet they never do any
permanent good. One charge is hardly laid be-
fore its brother is up, and in full work again.
Some of them are old enough to wear long white
beards. They have nearly all been bashed, upper
cut, riddled and rendered senseless on scores of
occasions; yet the first time a political speaker
finds himseif at loss for a point, he trots one or
more of them out afresh. It would be a boon in
47 different directions if the libel law could be
applied to the majority of them. Why should
a citizen be forbidden to slander his indi-
vidual neighbor and yet be at liberty
to slander a whole party of neighbors'?
Where is the sense or equity in a law which
leaps like a demented Dervish on Brown for
lying about Jones, as a grocer or conveyancer or
what not, and is impotent to do anything what-
ever to Brown when he untruthfully says that
Jones is one of a party whose aim is mur-
der, robbery and sundries, and that, in con-
sequence, Jones is in intent a murderer
and robber. Laborites should be particu-
larly agreeable to a move in the direction of
making political lying unhealthy. During recent
anti-Socialistic campaigns they had horrifying
examples of the effect of the existing license.
The recent anti-Labor charges made by Henley,
Fitzpatrick, Wade, etc., in the N.S.W.
Assembly—utterly damning to the party, if be-
lieved —are further instances of the way freedom
of verbal assault operates. Unless “Liberalism ”
is strangely disingenuous, it should also welcome
a change. Premier Wade has been wailing
ceaselessly, of late, concerning the hideous and
by Ins account —baseless charges levelled against
his Administration. Pathetic yelps arise at inter-
vals from .Jimmy Hogue, on the same grounds.
And Minister Wood periodically essays to put
the party right with the electors by inviting its
allegedly slanderous critics to “Come outside.”
Public wailings, short-arm jabs and the like are
hopelessly archaic and foolish methods of coping
with false statements —provided the latter really
are false. All this * absurd and unedifying
uproar could be stilled by a short Act
making it as legally dangerous for any-
one to maliciously publish untruths to
the detriment of a political party as it now is to
do the same thing about half a dozen private
citizens. The public, which is sick of the cease-
less uproar occasioned by the present state of
things, and which recognises, anyhow, that most
of the parties have enough genuine misdeeds to
answer for without being required to cope with
massed battalions of fantastic mendacities, would
be bound to look favorably on the idea.
»
The Chain Gang Point of View.
Last week B. It. Wise had occasion to remark
that “although a jury alone may find a man in-
nocent, no man can be convicted unless both J udge
and jury concur as to his guilt.” (“Kept in gaol”
would have been a more exact phrase than “con-
victed,” possibly; but since the reference was to
the release of a prisoner by a N.rf.W. executive
at the instance of the Judge who had presided at
his trial, the meaning was clear enough.) Sydney
>Telegeaph immediately went off in this fashion:
Hence, a Judge alone may find a man innocent, but he
cannot convict without the concurrence of the jury.
This means that in determining the question of guilt or
innocence, the Judge and the jury are co-ordinate
factors. Not only does Mr. Wise put this forward as his
interpretation of the law, but he now gives it as the reason
for a certain course of action which he once felt called
upon to take, when Attorney-General, and which, but
for the support of the Labor Caucus, would have
wrecked the Ministry of which he was a member. We
may assume, therefore, that Mr. McGowkx and his fol-
lowers endorse the principle as thus laid down by Mr.
Wise, and look upon trial by jury in the same light as
that in which the ex-Attorney-General now presents it.
... If the Judge is to have practically the same power as
the jury, which he has if either can acquit a prisoner,
while both must agree before he can be convicted, it is
difficult to see why juries should be retained any longer
as part of the system.... Under the system as Mr. Wise
explains it, a jury is clearly superfluous in criminal
trials, and it is only because the public have never been
aware of its alleged uselessness that they set such store
on trial by jury as hitherto they have done.
It is an astonishing outburst for a civilised
newspaper to make over the discovery that, even
in N.S.W.. an accused person isn’t always
necessarily doomed when a jury has found him
guilty. Also, it is a painful example of the way
the old chain-gang traditions cling in that State,
which still lacks a Court of Criminal Appeal, and
where capital punishment is prescribed for more
offences than in any other English-speaking com-
munity on earth. The whole trend of modern
British criminal administration—in harmony with
a legal system which presumes that each man is
innocent till he has been found guilty—is to give
the accused person every chance to get off. The
tendency, which is expressed in the axiom,
“ Better that 10 guilty people should go free than
that one innocent man should suffer,” is to be
observed throughout the Court’s dealings witli
accused folk. Crown Prosecutors are encouraged
to do their duty with studied moderation. There
have been instances where Attorney-Generals
have foreborne to brief over-zealous prosecutors.
Judges help prisoners who elect to defend them-
selves and withdraw cases from juries when they
consider the evidence insufficient. The Crown
assigns counsel to indigent accused, and so on.
Consider this barbaric sentiment from a paper
which postures as one of the voices of local
“ Liberalism ” :
And if tiie result is to confirm Mr. Wise’s view [namely,
that Judges may, in certain circumstances, procure the
release of prisoners even after juries have convicted
them), it will be necessary to take legislative action for
putting in the hands Of juries that exclusive power
which, since Magna Charta, they have been popularly
believed to possess, or remodelling the administration of
criminal law on a more consistent basis.
“Legislative action,” forsooth! Why, in Eng-
land, which hasn’t, hitherto, labored under a
reputation for reckless progressiveness, legislative
action was deliberately taken, three years ago,
with the express object of limiting the exclusive
power of juries to gaol accused persons. As a
result, in England, the dangerous authority which
the Telegraph wants to see in the hands of
local juries has vanished. Under the British
Criminal Law Appeal Act three or more
Judges sit as a permanent Court to hear
appeals from the verdicts of juries in crimi-
nal cases, not only on points of law, but
on points of fact. Ten years ago, when
the theory was first advanced that it more
equitable for a jury to have the final word in the
disposal of a man’s life and liberty than it was
for the same body to have the final word in the
disposal of his property, English Conservative
papers blithered about “Magna Charta,” “wild
experimentalism,” and “revolution”—even as,
the Sydney Telegraph does to-day. Now, after
two years’ experience, there is not one of them
with the assurance to deny that the Criminal
Appeal Court, wherein the “ exclusive power” of
juries to gaol people is daily knocked to
smithereens, is other than a mighty national
boon. One thing is a cheering certainty,
these civilised days. There won’t be any
“legislative action” in N.S.W. to make
juries’ convictions more immutable than they are
at present. Already thinking people, lawyers
and laymen alike, look with horror on the old
cast-iron criminal-law procedure; and the judi-
ciary, in instinctive sympathy with the enlight-
ened popular view, strains points in favor of
accused persons wherever possible. The next
legislative action will more likely be in the direc-
tion of giving the convict the same right of
appeal on points of fact that the civil litigant has ;
and the normal human being, hereabouts, won’t
care how soon that reform comes.
+
The Tired Person’s Usual Loophole.
The large, tired person who nominally bosses
Victoria has naturally passed the job of dealing
with the city’s transport service on to a Royal
Commission, which will report in due time and at
great length and considerable expense as to how
to carry the suburbanites to and in and around
the big metropolis. Yet there is no need for any
such inquiry. The matter can be dealt with sim-
ply enough by (1) making an immediate start at
electrifying the suburban lines ; (2) building elec-
tric tramways along main streets between the
present railway routes ; (3) electrifying the exist-
ing tram lines. The only difficulty about the
matter is in the latter item, but the municipalities
should be told definitely that, if they fail
to come to a reasonable agreement by a fixed
date, so as to work the system when the com-
pany’s lease expires, either under a general
Tramway Commission or under a Greater Mel-
bourne Council, the Government will take over
the job itself. As for the company, it could be
brought to a reasonable frame of mind, as to the
remaining six years of its lease, by legal action in
enforcing a reduction of its fares. It has made
gorgeous profits at the expense of the public
during the 25 years it has held the lines, and if its
fares were reduced by Parliamentary action, justi-
hed and even anticipated by its agreement, it
would assuredly be willing to compromise.
At present the suburbanites dwelling 1 five or six
miles out, between the Williauistown, Essendon
Brunswick, Preston, Heidelberg, Box Hill, Oak-
leigh, Mordialloe and feandringham lines, have to
walk for anything up to three miles to get a
means of conveyance to the city. All these wide,
settled spaces should be served by electric tram-
lines connecting with the to-be-electrified cable
lines, and one or more circular lines should be run
so as to connect the suburbs. At present Mel-
bourne expends more time, worry, shoe-leather
and cuss words in getting to the city than the job
is worth.
♦
Another Way of Making a Port.
The newest idea for the improvement of Mel-
bourne’s port is that of the local Harbor Trust,
which threatens to dredge out the Yarra to a
uniform depth of 30ft. throughout, blast away
two reefs, and bring the biggest mail steamers
right up to the gasworks or thereabouts. (Of
course, by the time the Yarra is dredged to a
depth of 30ft. the biggest mail steamer will pro-
bably have grown to a draught of 3Gft., but that
is a mere detail.) It is a pleasing scheme for the
Trust which will have the spending of the
money, but for the public which will have to find
the cash it is the biggest fool idea which ever
struck the city of Marvellous Notions. By the
ordinations of Nature the Yarra takes about 10
miles to traverse a direct distance of two miles,
one consequence of which is that it would take an
awful lot of dredging to keep it the required depth.
Another is that it is so narrow that even the inter-
state boats now find a difficulty in turning
round or “swinging,” and, though the mailboats
could go astern for eight or 10 miles, the prospects
of their doing so don’t look too promising. Quite
a number of engineers have a rooted objection to
running their machines backward more than they
can help. Moreover, the Trust may not be aware
of the fact, but it is nevertheless true that it can-
not cope with the existing import and export
trade along the Yarra. Bight down to the Vic-
toria Dock entrance, two miles from the city, the
sheds are packed and crammed with goods that
cannot be got away fast enough. All day long
the continuous stream of lorries and vans toils
along the wharf roads and still, as each
ship comes in, the captain’s eternal demand is,
“ Where the mischief am I to put all my cargo? ”
Now all this carting per horse is expensive and
wasteful. There should be at least two lines of
rails all along the wharves, but Tait can’t put
them there because there is no room, unless he is
prepared to spend several millions in buying up
gasworks, hydraulic power works and similar
concerns. Even if he could compass the idea and
run his train alongside the gas co.’s wharf, the
mail steamer passengers and freight would be no
better served than before. All must still be
trained up to the city, discharged and loaded
and re-discharged. But across the Port Mel-
bourne rifle ranges, straight from the city to
the port, lies a wide waste of unused land where
a canal could be run at little more cost
than the price of deepening the Yarra, and which
would not take a quarter as much to keep it deep ;
and this idle waste is nearly all State land. The
big steamers could come up here just as far as
necessary to find wharf space and discharge into
acres of stores on these State lands. There the
goods could be sorted out and despatched to their
destinations direct, without any second or third
handling. And over that State land Tait could
run 20 lines of railway, if necessary, straight from
the port to the North Melbourne yards. Of
course, if Murray would set about makifig his
closed ports distributing centres for oversea pro-
duce a lot of Melbourne’s congestion would be re-
lieved, but the city would still grow, and the port
must be improved. The mania to drag every-
thing up the Yarra is as disastrous as the similar
mania to drag everything to Sydney.
» .
The Closed Ports Commission and Another
-Important Commission.
The N.S.W. Government’s Decentralisation
Commission is working patiently on. It took a
large tome of evidence m Sydney, and now it is
meandering around the country in a leisurely,
persistent sort of way, picking up further odd
volumes of evidence about the Closed Ports at
each pause in its journey. By the time it has
finished its work it will have garnered a whole
library of evidence, and it will calcine the mid-
night candle down to the socket hammering out a
report. Then it will address the report to Wade,
dump it on to a motor lorry, draw its salary, and
go home. Its Work Will Be Done. After that—
well, after that Wade may take some notice of
the report, but a lot of people, made sour
by bitter experience, are doubtful about it. For
example, it is probable that the N.S.W. In-
stitute of Architects is doubtful, or, at least,
it would be doubtful if it had time- But the
architects are very busy just now asking Wade
about his Greater Sydney Commission’s report,
which was delivered 18 months ago and which he
has apparently forgotten. At all events, he hasn’t
done much to give it practical effect. -Meantime,
not only Sydney, but the whole State, has been
largely held up because of the absence of the
improvements which the Commission told Wade,
at his own special request, were necessary. Even
Wade’s very enthusiastic supporter—the S. M.
Herald —sees that, and talked about it in its
“Local Government” column (21/7/’10): —
Those who have read the Royal Commission’s report
and the evidence taken will not need to be reminded of
the immense loss that occurs annually to the commerce
of the whole State by reason of the fact that Sydney, as
the commercial entrepot of the State, is no longer capable
of rendering the distributive service required, for the
reason that the necessities of her marvellously-increasing
trade and commerce have outgrown the facilities pro-
vided on the city plan. To put it bluntly, Sydney
requires replanning and rebuilding. The Royal Commis-
sion showed how this should be done. It requires better
wharfage.it needs city railways, tunnels, tramways and
new traffic routes. Because of its choked wharf ap-
proaches, the man in the Outback is penalised and made
to pay more for his commodities than he need do if
handling were not so cumbersome and costly. He gets
less for his produce because the cost of handling between
the farm or station and the ship is greater than it need
be if we had up-to-date methods and proper modes of
handling merchandise and produce, and easy access to
the water-side.
Haystack, the farmer, who. as a rule, isn’t much
interested in the Greater Sydney business, and
who frequently votes “ Liberal,” should make a
note of the Herald’s remarks as to how this con-
tempt for his Greater Sydney Commission’s report
has affected him (Haybale). And Hayloft
might ask himself—while thinking hard about the
Herald’s remarks aforesaid —bow much the
Government really cares about Haybag ; also,
how much better off Hayseed is likely to be as a
result of Wade’s Closed Ports and Railway Ex-
tension Commission.
“Us.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Three-fourtha of the trouble over the Northern Terri-
tory agreement arise out of inability to realise the great-
ness of this country’s possibilities. There has been a
frantic clawing to drag the Port Darwin railway round
by “ our " State and to deviate it through our back-
yard, apparently because of an impression that there is
never going to be any other railway, and that if we
don’t get hold of this particular railway we are for
ever undone.—Bulletin (SO/6/’lO).
Now listen to me, good masters,
You of the States Frights crowd,
You of the shrill, high voices
Clamoring long and loud ;
Filling the land with your ravings,
Rending the air with your fuss,
To what in the end do your moutliings
trend ?
Whom do you mean by “ Us” 1
You are ever alert and ready
To clamor about “ our ” aims ;
You never neglect the chances
Of bolstering up “our” claims;
“ We ” have to be considered,
“ We ” of the voices loud,
But it seemeth to me that your frequent
“ we ”
Is the “ we ” of a small, mean crowd.
For “ us ” of a bloated city
The needs of a land must wait;
And the weal of a nation suffer
For “ us” of a selfish State—
“ Us” of an ancient order
Of rancor and hate and spite,
And what care we how the nation be
So long as we hold our “ right ” ?
I have seen “you” rise at a banquet,
A pitiful sight to see :
Your wide white weskit bulging
With tucker and loyalty.
Of the great and glorious Hempire
I have heard you yammering hard,
Then marked you drop with a sickening flop
To the claims of “ our ” backyard.
If “we ” can collar the railway
The national hope we’ll blast;
And we’ll deafen the land with bowlings
If the claims of “our” port are passed.
If a scheme can’t be exploited
For the gain of “our” precious State,
Then we’ll rave and cuss, and the howl of “us”
Is a howl of envious hate.
What are the needs of a nation,
What are a whole land’s aims
If they clash with our paltry notions
Of “interests,” “rights” and “claims”?
“ We,” with our back-yard visions ;
“ We,” with our hen-roost dreams—
Your plans we’ll smash ; there must be spot
cash
For “ us ” in your nation’s schemes.
Then listen to me, good masters,
While you rave and whine and fuss,
The day of your doom is nearing,
And you’ll answer for all to us—-
Us of the young Australia,
When your clamor and howls be.spent;
And dawns the day when you’ll all make
way
For •' Us of the Continent.”
VICTORIA.
DEN.


Adams' Tattersall’s Hotel,
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
4k
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached *, also ADAMS’ CAFE.
Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
SMT* Moving 1 Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIEING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney—3B6 George Street: Melbourne—266 Collins
Street; Brisbane—93-95 Queen Street; Adelaide—
Gawler Place : Perth—Tillys’ Photo. Stores.
More Bulged Railway.
This trifle appeared in Sydney Telegraph’s lead-
ing article of last Tuesday
When Lord Kitciibnkr was in this country he was re-
ported to have expressed to the Premier of West Aus-
tralia the opinion that transcontinental railways should
be constructed, but that the northern one should pass
through a portion of Queensland instead of going directly
north from Adelaide. The object of such a route
would be to link up the whole east by bringing
Northern Queensland and the States below into close
touch. Strategically considered, before a direct north-
and-south line could be utilised, all eastern forces and
material would have to be sent into South Australia, and
thence northward by a circuitous, long and slow route.
On the other hand, if the railway ran through part of
Queensland, and perhaps down through part of New
South Wales, all those forces could be sent wherever they
were needed north by a short and speedy route. These
and other aspects of the project call for careful inquiry,
as well as for expert guidance. It is a matter of doing
what is best, not for South Australia, but for all Aus-
tralia,
Now, in the first place, it is quite true that
Kitchener was “reported ” to have said that the
Northern Transcontinental railway should go
round by Queensland. He was never such an
appalling fool as to say it, for he could, doubt-
less, see clearly enough that Adelaide is the
nearest big city to Port Darwin, and the one
which, if the North was attacked, could most
easily send assistance ; not only because of its
nearness by land, but also because it would be
farthest from the possibility of attack by sea;
and he likewise, no doubt, observed that Mel-
bourne is the next place that the North must de-
pend upon. But, despite these facts, the report
that he recommended the long, costly, cir-
cuitous and absurdly-bulged railway was all
there; it was invented by one of the
papers which was clamoring for the eastern
deviation. As for the statement that if the line
goes straight north and south, “all eastern forces
and material would have to be sent into S. Aus-
tralia, and thence northward by a circuitous,
long and slow route,” that is so childish that it
should only circulate in a lunatic asylum. It is based
on the assumption that, though it is quite possible
to carry a Port Darwin line in a long curve east-
ward into Queensland to join, say, the Rock-
hampton railway, it is quite impossible to carry
the Rockhampton railway westward into the
Territory to join a straight Port Darwin-Port
Augusta line. The reason of this is never ex-
plained, because it is such amazing madness that
there is no possible explanation.
“ W.G.” : Being an admirer of the White Aus-
tralian policy, I upend myself to protest against
a gang of politicians, in responsible Federal and
State positions, lending themselves to the open-
ing of a Chow restaurant at Melbourne a few
Weeks ago. This Chow-Chow establishment was
entirely fitted up by Chinese labor (except the
electric light arrangements), and is not situated
in the most enticing portion of the city. Amongst
the white Australians who sat down to birds’
nests and other fixings were Minister for External
Affairs Batchelor, W. Maloney, M.H.R.,
Dr. Molnerney (warden of the University
Senate), Edgar (Hon. Minister in Vie.
Cabinet), E. Miller, M.L.C. (Vic.), and
others. Most of them made pleasant speeches,
and Maloney, M.H.R., proposed the health of
the boss Chow of the joint. I’ve always under-
stood that the Labor party, anyhow, stood for
checking the encroachment of the yellow agony
into our Australian life, and that has appealed to
me as a strong reason why I should support
Labor ; but if the Fisher Government is going to
give the evil-living Chink the encouragement of
its presence in the person of the Minister for
External Affairs at the opening of joints where,
as the Age put it, “ not only Celestials, but white
men and women will be welcome,” my vote is
marked up in future for the Australian party—
just as soon as the Australian party can get a
move on.
♦
The Melbourne Coroner, in charging the jury
that is to conduct the investigation into the cause
of the Richmond railway disaster, made some
complimentary remarks regarding the block
system, which he described as “about the most
perfect in the world ” ; and he told the good men
and true that it would be their privilege to find
out why it failed. It is safe to bet some money
that it will not be their privilege. The questions
they will be asked to decide will probably be : (1)
Was the home signal at Richmond set at
“danger”? (2) Could the driver of the second
train see the signal? (3) Were fog detonators
put down? (4) Did they explode with a re-
port or just a fizzle? And it is very unlikely
that their attention will be drawn to the fact that
the block system, in the true sense of the term,
is not enforced in Victoria. To quote from
“ Nelson’s Encyclopaedia,” a work published in
1907, and therefore about the most recent thing in
encyclopaedias :
In the block system of signalling a railway is divided
into a number of sections bv a series of signal-boxes,
NOT MORE THAN ONE TRAIN BEING ALLOWED ON
ONE LINE IN A SECTION AT A TIME.
In Victoria more than one train is allowed “on
one line in a section at a time.” Otherwise the
Sunshine disaster and the Richmond disaster
would have been impossible. There is a sort of
bastard variation of the block system, based on
what is technically called the One-Five signal,
which allows two trains to be on the one section,
but that isn’t the real block system. So what is
the use of the Richmond jury inquiring into the
block system ? Why not inquire into the mega-
therium ?
«
The Bulletin has before it a printed Parliamen-
tary paper issued by the N.S.W. State Govern-
ment and headed “Federal Capital Site.” It
embodies five letters by State Premier Wade and
one by his subordinate Lee, giving orders and
instructions to the Australian Ministry re the
capital, with replies from Deakin, Robert Best
and Fisher. In the last letter Wade speaks as
follows: —
I think the time has now arrived when definite action
should be taken by your Government on this most im-
portant matter. I have exercised as much forbearance as
can be expected. Nearly three months have elapsed
since your Government came into power, etc.
It is all very interesting, but one letter which
should be there is missing. It is the letter from
Prime Minister Fisher telling Wade that he has
no more authority to interfere with the Federal
capital business, except as a private elector of the
Co m moil wealth, than he has to interfere, with the
affairs of the Sultan of Turkey ; that he is an in-
sufferably bumptious and inflated meddler ; that
any future letters on the subject will remain un-
answered ; and that, if he continues to be a
cheeky nuisance, his correspondence will be re-
turned unopened. Wade has somehow blown
himself out with the idea that, because the Aus-
tralian capital is to be in N.S.W., he has a right
in his State capacity to boss the show, and give
instructions about the site, the area, the date
when building will commence, and other things.
In like manner, he will doubtless give orders
about the fleet if any N.S.W. port is made the
naval headquarters, and about the arsenal if it is
established at Lithgow. There is a dire need for
some one to explain to Wade his utter unimport-
ance in the Federal scheme of things.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Brass Bottle.”
Royal “Trilby.”
Criterion “ The Arcadians.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Madam Butterfly.”
Royal “ Passing of the 3rd Floor Back.’
Kino’s “ The Chance of a Lifetime.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
.West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Athen.®um Hall Tait’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
4.
“ The Brass Bottle,” the new show at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney), claims to be no more than a
farce. The experience of years impels one to
associate English farce with wild howls, assault
and battery, the squirting of soda-water syphons
and grotesque complications, mostly arising from
the characters dashing through wrong doors (a
superfluity of doors is the sign manual of this
class of play), and thereby finding old married
men, young unmarried men, parsons, elders and
so-forth, in compromising situations with un-
attached members of the other sex. Anstey
is a cut above those ancient and crude
devices. There is a pleasing dearth in “The
Brass Bottle” of what one may call the
catastrophic brand of humor. The plot is
original, and the dialogue as bright and racy of
the London soil, as one would expect from the
author of “Voces Populi.” On the other hand,
there is too much of it. For three hours and 10
minutes, on Saturday night, the audience at Her
Majesty’s had to watch the matter-of-fact Lon-
doners, whom Anstey portrays so admirably,
being embarrassed by their misguided old visitant
from remote antiquity. For a couple of acts the
house laughed uproariously, and then its enthu-
siasm languished. For this the construction of
the play, as much as the fact that Sydney is a
city where boats and trains wait for no playgoer,
was to blame. The fourth act is amusing enough,
but it is unnecessary, not to say an excrescence;
and, coming after the bottling of the jinn, it
constitues an anti-climax.
* * * *
Horace Ventimore, a young architect, buys
a brass bottle containing one of King Solomon’s
rebellious jinns, and opens it. The jinn is
pleased to get out and anxious to repay his
liberator. The interest and fun of the play re-
side in the clashes that occur between the 3000-
year-old point of view of the jinn and the stolid
modernism of the people he encounters. The
jinn is a baffling mixture of godlike capacity and
incomprehension that amounts to half-wittedness.
He is capable of filling Ventimore’s lodgings
with diamonds and rubies the size of ostrich
eggs, but unable to grasp that there is no safe
market for such goods. He possesses the power
to run up a Moorish palace in a single night,
but lacks the understanding to grasp that a
huge draughty edifice without bathrooms, billiard
rooms or drains is useless to a twentieth century
auctioneer. He can turn people into animals, but
can’t find an article that is hidden within 3ft. of
him. Ventimore greets the ancient’s efforts to
please with frantic revilings. For a while the
latter endures this scurvy treatment complacently.
And then he undergoes a sudden change of heart.
This comes at an awkward time when he has
alienated the affection of Ventimore’s fiancee,
turned her father into a mule, and done other
damage. Argument ensues. The now homici-
dally-inclined jinn is persuaded to undo the
harm he has wrought, and return to his bottle.
Most of the. superfluous fourth act above-men-
tioned, is devoted to the humiliating of Venti-
more’s unworthy rival.
The acting is excellent. Leslie Holland
plays Ventimore with the utmost liveliness and
humor. Herbert Greville’s sketch of an infuriated
auctioneer is full of merit. The jinn (Evelyn
Vernon) now insanely amiable, now maniacal in
his wrath, is a delightful creation, and his weird
eau-de-nil make-up amounts to a triumph.
Kenyon Musgrave, Arthur Soames, Miss Rignold,
Miss St. Clair and Miss Elsie Stevenson all do
well. The staging is good and the supernatural
entrances and exits of the jinn are particularly
# #
“D.” writes a postscript to the notice of
“ The Brass Bottle ” :
In my view Anstey never intended “The Brass Bottle”
to be the farce he has styled it for the allurement of the
frivolous, but an allegory. And a very suggestive
allegory it is, too. I take his Green Jinn to symbolise
the moneyed conservative of all time. The modern con-
servative’s wealth gives him a jinnish power to work all
sorts of wonders. By a mere wave of the hand in the
neighborhood of a cheque book'and an inkbottle, he can
cause unspeakable happiness. He has a genuine wish to
do good, sometimes; but, as in the case of Anstey’s
jinn, he simply doesn’t know how. Thus, when he does
elect to fling round largesse, he gives £lO,OOO to a Dread-
nought fund. And the next day, in all likelihood, he hands
over some poor devil, who has asked him for a shilling
wherewith to get luxuriously tight, to the police. A
Dreadnought is a useless, in fact embarrassing, article to
press upon a solvent, self-respecting nation. The proud
and affluent people, on whom the local Conservative
sought to force this absurd present the other day, wanted
it no more than Horace Ventimore wants the astounding
bride which the jinn offers him nightly at Her Majesty’s,
Sydney. The Conservative couldn’t see why. And so,
when it was refused, he grew' annoyed ; and jinn-like,
proceeded to sulk. The jinn lives, to all intents and
purposes, in a bygone era ; so does the Conservative.
Neither of them is able to assimilate modernism.
Thus the jinn favors the views of thinkers of 3000 years
back; the Conservative those of Cobden, which are
equally played out. It was, indeed, a neat touch on
Anstey’s part to make his jinn commit suicide, owing
to fear of the menace “ Progress.” Progress is the spec-
tre that haunts the modern jinn or Tory all the days of
his life. Sometimes the latter calls it Protection, some-
times Home Rule, sometimes Industrial Legislation. But
it always amounts to the same thing: namely Change,
departure from the ruck of ages.
** * *
Nellie Stewart, as Mrs. John Shand, will
knit the last sock and write the last speech for
her tame M.P. at Sydney Royal on Friday night.
On Saturday evening she is to assume the regi-
mental coat and bare feet of Trilby, and win the
hearts of Taffy, the Laird and Little Billee whilst
Svengali—the original wireless control station—
makes passes in the air and outwits the “pig-
dogs.” An epidemic of “ Ben Bolt ” will probably
set in early next week.
** * *
Sydney has not seen a more fascinating
production in years than “The Arcadians,”
which was staged at the Criterion last week.
Someone wrote in a London review, the other
day, that when the English-speaking Aristo-
phanes materialises, if he ever does, he will exer-
cise his genius on a musical play “charming to
the senses, stimulating to the imagination, and
satisfying to the intelligence—a work that will be
an enchanting fairy tale to the young and to the
old a gracefully genial, satirical phantasmagoria.”
The wit of “ The Arcadians ” isn’t exactly Aris-
tophanic; on the other hand, there is lots of it,
and it is exploited by masters. In other
respects the piece pretty nearly complies
with the specifications mentioned above. A
scene-painter, a fine orchestra, and a score or
so of musical-comedians contrive to suggest, at
times, something of the languorous charm and
poetry of life in Arcady, and that without any of
the magic lines of, say, “Twelfth Night,” to help
the illusion along. For the rest, the merits of the
show may be stated by means of negatives. Idi-
otic sentimentality, and the banal musical num-
bers and hideous calcium effects which commonly
march therewith, are pleasingly absent. No one
gets drunk. There isn’t a single questionable,
suggestive or obscene jest in the entire show.
Which unusualnesses count for a good deal of
artistic righteousness.
“THE BRASS BOTTLE ,” AT HER
MAJESTY’S , SYDNEY.
Horace Ventimore (Leslie Holland) and the
Jinn (Evelyn Vernon).
This musical-comedy is unique in another
respect; a coherent plot may be distinctly iden-
tified with the naked eye. James Smith, a
Cockney caterer, falls into Arcady out of an aero-
plane. As the r6le of James is sustained by
William Cromwell, playgoers will understand the
type of caterer it is who lands among the gentle
pastoral folk. Smith is “dipped” for lying
shortly after his arrival, and emerges from the
“Well of Truth” physically unable to prevari-
cate. With this disability upon him, and accom-
panied by the maidens, Sombra and Chryssea,
he returns to London, where his formidable
wife and their joint restaurant reside. Smith
and the Arcadians encounter Mrs. Smith and
her friends on Ask wood racecourse. Mrs. Smith
fails to recognise her husband in his Arcadian
garb, but instinctively loves him for his haunting
resemblance to her supposedly absent spouse.
Sombra employs her miraculous power over dumb
animals to cause a race to be won by the right
horse, thus infuriating the unworthy Sir George
Paddock, and enabling the deserving hero to
amass a useful sum of money. Also, she exerts
herself to reconcile the hero and his lady-love
when they have quarrelled. After shining, gene-
rally, like lights in a comparatively naughty
world, the Arcadians return whence they came,
leaving everybody merry and bright.
* * * *
Miss Maie Sydney has all the attributes
that make for the presentment of a likely Arca-
dian. She is most graceful and shapely little
person, with a face of innocence and a delicious
speaking voice. Her light but pure and high
soprano is used effectively in “Arcady is Ever
Young” and “|The Pipes of Pan are Calling,”
Cromwell (Smith, afterwards Simplieitas) is funny
in the immemorial Cromwellian wav. Miss Essie
Perrin looks charming, and does some startling
dancing with Arthur Edwards, a new comer of
ability. Miss Gertrude Gilliam is a vivacious and
tuneful heroine, and Harold Thorley a taking hero.
Miss Kavanagh plays Maria for all the part is
worth. And there is Doody, the jockey, por-
trayed by Tom Walls. Doody is one of the
queerest stage-creations the writer has seen. He
suggests a wowser divine, who, having reaped his
whiskers and donned fancy dress, has gone melan-
choly mad. He is easily the success of the show
on its humorous side. The music is attractive,
without being sensational, and the staging and
dressing approach perfection.
At their concert, on Tuesday (July 19), the
Austral String Quartette rewarded admirers who
had defied the elements and gone out in the midst
of the storm to hear them, by playing for the first
time in Sydney the Tschaikowsky Trio, which
mingles funereal dirges with ballroom waltzes and
hymn tunes in a fascinating and thoroughly Rus-
sian manner. The artists were Cyril Monk
(violin), Gladstone Bell (’cello) and Ernest Tru-
man (piano). They were recalled with many
clappings for this. Cyril Monk and Tchaikov
played the Bach Concerto in D minor. Burns
Walker was the solo vocalist, and he also was
freely applauded.
** * *
A tremendously long programme was the
bill of fare provided by the Amateur Orchestral
Society at its concert on Wednesday (20th). Two
overtures, a symphony, a longish suite and
a prelude kept the musicians hard at it
throughout the evening. In addition, they
played accompaniments for an aria from “Aida,”
sung by Mrs. Slapoffski, and the duet between
Elsa and Ortrud in the second act of “Lohengrin,”
done by the afore-mentioned Mrs. Slap and Miss
Muriel Barton, a rather large person with a rather
small voice. Conductor Slapoffski led his forces
in a first-time performance of a prelude by a
Finnish composer, Jarnefelt. This is a good tip :
always go to a concert when a Finnish name is on
the programme, for the music is sure to be original
and stimulating, never commonplace nor dull.
The audience didn’t crowd itself on to every
available chair in the hall; still it was a huge
audience. But there was a time when standing
room only was the state of affairs at a S.A.O.S.
sound-struggle.
** # *
Sydney Tivoli’s second part just now con-
sists of thirteen turns. The stage is occupied
from a little before 9 till 11 p.m. or thereabouts,
and the last couple of entertainers have to try
and be cheerful to people who are hunting wildly
for their hats. The variety show audience tires
rapidly after 10.30. Of the oversea people,
Powell and Yesey, the Charlenes, Frank Travis
and De Lyle and Brunin present the brightest
turns. Fred Keeton’s work is clever, but his
allegedly humorous song about the imbecile youth
is merely gruesome. The Australian Dartos’
modified version of the latest Apache “ play-
dance” is smartly done, and Fanny Powers’s imita-
tions are refreshingly quiet and natural. The
comedy-juggling Dardinis, who win applause
mostly by the cheerful smashing of crockery, are
in their last nights.
*• * * *
Adelaide Royal is pegging away steadily
with pantomime—eight shows per week. That
“The Arcadians” eo. did not take away all the
money locally-owned is shown by the excited
crowds who are admitted at the last moment
to stand at the back of the dress-circle and breathe
down the necks of those who have booked seats in
the fashionable back row. The City Council
frowns on the admission, and the seat-holders
frown on the breath ; but the box-office smiles on
both. “ Aladdin ”is a revel of splendid scenes,
with two spasms of really hearty merriment, both
of course due to knock-about humor. The ass in the
Turkish bath causes one, and the other is due to
the falling of Price (or Revost) off tables and
chairs on to the stage, and off the stage on to the
bass-drummer. At the Tivoli, Billy Williams
has come in, and Olive Lenton has gone out.
Hers is a quite ordinary turn, brilliantly stage-
managed and therefore successful. The voice of
the singing Collier is something uncommon. A
Yankee named Grey has moved on to other parts
to exhibit his specialties of blowing water out of
his mouth (to music) and simulating severe inter-
nal pains at the bass notes. The present pro-
gramme, though good, lingers a trifle too long on
the one note of song-and-dance, but Variety is
promised shortly.
THE PASSING OF THE THIRD
FLOOR BACK.
; [For Thk Bulls tin.]
At Mrs. Sharpe’s queer boarding-house therelived
a rotten lot
Of ill-assorted boarders ; but the worst of them
was i not
Any meaner than the missus who provided bed
and food,
Or less decent than the slavey, who was candidly
no good.
They quarrelled, lied and pilfered, and seemed
bound to go to H—l,
Till a mystical male stranger came and cast his
holy spell
On the rotten lot of boarders in that domicile of
sin,
And filled them with a knowledge of the hidden
grace within.
He was fashioned like a curate in a shiny suit of
black,
Was the unexpected tenant of the Third Floor
Back.
His eye was like a gimlet, for it ran them through
and through.
At once they felt the wrongness of the things they
used to do;
And took to being kindly in a sweetly easy way ;
When the slavey cleared the table they would
help her with the tray.
The wicked turned from wicking, and the gig.
lers ceased to gig,
The foolish virgin spinster laid aside her golden
wig ;
E’en the Jew man dropped his bundle with a
Bunyan Pilgrim drop,
And charged his weekly board-bill with an extra
mutton chop, , ,
Whilst the missus and the slavey said their
prayers and cried “ Alack !”
When their consciences were tackled by the Third
Floor Back.
O, the boarding-house in London, where the
Stranger came to pass,
And changed it to a Sunday-school and took a
daily class,
Means the weary world we live in, and the lesson
of the play
Is that you and I, dear reader, ought to start this
very day
To be good to one another. Sure, the lesson’s
rather old ;
But if it weighed with all men it were worth its
weight in gold.
Unhappily it doesn’t, yet. No matter —on the
whole
This show should do a bit of good to Clarke and
MeyneU’s soul;
So if the writer ever finds their morals getting
slack
He will mind them of the Stranger in the Third
Floor Back.
VICTORIA.
OK.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hirenew
subjects constqntly arrivihg. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
If public safety were the first consideration
in running the railways there would be no loss of
life through false economy. In this progressive
age it should be easy for inventive genius, inspired
to its best by D.C.L., the Whisky of the Wise; to
supply methods of management, making serious
accidents impossible. The benign influence of
D.C.L. wisdom harmonises combined effort to its
highest achievements.* . ,
i'h
MEN
and .WOMEN
in middle llfecan avoid
that most disquieting
sign of age—arev hair
—by using
Dr. B. Allen’s u.s.a. ( Mexican
Walnut Stain ( Registered *•
which Imparts a natural colour, light
brown, dark brown, or black, and does
not Inlure the hair, but makes It soft and
glossy. It Is a perfect, cleanly and harm-
less stain, washable and lasting. Being
one liquid It Is most easy to apply, it
has no odour or stickiness, and does not
soll the pillow. >
Sold by All Chemists.
Last Friday night at Melbourne Royal,
Oscar Asche concluded his speech with “God be
with you !” and the audience sang “Auld Lang
Syne.” Next night Lang came to light (his front
name is Matheson) and the Lord was with them.
True, the advt. disclaims exact knowledge of the
Stranger’s identity, but inasmuch as he intro-
duces himself to Mrs. Sharpe’s boarding-house
with three awe-striking knocks, and is associated
with an angelic voice that sings “ Tra-la-la,” and
carries reformation into the human methods of
everyone he talks to, the Stranger amounts to
a fairly open secret. Also, it is observed
that two or three lady penitents go through
a form of recognising the Stranger before
leaving him, and are about to kneel at his feet
when he motions them to restrain their homage.
Likewise, he reveals a supernatural knowledge of
their past life—he even knows what the ex-bookv
used to do in the days ere he lost his roar —so,
taking one consideration with another, the
Stranger’s significance is beyond question. Jerome
K. .Terotne intended him to be a fruitful text
for parsons and a “draw” to the church-going
crowd.
» * , * *
The performance of the “Passing of the
Third Floor Back” was lately reviewed quite
reverentially in The Bulletin. The present
writer found that his reverence for the dramatist’s
sermonic idea was overstrained by the elaborate
working of it. The first act is an amusing
comedy picture of crudely colored characters, and
the immediate effect of the supernatural lodger’s
arrival is impressive, thanks to the handsome
composure of Matheson Lang, and the acting of
Miss Britton, and particularly of Miss Mortyne.
All the plot and the moral thereof are practically
exhausted in the first act. The second act is a
procession of boarders to conversion—nine of
them in all—and the third is a mere spring
show of the new goods, concluding with a dis-
appearance of the miraculous visitant. The sharp
contrasts between the characters get lost in the
sameness of their conversions, the best of which is
the first—that of the young cad (Deverell)—be-
cause jt is somewhat matter-of-fact, whilst the
most amusing is that of the Jew (Arthur Styan).
Of the other boarders Jerrold Robertshaw. the
newcomer, stands out for his clever sketch of the
Major, and none are very weak. The comedy is
well acted, as it needs to be. Matheson Lang’s
dramatic equipment is not severely tested in this
case, for he is only a walking mystic, a presence
and a voice, both of them suggestive of the pul-
pit. His part would be just as well fitted to
Charles Waldron, the intensely serious young hero
of “The Squaw Man” of yore. Lang, however,
seems quite natural to it. This is more than
can be said for Miss Britton as the Cock-
ney slavey, who is bright but artificial, save
in her first expression of wonderment at the
Stranger. Why the Stranger should stagger the
ignorant servant gal more suddenly than he
astounds the other people is as inexplicable as the
setting of the scene. If the fender, whereat, the
Stranger warms his hands, means that there is a
fireplace with its back to the audience, they are
asked to imagine that the characters are talking
to them through a wall, like Pyramus and Thisbe
in Bottom, the weaver’s, dramatisation of the
Greek legend. If a fender be permissible in the
foreground, somebody whose father was a glazier
ought to impersonate Wall.
“THE GIRLS OF GOTTENBERG,” AT
HER MAJESTYS,
MELBOURNE.
Bertie Wright as Max
Moddelkopf.
Brittlbottl (Fred
Leslie) delivers some
refreshments.
“The Girls of Gottenberg ” are now
occupying the stage at Her Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne. Time was when the Girls filled the eye
to repletion, and they are still more or less of an
optical meal. Led by the comely Miss Wilson,
who is a charming vision in her green and gold,
they furnish excuse for all the raptures of all the
baldheads on earth. They are well-dressed and
well-behaved ; and their symmetrical understand-
ings are wonderful to behold. Yet, pleasing as
they are, they do not atone for some wants
in the principal cast. Reginald Roberts, in
his old character of Pnrice Otto, only
plays with his usual ungovernable phlegm.
Lacking softness and glow in his scenes
of love, he betrays a lamp-post’s handsome sense
of emotion. Miss Florence Young, as Elsa, is
not vocally satisfying, for her upper voice on first
night was rather more windy than melodious.
Somewhat pathetic is the slight little Mitzi of
little Miss Dango; while the Clementine of Miss
Florence Vie is in her best moderate style. Fred
Leslie is the old enjoyable Brittlbottl; Bantock
is the Burgomaster; while the part of Moddel-
kopf is in the hands of Bertie Wright. Bertie is
fairly successful in the character, though he is
slightly intemperate in his low-comedy methods.
** # #
‘ ‘ Madam Butterfly ’ ’ will strike Melbourne’s
outstretched ear for the first time on Saturday
night, at Her Majesty’s. Puccini’s opera comes
with the advantage of a company that has sung
it many times, and a conductor, Hazon, who knows
the unusual depth and beam of the theatre. Bel
Sorel takes the name part on Saturday and Mon-
day, and Amy Castles will have it on Tuesday
and Thursday.
** * *
At the King’s the trouble about the Gold
Cup is being continued until further notice. Arid
Trixey invariably wins the race. A mare that
can walk up and down stairs seems bound to win,
anyhow ; nevertheless, the young man who backs
her for a level £lO,OOO with an impecunious cap-
tain is quite unworthy of his luck. The captains
in Andersonian drama have always been as bad
as they make them, and the smile of this parti-
cular evil-doer is a sufficient warning to the un-
wise.
** * *
At Melbourne Town Hall next Saturday
(30th) the Vic. Professional Orchestra will give a
matinee concert, the first of a new aenes-with
Fred. Beard on the rostrum, and Chowsky s
Pathetic Symphony as the longest item on the
programme. Melbourne is apt to complain tha
its musical yearnings are neglected, but here is
the new Orchestra about to emphasise the be-
ginning of a grand opera season by a concert
which is an outcome of plucky endeavor on the
part of a co-operative body of musicians. What
more can the yearn ers ask ?
** * *
“The Animated Gazette,” the latest
novelty at Melbourne Olympia, has all a news-
paper’s information without its bias. It gives a
pictured summary of European events, and shows
that its authors, Pathe Freres, have made the
trade of the journalist a trick of the camera. Of
the other pictures, “ Abandoned ” is a yarn Of
love and homicidal rage set in a scene of soothing
beauty. “ Which of the Two ”is a pithy story of
a Tertium Quid ; and “ Wolf Hunting in Russia
is an addition toone’s knowledge of drawmg-room
sports. As regards comedy subjects, like “ Coco as
a Policeman” and “The Order to March,” they
diffuse the usual geniality and burly good humor.
** * *
The Kremo Family and all things as men-
tioned last week are repeating themselves at the
Opera House. Mendel is among those other cir-
cumstances, and the blind pianist begins to im-
press the amphitheatre as a genuine novelty ;
but the undertaker who brings him along and
makes announcements on his behalf is a some*
what trying ordeal.
“ Geofred ” writes :
If ever a man wanted to say “ hear hear” and applaud,
it was mj’self upon reading par by “ Billy B.”(B. 21/7/’10),
re overloading of Sydney ferry-boats. I embarked on the
5.30 boat for Milson’s Point on Monday night last week
during the worst of the gale. I reckon at a rough guess
there were about 900 other passengers besides “ Billy B.”
and myself on that boat. All being well we would have
landed at Milson’s about 5,38 or so. The sea and wind,
however, prevented the ropes from being fastened to the
pontoon with any degree of certainty, and even when
one rope was fastened it snapped like so much twine.
Anyhow, of that 902 passengers only about 20 got off
that trip, and then the skipper had the hide to tear off
back to Sydney “to pick up his running.” On our way
back we only bumped the horse-ferry, and I reckon I am
a lucky man to be alive. Anyhow, we left the Quay again
at 6.10, with, it seemed to me, 1004 more passengers. I’ll
wager my luck in the past (and I reckon I’ve had my
share) that I counted 17,501£ passengers on that boat at
6.15. We were eventually landed at Milson’s Point at
6.30, taking just one solid hour to do a five minutes’ trip.
It gets all round, over, and inside me why there were no
accidents, beyond thelossof numerous hats and umbrellas,
and one gangway. Personally, I would like to see a week
or more of this state of affairs. Then North Shore resi-
dents in general might rise up and demand three things:
(1) Nationalisation of Ferries ; (2) Bridge to North Shore ;
(3) Tunnel to North Shore.
A superannuation scheme for N.S.W. rail-
way and tramway servants is now on the carpet.
It seems rather a pity, however, that before
fixing tip the new scheme the State doesn’t put
right the swindle of the old one. In former days
the civil servants of the State were compelled to
contribute to a superannuation fund. After a
while the Reid Government got an idea. In a
time of stress it retrenched the public service
wholesale, and instead of compensating the
sacked officials out of the Treasury, it in many
cases charged them to the fund. , They ceased to
be contributors and became liabilities instead.
' The fund,, which was never built to stand such a
strain, became bankrupt; it was calculated that
by the time the last pensioner died the deficit
would be £3,000,000. The Government failed to
give any assurance that it would fill up the short-
age it had created, but when the civil servants
were thoroughly scared at the prospective loss of
the provision for their old age, it offered to let
them retire from the fund with the proviso that,
when they left the service, they would get
back the money they had paid, with 3 per
cent, simple interest. That is to say, if a
man had been contributing under compulsion for
10 years he would get no interest on his money
for these 10 years, but for the future he would
receive 3 per cent, simple interest. Three per
cent, is a very low rate, and the difference in 25
years between £lOO at 3 per cent, simple interest
and at 3 per cent, compound interest—which
any savings bank would have given—is £34 7s. 7d.
So the unfortunate civil servants were “had” in
three ways: they got no interest up to date;
they got much lower interest for the future
than Government securities would have yielded;
and they were done out of the compound in-
terest. Still, it seemed to be that or nothing,*
and most of them took the miserly offer. Then,
when the greatest possible number had been
-seared out, the Government announced that
it was going to stand by the Fund after all.
It could hardly do anything else. And a
good many of the men who were driven by these
tactics to abandon their prospective pensions, and
whose money is still held by the N.S.W. Trea-
sury as a forced loan, haven’t finished commenting
on that piece of sharp practice unto this day. It
is to be hoped that the new fund will be in better
hands.
“ Melb ” : Some members of the Asche-
Brayton co. have just been allured into helping
with a matinee in aid of a Home for Lost Dogs !
I suppose there will be attached to the home
something like that well-known Canine Cemetery
in London, with its gushy tombstones. A four-
legged pug gets better treatment than a two-
legger. Tender-hearted ladies have been grieved
at the summary processes of Town Clerk Clayton.
Every now and again there is a ukase from the
Town Hall: “Round up the dogs.” Out goes
the dog van, tugged by a big municipal horse.
The driver is imposing enough, and then there
is the dogged Jack Ketch, the ketcher. He is
armed with a big stick, having a leather loop at
the end. With this he captures the casual,
needless dog and swings it into the van. which,
when properly filled, proceeds yelpingly to the
Dog Gaol, near the Morgue. Then, after due
announcement, comes the dog auction. Five
shillings is the minimum. A myrmidon holds
up the dog by the scruff of the neck if it isn’t
too big. “Any bid? No bidder? Put him in
the tank, John !” Then there’s a dull thud, a
blob, and a gurgle. To avert this Mr. Tripp Edgar,
of the Asche-Brayton co., went and recited
“Clarence’s Dream,” and other people did simi-
lar things. '
AT POVERTY POINT.
Stage-armor, it seems, is pretty solid tinware some-
times! Oscar Asche alleges that, when he was playing
Bolingbroke in “ Richard II.” a lew years ago, he'
weighed nearly 25st. in his armor, and, although on one
occasion his horse fell backwards and he dropped himself
over its head, his encasement escaped injury. Whether
it was warmer than his Falstaffian environment, Asche
doesn’t state. As Falstaff, he fattens his figure with
cotton wool. It is essentially a winter character. Asche
reckons that, if he were to play the fat knight in Bris-
bane at Christmas time the cotton wool would absorb
the greater part of him.
Williamson, Tallis and Ramaciotti have intervened to
try and knock out the Australian Theatrical Choristers’
Association. The Association has applied for registration
under the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration
Act, and the Firm arrays a great many arguments to
prove that the A.T.O.A. is an unfit and improper body
to receive such registration. The chief reason for this
opposition is based on the belief of Williamson,
Tallis and Ramaciotti that the said association will
“ prejudice the best interests of choristers.” This affec-
tionate, parental regard should be warmly appreciated
by the chorus, but choruses, like bands, are proverbially
ungrateful.
“Sr.”: In the final act of “Mr. Preedy and the Coun-
tess,” the Countess introduces two rather heavyweight
metaphors. Referring to Mr. Preedy’s timely offer of
board and lodging, the Countess informs her friends:
“ I was thrown upon Mr. Preedy’s back without notice,”
and later explains that she was being “ heaped on
Preedy’s shoulder.” Now David James, who plays
Preedy, is about sft. 4in. in altitude, and moderately
thin at that; while Mab Paul, the lady who was thrown,
heaped and otherwise crowded upon Preedy, would
probably make the beam waver at 15st.
Both Tait and Spencer got cinematograph pictures of
the horrible Richmbnd (Vic.) railway accident. Spencer’s
man, so the story goes, happened to be in the wreck with
his photographic ' apparatus, and scrambling hurriedly
out of the debris, he began to. take pictures. Tait’s man
fled to the abattoirs on the wings of the wind, and pro-
ceeded to take pictures. Now, if these two firms have
any shred of decency about them, they will put Premier
Murray and Railway Commissioner Tait (no relation to
the Tait who takes pictures) on the free list for as long
as the accident is on exhibition, and will put the best
seats at the disposal of them arid thejr friends. Murray
and Tait didn’t have the luck to be on the spot, so they
didn’t see the show. And as regards the Gembrook
and Kilmore and Sunshine and Beaufort disasters, they
had the same bad fortune—they weren’t there. Also
those happenings- weren’t cinematographed, so Murray
and Tait couldn’t even see them in flickergraph form.
But. this time Premier Murray and Railway Commissioner
Tail—the head of the State and the head of the railways
—have a chance to get a good view, and they ought to
get a good view so that they may consider what to do
next. The best accommodation that the flickergraph
firms can give isn’t too good for Premier Murray and Rail-
way Commissioner Tait. The flickergraph people might
even go so far as to supply refreshments.
“Adelaide”: Thinking over “ The Arcadians,” now it
has gone, I remember it as unique among operas for sev-
eral things: (1) Nobody sings sickly sentimental love-
ballads at or with anybody else ; (2) one of the leading
ladies never sings a note (but that is because she is Essie
Perrin, who is not built that way; there is a song for her
in the score) ; (3) the authors begin with a definite idea
—that Chryssea looks on the bright side of things and
Sombra on the gloomy—which idea is immediately
thrown overboard and never heard of again ; (4) it is the
only play on record ih which the dainty and charming
heroine is accused by the comic man of being in liquor.
“ Edyson ” : The amusing feature of the impassioned
argument about the inferior quality of the dramatic fare
provided by Australian managements, now raging in the
columns of the Argus, is the insinuated contempt for
intellect and art running through defendant’s argu-
ments. We are assured that the complainants are all
disappointed play-writers and semi-cranks, whose leaning
. for art is a symptom of moral decay. Figures are
marshalled to prove that the people loathe art, and that
intellect bores them till the pit looks like a yawning
abyss. And the contention is that the people are right,
since art and intellect are themselves ridiculous
attributes of a set of long-wooled, blue-mouldv faddists
with beehives in their hats. lam rising early these cold
mornings, looking for the theatrical advertisement that
will honestly express the theatrical managers’ contempt
for art somewhat as under :
THE STUPIDITY THEATRE.
LESSEE AND MANAGER—JOHN CHUMP.
THE SILLIEST PLAY OF THE SEASON,
The Sea of Drivel.
The Sea of Drivel.
The Sea of Drivel.
By James Ninnie, Esq., whose utter brainlessness and
extreme ineptitude have made his plays the
delight of millions,
A Foolish Drama that Every Idiot Can Understand, as
Performed by the Poorest Actibrs Procurable,
CHESTERTON OGG ... as .. COSTERTON BIGGS.
The least artistic and reasonable performance of
this well-known incompetent actor.
HENRIETTA SMIFF .. as .. JENNY JENKINS.
Admirers of Miss Smiff will find this her most dreadful
S effort to date. ' >
EVERY VESTIGE OF ART ESCHEWED.
’ Box Plan at the Pig and Whistle.
“ Waif,” froth London,; ’fflis an - amazing time for the
British Stage, hifter a Icing period, in which it seemed as
though the drama had fallen into decay, and very little
that was newer interesting dame before the public, we
have several Organisations putting on the stage all sorts
of dramatic experiments. It is, as, though it had been
determined to discover what are the extreme limits of
endurance in a theatre audience ; how much problemati-
cal philosophy and society-splitting rhetoric can be
vented upon a houseful of Britons without driving
them out at doors-*-racked with the rapture of
too tremendous thoughts, or bored beyond bearing
with weariness of words. Though this is con-
sidered as a new movement, so slowly do things
move in Britain, it is 11 years since the Incor-
porated Stage Society commenced to introduce pro-
blem dramas to the critics and managers, and during
that time the concern has presented over 60 plays, in-
cluding works by Ibsen, Tolstoy, Reijermans, Maeter-
linck, Hauptmann, Turgfenev, ; Brieux, Yeats, Shaw,
Barker, Gorki, Hardy, Browning, Sudermann and
others. The Society' is an aid and a danger to the tenta-
tive dramatist. It gives him an opportunity to have his
work properly mounted and played before the
arbiters of his fate. Maybe, it also encourages
the writing of plays that no sane and solvent
manager would accept on a business basis. At the
Shaftesbury, lately, I was one of a packed matin6e
house that enjoyed three short plays by Felix Salten,
translated by various hands. In spite of some crudities,
and the inevitable tendency to deliver orations, the play-
lets were bright and distinctly interesting. They were
labelled “Points of View,” and formed a non-com-
mittal presentment of the relations of aristo-
crat to plebeian. In the first, a waiter joined
the “ hitpper suckles ” by fraudulent misrepresentation,
but showed himself the superior of his new relations. In
the second, a blue-blooded degenerate rose triumphant
over a bombastic parvenu by even more reprehensible
means. In the last, honors were easy', because there were
none. Blue-blood, on his death bed, married his past
shop-girl mistress, and omitted to die. Then, as no one
wanted him, he had to make good by handing- over his
wife and child to a more recent proprietor, allowing his
will to be carried out as if he had been dead, and mag-
nanimously sailed for Guam. I recommend—see any'-
thing by Felix Salten that presents itself. Probably you
won’t get a chance.
“Stony”: The picture-show man in our suburb is
hard-up. His box-office receipts are slim and his films
old and ragged. New films are a luxury which he seldom
permits himself; it is cheaper to work on the dregs of
the pass-on system. Lately, however, he found himself
in trouble over the death of King Edward—since every
picture-show in Melbourne was advertising the arrival
by mail of the latest batches of gloom. But soon
Bloggett’s Pictures also came out with an announcement
concerning a nightly funeral entertainment. Bloggett
had found a way' out of his troubles. The films were
ragged, as usual, but the audience didn’t mind. The
Bloggett audience is not particularly discriminating.
The funeral march, played by Miss Bloggett, was not
what it might have been ; but the audience put up with
that. It only began to show that it had a mind of its
own when King Edward himself came riding down the
film on horseback. That night Bloggett went carefully
over his ancient Queen Victoria goods and removed ail
references to King Edward VII. and his horse, and the
revised version was duly submitted to an approving
audience on the following evening.
“ Busk ” : For five years the Melbourne Princess’s ghost
has been going. The requisite concatenation is about
two in the morning, with moonlight streaming uncannily
through chinks. The spectre stands near a pillar by the
dress-circle entrance inside the auditorium. It is an
easily recognisable person. The first impression, among
the superstitious, was that it must be Federici,
who died while descending the trap as Mephis-
topheles. However, portraits show it is not him.
Next hypothesis, it is Richard Stewart, father of Miss
Nellie Stewart. He used often to stand by that pillar.
It is conclusively proved not to be Dick. The Ghost
appears to be more like George Gordon, scenic artist,
father of John, and the chief person consulted by Wil-
liamson, Garner and Musgrove in building the Princess’s.
A simple suggestion is that someone should stand on the
exact spot every time the conditions are favorable,
and should push the spectre away when it turns up, but
no one has tried this.
“Pukanui”: The suburban picture show and that
other horror, Derrink, walk hand in hand these days to
their joint and several profit. About a hundred flicker-
graphs pervade the suburbs, and each is within whisper-
ing distance of a pub. Often Mr. Public-House, if not the
actual proprietor, has a large interest in the flicker. A
beer-purveyor I wot of gives a coupon with every under-
sized pint he sells, three coupons giving admission to the
neighboring picture show'. Consequently, instead of Bill
and Jim shouting for each other and going home, they
look at the coupons, and, as it’s a bit early, they have
another, and wander round to the flicker. Of course,
it w'ould be against Nature not to have one when they
come out, and so Mr. Pub rejoiceth. The growing cheap-
ness of these entertainments is significant. The three-
penny show is here now. In a little while it will be
twopence, then a copper. And, shortly, I doubt not,
proof of intoxication will be enough to frank a would-be
patron in free of charge.
It is amazingly difficult to get the sectarian
firebrand and strife-monger to give particulars.
The latest notable effort made in the interests of
the falling throne of Wade was a statement by an
Orangeman, named Cullam, about the long-past
Sydney tramway strike :
When trouble came the Roman Catholics sneaked out
by the back-door and left our men to face it.
The committee of management of the Tramway
Union hurriedly investigated this statement,
and decided that it was an absurd inven-
tion. Then Cullam rose to great heights.
He wrote to the Sydney papers stating
that the committee’s report was “clap-
trap and whangdoodle.” Also he said that, by
way of absolute corroboration of his words, he
had a letter from some person not named, in
which the anonymous individual said among
other things :
Romanism is the greatest curse the union has to fight.
Apart from the difficulty of identifying such sub-
stances as “ claptrap ” and “ whangdoodle,” and
the fact that a letter said to have been received
by an excited fanatic from a party whose name
he doesn’t divulge is hardly evidence, this com-
munication has a dizzy effect. For after much
shriek about how Roman Catholicism is the back-
bone of the Labor movement (which is, to a very
great extent a trades-union movement) there
comes the staggering assurance of Cullam, or his
nameless friend, that Romanism is a “curse” to
the unions, and that “ the Romans” really helped
to bring about the Wade Government's victory
over the tramway men. Which side are these
übiquitous “ Romans ” really on ?
A HOLY SHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Since we first established ourselves here we have had
a censor, who sees every inch of film before it is projected
in public and not infrequently has pieces cut out,
not because they were indecent, but because some people
might imagine * that there was something suggestive
about them. We would not dream of exhibiting any
film that would give the least offence to any person. The
lisping child, just beginning life, and the veteran going
out can sit side by side in our halls and enjoy the class of
entertainment we provide. We give amusement and
education with a lavish hand, and when the time comes
that we have to make the business pay—if it ever would,
and no one for a moment seriously believes it possible—
by the introduction of questionable matter, well, then, it
will be time for us to get out of the game.—Picture-
show manager to Sydney Daily Telegraph.
All who pursue the Light Afar,
And Virtue’s saintly glow,
And Purity and Goodness are
Made happy at our show.
He who aspires to raise himself
Above the Bad and Low,
Needs but to ante up his pelf
And patronise our show.
It is the Terror of the fast,
The Idol of the slow ;
Tue naughty gaze at it aghast:
I mean, of course, our show.
Scorbutic youths—absurd galoots—
And aged baldheads go
And are uplifted, like Old Boots,
By sitting through our show.
No play or drama causes oaths
From Beelzebub to flow
Like it does ; Satan fairly loathes
To think about our show.
The Drunk to “ soft stuff ” is inclined,
The “ crook ” drops thieving. Lo .1
The very Anarchist grows kind
Once he has seen our show.
We do not seek for sordid gain,
As seeketh Isaac Mo,
To harvest souls, not gold’s the main
Ambition of our show.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


* :
MODELS-
-7 H.P. 1 CYLINDER
... to ...
70 H.P. 6 Cylinders
Illustrated Catalogues
posted on application.
Enquiries should state
approximate horse-
power and style of ear
required.
The Very Best Motor Cars for AUSTRALIAN USE
are those Imported by Dalgety 8 Company Limited.
The above statement is a real fact, for Dalgety’s Car Agencies were speeiaJiv selected on account
of the advantages they offer to the Colonial buyer. Apart from this, all models for Australian
use are specially equipped to * j if it D • t . , , . ,
stand our rough conditions. oyoney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle.
By Special
Appointment
fsd
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS, “ p !f •
THE CATERER, Tel. No. 2, Ascot. "HIUKIA.
Wedding: Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Ring up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
Bronchitis for Eight Years.
“My, husband suffered from bronchitis for
about eight years.” writes Mrs. R. H. Wynn,
Corbett Street, West End, Brisbane; Q. “He
fried everything, but got no relief until he-tried
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery. Three bottles
cured him.” Price Is. 6d. and 3s.* ;
Society
At Alphington (Yic.), the other day, John
Tanner realised the grim jest of a thousand living
pictures by getting himself run over by a road
roller. John was engaged by the Collingwood
council to go before its street roller, brandishing
a danger signal or horse-frightener. When he
met his finish he had paused to watch the per-
formances of a startled horse, quite regardless of
the danger which it was his duty to advertise.
The roller overtook John Tanner. The defunct
Sixpence was 70 years of age. The Bulletin
know* the ways of councils, and it isn’t surprised
that this one hired a swift, active, clear-headed
hoy of 70 to bolt ahead with the red banner. It
is just the sort of thing any council would do.
SUBURBAN “ BELLOWDRAMA.”
THE HERO: “N o one shall part me from the
girl I love.”
THE VILLAIN: “ Yes, I shall. You shall rot in
prison, for I have, now found the Missing
Will of your father, the Earl.”
THE COMEDY Man: “ Not so fast. I saw you
insure a uorthless ship for 20 times its value
I saw you blow it up in mid-ocean, and. leave
the hapless crew to walk home. You yourself
will go to prison.”
the villain: “ Curses, the Fates war against
me.”
The Oldest Inhabitant writes about a
corner in beer:—
An old George-st.reet (Sydney) land-mark goes down
this week—the building on the south-east corner of
Bridge-street. For over 60 years, barring one interval,
it has been a pubbery. The building and others adjoining
“re.understood to have been the property of the noted
“ Bill ” Nash. They were given by him as a dowry to a
daughter who wedded a well-known Svdney merchant,
and were eventually sold in the boom time to a Melbourne
syndicate. In the year 1850 the drinker was known as
the Castle Inn, and was kept bv John Hiney, the oppo-
site corner (where the Bank of North Queensland is)
being the St. John’s Tavern (next to the first Jewish
Synagogue, which still stands). Hiney was suceeeded by
Joseph Ralph Jean. After him came Richard Hawkins,
who had previously kept the Hero of Waterloo, in Lower
Fort-street, and who subsequently kept the St. Leonards
Hotel in Berry-street, North Sydney. Hawkins, later on,
kept a pub higher up “ the Shore,” in Falcon-street.
The house is still standing, and in Hawkins’s time it was
as cosy an inn as any chimney-corner whisky-punch man
could desire. In the mid-’sixties the Bridge-street cor-
ner was occupied by Moritz Cohen, a tobacconist. Then
it was idle for a while, till Tinley Theodore Mathews, a
nautical instrument maker, set up business there. He
had over the door the figure of a sailor with a sextant to
his eye. Mathews also conducted a nautical college on
tlje premises. In 1878 he gave up the corner, and William
Camb turned it into an hotel, and it has dealt in beer-
mercharidise ever since. Now it is being rebuilt and
modernised, and will, presumably, continue as a pub
until the Cold Tea party slays it in cold blood.
Inasmuch as seven different persons have
sent in paragraphs during the space of three
weeks about the death, at Ballarat, of William
Harward, who had attained to the alleged age of
10;, The Bulletin is moved to copy these remarks
from the article on “Longevity” in Chambers’s
Encyclopaedia:—
In 1862 Sir G. C. Lewis wrote in Notes axd Queries an
article in which he professed disbelief in any case of a
life exceeding 100 years. He pointed out that neither
the Peerage and Baronetage nor the books of insurance
companies contained any evidence of such, and, further,
that the current stories were nearly all of persons of
humble rank, careless of registration, so that their state-
ments could not he verified. . . . Mr. Thoms took the
matter up . . . and compiled his work on “Longevity,”
which is authoritative. He examined many stories of
very ancient persons, showing them to be baseless ; while
as to the stock historical cases of Thomas Parr, Henry
Jenkins and the Countess of Desmond, reputed to be
152, 169 and 149 respectively, he found that there was no
satisfactory evidence.
To put the matter shortly, The Bulletin doesn’t
believe that there is such a thing as a centenarian,
and it has a dark suspicion that there has never
been one ; If anybody could find in all history a
centenarian king, queen, prince, statesman,
ecclesiastic, general, admiral, nobleman—any-
body, good, bad or indifferent, who was
so much in the public view that Lis birth-
date was recorded with certainty—or if, in
the 205 years since life assurance com-
menced, a single life assurance company had
had a single reliable centenarian on its books,
the ease would call for reconsideration. But
when there isn’t one such instance, it makes
this paper tired to find alleged centenarians dying
every week in a country like Australia, where the
whole population would just about make a first-
class city. The writer of thisis himself aged 105 —by
the simple process of showing his grandfather’s
baptismal certificate and saying it is his own, the
old man having the same name as himself—so he
knows the business. Friends at a distance will
please accept this intimation.
* * * *
“ Rod ” : Saw a record disturbance on the
drunks’ liner from Circular Quay to Milson’s
Point (Sydney) last Saturday night. A portly
inebriate bad drifted along the lower deck to
where the machinery was getting through its graft
with neatness and despatch, and while he swung
solemnly to and fro
in his wash of
beer, he tore the
walking appara-
tus off a gigan-
tic crayfish and
endeavored to
insert it be-
tween pound-
ing masses of
mechanism.
His object was
to have the
armor - plating
shattered that
he might mas-
ticate the cray-
beef, and it was
only when the
machinery had
grab bed two
bind legs and
swallowed them
that the engin-
eer discovered
his department
was being turned into a restaurant. His furious,
remarks aroused immense indignation in the
breast of the drunk, and he announced his inten-
tion to memorialise the manager concerning the
company’s contempt for the comfort of passen-
gers, in neglecting to provide crushing Conveni-
ences for crayfish. “ Man might—life— starve to
death,” he snorted, “for all the dam—hie—com-
panish care. Hie! Dishgraeeful monopoly—
thash all ’tis. It’s the lastime I’ll But
just then the boat bumped at the Point jetty, and
two deck-bands threw the drunk ashore. The
last I saw of him he was zigzagging up the pon-
toon carrying his crayfish on his shoulder, while
an enraged engineer stood at the gangway pelt-
ing him with large portions of Pelaw.
“ Boh” writes from the scene of carnage :
I have never had the nerve-destroying experience of
waiting amongst half-crazed women for the casualty list
of a battle to come in ; but I know now exactly what it
is like, for I spent all last Monday here in Brighton
amongst women whose relations and friends had de-
parted for town in the wrecked train. lam sure there is
something in the world that is even quicker than “ wire-
less.” The news of the accident swept down the line to
us at Brighton as a whispering wave of dread. One
minute the place was in its usual morning torpor; the
next the streets seemed to be full of distracted
women saying: “Oh! there’s been a frightful
accident! A collision! Have you heard anything
yet?" Hatless, trembling women were everywhere
asking piteously for news. There was none to give them.
At that stage, the rescuers at Richmond were chopping
and hacking the wrecked carriages to get the poor people
out, and the place was an inferno of torture and con-
fusion ; so nothing definite reached us for what seemed
hours—long, dreadful hours of mental agony. Crowds
of women could not stand the suspense, and hurried off
just as they were to the place of sacrifice to find out for
themselves. Others waited and waited and tried not to
listen to the dreadful rumors that sprang up and ran
through the streets like flames. At last, post-bags full
of telegrams from those
that had escaped began to
arrive, and the strain for
some was over. Many more
waited in vain for one pre-
cious, written word from
out that awful medley.
Their day only ended when
the papers came out from
town. I spent all my
morning telephoning for
women who were too un-
strung to do it for them-
selves, and you can imagine
how hard it was to get
news over the wires. As
the iday wore on, an oc-
casional man or woman
came hack from the soene
white-lipped and shaken.
Usually they could tell us
nothing. “A horrible
smash ! There were too many people about to see
plainly ! Wait for the papers.” That was about all any-
one could get from them. Night came at last, and with
it the Herald with the list of killed and wounded. Then,
at least, we knew and rejoiced—or mourned ? Do you
know what it is like to see a whole district shaken and
unnerved by a horrible, needless slaughter? The experi-
ence burns deep into the memory. Next morning a lot
of the womenfolk of Brighton walked a little way with
their departing breadwinners, and said good-bye to them
as women say good-bye to loved ones who are going on a
long and perilous journey. It was foolish, perhaps ; but
one could not—dared not—laugh. It was too pitiful.
* * * *
Not the least sinful characteristic of the
notable railway smashes in Victoria lias been
tbeir unfairness in dealing out woe. In the Sun-
shine accident it was the holiday-making workers
who suffered, and on the Brighton line last week,
as of yore, the victims were men and women going
to business. Leisured folk are preserved from the
special railway risks which lie in wait for the
wage earning classes. The cheap excursionist
pays for his ticket with his life, maybe, and the
hurried early bird catches the early death ; but
the fat man and his Paris-hatted women kind are
always out of the early-burly, and, unless they go
in for reckless motoring, or book passages to
Heaven by top-heavy Waratahs, they travel safely
enough. Hence tbeir comparative indifference to
the safety of “ the public.” Dives lolls in the
smoking-room of the Club or the hotel, and
thanks God that, even when he lives in a
suburb, be never needs to be packed like
a herring in a barrel, aboard ah 8.30 a.m. train.
The perils of excursion-trips are not for them who
snort at bank-holidays, and though accidents will
happen, they rarely happen to the very best-
dressed families in an ordinary, vulgar way.
m c ~ v.r i
J terefore, it is rather irritating to a thoughtful
BULLETIN to he.ar parsons speak of the latest
smash on Tint’s railways as an achievement of
Providence, as though Providence had a snobbish
regard for the safety of people who travel by
I;lter trains but was ’too busy to keep an eye on
,i , \ , c • J r . 1 •
the crowded slaves of time. It was an old saying
,n Britain that railway directors would never feel
their responsibility until a bishop had been killed
in a collision. The Vic. Railway Service, seem-
jngly, will never be properlv supervised until
the management has been stained with the blood
c t> ? . rm . ~
a Parliamentary picnic party. Ihis would
have happened long ago if Providence were in-
terested in public calamities,
* * *
Probably the most unusual effect in the
t>;™, r L -i„ roTr n/l n; 0 • m r
Jt ,c h moric i 1 e c °hapse of
tbe feremost of the old Hobson s Bav carriages in
t' ie second train. The engine of that train nat u\-
ally drove into the guard s van in front of it. The
SAME THING!
she : “ Disgracefully loose! ”
he (absently): “ Yes, decidedly tight!”
Australian-built bogie-cars behind it stood the
strain well, but the five-compartment, six-wheeled
concoction that ought to have been “scrapped”
years ago—Speight declared its sort unfit for use in
his time—smashed up like an eggshell, its under-
gear and flooring being driven under the bogie-
car and its roof forced up on top, tilted at an angle
of 30 degrees. It looked like the open jaws of a
huge alligator into which someone had violently
driven a brick. How the 50 human beings who
were crunched along between those jaws escaped
instant death is a mystery. Yet Tait has been
promising to replace these vehicles with new ones,
“ as opportunity offers,” ever since he took up his
job.
*•* * *
By a witness
There were gruesome incidents about Monday week’s
railway smash, right in Richmond (Vic.) station. Six
lines run through there, and the other platforms were
crowded with open-eyed, white-faced watchers. From
the window of a smashed carriage a man could be seen
leaning, his head on his breast. People wondered why
he made no effort to scramble out; but, from his waist
down, he was held between two wrecked seats, crushed
as fiat as a board. In the next compartment a hand-
some girl sat, the novel she had been reading still
lying by her hand. Not a scrap of lace was torn, not a
hair ruffled—only the wondrous stillness and the bluish
look on her face told she was dead. One lad escaped
with a few bruises and rushed to the telephone to tell his
father he was safe. The father had come in by an earlier
train than usual, had ridden a few carriages behind his
son, and was already dead. Two of the Brighton train’s
passengers had been in the Sunshine ruin. Otie came
A COLD, WET SUNDAY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The cold, wet hills are veiled with mist;
Yet close at hand a foolish bell
Is calling people to assist
In putting out a nice warm Hell.
I hear the gloomy parson groan
Of Sin, and debts on roof and spires ;
M if.hin the chilly house of stone
Tnat ne’er was warmed by Satan’s fires.
lie moans without a trace of bliss
Of Everlasting Life that waits
For those who are content witli this,
Beyond a pair of cold, white Gates.
The faithful ones that prayers repeat,
And bend their cold, rheumatic knees,
Long vainly for some sinful heat,
And cough—or else commit a sneeze.
The dreary, hesitating hymn
Echoes amid the rafters brown,
Where silent, wooden seraphim
Upon the Good look coldly’ down.
At last the place they, shiv’ring, close,
And homeward make their cheerless way ;
Down the wet street a cold wind blows,
Chilling the dismal end of Day.
A black, cow driven by the rain,
Shuffles al£ng the muddy road ;
It looks and sounds like devils twain
That flameward bear a sinful load.
The Sabbath drab fades out in rain ;
The cleft Roofs splash away in mire ;
Open the scuttle ivide again.
And heap some coals upon the fire, !
N.S.W.
FIRK WORSHIPPER.
JANUS DEATH
Why tbis> 'despair ihe rich .
•ce tj > mibcn crieciy
rlavve you some dne/ inaa 1
sibr,ssv,idl ihe would-be suictio,
b*veTrt anything io live /or,
]Perchsonce I may do better where sn^— jj
He plunged irvio Hbe river sluggjsh^/lowmg.
H*s splerdVci horne ihe Richlison sopghl..*
Thai poor rridoVsle sigh/or 5
When sudden the L+ .
<5*y//ul thought-—
. Mma/mY MMrrmm r& ms f&m.L.
mt /kr>d 1bus wb\le_one mDed|)
W _ hiS bestj/r?er»d.,
f fine other looks with
I horror on his end.
O.C. CASOT


How to get Rich.
Take a quantity of silica costing one-
fourth the price of oil; mix it with oil,
and sell the compound to the public at
the price of pure oil. It is such a com-
pound the public get when they buy
common soaps. In Sunlight Soap the
public buy a pure and well-made soap,
Sunlight Soap reduces expense by pro-
longing the life of the articles washed with
it, which is much more profitable to the
public than common soaps, which soon re-
duce the linen to holes.
Barked Your Shins?
Well, try Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment;
it will take away all the pain and stiffness, and
you will forget all about it. Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in toivn.
J. \V. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
f
A Gentleman’s Boot.
The PEAPES BOOT at 27/6 is inherently a Gentle-
man’s Boot, although the price is a moderate one.
Placed side by side with any other boot at the
price, its superiority is most marked.
It will appeal to city residents who do much
walking, as well as to country residents, for its ex-
treme durability makes it splendid value, while
its good appearance is in keeping with correct
dressing.
For Wet Weather and Golf Wear : In Black or
Tan Colt Hide, “ Shooting ” Derby Laced, extra-
wide Welts, Hope-stitched, extra-heavy Double
Soles, Waterproof, Sheet Rubber Packed, Water-
tight Tongues, Leather-lined throughout, sizes 5
to 10, fittings D and E,
275. 6d. Postage Is. extra.
Peapes & Co. Ltd.,
•‘MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
through scatheless both times; the other gained an in-
jured spine on the first occasion and a bruised back last
week. The third time will probably mean the cemetery.
One man was smoking his pipe when the journey came to
a full stop. He was hacked out of the wreckage half an
hour later with his dhudeen still going. His arms and
body were all right, imt one leg was gone. Another lay
on the platform with a greyish look on his face. “No,
old man,” he told a rescuer, “ you can’t do anything, I’m
too far gone.. . Yes, you can, though ; give me a cigar-
ette ” A lighted one was placed between his lips, but
after a couple of whiffs it dropped. His light had gone
out.
* * * *
“F.C.” writes from the battle-field :
It certainly can’t be said that Melbourne got no warn-
ino- of the disaster to come—the one that came on Mon-
da'v of last week. All the previous disasters were warn-
in°s. And only a few days earlier two trains were
allowed to run on one section at East Richmond, and but
for a driver’s watchfulness and presence of mind there
would have been the smash of ages. The downward pro-
gress of the Victorian railway system is a dreadful thing.
In the years gone bv—the 10 years from ’97 to ’o7—Vic-
toria had almost the best record in the world for im-
munity from railway accidents, only -70 of fatalities per 10
million passengers carried. The United Kingdom showed
a record just about as good ; while at the other end of
ihe list came America with full, and Canada with 10-67
per 10 million passengers—the absolutely last and worst.
In the two following years Canada still remained about
stationary—lo-08 being its percentage—but Victoria had
fallen from its high place, and was now on the way down
the list with 1-40 fatal accidents per 10 million. It had
doubled its death roll in two years ! There had been
railwav smashes before, but in the last few years the
pice had been reckless—Gembrook, Kilmore, Sunshine,
Dandelion"-, Beaufort, besides an extra large record of
einplovees~and travellers at crossings killed, and a hostof
runaways and other barely averted disasters that all
pointed a warning. Both New South Wales and
Queensland own and work more miles of rail
than Victoria—7l2l miles combined, as against Vic-
toria’s 3410 ; yet in the five years ending 1909 they killed
alto°-ether 219 persons as against Victoria’s 246 ! Why
this iextra slaughter through a series of years?
As to the immediate causes of the disaster—there was
at the time of the disaster the heaviest fog known for
years lyin°- up the vallev of the Yarra, and just covering
the fatal section. The South Yarra signalman says he
got “line clear,” and sent the second train on accord-
ingly and there his responsibility ended. The Richmond
man says he put his “distant” and “home” signals at
“danger,” and the train should have stopped. The
driver says it was impossible to see the sticks —and
beyond doubt he is correct—so that he had to crawl
along, relying on the detonators of the fog signalmen,
-■■'tiesavs he heard no warning, so he crawled along till
Sjvds away—he saw the guard’s van of the train in front.
The fo»- signalman says that he “ placed detonators cor-
rectly ” and will open his mouth no further. But it is
said that he and his mate, instead of having one line of
rails apiece to look after, had to attend to the whole
four lines that run between the two stations —eight
signals * and it is admitted that he went on
duty at 6 a. in., after being on duty already
for nine hours as night-watchman at Richmond station.
It is also admitted that the signalman at South Yarra
had been on duty continuously from 8 p.m. on Sunday
the accident happened at 9 a.m. Monday and would not
be relieved till 11 a.m.—ls hours right off. He was
working part of a sick mate’s shift, there being appa-
rently no relieving signalmen in Victoria. These things
would be bad enough if they happened just once, but
they don't happen just once.
A story drifts around- Melbourne that a
railway official -of some size was on the train
which came to grief at Richmond ; but that, see-
ing the fog, and knowing all about the manage-
ment, he clambered out at South Yarra and took
the slower but safer tram-car.
* * * *
Shock produces curious mental results.
In the middle of the Richmond carnage a
big business man found his way from the /
wrecked train to a form on the platform.
There he sat throughout the following
ten minutes of riot and terror, quite
oblivious to what was going on about
him. He was untouched, and had
experienced only a slight jolt when
the collision occurred. When things
had quietened down a little, he arose
and approached the train as if to
re-enter the carriage. At the door he
paused. “My God!” he said, “the
window’s broken.” Another bemused
individual, covered with other people’s
blood, was found by a policeman in the
thick of the horror, turning over
cushions and wreckage. “Isay,” he
said petulantly, “you fellows haven’t
seen a red tobacco-pouch, have you ? ”
Railway accidents have their hum-
orous results as well as their horrors. The
excitement in the medical camp when
hundreds of injured citizens are ready
to fall into the care, as it were, of
the first doctor who hands them his card leads
to droll incidents and heartburnings. Surgeon
O’Hara, of course, is the hero of sundry anecdotes.
He was in attendance at the Alfred Hospital,
when the news of the terrible smash came by
’phone or wire. Instantly he gathered two or
three of his brother medicoes and a student or two
and was off to the scene of woe in his roomy
motor. Outside the railway station his chauf-
feur, in trying to push the car through
the crowd, knocked against a woman and
sent her positively flying ere she fell. O’Hara,
storming at his minion for his carelessness, dropped
one of the other doctors beside the knocked-down
lady, and then, with splendid presence of mind,
took himself off to where the “cases” had fallen
thickest. The old campaigner had no time to
waste on a trivial motor accident, although it was
his own motor. The early doc. catches the
patients in these accident rushes.
The unluckiest practitioner of them all was
poor Dr. Springthorpe. “Springy ” passed through
Richmond station, on one of the unblocked lines,
within four minutes of the Great Smash. Owing
to the fog, the people in his train saw nothing of
the wreckage, and, marvellous to say, an escapee
from the accident, thinking of nothing but being
late for business, got into the very compartment
where the doctor was, and said never a word
about the feast of horrors on the adjacent plat-
form. So this train went off bearing the
unsuspecting Springthorpe away from the dozens
ABSENT-MINDED EATING.
the professor (who will insist on rending at the table): “ Really , my dear, the toast
is extremely hard this morning .”
of ns yet uneaptured patients. He wly> might
have been first on the scene, never got theie at
all. When he arrived at Melbourne Hospital the
news greeted him, and immediately the patients
of rival practitioners were brought along—a dis-
mal procession of them in ambulances and cabs.
Then did the wrathful Springthorpe probably
express his feelings concerning the inconsiderate
citizen who had jumped into the carriage at Rich-
mond and had ridden beside him all the way into
town without speaking of the wealth of oppor-
tunity close at hand.
AS IF A
WOMAN
COULD.
JACK : “ But
why is she so
dissatisfied? ”
JENNY : “ The fact is her husband lets her please
herself.”
A (lay or two a»o the Waratah was 12
months overdue. Exactly howl ong overdue the
Flying Dutchman is no one seems to know, but
the San Gregorio was 371 years behind time on
May 9 of this year ; yet, legend has it that she is
still afloat and will reach her destination in Aca-
pulco Bay in another 29 years.
“Cinder”; As a woman, I object to
“ Wang” saying the long-haired sex has no sense
of humor, and does not appreciate such Australian
writers as Henry Lawson, Edward Dyson, Pater-
son, Steele Rudd, and foreign writers like W. W.
Jacobs, Dickens, J. K. Jerome, Mark Twain, etc.
For one I consider Dyson’s “Factory ’Ands”
equal to any humorous book ever written ;
and Lawson’s “Bohemia Buries Her Dead”
(Red Page, 1.6/6/TO) is simply beautiful. The
works of any of the writers above-mentioned are
much superior to the “two gallons of tripe” a
serang like “ Wang ” would select for a woman.
* * * *
A large number of yellow pirates in the
China Sea having been sent, through the efforts
of a Portuguese cruiser and gunboat, to hunt for
the Chinese Neptunfs on the oozy sands below,
the Melbourne Argus puts forth a vigorous
Caucasian headline, “Two Junk-loads
\ Drowned.” There is, in fact, no effective
way of dealing with the saffron person
save in wholesale lots like this. Other
insignificant nations may be counted by
individuals, and slain one man at a
time ; but the Chow is one-third of
the human race, and requires treat-
ment by the shipload before any im-
pression is made on his numbers.
If he were to be marched in line
through a slaughter-yard and scien-
tifically despatched at the rate of
one pigtail per minute, it would
take (the calculation is Professor
Slawkenbjerg’s) 836 years to come
to the end of the line ; and as the
last man wouldn’t expect, under
ordinary circumstances, to live
more than half a century, it really
seems that execution would add 786
years on to his life. And, by the time
tiie last of the present herd of Chows
was executed, the vacant places would have
been filled many times over by the usual
S process of propagation. Homage to the multi-
tudinous Chow ! —especially since, in these days,
his Monkey friend is entrusted with the protec-
tion of British interests in the Pacific Ocean.
* * * *
The uncanny persistence and recurrence of
floods in Europe suggests that somebody has at last
found out thesecretofoontrollingtherainfall,and is
practising—just to make sure, before he announces
his method, that there are no holes in it. It is
about as certain as anything can be that the way
to bring down rain will be found out one of these
Jays. Everything will probably be found out one
of these days, unless civilisation suddenly stops
for unknown reasons and humanity takes to the
tree-tops again. A man with such a stupendous
thing on hand as the rain-discovery would natur-
ally want to advertise it, and the only way to do
so would be to bring down rain—also, to bring it
down where there was a large population to notice
that it had been brought down. In this respect
the inventor was eminently successful. The
recent Parisian dampness was visible to the. naked
eye. Now, there is another dampness on hand,
and when it is over a notice will probably appear
in the papers to the effect that the usual syndicate
is forming.
Premier Weary seems to have realised, at
last, that Railway Boss Tait is but a poor sort of
counsellor, and that the line of least resistance is
a foolish track to follow. At latest he has tem-
porised on the proposed wooden station building
at Princes Bridge (Melbourne). Also, his pro-
posed pier at Port Melbourne—-a mere futile,
temporary makeshift for the docks and canal that
must come sooner or later —has raised such a
storm of protest that Weary’s fellow-Ministers
realise that their billets are in danger if they go
on with it, and that Tait—who cordially approves
the pier—won’t find them new ones.
, * * *
“ 0.K.” writes from Melbourne :
On behalf of the artist class there is something to be
said for the art-union gamble which wowsers condemn
on the ground that all gambling is sinful in the sight of
the Lord, and which reasonable citizens deprecate as
beino' a contemptible evasion of the law that has driven
Tatt’s to its last stronghold. Now, an art-union, as con-
ducted by, say, the Eight Hours Day showmen, is some-
thin 0, of an annual benefit to the artists in Melbourne.
The two or three pictures representing the chief prizes
are not expected to be taken by the prize-winners, who
have the option of receiving their face values in cash,
but thev are actually on offer at the . fancy 7
prices stated on the lottery ticket, and if the
winners claim cash instead, the artists get a liberal
fee for the loan Of those rejected works. Also,
in the improbable event of a first-prize winner being con-
tent with the picture, the lucky painter thereof would
get the £5OO which it represents. Apart from the two
or three high-priced pictures, which are practically hired
by the lottery promoters, dozens of others are bought
outright. These are offered as prizes without the option
of a'cash equivalent, so the art-union does in honest
truth effect the sale of many pictures—and deserving
pictures at that—which might not otherwise be disposed
of If the wowsers were in sympathy with art and
artists, they would not protest so persistently against
these shilling-show lotteries. After all, the chance of a,,
prize is only given away, as it were, luce a teacup with a
pound of tea. But artists, as a rule, have no professional
piety to speak of, and if the wowsers could starve them
out of existence they would do so to the glory of God.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
THE ONLY COURSE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On the twelfth of July, amid terrific pchoes of “ The
Battle of the Boyne," Mr. VV. E. Cullam asserted that
because there were Catholics supporting Labor the only
course open to Orangemen was to vote Liberal.
The Pope is all for Labor, therefore King William’s men
Must gird their Orange sashes, and to the fray again ;
For Labor may be worthy, or Labor may be wrong,
But if the Pope’s for Labor, then we’re agin it strong.
Oh, the angry yellow poodle-pup is barking,
But Australia isn’t troubled by his row,
For her work is far too urgent for remarking
The reason of his how-wow-wow.
We make tremendous speeches about our father's blood,
In memory of Derry we sling Australian mud,
We’d hold all men as brothers on this enlightened shore
If every blanky Papist were weltering in his gore.
Thus the awful yellow poodle-pup is yelping,
While Australia smiles serenely at his row ;
Her path he’s neither hindering nor helping
With his foolish little bow-wow-wow.
Some men that strive and battle for fair Australia’s right
Have names that once were foremost in Erin’s hopeless
fight,
And that’s sufficient reason, till all old scores are paid,
For Protestants to rally about the flag of Wade.
Oh, the little yellow pup is fierce as ever,
But the people laugh to hear the poodle’s row ;
For, in spite of all his antics, he can never
Hurt Australia with his bow-wow-wow.
We know the dreadful Papists would burn us at the
stake
But for our Orange sashes and all the row we make ;
So, Liberal voters, rally, we’ll show them what is what,
While Papists vote for Labor we'll sell our souls ter Fat.
Yes, the dreadful yellow poodle-pup is yelping,
But there isn’t time to listen to his row ;
And Wade will go the faster for his helping
With his irritating bow-wow-wow.
N.S.YV.
PAT O'MAORI.
MARRIAGE AND MORAL REFORM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rev. F. C. Spurr, the discursive Melb. parson, lrcturimr
on marriage the other evening, heartily recommended it
for men. “ Man is naturally selfish,” he said, “ and there
is nothing better than that the selfishness be beaten out
of him. "A woman can make a better man of her
husband.”
The man who is a shocking lot
Who lets the hookies cheat him,
Whose moral conduct is too hot,
Is so because he hasn’t got
A little wife to beat him.
So each who is a brute and cheat,
A gambler and a soaker,
Should straightway take a wife to beat
Out sin, and hit him up a treat
With paste-pin or with poker.
This strange advice may not work right
This quaint conceit and jingle —
And man with maid may not unite
Till satisfied that he is quite
Too awful to stay single !
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS
The “NATIONAL” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
Royal Agricultural Society's trials in; Entrland. and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
" NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
(made in England.)
beat all coiners at the
sdf
Arthur leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
IT " NOCONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE.”
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W,). V
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
Dec., 1903 .. 64,649 1 0 p.c. = 50,000 14,649 1,060,264
June, 1904 .. 65,555 30 ~ ~50.000 15,555 1,075,819
Dec., 1904 .. 65,570 10 ~ ~ 50,000 1 5,570 1,09],359
June, 1905.. 65,204 10 ~ ~50.000 15,204 1,106.593
Dec., 1905 .. 65,263 10 ~ ~ 50,000 15,263 3,121,856
June, 1906.. 66,022 10 ~ ~50,0 0 16,022 1,137,878
Dec., 1906 .. 67,982 10 ~ ~ 50,000 17,982 1,155,860
Premiums on new shares .. 42,713 1,198,573
June, 1907.. 71,800 10 p.c. = 50,000 21,800 1,220,373
Premiums on new shares .. 0,522 1,226,895
Dec., 1907 .. 83,005 10p.c. = 61,288 21,717 1,248,612
Premiums on new shares .. 765 1,249,377
June, 1908.. 90,973 10 p.c. = 62,420 28,553 1,277,930
Dec., 1908.. 91,706 10 „ ~68,184 23,522 1,301,452
June, 1909 .. 104,43 S 10 ~ ~74,776 29,662 1,331,114
Dec., 1909 .. 116,496 10 ~’,,75,000 41,496 1,372,610
June, 1910 .. 117,000 10 „ ~75,000 42,000 1,414,610
There was only a very ladylike little spring in the visihle
profits of last term compared with those of the previous
term. But as far as one can see that wasn’t due to the
Labor party having arrived, or to George Reid having
left, or to capital having departed, or to Australian con-
ditions having been only a very little better, if any better at
all. The smallness of the increase of profits seems rather
to have been due to the fact that, instead of capital
having flown, it has persisted in staying here ; wherefore
the Commercial of Sydney', in company with other
Australian banks, has been under the painful neces-
sity of paying interest on more deposits than it
has really known what to do with. In 12 months the
deposits have increased by £2,349.298, while the ad-
vances are only' £185,656 greater. The rural industries
have not been wanting money; the squatter and the
farmer have been getting rid of the overdraft instead of
accumulating a larger one. And as for manufacturing
industries, though a Protectionist policy now seems safe
enough, men who might put money into such businesses
want the assurance that they’ will get enough Protection
to really protect; and they naturally don’t feel that they
have that assurance as long as the leader of the alleged
Protectionist party is prepared to hobble himself to the
Joe Cooks. Look first, however, at these comparisons :
June,’o9. June, TO.
Notes .. .. £499,612 £568,935 Inc. £69,323
Bills .. .. 785,011 823,609 Inc. 38,598
Deposits.. .. 15,971,760 18,321,058 Inc. 2,349,298
Liquid Assets .. 8,531,563 10,870,370 Inc. 2,338,807
Advances ..11,168,582 11,354,238 Inc. 185,656
Premises, etc. .. 468,792 485,465 Inc. 16,673
That means that this bank has the command of
£19,713,602 of the public’s money, and more than 55 per
cent, of it is lying in the bank’s vaults. This paper will
not complain of any hank pursuing a conservative policy
in regard to cash reserves. But to keep 55 per cent, in
the safe is a waste of money. Certainly' it isn’t all un-
productive coin ; about two-fifths of it is represented by
deposits with other banks in London and public securi-
ties (Consols and other stocks). But an Australian bank
isn’t doing what it could do to develop Australia so long
as it puts the millions supplied by Australian depositors
into English banks and English Consols.
As a matter .'of fact, though the net visible
profits for the half-year are a shade more than they were
for the previous half-year, the earnings in proportion to
capital and reserves combined are a shade less. This
shows the recent results on that basis:—
Dec., 1906.. £6 7 3 p.c. Dec., 1908.. £6 18 7 p.c-
June, 1907.. 613 3 „ June, 1909.. 7 9 0,,
Dec., 1907.. 614 7 „ Dec., 1909.. 8 4 7,,
June, 1908.. 7 5 7 ~ June, 1910.. 8 211 ~
That means that the bank has been piling up reserves
and hasn’t been able to find any very’ profitable use for
them. No doubt from one point of view the situation is
comforting: to have such large resources in such gilt-
edged securities means little risk for shareholders, and
none at all for the .wonderfully’ well-secured depositors
and other creditors.
Something of a slap at the Commonwealth
Government’s proposed Federal note issue is expected
from every spokesman for a private bank just at present;
but Frank Thornton’s tame curate couldn’t have given
a gentler knock than Chairman G. J. Cohen adminis-
tered. The issue really’wouldn’t affect the bank’s profits,
he said, because of the 2 per cent, note-tax it pays at
present; still, the Commonwealth issue is a retrograde
step to take. Like a wise man, he left it at that, and
didn’t go into such troublesome things as reasons and
arguments. One remembers, however, that a good
banker isn’t necessarily’ much either of a prophet or a
politician. There were very’ good bankers who predicted
that disaster would follow Federation ; and Sydney’ was
in particular going to suffer from the ravages of the Vic-
torian wolves. The Commercial of Sy’dney, which has
no Australian branches r ,outside N. S. Wales and Queens-
land, ought to have suffered most terribly. But under
the Curse deposits have increased from £11,134,777 in
the middle of 1900 to £18,321,058 in the middle of 1910,
and 12 months’ profits from £96,131 to £233,496. On
matters of politics and economics it is therefore quite
possible that the opinion of the good judge of pumpkins
is quite as valuable as the opinion of the good judge of
mortgages.
* * * *
The City Bank of Sydney :
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £9052 4 p.c. = £BOOO £1052 £3,608
June, 1904.. 9045 4 „ ~ 8000 1045 4,653
Dec., 1904.. 6158 21 ~ ~ 5000 1158 5,811
June, 1905.. 6060 2£ „ „ 5000 1060 6,871
Dec., 1905.. 6068 2j ~ „ SGM, 1068 7,939
June, 1906.. 6066 21 ~ ~ 500 u 1066 9,005
Dec., 1906.. 6049 21 „ „ 5000 1049 10,054
June, 1907.. 7066 3 ~ ~ 6000’ 1066 11,120
Dec., 1907.. 7205 3 „ „ 6000; 1205 12,325
June, 1908..'. 7098 3 „ „ 6000 1098 13,423-
Dec., 1908.. 7030 3 ~ ~ 600 ft, —■ - 1030 14,453
June, 1909.. 7055 3 ~ „ 6000 1055 15,508
Dec., 1909.. - 7088 3 ~ ~ «£ooft, 1088 16,596
June, 1910.. 9063 3£ ~ ~ 7000 £lOOO 1063 17,659
Away back in 1903 the City Bank wrote off £109,000 of
reserves, and the after proceedings suggested that even
that was totally inadequate. -..Still there was one good
reason for not writing off much more of the reserves;
thbre was so very little more reserve to write off. As the
City’ Bank didn’t suspend in 1893, it had no sudden
cleaning tip like some of its contemporaries, and it
proceeded to clean up gradually. Evidently there
a hole to be filled, despite the writing off of
£109,000, and the regularity of the profit figures for
December, 1903,.and, June, 1904, as shown above, sug-
gests that the directors had decided to show just about
socmueh profits ap'd to use the rbst to fill up the chasm.
That was when/the bank was paying'a 4 per cent, divi-
dend. Then, apparently, it was decided to fill up the
chasm faster. So' the apparent profits, which had been
just enough each half-year to pay 4 per cent, and leave
about £lOOO over, suddenly dropped, and became just
enough to pay 2/ per cent, and leave about £lOOO over.
That policy was maintained from December, 1904, to.
■ \ f ...T ...
December, 1906. Next, it would seem, the chasm began
to feel better, for the visible profits were suddenly raised
to just enough to pay a 3 per cent, dividend and
leave about £lOOO over. They stayed there or thereabouts
from June, 1907, to December, 1909. Ail this time no-
body outside the bank knew' the size of the deficit w'hich
was being gradually cleared off out of earnings ; but
everybody could guess that there was a deficit. These
profits, which were always, each half-year, just about
£lO9O ahead of the dividend, whether the dividend was
4 per cent., or 2J per cent., or 3 per cent., looked too
automatic.
This half-year the bank varies things by show-
ing not only enough profit to pay its dividend and leave
about £lOOO over, but also enough to supply a surplus
£lOOO for the writing down of bank premises. This
may mean that the directors consider the process of
providing for old losses to be nearly finished, or it may
not. The share market evidently considers the trouble
as by no means over, for last Friday there were sellers of
the old shares (68 paid up) at £4 65., and of the new ones
(£8 paid up) at £4 2s. Still the market for these shares,
bad asit is, isn’t quite so bad as it has been.
The position of the City Bank has become very
much stronger during the past half-year. These are the
principal figures:—
Liabilities.
December, June,
1909. 1910. Increase.
Deposits, etc £1,278,602 £1,390,146 £111,544
Notes 94,582 102,346 7,764
Coin 261,963 453,830 191,867
Govt. Securities .. 92,000 92,000
Premises .. .. 172,036 173,044 1,008
Advances .. .. 1,269,781 1,199,277 70,504
The cash position is distinctly good, and with a proprie-
tors’ reserved liability of £540,000, the position of the
depositors is sound enough. As for the shareholders’ situ-
ation, it would probably improve if the directors would
announce exactly what losses have still to be made good,
or else declare that there are no losses, and offer at the
same time a feasible explanation of the smallness of the
earnings. It is a curious commentary on the state of the
law that no one considers a bank’s assets are necessarily
w'orth so much, because they are set down in the balance-
sheet as being worth so much. Balance-sheets are not
expected to be accurate about values. They simply
reflect the state of the books, and sometimes the books
are absurdly sanguine.
* * * •»
The Ballarat Banking Co. (Ballarat, Vic.):—
Written Added
off Pre- to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends, mises. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £4004 6p.c.=£2550 £250 £1204 £64,857
June, 1904.. 3977 7 ~ ~ 2975 1002 65,859
Dec., 1904.. 3974 7 ~ ~ 2975 999 66,858
June, 1905 4028 7 ~ ~ 2975 1053 67,911
Dec., 1905.. 4040 7 ~ ~ 2975 —• 1065 68,976
June, 1906.. 4050 7 ~ „ 2975 500 575 69,551
Dec., 1906.. 4098 7 „ ~ 2975 1123 70,674
June, 1907.. 4129 7 ~ „ 2975 1154 71,828
Dec., 1907.. 4007 7 ~ ~ 2975 1032 72,860
June, 1908.. 4050 7 ~ ~ 2975 1075 73,935
Dec., 1908.. 4079 7 ~ ~ 2975 1104 75,039
June, 1909.. 4103 7 „ ~ 2975 500 628 75,667
Dec., 1909.. 4160 7£ „ ~ 3187 973 76,640
June, 1910.. 4204 74,,,, 3187 1017 77,657
This prosperous little institution, like the National Bank
of Tasmania, exists as a protest against the insane habit
of concentrating everything in the capital cities. It has
its headquarters at Ballarat, while the National of Tas-
mania hangs out its chief shingle at Launceston. There
used to be a similar protest up north, when the Bank of
North Queensland had its head office at Townsville, but the
habit of centralisation was too strong for it and it moved
to Brisbane. The Ballarat Banking 00. is now 45J years old.
It has £85,000 paid-up capital, and £77,657 of reserves, so
its position is strong beyond the average. It doesn’t
issue notes. It has no branches, so it newer gets taken
in by defaulting or incompetent branch managers. It
does business over a little bit of country where it knows
everything and everybody, so it makes very few bad
debts. For a number of years before the breakage of
1893 it paid dividends at the very handsome rate of 11
percent., and though it dropped its rate to 5£ per cent,
in the period of gloom which followed the downfall, it
never asked its depositors to take preference shares, or
gave them interminable stock, ordid anything of that sort.
Ballarat is a fading city nowadays. The mines are practi-
callydead, and though the place is trying to turn itself
into a big agricultural centre the great land monopolies
hamper its efforts. Also, it is blighted by an iniquitous
system of preferential railway rates, devised to crush its
industries for the further bloating of Melbourne. When
the Federal progressive land-tax comes to pass, and the
railways are taken over by the Commonwealth and put
on a sane basis, Ballarat should boom again as an inland
centre, and the Ballarat Banking Co. should become one
of the big financial institutions of the Commonwealth.
Meanwhile it is a very solid little concern. The
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves) amount to
£162,657, while the debts owing to the public are
£252,636. In many big banks that amount of share-
holders’ funds would have to guard over £1,000,000 of
deposits, so the security offered by the Ballarat Banking
Co. is far above the average. This kind of business, how-
ever, doesn’t imply very large profits for the shareholders
—large profits for the shareholders and large security for
the depositors are things which seldom go together. The
earnings of late represent these amounts upon capital
and reserves :
Dec., 1906 .. £5 6 1 p.c. Dec., 1908 .. £5 2 0 p.c.
June, 1907 .. 5 6 1 „ June, 1909.. 5 3 2 ~
Dec., 1907 .. 5 2 2 ~ Dec., 1909.. 5 3 6,,
June, 1908.. 5 2 8 ~ June, 1910.. 5 4 0 ~
The figures are not all they might be, but they are ex-
ceedingly respectable for a bank which takes such few
chances; Against its total liabilities of ,£252,636 there
are £99,607 of cash and Government securities, which is
equal to 39 per cent. And only £38,570 of the deposits
are at call, so every £ of deposits at call is backed by
about 50s. of liquid assets.
*■■***
The Ballarat Trustees, Executors and
Agency Co. (Ballarat, Vic.) :
Net To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
June, 1903 ..£1248 10 p.c. = £750 £498 £4,368
Dec., 1903 .. 1529 10 „ „ 750 779 5,147
June, 1904 .. 1268 10 ~ ~ 750 518 5,665
Dec., 1904 .. 1503 10 „ „ 750 753 6,418
June, 1905 .. 1547 TO ~ ~ 750 797 7,215
Dec., 1905 .. 1834 12 ~ ~ 900 934 8,149
June, 1906 .. 1773 10 „ ~ 750 1023 9,172
Dec., 1906 .. 1858 12 ~ „ 900 958 10,130
June, 1907 .. 1758 10 ~ „ 750 1008 11,138
Dec., 1907 .. 1940 12 „ „ 900 1040 12,178
June, 1908 .. 1980 10 „ „ 750 1230 13,408
Dee., 1908 .. 1957 12 ~ „ 900 3057 14,465
June, 1909 .. 1507 10 ~ 750 757 15,222
Dec., 1909 .. 1421, 12 „ „ 900 521 15,743
June, 1910 .. 1351 10 „ „ 750 601 16,344
This concern has a subscribed capital of £50,000 in 20,000
shares of 50s. each. It has a paid capital of £15,000 in
20,000 shares paid up to 15s. each. Therefore there is a
liability of £35,000 (20,000 shares with 355. uncalled) to
keep the shareholders awake at night. Six months ago
the directors reported that, as the formal reserve
fund then equalled the paid-up capital (paid-up
capital, £15,000; formal reserve fund, £15,000), they
proposed to transfer no more of the profits to re-
serve for the present, but to accumulate them till they
reached the sum of £5OOO, and then turn them into capi-
tal, thus making the capital £2o,oooin 20,000 shares paid
up to £1 and reducing the Call liability to 30s. So far
£1344 has been accumulated, towards the sum of £5OOO.
The very serious decline in earnings, however, tends
to retard the operation. No one doubts the solvencv of
the Ballarat Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.,'but
the local depression—caused by the mining slump, the
big estates which block agricultural progress, and the
differential railway rates which hamper Ballarat in-
dustries in the interests of Melbourne—is against it.
The undivided profit balance at June, 1910, was £583 14s.
more than at December, 1909, but the increase was made
up in this rather unsatisfactory fashion :
Government securities £240 5 0
Value of offices 320 7 6
Furniture and fittings 22 10 7
Cash io 11
£583 14 0
The solidity of the Ballarat Trustees is beyond all ques-
tion, and its profits are still good, but in view of the
stagnation u’hieh misgovernment and land monopoly
and a nefarious railway policy and the mining slump
have brought upon the city of many statues, it is doubt-
ful if it can now be regarded as a wildly progressive
institution. As one instance : The estates in its charge at
June, 1909, were valued at £1,412,977. At June, 1910,
they represented £1,419,264. A company with such a
reputation ought to show something better than that
almost imperceptible expansion if it weren’t doing busi-
ness in a dead region. And the fact that its profits for
the half-year just closed are the smallest it has shown
since June, 1904, isn’t a promising symptom.
* -K * *
The Newcastle and County Mutual Build-
ing, Land and Investment Co. (Newcastle, N.S.W.), from
the time when £2501 of forfeited capital was added to
reserves:—
Written Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Off. serves
1899 ..£1599 2£ per cent. = £641 £1123 £5922
1900 .. 1502 4 „ „ 1024 631 5769
1901 .. 1439 6 ~ ~ 1281 1209 4718
1902 .. 1710 5 ~ ~ 1281 708 4439
1903 .. 1543 5 ~ „ 1281 790 3911
1904 .. 1784 5 „ „ 1281 139 4275
1905 .. 1578 5 „ „ 1281 126 4446
1906 .. 1598 6 ~ „ 1537 390 4117
1907 .. 1418 5 „ „ 1281 71 4183
1908 .. 1524 5 „ „ 1281 4426
1909 .. 1632 5 „ „ 1281 4777
1910 .. 1669 5 „ „ 1281 5165
The balance-sheet shows a profit and loss balance of
£3260 before paying the last half-year’s dividend ; but
there is, besides, a reserve of £2546 for depreciation of
securities. The table indicates a pretty long succession
of moderate divs.; but before that there was a famine in
the land, and the dead-horse was a frequent and trouble-
some animal that called for a deal of shifting. Even now
some of the animals on the society’s premises don’t look
as though they were any more alive than they ought to
be. “Freehold and leasehold properties” stand at
£15,306, but “net revenue from properties” was only
£420, which isn’t 3 per cent. “Properties” may no
doubt include land, and that would bring do\Sti the in-
terest or rent return ; but if that isn’t the explanation,
then the property item looks to be considerably over-
valued, which is the polite way of saying that the re-
serves may be fictitious, and probably some even of the
Capital is not intact. Fortunately, there has been a
steady reduction of properties in hand, though a by no
means rapid one in recent years ; and that extreme
gradualness isn’t a cheerful feature of the case. Advances
have increased, but practically all the money has been
provided by depositors. Some comparisons follow :
1899. 1904. 1908. 1909. 1910.
£ £ £ £ £
Deposits .. .. 3,362 10,978 12,520 15,699 16,133
Other liabilities .. 6,773 3,362 1,206 2,934 2,710
Advances .. ..18,046 28,318 29.611 34,249 34,941
Properties.. .. 24,248 17,178 15,418 15,399 15,306
The capital is £25,624. If we write off the whole
of the reserves, and thus assume that advances
and properties together are worth only £46,082,
instead of the £50,247 at which they figure in the
books, there would still be about £lBO of assets for
every £lOO of debt owing to depositors and others. There
is no doubt, therefore, about depositors’security so far.
From the shareholders’ point of view, it looks as though
some careful nursing is still necessary in order to realise
book values; and hence, as the risks have been added to
with the new advances, no bigger dividend than the
present 5 per cent, ought to be looked for yet awhile.
* * * *
North Coast Steam Navigation Co. (N.S. W.):
f Unex-
plained
Addi- Written
Business tions to Off Re- Re-
Profits. Reserves. Dividends, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
June, 1903.. 2583 6p.c. = 3938 190 41,593
Dec., 1903.. 2665 500 6 ~ ~ 3938 40,820
June, 1904.. 3992 775 6 ~ ~ 3938 41,649
Dec., 1904.. 5596 3987 8 ~ ~ 5250 45,982
June, 1905.. 5860 4542 8 ~ ~5250 51,134
Dec., 1905.. 6230 852 8 ~ ~ 5602 52,614
June, 1906.. 7245 1000 8 ~ ~6750 54,109
Dec., 1906.. 8021 1500 8 „ ~7000 56,630
June, 1907.. 8791 1573 8 „ ~8266 58,728
Dec., 1907.. 8783 8 ~ ~8750 2274 56,487
June, 1908.. 6239 3526 8 ~ ~8750 57,502
Dec., 1908.. 8959 1756 8 „ ~8750 59,467
June, 1909.. 9296 8 ~ ~8750 162 59,851
Dec., 1909.. 9038 2020 8 „ ~8750 62,159
June, 1910.. 8887 8 „ ~8750 136 62,160
This co. hasn’t been having the best of luck lately. Its
last two purchases have gone under, one of them on the
voyage out from Britain, the other on its fourth trip to
the N.S.W. North Coast. Certainly, both losses were
“ covered by insurance.” But that doesn’t mean that it
doesn’t cost the co. anything. There are the insurance
premiums, to begin with ; for when a man says his loss
was covered by insurance, he means in a general way
that the loss hasn’t fallen on him in a lump, but has
been or will be spread over a number of years. And
besides the premiums, there is the loss of business to
take into account. A co. may unquestionably be better
off after a fire or shipwreck than before it: but it isn’t
likely to be so in a case of this sort, where the losses con-
sisted of brand new ships. How the co. is really doing it
w'ould, however, be difficult to say. It is supposed to
have reserves of £62,160, and it is supposed to have pro-
vided over £20,000 of this amount during the past six
years, in addition to paying the 8 per cent, div,
But those additions to reserves are not represented by
cash ; all the surplus profits have been put into ships.
The book value of this ship item has grown from
£145,350 as at June, 1904, to £242,400 at present. Thus
not only all the surplus profit, but almost all of £87,500
of new capital has been put into ships. Now, that
£20,000 of surplus profit only exists provided that the
book value of steamers, etc., has been written down to
correspond with their depreciation through old age, bar-
nacles and other misfortunes. How much this co. has
written off its assets nobody can tell from the published
accounts. It may be writing off more than enough, and
thus hiding some profits, or it may be writing off too
little, and therefore not doing as well as it pretends it
is. Consequently, the man who buys North Coast shares
and doesn’t know more than the published accounts tell
him, is distinctly buying a pig in a bag, although
certainly the co. has a long and creditable record behind
it. Further excitement may be provided in this case
by the North Coast railway. The N.S.W. Government is
now building that line, and if the Government pursues
its old policy of using its railways to drag all traffic
through Sydney, the work won’t do this co. any good.
There are even some city people—a whole lot of them, in
fact —whose interests are not wholly served by the
struggle to push everything through the Redfern tunnel.
* * * *
The Australia Hotel Co. (Sydney)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1901 .; £651 Nil £651 £16,987
1902.. 3,239 10 p.c. = £2500 739 17,726
1903 .. 3,300 10 „ „ 2500 800 18,526
1904 .. 5,929 10 „ ~ 2500 3429 21,955
1905 .. 4,552 10 ~ „ 2500 2052 24,007
1906 .. 3,180 10 ~ „ 2500 680 24,687
1907 .. 6,599 10 ~ ~ 2500 4099 28,786
1.908 .. 6,396 10 „ „ 2500 1,200 2696 31,482
1909 .. 10,447 10 „ „ 2500 13,826 25,603
1910.. 12,401 {* X jj ” ’> 2,899 5007 30,610
‘ £25*000 of reserves to be capitalised .. 5,610
* Ordinary, t Preference.
A number of changes have happened to this concern
during the past year. It used to be a company with
£300,000 of nominal capital, of which only £25,000 was
allotted and paid up. With that £25,000 it professed to
own and run a hotel worth, including fittings and furni-
ture, £163,000. Naturally it staggered under a £125,000
mortgage, and a £25,000 company with a £125,000 mort-
gage is like a pyramid upside-down. For a long while
the mortgagees refused to accept instalments in re-
payment, but finally they came to terms, and the co.
started gnawing littie bits off its stupendous liability. It
didn’t gnaw very rapidly, but the debt, which was
£125,000 in June, 1898, was down to £120,000 in June,
1908,’ and to £107,000 in June, 1909.
Then came new management, which sold 33,000
preference shares of £1 each, bearing a cumulative divi-
dend of 6 per cent. This increased the capital from
£25,000 to £58,000. It got a new mortgage for
£65,000 at a lower rate of interest (the security
being so greatly improved), which was £42,000 less
than the old mortgage. This made the co. much less
top-heavy, and much more substantial, for there is a vast
difference between a £25,000 co. with a £107,000 mort-
gage and a £58,000 co. with a £65,000 mortgage. It
wrote down its land, building and machinery from
£150,000 to £142,500. Also the shares formerly held in
London were bought up by Australian residents, and
the absentee was biffed out. All these were changes for
the better, and the very solid increase in profits shows
that the results were beneficial. On the other hand, it
is not so certain that the proposal to divide £25,000 of
the reserve fund among the ordinary shareholders, giving
each, as a free gift, one share for every share now
held, will be beneficial. It may not make much
difference whether the money is called reserve or capital,
still it might be better to postpone the change until the
last remnants of the mortgage spectre were shifted off
the premises. The same remark applies to the very
large increase in the dividend paid to ordinary share-
holders. Even the most ordinary kind of an ordinary
shareholder likes to receive a big dividend, but if the
extra money had been applied to the reduction of liabili-
ties it might have been better in the end. The writer ad-
vances these suggestions in a friendly spirit. He has often
stayed a night at the Australia, and so far as his experi-
ence goes it is one of the only two hotels in this country
where the hot water in the bath is always hot. In most
hotels the hot water begins by being hot, and then
steadily cools down till at last it is colder than the cold
water.' Finally the hot water freezes, and it is necessary
to pour the cold water on it to thaw it out, which isn’t
the sort of thing that any able-bodied male white citizen
hankers after.
* * * *
Fitzgerald's Brewing and Malting Co.
(Castlemaine, Vic.):—
Net Added to Re-
June, Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1900.. £6353 10 per cent. =£4ooo £2353 £14,192
1901.. 7107 10 ~ ~ 4000 3107 17,299
£lO,OOO of reserves added to capital, making it
£50,000, and reducing reserves to .. 7,299
1902.. 6814 10 per cent.= 5000 1814 9,113
1903.. 6268 10 ~ ~ 5000 1268 10,381
1904.. 6250 10 „ ~ 5000 . 1250 11,631
1905.. 6423 10 ~ ~ 5000 1423 1 s 13,054
1906.. 6741 10 ~ ~ 6000 1741 14,795
£lO,OOO of reserves added to capital, making it
£60,000, and reducing reserves to .. 4,795
1907.. 6778 10 per cent.= 6000 778 5,573
1908.. 6705 10 ~ ~ 6000 705 6,278
1909.. 6308 10 „ ~ 6000 308 6,586
1910.. 6463 10 ~ ~ 6000 463 7,049
The figures still preserve their beautiful uniformity,
which is possibly brought about by the simple process of
varying the amount chopped or sawn off for deprecia-
tion. The above dividends are not, of course, exaptly
what they profess to be. 'Up to 1901 they were really 10
per cent, on the money put up by the shareholders.
During 1902-3-4-5-6, after £lO,OOO of reserves were capi-
talised, they represented 12J per cent, on the funds which
the shareholders had actually supplied. Now' with £20,000
of reserves capitalised they stand for 15 p.c. The Fitz-
gerald concern has done amazingly well. Stowed a Way
in sleepy, tranquil Castlemaine, it wasn’t tempted during
the boom to buy up heaps and heaps of garish freehold
pubs at absurd prices. Pubs didn’t inflate much at
Castlemaine, and this concern was too' wise to rush down
to Melbourne with its little bag of money and start bid-
ding in the pub-market against gigantic concerns with
many thousands of debenture-holders’cash to burn. It
just stayed quietly at the old address, and boiled beer
with a steady hand, and wrote off its goodwill item ; and
truly it had its reward.
According to its balance-sheet, this co. has no
debts whatever—neither overdraft, debentures, mort->
gages nor t%ide accounts. It owns £34,876 worth of
freeholds, of which amount £29,876 seems to be pubs.
As this item is £3370 more than it was last year the co.
has apparently bought a pub or two in the interval, but
it evidently did so on a strictly cash basis. There are no
signs of over-valuation in the balance-sheet, which; in
fact, is a model document of its kind. ,
The South Brisbane Gas and Light Co. (Q.)
Writ-
Dividends and ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1903..£2852 6 p.c. = £1654 £203 £995 £8,336
Dec., 1903.. 3329 6 ~ ~ 1654 600 1075 9,411
June, 1904.. 3110 6 ~ ~ 1654 100 1356 10,767
Dec., 1904.. 3342 7 „ ~ 1929 100 1313 12(080
June, 1905.. 3011 7 ~ „ 1929 3 1079 13,159
Dec., 1905.. 3327 7 „ ~ 1929 433 965 14,124
June, 1906.. 3016 7 „ „ 1929 4 1083 16,207
Dec., 1906.. 3438 7 „ ~ 1929 1509 16,716
June, 1907.. 3208 8 ~ „ 2205 31 972 17,688
Dec., 1907.. 3940 8 „ „ 2205 206 1529 19,217
June, 1908.. 4070 9 ~ ~ 2481 1589 20,806
Dec., 1908.. 4805 10 ~ „ 2756 19 2030 22,836
June, 1909.. 4627 10 ~ ~ 2756 658 1213 24,049
Dec., 1909.. 5329 10 „ ~ 2756 2573 26,622
June, 1910.. 5456 10 ~ „ 2756 252 2448 29,070
The amounts shown above as written off are merely
small casual things—renewal of retorts and the like. The
bulk of the provision for wear and tear, old age and
similar incursions and devastations, is buried in an item
which reads, “ manufacture, depreciation, etc., £5617.”
How much of that is depreciation doesn’t appear ; the col
may be making ample provision or it may not. How-
ever, the general impression is that it is a well
and cautiously-managed affair. One point which sug-
gests this is the steady growth of the cash resources. At
June, 1909, the co. had £4340 in cash and bank stock ; at
December, 1909, the figure was £5161 ; at June, 1910, it
was £6lBB. There is £15,000 owing on 4 per cent, de-
bentures repayable in June, 1915, and apparent!}' it has
been wisely resolved not to renew this liability, but to
accumulate the necessary cash and pay it off at maturity.
The paid-up capital is £52,500, so the reserves are very
strong by comparison, and their increase in the last
seven years has been remarkable. The same may be said
of the profits, which are now almost double the figure at
which they stood in June; 1903. ’ v;‘
* * »
The Riverina Frozen Meat Oo. r itself became a
corpse the other day. The works have been shut down
for some years, chiefly because it hasn’t paid to buy stock
to freeze so far from a shipping port; and the deben-
ture-holders, anxious to save something from the w reck,
at last stepped in. The co. expired without a struggle.
•* * * ,*
Something large in the way of ap Australian-
Maoriland industrial float has been arranged, a eo. having
been underwritten to take over the Maeriland business
of Bowron Bros., tanners and leather;merchants, and
extend it to the Commonw'ealth. The capital is to be
£175,000 ; but 30,000 shares of £1 are to be reserved. The
new co. is to pay for the business £30,000 cash, 15,000
5 per cent. pref. shares, and 30,000 ordinary shares—a
total of £7s,ooo—which apparently mean%about £22,500
for goodwill, and £52,500 for pFant, " buildings,
etc. The stock is to be paid for at cost (£50,000).
There are accounts and auditors’ reports- : covering two
years and two months, and showing for that period a
total profit of £46,769. That is equal to l£j per cent, per
annum on the capital of the new co. ,The only, mis-
fortune is that the period covered by the published
accounts is so brief.


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited).
2, 4 and 6 Spring Street,
Sydney,
ads as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power Agents, etc.
Trust Funds to Lend
from 4 per cent.
Write for Booklet with full information.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
SAMPLE GRINDERS
FOR REDUCING SAMPLES TO
POWDER FOR ASSAYING. V?
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Leinpriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* * • *
“Ferkodor” Paint. —Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort’s
Dock and Mt. Lyell buildings; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. &O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
THE GREAT INCREASE IN WORKING
PRESSURE of steam boilers has enhanced the necessity
of thoroughly reliable boiler mountings and stop valves,
steam-tight piston glands and steam joints, as well as
perfect insulation of exposed steam heated surfaces to
prevent radiation and ensure transmission of heat. Bell’s
Asbestos packed water gauges, blow-off cocks, stop and
check valves, Bell’s Dagger packing and Beliite jointing.
Bell’s Asbestos flexible pipe lagging and non-conducting
composition will ensure economy' and safety to steam
users. BELL’S ASBESTOS Australian Agency, Ltd.,
(A. J. Borchert, General Manager), 315 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY.*
* * * *
The works of the Austral Otis Engineering
Company at South Melbourne are at present busily en-
gaged in connection with the copper industry, and
among the works in hand are a complete converter plant
for the Great Fitzroy Mines, consisting of two blowing
stands with steam power turning gear, and six steel con-
verterseach 10ft. 6in. by 7ft. 6in. diameter, two pneumati-
cally operated telescopic blowing hoods and main flue
connections, concentrate briquetting machines and water
jackets for the blast furnaces ; several very large water
jackets for the Great Cobar Copper Mines ; steel framed
converter housing, two pneumatically operated telescopic
blowing hoods and main flue connections for the converter
plant, and hydro-pneumatic tamping cranes for converter
lining, for Wallaroo and Moonta Copper Mines, South Aus-
tralia ; steelwaterjacketsandcrushingrollsforthePhillips
River Copper Company, West Australia ; and a complete
100-ton water-jacketed blast furnace and steel main
chimney, sft. diam. and 150 ft. high, for the Hampden
Cloncurry Mines, Queensland. The Company have also in
hand the construction of the extensive coal screens, con-
veyors, automatic tipplers and coal hoppers required
for the State Coal Mines at Powlett River.*
“ Fibro-Cement ” Asbestos Fireproof Sheets.
In large size, Bin. x 4in. x (about) Jin. thick, now largely
used for walls, for homesteads, bungalows, silos, cottages,
shearers’ quarters, dairies, stables. Fire, heat, acid and
ant proof. Strong, cheap, everlasting. Lower insurance
rate. Photos, and testimonials free from sole importers.
James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney, and
581-583 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.* [1
* * * *
The Post Magazine & Insurance Monitor,
London, of 31/10/’OB, in commenting upon The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited, writes:—
“ Wherever the Society has gone it has stood for sound
life assurance principles, and it can look back upon
one-third of a century of useful work.”
* * * *
WOOD PIPE is specially adapted for Aus-
tralian conditions where the soil often contains alkali and
mineral which would soon eat away metal pipes. In
Wood Pipe there is no exposed metal. Catalogue from
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd., Balmain, Sydney.*
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
* « * •
Refractory Mines.—Owners of arsenical gold
mining properties are invited to send particulars with
samples of refractory ores to the Oxy-Hydro Company,
Sydney, who are successfully treating same by their new
and economical process. Mutual Life Buildings, 14
Martin Place.
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
Nobels (Hamburg) Explosives.—Messrs. Wm.
Adams & Co. Ltd., of 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, have
now taken over the sole agency in N.S.W. for the above
high-grade explosives. Large stocks on hand. Please
note these are the genuine Nobels.*
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout Australia by Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinder are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangement of valves, and automatic lubrica-
tion, and these are testified to by Australian users. The
engine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annum.* [1
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria.*
*■*■*•*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Com.iso'n & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silbkrbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan s crucibles;
chemicals ; etc.*
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges-
The J. C. Williamson theatrical business ha s
been turned over to a limited liability co. ; but ttie con-
cern seems to be of a private character, and J.C.W. con-
tinues to serve as managing director.
* * * *
After Monday nothing was left of Mount Mar-
oomba except a blot on the pavement and a bad smell;
for on that day Andrew Wilson wired that the show was
of “ no practical value.” Shares, which had been boomed
to £2OO, were then sold down to £2. It has been a reck-
less piece of plunging all through. The prospectors—one
of them confessedly knew nothing about mines or
mining—came on a big blow while overlanding from
Bourke to Darwin, and they thought it was worth
probing. That much was quite reasonable; but, of
course, since the “mine ” was not being worked, there were
no developments to warrant any spring in share values.
Melbourne, however, was wanting something to play
with, and it grabbed Mt. Maroomba. Fortunately, those
who have got their fingers burned are mostly in the
gambling game ; the widow and the orphan have escaped
for once.
* * * *
The Lakekamu gold rush in Papua is giving the
Government of the Baby Territory a deal of trouble ; and
to try to fix matters up, the Adininistrator(Mr. Staniforth
Smith) has gone there, and a Council meeting is being
held on the field. After the very serious outbreak of
dysentery had been beaten —though that wasn’t until it
had killed off about one-fifth of all the native carriers,
etc.—beri-beri broke out, and the Government medical
relief was found to be inadequate. Papuans are seriously
concerned about the effect that the heavy mortality
will have on recruiting for the new rubber and
other planting cos. About 1000 “boys” in all were
recruited for the Lakekamu field ; and a great many
of these came from districts where the supply of labor
was thought to be very good. Now, however, those dis-
tricts are for the time shut against recruiters. At the
best of times the natives are not keen on leaving their
own localities to work for the white man, and after an
epidemic like that at Lakekamu the recruiter might just
as well stay at home. In fact, the chances are that he
would find it much healthier at home. So far, the
threatening labor trouble is only talked of in whispers in
Port Moresby and Samarai; but it is coming, neverthe-
less, and it is going to pinch some of the new rubber cos.
and syndicates very hard —so hard that they will be
almost sure to call out for a few thousand imported
coolies to help them.
* * * *
Main Ridge Deep Lead, near Rockley
(N.S. W.), has started its 10 stamp mill, running two
shifts a day. There is plenty of water, so the lead, which
has been driven on and prospected extensively, will get a
fair trial. It was a while ago estimated by the consulting
engineer that 675 cub. yards had been blocked out east
of No. 1 drive, 2375 cub. yards between Nos. 1 and 2
drives, and 3125 cub. yards west of No. 2 drive ; total,
6175 cub. yards. The quality is more difficult to esti-
mate than the quantity ; bub the same authority averaged
the lot at 7dwt. per ton. Assuming 6000 tons of wash-
dirt worth 30s. per ton, there was a gross value of some-
thing like £9OOO in sight. Such an estimate fails to
support the present market value ; but a good deal of
driving and prospecting has been done since the figures
were compiled. Generally speaking, however, the good
values (up to 15dwt.) are contained in a few inches of
wash.
* * * *
Vegetable Creek tin mine (N.S.W.) has changed
its programme several times. The management is now
going to try for an output of £BOO worth of black tin per
week, and a recent return of 8 tons 6cwt. of oxide gives
about that value. Under the arrangement with Gordon
Brothers, the owners of the freehold, one-half the value
of the output goes towards paying for the property. A
crosscut has been started*so that blocking out wash-dirt
mav be done more effectively.
* * * *
Mount Morgan (Q.) has had the following recent
record :
May, Revenue. Expenditure. Profit.
1907 .. £934,432 £571,619 £362,818
1908 .. 911,723 648,360 263,363
1909 .. 901,838 673,622 228,216
1910 .. 1,079,914 721,722 358,192
The past year’s profit has been absorbed this way :
Dividends .. .. .. £200,000
Depreciation written off .. 49,413
Reserves 108,779
Total £358,192
To the formal reserve fund £50,000 has been added ; and
the Profit and Loss balance has been increased from £2949
to £61,728, together making the £108,779 of reserve
additions alluded to. But besides the profit shown
above, the contingent fund has teen increased frpm
£40,427 to £54,225, and the insurance fund from £36,198
to £40,992. The contingent fund is a reserve designed to
protect the valuation set in the balance-sheet on the
unsold copper, and to provide against reclamations on
account of over-payments; but as the unsold copper is
valued at only £5O per ton, and as the market recently
has been steady, it isn’t likely that the fund will be
drawn upon this year. The average gross price realised
for the metal was £6O 4s. 9d. per ton in 1909-10 ; in pre-
vious years the figures have been:—l9o9, £6l ss. ; 1908,
£74 10s. In the first half of 1907-8 the average was
£lO5 2s. ; in the second half, it was £65 18s.
More and more of Mount Morgan’s total out-
put is supplied by the auriferous copper ores, which were
first drawn upon only as lately as 1906. The total
revenue was made up last year in this way:—
Gold ores.. .. £292,842
Copper ores .. 786,559
Sundry receipts 513
Total £1,079,914
The average gold in a ton of blister copper was no less
than 15 - 370 z. during the past half-year—the highest
quantity recorded since this treatment began on a large
scale. It means that the gold in the blister copper is
actually worth more than the copper, even taking the
latter at £63 per ton. The average value of the gold in
the crude copper ore was 9’93dwt. —just a trifle under
half an ounce—whereas in the official estimates of reserves
no figure higher than Bdwt. has hitherto been quoted. The
present report does not deal with reserves. Six months ago
it was reported that there were 1,737,200 tons worth
Si per cent, copper and Bdwt. gold, and 2,035,400 tons
worth from 3 to 3£ per cent, copper and from 2J to
Bdwt. gold. In the past 12 months the output of auri-
ferous copper ore was 220,189 tons; so at that rate of
extraction the higher-grade ore alone would last eight
years, even if no new developments took place. It is
certain, however, that quantities of the lower-grade ore
are drawn upon to even down the average when some of
the faces are showing unusually rich gold stone.
The Mount Morgan works ought to be just
about ready to handle the large quantities of Many
Peaks flux which will be coming forward as soon as the
new railway can bring the stuff. The Many Peaks
owners drove a pretty hard bargain . w **j|* of
even so, the co. should make a good profit out of the
transaction. It has been suggested that t P
been sweetened lately so that the ret er-flux
show any great jump when the Many Pea P p (rueg3-
comes to be used; but that is o j . j
Anyway, it is certain that nothing Mount
a disaster in the metal market can stop ft^no
Morgan from continuing the present £50,000 a
quarter. Last year over £25,000 a Oerter was put to
reserves, after severely writing down the plant, •
total output of copper was 7062 tons ; so the
net profit in excess of theyear’s dividends w '
per ton of copper produced. In other ' vor^ s ’ TR
could have been sold for £l5 9s.perton less,
dividend (£50,000 per quarter) could still have been paid
and £49,413 could still have been written off. it is a
position that Mount Morgan, if it were a cocoa manufac-
turer, might be expected to refer to as grateful a
comforting. #
Queensland Copper Co., better known as
Mount Perry, lias reconstructed and reduced its capital
to £125,000. This concern made large profits for J. Bull
during the copper boom, but it was over-capitalised, so
the ordinary shares only scored a dividend at rare inter-
vals. The furnaces had to treat large quantities of
barren fluxes ; and this made smelting very expensive,
although, technically, some really excellent work was
done.
* * * *
For the half-year ending June 30, Kulamadau
(Woodlark Island, Papua) treated 4500 tons. The gold
and concentrates were worth £13,114. The average
extraction pans out at £2 18s. 3Jd., out of which costs
take £1 os. 4£d. Profit for the six months was £6915, but
a large proportion of this was required to wipe off old
debts and buy new winding plant. The co. started the
term with a debit of £3303, and wound up with
a credit of £3429. Costs were reduced by 18s. 2d.
per ton compared with the previous half-year,
and this, together with an improved extraction, accounts
for the revival. The latest return from the mine was
3530 z. smelted gold and 15 tons of concentrates ; total
value approximately £l5OO. It is intended to start
cyaniding again, and to sink the old Woodlark Island
Prop, shaft and open up the deeper levels from that
point. Reports speak fairly well of developments, but
the opening up of deeper levels will be costly.
■* * * *
Share pushers at Charters Towers make a good
deal of the fact that the East Mexican crushed 197 tons
for an average of over £l4 per ton ; but they forget to
mention that the mine has not yet paid its maiden divin
dend, although the Mexican lease has been worked for
years. Still the co. is striking better form just above the
boundary of the New Brilliant Freehold ; and, although
the shoot of payable stone does not appear to be very
long, there is a reasonable prospect of another shoot of
mineral coming in further east. A few days since, in
driving No. 5, there seemed to be a new mine ahead ; but
the good values did not; last. The underlay shaft is fol-
lowing a big diorite formation, but there has been no
payable reef as yet. No. 6 stopes are in fairly good form,
and the rise started recently is also showing fair pro-
spects ; but it is only up a few feet.
In its balance-sheet for 1909 Great Boulder
Prop. (W. A.) sets out its financial position thus : —Assets
(apart from mine plant and sundries): Stores, £21,385 ;
shares in other cos., £5846 ; sundry debtors, £l7OB ; gold
specimens, £lO3 ; bullion reserve, £20,417 ; cash with
Westralian Bank (less overdraft), £162,376. Liabilities :
Unclaimed dividends, £12,209 ; sundry creditors, £24,509.
So, taking the stores and investments at their book
value, and wiping off what was owed, the co. had a sur-
plus of £175,118. With so much wealth on hand, it
seems bad business to give the bank 8 per cent,
for an overdraft of £13,000 odd. The year’s re-
ceipts totalled £591,601 ; mine expenditure, Lon-
don office costs, etc., ran to £336,142. Take this
off and add the previous year’s balance, £3391, and
the tidy sum of £339,534 remained to credit of profit and
loss. Income tax (£29,159) and depreciation (£45,000)
together absorbed £74,159, leaving £265,375 to deal with.
Dividends (four of 9d.) accounted for £262,500, and the
remainder, £2875, has been carried forward. To-day the
co.’s surplus cash and ore reserves (estimated) represent
about 14s. per share in dividends ; but the bottom of the
mine at 2650 ft. looks as “dicky” as can be. The next
level at 2800 ft. will mean a lot to shareholders. Mean-
time a heavily oversold market and backwardation is
helping to keep up the price of shares.
* * * *
Lumping what was in hand and outstanding,
and deducting what was owed to the bank and others,
Boulder No. 1 (W.A.) woundup 1909 with £ll9B to the
good ; but it has hoarded up a bit more since then. The
directors report that, although the St. George mine at
Magnet has not fulfilled expectations, the manager feels
confident that all the payable ore has not yet been ex-
posed at the two levels already opened up, and that
further prospecting will be rewarded. As regards the
other doubtful string to the co.’s bow, known as lease
50, E. Kalgoorlie, the remark is made that it is still in
the hands of tributors, and that certain work projected
by the neighboring Great Boulder Prop, should give
Boulder No. 1 the “office” as to how the underlay of
the South Kalgurli western lode should be worked in its
ground at depth; also the same work should make
clear what has happened to the north end of the
Ivanhoe east lode. This body, after crossing the inter-
vening strip of Great Boulder ground, became dog-poor
and then apparently vanished, and Boulder No. 1 natur-
ally wants to know what became of it.
* * * *
The return of Golden Horseshoe (W.A.) for
June showed a drop of about £7OOO compared with that
for May. In the early part of the month the manager
cabled the Board that for the next three months he ex-
pected the return to average from £40,000 to £45,000,
and by September he hoped to increase it to £50,000.
When the clean-up took place, however, only £32,854
worth of gold could be scraped together, and a second
cable was sent stating that the shortage was due to the
grade of ore not coming up to expectations. The
manager reiterates the optimistic views concerning the
value of the mine contained in his last annual report,
and a London paper supports him with the cheerful but
vague assurance that the property’s future is not im-
perilled by recent mishaps.
South Kalgurli (W.A.) is deepening its main
shaft from 1500 ft. to 1800 ft. without delay. After cutting
plats sinking is to be continued to 2000 ft.
* ir * *
Lancefield (W.A.) has struck more trouble.
The money put up some time back by preferred share-
holders has just about gone, the plant still needs atten-
tion, and the mine is still short of development. More
cash will have to be got from somewhere, and the co. may
decide to cease crushing for a time so that the property
may gain a few more laps on the mill. So far, develop-
ments at the newly-opened up No. 6 level are good, the
width of ore at this point being 14ft. and the assay
value 40s.
* * * *
There is a possibility of Gwalia South (W.A.)
being absorbed by its big and influential next-door neigh-
bour, the Sons of Gwalia. Negotiations recently carried
on in London have resulted in the latter co. instructing
its manager to examine the South ; and if the sampling
is good and the figure asked is not too high, a purchase
will probably be effected. In some ways it would suit
the Sons of Gwalia to absorb the small mine—at a price.
Hudson’s Consolidated (W.A.) still turns a deaf
ear to inquiries regarding the whereabouts of its gold
mines, and goes on reporting rich finds. The average of
the latest discovery at “Mount Margaret is given as
loz. for lift., and the Board has been advised that if the
shoot continues the same size for such and such a length,
height and depth, the reserves, which are now reckoned
as considerable, will benefit to the extent of an addi-
tional 30,000 tons. A geologist has given his opinion
that the “ show ” has prospects abov e the ordinary ; but
whether he actually visited the mine is not clear. Any-
way, apart from the co.’s representatives and perhaps
the geologist, nobody seems able to say where the mine
is, so that an impartial view of the situation is at present
difficult. „ „
* * * *
R. A. Varden, who once bossed the Brown
Hill (VV.A.) for 8., M. and Co., has quitted London and
Bainbridge, Seymour and Co., and returns to Kalgoorhe
as representative for Hooper and Speak. The latter firm
gets £3OOO a year as general managers and an extra ££ooo
a year as consulting engineers from the Boulder Perse-
verance Co., and as it holds other local consulting
engineerships, it runs a head serang and a mine manager
as well. k
The report of Cue Consolidated (W.A.) for 1909
announces that the chief features of theyear’s operations
were the exchanging of ordinary for a lesser number of
preferred Lancefield shares and a gamble in oil. The co.
now holds 882 preferred and 600 ordinary Lancehelds,
and has sunk £2200 in one of the much-advertised Maikop
petroleum ventures. Apart from that, its financial
position is so weak that one could knock it down with a
feather, and before the co. is finished with Lancefield and
Maikop it may be flattened out even without the help of
the feather.
* * * *
Briseis Tin (Tas.) announces its 6d. dividend,
which will make £30,000 paid this year. The New
Brothers Home No. 1, which has been worked jointly
with Briseis, has made its final clean up, and Briseis is
fast going the same way. The latest report certainly is
that a new make of wash has been located ; but one of
the co.’s men is packing off to Syria, to inspect a tin claim
near Mount Lebanon, which shows that, in spite of the
new make, Briseis is on the look out for another property.
* * * *
Mount Lyell’s last monthly report shows that
more crude material is going through the furnaces to
produce a ton of copper, so costs are moving up. For
the run of 28 days the furnaces smelted 32,708 tons, in-
cluding 11,729 from the North Ly.ell. These are record
quantities this year. The return of “blister” was 652
tons, containing 644 tons copper, 51,6330 z. silver and
8690 z. gold. Gold is now the least important metal at
Mount Lyell; in fact, the average for gold has recently
been less than 2s. 6d. per ton. Silver is a remarkably
consistent product; the returns keep a shade under 2oz.
per ton, which means a very handy 51,0000 z. per month.
For the first four months of the current half-year 2664 tons
of blister have been produced and 126,000 tons of ore have
been smelted ; so it has taken from 47 to 48 tons of ore
to make a ton of blister. But this doesn’t prevent a big
profit, for Mount Lyell can reduce its low-grade stuff to
copper matte for less than Bs. per ton of ore^
Jasper was one of the foundation-stones of the
New Jerusalem, according to the plans and specifications
in the Book of Revelation. After reading the report of
the Mount Jasper (Tas.) copper mines, there seems to
have been a decided association between the two. A St.
John was needed, and he comes out with this militant
prophecy“ I confidently look forward to being able, at
the conclusion of the next half-year, to have proved
what will eventually be one of the best mines on the
north-west coast of Tasmania.” It is comforting for a
deadly-dull industry to have a mining Jerusalem of
that sort to look to. Savage, the smelter, has
been sent across Bass Strait to advise as to
the mill that this delectable property should have. He
says Early days. Wants more ore proved.” No. 3tunnel
is expected to do the trick. Till this work is done it is
futile to build hopes ; though a passing thought may be
bestowed upon the lucky vendors and promoters who
made themselves secure with a pretty little cash con-
sideration of £14,400 for the claim.
* * * «
So far as can be judged, shareholders in Lord
Nelson, St. Arnaud (Vic.), must still do a bit of waiting.
After some years of struggling to get rid of the cost of
up-to-dating its plant, the co. has now on the way to a
couple of thousand in the bank. But there is no big
stock of ore in reserve over 1930 ft., leaving supplies to
come from 2085 ft., where 105 ft. of backs remain. Hence
the need to hustle up with the 2225 ft. crosscut. The
good point of the present position is that the shoot of
stone at 2085 ft. has made south 70ft. more than
at 1930 ft., while 50ft. of the southern end has improved
from s£dwt. to loz. dirt. In the middle of this shoot a
winze is going down on 7ft. of stone, and at 37ft. from
the crosscut another winze is down 167 ft. on what is
euphoniously described as payable dirt. So, taking all
in all, the outlook is far ahead of what it was when the
1930 ft. level was opened. And it needs to be, for with
only sJdwt. dirt the mine could never be more than a
wage payer, in view of the quality of the gold obtained
and the cost of mining and treatment.
* * * *
Diamond Creek flows through the office whence
the Mt. Maroomba speculation sprang. The Creek is an old
identity, within easy reach of Melbourne, the field dating
back to the early ’fifties. It has cost £11,500 to pay odd
sixpenny dividends. This is because the reef, like all
those near Melbourne, is narrow, and the shoots of gold
short. Therefore, while over loz. dirt is got, the devil
has to be kept behind the pick all the while to hasten on
development. There is to be a rough-up over costs at the
next meeting ; but the man who visits the mine and sees
how precarious the so-called bonanza lode is, and ob-
serves the toughness of the country, will realise what a
heavy cross Christian, the manager, has to carry. The
point now is to hit the whim shoot at the bottom level.
If this is not done, then the Diamond Creek will have lost
most of its latter-day sparkle.
* * * *
Frenchman’s Reef, Daylesford (Vic.), has come
up for observation. Like Halley’s comet, it had a small
head and a big, attenuated tail. Quartz in plenty ; but
the gold as difficult to find as the currants in a work-
house pudding. Recently the stone has been a bit more
kindly, and some coarse gold has helped up the average.
So the backers of the show look as if they had had a first-
class diet of “parritch and milk” instead of an odd
crumb from the rich man’s table. The mascotte is to be
found in a dyke which cut across the lode south
at 400 ft. This has enriched the stone, and as it
is a vertical lode that is affected, there is skirl-
ing of the bagpipes. Still it might be as well to repeat
the caution that gold making close to a fault is apt to peter
out rapidly. The history of the district is that the flat
makes are the most reliable producers. However, any-
thing may happen at Daylesford. The co. has picked up
as a bargain a mine that was let drop by the Bull crowd
which moved out of Daylesford after the crush-up of the
Cornish United. Seeing the duffer it was, to talk of a
pup float tells of a confidence deserving of better things
to rest upon.
* * * *
Obit the Australian Deep Leads Trust, which,
under 8., M. and Co.’s guidance, was going to make
millions out of Victorian deep leads, but got drowned .
instead. Its place is taken by the Australian Maikop Oil
Co., which has been formed to take Over its assets (it
had hung on to some cash). The new treasure is in
Russia, between the Black and Caspian Seas, and is just
at present the apple of Algernon Moreing’s eye.
* * * *
Six months ago 54 Rand (S. Africa) mines had
among them 71,000,000 tons of ore in sight, approxi-
mately worth £100,000,000, with a profitable value of
about £40,000,C00. The reserves of the two presen t largest
producers on the field—the East Rand and Crown
mines—were estimated at 15,288,354 tons containing
£20,163,459. and the profit was set down at £9,305,534.
* * * *
Twelve months or so ago word was printed
here of an expedition to the far nor’-west of Westralia
after iron ore. The people interested were some Queens-
landers who had been supplying ironstone flux to Mount
Morgan, and who sent Percy Kean round to investigate.
Assistant-Geologist Campbell, of the Westralian Mines
Department, has lately made a long journey to have a
look at the find ; and he seems impressed. Anyway, he
recommends that other iron deposits in the neighbor-
hood should be reserved, so as to preserve the ore from
export—the only use to which the Queensland people
proposed to put theirstone. “ In general characteristics,”
the geologist writes, “the lodes appear to closely
resemble the celebrated magnetite beds of Lapland and
Sweden." The deposits are at Yampi Sound, right along-
side deep water.
* * ‘ * *
Nowadays some of the big cos. in the West and
elsewhere have a habit of masking the real cost of
management by mixing it up with the mine or the general
expenditure, or both. It is just as much the duty of
directors to make clear what it costs to manage the mine
as it is to inform shareholders regarding the miner’s
minimum rate of wages—a rate which, the Board often
adds, is too high and ought to be reduced. Shareholders,
if they had the information about cost of management,
m’ght occasionally think that that was a bit over the
odds, too.


What’s the time ? Just the time for a
glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
COLDS CAUSE HEADACHE,
LAXATIVE BROMO QUININE, the world-wide
arid Grip Remedy removes cause. Call for full
Look for signature—E. VV. GROVE. 1/1
Cold
name.
[2
Lewis & Whitty’s Harness Dressing
* (BLACK OR TAN)
Gives a brilliant finish, preserves anti nourishes Buggy
f or Motor Hoods, Harness, Leggings and all Leather Goods.
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming; Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F, 0. Robinson, Proprietor
-
FOR
»
mm
VACUUM MOBIL OIL,
Saves One-Third of Your Running Cost.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“ Puketapu ” works a fair average :
After a long study of the Maoriland papers I am to
prepare the following summary of their combined agri-
cultural news for an average year : “ The weather is fine,
and the farmers are looking forward to a good crop.
Ploughing is now in full swing, and with ordinary seasons
the farmers expect a good yield. . . . The crops are now
well above ground, and the farmer is promised a first-
class return for his labor. ... As was feared, the blight
has played havoc with the crops, and it is certain there
will be little or no crops to harvest. .. . The harvest is
now coming on, and the grain looks well. Farmers are
expecting a record output.. . . Owing to heavy winds and
rain the crops have suffered great damage, and will
hardly he worth while reaping. . . . Labor, is very scarce,
wages are high, and it is almost impossible to get men.
Some farmers are offering as much as 30s. a day and
found. . . . Threshing is now in full blast and the grain is
of high quality. . . . The yield is far and away the best
for years. . . . Many farmers have threshed over 30
bushels of oats to the acre and about the same in wheat.
If the markets hold up, and labor strikes are avoided,
the farmer is assured of a good return for the year’s
exertions. .. . The birds have been very destruc-
tive, particularly the moa. This fowl was supposed
to be extinct, but large droves have appeared,
and are causing havoc to the crops. Clean sweeps have
been made of the turnip fields.... As was anticipated,
the harvest hands have refused to work under 10s. at!
hour, and things are at a standstill. The farmer is
threatened with ruin. Many are selling up their holdings
and leaving the country. The Government’s dilatory
policy in regard to immigration is having its inevitable
result, and the farmer realises now that the scheme of
the leader of the Opposition to bring out 2,000,000 farm
hands would have prevented the wide-spread disaster
that threatens the man on the land. As it is, the farmer '
is left to tight his desperate way without help from the
State, harassed by the growing arrogance of the labor
unions, whose aim appears to be to drain the farmer of
the entire results of his enterprise rather than to develop
the resources of this fair young country.... The short-
age on the world’s wheat market, while regrettable in
its general aspects, ensures high prices for the Dominion’s
beneficent harvest, and the farmer will be able to sit back
for the next harvest with a light heart.”
* * * *
One “W.M.8.,” in S. M.
Herald, argues that the Northern Territory is
unsuitable for “ raising European cattle.” Says
he :
A distinct relationship between color of skin and
climate extends to all four-footed animals exposed in
Nature to tropical or semi-tropical solar influences. It is
found, in consequence, that, under all colors of hair, the
skins of wild animals, such as the giraffe, Camel, zebra
rhinoceros, etc., are all black for protective purposes. ’
All the animals named, except the last, have their
hides covered with closely-growing, short hair of
a generally light color, and the skin of the hair-
less rhinoceros is scarcely ever black, and qui tecom-
monly a pale cream color. Col or sci ence teaches that
black is the worst possible protection from intense
sunshine. It is black because it absorbs all the
visible light that falls on it, and reflects none.
Wild animals in the tropics do not usually expose
themselves much to the sun’s rays ; but those that
do—animals of the desert, for instance, like the
camel—affect some shade of yellow or red as a
protection, and that is in accordance with the
teaching of the spectroscope—which shows that
the heat rays are all at the “red ” end of the
spectrum, as the chemical rays which make the
photographs are all at the “violet” end.
“ VV.M.B.” alleges that “European animals do
not thrive in the Northern Territory on account
of heat and insect pests.” And then :
“Had the Zebu (Indian Brahmin cattle) been Intro-
duced, or the buffalo, a very different tale would have
to be told, and instead of proving a failure it would have
been a success.
European cattle were introduced to tropical
America 400 years ago, and have been (so far as
we know) a success from the first—at any rate,
they have multiplied exceedingly. Northern
India, where the Zebu cattle come from, is not in
the tropics.
“T.A.W.”: Let me explain this Bush
hospitality racket. As a matter of fact, and in
despite of “ Jimmie Pannikin,” the hospitality of
the Bush is nowadays fast becoming a tradition,
and he who walketh abroad in the land will find
the dweller in the Outback no more remarkable
for hospitality and open-handedness than the
denizen of the city. Nor is the reason for this
far to seek. In the bad old days the men at the
Back of Beyond lived lives of comparative
isolation, for means of communication with
the rest of the world were few and cum-
brous —the telephone and telegraph were things
unknown, and mails and newspapers were
luxuries. In these circumstances, the casual
visitor, were he svvagman or bagman, was always
welcomed as a desirable break in the monotony of
things and a possible purveyor of more or less
reliable scraps of information regarding happen-
ings in the outside world—the world of the cities,
or the world down the river or over the range!
Nowadays, things have changed muchly. Many
of the big stations and farms are linked up with
each other arid with the nearest township by tele-
phone, and the telegraph is more or less easily
accessible, whilst mails and newspapers are such
common and every-day things as to excite no com-
ment whatever. Consequently, the man on the
Outer Fringe hears of the victory of Jack John-
son, and the latest evidence of the Kaiser’s
malicious intentions in regard to poor old John
Bull, much earlier than of yore, and the
sundowner and patent medicine vendor are no
longer in the running as news-merchants.
Furthermore, the spread of the railways and the
addition of the motor-car and motor-bike to
the means of transit have let loose on the back
country a flood of tea agents, book canvassers,
perambulating parsons, wool and stock brokers’
touts, school inspectors and insurance agents, not
to mention political candidates and Wade’s immi-
grants ; and if the. present day son of the soil
attempted to maintain his father’s reputation for
hospitality he would have a very torrid time. As
a matter of fact, he doesn’t try—he has not
the same incentive as the old man had to kill the
fatted calf in the stranger’s honor, and conse-
quently the calf goes on quietly grazing in the
out-paddock until he reaches an age and size when
he can profitably be trucked to Homebush, and
there become the means of much gain to the Beef
Trust.
* # -Jt *
“Dandalup”: Re C. G-. A. Colies’s “Abo.”
verse (B. 7/7/’10), wherein the hungry tribe of the
Coorabulka are overwhelmed and practically ex-
terminated by snakes. The “ little hill ” men-
tioned in same reminds me of a bald-headed,
stone-strewn little hill, called Kallooloo, near
North Narrewarren (Vic.), where many a good
blaekfellow and his spindle-shanked gin gave up
the ghost in the glorious Days That Were. The
man who now owns the hill says that it was the
place of battle where all arguments between the
tribes of those parts were settled. A few feet
below the surface he has found innumerable
cracked skulls, broken spear-heads, etc., among
the bones of the departed ; and he swears that on
certain nights of the year he lies in bed, in his
humpy near by, and listens to the clashing
of arms and the thudding of waddies. He
has watched, but has never been able to
catch sight of any part of the fray. Wait-
ing for the nights of battle has become
a habit with him, and every year he eagerly
looks forward to the same old onslaughts.
A peculiar feature of the place is that there is a
strip of she-oaks, about a half-mile in width, wdiich
run, from the foot of the hill, in a straight line to
the sea, a distance of about 25 miles ; and on cer-
tain days in the year, just after sunset, the thing
has the appearance of a crimson stream of gore
flowing in one unbroken volume to the shore.
THE ESCAPEE.
“OH right, ye young blayguard! Wait ’til ye
come down an ’ I’ll break ivery boane in your
stummick, so I will”
“ Dux ” : A new, fresh cop strolled into a
country sergeant’s office the other day and proudly
deposited two new half-crowns on the table.
“What’s that for?” demanded his superior.
“ It’s five bob I fined Tim Connor ’crost at Hill
Top,’ replied the constable. “He was kicking up
Hell’s delight, and there being no J.P. beyant
nearer than Baker’s Crossing, I saved all trouble
by fining him on the spot.”
THE INSTINCT OF SELF PRESERVATION.
CAPTAIN (excitedly): “ Why didn't yer stop him?”
JALFBACK (breathlessly): “Stop him! 'Struth, it took me all me time ter yet out of his way.”
“Vigilans”: To develop the Northern
Territory you must farm on tropical lines. Of
course, I am speaking of the coast country. Mixed
farming is the game. Raise tropical beasts such
as Zebu cattle and buffalo, Timor ponies and
Arabs. Breed Angora goats. This animal will
thrive and multiply and produce over 100 per
cent, kidding (no kid). Cultivate pigs and poul-
try. Ordinary farm produce for fodder can be
grown anywhere in the wet. Although this is a
tropical country, you must provide for the dry
time. The cocky, when he gets going, will no
doubt grow sisal hemp, rice, tobacco, and many
kinds of fruit, like bananas, pawpaw,
granadilla, custard apples, pine
apples, etc. In Palmerston to-day
they use Nestle’s milk at the hotel
and hospital. Why don’t they im-
port the native dairy animal from
India ? It is a good milker. I. had
a mob of goats. They increased to
sucti a degree that I did not. know
what to do with them. That year I
had 120 per cent, kidding. This
made me think. Mohair is sold at
Is. 6d. per lb. and over. A goat will
give eight or nine pounds of hair.
What’s the matter with this indus-
try ? There are no Angoras in the
Territory. At one time a co. was
going to start alpaca goat ranches;
but that is another story. There is a
good industry on Australia’s norther n
coast awaiting development. Turtle,
both hawk-bill (Chclone imlritidta)
and greenback, are swarming there.
The hawkbill infests the coast, from
which the article of commerce known
as tortoise shell is taken. The supply
of greenback, both on the coast and
on the islands, is unlimited. This is
the edible turtle. The, niggers are
very fond of the rich, green fat which
lies between the meat,and the shell.
They will eat this hot and raw, ex-
claiming : “ Good fellow that one ! ”
Thesea would be teeming with turtle
were it not for their natural enemies
—birds and fish. " A turtle will lay
from 100 to 150 eggs. I have seen 80
in one nest. Quail Island and
Buchanan Island are simply alive
with these amphibians, and Ihave
seen the shores of Buchanan Island
black with, them, of all shapes and
sizes. The island is covered with nests; it is a turtle
island pure and simple. There’s money in the
turtle. Shells sell up to 50s. in London, and turtle
soup is fit for the.gods. I have heard that British
aldermen eat it.
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : One word to “A.
William Cann,” “ Gilrooney,” “ Clnypan ” and
co., who infer that the only brand of bush hospi-
tality accepted or appreciated by the peregrinat-
ing “Pannikin” was that provided by the
squatter class. I distinctly said that I had
enjoyed the hospitality of all Outback classes,
from the big Tory squatter down to the old-age
pensioners camped at various places on the Big
Trickle. I repeat: “Of all Outback classes.”
I judge “by and large,” as the sailors say. Some
day “A.W.C.” and I will not “set forth together
for Further-In, with occasional divagations
North o’ Sunset, etc., calling at all stations
en route.” I would not willingly negotiate a
penny tram section with a liar of his class.
* ' .* * *
“P.C.H.”: A recent par. in The Bul-
letin mentioned lime-juice as a treatment for
beri-beri. If the writer had said for scurvy he’d
have been nearer the mark. Various diseases are
miscalled beri-beri, although no mistake is made
about it in Thursday Island. In Columbia,
South America, I found so-called beri-beri
to be miner’s ‘ worm, or ankylostomiasis; in
West Africa patients in the last stages of sleeping
sickness were always brought in as suffering from
beri-beri ; in Assam beri-beri always turned out
to be kala azar, or black sickness—a fatal anasmia,
due to parasites. I have known three E. and O,
ship doctors to call bronchitis beri-beri, and
they didn’t discover the error until the three
several Lascars pegged out. Also, I have
known alcoholic paralysis (the persistent, pro-
longed brand) to be classed as beri-beri on
the Gold Coast (Africa) ; and a Congo mis-
sionary was sent to me to be treated for beri-
beri when in reality he was suffering from arseni-
cal neuritis, due to taking arsenical: tablets for
many months. So far as; the cause of beri-beri
goes, nothing is really known, and the need for
the tropical medical school being placed at Towns-
ville as a base, with Thursday Island as part of
the experimental field, calls as loudly as ever.
The most maniacal instance of dragging every-
thing to Sydney is the, God-given Stuart Ander-
son’s idea of placing the tropical school'in the
Wade capital. He says Sydney is the best place
for the study of tropical diseases. Medical eti-
quette alone prevents me saying “Yah ! ”
* * * *
The mania for importing is incurable, and
the’ latest outbreak is that of the AVarrnambool
(Vic.) Acclimatisation Society. This learned
body lately decided to import some Indian quail
and partridges, and let them loose. Likely enough
these reptiles are harmless and handy enough in
India, .but there is no certainty they won ! t be-
come rampant pests in Australia. The rabbit
wasn’t any sort of a plague in the land he came
from, neither was the sparrow nor the starling an
abomination and a nuisance j yet a lot of people
would cheerfully hang the folk who first imported
them.
A PSALM OF THIRSTY PLACES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Arrangements are in progress for the Federal capital
site at Vass-Canberra, and the work will be expedited
as much as possible. —Newspaper information.
Behold, O Lord, the city that is set in a dry place where
few waters are !
Its walls are builded in desolation, and its foundations
laid in the parched ground ;
Wherefore its people have sorrow continually while they
say daily, “ Give us a long beer.”
One pump shall be for a thousand, and a little trickle of
moisture for tens of thousands,
And as the smoke of Tophet shall be the heat thereof in
summer.
Behold ! The rivers of living water that spilleth itself
upon the land of Monaro !
Their eyes shall see it afar off, and their souls shall thirst
for the splash thereof;
But unto them and to their children shall be the pump
that faileth, and the waterhole that filleth with
creeping things.
How long, 0 Lord, how long? Until the days of damna-
tion be accomplished, and them that sit in the high
places have done this fool-thing.
How hath Labor exalted herself above the thrones of the
mighty ?
Hath she not eyes that she may see? Hath she not ears
that she may hear ?
Behold ! Labor hath given her soul to folly, and Andy
Fisher blindeth his own eyes.
Yea, he is game to tackle many things, but this thing he
shirketh exceedingly.
The cash of the people shall compass naught, and the
gold of a nation shall be spent on vanity.
Wherefore one pitcher of water shall be for a multitude,
and the garments of a city shall be washed in beer
only.
She that sitteth upon Port Jackson shall laugh ; she shall
have them all in derision.
Her maidens shall make merry at Manl.v, and she that is
a grandmother in Israel shall be cock-a-hoop at the
corner of Pitt-street.
For Australia’s capital shall be as a lodge in a garden of
cucumbers, yea, as a hot rock in a weary land.
He that passeth by shall wag his head, saying “Alas!’
And he that journeyeth from afar shall ask, “ Where
is thy city?’’
Australia shall be ashamed in the gate, and Yass-Canberra
shall be as a cuss-word upon her lips.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.


7 77
On theirink, where men and maidens,
Learn the art of roller skating-,
To fall with grace, on a nice smooth place
Needs a lot of imitating!
The pastime has its.risk&litelhßEw,'
In the change of-terrq'eTaniTC, '
But all-ends welt, as' many can-tejl—
Taking Woods’ Great-Peppermint Oure.*
CHERRY BLOSSOM BOOT
POLISH will st,arid, the
test of time, of appear
ance, of value—will stand anj
test you care’to put' it to.
It is pre-eminently the "BEST
Boot Polish for imparting a
bright, lasting shine to your
footwear, with an ease and
quickness that will please you.
Nearly all dealers stock both
Black and Tan at 3d. and 6d.
per tin. If yours does not, write us direct, and we will see
that you are supplied. Manajrintr Agents for Australia:
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
sdf
Skin Irritation.
“I suffered from a skin irritation for years,”
writes Mrs. M. E. Maroney, 562 Boundary Street,
Spring Hill, Q. “Nothing I could get would do
it any good, until one day I tried Rexona. I got
a box, and before I laid finished using it I was
quite well.” Brice Is. 6d. and 3s.*
CLEM ENT-BAYARD
MOTOR CARS
are made by Mons. Clement, the designer of the
“ Clement-Talbots” and “ Clement-Bayard.” Mr.
K. Gibson has just done 1000 miles on an 11-h.p.
“Clement-Bayard” in N.S.W. and Victoria, and
says:—“The car performed in a first-class
manner. We never had to stop., We averaged
25 miles to the gallon, and made am average of
just on 26 miles an hour. We had a head wind,
and the roads were far from good. The car is
Car as illustrated, with Michelin Tyres, £275, Sydney.
most flexible, and really surprised us in . „
the manner she performed on soft, rough roads, running bn her top withoutlaboring' or knocking.
NO WONDER THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT GOES TO THE CLEJtENT-BAYA^D. WORKS.
We are selling all the Models of these great works (3000 men are constantly employed) at the Home Prices
plus only importing and Customs charges. Our prices will be found to be* 25. per cent.-dower, than those
usually charged 8-12 H.P., 4 Cylinder Clement-Bayard* to carrvvfour, with detachable back seat, £275 ;
11- H.P., 4 Cylinder Clement-Bayard, with double phaeton side entrance body, £375 ; Clement-Bayard,
12- H.P., 4 Cylinder, “double phaeton side entrance body, £440 ; Ctement-Bayard, 15-24 H.P., 4 Cylinder,
double phaeton side entrance bodv, £495 ; Clement-Bayard. 20-30 H P., 6 Cylinder, double phaeton side
entrance body, £550. ALL POWERS READY FOR DELIVERY.
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS,
Yice-Reg'al
Jewellers,
23 Hunter St., Sydney, Sole Agents in conjunction with
STANTON COOK, LTD.,
otor
K
and Electrical
n<rineers,
23 Underwood St., off 37 Pitt St., Sydney.
Applications for Agencies in Country Towns are invited.
“Caber”: That reference to the old
police barracks at Taroom (Queensland) and the
Hornet Bank massacre (B. 14/7/T0), reminds me
that in 1868 I foregathered with a nigger at Car-
rabah, 12 miles Burnett side of Taroom, who was
in the thick of the onslaught on the unfortunate
Fraser family at Hornet Bank. That nigger
escaped the hand of Retribution, although there
was nothing remarkable about that in the cir-
cumstances. The troopers took summary ven-
geance in what was pleasantly called “dispers-
ing,” and the first tribe of myalls dispersed
happened to le over at Hawkwood. On the
night of the murders they were nearly 50 miles
away, and by the time they were wiped out the
murderers were scattered over the Mount Hutton
ranges. They were followed up, however, and a
few of them accounted for later. One of the
Fraser family, who was away at Ipswich at the
time of the slaughter, fixed some more of them
when he returned ; but many qualified for the old-
age pension, and died just when Nature gotfull up
of moving them round. The story of Fl aser’s ven-
geance will make grim reading, hut it won’t be
written until at least one man has crossed the
Last Range.
OUTBACK VICISSITUDES.
“ Outback line-repairing stations are lonely. Still
we have! visitors. Emus are very friendly.
Carpet snakes swallow all spare insulators.
Kangaroos steal mail bags to make nests.
And the office is slightly lop-sided through
pelicans roosting on the roof.”
“ Machete ” : S. S. Severn, discanting on
Ki wai’s (B. 16/6/’10) mentions one of the hook-nosed
Gulf tribe as carrying his kit in a cocoa-tin. No
Kiwai that' the writer, ever met—and he has
handled a few in the A.N.O.—vVould be content
with even aherosene tin for his kit. The Kiwai is
the most ardent and assiduous-collector of cast-off
clothing in Papua. It is noticeable that, while
many ethnologists quote the shape of his nose,
some of his practices, and bis remarkable morals,
as evidencespf his those tribes which
fled from Palestine when the boom burst, few of
them haveinoted his remarkable affinity to the
lost in the matter of;"acquiring ancient
and mildewed raiment.
PERPLEXING.
HIS REVEILKSOE : “ And how is pour husband after his accident, Mrs. Hogan?”
MRS. HOCAN: “ Shure, your riverence, sumtoimes he's betther, an sometoimes he's wurse; but
from the way he takes on an ’ yells whin He’s betther. Ot behave he’s betther whin he’s wurse.”
“Machete”: I see that “ Yigilans ” (B.
30/6/’10) spins the ancient tale anent the invul-
nerability of the crocodile’s hide. This legend
probably originated with primitive man, who
found it difficult to shove his fire-hardened stakes
into the wall of croco’s great grandpapa save
“ under the forearm,” etc. Speaking as an armed
cove who has shot crocodiles by the dozen in
Papua, I wish to remark that any modern rifle
will penetrate the lizard’s overcoat without
demur, though probably a long-range bullet which
struck slantingly would ricochet, as it might off a
pine board. When I say “ modern rifles” I in-
clude the rather ancient Martini-Henry and the
old ‘72 pattern Winchester with
their big soft bullets. As for
the modern high-velocity
small-bore, with its nickel
bullet, it will go through
half a dozen “crocs,” pro-
vided it doesn’t strike one
of the boulders which
every well-regulated
saurian carries in his
hold as an aid to diges-
tion, or as ballast, per-
haps. In the big
swamp-built villages
of the Papuan Gulf
estuaries the niggers
go in deadly fear of
the crocodile, who
invades the villages,
even by day, and
carries off pigs and
sometimes children.
In many a western
village, writer has seen
the place where the women
go to dip the drinking water
fenced with a semicircle of bamboos,
against' the cunning brute, who scores
Continually, nevertheless. The Northern Papuan,
on the other hand, cares not a cuss for “croc.”
I have seen half a dozen follow a wounded one
into deep water, and bring him ashore to be eaten, y
with much revelry, by night. Altogether, the.
Crocodile, like the journalist and other persons of
evil reputation, is very much what his environ-
ment makes him.
‘ x Sil ” : It’s nearly time that the bounder
and bounderess who carve their names over
natural scenery.were dealt with seriously. Nothing
is sacred to these vulgar destructives—except
their own hides. Even they couldn’t carve that
with a chilled-steel chisel. The other day I was
up at Medlovv (N.S. W.), and one of the first things
I did was to seek the tree marked by Blaxland’
Lawson and We-Iworth on their historical pas-
sage over the Blue Mountains nearly 100 years
ago. To my disgust I could hardly see the signs
of that dauntless expedition for the initials of the,
innumerable Gus and Gertie, and the gilt-edged
visiting-cards of Mr. and Mrs. Snob-Smith of
Darling Point. These cards are fastened
all over the old tree with large-headed
tacks (specially and kindly supplied by the
management), and the owners of them are people
who couldn’t explore George-street except under
the guidance of. their chauffeur. Yet they would
cut their initials on the back of the Great White
Throne if they ever got out of the Other Place. I
was under the impression that the Blaxland and
Wentworth, tree was under Government or shire
protection,' but apparently it has been handed
over as a tourist attraction, and anything that
attracts the splay-brained tourist is doomed.
“De Yid” : That is a good description of
Dago Barry’s feet which appeared in The Bul-
letin of 9/6/T0 (“Sporting Notions”). I wit-
nessed a Dago scrap once that, was all footwork.
It was a hot day, and both participants were
dressed in a pair of dungarees only. “Me a
bletty liar, eh?” queried Peter the Cretan.
Nicholas the Greek nodded assent. “Ees, you
ze bletty liar. Getta the neck washed.” At this
stage Demetri took a hand, or, rather, he spat in
Nicholas’s eye. “Bah!” he said; “you a
bletty Dago Chow.” (Nick reached for the pan of
fish fat and flung it at the insulter. The prelim-
inaries being settled; the fight was on. The
Cretan swung a left that would have stopped a
heifer, but the Greek never rocked. His bare
toes curved over till the knuckles looked as
if they would burst the skin as they dug
into the earth for a hold-up. Those feet fasci-
nated me. The hide stood out in ridged cords as
their proprietor swung his weight on one or the
other. Once the Cretan jumped full weight on
one of the big toes, but its owner merely grinned.
“ Bah !” he grunted ; “eata da feesli gut.” His
hoofs acted as suction plates until suddenly he
slid on a piece of fish fat, and both Dagos crashed
to the ground. Then the real value of the feet
were demonstrated. Like hands they raked
Peter, and seemed likely to tear him in frag-
ments. In fact, pieces of Peter were beginning
to fly in the air before he withdrew and apolo-
gised. Then Nicholas got up, with his feet in
good working order, to look for Demetri; but
that astute person was far, far away.
*• * * •*
“Hilarious” : Be that memorable motor
trip of Minister Blair’s through Queensland.
There were about 100 of us on the car, and nearly
50 of us have already contributed to The Bulle-
tin. “J.O’H.” and “ Ossian ” are the latest.
The trip took place just two years ago, so all the
Ttetns are fresh and up-to-date. “Ossian” says
he saw no animal life in the Ear West, and pro-
bably he thinks he is speaking the truth. So am
I. I walked ahead one day for about a mile, and
counted kangaroos, and saw many others
which left before I had time to calculate them.
This was in the region of a waterhole near Mount
Elliott. Then I saw about 40 different species of
birds, including millions of the galahs that
“ Ossian ” missed. “ ,1.0’H.” didn’t tell you how
we got lost up Horse Creek in the Gloncurry dis-
trict. and a nightmare was the only animal v\e
could capture to bring us home. No animal life '
What about the herds of wild sprees ? Wait till
some of the rest of the boys’ experiences come
along.
GIDGEE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Gidgee was a wild-eyed myall of the bushland in the
West,
But a persevering minister had touched his savage breast
With the promise of a happy time in Heaven with the
blest.
Gidgee was the giant myall of his tribe ; in, royal mood
He assumed himself the owner of whatever he thought
good,
And a dozen gins vied daily in providing him with food,
So the missioner considered his conversion something-
neat,
And prepared to take him with him to the city as a treat.,
And to show him as a trophy to the sceptics in the street.
In a little, Gidgee sang a hymn with earnestness and
force,
It was deep and loud and bellowy; but none complained,
of course.
Recognising the extreme barbaric nature of the source.
But one evening while the congregation raised its voice
on high,
Yunn.vLoo, a Chinese convert, raised a wailing soulful
cry,
And’Lwas noticed Gidgee stopped and fixed the Chinky
with his eye.
Sudden stoppage of the bellow stopped the congregation
too,
And the missioner turned sharply to start Gidgee on
anew;
But the latter was absorbed in contemplating Yunny
. Loo.
“ Is that pfella,” Gidgee asked at last, “ to come mit us
and share
Our corroboree in Hebben?” With a burst of earnest
- . prayer
shocked missioner endeavored to allay the growing
scare.
“ Does dat pfella come along mit us ? ” he bawled in tones
of pain,
“ Oh, he does,” began the minister; but ere lie dould
explain
Gidgee’d started for the Bushland and his dozen gins
■ again.
N.S. W.
Y.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will he taken of
communications insiiiiiciently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no ,1/5. will u &
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
R.A. : No one on The Bulletin staff owns a
foot of land at or near Dalgety, or, for that matter, on
the Monaro. You are on £lO to nothing if you can supply
us with the name and address of anyone who has stated
(outside the shelter of Parliamentary privilege), in the
presence of two or more witnesses who are prepared to
testify to the fact, that this.paper booms Monaro as a
Federal capital site because it, or anyone connected
with it, has a copper of financial interest in
the matter.... Bleu: The little girl story tires us
and the little boy anecdote makes us cuss..*...
Miner: During the temporary absence of the regular
Biled Oat man the matter was held over.... Alan A.:
Fact that you have read Tun Bulletin for 18 years and
have not, hitherto, contributed a po.em to it is an in-
sutfi dent excuse for your effort of last week.... W.A.M.:
Johuson-Jeffries gags have been Dead Sea fruit, so far as
this office is concerned, for the past fortnight Oort.
(M.L.): Fight item belated.. ..Dunlavin : Your Butler
obituary is exactly a month behind the ’bus
E. H.S.: A dirty and horrible story.,.. Tom Longy :
“Oscillates” and “vibrates” are synonymous. Either
would do in the case cited. Don’t know “ pendulates
neither, for that matter, does Webster.... Learner : No-
body will sign his contributions “Sir Hugh Evans”
in this paper, nor Sir John the Baptist, for that
matter. No stamps enclosed for return of MS
Theiglis : An oz. of interest to 51b. of the other thing
Cat’s Eye: Account of how Mark Twain didn’t visit Gis-
borne (M.L.) lacks human and other interest... Per-
plexed : This paper is aware that Catholic Foundling
Homes exist, and that they are well conducted. They
don’t justify the non-existence of the unsectarian State-
run Foundling Homes which it advocates ; in fact, they
rather do the other thing A.J.W.A. : Pars, lack snap.
.. Bulljoe: Bowler’s gospel is all right if you put.
plenty of water in it... Spider: You say that parrot
story came under your own observation, “ and you would
be pleased to have our opinion of an actual fact.”
Couldn’t give you our opinion, owing to the law of libel ;
but can give you our advice : Never try to work off asteal
so familiar as that parrot story J.A.H.: Information
that “ Jiinmie Pannikin ” used “always to carry a supply
of apples, boiled lollies, tobacco, interesting magazines
and illustrated papers for unostentatious distribution ” is
of little general interest. Let us know when he is truck-
ing round a supply of free beer for unostentatious dis-
tribution, and we’ll bill the West for him... Bellerive :
Yon are best on tragic themes. We hereby extend the
gladdest of welcomes to “ The Cold-Blooded Monster”:
A cold blooded Monster
His beautiful wife did slay
And from justice endeavoured
To hide his foul play.
During the stillness of the night!
Under a cellar’s flagstones
He concealed his poor
Victim’s multilated bones.
But murder will out
The police officers found
The grim, battered corpse
In the dark underground.
May the king of justice 4’
Enable the hand of the law
To bring the assassin
To the gallows trap-door.
..A.C. : Your ocean-beach poem appears to have suf-
fered by" the recent storm; it wants a new roof Jim
McO. : The rhymes about Sheila’s dancing don’t trip as
they' should : they merely fall over their feet Emit.
(Pyrmont): Hard to say whether it is worthwhile your
persevering. “Danae’Ms a rather ordinary production
and not worth printing. If you keep on, you might do
better or worse. The Office Prophet was sacked some
years ago. and is now a struggling turf-adviser
W.F.D. : We shot down the bushrangers in cold blood.
They were a dull gang.. . .G.W.R. : Dead Drover Bill
wouldn’t rest, easy in his grave if we published your
verses. If there is no Drover Bill, you have no excuse
for being mournful at. such length Singer : Jingle is a
little out of tune.... Warrenjella : Scrub poem too rough
and hilly ... A.A-S.: The idea of the humorous one looks
old; other one,is dull. Both, fairly jagged R.J. :
Verses spirited enough, but too crude E.H. (M.L ):
The poem hears a remarkable resemblance to the nighr
of the Big Storm—-verydark and windy. Hold on your hat
and read,it to yourself in cold blood.. ..Q. Pola : Unsuit-
able . C.C.S. (Leichhardt): Regret to say we,are unable
to publish it J.J.D. :It dqesn’t soar high enough....
M F (Q.): Labored isn’t the word for it R.C.L.H. :
Unsuitable ...A. A. A. (M.L.):. Very small rhyme on a
very large subject Chadband : Neither of them scores
'.Mignon (S.A.): “The Quest” is dull. Oijr interest
in one began to wane when we came to the
point where, “ the faithful dog shed many tears.”
HT. : A very fair imitation of a Really Bad Poem
(Amiably Idiotic Glass). Three verses of it are hereby
afforded shelter in this column :
This white flower, Mother dear,
To remember you, to-day I wear.
You who art,so pld and so verv feeble.
It makes you jump with joy, Mother dear.
Oh Mother, let us skip with joy
And dance like lambkins in the woods.
This badge I wear—oh Mother dear,
I hope it will make your life less drear, Mother dear.
Oh Mother, let us jump with joy
To think that I remember you !
To think that you remember me !,
Oh ! let us jump and jump again, Mother dear !
.A. Steadman (Melb.): The beginning is magnificent.
Unfortunately, the yarn is written on greasy, semi-
transparent paper, and we don’t feel equal to searching
through it to see;if Hilda Hedgewood married Swinton,
or gota billet and left her father to blow up with rage.
O.G.M. (North Sydney): Can’t use it .. Unfinished
(W.A.) : “ The Parsons’Fight ” is about three weeks too
late. You must be a relative of the man who rushed for
the train that left the week before last The Prodigal :
Grieve to say that “Ounnamulla” can’t, even stagger
into print.... Ajax : Poor old Stockwhip Jack broke his
neck for the second time trying to fly the basket
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
Ivy C.: Idea poor, - picture lamentable... Zema :
Rather scratchy,, and exhibits a frozen disregard of the
laws of anatomy. ..Dandy: What enemy or base im-
postor told you that you were an artist ? And please
note that pictures concerning sea-sickness are off.
Soil : A sketch in the early amateur style—absurdly
ear ly Midge: It isn’t art. Don’t exactly know what
itis....C,T.C;: You Can’t draw—.as yet. Whether you
will ever be able to is a question for the Office Prophet


THE WORKERS AND THE SYSTEM.
YOUNG VIC. (to Chief Commissioner Tait): “And what were YOU doing when the accident occurred?”


PHARAOH HARDENS HIS
HEART.
Premier Ward has decided to intro-
duce legislation abolishing bookmakers.
Pharaoh (pointing to the sea); “ Rise
up, and get you forth from among
my people.”
Senator Arthur Rae write*: “If that (Yassberra) site Is as good as ' ts Srt 1 wiJSSSSj
to all who go to the spot with an open mind and open eyes. For my part, the a . t t Anv bargain
high reputation for fair dealing or fo- a broad Australian spirit to induce me to take any be viewed with suspicion.”
fixed up between the N.S.W. State Government and the late Federal Fusion Government should rightly be viewed with suspicion.
Chorus of visiting Senators: “It’s not a case for suspicion; it’s a place for detestation.
SOUVENIRS OF THE LATE STORM.
What did you think of our Beautiful Harbor last week ? The above picture
was obtained from the lee-scuppets of one of our palatial ferry-boats. It was so
dark and stormy and generally moist that our artist could not get a very exact
sketch.
Many red-tiled suburbs suffered keenly ; and
during the height of the storm it was no uncommon
sight to see the head of the household trying to
keep his family dry thus.
\V*
\>A
v,\
*W %
Kv«
V
A strong man was wanted in N.S.W.
Assembly. (N.B.—He arrived last
week.)
Visiting Parson: “ Madam, your indifference surprises me! How would
you like to see the infant which you now hold in your arms
grow up to be a prize-fighter?’*
Mother of One: " But it couldn’t, you see. It’s a girl! ”
ALL OVER THE SHOP.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
A Delicious Drink.
o
l rode Mart.)
After healthy exercise or play, there’s no
better drink for young folks than O. r and
water. O.T. is delicious, healthful, and re-
freshing, and a safeguard against Chills and
Spasms. Look jor the Trade Mark Name — O.T.
Extract of
Fruit 6 Herbs.
An actor in “ When Knights Were Bold ”
Had, every night, to feign a cold.
His art, of course, matured with age,
And soon he shivered off the stage.
Habit, you see, made snuffling chronic,
So in despair lie took a ionic.
Alas ! that he on Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure should
seize,
For now he cannot even stimulate a sneeze.*
sd
fsd
f
LooK after your teeth!
If you don’t they will fall into decay
and you will lose them, and probably your
health into the bargain. There is no
excuse for neglect, when, for a small out-
lay, you can be sure of keeping them in
good condition and perfect beau ty.
Odol is unique as a mouth-cleansing
preparation, for it exerts its antiseptic and
refreshing influence not only whilst using
it, but for hours afterwards.
Being liquid, it penetrates all cavities
and interstices in and between the teeth,
and impregnates the gums and the whole
lining membrane of the mouth, providing
a safeguard and preservative for the teeth
such as no other dentifrice can possibly do.
It is this lasting effect that gives to daily
users of Odol the absolute assurance that
their mouths are permanently protected
against the processes of decomposition,
which, if not guarded against, inevitably
destroy the teeth.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
By the Oldest Inhabitant: —
Mr. Maurice Apellbee Felton, who died at Paddington
(Sydney) recently, in his 72nd year, was a son Of .Dr.
Felton, who 70 years ago practised in Phil I ip-street, in the
big house known in after, years as the office of the
Inspector-General of Police, near Hunter-street. The
widow of the doctor lived there until the early ’sixties,
when the constabulary came in. Mr. M. A. Felton served
as a Volunteer, and formed one of the guard when the
first sod of the Sydney railway was turned in 1850. The
S.M.H. states that Lady Mary Fitzrov turned the first
sod ; but as Lady Mary was killed in Parramatta Park in
1847, she could scarcely have used the spade at the rail-
way function. Mrs. Keith Stewart, a daughter of
Governor Fitzroy, officiated.
THE MAN ON THE TOTTERING THRONE:
N.S.W. PREMIER WADE.
It was consumption that finished off
Queensland ex-Premier Anderson Dawson, just as
it did his old Ministerial colleague, William
Henry Browne. “ Dawson’s cough ’ and
'" Browne’s cough ” were almost as well known as
the Speaker’s wig.
The glass manufacturers of N.S.W. have
resolved to raise a memorial to Mr. J. Ross, the
Australian pioneer of the trade. In 1860 Mr.
Ross made the first “pot” of glass at Darling
Harbor, and for half a century he was identified
with the industry. He died on July 23, 1909.
Some wonderfully unimportant people get
a mention from the old cable service. For in-
stance, this appeared in the dailies last week :
Death of Sir H. S. Lunn.
The death is announced of Sir Henry Simpson Lunn,
who arranged various international visits between Great
Britain and German}', aged 51 years.
Father of Sally Lunn, no doubt.
Colonel Onslow, M.L. A. for Waverlev
(N.S.W.), has been beaten in the ballot for the
selection of a Wade candidate by one Watkins,
Mayor of the Cemetery suburb. The military
person is much incensed at this result, and snorts
fire and slaughter. He makes innuendoes after
the Wade manner and threatens to tell ALL.
Meanwhile Tomato Jessep, who was defeated by
Onslow in 1907, and who regards the Cemetery
seat as his special property, threatens to run as
an independent. Wade doesn’t seem able to
drive his team. Generally, one horse is lying
down, and one is trying to go several ways at
once, and the third is endeavoring to climb a tree.
IN VICTORIA.
CHEERFUL IDIOT : "Hullo! old man. Off for
your week-end collision? ”
The most singularly unlucky case in the
Melbourne railway smash is that of Miss
Reddish, a girl of 25 or thereabouts,
employed at a drapery store. She was
one of the unfortunates in the Sun-
shine accident of two years ago. Since
then she has suffered aches and pains as
the result of an injury to her back, for
which the only ointment she received
from Tait’s recklessly illiberal depart-
ment was a cheque for £5O and a free
pass for a trip' to the country. The
“ first shock ” kept her away from busi-
ness for some months. Last week she
was among the passengers in the train
that took the collision at Richmond
station, and her second shock appears
to be much worse than the first. (One
male passenger is said to have been in
both smashes, but without feeling any
ill effects either time.) If the girl pulls
through this time her claim for com-
pensation will raise the question as to
whether the Department has left her
any reasonable enjoyment of life.
After experiencing two horrible rail-
way accidents and a repetition of the
same injury within 27 months, she
should be entitled to sue the Govern-
ment for damages every time an engine
whistle is discharged within her hear-
ing.
“ Varra ” Newland, just ap-
pointed to the Legislative Council of
British Equatorial Africa, is one of the
firm of Newland and Tarlton, which
made all the arrangements for Roose-
velt’s shooting trip in Ham’s continent.
Both are Adelaide boys. Tarlton senior
has settled in Africa, but Simpson New-
land sticks to his old home. He was
in short-lived S.A. Ministries once or
twice in the ’9o’s. Tarlton, too, had a
safe Parliamentary seat before Labor
began to mix things up. Newland
senior is author of “Paving the Wa}',”
which Editor Sowden, President of the
Public Library Board, coupled last week with
“Geoffrey Hamlyn” and “Robbery Under
Arms” as the three faithful records in fiction
form of old Australian conditions.
By “The Oldest Inhabitant’"'—another
example of the impossibility of writing about by-
gone Sydney without public-houses intruding into
the story:—
The mercantile community of Sydney has lost an old-
established member at the age of 72 years. Edward
Arnold started business on South Head-road (now Oxford-
street) in the early ’sixties. He commenced on the
northern side near the Eagle Tavern [lst pub], kept in
the late ’fifties by James Lees, an ex-sergeant of the 11th
Regiment, and still living. It was on the corner of
Burton-street where now is a bank. A couple of years
later on Mr. Arnold crossed the street to a building
between the Bird in Hand public-house [2nd pub], kept
by John Ward, and the Union Inn [3rd pub] kept by John
Tighe. The Arnold Emporium now covers the site of
Tighe’s Union.
When there are three pubs in a short par. like
that dealing with about a quarter-acre of ground,
what a well-pubbed old city it must have been !
About a tennis marvel :
A brief history of Anthonj' Wilding, the Maoriland
tennis wonder, who bagged the world’s supremacy at
Wimbledon the other day. Born atChrist-
churoh (M.L.) 1882. Father a solicitor ;
also M.L. rep. cricketer, extennis cham-
pion, all-round athlete and good sport
generally. When 16 years old Anthony
won the tennis championship of Canter-
bury (M.L.). He played in Maoriland With
varying success until 1902, when he de-
parted for Fogland to take up his studies
at Cambridge in pursuit of the law. There
he fell in with Mahony (one of the cele-
brated “Irish Six”), one-time All Eng-
land champion, who taught the young
Maorilander the whole art of tennis. Two
years later (1904) he won the Scottish
championship, and he has been adding-
scalps to his belt ever since. In fact,,
there isn’t much in the tennis champion-
ship line that he hasn’t won. However,
1907 was his great year, when he mopped
upjhe championships of London, Queen's
Club, Paris, South of France, Marienbad,
Ft-azenbad, Carlsbad, Austria, Vienna,
Lucerne, Buda Pestand Maoriland, ami
captured the All England Plate at Wimble-
don. Then in London, with Norman
Brookes, he captured the Davis Cup and
placed himself and his great Australian
partner right in the forefront of tennis
players. In 1908 he won innumerable
other championships and held the Davis
Cup in Melbourne with Brookes. In 1909
he annexed the Victorian (when he beat
Brookes), Westralian and Maoriland cham-
pionships, and with Brookes held the
Davis Cup in Sydney against the assaults
of the Yankees. This year he annexed the
Cnowth Africa and Fogtown champion-
ships, and then reached the goal of his
ambition by bagging the All England
fixture, which practically, represents the
premiership of the planet. It is honed
that he will be back in Australasia before
Christmas to defend the Davis Drinking
Utensil. In doubles, Norman Brookes at
the net and Anthony Wilding on the back
line are probably the toughest proposi-
tion that ever stepped on to a tennis court.
A note from S. Australia :
Dead at Glenelg (S.A.), aged 84, W. L.
Beare. (His parents christened him “ Loose
Beare ” ; but having more sense of humor
than they could have had, he always suppressed his
second nan'ie.) He was the last survivor of the
Duke of York’s passengers, who landed on Kangaroo
Island in July, 1836. so he preceded the others—a
handful of them still remain—who came with Governor
Hinduiarsh in the Buffalo, and formally founded the
Province on December 28 of that year; The old man had
never missed one of the 73 celebrations of the “28th,”
and he made his home at last within a short distance of
the old gum-tree—now a ruin, but carefully propped up
and preserved—under which the Proclamation was read.
Hudson Beare, an Adelaide boy, now a Professor at
Edinburgh University, is a nephew of W. L. B.
That mighty popularity-hunter before the
Lord, Theodore Roosevelt, seems to be given to
talking ns the Australian crow flies these days.
In Paris he denounced Socialism as productive of
all the evils of Sheol without its pleasant warmth,
and only a few months ago he told a Maorilander
that he was so deeply interested in the Socialistic
experiments of the Rickety Isles that he intended
shortly to pay a call. Of course, Roosevelt’s wish
to visit the shickery land of no-license may have
been prompted merely by a desire to shoot the
IO U on its native mountains. If Theodore
should succeed in bearing off a few fine head of
Debtbucke or Interestbeeste to the museums of
America, God’s Own Country would have cause
to greatly bless his name.
Henniker Heaton is on his way to Aus-
tralia. He visits here every three years—not
that he particularly loves the country or the sea
trip, but because the terms of old man Bennett’s
will make it necessary. By the way, the case of
Heaton suggests that the absentee proviso in
Fisher's Graduated Land Tax Bill isn’t going to
be of much avail if its object can be dodged by
periodical dashes to these shores followed by
brief stays. The only beneficiaries, under those
circumstances, will be the foreign-owned mail
steamers and a few big city hotels. With Heaton’s
triennial pilgrimage as a horrible example, demo-
cratic legislators should get to work and evolve
something really efficacious in the way Of dealing
with chronic absentees.
The selection of R It. Whereat, as Labor
candidate for Tenterfield, at the comjng Ma
State elections, revives something historical.
Premier Henry Parkes, from December 4, 1882,
to November 3, 1884, was known as “ the member
for Whereat.” East Sydney (then returning four
members) had thrown out the Old Parliamentary-
Hand ; and Parkes, on “returning thanks,” had
stigmatised his former constituents as “crimps,
thieves and blacklegs.” Incidentally, he had in-
timated, for the third or fourth time, that the
door had banged on his political life. In a few
days it-waS announced that Mr. Whereat, candi-
date for Tenterfield, had retired in Parkes’s favor ;
and thus the veteran got back to the Assembly.
In a huff he resigned, in November, 1884; but, a
few months later, was goaded to contest the
vacancy at Argyle, and re-entered the Assembly.
At the general election of 1885 he began bis TO
years’ innings for St. Leonards.
Premier John Verran has done one ex-
cellent thing in S. Australia. For years the
entrance to the Government offices in Flinders-
street, Adelaide, has been adorned with exhibits
of rifles, etc., captured from the Boers by Crow-
eater soldiers. Even from the Empire point of
view, they are an insult to what the orators now
call a Sister Dominion. Now, says Verran, they
will be “put out of sight altogether.” Everybody
agrees, but before the days of the Methodist miner
everybody funked doing it for fear of rousing the
wrath of St. Jingo.
From “ Thoughts After Empire Day,” by
“ An Englishman,” in London National Review
for June, 1910 :
I was talking to a wealthy man, a large employer of
labor, who controlled a great industry in one of the Aus-
tralian States. I pointed out to him- that he was directly
concerned in the menace of Germany. He replied : “So
long as I can run my business, I don’t care much who
runs the country. I rather wish the Germans would
come. They would keep the Labor Party in order, at any
rate.” lam convinced that this is not the spirit of the Aus-
tralian people as a whole ; . . . but it is distinctly typical of
an important class. The party in Australia which is
most alive to its political responsibilities, which is most
eager for an efficient system of defence, which does most
to create a true Federal spirit is, in my belief, the Labor
party. I dislike much of the Labor party’s programme,
but its members are worthier citizens and truer patriots
than many of the club men of Sydney and Melbourne.
It must be a bit disconcerting to those locals who
claimed'that the British capitalist—the identical
citizen whose views are voiced by the expensive
and warmly. Imperialistic National Review—
was going to remove all his capital from Australia
and flee in panic if ever the Federal Labor party
got a majority in Parliament.
ISLINGTON, MAORILAND'S NEW
GOVERNOR.
The Bulletin receives from Alderman
Thomson, of Moruya (N.S.W.), this tale of
Government “ ecbnomy”
I wish to draw your attention to the working' of the
Government dredge Eta, on the Moruya River. Tim
dredge has been stationed here for about 15 or 18
months, and during that period the actual working tim"
was about three months, the other time being occupied
in repairing and overhauling the plant. Some' two
months ago the Department decided to remove the
dredge to Narooma. In consequence, she was dismantled
and prepared for removal. Over six weeks she lay idle,
waiting for a tug-boat from. Sydney to tow her to her'
destination. All this time the men were kept at all sorts
of employment, but with no effective results as regards
clearing the river for navigable purposes.
Since the dredge hds been here, no improvement has
been done. Th? depth of water in this river is the-same,
and in a few rponths the steamers will find greatdifficulty
in crossing the bar and sand-spits. The dredge seems o
be nothing but an ornament and waste of publio-mbneyi
THE DAMNABLE MODERATION OP MR. FISHER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ The Federal Government,” said Mr. Fisher, at a ship-
ping function in Melbourne, on Monday, “ intended to
invite the people of the Commonwealth to proceed with
such enterprise as they had a mind to engage in, and it
would undertake to afford them every protection in
regard to such endeavors.” On learning of this, thegood
Socialists who so largely constitute and practically run
“ the Labor movement ” may with reason ask themselves
whether visions are about. “ Every protection ” for
people in regard to “ such enterprise as they have a mind
to engage in!’’ Heresy is the only word ! — lmpassioned
protest by Sydney Telegraph.
Do you consider, Mr. Fisher, that
In acting thus you “ play the game ”?. . .
We make our point with perfect calmness : What
Of confiscation, gore and flame
And reckless Anarchy ? Jeiiosapiiat !
Is Socialism but a name?
For ten long years we’ve told a quaking world
You and your party were allied
With strange, wild loonies who, for pastime, hurled
Down Banks, and Capital decried,
What time their Pirates’ ensign they unfurled.
Would you proclaim that we have lied l
What of the “ share and share alike ” regime,
Dated by Anti-Sosh to start
The moment Labor won? Did we but dream ?
Did Labor never mean to part
The toiler from his hard-won hoard, nor scheme
To put the thrifty “in the cart.”
No Revolution revolushes. None.
The local strong-rooms stay unburst.
Nothing sensational or mad is done.
Wealth isn’t hanged or even cursed.
Unharmed, the plutocratic take the sun.
None tries to blow up Darlinghurst.
The Lord forbid that we (should advocate
Illegal deeds, or seek rh wash
Them white. Yet, why does Riot hesitate
To don its anti-gore golosh
And get to work ? Nahght else will operate
To save the face of Anti-Sosh.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


m
m
m
m
¥
fit
•V.s'S":
s*.
■N
**•
W/t
m
\
%
K
m
%
/ >
& ■•
I#
IX S
»*s>
TiJFw
THE LONE HAND for August
T HE
».<j "•*.
Fortieth Issue of The Lone
H and —the August number, with
the violet cover —contains :
THE LIQUOR QUESTION IN AUSTRALASIA
—All about the No-License Paradox. An unbiassed exposition that will
interest everybody who does or does not drink.
THE YOUTH OF ADAM LINDSAY GORDON
—A remarkably interesting illustrated literary article about the early life
of the man who wrote “ How We Beat the Favorite.”
THE POLITICAL REMINISCENCES OF THE LATE
E. W. O'SULLIVAN.
HOW THE KOOKABURRA LEARNS TO LAUGH
by E. S. Emerson—The most interesting nature-study yet published.
THE MOST ACTIVE VOLCANO IN THE WORLD
—lllustrated by remarkable photographs.
SOUTHERN STAR-SCAPES- —A popular astronomical article.
THE AUSTRALIAN MUMMER, by Edmund Fisher.
THE LION THAT WAS SPEARED AND THE ELEPHANT
THAT CHARGED, by Roosevelt.
TORO, by Roderic Quinn
—An exciting yarn illustrated by Norman Lindsay.
AT THE SONG OF THE MOON, by H. C. McKay
—A love story of Mars.
BROWN'S INFLAMMABLE CARD PARTY, by “Kodak."
A MEETING OUT BACK, by George Langwell-
WHEN DAWSON DIED, by Sumner Locke.
THE STAGE —Portraits of the present stars.
THE DICTATES OF FASHION —For Australasian women.
THE WORLD'S DOINGS —For everyone.
Price Sixpence.
Published
Jtily 30.
sdf
sdf
This is the
PERFECTION
HEATER.
Smokeless, Odorless and Economical.
That 50,000 Perfection Heaters are in use in Australia
is Proof of their MERIT,
PRICES —From 17s. Gd. to 375. 6d.
Vacuum Oil Go. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Adelaide, Fremantle, Hobart,
Launceston, Auckland, Wellington,
Christchurch, Dunedin, Suva (Fiji).


The Old Blend.
rfitu
wius Ky
•f^HQRse
WHI
Cellar
omecT vrok oistilleks.
ALWAYS THE SEME. PURE NELL ©Wy
MAIUSED SOOTCK MALT*
INFLUENZA.
When you have an attack of influenza take
immediate steps to reduce the fever as quickly as
possible, and for this there is no better medicine
than Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy. It will
reduce the fever, lessen the inflammation sur-
rounding the lungs and bronchial tubes. With
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy there is no danger
of developing that nasty cough that so often
follows influenza.*
PULE, WEAK WOMEN.
*
Will Benefit by the Experience
of this Woman who
Regained Health,
G>
Mrs. Blanche Kingsley, Ferguson Street, Glen
Tnnes, found her health in a state of collapse, as
the result of an anaemic bloodless condition. She
remained bad until she tried Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, which renewed her blood supply. Mrs.
Kingsley gives the following account of her cure:—
“I became anaemic as a girl, and I could not
pick up strength,” she said. “My blood turned
to water; not a scrap of color showed in my lips
or cheeks ; dark rings came under my eyes, and
when I pulled down the lids I could see no rosi-
ness. By ten o’clock each morning I would feel
so utterly done up and languid I would have to lie
down if I had a chance. I dreaded doing anything,
as I had not the heart. I never ate a good meal,
yet I fancied the strangest things, such as a scrap
of burnt meat or lemon or pickles or anything
very sweet. My feet and hands were always
stone cold. I could not walk a short distance
without my heart thumping furiously. My head
would ache in the temples day and night, so that
I would feel quite dizzy and confused and heavy,
and for six months my eyes were so dim that
everything near or far was smudgy and hazy, and
I could not do one scrap of sewing or reading.
My nerves were all unstrung. I would start at
any noise, and I did not want anyone to come near
or worry me. My hands were waxy, and the
nails were blue underneath. I tried all sorts of
tonics, but got no relief. On a hot day I would
be quite played out, and it was not till I tried Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills that my health picked up at
all. I would faint right off at times I was so
weak, but since I finished the last box I haven’t
had a sign of the anaemia. All the distressing
symptoms have gone, and I am now in excellent
health.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are 2s. 9d. a box, six
boxes 15s. 3d., of all dealers, or from The Dr.
Williams’ Medicine 00. of Australasia Ltd.,
Sydney.*
Veterinary Instruments.
fsd
Very latest
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emascuta tors,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Ball Guns, etc.
WRITE FOR LIST.
DENYER BROTHERS
281 George Street (opp.
Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Vic. Railway Commissioner Tait regret-
fully records a decided falling off in traffic for
several days following a great accident. When
you have a sufficient number of great accidents it
is possible to draw valuable inferences like that.
Hupposing a man had only one great accident in
his life, he wouldn’t know for certain whether the
subsequent loss of traffic was due to it or to some
other cause; but if the same temporary slump
follows each of, say, ten accidents, the doubt is
cleared up.
As there are something like £50,000,000
to the credit of depositors in the savings banks of
the Commonwealth, the S. M. Herald declares
the working classes (who are, also, depositors
in private banks and policy-holders in life
offices) to be the “ greatest capitalists.” Will /.
the Herald, having made this discovery,
swing true to its traditions and barrack for
the Parliamentary supremacy of the capi-
talistic working classes? Surely it should
see that the “greatest capitalists” claim
her inky sway, rather than the great capi-
talists or the mere capitalists.
“ D.M.W.” : “If England were to
become a republic the people would
unanitnonsly elect King George as its
first president.” Such is the weird word
of wisdom lately spoken by George
Reid. If England were to become a
republic it would presumably be because
it didn’t want George Rex to reign over
it. If it then, at the first presidential
election, chose him to fill the kingship,
minus the gold hat, its action might appear
darned funny in the eyes of a cold and
unsympathetic world, but it would be the most
glorious example in history of a thoroughgoing
yes-no policy.
An innovation that the Labor party will
probably insist on next session is the complete
abolition of evening sittings of the Federal
Houses, The absurd idea of doing the most im-
portant work of the country in the closing hours
originally emanated from men who were busy
making money all day, and who legislated a little
at night when it was too much trouble to go to
bed. The reasonable method is to begin Parlia-
mentary work after breakfast and knock off not
later than 4.30.
Now that Roberts has gone out of S.A.
State politics, Treasurer Vaughan is reckoned on-
to say the sharp, bitter things to the Opposition. 4
Ex-Premier Peake was described lately as a
political Vicar of Bray, whereupon Vaughan
remarked that he understood now why Peake
had become the voice of the National Ass.
George Reid cabled from London concern-
ing the Victorian railway disaster : “ The general
concern and regret here is universal.” No doubt.
Also, if there had been partial regret, it would
have been limited. Will somebody send a dic-
tionary and an English grammar to the High
Commissioner's office ?
“ F.C.” : Three of the seven jurymen
engaged to assist Coroner Cole in his inquest on
the Richmond victims were similarly employed on
the Sunshine inquiry. Heaven knows why.
Their finding wasn’t such a monument of wisdom
that it shouldn’t have been worth while trying to
find seven, say, more independent men in the
community.
Maoriland’s Premier Ward has made the
staggering and sky-lifting announcement that his
Government proposes to set to work and pay off
the existing public debt in 75 years. It is going
to do it per medium of a sinking fund. Also,
Ward proposes to borrow, this year, £1,750,000.
It might be suggested as an amendment that the
State should leave the old debt where it is for a
while, and devote the present effort to building
public works out of revenue and learning to do
without fresh borrowings. Then, in a few years,
the old debt might be attacked. If Maoriland
borrows money with one hand and puts money
into the sinking fund with the other, there is
only one prospect ahead of the thriftless land.
The first year when it fails to get a new loan it
Yvill seize the sinking fund and go on the old jam-
boree. The history of its last sinking fund is
highly instructive.
Under the title “ Accumulating Millions,”
the S. M. Herald discoursed in its leader columns
last Monday:—
The people of the Commonwealth have enjoyed a suc-
cession of bountiful seasons coupled with an era of high
prices for their more important products. Moreover,
there is a certainty of another heavy wool clip, with
every probability of a good harvest to follow. It is not
possible to estimate with accuracy what the last few
seasons have meant to Australia. A few facts, however,
stand out in eloquent testimony of the increased riches
they have brought in their train.
Yet any day the same paper is liable to start con-’
sidering the fiscal question, and then, instead of
speaking of the high prices of our products, it will
say indignantly that a nefarious system of Pro-
tection has put up the cost of living. And it
won’t say a word about “the increased riches
they have brought in their train.”
HER CITY.
With no little political hardihood it is being suggested
in Melbourne, our representative reports, that as a
majority against the Yass-Oanberra site was returned at
the Federal elections, the question of the capital should
be reopened and a referendum taken upon it —Sydney
Daily Paper.
D.T. : “ The cheek of you ! I never asked you to
interfere with my capital.”
Treasurer Vaughan (S. A.), in the Assembly
on July 21, described the Leg. Council as “the
abattoirs department of the Legislature.” And the
heavens didn’t fall. In fact, in S. Aus. the
heavens seem much less likely to fall than the
Leg. Council, for the dominant Labor party is
pledged to follow good Canadian precedent and
get it out of the way.
“ Legal ” writes :
The latest tragedy on the Victorian Railways ha
exposed to public view the fact that the Coroner is an
absolute monarch. As soon as a tragedy is reported to
him, his Majesty the Coroner takes possession of the
bodies of the dead. His order is necessary to their
burial, after his jury has certified to the cause of death.
The jury is his Privy Council in cases where he exercises
his royal right of making personal appointments.
In this latest case, the Melbourne Coroner seems
to have re-appointed as many members as he
wanted of the jury which had given him satisfaction
in the Sunshine case, two years ago. The rule that
applies to the selection of a special jury in a criminal
case doesn’t apply to a Coroner’s case. The men in the
box are just the nominees of the monarch on the throne.
If the Government, or anyone else, makes unfavorable
comment on this family-party arrangement the Coroner
merely remarks that the services of certain jurymen are
specially desirable, and therefore he has chosen them
“on his own.” Then the Government, or anybody else,
feels its position keenly and sings small.
’Twas on the island Tootle-Tum
A missioner tried to land ;
His venture he rued, for he nearly was stewed
By a terrible cannibal band.
They were just about to truss him up
With a warranted wooden skewer,
When they found in his pocket a valuable packet
Of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
THE PROPOSED YASSBERRA CAPITAL , AS FAR AS IT HAS GOT.
The recent outrage at Richmond calls at-
tention to the fact that the Victorian Railway
Accident Fund is almost a vacuum. At the time
of the Sunshine murder the fund contained
£45,000 ; but this, plus an extra £75,000, was con-
sumed in compensation to the injured and to the
relatives of the dead. During the financial year
1909-10, £22,300 was passed into the fund ; but a
bite of £17,900 has since been made, leaving only
£4400 for immediate use. As the Richmond
butchery is expected to cost at least £50,000, it
seems likely that the fund will soon get down far
below zero.
“ Oby ” writes :
Paragraphs about the recent official visit to Norfolk
Island recall a very old-time event of the same sort. On
that occasion three functionaries went—the Anglican
Rev. Styles, Father McEncroe and the hangman. A
black bag formed part of the luggage ; it contained a
sheaf of death-warrants and a rope. Judge Burton had
been on the island a short time before and had tried 130
capital cases—almost any sort of case was capital then.
He passed 30 death-sentences. The Governor at Sydney
cut down the figure to 13, and sent over the two
preachers and the hangman. In those days the finer
shades of faith were not much considered ; a Baptist or
Unitarian could take the priest or the parson or else
leave it alone. The third official did his work with
brevity, suspending six in one lot and seven in afiother.
Then the parson and the priest and the hangman and the
black bag started for home.
The N.S.W. Assembly is drifting into its
old bad ways—or, at least, it is drifting in that
direction ; and now' when a member is seen on the
floor no one asks whether he fell or was pushed.
It is taken for granted that he was pushed. In
the latest trouble the honorable member for
Ramoth-Gilead was making offensive interjections
while the honorable member for Kirjath-jearim
was speaking. Later, while the member for Gal-
ilee had the floor, the member for Ramoth-Gilead
went over and spoke into the ear of the member
for Kirjath-jearim. Next minute he was in a
horizontal attitude. The Speaker told him to sit
down, but instead he sat up. He was finally
taken to a seat by the member for Shechem, and
finally the member for Kedesh-Naphtali got him
off the premises. The member for Kirjath-jearim
said the member for Ramoth-Gilead had called
him a “d d scoundrel.” The representative
of Ashkelon said that the member for Ramoth-
Gilead was drunk. It was all quite like Oxd
times.
The demand of Tasmania for a special
allowance out of the Federal revenue looks, when
the figures of the case are considered, fairly pre-
cipitous. Tasmania complains that, in some
rather complicated fashion, it fails to get credit
for all its Customs revenue; and, therefore, it
reckons it should get some special allowance over
and above the proposed 255. per head per annum.
But Tasmania is, and always has been, an exceed-
ingly poor contributor to the Federal Treasur)'.
The latest returns of net tariff revenue per head
per annum are as follows :
Westralia .. £3 6 2 I Victoria.. .. £2 5 5
Queensland .. 213 0 | S.A 2 3 8
N.S.W. .. .. 211 8 j Tasmania .. 118 6
Westralia is to get a special allowance for 10
years, but the other States are to share alike.
That is to say, Queensland gives the Common-
wealth 535. and gets back 255., while Tasmania
supplies 38s. 6d. and gets back 255. An island
which is on such a good wicket as that ought not
to say too much. Many a bigger island than
Tassy has been lost through speaking out of its
turn.
A dialogue between Attorney-General
Hughes and Joe Cook in the House of Reps, has
been unaccountably missed by the Cook-Deakin
press:—
Jocook : You said in New South Wales that Freetrade
was in danger.
Hughes : Mmph !
Jocook : And you said in Victoria that Protection was
in danger.
Hughes : Quite consistent.
Jocook (screaming with triumph): Consistent? JCon-
sistent? You said—
Hughes (shouting): Quite consistent. When the
Fusion was in power, everything was in danger !
Then Cook looked for a chair.
An American writer, H. C. Weir, in a
book, “ The World To-day,” gives some statistics
anent the crime-stained march of Uncle Sam.
Says Mr. Weir :
United States citizens are murdered at the rate of 200
per week (nearly 30 per dav), and crime costs the Repub-
lic £275,000,000 annually, or £700,000 per day. Ten thou-
sand persons are murdered in this country every year—
shot, strangled, poisoned, stabbed, or beaten to death with
a club or sand-bag. Of the murderers two in every hun-
dred are punished. The remaining 98 escape absolutely
free. In some. States even this meagre proportion of
convictions is not sustained. In Germany 95 per cent,
of homicides are convicted ; in Spain, 85 per cent,
of the total crimes are punished; in France, 61 per
cent.; in Italy, 77 per cent.; in Britain, 59 per eent.
Do not these facts—when offset against our 2
per cent, of convictions for murder—explain why our
lawlessness is increasing; why we have more homicides
every year than Italy, Austria, France, Belgium, Britain,
Spain, Hungary, Holland and Germany combined? I
have irrefutable evidence that 75 per cent, of the
criminals arrested for petty larceny, picking pockets,
hold-ups and the like from the red-light districts of New'
York are liberated by the ward politicians. The police
practise torture on their prisoners, who in vain seek re-
dress. The jewellers have been obliged to form a de-
tective organisation of their own to protect their pro-
perty. The bankers have done likewise. So have the
hotelkeepers and also the railroads. They could no
longer depend on the public police.
Croup is most prevalent during the dry, cold
weather of the early winter months. Parents of
young children should be prepared for it. All
that is needed is a bottle of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy. Many mothers are never without it in
their homes, and it has never disappointed them.*
THE STRAIGHT ROAD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The vital consideration is the route of the railway.
South Australia wants it from Oodnadatta, the northern
terminus of the South Australian system, direct through
to Pine Creek in the Territory. That is out of the
question.— Sydney Morning Herald.
There’s a purple land to northward, by the waste of
tropic sea,
With a wealth that’s only waiting till a railway set it free,
Till on linking steel Australia runs her waggons to the
gate,
But, howe’er you build that railway, have a care it isn’t
straight.
On that land of golden promise Asia’s eyes of envy burn,
While the hands upon Fate’s dial towards the darkening
ever turn,
But though warring legions muster—well, the foe will
have to wait—
’Twere the ruin of Australia if we made that railway
straight.
You may take it round by Queensland, or across by
Broken Hill,
Round by Gippsland or Coolgardie, or by any route you
will;
You may take it to Tasmania, or to any other State,
But, whatever else may happen, you must never take it
straight.
For it simply stands to reason that by going right across
To the land we want to open we are bound to suffer loss,
And ’twere better far to leave it to its Asiatic fate
Than to take the shortest pathway, and construct the
railway straight.
But, alas! The Labor people have the matter now in
hand;
I’m afraid they’ll treat that railway as their taxes treat
the land,
For in sorrow we must own it—though our sorrow come
too late—
Andy Fisher and his stalwarts have a knack of going
straight.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
A SIMPLE PRESCRIPTION.
Said to Cure Rheumatism, Kidney Trouble and
Bladder Troubles.
We know that the readers of this paper appre-
ciate good advice, and we are glad, therefore, to
be able to publish the following from a prominent
physician.
It is astonishing to know the prevalence of
kidney trouble and other diseases, such as rheu-
matism, bladder and liver troubles, which are
almost invariably caused by weak kidneys. It is
said on good authority that fully one-third of the
people in Australia who have reached the age of
maturity are more or less afflicted with kidney
trouble in some form. The most dangerous feature
of this disease is the fact that many people have it
without their knowledge, and consequently neglect
it until it has reached a dangerous stage.
The least symptom of kidney trouble, such as
backache, must Vie given prompt attention, and a
good reliable treatment should be taken, until
every trace of the disease has been eliminated.
We are glad to be able to give our readers a pre-
scription which we have seldom known to fail in
any case. It contains no harmful ingredients, is
pleasant to take, not expensive, and can be sup-
plied by any good chemist. It is as follows :
Tincture Gentian Compound, one ounce; Syrup
Rhubarb, one ounce ; Liquid Barkola Compound,
one ounce; Syrup of Ginger, five ounces.
Take a teaspoonful after each meal, and one at
bed-time.
We are glad to publish this prescription, as we
know it will help our afflicted readers who give it
a fair trial. If taken continuously for a few
weeks it will be found to be an almost absolutely
certain cure for Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder
trouble, Backache and all allied complaints.
Note. —Other papers are privilegd to copy the
above. —Advt.
MUMMERY!
(DPR THE BULLETON.][For The Bulletin.}
Premier Murray, of Victoria, alluded recently to the
Parliamentary wig and gown and mace as “ mummery—
out of harmony with modern advanced ideas.”
Somebody’s running the deuce of a rig,
Burning the gown and despoiling the wig,
Stripping the Speaker of silk and of lace,
Burning the Rod and removing the Mace ;
Hark ! to the rout of them !
List to the shout of them !
See how they break up the images so !
Off with the flummery,
Down with the mummery,
Into the dust let the fripperies go !
Somebody’s breaking his grandfather’s gyve,
Somebody’s found that the Present’s alive,
Somebody’s found that a mountain of fraud
Lurks in the gleam of the lace and the gaud ;
Hark to the rout of them—
List to the shout of them !
They have but waked for a moment —and lo !
Off with the flummery,
Down with the mummery,
Into the dust let the fripperies go !
Long have they borne with the burdens of Eld,
Patiently borne when they should have rebelled ;
Bowed to the gilt on the bosom of lead,
Given the wig what was due to the head !
Nowin a wonderful
Tumult, and thunderful,
Demos is beating the images low ;
Flinging the flummery,
Treading the mummery
Down in the dust where the fripperies go !
QUEENSLAND.
PHLASDER F.


m
Wm,
I wm#/ :
Bw
m
mm.
:
m
i wmwsk
m
» -
-4 i ‘V
+ ■*.{;.,i**f H'jm Jr ~.
'Sfjsgp*
m
--; ~ '\s J.
■
»if'
iMmmmmmM
m
Sr •_-„•. .^vV
M
-.'• - ■
>■#?
'* *
a’ V W r tne3s i, '' ? f*c«’i3'.
in on r
fsd
f
Manufacturers & Designers
of furniture, fitments Cr
ffante/pieces.
All the Latest Machines are installed in
Our New & Modern Factory.
I/e claim fo grilse f/ie loivesf Possible Prices
ivi/A fAe Maximum Sfandarct of Micf/i C/ass WorA.
ESTIMATES & DESIGNS FREE OF CHARGE.
BUCKLEY &■ NUNN LT?
MELBOURNE.
Beauty’s Favourite.
t-, . ; , f
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of tbe skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. Tbis Has been tbe
acknowledged’ and honoured
position beld by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and bas
maintained tbat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tbe
possession of tbose special emollient
properties wbicb soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tbe
skin. No otber soap possesses
tbese qualities in sucb a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
CAPILLARTNF. the moustache producer
&
*
fcs
A MOUSTACHE FOR A CERTAINTY
FOR THE MAN WHO WANTS ONE.
No pomade that has appeared on the market for the last 30 years has
the results CAPILLARINE can show. In every case it has done
what we claim for it—produced a strong-, handsome, permanent mous-
tache on the face of the man who before could not grow one. Start
using it now, and you will have the same results in a few months’ time.
Sent to any address in plain packet. 10/6, Post Free.
Craig- & Aitken, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
■'fs
*
J
sdf
Model “T” Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials :
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
PALMER TYRE,
SHOWING SQUARE
TREAD WITH
CIRCUMFERENTIAL
GROOVES.
Palmer Cord Tyres
It is what OTHERS say that is
popularising Palmer Cord Tyres.
“The Daily News” Office, London.
I have just returned from following the Scottish trials. In
all, I have driven close on 1000 miles. My car has a pair
of CANVAS Tyres of a well-known make on the front
wheels and two PALMER CORDS on the drivers. The
front tyres are cut and scarred all over ; the tyres which
have done the harder work— THE PALMER CORDS—
appear to have been scarcely used at aII.—“KUKLOSS ”
“ IT'S ALL IN THE CORDS.” PRICE CATALOGUE FREE.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY,
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The British & Colonial Aeroplane
Company, Limited.
Directors.
SIR GEORGE WHITE. BART.
SAMUEL WHITE.JP.
G. STANLEY WHITE.
Bankers— THE BANK OF ENGLAND.
Builders of the British
Zodiac Aeroplanes
r
Dl
“Zodiac” Biplanes
50/60 h.p. - - Price £l,OOO.
“Zodiac” Monoplanes
25/30 h.p. - - Price £5OO.
C ,\Wo.
Terms—One-third with order, balance before delivery.
Delivered F.O B. any port in Great Britain in one month from receipt of order.
Write for Catalogue and full particulars.
Offices and Works - - BRISTOL, ENG.
Flying Ground - SALISBURY PLAIN (W.D.)
Telegrams: ‘‘Aviation, Bristol.” Codes—A i, A.8.C., and MOREING.
&G
TRADE MASKS
V
B.S.A.
S.S.A.
The celebrated B.S.A. No 2 MODEL RIFLE is well depicted
above, and is just about the finest rifle yet produced suitable
for range or sporting work up to 200 yards, and yet within the
reach of those of mod era e means. This rifle is the latest pro-
duciion of the famous BIRMINGHAM SMALL ARMS COM-
PANY LIMITED, and has jumped into immediate popularity.
It is a full-sized weapon, built on beautiful lines, with perfect
balance, has the latest bolt action with recessed bolt head and
covered in extractor. It is of ‘22 calibre and is fitted with new
adjustable sights, marked off up to 200 yards. It can be fitted
with the No. 8 B.S.A. Aperture Sight for miniature match
shooting if required, and in this form it has put up some re-
markable records.
If you are interested write for Illustrated Booklet, mention-
ing the name of your gun dealer, to
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co., Lon.),
5 STOCK EXCHANGE BUILDING, MELBOURNE.
sd
fsd
Shaving Satisfaction.
Almost anything- else does not matter much—but the
razor MUST be sharp for shaving—a finely-tempered,
keen cutter, and all the better if it is of sliver steel.
Being tradesmen, we know how to give oui*'razors the
shaving edge. We guarantee it for two years, and will
keep it in shaving order for that time free of cost.
PRICE
10/6
to any
Country
i Post Free.
We Crind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Strong Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 16/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6,
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
Send for Free Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG 8 AITREN, 654 George Street, Sydney
Established 30 Years.


F
Peter
HEERING
S
CHERRY BRANDY
A
BEST
THE
IS
People who suffer from dandruff will find that
the Hygeia Individual Treatment absolutely cures this
trouble. -
A Victorian Patient who was troubled with dandruff,
also continual falling of the hair, which was very 'ary
and thin, writes, after using treatment for two months :
“There is now no dandruff left at all, the hair is
beautifully bright and glossy, and is no longer dry and
harsh ; also there is quite a growth of new hair all over,
and none of it is falling very much.”
At the end of the next month’s treatment she writes :
“My hair is still improving, and the new growth is
quite an inch a half long ; also I notice a lot more of
new hair growing all over, and it is hardly falling at all.
There has been no sign of dandruff since the second
week’s treatment. E.S., Armadale, Vic.”
The President fnay be consulted, free of charge, any day
but Saturday, between 2.15 and 4.45, and on Wednesday
between 6 and 7. Those who cannot call may write to
the President, Dept. B, Hygeia Limited, Ocean House,
Moore Street, Sydney, enclosing 3d. stamps to cover
postage, and they will receive booklet and testimonials
without delay.*
*"ly* ;
■rouir '; :
wdmu
£?. i
t rmu«\.
\ *"** j
|&!
I I
1 Q f ’
fTT.
A
S s
4 p
TU
RODUR
It’s a pleasure to handle a
first-class article like Robur
tea, even though the profit is
so ridiculously small —you see
there’s hardly ever a complaint
as to quality, quantity or price—
and when there is, well l know
there’s no real foundation for it.
Of course it worries a man
to hear complaints about goods
he’s sold and I’d rather anytime
take less profit and know that my
customers are satisfied than run
the risk of losing a single one
of ’em and as 1 .find my
customers like the flavour of
“ROBUR” and say that it
makes more cups to the pound
than any other tea —1 take good
care to always have it in stock,
and l never refuse anybody
who asks for it.
There’s a race on just now
between the sales of the No. 2
and No. 1 Grade and it seems
to me as many buy the one
grade as the other —l like the
No. 1. Will you take a pound
to try it?
The Grocer.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, July 26, 1910.
My Dear Auini, —
Art and aristocracy went hand in hand at the
opening by Lady Chelmsford of the women
painters' show on Wednesday. Henley House,
York-street, was the scene of the operation, to the
great wonderment of the soft-goods trade, most
of which was going out to its lunch when the
motor-cars and the be-furred women happened by.
Tne society of women brushers has secured
a good flat to exhibit in, and a hard
grafting president in the wife of the State
Governor, who yearns artistically herself.
Miss Secretary Chauvel was busily showing folk
the pictures, and doing the honors generally, while
Vice-president Aline Cusack, Emily Meston and
others gave the ceremony a shove behind if by
any chance it showed signs of getting stuck in a
rut. Of the work Florence Rodway’s is miles the
best; her pastels of children are just the thing
for people with pretty offspring and money
enough to have them painted before they be-
come commonplace grown-ups. Flowers and
kiddies are usually more sympathetically
treated by women than by men artists.
The Cusack sisters show good work. Their
flower-groupings are well known, also their local
color as applied to Australian landscapes. E. Bell
Brown, in water-color and black-and-white, goes
to old Sydney for inspiration, and doesn’t go in
vain. The vice-regal water-colors lent for exhi-
bition show Queensland reminiscences done in a
well-taught and conscientious spirit. Many
society names figure in the catalogue, beside
those of the well-established exhibitors. By band-
in'themselves together on a sex basis, the women
artists get more wall space at exhibitionsand more
buyers. Mrs. F. VY. Parsons’s water colors include
‘"An Old Sydney Garden ” and an English scene,
b >th done in her best manner. Gladys Owen has
worked hard, and her landscapes show observa-
tion. The Gov.’s children have been done in
immature by Bernice Ed well, and this section of
ttie show should be inspected with interest, as it
displays a form of art in which, from the days of
Miss La Creevy, women have held their own.
Mrs. Jas. Ashton is an energetic matron who
doesn’t neglect art in the midst of social and family
duties. There are over 50 exhibitors, which
number means a flourishing society.
Oiptain Dumaresq squired the Government
House party, which included a visiting Miss
Tnesiger, cousin of his Ex., who is putting in
some time at Cranbrook after a round of other
visits. Miss Thesiger, who has been seen about
of late a good deal, is a tall, fair girl in half-
mourning, and is having as good a time as cir-
cumstances will allow.
At the money-raising pageant, organised with
much trumpet-blowing by the Y. W.C.A. last
week in the Town Hall, h s State Excellency
broke forth into speech upon woman’s duty, with
special reference to pots and pans. The Governor
evidently thinks that it’ is really the Young
Women’s Cookery Association, and realises the
great truth that good food is next to godliness, and
that Gehenna is paved with underdone steak.
If he made a mistake he at least made good
when he talked of Frenchwomen in their
capacity as housewives, and drew a vivid
picture of the French housekeeper going to
market every day and choosing her own butter
and other edibles for the day’s consumption.
With her street-door key in one hand and her
btsket adjacent to the other she bargains with
the tradesmen, testing the qualify of the butter
by sticking the key into it and tasting it. That’s '
quite right from the buyer’s point of view; but
how about the butter when half a score of ladies
have prodded it with ten door-keys? To the
Frenchwoman, as a thrifty and artistic house
manager, I perform the feminine equivalent for
t iking off my hat; but we Australians have a
much better butter test than the door-key.
Or late years Governments have taken to
being quite housewifely, and they look after
tne dairies and butchers’ shops, so that the
N. S. Wales housewife can be fairly sure that
her milk and meat are up to high-water mark.
The pageant consisted of a procession of girls of
many lands, and was quite.a festive and frivolous
episode. “Australia,’’ “ China,” also “Japan”
looked perhaps the best of a good bunch. The
Y. W.C.A. is religious in tone as everybody
knows, but it is backed up by .some good social
names. Darling Point and Rose Bay are well
represented at ail the larger occurrences of that
body. To hear the wife of a millionaire giving
out the hymn, or to sit under a dame with a
title when she leads in prayer has a stimulating
effect on genteel young persons who like to see
religion always in her silver slippers.
Proceedings at the Y.W.C.A. money-raising
function weren’t punctuated by much cheering.
Women don’t usually rise up and whoop to ex-
press enthusiasm, and they acted up to their
character when one of the talking parsons, after
a long speech of gusliful admiration re the vice-
regal pair for coming along and giving the enter-
tainment a friendly pat on the back, called for
“three cheers for Lady Chelmsford.” After a
little pause certain people arose and cheered three
times.
Sydney women who deal in philanthropy
and other devices for worrying the poor are
turning like worms of late, and looking back
with the eye of regret on the days of Miss
Rawson. (I suppose a worm has an eye,
and, I have read that it is a long worm that
has no turning.) Tact was the trump card
of the whole Ravvspn family, and when Miss
Rawson found herself called upon to take
the chief seat at a meeting, that meeting in-
variably found itself sorry,to break lip. She bad
a nice way of saying the right tiling.
The mental feelers which she put out enabled her
to get into touch with those around her, and she
made as few mistakes as is possible to feminine
fallibility. In her successor at Cranbrook, there
is more than a hint of old Duchess Sarah Jen-
nings (otherwise Mrs. Freeman), who got herself
into English history as the most masterful
woman of her time. Her direct descendant,
Lady Chelmsford, keeps commjttee-women and
other small dust “in their places.” Hence the
fact that the worm has revolved somewhat on its
axis.
From somewhere off the coast of Japan come
tidings of the engagement of Mr. “Steeny”
Osborne. HeJsthe last unmarried male blossom
of the Currandooley Osborne tree. Two of his
brothers are wedded to members of the Madden
family, while the other is the spouse of the lady
who was Miss Maud Jeffries. The future bride
is an Australian girl. Mr. Osborne owns a
station on the Snowy River, and was on his way
to visit his mother in England when he was
plucked.
By the Orsova on Saturday wont Miss Brace
and Miss Alcock, from Glen Innes, the two
Englishwomen who take farming seriously.
They go for about six months, and when they
come back they come to stay. They like the life,
the business and the people, especially the people.
Miss Brace declares that she is going to bring
back with her some other English women with a
love for fresh air and frisky animals; also some
good new breeds of poultry she wots of, likewise
some extra special ducklings and such. Straight-
out business women like the above deserve all the
encouragement they can get to settle in Australia.
The place does them good and they do the place
good by saying nice things about it to their friends
on the other side of this vale of sunshine.
Motors buzz merrily along all our suburban
beauty-stretches nowadays, but very few women
drive. The girl chauffeuse has not yet arrived in
any large quantity. Perhaps the best car
drivers of the feminine persuasion in Sydney are
the Misses Garvan. They are often seen steering
the familj’ vehicle to and from the big house at
Rose Bay which holds them, their genial mother
and their polo and tennis-playing brothers. But,
intrepid as the girls are, they only chauff outside
the city limits.
The other day I happened to be shown by a
friend some new photos of Mrs. Tojselli—at
least, that was how she was called a year or two
back ; but, of course, the lady has had lots of time
since then to get ahead by several names. At any
rate, she’s a married woman again, and in proof
thereof she forwards a photograph ot her
fascinating musical husband and their small
son Philliberto, taken in the garden of their
villa at Fiesole. Perhaps you don’t know whom
on earth I'm gossiping about. She’s the royalty
who has filled the cable page over and over again
with her goings-on, her quarrels with her hus-
band, the King of Saxony (when Crown Prince),
and the kidnapping of her youngest girl, Princess
Monica. “ Louisa,” as she scrawls herself at the
back of her photo, inscribed “To my darling
Frances,’’ formed a romantic friendship with
an Australian young woman who was tra-
velling in the parts that Anthony Hope
writes about, and the friendship has flour-
ished ever since the days when Louisa was
a Serene Transparency or something exalted.
Her Australian friend stayed with her when some
of the trouble was going on, and the accounts this
quiet, demure little lady can give of her foreign
adventures are just like a novel. It’s rather
exciting and unusual to be mixed up in the
alarms and excursions of German potentates.
Also it shows fhe importance of being accom-
plished, for if trie.friend hadn’t known German
she wouldn’t have known half the time what the
shindy was about.
Letters from exiled Australians, describing the
royal funeral, have been frequent and free for a
month past. Two Sydney boys who saw the
pageant are the young Browns (sons of Las-
setter’s Mr. Brown). They waited from noon till
4.30 to see the coffin pass, and the marvellous
stillnbss of everything and everybody impressed
them. Two Sydney women paid three guineas
each for good seats, and then never got to them
on account of the crowd. So they wasted all that
good money (which might have bought them
half a hat each) for the pleasure of standing
for hours behind a solid wall of humanity and en-
tirely missing the funeral.
Some of our political women entertained the
visiting suffragettes for a week-end trip to
National Park. “A real honeymoon Paradise,
isn’t it?” remarked one present rather tritely.
But the sentiment was hooted. One suffragette
(I shan’t tell you which one) exclaimed, “Why
desecrate such a beautiful spot by the presence of
man? Must he be dragged in everywhere?”
“ Well, not everywhere,” agreed the other person;
“but you must have him in a honeymoon.”
On behalf of the Fresh Air League you are re-
minded that a ball is in vigorous process of
organisation. The occurrence will become actual
next month in the Town Hall. Mrs. Julius Caro
and Mrs. Broughton are the officials in connec-
tion therewith, and each lady has already fallen
upon her own neck in an embrace of great joy
over the success that is visible ahead. Donations
are large and valuable, including such vital
elements as the supper and the band.
An enthusiast on the subject of our own Aus-
tralian wild flowers is Mrs. Ellis Rowan, of Mel-
bourne, whose enormous collection of paintings of
bush flowers is now on the walls of Angus and
Robertson’s gallery. To walk around the gallery
with Mrs. Rowan is to feel the poetry of
the bush, so affectionately does she talk of
the beautiful little wild things that grow
almost at our very feet, except where city
asphalt and bricks usurp the ground. “The
best place in the world for wild flowers,”
declares this artist, “is Westralia. Therearethe
loveliest, and the weirdest and the greatest
.variety. Growing on the edge of the desert I
found them. This, for instance, is an anigozan-
thus —its botanical label, of course. Some of
them have no names at all, yet. Look at its
purple blossoms, and its sand-colored stalks and
foliage. Not a touch of green. I painted it with
an orange-tawny sunset back of it. At that
time of day it shows up best. This is a kan-
garoo’s foot—also a Westralian plant; jet black,
shaped like an impression of a clawed foot on
clay, and with green spiky leaves. Here is
another—brilliant scarlet. Here is a cotton, and
here another and another. Cotton grows in pro-
fusion in Central Australia and Westralia.”
Some of the cottons are bright red, others yellow,
and all are beautiful. Sturt’s desert pea, which
Mrs. Rowan painted at Broken Hill, is not more
gorgeous than dozens of plants which we don’t
know even by sight. There is a big mauve
flower which cost this enterprising woman £7O
to paint. She had to journey many weary miles
into the bush to find a specimen at home. An
extraordinary Westralian native is a flannel
plant—thick stems, in color and shape like fingers
in flannel bandages, with little round flannel
pompoms as alleged flowers. The Ma State
comes a good second in the floral competition.
Our waratahs and banksias and epacris and
boronias are not so dusty. There is a big yellow
splash of that glorious Cootamundra wattle which
would cheer up the deepest fit of the blues ever
indulged in by the most miserable gloomster on
earth.
Plants, pleasant and unpleasant, make up Mrs.
Rowan’s show, and among the nightmares is the
devil-flower, just like a lump of livid, raw bul-
lock’s heart, with a dull, wicked, conspiring eye
in the middle. It eats up all manner of in-
sects, stowing them in its innards, and
it smells like the Arnoliffe pumping station —
the sort of malevolent growth that might be
dreamed by a soured botanist whose maidenhairs
had all been, devoured by beetles. I suppose
some billions of years ago, when everything was
on a much bigger scale than now, there was a
boss devil-flower that ate elephants ; but that is
mere surmise.' From Queensland rambles come
canvases which treat of the blue and pink water-
lilies, the wistaria tree (exactly like the creeper
turned upsidedown). hibiscus of all sorts, alsoexqui-
site green butterflieshoveringovertecomaand flame
blossoms; in fact, a general display of the beauties
that exist for those wise persons who have eyes to
see them. Mrs. Rowan, who has been looking at
them and trying to make others love them too, for
years, learned her botany at the paternal Ryan
home on Mount Macedon (Vic.), in a garden that
is noted throughout the southern State.
Tom Ugly’s Point is one of the best-abused
places near Sydney at every week-end. Anybody
who is in touch with the motor trade knows how
fast the traffic at that spot is growing, because
every motor-car is bound to want to get punted
over George’s River from the Point, sooner or
later. The authorities grapple with the problem
by means of two punts—a little punt and a very
little punt. The big little punt is closed for alter-
ations and repairs just now. Consequently,
myriads of motors, sulkies and carts are stuck
up every busy day waiting their turn to cross by
the small wee punt. The only person who can
rejoice at the present arrangement is the man
who keeps the adjacent pub, for the drivers of
the various vehicles say so much in such a very
long time that the hot air makes them very
thirsty.
A plucky small boy who was in the recent
Melbourne railway smash is the son of Godfrey
Cass, the well-known Andersonian. Young Guy
was in the carriage next the badly wrecked one,
and when he came to after the shock he found that
his damages consisted of a torn coat and a
vanished hat. He calmly went on by tram to the
dentist's, where he had an appointment. His
name was in the list of passengers published in
the Herald, and a relative of his, who was
visiting Sydney, had a terrible time of suspense
before she heard of the child’s safety, because the
storm had badly messed up the telegraph and
telephone wires.
Beryl Bennie is unlike the good little girl who
is seen and not heard, because she will soon be
heard and not seep. As the voice of Trilby she
will raise a tune behind the scenes when that
hypnotic melodrama, which is named after the
lady with the bare feet, is once more melod rammed
amongst us. Miss Bennie is a pretty little thing,
whom it seems sheer waste of good material to
hide in the wings. She has fluffy golden hair and
a smile that is like the sudden opening of the gate
of Heaven. She struggled with “Ah Fors e lui,”
and on the whole got the better of it, at the con-
cert whereat Carrefio played. It seems cruel to
condemn a youngling to trill that hysteric out-
burst of Violetta’s. Yet they will do it. The
little girl comes of a well-known Victorian family.
Had and Uncle Bennie were called by the now
middle-aged generation “The Bennie Boys,”
and did many things in a knowable kind of way.
Miss Bennie is staying in Sydney, and takes
lessons in singing from Mrs. Slap.
The heroine of the moment is Maie Sydney,
who has been in the public eye for a whole week,
and will continue there as long as Arcadia
lasts in Sydney. The returned Maie (she used to
be May) is a"plump and pleasing person. Her
welcome at the Australia on Tuesday was punctu-
ated by the gift of some jewellery and a violet
muff and boa which matched her frock. Joseph
Carruthers speechified and Mamma Peach
beamed on all around. Several nice musical
items, far enough apart to leave large
gaps for conversation, filled in the afternoon
till tea-time, when bumpers were consumed in honor
of little Maie. Mr. Denison Miller was present,
as also were Mr. Peach and Maie’s brother, and
one or two more masculines. But the admirers
were mostly women. How changed are the ways of
stage land! A welcome to a comie-opera prima
donna in days of yore would have been something to
whisper about, not to go to. Champagne would
have been flowing, and golden youths would have
revelled in an orgie of merriment. To-day a
modest little lady is entertained at afternoon tea
by a multitude of highly respectable matrons
and maids, who probably go off next day to
celebrate a Sunday-school jubilee.
Her Majesty’s was a queer sight, so far as the
front of the house was concerned, on Saturday
night. There weren’t a dozen chronic first-
nighters in evidence. Most of the stalls which
are pre-empted and occupied every premiere of
the year by the same people, were destitute of the
fair and ornately clothed, and filled, for the
nonce, with the old and frumpish. The incon-
siderate conduct of “ The Arcadians * in making
its first appearance on the same night as “ The
Brass Bottle” was responsible for this, the drabbest
first-night crowd the Williamson theatre has
known in its history.
The Cbantecler hats worn by the show girls in
“The Arcadians ” are up against a rather tired
public taste now. The rooster crows too late, for
his day has dawned, and grown to noon, and faded
into twilight long ere this, and he has gone to his
perch. It is the fate of booms. Ethel Forsyth is
show girl in chief and looks the part, and the hats
are chooks all right; also the gowns are top hole,
and the opera goes with a swing, so there will be
some lively nights at the Cri. for a spell. The
.Mysterious Stranger passed out of that third floor
back last week, leaving it swept and garnished
and ready to be Arcadia.
The moving pictures of the English Derby at
the Pitt-street shows are chiefly remarkable for
the amount of collar which flashes past as the
wearers flit over the sheet with that celerity which
only the flickergraph can attain. The new collar
is, of course, a twicer, for the double neck-
bandage of starched and glossy linen has come
to stay. Fancy .shapes of neck-fence die almost
as soon as they are evolved, but for day wear
men have adopted the twicer shape for keeps.
The latest throttler is higher, and shows even
more surface than the development before last.
Viceroy Hardinge had his photo taken for all the
illustrated papers in a new collar, which gives
him a nice, clean appearance. The fronts of the
linen stand well out over the sailor knot of the tie,
which must now, to be correctly placed, lurk in-
side the entrance to a starchy cave.
Yours, as of old, CIRO.


Itfji I !
iliillil I
ttb
$3
f ? ( {•<; ; i' (•
!’) i-) ti i H i
5 {' vs-
I iiiA;
II
‘1 i&s
«s
! Si
«s
.Xfcg
MN
iji&i
5?
fe-M» £ {St
iismt
r-'iSiti -7
wmmm
m
tit
$ V
Ct >V
ti?
i
\
N
\
<C
<0
1
<5
o
i*
ft 1
sSf
fill
■i;
a
Mi
a?
\
v.*
s V V
m
| |
M
<n&?
i' n
i
/
§
\Y
TO
sj*e*
&
m
&
n
%
m
m
•S
k
s
# !
r is
* ii
-4
H.L
C-O-B-R-A IShe. Boot Polish.!
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Puts a gloss
Upon your shoe.
And it stays
Upon the leather
Thro’ all sorts
And kinds of weather
Here he is
Demanding boots
With enthusi-
Astic hoots ;
“ COBRA " is the
Stuff he uses
(Wise is he
Who “COBRA” chooses).


MAKE YOUR OWN HAIR TONIC.
A Specialist’s Advice.
In a recent issue the Daily Matl of London
published a special article on the care of the hair
in which was given the formula for a home-made
hair tonic that was highly recommended for its
remarkable hair-growing properties, as well as for
stopping falling hair, revitalising the hair roots,
and destroying the dandruff germ. This article
was of special interest to me, as the formula was
one which I, myself, have seen used in countless
cases with most astonishing benefit, thus confirm-
ing my belief that home-made hair preparations
are the best. For the benefit of those who have
not seen it before, I give the formula herewith.
Procure from your chemist a four-ounce bottle
containing three ounces of Bay Rum, one ounce
of Lavona de Composee (Smith’s) and | dram
Menthol Crystals. Dissolve the crystals in the
Bay Rum, and then add the Lavona de Composee ;
shake thoroughly and apply night and morning to
the roots of the hair, rubbing into the scalp with
the finger tips. This preparation contains no
coloring matter, but restores grey hair to its
original color by its action on the hair roots. If
you desire it perfumed, add half a spoonful of
French Fon Fleur perfume, which combines j>er-
fectly with the other ingredients, and imparts a
most pleasing scent. (Do not apply where hair
is not desired.)*
Thousands
of these
Bladders
are now used
by the
Leading Clubs
Their Quality
Warrants ft
DUNLOP
FOOTBALL
BLADDERS
Are free from perish and beautifully
made from the best rubber. Give a
long-way better service than the im-
ported article. Stocked in all sizes by
the leading Sports Depots. Specify
“DUNLOP” Brand when ordering.
Our Golf* Tenni* and Bat Grip* are unequalled -
for Quality and Price. Rubber Sole* a Speciality
THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide. Perth, Brisbane, and
1
mm
MINE MANAGERS, etc
To
W» now make a speciality 'of.
catering for. all Robber Mining
Goods. and can recommend o#r
DUNLOP
CONVEYOR and VANNER
BELTS) AIR DRILL and
SUCTION HOSE. PACKINGS.
VALVES, etc., as being the equal
of any imported article. Our
Goods have the great advantage
of being fresh and free from
perish, and being specially made
to suit your own requirements.
TENDERS AND SAMPLES SUBMITTED.
** * *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide. Perth, Brisbane, Chrtotchaaeh> NrZ.
$9
I
I
Medical &Toilet. Black & Green ikket. r*?
MISS HILDA SPONG and SOLYPTOL SOAP.
Miss Hilda Spong, the beautiful and accomplished actress, who commenced her stage career in Australia,
sends the following unsolicited testimonial to the manufacturers of SOLYPTOL SOAP :
Messrs. F. H. FAULDING & CO. Savoy Hotel, London, W.C., July 31, 1909.
Dear Sirs, —Your Solyptol Soap was recently brought under ir.y notice, and you may be interested to know tnat
I have found it absolutely the best skin soap I have ever used. It lathers most freely in the hard London water
its perfume is delightfully refreshing, and it leaves the skin soft and velvety in a manner unobtainable with
any other soap. It is particularly gratifying to me to know that Australia is the home of such a perfect
production. Yours faithfully, HILDA SPONG.
Sold by a. 11 Chemists and Stores.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 25, 1910.
My Dear Yarrie,—
There will be sadness at a wedding in Brighton
this week. A ball was to follow the ceremony,
and one of the bridesmaids —a pretty, 18-year-old
girl of St. Kilda—was to be a debutante. She
will not appear, for she was killed in that needless,
purposeless, foolish, muddled railway slaughter
at Richmond.
It is a “ coincidence ” that the jury engaged to
sit on the Richmond railway horror contains
various members of the jury that sat on the Sun-
shine tragedy. The foreman is the same man—
hatter Buzolich, the railway hatter —the hatter
who has his shop in the main block of the main
entrance buildings of the new railway station.
Society will borrow anything. It will borrow
its neighbor’s best motor for a wedding turn-out;
and Mrs. Better-Off’s mountain residence for a-
honeymooning; and Mrs. Quite-Settled’s cook
for a particular birthday dinner, and her spoons
and glassware for a supper. It will also bor-
row a house for a dance. The Charlie Fair-
bairns gave a big ball and borrowed the bachelor
Brett house for the holding thereof. The Fair-
bairns have given up the bother and expense of. a
Toorak residence ; and they Flat at Fairleigh, in
the rackety suburb. There is no room for a ball
in a flat—no room to whirl a cat by the tail, let
alone a partner by the waist. So they cheerfully
borrow a house. It was a frivol, too, on the top-
most spin of frivolity.
Muriel Matters, the suffragette who chained
herself to the House of Commons, returned to
Melbourne last week and gave a lecture in the
hall of the Independent Church, where she seemed
the right young woman in the right place.
Previously Muriel had appeared at the Princess’s
under wintry conditions. A theatre is not her
proper sphere of discourse, but a political
“martyr” preaching on church premises is in
accordance with the eternal fitness of things.
There’d be precious little church if there were no
she-sex.
The Glaciarium went full tilt into its Carnival
last week, and fancied itself in fancy dress.
Pageants paraded, and the items swirled and
posed and skated to every point of vantage. One
rarely sees a spill now, and much more rarely the
awkward scramble of a bungler. Where the be-
ginners are it is hard to say. The new people
must begin somehow—possibly in the early frosty
mornings when everybody else is a-bed. On
Tuesday it was co-o-o-old —that is to say, it was
cold for the mere observer, even though she sat
over hot-water pipes; but the skaters had a hot
time. A real original frock was exploited. Adele
Wertheim wore a Russian dress—built in Russia
and bought by mamma on her latest travels. It
was a gorgeous thing, weighted with wide
bands of embroidery and tucks of peasant-
made lace. It was a peasant’s dress; but
that peasant must have kept it for high days
and holidays. I am told that such a dress
is handed down from generation to generation—
the embroideries and lace, at any rate. It is an
eternal sort of frock, worth putting time and
labor and money into. A Ham-and-Clegg girl
trundled about as the Merry Widow. Two Von
Pinschofs made a decided hit. Louise (the baby
one who blossomed into grown-upness when
Carmen married) put her dark prettiness into
Turkish clothes —trousers and all. Sister Eliza-
beth wore Mamma Wiedermann’s original Carmen
dress. Ned Stephens, son of Shakspearian en-
thusiast Stephens, lost his temper and his balance
as an Airman. He had a pretty nerve to appear
at all, for he was in the worst part of the Rich-
mond smash, and he clambered out unhurt from
among dead men. He is one of the people who
have not complained of shock.
Anson, of the Asches, who was out of the cast
for the evening, strolled around in evening dress.
Muriel, the dandy daughter of Tom Cummings,
got herself into extraordinary togs—a blue skirt, a
white blouse, and something like a tiger lily on
her head. Eileen Williams made herself conspicu-
ous with a black wig and Red Indian fixings, and
advertised someone’s cocoa. Miss Rowe, that
dandy skater, challenged the field by skating all
night with Bobbie Jackson. The Maddens were
skimming round. They never lose their prim
discreet stepping, though they are good skaters—
never the free, wild fling and kick for them.
A Collins-street auction-room recently had
three tables spread with silver for sale. Every
piece was decorated with the card and white
ribbon that denotes the wedding present. Wed-
ding presents are often “exchanged,” but this
wholesale clearing outof the weddinggiftwasabove
the average. The sellers might have harvested
the cards before the sacrifice. Lady This-One
and Sir Timothy That and Miss and Mister and
Missus Thingamybob all had gushful
wishes on their cards. An important S’African
town was mostly inscribed in the address corner.
Probably the Newlyweds of Ostrich Land packed
the things off to what they thought a far land, and
a hidden auctioneer, and out of everybody’s
sight. It makes just the knock-out round on
wedding gifts.
Tom Carter entered the exhibitors’ ring last
week with a show. He is a gallery student, and
has exhibited at times at the annual V. A.S., but
has otherwise kept modestly in the background.
The stuff was well worth the showing. His figure
work is remarkably strong, and would excite
attention even among the work of prominent
matured artists. “ The Girl at the Mirror ” is a
semi-nude figure with a purple orchid-colored
drape and an arm over her head—a fine forcible
thing with exquisite flesh tones. Then a girl fill-
ing a bowl with magnolias—her shoulders showing
cleanly muscular beneath her well-fitting dress,
and a perfect poise. Some pastel heads won the
unreserved praise of artist McCubbin, and a
monotone—the head of a girl—is free and strong.
There is variety in the show—the work has not
been dragged together just for the exhibition. It
extends over five years, with noticeable influences
in the sections. There is the period when the
youngsters were all following Ford Patterson into
the near-to-Melbourne bush—sketches full of
purple haze and beautiful gums. Then there hap-
pened a Christmas at Sorrento, and the group
of sketches are full of blue sea and pale beaches,
with ti-tree in grey-green shadows. The Impres-
sionist period is much too lumpy, but Carter’s
fanciful, mystical pictures are full of charm.
“Spring” is full of butterflies and other spring
winged things with elves’ faces.
There is a bit of blasted heath and dreary
beach that is good, and a sketch of gums and
browsing sheep almost like a Hans Heysen. The
black-and-white work is bold, but amateurish in
comparison with the color work.
Lady Carmichael came along, and then she
made a second visit on purpose to bring the two
nieces to see the carved work. Carter has a
quaint gift of caricature in carved wooden
figures. The Carmichaels bought some. It ap-
pears that Mrs. Carmichael has a leaning toward
that sort of work herself, and is carving some for
the Arts and Crafts.
The learned Strong lectured last week for the
Australian Literature Society. Meredith and
Wordsworth were the major themes ip the excel-
lent talk. The Masonic Hall made rather a large,
draughty cavern for such a talk, but there had
to be room for all the peoples who wished to
listen. Governor Carmichael filled the chair,
The Carmichael lady was down among the
audience, and she grew rather worried as time
went on as to where her husband would “fetch
up ” in his comfortable stretchings before the
lecture ended. Carmichael was given a deep
comfortable leather accommodation. Now Car-
michael gets entirely snug and comfortable when
he settles down to enjoy a lecture treat. He
squeezed himself farther and farther back. He
rolled his head back and gazed at the ceiling in
pure enjoyment of listening and retrospection.
Then he flung one foot over his knee with the
usual full sock showing. That proved but a mild
beginning ; before Strong got through, Car-
michael had both legs completely over one arm of
the chair while he hugged his knees. There was
another man who had a habit of that attitude—
Mark Twain. First hff“ would fling one knee
over the arm with a delicate foot a-pointing
restfully; then over would go the other, and he
would hunch himself ecstatically into the corner
and wreathe himself in smoke. But with Mark
Twain the attitude presaged creations —delici-
ously whimsical sayings.
Sweet girls have gone on strike. He who steals
my purse steals trash—but he who filches my
frivolous feminine fal-lals and danglements takes
more than can be tolerated by any sane
feminine mind. The Macßobertson firm, which
makes lollies, found that girls’ ribbons and laces
and hair had a way of getting into the Turkish
Delight and the Ottoman Joy. The firm ordered
a uniform—a straight, washing overall close in to
the neck and wrist, and commanded that the hair
should be plainly tied. The girls embellished this
sombreness with neck ribbons and breast-plates of
paste brooches. The hair ties developed into
wide wings like an aeronaut’s sails. The toffee
authorities ordered all ornamentation to be dis-
carded. “This is too much,” wailed the girls,
and they struck. Arbitration set in, and some
returned to wages and plain garniture; but a
number held out and dropped their jobs rather
than lead the wholly undecorated life.
The Asches departed their Australian theatrical
life in the same boom, spirit as they lived it.
There was a special plan for the final week’s
doings, and it waij licked up on the first morning’s
view. The last flight (Friday) had absolutely
every corner booked. The gods—always true to
“Lil” —began to arrive at 8.30 in the morning,
and stayed for lunch and tea and supper.
It was an unutterably dreary, damp day,
and Mrs. Lily Asche sent upstairs some
half-a-hundred photographs of herself. They must
have been sustaining. There has scarcely ever
been such a house as on Friday night. Theatrical
enthusiasts and Shakspearian students blended
into one crushed whole. “The Taming of the
Shrew ” was the menu. After the Induction the
curtain rose on two flashlight camera fiends stand-
ing in the centre of Christopher Sly’s bedroom,
who asked the audience to look pleasant—please.
A discreet management held back Matheson
Lang and his wife until this favorable moment.
First the fall of the Induction curtain, then the
flashlight, and then the new actor and actress,
absolute strangers to Melbourne theatre-goers,
entered a box. Someone with remarkable intu-
ition (in the gallery) started to applaud, and by
judicious nursing the whole house was worked
into a frenzy of enthusiasm for these strangers,
with Manager Levy shining like a diamond in the
background. It was most artistically fixed for
the stars of the next night’s show.
In the opposite box were two dreams in elabo-
rate head-dress. One wore a gold cap on her black
hair, and the other made a nightcap of her own
locks, buckled with a jealous green band. The
south box held six pretty flappers with Lily
Brayton hair, and with adoration shining out of
their yearning eyes. One chaperon chaped the
crowd.
A large party of the Melbourne Savage Club
invaded the front stalls with their women folk.
Oscar has been a good Savage, and is a London
Wild Man. There was Stock Exchange Percy
Cook, looking as if he had never heard of Ma-
roomba shares. P. and O. Roberts of the Titian
hair brought his dainty Titian wife. The mas-
sive Dan Bedggood took up more than his share
of stall. Jimmy Macdonald, the just-returned
Australian artist, was there ; and Dr. Tom Boyd,
beaming through his Pickwickian glasses ; and
other well-conducted Savages.
The vegetables handed up at the finale were
like a Chinese garden for quantity. The con-
ductor helped several ushers in handing over the
vegetation—he looked as if he longed for a pitch-
fork to hoist the stuff over his head. It was in
stacks, in cartloads, losing all meaning by reason
of its abundance. There were some solid-looking
parcels among the scrum. The Savages handed
over a boomerang and a waddy, decked with
gigantic cards in barbaric designs (artists Alf
Vincent and Jimmy Macdonald saw to that)
strung on with black and gold.
Asche made the necessary speech, which was
dull of interest until he hit out a spark of sub-
lime conceit. Speaking of his success, he re-
marked that such success contained one touch of
bitterness—“ there is no longer an outlook ahead ;
one could only look back.” Alexander, weeping
because there were no more worlds to conquer,
now takes a back seat.
The Asches, on the classic strength of their Shake-
spearian altitude, have been fondled by the Elect
more than any mummers heretofore. The Uni-
versity gave a spree in welcome to them. Never
had it intimately applauded a mummer before.
Now, in the farewelling, the Mayoress herself
stoops to put the Town Hall at their disposal. The
Asches shake the Australian dust off their shoes
at a farewell At Home given by Mrs. Burston
one afternoon of this week.
Manager “ Billy ” Anderson won the gracious
smile of a rich Toorakian contingent by good-
naturedly loaning his theatre for the matinee
in aid of Melbourne’s Lost Dogs’ Home and
Lethal Chamber. One musn’t forget the Lethal
Chamber. Seeing that Tripp Edgar was spread-
ing the mat, and the Oscar Asche company
figured as the attraction in a wily advt., the dog-
loving dames expected to get the loan of the
Royal without a demur. But the business
manager rebuffed them, and Rupert, when they
appealed to him, was equally negative. So they
tilted their noses and struck the idea of going to
Anderson, having heard from the best Toorakian
authorities that the King’s was really an avy'fly
nice theatre—and quite new, you know, The
genial Billy said, “ Certainly, by all means.” And
just now nothing too kind can be remarked of
him and his house in the Very Best Circles. All
things considered, the King’s deserved a much
stronger show than the Lost Dogs’ Society con-
trived to arrange.
Eileen Anglin, the Titian-haired sister of Mar-
garet, is engaged matrimonially. The man is Cap-
tain Hutchins. Miss Anglin met him in Melbourne
at the time of the Uncle Sam Fleet. He is from
the United States, and was cavalry officer or
something of the sort to one of the admirals when
the grey Yankee warships were visiting these
seas.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide: —
The British Lion has lent us another new aide-de-camp
to help our Admiral govern us; for governing us is no
easy matter. The new help’s name is Bolton Littledale
Fletcher, without a hyphen or other hen-roost or
horizontal clothes-prop to conneet his names, and
he learnt the art of demolishing Britain’s enemies
in the Scots Guards. That is all we can tell
about him at present, except that he has been to
Port Adelaide to help their Excellencies open a Parish
Hall. It was built in memory of the late Canon Green,
who for many years led the Anglican flock by green pas-
tures and still waters thereabouts.
The Oonservatorium Orchestra wailed through a long
list of attractive noises on Monday, the 18th. The most
interesting circumstance was the performance of Henry
Brose, a clever youth who has captured a drove of
scholarships, and is at present pursuing Arts and Science,
and merely punches the piano four or five hours a day
for amusement. He is a modest young virtuoso who
doesn’t wear woman’s hair or revolutionary ties; and
after he had played a Liszt Fantasia with the orchestra
and had been dragged back eight times, he didn’t look
any the less modest—he only looked limper.
A French Australian novel, written by Adelaide’s
charming French citizeness, Mrs. Lion, has just come to
hand from its Parisian publishers, in real French-novel
yellow binding. The story, “Vers la Lumidre,”concerns a
bright and blithesome French maiden who comes to
dwell with squatting relatives at a station on the Murray,
and the plot leads her over a good extent of ground.
Australian bush and town life is thus seen through the
eyes of the French girl. One of her early experiences is
a" view of miles of clothes lines on a Monday morning, and
she is astounded and amused to learn that all Australia
at the same hour and on the same day hangs out its
linen to dry. And we actually had a suspicion that
Monday was washing day all the globe over ! The book
is dedicated to the writer’s friend, Mrs. Barr Smith.
The Tait fraternity’s very longest lion-tamer, Frank
Talbot, is leading the strenuous life over here for a week
or two, and is waving Oalvb souvenirs at this music-loving
populace. The first of the lion-bird’s notes will soar to
the rafters of the Exhibition barn on the last of the
month.
S.A.’s most ritualistic parson, the much-beloved Canon
Wise, who has built a huge church at Goodwood and fills
it every Sunday with a congregation from every corner of
the city, has caught the covetous eye of a London parish.
This is St. Saviour’s, Poplar, known to fame as the parish
of that ritualistic shepherd, the late “ Father ” Dolling.
The church holds 1000 and the district 12,000; and one of
its attractions for the Canon is that the 12,000 are mostly
in abject poverty. But it is doubtful if S.A. will consent
to part with him for any old London living.
S. Aus. put on its black rain-cloak and went to the
funeral of a real pioneer last week. Mr. W. L. Beare had
lived in S. Aus. before there was legally any S. Aus. to
live in. He arrived in 1886 with his father, who was one
of the managers of the South Australian Co. He saw us
proclaimed a Province under the ancient eucalyptus at
Glenelg in 1836, and had never missed one of the 73 annual
celebrations of that ceremony. He had managed sundry
well-known sheep runs in his time, but for many years
past had been living at Glenelg, where he spent most of
his days gardening.
ThePoint-to-Pointpeople leaped over Findon on Satur-
day, and among the leapers present were the Governor and
Jupiter Pluvius. Jupiter hasn’t missed a Point-to-Point
for years, and this is always one of the great swimming
events of the season. A large and muffled crowd put a
lifebelt round the neck of its motor, and plunged after
the pink-coated braves on their muddied palfreys. When
the latter had pranced to everyone’s satisfaction, there
was tea to restore the apparently drowned. It wasn’t
such a bad affair after all. Even the horse that sank
deepest always showed one ear above the surface.
When all the gladsome pageant of fashion people have
finished being Helen of Troy, Cleopatra and other ladies
of doubtful but joyous memory, there will be a dance.
This is to happen on August 3. You pay one slice of your
worldly fortune to see the pageant and tableaux, and to
hear a great noise. Then, while many minions clear the
room like buttered thunder, you expend another segment
of your hard-earned increment for the privilege of supping
and whirling with Helen and Cleopatra aforesaid. That
is to say, you do these things if you are a man and a
beast-lover. This revel is to provide an ambulance and
trained nurse and afternoon tea for decayed tram-horses.
We in Adelaide are akin to the Frenchman who loved the
horse and the dog and everything that was beastly.
Grand opera will wake the echoes and other dead at
Walkerville, on August 6. A local soprano, Violet Paine,
has the chief parts, and the masterpieces that have been
selected are “ Traviata,” “ Hamlet,” “ The Flying Dutch-
man ” and “ Der Freischutz.” Manager Johnston is keep-
ing his eye on the box-plan, and the last available rafter
and the keyhole are already reserved.
A newly-married couple, the Murray Campbells, are
staying at the South Australian Hotel. Himself belongs to
Glasgow, that ancient city which hasaTrorigateand aGal-
lowgate and a Saltmarket, also strangely-named outlying
places called Govan, and Partick, and Gorbals (Gorbals is
a beautiful name), and Hutchisontown, and Rutherglen,
and Pollokshaws, and Camlachie, and Shettleston, and
Bishopbriggs, and Cowlairs. and all manner of queer old
desiffn p a) . iong _ He has spent , niani ; years in Australia,
an d has married a S. Australian girl from Wallaroo,
<"» °° d '
other dwellers at the South this w ; nter have been the
ma y ora i Cohens, who are already longing to be back
among the sea breezes at Glenelg. Their daughter, Mrs.
Bridgland, and her husband are also addicted to hotel-
life-they and their remarkably handsome atom of
h 7 d a k^^^o d te a ls fe " that the re-built York is
already rearing itself high over the surrounding archi-
tecfc Ure< and will soon be alive and ready to accommodate
homeless millionaires.
Sincerely yours, JOHANNA.


f
JN the selection of a whole-
some whisky, no method
is more simple, and certainly
none safer, than to specify
DEWAR’S. Its wholesomeness
is as its flavour, its flavour as
its maturity, its maturity as its
quality, and its quality—perfect.
Be sure it’s
Imperial
9
u
as*
m
fits.
“/ 7
SR23
yvc
*V: A
4’.
<?•• ;■>
»
i
*rar
ft*!*
<rr
k-Mfs
»/*>
85
ft
uv.
Hi;
35*
as
sj£
-7".
i
*3
Be
.* # •/;
««
I
ass
i'i
>s^£
£j§?
• # v*» *** t~
t :.
m
si
W
1
u
i
ft
m
m
=VJ
t u?r*
m
WW
i>
we
i« ■?»
C&m
'•■- >v- r*.
*.♦ a-TT*. .
J>- :,i
Si * . •
a
m
\* • > y r^i
s3s
KXXX
/ **•->.»
%K
.17
■ .sutsaj
/V :t
ns
r-xl
vd
'&r.\zv
m
Jettift
r > i
r rjU^rS
,y
•■ s
M
pf- -
>/^|W
«
SC*
£r
r r. -
!-•■ • t
.f
V--
J ~K
<srJ *
JTT>
V
BS
V
*2
\ .r*
333
m
as&
1
MB
as
aft


A. SAUNDERS’ ORIGINAL DESIGNS
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold
PENDANT, set fine
Peatls and Tur-
quoise,
32/6
A. SAUNDERS.
MUFF CHAINS.
I.—9ct Gold, £2, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/.
15ct Gold, £3/15/, £4/10/, £5/10/, £6/10/, £7/10/
2.—■ 9ct, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
15ct, £4/10/, £5/10/, £6/10/.
3. 9et, £3, £3/10/, £4, £4/10/, £5/10/.
15ct, £4/10/, £5/10/, £6/15/, £7/10/, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Heart and
Dumb-bell LINKS,
20/-
Smaller size, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold EAR-
RINGS, set with
Tourmalines,
£2-
For Pierced or Un-
pierced Ears.
MUFF CHAINS.
1. 9ct Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/.
2. 9ct, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/, £5/10/.
_lsct,_ £4/10/, £5, £5/10/, £6/10/,_£7/10A_ £lO. __
3.—9 ct Gold, Extra Strong and Heavy, £4/15/.
A New Style.
54
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Name-bar BROOCH, any
Name Engraved,
6/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Hall-
marked MOTTO
RING,
10/-
18ct Gold, Set
Pure Double-cut
Diamond, £2-
Larger Diamond,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Buckle
RING. 17/6-
15et Gold, 30/;
ISct Gold, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Claw-set
RING, Garnet,
Amethyst, Topaz,
or Opal, 25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Scroll and Spray BROOCH,
set Red or Blue Stone,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PENDANT, set
Fine Pearls and Amethysts,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, 2-Bar and Circle BROOCH,
set Red or Green Stone or Turquoise,
S/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar “Dinna Forget”
BROOCH, set Red or Green Stone,
10/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold WEDDING
KING, 10/-
Isct Gold, 15/,
25/; 18ct Gold, 20/,
30/, 40/, 50/, ac-
cording to weight.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold KEEPER,
12/6; 15ct Gold,
20/, 25/; 18ct Gold,
22/6, 30/, 40/, ac-
cording- to weight.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold “Forget-Me-Not” Spray
BROOCH,
12/6.
Amethyst Heart, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold SCROLL BROQCH, set
Diamonds and Rubies or Sapphires,
£2/10/.
BLACK,
20/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Black Open-faced f-
plate Keyless WATCH, fully
jewelled, perfectly timed and
adjusted,
20/-
Solid Silver, 25/, 30/, 35/,
40/. Guaranteed Free Re-
pair for 1 and 2 years.
SILVER,
25/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Seal
PENDANT,
Bloodstone or
Sardonyx, 20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Pin
and Bean
CHARM,
3/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Set
Diamond and Ru-
bies or Sapphires,
30/
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Set
Diamonds and
Rubies, Sap-
phires, or Opals,
18ct Gold, Set
Diamond and
Rub} or Sapphire,
35/
2 Diamonds,
£2/5/.
18ct Gold, Set
Five Pure White
Double-cut Dia-
monds, £l5-
Larger Diamonds,
£l7/10/ to £2O.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Set
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
phires, £2-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set 8
Diamonds and
Ruby, Sapphire,
or Black Opal,
£lO
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Set
Pure Double-
cut Diamond,
£3-
M " :
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Set
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds and
Ruby or Sapphire,
£B/10/.
All Diamonds,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Set 5
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds, £f>.
Rubies or Sap-
phires, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Set
Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
phires, £l5-
All Diamonds,
£27/10/.
a. Saunders.
9at Gold PEN-
DANT, set Pearls
and Amethyst,
12/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
15et Gold
SOARtF-PIN,
Set Pearls
and Rubies or
Saunhires, 17/6-
SOLID
SILVER,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Solid Silver, Hunting
Keyless J-plate Lever Watch,
Fully Jewelled, Patent Ad-
justed Balance,
25 /•
Higher Grades, 30/, 35/, 40/,
50/. Solid Gold £3; £3/10/,
£4, £4/10/, £5, £5/10/, up-
wards.
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
tm.*
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT or
BROOCH, set Fine
Pearls and Amethysts,
£4/10/.
Pearls and Tourmalines,
£5/10/. .
A. SAUNDERS.
15et Gold FLORAL SPRAY and BOW NECKLACE, set with Choice Pure White Pearls, £-10-
Size Larger, set with 3 Pure Double-cut Diamonds, £l7/10/..
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls and Peri-
dot or Tourmalines,
£3/15/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set Fine
Pearls' and Tourmalines or
Peridots, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
ISct Gold, Set
11 Fine Pure
Double-cut Dia-
-monds, £2O-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set Diamonds
and Ru'bies or Sapphires,
£4/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Clus-
ter RING, set
Diamonds and
Emeralds,
£7/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set Fine Pearls and
Tourmalines or Peridots,
£2-
OPEN
FACE,
HIGHER
GRADE,
25/-.
20/
I
/
S-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Nickel Open-face Keyless Knock-
about WATCH, Non-magnetic, Patent
•adjusted Balance, Dust and Water
Proof Cases, 20/-
Higher Grades, 25/, 30/, 35/. Guaran-
teed Free Repair for 1 Year.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold BRACELET, Diamonds and Rubies or
Sapphires, with Safety Chain,
£3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold
Horseshoe
CHARM,
set Ruby or
Sapphire,
8/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold BRACELET, Richly Embossed, Floral Design,
with Safety Chain,
30/
Other Styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/, 42/, 45/.
YOUR SELECTION
will be carefully
packed, and Sent,
Carriage Paid, to
your address.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Open Curb, Double ALBERT, £2/15/, £3, £3/10/, £4/10/, £o, £6/. 15ct Gold, Double, £5/10/,
£6/10/, £7/10/, £B/10/, £lO. 14ct Gold Filled, 17/6, 20/, 25/. Solid Silver, 7/6, 8/6, 10/,
12/6, 15/. Any Special Design made to order in our own workshops.
WILL YOU SEND
for our Catalogue ?
’Tis Finely Illus-
trated, and Sent,
Postage Paid,
anywhere.
SCLID
SILVER,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hunting Keyless Lever,
i-Plate, Fully Jewelled, Perfectly Timed,
and Adjusted, £2- Higher Grades, £2/10/,
£3, £3/10/, £4/10/, up. Solid Gold,
£7/10/, £B/10/, £lO, £l2/10/ up. Guaran-
teed Free Repair from 2 Years Upwards.
SOLID
GOLD,
£7/10/-
a
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
807,809.811,815.815.817, GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Station) SYDN EY, N.S.W.
JEWELLER,*
D SILVERSMITH
0 0flSULT/*c


Mr. J. Fielding,
Sydney’s Leading Card-board Box Manufacturer,
Cures the Colds of His Family and Self with
CHAMBERLAIN’S
COUGH REMEDY
When a leading manufacturer with the business reputation of Mr. J. Fielding gives his
endorsement to a medicine it should convince the most sceptical that it is all the makers claim
for it. After reading his letter, we know that his many friends and acquaintances who wish to
guard against demon cough and cold will do as he does and keep a bottle of Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy in the house.
vR*
m
it '
H ' '
m m
mm
,„J;' ' - '< '
Mb
: ■
!w:
■xx:
Dear Sirs, —Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has been in my house for a very
long time, and both myself and family find it a valuable and
reliable remedy when “demon cough and cold” appears. It has
proved a safe-guard against the approach of the more serious
chest complaints, and regularly taken, according to instructions, it
has always succeeded in getting rid of the trouble, and I now see
“ there’s always a bottle on hand.”
J. FIELDING,
IT ALWAYS CURES.
livery cold can be cured by the use of Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy. A bottle or two of this remedy
taken when the cold is first contracted will promptly
cure it, and not only save doctor’s bills, but much
suffering and annoyance later on.
Sold Everywhere at 1/6 per Bottle; Large Size 3/-,
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO.
NEURALGIA.
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand.
London, England
Blairs
They Never Fait.
They Always Cure.
sd
sdf
OSTRICH PLUnES
FROM OUR FAMOUS FARMS IN SOUTH AFRICA.
BLACK, WHITE, CREAM, GREY, NATURAL, or BLACK
TIPPED WITH WHITE (Length, 15 inches).
This style of Ostrich Feather is very fashionable.
1 /ft
IW/ V
POST FREE
to any address.
The Feathers we offer you cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house. They are the Best Value in-
Australia. Write to-day. Send Postal Notes or Money Order
payable to John Miller. Illustrated Catalogues Post Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner of Strand Arcade,
Pitt-street, Sydney.
[Mention The Bulletin.]
Also at Corner of Bourke and Swanston Streets, MELBOURNE.
dsf
When Nature Goes Astray
sending premature grey hairs, the sensible inan unhesitatingly decides to correct
Nature by restoring that grey or faded hair to a natural brown or black with
McGEE’S CELEBRATED HAIR STAIN.
This preparation—in use in my own Hairdressing Saloon for a considerable time
—is perfectly harmless and simple to use—will not wash off, nor discolor linen.
4/6 and 8/6, postage 9d. extra; 1/2 other States.
ANDREW McGEE
GENTLEMEN'S
HAIRDRESSER..
5 and 7 Streot, corner Hunter Street, Sydney.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
Custard
Bird’s
Custard mm* Sruil
The delicious Fruits o. New Soutk
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD. scr\z6
either hot or cold. Most popular w/th
Adults and the Youthful alike.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Howland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair. *
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
PILES CURED IN 6 to 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding Piles in 6 to 14
days, or money refunded. 2/3.
THE STANDARD FAMILY" MEDICINE.
Throughout Australasia Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills are a household remedy, and the anti-
dote for all general ailments. In thousands of
homes the little amber bottle is the sole medicine
D?
DIRECTIONS
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
chest, for whatever the
complaint, the bowels must
be kept free, and the pro-
cess by which the blood is
purified must be stimulated
to throw off the poisons in
the blood, which is the
cause of all disease, and
many a serious illness may
be prevented by the timely
use of these Pills, checking
the disease in its primary
stage. Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, being vegetable,
do not weaken, sicken, or
gripe, and may be taken
with perfect safety by the
most delicate woman or the
youngest child. The old
and feeble will also find
them amost suitable remedy
for aiding and strengthen-
ing their weakened con-
stitutions.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a perfect
blood purifier, and a safe and reliable remedy for
biliousness, constipation, indigestion, headaches,
sallow complexion, liver and kidney troubles,
piles, pimples, boils and blotches, and for female
ailments.
Nearly one million bottles sold annually in
Australia.*
Missing: Friends.
WHELAN MAURICE is requested to
communicate with the undersigned.
His uncle, Patrick Hunt, recently died bequeath-
ing him a substantial legacy. Informed married
Miss Ryan two years ago, prior thereto managed
an hotel Rockhamption district. Last heard of
Mt. Sturgeon, near Mt. Molloy, Queensland..
GAY AN DUFFY & KING, Solicitors,
125 Queen Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE * LASER
E.. RESCH;. Brewer’ % Appointment
to His Excellency the Go vemor-G'eneraL
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian A grants —RICHARD HOLMES & CO* PERTH* KALCOOfILIE and COOLCARDIE.
Bbeweky and Offices :.
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
At a recent meeting of the Queensland Rugby
Union it was seriously proposed to reduce the number of
players to 14 ; but a spasm of holy horror rent the crowd,
and the proposal was promptly knocked on the head.
The mover, who escaped, is understood to be still hiding
in the bush. But in spite of this set-back some amend-
ments were made. F’rinstans, in the event of the ball
alighting directly out of bounds, except from a penalty
kick, a free kick shall be awarded agninst the side that
kicked it out. The said kick is to be taken at a spot syds.
from where the ball went out, and must be kicked at
right angles to the touch-line. Also, after an uncon-
verted try the ball shall be drop-kicked at halfway, in-
stead of at quarter-way, as heretofore. Likewise, it is
ruled that a knock-on shall not be an illegality if the
player afterwards catches the ball before it touches the
ground, and always provided that the knock-on is not
deliberate, but merely an accident in the effort to take
the sphere. Evidently It Moves. But consideration for
the players prevented the Union, which evidently is not
burdened with respect for its suzerain, the culchawed
English Rugby boss, carrying any drastic reforms. The
Union, while desiring to reform, wishes to avoid making
the game too strenuous. One delegate put it that the
players of Brisbane, anyhow, play the game merely for
the fun of it, and not to please the public.
The recent alterations in the rules made by the
Queensland Rugby Union really constitute an act of re-
bellion against the suzerainty of the English body. The
Q.R.U, had not applied for permission to make the
alterations, and if the new rules are submitted to Eng-
land they are not likely to be sanctioned, because they
came into force immediately. What is wanted is the
creation of an Australasian Union, which shall be the
High Court of Australasian Rugby. Unless something of
the sort is created there is every chance of the game
going to the dogs even more rapidly than it is going at
present, when the League is daily draining its best
players from it.
By downing Glebe on Saturday afternoon
Newtown managed to maintain its lead in the Union
competition with 14 points- South Sydney is second
with 12; and behind it are Glebe, University and Eastern
Suburbs with 10 each. South Sydney relied on Glebe
beating Newtown, and thereby placing it in the front
row. South itself had a particularly easy mark in Bal-
main—on paper ; and in the field the paper position
proved to be almost right, South winning by 12 points to
three ; whieh, in Union Rugby, is a considerable differ-
ence. It was Glebe’s inability to convert its tries that
practically lost the game; but the worrying tactics of
the Newtown forwards also played a prominent part. In
the |end, Newtown waded out winner by II points to
six. For the rest, which was mighty uninteresting,
North Sydney wiped the floor with St. George, the
figures being eight points to nil. Manly blew out the
light of Sydney in rare style with eight to nil, and
Eastern Suburbs downed University by 14 points to six.
* * * *
The battle of the day was tlie struggle between
Newtown and Glebe in the League division. It was
great, it was splendid.it was pretty good, as the French-
man said. Glebe put up a sparkling game, but the men
from Newtown played dourly, taking advantage of every
inch ; and 12,000 people looked and approved. For it
was odds on Glebe that afternoon, and, it carried the
public cash and its own. When the whistle blew New-
town was on top with 18 points to five. Eastern Suburbs
downed North Sydney easily enough, by 16 to five. Bal-
main escaped from Annandale by the skin of its teeth,
the fast improving Annandalers scoring six to the older
club’s eight. The South Sydney-Western Suburbs dis-
turbance was a painful affair of 67 points to West’s nil.
Draw the veil.
* * * *
Newtown heads the League competition also
with 14 points, and South Sydney isagain second with 12,
and Eastern Suburbs and Balmain are each 10. Union
and League competitions are in exactly the same
position for the same districts in the cases of Newtown,
South Sydney, Eastern Suburbs and North Sydney.
* w •* *
In the Australian Rules section Y.M.C. A.,
which narrowly escaped destruction at the feet of New-
town on Saturday, is on top with 44 competition points.
East Sydney has 36, Sydney 34, and Newtown 32. The
Good Young Men won their Saturday’s scuffle by 65 points
to 56. East Sydney downed Redfern with 51 to 14 ;
Paddington had a picnic with the Training College,
and vyalloped it by some unmentionable number. The
result is that Y.M.C.A., East Sydney and Sydney are
certain for the semi-finals. Next week will decide
whether Newtown or Paddington will be the fourth
team. As Paddington is up against Y.M.C.A., which has
won 11 out of 13 matches, its chances are dicky indeed.
By virtue of its score, Y.M.C. A. can challenge the ulti-
mate winner, and, therefore, has two chances to the
other club’s one. Practically, the premiership is sure for
Y.M.C. A.
* * * *
In the waterlogged city by the Yarra the
pumps had been working steadily since Friday morning,
and the grounds were mostly swamps ; so when the
’ballergathered in the ball and ran he slid about “all
roads,” and the ball went a way of its own, and the
umpire—a mud-splashed figure that had once been white
—chased round hopelessly trying to keep track of things.
On South’s ground the locals essayed to keep their rising
star still on the spring by walloping Carlton, but failed
miserably. Both teams consist chiefly of large, beefy
men, who plunged round in the Irish stew, sent in a
mighty punt or two, and then skidded along the soil
covered with slush and indignity. The only possible
game on the day was the Soccer caper, combined with
hand passing, and as Carlton realised this more speedily
than South, it gained a lead that was never overtaken and
ran out winner by 44 to 31. On such a day a two-goal lead
means a winning position, wherefore the ’Wood-Essendon
disturbance was the more joyous, each side leading in turn
by a point or two till tbree-quarter time. The Magpies
had got back to their old form, or had made friends
with each other or something, and though football was
impossible, they gave in that last quarter, through the
driving rain and mist, an exhibition of concerted play
that made hacks of the ’Dons, adding 28 points to Essen-
don’s solitary one, and outing them by 43 points to 21.
Geelong has done great deeds this season, and has hopes
of reaching the semi-finals; but Saturday’s showing
against the Students didn’t improve its prospects. There
are good men in the Sleepy Hollow team, but thegeneral
play of the push doesn’t justify its position, and the
Students, themselves not quite top-notchers, had little
difficulty in routing it—by 61 points to 38. As things sit
at present, Carlton is the strongest team, ’Wood next,
Essendon next, and ’Varsity fourth ; so if South and
Geelong want to get into the semi-finals they will have to
shift themselves; but this writer wouldn’t like to risk a
thrummer on their doing it. Richmond capsized ’Roy
by 35 to 25, and Melbourne downed Saints by 48 to 35 ;
but the disturbances of the whippers-in don’t count now.
* * * *
Of the Ass. teams. North, Essendon and Bruns-
wick are “morals” for the “final four,” while ’Town,
Ports and P’ran are battling for the odd place, with
’Scray as a possible outsider. Things being thus, the
’Scray-P’ran collision drew most notice. P’ran’s ground,
Tooralc Park, was as sloppy as the rest of the paddocks,
wherefore the lack of scienpe was counterbalanced by
some most strenuous wading in. P’ran went off with a
lead and threatened a runaway victory, but the men of the
stinky suburb ploughed and plunged heavily after it, and
managed to keep within one-goal distance right through.
Alas ! the needed goal wasn’t forthcoming, and P'ran
gained the day by three points—26 to 23. It was a
vigorous scuffle, and the 36 ’bailers rested quite a while
after being scraped and currycombed and hosed down.
Simultaneously Essendon and ’Wick, with but half a game
difference in their competition points, were arguing as to
which should step up second to North, and anotherperiod
of plunging and diving ensued, while the ball sank to the
bottom and was drowned. That also was anybody’s game
till the whistle blew, when the board showed —’Don, 36
points ; ’Wick, 32. Port was at home to North, and laid
on its band to discourse the “Dead March ” or the “Sym-
phony on a Scotch Mist ” or something ; but the strains
had little effect on North, which banged away with its
accustomed vigor and piled up 48 points to Port’s 28.
Music is of no avail against North. ’Town stepped on
Brighton, with 46 steps to 29 ; and ’Cote and Preston are
alleged to have concussed, with the usual result as far as
Preston is concerned ; but these teams’ capers are of no
earthly importance.
* * * *
On Wednesday afternoon a game between ’Roy
and West Torrens (S.A.) gave the League a chance to
test a proposed improvement. Instead of the boundary
umpire throwing in the ball, a free kick was allotted to
the side that didn’t kick the ball out. The innovation
was a distinct advantage, insofar as it did away with the
scrambling, unseemly and often blackguardly ruck play,
and lessened the wearisome out-of-bounds business. It
heavily penalises the side that deliberately wastes time
this way, and it makes the play more open and faster ;
but there are drawbacks. An unintentional blunder or a
pure accident might easily rob a strong team of a justly
earned victory. In brief, to apply the new idea within
50 yards of the goal posts would bring too much of
the element of chance or luck into the game. Pos-
sibly, if the ball, when forced out within these limits,
by either side, were brought back and kicked off
by the defenders, from their own goal line, it might be
better. The defenders wouldn’t gain much, and both
sides would be on even terms as defenders, while the
attackers would always try to keep the ball in play. But to
allow two or three free kicks to the attackers right along-
side the other’s goal-posts, within a few minutes of time,
would turn the game into something very near a jest.
Meanwhile the players, seeing a probable further reduc-
tion in the number which constitutes a team, are mostly
against the innovation ; while persons like “ Old Foot-
baller,” “Father of Seventeen Boggers-in,’’ and the like
denounce it as a graceless innovation, and ask if the
game our fathers played isn’t good enough for us.
* * * *
F.E.T. : Have officiated as touch-judge in
many big ’ball events, and have been painfully aware that
we lack a war-cry. Excepting the usual “ Hoo-ray,”
we have shuffled into the fray uninspired. I suggest that
the following be ear-marked for future events; —
Give us theshick, the sbick, the shick !
Give us the shick, the shick, the shick!
Where?
Right in the neck, the neck, the neck !
Right in the neck, the neck, the neck !
Shoot the sows ! Boot the cows !
Toohey, Toohey ! Cooey, Cooe.v !
Tooth, Tooth ! ’Struth, ’Struth !
Bonzer, bonzer, more, more !
Bosker, bosker, gore, gore !
Sydney Sun, now edited by the brilliant Mon-
tague Grover, scored a large ad. and a big heap of popu-
larity last week when it offered to put up the guarantee
of £5OOO required to ensure the visit of a South African
XI to Australia in the triangular cricket duel. The
Africans bluntly intimated they would not dream of
coming to Australia unless they were guaranteed £5OOO,
and the Board of Control having delicately intimated
that it would see the Africans frizzled before it would
find the money, the outlook became very murky. Just
when despair was at its blackest, the Sun burst through
with its cheque, and the cricket-loving crowd breathed
again. At time of writing it has not been officially de-
cided that the guarantee will be accepted ; but if it isn’t
it will strike the public as a strangely absurd business on
the part of the Africans. An amusing and somewhat
interesting part of the business was the way the other
dailies ignored the affair. At time of writing they had
not even mentioned it. Great is the Sup-press.
* * * *
The Board of Control decided that it could
accept no indemnity offer from an outside source, but it
would throw no obstacles in the way of the paper, and
would give every assistance. Other cricket people spoke
kindly ; and although the offer has not yet been officially 7
declined, it is understood that it will be gratefully re-
jected. Whereupon the genial Monty Grover will arise,
and, stretching his bat across the Indian Ocean, land the
African team on the Australian shores on his paper’s
account. In other words, if the Board cannot accept
the guarantee and bring the Africans, the Sun newspaper
will, with the Board’s sympathy, bring the team itself.
But still, people who want to know all about these things
have to buy the Sun. The other Sydney papers are not
“making any fuss” over the affair —in fact, up to
time of writing, they had not mentioned the name of the
Sun.
* * * *
There seems to be a misunderstanding over the
Sayonara Cup decision ; and in dealing with the matter
the Sydney dailies threw much gloom on the subject.
Briefly the facts are as follows : At the end of 1903 the
Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron and Prince Alfred Yacht
Club put up the money for a cup, to be raced for bv the
Fife-designed Sayonara, belonging to the Royal Yacht
Club of Victoria, and a yacht to be nominated by 7 the
donors. In January, 1904, the Victorian flyer beat the
Sydney craft Bona, which the two clubs sent out as
defender. The struggle took place off the Port Jackson
Heads, and the Sayonara won two of three races. Then
Alfred Gollin, owner of the Sayonara, being a sport of
purest ray serene, donated the tankard as a perpetual
Challenge Oup for competition between the two States
under the name of the Sayonara Cup. He put his hand
and seal to a deed setting forth the conditions under
which the trophy was to be sailed for. In January,
1907, the Rawhiti challenged on behalf of Sydney
Royals, but was beaten in two out of three races on Port
Phillip by the same Sayonara. The challenger, being the
smaller boat, received time allowance on the rating scale
then in force. Then in March, 1907, the P.A.Y.O.
challenged with the Awanui (now Culwulla III.), and
Victoria put up the good old Sayonara again as defender.
The international rules for yacht measurement and rating
had in the meantime come into force, and completely
superseded the former scheme of rating and measuring ;
and the question arose as to whether by these rules
which, the deed of gift provided, should automatically
govern races sailed while such rules were in force —the
smaller Awanui should be entitled to any allowance or
time handicap. A lot of correspondence took place, and
as the Royals of Victoria refused any time allowance the
Prince Alfred Club withdrew its challenge. In 1909, the
Royals, of Sydney, put up the old-timer, Thelma, and
again the grand old Sayonara defended. The Thelma was
the bigger boat, but the Sayonara refused anytime allow-
ance. It was agreed, however, that the incident should
not be regarded as a precedent. The Sayonara again
won two out of three races on Port Phillip, after the
toughest struggle the ancient yacht had ever put up.
The Sydney Royals came again the same year, this time
with the Awanui, then owned by Mr. Saxton, but before
the race came off Mr. Marks had purchased it. Once more
the wonderful Sayonara cleared its decks for action to
defend the Cup. Meanwhile the controversy started over
again, the Royals, of Sydney, claiming 35sec. per mile
time allowance, which meant llmin. 40sec. pver the full
course. The Victorian Royals consistently declined, and
a deadlock was right ahead till it was agreed to run the
race and refer the time allowance question to the
Council of the Yacht Racing Association —the Privy
Council of Yachting in the Empire. The Awanui battled
down the coast and raced under this arrangement. It
was clearly understood by both high contending parties
that the race might turn on the decision of the Imperial
body. The Sayonara crossed the line Bmin. 26sec. ahead
of the Awanui in the first race on March 11 last, and
2mi». 35see. after it in the second meeting. The third
race was won easily by the Sayonara, but it didn’t affect
the situation, which depended on the Council’s decision
on the first race. If the time allowance question, which
had arisen before the race (and not after, as some of the
scribes have put it), and which had been sent to England
for decision before the race was sailed, was settled in
favor of the Awanui, that boat had won the first race by
3min. 14sec., and had two of the three events to its credit,
being thereby entitled to the Cup. The decision came to
hand by cable on Monday week, and was to the effect
that the Awanui (Culwulla III.) should receive the time-
allowance claimed by the Sydney Royals. So the Sayonara
Cup has passed to N.S.W. It was not, as stated, a
matter of technicalities, but a matter of having an inde-
pendent body to say what the deed of gift and the racing
rules, taken together, really meant.
Prince Alfred Yacht Club holds its Presenta-
tion Evening to-morrow (Friday) night, when the state-
ment will show that Rawhiti gathered in the honors of
the past season with four firsts and three thirds in nine
starts. The total prize money won by the big yacht was
£2l. Next on the list will be Petrel, which in eight starts
scored two firsts, two seconds and one third, , winning
£23 2s. Yeulba is third with seven starts, and one win,
one second and one third. The trophies won were the
Basin Cup, by Rawhiti; the Jenny Trophy, by Sunbeam ;
the Marshall Plate, by Petrel; and the Marks Trophy for
the Best Record of the Season, won by E. E. Sayer. An
interesting fact is that the Basin Cup was presented by
Mr. F. Albert, and now the donor is part owner of the
beautiful yacht which won it, his partner being Mr. E. E.
Sayer. Their share of the Rawhiti winnings was three
firsts and one third in five starts; while Mr. Brockhoff,
the previous owner, scored one first and two thirds in
four starts. Rawhiti is a yacht well worth owning—the
sort of craft a man can take a pride in.
* * * *
• N.S.W. Tennis Association blew up with a
sudden bang on Monday night last. Some conservative
ass, in the long ago, managed to insert into the constitu-
tion a provision that the rules could not be amended
unless by a majority of three to one. And either an-
other or the same ass had also provided for proxy voting.
The result is that a solid minority, consisting mostly of
the alleged gentler sex, has managed to block almost
every sensible proposal brought forward by a hard-
working and intelligent council. On Monday night the
council” grew suddenly tired, and remarking that in
an association in which the minority had all the
power, the minority should appoint the council
and run the show, it resigned in the middle
of the meeting and left the minority to do
as it darned well liked. The minority, as usual,
having no stomach for work itself, and apparently having
only the brains to obstruct, did nothing and just faded
away. In the meantime, the N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Asso-
ciation is a body without a head, and without a solitary
executive officer. It has practically ceased to exist.
What will happen next is a matter of considerable
interest. The best way would be for the majority of the
existing Association to form another body 7, with a con-
stitution framed on working lines, and get busy. The old
concern is useless while the present minority is all-
powerful to block reform.
* * * *
The inter-State hockey match between N.S.W.
and Victoria at Rushcutter’s Bay (Sydney), on Saturday,
was in spots a strenuous game. The N.S.W. team had
not had much training together, and the combination
was somewhat ragged. But, on the other hand, the
Victorian team was cursed with a tail that seemed to be
suffering from ennui, or something of the sort. The tired
feeling was very evident, and the lackadaisical way the
tired members played was enough to drive the captain to
desperation. N.S. W. was full of steam and went at things
wildly. Every man played his darnedest, and although
baulked again and again, the persistent attack told in the
long run. Those Victorians who were blessed with energy
also attacked occasionally, but had not the mass to break
through. Vic.’s disaster commenced just at the end of
the first half, when Peach scored N.S.W.’s first goal.
After the interval, Peach got going again, and scored a
second goal. A fresh charge saw the third one regis-
tered by Carter ; and Massey and Perry, like the Norman
knights at Hastings, broke the ring and scored the fourth
and final. This brought N.S.W. out on top by four to
nil.
* * * *
Adelaide Register (18/7/TO) makes up the
State’s totalisator account for the Turf year. (S.A. does
not overdo racing, having only about 70 days of it,
counting all the country meetings, and the latter half of
July is a complete blank.) Altogether £4X5,000 went
through the machine, an increase of £35,000 on last
year’s figures. The clubs took 7£ per cent, of it,
or over £31,000 —which was within £lOOO of the stakes
that they gave. Also, the Government took £lO,OOO odd,
though the present Premier hopes to abolish the machine
altogether. And the public cut up among itself £374,000
of the £415,000 it had invested, happy in the knowledge
that it would not have got back nearly so much out of
the bookmaker’s bag. A cheerful little side-line is the
“fractions.” The tote pays its dividends to the nearest
shilling only, and the odd coppers (which mount up sur-
prisingly) go to a Disabled Jockeys’ Fund and a wide
range of other charities. The item is worth about £lOOO
a year.
In another part of this issue will be found
a picture of the Australian capital at Canberra —
as far as it has gone on the course of construction.
At present the works office, overseers’ palace and
other public buildings are constructed , not of
marble, nor of iron, nor any old thing like that;
but of good, reliable Malthoia —a substance which
keeps out the cold of• winter and the heat of
summer with equal facility.*
Pedestrian George Blake shivered another
record last Saturday, when he clipped 6secs. off S. S.
Long’s Victorian record time for four miles. The record-
cracking occurred in the Melbourne Harriers’ four miles
club handicap, around the Albert Park lagoon. George
knows chat road like a book, having prepared for all his
races thereon during his 11-years racing career. Ten
years ago he created records from five to 10 miles, and he
has been clipping figures and hoarding up championships
ever since. And yet he only owns a pair of battered
legs. An ankle, smashed at football years ago, was
badly set, and to-day it is all out of plumb; and at his
trade as an ironworker he got a piece of steel in his
knee, which necessitated an operation. Besides, one of
his legs is smaller than the other. Still, trifles like that
can’t stop him.
* * * *
Little Rudie Unholz had bad luck in his dust-
up with Johnny Summers at Brisbane last week. For
nine rounds Summers had the best of it, but it was
Rudolph who forced the fight, did the attacking, and
made the spectacle. Summers, planted firmly, smashed
and bashed at the man who skirled round him trying to
find his jaw, and his longer reach and great strength
were too much for Unholz. The end came unexpectedly
in the ninth, when Summers sent a wild shot, which
caught Unholz fair on the point and sent him to the
boards and out.
* * » *
When Melbourne rolled up at the Cyclorama to
see Mehegan hit Yankee Cullen it expected at least that it
would see a fight. It did not, as from the very first Mehe-
gan outboxed his opponent, and by the fourth round
had him hopelessly beaten. The Victorian won on a
knock-out. The mysterious sounds heard, during the
night, in Melbourne suburbs, were the screams of the
Eagle.
* * * *
The Mclntosh is playing the Yankees at their
own game and beating them somewhat badly. Almost
immediately Johnson started to swagger round after
bashing Jeffries, he was banged in the eye by a challenge
from the Mclntosh on behalf of an Unknown. Johnson was
invited to put any fancy price he liked on his acceptance
in the shape of a side wager, and to name what part of
the world he would prefer to be walloped in. It took the
champion’s breath away, and at latest advices he had not
recovered sufficiently to articulate on the subject. Mean-
while Yankeedom. was doubled up. The Mclntosh was
beseiged by reporters, to all of whom he turned a dumb
mouth. All manner of weird tricks were put up, and one
enterprising sport claimed to have discovered that
the Unknown was our old friend, leetle Tahmmy.
But leerle Tahmmy is tied up with Langford,
and that idea went overboard on the announce-
ment of Burns that he would fight Langford first,
and the further information that Mclntosh had
already secured a promise from Johnson to fight Burns
under conditions to be arranged. So Mclntosh’s dark
horse remains shrouded in mystery.
*** ■ *
A notable little battler of the old days of gold
and roar and beer passed out when Abe Hicken failed to
respond to his call at Melbourne Hospital, the other
morning. Abe was about the gamest and hardest little
man[ that ever whirled his fists in an Australian ring.
Although only a light weight, he held the Australian
championship for some time, and ittook alunip of a man,
in the person of Larry Foley, to drag it from him. He
made a bag of money at the game, and went into the
public-house industry ; but his luck petered out, and the
old-age pension rescued him from absolute poverty. Abe
was bordering on 70 when he skied the wipe. He be-
longed to the Joe Thompson-Bill Branch era of Vic. sport,
and did much of his scrapping with the naked hand.
* * * *
On Sunday morning last a startled world read
that Jeffries had not yet had enough, and wanted to
fight Johnson again. That is the distinguishing mark of
the white man. He will come again and again in the face
of impossible conditions. So Johnson has his hands
fairly full, with Tahmmy bowling for his promised scrap,
Jeffries demanding revenge, and Mclntosh’s Unknown,
speaking with the tongue of Mac, demanding a fight for a
gigantic purse. There was a time when Johnson
hungered for fights. To-day he wants to dodge them and
rake in the money from fat vaudeville engagements while
he is still the star, for every fight now means that he
stakes his prospective stage earnings to nothing. But in
astronomy black stars are considered dangerous.
* * ■* *
The Mclntosh cabled last week from tbeU.S.A.
that he had matched Lang with Ketchell, and that the
scrap would eventuate on August 12. No hint was given
as to the locale, the size of the purse, or anything like
that. But the cable said that Lang was in good fettle,
and,after watching the salt of the earth put up itsdukes,
he felt much more confidence. Presumably, stolid Bill
is not over impressed by what he has seen in Yankeedom ;
and it is to be hoped that when he gets into the rectan-
gular “ring” he will not have occasion to alter his
opinion.
THE BLAMELESS GAME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At Spencer’s Theatrescope (Melbourne) moving pictures
are being shown of certain League football matches.
Though dreadful noises blue the air
When fagged-out, fumbling players catch
It hot, wild language is not there
At Melbourne’s flicker football match.
And when the talent does its best,
And grabs its foeman by the thatch,
His dark brown grumble is suppressed
At this, the noiseless football match.
Ah, parsons, Sunday-schools and those
That never swear, can find no blame
For this, the curseless film that shows
The expurgated football game.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HRNTY.


SEND US YOUR ORDER by POST.
order your footwear by mail.
We have a large mail business which is personally super-
vised by Mr. Rigney, so you can rely upon getting-
just what you order in Quality Footwear.
The shoe illustrated is a Derby Willow Calf Shoe, Rope
stitched welts ; also in Boots.
19/6 and 22/6.
In Tan Boots and Shoes, IG/G and 21'-
Wrlte for Booklet. Postage 9d. extra.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
m
1
m
WHAT IS IT?
Yes—what is it that makes rider®
of B. & B. CYCLES so enthusi-
astic over their mounts? What is
it that has brought B. & B. CYCLES into such popularity? If you ride one
you’ll know. It is quality'—nothing but quality—real unmistakable superiority.
B. & B. Models,
Fitted with First-Class Tyres, jp ■# -|
Guaranteed 12 Months, cfc* I I ■
Send for our Catalogue, and please mention this paper when writing.
Catalogues free on application or by post.
Our Pitt Street Depot is open EVERY FRIDAY till 9 p.m.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Specialists in Modern
Cycle Building,
234 Pitt Street, and
Castlereagrh Street,
Sydney.
Confomat” Hard Hat
“THE ACME OF COMFORT.”
THE highest grade HARD HAT, hand-made in a
special way from the choicest materials; con-
forms to the head, making it most comfort-
able and easy-fitting - even when new, and fits any
shaped head. Exceptionally light, very durable,
and guaranteed absolutely FAST DYED.
Price 13/6.
In all the newest Season’s Styles. Stocked by
Leading Retailers throughout Australia. Try one.
Insist upon having the genuine best with the
Trade Mark “ Confomat” stamped on the leather.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
The Austral Hat Mills, Ltd.,
Abbotsford, Melbourne.
MAKE A NOISE LIKE AN ORDER.
CADILLAC,
25-30 H P £.500.
450 in Australasia.
35,000 in the World.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., Brisbane.
SAUL’S MOTOR CO., Launceston.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRIS'S i
iree Witches
ClOARtTteft
ytri/fU
6° for 10
London |ry 1
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free,
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers a,nd Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
Medicator, ilzo
3i inch e« long.
WHAT IS CATARRH ?
CATARRH is inflammation of the lining
membrane of the nose and adjoining
passages. If this inflammation is not ar-
rested it invades the passages which lead
from the nose to the head, ears, throat and
lungs. It injures the sight and hearing,
destroys the sense of taste and smell, ren.
ders the breath offensive, breaks down
the affected tissues, and consumes the
nasal cartilages. The discharge, passing
through the lungs and stomach, causes
dyspepsia, also consumption. Do you
want relief and cure? If so, try our
great remedy.
RAMEY’S MEDICATOR cures Catarrh,
Hay Fever, Catarrhal Deafness, Head-
ache, Neuralgia, Colds, Bronchitis, Asth-
ma. Write for booklet free, or send
Postal Note ros. for Medicator complete,
with 4 tn&nths treatment, post free anywhere.
Address: Star Novelty Co., 209-231 Collins Street,
Melbourne. (Box 466, G.P.0.)
Shell Motor Spirit
ITS PERFECT PURlTY—
that’s the Point.
LADIES’
TAILORS.
Having removed from 80 King Street to
exceptionally well-lighted and centrally
situated premises in Market Street, we
are now showing our Light Weight
Spring Novelties in Ladies’ Costume .
Cloths, Tweeds, Serges, etc., at our
NEW ADDRESS.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer’s).
Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR Underwear.
The Standard Remedy which haa outlived the Centum*
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In ut since 1506.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
TO-NIGHT AT 8,
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in F. Anstey’s Whimsical Four-Act Farce,
THE BRASS BOTTLE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices - as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE. SYDIM E Y
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE & CLYDE MEYNELL SEASON.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
THU ARCADIANS.
The Fantastic Musical Play that has put a Girdle Round
the Earth.
Played by RUPERT CLARKE and CLYDE MEYNELL’S
NEW ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
Box Plan at Elvy's.
THEATRE ROYAL, S YDNEY.
■ Lessee & Manager :J. C. VVILLIAMSOJN 7 , Ltd.
Last Two Nights of WHAT EVERY WOMAN KNOWS.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY SO,
NELLIE STEWART, Australia’s Idol,
in the Title Rdle of Du Maurier’s Famous Play,
TRILBY.
Prices as usual. Plan at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
A WEST’S PICTURES ENTERPRISE.
Altogether Unique in the History of the World.
SYDNEY DAY BY DAY.
“ What the Papers give you for Breakfast West’s Pic-
tures will illustrate for your amusenient Supper.”
The Entertainment must commend itself to all classes
of the community, and will be stvled
'WEST’S PICfURES
JOURNAL OF DAILY EVENTS.
FIRST PICTORIAL PUBLICATION AT AN EARLY
DATE.
LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
TWO PERFORMANCES DAILY.
MATINEE at 2.30. EVENINGS AT 8.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
PICTURES.
SPENCER IS SYNONOMOUS WITH SUPREMACY.
Prices as usual. Plan at Paling’s, 2/6.
NEW PROGRAMME EVERY THURSDAY’S MATINEE.
Amusements.
SV D.\EY 01. AC I A 1! I I'M.
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY *
10 to 12 Noon ; 3 to 5 p.m. ; 8 to 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION, 2s: ; SKATE HIRE, SIXPENCE.
CHlLDREN—Admission Morning’and Afternoon Only, Is.
Saturday Morning Only, Sixpence.
Particulars of Season Tickets will be sent on Application.
’Phone, 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager..
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Hariiy Rickards
matinees Wednesdays and Saturdays.
LIEUT. FRANK TRAVIS, assisted by MISS MARJORIE
DEAN, in a New Entertainment. “Transformations.”
FRED KEETON, England’s Popular Comedian.
LIANE DE LYLE and M. BRUNIN in their original
scena, “In a Billiard Room.”
>. PIP POWELL and KATE VESEY,
presenting a Musical Dialogue—“A Perfect Woman."
CHARLENE and CHARLENE.
PRICES —35., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
QPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
/ ' V MENDEL, Blind Pianist.
LES WARTON. IRVING SAYLES. ..
KREMO FAMILY, World’s Greatest Risley Performers.
THE FALCONS, Corned)' Acrobats.
RAYMOND TRIO.
VAUDE and VERNE, Comedians.
Plan at Allan's. PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
THE KINO’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager— YVilliam Andkkson.
AN ENTHUSIASTIC SUCCESS,
William Anderson's Famous Dramatic Co. in
Nat Gould’s Great Racing Drama,
THE CHANCE OE A LLEE
lIME.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES-3s, 2s, and Is.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
* * Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
SATURDAY, JULY 30,
the World-famous lyric tragedy,
MADAM BUTTERFLY.
First Appearance in Grand Opera in Melbourne
of BEL SOREL and AMY CASTLES.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
I*HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
First Appearance in Melbourne of
MATHESON LANG and lIUTIN BRITTON in Jerome
K. Jerome’s
THE PASSING OF THE THIRD
FLOOR BACK.
Plans at Allan’s. 83r~ PRICES AS USUAL.
%A# E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST S PICTURES, THE BEST
OF ALL. ■ LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West,
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2-30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World,
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
An v Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every vyeek.
Prices. —fid. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
MELBOURNE GLACIARIUM,
ICE-SKATING
EVERY AFTERNOON
AND
EVENING.
IRTHS OLYMPIA.
EVERY EVENING AT B._
MATINEES-WLD.’iESDAYS. SATUPDAIS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2 30.
CPENCERSIHeaTREKOPE <?.
J PICTURES
■/a & ten nupn/zron ro pll other.-** ™
Popular Prices Plan As Usual^v
.THEN/EUM
ll Lessees
HALL. MELBOURNE.
J. & N. TAIT.
J.MN.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
.MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holidays,
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan's.
.J
y
I
CL
'■MAI >
'\mu/y*' ag *[ (
3
,-i- V
I#4|
stei
2**
-5 wylk'
1
> X
»W
—^
s
The FALKINER-BOLL
PATENT ELECTRIC SHEARING MACHINE C?
• •
Our ...
Electric
Machines
INCLUDING THE LATEST INVENTION,
The Four and Six Stand Portable Shearing and Crutchiivg Plant,
WILL BE SHOWN UNDER WORKING CONDITIONS at the
AGRICULTURAL ASSOCIATION’S SHOW
in BRISBANE, Bth to 13th AUGUST.
ALSO AT OUR AGENTS’ PREMISES AS FOLLOW:- s
South Australia—H. C. Richards, 6& 8 Blyth St., Adelaide. Queensland—Ruthning Electrical Installation Co. Ltd.
Tasmania—A. E. Evershed, George St., Launceston. New Zealandr-R. P. M. Manning, Hereford St., Christchurch.
West Australia—J. H. Noble, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
Representative in Sydney—G. W. Hellicar, Lombard Chambers, 107 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HEAD OFFICE MELBOURNE, 103 and 105 WILLIAM STREET.


Shipping-.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by this Steamer.
BOUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LTNE STEAMERS.
Foi Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., applv to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mblbournb Aoknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adki.aipk & Fiibmanti.b Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA. ENGLAND.
ORVIETO .. Twin-Screw .. 12,130 Tons.
OSTERI.EY
OTRANTO .
12,129
12,124
12,077
12,036
9,023
8,282
6,814
6,465
OTWAY
ORSOVA
ORONTES
OMR AH
OPHIR
ORMUZ
Sailing- everj’ fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
™ B Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: .1 P. CANNY'.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers : THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
Australian Bank nf Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000.000
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE-2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— PhiIip 11. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Hon.
Sir Francis B. Siittor, Kt,., M.L.C.; Charles H. Mvles,
Esq.; Rowland H. Ducker, Esq. ; Sir William P.
Manning, Kt. ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth and
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. £513,632 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,449 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 74,500 0 0
£750,581 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. ======s
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
FOR : :
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
R. M. Phillips, Esq., J.P. *
Victor E, Ludlow, Esq., L.R.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq.
D. W. Watkins, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary: Consulting Actuary:
Freeman J. Eaton. W. R. Day, F.I.A.
Head Office :
30 CASTLEREAGH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland:
Metropolitan Buildings,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen St.,
Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan’' always has vacancies on its
Ajrency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Dirrctobs— Sydney : J.’ Oampbrll-Wood, Esq.; W. O.
.Watt. Esq.-(Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.); Hon. W.
){. Wood, M.L.A. ; E. Owkn Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Suiddjiis
Nord D
eutscher
'loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles. Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
ZIETEN ..
GNEISENAU
(Reduced Fares)
SOHARNHORST
ROON
w BREMEN
SEYDLITZ
GNEISENAU
w BARBAROSSA
*wGr. KURFURST
iv Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Arriving in London in good time for the Coronation.
For further particulars applv to the Agents.
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANILA,
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA.
LOHMANN & CO.,
7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, See.
The Colonial Mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Hbad Offick :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000.000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring: £33.888.510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727.264.
Policies Unconditional', Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chirp Officr for New South Wai.ks :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon, C. J. Robkrtb, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruck Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN,PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
WilP
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
August 3.
RUNIC, 12.500 tons, to sail about
August 31.
MEDIC, AFRIC and SUEVIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to £34 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 34 10 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. Plymouth, and.
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
• Twin Screw, a One class only. 1 Omits Capetown.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London* .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
sdf
WINTER TOURS<
to Papua and the Pacific Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns £2O
Aug*. 12, Sept. 23 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands £2O
July 29, Sept. 9 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) ... £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PH/LP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT. —INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES-'made up to at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT. —CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
Pull particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
Gffice. J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
* AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. .. £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) \ .. £36.000 0 0
DiRKOTOBS : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; IJon. J, M. Prate ; J. H.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
sdf
Zaw Points
iSr Inventors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest wav to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to
write to me describing- your invention, enclosing a small
sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at' once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cc/dially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an hones opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. >l. CALLINAIU, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
For Sale.
This Is a Good Investment.
ONE OF NEW ZEALAND’S BEST
Livery Stables For Sale.
Owing to the death of owner, we are offering for sale
by tender an up-to-date Livery and Bait Stables in the
heart of Parnell, Auckland. Established 25 years, and
with unrivalled connection in rich neighborhood.
Government Mail Contract, worth nearly £llOO per year
has 2J years to run.
Plant consists of 120 horses, 15 cabs, 2 hansoms, 1
hearse, 4 waggonettes, 4 brakes, 1 ’bus, 12 gigs, 6 dog-
carts, 3 buggies, 1 flat top lorry and 2 delivery vans,
with harness and every accessory for same in first-class
condition. Good 10-roomed house near stable, also
cottage.
Purchaser has option of purchasing freehold site for
£3OO0 —£500 cash, £5OO on January 1, 1912, balance at
6 per cent, for 5 years.
Tenders close August 15 with undersigned, from whom
further particulars may be obtained.
Parnell, Auckland.
C. M. BROWN,
K. FOSTER,
j- Executors.
LINSEED COMPOUND for Goughs and
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
Ml
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
mmm
F.WOIFF&SOH
ill! H ill
F.Woiff&Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
BERLIN * LONDON
JlSu
Obtainable from all the leading: establishments.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
Weston “WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
Newspaper Co. 214 George St., Sydney.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victoria?! and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Koombana, from Syd-
ney, August 9, calling
at all N.-West Ports to
Wyndham.. (Without
transhipment.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairns.
I S.S. Grantala, July 30.
S.S. Yongala, August 6.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passasre Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on ii
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Asrents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER,
t Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* New Steamer.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD
Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F. H. S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “ SOMERSET,”
11,800 Tons. B. G. Hayward, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE about 23rd Aug.
>. „ „ SYDNEY „ 30th Aug.
„ MELBOURNE „ 6th Sept.
» i, ~ ADELAIDE ~ 13th Sept.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES — Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL f £49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £17175.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
VIcILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
Hotels, &c.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel,
VICTORIA STREET, Opposite Westminster
■ riiunniu Abbey and the Houses
A thoroughly comfortable Home-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms from 3/6, and Double Bedrooms
from 5/6 per dav, and NO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet Sent on Request.
GEO. J. BRINKWORTH, Manager.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
P.cgent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality,
'EORGE HOTEL,
>St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.


EASTMAN
MK-tIMATIOM
N°IA fOIDING POCKET KODAK
O** 2 A QftOVyNlfe CAMERA
V fU S PAT m'o Lift *h «> J»?Si>TSO* 0W SWI *UPtK*K> • *
L FILM CARTRIDGE
«DTCSUS£S Emtha* IWkGJTocwt\i in MX &X«**«*
EASTMAN
0»1HOC«ftOH«lC
HALATION
CURMNO
r i
M
\V 1 fOIDINCi POCKET KODAK
CA R I R I DOE .
*•—**ev *nr
6 EXPOSURES t**TM .** Kodak Co- RocH*.*ren ,N.V. 41**1* mm
jC :
NCN-HAS.MION
EASTMAN
CURLI^
ORTHOCKROMAtIC
nikus , r*U
IN? 2 Bill I S lA I KODAK
FILM CARTRIDGE.
I , M m.ijrA.f'unta Mi ,V »V _
6 EXPOSURES Ck*»ma« KoOAnCo-RocMK*TE«.N.Y ■»*?* >*«s
•'
'non-delation
EASTMAN
"“ON C(URIl N< !
OftTDOCHROMATIC
!«»»t (M*K*
NV3A FOLDING POCKET KODAK
I (OSJW ft* ?M6>i£,\wH •,«<* OK •’ ■*,,* i'-<l > «'{N*» W
1 FILM CARTRIDGE.
6 EXPOSURES CaSTmAnTooXk
w*«s fat aw
;c£BdW.rrn>:Y, j* * ! «*V
ds
EXPERIMENT WITH NO
EXPERIMENTS—LOAD YOUR
KODAK WITH KODAK FILM.
fds
“KODAK”—The Camera
That is Different and Better.
The KODAK is not a camera for any one
occasion—it is THE camera for all occasions.
It is as sure in the hands of a novice as in
those of an expert, and because of its com-
pactness and convenience it is the ideal
camera for the tourist and holiday maker.
The KODAK uses the Eastman N.C. Kodak
Film—the most reliable and satisfactory film
ever produced. This is the film that is al-
ways selected for important exploration and
scientific work where severe conditions make
reliability supremely important. It is day-
light loading and unloading, and after expo-
sure can be developed in daylight by means
of the Kodak Developing Tank. In fact,
every operation in connection with the
KODAK may be carried out in daylight
with an ease and certainty that is as sur-
prising as it is delightful.
KODAKS range in price from 26/=,
BROWNIE KODAKS from 5/=. The dif-
ference in price is determined by size, and
finish, but no matter what price you elect to
pay you can be sure of getting a camera
thoroughly satisfactory in every detail, and
with which you will be able to produce
excellent photographs from the very start.
The descriptions given below are of two very
popular models. They are known and used
all over the world.
The No. 3 Folding;
Pocket Kodak
takes splendid pictures, measuring x 4|in. —
the popular quarter-plate size—and has a capacity
of 6or 12 exposures without reloading. It is fitted
with a Rapid Rectilinear Lons, of good quality, a
F.P.K. Automatic Shutter, brilliant reversible
View Finder, two tripod sockets, and an auto-
matic focussing lock. The . total weight is only
230 z., and the price
;£3 12s. 6d
Postage 1/3
extra.
Tke No. 3a Folding
Pocket Kodak
weighs only 410 z., and embraces all the practical
features of Cameras several times its bulk, yet
retains the Kodak simplicity. It takes grand
pictures of 3|in. x s£in., and is fitted with a
Rapid Rectilinear Lens, the F.P.K. Automatic
Shutter, two tripod sockets, a brilliant reversible
Finder, with hood and automatic focussing lock.
Price
£,4 lOs
Postage 1/3
extra..
You should take an early opportunity of calling at one of our
Branches to inspect these famous cameras. If you cannot call,
write for a free copy of the Kodak Catalogue. It gives full
details of the finest cameras obtainable anywhere.
AUSTRALIAN KODAK, LTD.,
Incorporating Baker
& Rouse Prop., Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney.
78-80 Queen St., Brisbane.
“The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba, Q. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill.
37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
m
wm
NEW EDISON RECORDS
for August will be ready 29th July.
The Phonograph is new every time you put a new Record in it. New
Records are issued every month. All the great popular hits, vocal and
instrumental, and a certain amount of classical music that never grows old
are issued every month in Edison Amberol and Standard Records. Here
is the list for August. Read it over, check off what you like, and, as soon
as you can get to his store, ask your dealer to let you hear them.
Write to us for Complete Lists.
Amberol Records for August.
(FOUR-MINUTE.)
345 Rose of the World .. .. Herbert and Orch.
347 Anioureuse Waltz .. .. .. Frosini
348 Hello, Mr. Moonman, Hello ! Hindermeyer
349 Homeland .. .. Anthony and Harrison
350 Benediction of the Poigmards .. Sousa’s Band
351 If I Had the World to Give Ybu .. Reed Miller
352 Juanita.. .. .. Metropolitan Quartette
353 When the Bloom is on the Cotton .. Romain
355 I Will Sinjr the Wondrous Story
Edison Quartette
357 Prologue from Pagrliacei .. Thomas Chalmers
359 In Cairo—Oriental Patrol .. New York Band
361 The Darkies’Jubilee .. Symphony Orch.
363 Medley of Emmett’s Yodle Song's.. Watson
364 The Rifle Regiment March
United States Band
12131 Poet and Peasant, Overture.. National Band
12132 When I Get Back Again to Bonnie Scotland
Lauder
12133 Tax the Bachelors .. Stanley Kirkby
12137 I Really Can’t Reach that Top Note Osmond
12138 Bid Me to Love Ernest Pike
12139 We Don’t Want More Daylight .. Williams
12140 Gems of Scotland.. .. National Band
Standard Records for August.
(TWO=MINUTE.)
10299 The Star, the Rose and the Dream
Stanley and Gillette
10304 The Tin Soldier .. Instrumental Quartette
10305 My Dad’-s Dinner Pail .. .. Ada Jones
10306 When! Dream in the Gloaming- of You
Romain
10308 A Bushel o’ Kisses .. .. Edison Band
10309 In the Sunshine and the Shadow I’ll he True
Harlan
10310 Jerusalem the Golden .. Edison Quartette
10311 A Creole Lullaby .. Arthur C. Clough
103J4 Telling Lies .. .. Jones and Murray
10316 Two ThoniasCats .. .. New York Band
1390 S lias Anybody Here Seen Kelly .. Osmond
13927 BonjourChiehenettes, March National Band
1392 S Come Over the Garden Wall. .Stanley Kirkhy
13929 A Black Coquette .. .. Oily Oakley
13930 Since Father Joined the Territorials
Williams
13931 Still Your Friend Ernest Pike
21265 National Hymn of Panama .. Edison Band
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
DEPT. B, KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
muling
<fflPamnrmimflnnit> T
qa
0?
‘‘III
S '
AN IDEAL CAFE
SARGENTS’ has long been regarded by Connoisseurs as an Ideal Cafe, and it has
not only maintained, but extended this enviable reputation. Since Sargents’
Cafe first opened, the watchword of the management has been Perfection—
to create a service that would neither be surpassed nor equalled. Evidence of
this, both in service and repasts, is shown by the feeling of perfect satisfaction
that comes after dining at the Cafe.
Dine at Sargents’ and you dine well.
Specialties—WEDDlNG CAKES, PASTRY, MEAT PIES and FRUIT PIES
Sargents’ Ltd.
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High-Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St.
(’Phone—Office, 3559 ;
Cafe, 1876 ; Catering-, 4250).
(’Phone, City 1344).


balance-sheet of thf. BANK OF NORTH QUEENSLAND, ltd.
FOR THE HALF-YEAR ENDED 30th JUNE, 1910.
LIABILITIES.
Deposits...’. £641,672 6 9
Treasury Notes Deposit Account 33,333 0 0
Bills Payable and other Liabilities 25,827 9 4
700,832 16 1
Capital £350,000 0 0
Less Reserve
Liability.... 250,000 0 0
] 00,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 20,000 0. 0
Profit and Loss.., 8,492 0 1
128,492 0 1
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion and Cash 8a1ance5........ . .£141,089 7 0
Treasury Notes on Hand 22,506 0 0
Government Stock 25,000 0 0
Remittances in Transit to Branche s and
Agents. *■ 42,448 18 11
231,044 5 11
Bills Discounted. Advances, and all other
Debts 558,242 14 0
Bank Premises, etc 40,037 16 3
£829,324 16 2
Dr. PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
Cr.
To Salaries, Rent and other charges at Head
Office and 18 Branches £9,575 5 6
„ Interest paid and accrued on Deposits and
Treasury Notes Account 6,890 12 2
, „ Balance ; ~t r.-. ~ 8,49'2 0 1
£24,957 17 9
By Balance from last Half-year .£3,775 8 9
~ Gross Amount of Profio for Half-year 21,182 9 0
RESERVE FUND
To Balance £20,000 0 0 i By Balance.
. £20,000 0 0 1 1
..£20,000 0 0
£20,000 0 0
wra:
Audited and found correct. [- Auditors -
of Directors.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
The First
Sprin g
Dress.
Write now,
and have
your name
registered
for a copy
of our forth-
coming -jt
Spring Book
—to be Aus-
tralia's jt
finest pro-
duction.
This dainty
Muslin Dress,
trimmed with
insertion and
tucks, will
cost you only
59/6
post free.
The book
will be full
of bargains
like this.
If
ST
|\
r V
irn
FINNEY, ISLES 8 CO
LIMITED,
The Big Block, BRISBANE.
IN
BANANA LAND
Exit Dawson.
Passed out, in Brisbane General Hospital, it may
be from a broken heart, Anderson Dawson, the
very first Labor Premier in Australasia. He was
only 47 at the time of his death. Dawson was
born at Rockhampton, and was various things in
his life, including grocer and miner. He organ-
ised the mining men of Charters Towers, and was
member for the golden town from 1893 to 1901.
It was in 1899 that he shot out Premier Dickson
and formed the famous Cabinet which lasted just
one week. Prime Minister Fisher and State
Premier Kidston had subordinate positions in the
Dawson Government—Kidston was fourth man
on the list and Fisher was the tail. The Dawson
Government wasn’t long enough in office to pass
a single Act of legislation, but it was there long
enough to look through a lot of departmental
papers, and find out many things that the old gang
hated to have looked at. Dawson was a Senator
from 1901 to 1906, and was Defence Minister in
Watson’s fleeting Cabinet—the one which lasted,
four months, minus 10 days. Then his misfortunes
commenced. He began to be seen around with a
certain notorious pony-racer and his gang,
and other things happened which made him
lose caste with his colleagues. He missed
the party nomination, and ran as an inde-
pendent, doing himself no good and the party a
heap of harm. After that, various poorly-paid
billets—in the Customs and elsewhere—came his
way ; one of them, at least, carried the spacious
remuneration of 40s. a week. The last job of all
was some small appointment at the Brisbane im-
migration barracks, and here this brilliant man
who had lost his punch fagged away till he died.
For he was a very brilliant man : his one-time
opponent in Queensland politics, Premier Byrnes,
described him as the brightest intellect he knew,
and Byrnes was no small judge of intellect.
Dawson made bad mistakes towards the end
of his career, but he also rendered great services.
The early Laborites had a hard row to hoe,
especially in Queensland, where, in the days
of the squatter autocracy, politics were
probably more corrupt, the law more un-
scrupulous, and T or yism more bounding! y
arrogant than anywhere else in Australasia,
The early Laborite received a poor salary; he
had to fight expensive elections against men with
much cash and little conscience; he was never
able to save money ; he lived in a humble way ;
and there was no sign of office and decent pay on
the farthest horizon. And when at last the sun
began to shine, most of the luck went to the new
Laborite, for the old one, in many cases, was
already getting past his prime and dropping into
the back row.
A clergyman excommunicates squatter-
dom :
The Queensland bush easily outclasses the other States
in the matter of hospitality, but that isn’t saying much,
particularly in the far west of Bananaland. The paid
Labor organiser is not welcome at any station, as a rule,
so that he has to try and work from shearing shed to
shearing shed, or from one small selector who is known
to have Labor sympathies to another. I know most of
the Labor organisers in the far west of Queensland, and
they all have condemned the squatters’ hospitality. In
this matter, I write seriously. lam a clergyman, and
know the hollow hypocrisy of the squatters’ generosity.
One of these un worthies once told me that I was very
welcome to the station, but he would be pleased if, on
the next visit, I would bring another driver with me.
The driver had Labor views, but, as I told the squatter,
hfc was good enough for me, I departed from the home-
stead vowing never to carry a blessing again into the
house of such an ignorant and inhospitable creature.
Taking it all through, the Queensland squatters’ hospi-
tality moves along the groove of politics and sectarianism
“Machete” writes :
L. O. Lukin, just appointed to the Supreme Court
Bench, vice Justice Power retired, is somewhat suggestive
of Serjeant Buzfuz as depicted by Hablot Browne, dr
whoever illustrated the early editions of “the Pickwick
Papers.” He is not unlike the famous serjeant in his
methods either, being somewhat of the blusterous Old
Bailey school ; but, nevertheless, he is a sound lawyer
and a good man with a jury. His accession will not
improve the record of the Queensland Bench for beauty.
The Chief Justice is a dream of piciuresqueness, with hand-
some old Beal a close second. Shand is also a good looker,
while in a dark court with all his glad rags about him, and
the spoil of defunct neddies encumbering his dome of con-
sideration even Chubb is passable. When Lukin is joined
—as he will be later—by his chief rival, Arthur Feez, who
is also too busy to wear a classic countenance or to look
like a bed of roses, the Queensland Supreme Court Bench
will not win the prize in a beauty competition. At th«
best it will be mentioned that it “ also ran,” but I don’t
think it will enter.
R. T. Darker, who only a few months ago
succeeded the late Henry Horniblow (a beautiful
name is Henry Horniblow) as locomotive en-
gineer of the Queensland Railway Department, is
retiring from the billet on account of the swag of
increasing years. He was aged 70 jjn .July 18.
He learnt the engineering business in the Cold
Country. The gold fever brought him to Aus-
tralia about 50 years ago. He had no luck in Vic-
toria, and just the sameamoupt in Maoriland. In
1864 he left M.L. for Bananaland, intending to
go to the Peak Downs diggings, but changed his
mind when he got to Brisbane, and set out for the
Canal Creek rush, near Warwick. Passing
through Ipswich, however, he got a job on Queens-
land’s pioneer railway, then in course of con-
struction from Ipswich to Grandchester, being
engaged to take charge of the rolling-stock that
was coming to hand from England, and to fit up
the cylinders and ironwork for the bridge over
the Bremer River. He stuck to the locomotive
engineering department ever afterwards.
“ San Remo ” ; The remarks of “ N.” (B.
7/7/TO) re the curse of naming Melbourne
streets after royalties, can be hurled at almost
any city in Australia; but I think Brisbane
would get the thick end of the anathema.
The northern capital has more royalty per square
furlong of street than any other capital in the
Commonwealth. The principal street is named
Queen-street, as a sort of starting point. Parallel
with it are streets that use up the bulk
of the royal female vocabulary—Elizabeth,
Adelaide, Ann, Charlotte, not forgetting
Margaret. The cross streets are William-
street, George-street, Albert-street, and Ed-
ivard-street. Albert-street was named after
Albert the Good, although part of it (Lower
Albert-street) has‘since been named after Flossie
the Bad. Personally, I think that all streets
Should be named according to their chief products,
’hus we would have Calico Jimmy-street,
(jhurch-street, Club-street, Threepenny Beer-
street, Dago-street, Parliament-street, Fan tan-
street, Totties-'Street, and so bn. Then a man
Would know where he was, and how to comport
himself, especially if he was being led home by a
crayfish. 1 >
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane. Jult 23, 1910.
Mr Dear Thargomindah,—
A modest little cortege was that which fol-
lowed the remans of Anderson Dawson to his last
resting-place in Toowong Cemetery on Thursday.
Dawson’s lungs had been in a bad way for many
a day, and he had lately been employed to do very
little, for a salary of 10s. per day, at the Immigra-
tion Depdt. He started work as whip-boy on one of
the small Charters Towers mines. After some
years he drifted into journalism, and at one time
A CERT.
JONES (who lost heavily on the previous race): “No, I’ll not bet any more to-day. It’s a
mug’s game.”
FRIEND : “ Ten to one you will.” JONES: “Done.”
edited the Eagle labor sheet in that northern
town. Later, he took to politics, and, succeeding
Glassey, led the Labor party to its one and only
residence upon the Queensland Treasury benches.
It wajS a short stay, but an epoch in the progress
of the cause. Parliament adjourned for the day
and attended at the grave side.
The death of Mrs, Kidston on Saturday even-
ing caused rather an upsetting of social events.
The Governor hurried off to the funeral, which
took place at Rockhampton on Monday. The
Children’s Hospital ball, for Monday, was
postponed for two days. Schools and Govern-
ment offices and courts were shut on Monday,
and Parliament adjourned on Tuesday. The de-
ceased lady was a quiet-living body of homely
appearance, who suffered acute agonies when
callfed upon to support the dignity expected of a
Premier’s wife. She was a rattling goqd house-
wife, and had Fate left her to that occupation
she would probably have been hale and hearty
to-day. At any rate, it is certain that her
heart trouble was considerably accentuated
by the nervous strain that she suffered
whenever she had to make an ‘‘official”
appearance. She died under an anaesthetic in the
Mater Misericordise Hospital, after undergoing
an operation which had apparently been so
completely successful that the operating sur-
geons had quitted the bedside. The Premier is
left with four sons; an only daughter he lost
under very similar circumstances to those which
have deprived him of a wife and a genuine help-
mate.
The Clan Macgregor has been kept going all
the week. The Lady Bowen Maternity Home,
at which gathering there was no one to speak of
save the committee, was presided over by Mrs.
Mac, who ran a big risk of pneumonia for the
sake of being present. His Ex., with the family
and the Scarlet appendage, did a double header
on Friday and wiped off both the Lamington
and the Children’s Hospitals. He said various
well-selected things and consumed the usual tea.
There are points in having a Governor who is a
doctor and an expert on tropical diseases. For
instance, when he praises hospital methods or
nursing staffs, one feels that, as a truthful Scot
and a compendium of medical science, he knows
what he is talking about.
Among the many illustrious patients who have
been inquired after by the mighty this Week,
Captain Pennefather, who slipped and inflicted
upon himself a compound fracture of the leg, is
getting along cheerfully; and Joey Bell is
doing less well than his friends could wish.
Both are being cared for at Miss Fitzgerald’s
hospital, the Alexandra. Another convalescent
is Jack Warren White, who returned south on
Thursday.
A pretty little lady by the name of Austin has
arrived in town to stay with Miss Bullivant for
the winter. She sports some heavenly clothes.
Thereisalsoupfrom the south aCowlishaw maiden,
who is being made an excuse for sundry tea-
fights. The MacKellar damsel has, seemingly,
flitted from the vice-regal humpy.
The Bible-in-State-Schoolers are howling aloud,
and there is no gladness in them. The trouble is
the non-party Bill, which is like to die young.
Rev. G. E. Rowe wept on the neck of the Yellow
Pup at a down-valley church last week, and this
week Dill Mackv will repeat the same act at Bris-
bane’s Centennial Hall.
On Wednesday evening the Liedertafel made a
second effort. Miss Macgregor came along with
his Ex. She looked bored most of the time.
Perhaps she isn’t musical. The music was, how-
ever, good, and Bobby Kaye did well. A maiden
who tottered under the preposterous name of
Zichy Woinarski stirred the audience to a mild
frenzy of approbation by her treatment of a violin,
and garnered a mass of garden products. There
was also a small girl from Melbourne, Miss
Margery Dunlop, who lifted a sweet though
somewhat immature voice, and had many flowers
flung at her. A number of the audience, with the
usual Brisbane lack of theatre manners, jumped up
and rustled out in the midst of a pretty piece of
orchestra] work. On the other hand, two ultra-
talkative females under one of the galleries would
have added to the general comfort had they left
sooner.
. Great audiences have gathered at the Dolores
shrine, and her Songfulness has been shedding her
smiles at various teas. The Mayoress had a
gathering on her account on Thursday; and on
Friday the pioneers rolled up in force, and
the Voice came, and stayed late, and spread a
motherly smile and good advice and congratula-
tions upon the Parker child and her wonderful
contralto.
On Wednesday morning I arrived at the place
which is called Pinkenba, and there found a
Dutch packet-boat tied up to the reinforced con-
crete, and on board half The Bulletin staff.
They were from Java, and were in the act of
being searched for opium, or cholera, or other
smuggled wares. There was “ Akenehi,” hinting
gloomily at an incurable heartache, recently in-
curred. The cause was the nephew of a Sultan
whose name suggests ironmongery. As captain
of the guard, it was the duty of this beauteous
being to show “Akenehi’s” party through the
palace. He was a shapely person, and his cos-
tume consisted of a quantity of bed-furniture,
some Bayeux tapestry, two or three jewellers’
shops, a small arsenal, sundry Brussels carpet
and two bare feet. Also, he had on his head
something that looked as if it had been struck by
lightning.
Talking of the colored brother, I hear that two
persons—a feminine named Blanche Seebly and
a male person named Murray—who hustle in the
healing line under the picturesque styles of
Romunda Oinnah and Sister Omnah are reaping
many shekels from those who believe in miracu-
lous healing. The people of Warwick, which
township the pair has just vacated, are said to be
looking for them eagerly, either to remonstrate
with them on the failure of their healing, or to
force some more money upon them on the ground
of insufficient payment.
The result of the extraordinary cOurt-martial
was a loss of two years’ seniority and rank to
Gunner Widdup, and the laying bare of some
curious practices in the upper circles of the local
navy, as well as some quaint ideas of justice.
Still the loss of two years’ seniority is a Gilbertian
sort of punishment that hurts no one, and means
nothing, and doesn’t satisfy' the prosecutor to any
extent.
The trouble over the case of leprosy discovered
in South Brisbane is not over yet, it seems, and
some startling disclosures arc hinted at.' When
Dr. Elkington has a spare minute or so (they
keep him very busy) he might well make an in-
spection of a few of the slums out Paddington
way and round by the back of Gregory Terrace.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
Thursday Island is still a very dirty smudge
as regards population, and the Europeans only
number 662 out of 1371. Some of the rest are
Japs, Filipinos, aborigines, Chinese, Malays,
Kanakas and Cingalese ; and finally there are 105
that defy classification. They are despairingly
put down as “ mixed races.” For the information
of those who don’t know, it may be mentioned
that if a person’s eight great-grandparents were
respectively negro, Russian, Japanese, Malay,
Mexican, Hindu, Moor and French-Ganadian,
that person has entered for the mixed race com-
petition.


- jS*T-
K . zM
'
V-:
,4
*
- -v -
:-*f:o
■h-
it
■
**
ass
x 4
‘*~ ... 4
■
s®
i
IS
-
§PSI
••
m
i
¥
I
v* ;;
i
m
m
m
Ip
mm
‘■■i.
mu
Cl
m
i m
m
til
V
'; :
mi
*
►" -
.*: ' ■ <
9*»
'"'r
mi
m
MVC’f.
m
Vf
V
SffiSA
■:ffi
<n
4^
sle*
’■ ■ .
'!
■
* M
.■
<ss
HP
-
oL d
■
mm
m
m
.•
S*M
. x
■
-•'! f*S
'
WS&
;
■
•I
< fls»,
II :
! ':. ■ :;;tv
1 • 1
-
m *
< n
; =
' ■ J
CSS— M-i--- 1 -'".
:.t
-■-■•
1
IP
s*fe
&
~v .
- jw^yww,
■ ' ■ V
pi. P :
r 4 -r**. *' i\*** * v
a
■ ...
9
the Picnic hand.
BRISBANE EXHIBITION.
Holiday Excursion Tickets.
FI RST-CLASS. SECOND-CLASS.


SKIN
PURITY
r
H
Is Best Promoted by
CUTICURA
Soap and Ointment
The constant use of Cuti-
cura Soap, assisted when
necessary by Cuticura Oint-
ment, not only preserves,
purifies and beautifies the
skin, scalp, hair and hands
of infants, children and
adults, but tends to prevent
clogging of the pores, the
common cause of pimples,
blackheads, inflammation,
irritation, redness and rough-
ness, and other unsightly
and annoying conditions.
Depots: London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 10,
Rue de la Chaussee d’Antln: Australia, R. Towns <fe
Co.. Sydney; India, B. K. Paul, Calcutta: China,
Hong Kong Drug Co,; Japan, Z. P. Maruya, Ltd.,
Tokio: So. Alrlca, Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town, etc.;
U.S.A.. Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props.,
133 Columbus Ave., Boston.
03-Post-free, 32-page Cuticura Book, an Author-
ity on the Care and Treatment of Skin and Hair-
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION IN THREE MINUTES
PULCHRIT,
A GENUINE SKIN TONIC, AND SUBSTITUTE FOR
FACE CREAMS and ALL OTHER SKIN SPECIFICS.
(1) Pulciirit is the only powder which produces
amazing effects after being washed off. (2) If used
as ordinary powder (dry), lightly rubbed into the skin,
it becomes equally invisible. (8) It produces a dazzling,
beautiful skin, and idealises the complexion. (4) It im-
parts to the roughest skin a velvety softness, and pro-
duces that fascinating appearance which is so much
admired. (5) It is indispensable for the culture of the
hand. (6) Instead of clogging the pores it cleanses them,
removing all blemishes, such as wrinkles, freckles, red-
ness, yellow skin, pimples, etc. (7) It creates a feeling
of comfort and ease by neutralising perspiration ; there-
fore indispensable at balls, theatres, etc. (8) It stands
for health and hygiene of the skin.
Price 45., post free, from the wholesale agent for Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, H. A. Goddard, Eagle Street,
Brisbane, Queensland ; or a sample will be forwarded on
receipt of Is. in stamps or postal nore. (2
DON’T
SUFFER
FROM
OBESITY
6L4
Excess Fat makes your life miserable, des-
troys your vigor and vitality, weakens your
heart, absolutely obliterates your figure, and
makes you a laughing-stock for your friends.
“ Fate ure
is a scientific, successful and efficacious rem-
edy for the reduction of adipose tissue. It
is harmless, pleasant to take, and the fat
once removed by it does not come back.
It will, unaided by dieting or exercise, re-
duce your weight by about 5 lbs. a week.
There is no faith-cure about “Fatcure.”
The weighing machine shows you the results.
Send a 2d. stamp and let us post you a
FREE TRIAL sample and our Free Book.
Watworth Co., Suite j,
Linden Court, Casllereagh St., Sydney.
OH ! ONLY A COLD I
But why have it when you can throw it off so easily ?
Don’t waste time with various nostrums. Help
Nature to expel the poison from your system by a
trial of the ideal aperient—
LAXATINE,
THE LOZENGE LAXATIVE.
Pleasantlv flavored. Perfect in action. You’ll feel
the benefit immediately. No griping effect. Creates
new life.
Is. per Box-all Chemists. [1
n
/
j®|iere£
ZBS
“ELITE
TYRB3
That this is so was proved
last season in every race of
importance. See that your
machine is fitted with
CLASS’
FLITE TYRES.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co. Ltd.,
231 Clarence Street, Sydney,
and ALL STATES.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” —Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
rv
YOU might just as well
enhance the charm of
ycur physique, Madam,
and be healthier with the
new D & A Directoire
Corset, as discount it and
injure your health with ill-
fitting and old-fashioned
Corsets.
Madam, you cannot rival the
“Chic” and“ Svelte” appear-
ance of French and American
women unless you wear a corset
that shapes gracefully and fits
comfortably.
At Faris the fountain head of
styles, our designer has sought
most carefully before, after
many experiments, we perfected
on living models our wonderful
new D & A Directoire Corset.
The result is a corset giving all
the “Chic” and “Svelte” appear-
ance of the leaders of fashion
in France; and moreover, by
holding the body in shape
without compressing unduly at
any point the D & A Directoire
is more healthful for you than
any other Corset. Don’t buy a
corset before first fitting on the
For Sale by all leading drapers. A.-6
The Dominion Corset Company, Quebec, Canada.
&
&
z-^RD
Or
r £ADZ
? £ G. U.S.PA I w
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GENASCO
READY HOOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing in
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe 8 Company Ltd.
383-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
■
AGENTS—Melbourne : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Little
Collins St. ; Brisbane : Webster & Co., Ltd.,
Mary St. Perth : McLean Bros. & Rigg-; Sydney:
John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
Australasian Representative—l. Nicholls, Sydney.
DRUNKENNESS CURED.
It is now generally admitted that Drunkenness is
not a vice, but a disease —happily one that is curable.
DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered by the
Govts. Vic. and N.S. W.) is a certain cure—is harmless
and can be given secretly or taken voluntarily.
Advice Free. Write or Call.
DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISHMENTS : 54Russell Street,
Melbourne; 1161 Hay Street, Perth,W.A. [1
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take > when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; tlieir beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache —a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial, . They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose’of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
‘•LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years' proven
efficacy, for Couylis, Colils, lironeliilis, elc.
The Inky Way.
To the Editor Bulletin,n*-
Greeting, O friend who writes the word that reaches
where the sun lights his morning fire and follows to
where the Night covers the Day with her blanket, while
Rangi, in the great Heaven, sheds the tears that vou call
the dew ! This is to tell you that Patara te Tuhi, who
rose from a cannibal feast to an editor’s chair, has gone
to sleep where the fern bends by the pool, and the wind
from the cold stars may not wake him. Ka mate ahau i
te pouri. [I am overcome with grief.]
Of Patara’s fighting days, when my people ate their
enemies, my tongue lies still, for peace is between us,
and Death leans upon the wharepuni; but this is my
word to you : he was a great warrior.
This is the speech of my father. He thinks it was about
1860 that the Emperor Franz Josef of Austria sent, as a
present to the Waikato natives, a printing press, and soon
afterwards enough had been learned of the craft to pub-
lish, in Maori, a paper in the interests of the King move-
ment. This paper was called Te Hokioi (a mythical bird),
and was issued to check the influence of Pmoiiioi Moke-
moke i te Tuanni (the Lonely Sparrow on tiie House-
top), a paper published at Te Awamutu for the
purpose of turning the natives against the mana
of King Tawhaio by John Gorst, who, was at
the time the representative of George Grey.
Patara was the editor of Te Hokioi, and with his brother
and two or three others periodically printed and distri-
buted the sheet. The articles of Patara bad a strong
influence on the natives, and stopped the undermining
of Taw’haio’s power to a considerable extent. Gorst, in
his book, “The Maori King,” praises Patara’s moderate
and well-reasoned articles. But the press in those strenu-
ous days, when an editor sat in his blanket in a raupo
sanctum, a greenstone axe on his right, a dpuble-
barrelled shot-gun on his left, and a half-chewed shin-
bone bolding down the proofs, was not a rapid
enough agency for some of the younger bloods; so Rewi
and a party of Maoris swept down on the opposition
paper, rooted out the printing press and type and
wrecked the premises. Editor Gorst was ordered to
clear out, but he sgjd he’d see them all dead first. Rewi
threatened sudden slaughter, and still Gorst refused
to quit. Then Patara took a band, and on his
advice a letter was despatched to George Grey
advising him that unless he got Gorst away within three
weeks he’d have a dead journalist on his hands. Gorst
finally went, and on bis way to Auckland under safe
conduct, stopped a night at Ngaruawhia, the home of
Patara and his paper, and was accommodated in the
printing office of Te Hokioi, where he was generously
entertained by his reptile contemporary. From that
time, onward they were great friends, and when Gorst
(now officially known as the Right Hon. Sir John Gorst)
visited Maoriland in ISIO6, the old cannibal editor was
waiting for him at Auckland. And there at Gorst’s hotel
they drank together. Those are the words of my father,
who is wise, and writes better than his son.
And these are my words to you : Greeting. Print this
in The Bulletin that my people may know that
Patara’s name will be carried to the North, the South
the East and the West. For Patara was a great warrior!
and an editor ; and Patara is dead. Ka mate ahau ite
pouri—yours, 0 friend, Puketapu.
* * * *
Gone to solve the Why and Wherefore, John Arnott,
at Wellington (M.L.) recently, after 73 years of studying
the matter on earth. He arrived in Dunedin frae
Glasgae in 1863, and started to wear his boots out on the
newspaper track under the supervision of the tremendous
Julius Vogel on the Otago Daily Times. Some years
later, when the gold boom was raging on the West Coast
of the South Island, Arnott, with two others, started the
Grey River Argus, the first newspaper published in
Greymouth. From there he humped his ink barrel to
Hastings, and founded a paper in the Hawkes Bay towm.
Finding the speculation wasn’t worth the energy, he
headed south again for Wellington where he joined’ the
staff of the Government printery, A few months ago he
retired under the superannuation scheme, and was just
wondering how to put in time quietly when Death called
round and showed him the only peaceful place there is
barring Parramatta.
* * * *
“ Edyson He is one of the most cheering recol-
lections of the days and nights when 1 ran a paper.
He was a tall, woolly man, whose head looked like a
prize fleece dyed ginger. He came out of the wilderness,
with oats in his beard, and set up a produce store within
a few doors of the Ant office. One morning he took a
header into the literary department (sft. x 7ft.), and,
dumping a bloek and a bunch of MSS. on
the editor’s foundered table, ejaculated gaily :
“There you are, mister there’s somethin’ to
put in your paper.” The man of letters pawed
the matter dubiously. The block was a process picture
of His store covered with vociferous announce-
ments, and showing Him standing proudlv in the
doorway, decked in a pure white apron. The MSS. in-
formed the public that He had opened the above
store, and was selling hay and chaff, oats, horse carrots
and stable bedding at prices that were the astonishment
of all beholders and the despair of the trade. “Some-
thing to put in your paper,” He repeated with the
air of a happy benefactor. “ This is an advt.,” said the
editor. “You pay at the counter.” “Pay!” gasped
the produce merchant. “Four shillings per inch per in-
sertion, ’ said the editor. “Me pay!” He was simply
stiff with amazement. “But it’s only somethin’ to put in
your paper. I thought you paid, ‘i know a bloke once
what said he got 10 shillin’sfor a lump iv po’try what he
put in a paper, and his po'try hadn’t no picture to it."
The editor explained gently that, as a rule, people paid
for such matter as he offered. At the door, with bis
contribution in his pocket, He explained: “I had
me doubts about that bloke what done the po'tn. My
oath, he was a liar, if you like 1 ’’ "
ALL HAS BEEN SAID BEFORE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nothing new in it.—Bulletin reply to would-be
contributor.
You ask for “ Something New,”
And yet you know how few
And far between these “ Somethings ” vague must be !
You will not print again
“Lines to Lost Imogen,”
Or “ Musings ’mid the Moonlight on the Sea.”
The Pegasus must shove
Along the lines of Love
And Marriage, Death and Destiny, and Dreams;
Each ev’rvday affair
Is utterly threadbare,
And written out to reams and reams and reams.
My minstrelsy grows mute,
In vain I tune my lute,
My ear to rhythmic melodies is true ;
But rhyme alone won’t do
Unless 'tis novel, too,
Its subject matter must be “ Something New."
Where, in the haunts of men,
In nineteen hundred ten,
Does any theme original belong?
Can fish, or fowl, or beast,
Or scene inspire a feast
Of reason in a sellingflow of song?
The world is very old,
And all its tales are told,
There’s little new, indeed, beneath the sun.
In fact and fancy’s range,
One can but re-arrange
One’s treatment of the muchly over-done.
All has been said before ;
All has been sung of yore ;
Life is itself a repetition vain.
We imitate, and then
We imitate again.
Convention is our birth-mark and our bane.
The times are out of joint,
The pen is losing point,
And jeux d’esprits were blunted long ago.
The scribbler may be dust
Before he earns a crust,
The earth, I think, knows all it wants to know
N.S.W.
TALAFEKU.


THE RED
W
BRAND OF
TRADE MARK
REG. IN U. 8. PAT- OFF.
AND THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
Rifles, Shot Cuns and Ammunition
MADE HERE
jj > P
rHiiii
3 3
Gun and Cartridge Factories oft he Winchester Repeating Arms Co.
DT is a well established fact that goods can be produced better and
more economically in a factory modern in equipment and
facilities. The plant of the Winchester Repeating Arms Co.
is such a one. It is the biggest in the world devoted to manufacturing
guns and ammunition, and its mammoth and up-to-the-minute equip-
ment, operated by experts of years of experience, produces the highest
class of goods at the lowest possible price consistent with the quality.
The Winchester plant is big, but it is still growing. Growth means
improvement in manufacturing processes, and better goods if it is
possible to make them so. Although Winchester goods are made in
this skillful and modern manner they cost no more than inferior
makes, but they are better by far—always ask for the Red W Brand.
WINCHESTER REPEATING ARMS CO., NEW HAVEN, CONN., U. S. A.
UNDER VICE-REGAL
PATRONAGE.
The Misses Isaacs,
Lad 'es’Hairdressers, Hairworkers and Dermatologists,
161 KING ST., SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Sts.
Transformations, from £4 4s. Tails, from 7s. 6d. Natural Hair Pads, from 21s. Fringes, from 7s. 6d.
TRY OUR. GLORIA HAIR TONIC. COMBINGS MADE IJP.
Telephone 2138 Central. Country Orders Promptly Attended To.
© © 99
m
z/'2 5
/
m
a
&
You will find far greater pleasure in spending your spare hours
at home if you have a ** Bijou ” table in the dining-room.
This table is specially designed for home use—it contains all the
merits of our standard tables, with the advantage of being readily
convertible into a dining-table by means of a simple adjustment of
leaves.
It is fitted with slate bed, fast-running cushions, covered with
superfine billiard cloth, beautifully made and nicely finished.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
fds
dsf
397 George St., Sydney. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Murray St., Perth. [4
s.
m
gUNVI P*‘ C
devil.
Pulls Trees and
Stumps Out by
the Roots
This is the latest device for pulling out trees and stumps. It is
small, compact, quickly adjusted and easily worked. The ropes
withstand a terrific strain—the tree or stump must come out.
Illustrated Catalogue free.
This is the very latest and only fully patented “ Forest Devil ” in
the Commonwealth. Ask for illustrated Booklet.
Anyone infringing any of our Patent Rights (No. 6875) in regard to
the BUNYIP” FOREST DEVIL, which cover 1,2, 3or more circular
rack wheels, either maker, seller or user, will be prosecuted.
JOHN COOPER & SONS,
287-9 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
&
PRIZES Value £2250
IN THE CWfcJiy W
8-HOUR
ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 29,1910.
Ist Prize, value £5OO. 2nd Prize, value £250.
3rd Prize, value £lOO. And 297 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. J. Sawdy. Warner
Avenue, North Bondi, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 3.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from JOHN TRAVERS, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
Velveteen
the
DISTINCTION IN DRESS
No dress looks so rich and feels so soft and silky as one of Louis
Velveteen or Chiffon Vel-Duvet. Its lines are graceful and
flowing, and for Pile, Lustre, and
Brilliancy, it is unsurpassed. It is famed
for its exquisite Colours and won’t crush
HAVE YOU GOT?
1. A Tearing, Hacking Cough?
2. A Stuffed-up Chest ?
3. A Teasing Irritation in your Throat
4- A Difficulty in Breathing ?
5. A Cold in Your Head?
6. A Fit of Sneezing ?
7. A Pain in Your Chest ?
8. A Shortness of Breath ?
9. “Only a Bit of a Cold?”
HAVE
YOU?
IF YOU HAVE, TAKE
ARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
-it'
THE GRANDEST REMEDY FOR
COUGHS & COLDS
"A STITCH IN TIME SAVES NINE.”
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS, AND
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
N-S.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney.


Weakness after
illness can be cured
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Weakness, acute or chronic, is
permanently cured by taking
Scott’s Emulsion. This
statement is made with con-
fidence, because hundreds of
people have written to say
that they or theirs were cured
of weakness, following upon
one or another illness, by
Scott’s Emulsion. For ex-
ample, Mrs. E. Smith wrote,
30th June, 1909, from 74,
Dowling Street, Paddington,
Sydney, N.S.W.:
“My daughter, aged 12\ years, after scar-
let fever, suffered from extreme weakness
and emaciation. I decided on a course of
sdfsdf
Scott’s Emulsion and soon
saw a wonderful improvement.
She rapidly ,grew stronger,
and increased in weight, and
now, thanks to Scott’s,
she is thoroughly built up
and in splendid health. This
trademark was on the emul-
sion I bought. ”
If you wish to get rid of weak-
ness and decide to buy
Scott’s Emulsion, decide
also to GET SCOTT’S
EMULSION. You may be
asked to buy another emul-
sion and told it is “just as
good as Scott’s.” Substitute
emulsions can only be sold
on the reputation of Scott's
Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion cures the disease—
no matter the age of the patient—and*
will be approved by your Doctor for
Weakness if you ask him.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
“MAIM TO MAN"
is the title of a Valuable BOOKLET explaining 1
the Causes and Cure of
NERVOUSNESS and ALLIED TROUBLES,
which embitter life, and cause premature decay.
A copy of this Booklet will be sent FREE
j (sealed) to anyone interested.
London Specialities Agency,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The Tie
, that
not
IRIS ( Re § d )
Real Poplin Ties,
None''
Genuine
without
th ij
RecM Tab.
IRI
REALPOPLIN
REC
5Hk& Woo/.
Obtainable All Mercers
1
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
r A safe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or lining's of the nose, threat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
, Treatise with each bottle
or mailed on request.
.710 Enas Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio,
D.S.A.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.—New
Serifes. IV.. V.. VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d;
Packet of Ten, sd. , Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
“LINSEED’ COMPOUND." —The “Stockport
lteinedy ” for Coughs & Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
BRONCHITIS
Yields
quickly !
In Bronchitis, Freeman’s—the Original -Chlorodyne has
' i ts curative, soothing and life-saving properties again and again
For Asthma, Influenza, Colds and all forms of Chest Trouble there is
nothing better in the world. Price 1/IJ, 2/9 and 4/6 per bottle.
Recommended by Doctors for over half-a-century.
See “Elephant" on every bottle—your safeguard, against imitations.
MARK
If your chemist
is out of stock,
order a bottle
can quickly
FREEMANS
CHLORODYNE
For Winter Comfort-buy a Hot Water Bottle
;’V‘"
*j*r*n*. ■
sd
Prices from v each.
There is nothing that so adds to one’s
comfort on a cold Winter’s night as a Hot
Water Bottle. We can supply you with
the best at a reasonable price, for, not-
withstanding the recent great rise in
rubber, we, having bought largely before
the rise, are able to supply at prices
20 per cent, less than are being asked
elsewhere.
We also stock covers in all sizes.
We send to all parts of the Common-
wealth.
Write for Catalogue “ B.” It illustrates
and describes rubber goods stocked by us.
Novelty Rubber Go.,
250 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
LEEMING’S
fsd
PRICE,
14/6
FOR
Ladies’ Footwear.
This High-Class Model is one of the smartest and most
popular of Ladies’ Shoes. It is fitted with neat Patent
Leather Caps and Facings, and can be had with either Pump
or Welted Sole.
Price - - 14/0.
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/- extra.
SEND FOR OUR BOOKLET, “ SHOELIGHT.”
In it are shown all the newest and most fashionable styles
in footwear.
LFFMING’S,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ; 1-3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
f
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LA1TTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and Victoria. Thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc. (
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
, Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas!
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
sdf
Have You \m&
Jerdan’s “HOME” Battery
for Rheumatism, Lumbago, Nervous
Troubles, that Run-Down Feeling, or
Lack of Energy?
You’ll be surprised at its marvellous
powers and the real relief it will give
you.
Doctors recommend it; hospitals use
it as a reliable, thoroughly efficient
electrical Battery.
Any novice can use the “HOME”
Battery— the working is most simple.
Price 35/
POST
FREE.
LET US SEND YOU THE
FREE BATTERY BOOKLET.
JERDANS
393
(Formerly OSBORN 8 JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS and ELECTRICIANS,
GEORGE STREET, ROY S EL , SYDNEY.
Business, Robbery, etc.
O.K. : rhusfar, there has been no protest
against the proposed abolition of the “ half-dollar ” on
behalf of the many sorts of citizens—from schoolboys
upwards—who occasionally get it for a “ tip.” Regarded
as a patronising gift, or a silent, recognition of services
rendered, there is 25 per cent, more virtue in half a
crown than in two “bqb.” It is the token of
liberality as compared with niggardliness. For “tipping-”
purposes it is a boon to the receiver. For all pur-
poses of cash exchange and payment it is much
more useful than the florin. I cannot understand why
the two-shilling piece should be preferred to the half-
crown on account of its decimal character. I would
abolish the florin in favor of the older coin on the ground
that its convenience is limited tp the payment of the
sums of two or four shillings. For the rest of the trans-
actions in silver it is rarely as convenient as the half-
crown, and mostly less so. As witness the following
table. If the half-crown be abolished we must pay
s. d.
2 6 with 2 coins, instead of a possible 1
3 6 „ 3 ~ „ 2
50„3 „ „ „ 2
. 5 6 „ 4 „ „ „ „ 3
■7 0 5 „ 3
80„5 „ ' 4
in o ~ 5 ~ ~ ~ 4
10 6 ~ 6 ~ ~ ~ I’
110„6„ „ „ „ 5
11 6 „ 7 „ „ „ „ (j
12 6 ~ 7 ~ ~ ~ 5
130„7„ „ „ „ 6
13 6 „ 8 „ „ „ „ .. 6
14 6 „ 8 „ 7
150„8„ „ „ „ 6
15 6 ~ 0 ~ ~ „ 7
100„8„ „ „ „ 7
16 6 „ 0 „ „ „ „ ,8
17 0 „ 9 „ ' '8
17 6 „10 „ „ 7
180„9„ „ „ „ 8
18 6 „10 „ „ „ , 8'
19 0 ». 10 „ „ „ , 9
10 6 „11 „ „ „ „ 9
20 0 „10 „ „ „ „ 8
On the other hand, if the florin were abolished in favor
of the half-crown, the only disadvantage to the cash
handler would be the loss of the convenience of being
able to pay two shillings in one coin instead of two, and
four shillings in two coins instead of three. As a’poor
citizen, with no commercial concern on the question of
correct or incorrect decimalage, and with a firm convic-
tion that a respectable douceur should bear the same
proportion to a pound that a furlong bears to a mile, I
vote for the preservation of the half-crown and the sup-
pression of the florin, which is practically just as large,
though not nearly so handsome.
“Port”: When the Sydney City Council
started out in a sort of a way to municipalise the fish
markets it was thought by the fishermen, who had
suffered so much at the hands of private agents, that
hard times would come again no more ; but as a matter
of fact the hard times are still going strong. The agents
are selling at the new markets, and incidentally paying
themselves the same old dividends as in the days before
Allen Taylor threatened “to put an end to this scandal-
ous state of affairs.” I know a man who sent down two
baskets of schnapper, and received a cheque for £2 Is.
at a time when schnapper was bringing Bd. or 9d. per
pound. Ariother chap sent down two large coses of
mixed fish (about 28 baskets), and received the fabulous
sum of £1 10s. for his trouble. But this one is the star
item. A young man forwarded a case of sea mullet, and
almost collapsed when he gotas hisshare from the benevo-
lent agent—a bill for 12s. 6d. The gaud Mayor has talked
a lot about what he is going to do. When does he pro-
pose to make a start?
* * * *
The Sal. Army and its treatment of its penny-
scratching officers will some day engage public attention,
and eventually a Wages Board will set out to guard the
vineyard workers from oppression. The poor devils who
are engaged to frighten Sheol out of those who dwell in
the grip of his Satanic Majesty, are supposed to have a
salary. But first of all they must pay out of the drum-
head collections the rent of the barracks and the other
charges made by the organisation’s manager. A hall
may have been given to the Army with an endowment,
but still the rent of that hall must be paid by the local
branch to the shark at the chief Sal. office. If the crowd
doesnotshy in the pence the rent is in arrears, and there
is no salary for the officers. I remember hearing a story
of a “ captain’s ” sufferings. I rushed into a bootshop
and pledged my name and beer money for several
weeks to get him a pair of boots. A few of us also guaran-
teed a grocer against loss for provisions. I think
a full “captain” is put down at 50s. per week ; but the
Devil himself only knows how many actually get that
much. The Army is a trading concern. It is a food shop
and a tailoring business (with different names over the
doors, and nothing to indicate the Blood and Fire con-
nection). In Melbourne it runs a bioscope business, and
engages skilled operators—one, aged 23, gets 255. per week,
and another, aged 21, gets 225. 6d. Every year the so-
called “ officers ” assist in raising £3o,ooo—i think it is
called a self-denial fund. The money goes into the coffers
of Booth and co. The social and philanthropic work of
the army is extolled. It is the lever by which money is
dragged in ; but it is practically a self-supporting branch.
* - * * *
Assistant-Curator G. H. Smith, of Sydney
Technological Museum, lately mentioned another possible
industry which Australia’s importing habits haven’t done
much to develop. According to the scientist, the cones
of the burrawang tree yield a seed fruit from which
splendid arrowroot and starch can be manufactured.
Comparisons with the best imported arrowroot proved
the superiority of the Australian article, and when the
latter was flavored with a lemon-scented oil obtained
from one of the euealypts it was a victual fit for the
gods. The burrawang (Mecrozamia spiralis) is plentiful
in the N.S.W. coast districts, especially around Illa-
warra, and hundreds of tons of nuts are allowed to rot
annually. It seems a sinful waste of good provender.
THE FALL OF BULL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All the signs of the times point to an increasing
scarcity of meat products.— Meat Trades Journal.
England may finally fall through the failure of her
food supply. —English paper.
There is a dreadful famine in the land,
The butchers’ stocks are down,
Sheep, swine and oxen come not at command
To fill the marts of town.
The round of gladsome beef is seen no more
To crown the British hoard,
The slaughter-houses languish void of gore,
Spent is the frozen hoard.
Stuffed with sad bread, the cheek of Bull grows pale.
It was not thus of yore
When all the ways were full of beef and ale,
On England’s merry shore.
The Teuton’s banner flutters o’er the wave,
India and Egypt rear ;
Yet are our hearts exceeding strong and brave—
We shall not blanch with fear.
Ah, no. our foes are of another kind,
Dwelling our shores within—
Foes that we needs must grapple deaf and blind—
That grip and hold like sin.
We shall not fail before the foeman’s gun,
For Britain rules the waves ;
We shall not bend the craven neck, or run,
Or yield ourselves as slaves.
But the pent millions of our island home,
The Vikings’ hardy brood,
Must trust to argosies from o’er the foam
To bring their daily food.
And not in cannon smoke and thundering doom
England at last shall fall;
But when, ’mid primrose light and crocus bloom,
The butcher fails to call.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.


“ The Waybacks Again.”
Another
stack of
joy and laughter about the famous family. Is.
4
♦
A FOOD OF GREAT
NUTRITIVE VALUE
which can be made suitable for any
degree of digestive power by the simple
process of letting it stand for a longer or
shorter period at one stage of its preparation.
For INFANTS , INVALIDS and the AGED .
It is used mixed with fresh new milk, and forms a
delicate and nutritive cream, which is enjoyed and
assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely free from rough
and indigestible particles which produce irritation in delicate stomachs.
The Lancet describes it as “ Mr. Benger’s admirable preparation."
The British Medical Journal says: “ Benger's Food has, by its excellence, established a reputation of its own."
BENGER'S FOOD, LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, Eng.
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
8 33
THe Bad Writer's Pen,.
No. 539 r BALL-POINTED. Sixpence Per Box.
TVfte ftafl of atl Stationed, ot ORTWIS'tOW & GIrfTSS, zfl, fTEWGATE St., LONDONv
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
‘ COAGULINE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘ TENASITINE
■Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE U.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL.
sdf
will stop the most
vicious dog (or man)
without permanent
injury. Invaluable
for cyclists, unpro-
tected ladies, night-
watchmen, and
others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids, and will
carry a distance of 25 feet. It creates great
amusement for both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical
novelties ever produced. Price 2/9, or post free
anywhere for 3/-
NICREL-PLATED CHANCE PURSE.
Beautifully chased, and guaranteed to wear white
throughout. Will hold any of the coins, as illus-
trated, and will also take sovereigns and half-
sovereigns in the 1/- and 6d. compartments, and
pennies and half-pennies in the 2/6 and 2/- com-
partments. Split ring attached for affixing to watch
or key chain. Price, post free anywhere, 1/2.
THE “JOKER” TRICK MATCHBOX.
The box can be filled with matches, and then closed,
and, to the amazement of your friends, upon re-
opening the box, the matches have completely dis-
appeared. A great joke on cadgers, who, upon
begging a match, are shown the empty box, and the
next moment, if the owner chooses, he may help
himself to a match from the same box. Strongly
made of polished nickel, and caln be carried in the
vest pocket. Price, with full directions, 7J. post free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No, 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
Schute, Bell & Go.
limited
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow f etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
AGENTS:
Sydney—W. Macphearson, 80-62
62 Park Street.
Melbourne—T. R. Jones & Co.,
366 Bourke Street.
Brisbane—Elliott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd., 108-110
Eagle Street.
Adelaide—Lord & Heseltine,
90 Pirie Street.
Launceston—John McKenzie
& Co.
Hobart—John Ferguson & Co.
The Merit of a
Whisky is not
dependent on its
name, but on its
.oa i
failKiueurWhi^^^
»VIV
in m
■r ///,
S* t''
U
I
Old
ORKNEV
Is a IVeal Liqueur Scotch,
from a century-old distillery,
reserving its whole output
for this one brand.
McConnell's Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London.
Proprietors of STROMNESS DISTILLERY, Orkney, Scotland.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OP NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Datb Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, §d, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune .Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
sdf
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By £>r. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
. GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,.
Is posted. ' Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of J
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hbptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of thbj First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying? more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. |t«~ Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR.
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OP MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
—'■ ♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Test Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(.las. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy, Is post. 100 New
i Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. NervousnessJißl
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (wliy pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. Tiie Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
“ Y. J.” tells a true tale
*n incident that deserves to be rescued from the dust-
hinof Obscurity: Blank, who was and still is a well-
known member of the N.S.W. Assembly, was desirous of
reaching Borool, in a wavback part of his electorate, late
one night He and a friend rode thitherward across wild
and rough country per horseback. The whisky was
good and the pair made reasonable progress until they
were’stopped by a road maintenance man. “ For Gawd’s
saW’ said this individual, “don’t go any further. Them
two murderers, Jones and Digby Grand, are camped
of the dip. They’ll shoot yer.” “Will
they’” hissed the M.L.A. through his set teeth.
“ We’ll see about that. Come on. As a J.P. and a mili-
tary officer it’smedutvto arrest these desperadoes and
end this reign of terror." “Be careful, captain,” warned
his friend; “these men are desperate.” “Don’t you
worry ” exclaimed the valiant officer. “ Follow me, and
do as’l do.” So down the hill they went in a line of
three. Sure enough, at the end of the dip they saw a camp
fire with two men crouched drowsily beside it. Putting
spurs to his animal, the legislator was on top of them in
an instant. “Bail up!” he roared, and up went
their hands in terrified surrender. With the aid
of his companions, the member for the district
pinioned the arms of the ruffians with stirrup straps.
“ And now,” said he. “march 1 Borool police station is
where we stop.” Without a murmur the arrested men
set out, closely followed by their captors, and in due
time the lockup was reached. Here, as the brightest
writers of English literature say, “I draw a veil over the
scene that followed." The sergeant greeted the captives
as a couple of decent travellers whom he had known for
years, and it was his uproarious mirth that stalled off the
two ends and middle of a tornado of a row—that, and
what was left in the flasks, mixed with a large quantity
of apology. If you yell “ Bushrangers ! ” near that M.L.A.
nowadays he’lf tear your beard off in his haste.


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, N.5.W.
K6e LEADING
HOUSE
FOR.
CAN
B
BEAT
Sporting Goods
Fishing' TacKle &, Tobaccos.
SEND FOP OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more,
ANGLERS!
The Australasian Fishing Tackle Catdlogue
IS NOW READY.
By far the Largest and Most Comprehensive Fishing Tackle
Catalogue ever published in the Southern Hemisphere.
Full of interest from first page to last.
Every disciple of Walton should possess it.
We know that YOU would like a copy.
CALL OR WRITE for one—GRATIS AND POST FREE
... FROM ...
Mick Simmons, L™ TH2Z-
HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fasf. and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.— Richardson Ball-Bearing:
Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street. Chicago, U.S.A. Sole Distributing Agents
for Great Britain and Ireland —Messrs J. 0. Plinmton & Co.. Liverpool.
‘RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
s
df
sdf
The Auto Strop
is the only Safety
Razor that can be kept
sharp without the ex-
pense of new blades.
The automatic self-contained stropping arrangement
ensures the keenest possible edge for every shave—
cannot be stropped wrongly —no blade-changing—
nothing to take apart to strop or clean. The
.4iiio&ti t op
Razoß
Stropsßself
and is far quicker, handier and cheaper than a no-
stropping razor —finished like a piece of fine jewellery.
The Standard Outfit consists of quadruple silver-plated, self-stropping razor ;
one dozen specially tested lancet-sp el blades ; one horsehide strop ; the whole
contained in handsome leather case, size 2 in. by 3! in. The price complete is
25/-
and no
further
expense.
You
cannot
strop it
wrongly.
Insert the strop *n the
AutoStrop Safety Razo-—
movrt the Razor to and fro—-
the blade reverses automati-
callv at the end of each stroke,
thus stropping it'clf— in an
jnstant you ha*e a kcsn edge.
Sold by all high-class dealers. You see it
everywhere.
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., LTD.,
The Rialto, Collins Street, Melbourne; and
222, Clarence Street, Sydney.
FURSKINS ARE BRINGING BIG PRICES!
TO GET THE BEST RESULTS SELL YOUR LOT THROUGH
New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY.
Experts Carefully Supervise the Handling of Each Consignment.
[1
BOV R I L
The Supreme Achievement in Beef Concentration.
INFINITELY SUPERIOR TO MEAT EXTRACT OR BEEF TEA.
BOVRIL is supplied to the British Admiralty and War Office, the India Office,
and is used in over 2,000 Hospitals.
BY APPOINTMENT TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KING
ooNorj
NEVER
LEAK,
RO OFING-
CONGO stands unrivaled as the most durable, complete and satisfactory Ready
Roofing for all kinds of buildings and for all purposes.
Its peculiar and special coating on both sides makes it absolutely non-decaying.
Congo is unaffected by climatic changes, weather, heat or cold. It will not
leak nor rust, crack, shrink or swell.
It is as pliable after years of hard service on your building as when laid.
It is easy to lay, inexpensive and satisfactory.
A Sample will give you a good idea of what Congo Roofing is like
We send it free on request.
Use Congo Damp Course to damp-proof foundations and cellar floors. Simple free.
C. C. DELMAR, Box 1740, C.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W., Australasian Representative for
“CONGO.”
NOVES BROS., Svdney & Melbourne; MILLARS’ KARRI & JARRAh CO
LTD., Perth; HARROLD COLTON & CO. LTD., Adelaide.
Prompt Relief
froro Rheumatism
r
LUMBAGO, SPRAINS,
AND ALL ACHES AND PAINS
Assured by Applying
$T JACOBS
Sold everywhere.
STOP DRUDGING
sdf
u
I N
YAAOE-MAAh
Don’t work yourself to death
cleansing and polishing furniture
in the old-fashioned way, with
soap and water or varnish.
3-in-one Oil removes spots,
scratches and scars from piano
cases, fine furniture and all var-
nished surfaces easier, quicker
and better than any furniture
polish. It brings back the
original lustre, dries quickly
and gives a bright, lasting finish
Write'for free sample to
REID & REID (Dept. A ), Australasian
Representatives—Wellington, New Zealand.
Ladies’ and Gent’s Watches FREE.
*SS
*•1
Test your Size.
Send us your Number,
Solid Sterling Silver
sd
fsd
f
BSS©
sdf
Rings FREE
IF THEY FIT YOU.
They are not made 'of brass, tin or white metal, but are
Guaranteed to be I PURE STERLING SILVER through-
out, STAMPED and WARRANTED, and are sold retail
from 2s 6d to 4s 6d at all jewellers. THESE RINGS ARE
FREE IF THEY FIT YOU.
HOW TO WIN ONE.
Cut out the inside of the Rings marked No. 1, N 0.2, and
No. 3, and try on any finger of either hand, forward us
the number of the one that fits your finger, and we will
immediately forward one of these SOLID SILVER RINGS
W/Ay/AJ^
M OTHER
!PgrKIA-ORA
FREE. With the ring we will send you also FREE 12 of our NAME or MOTTO BROOCHES (as illustratedlfor
Distribution Among Your Friends. These Brooches, which are very strongly made (acid proof), and unique in
design, are sold Sydney Price 2s. each, and WE GUARANTEE THEM to be the BEST VALUE IN BROOCHES
EVER PLACED ON THE MARKET.
All We Reauire You to Do is t® place these Brooches among your friends and collect Is. from
— . ■ • ■ each. Return us the 12s. collected, and We Will Send You FREE
A RELIABLE WATCH and CHAIN (Lady’s or Gent’s!
OR ANY OTHER PRESENT PROM OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST which we will send with tho Brooches*
Remember, We Require No Money Afl^J» a «, noe '^ Simply -n send ? s J .r u e ? ram ° and Full
—■ . " Address, and we will send the Solid Silver Ring
and the 12 Brooches by return mail, postage paid, at our own expense. We know you will HAVE NO TROUBLE
in SELLING THESE BROOCHES, owing to their Excellent Value, or we wouldnot go to the expense of smding
them. We send them out at our own risk, and if you are unable to sell the 12 we will reward you according
to the number disposed of by you upon you returning us the balance unsold.
All letters must be
addressed direct to
the Sole Manufac-
turers,
Jewellery Supply Co.
Pitt-st, Sydney.
N.S. Wales.


Liver Trouble
AND CONSTIPATION CURED.
Bile Beans Are tHe Friend of All
Liver Sufferers.
<< DILE BEANS are a real boon to me,” says
D Mr. G-. Tipping, a ’bus-driver, residing
in Chester Street, Teneriffe, Brisbane.
“Through the nature of my occupation I am com-
pelled to be constantly sitting, and consequently my
liver gets sluggish and the bowels irregular and
constipated. The result of these disorders in the
bodily functions is that I suffer from attacks of
biliousness, with headaches, dizziness, nausea,
retching, loathing of food, and a sickly, done-up
feeling, which takes the sparkle out of life and
makes work a drudgery. Acting on the advice of a
friend, to whom I confided my feelings of indis-
position, I tried Bile Beans for these troubles, and
they proved to be the very remedy I required, for
they quickly cleared my liver, opened the bowels,
dispelled all the nauseous, bilious feelings, braced
me up, and improved my ge.ieral bodily health
wonderfully.
MBGEO.TIPPING
“Now, should I suspect any symptoms of biliousness coming on me, I
always go to my box of Bile Beans, and a dose or two never fails to
immediately relieve and rid me of the trouble.
“I always have a good word to say for Bile Beans, and recommend
them to others whom I sometimes hear mention of feeling unwell.”
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
RHEUMATISM-HOW TO CURE IT.
Rheumatism is directly due to bad digestion,
which pollutes the blood with acid impurities.
Exposure to cold, etc., brings the trouble to a head
by crystallising the acid in the joints or muscles.
Plasters, etc., only dislodge the pain, they do not
remove the cause. Bile Beans get right at the root
of the trouble. They set the digestion right, stop
the supply of acid, cleanse the whole system, and
banish the rheumatism thoroughly and perfectly.
Bile Beans are
a natural and
proved remedy for
indigestion, bil-
iousness, liver
trouble, constipa-
tion, stomach dis-
orders, piles, liver
chill, general de-
bility, a n as m i a
and female ail-
ments. Of all
chemists and
stores at Is. lid
<~nd 2s. 9d. per box.
PAINS IN THE BACK.
When the nervous system is run down, every
particle of the spine is weakened, and a pain in
the back is a sure sis'll that disorder of the
kidneys or some dangerous ailment is attacking
you through your weakest part. A course of
Bile Beans banishes such pains and strengthens
the organs, and promotes recuperation of the
whole system. Bile Beans should be taken the
moment pains in the back assail one.
He
eans
“It Stopped
My Cough.”
m
A REMEDY OF 60 YEARS* STANDING.
Allcock’s
ggggg PLASTERS
Apply Wherever There Is Pain.
Equally effective for
Rheumatism, Backache, Weak
Chests, Colds, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Stiffness of
Joints or Muscles,
Sprains, etc.
Suld by Chemists Everywhere.
dsf
H*i at aM STT3
WHO HAVE USED “H E LA"
SAY IT IS MAGIC <^s —
We say “ HELA remov'es pain immediately and cures diseases. It supersedes
poultices and ointments, stops bleeding instantly.
EASILY APPLIED, DOES NOT IRRITATE, IS CLEAN arid EFFECTIVE.
Before giving up hope or undergoing an operation for anything, try
Dr. H. F. Bell’s Wonderful Remedy, “HELA.”
Used internally for ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, RHEUMATISM, NEURALGIA, etc.
Externally for ABSCESSES, BURNS, ECZEMA, EYE COMPLAINTS, RHEUMATISM, PILES, etc.
Senator M’Greoor says:—“l have .used 1 Hela,’ and everything in your pamphlet'has been fully verified in
respect to myself. It only wants to be once used to become popular.”
Extensively stocked by The Big Store, Foy & Gibson’s, Civil Service Society, Cole’s Book Arcade, and all Medicine
Vendors. A booklet containing full information and testimonials sent anywhere on receipt of a penny stamp.
Price 2/6 per bottle, or by post 3/6, from “HELA” DEPOT, 295 Malvern Road,
We ask you to give “ HELA ” a trial. Tel. 290 Yarra. South Yarra, Vic.
Hotelkeepers!
Storekeepers !
Confectioners!
m
Make your own AERATED WATERS with an
“AUSTRAL”
Aerated Water Machine
at a cost of 4d. per dozen.
Requires only ONE (unskilled) MAN to work it. No special
■ bottles. Aeration superior to k,ny others. Catalogues and
full particulars from the SOLE PROPRIETORS :
Frlrorvlov fl 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne
I'Uieiaiey oona, and 3 Bond street, Sydney.
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, 108-110 Eagle St., Brisbane.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Cliff Street, Fremantle.
S. G. BILLOWS, c/o New Zealand Express Co., Wellington
and Invercargill.
AULD & SONS, Gilbert Place, Adelaide, S.A.
Missus Grundy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AFTER “ Progressive ” females, all strident
for a vote—
I saw the Advanced Flatbrea.st in her
bloomers and her coat
She cursed old Missus Grundy, and she said she
would be “free
(Although the sex relation is much older than the
So /interviewed Dame Grundy, and I asked her
for the facts,
And she gave me her opinion in a style not used
in tracts.
“My fine, deep-breasted mothers, I hold fast for
the hearth,
Mv wide-hipped, pudent daughters, I guard at
stead and garth ;
The tender, breeding woman I safely keep at
home.
That he she loves may see her star through all the
fogs that come.
I am the roof-tree of the house, the lintel and the
eaves,
I ward the sacrednes3 for which the home-man
barn 3 the sheaves.
I am the Symbol of Custom ! lam the Moral
Sign !
And the Child of Strength and tenderness is not
man’s, nor woman’s, but mine !
I send the man to the world’s end, in his house I
keep his wife,
That he may win from the stranger, though the
stakes in the game be life ;
That the child of his strength and her tenderness
may live in a bettering world,
The steam will not rest in the loco’s breast, nor
the galliot’s sails be furled ;
That the son may better the father and be bettered
again by his seed,
I send the Sire to the Wilderness—all for the
good of the breed !
I make him strong and reckless—l make her re-
served and true —
For the sake of those who come after she endures
and he must do !
I tie the knot by the parson, I add unto love—
respect!
(Born the right side of the blanket—these are the
World’s elect.)
[ give them a name for distinction—l give them a
Nay-word for pride—
That the Pride and the Name may ward off
shame, and be bucklers at their side.
When the dominant old Adam makes my strong
ones to stray,
I lash them in scorn, from mirk to morn, through
the mire of the labent way ;
I prink them with musk and vermilion, that the
world may them know and flail
With the rods of Public Opinion—with Mother
Grundy’s hail.
As Nature or Missus Grundy, Custom or Moral,
or Use—
By all these names I ward the breed ; I kill the
breed’s abuse.
That he may learn his lesson —that she may know
the rule,
I teach the exiled lovers my patience in my
school.
I give to them the yearning that makes a strong
new birth
When newly met from wanderings through all
the loveless earth ;
He leaves her there all roral-eyed—emulcent as
the dew —
She learns to be true in loneliness, that she may
enwomb the true;
He knows to be strong in his yearning, through
the day and the night-watch long,
To fit him to sire the tender, and be father to the
strong.
So ever and ever I labor—making the woman
more sweet—
Making the man more manly —steering his blun-
dering feet
With a pillar of flame in the night-wane—a pillar
of cloud by day—
Light for the lilies of love to bloom for the man
on the Outer Way.
The woman, unto the distaff ! The man, to the
wheaten lawn !
In the game of life I play for the breed —I use
you but as a pawn !
And your guerdon and gain for the service shall
be ripe and full content,
And your life again in your children shall pay
you usurer’s rent.
Love and be true to yourselves, and your wage—
self-made, self-paid
Be a child kidnapped from the choirs of Heaven
in love’s transilient raid.
Like wine, I may play you falsely; but, like
wine, I set free the truth ;
Somewhile I play the Pharisee, but I’ve less of
hate than ruth.
But my women must love and suffer —my men
shall revere and do ;
To the lewdster I throw a sonless name —and the
wanton I give her due.
I shall give to the lover his love that shall feed
him, and be his breath ;
That shall hold up his wife in her birth-pangs,
and outstare all the brows of death !
When the world and I were very young your
present sins were mine—
From my experience grew your Use, your Custom
and your Sign—
I doom and I deal you to cleanness ; and my ban,
when your sin is done,
Shall fall in sores on your hansel —on the milk-
white skin of your son.
Leave my ways in a passing joke—break my laws
but in jest—
And ye take the chance of the Mark of the Beast
in the child you shall love the best.
lam no whipping bearward—l punish you not in
sport;
But I want your best of you for the Breed—your
best, not your weary ort!
I will have none of your Frenchness—you must
love in bud and blowth,
And welcome each child as a gift of God, and
gladly till each mouth ;
I am your yearning mother, and I’ll flog you if
you sin;
And I’ll kiss you if you try aright, and I’ll crown
you if you win !
Thus, working for the common good—to leach
life's wine from draff,
And make earth one cheerupping cup where all
who will may quaff ;
And thus have I my long reward—though neve,’
my task be done—
Helping clean love to love as true as beggar’s
benison.
Unto my children who obey, love’s measure brims
the coomb,
And they who sin against me have their disuse
for their doom.”
VICTORIA.
RANDOLPG BEDFORD.
Canvassing for Life.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THEY seem fine fellows who travel for
life associations. I meet lots in my wander-
ings. They are pleasant talkers, and have
such funny stories to tell. At first, you would think
they had taken a violent fancy to you. You
would never think they were “ travelling for life ’’
until they hand you a card. By that time, how-
ever, you are fairly tied up. You read the paste-
board and grow weak about the knees, and a
clamminess breaks out over your spine, and you
look wildly at the door. You can’t shift, though,
and a strong sense overcomes you that you are
going to do something foolish, maybe ruin your-
self. It is a terrible feeling to have.
Underneath the successful canvasser’s silky
manner must be a magnetic pull as strong as a
steel hawser. He requires the suavity of a shop-
walker with a tongue like a house on fire, and it
must grip like a man-trap. Furthermore, he
wants a resolution which will not be rebuffed
when thrown down stairs or set on by bull-dogs.
In short, he must be impervious to insult.
I went canvassing for a life office once, or,
rather, mine was a death office. If you paid
in sixpence a week till you died they would pay
your funeral bill and give you a hundred pounds
to carry on with. When the manager told me
about it I felt sorry my grandmother was dead.
There was another fellow with me, a Poverty
Pointer, who told the man that he’d get the
public wholesale, as he was a student of accent.
The way to do business, he said, was by inflec-
tion—that is, by just knowing when to empha-
sise the right word. He was passed out. As
for myself, I told the manager that I was one of a
large family who would all join just to give me a
start in life, and, moreover, I would take out a
policy myself when I began to earn money. I got
the job.
I began in Riley-street straight away. The
first knock brought a nice-looking woman to the
door. She was one of the sweetest-faced women
I ever saw. Sorrow had never clouded that lovely
brow. I had never been a talker, but I knew I
could talk here. And my flow of language fairly
astonished myself. I gave her 39 reasons why
her husband should join our death office, and told
of the countless thousands of widows who were
cadging for a crust or taking in washing,
because the breadwinner had not taken
out a funeral policy. When I could think of
no more to say 1 paused, thinking it about up to
her to say something. Then she said, “No,
thank you. We get all our tea from the Celestial
Produce Co., and we are quite satisfied.” Then
she gently : but firmly shut the door. I went
straight home. It unfitted me for the day.
Next mortiing I started in Pyrmont. I picked
on a street which looked good for business, and
commenced to work it systematically. No. 1
slammed the door in my face. I didn’t mind. I
knew she was bathing the baby, and, besides, it
was one way of letting me see that no policy
could be got there. In fact, I was expecting that
sort of reception, and intended getting my foot
in the passage to keep the door open. A woman
came to the door of No. 3 with a sick baby in her
arms. She said it had marasmus, or some disease
with a name like that, and it also suffered with con-
vulsions. I managed to get the child insured, yet I
was half afraid it would die before I got my com-
mission. No. 5 abused me for muddying her white
step, and No. 7 nearly threw her arms round my
neck, she was so glad to tell somebody about her
indigestion and what she used for it. After an
hour of sympathetic listening I left in disgust
because I couldn’t get a word in edgeways. The
odor that blew out of house No. 9 nearly knocked
me down. While I was in the gutter, reaching
out for some fresh, new atmosphere, No. 9 swore
at me for bringing her out on a fool’s errand. I
would have told her to take a bath, only I was
afraid water would prove fatal.
There was nothing to be done after what I had
breathed at this place, so I went across to a black-
smith’s shop and asked the smithy to come and
have a drink with me. He scratched his head
thoughtfully for a few seconds, and said he didn’t
mind if he did. Then it occurred to me at the bar
that I might get him; but he told me to go to
No. 37 up on the hill—there was a man living up
there who couldn’t resist us blokes. “He’s mad
on policies,” he said. To make sure that I
wouldn’t miss the house, he came right to the gate
with me, and picked up a few fellows on the way.
They waited. Some men go mad on life agents.
They keep bull-dogs loose about the premises, and
have a loaded walking-stick in the hall, handy. I
am not blaming them, but merely stating a fact.
It was one of these men they had sent me to.
Before I had said a dozen words I knew there was
going to be trouble. He was a man all hair and
long teeth. No office would have taken him at
any price. For two seconds he glared at me,
probably looking for where my guard was weakest,
and then started t® fandango round me, his teeth
looking like the tombstones in a crowded ceme-
tery. Then he assaulted me. Not much ; I
didn’t give him time. I kept my dignity ; hut it
was a long way to the gate. Then I looked back.
He was waving his arms about in the air. shout-
ing : “I don’t want nolle o’ yous coves here ! I
won’t have yous about the place ! It’s a put-up
job, that’s what it is!” “Well,” I said, “why
don’t you put up a notice i ‘ All trespassing life
agents will be shot’?” Such a serious mob had
collected. There was not a smile in the lot, not
even on the blacksmith, who solemnly advised me
to summon him. “ But I thought you’d er put up
er bit of er fight,” he added.
I went down to the office and gave up my billet.
The manager refused to pay me the commission
on the baby.
ROBERT BROTHERS.


KIDNEY TROUBLE affects PEOPLE DIFFERENTLY
Though no two persons alike are
affected in precisely the same way by
kidney disorder, the danger is always
equally great. One man may suffer
from pains in the back and loins, or
from rheumatism—another may have
urinary troubles, and his eyes may be
puffy and swollen; one woman may
notice heart irregularity, she may be
sleepless, nervous and despondent
her neighbor may have all the
symptoms of dropsy, gravel or stone
in the kidneys. It depends on the
sufferer’s constitution and the nature
of the impurities kept back in the
body by «the blood filters the
kidneys.
Doan’s Backache
Kidney Pills
should be taken at the FIRST
sign of anything wrong.
They are the reliable medicine for
every disorder caused directly or in-
directly through kidney weakness or
inflammation; they drive out the
uric acid that irritates the kidney
membranes and clogs the passages.
Doan’s Pills help the kidneys in their
great blood-filtering work, and give
tone to the whole kidney organism.
te 'fi.j-oq.s w SYLdq. Qdmq.o'id )f
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by
all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2/9 per
bottle, or posted free by Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Sydney People Cured,
A SYDNEY WOMAN.
Mrs. S. O’Rourke, 39 Griffin Lane, Surry Hills,
Sydney, says “ For nine years I’ve been troubled
with the kidneys. In that time I used all sorts of
remedies, but the first to do me good was Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills ; these were AJL I used to
get pains in the back and across the shoulders, hot
flushes of blood to my head, burning pain under
the eyes ; I was frightfully nervous, and had palpi-
tation of the heart. Regarding the pain in my
back, after stooping I would have to ease myself
up. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills started to
relieve me when I had taken a few doses. After I
had taken them for a week I felt so well that I
forgot to take them. Anybody who needs a kidney
medicine should get Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills.”
Mrs. O’Rourke confirms the above seven years
later:—-“I am still free of every distressing
symptom mentioned above, and have been ever
since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me,
seven years ago. This remedy is unrivalled for
the cure of kidney ailments.”
A SYDNEY MAN.
Mr. William Carroll, sen., 749 Harris Street,
Ultimo, says :—“ Some time ago I strained myself
pushing some heavy trucks, and soon noticed the
effect in the small of my back. For three solid
months I was unable to work, I had a very lame
back, and a dull pain through the loins and the
kidneys, and my secretions became unnatural and
irregular. I used Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
and obtained wonderful relief. I am so much
better, I can now do heavy work. lam firmly
convinced that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are
a true kidney remedy, and I never fail to recom-
mend them among my friends.”
Mr. Carroll makes a second statement:—“ I am
still well, and have never suffered with my kidneys
since Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me
eight years ago.”
DOAN'S
Backache
Kidney
PILLS
The Magic Cup.
[FPR THE BULLETIN.]
MY heart was like an empty nest;
The bird of joy had flown ;
The lark that carolled in my breast
In other years was gone.
The blue sky still was o’er my head ;
The green earth ’neath my feet;
But I was cold as are the dead,
Hid from the sunshine sweet.
For day and night, and earth and
Their secrets kept from me ;
The door of Life was closed, and I
Had lost the golden key.
As I lay in a greenwood glade
A voice spake in my heart—
“The merry world for Youth was made;
’Tis time now to depart.”
I saw Love through a sunlit gap
Pass slowly in sad guise ;
A faded rose was in his cap.
And dim were his young eyes.
Then came a Lady robed in green ;
Exceeding fair was she ;
A light was in her eyes serene
Like starlight in the sea.
Her hands were white, her lips were red,
A brimming cup she bore:
“ This is the wine of Youth,” she said,
“Drink deep, and sigh no more.”
Methought the silent trees with all
Their leaves were listening,
Each bird paused in his madrigal,
The stream forebore to sing.
And then a Stranger, woe-begone,
With staff in hand came by ;
His hair was grey, his face was wan :
“Take thou the Cup,” said I.
He took the Cup, drank deep and long,
Then looked at me and smiled ;
The trees broke into bloom of song,
The stream laughed like a child ;
The greenwood glooms were all alight,
As if with magic fire,
And gleamed like elfin lamps the bright
Red berries of the briar.
Love lay in the Green Lady’s lap
And kissed his hand so gay ;
The rose was glowing in his cap,
His eyes shone like the day.
And at my side the Stranger stood
Transfigured gloriously,
And hand in hand we left the wood :
“ I am thy Youth,” said he.
VIOTON J. DALEY.
The Bag of Wind.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.)
WILLIE could tell, without notice of
motion, the year Carlton first won
the flag; and he knew better than
“Observer” or “Old Boy” how many goals
Adam Gardener kicked in the Bow and Arrow
Period. He had figures and fine points on ice in
the recesses of his brain, like sheep in a freezing
chamber. If you said something while Willie
was in the danger zone, he would turn on the tap
of reminiscence. It was then a case of turning
your trousers up or taking to the boats. Willie
used to wake up his life partner in the small
hours to inquire if she remembered whether Ken-
nedy was in the team on Saturday. He taught
the children to remember the team with papa
and mamma in their prayers. Three days a week
Willie spent saying “Just what I told you,” or
explaining how the Robber who got two gold
ones for blowing the whistle had a bit on the
other side. Three days more went in expert
opinions on the coming game, with choice scraps
of inside information, and in absorbing “ Gossip.”
Willie knew just how much each man in the
other teams got before going out, and betted that
Casey arid Busbridge and Bill Lang didn’t really
play because they wanted to. Willie would pass
the word that he knew for certain that none
of his team got a tram fare out of the gate.
He could say by rote the gold mines and
warehouses that each one managed. They were
all lily-white “ Amachewers.” On the seventh
day Willie was not responsible. He got to the
ground early. Then he would. stand on one leg
and tell people things, and ask others what did
they know about it anyway? As the team came
out he would put his hands together and lead the
applause. He gave the other boys Nothing.
Then Willie would glue his eye to the green
sward and make faces, and do an eccentric dance
that would make Fred Leslie look cheap. He
would yell to each man what to do, and offer
advice free in a loud voice. He told Teddy to
kick their ribs in, Harry to pass him one to go on
with, and Bill to down the cow. But if Teddy
himself got hoisted Willie grew red. He said it
was a brutal assault, and that a man like that
would murder his mother for one-and-six. The
whole side ought to have the indeterminate passed
on them. Then Willie would offer to fight the
crowd, though Willie couldn’t really fight his
way through a fog. After patting the Heroes on
the shoulder when the bell rang, he would go
home with a voice like a rasp file and tell his
wife, who was busy making ends meet, all about it.
After a while Willie got so enthusiastic that the
boss realised it was a pity to let the ledger inter-
fere with Willie’s football, so gave him 25 years’
leave. Willie put it down to the fact that the
boss lived in South Melbourne. Willie’s wife
shed tears and said they were in for a hard
winter. Instead of looking for toil, Willie spent
the afternoons watching the champions practising
punts and pretty passes. One day a sympathetic
friend came to break the news. Willie realised
that something was wrong. “Is Elliot crook?”
he inquired, “or has Mallee Johnson got hurt ? ”
“Guessed wrong,” said the comforter. “The
happy home has been seized.” Willie heaved a
sigh. “Is that all?” he asked, relieved. “I
thought one of the boys might have been out of
the game.” ,
One day a locomotive took a mean advantage of
Willie when he had -his back turned. Willie
went to sleep for three days. The sweet girls
with the cuffs and collars knew it was a case.
Willie was near the end of his game. At last
he opened his eyes. They told him it was all
up. Willie made an effort to speak: “Just my
luck—and Oarlton plays Richmond on Saturday.”
Then they heard the rattle in his throat.
CHARLES P. SMPTH.
In Session.
[FOR THEB BULLETIN.)
THE stranger sidled up to me, and in a
voice that implied profound awe and sur-
prise said : “ Can you tell me what this
gathering is and means?” I was about to reply
when a thin, long-whiskered man, becomingly
dressed in a pair of dungarees, plentifully coated
with clay, a paget coat with one tail missing, a
rabbit-skin waistcoat, and a snake-skin belt, rose,
banged on the table, and then addressed the
meeting :
“Friends and fellow-liars of The Bulletin
Aboriginalities Column, theblanky meeting is now
open. Trot up any business you have to transact,
any yarns that require confirmation, or any
specimens that require cataloguing. Anything
and everything connected with the Aboriginalities
Column.”
Instantly there was a stampede towards the
platform. “One at a time, please,” cried the
chairman. “Now you !” to a battler who
was carrying a hessian sugar-bag in one hand and
holding up a dust-covered chip in the other.
“Who are you, and what’s that you’ve got
there?” The party addressed made a grimace
at a younger and apparently less experienced
member, who was making loud and objectionable
remarks about the other, and answered : “ I am
Jimmie Pannikin, and this,” proudly waving the
chip for the assemblage to gaze upon, “is a piece
of the original goat and galah stew I ate at Binan-
donit, 10,000 miles beyond Godforgottin, which I
wrote to The Bulletin about.”
He dived into the sugar-bag, and brought forth
a miscellaneous collection that called forth cheers
and jeers from the assemblage. Amongst the latter
the loudest and most persistent voice was that of
the younger member before mentioned.
The chairman rose, and, fixing a glare on this
party, exclaimed : “ Bill Outback, if you interrupt
again, I shall be compelled to sentence you to a
term in the waste-paper basket.”
Bill Outback shrieked, fell back fainting, and
was carried outside.
Several members hurried up to the platform,
carrying small bottles containing Substances of
various hues.
“ What are these ?” asked the chairman.
“ The entrants for the smell competition,” was
the reply.
“ This is essence of decayed snake,” remarked
one, proudly, holding up his bottle: “the champion
effluvium of the universe.” '
Instantly there was an uproar and a chorus of
protestation, as each bottle holder made frantic
endeavors to withdraw the cork from his bottle.
“Hold !” cried the chairman, eyeing them in
terror. “The judging of smells is postponed.
Next,-please.”
The bottle-holders slunk back unwillingly to
their seats, and a member rushed up with a clean
sheet of white paper in his hand.
“Well! what is it?” inquired the chairman.
“ I have here,” replied the member, pointing to
the centre of the sheet, “ the soul of the meanest
cocky in Australia.”
The chairman put on his glasses and conned the
paper closely,
“Where is it?” he asked. “I can’t see any-
thing.”
“ It’s there,” replied the other, proudly; “but
it takes a thousand horse-power microscope to
see it.”
“ Passed ! ” said the chairman. “ Next, please.”
There was a rush of about a hundred members,
all clamoring at once.
Above the din the chairman’s voice could be
heard asking what it meant.
During a momentary lull a voice was heard :
“ They are each telling a true snake yarn.” After
some discussion the members were induced to
return to their seats, and business proceeded.
A member approached the chairman and
placed a sheet of paper in his hands.
• “What’s this ?” asked the chairman.
“The biggest sheep-shearing tally,” was the
reply.
Instantly 50 members rushed at the platform,
each waving a sheet of paper containing tallies.
The discussion which followed lasted half an
hour, and nothing satisfactory came of it.
For three hours there was a continuous proces-
sion of bushmen, both town and country,
up to the platform with fish yarns, magpie
yarns, fox, rabbit, bird, kangaroo, buckjumping
jimjam, slang, record-breaking, long-distance-
travelled-in-a-day yarns; wombat, worm, ghost
and hard-times-on-the-wallaby stories; Matilda,
miserable squatter, mate, Outback gates, good
bosses (very few), bad bosses (thousands), long
hours, (colossal), shorthoun, (hardlyany), bee, dog,
wood-chopping, big-wages-made-in-five-minutes,
mining, noxious weeds, been-manv-things-in-my-
time, blaekfellow, Chow, Afghan, cow, blank,
bullocky, biggest tree, liar, and worst drink tales;
best-time-of-my-life, worst-period-I-ever-put-in,
coincidence, you’re a liar, you're another, true,
damned, cat, dog, starved-by-the-neck or some-
thing like that. Hell, Heaven, parson, Devil, alli-
gator, weight-carrying, fight, funny hat, madman,
cranks, didn’t-get-home-for-a-week, haunted
house, George Reid, cabbage, Tommy Bent,
had-a-good-home-and-I-left, singing, father. Bill-
jim, the-girl-who-waited-for-me, jimmy Tyson,
the-girl-I-beat-the-other-bloke-for, boiling spring,
blow-hole, oyster, yorter-seen-the-other-chap-
after-I’d-done-with-him, cockatoo, insect and l-
uster-be-a-pal-of-the-cove-who-could-knock-spots-
off-some-other-Aboliar’s-blanky-blank narratives.
The stranger grasped my arm and said, in a
fainting voice : “ For Gord’s sake, take me out to
the nearest pub.”
I was just about to humanely accede to his re-
quest when there was a disturbance at the hall
door, and a voice like a Block Johnnie’s socks was
heard demanding admission.
The owner of the voice thrust his way through
the crowd on to the platform. He opened his
mouth :
“I remember the time when I was a young
feller. I wus ”
The stranger uttered a shriek.
“Tommy Bent’s ghost!” he cried, and stag-
gered outside.
The meeting broke up in disorder.
WANG.


sd
fsd
“ i was troubled greatly with
pimples on the face and neck,
which so-called blood medicines I
used did not remove. I then,
about two years ago, began with
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla and I have
not been troubled with the pim-
ples since. You can use this photo
and testimonial as you like.”
Miss B. Johnson, Adelaide.
Blotches, rashes, pimples, eczema, boils, are not sim-
ply signs of a little trouble on the surface of the body.
The real trouble is down deep in the blood itself.
AYER’S i arsaparilla
purifies the blood and brings back to the skin all its soft,
natural, and healthy condition.
As now made, Ayer's Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Look
out for imitations that will only disappoint you. Get “AYER’S."
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky,
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLO BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
m 2/9 & 4/6
fsd
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm In
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific In CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for invalids.
V.A.V.BtidgerreePort
Nature’s Gift.
V.A.V.
bEDGERREE
PORT.
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0. for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N S W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
Briti$l)=flu$trala$iatt
9*
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in Londoa
Price 6d«
POST FREE, £i per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Aostralasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address-
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for doughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
11/-EACM POST FREE 1A
{Quality Not Belter
| in a
' Gutnea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
Storekeepers* tobacconists
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE UST
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£b 10s. Sale Price.. .. .. __ ..£3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns," steel
locks, Walnut stock, rebounding locks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price ~ £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. .. .. ..£1 16 (
S Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £6 16 (
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, excellentstock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. £2 17 (
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price .. .. .. 13 c
All the above guns are complete" with ”Cartrid<qi
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, 6s. 0(1. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or'Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
skNrii
AflD'f,
I
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the sahie
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours. m
Each Capsule bears the name S*""
Yon Know What To Expect
in certain circumstances. All doubt is eliminated. The result is a
fore-gone conclusion. To persons in doubtful health this must surely
be welcome news : and yet how many spend good time and money in
useless experiments ! There is absolutely no excuse for this, because
in nearly every ease of ordinary ailments a cure can be easily effected..
When Yon Use
Beecham’s Pills you can safely predict the result. They have been
tried by so many people for so many causes, and in so many parts of
the world with such unvarying good results, that you knovfr what to
expect. This can be said of very few medicines. It is surely Consol-
ing when your food disagrees with you —or if you cannot sleep or ypu
are bilious and headachy— to know that all you require is a. course bf
Beecbam’s pills.
This preparation ensures the healthy action of the
Stomach, Bowels, Liver, and Kidneys.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price 1/IT (56 pills) 8; 2/9 (168 pills).
An Imperative Need.
Until you are free from the tendency to constipation you are
bound to suffer from the symptoms—torpid liver, inactive
kidneys, delicate stomach, loss of appetite, indigestion, bilious-
ness, headache, feverishness, and the rest. In your condition
Cockle’s Pills are an imperative need. They will not only
speedily ease you of the distressing symptoms named, but will
recruit the impaired system, repair the whole alimentary tract,
and minimise the liability to a congested state of the organs.
Don’t resort to drastic purgatives.
c
L
□
PILLS.
f
OTHER MODELS
From 7/6 to 40/-
sdf
(FOR A FREE CATALOGUE WRITE TO
ALLAN & Co.,
el bourne,
ELON&
- 1-
* a
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending: all over Aus-
tralia is a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your case
and I will advise you
honestly and without charge.
S.H.HENSHALL,
dfg
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne.
For your everyday use,
and your everyday
comfort, buy , . •
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Toilet Soap,
For you want a soap that is pure
and cleansing, you like a soap that
is pleasant and refreshing, and an
antiseptic soap like this, containing
10% pure Carbolic—an ample
proportion—protects you against risk of
contagion. Sold at Local Stores and
Chemists, in three-tablet boxes.
Makers, F. C. CALVERT & Co,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thiisault. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries & Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTSIHDIAH CIGARETTES
Difllanlty in expectoration. A*thma,WeiTotiBCongh«,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIM AULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Bold by all Chrmists.


-■ ; ~ :'
Perdriau’s Clearance Sale
sd
of Macintoshes.
15 per cent.—3s. In the £—off
our usual splendid Macintosh
values—that is surely a liberal in-
ducement for you to invest in a
Perdriau Macintosh without delay.
Here are some
SPECIAL BARGAINS:
White Rubber Coats, slightly
soiled, but nicely made and of splendid quality.
Maids’ size, full lengths, 36in. to 48in. Reduced Price
5/6. Clearance Price, 4/9. Women’s size, f lengths,
36in. to 46in. Reduced Price, 7/6. Clearance Price, 6/6.
Men’s Black Rubber Motor Coats. Double-breasted.
Few only in stock. Usual Price, reduced to 25/-.
Clearance Price, 21/3.
Gome in and get one to-day, or order by mail. Simply
state height or easy chest measurement over clothes, and
we will guarantee to fit you exactly. We pay the postage
direct to your home. O il, or write for our Price List
and Sample Book of Materials.
PERDRiAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
270 George Street, Sydney.
HEENAN g FROIIDE LTD.,
MANUFACTURERS OF
COMPLETE EQUIPMENTS FOR MINES,
HAULAGE and WINDING PLANTS,
WINCHES, THE “SCHIELE” MINE FANS.
Sole Agent: T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney*
±N3±Vd S<MOIO
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADt.
SEES
m
US
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Bardie & Do.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
BULLETIN
series, IY.. V., VI.
Piiclct-'t, of Ten. M.
POST CARDS—New
Packet of Twelve, 6d;
f
sdf
sdf
A real
Health
Tonic.
ds
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
“SENTINEL
JUNIOR.”
SIMPLE
ENGINE.
DIRECT
DRIVING
A DYNAMO
FOR
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING
PURPOSES.
ED
SENTINEL
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
fsd
Highest Economy
and Efficiency.
Special Designs to meet all requirements.
HIGH-SPEED ENGINES
Economical in Steam Consumption and Thoroughly Reliable.
HIGH-PRESSURE STEAM TRAPS
The Best Hlgh=Pressure Trap now in use.
Feed Water Filter 8 Oil Separator
Simple and Efficient, with large Filtering Surface.
J WILDRIDQE & SINCLAIR, Ltd 82 Pitt Street
-v:._
MS
m
THE
HORSE CLIPPERS
Give Wonderful Satisfaction.
Several Styles to choose from. PRICES from 6/9 to 11/6 each.
An Illustrated Booklet sent to any address in Australia—Free.
Sole Agents for Australia —DALGETY 8 COMPANY, LTD., Miller's Point, Sydney.
TEL.
(3236
(5221
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY SPECIALISTS.
WARBURTON, FRANKI & CO.
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE.
162 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
Castlereagh Chambers,
10 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
'Phone : City 2325.
THE MINE SMELTER
ENGINEERING and SUPPLY CO. LTD.,
Head Office : Castlereagh Chambers, 10 C&sitereagh Street, Sydney.
Telegraphic Address:
“ MINE SMELTER,”
SYDNEY.
We Manufacture
in Sydney
PERCUS
AIR hand) HAMMER DRILLS
■
and for Prices and Full Particulars shall be pleased to receive your inquiries.
LL-BORI
For Artesian Water.
A SELF-CONTAINED
WPLANT.
fd
Also
EMPIRE JUNIOR
t HAND AND HORSE DRILLS.
CALYX DRILLS FOR DEEP BORES.
SEND FOR TESTIMONIALS AND LIST OF USERS.
THE KEYSTONE.
Sole Agents and Manufacturers.
TRACTION AND
NON-TRACTION.
N.
RIDGE LTD.,
263 George Street, SYDNEY;
525 Collin Street, MELBOURNE.
