

DEWAR’S -All that a perfect Whisky should be.
The Bulletin
Yol. 31—No. .1568.1
[Thursday, March 3, 1910.
Begistered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
R. Gr. «SS CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining* and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
Stf&m .SxkttJx ir to. ter
Herbert’s
Ball=Bearing Drills.
EASY and QUICK DRILLING.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street, Melbourne.
HOBART.
tSfft
fiadleys Orient fiotel.
PIONEEP
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
</. C, Ludowioi & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
r -=\
" Take it back,
I must have -
HUTTONS
fine Apple Brand
df
CHUBB’S SAFES
for JEWELLERS.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
HANSENS
J
g
NOTICE
Junket made from these specially pre-
pared Tablets is recommended by numerous
doctors as being highly nutritious and
most beneficial for
INDIGESTION and
DYSPEPSIA.
Qfaatf, JB.
are
14
■j-tLtkrt.
THE SECRET OF IT’S POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
S$L <\\> a 4*
%>V ys y
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS IiSCRT.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
MAN
Non-Corrosive
Solid-Brawn
SPIGOT and
FAUCET
PIPES.
CHEAPEST and BEST for GAS and WATER MAINS. Write for our Booklets with Copies of Testimonials from users all over the World.
NOYES BROS. (Sydney) Ltd., 109 Pitt St., Sydney; NOYES BROS. (Melbourne) Pty. Ltd., 153-7 William St., Melbourne.
Qm*-
Shearing
Machines
ROBEY
Steam
Engines.
16 YOUNG STREET,
SYDNEY.
Our climate demands a cool, comfortable roofing that will keep a low temperature
during the hottest weather. WHITE MALTHOID is the most effective roofing,
and cannot fail to satisfy every requirement. It is cool to use and cool to
look upon. Write us for full particulars and booklet.
df
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE,' SYDNEY,
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE’ CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U?
gdfgdf
THE- CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES.
CREAM COOLERS, BUTTER FACTORY REQUISITES.
S 3 %t7s? r
uciinnii con mnp Please choose your “ SPA ” carefully.
\ DEWHBBST 8 HALLORAN, Ltd:,


The Red Page
IMPULSE.
What moves the people forward from the Slough
Not plunder-lust nor fear,
Nor stir they that they hear
Alarmistdrums where frenzied armies go.
What moves the people? Not the pangs that
start
The burnings’of regret
Whose fire fingers set
Their scorching “Calais” on the nation’s heart.
Slow impregnating dreams flow deep and-flood
The very mountain roots,
Exalt the gods a-nd brutes
Stirring all earth and spirit and all blood.
They bring the maiden from her love and call
Age to uplift the lamp.
To gird the soul and tramp
Out with the triumphing hosts that never fall.
What stirs the people from the dark despond ?
Not anger nor romance,
Nor the blown breath of chance,
But that firm gentle flame that burns beyond.
Who turns his feet toward the radiant light,
The songs of golden day
Flash swift beside his way,
And blue terrific wonders of the night.
Blood-hunger and Revenge have paid their dole,
And died, and now remains
O’er sunlit morning plains
Sounding, the noiseless clarion of the Soul.
VICTORIA.
FURNLEY MAURICE.
Fiction
H. B. Marriott Watson has deserted the
field of The Flower of the Heart , in which he
capably followed the lead of H. G. Wells.
Romance at Random (Sydney Book Club)
may be a temporary diversion in search of
coin, as it is a continuation of one of his most
successful books— The Skirts of Happy
Chance. The adventures of the irresponsible
and lucky Lord Charmian were delightful;
but now that he has become Lord de Lys and
keeps on doing the same kind of thing he
has not the same freshness or oharm. The
first episode promised well:
“ Let me put it this way,” said de Lys. . .
“Here,” he threw out a hand at the houses, “are
so many respectable frontispieces. Open them
anywhere and you will be sure of some interesting
reading—more or less. . . . Romance lies in wait
behind stuoco porticos, Freddy, if you only had
the sense to discern it.”
“Oh, it’s easy enough to say,” said Freddy.
“ No one can prove a negative.”
“I’ll prove a positive. I’ll engage to demon-
strate to you—hey, presto ! Freddy, I am going
to tap romance at its source. Look at that house
in the twilight, fading like a ghost into it—the
lamp lit in the fanlight, the gravelled path lead-
ing into the mouth of adventure. Watch rue. I
go to prove my theory to a dog of a Giaour.”
By this method of butting in at random,
de Lys contrives to get into an amazing
variety of adventures, and he comes through
them without disarranging a hair. All his
vivacity, however, does not prevent the
trick becoming stale before the end.
It seems that John Galsworthy published
anonymously two volumes of fiction in 1900
and 1901, and they attracted little or no
attention. Now that his name counts for a
good deal, it is printed on the title page of a
re-issue of the two volumes in on e—Villa
Rubein and Other Stories (Dymoek). The
first is a short “long story” of some interest.
The son of a Tyrolese peasant was born with
an ambition to be something better. As a
boy he worked hard and suffered, but was
regarded as a black sheep because he desired
to get away. “If people don’t understand
what you want to-do,” he said afterwards,
“they call you a loafer.” He wanted to be
an artist, and starved himself in order to pay
for lessons.
You work till you stagger; you’re cold and
hungry, you see rich people in their carriages
wrapped in furs, and all the time you want to do
something great. You pray for a chance, any
chance; nothing comes to the poor! It makes
you hate the world.
In this way he became an anarchist; later
on the police wanted him and he had to
clear ; but eventually he painted in peace.
As an artist he is introduced to the family
at Villa Rubein and falls in love. The love
story is not up to the level of Galsworthy’s
later work, though his sympathetic portrait
of the Tyrolese, hardened by the rough
handling of the world, yet cherishing the
passion of the artist, is well done and is
indicative of his early bent in the direction
of sociological studies. The other stories are
shorter and better, one of them being a
romantic episode in the career of 44 a man of
property,” Swithin Forsyte.
Dolf Wyllarde, in her book of Tropical
Tales and Others, has adopted a plan which
may be usefully extended. Her dedication
states : “In the Tropical Tales I have noted
the temperature in each case, for though
the tales themselves are not all placed physi-
cally in the tropics, -they are always mentally,
so.” The first story is marked “English
summer: Temperature, 86deg. in the shade.”
It is really more than that in places, and
some of the others are rather muggy ; but as
a rule she keeps within the temperate zone,
and only hints at the warmer region. Mark
Twain, in “ The A uerican Claimant,” put all
the weather of his story into a prefatory
note, and doubtless this lady means no more
than a similar convenience to the reader.
But if the degree of heat registered by the
English Library Censors after dipping them-
selves into the fiction mixtures submitted to
them, were marked in plain figures on
the covers of the books, it would be
a boon to young people who have to'
look after their parents’ reading. Be-
fore very long the Government Fiction
Analyst will be appointed under the Pure
Foods Act and required to furnish a detailed
analysis of each novel proposed to be
published. The time and place will be
shown ; also the registered formula that has
been followed. Symbols will be used to
represent the elements : A = adventure,
M = morality, S = suggestion, SI = slime, etc.;
also the proportions of H.J., G.M. (Mere-
dith), G.M. 2 (Moore), R.L.S.,etc. —which,
of course, are well-known combinations of
primal elements—Boccaccio, Balzac, Field-
ing, Dickens, etc. With this information
and the temperature, blown on the bottle,
as it were, the public would be amply pro-
tected, and the reviewer’s time saved.
W
Aileen Orr, a Sydney girl, scored a suc-
cess in London with her first book— Miss
Manners (Melrose). She has accomplished
the difficult task of telling a story which in-
terests kiddies while talking at them for
their good. The illustrations by Hassall are
excellent, and without them the book would
have had much less chance of attracting
attention amongst the multitude of “ Juven-
iles ” turned out at Christmas time. Miss
Manners is likely to become a nursery
classic.
One of the best of recent stories for girls
is Saturday's Children, by Winifred James,
who hails from Melbourne. According to
the oracle children born on Saturday are in
for a life of graft; and the two Australian
girls of the story find themselves up against
it at the age of 20. One teaches in a kinder-
garten, and the other runs a refreshment-
room, and both have a good time. The
story is told with the brightness which
distinguished Bachelor Betty.
Poetry’s Old Clothes
Rose and Vine, by Rachel Annand Taylor
(Elkin Mathews), is a volume of poems which
have all the external characteristics of the
best lyrics of the Victorian period. A deli-
cate and cultivated artist is handling the in-
strument, and the music is at times full of
tender melancholy, and at times rises with a
spiritual exaltation akin to that of Christina
Rossetti. The beauty of faded things appeals
strongly to Mrs. Taylor as to most feminine
natures, and the following lines are represen-
tative of a good deal, of her work :
LAMENTATION FOR PERISHED
BEAUTY.
Dream, dream of all the beauty marred
And overthrown—dream of deflowered
Pale campanili, evil-starred
Embroidered cities, arched and towered,
Angels that die on cloister-wall,
Proud statues wronged by brutish hands,
And moods of music rare that fall
From hush to hush,' and faery bands
Of dancing rimes that follow fast
The souls that wove, that loved them last,
And gracious myths, like clouds that pass,
Like faintlier pearling waves. Alas !
The heart must ache for their sweet sake.
She uses archaic words like “ bedesfolk,”
“chaudron,” “ypocras,” and is far too free
with the names of precious stones. This is
a weakness of many admirers of D. G.
Rossetti—the Stained-Glass School, as Sted-
man called them. Mrs. Taylor even trans-
lates the beauty of flowers into terms of
jewelry :
Like perishable pa-ssion-lilies all
Of pearl and topaz,
and poppies become 4 4 ruby-dropping dreams ”
in her Harvest Song :
I saw strong reapers going up
Unto the flowery Altar-stair.
Great golden sheaves above their heads
For God’s first-fruits they bare.
(But I had only poppies,
My frail, soft-falling dreams;
I strewed them o’er the temple floor,
For I was a dreamer of dreams.)
I saw fair women going up
With maunds of apples in their hands,
And branches hung with amethyst,
And grapes on golden Wands.
(But I had only poppies.
Vain, ruby-dropping dreams.
Yet with my store did I adore
The Dreamer of all the Dreams.)
There is still room for poetry of this kind, as
there is always room for a thing of
beauty, however small and reminiscent of
older and bigger things. But the Victorian
period is over, and everyone who cares for
poetry is eagerly looking forward to the rise
of a new school; at any rate, to new vigor
and fresh notes in poetry. Mrs. Taylor
knows that the Tennyson-Bossetti influence
has almost reached the dead finish, and in an
“ Appeal to the Artist” urges the poets to
go out amongst the poor. For her own part,
she will perish with the past:
If all the dream-like things are vain,
If all the strange delight and pain
. Of love and beauty cannot be
The heirs of immortality,—
Then shall I worship all the more
Those images I now adore.
If all things perish, it were best
To die with beauty,—-lie at rest
In her great drift of ruined roses,
With lovely songs to have our closes, —
Yea, as on some transcendent pyre
Of sandalwood, to pass in fire
’Mid broken alabaster, whence
Arise great clouds of frankincense,
Carved ivory and sard, and robes
Of purple dye, and magic globes
Of burning crystal, scattered gems
Like flowers, and holy diadems,
Papyrus writ with perfect rimes,
And lutes fulfilled of tender chimes,
And lucid cups all seriptured round
With slim white dancing gods vine-bound,
And agate lamps, whence tongues of light
Flare out into the endless night.
Ezra Pound’s study of the Provencal liter-
ature has led him to experiment in some of
the more intricate verse forms invented by
the Troubadours. Exultations contains two
specimens of the sestina, a form which con-
sists of six stanzas of six lines each and a
final stanza of three lines using up the end
words of the preceding six stanzas. Each of
the six stanzas has the same set of end
words in a different order. The strict form
is not likely to be popular in English, as the
rhymes are too far apart to affect the
ear. Here are two stanzas from Pound’s
“ Altaforte”:
In hot summer have I great rejoicing
When the tempests kill the earth’s foul peace
And the lightnings from black heav’n flash
crimson
And the fierce thunders roar me their music,
And the winds shriek through the clouds mad,
opposing,
And through all the riven skies God’s swords
clash.
Hell grant soon we hear again the swords clash !
And the shrill neighs of destriers in battle
rejoicing,
Spiked breast to spiked breast opposing,
Better an hour’s stour than a year’s peace
With fat boards,,bawds, wine and frail music.
Bah, there’s no wine like the blood’s crimson.
Some writers make the six lines rhyme
alternately on two sounds, and run danger-
ously near to a senseless jingle. The best
example in English is “ Sestina,” in Swin-
burne’s Poems and Ballads, 2nd series, where
there is also a double sestina—“The Com-
plaint of Lisa.”
In the English Review for January are
three canzones by Ezra Pound. The canzon
is a Troubadour form, more suitable to be
sung than spoken, as some of the rhyme
words are the same in each stanza. These
artificial forms, like the “boutes-rimes ” with
which the Rossettis amused themselves, have
their use as exercises, and occasionally some
genuine poetry is poured into them.
A collection of 79 love letters, written by
Alfred de Musset from 1837 to 1848, will be
published in the Revue des Deux Mondes
early this year. They were given by the
lady to the National Library on condition
that her name should not be disclosed and
that the letters should not be published until
after the beginning of 1910. On the morn-
ing of January 3 a crowd gathered at the
Library and saw the casket containing the
faded papers opened by Jules Troubat, who,
on behalf of the lady, had handed it over in
1880. Troubat told an interviewer :
They are love-letters in every sense of the term.
After the terrible storms of passion everybody
knows of, de Musset passed through a period of
happiness which exactly corresponds with that
covered by these letters, a period during which
he was tranquil in heart and mind and worked
hard. The unknown lady, whom he passionately
loved, exercised the best influence over him.
When I knew the lady in 1875 she was already no
longer young, but with the remains of her charms,
her luxuriant hair just turning grey. When she
made the acquaintance of the poet she was young,
in all the splendor of a dazzling beauty. She was
a widow when de Musset first saw her and was
struck with love at first sight. He had broken
with Georges Sand. The new liaison lasted li
years, and this period corresponds with that in
which de Musset produced the most and the best of
his work. After 1848 de Musset appears to have
completely forgotten his friend.
Paul de Musset’s biography of his brother
refers to an attractive young lady by whom
Alfred was stricken seriously in 1837, and
states that the afiair lasted two years and
passed without a cloud. There were other
44 serious passions ” after this, but de Musset
was quite capable of continuing the 1837
affair by correspondence while personally
conducting others, including the tragic one
celebrated in 44 Nuit de Decern bre.” As lie
was essentially a lover in life and art, his
letters should make good “copy,” and prove
more interesting than Prosper Merimee’s
rather dry epistles to an Unknown.
Lafcadio Hearn
The Atlantic Monthly is now publishing
some of the correspondence of Lafcadio
Hearn. The letters were addressed to Pro-
fessor Basil Hall Chamberlain, of America,
and were written from Kumamoto, Japan,
where Hearn was a teacher in a Government
school. His position, therefore, brought
him into the closest relationship with the
Japanese, and, on that account, his pictures
of their lives are intimate and distinct.
From the beginning one suspects that the
letters were the outcome of great mental seel u-
sion. Eachseems the childof a cloistered mind
—conceived in rapture, and bom in secrecy.
Most, if not all of them, were composed at
night, when he had the time and quiet to
spin his exultant thoughts in a civilised
tongue. He touched upon many things in
his quiet way —invariably with taste, but
sometimes with an almost naif simplicity.
A man who was indifferent to nothing and
could worship a button, he slipped from
topic to topic with a shy, almost shuddering
delight. In one letter we have reflections
on Japanese physiognomy ; in another a
reference to Shintoism; in another most
interesting admissions upon his habits of
work ; and in yet another a comparison
between French and Slavonic literature,
with allusions to Bourget, Merimee, Tolstoi,
and the morbidly powerful Dostoiefsky.
And throughout his letters are scattered
remarks that induce odd trains of thought:
I am beginning to doubt the ultimate value of
our boasted material progress —to doubt “civilisa-
tion” as a material benefit.
. , . An audacious idea has been taking visible
shape in my mind. It is this : That the larger
brained and nervously more complex races of the
West must give way at last to the races of the
East, and that Buddhism in some form will exist
after Christianity and Christian civilisation have
vanished.
European art does not seem to me to have ever
caught the Soul of Snow as the Japanese art has,
with its fantasticalities, its wizardisms.
Only once, however, does Hearn approach
an angry vigor. When he thinks of the East
becoming West, with the veneer of Paris and
the pride of Brixton, he writes in this
manner:
I detest with unspeakable detestation the frank
selfishness, the apathetic vanity, the shallow, vul-
gar scepticism of the New Japan, the New Japan
that prates its contempt about Tempo times and
ridicules the dear old men of the pre-Meiji era,
and that never smiles, having a heart as hollow
and bitter as a dried lemon.
Hearn beheld Japan, and, maybe, the
world neither as alien nor patriot. Some-
times one thinks he beheld them as a person
accepting all peoplesanddenyingall frontiers.
It were as if he saw the whole globe suburban
from an imaginary dwelling in a star. His
literary talent was undeniable and his obser-
vation abnormal. He was one of the rarer
spirits, of whom it may be truly declared :
there was nothing myopic about his vision
or second-rate about his views.
JBAN SIBI.
THE BULL ANT AND THE CORNET
PLAYER.
“I stung you,” said the Bull Ant to the
Cornet Player, withdrawing his sting from
the instrumentalist’s abdomen, and wiping it
carefully on his shirt, “ because you per-
sistently vex me by playing D sharp when it
should be D fiat. You ought to go back to
the five-finger exercise.”
“Outrageous insolence, and something,
ending in blitzen,” roared the Cornet Player,
jumping on his cornet with wrath and pain,
“if I could undo my tunic, I’d blow your
brains out.”
“ There now,” said the Bull Ant, burying
his sting up to the hilt again on just that
exact spot between the shoulders you can’t
reach, “you’ve ruined your nice shiny
cornet, and if you’re not careful you’ll be
damaging your wind.”
And attempting just then to sustain a
louder bellow than ever on the high B flat,
the Cornet Player split his larynx and
inflicted utterly fatal injuries on his wind.
Thus do the lesser creatures of creation
confer benefits upon humanity.
LES. R.
WE HAVE BOOKS on EVERY SUBJECT for EVERYBODY.
THIS WEEK WB PRESENT A SELECTED LIST OP THOSE FOR
ACCOUNTANTS, AUDITORS AND BANKERS, ETC.
ALL LATEST EDITIONS.
Barton, J.S.: 20th Century Bookkeeping-, 10s. 6d.; p. 11s.
(An Australian Book for Australian Jfeeds.) [p. 31s. 6d.
Dawson’s Accountants’ Compendium, now ed., 80s. ;
Dickeee’s A.B.C. of Bookkeeping, 25.; posted 2s. 4d.
Dicksee’s Bookkeeping for Company Secretaries, 65.:
posted 6s. sd. [posted 13s.
Dicksee’s Bookkeeping for Accountant Students, 12s. 6d.;
Dicksee’s Auditing, Bth edition, 255.; posted 265. Bd.
Dieksee’s Advanced Accounting, 3rd ed., 255.; p. 265. 6d.
Fieldhouse: Students’ Bookkeeping, 4s. ; posted 4s. 6d.
Key to same, 165.; posted 16s. 7d.
Fox ; Company Secretary, 305.; posted 325. Ip. 10s. Bd.
Inwood’s Tables for Estates, Annuities, etc., 10s. ;
Lawn’s Mine Accounts and Bookkeeping, 10s. 6d. ; p. 11s.
Lisle: Accounting in Theory and Practice, 18s.; p. 18s. 9d.
Nixon’s Advanced Bookkeeping, 3s. 6d.; posted Bs. lid.
Nixon’s Accounting and Banking, 10s. 6d.; post. Us. Sd.
Pitman’s Secretary’s Handbook, 65.; posted6s. Sd.
Pitman’s Bookkeeping Simplified', 2a. 6d.; posted 2s. lOd.
Questions on Banking Practice, 12s. ttd.; posted 18s. 4<J.
Seouller, J.: Practical Bookkeeper and Accountants’
Guide, 2s. 6d.; posted 2s. lid.
Seouller, J.; Practical Bookkeeping, Is,; posted Is. Bd.
Tan de Linde, G.: Bookkeeping, 95.; posted 9s. 6d.
Spencer, H.: Commercial Organisation of Engineering
Factories, 12s. 6d. ; posted IBs.
Thornton’s Manual of Bookkeeping, 7s. 6d.; posted Bs.
Yigar’s Station Bookkeeping, 7s. 6d.; posted 7s. lid.
The New Act Relating: to “Bills of Exohang-e, Cheques, etc.,” with Index, Price 25.; Posted 2s. 2d.
GEORGE ROBERTSON 8 CO. PROP., LTD.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATIONERS,
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or, other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Laneet Laboratory report is eonclusive evidence
<Jf the value of “ Eumenthol Jujnbes as an Antiseptic."
The Lancet says “ Proved to be as effective
baetericidally as is creosote.”
a
D.
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voioe.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold l»y all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
Agencies in all


It
w aee
We are Family Drapers, Manufacturing Jewellers, Complete House Furnishers and
Universal Providers, and our Immense Store, with its Magnificent Stock of the
World's Choicest Commodities, offers attractions that cannot be obtained elsewhere.
Write for Illustrated Price Lists of anything you want, posted free on application,
and reap the full benefit of ANTHONY HORDERNS' FAMOUS LOW PRICES .
No. 203—Perfume Spray,
Shaded Red and Shaded
Green Glass, Floral Design,
«/«•
No. 202—Perfume Spray, Green
and Gold Frosted Glass, Fluted
Design, 3/3.
1
Iso. 200— Perfume Spray,
Shaded Red and Gold
Designs, 3/9.
No. 205—Perfume Spray,
White Cut Glass, 5/9.
No. 201—Perfume Spray, Green
Glass, Fancy Floral Design, C/3.
No. .204—Perfume Spra.v,
Pale Pink Glass, Floral
Design, 6/3.
No. JBOOA —Shaving Set,
two China Cups, Shaving-
Brush and 6in. Bevelled
Glass on Nickel Stand, 16/6
No. 1709 X—Polished Oak Rack,
with Bevelled Glass Mirror,
Hollow-back Cloth and Hat
Brushes, 9/-
No. 1815—Shaving Set, Polished
Wood Base, with sin. Adjustable
Bevelled Mirror, Nickel Mug,
China-lined Bowl, and Brush,
13/G.
No. ISOilC—Shaving- Set, in
White Celluloid, with 6in.
Bevelled Mirror, Shaviny Cup
No. 1817X—Nickel-mounter] Stand, with
Bevelled Mirror, Nickel and Imitation
Marble-mounted Hair and Cloth
Brushes, 28/6.
No. 1817—With Embossed Nickel
Brushes, 28/6.
No. XBo3X—Shaving Set, in White
Celluloid, 6in. Bevelled Mirror,
China-lined Bowl, Brush and
Shaving Soap Case, £O/-
No. 4711 Soap, in White,
Helio'trope, White Lilac,
White Orchid, or White
Violet. Three Cakes in
Box for 1/-
No. 4711 Soap, Parma
Violets, Carnations of
Nice, Turkish Rose, or
Heliotrope. Three Cakes
in Box for 1/6.
No. 4711 Elysium Flower
Soap, in Fancy Boxes.
Charmingly Perfumed
Rose,Carnation, Orchid or
Violet. Three Cakes in
Box for 2/-
I
»
rS
Household Toilet Soap in
delicately perfumed with the scent of flowers
Specially Manufactured tor
ANTHONY HORDEBN & SONS
Universal Providers
= Sydney rrr
No. 4711 Cologne Scented Household Toilet Soap. Specially manufactured
for us. Large size, five Oakes in Box, 1/3.
No. 4711 Glycerine and Cucumber
Soap. Box of 4 dozen, 11/- ; per
dozen, 2/11 ; four cakes for 1/-
No. 4711 Buttermilk Soap, Box of
4 dozen, 11/- ; per dozen, 2/11 ; four
cakes for 1/-
ill
No. 4711 Rose Glycerine Soap, delightfully refreshing- and deliciously fragrant.
A balm to the skin. In lib. Bars, 1/3. In Jib. Blocks, 4Jd. each ; three for 1/.
No. 4711 Almond Cream Soap, lib. Bars, 9d. Bar.
No. 4711 Gonzoe Glycerine Soap, lib. Bars, 1/6 Bar.
The King Ansonia Black Walnut Clocx ;
Eight-Day ; Half-hour Strike ; Cathedral
Gong ; Height, 24in ; Dial, 6in. —
With Alarm .. .. 20/-
Without Alarm .. .. 18/6
as
m
The Triumph Ansonia Eight-uay Black
Walnut Clock ; Plate Glass Mirrors ; Silver
Cupids ; Half-hour Strike; Cathedral
Gong ; Height, 24in. ; Dial, 6in., 27/-
The Chopin Ansonia Marble Clock ; Eight-Day ; Half-hour Strike •
Height, 9Jin. ; Width, 15Jin. ; Dial, Sin., 50/- ’
Cathedral Gong;
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Anprape «« BOOKS.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
GREAT
BOOR OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
1908 Edition.
Vastly Improved.
The ONLY GENUINE -a®
UNABRIDGED EDITION.
3/6, Post Free 4/-
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
]/-. Wrkstling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, ]/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pa<res, 400 colored plates
and eiifrravinps, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 36, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
mr-AMD ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
cheap Conjuring tricks.
w
Marvellously Simple 1
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing' Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d.; post
free, Bd.
Tiik Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no oonfefierat.es and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
r JMCHESTER
MODEL 1906 .22 CALIBER
Extra Light Weight Repeating Rifle
The biggest value in a .22 caliber repeater ever
offered. It’s made well, shoots well and will
stand good hard use like all Winchester rifles.
It’s cheap in price but not in quality.
ASK YOUR DEALER TO SHOW YOU ONE.
m
I English Watches
Prize Awards.- London 1851, Paris 1889.
Lonpon IBGZ. Melbourne 1888, Kimberley 1892.
fl Certificate given
WITH EACH WATCH. ,
Cm
N
ROTHE
LON
RHAMS
DON
All Jewellers.
Ask to see our new
Illustrated Catalogue.
Combination Couch and Bed.
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4‘ 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY,
GREEN coupons given as a cash discount.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1549.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehol
City or Suburban Properties, or o
V c
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short, Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R.'j. Black, M.L.C.: The Hon. F. E. Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
Adrian Knox, E«q., K.C. General Manager ana Actuary : Richard Teece, F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respectiug the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful'country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets. Brisk*
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: ARCHIBALD MESTON (since Dec. Ist).
I
The Universal Kemedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections,
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
MAGNESIA]
The Association of Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
When ordering from Agents please insist
upon every article of plate being stamped:—
0 0® ©
King’s, Queen’s, Piddle,
Rat-Tail, Old English, Albany,
Qadroon and Fancy Patterns.
Crests and
Monograms
Engraved,
4s. per dozen.
4a.. I . .►'•■"“AidLii ; *,'!/<* ~ j-'~.iim_EurT
We have the
finest
selection of
CANTEENS
•in
LONDON,
prices from
£4 4s. Od.
£lOO.
Please write lor
SPECIAL
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET.
TOU CAN BUY FROM ENGLAND. Pay your Duty and purchase cheaper
and better than you are now doing. Write for our Illustrated Cata-
logue. 6,000 Illustrations Post Free to any part ol the world.
6, Grand Hotel Buildings, London, W.C.
For the NERVES and BLOOD
m
MR. TOM PA YNE.
NOTHING EQUALS
CLEMENTS
TONIC.
MR. TOM PAYNS, one of the, leading comedians
of the Cinderella Opera Co., Sydney, is high in his praise
of this great blood and nerve restorer, and writes of it as
follows :
Cinderella Opera Co.,
Criterion Theatre, 10/9/’O9.
Clements Tonic Ltd.,
“Since residing in Australia I have experienced great lassitude, nervousness and
lack of energy, due, I am sure, to your climate, new to me. In my profession nerve
strength and health are necessary to perform arduous comic parts. The strain is
always on the nerves to nightly satisfy the public. Finding myself run down and
far from well, I was advised to take your Clements Tonic (the recognised Australian
standard remedy for weak nerves), with the result that I now have splendid health,
a pleasure to enjoy. The invigorating, nerve-strengthening properties of your tonic
are undoubtedly beyond question.”
Witness-C. Lovely, JP. (Signed) TOM PAYNE.
Professional people should keep Clements Tonic always when travelling
or following their duties, especially in the hot summer months, when
the heat is oppressive and the nervous system prostrated. The effect of
its use will be to create good nerves and appetite, strengthen the system
and enrich the blood, giving immediate benefit. All chemists and store-
keepers sell it. 2s. 3d. and 3s. 9d. per bottle. Keep it always in the house.
Manufactured
solely by
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD., BALMAIN.


n
%
Why belaid headed and old look-
ing before your time? Neglect of
the hair causes dandruff, and dan-
druff is the forerunner of falling
hair and baldness. The remedy is
filer’s
%air Vigor
A gentleman residing at Dunedin,
N.Z., writes under date Jail. 7,1907:
“It is with gratitude I write you that I
have now a splendid head of hair, both thick
and very soft, all owing to my having used
your wonderful Hair Vigor. I was almost
bald headed before I used the Hair Vigor. I
still use it once a day, rubbing it well into the
roots of the hair. I used to wear a skull-cap,
and I am very grateful to Ayer’s Hair Vigor
for the improvement it has made in my looks.”
Be warned in time. Use Ayer’s
Hair Vigor and preserve your youth.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & o*.. M A.
N'ri
ill
TEN DAYS' FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money In full refunded withi ut qu< stion
if not perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles ,
•warranted five to ten year-', despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
LATEST
MODELS
£3nlo to £9
Coaster Hnbß, best makps of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Kim J rakes, variable gears
and all lates. Improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world.
ACTIVE, AGENTS
We guarantee safe delivery,
wanted in each district.
Large profits easilymade.
Write at once, using sufficient postage. f6t free art catalogues
and our noecial ojfer on sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO., Dept 280 Liverpool.
JAS. J. GILTINA Agent,
157 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
Always
Reliable !
Eley Cartridges
o;fer a degree of
accuracy and relia-
bility which the lead-
ing sportsmen of the
world have not been
slow to appreciate.
To Specify 'ELEY’ when buying
cartridges is the easiest and quickest
way of ensuring complete satisfaction.
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
W
a,
U9i
-
Above is shotyn the
Eley'44 Winches-
ter Central l'ire Rifle !
Cartridge.
Tlie Eley ‘ Univer-
sal,’ for Shot Guns, is
known throughout the
world as a reliable
black - powder car-
tridge,
‘Eley Smokeless’ is
the popular low-
priced cartridge.
Eley '22 Rim Fire
Cartridge, black &
smokeless powder
Of Gunviakers
and Dealers
lilev Bros.
2—
H.Hillier,
161 George St. West,
Sydney, N.S.W.,
Manufacturer, Importer.
Sporting Sulkies, £9 10s. Abbott Buggies, solid
leather trimmed, £3l 10s. Buggies, from £ll 10s.
Governess Carts, Phatons, etc. Send for illustrated
catalogue. Harness, per set, £3 11s. Double Harness,
£5 10s. Stock Saddles, £2 10s. to £4 10s.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Rough Seas.
Rough seas prevailed along the coast. At times the
wind developed considerable force, and vessels facing the
ordeal had their progress materially retarded. Small fry.
had to run for shelter.— Daily Paper.
Seas! Rough Seas! Watch them foaming down
the coast!
Right along the wet sea-ramparts see the white-
haired stormers leap !
Hark the wild sea-voices shrieking rouse the
courage of the host,
And they rush like fiends before it to assail
Australia’s keep !
Rank on rank the maddened forces follow blindly
towards the land—
Yawning trough and smoking hillock to the
close-drawn bounds of sight—
So they charge to the encounter with the rocks
and hissing sand,
And the shock and noise of battle fill with fear
the coming night.
Rough Seas!
Who’s afloat this night of terror on the wind-
lashed, creaming seas?
Seas! Greg Seas! Watch them charging.to the
West!
Swift, majestic, ruthless fighters rearing
proudly to the skies !
While the yellow foam runs creaming from each
tortured, toppling crest,
And the frightened gull wheels landward as the
last faint daylight dies.
Now the level sands are furroyed where the sea-
ward current sweeps ,/
And the headland rocks like soldiers stand amid
the flying spray ; v
Till from out the wild besiegers some great ocean
chieftain leaps
And in one great crash is shattered by, the
granjte streaming grey
Grey Seas!
Back into the ruck of battle gush the conquered,
broken seas!
Seas / Black'Seas ! In the pale moon’s misty light
From the hinterland of Ocean to the shrill wfiid-
' ' trumpet’s blast,
Come the sable squadrons leaping through the
veiled and shrieking night,
And the massed and racing forces sight the
fighting line at last;
Larger than the sunlit vanguard are the warriors
grim and black,
With the gathered strength of travel from a
thousand miles of sea ;
Leaving trails of foam behind them, on they rush
to the attack,
And an endless, sullen booming tells their vast
death agony !
Black Seas!
With a lift and swing resistless pass the doomed
but dauntless seas !
Seas! Hell Seas! Oh ! the fury in the gloom !
Through the surf-mist drifting inland see the
rolling masthead light !
Now the huge death-seeking breakers that upon
the coastline boom,
Seem to shout a great defiance through the
stark, storm-deafened night;
But the half-seen, fighting shadow with the
solemn lamps on high,
And the Wrath of God below it lurches slowly
on its way
With a dogged, ant-like patience ’neath the riven,
shrouded sky,
Towards the clinking death that waits it—or
the wind-swept dawn of Day. •’*
Dawn Seas!
As dim hills of lead gigantic surge the sullen
mornipg seas !
Seas! Gr'een Seas! As the wat’ry sunlight spills
Through the ragged, routed army flying high
•above her lamps,
Still the coaster bravely buffets with the heavy,
threat’ning hills,
And beneath her bows of iron into foam their
valor tramps.
Then the surj like some pale coward steals into
the haggard sky,
And the angry sea, defeated, rolls beneath its
ghastly light, _
While the dawn-wind herds the armies of the
storm clouds as they fly
To the grey, rain-swept horizon from the tur-
moil of the night.
Green Seas !
Flecked with foam and tossing flotsam, lurch the
white-capped, snarling seas !
N.s.w.
E. FRANCIS .
No. 14 Dough.ty-street
Sydney Smith, author and wit, lived here —B. 1771, D.
IS4s. —London County Council Tablet,,
Here dwelt the puck-like sprite of Sydney Smith;
Of subtle wit and jovial creed was he.
His jocund tales were themes to conjure with ;
He knew the ready art of repartee.
These buildings realistic Hogarth drew;
These flags were trod by many-famous feet;
These landmarks Ruskin, Lamb and Dickens
knew;
And Dickens’ tablet winks across the street.
Old Sydney Smith, replete with kindly lore.
From here strode citywards to feast and rout;
Puckered of brow at some quaint quip of yore,
And with good fare grown '■roundabout and
stout.
His sober garments clothed bright lights within ;
His visage mocked the humor of his heart.
Hail! One who could from dingy London win
< Such recognition of a kindlier art.
Your old house stems awhile the flood of years —
The Phoenix City ever springs anew
With wide-spread wings, a statelier head she
rears,
Yet all her pomp shall not o’ershadow you—
For growing London shall not e’er outgrow
The blooms that glow like poppies in the w’heat,
Whose vagrant seeds drift overseas, to JtloW
Far from the parent-plots in Doughty-street!
ENGLAND.
C. G. A. COLLRS.
m
MOSS
itw-z
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE-
of “Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAL CURE FOR
COUCHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP,
WHOOPING COUCH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNCS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
HEALTHFUL,. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“ OUR. JACK’* Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS” Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOP 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD.. Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide ; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
THE IDEAL FOOD
fop children from birth is
Horlick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constituents
in their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle. I
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infants’ Foods
containing Starch.
HORLIGK’S MALTED MILK
has been analysed by the Board of Health and admitted
free of duty. Chemists, etc., are therefore safe in
selling Horlick’s Malted Milk, and parents are
guaranteed a suitable food for children from birth,
which contains No Starch.
No confusion arises when you order Horlick’s, as only onn kind is
manufactured, and only one is needed to feed your child. No Milkis re-
quired in the preparation of Horlick’s as in other foods —water only.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, etc.
Samples : 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough, Bucks, Eng.
fg
d
'T
?
THE OLD
.LINES
and
HOLLOW
PLACES
are
GONE FOR EVER
where formerly themirror
reflected only hollow
cheeks and a scrawny, bony chest in evening
dress, after a course of
DR. FALLIERE’S
“ FLESH-FOOD”
It reflects a face and figure resplendent in
the acme of perfect development.
“Flesh-Food ” adds inches to the measure-
ments, and will increase your weight by five
pounds a week. It is pleasant and harmless
to take, and will prove a wonderful benefit
to your health. Send 2d. stamp or cal! for
Free Trial Sample and Free Descriptive
Book. Send to-day. Hours, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
FALLIERE “FLESH-FOOD” CO.
DEPT. 5j
Linden Court,
Casti,ei;eaoii St..
SYDNEY,
LO V E HAND is the logical complement
I of Tm; Bulletin. The two represent the
complete Australian reader. Price Is., of all the
booksellers and agents of the World. Office : .214
George Street. Sydney.
PTURE
Do von suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you "wish to becured without operation.
Have vou grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We'positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirel" new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease from the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is mide
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
2CI Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
COLORED POST CARDS, by Harry J.
i Weston “ WEEKLY WORRIES.”
Set of six, posted free, 6d. Bulletin
- Newspaper Co. 214 George St.,, Sydney.
A LIGHT TREAD
When you wear Wood-Milne
Rubber Heels your foot comes
down softly—your step is light and
springy—hard pavements or stony
paths lose their terrors.
It’s good for you to avoid the
nerve-racking jar of hard leather
heels; it’s also good for your purse,
because Wood-Milne heels wear
four times as long.
WOODMILNE
[RUBBER HEELSj
are made in Britain, from new,
resilient rubber: they enable you
to walk without fatigue, and give
'a surprising feeling of buoyancy
and vigour.
Look for the name Wood-Milne on
every heel, and refuse all imitations.
' 'A
%
MORRIS'S
IMPERIAL
h EYE,
CURES
Free for the Asking.
&
oil
The completest illus-
trated Catalogue and
Price List of Acety-
lene Burners ever
published in the
States. Shall we mail
it?
Sample Dozen
Assorted Burners,
Post Free, 10/»
Robert C. Swan 8 Co. Ltd.
304 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.


AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
UFE ASSURANCE.
ENDOWMENT ASSURANCE.
CHILDREN’S ENDOWMENTS.
income for 1908 15 per
cent, increase on figures
for 1907.
Directors :
R. M. PHILLIPS, Esq., J.P.,
VICTOR E. LUDLOW, L.R.C.5.1.,
L.K.Q.C.P.1.,
CLAUDE MANNING, Esq.,
DAVID W. WATKINS, Esq.,
H. MONTGOMERIE HAMILTON, Esq,
General Manager : J. A. HENDERSON.
Secretary: FREEMAN .T. EATON.
Consulting Actuary: W. R. DAY, F.I.A*
Principal Offices :
VICTORIA 148 Queen Street, Melbourne ; NEW SOUTH Casflereagh, Street,
Sydney; QUEENSLAND—Metropolitan Buildings, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
1 1 li/i/ji//Zf//,
An “At”
Thirst Quench er.
‘ MONTSERRAT ’
LIME JUICE.
Delicious also at lunch, or dinner, and
a healthy dripk. pt all times.
Made in two kinds—Unsweetened* i.e„ Plain,, Pime Juice
Sweetened, i.e., Lime Juice Cordial. ' Sold everywhere'..
THE AOCORDEOHi for Country Residents.
Si
We don’t believe any Aecordeon conies
so. near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Aecordeon.
in»«v.?uiiiL a; ' p 0 f? 06 . handsome ebonised case, extra
k "ti )e o . W! i Protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quahty wah 3 sets of Heeds, Celeste and Or<ran Stop,
15-tnld Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d. -
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210: QUEEN STREET BRISBANE.
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE BY AUSTRALIAN GIRLS.
CORK TIPS.
sat
-jm
m
Hi
tag
-•S
!I1!
m.
csa
*■
i-i
D
ff;
m
m
pa
i
pn
THE JUMP RABBIT TRAP.
HOTEL
METROPOIE,
Opposite Union Club and Tump, Minutes from
Entrance to Domain anrjf QfrcuJohr Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. pCitf- clia3 n ,, or apartments
may he secured separately by the- day from 3s. Gd. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff' aadl alii Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
Perfecticws
at last.
THAT’S
IT.
WF
m
Easy Money for Trappem *.
£BO IN CASH PRIZES £BO
] will donate £2O in Cash Prizes each month to the trappers
who catch the greatest number of rabbits with Jump Rabbit
Traps during the months of May, June, .July and August, to
he divided as follows £lO first prize, £s' second, £3 thil:d(.
and £2 fourth. Write for conditions and entry forms.
Trappers, you can double your “ earniJogs ”
by using only the JUMP TRAP.
WHY? YOU ASK. WELL, the JUMP TRAP is made of steel, only half the weight of ordinary traps.
YOU get a stronger trap at half the weight, and can carry double the number of traps.
A trapper ean only set as many traps as he can carry.
WHY should you not catch double the quantity of rabbits.
THE jaws and pan of the JUMP are as large as the largest traps, yet the earth scrape necessary to set is
only half the size required for ordinary traps.
iPAN and jaws of a JUMP are full size of scrape ; if a rabbit touches your scrape he is in the trap AND
IS YOURS.
WITH the old-fashioned trap half the scrape necessary to cover the long spring. The rabbit is just as
likely to prospect on the spring end of the scrape as the jaw end. If lie touches the spring end lie will
take fright, and IS NOT YOURS.
WHY make a pack horse of yourself by,carrying a lot of unnecessary iron nroilnd on your back ?
FOR SALE by all Storekeepers, If your Storekeeper cannot supply you with the JUMP TRAP, write.
ANDREW ROBERTSON, Sturt Street, South Melbourne, or Box 373, G.P.0., Melb.
Send 1/6 to cover postage, and I will mail you a free i-aniple Trap.
S7>e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN, 6d.
All Goods
ordered by Post
are carefully
packed and
sent
paid
F>*irt of the
Commonwealth.
STRAND CORNER, 412 GEORGE STREET,
SYDNEY.
Your
Money back
if Goods
do not
open up
to your
satisfaction.
m
Jpn-
Her ev
Stada/iZZdfJAAhfrrv
Hiearvoivd Eirvg.
It is a big mistake to sup pose that 311 Diamonds are alike. People
who have a thorough knowledge of the subject understand that there
are variations in the qualify of Diamonds as in most other things.
In . nt) other Precious gems will you find such important differences
as in Diamonds.
At the Treasure House we do not stock SALTY or Brown Dia=
monds such as form the ; big bulk of most jewellers’ ring stocks.
Our stones are ail carefully selected from the Amsterdam Diamond
Cutters best selections, and all stones of bad color or possessing
flaws are immediately rejected. ’
Gs296—Set Diamonds and Sap-
phires, 18ct. Gold, £lO/10/-
G73sB—Set Pearl, Sapphire- irncf
Diamonds, 18ct. Gold, £3/5/,
DRESS RINGS.
£
USSR
CfH I—Set all Diamonds, £3O
FB69s—Set Diamonds, Rubies and
Sapphires, 18ct. Gold, £l3/10/-
455095-
—Set Diamonds and Rubies,
18ct. Gold, £l3/10/-
If you are a lover of Beautiful Jewellery,
the Quality will appeal to you.
If you are a keen judge of values, the
Prices will appeal to you.
FIVE-DIAMOND, CLAW-SET, HALF-HOOP RINGS, IBct. Gold, £5 55.,
£6 10s., £7 10s„ £8 10s., £lO 10s., £l2 10s., £l5 10s., £2O, upwards.
THREE-STONE HOOP RINGS, with matchless Diamonds, 18ct. Gold and
Platinum Mountings, £4O, £6O, £65, £75, £BO, £llO.
CLUSTER RINGS, all Diamonds, £7 10s., £l2 10s., £l3 10s., £l7 10s.,
£2O, £25.
MARQUISE RINGS, 'all carefully selected, stones of exceptional brilliancy, new
designs in setting's! £8 10s., £l3 10s., £l7 10s.
SOLITAIRE DIAMOND RlNGS—the typical American Engagement Ring-
sparkling blue-whited Diamonds of the finest quality, £l3 10s., £l6 10s.,
£l7 10s., £2O 10s., £37 10s., £65.
HALF-HOOP RINGS.—A specially choice line of Five-Diamond set, Half-
Hoop Rings, with 18ct. Gold mounts and Silver settings, £lO 10s.
The Silver settings enhance the brilliant appearance of the Diamonds.
Without a doubt these are the finest values in Australia.
THE TREASURE HOUSE.
OUR FULLY ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE AND CARD FOR
TAKING SIZE OF FINGER IS FREE ON APPLICATION.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 31.—N0. 1568.
THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 1910.
Price 6d.
ADVICE, AND THE WAY TO TAKE IT.
DEAKIN : “With regard to the 255. subsidy to the States, you will, of course, vote as becomes a good Australian!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia lor the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Macleod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Ihk Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney, JN.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONESi Business, 1384- Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly' ... 0 7 0
BV Mu, direct, to Thu Bum.ktin Ofhce Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Thk Bum.ktin posted
i egularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and. all Business Communications
to be addressed to William Maclkoii, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Bum.ktin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by iiame. “ The Editor, Bum.ktin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
a lways is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be ref used.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other A rticles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with ,4 ustralian subjects, and. ‘not exceeding
twe columns in length, or, say, 8000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs. Letters, or A" ewspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tim Bum.ktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tub Bullktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Thk Bum.ktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for dirkct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under ivhich
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Tiik Bullktin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at U/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tim Bui.lbtin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London, JP.C.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown ;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; 'The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancou vkr. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, B. C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S. A.— -IsserlisA., Seattle, Washington ; luternational
News Agency, Los Angelas ; Chicago Newspaper Agency ,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores. Fort Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Bony Kong.
Singapore— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Thk Bum.ktin metal advertising plates, size biin. x 14m.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
7%£ I s'a2lelzm J .
THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 1910.
W. M. HUGHES, MONOPOLIST AND
APOSTLE OF VESTED INTERESTS.
The large amount of space which the Tory dailies
of Sydney give to the speeches of W. M. Hughes,
M.H.R., seems to indicate a kindly feeling
towards that gentleman, a desire to give him a
leg-up by liberal advertisement, and a sort
of brotherly sentiment. It is impossible for
them not to have some lingering regard
for a man who has such a gigantic con-
tempt for the referendum when it comes to a
question of referring to the people a matter like
that of the Federal capital, on which he and the
Tory papers are so beautifully unanimous. And
he did these papers and their cause good ser-
vice when he toiled to have the Australian
metropolis so located that there was no chance
of it becoming a great manufacturing city
under Federal industrial law, and to have its
tpr-ritory so limited that there would be no
room within its borders for any great example of
the benefits of public landownership, and its area
cut off so short that a lot of the unearned incre-
ment must spill over the border for the enrich-
ment of the N.S.W. private landlord outside.
And in the matter of the Federal bogus dry-land
port at Jervis Bay, Hughes stood solidly for the
great monopoly of the Sydney traders, which is,
after all. the principal article of faith of the Tory
papers of that city. On this point Hughes seems
to be a Tory, pure and simple, and a more
advanced specimen even than some who carry the
bra-nd of Toryism openly upon them. The Sydney
monopoly is a vastly bigger and m'ore disastrous
thing for N.S.W. than the Colonial Sugar Refin-
ing Co.’s monopoly, and it is almost as big as the
great land monopoly at its worst. It is the
Standard Oil of N.S.W. It is the very embodi-
ment of Vested Interests. Therefore it is natural
that there should be a trace of kindly sentiment
in the stomach of the Tory daily for Hughes the
monopolist.
One day last week the latest population esti-
mates of N.S.W. were published. They alleged
that Sydney, which in 1871 stood for rather less
than per cent, of the population of the State,
now stands for 37 per cent. During 1909 it is
estimated that the population of Sydney in-
creased by 13,800, while that of the other 309,000
odd square miles of the State increased by 16,191.
And that was looked upon as a remarkably good
year for the other 309,000 odd square miles of
N.S.W. ; in 1906 Sydney increased by 23,350
people, while the whole balance of the State only
grew to the extent of 11,627 people. Because of
this congestion the decay of many of the country
towns of N.S.W. is lamentable. In the fertile
county of Camden, right at Sydney’s back door—
a county with two railways running through it
and blessed with cheap water carriage as well—
there were enumerated at last census 22 towns, of
which 12 were fading away, while some of the
other 10 were practically stationary. At that
same period 44 counties of N.S.W. were losing
population. It is a further evidence of the stag-
nation of the country towns that out of the 36,300
inhabited dwellings that were added to the record
of the State in the 10 years between last census
and the census of 1891, no less than 18,410 were in
Sydney, and only 17,890 in the other 309,000 and
more square miles which make up the State.
There vvere49 counties in which not a single new
habitation—not even a bark hut—was being
erected on census day in 1901 ; in fact, even
when all the one-roomed wooden shanties that
were going up in the backblocks were counted
and set against the big stone or brick
buildings that were rising in Sydney, almost
exactly half of the total dwellings under con-
struction in N.S.W. on enumeration day were in
the one big metropolis. Seeing that the casual
rough-timber habitation which Billjlm was
throwing together beside the Bogan counted for
just as much in this calculation as the great
merchant’s half-furnished palace beside Sydney
harbor, the country districts should have made a
better showing.
* * * *
There is not, in all N.S.W., one barrister
practising outside Sydney. It wouldn’t pay one
to practise. In this respect N.S.W. has done the
congestion act to a greater extent than any of its
neighbors. There isn’t, in all N.S.W., one bank
with its head office outside Sydney. Here-
abouts N.S.W. is very like its neighbors,
with two casual exceptions—in Victoria the
Ballarat Banking Co. has its headquarters at
Ballarat, while in Tasmania the chief shingle of
the National Bank is hung out at Launceston.
Britain, however, has always avoided the worst
form of the congestion disease in matters of
finance; hence it has banks with headquarters in
Dublin, Liverpool, Edinburgh, Whitehaven, Bed-
ford, Leeds, York, Belfast, Bradford, Carlisle,
Glasgow, Derby, Kington, Launceston, Oke-
hampton, Banbury, Oxford, Wellington, Guernsey,
Halifax, Plymouth, the Isle of Man, Manchester,
Lincoln, Birmingham, Newcastle, Aberdeen,
Northampton, Nottingham, Sheffield, Reading,
Stamford, Taunton, Salisbury and even more
obscure places. There is not in N.S.W. one
insurance concern—life, fire, accident, marine or
otherwise—with its head office outside Syd-
ney. On this point N.S.W. is very like
the other States of Australasia (barring Maori-
land), but very unlike the United Kingdom.
There even the little Scotch town of Perth (popu-
lation 34,000, or about equal to Broken Hill) is
the headquarters of two insurance offices, one of
which does business as far afield as Sydney ; Col-
chester (population 38,000, which is less than
Broken Hill and about half the figure of New-
castle) also owns two insurance comjianies of its
own ; and it is the same with York, Leeds, Car-
diff and every other place of any importance.
There is not one trustee co. in N.S.W. outside
Sydney, though when Bendigo and Ballarat (Vic-
toria) and Launceston (Tasmania) can each sup-
port a flourishing concern of its own, this intense
concentration of business seems foolish and super-
fluous. Then again the trade of N.S.W. has
always been to a great extent concentrated at
Sydney, but of late years special efforts have
apparentlv been made to bring it all to the one
centre. Thus in 1903, and later in 1908, the Cus-
toms revenue (which is a fair test of the size of
the trade) collected at N.S.W. seaports was as
follows :
1903. 1908.
Sydney £3,399,691 £4,418,620
Hunter River (Newcastle and
Morpeth) 199,962 169,005
All other coastal ports .. 966 50
Or, to put it another way, out of every pound’s
worth of sea-borne commerce, apparently
1908. 1908.
s. d. s. d.
Sydney had .. .. 18 104 19 31
All other ports .. .. 1 1 j 8§
£lOO £lOO
Again, they do things differently in Britain.
There London is quite content to share the trade
with 23 other big ports —two of them almost as
big, so far as the tonnage of their shipping is con-
cerned, as itself.
Finally, as a sort of side issue—if the New-
castle daily paper is left out of the question
(Newcastle, on account of its coal wealth, couldn’t
be wholly crushed by the Great Monopoly)
there is hardly in all N.S.W. outside Syd-
ney a newspaper that is worth very serious
consideration as a profitable investment. The
old free (or pauper) newspaper postage so
wrecked the country press of N.S.W. that its re-
covery must be a very gradual matter. The free
postage swindle was an amazing device. It pro-
vided that any paper would be carried and de-
livered free by mail all over N.S.W. except in the
town where it was published. Thus the S. M.
Herald was not only carried free to, say, Goul-
burn, but was also delivered there free at the sub-
scriber’s door by a State official, while the owner
of the local paper had to hire people to do his de-
liveries. Of course, by way of a cheerful piece of
irony, the Goulburn paper had a similar right of
free deli very in Sydney; but as the Goulburn paper
had little or no circulation in Sydney, the alleged
advantage was practically nil. The free postage
steal put N.S.W. more completely than any other
State under the domination of the metropolitan
press. It has been abolished now, but its evil
effects remain. Besides, special gratis early trains,
run to enable the city daily to reach outlying
towns in time to kill the local publication, serve
the same old nefarious purpose to a great extent.
And after the case of the discharged Railway
Commissioner Oliver, which of h is .successors'
will venture to object?
* * * *
The cost of this struggle to congest everything
at Sydney has been enormous. It is necessary,
for instance, to waste much public money in the
effort to keep open a numberof rotten little bar har-
bors, that rvon’t keep open. The advantage of the
rotten little bar harbor is that it only admits
small vessels—too small to go on long ocean
voyages. Therefore, these vessels plod along the
coast to Sydney—the place where all the State’s
commerce is expected to congest and pay toll —and
there tranship their exports. On the other hand,
places like Port Stephens, Twofold Bay, Jervis
Bay, and Coff’s Harbor, which might do "the work
of some of the rotten little bar harbors without all
the absurd outlay on dredging and breakwaters,
are discouraged as far as possible by the refusal of
adequate railway connections, because if trade
was directed there big ships would be liable to
drop in and carry the exports straight to Europe
instead of dragging them round by Sydney. How
much money has been wasted on the rotten little
bar harbors, and how many lives have been need-
lessly sacrificed on the rotten little bars, all for
the sake of keeping the potential big ports of
N.S.W. closed, it is impossible to say. Then
there was the vast expense of building many
superfluous miles of crooked railways to carry the
trade away from good adjacent ports like Coff’s
Harbor and Port Stephens and Jervis Bay and
Twofold Bay, and to take it around in vast curvi-
linear ways to Sydney. In addition to this pre-
liminary expense, there was, and still is, the daily
cost of dragging trains hundreds of needless miles
over these needless distances, and the needless
charge upon the agricultural and pastoral indus-
tries of the Far North and Far South to pay for all
this absurd and superfluous haulage and draggage.
How far this burden is responsible for the decay of
agriculture in N.S.W. it is hard to say ; butofficial
statistics show clearly that, despite all the Govern-
ment’s Closer Settlement riot and racket, agricul-
ture is not progressing. And now another huge
expense is declared to be necessary to keep the
Congestion policy afloat. The mostly single-line
railways can’t carry the traffic—not that there is
any real pressure on the single lines either in the
Far North or South or West, but because these
lines all pour together at last in the effort to bring
all the exports of the State to one city, and pile
them all on one wharf so that at last everything is
bogged and swamped. Last week it was reported
that it often takes a mixed train 12 hours to do 60
miles, so bad has the congestion become in the
vicinity of the city. And the apparent alternative
is either the building of about 1200 miles of rail-
way to duplicate existing lines, or the construction
of about 300 miles of new railway to turn the
southern and northern export trade off to their
natural sea-outlets. If the great duplication
scheme is adopted it will make the traffic easier,
but it will still burden the far southern and far
northern producers and exporters with needless
haulage, as heretofore. In fact, as interest
will have to be paid on the cost of
two lines instead of one, the bill for needless tow-
age of goods will be larger than ever. The
Tory papers talk in an affable sort of way
about the railway duplication scheme as if it were
the only one on the horizon. Yet, as a matter of
fact, considering the thinness of N.S.W.’s popu-
lation, there should be no need for any large and
costly duplication for another 20 years or more.
It is only the Congestion policy which makes it
necessary for N.S.W., with a mere 1,600,000
people, to stagger under the stupendous loan bill
which 1000 or 1200 miles of railway duplications
must involve.
* * * *
And there are other losses which the Conges-
tion-of-Everything-into-one-City policy has in-
flicted on N.S.W. There was, in the old
days, the immediate loss which the State suffered
through paying for the free conveyance of city
papers to kill off or undermine the country press
—the press which represented the only possible
opposition to the great city monopoly. And
there was, and still is, the indirect loss which it
has suffered by reason of the fact that it ought to
have four great coastal cities, whereas it possesses
only one. When it was decided that the regions
behind Twofold Bay, Jervis Bay, IWt Stephens
and Coff’s Harbor, if they couldn’t liv& by sending
their trade to Sydney, must just remain a more
or less howlsome desolation, N.S.W. probably
threw about £100,000,000 worth of immediate
land values or unearned increment into the sea.
Sydney makes very little out of these regions
which, by reason of their artificially-created
remoteness from a sea-outlet, have only about
half a person to the square mile; all it gets is the
satisfaction of knowing that it has abolished the
great N.S.W. seaport cities that might have been
there, and obliterated their possible inhabitants.
The great struggle to plant the Federal capital
alongside the congested area of N.S.W. and to
cut off its port at high-water mark—to make the
Federal city a place whose trade will be worth
hardly anything, and yet to force that scrap of
trade to Sydney whether the railways can con-
veniently carry it or not —represents the last effort
of the Congestion party, and it is rather a fine
effqrt in its way.
* • • *
Therefore, to return to the subject with which
this article opened, The Bulletin takes an
interest in the attitude of Hughes, M. H.R., and
in his clamorings against monopoly, and in
the thinly-veiled sympathy which the daily press
manifests towards him. It is natural that the
Tory press of Sydney should largely advertise W.
M. Hughes under a transparent disguise of repro-
bation. More than any other man in his party,
he stands for the worst and most ruinous monopoly
in N.S.W. He represents Vested Interests—the
biggest kind. He threw even the referendum
principle overboard, and urged Parliament to
make special haste to prevent the people having a
voice in the settlement of the Federal capital
question, rather than go back on the Tory policy
of centralisation which keeps so much of N.S.W.
a wilderness. Apparently, he would throw any
old thing overboard in that same cause. This
paper loves to hear W. M. Hughes denouncing
monopolies. No man has toiled harder than he
to buttress the biggest of them. And in calling
Sydney the biggest monopoly in Australia, The
Bulletin hasn’t lost sight of Melbourne. Mel-
bourne has done its best to swallow everything in
sight; but, having failed to eat up Victoria’s one
country bank and its two country trustee com-
panies, and having somehow missed its chance to
wipe out Geelong as a wool and grain centre, it
has to take a second place. It had the very worst
intentions, but something went wrong. The lack
of the free newspaper postage swindle kept the
country press alive, and so, bad as things are,
they might be a shade worse.
ONE REASON FOR VOTING THE LABOR
TICKET.
When the average elector (it has been denied
that there is any such person as an average
elector, but the term is a handy one) is trying to
make up his mind on which side he will vote
there is one consideration which is very apt to be
overlooked. Unless the elector votes against the
Fused Government he might just as well not vote
at all—in fact, unless he votes against the Fused
candidate he might almost as well shut up the
Australian Parliament, and let a conference of
State Premiers run the Commonwealth. For
unless the Fused party is put out of office, a com-
mitteee or conference of State Premiers will run
the Commonwealth. Such a body, in fact, is
running it now. When first the precarious
Fusion got into harness the most objectionable of
the State Premiers realised that their chance
had come. They issued their orders in a
lordly fashion to a polite and office-hungry
Government. If their orders were not obeyed
they threatened, openly and shamelessly, that
they would form themselves into a Federal Elec-
tion Committee, and set up a State Aggression
candidate against the Fusion representative in
every electorate. If such a thing were done the
Tory vote would, of course, be hopelessly split; a
lot of the Fusion members would lose their seats ;
the Labor party would capture many of the lost
seats on a minority vote, and would be supreme in
the new Parliament; any lost Fusion seats wh.ch
the Labor men didn’t capture would go to a new
State Aggression party ; and the new Parliament
would consist of at least four parties—the Free-
trade remnant of thebursted Fuse, the Protectionist
ditto, the State Aggressionists or nominees of the
State Premiers, and theLaborites. Incidentally, of
course, Cook and Deakin would go down utterly.
They would be left, probably, with half a dozen
followers apiece. Their billets, their power, their
prestige, their remuneration—all would depart.
They would be done and finished. The State
Premiers couldn’t be sure of getting their nominees
in, but they could be sure of getting a lot of the
Government’s nominees out, and could thereby
show that at all future Federal elections the Tory
party must defer to them, and take orders from
them as the price of office.
* * * *
At this particular game the Premier from the
most populous State had, of course, the biggest
say. Wade, as the man who could, if not suf-
ficiently propitiated, seriously blight the Fused
Government’s chances by putting upState Aggres-
sion nominees in 27 electorates, was boss dictator.
John Weary, of Victoria, with a blighting capacity
covering 22 electorates, would have been second
dictator if he had cared to exert himself, but
Weary doesn’t seem to have used his opportunity
with the same energy as some of his colleagues.
Kidston, of Queensland, with nine chances to
blast the Fused Ministry, came in as third
dictator, and he was the loudest and most forcible
of them all. This form of pressure applied not
only to the Parliamentary leaders ; it worked just
as well with the humblest of the rank and file.
When once the idea was mooted that the State
Ministries might establish themselves as Federal
Parliamentary committees, and nominate a
State Aggression candidate for every electorate
where the sitting member didn’t take his
orders from his State Premier, and that they
might back up that State Aggression candidate
with all the influences at their command, they
practically pointed a gun at the head of every Fused
member. And they said to him from behind the
gun : “ Obey us, or we will pull down the house
on top of your head. We may not be able to win,
but we can make it fairly certain that you will
lose.” And so it came to pass that the last session
was one long series of surrenders to the State
Premiers who had the biggest blighting capacity.
The Federal capital site was shifted, and the
Federal “ port” was turned into a bit of dry land
at the bidding of a State Premier. The Northern
Territory scheme and the proposed transcon-
tinental railway were abandoned almost with-
out a struggle. A promise was exacted
that the Fused Government would do its
utmost to get the Twenty-five Bob Fraud in-
serted in the Constitution., As regards the last
item, Prime Minister Deakin professed to utterly
repudiate the idea that he yielded to coercion.
When he met the State Premiers in conference
no menaces were used and not a word a
said about the Twenty-five Shilling Concession
being the price of peace. The Bulletin accepts
that assurance absolutely. It never for a moment
supposed that anybody was so clumsy and
crude as to talk coercion at the Secret Confer-
ence, or to offer an open bribe or an open threat
or an open bargain. But (1) Premier Kidston,
of Queensland, who was the loudest political
brigand in the matter, declared publicly that
unless the Fused Government arranged a perma-
nent division of the tariff revenue and agreed that
the bargain should be made part of the Constitu-
tion, its candidates would probably be opposed by
State Aggressionists, which would mean a hope-
less splitting of the Tory vote ; (2) the concession
he demanded as the price of his friendship was
granted ; (3) he ceased to utter his threats of
opposition. Even though nothing was said at the
secret conference about a surrender to the State
Premiers, there is no doubt that there was such a
surrender.
# * * *
Therefore the continuance of the Fused Govern-
ment apparently means the control of Federal
affairs by a secret and irresponsible committee of
State Premiers —those from the more populous
States. The habit of taking orders from them
seems to have become incurable. The habit of
“consulting Mr. Wade” shows every sign of
being ineradicable. Even the Federal Weather
Bureau is now to be partly bossed by a committee
of State nominees as the result of much “ consulta-
tion with Mr. Wade.” The one visible chance of
deliverance from this intolerable condition of
affairs is to put the Fused party out of power.
When the Labor crowd last held office it was a
great deal too humble to aggressive State Pre-
miers, and with one or two of its members this
parochial humbleness is plainly incurable; but
the party as a whole is at least in, a position to
assert jts independence. It can’t be bulldozed
(unless it absolutely yearns to go on all fours) bv
the threat that the present State Premiers will
put up rival candidates and wreck its chances by
a general splitting of votes ; no Labor voter would
take any more notice of any candidate that a
Tory State Premier could set up than he would of
an ape. Everything the Tory State Premiers can
do to split thePederal Labor votehasbeen done long
since, and the game is finished. Australia’s need
for a Government which can afford to be reason-
ably uncivil to a State Premier or two is so urgent
that Labor ought to get support this year from
many quarters from which it never received any
in the past. Especially it should get support from
the “small” States, which have every right to
feel tired of being governed by the State Premiers
in the big cities.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The New Cable Service.
A LONG-STANDING grievance of this country is the
cable combine which supplies the Australian
citizen with his foreign news. The combine in-
cludes seven of the richest papers in the country,
and these seven papers are bound to publish no
cable messages except those of the combine, the
penalty being a fine of £lOOO for every separate
breach of the agreement. The combine rents out
its messages to the smaller papers, and it is
commonly supposed to make stupendous profits


out of the business. It apparently reserves the
right to charge the papers outside the combine
any old price it pleases. It can damage a news-
paper owner whom it happens to dislike by
charging him exorbitant rates, or it can prac-
tically ruin him by refusing to supply him
at all. Theoretically, of course, such a person
can start a rival service of his own, but
as that would mean an outlay of about
£12,000 a year for cablegrams, the resource
amounts to nothing at all in practice. It has been
a very fine and large monopoly, and, like many
other monopolies, it has given a very inferior ser-
vice. It maintains an office and a representative
in London. He extracts his Heaven-born effu-
sions from the early editions of the London
papers, and starts them over the wires, and there
or thereabouts his usefulness ends. Australia
under this order of things—which, until the other
day, was the sole order of things—got no news
except from London. It got only such news—
largely about peers and royal personages—as the
London editors considered likely to interest their
own readers, and it only got their view of that
news. Also, it got no news, or practically none,
until London had published it, no matter how
slow London might be. Finally, most of the
news, if not all of it, came out, and still
comes out, over the Private Enterprise cable.
It Ims been a weary old monopoly; but,
until quite recently, there appeared no
prospect of successful competition. Now,
however, a very promising competitor has arisen.
It sprang up suddenly like Jonah’s gourd, but,
unlike that vegetable, it means to stay. It is
called The Independent Cable Association of
Australasia, and it has its habitation at 17
Castlereagh-street, Sydney, with Mr. Thomas
Temperlky as managing director. The new
concern has offices at London, New York and
Vancouver, with an Australian editor at each
place. It thus gets something more than the
exclusively London view of things. Its chief
connections are with a huge news-gathering
agency at New York—a concern that even
possesses its own Atlantic cable—and thus it
doesn’t require to wait till the news is published
in London before sending it out. It starts
its news over the wires before publication in
Europe or America instead of afterwards, and the
amount of time that may, on occasion, be thus
saved, is startling. For instance, there lately
appeared a cablegram about an insane (or perhaps
merely villainous) chemist at Paris who kept his
wife a prisoner, heavily ironed, in her bedroom.
The little Orange Leader, published in a com-
paratively no-account N.S.W. country town, had
the outlines of that story, supplied to it by the
new cable service, three daus before Sydney heard
about it. Also the country paper mentioned that
the woman had done two years’ confinement in
this fashion, and that her last child was born
while she was in chains and fastened to the wall.
Possibly the London dailies bowdlerised that final
item out of their own columns as not respectable ;
anyhow it didn’t appear in the Sydney news,
which is the London papers’ news over again.
The same country “rag” had a report of the
recent outbreak in India three days ahead
of the Sydney papers. This is creditable to
the new cable association, and it creates
an impression that the old news was a great deal
older than we were aware of. Apparently, what the
public imagined to be the new-laid egg of intelli-
gence was really at times quite an aged egg with
a young hen in it. The Independent Cable Ass.
has an ambition to supply a better selection
of news than the old arrangement did, to get
it on the spot earlier and to sell it at a lower
figure. Also it gives its business to the Govern-
ment-owned Pacific cable, which is a patriotic
move. Australia has to help to make up the loss
which the Pacific cable incurs through insufficient
business, and the more business it gets the less
loss there will be and the less Australia will have
to pay.
-*■
The Non-Union Shearer Who Went to Gaol.
Though The Bulletin is a strong believer in
Unionism, it is quite prepared to admit that even
the union principle may be carried too far. For in.
Stance, in Melbourne the other day, a shearer
named Wightman was hauled up before the court,
charged with following his own line of business
without belonging to the local union. He was a
member of the Shearers’ Union in London, but
he hadn’t joined—or perhaps hadn’t been allowed
to join—in Victoria. Apparently he did some
work as a rouseabout on his first arrival; but for
one reason or another he lost his billet, and then
he became desperately hard up. As a matter of
absolute necessity he took on some small shearing
jobs. Now, it isn’t alleged that he did those jobs
a whit worse than any other shearer ; in fact, it is
said that the animals didn’t suffer so much from
him as from the ordinary operator. He was a
man of good character too —at least his member-
ship of the English Shearers’ Union should
be evidence of that. Yet he was arrested
like a common malefactor, dragged before
one of the superior courts, sentenced to one
month’s imprisonment without the option, and
ordered to pay £6 6s. costs, and to hand back all
the wool. According to the custom of the trade
this sentence will for ever prevent him becoming a
union shearer in Australia, and he will even be
disqualified in England. It takes away his whole
livelihood, for shearing is the one thing he knows.
He never learned plumbing, or any of the side
lines. The Bulletin, much as it dislikes the
blackleg laborer, submits that this ferocious sen-
tence is a sin and a disgrace. Wightman was
a perfectly peaceful non-unionist—if a man who
belongs to the English union and would gladly
have belonged to the Victorian one had he had the
opportunity, can be called by that name. He
didn’t brawl or throw road-metal at unionists.
He made himself in no way unpleasant. If the
other unionists had only passed the hat around
for him when the last sheep had been imprisoned
or hanged, and the shed had cutout —a thing that
every decent shearer willingly does for a distressed
colleague—the trouble would never have happened.
It is an astounding circumstance that this luck-
less half-union, half-non-union shearer should fall
on such hard fortune and severe reprobation, at a
time when the Tory press is hailing non-union
coal-miners and wharf-laborers as persons worthy
of all praise, and that he should get no sympathy
whatever. Possibly the fact that he was a legal
shearer, and that it was a client, not a sheep,
that was shorn had something to do with
the matter, though why on earth it should
be so passes comprehension. If the law was
consistent, instead of running Wightman in
it would have given him police protection,
just as it did with Williamson and Phillips at
the Clifton coal mines, in case large legal firms
should attack him in the street, and it would have
solemnly warned conveyancers and others not to
throw things at him, even as it did with the con-
veyancers (called wheelers for short) at the
N.S.W. coal town. But the Law is a prejudiced,
illogical, wrong-headed animal with a dog’s con-
science and a cow’s intellect.
Tammany and Trouble in the Fuse.
The electoral night is young, in a manner of
speaking, yet already the Fusion is immersed in
trouble and blasphemy, and one-time friends
and admirers are hurling insults at it from the
midst of a thick atmosphere of disillusionment.
Its cynical dishonesty is the main factor in the
uproar—that and the shameless way it has in-
sulted the intelligences and burgled the self-respect
of the simple burghers who owe it allegiance. When
Deakin and Cook decided to drown their fiscal
and other convictions for the price of office they
found themselves faced with the necessity of
offering those of their Parliamentary followers
who weren’t going to get portfolios some brand of
valuable consideration in return for their apos-
tasy. It was decided, ultimately, that the bribe
should take the form of a Government pledge
that all those who stood by the Fuse, and who
happened to be in Parliament at the time it was
engineered, should get the party nomination
(which in many constituencies means the seat)
regardless of the sentiments of the local Fused
rank and file. The Deakook vend had, however,
under-estimated the perspicacity of the rank and
file in question. That admittedly dullard crowd
would have required to be absolutely half-witted
not to grasp the manner in which it was being
exploited. So N.S.W. is teeming just now with
exasperated anti-Laborites who reckon they
might have had a chance of the party nomination
if the old member hadn’t got it beforehand ; and
with angry citizens who wanted a voice
in the selection of the party’s local candi-
date, and who are wild at being told
that they are of no account in the matter.
Thus Bruce Smith was chosen by the Deakook
Parliamentary caucus some time last year to run
for Parkes. The selection was endorsed, not
by the electors of Burwood and environs, but by
the Deakook organising body in the city of Syd-
ney. Since then, crowds of Parkes Liberals have
clamored in the press and elsewhere for the right
to say whether they will have B. Smith or another
as their Fused candidate, but have been told, in
effect, to lie down like good dogs. The Fused
Ministry has no choice but to adopt this attitude.
Its political life and its very income depend on
standing by its Parliamentary supporters against
the world. No consideration of friendship or faith-
ful service in the past diverts it from the trail
that leads to place and salary. Sydney Smith
has beenstri vingfor weeks past tohavehisnamesub-
mitted together with that of E. K. Bowden to the
Liberals of Nepean. Bowden has been a failure
in Parliament. He was unknown politically till
three years ago. He is unpopular in his electo-
rate. Syd Smith is the man over whose defeat at
last Federal election George Reid was moved to
shed a special and public tear. Reid told the
Sydney Telegraph that the forced retirement of
his henchman from the counsels of the nation was
“ an irreparable loss,” also “a calamity” and “ a
grievous blow.” The Anti-Sosh party passed a
resolution deploring the reverse which had smitten
their old friend Smith, and emphasising that it
was all due to his altruistic devotion to the Cause—
the idea being that his organising and other work
had prevented him from nursing his constituency.
Withal, because a Melbourne Caucus Ministry
badly needed Parliamentary support, the martyred
old warripr who went down with such a bang
three years ago isn’t even going to have the shadow
of a chance to rise again, and the Liberals of the
Nepean aren’t to be allowed to have any more
truck with him than if he were a leper. The same
audacious methods are to be seen in those constitu-
encies where a new candidate is offering owing to
the sitting member’s retirement. Here the Fuse
has been at pains to secure the return of the right
man from its point of view—which is to say. the
pliant, facile man. The Liberal electors have
been bulldozed and tricked with much address.
For example, in North Sydney the Party Caucus
decided that G. B. Edwards should get the
nomination. Hardly any of those Liberals
who had openly declared their intention of
opposing Edwards got their voting papers.
Neither did those whose conduct aroused sus-
picion in the minds of the Fused officials that
they were hostile to the Caucus man. With most
of his opponent’s supporters disfranchised,
Edwards rolled home a somewhat easy winner in
the ballot to decide who should be the official
bearer of the Fused banner. It is the first time
in the history of the Commonwealth that flagrant
Tammany methods have disfigured a Federal
election. They are tactics which don’t usually
appeal to Australians of any way of political
thinking. And, by all the omens, the Fuse is
going to realise that truth on or about polling day.
-+■
The New Lie.
So the good knight Deakin goes forth in shining
armor with his lunch-basket hanging on his spear
and a sandwich in reserve in his helmet, to do
battle for the New Lie. The Old Lie is gone—
dead, burst and practically vanished. Three
years ago George Reid was the leader of what is
now the Deakin-Cook army, and the wild cry of
the well-fed knight was something about anti-
Socialism. In the days of the Old Lie the alleged
trouble was that the Labor party proposed to
burst up the home, destroy the marriage tie,
abolish legal wedlock, and confiscate every-
body’s goods. Everything was to Vie taken
from everybody and nothing given to any-
body, so who in thunder was to own
the confiscated goods didn’t appear, but
apparently the anti-Socialist doctrine was that
if the Labor party got into office all the assets of
the country would be heaped up on the tram-line
and left there, while everybody, including the
Labor party, lived in a naked state on a rubbish
heap. It was the sort of lie that could only have
been advanced by a man with Reid’s unutterable
contempt for the intelligence of his followers, and
only a menagerie of loony females from Darling
Point and Toorak could have taken the idea up
with an air of real confidence. To-day the
Bursted Home and Shattered Marriage Tie and
the General Confiscation of Everything don’t
get a mention; the sham fact that has
struck the old brigade all of a heap is
that owing to the “Unification party” the
Federal bond is in danger. Whereas three years
ago Toryism discovered with horror that Labor
wanted to destroy the home, it now discovers
with exactly the same horror that it wants to
destroy the Commonwealth. And in 1913 it will
doubtless find out something else with horror.
Asa matter of fact, the manifesto of the so-called
Unification party embodies a scheme, not for
abolishing the States, but for increasing the num-
ber of them to 22 or more ; so the New Lie is as
bad a misfit as its predecessor. Still it is proba-
bly good enough for the intellectual capacity of
the people on whom it is being passed. Conse-
quently the good Knight Deakin has girded on
the whole garment of brass, and climbed aboard
the ancient cab-horse of battle, and gone forth to
make the best of things.
Alf Deakin’s Traitorous Freetrade
Followers.
Said President Hogg, of the Vic. Chamber of
Manufacturers, to his colleagues the day after
Deakin’s Ballarat speech :
It remained for manufacturers not to lie back and say
they could not get common justice, but to say whether
the Protection they were working under was beneficial or
otherwise. He wanted them to send into the Chamber
clear statements of their position, showing what imports
were telling on their businesses, and how they were being
elbowed out of their trade.
Now there is only one class of Parliamentarian
likely to refuse common justice to the manufac-
turers —namely, the Freetrade fusionists whom
Deakin the Protectionist is supporting in Vic-
toria, and Cook inN.S.W. Deakin talks at large
of “ rectifying tariff anomalies.” Yet it is as clear
and as certain as sunrise that if one of these things
comes up for consideration in the next Parlia-
ment the votes of Wilson (Corangamite), Winter
Cooke (Wannon), Irvine (Flinders) and Hans
Irvine (Grampians) will go against it in the
Reps., and that of Skene will be in opposition to
it in the Senate. That is assuming these Free-
trade fanatics succeed in breaking into Par-
liament. At the present time a huge con-
densed milk factory and a woollen mill are being
built at Warruambool, where Freetrader Wilson
lives. Yet his vote was cast, during the last tariff
fight, each time for lower duties on both woollen
goods and condensed milk. The Chamber of
Commerce, at its last meeting, paid attention to
the question of boots. Said one speaker :
Practically now manufacturers are carrying on under
Freetrade. It will not be long before the lower-grade
boots are coming into Victoria as fast as they used to.
Said another: —
Not only is the boot trade threatened, but the future
of other classes of leather manufacture is in danger.
Assuming the boot-question comes before Parlia-
ment, what chance of justice have the boot manu-
facturers from the Fusion Freetraders? Which
way will Skene’s vote go? How will Wilson,
Lilley Brown and Winter Cooke vote? These
are the questions that every Australian who wants
his country to prosper must seriously consider
before election day.
♦
Technical Education and Melbourne’s Work-
ing Men’s College.
“ 0.K.” discourses :
The non-progressiveness of Melbourne’s Working Men’s
College is practically confessed by the Class Statistics
published in this year’s prospectus of the College. It
vyas founded by the late Francis Ormond, and opened in
1887. In 1891 the number of students enrolled for the
year was 2393. In 1909 it was 2423, an increase of 30 in
19 years, during which time the population of Melbourne
had increased by, say, 25 per cent. There were 655
female students enrolled in 1891, but the number had
fallen to 328 in 1909—the lowest on record since 1888.
It seems that for the first 15 years of its not very valuable
life the College issued special technical certificates to
“star” students, and that only eight of these were
granted in all. Two carpenters, one plumber, three fitters
and machinists, and one electrician were among the
eight. Seeing that an average output of one-third of a star
pupil per annum didn’t look imposing in the prospectus,
the Council decided to discontinue the issue. The system
of granting “diplomas of associateship” (for what they
maybe worth) is still maintained, however, and 43 of these
diplomas have issued in 16 years, mostly for electrical
engineering and metallurgy. During that long period
three mining engineers achieved the distinction of Asso-
ciateship in the College, and 15 long years have elapsed
since that unrivalled trio obtained the diploma.
Attention has been called to the comparative futility
of this Working Men’s College by a paper read
to the Victorian Chamber of Manufactures by
Ciiarlks Atkins, ex-President of the Federal Chamber.
Mr. Atkins is a busy, practical Australian, who collects
useful information as he goes around. Being in London
lately, he gathered some information re the encouragement
of technical education among the workers in that city of
ill-paid labor. As far as he could learn, the most useful
school for Labor in London is the unpretentious Borough
Polytechnic Institute, founded in 1892—a provincial dis-
trict concern, which is largely supported by employers of
labor. For instance, the National Association of Master
Bakers and Confectioners contributes43QP a year to the in-
stitute. When Atkins wondered why the purveyors of daily
bread were so benevolent, he was taken to a class-room
where some 50 foreman bakers—bald-headed veterans,
many of them—were receiving a lecture on their art from
a “ professor,” who brandished a loaf in either hand and
explained why one was a much better production than
the other. The latest class established at. this South of
London Polytechnic is for stokers. The difference be-
tween an instructed stoker and a mere human coal-shovel
is a difference of about 50 per cent, in the steam power
obtained from each ton of coal; so the General Steam
Navigation Co. of London promptly forwarded 32 of its
greenest stokers to the class, and paid their fees. Day
classes are for boys and girls (over 14) who are learning
trades, or—in the case of the girls—domestic economy.
Evening classes are for those only who are already
working at a trade during the day. The selected
teachers must, like the scholars, be regular day
workers at the trade they are specially pro-
ficient in. Alternate evenings are devoted to theory
and practice; students are ineligible lor workshop
classes unless they roll up to the corresponding theoreti-
cal classes. Apprentices and improvers under 21 years
are admitted to trade classes at half tees, and if they are
also ambitious to attend the science and art'dasses they
are admitted to them also at half fees.
The day course of instruction is for three years,
students who don’t desire a complete course being earn-
estly exhorted to stop away altogether. And what are
the fees ? The full annual fee is £3, which may be
paid in three instalments. The course of the trade
school is two years at the rate of 30s. a
year payable in two instalments, and the charge for
the girls’ domestic economy class is 9s. for the one
year only. The Polytechnic was designed for the poorer
working classes (not the poorest, who, in London, can
barely afford to exist), and its fees are such as would be
within the means of all in Victoria. When they come to
be compared with the charges at Melbourne’s Working
Men’s College the latter appears to be absurdly mis-
named. At the W.M.C. the fee for a course of 10 weeks
is £3 55., payable before the student goes to class —
or £l3 a year in all. Students from the country
are seemingly accommodated with an extra charge, for
their fee is £l7 a year. In the higher technical
school the expense runs to £32 a year, and the “ assayers’
short course ’’ in the second and third years (evening
classes only) costs £ll a year. Here is a sufficiently
lengthy exposure of what the Melbourne Working Men’s
College is, and isn’t, doing for the advancement of tech-
nical knowledge in Labor as compared with a well-
managed institution in London. The strange thing is,
not that the pretentious Trades Hall, whose president is
also president of the College, should be satisfied with the
existing state of things, but that Labor in its own power-
ful interests, and the employers of Labor, in their
interests, should have allowed this state of things to
exist so long.
Bailing Up a City.
Melbourne will do well to keep a close eye on a
conference of municipalities lately called by the
Kew Council to discuss tramway facilities. The
proposal is to give the awful tramway monopolists
an extension of their lease in return for a few
branch and cross-country lines. Melbourne has
groaned for years under the burden of the tram-
way incubus; yet now that the lease has only
about six years to run, certain noodles want to
continue the infliction for another decade or two.
An amazing feature of the case is that the pro-
posal should have come from Kew, which is abso-
lutely the worst served of all the suburbs touched
by the trams. It still has to use the antediluvian
horse-vehicle—an ancient shandrydan that crawls
up a long hill behind sweating wrecks —and a good
part of it prefers to walk a mile or more to the
nearest railway station ; yet the council apparently
loves this dreadful service so much that it won’t
be happy unless it binds its children to it also.
It may be safely assumed that this Kew proceed-
ing will not be the last effort, or anything like the
last, that will be made to secure an extension of
the Melbourne Tramway Co.’s monopoly. Within
the few remaining years of its lease these are the
chances
(1) The service will become more and more antiquated,
slow, uncomfortable and ridiculous, and Melbournians
will be shamed by the jeers of visitors at their backward-
ness.
(2) The monopoly will refuse to bring its service up to
date or to let anyone else do the work for it unless it gets
a long extension of its lease. The only way it can hope
to get an extension is by making its service a misery
until it gets the extension.
(3) And if Parliament even hints at exercising its legal
powers in the way of reducing fares and the like there
will be a fearsome howl about “confiscation,” and the
House of Rich Landlords will get in the road.
But if the great monopoly gets a 20 years’ exten-
sion of its lease (say until 1936) it will doubtless
construct some new lines and supply an up-to-
date electric service. And Melbourne will for a
time feel glad right down to its boots. But by
1925 or so that up-to-date service will be anti-
quated and worn-out in its turn, and the mono-
poly will refuse to make any further improve-
ments unless its lease is extended to, say, 1956.
And if it gets that extension it will bail the city
up again about 1945 or 1950. Melbourne and
Brisbane are in the same position. To each city
its tram way monopoly says : “Either give us an
extension of our lease beyond the date we bar-
gained for, or we will make you miserable and a
public laughing-stock so long as our term of
authority lasts.” It is a high-handed form of
brigandage; but then brigandage is one of the
ordinary forms of Private Enterprise.
■
Colonel Campbell, hon. sec. of the Australian
National Defence League, effectively disposed
last week of J. Cook’s impudent claim that
Kitchener had, in his report, followed the lines
of his (Cook’s) Defence Bill. Taking the main
features of Cook’s Bill seriatim , Campbell demon-
strated that they conflict absolutely with the
Kitchener recommendations. Some instances :
(1) Cook’s scheme aimed at retaining the existing
voluntary forces, backed up by compulsorily-trained
school boys.
Kitchener proposes to entirely do away with the volun-
teers, and substitute for them a compulsorilv-trained
army of men, which shall have no leaven of children what-
ever.
(2) A vital feature of the Cook defence scheme was
the cadet system.
Kitchener expressed scorn of the idea of cadet training
being of the least practical value in “ the production of
an efficient and trained soldier.”
(3) The compulsory recruit training of grown-up male
citizens (of men, that is to say, of an age to vote) Cook
declared to be undesirable, economically and otherwise.
Kitchener advocates the compulsory recruit trainingof
all qualified Australian men up to the age of 25 !
(4) Cook’s Defence Bill provided for a rate of pay for
service along the lines which obtain in the existing-
absurdly-expensive Volunteer forces.
Kitchener proposes a wage which the country can
afford without plunging into the soup of debt; and he
justifies the economy on the ground that in serving in
the citizen forces of his native land for a given number of
years, the citizen is but discharging a duty to the nation
which the latter has as much right to demand as it has
to demand taxes.
And, finally, (5) whereas Cook’s scheme would have
brought into being an army of 16,000, Kitchener’s, if
adopted, will create one of 50,000.
In the circumstances, the audacity of the claim
made by the amateur-warrior of Parramatta
becomes apparent. It equals his recent bland
assertion that the Fisher Government’s Defence
proposals, adopted by the Fpse, really origin-
ated with him— Cook —the identical Cook whose
sole idea of Australian naval defence a year' ago,
was to “send a Dreadnought—aye, 20 if neces-
sary ” to guard England in the North Sea.
+ r-
One day lately Jiggery Wade “ replied to W. M.
Hughes ”
Mr. Hughes is gracious enough to offer the States a
fixed agreement for 10 years. He has forgotten that all
our troubles in the last two years have arisen from the
fact that the Bradd.on clause was reaching its limit at the
end of 10 years?
So Jiggery Wade insists that it shall be put in
the Constitution. Hughes didn’t want it put
there because that would mean “ binding them-
selves for ever.” To that replies Jiggery
Mr. Hughes must know this to be incorrect. Any term
of the Constitution can be altered ; no section is irrevo-
cable. They can be changed if the large body of public
opinion voting throughout the Commonwealth decides
that a change shall be made.
In other words, Hughes offers an agreement for
10 years certain ; but Wade won’t have it (though
TO THE PEOPLE OF
AUSTRALIA.
When April 13 comes round take
your Ballot Papers strenuously with
Both Hands and
(1) Vote AGAINST the 255.
subsidy ;
It would be sheer madness to commit the
Commonwealth to pay the State Treasurers, out
of the Customs and Excise revenue, 255. per
inhabitant per annum FOR EVER, while
there is a strong Foreign=trade party (it may
yet hold the reins of Government) which demands
a return to the old N.S.W. tariff system under
which the whole Customs and Excise revenue got
down to 235. 7d. per head. It is impossible for
255. to come out of 235. 7d. Yet the party which
advocates the 235. 7d. tariff also advocates the
255. subsidy to be paid out of it.
(2) Vote AGAINST the Fused
Government’s Candidate;
When the Deakin and Cook parties combined
t was agreed that every member who joined the
Fusion should continue to receive the party’s
nomination for his old constituency. In other
words, the existing members decided to convert
themselves, as far as possible, into a sort of
perpetual oligarchy, and to deprive the con=
stltuencles of the right to select their own
candidates.
(3) Vote FOR the transfer of
the State Debts to the
Commonwealth.
The States haven’t done much in the way of
paying off the old Debts. The Commonwealth
may do better; it can hardly do worse.


it’s not for him to say whether he will have it or
not), because of the uncertainty that would arise
at the end of the 10 years. Therefore, he asks the
States to adopt a plan under which, according to
his own showing, the uncertainty will begin to
avise, not in 10 years, but immediately. If the
Fusion’s 255.-a-head amendment is put into the
Constitution, nobody is under any obligation to
keep it there ; as Jiggery says, it can be amended
at any time, and the States left without a bean.
But if the Commonwealth entered jnto an agree-
ment with the States for 10 years, the thing would
be absolutely fixed for the term of the agreement
anyway, and the High Court would see that
the bargain was respected. The Bulletin
isn’t arguing in favor of an agreement for 10 years
or any other period; for the people of Australia
can trust themselves to treat themselves properly
without any agreement. But when the dread-
fully superior and still more dreadfully dull
Jiggery poses as a person who wants stability,
and then scoffs at a man who offers stability for
10 years while he himself puts forward a scheme
which, according to his own assertion, doesn’t offer
stability for 10 months, it is time to remark
that the Premier of N. S. Wales is making the
usual ass of himself.
♦
The case for and against Tait’s double-header
engines was well put by a couple of witnesses at
the Beaufort inquest. Said the experienced
driver:—
The trains are too long for the examiners to go over
them properly; it takes twice as long to fill the air-pipes
in a double-header, and though you have the same pres-
sure as in a single-engined train you have double the
number of brakes to use it on. The long trains could be
handled as safely, though not as speedily, as short ones if
we had a brake pressure of 701 b., but we are pot allowed
to use that much. They put an excessive strain on the
drivers, their whole attention being necessary from the
moment they step on the footplate, and when a man has
been 17 consecutive hours on duty his concentration has
been strained to breaking-point.
Then the goods superintendent had his say :
Of 398 trains run between Seymour and Wallan, on the
N.E. line, in December last, 321 were double-headers.
To do without double-headers on that line alone would
mean over 2000 extra single trains yearly, and the Mel-
bourne yards could not accommodate all those trains.
That is the chief trouble—the Melbourne yards.
Much of the traffic between November and March
is wheat and wool ; and if the Western and
North-Western wool and wheat freight was taken
to its proper destinations—Portland, Warrnam-
bool and Geelong—there would be plenty of room
in the Melbourne yards. But all must come to
Melbourne —all except the slaughtered engine-
men. They stay at the dead end.
♦
Presumably the Wade Government has now
about finished its prosecutions over that small
Sydney event commonly described as the Red
Flag Procession ; at least it seems to have prose-
cuted everybody about as often as it possibly
could, and made about as unpleasant a show of
itself as it knew how. It made a great and
special effort to gaol Harry Holland,
one-time of Broken Hill, who was present
apparently in the capacity of a reporter,
and whether it gave its legal representative
special instructions to be sour and nasty, or
whether his manners were naturally like Wade’s
dog’s countenance, he certainly toiled hard for his
fee. The great effort of this person (his name was
Mant) was to ask a witness if he was a Socialist,
and, if he said he was one, to retort that he looked
like it. The remark was laborious, but not
brilliant, and the idea of paying a lawyer to say
things like that when the money is so much more
urgently required for the reduction of the public
debt seems absurd.
The Old Soldier growls :
The Military College elaborated by Kitchhker, and
alleged to be along the lines of West Point, in the United
States, differs somewhat from its reputed model. When
UncleSamuf.l started his soldiering school, the one object
he had before him was the officering of his army with
Americans who knew their job. The army was small,
and it had no gauds or titles to offer, so it gave good
pay. The West Point course meant hard work, and the
cadet who went there was not expected to pay for his
schooling. On the contrary, Uncle Sam paid him all the
time he was going through the course, beside rationing
him and providing his uniform. A West Point Cadet, if
he has a frugal mind, can actually save money while
learning the rudiments of the art of war. The father of
the embryo Australian officer will have to pay £BO per
annum for his son’s military schooling. The best the
Australian cadet can hope for is a colonelcy at £9OO a
year by the time he is 60, if he manages to keep out of
trouble till then.
There is another aspect of the question. As the
retiring President of the Methodist Conference said last
week : “ If the recommendations be carried out, it is pretty
certain that in a few years most of the officers of the Aus-
tralian army will be the sons of rich and well-off people.”
It is quite likely once things get into the hands of a Staff
Corps recruited from a military college which receives 33
cadets a year, and gives them a three years’ course for
£BO a year. No one who was not rich would stand his son
such an expensive professional education as that unless
the prospects were very good indeed. Allowing for
clothes and pocket-money each cadet would cost, during
his three years’course, quite £5OO ; and he could be made a
lawyer for that. It is estimated that there will be only
18 vacancies, annually, in the Staff Corps, to be filled by
the 33 cadets in the year’s class. That means that 15 out
of each year’s entry of 33 are confidently expected to
break down during the course, and if they don’t break
down there will be no vacancies for them to fill, after
paying for an education that can fit them for the business
of soldiering and no other.
Even if a youngster has the luck to get one of the 18
annual vacancies, what are his chances of promotion?
There are to be a total of 190 subalterns in the Staff
Corps. Divide that bv 18 and you get 10J or 11 years as
the probable service of the senior before he becomes cap-
tain. The subaltern gets his commission (if he gets it at
all) at from 20 to 22 years old ; and so he would, if he had
luck, he a captain at 31 to 33, major at 40, and might be a
colonel at 50; and there he would stick till the age limit
and compulsory retirement.
Australia is assured that all the promotion is to be “by
merit.” How they are going to manage that is not very
clear, if three-fourths of the total subalterns and captain's
are to be isolated as “area officers” (215 out of 280),
while 39 of the remainder, with five majors, are doing
duty at the seaports in full view of the public with the
Permanent Forces, and a proportion, mostly of and above
the rank of captain, are on the district and headquarters’
staffs. A century ago promotion in the British navvused
to goby merit, and the result was that all the best ships
and commands went to the connections of a few great
Whig families. In this Staff Corps the men with a social
pull will get into the Permanent Forces or Staff, and
those without will be area officers till they get grey or die.
♦
During the week the venerable and long-winded
Judge Heydon (Industrial Judge of N.S.W.) let
loose on a distracted community some more of
that peculiar logic which is his special stunt. On
this occasion a poor devil of a carter admitted to
his ’Onor that, having a wife and children, and
being in great difficulties, he had signed his em-
ployer’s paysheet for £2 3s. a week, when, as a
matter of fact, he was only receiving £2. Heydon
didn’t doubt the man’s statement. He apparently
accepted it wholly. And what did Heydon say ?
Hid he scathe the sweater who had taken ad van-
tage of a fellow-man’s desperate position ? Did he
hold the employer up to the contempt of press
publicity? Not if the Sydney Telegraph is cor-
rect. According to that paper, Heydon did none
of those things ; but, instead, blew scalding steam
over the victim of the fraud—thus :
Are men prepared to make no sacrifice for their man
hood? lam perfectly astonished. A man seems to think
that pressure of circumstances is excuse for a thing of
this kind. Here a man comes into court who has signed
for a wage, by which he has blacklegged, and has helped
to defraud his fellow-men, and does it because, as he says,
he cannot allow his children to starve. Men seem to be
willing to enter into a conspiracy with their employers to
defraud their fellow-men. You go and accept a lower
wage and allow the award to crumble away. What is the
use of making an award? You then come into court and
pull a poor mouth. You ought to be ashamed of yourself.
And still not even the ghost of a curse had Heydon
for the man who devised the fraud and made
money out of it.
Though nowadays the State Fright papers throw
dozens of clods at Unification, it is amusing to
watch the still more numerous tricks which the
States have to adopt for want of the thing the
clods are thrown at. There is, for instance, a nice
little row between Victoria and N. S. Wales over
Ma’s Pure Food Act. Victoria supplies Ma with
a good deal of food ; and, though trade between
the two States is supposed to be free, Ma lately
uleased that a Victorian who sent food across
the sacred border must appoint a legal repre-
sentative in N. S. Wales for convenience
of prosecution. Victoria complains that it is
Ma’s way of defeating or harassing the inter-
state Freetrade which Federation was sup-
posed to accomplish; and Ma, as in duty
bound, says that it is nothing of the kind. Still
the fact remains that the new caper not o ( nly does
impedeinter-StateFreetrade, butaddsa trifletothe
cost of the foodstuffs brought from Victoria. The
Ma State authorities say they are very sorry, but
without this new provision how can they get at
the dishonest manufacturer in his trench across
the border? In other words, under the present
inadequate system of Federation, the people of
N. S. Wales can’t be protected in the matter of
their food supply except by the employment of a
host of totally unproductive agents, whose keep
will, of course, be a charge on either the producers
of Victoria or the consumers of N. S. Wales.
♦
All through the past week and the weel? before
and sundry previous weeks, negotiations for the
closure of the Newcastle coal strike have dragged
along. The owners still refuse a conference, as
they have done all along, though they seem willing
to have a Wages Board ; and their present
attitude appears to be that, if the men resume,
the proprietaries will find work for as few
of them as possible, and retain as many
non-unionists as they* can. They make such
an obtrusive pretence of aloofness and blank
indifference, and make such a conspicuous show
of not caring a straw whether work is resumed or
not, that negotiations, which have always been
difficult, don’t promise to become any easier. The
strike, in fact, looks as if it was merging into a
lock-out, and the Law evidently exhausted itself
when it put Peter Bowling in gaol, and has no
resources left—or none that it can mobilise at
short notice.
Royal Art Society.
The “cabinet” exhibition of the Royal Art
Society, which was opened on Monday at the
Pitt-street (Sydney) rooms, contains no very
striking canvas (unless it be one of several
that were inadvertently hung instead of their
perpetrators); nevertheless, it discovers some
artistic effort that should be a source of
satisfaction to the Society and a ray of hope in a
somewhat dreary outlook.
Unfortunately, the old system of jumble has
been adhered to in the hanging, instead of the
infinitely saner system adopted by the Society of
Artists of grouping each painter’s exhibit. The
result is that,the few good pictures are drowned in
a flood of mediocrity. Under the grouping
system there would be two or three wall portions
sufficiently attractive to give this autumn show
a tone; under the jumble system it is as indi-
gestible as a workhouse duff with a raisin to the
square pound. Probably the man who suffers
most is J. S. Watkins. He has two or three
figure studies (“A Black, Screen,” “The Red
Kimono,” and “The Japanese Screen”) which
demand to be gronped for fair effect, instead of
being distributed here and there amongst tame
seascapes and uproarious cabbage gardens. “A
Black Screen ’’ is a refreshing thought finely
placed, upon the canvas. The undressed young
person behind a diaphanous veil has been treated
in a friendly spirit, the selection of a somewhat
out-of-place model being apparently a deliberate
and subtle plan whereby the casual observer, par-
ticularly the gentleman observer, may be trapped
into a reverie as to the intentions of the lady who
came away without anything on, so to speak.
Other artists suffer equally. Lister Lister’s shore
and sea studies, and A. J. W. Burgess’ fine re-
productions of London Bridge and the Pool from
London Bridge and Tower Bridge are good
examples.
Dattilo Rubbo has, in the oil section, a couple
of heads that are worth more than the money he
is asking. Watkins’ landscape, “ Wild Flowers,”
is one of the few gems of the collection. Korman
Carter shows up strongly in his black-and-white
portrait of Foster Fraser. Percy Spence’s char-
acteristic hand cannot be mistaken in the black-
and-white line. And there are so many others of
an average merit that it is impossible to enumerate
them.
The exhibiting artists have been modest in the
prices placed on their pictures, and a com-
paratively few pounds will go a long way. As for
the fellows with drayloads of pounds, they are
hereby exhorted to do the right thing—to buy a
couple of canvases here and there, not so much
for the small financial aid as the great moral
encourgement. One stout gentleman with a thin
cheque-book can do more for Art than ten long-
haired professors and 25 bursts of applause.
9H“ S.T.S.” : Since writing lately about the fads play-
writers have in choosing titles, an even more striking one
has come to hand about Bernstein, the new French
dramatist. He is said to make a point of having a word
of six letters : “ Samson,” “ Israel,” “ Be Voleur” (known
in Australia as “ The Thief ” —hut surely it ought to be
“ La Voleuse ”?), and now “ La Griffe.”
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ A Waltz Dream.”
Theatre Royal “ Arms and the Man.”
Criterion “ The Merchant of Venice.”
Palace “ The Luck of Roaring Camp.”
Lyceum Hall Spencer’s Theatrescope Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Tivoli Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ The Lion and the Mouse.”
Theatre Royal “ Sergeant Brue.”
Kino’s “ Prince and Beggar Maid.”
Princess’s “The Night of the Party.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Tait’s Pictures.
St. Kilda Esplanade.. The Jesters.
♦
G. B. Shaw’s “Arms and the Man” was
staged at Sydney Royal on Saturday night.
Starting in a fashion that foreshadows serious
drama, it trails off, during the second and third
acts, into comedy of an extravagant order. The
play can’t be appreciated as a work of art, for
it is nothing of the sort. 1 Its charm and
its merit lie in its characterisation, its wit,
its thoughtfulness and its humor. Shaw is
concerned here, as elsewhere, to rend the veil of
humbug with which convention seeks to idealise
the “ great passions.” With infinite good-humor
he insists that war is but a trade—and a sordid
unspectacular one at that—and that love is a
purely physical affair. He sees in the hero of a
cavalry charge one whose horse has bolted with
him. The V.C.-seeker rouses no thrill in Shaw.
He regards that person with the cold, a,verse eye
of the private in the late South African war,
whose chief terror as he lay wounded on the field
of battle was that some officious order-hunter would
drag him from his place of comparative safety, and
proceed, for his (the order-hunter’s) own selfish
ends, to make of him (the private) a human back-
shield and a target for the bullets of the foe.
Romantic people who claim to be obsessed
with deathless loves give Shaw the tired
feeling. He holds that the woman pursues the
man, and—provided she hasn’t a hump—gets him
every time. Lovers who protest their regard for
one another’s souls fail to convince this man. He
considers thatsortof thing cant —andabrand of the
article, moreover, which doesn’t even deceive the
canters. Of course, the Shaw point of view is
amply just enough to be arguable. The joy of
“Arms and the Man” consists in the diverting
and plausible way in which the case for anti-
sentimentality is presented.
* * * *
Bluntschli—the figure whom Shaw chooses
to voice his own views—is the matter-of-fact son
of a Swiss hotelkeeper. When the play begins
he is practising the war-calling on the Servian
side against Bulgaria. Fleeing energetically, as
every rational soldier should when danger looms,
he arrives in the bedroom of Rai'na, daughter
of the Bulgarian Major Petkoff. Raina is
highly-romantic, a worshipper of the mili-
tary, and of martial deeds—in fact, an
average young girl. She is unspeakably pained
at the sordid view Shaw takes of Bluntschli’s pro-
fession. Nevertheless she saves the fugitive’s life,
lends him her father’s coat to escape in; and puts
a photograph of herself in a pocket Of the garment
“for remembrance!” (And the old playgoer, even
if he isn’t a reader of Shaw, knows what is com-
ing when he sees that aged bit of busi-
ness.) The next act introduces Sergius Saranoff,
the antithesis of the practical Bluntschli.
Sergius is a dreamer and a fraud. He is in love
with Ra'ina. That is to say, he puts in a good
deal of his spare time uttering highly-colored
untruths about his adoration for her. He is the
typical hero of Ouidaesque romance, a sort of
csntinental Cardigan. It turns out, however, (1)
that his love for Rai'na is mainly a sentimental
pose; (2) that as a soldier he is useless, and,
in fact, a positive menace to the cause he espouses.
As regards Ra'ina, it is intimated (1) that Sergius
bores her ; (2) that she is no high-souled divinity
but an ordinary, mendacious, experience-seeking
young female'; (3) that if she likes anyone better
than herself it is Bluntschli. Sergius decides to
let Lonka, the Petkotfs’ maid, marry him ; Nicola,
Louka’s butler-admirer, expresses himself as satis-
fied with the arrangement in consideration of the
prospect of getting the couple’s custom in a busi-
ness which he is starting; Bluntschli succumbs
with hardly a struggle to Rai'na, and the curtain
falls on a cheerful atmosphere of utter disillusion-
ment all round.
# * * *
The production suffers from two defects.
It is acted at the brisk pace of a knockabout farce,
so that many fine points of the dialogue are lost
to the audience. And most of the actors lack the
courage of the Bulgarian’s reputed dirtiness. For
one of a race whose most fastidious members only
wash once a week, Reynolds Denniston’s Sergius
is the most shaven and brushed-up warrior con-
ceivable. Julius Knight plays Bluntschli interest-
ingly. Louka (Miss Elsie Wilson) and Nicola
(Sydney Stirling) do well. Miss Katherine
Grey is a charming, humorous and human Raina.
A triumph is scored by Leslie Victor. His Pet-
koff is the veritable raffish, unshorn, dusty old
military gentleman whom one sees hanging round
the cafes of S. European towns. The rdle of his
wife is admirably taken by Miss Susie Vaughan.
“ Waterloo,” Conan Doyle’s one-act piece
in which Henry Irving appeared so often, is
played as a curtain-raiser at the Royal. Julius
Knight provides an impressive portrait of Cor-
poral Gregory Brewster, the octogenarian guards-
man. Reynolds Denniston is a taking figure as a
British Thomas Atkins, and Miss Florence Kelly
and Winter Hail toil to good purpose in minor
parts.
** * *
Hugh J. Ward and his bunch of comedians
have been keeping audiences awake at Syd-
ney Palace since Saturday with “The Man
from Mexico.” Next Saturday the company will
break the monotony of the strike at Newcastle.
“ THE MAN FROM
MEXICO," at
SYDNEY PALACE.
“ YOU’RE THE ONE!"
The Crazy German (Arthur Eldred) challenycs
Mr. Reyinald Wykcham to a duel.
Oscar Asche came back to Sydney Cri-
terion on Saturday night, and lent Antonio three
thousand ducats in a red wig. Asche plays up
fairly well to the revised conception of Shylock.
Though nobody could make a hero out of the
miser, the idea gains ground that we owe the old
man some reparation. If Antonio and the rest of
them had no other grievance against him except
that, he took a trifle for the use of his money-
well, there are 125,870 depositors with the Savings
Bank of N. S. Wales alono, and most of them
would become as fluent as A. Deakin if their 3
per cent, were stopped. And even Russell French,
of the Bank of N. S. Wales, who is no Jew, would
probably be annoyed if people made a practice of
spitting on his beard because he charged 6 per cent,
for a loan. Since, then, Shakspeare and the Scrip-
tures can’t be wrong, we have had to modify Shy-
look, and take some of the warts off him, and swear
that Shakspeare didn’t really put them there;
and instead of something particularly vile and
loathsome, we are invited to consider the old man
chiefly as an incarnation of the spirit of .Judah
thirsting for vengeance for long and abominable
persecution. Whether that was W. Shakspeare’s
idea or not, his text certainly allows of that read-
ing; and Oscar Asche, as before mentioned, fol-
lows it some of the distance. Still, he might go a
few steps farther. B’or instance, he makes Shy-
lock slap his daughter Jessica’s face under no
provocation whatever. It is a suggestion that the
old man must be cruel—he can’t help it. But
there is no call for any such exhibition. Shy-
lock’s grudge is against the Christian, and his
grudge against the Christian is mainly based on
his love for and pride in his own race. Asche had
therefore better sacrifice that slap. Apart from
such straws, his reading of the part is excellent;
and W. Shakspeare’s reputation won’t suffer from
his rendering of the lines, though he doesn t
render even the blank verse as if he were reciting
for a literary society’s prize.
Miss Bray ton’s Portia is not to be Compared
to Asche’s Shylock. It is the least successful of her
bigger parts. There is, Of course, room for endless
argument, but it is pretty certain that Portia had
the “not one drop of blood” knock-out up v her
sleeve all the time the “trial” lasted. Old
Belario, no doubt, put it there. Right from the
start the gentle lady’s idea was not to acquit
Antonio—she took that for granted—but to con-
vict the Jew, and she led him deeper and deeper
into the net. But Miss Brayton gives no hint of
that. On the contrary, her by-play with Nerissa
at the table plainly suggests that she strikes the
point as she hunts through the law-books —modern-
looking volumes, by the way, to be in a court of
old, amphibious Venice.
* * * *
Success does not, however, depend on one
actor, or on two. Asche’s support is excellent.
Right away down to Old Gobbo, who comes and
goes in one scene, the production is rich in
scholarly character-studies. They are not all as
good as Athol Forde's Old Gobbo, certainly; if
they were it would be hard to say how the thing
could be better. Other first-rate performances by
the one-act people include Herbert Grimwood’s
Prince of Morocco, and whoever got the brown
gentleman ready to make his bad guess at the
caskets deserved that his boss should have better
luck. The French potentate, Arragon, who
makes the other bad guess, is cut out of this ver-
sion—the only character dispensed with. Kay
you per (Bassanio, who causes all the trouble, and
comes off best), Charles Doran (the merchant),
and lan Penny (the garrulous Gratiano) do from
good to better. R. F. Anson is loaded with the
poor jesting of young Gobbo. From the modern
point of view it is the most thankless part in the
cast, and though in the first two minutes of the
first night a Philistine aloft did suggest a hair-cut,
a good struggle with the poor material was after-
wards rewarded with as much applause as a
yhakspearian audience is ever guilty of. But,
going into this long cast of characters, it isn’t easy
to stop. Even Tubal, who says only 20 words or
so, does so much more than speak that Caleb
Porter makes the part well worth remembering.
** * *
For 10 days more Reginald Roberts will
resolve to go and make a night of it in the beer-
garden, even though he has only been married
that day to the Princess Royal of the House of
Flausentliurn ; and Bantock and Langford Kirbv
will decide to follow him, and it will occur to the
Princess and Alma Vaughan to see what the
horrid place is like, just as it occurs to other
people to see what Maxim’s is like in “The
Merry Widow.” The “garden restaurant,” as
the bills put it, isn’t quite so patently shocking as
the other place was, but it’s there that the
waltz happens —the Waltz that the Dream is
about. After the 10 days previously mentioned,
“Aladdin” will hang out his lamp on the
premises, and the Principality of Flausenthurn
will have its headquarters removed to Sydney
Royal—a Royal, by the way, which next week
will be in a perspiration of lime and sawdust in
consequence of some hurried structural re-a-rrange-
ments.
Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
Moving Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney— 3B6 George St.; Melbourne—266 Collins St.
Brisbane—93-95 Queen St.; Adelaide—Gawler Place
SPARKLING, REFRESHING, EXHILARATING AND PURE.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality and character, being sharp, clean, and of light gravity.
Adams’ Tattersall's Hotel,
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
&
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.


West’s Pictures, at the Glaciarium, Syd-
ney, include, now, an up-to-date representation of
Paris under water. You read in your morning's
paper that the Seine is in flood again, and you
take a penny tram to the Glaciarium, and there
you have the who'e thing. And when the
Parisian goes in for water he goes in enthusiasti-
cally. This paper would like to have delayed pub-
lication so as to do justice to the new attraction,
which was billed for Wednesday, but the tides
that wait for no man urge it along its old channels.
The other things at the Glaciarium —“The Lady
Detective ” and “ The House of Cards,” for in-
stance —are things that joy the heart of the
seeker after beauty. At the Bijou humor is
mixed up with pathos in scientific doses which
are pleasant to take and eminently good
for persons with indigestion, as well as
for persons who are yet in happy ignorance of
the fact that they have got any stomach. “The
Postmistress” and “A Corner in Wheat” are
billed as the chief attractions, but memory recalls
with pleasure the “Leopard Hunt in Abyssinia”
and tlie story of how little Billy was crossed in
love, and how even Death went back on him dis-
dainfully on several occasions. For the last few
days the Lyceum has been closed for repairs or
for enlargement, or something, and this coming
Saturday it will burst forth into new life in
several soul-satisfving directions.
* -m # *
Sydney Tivoli, having dealt itself a satis-
factory hand, is now sitting tight, consequently
the bill of this week is so like the one of last that
it might as well be the same. The Wille Brothers,
with their hazardous feats, provide the star per-
formance of the evening ; and they reap a harvest
of applause when they have concluded, and the
audience is quite certain that the anxious climbing
brother is not going to dive on top of them from
the ladder which is balanced on his relative’s
talented feet. The floor of the Tivoli these nights
is a sea of anxious upturned faces whilst this trick
is in progress. Vasco, the Demented Musician,
is still extracting good music from his library of
instruments, which include several strange vari-
eties never before known to launch out oil a tune
by themselves. They are apparently the cooks,
scullions and groom 3 of the House of Music —use-
ful in obscure ways down in the basement and
backyard of tunes, but possessing too limited a
range of noises to appear in public on their own.
Vasco cheerfully gives each of these downstairs
people a short solo, and they grunt; buzz or
wheeze through it in their queer voices, and then
retire into their customary obscurity.
“ A WALTZ DREAM," at SYDNEY
HER MAJESTY'S.
Lieut. Niki (Tenor Roberts) and Count Lothar
(Langford Kirby).
Adelaide has already got into its winter
stride in the matter of amusements. H. Rickards
has re-opened the Tivoli, and De Dio, the light-
footed, the prismatic, the illusive, is the sensation
of the moment. Her turn is finely stage-managed.
Brown and Robinson give off good music in bad
clothes as before. Graham and Dent act briskly
in a playlet which shows the former as a kind of
“ Private Secretary ” in the hands of a sporting
lady employer. He is told it will Vie an item of
his duty to “scratch Lady Emily.” He is asked
if he ever had a stud of his own ; he had—it has
rolled under the sofa. The humor is primitive,
but joyous. The Empire has the Crottons, who
call themselves Greek gladiators and are very
powerful and daring athletes. The Royal has lost
the “Babes” and with - them Lilian Lea, who
pleasantly pervaded a story with which she-really
had nothing to do. With her ringing voice and
her Palotta-like appearance the lady should go far.
High-class melodrama is the present attraction;
for “The Cheat” is just melodrama. Still, it is
high-class all right, and the acting is fine, and so
is some of the setting.
* * Hi
In “The Night of the Party,” produced
at Melb. Princess’s last Saturday, there is some-
thing of naturally humorous novelty, and much
which is merely farcical and unconvincing. The
characters; with one exception, are old-fashioned
types; the comedy is a series of old situations,
with altered outcomes, unexpected touches of
sutfftfahd sentiment, and a strangely abrupt con-
clusion. Farcical comedies, as a rule, are so con-
structed that they play themselves. This one
seems to require a lot of smart interpretation
and practised collaboration from the co. The
first performance of “The Night of the Party’’
is pretty certain to be steadily improved upon, but
it isn’t so certain that there will be any more
crowded audiences to supply the roars of laughter
essential to “go” iU these matters. A farce that
has a high-toned London valet for its hero, and in
which a butler of august distinction discourses
seriously on the ethics of the “servitorial pro-
fession,” is somewhat foreign to the Compre-
hension of Australia. If “The Admirable
Crichton” was generally misunderstood, or not
fully appreciated, “The Night of the Party”
can hardly be expected to hit the target of popular
success in its bull’s-eye.
Mr. Crosbie, valet to a gilded young
bachelor, gives the Party, the august butler afore-
said, who battles only for doolcs and royalties,
being the social star of the occasion. Other
guests include a whirlwindy adventuress named
Gipsy Vandelier, and a comparatively ill-man-
nered footman, who commits the indiscretion of
appearing in livery. Mr. Crosbie’s young boss
returns unluckily to the flat ; likewise a hare-
brained married lady, who pursues him witli
tender overtures and complains of her doting hus-
band’s unreasonableness. This time she pro-
poses to elope with her platonic lover,
and what time they are conversing the
human remnants of Mr. Crosbie’s inter-
rupted Party are concealed about the room. The
august butler, for instance, crawls under the
table, and is embarrassed when the agitated lady
sits beside it and innocently thrusts a silk stock-
ing on his notice. The bachelor persuades her to
return to her husband—the time is then 2 a.n). —
and he goes to bed after thanking Heaven that
nobody, save himself and his faithful Crosbie,
knows of her reckless behavior. Curtain on first
act. From this situation the rest of the comedy
is evolved. The characters mostly meet again at
a country hotel where Crosbie is masquer-
ading as his boss, Mr. Frayne. Complica-
tions arise through the Gipsy and others
informing Lady Hampshire that they know
of her nocturnal visit to Frayne’s flat. Her
husband also gets to know of it, and a catastrophe
is averted by the audacity of the incredible Mr.
Crosbie, who accepts the responsibility of his
bogus character, and rushes his master, the real
Frayne, into the awful humiliation of appearing
as servant to his own valet. It is a crudely im-
possible second act; but in the next scene the
change of characters between Crosbie and Frayne
is cleverly worked. The humor of the plot is not
all on the surface. Nothing falls out in quite the
orthodox way. Moreover, the story leaves an
impression on the memory. It is not contemptibly
thin.
* * * *
Some of the parts are well played. David
James, as Crosbie, the man of resource, is an easy,
unaggressive comedian, who nothing exaggerates
nor sets down aqght in buffoonery. Hugh
Buckler, as the gentlemanly Frayne, also appeals
artistically to the intelligence of the audience.
George Willoughby’s picture of the pompous
butler is a clever character study, and the adven-
turess whom Miss Mab Paul introduces is a
forcible and intensely human female, with an
evident capacity fpr shaking things up. Harry
Halley, as the halbporter who is stowed away in
a box and nourished with puffs of air from a
bellows by way of the keyhole, is brighter in the
first act than the last, whereas Miss Amy Willard
is better at the end. Miss Violet Paget fills the
bill in the considerable part of Lady Hampshire ;
the husband part is passably acted by Arthur
Cornell, and among the people whose characters
are most farcical, Overton, as an alderman, is con-
spicuous for overdoing it.
i** * *
The Clarke-Meynell musical comedy co.
has done nothing else that was quite so oddly
entertaining as the piece put up for its farewell
season at Melbourne Royal. “Sergeant Brue,”
as The Bulletin lately remarked of it in Sydney,
breaks new ground and scampers away from all
traditions of tuneful comedy. It is full of sweet
music and pleasant madness. Apparently, the
authority had a simple conversational farce in
view when he first brought the stodgy Sergeant
into the parlor adjoining his son’s hairdressing
shop; but Crookie Stubbs stole into the sham-
pooery and put strange ideas into the
author’s head. Then he fell asleep and dreamed of
“ Trial by Jury,” and.awoke to the fact that eccen-
tricity is a law unto itself. “ Sergeant Brue ” pro-
ceeds as it pleases. It skips from musical comedy
to domestic farce and back again, takes vyild ex-
cursions into Gilbertian opera and pantomime,
and runs itself to earth in a maze of burlesque
drama. When Harold Thorley, purporting to be
a barber by persuasion and the brother of a hos-
pital nurse, is visited by the vision of a nice brown
girl from Honolulu in the grounds of the Green
Park Hotel, it seems,useless to offer further pro-
test against “Sergeant Brue.” Captious criticism
throws up the sponge.
The company is happily situated, in this
three-act extravaganza. The world where Brett
belongs to the police force was evidently made for
criminals like Crookie Cromwell Stubbs and
magistrates of Tom Payne’s pattern. The home
of Brett is a suitable environment for such a
slavey as Miss Orford, and Daisy is the baptismal
name under which that smudgy, love-lorn spin-
ster was bound to black the grates. Nobody knows
who Essie Perrin is supposed to be, but she looks
it. Harry Sweeney and Miss Denton, neither of
whom can sing brilliantly, have a duet which
commends them to favorable consideration.
Thorley is heard at his best, and Miss Lincoln
shines in both song and comedy, although she has
a tendency to waggle her skirts. Also the chorus
is melodious and decor-
ative, and ever ready to
nod its head at the con-
ductor’s bidding, whilst
the efficiency of the or-
chestra goes without
question.
“SERGEANT BRUE,”
at MELB. ROYAL.
Tom Payne as Mr. Crank,
the Magistrate.
(Showing pose, when talk-
ing to the ladies.)
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the panto passes
out to-morrow (Friday), and “The Lion and the
Mouse’’ passes in on Saturday. Of Charles
Klein’s drama of the almighty dollar Melbourne
has good accounts from Sydney ; also the
voice of Roosevelt is heard crying in the advt.
that Klein’s play is a bosh ter, or words to that
effect. Therefore, Melbourne is prepared to take
Julius Knight very seriously; and the first
appearance of Miss Katherine Grey will be
thankfully received.
** * *
So far the patrons of Melbourne King’s
have made no audible remark about a notable
feature of “The Prince and the Beggar-Maid.”
This is the wild, naive affection of Miss Beggar-
Maid Wilton for Captain Ned who
represents half the visible army of Illyria. There
is something conspicuously queer about this
passion for an elderly gent., who is about as un-
responsive as a bank director. If Duggan were
less stolid in spirit and in flesh, the girl’s adora-
tion might pass for genuine, but, under present
conditions, it doesn’t. In a vegetable sense it is
the love of a violet for a large tomato; humanly
or inhumanly, the insanity of a naiad for a beadle.
** * *
The tremendous legend of Lancelot and
Elaine is the latest intrusion at Melbourne
Olympia. The picture is not as command-
ing as the legend, though some of the
incidents escape the tawdry and the trivial, as,
for instance, the passing of Elaine, which is really
charming, and has a touch of that eerie solemnity
visualised by Dore in a familiar illustration. A
Corner in Wheat, another film, drags the mind
from Arthurian romance to American specula-
tion, but still it betrays a moral. Of the comedy
lines The Bulletin does not know whether
to prefer “Coco’s Wedding” for its superb
exuberance; or “When We Called in the
Plumber,” for its aquatic features.
#* * *
At the Opera House a new first part is a
welcome change from the part which had grown
old in the service. A recent arrival in Happy
Tom Parker is less welcome, but the Martines
continue to be acceptable for the sake of the
somersaulting brother who makes no attempt to
be funny. Houdini, it seems, has arrived at his
last nights, and will not be able to accept many
more challenges. Meanwhile lie is prepared to
wager £25 that he can wriggle out of a straight-
jacket in less time than any other person who will
venture to be clothed in the same garment by his
(Houdini’s) assistants. Furthermore, he is defying
death in a new act of mystery. He gets into
a large can containing water enough to drown
him if he so wished, and when the lid has been
placed on the utensil and duly padlocked, as
though he were a consignment of milk, Houdini is
hidden from view. His faithful Consul-General
stands outside the place of concealment, holding
a little axe for the alleged purpose of breaking
open the can and rescuing his master from a
watery grave if necessary ; but up to now Houdini
has invariably escaped from the vessel in a mys-
terious way. All things considered, the ornate
axe-bearer seems chiefly intended to ward off any
intruder who may want to see how a man in a can
unpadlocks himself from inside.
I CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Modern Saw Mill Machinery
WILLIAM FLEMING, Equitable Building, Sydney.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ 0.K.” : Along with Miss Guildford Quinn, who turned
her pretty face Londonwards last week, went two other
young Australian stage girls less experienced than herself
—Miss Martin (an Adelaide native) and Miss Marlow.
They have also been appearing with the Julius Knight
co. If they can get touring engagements in Eng-
land they- will embrace the opportunity, and the
opportunity should consider itself highly favored. Miss
Guildford Quinn, anyway-, has proved her mettle in at
least one exacting character —that of the wandering
damsel in “The Morals of Marcus.” She is an actress
with a distinctive air of earnestness and an equipment of
charms. Her voice is more than richly- musical—it is
emotional. There is “soul” in it. With such speaking
tones and speaking ey-es she should make a big success
when the chance comes.
The Hackenschmidt tour of Maoriland was cut short
after the muscleman and his co. had played from Auckland
to Wellington. Hacky drew pretty big- audiences for
three or four nights in each city ; but, seemingly, there
was no profit attaching to the show. It was too expen-
sive to do any good by- travelling around to “one-night
stands,” where nothing short of hoom business would
hive paid. At Masterton, a prohibition town, the
Y.M.C. A. dragged the wrastler to its meeting house, and
gave him cakes and lemonade, hut Hack and his brawny-
colleagues tore themselves away- and went in search of
more serviceable vittlesand drink.
“0.K.” : What was the matter with my- comments of
“Harrison O.’s” par. re “an old Queen’s Theatre pay.
sheet ’’ that he couldn’t leave them alone? I stated that
the Q teen’s Theatre was opened in 1867 (the year of the
pay-sheet referred to by “ Harrison O.”), and that some
of the people whose names he gave as being dow-n for
very small remuneration had actually been members of
the co. at that time, and were probably- working for half
or quarter of their salaries in consideration of husiness
being bad. But as regards the “ Miss Heath ” (whom he
took to be Wilson Barrett’s wife), I pointed out that the
Miss H. who aftenvards married Barrett was a well-
known actress in 1867, and couldn't possibly have been
then mumming for £1 a week. To this “Harrison 0.”
replies that “if the Queen’s Theatre lady was the Miss
Heath, Barrett must have married someone older than
himself.” This is merely trifling W ith the question. The
Queen’s Theatre lady was evidently a nobody. As for the
age of the lady whom Barrett married, it is,a matter of
English stage history that she was very much older than
her husband. Barrett got his chances as a compara-
tively young man by marrying acomparativelv old “ star’
lady.
Lady Constance Richardson (whose husband was an
extra aide-de-carrier to Lamington during that reckless
potentate’s governorship of Queensland) has been arousing
London with a dance of the Maud Allan brand at the
Alfred Butts’ Palace Music Hall. She is billed as a “ bare-
foot ” dancer, but it is rumored that “ foot ” was a printer's
error and that she is simply a “ bare ” dancer. A cabled
message to the Canadian papers, announcing her first
professional appearance (for her private charity perform-
ances are well known), stated that the lady was “ clad in
little else than her title, and her exhibition made first-
nighters gasp. It is the most daring display London has
yet seen.”
“Cockaigne”: Robb Harwood took his last earthly
call a few weeks ago. His passing out seems a foolish
proceeding, as he could hardly have been more than 40.
Australia will remember him as a brilliant Captain Hook
in “Peter Pan.” Acting- was hereditary in his family,
his father having played with Henry Irving at the Lon-
don Lyceum. Two of his sisters are on the stage. One
of them, Lucia Harwood, was a brilliant mummeress with
George Rignold, before his company began to run down
the hill of Economy, which led to the precipice of Cheap-
ness, over which the whole show went to land with a
crash in the arid wastes of Slump. Lucia Harwood acted
one of the two royal children in Irving’s original produc-
tion of “ Charles I.” This family was in no way related to
the eminently capable Henry Richard Harwood, also well
known in Australia. His real name was John Biggs, and
there seems to be no real reason why it shouldn’t.
The Besses o’ the Barn are doing very well in Maori-
land, and the Taits reckon that it was better to bring
them back for another Australasian’ tour whilst their
name was still green than to wait until they were so far
forgotten that they would have needed boosting back to
notoriety. This time everybody knows what to expect
of the Besses, and a good deal of their former success
is practically assured to them. The bands that came
in their wake didn’t cut into their reputation.
These others came and went and left no name
behind them. Besides, “The Besses” is a name that
sticks in the public’s memory, for the meaning of it was
so vaguely understood and so generally questioned, and
the men have a democratic interest in that they are
known to be professional-amateur bandsmen, collected
from the ranks of the workers. They are generally-
credited with being coal-miners or iron-workers, in their
non-musical capacities, but as a matter of fact, they are
mostly weavers by persuasion. Their present life suits
them better than weaving, and having been through the
mill, the Besses don’t long to return to it.
W. G. Wills, bar his “ Royal Divorce,” “Claudian,’'
“Jane Shore,” “Medea,” and “Olivia” has not been
represented on the Australian stage. “ Charles 1.,”
admittedly bis finest play, will be seen probably when
H. B. Irving makes his long-promised trip. Wills’
“Faust,” one of Henry Irving’s greatest hits, was a brisk
handling of an old theme, and was miles ahead of the
version which Beerbohm Tree put up some few years ago.
His “La Pompadour,” a new setting of the yarn that
Daniel Bandmann in “ ye olde dayes” used to play as
“ Nareisse,” would suit Nellie Stewart.
Fred B. Norton writes: I doubt the accuracy of
“ Harrison O.’s ” statement (from an old pay-sheet) as to
Miss Heath having acted for 3s. 4d. a day in 1867. When
I knew her in 1869 she had the appointment of reader to
the Queen, and was starring at the Theatre Royal,
Nottingham, supported b,v the stock company. Wilson
Barrett, whom she afterwards married, was then the lead-
ing juvenile of the co. Miss Heath had not met him in 1867,
so if she ever play ed for a salary of £1 a week it couldn’t
have been as Mrs. Wilson Barrett. But did she ever cut
so poor a figure on a pay-sheet? Her first professional
appearance on any stage was made in an important part,
and the London Times gave her a great notice. I was a
small boy when she played Juliet, under Sam Phelps’
management at Sadler’s Wells’ Theatre (London). That
was in 18. r >9, as I find in my old records. Twenty years
later she made the hit of her life as Jane Shore.
From London Daily Mail’s criticism (23/12/’O9) of
Frederick Melville’s latest success, “The Bad Girl of the
Family”: “Mr. Melville knows his audiences, and the
British appreciation of what is artificial and sentimental
and false in life and art; and so, while he gives the Girl
an alluring title and gets in as many bedroom, dressing
and undressing scenes as he can, he takes care to sickle
them o’er with gold dust enough to elude the censor-
ship.” True, doubtless ; and yet, if an Australian said it,
he would be pursued with a meat-axe by the nearest
Hempire Leaguer, and smitten hard for a mendacious
slanderer of the Flag that stands not merely for Justice
and Freedom, but for Culture in its highest development.
Said that a grand-daughter of Napoleon Bonaparte —
i.e., the daughter of his bastard son, “Comte Leon is
a teacher in one of the Paris municipal schools. France
must be a cold country for the illegitimate descendants
of crowned heads as compared with England. All the
same, Nap.’s offspring, who seems to have been duly-
authenticated, was a bad man of business if he lived in
Paris, as is stated, all through the reign of Napoleon 111.
without getting himself comfortably fixed up. As for his
daughter, the schoolmistress, she might achieve a small
fortune even now by- going to London and appearing in a
“ Napoleon ” sketch at the music-halls. It could be easily-
done. The old girl would merely have to walk on in a draw-
ing-room scene, and sit musing over a cup of afternoon tea
or something. Then a tame old eagle, with a Napoleonic
crown in its head, would come in through an open win-
dow and roost beside her as she fell asleep on a couch.
After which a fat man, disguised as a spectre of the
Little Corporal, would enter on the o.p. side, with three
strides and a halt, and would kiss the brow of the old
lady-and stroke the head of the educated eagle. Blue
light and curtain. A little thing of that sort would tickle
the sentimental Cockneys to death, so to speak.
That respected actress, Mrs. G. B. W. Lewis, is men-
tioned as being in Berlin at the present time, playing the
Nurse in a German version of “Romeo and Juliet.” It is
interesting to recall that Mrs. G.B.W. appeared as the
Nurse in a J.C.W. production of the same faded old love
yarn, the last time she was before the Melbourne foot-
lights. Miss Tilda Brune was Juliet ; Tommy Kingston
was Romeo ; and the pair were like two sticks of taffy in-
clining to one another under the influence of a tropical
sun.
“ 0.K.” : The developments the picture-show business
throughout Australia, as elsewhere, is to me a most
interesting study in conjecture. To what extent has it
already affected the older kinds of entertainment, and
what will be the result of its educational influence on the
public mind as regards those older “shows”? In the
first place, the cinematograph diverts a considerable per-
centage of patronage from the pubs. The theatre, of
course, has always been in competition with the pub, but
the picture-show is a more powerful opponent, arid
Mr. Bung is already bemoaning this fact. He will
bemoan it more bitterly- anon. The backbone of
all picture-show- business is in the sixpenny seats.
Any night thousands of Australians who formerly paid
at least a shilling for any entertainment they patronised
are accommodated at half the price. If the modest
tanner be not deducted from their expenditure on other
forms of amusement, it is usually—in the case of the men
—a tax on their beer resources. Many of them make a
virtuous boast of having spent the price of two long beers
at a picture show-, where the principal drama was pro-
bably a dumb temperance sermon. Human folly
and vice, by the wav, can never get sympathetic
treatment from the flickergraph. The characters in
a pictorial play cannot offer any specious argu-
ments in favor of giddiness. They are judged by
their deeds. Apologetic gesticulation were useless, for it
would carry no weight with the audience. But the
picture play is something more than a corrective to the
stage play- of questionable morality. It is the essence of
all that is most attractive in melodrama. It gives a
reasonable plot, rapid action performed by clever actors,
and fine scenic illusion minus the stupid dialogue which
is the mere padding of low--elass bellowdrama. The effect
of a course of picturedrama upon even the least refined
minds must tend to destroy their appetite for long
4-act atrocities, such as “ The Corpse in the Twilight.”
In the same way the setting sun of broad farcical
comedy is hound to be settled all the sooner by
the cinematograph. At the theatre a comedy- which
depends for success upon its farcical situations is pro-
longed for 2J hours. At the picture show you get it on
the compressed fodder principle in a mere fraction of the
time. A fair assumption is that all unintellectual forms
of entertainment, save those w-hich are supported by
music, must inevitably be pushed out of popularity by
the spreading flickergraph. On the other hand, the long-
neglected lecturer will be brought back to favor. The
camera is his ally and advance agent. When thelecturer
of the not distant future discourses of “The Things that
Pleased Our Fathers,” his w-ord-pictures of the bygone
bellowdrama and the extinct circus will be received with
ncredulous laughter.
(Continued on page 30.)
THE FORTUNATE ISLES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When Youth was gaily- dancing by-,
And fairy bands the music led,
When every prospect pleased the eye
And Mirth and Joy were daily wed,
We turned—when shades of night had fled—
And sought with eyes that could not weep —
The Ocean rim—where, sages said,
The Isles of Fortune dot the Deep !
We saw them ’neath the morning sky-,
And eke when western clouds were red;
We launched our boat when noon was nigh,
And wafted on till day was sped ;
And when the stars their lustre shed,
In hope we rocked our doubts to sleep,
And dreamt we saw, bediamonded,
The Isles of Fortune dot the Deep.
And now full oft the seas are high
And billows make our bounding bed ;
But none would raise the craven cry
That tells the world his hopes are dead ;
For still Illusion’s golden thread
Must draw us on to find the steep,
Where, tow’ring o’er the Ocean’s dread,
The Isles of Fortune dot the Deep !
O, call it not a Splendid Lie—
That Golden Lands in lustre sweep,
That flow’ry vales in splendor vie—
And Isles of Fortune dot the Deep !
Q (IKK NS LAND.
F. BORN.
Lord Kitchener’s defence scheme seems to
be a comprehensive affair. But. as a possessor of
the D.C.L. degree of Wisdom, his Lordship,
would of course, remember how D.C.L., the
Whisky of the Wise, can always be relied upon to
sustain and illuminate great mental efforts. And
the energising influence of D.C.L. is the best
force for the country to rely upon in furthering
either peaceful defence measures or aggressive
progressive enterprise.*


SOCIETY
NOT WHAT WAS MEANT.
Art Student (airing his knowledge of artistic
terms) : "Now, I like the tONE of that picture."
UNCLE HAYSEED: "Gosh, yes! They dew ’peer
to be kickin’ up an awful row.”
Premier John Weary is understood to
contemplate reorganising the Victorian Penal
Department by inviting the services of an
Inspector-General, “to be obtained within or
without Australia.” Similarly Murray’s prede-
cessor postponed reorganising the State’s system
of Hospitals for the Insane by acquiring an im-
ported expert—and then neglected to find him
the funds wherewith to effect improvements. But
Murray needn’t go outside Australia to find a man
for the prison job. Queensland didn’t have to go
away to find one to make St. Helena reformatory
prison what it is—an institution where 200 long-
sentence men are taught in sane fashion to
become competent handicraftsmen and useful
citizens. And that they do actually become those
desirable persons is proved by the fact that the
hulk of them never return.
HUSBAND'S TASTE.
THE CUSTOMER: “It is nice; but I am
not sure that it would
please my husband.”
The Philosophical
Shop Girl :
"Sorry,
madam,
but it is
quite the
cheapest
article
we have.”
Last week’s run of centuries in Melbourne
—six days out of the seven the thermometer left
the nineties behind, and even the darkness lowered
it but little—persuaded most citizens that the
combination of the average architect and the ditto
builder produces a result that deserves an in-
determinate sentence. On those stifling nights
the two-storey terraces of Carlton, East Mel-
bourne and other suburbs became mere brick-
kilns, and even the Queen Anne cottage proved
itself a parched fraud. Its scarcity of verandah
ensured the walls being sun-baked all day, and
when a mild zephyr tripped along about midnight
the Anne angles and gables cut off all chance of a
cool draught sweeping through the premises. The
ideal house for Australia is of the bungalow class
—a few large, high rooms with wide windows,
and a verandah nearly the width of a street
running right round. There a tired toiler might
sleep in peace, if he had a mosquito net spread
over him. But Melbourne hasn’t dropped the
ornamental Queen Anne, for the sensible bunga-
low, so it transferred itself in large numbers to
the beach, where a lot of it stayed till the early
morning trams came by.
Just when Judge Backhouse was investi-
gating an interesting row last week it suddenly
collapsed and fell through the middle of the
assize. A gentleman deposed that he went out
to Alexandria (Sydney) to call on his wife, whom
he found entertaining a couple of male friends
with beer. He joined in, quite sociable-like, when
suddenly things began to move, and he found him-
self in holts with one of the guests. Even then
he was getting along all right when the other
guest fetched him “ a woodener ” under the ear
with a lemonade bottle. His story was a
melting one, and the first witness called to prove
it to the sympathetic jury was the wife. Her
story corroborated her life-partner’s until it came
to the woodener behind the ear. This, she ex-
plained, was inflicted per medium of a looking-
glass, not a lemonade bottle, and she herself had
“shot” it. “You shot it at accused to protect
your unfortunate husband ?” crooned the Crown
Prosecutor. “Not me,” observed the helpmeet;
“I shot it at him .” The Crown looked helplessly
at Backhouse. Backhouse looked helplessly at the
Crown. The Crown wagged its bald head help-
lessly. “Next case,” said Backhouse, as lie
entered up “ nothing doing ” against the last.
* * * *
Last week Judge Murray, of N.S.W., was
credited by the morning paper with the following
intemperate remark :
It seems almost as if youths must nowadays grow to
the estate of manhood before developinga conscience and
a sense of honor.
There is an immense amount of responsible work
done by mere boys in warehouses and other places
where the Wages Board has not yet penetrated,
and where the salaries are regulated by the em-
ployer. In proportion to the services rendered,
these salaries are, as a general thing, absurdly
low ; in many cases the young worker would not
be able to hang out at all but for the fact that be
has free board and lodging under the parental cor-
rugated iron. The writer knows by a bitterly
long, threadbare experience what is expected by
commerce of the unfortunate junior. Many
of them handle, in the course of a week’s
work, as much property as Judge Murray
could buy witli a year’s salary, and yet
the vast majority are perfectly honest—as honest,
in fact, as Judge Murray is himself. The indig-
nant legal gentleman, whilst on the subject,
might have balanced his discourse by some slight
show of indignation at the want of conscience of
the employers who pay their servants so badly
that their businesses are, to all intents and pur-
poses, run by the charity of their employees’
relatives. There are many such men about;
Judge Murray has probably encountered them
himself. If the Judge feels constrained to throw
a brick somewhere before he passes sentence, let
him throw at least half of it where it rightly be-
longs.
The latest thing in clubs in London —it is
called the London Club—is frankly a business co-
operative society, or mutual benefit association.
Whereas the precious etiquette of old-fashioned
clubs forbids members to openly grind their little
axes or talk “shop,” the new institution is to be
used as a place where every member will push his
own barrow and tout for custom. The peer who
wants to let his house furnished for six months
will announce his desire on the club notice-
board, whilst the gallant captain with a wild cat
mine to float goes around the smoking-room and
drops prospectuses. This is regarded as one of
the last nails in the coffin of poor old Etiquette.
HOW THEY CRUSHED HIM.
MOTHER: “And what did you say, darlings,
when the rude man spoke to you?”
KITTY: “I shut my eyes and looked at Manic,
and Maisie shut her eyes and looked at me,
to show him we were contemptible .”
During the hearing of a Methodist’s will
case, with which a large party of Melbourne
lawyers and barristers have been picnicking pro-
tractedly in the Banco Court, it was seriously pro-
posed to put some specimens of the testator’s
handwriting into evidence and ask Surgeon
O’Hara whether it was a sane “fist” or otherwise.
Chief Justice Madden cast ridicule on the time-
wasting proposition by remarking that if in-
coherent caligraphv indicated lunacy nearly all
the writers of medical certificates wer§ suffering
from brain disease. But in the course of a case
where the estate is worth £70,000 or so, there is
nothing too absurd for one counsel to propose and
another counsel to object to and the learned Judge
to make a note of. When a dead man’s money
gets into Court it must be a distressing time for
his ghost. This writer would sooner die than be
a rich man’s ghost.
* * • B
Tasmania proposes to break the monotony
of things by hanging, a youth named Berty Wara-
tah Langmaid for the sudden stoppage of the
existence of John Butt. There was a mediseval
or aboriginal flavor about the whole business.
Langmaid was said to have been an ardent pur-
suer of Butt’s wife. Both men carried fire-
arms. They seem to have talked openly
in public-houses and other places about the
probable tragedy ahead. Apparently it was
almost an open secret in tiie district that
shooting might be confidently expected, and it
was simply a question who would shoot first and
who would dodge most successfully. There was
even a witness who swore that, before the tragedy,
Langmaid asked him to help with the removal of
the body after the said body should be dead.
Even after this unpleasant hint he lent
a revolver and cartridges to Langmaid, and
after the murder he duly received back the
revolver and all the cartridges except one. In a
slow, turnip-growing way a good part of the district
seemed to realise that either Butt or Langmaid
was presently going to be dead, and it talked
more or less affably with both parties about
the fast-approaching corpse. Nobody thought
of disarming the two and binding them over,
in the sum of eighteenpenee, to keep the peace;
in a bovine way the community just looked on.
Everything was so public that when Butt’s re-
mains were found, after a lengthy search, the com-
munity hardly took the trouble to lookup from
its onion bed. It had taken for granted that there
would be a body. It was expecting a body. Also,
it wasn’t the business of anyone in particular to
prevent there being a body.
* * ■* B
Shepparton (Vic.) is probably the first
Australian town which has welcomed a publican
with the National Anthem. One day Governor
Carmichael was announced
to arrive, per rriotor-ear, at
the local sports carnival
about 3.30 p.m. Pickets
were thrown out, and the
officials took a nip to steady
their nerves. Suddenly
there came flying from a
look-out post a scout, wav-
ing his hat and shouting
that vice-royalty was upon
them. All was confusion.
Bandsmen were hurried
from all partsof the ground,
whiskies were gulped in
one bite; the committee,
with the president (a local
blacksmith) at its head,
assembled at the grand-
stand, and all was perfect
pose. The car dashed
through the gateway. Then
the band hit the welkin on
the raw with “ Gor’ Bave,”
the gathering crowd took
off its hat and cheered
while the Two in the Car
bowed left and right to the
admiring public. But just
when the president whs
preparing to read his ad-
dress of welcome another
picket split the ctowd, and,
grasping the nearest ear
of the blacksmith, spake
as one who had smelt the
Devil. With a clattering
curse the president gra bbi d
his address and ci mmittei,
and hurried to the gate
where the real McKay was
sitting in his car waiting.
The occupants of the fhst
car—a distant publican and a pal—seize I
the opportunity and fled to inform the police
that the lunatic asylum had apparently bio An
loose.
“ Obv ” goes to church :
The pow-wow about filling the pulpit of St. Jimmy's
(Sydney) is affecting the health of several pale-faced
High-Goers. There is a marked difference between the
crowd that assembles in St. Andrew’s and that which
kneels in St. Jim’s. The St. Andrew’s people are a fleshy
lot; they look as if they had done fairly well at money-
making during the week, and were just taking a siesta,
so as to he up bright and early for Monday’s grubbing. The
St. Janies’ people may chase Mammon as hard as the St.
Andrew’s people, but they don’t look it while they are
praying. Lighted candles, side altars, soutanes and sur-
plices deepen the contrast. St. James’ Church has fol-
lowed these practices for many years, but the retired
pilot, Carr-Smith, made them a more conspicuous part
of the service than they were before. Notwithstanding
the devotional aspect of St. James’ people, they pan out
badly on the plate.
THE FUSE’S TRUE INWARDNESS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Before the Fusion was, the Protestant political plat-
form was. That platform caused the Fusion \—Bill
Wilks.
The Fusion wasn’t really formed,
As lots of people thought,
Because the Fruits of Oflice were
By certain people sought.
Far from it. As a hard, cold fact,
The Fused scheme found a home
In Deakiri’s heart and likewise Cook’s
Because it angered Rome.
The Fuse foreshadows certain steps
To ward away or ban
Invaders from Australia’s shores ;
Think you a single man
Would care if 'twere not that this thing
Will rile the Vatican ?
A period of fiscal peace
Is on us ; so that lie
Who loathes Protectionists may get
Their votes—the which will lie
Infuriating to the Pope,
And to the Holy See.
The scheme to make the Commonwealth—
Be seasons good or bad
Hand 25 bob to the States
Each year is but a fad
Or lunacy, solely designed
To render Pius mad.
What though in places like the Hume
The Fusion rep.’s a Tyke,
(Grogan bv name)? It matters not,
The old Church wouldn’t like
Her son to win. Let Lyne but lose
And Rome will get the spike.
No ; Fusion wasn't engineered,
As lots of people thought,
Because the Fruits of Office were
By certain people sought.
Far from it. Asa simple fact
The cause of it was that
It made the Romish hierarch}’
Leap, cursing, on its hat.
N.S.W.
H. SIGNGEMOINE.
df
Perfect Fitting
Gloves.
Nothing in the way of
apparel appeals more to a
woman than a stylish, per-
fect-fitting pair of Gloves.
We have made a special study of these in our
business, and can supply any size or style in the
choicest makes of the world’s best makers.
You will always find our srjov'es first in style,
first in quality and moderate in price.
12-Button Length Fine Kid Gloves, plain points,
Pastelle, Drab, Brown and White, 5/11.
12'3utton Length Best French Kid Cloves,
Pastelle, Pearl, Sky, Pink, Helio, Green, Brown,
Black and White, 8/6.
15- Length French Kid Gloves, Biscuit,
Beaver, Cream, White. Fine quality, 8/6.
12-Button Length Fine Suede Gloves, Biscuit,
Pearl, Drab, Brown and White, 4/6, 4/11, 5/11.
16- Length Fine Suede Gloves, Pastelle,
Cream, Beaver and White, 6/6.
We pay the postage to any address.
Write for our Glove List.
AXTENS & CO.
(La Maison
Parisienne),
24-30 THE STRAND, SYDNEY.
“ Laxo-Tonic,” wrote one who was ill,
“ Is a health-giving-, nourishing pill;
I’ve never felt, better,
So excuse this short letter.
From vour ever affectionate Bill.”
LAXO-TONIC BILLS, 10|d. and Is. 6d.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
m
For Your EASTER HOLIDAYS
The “ Goerz ” Vest Pocket
Tenax” Camera
For Plates
IJx 2 5-16 in.
Camera
weighs on y
10oz.
If you don’t want too much bulk or weight to carry about on
vour Holiday trip, but require a High-Grade Instrument, the
V. P. “ TENAX ”is the very thing. The “ TENAX ” fits easily
into a small pocket and is instantly opened for action. The
V.j>. “ TENAX” is manufactured by the famous Goerz, is fitted
with the Goerz “Dagor” Lens, and is complete in every
improved detail. The V.P. “TENAX” negatives, being so
excellent, can be enlarged to quite big pictures.
Price, complete with “ DAGOR”Lens, and
six Single Slides in two Purse Cases,
£ll.
We stock a Great Variety of NEW MODEL CAMERAS,
ranging in price from 5/- to upwards of £5O.
HARRINGTONS LTP.,
586 GEORGE STREET, near G.P.0., SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE—I 79 Collins Street. ADELAIDE—Cawier Place
BRISBANE —93 to 95 Queen Street.


One of the oddest bits of evidence ever
called for the defence in a murder trial was put in
last week at the “Sandhill shooting case” in
Adelaide. It was the trousers of deceased, show-
ing (so prisoner’s counsel argued) that “far more
exercise had been done upon the knees than on
any other part ” ; in fact, the deceased was up to
his old game of “foxing,” and more or less
deserved what he got. (Applause in Court.)
Judge Homburg talked Yes-No, after his custom.
No improper conduct had been going on be-
tween prisoner and his girl. “Foxing” was an
abominable practice. There was nothing to show
that deceased was “indulging” in it. There
was no such apparent danger to prisoner as justi-
fied him in firing ; it was “a reckless and unwar-
ranted act.” So this surprising Judge “very
much regretted ” that he could not “find a single
circumstance that entitled the jury to discharge
prisoner altogether.” Naturally, the 12 took that
as a broad hint, and what the coroner had called
“wilful murder” they called “the reckless use,
under provocation, of firearms, which practically
amounts to manslaughter.” The whole business
raises the question whether the carrying of pistols
shouldn’t be forbidden. What possible reason
can a city youth have for carrying concealed
artillery ?
* * * if
The Maoriland Nautical Court of Inquiry,
in giving judgment concerning the stranding of
the big steamer Kaipara in Rangitoto Channel
(14/1/’ 10), fetched the Auckland Harbor Board an
almighty biff with the fluke of its anchor. Just
before the biff was delivered it was casually men-
tioned by the secretary of the Board that the
’Frisco steamer Sierra had struck ground in the
same vicinity seven years previously. This,
coming on top of the list of, vessels that had been
hurdling over the uncharted rock in the fairway
since the French warship Duquesne bounced off
it 20 years ago, nearly caused the Court to
cut away the masts and pass out life-
belts. Referring to the importance of a
thoroughly reliable survey of every harbor, the
Court said it was satisfied on the evidence
that the Auckland Board had never bothered to
make such a survey ; that the depth of water over
the submerged hill at low spring tides was not
more than 25ft., whereas the chart showed over
SOft. ; and that the luminous buoy on the western
side of the channel was 100 yards to the north-
west of its alleged position as shown on the chart.
Then the Court swung its hook thus : “In regard
to the all-important matter of the survey of the
Auckland harbor, masterly inactivity and supine-
ness seem to be the prominent characteristics of
the conduct of the Board.” At latest information
the Board was wiping the mud out of its ear.
“Joe Pott”: Permit me to demonstrate
the imminent liability of the N.S.W. No-License
party—the Methodist Church, Y.M.C. A. and
others—to eighteen months’ tough employment.
Peter Bowling and three others were sentenced to
hard labor for “conspiracy to restrict the pro-
duction of an article of public necessity.” Very
well. Inasmuch as beer is an article of public
necessity, and inasmuch as the full strength of the
above-mentioned soul-bagging associations is con-
stantly conspiring to restrict its production, I call
upon the Wade Government to enforce common
justice by immediately lumbering at least the
leaders of this conspiracy. When Justice Pring
was passing sentence on Bowline: and co. he said
that, as a result of their action, 13.000 miners had
been thrown out of work, and they (Bowlingandco.)
were pleased to say it had been done in the cause
of humanity. What humanity was there in that?
His ’Onor called it brutality. Just so. But if
the conspiracy against beer is successful, far more
than 13,000 people will be thrown out of work on
the good-of-humanity gag, and as for the
brutality, it is too horrible to contemplate.
SELFISH HUMANITY.
"Murxver, you will hare to smack
Nip. Naughty wicked hoy
killed a spider."
“ Never mind, Dodie. He teas a
cruel hoy."
“It wasn’t that, murver. I
wanted, to kill it myself.’
Warrnambool and other patriots are mov-
ing to put one memorial on the spot where
Fawkner’s Enterprise landed Victoria’s first
colonists—on Yarra’s bank, opposite where the
Customs House now stands—and another on Lady
Bay, outside Warrnambool, where the decaying
ribs of the 55-ton schooner that was wrecked in
September, ’5O, still show abfive the sand. The
Enterprise itself, by the wav, deserves some com-
memorating, for it was one of the first Australian-
built vessels, being launched at Hobart in 1830.
The Sydney Telegram: spread itself
rather on the recent Melbourne heat wave. A
few extracts :
A Ghastly Summer.
Prostrated Melbourne.
Pitiless Rays.
Awful Visitation.
Persistently and Remorselessly strove to crush the Life
out of every Citizen.
No hopes buoyed up.
Almost Unbearable.
Sun arose like a Ball of Fire.
A Terrible Wind arose.
It continued Victoriously.
The morrow the more bitter.
The Sun would blaze down ayain with its Fierce, Un-
abating, Terrifying Ferocity. (Holy Moses !)
The sun glared Savagely on the pedestrians. (Cheers
and hoots.)
As though ready to consume them Utterly. (Uproar.)
Buildings worse than a series of Limekilns.
Just Broiling at Night. (Cheers.)
Just Roasting in the Day. (Counter cheers.)
The Melbourne constitution must be made Hardy by
the
Long and Violent Winter,
Or it could never Suffer
The Ghastly Summers. (Great disorder.)
But Melbourne took it philosophically. It is used
to its heat wave. The Argus, when things were
at their worst, recorded the usual number of rob-
beries and assaults, falls down stairs, burglaries,
horse bolts, fights, election meetings, proposals to
scrap like grim death for State Frights, and so on.
On the other hand, referring to the weather, it
casually mentioned that a horse belonging to one
Christian had dropped dead at Yarrawonga, but
it didn’t state whether the Christian horse dropped
dead from heat or from pure cussedness.
* * • *
That ridiculous Boy Scout organisation
which goes darkly tracking Red Indians in
George-street or looking for the
footprints of the Tartar hordes
up Lane Cove has become a
weariness of the flesh to Syd-
ney people. The joke was good
enough in its way at first; but
it is being carried too far.
Mark Twain’s Tom Sawyer
and Huckleberry Finn were
interesting Scouts in our
younger days ; and there were
also Jack Harkaway, and the
Boy Detective, and Young
Sleuth, and the Boy that Stood
on the Burning Deck, and the
Boy Murderer in the Wax-
works—they all scouted more
or less. But, as already men-
tioned, the joke is being over-
done. When one runs into
great quantities of boy and
clothes-prop brooding darkly in
the Central Railway Station
or firmly resolved (somewhere
about Circular Quay) to die
fighting with the broom-handle
before the Patagonian hordes
lay a desecrating hand upon Woolloomooloo, he
feels that it is magnificent slush but it isn’t war.
* * * *
After one of the toughest fights put up by
any body of men in recent years in Australia, the
South Clifton coal miners (N.S.W.) went back to
work last week—or at least most of them did.
They had been out for five months. It was a
curious little struggle, all over a matter of union
discipline. The “lodge” fined several members
for a breach of the rules. All of them paid up
except two, and they wouldn’t. The manager
sacked them once, for the sake of peace, but was
promptly instructed to reinstate them ; and then
there was a strike. Of course the pair are lauded
as “ stalwarts” and “men with a backbone” ; the
fact is carefully suppressed that what made the
Clifton miners so bitter was that the very rule
under which the men were fined was signed by one
of the pair as a presiding officer of the lodge, and
in the printed rule-books his is the name attached
to it.
“F.H.”: Dunedin (M.L.) has at length
vindicated itself in the matter of the Scarlet
Female. Flossie and Maudie and Tot and all the
rest of her have been rounded up, hunted down,
chased off the corners and shooed out of the
strongholds and generally put to confusion and
rout. You may range Porridgetown from sunset
to breakfast time and from Dan to Beersheba
without coming within coo-ee of the lady
of the golden locks and the painted com-
plexion. Where her red-heeled shoe tapped
the pavement, no sound echoes hut the John
Hop’s No. 8. The old place of business is
empty. They have got rid of Her.
“Cano”: Sydney Zoo keeps on
staying in the same old place in spite of
expert damnatory opinion, and a recent
outbreak of humanitarianism in the Sydney
press. The animals don’t seem more gloomy
than they used to, because they reached the
gloom limit long ago. The smells, perhaps,
are a little older, a little more mellow than
they were in childhood’s hours, but they’re
still the same old potent kind of effluvia
that knocked one down as a boy (or girl).
The kangaroo, which is naturally a cleanly
animal, has given up trying to find clean
spots to lie on. The bears and other beasts
of an overcoated nature gloom dismally in
their cramped, sun-warmed boxes, groan for
marble slabs, and tread in their water tins
as regularly as heretofore, because it’s much
less trouble to tread in them than to avoid
doing so. Large and pessimistic sea birds
keep on moping around a small wired-in
desert, and make uncomplimentary remarks
about a system which clips their wing and
supplies them with a frying-pan of water
in lieu of the blue Pacific. With the ex-
ception of the monkeys, which, being the
fools of the forest, are cheerful at all times,
the only truly optimistic inmates of the
Zoo nowadays are the rat, the sparrow and
the flea.
The N.S.W. railway system is a dreary
instrument of torture for live stock. On February
25 the Sydney Telegraph, one of the staunchest
barraekers for the City Congestion policy, printed
the story of a stock train, crammed with sheep,
that took 24i hours to do a journey of 204 miles—
an average speed of about 8J miles an hour ! The
caravan of misery crawled into Flemington sale-
yards after the auctioneers had commenced busi-
ness ; so the dry and exhausted muttons, which
had been for a whole day and night without food,
rest or water, had to be hunted straight to the
selling pens, there to huddle together for a further
eight hours or so until the buyers came to take
delivery in the cool of the evening. The poor
beasts must have been glad to see the abattoirs.
Probably, had they been allowed their choice,
they would have preferred the kindly slaughter-
house to a reprieve and a free passage back to
their pastures on Johnson’s trains.
COURAGE.
[For Th k Bulletin.]
A Plymouth inan who went to Bristol in search of work
pawned his false teeth to get there. His search was un-
successful. —English paper.
England, to-day, still breeds heroic men,
Of courage dauntless as in epochs when
She faoed on famous fields the foreign foe,
And, armed with pikes and spears, fought toe to toe.
England, to-day, still breeds potential Clives,
And straight-limbed women, meet to be their wives,
Whose undistinguished days are sadly spent
Outside the limelight, hunting nourishment.
She still rears tailors of the bulldog breed —
Rare natures, who, attired in shoddy tweed
That foreign rivals on their markets dump,
Refuse courageously to get the hump.
Give honor where ’tis due 1 Acclaim this man—
This average, fatheaded artisan —
Who’ll sit While rivals smite him thigh and hip,
And, like a hero, will not “ get the pip ! ”
The pip? The hump? Heap scorn upon the name 1
Not so does your Freetrader play the game !
As long as possible he’ll feed on husks,
And then, in righteous anger, pawn his tusks !
England, to-day, still breeds heroic men,
Of courage dauntless as in epochs when
She faced on famous fields the foreign foe,
And, berserk, smote him, fighting toe to toe 1
MAORILAND. SINO. S. CLARK.
The immigrant who has been got to Aus-
tralia under false pretences, or who says he has,
wasn’t born only yesterday. Settlement was not
many years old before he made himself heard.
But in those early days he at least had the ad-
vantage of knowing whom to attack—it was the'
Governor every time. Darling in particular in-
sisted on his figure-head rights, and once at least
they got him into trouble. He had put
his hat on in the doorway of St. James”
Church after Sunday morning devotions,,
and was complacently enjoying the reflection!
that he had shown the community a goodl
example, when his pious reverie was smashed,
A party by the name of Shelley demanded of him
whether he was the humbug who had for many
months gulled him about a bit of land? The
Governor didn’t know Shelley, hut intimated that
the lands of the State were his. Thereupon ensued
vituperation, and as Shelley was something of a
poet, his adjectives were so numerous and fiery
that some of the congregation fled, while others
threw themselves on the furious upbraider.
Shelley was lodged in gaol, and was only released
on condition of his leaving the colony. The
matter led to Monitor Hall writing another libel,
getting prosecuted, and afterwards returning like
a boomerang and smiting the pious Governor for
tyranny and oppression. After that, when angry
SHE KNEW THE GAME.
“ Well, isn’t she a fool, standing up on the hank
like that, and the parson coming along; and
lie’s sure to see who she is; and I don't
know what he’ll think about it. And they say
she’s been trying to catch him, too."
" Yes, and that’s just why she’s doing it, my
dear."
immigrants in search of land wanted to know who
was the bloke responsible for all the humbug, it
became more fashionable not to define him
accurately.
GOOD EVENING MISS
[For Thu Bulletin.]
‘ ‘ OOD-E VENING, Miss," I softly said
(We met each other in the gloaming).
She, like a bird, was preened for flight,
I to my suburb dull was homing.
“ Good-evening, Miss," I tnurmured soft ;
“A lovely night for skating this is."
She raised the veil that hid her charms
And coldly said, ‘‘ I know your missus ! ”
VICTORIA.
VIA.
Breathing Disease.
Infectious diseases are breathed into
the system from those affected with disease
or from bad smells; yet how many women
breathe daily the offensive steam from
common soaps made from rancid fats, and
keep their hands for hours in such solu-
tions, and the clothing from such soap
suds is worn next the tender skin. No
wonder disease and eczema are prevalent!
Users of Sunlight Soap know the differ-
ence between that and the pure, healthful
spiell from the vegetable oils and pure
edible fats in Sunlight Soap.
By Special
Appointment
gd
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS,
MOONEE PONDS,
VICTORIA.
THE CATERER, Tel. No. 2, Ascot.
Wedding: Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE. •
Ring- up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
It’s Another!
IT’S another New Hat that
will appeal as strongly to
dressy men as our other
hat productions.
It has a straight brim, but
can be turned up or down to
stay so.
The brim has a slight upward
curve, and is very smart.
The felt of which it is made
is very solid and thick, but
light in weight, and the hat has
a felt-bound edge.
It is the VERY latest.
In MID GREY, SLATE GREY
(with Sage Green band), DRAB
(with Olive Brown band).
Price 12/6
Postage 9d. extra; Inter-State, 1/3
PEAPES & CO., LTD.,
“MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309=311 George St.,
SYDNEY.


The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Union Bank of Australia :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
Feb., 1903.. 109,649 8 p.c. = 60,000 50,009 1,019,793
Aug., 1903.. 126,330 10 ~ ~ 75,000 47,000 1,024,123
Feb., 1904.. 112,182 10 ~ ~ 75,000 10,000 1,051,305
Aug., 1904.. 115,830 10 ~ ~ 75,000 25,000 1,067,135
Feb., 1905.. 100,374 10 ~ ~ 75,000 10,000 1,082,509
Aug., 1905.. 100,767 10 ~ ~ 75,000 10,000 1,098,276
Feb., 1906.. 100,879 10 ~ ~ 75,000 10,000 1,114,155
Aug., 1906.. 152,251 14 ~ ~105,000 10,000 1,151,406
Feb., 1907.. 227,904 14 ~ ~105,000 70,000 1,204.310
Aug., 1907.. 146,560 14 ~ ~105,000 10,000 1,235,870
Feb., 1908.. 145,188 14 ~ ~105,000 10,000 1,266,05 S
Aug., 1908.. 136,386 14 ~ ~105,000 10,000 1,257,444
Feb., 1909.. 135,562 14 ~ ~105,000 10,000 1,308,006
Aug., 1909.. 135,873 14 ~ ~ 105,000 10,000 1,328,879
By the time these accounts get the hall-mark of “ Home ”
and wander back again they cover pretty ancient history ;
for things change swiftly in Australia. Not that, so far
as banks are concerned, they have changed much in
the past 12 months. Money-making conditions are good
now as they were then. But one can detect a suspicion
in the management’s mind that things can’t be expected
to alwaj's go on like that. Take this comparison first: —
Aug., 1908. Aug., 1909.
Notes .. .. £431,945 £440,176 Inc. £8,231
Bills, etc. .. 1,700,750 1,409,778 Dec. 290,972
Deposits .. 19,237,834 19,879,569 Inc. 641,735
Liquid assets 8,619,497 10,230,046 Inc. 1,610,549
Advances .. 15,058,830 13,872,594 Dee. 1,186,236
Premises, etc. 584,646 560,762 Dec. 23,884
Thus, notwithstanding that the bank has £641,735 more
of deposits, besides over £60,000 more of its own undivided
profits, the advances have shrunk £1,186,236. It may be
that some customers don’t want the accommodation they
did 'in less prosperous times; but the tendency in
good times is to launch out, which generally
means a call on the gentleman who keeps the
overdraft. People can pay up better, certainly, in pros-
perous times; so that’s the opportunity of banks like
the Union to get rid of accounts they don’t want, or to
press for the reduction of a debt. No doubt that is what
is happening in this case. The bank is making itself
ship-shape against the next slump ; and while it is thus
getting rid of top-hamper that might cause trouble, it is
accumulating a nice little lot of mobile money in the
hold. And when the slump does come, and money is
badly wanted, it will be able to get better securi-
ties than are available now, and still pocket 2 per
cent, or so more for the accommodation. Mean-
time it has been able to make good use of its money
in London. In August, 1908, it had £795,000 out there
on short call ; in August, 1909, it had £2,565,000. Proba-
bly the figures have shrunk since then, as rates for
short-call money have eased again. The bank’s position
is, however, so strong that a trifling loss of revenue in
that way isn’t of much consequence. The paid capital is
£1,500,000; the visible reserves are £1,328,879. To pay
the 14 per cent, dividend, capital and visible reserves have
only to earn a shade over 7£ per cent. But besides the
visible reserves there are probably large internal reserves.
One may judge of the general policy by the handling
of the premises account; it has" been mainly to
reduce this account that £342,000 has been written off
since August, 1902. The properties written down are
probably worth as much to the bank now as they were in
1902 ; so it merely means that the bank has £342,000 of
accumulated profit, not shown in the reserves, to earn
more profit for it. When a bank gets into a position like
that it is hard work to stop it from making money.
Let us go back to 1890, the boom year—the last
of the boom years in which this bank paid 14 per cent.
(As ukual, it came in out of the wet very early.) Things
then compared with things now as follows :
Aug., 1890. Aug., 1909. Increase.
Capital .. .. £1,500,000 £1,500,000
Reserves.. .. 1,016,155 1,328,879 £312,724
Liabilities .. 16,772,060 21,729,523 4,957,463
Liquid assets .. 6,626,313 10,230,046 3,603,733
Advances .. 12,306,296 13,872,594 1,566.298
Premises.. .. 460,606 560,762 100,156
Profit (£-year) .. • 105,776 135,873 30,097
Thus the liabilities have increased by 29 per cent, and the
advances by only 13 per cent., while the liquid assets
have increased by no less than 54 per cent., which shows
how much stronger the position is than it was at the
time of the ’9O boom. These figures are produced now
because a vigorous complaint is made against the bank
that it does not treat the rank and file of its staff with
even a decent amount of liberality. There is no getting
away from it—the staff is not, on the whole, a contented
one. In 1893 alO per cent, reduction was made in
salaries; yet, though the shareholders have got back to
their 14 per cent, div., the 10 per cent, has never been
restored. Many managers still get no more than £lB5 a
year. Yet a post-morteming of the accounts doesn’t dis-
close that, in the aggregate, the charges (salaries, etc.)
are lower than they were 20 years ago. This shows the
“ remuneration to local directors and salaries and allow-
ances to the colonial staff ”:—
Aug., 1890. Aug., 1909.
Total (J year) £62,114 £95,125
In proportion to total Resources 6/5 p.c. 7/9 p.c.
In proportion to Advances .. 10/1 ~ 13/9 ~
In proportion to Profits.. .. 11/9 ~ 14/- ~
Yet if the management in England, having dissected the
figures in that way, uses the results to persuade itself
that the staff in Australia can’t possibly be disaffected, it
is wrong. That it treats its top men and its cadets well
isn’t questioned. The whole question is whether it
shouldn’t reconsider what may be called its minimum
wage—the point at which the ruck stops. It used to be
£2OO ; it is now £l5O. The bank no doubt has plenty of
men who are not- worth even £l5O. It might be cruel
to turn them out at middle age, because a man
who has spent a few years in a bank isn’t usually
much good for anything else ; but it oughtn’t to take a
bank 20 years, or even 10, to find out - the waster ; and if
it is the waster who is keeping the honest, though not
brilliant, bank-workman down to a permanent £l5O a
year, then the waster ought to be fired out. The time
certainly has come when the bank, so well conducted
otherwise, ought to review its policy in this one matter.
It isn’t well even for a great bank to be pointed to as the
awful example from the clerks’ point of view ; yet that is
the Union’s position at present, in spite of the figures
printed above.
* * * •
Howard Smith and Co., Ltd.
Dividends Depreciation,
(5 p.c. pref., etc., Pro-
Dec., Profit. 10 p.c. ord.). vided for. Deficit.
1901 .. £57,734 £18,782 £20,668 £21,716
1902 .. 50,435 28,864 19,626 19,771
1903 .. 51,443 29,133 19,536 16,997
1904 .. 52,418 29,721 20,466 14,766
C 57,348 30.334 22,4361 Reserves.
1905 .. -f Profit on wharf re- V 16,993
sumption .. 27,181 J
1906 .. 57.48 S 30,792 25,728 17^61
1907 .. 65,827 31,514 33,785 , 18,189
(5 p.c. pref.,
15 p.c. ord.).
1908 .. 82,608 47,602 22,538 30,657
1909 .. 137,066 50,000 81,839 35,884
Things are put that way with some hesitation and with
the'right to make a few remarks. The column “Depre-
ciation, etc., provided for” is the one that causes the
trouble in the first place. There is one lump in the
balance-sheet—“ Fund for depreciation of steamers,
plant, leasehold property, and shares in other cos., re-
placements, renewals, insurance, equalisation of divi-
dends and contingencies.” The fund is apparently used for
the same purpose as the bed in some cocfcies’ households.
When the co. doesn’t know what else to do with profit it
sweeps it under the bed. But it isn’t all profit—some
rubbish gets there too. In the mix-up one doesn’t know,
though, what is rubbish and what isn’t. Steamers, plant
and leaseholds, for instance, do depreciate; and the
revenue set aside to cover that depreciation isn’t profit.
The same can be said of that part of the contingency
account which belongs to the employees’ provident fund.
On the other hand, the revenue swept under the bed to
provide for equalisation of dividends is unquestionably
profit. Last year no less than £81,839 in all went under
the furniture ; and how much of it was real profit and
how much of it wasn’t nobody can tell who has only the
published accounts to go by. Even the Profit and Loss
account, which at one time was published, is published
no longer. This shows more clearly the operations on
this fund :
Transferred to Unexplained Total
Fund from P. additions of
and L. account, to Fund. Fund.
1905 .. £22,436 £219,731
1906 .. 24,365 £31,323 275,419
Leasehold and Share Depreciation
Fund (£5824) thrown into the
heap .. .. 281,243
1907 .. 33,785 27,688 342,716
1908 .. 22,538 365,254
1909 .. 81,839 447,093
It is no use going back beyond 1905, because, prior to
that, depreciation was written off instead of being turned
into a fund and kept in the balance-sheet ; but in that
year apparently the £85,607 which had been written off
steamers, was transferred to the fund for depreciation,
etc. It can be figured out, anyhow, that between the
end of 1905 and the end of 1909 the additions to reserves
have been :
Additions to Fund for Depreciation, etc.. .£227,362
~ ~ P. and L. balance .. .. 18,891
Total .. .. £246,253
But, as before remarked, it is impossible to say how
much of this ought to be written off for the four years’
wear and tear. If, however, 5 per cent, per annum is
written off on that account, the total for the four years
would be £122,809, which would still leave £123,444 of
surplus profits for the four years. Though no precise
figures can be arrived at, it is thus quite clear that very
large profits are being made in excess of the dividend.
Tracing various movements, these further re-
sults can be arrived at:
1901. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Goodwill.. .. £40,000 Nil Nil Nil
Real estate ' .. 26,890 £6,906 £4,654 £5,162
Leasehold .. 22,779 13,170 > 10,1)29- t 10;485'
Steamers, etc. .. 271,901 613,656 654,698 653,617
Shares .. .. 23,744 164,421 196,681 253,253
Stores .. .. 31,200 17,723 29,238 16,059
Liquid assets .. 101,134 96,981 159,897 128,271
Liabilities .. 134,143 134,560 58,869
The liabilities in 1901 and for some years thereafter were
lumped with the reserve for contingencies. (The figures
in this last table are as at December 31 in each case, and
before payment of the half-year’s dividend.) Between
1905 and 1909 this happened :
1905. 1 1909.
Liquid assets (including stores).. £269,438 £397,583
Liabilities 52,675 58,869
Surplus £216,763 £338,714
Meantime the paid capital has been increased from
£408,231 to £500,000, or by £91,769. Deducting that, the
increase in the surplus of liquid assets derived from
trading in the four years was £30,182. Thus in four years
liquid assets have been increased by £30,182 ; and, in
addition, £240,160 has been spent on steamers and plant,
and the dividend has also been paid. They are figures
that make the mouth water.
* * * *
The Melbourne Steamship Co. :
Dividends on Added Nominal
Gross Capital to Re- Re-
Profits. Actually Paid. serves, serves.
June, 1903. . £10,501 17£ p.c. =£6,000 £4501 £lOB,BOl
Dec., 1903.. 7,885 8 ~ „ 3,000 4885 113,656
June, 1904.. 12,881 12 ~ ~ 4,500 8381 122,067
£47,067 Reserves written off; £75,000 capitalised.
Dec., 1904.. 13,374 10 p.e.= 3,750 9624 9,624
June, 1905.. 10,767 10 „ ~ 3,750 7017 16,641
Dec., 1905.. 8,767 10 ~ ~ 3,750 5017 21,658
June, 1906.. 13,674 30 „ ~11,250 2424 24 082
Dec., 1906.. 9,187 10 „ „ 3,750 5437 29|519
June, 1907.. 18,202 30 „ ~11,250 6952 36 471
Dec., 1907.. 13,117 15 ~ ~ 5,625 7492 43*963
June, 1908.. 15,899 20 „ „ 7,500 8399 52,362
Dec., 1908.. 14,008 16 ~ ~ 7,500 6508 58,870
June, 1909.. 13,405 14J „ „ 6,800 6605 65,475
Dec., 1909.. 13,869 14£ ~ ~ 6,800 7069 72,544
This co. was formed in 1895 to amalgamate the three
shipping firms of H. R. Reid and Co., A. and J. Mclntvre,
and Deane and Co. The assets were taken in at bedrock
valuation ; and, in consequence of successful trading,
good luck with the boats, and a much improved outlook
for inter-State shipping owing to Federation and
freetrade between all Commonwealth ports, £75,000
of reserves were capitalised in 1904. Subsequently
another £20,000 of capital was got in, making
the present total £170,000. On that amount the
current dividend is at the rate of 8 per cent. ; on the
£95,000 actually paid it is the 14£ per cent, shown above.
The profits specified in the table are gross, without de-
ductions for wear and tear, though it is possible that
renewals and minor additions, as well as repairs, may be
charged up to working account. The provision for de-
preciation is therefore included among the reserves ; and
that means that sooner or later something substantial
will have to be written off the rapidly-swelling total, just
as £47,067 was written off in 1904. One practical question
is, What are the true profits in excess of the dividend?
The co. says the half-year’s profits were £7749 ; the other
£6120 is dropped into the insurance and depreciation
reserve funds. This £6120 equals 5£ per cent, per annum
on the total book value not only of ships but also of free-
holds and all other fixed investments ; and for a mixed item
it looks exceedingly ample, though a good deal depends, no
doubt, upon what insurance work the insurance fund has
to do. The chances are that the ships are covered inde-
pendently, and that this is a fund to protect the co.
against loss through dislocation of trade, etc!, following
upon a wreck. At any rate, though a good deal of the
reserves may disappear at some time or other, they at
present represent earning power. This shows the move-
ment better :
Dec., Dec., June* Dec.,
1904. 1908. 1909. 1909.
Liabilities .. . £12,796 £34,922 £32,160 £19,255
Steamers, freeholds, etc. 127,118 225,815 226,840 226,814
Stores 8,881 14,596 17,532 9,217
Book debts .. .. 9,267 27,917 20;846 19.454
Other assets .. .. 30,904 3,364 9,592 18,469
Or put this way :
Dec., 1904. Dec., 1909.
Liabilities .. .. £12,796 £19,255
Assets .. .. 176,170 268,984
Surplus .. £163,374 £249,729
This is a growth of £86,355 in five vears ; but £20,000
was supplied in the shape of new capital. The balance,
£66,355, represents the amount put aside in five years to
cover wear and tear, to provide for such insurance as the
co. itself undertakes, and for other purposes. It is an
exceedingly comfortable margin. Whether trade isgoing
to continue as good as it has been during the last few
years nobody can of course tell. There probably will be a
■£*|t-back. But it will be a bad look-out for Australia if
'the general tendency isn’t upward. Another point is
whether the present “ honorable understanding ” in the
shipping trade will continue. Nominally this co. isn’t in
it; but there is no cutting between this co. and the
others. The understanding looks solid enough now, but
there is no guaranteed permanency. And disturbing
elements are always being hatched: who, for instance,
could have foreseen 12 months ago this rush forward of
an important Victorian coalfield—a thing which certainly
won’t do some of these shipping cos. any good ?
* * * *
N.S.W. Fresii Food and Ice Co. (Sydney):—
Writ- Added Nomi-
ten to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
June, 1903.. 5906 Nil 2000 3906 48,916
Dec., 1903.. 6609 Nil 500 6109 55,025
June, 1904.. 6311 Nil 6311 61,336
Written off : Capital, £73,384 ; Reserves, £44,909 16,427
Dec., 1904.. 6011 6 p.c. = £5503 508 16,935
June, 1905.. 3977 Nil 1308 2669 19,604
Dec., 1905.. 7127 Bp.c.= 3669 3458 23,062
June, 1906.. 6999 8 ~ ~ 3669 3330 26,392
Dec., 1906.. 7897 8 ~ ~ 3669 4228 30,620
June, 1907.. 7546 10 ~ ~ 4586 2960 33,580
Dec., 1907.. 6287 6 „ ~ 2752 99 3436 37,016
June, 1908.. 5635 6 ~ ~ 2752 99 2784 39,800
Dec., 1908.. 4996 6 ~ ~ 2752 2244 42,044
June, 1909.. 6458 6 ~ ~ 2752 3706 45,750
Dec., 1909.. 4627 6 ~ ~ 2752 1875 47,625
This co. seems to suffer from too many changes in its
chiefs of staff. In 1901 Lance was manager and Fother-
ingham was sec. ; then McFadyen became manager; then
Doust became secretary; then Dawkins became secre-
tary ; then Laurenson became manager ; now McMorland
becomes manager. Meantime the chairmanship has
drifted on from the late Laidley Mort to James Moir, and
now to P. T. Taylor, a reputed money-spinner. Probably
things have settled down now. Such a commotion cer-
tainly can’t be good for a concern of this kind, especially
as a commotion on the top generally means a good
deal of agitation underneath. If it continues, share-
holders had better take a hand and ask things. The
reserves, it will be seen, are described above as nominal;
and some of the profits are probably also only nominal,
which isn’t the sort one can get comfortably fat on. The
fact is that the reserves consist largely of a depreciation
fund (£21,141) and a reserve for renewals and contin-
gencies (£10,654); though the difference between a re-
serve for depreciation and a reserve for renewals isn’t
obvious. It may be that the reserve for renewals is the
amount that has actually been spent on renewals ; but in
that case—which is unlikely—the figures simply cumber
the balance-sheet. The profits now disclosed are under the
average of recent terms ; the shrinkage is probably due to
the coal strike and the increased cost of fuel. Of the profit
£4420 is apparently ordinary trading profit; the balance is
an unexplained addition to the redemption fund. This
fund now amounts to £11,989, and may be invested apart
from the business. At any rate, there are now £18,927 of
deposits at interest. These deposits and the other liquid
assets are growing :
June,’o4. June,’o9. Dec.,’o9.
Liquid assets (inch stock).. £42,267 £49,766 £50,159
Liabilities 31,188 17,361 22,707
Surplus .. ..£11,079 £32,405 £27,452
The reduction during the half-year is due to money spent
on “plant, property, etc,” —mainly, no doubt, on altera-
tions to premises, the co. having gone more largely into
the luncheon-room business. The co. has, however, got
into the habit of dippihg its hand into the till to make
additions on capital account ; in June, 1904, wheri the
revaluation was made, the “ property, plant, etc.,” item
w’as written down to £97,080, and it is already up again
to £114,656, an outlay of £17,576 in 5£ years. This ought
to mean a large increase in earnings ; but as that large
increase isn’t conspicuous, there is a doubt whether much
of the expenditure hasn’t been really on renewals or sub-
stitutions. It ought to be a highly profitable business ;
the weak point hitherto has been the constant drain for
new plant, etc. And probably that has been largely due
to the want of continuity in the management.
The Perdriau Robber Co. (Sydney) wasformed
in 1904 to take over the manufacturingand sellinghusiness
of Henry Perdriau. The capital was £50,000, of which
£lO,OOO was in “B” shares and £40,000 in “ A ” shares.
Of the latter,. 30,000 were apparently issued in payment
for the assets and goodwill; 9992 remained unissued until
1908. The “ B ” shares, specially represented on the
Board by one director (Mr. John Kent), are, among other
things, entitled to a cumulative pref. dividend of 10 per
cent, for six years, or until in the, aggregate 60 per cent,
has been paid. After the prefs. are satisfied with their
10 per cent., the “ A ” shares are entitled to 10 per cent.,
and thereafter both lots rank alike for dividend. Early
last year the paid capital was increased from £50,000 to
£60,000, and authority was got to issue a further £15,000.
Portion of the dividend has not been collected;
there is now a “Dividend account” (£3002) to
“provide for payment of balance of div. at the rate of
10 per cent, per annum On all shares and sundry divs. not
collected.” It is not clear whether part of it is a re-
serve to secure payment of the “B” divs. during the
balance of the period ; if it is, it might properly
be included among the reserves. The bulk of it is cer-
tainly the amount set a§ide to pay the half-year’s dividend.
In the following, which covers the accounts for the past
three years, no part of it is treated as a reserve ; and
goodwill (£15,000) and patents are not reckoned as
assets:—
In Reduc-
tion of
Dec., Profits. Dividends. Deficit. Deficit.
1907 .. £5804 10 p.c. = £4OOl £lBO3 £12,799
1908 .. 7271 10 „ ~ 4742 2529 10,270
£52 added to goodwill account .. 10,322
1909 .. 8050 10 p.c. = 5801 2249 8,073
Nothing, it will be observed, is shown as written off; but
there is a machinery and plant account, the additions to
which are treated as profits, and which now amounts to
£lBO6. This is reckoned as a reserve, though it probably
shouldn’t be—it shouldn’t be if it is merely a set-off
against current depreciation. The position, then, is:—
Goodwill and patent rights.. .. £15,146
Less Reserves ... .. .. £5267
Depreciation account .. 1806
7,073
Deficit as above £8,073
The present capital, in spite of the increases, is none too
large for the business, which has grown rapidly:—
1907. 1908. 1909.
Liabilities .. .. £13,895 £9,790 £15,849
Dividend account .. 2,751 3,024 3,002
Stock 24,440 27,187 35*838
Freehold, plant, etc. .. 10,904 14,552 24,475
Book debts .. .. 7,781 8,065 9,625
Other assets .. .. 730 2,740 839
This is in each case before payment of the div. for the
second half of the year. Stock is the largest item in the
accounts ; and as the value of that is largely an estima-
tion, the profit is to that extent an estimation also. It is
an item which the auditors can’t check. Obviously, in
such a market as that for rubber, a great deal depends on
the basis of that valuation. Prices have been rising so
rapidly that a large profit could no doubt be shown
merely by re-valuing stocks to-day that were purchased
a few months ago : and later on there may be as rapid a
movement the other way. This seems to be the point
that the investor requires to chiefly look into. The con-
stitution of the co. is satisfactory. The articles do not
fasten the directors on to the co. indefinitely : they must
all come up for election. And there is no provision in
the articies entitling the directors or any of them to any
percentage of the profits.
The Equitable Building Society (Launceston
Tas.):—
Divi- Added to Re-
Dec., Profits. dends. Reserves, serves
1901 .. £3Bll 1 £3282 £529 £13,068
1902 .. 3630 3342 288 13,356
1903 .. 3674 3363 311 13,667
1904 .. 3650 3270 380 14 047
1905 .. 3264 2946 318 14,365
1906 .. 2774 2445 329 14 694
1907 .. 2431 2155 276 14,970
1908 .. 2541 2257 284 15 254
1909 .. 2464 2203 261 15,515
The rate of dividend isn’t set out in the foregoing, because
apparently some shares carry more than others; and
formerly more of the higher-rated shares were issued.
On the average, a shade under 5 per cent, is now set aside
for the benefit of shareholders. As usual, the shares are
of two main varieties—subscribing and paid. For 3s. lOd.
per month for 15 years ( = £34 10s.) a subscriber gets £5O;
or £l7 18s. lid. paid now' will produce £5O in 21 .years.
There may he a bonus on top of the £5O ; but that can’t
be guaranteed. The capital being withdrawable—the
Equitable being, in fact, a mutual Office—the only real
guarantee is provided by the reserves. Hence, no do,ubt,
the infrequency with which bonuses are mentioned. And
in that respect the society does well; for a society which
takes money for long periods (of course it isn’t all
for 21 years by any means) ought to be well backed, more
especially as not only its own funds, but a lot of deposits
a 3 well, are out on mortgage. This shows the principal
items: —
1901. 1907. 1908. 1909.
Capital .. £50,883 £44,404 £44,490 £47,794
Deposits .. 83,677 59,044 58,777 58,844
Mortgages.. 140,453 111,975 109,332 112,540
Advances shrank seriously a few years ago, whereupon
the issue of the higher-rated shares was suppressed ; but
there appears to be a tendency to improve. The deposits
are well protected. Capital and reserves together
exceed the deposits. Yet, as mentioned above, the
capital is withdrawable on certain terms; so this build-
ing society sort of capital isn’t as much protection as the
usual sort of capital.
The Mutuat. Store, Ltd. (Melbourne): —
Writ- To-
ten He- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serv es.
Jan., 1903.. £3214 5 p.c. = £2500 £147 £567 £3,408
Julv, 1903.. 2584 5 ~ ~ 2500 84 3,492
Jari., 1904.. 2604 5 ~ ~ 2500 104 3,596
Aug., 1904.. 2513 £4/5/6,, ~ 2500 300 3,309
Feb., 1905.. 245 2J ~ ~ 1250 2,304
Aug., 1905.. 1639 3£ ~ ~ 1666 2,277
Jan., 1906.. 2736 6 ~ ~ 2500 236 2,513
July, 1906.. 3577 5 ~ ~ 2500 1077 3,500
Jan., 1907.. 3956 5 ~ ~ 2500 1456 5,046
July, 1907.. 4542 5 ~ ~ 2500 2042 7,088
Jan., 1908.. 4826 5 ~ ~ 2500 2326 9,414
Julv, 1908.. 5547 £5/16/8 ~ „ 2917 2630 12,044
Jan., 1909.. 4590 6/16/8 ~ „ 2917 1973 14,017
July, 1909.. 5728 5/16/8,, ~ 2917 1400 1411 15,428
Jan., 1910.. 6097 6J ~ ~ 3333 1362 1402 16,830
There are some industrial concerns which have no free-
holds ; there are others which prefer to be their own
landlords. Consider the difference. Each of two cos.
wants a capital of £lOO,OOO. One puts the whole lot into
its business, and makes 12£ per cent, profit, or £12,500,
out of which it has to pay a landlord 5 per cent, on his
investment of £40,000. That concern thus makes £10,600
net, and can thus pay a 10£ per cent. div. The other,
preferring to be its own landlord, has a capital of
£140,000. The business earnings are the same £12,500 as
in the other case ; but there is no £2OOO to pay out in
rent. Therefore the whole £12,500 is available for divi-
dend ; but on £140,000, this is only equal to a shade
under 9 percent., instead of the 10£ per cent, shown in
the other case. Yet, as shown above, the profit percent,
on the capital in the business is exactly the same in each
case. The whole difference lies in the fact that one eo.
has portion of its capital invested in property which isn’t
liable to fall much in value, and may easily become much
more valuable, while in the other case everything is put
into a business, and the vast majority of businesses are
short-lived. Now, this Mutual Store, Ltd., is a case in
which the eo., with a capital of £lOO,OOO, has £42,125 of
its capital in freehold. (As a matter of fact, the freehold
is valued at £103,625 ; but there is a mortgage of £61,500.)
And that £42,125, being invested in that sort of asset,
can’t be regarded as earning more than 5 per cent. A
dividend of 6§ per cent, doesn’t look much to come from
a successful business ; but one always needs to see how
muc-h capital a ct, has invested in something apart from
the actual business —in something, that is, that will
pretty well keep its value no matter what happens to the
trading part of the concern. Further, in compar-
ing the business which is its own landlord with
the one (that isn’t, it is just as well to re-
member t.hat, though the latter frequently shows the
gaudiest profits, it is always liable to be hit with an in-
creasing rent charge ; the other, of course, isn’t. There
was a Sydney case the other day. Aarons’ Exchange
Hotel Co. could only get its lease renewed by agreeing to
spend over £5OOO on the premises—the other fellow’s
premises. In view of the foregoing, it can therefore be
said that the Mutual Store’s position is better than it
looks in the bulk. There are other points to be con-
sidered, no doubt. Stock-in-trade stands for £65,177 ;
and there is room for a good deal of either over- orunder-
valuation in that. Assuming- the stock to have been
taken on the same basis for the past few years, very de-
finite progress has been.made; and new profit-earning
roads are being laid down and asphalted. Thus the
£2700 odd written off in the past 12 months is money
spent in fixing up new tea-rooms, and for the present, at
any rate, there is obviously money in that line.
* * * *
Aarons’ Exchange Hotel Co. (Sydney)
Writ- To Re-
ten duee De-
Profits. Dividends. off. Deficit, ficit.
Dec., 1903.. £4lO sp.c.= £437 £14,703
Loss.
June, 1904.. 99 Nil 14,802
Profits.
Dec., 1904.. 120 Nil £l2O 14,682
June, 1905.. 465 5 p.c. = 437 28 14,654
Dec., 1905.. 390 5 ~ ~ 437 14,701
Loss.
June, 1906 .. 640 Nil 15,341
_ Profits.
Dec., 1906.. 503 Nil 503 14,53 S
June, 1907.. 670 5 p.c.= 437 £lO9 124 14,714
Dec., 1907.. 632 5 ~ ~ 437 109 86 14,628
June, 1908.. 725 5 ~ ~ 437 109 179 14,449
Dec., 1908.. 1156 5 ~ ~ 437 109 610 13,839
Further pavment for goodwill, £5063 .. 18,902
June, 1909 .. 619 5 p.c. = 481 109 29 18,873
Dec., 1909.. 319 5 ~ „ 481 110 - 19,145
In 1888 this co., then newly formed, paid no less than £15,000
for the goodwill of a hotel business, thoijgh the lease had
only 12 years to run. Subsequently a id-years’ extension
was got. Not a penny was written off /this goodwill ac-
count in the 22 years ; and when, last 'year, the lease
came up for renewal, one of the conditions imposed was
an expenditure of £5063, which meant an addition to the
goodwill account. The present lease is for 20 years. To
raise the £5063 a call had to be made. The capital is,
therefore, now £19,250 in 26,250 pbunjl shares paid to 10s.;
but all the substantial assets the co. possesses are the
furniture (£1641), stock (£558) and sundry debtors (£145);
total, £2344. And on the other side the co. owes £1724,
plus the present div. (£481). The co. may, therefore, be
said to have no assets apart from the right to carry on
this business for 20 years, and even that hangs partly on
the co. getting its license renewed. As for the past half-
year, profits were, no doubt, affected by the dislocation
of business due to the building additions that were going
on ; but though the profits fell it will be noted that the
dividend was maintained, even though every penny of it
has to be paid out of overdraft. It isn’t the sort of
financial policy to command confidence.
ThV Metropolitan Accident, Fire and
General Insurance Co. (Sydney) took over the industrial
accident business of the Australian Metropolitan Life
Assurance Co. as from January 4, 1909 ; and the first
accounts of the new co. are now issued. The extravagant
price of £15,000 appears to have been paid for the busi-
ness, which means, so far as can be seen, for goodwill.
The life co. apparently did neither fire nor ordinary
accident business ; all it had to hand over was a trifle of
industrial accident business, and against that there
were, so far as can be seen, no reserves whatever. It
is pretty certain that, if it had gone into, the open
market, the parent co. couldn’t have got 15,000 pence for
what it passed on to this co. nominally foi; £15,000. This
£15,000 is, of course, represented by paid-up shares ; the
real capital consists of £2728, representing ss. per share
paid on 10,913 £1 shares. The year’s premium income
was £7038 net. Expenses ran to £5007, losses to £2SO4,
leaving a deficit of £773 ; but another £550 is estimated
to be required to cover unexpired risks. 'That makes a
total loss of £1323. The directors are shown as creditors
SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT T England.)
■ oeac all comers at the
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials ip England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL t
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
Represented
LANCASHIRE BOILERS.
We have Two Magnificent Lancashire Boilers
by Thompson & Co., of Castlemaine, 26ft. x
7ft. 6in.,for 1501 b. working pressure, 10 Galiowav
tubes, Hopkinson’s mountings. In practically
new order. Also Winding Engines, Air Com-
pressors, etc.
CAMEL HAIR
BELTING
MAH*
RL '“' : t£rEO
BELTING.
This Trade Mark stands for the best Belt
for all Minin?purposes; Sole Agents,
CAMERON & SUTHERLAND.
Post Office Chambers, SYDNEY;
MELBOURNE, BALLARAT & BENDICO.


for £3OO for fees. This means 4£ per cent, on the net
premiums. The Bulletin hopes they earned it. The
foundation isn’t too promising ; but for one thing, at any
rate, the management deserves credit—the whole lot of
preliminary expenses have been charged up to profit and
loss, and there isn’t, therefore, any paper item (apart
from the £15,000) among the assets.
* * * *
The Australian Newspaper Co. (Sydney), which
prints the Star and the Sun, is going to suffer another
change. It asked lately for some new capital; but as it
didn’t get it, and as it" has considerable debts, the idea
now is to sell the whole concern, and wind the old co.
up. A buyer can, it is understood, be found. The pro-
perty is going to make money for somebody if it is pro-
perly handled ; but unfortunately it was allowed to be
mishandled far too long to give the present co. a chance.
• * • *
The Newcastle Coal Co. (N.S.W.)
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
June, 1903.. £9867 15p.c.=£75U0 £1320 £1047 £16,386
Dec., 1903.. 8484 15 „ „ 7500 2009 15,361
June, 1904.. 5660 75,, >. 3750 5302 11,969
Dec., 1904.. 7107 5 ~ „ 2500 7963 8,613
June, 1905.. 3582 Nil 2688 894 9,507
Dec., 1905.. 6854 6p.C. = 3000 6137 7,224
June, 1906.. 5376 6 „ „ 3000 3601 5,999
Dec., 1906.. 3682 6 „ ~ 3000 2093 4,588
June, 1907.. 6827 5 ~ „ 2500 2556 1771 6,359
Dec., 1907.. 5561 5 ~ „ 2500 1143 1918 8,277
June, 1908.. 7633 5 ~ ~ 2500 6326 7,084
Dec., 1908.. 8211 5 „ ~ 2500 5430 281 7,365
June, 1909.. 7014 5 ~ „ 2500 5234 6,645
Dec., 1909.. 3807 Nil 4134 6,318
The unsatisfactory showing for the half-year isn’t due
altogether to the strike. Other people can be foolish and
short-sighted besides miners. This co., for instance,
practically worked out its mine before it got another one ;
and, though the old mine was at last only a hole in the
ground, it remained in the balance-sheet as an asset re-
putedly worth the old £lOO,OOO. Six years or so back the
co. began to realise that it couldn’t keep on much longer
in the old way; so it started to look around, and
picked up a freehold property, the Whitburn, which it
has since been equipping and developing, most of the
equipment coming from the old property. By sitting
down fairly hard on dividends since 1903 the co. has been
able to buy this property and partly open it without run-
ning far into debt; including stores, the liquid assets
total £7357, while liabilities total £BO9l. How the Whit-
burn is going to turn out isn’t yet certain ; it has
admittedly been a trifle disappointing so fat. And it
hasn’t much of an area, anyway. The old mine was 2500
acres (leasehold); the new one is 546 acres. As the old
mine was worked out, money ought to have been accumu-
lated to repay at least part of the capital ; as it wasn’t,
the new property has to carry a capital (£100,000) which
is probably much beyond its fair weight.
• * * *
The Launceston Gas Co. (Tasmania)
Dividendsand Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. off. serves, serves
Dec., 1902.. £llll 4 p.c. = £lO5O £6l £5829
June, 1903.. 1328 4 „ ~ 1060 278 6107
Dec., 1903.. 1584 4 „ „ 1050 534 6641
June, 1904.. 1403 4 ~ ~ 1050 - 353 6994
Dee., 1904.. 1655 4 „ „ 1050 605 7599
June, 1905.. 1315 4 ~ „ 1050 £5OO 7364
Dec., 1905,. 1147 4 ~ ~ 1050 97 7461
June, 1906.. 1134 4 ~ ~ 1050 84 7545
Dec., 1906.. 1550 4 „ „ 1050 500 8045
June, 1907.. 1143 4 ~ ~ 1050 309 7829
Dec., 1907.. 1743 4 „ ~ 1050 800 7722
June, 1908. 1590 4 „ „ 1050 200 8062
Dec., 1908.. 1561 4 ~ „ 1050 250 261 8323
June, 1909.. 1769 4 ~ ~ 1050 200 519 8842
Dec., 1909.. 1520 4 „ „ 1050 200 270 9112
It has been assumed that the usual 4 per cent. div. will
be paid for the past half-year, though no mention is made
of it in the directors’ report. Also probably the new
taxation scheme in Tasmania will call for a few pounds
more as dividend tax than is allowed for in the last line
of the table. The co. paid 6 per cent, in 1895, but since
then cheap municipally-supplied electric light and power
have kept the return lower. Still the 4 per cent, has
been rather more comfortably earned during the last
three years than it was for some time before that. The
financial position is, nevertheless, still weak :
Dec., 1904. Dec., 1909.
Liabilities .. £38,071 £38,422
Liquid assets 2,810 4,146
Deficit £35,261 £34,276
Liquid assets here include coal and book debts. The
liabilities consist chiefly of debentures (£35,450), which is
a pretty heavy load for a far from flourishing co., with a
shareholders’ capital of £50,000 and no reserves to speak
of. And, as a previous comparison shows, after paying
the poor 4 per cent, and making necessary renewals, etc.,
the co. isn’t in a position to lighten the load at all.
* * * *
The North Broken Hill Mining Co., which is
a reconstruction of a co. formed 10 years earlier: —
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves
£ £ £ £ £
Julv,’os.. 8,482
Dec.,’05..33,753 15p.c. = 9,750 10,242 13,761 22,243
New share premiums .. 9,785 32,028
June,’o6.. 15,765 40p.c. = 26,000 4,700 17,093
New share premiums .. 19,500 36,593
Dec., ’06..50,692 25p.c.= 17,500 5,986 27,206 63,799
June,’07..54,167 60 „ ~ 42,000 16,225 59,741
Dec.,’07..50,690 50 „ „ 35,000 19,655 55,776
June,’08..27,870 20 „ „ 14,000 12,619 1,251 57,027
Dec., ’08..30,293 20 „ „ 14,000 13,034 3,259 60,286
June,’09..27,305 20 „ ~ 14,000 13,096 209 60,495
Dec., ’09..31,764 20 ~ „ 14,000 17,550 60,709
Last week it was noted that the B. H. Prop, directors, in
their half-yearly report, sai.d that work in that mine had
not been resumed owing to the Arbitration Court award.
This North B. H. Co. now issues its report; and the
directors, who work under the same terms as the B. H,
Prop, is required to observe, say ; “ A record for working
costs has been established, the total expenditure on
mining, milling and development being only 13s, lOfd.
per ton as against 15s. lfd. per ton for the pre-
vious term.” Evidently, in view of that, the B, B.
Prop, shareholders want either a new mine or a
new management. The North’s costs have certainly
been got down to a very fine point: Mining (including
delivery of ore at mill), 9s. 1’51d,; milling (including de-
livery of concentrates on rails), 3s. o'osd. ; development,
Is. 9'05d.; total, 13s, 10‘6Id. At that mill cost a recovery
of 74-69 per cent, of the lead and 52'86 percent, of the
silver was made—excellent figures, only possible as a com-
mercial proposition with such very good milling ore as
the North has the luck to possess. The ore is divided by
the mill into four products, approximately 17 per cent,
lead concentrates, 50 per cent, zinc tailings, 10 per cent,
slimes, and 23 per cent, quartz tailings. These last are
reckoned valueless, though they go about 5 per
cent, lead, Boz. silver and 15 per cent. zinc.
The zinc tailings as produced are sent to the
De Bavay (Amalgamated Zinc) mill. The profit
(£31,764) therefore represents the entire value to this co.
of the half-year’s output of 87,049 tons of ore. From this
gross profit depreciation of £17,550 is written off, leaving
£14,214 net. The amount written off represents £13,032
on the plant and £4518 on the new shaft. The former
is at the rate of 20 per cent, per annum on the book value
of the plant, and may be regarded as very liberal ; the
amount written off the new shaft reduces its book value
to £3OOO, and is £3OOO more than the half-year’s expendi-
ture on the work.
The North’s main shaft is completed to
1150 ft., which is 200 ft. below the deepest working- stope.
The lode has been proved by drill at 1100 ft. to be 60ft.
wide—as far as a drill can prove it. At and above the 950 ft.
it is estimated there are 1,003,000 tons of ore. Between the
950 ft., and the 1100 ft. the management guesses 660,000
tons at least. There is only that bore result to go on.
The gross profit last half-year was at the rate of 7s. 4d.
per ton. On that basis the whole 1,663,000 tons would
be worth £609,700. Add surplus of liquid assets (includ-
ing fire and accident fund as a liability), £13,030 ; total,
which is equal to a penny or two under £4 9s.
per share. This, however, does not allow for any new
expenditure on machinery or any extraordinary expendi-
ture on development. It assumes (1) that the present
plant can work out the mine to 1100 ft.; and (2) that the
development bill (l/9 - 05 per ton) for the half-year
is a fair average. There are other thing's,
though, to be taken into account. Metals may
bring more or less. As for lead, the chances are that
it will average more. The mean price last half-year was
£l2 17s. lid. The lead concentrates contained 10,425
tons of lead ; so nobody need take a day off to work out
what a rise of £1 per ton in the lead market means. The
third section of the new mill is ready ; with that going,
the output should be 6000 tons a week = 156,000 tons a
half-year. On the seven-and-fourpenny basis mentioned
above, this would mean a gross profit of £57,200 per half-
year ; the fourth section of the mill would add £19,000 to
that. But these profits mustn’t be regarded as all true
profit. The mine has a bottom somewhere ; and a mill
that can eat up 416,000 tons a year won’t be many years
in finding it.
* * * *
On the strength of its ore reserves, Broken Hill
North proceeds to do a bit of stock-watering. There are
140,000 shares, and the directors are getting authority to
issue another 60,000. For a start they will offer 35,000 to
present shareholders at £1 premium. (The shares are
worth about £5 9s. in the market.) The money isn’t
wanted ; at any rate, what money is wanted could very
easily be earned and put by after paying very respectable
divs. But the directors see a chance to let the share-
holders make a big profit in one punch, and as usual
they grab. But it will do the mine no good, and it isn’t
for the benefit of the industry either.
After 13 years of delays and disappointments
Broken Hill Junction /North is weighing out a dividend.
And unless the shaft or the metal market goes back on
the co., the process ought to be fairly regular now, though
the ore is so tough that it will tear the mill plant to
pieces and call for a heavy capital outlay all the time.
■* * * *’ ■
Harden (N.S.W.) hasn’t had the luck it de-
serves at the No. 5 level; but things are better than
they promised at and above the No. 4, so the pot is kept
boiling while the co. goes in pursuit of the lode at the
No. 6(750ft»). At the latter point everything is ready for
crosscutting. While that proceeds work will go on to
the east at the Nos. 4 and 5 ; and until that is done it
can’t be said that No. 5 is a blank, especially as the new
plant must reduce working costs and make even poor ore
payable. Partly because of the disappointment at No. 5,
but mainly because £4983 was spent in the half-year on
mill and other plant, and £3265 on the shaft and similar
work, only one div. was paid in the six months. The
results during the co.’s 4£ years have been as follows:
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
Dec., 1905.. £468 Nil £468
June, 1906... 4,589 Nil £327 4,730
Dec., 1906.. 6,028 £2500 545 7,713
June, 1907.. 10,263 7500 562 9,914
Dec., 1907.. 10,413 7500 829 11,998
June, 1908.. 7,367 5000 797 13,568
Dec., 1908.. 14,322 7500 860 19,530
June, 1909.. 9,909 7500 1023 20,916
Dec., 1909.. 6,439 1250 1431 24,674
Or put it this way
Dec., Dec., June, Dec.,
1906. 1908. 1909. 1909.
Liabilities .. Nil Nil Nil Nil
Liquid assets . . £lOOl £5494 £2640 £1277
Thus, though nominally £16,348 of profit has been made
in 12 months while only £8750 has been paid in dividends,
liquid assets have shrunk £4217. The explanation lies in
the h avy outlay on plant, etc. As usual, the ore reserves
are poor ; at and above the No. 4 level they are put at
12,000 tons, or little over a year’s mill supply. This may
mean £12,000 profit; yet the total market value of the co.’s
shares is £60,000. That market valuation may be realised ;
but at present four-fifths of it is built upon faith in what
lies beyond the point of the pick.
* * * *
When Queen Bee, Cobar (N-S.W.), blew in
its second blast-furnace, the directors dreamed of divi-
dends ; but the available stoping area was too limited to
keep even one furnace in blast. For the last half-year
3534 tons were smelted for 193 tons blister copper, valued
at £10,146. The average gross value extracted was 575.;
but even that wasn’t enough to pay all expenses, includ-
ing development and new plant, and at the end of 1909
the debit stood at £2303. For the previous half-year the
Queen Bee produced 281 tons blister coppet, which
realised £14,623, and, although a working profit of £463
was shown, development costs (£976) made that term
also unprofitable. Yet a mine that can produce and sell
£24,769 worth of copper in 12 months, or more than
£2OOO per month, isn’t to be turned down lightly ; so the
directors will soon be on the hunt for more capital.
♦ * *
The Golden Fleece, Wyalong (N.S.W,), has
made another start with 25 men to drive south on a 6in.
reef at 500 ft. After the recent trouble the new owner
(R. J. King), in conjunction with late manager A. A.
Duncan, set to work to reconstruct the co,, with the
result that 24,000 shares of ss. each, all contributing,
have nearly all been taken up. The property will now be
known as the Keep-it-Dark, and Duncan is again manager.
After much imploring, the owners of the Shamrock have
got the Mines Department to grant aid, to the extent of
half the cost of sinking 100 ft. from the 600 ft. level.
* * * *
There is more trouble brewing for the Austra-
lia coal-export trade. Thomas Parton, one of the best-
known N.S.W. coal engineers and colliery managers, was
sent up to Sumatra a while ago to inspect a field there
that the Dutchmen want opened up ; and, on the one
property he explored, he found three seams showing 20ft.
of workable coal, and other seams showing another 10ft.
Parton, besides figuring out 80,000,000 tons for the work-
able part of the 5000 acres on the basis of 20ft. of coal
over two-thirds of the area, ascertained that native or
Java coolie labor costs from 10 to 12 guelders a month,
which means from 18s. to £l, plus medical attendance.
Going on what is done at the Borneo coalfields, which
are farther from water, the N. S. Wales engineer puts
the cost of landing the coal on board steamer ar, ss. per
ton, or probably less. Years back the N.S.W. Mines De-
partment pointed out that danger to the export trade
would almost certainly come from that quarter some day,
and it seems to be pretty close now.
* * * •
The Chillagoe-Ruddigore (Q.) is one of those
mines whose ore goes about 29 per cent, lead, 17oz. silver,
and 25 per cent, zinc—just the sort of assays to trap ihe
unsophisticated. The Chillagoe-Ruddigore people are
not unsophisticated by a long chalk ; but the result is
all the same. They are quite handy to the Chillagoe
smelters ; so they lately sent there 291 tons of sulphides
of the grade mentioned above ; and the lot netted 15s.
per ton. The zinc killed it. There are other bodies
of sulphides going a shade more for silver; but it’s no
good at present—the co. can’t make it pay. So the
Chillagoe-Ruddigore is shut down, carbonate workings
and all.
The Oaks View, Rockhampton district (Q.),
hasn’t yet been bothered with many dividends.
In the last half-yearly report the directors regret that the
£1352 in hand will not see the new main vertical shaft
down to the lode, as it has cost them so much to cope
with the water. Work is concentrated on the main
shaft, and the show expects to play a hand again by the
end of May. Meantime the shareholders are reaching for
their cheque books. So far, since the beginning of 1905,
the claim has given 407i0z., but only 660 z. (from
cyaniding) were raked in during the last six months.
H. E. D. Merry’s report on Stannary Hills
(Q.) is an unconvincing document. He had a “ limited
time ”at his disposal; so he takes the total quantity of
ore mined since 1903, finds that it amounted to 151,014
tons and averaged 2T per cent., and concludes : “The
past production of the mines fully warrants a consider-
able amount of money being expended in prospecting
work, when there is every reason to expect that ore of as
good value will be met with again. Under a more system-
atic method of mining, ore of the value you have already
obtained should show a substantial profit.” It’s a
risky thing ,to judge a tin mine by the ore that has
been taker! out of it; and, anyhow, if the ore that is left
is as hard'to find and,as costly £o get as the 151,014 tons
that have been taken out, thq shareholders won’t get fat.
There probably are bunches of ore in the Stannary mines,
and it might suit small parties to look for them and work
them ; but it’s no proposition for a co. with a heavy swag
of debentures and a big share capital.
»■**■»
The new treatment machinery for Mount
Elliott, Oloncurry, is coming forward in large quantities,
and erection is being hurried on. The teams are hauling
the stuff 32 miles from the head of the railway line ; but
about the end of March the line should be open to Hamp-
den, which will reduce road cartage to 20 miles; and by
August it should be through to Elliott. The new plant
at the mine should be ready by that time. The main
shaft is down 500 ft., and is to be continued to 565 ft. A
level will be opened up at 550 ft. From No. 4 level good
grade sulphide is coming up. This wet season hasn’t
yielded much wetness in the Elliott district; but there
was a good 2in. fall a week or so back.
•rt * * *
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers,
crushed 1256 tons for £5275 ; but that excellent return
includes a partial clean-up of concentrates. The monthly
yield is shaping for £9OOO, so the Freehold will probably
displace Brilliant Extented and Mills’ United as boss gold
producer of the field. What the profits are likely to be
can only be guessed, for hitherto the mine has been
worked under expensive conditions and has had to pay
heavy development costs. Shares have fallen because the
market raced ahead of the increased production, and, as
usual, average values on a large tonnage didn’t come up
to the yield from small preliminary crushings. The exten-
sion of the east level beyond the Brilliant boundary has
failed to disclose a solid reef, but there is a good-looking
formation with stringers of mineralised stone on both
hanging wall and footwall.
Bananaland Government had visions last session
of buying the Aldershot Smelting Works. It went as far
as getting expert inspection of the equipment; but after
that the matter dropped. Perhaps Kidston was told
that twice at least the works had been flooded, and that
liability to flooding wasn’t much help in smelting.
* • * *
Every 28 days the Black Range (W.A.) is
handing out £2718 to its shareholders. Up to the end of
1909 it had altogether accounted for £133,156 on a capital
of £72,500, and there was still about £17,500 of cash in the
looker. The half-year’s little , lot, including tax, was
£19,983; the mine paid that, provided £1044 spent on the
Pioneer option (turned down) and left £226 over. The
best results are coming from the deepest levels ; in fact,
45ft. below the deepest level (500 ft.) a 4ft. lode worth 2oz.
has been pierced. Hardly any stoping has, however, been
done below 400 ft. The co., seeing the rapid underlay,
as well as the richness of the stone in the
deeper levels, lately secured the underlay block to the
west. Further along the line the Black Range West is
sinking a shaft on a similar underlay block ; but this
shaft isn’t quite deep enough yet to pierce the lode and
find out whether at that point it carries a gold shoot or
not. If it does, the parent Black Range will have still
another string to its bow ; for on this end of its mine,
from which the B. R. West’s lode will underlay, it has sq
far done practically no work.
tr + *
North Kalgurli (W.A.) has sacked its wages
men, and the property is now being rooted by a fevy
tribute parties. When Lewis Aarons was on the mine a
while ago, he cabled to London that the place was
swarming with tributors, and that quite a crowd more
were clamoring for a look in. Since then, however, the
battery has been closed down for want of stone, and from
all accounts the amount of ore that is likely to be raised
by the few men now burrowing in the mine will not be
sufficient to warrant the re-starting of the mill. There
are no prospects to speak of ahead of the property, and in
years to come it will probably become a rubbish tip in the
back yard of the Kalgurli.
J * * * *
Great Ophir (W.A.) again obtrudes itself on
public notice. This time its friends claim that there are
stacks of ore reserves in sight, and that with an up-to-
date, treatment plant all would be well, But the story
grows tiresome. Again and again the thing has been
trusted, and again and again it has proved itself incorri-
gible. Very strong evidence of reform ought to be forth-
coming before another stiver is put into it.
■* * » *
Tindals has become an object of derision in the
West. Everybody has a good time, notwithstanding that
the enlarged mill has to take frequent spells to keep
going. The latest excuse given for the absence of
the lOdwt. returns so frequently promised is that the
poor ore must.be taken out before the rich stuff can be
got at. The excuse is rubbish, of course ; but it will pro-
bably serve as bait to land another call or two,
* » * «i
A local syndicate of mining men has been
formed to take over the old Queen Margaret leases at
Gindalbie (W.A,). The property turned out a lot of gold,
but was thrown up for the official reason that the ore
became too poor to work at depth. The crowd now in con-
trol reckons that it was not so much the poverty of the ore
as the extravagance of the company that shut down the
mine, and they are confident that they will make a do of
things. » * *
Most of the Bright (Vic.) dredges have had a
poor time of late. Excuses are many, but the bald fact
is that poor ground seems to have been run into every-
where ; so, instead of profits amounting to 33 per cent,
of the paid capital, only a moderate 15 or 20 per cent,
has been returned by several of the plants. Certainly 15
to 2Q per cent, looks very fine; but there’s the brief life
of both dredge and dredging ground to be considered.
Little Porepunkah has done about as well as any, having
got oh to the dividend list with an average of 30oz. per
week for the last half-year, against 230 z. for the previous
term. On the other hand, the Excelsior is back at 20oz.
against 260 z,; and so with several others.
• * * •
The Bright Star isn’t one of the lucky ones in
the Victorian dredging country. At first it was tight
ground, and then it was heavy boulders ; but they have
equally spoiled the ehance of a dividend. The return is
good enough—over 2| grains per yard—but the dredge
can’t get along fast enough. Still the co. has managed
to free itself from debt, having lately paid off the last
instalment of purchase money ; so now it can think of
spending something in machinery to get over its troubles.
With 143 acres ahead it has plenty of encouragement to
put its plant in order.
M On a paid capital of £5400 the Wandiligong
dredge Bright (Vic.), has paid these divs. during the
past four half-years :— July, ’OB, £1500; Jan., 'O9, £4200 ,
July, ’O9, £750; Jan., 'lO, £l5OO. The co. is now five
years old, and has paid £ll,OlO altogether. There are
two dredges ; between them they eat up a pretty regular
HI acres in six months, and even at that rate there is
9J years’ work to do. There is no telling what is ahead,
or, rather, between the two dredges, for the ground
hasn’t been bored ; but there is no visible reason why the
222 acres that remain should be any different from the
88 acres that have been treated.
• * ' * •
At last, two men and part of the plant have turned
up on the Tasmanian West Coast in connection with the
complex-ore-treating scheme whidh A. J. Thynne, of
Queensland, has been busy over for the last three years.
Thynne’s people, the Metals Extraction Co., say they
can handle the Roseberv zinc-blende ores easily; and
they have been raking N.S.W. also for bodies which other
people have tried their teeth on and abandoned as too
tough.
* * * *
0.T., Ltd., which owns a popular non-alcoholic
drink, pays 12 per cent, for its first half-year. Profit was
£5072, and after paying the div. £6BO was put by. Chair-
man John Dixon reported that the output for 1909 was
double that of 1907, and sales were steadily increasing,
in spite of a crowd of imitators and pirates.
Will You Try
No use thinking that because cast-
iron pipes have been used for
many years there cannot be any-
thing better.
MANNESMANN
Weldless Steel Pipes
are “ Dreadnoughts ” in the way
of pipes, for they have the ad-
vantage on all points, and can
PROVE THEIR SUPERIORITY.
Take the trouble to inquire ; then
you will see that in any place
where pipes are. needed, Mannes-
mann are what you want.
NOYES BROS. (Sydney) LTD.,
10. PITT STREET. Sole Agents.
SAMPLE GRINDERS
FOR REDUCING SAMPLES TO
POWDER FOR ASSAYING.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
If managers would only remember that Hyatt
Flexible Boiler Bearings save 20 per cent, of power, they
would also know that a great saving could be effected in
the cost of running and maintaining their mills and manu-
facturing plants. This saving of power also means that
new appliances could be installed without the cost of
additional engines, etc. W. &J. Lempriere, of Mel-
bourne, can supply full particulars of Hyatt Flexible
Boiler Bearings.*
* * • *
Jodelitk Wood Preservative, for preserving
timber against White Ants, Dry Bot, Fungus. Teredos,
ravages of rats, damp walls, etc. Used by all Australian
Governments. 1250 galls, supplied S.A. Government
in one order in September. Agents, Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney; also Melbourne and
Brisbane.*
COAL IS SAVED in the generation of steam
by absolutely reliable boiler mountings and stop valves,
steam tight piston glands and steam joints, also perfect
insulation of boilers and pipes to prevent radiation and
ensure transmission of heat. Bell’s Asbestos-Packed
Water Gauges, Blow-off Cocks and “Belfry” Patent
Steam Valves, Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing and
Bellite” Jointing and Bell’s Asbestos Non-Conduct-
ino- Composition will ensure economy and safety
to steam users.—BELL’S ASBESTOS AUSTBALIAN 1
AGENCY LTD., 315 Kent Street, Sydney. Also agents
for THE FABNLEY IKON CO., LTD., and FBASEK &
CHALMEKS, LTD., Mining Machinery.*
The erection of the new 300-ton Blast bmeltmg
Furnace for the Great Fitzroy mine, Q., is now rapidly
approaching completion at the mine. The dimensions of
this furnace are as follows —168 in. x 44in., and 24ft.
high to feed floor. It is water jacketed from top to
bottom. These jackets are made of steel plates flanged
in one piece. The furnace was designed by the mine
superintendent, and has many features of excellence and
novelty in the detail of its construction. The jackets are
made interchangeable, only one type and size of jacket
being used ; and they will further be constructed so that
they are reversible from top to bottom—thus practically
the life of the jackets is doubled. This furnace, as well as
the previous one, was built at the works of the Austral
Otis Engineering Company, South Melbourne.* [2
Cool, fireproof houses, ensuring less discomfort
in summer, obtained by building with “ Fibro pempnt ”
Asbestos Slates on roof, sheeting in walls and ceilings.
Light, strong, cheap, artistic, besides being durable, fire,
acid, ant and vermin proof. Photos., testimonials, from
Sole Importers. James Hardie Co., West pirculqr Quay,
Sydney.* [ 3
CAPE EXPLOSIVE WORKS LTD--All
classes of explosives for mines, railways and quarry \yQfk.
The fact that they do more business in South Africq—the
largest mining field in the world—than alj the other
explosive manufacturers in the world put togethef should
indicate that it is worth your while enquiring. Agents,
Noyes Bros., (Sydney), Ltd-. 109 Pitt Street.*
* * * *
The Post Magazine and Insurance Mqnitof,
London, of 31/10/’OB, in commenting upon The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society limited, writes :
“ Wherever the Society has gone it has stood for sound
life assurance principles, and it can look back upon one-
third of a century of useful work.”*
* * * *
Wood Pipe for Mining.—lt is 25 per cent,
to 65 per cent, cheaper than metal pipe. It lasts as long
as cast iron, and four times longer than any other metal
pipe. It is unaffected by acids or mineralised water.
Write for catalogue, which deals freely with the subject.
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd., Booth’s Wharf,
Balmain.'
* * * *
William Bradford, Ballarat East. Late special
expert Victorian Government. Examines Mines, Advises
Works. Capital Furnished.*
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman,)*
* * * *
Nobels (Hamburg) Explosives.— Messrs, Wm.
Adams & Co. Ltd., of 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, have
now taken over the sole agency in N.S. W, for the above
high-grade explosives. Large stocks on hand. Please
note these are the genuine Nobels.*
* * * *
Mine managers when requiring air compressors
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not fail
to inspect the Beavell Air Compressor, when they will be
impressed by its simplicity, compactness and portability.
Owing to the working parts being entirely enclosed it can
be placed to work on any part of the mine, either on the
surface or underground. The number of repeat orders
which Messrs. Beavell have received from the raining
community proves how greatly r their compressor is
appreciated. The representatives for Australia are
Messrs. Babcock and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
Due to mechanical construction lhe Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 60 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
ail purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria.*
* * * •*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Coi.ijson & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Simskrbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-CLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges


ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Marloo”; In a section of the cow-
trodden Northern Rivers (N.S.W.) district, the
hot-bed of child slavery and sweated labor, the
cockies are wearing a worried expression. Some
little time ago a rumor of coming legislation to
abolish child labor nearly brought tears of rage
into cow-cocky’s eyes, but as no more was heard
of it his old faith in the Deform Ministry re-estab-
lished itself. But sedition has sprung up in cocky’s
own cow-camp, and the milk house is divided
against itself. One farmer on the Tweed has been
experimenting with the eight-hour system at a fair
BEAUTY BEFORE ALL.
“ Yer was winning the bloomin’ scrap by a mile ,
an yer goes and chucks it. Was Liz narked
with yer ? ”
“ Naw! Liz reckons I’m too good-lookin’ ter fight.'
wage, as well as trying the entire abolition of child
labor. The sweaters saw an ill-omen in the move,
and foretold disaster and failure. So far, how-
ever, disaster has not appeared in the vicinity of
the experiment, and failure hasn’t even sent a
postcard concerning its whereabouts. According
to the experimenter (one McKeevers, of Cudgera),
who ought to know, his eight-hour men do the
same amount of work as bis neighbor’s weary
slaves manage to slummock through in 12 or 14
hours, and they do it more satisfactorily. But if
that sort of thing spreads there will be nothing to
do with the small child-slaves but let them have
seven or eight hours’ sleep, go to school in a fit
state to learn something, and grow into normal
men and women. It’s against ail reason—Cow
reason, that is.
“S. S. Sev-
ern” : Ambon, the
mamoose of Man-
biang and leader
of London Mis-
sionary Society
hymns, is a dou-
ghty fabulist be-
fore the Lord. He
served 10 years in
Papua with Mr.
William Macgre-
gor and other re-
presentatives of
the Brown Brud-
der Government.
His snake lie, told
to his circle under
the village palms,
is a good one.
“Many years ago
I was Gubiment;
I carry mails. One
evening as the sun
sank behind the
edge of the hills I
hear a great noise
of falling trees and
mountains. I look
round, and there
was a snake, big,
big as the Merrie
England. I walk
slow. I Gubiment.
What Gubiment
afraid ? He, the
snake, come quite
close and bite the
leather bag on
my back in
which are the
mails. Isud- C 1
denly remem- '
her that letters
belong the King.
I ’sponsible. I
run.”
“ Moana ” : I
wish to mention the
wetness of Otira
(M.L.). It is a hamlet
of no importance, situ-
ated right in the famous
Otira Gorge, on the West
Coast-road. There they
measure the annual rainfall
by feet instead of inches. Last
year it rained on 171 days, and just over 17ft. of
water tumbled down in the 12 months. June top-
ped the monthly average with 36in. ; but October
and January ran it close with 33in. and 28in. re-
spectively. During 19 hours on ,Tune 3 and 4 lOfin.
of rain fell, and bn 29 separate days of the watery
year over 2in. of water poured down. The really
remarkable thing is that there were no less than
195 fine days during the year. It rains like 17
furies when it does start. Down at Stewart
Island, awoiy on the south of Maoriland, it has
been known to rain 311 days in the year; but
nevertheless it falls far short of the 17ft. record.
*• * * *
“ Janor ” starts a tangi:—
The camp flag flies half-sapling high ; the stampers are
silent; the boys are on the beer. Ponk is dead. Ponk,
beloved of the settlement, was the greatest cat of all —
the Napoleon cat of the place. The skillion roof of the
| battery house, hard by the camp, had ever been a favorite
’ hanging-place with hint. Sprawling there in the sun-
j shine of a recent day one of his after-legs dropped through
! a knot-hole in the bark, and in that position he slept,
i On the under side of the bark, clustered round the knot-
| hole, a colony of wasps had suspended their parachute-
ilike dwellings. The intrusion of Ponk’s limb roused the
I amiable insects, even as the word “ Federal ” stirs a State
Insect. As one wasp they prodded their tropical stings
into the feline. Ponk awoke volcanically and screamed.
He sailed off the roof like a Latham, reached a great
altitude, threw 17 descending somersaults, and landed on
the quartz heap. So did the wasps. Then Ponk swore a
mighty oath, shot past the astonished battery-feeder and
took a header into the stamper box. There was a wild
rush to stop the machinery ; but, alas ! too late. Ponk
had passed peacefully through the grating and rested in
the tailings. Fully a pint of wasps died with him, so he
was not wholly unavenged.
* » * •
“Masarcus”: For real, unadulterated,
unalloyed liars, take me to the Irrigation Settle-
ments on the Murray. Was up there some time
ago, and fell in with an old chap wdio called him-
| self Jim Something. Jim was a venerable
! patriarch in appearance. He stated :
(1) That he was the son of an admiral of the British fleet
I that fought the Battle of the Nile.
(2) That he was a nephew of George Eliot.
(3) That he was offered a commission in the navy, but
declined it on the grounds that he wanted to be a man,
| not an officer.
j (4) That he served as an A.B. on a ship which was en-
j gaged in blockade-running to Florida during the U.S.
i civil.war.
(5) That he deserted and joined the Confederates, and
suffered many wounds.
(6) That he came to Australia in the early ’seventies
and became a gold-miner.
(7) That he was an inmate of the Eureka Stockade, and
there lost an eye and 1111 b. of gold dust.
(8) That he afterwards made his way to the Murray'
districts, and was in turn fisherman, puntman, fruit-
grower and cocky.
(9) That, at present he was on his way down to Ade-
laide, having rescued a young lady from the clutches of
her wicked husband, and that his intentions were honor-
able, and that she was camped away'from the settlement,
whilst he lived therein for the sake of propriety.
(10) That I could cut his throat if he had told a lie.
I ascertained, after spending 7s. on the old
wretch —
(1) That he was the son of an ex-convict and was born
at Port Melbourne.
(2) That he’d never been out of Australia.
(3) That it wasn’t the Eureka Stockade in which he had
resided, but the Stockade near Adelaide.
(4) That he had never worked regularly.
(5) That the only female who accompanied him down
the river was a prize collie that he had stolen from some
station up-stream.
(6) That I should have cut his throat.
CATCHING COLD.
BILL: “ Did you shut the gate last night, Mike
when you came in ? ”
MIKE: “No.”
BILL : “ I thought I felt a draught !”
“ Wood-chopper,” at the A.N.A. sports
(Melbourne) :
The limit man had nicked nearly halfway through his
block while Miley stood gently swaying his blade, and
waiting for the signal to go. When it came, the cham-
pion threw his head and shoulders back, two great arms
whizzed past his right-hand ear, a streak of silver flashed
through the air as the electric-light played on the flying
steel, the big audience let out a roar, and Miley started
to carve wood. Half a dozen mighty strokes, and a chip
about 18in. long and 6in. deep dropped out of the block.
As he neared the centre of his block Mi-ley’s strokes
quickened, his great arms sweeping with the precision
and speed of a piston rod. Presently he turned to the
other side of his block and let himself go properly. Four
mighty strokes and a chip the size of last .year’s Hansard
flew out. Every two following blows brought out a lump
of wood bigger than a policeman’s boot. By this time
the crowd had lost its head. At every cut men waved
their programmes in the air and pantomimioall.v chopped
chunks of atmosphere. Faster and faster flashed the
champion’s blade the while pandemonium reigned. Then
the last flash of lightning whistled through the air. The
top of the block tottered for an instant and fell. The
audience went mad. Miley coolly drew his arm across
his forehead and looked along the line. They were still
chopping.
♦ * * *
“Harrison O.” : I see that “ Marloo ” and
other “ Abo” scribes have of late been spreading
themselves re the methods by which the mug is
induced to “shout.” I was present in a drink
emporium upon one occasion when the victim of a
quartette of tricky gentlemen was deprived of the
price of several “rounds” of moisture. ’Twas
thus. A pack of cards was produced, and some-
one alleged that the word “ rooster ” was written
across one of the pack. It was then suggested
that the cards should be dealt and the person who
received the “rooster” should purchase wet goods
for the crowd. The mug agreed—he always does !
One card was dealt to each man, and the tricky
ones announced one after the other that they
didn’t have the poultry. The mug had it, of
course. This was repeated several times, until a
hazy notion that he was being fleeced entered the
mug’s brain. He mentioned his suspicion
to the others. Of course, they were all
shocked. Did Muggins mean to suggest that
they were not gentlemen? Muggins should be
careful about making such base insinuations.
Still, if Muggins cared to apologise they would
have one at his expense and let bygones be by-
gones. Muggins proved conclusively that he did
not possess a single gentlemanly instinct, for in-
stead of accepting their generous terms he made a
grab at the pack, and, throwing it upon the
counter, showed that all the cards were marked
“rooster.” So, of course, the mug (who was the
only veracious person present) had to get the fatal
card (or one of them), and on the assumption that
there was but one he did the shouting. When
Muggins gave it as his opinion that he had been
the victim of a “dirty trick,” the quartette of
outraged beer-sparrers arose in holy wrath and put
a head on him.
“ Cecil • Poole ” : “ Mallarapoonie’s ” ab-
sorbingly interesting “Leichhardt’s Grave” (B.
20/l/’10) is a masterpiece of reasoning, and prob-
ably gets as near the truth as ever we shall get
now. Re the dray tracks seen by Winnecke on
the Marshal in ’B6, I saw, at Fowler’s Bay, on
the S.A. west coast, the tracks of Eyre’s dray
made'on a clavpan over 40 years before. They
were fence-protected. Andre “ Mallarapoonie’s”
passing reference to the sandhills beyond the
Georgina. These stretch down to the right-hand
bank of the Cooper, practically to Lake Eyre,
with but one break of 30 to 40 miles of Dianian-
tina channels. Some years ago the late Ernest
Favenc sketched a strip of sand spinifex country
in S.A., running parallel with the Queensland
border above Birdsville, and instanced this as un-
explored. He was wrong. Local cattle-men have
been all over it. But it may be pointed
out that some of the opponents of the direct and
natural transcontinental railway route from Port
Darwin to Adelaide suggest an alternative route
through these horrible sands. Instead of includ-
ing the stately Macdonnells, with their stores of
water, they would pierce these sands where huge
sections of the line would be buried every time
the wind rose. A glance at the map issued
by the Queensland Lands Department in
’99 shows the huge area of country aban-
doned even then—with three more years of
drought to come. Then to cross the border and
come south would involve crossing, first, the belt
of flooded country between the Hamilton and the
Burke. Further on, the Diamantina and Cooper
country would have to be crossed. When I skirted
the water of the latter in ’9O it was 50
miles wide; with the former there might
be easily 100 miles of flood. There is no
defined channel—simply a spread of lower
country where a man may perish from thirst with
the debris left by the last flood still in the trees
above him. The recent damage to the N.S.W.
nor’-west lines wouldn’t be a circumstance to the
happenings every now and then to a line up there.
And if the line, instead of making for Melbourne,
merely connected with the Queensland system at
Wintou or Longreach, it would be no more a
transcontinental railway than one from Sydney to
Adelaide, via Cobar and Broken Hill. It would
only cut off the north-eastern tip of the continent.
No, a line by any other than the direct route will
be an appalling waste of public money, and the
most smellful of the jobs of this job-continent.
* * * *
“ Itan ” : Overlander Burgess recently
mentioned that directly tick-infested cattle from
the Northern Territory got into salt-bush country
the ticks packed their travelling bags and
departed. An erstwhile Coolgardie resident
endorsed the statement. For some years there
was a quarantine regulation in force on the
Westralian goldfields, but when the authorities
found that the ticks disappeared on reaching
the salt-bush country thereabouts, the regulation
was relaxed, if not entirely removed. A year or
two ago it was stated in Southern Queensland that
tick-infested cattle, when grazed on lucerne,
became clean. These suggestions, however, seem
to be too simple for the professional mind, which
doubts without offering valid reasons, and would
fain invent a method of slaying the tick with
a cannon or a steam-harrow, and removing
A CRUEL HOAX.
GEORGE: “ There's nothin’ ter get annoyed about;
'e only did it fer a joke.”
AUGUSTUS: “A joke’s a joke all the world over;
but when a bloke sends yer an old beer bottle
filled with water an’ done up like a neio ’un,
I reckon it’s goin' a bit too far.”
its dead body in a balloon. Why not
test the matter thoroughly? Apart from the
alleged merits as a tickicide salt-bush should
receive a little consideration in a reafforesta-
tion sense in order to benefit the stock
when the Heavenly Watering Can is on strike.
In America and youth Africa this Australian
plant is being propagated with great energy over
the arid regions, and is valued because of its
value as an enemy to drought and dust and death.
In its native land, vandals are at work attempting
its extinction.
TWO LOVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
God made the horse for the man to ride,
And he fashioned him swift and strong ;
And he made the girl for the man to love,
True eyes and the heart of a song.
Two loves I’ll hold till all is told,
And the sun of my life goes down ;
I’ll steer my course by a chestnut horse,
And two deep eyes of brown.
I rode him out in the starlit night,
And he arched his neck with pride,
And he took the bit and the posts flashed past
In the wake of his swinging stride ;
The moon leaned down like a silver crown.
And the stars sang songs above,
And the bit rings rang with a tuneful clang,
For the !c»d of the night was Love.
1 pulled him up at the stockyard gate,
And I called her soft and low,
And her fair face shone in the pale moonlight
As I bent from the saddle bow ;
Her mouth held up was a brimming cup
With bright red nectar filled,
And I drank and drank while the white moon sank,
And the voice of the bush was stilled.
Then I caught her up in my r arms and shook
The reins of the bridle free,
And the chestnut sprang with his double load,
And her soft arms clung to me.
’Twas a midnight ride for a stolen bride,
With a good horse galloping strong ;
And his flying hooves cut deep-set grooves
And rang in a bridal song.
God made the horse for the man to ride ;
Drink deep to a grand horse dead !
And He made the girl for the man to love
And hold till the years be sped.
Two loves I’ll hold till all is told,
And the sun of my life goes down ;
I’ll steer my course by a chestnut horse
And two deep eyes of brown.
s. A.
EDWARD MERYON.
d
THERE is absolutely NO
RISK when CASTRATING
with
DONALD ROSS
EMASCULATOR
Price, £3 3s.
Monet. Back ip not Satisfied.
DONALD ROSS S CO., LTD.,
Angel Place, Sydney,
THE VETERINARY SUPPLY STORE.
McKenzie’s excelsior baking powder.
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
VACUUM MOBIL OIL
Saves One-Third of Your Running Cost.
Mr. W. J. Fuller, J.P., storekeeper,
Rendelsham, S.A. writes “ Some little time ago
I was called in to see a neighbor who was suiter-
ing from severe cramps, and who really thought
he was past help. I took a bottle of Chamber-
lain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy with
me and gave him three doses, according to
directions, and in a few hours he had quite recov-
ered. I have frequently used it in mv own
family, and am so well satisfied as to its merits
that i make a point of selling it to my customeis
on a positive guarantee.”*


“ X.P.D.”: Apropos of the present activity
in taking up big areas of Papua for rubber culti-
vation. It may not be generally known that
rubber of good quality grows wild pretty thickly
in parts of the Possession. While getting timber
for a house or. the Mamba, some years ago, I cut
down some rubber trees without knowing what
they were, and was quite surprised at the conse-
quences. When gold has been scarce, some
of the diggers have raised the wind by collecting
rubber, and there is more than a crust in the
game for the man who works good patches along
the rivers.
•*-#•**
“ Actinotus ” : In B. (20/1/T0) “ Marra-
mungah ” writes of the hold of the Chow in the
Northern Territory. Without commenting on
his statements, I can say with certainty that both
Chow and Jap hare obtained a great hold of Nor’-
west Australia between Onslow and Port Darwin.
In every settlement along that coast the best,
richest and largest business houses belong to either
Jap or Chinese. With the exception of Streeter
and Norman’s place all the business houses of
any consequence in Broome have one of the fol-
lowing signs: Jamasaki, art warehouse and
general emporium ; Nitioka, general draper;
Tohamaru, art warehouse and general pro-
vider ; Weng Seng, gentleman’s tailor;
Loo Hing, ditto; besides smaller fry. In
this same town a white tradesman or trades-
woman will starve. Unless one is a pearler, with
either ready money or long credit, he had better
leave Broome severely alone; yet it is one of the
A PARTING SHOT.
SPORTSMAN (who has been warned off): “You
didn't inherit the ducks, did you ? ”
NEWCHUM SQUATTER: “It’s no good arguing,
my man —everything about here is MINK."
SPORTSMAN : “ Well, p'raps you'll call yer mus-
keeters off.”
richest settlements in Australia. Here, too, the
children of whites, browns, blacks and yellows
meet in the State school on equal footing, and the
standard of morality is low. I saw the same con-
ditions prevailing in Derby, Port Hedland and
Cossack, though in a less pronounced degree.
Posterity will have a heavy debt to pay on the
casual policy which allowed this heritage to be-
come the spoil of the brown and yellow cast-offs cf
Asia.
A FALSE SCENT.
THE MORALIST : “ Why, you’ve been drinking. I can smell it now."
DOSSER: “ You wrong me, boss. They've just sprayed me with disinfectant at the hospital."
“Pump” : “L.L W.” (B. 10/2/’lO) must
have been beer-stained when he saw that 10ft.
sand-worm. I’ve seen a goodly number of them
both at Ballina and Evans’ Head (N.S.W.), but
never have I seen one that would go more than
3ft. Gin. And I never saw them dragged out of
their dens by hand. The way we used to catch
them was to entice their heads Out of the hole at
ebb tide with pippies, just as “ L.L.W.” did, then
lassoo them with a piece of fine fishing line* and
moor them to a good-sized bit of wood or net-
cork. The rising tide did the rest. It saves
time, and the worms keep fresher that way. Of
course, you could tie the worm’s head to a balloon
and get it out that way if you liked.
* * * •
“ Namoi ” : Was in an up country N.S. W.
police court the other day when an old wreck was
charged with vagrancy. The constable described
his offence as “beer-cadging round the local pubs,”
and the Ja-Pe fined him three weeks’ gaol. Before
being removed from his sole occu-
pancy of the dock, the derelict asked
the Bench to make an order that a
sixpence which he had upon him when
arrested should be used to purchase him
one drink before being locked up. A
sudden stoppage of grog, he explained,
might have fatal results. I thought
the Bench was going to be devoid of
human sympathy by the way it started
to reply, but I apologised later. Said
his Washup : “ Well, of all the strange
requests ever made to me during my
long career as one of his Majesty’s Jus-
tices, this is certainly the strangest and
at the same time the coolest. (Gloom.)
However, taking into consideration
your apparent age and the probability
that a sudden cessation of your favorite
elixir might do you some injury, I feel
that something should be done. I can’t
order that the amount you ask be ex-
pended. so I will have to shout myself.
What do you drink?” “Rum, yer
Washup.” “And a very good drink, too,”
said his Washup. “Constable, take this coin
and see that he gets a good stiff ’nn.” (Great
s°y-) . ...
“Agricola” : JRe post-holes (B. 3/2/10).
Modern fencers don’t merely dig enough post-
holes to last them the day. More often they
excavate every hole that they will require before
starting to insert the posts, leaving the spare
orifices to entrap the evening home-wanderer and
compel his blasphemy. A bloque out our way
recently sunk holes, spaced 12ft. apart, along 100-
chains of road. On five successive Saturday
nights I fell into one or more of the bhwiferous
orifices. Meanwhile the bloque aforesaid was
sinking additional traps on another line. In
response to urgent prayer, a thunderstorm slopped
along one Sabbath afternoon. A joyous stream
rippled merrily a-down that mile or so of post-
holes and silted them all up, bar seventeen. The
seventeen were washed clean out, and have never
been heard of since, though it is rumored that one
of them was cast up on the. coast of Africa, and
the natives poured brass. rqhnd it and turned it
into a cannon. The fencer, when cleaning out the
holes again, found the sympathetic remarks of
his victims hard to bear. Finally he became
soured, and took to drink for the first time in
three days. While fencing nowadays he keeps
just one hole ahead of himself. He uses that
spare hole to keep beer in.
The translation of a Papuan’s letter to an
Eastern Division magistrate, applying to be made
a village constable at 10s. a year and a uniform :
Tare Wadaguia, Uai, Divari.—l want to be given a
uniform. I shall look after my village. I want very
much to be a policeman. I want a uniform so that I may
take prisoners. I shall take care that my village is peace-
ful. Nothing wrong will be done there. I shall be care-
ful and watch people closely. No one shall quarrel with
his neighbor. I shall take good care. If one quarrels I
shall take him prisoner at once and take him to Samarai.
I shall watch carefully that none sins with his neighbor’s
wife. lam Wadugia.
FOR FEAR OF SCANDAL.
GKRTY : “So yer ain’t cornin' fer a stroll this
mornin’ ? ”
S AM: “ No, Gerty. I'm afraid people's heginnin'
ter tork; and YOU know 'ow careful one 'as
ter be.”
THE BRINY GRAVE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I notice, in “Answers to Correspondents,” that The
Bulletin has no sympathy for, or can’t understand, the
poet bloke that wishes to be buried at sea.
You wonder why folk would be buried at sea
In this world of froth and bubble ;
But I don’t wonder. It seems to me
That it saves such a lot of trouble.
And there ain’t no crocodile relative,
And there ain't no undertaker.
And there ain’t no order your friends can give
To a gimcrack coffin-maker.
They make no diff’ twixt the travelling swell
And the clerk that has cut from a “shortage”—
Oh ! there ain’t no pauper funer-el,
And there ain’t no “ impressive cortege.”
It may be a chap from the for’ard crowd,
Or a duke of the British peerage ;
But they sew His Nibs in a canvas shroud,
Just the same as the bloke from the steerage.
There ain’t no need for a sexton there,
For you dig your own grave ! Lord love you !
And there ain’t no use for a headstone fair
When the waters close above you.
The little stone where they come to weep
May be right for the land’s dry-rotters ;
But you rest sound when you’re anchored deep,
With the pig-iron at your trotters.
The sea’s democratic the wide world round,
And it don’t give a damn for no man—
There ain’t no Anglican burial ground,
Nor yet there ain’t no Roman.
The Pope and Dill by the wreck-strewn cliffs,
At peace in the stormiest weather,
Might bob in friendship like brother “stiffs,"
And rest in one shark together.
The hatless skipper’s as good an3' day
As an authorised shifter-of-sin is,
And a shipmate’s tear is better, anyway,
Than the tear of the next-of-kin is.
It saves your friends, and it fills your needs,
It is best when all is reckoned,
And —she can’t come there in her widder weeds
With her eye on a likely second.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
The family
should be in evi
stimulant—Wolfe’s
:ry home. A drink.
Schnapps—
A medicine.*
GOLDEN YELLOW AXLE GREASE.
A Pure Oil Lubricant for
all Axles and Bearings.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [2
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
yo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufiaiently stamped, yame and
address must appear on MSS. yo liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in ; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
H.P., Sylvo, Frangipan, and about 213 others :
It isn’t any use writing: “ Press matter only” on the en-
velope, licking 1 it up, and sticking on a penny stamp of
Vic., S.A., or Queensland. That lick of the envelope
costs us anything from 2d. to Bd., and it frequently hangs
the matter up till it’s no good anyhow Samarang :It
is beautifully typewritten....S. : Four sets of verses to
hand. No. 1, scrap of no importance ; No. 2, scrap ditto ;
No. 3, weird Anglo-French hash ; No. 4, doggerel Talla-
hassee : The lady who identified her lost love by his smell
of engine grease has streaks of romance about her—only
streaks Charles E.: Tale of butchered policeman is
powerful, but too horrible. And when looked at
closely there are some awkward discrepancies....J.C. :
“ Vultures ” rather disconnected ; also rather shrieky...
F.P.B. (Melb.): Considering the restful one. Returning
others J.S. (Masterton): Sorry unable to use them.
A.L.Y. (Vic.): Sentiments excellent; verses of the
Bottomless Pit variety... .A. M.B. (South Brisbane): A
certain brand of monotonous poem makes us really
angry, and you seem to have got hold of the recipe for
constructing it. The other deadly-serious poem for-
warded reminded us of one of Lewis Carroll’s nonsense
rhymes—the one that ends “B -yootiful soup!”....
Tibby : You start by asking the “witching maiden” in
the tenderest manner for a kiss; and, when she delays
handing it over, you demand roughly to know if she
“fears the brink of Hell.” You’re much too violent for
a turtle-dove writer Frank Arthurs :We read through
your 15 verses, entitled “ When I am Dead,” without
shedding a tear. Even an undertaker couldn’t get in-
terested in that sort of thing unless he got the order for
your funeral. By the way, how are you feeling?...
T.W. (Queensland): An extract from your tremendous
story: “* Was she tall?* I asked. ’A little taller than
my heart, but a chopine more or less could not have
added to our admiration, the one for the other. In mid-
summer, long ere the city clock had chimed the hour of
six, we would be miles away in the country looking for
some shady ferny hollow to rest and read, to boil the
billy, and partake of mine host’s hamper.’” Do
you really allow people to talk to you like that ? ...
Sandy: Don’t care for that rabbit poem ... J.T. (M.L.) :
Regret verses unsuitable ...Balder Dash: Unsuitable.
Don’t remember other contribution, but will endegvor to
trace it E.G. (Randwick): They miss, but not by
much Peter (Melb.): Don’t care for them J.R.
(Sydney): Can only advise you to submit them to Aus-
tralian or English publishing house.... A.C.A. (Dunedin):
All out of this paper’s line. Try one of the M.L. weeklies.
C.E.K. (Sydney): What do we think of that—in eight
verses? Our candid opinion is that it is very long and
enormously dull; also, we wish we could legally charge
you 6s. Bs. for reading it W.G.B. (Balmain): Haven’t
you a single idea of your own? There’s a bird shop
across the street, and when we feel like owning a parrot
we’ll buy one there—one of the feathered kind The
Wanderer (Wingham): Commonplace rhyme E.K.
(Bunbury, W.A.): The steed is lame Cockatoo
(N.S. W.) : The verses show promise, but you will have to
keep on polishing awhile longer. Can’t advise you
re other papers. But why not argue gently but
firmly with the ones that already print but don’t
pay Seebee (Vic.): Engine verses are too forced.
Theatrical ones get nearer, but don’t quite arrive....
Boronia: You are coming along ; but you have still a
mile or two left to travel. Last shows promise F.B. :
We gather from your comprehensive but awkwardly-
rhymed curse that you dislike Cloncurry ...Moreover:
It promises well in the beginning, but tails off. If you
feel up to tackling it again, don’t exaggerate quite so
much ; the plain facts are humorous, and you only lose
by getting too far away from them.... Basil T. W. : A
maddening story. The absurd ease with which the
Spaniard killed the skipper and knocked the mate down
was bad enough ; but when we read that the irresistible
and victorious Dago jumped overboard and was imme-
diately eaten by a shark, we rushed out and kicked the
faithful tripehoUnd that eats the rejected MS A.C.
(Ballarat): Of course, if you are determined to keep on
writing, we have no power to stop you ; but you must
take your “ fiutt’ring heart” verses elsewhere Phoenix:,
Your “principal boy” poem starts off joyously, only to
burst into tears in the last verse. An ancient idea unskil-
fully treated. Doubt whether there are many fond
mothers in the “principal boy” industry Mignon :
Tumultuous, breathless poem received. We note that
you “ revelled in the pleasure of your self-created doom.”
Don’t know what it means, but we are always glad to hear
of people enjoying themselves... .J.B. (M.L.): A dull
yarn J.C. (M.L.): Fairly good idea, but the handling
is poor W.P.K. (Sydney): Regret all unsuitable....
Bunya: Better wait till after the elections ; then write
Dr. Maloney, 168 Collins-slreet, Melb John A. : Pro-
mising Parnassus: For a start, don’t try to climb up
on both sides of your paper.... W.G.F. : The cuttings
have been used as a text by another paper, and the sub-
ject is dealt with at length this week by one of our own
staff J.P.McG.: Dash what you call “the nuisance
known as the Education Question.” We are not taking
any suggestions for alterations in the existing system,
coiisidering that it is all round as good and fair a one as
may be Chas. Hudson : Send it on to the Govt. Bac-
teriologist. He will advise you as to the best means of
making the cure known. Constant Reader (M.L.):
Three sections of the North Coast railway have been let
to contractors, (1) from Maitland to Dungog (con-
tractors, Carson, Carey and Simpson, Castlereagh-street,
Sydney); (2) from Dungog to Gloucester (contractors,
Wilcox, c/o R. G. Watkins, Kent-street. Sydney) ;
(3) from Gloucester to Taree (contractors, Smith and
Timms, Hunter-street, Sydney). Wages for laborers are
from Bs. a day upward ; for man with horse and dray,
12s. and upward. It will be about seven years before the
completion of the line.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS
Ned W. : Hopeless and purposeless and badly-drawn
and generally born dead. ..J.N.: The Jokes of Hungry
Homer and Shoeless Socrates about the difficulty of
avoiding work are the same joke every time when you
inspect them closely Yates: Inferior drawing, and
the joke is old enough for the Benevolent Home and poor
enough to be run in for “no visible.” Young : Three
things you can’t draw are a parson, a Chinaman and a
bedstead. And the hat and the frying-pan are only
mediocre L.W. : Apart from the fact that the clergy-
man looks like a madman and the boy like a gnome, and
that the remark the gnome is making to the madman has
nothing to recommend it, we don’t object to your picture
very much D.A.: A poor imitation of “Cipher’s”
style .. Charlesworth : Couldn’t return them for lack of
an address... D.M.A. : Original idea of one lady saying
that her eg"g wasn’t set and the other saying that hers
had been set for some time cost us 2d. If the Post Office
had charged us more it would have been robbery.
THE
“Fx 8 R” WATCHES
are Levers.
They have Brequet Hair Springs.
They have compensated and adjusted
balances.
They have jewel ruby rollers.
They go with profound accuracy.
They are specially made to stand hard
riding: and knocking: about.
They are made in every style of case.
They are guaranteed for 15 years and
kept in order (breakages excepted)
for two years without charge.
In Gent.’s Open Face Oxidised Steel Case,
335., 15 jewels; 285., 7 jewels.
Fx&Rf-plate Lever Watch, in Oxidised Half-Huntin
Case, as illustrated, 45j- : in Silver Case, 60/-
Plain Figures'
Cash.
Fairfax &. Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.


Q$ { , e vJA l '
:/*
4
| Coo Bl»5
] COMMISSJONEII
O’CAILACHAM
M
(X cl
r *
C, .
Kle ?t w >Os
*■ 4'* e £7,
b ’P
Fiji.* (~\l
»tea
.%Mk{
fg
L\>NCeC?Tb«to \
While for the most part the police pre-
-3; heir « SU3 > attitude of masterly P in-
THE PICNIC POT.
FAGAN THE FENCE BOILS THE 3UTY-.
The picnickers put in a good wotd (or the
burglars’ best friend.
df
f Aom?ttanc.e.
I pre4%
i
Start ot the Amateur Heavyweight (VIE
cracking Com petition^
RE.PORr
O%
A welsher! Oh no; merely a stranger
reasonably .supposed to be a pressman.
THE MELBOURNE BURGLARS’ PICNIC, —(A Dream Picture.)


London, Wednesday Afteriioba.
The Czar drives almost daily unescorted through
the^streets r ol St. Petersburg- The eecret police
alarmed for his safety*
if the Lzar would adopt some such usefili occu-
pation as above, he might drive through any Bid
street in perfect safety.
Aid. t. H. Bariow wrote tb the fclty fcouncii expressing the opinlbri
that the parks would riever be in a satisfactory condition whiie so many Moretori
tidy fig trees were allowed tb reinaiii: He suggested the removal of hiany of the
lij; trees, with a view of substituting English oak dr “ our own beautiful eucalyptus.’
•lit is tb be feared that this might entail great hardship* for a time at least*
tljpofl that chief ornament of odr public parks, the “ Domain dosseh’
At a big Anglican church lit Adelaide on Sunday morning
was not a single male adult in the congregation, and
the verger had to carry round the collection plate.
With a church full of “ Merry
Widows ” there’s very little
room for men. Churches ought
to follow the example of the
tramways, and attach
boards for the accommodation
of men. -
- - ,'w.
6 *
XV
C° 0 V
yy*
'
v6 o* v°
yV 6
The tramway strike in Philadelphia is
getting serious. “Hundreds of people,”
says the cable, “are going to business
on roller skates,”
Sir Edward Grey, Secretary
of State for Foreign Affairs,
in reply to questions in the
House of Commons, stated
that the Government was will-
ing to enter into negotiations
for the reduction of arma-
ments if the other Powers
'-.were ready to respond.
' Prince Henry, the
j Kaiser’s brother, has
( recently expressed
\ similar sentiments on
1 behalf of Germany.
“ So have I heard bn Afric’s burning shore
A hungry lion give a grievous roar.
Another lion gave a grievous roar,
And each did vote the other one a bore.”
—Bombastes Fun'oso (adapted).
The unfortunate Australian
schoolboy and girl are vic-
tims to faddism. Not long since their'teeth were the subject of anxiety. Now
it’s their chest-measurement. It will get down to the feet in time. The brain,
so far, has escaped.
London, Friday evening.—The Prussian police are carrying cameras
and snapshotting the Socialist processions. The photographs consti-
tute evidence against disturbers.
HERE AND ELSEWHERE.


PERSONAL
ITEMS
A somewhat notable Hebrew lady, Mrs.
Kate Solomon, died at her home at Rushcutter’s
Bay (Sydney) last week, aged 76 years. She was
widow of Philip S. Solomon, Q.C., of Suva, Fiji.
Mrs. Solomon was the first mistress of the first
Hebrew school established in Sydney under a
former Education Act Also she was the eldest
daughter of P. J. Cohen, who, before the
arrival of a Rabbi, had permission to celebrate
marriages. The first Hebrew wedding was that
of Mr. and Mrs. Moses Joseph, who kept a general
warehouse in George-street in the ’thirties. The
wedding was celebrated in 1830. The first build-
ing used as a synagogue is still standing in Bridge-
street, Sydney.
GIBSON-CARMICHAEL , State Governor of
Victoria.
Said that the British Museum increased
its guard by two (2) policemen on learning of
G. Reid’s appointment to the High Commissioner-
ship. The famous London institution had reason.
It possesses the only existing copy of Reid’s pub-
lished poems. When Reid reached middle life
the appalling character of his verse dawned on
him. He started buying up and incinerating
every copy he could lay bands on. Now, there is
no price in reason which he wouldn’t pay to
prevent the strange, wild poesy of his immaturity
coming beneath the eye of posterity and shaming
him for all time.
THE OPERA TIG FARMYARD.
Mrs. Melba has bought the well-known dairy farm of Messrs.
Whitehead Bros., at Yering, containing 228 acres, as a going con-
cern, also 110 acres adjoining.— Melbourne AGE.
We are informed that it is Nellie's intention eventu-
ally to conduct the farm herself. In this event, the
well-known “Farmyard Chorus ” should
attain perfection.
Will Dyson and Norman Lindsay are being
“discovered” in London. Dyson lately got a
letter from Harmsworth, and the result of the
ensuing interview was an order for two trial cari-
catures of well-known men, which should lead to
business. Norman Lindsay at about the same
time received from somebody else an offer of £6OO
for the right of publishing a limited number of
reproductions of a series of drawings whereof the
artist had done only four when the offer was
made. Meanwhile the two young Australians are
not complaining bitterly, as yet, of the gruesome
Cockney climate. Will Dyson, in fact, professes
to be on good terms with the weather. He finds
the Londoners in general a pale and tired people ;
but personally he is going strong amidst the cold,
grey fogginess, nor has the prevailing sense of
mud entered into his soul. But the novelty of
London weather soon wears off.
When Kitchener reached Dunedin (M.L.)
recently he stated, in reply to a public welcome,
that his father had owned land in the vicinity, and
that his brother had worked in the district for
some years. In addition, Mrs. Parker, of Kurow,
Otago, is a sister of the big soldier. Some of the
family have had bad luck in M.L. One of his
cousins (who was also at one time in the army)
perished in Dunedin while saving his two boys
from a fire in which his other children were
burned to death. The mother of the children,
who was fearfully injured in the conflagration,
fled from the country and went to Asia with the
two surviving lads. Out there one died of typhoid.
Subsequently the other, and last remaining son,
returned to M.L. and obtained a position in a
bank at Auckland, where for some unknown reason
he blew his brains out.
Left Sydney by the Makambo for Papua
last week, A. T. Meek, the best-known bird-and-
beetle hunter of the Islands, after equipping for
an expedition to the Charles Louis Mountains,
an entirely unexplored part of Dutch Papua.
(Papua, by the way, has an area of about 312,330
square miles, of which Australia’s Possession runs
to only 90,540 miles, while the Dutchman holds
151,790 miles. The balance is German.) The
Charles Louis Mountains are marked on the
Admiralty charts as 17,000 ft. high, but that
is only a wild guess. Meek, whose explo-
rations are firstly in the butterfly-collecting
interests of Leopold de Rothschild, expects to
reach them with one white companion, a Malay
or other interpreter, and 100 or 150 native
carriers; and the journey will probably take 18
months. According to Dutch accounts, the
natives of those parts are vindictive and treacher-
ous, and small bodies of native troops which have
been pushed in from tfie coast have been wiped
out. But small things like that don’t count when
a Rothschild wants a new beetle. The last new
butterfly Meek got from the British part of Papua
—captured on his last expedition—-is said to
have cost him about £7OO.
Some scraps of old biography :
James Dalrymple Cox, of Cullenbofie, Mudgee (N.S. W.),
who died last week, aged 76, was the fifth son of George
Cox, of Winbourn, Mulgoa. His grandfather on the
mother’s side was Archibald Bell, of Belmont, near Rich-
mond, the property now owned by Captain Philip Charley.
Archibald Bell was a lieutenant in the N. S. Wales Corps,
and was in charge of the guard at Government House
when Colonel Johnston arrested Governor Bligh. The
couple had eight sons and four daughters, the most
notable being George Henry Cox, of Burrendulla, who
before he died was the last survivor of the first Legislative
Assembly, and father of the Legislative Council. The
original William Cox come out as paymaster to the
N. S. Wales Corps in 1801 in charge of a number of ’9B
men who had been shipped at Cork for Botany Bay.
General Joseph Holt was one of the number. Mr. James
Dalrymple Cox, just dead, studied for the Church, but
findjno- he could not conform, tried for the Bar. He was
called in 1862, but never practised.
John Lebbeus Hordern, who died while
on a visit to Auckland (M.L.) on February 23, in
his 63rd year, was the son of John Hordern, the
first of the sons of the original Anthony to start in
business for himself. His shop in the early ’forties
was Nottingham House, on the corner of Charlotte-
place (now Grosvenor-street and Lower George-
street, Sydney). John was there till the ’sixties.
The sons were on a station until 1861, when the
recent)v-deeeased opened a small drapery store
on the Newtown-road, near the Oddfellows’
Hall. J.L. had wished to start business in this
city, but the mother objected. J.L., however,
always said that he would have a big business in
Sydney before he died. In 1878 he went into
Pitt-street; at first he was on the east side, but in
a few months he got into the “ drapers’ block ” in
a small shop kept during the ’sixties by Webb
and Co. A large sum of money came into the
business, two brothers and a sister became mem-
bers, and by degrees other Pitt-street shops were
added; and then, as their further extension was
blocked by Harris and Ackman, they worked
their way through to George-street.
F. G. Finley,. chairman of the Armidale
(N.S.W.) Lands Board, has thrown in his official
marble, after 47 years’ service in the Department.
Every man on the land north of Maitland knew
Finley, and he knew most of them. He was a
far more important personality up that way than
the Governor or the Bishop. To the town mice
his chief claim to fame was that he was the father
of Finley, junior, one of the swiftest half-backs
who ever played Rugby football for Ma State. In
these days it is greater to be the father of a hoof-
baller or a pug than the father of your country.
The Law Almanac
for 1910 shows 152 barri-
ters actually in practice
in N.S.W. There are a
number who do' not
practice, and a few who
never did—H. C. Dan-
gar and .J. D. Cox, for
example. The “ gents
one” number 581; of
this number, 105 hunt
their prey in packs of
two or more. Of no-
taries public there
are 83, most of them
resident in Sydney.
A peculiarity about the
barristers of N.S.W.
is that all those in prac-
tice locate themselves
in Sydney. No coun-
try town owns a barris-
ter. In Victoria, even
before amalgamation,
barristers practised* in
Ballarat, Bendigo and
other towns.
If the Labor party
in S. Aus. carries the
coining election (al-
ready- it has 19 mem-
bers out of 42), the new
Ministry will be com-
posed something like
this: Premier and Pub-
lic Works. Jack Ver-
ran. Chief Secretary,
F. S. Wallis, M.L.G;
All or n e y-G e n eral,
Donald Campbell, law
stud ent; Treasurer,
Crawford Vaughan,
single-taxer; Lands,
Clarence Goode, who
combines farming with
Labpr politics ; Educa-
tion and Industry, J.
P. Wilson, M.L.C., a
philosophic and pious
bootmaker. J ack V er-
ran, the leader, is a
“Cousin Jack miner,”
with 35 years’ strenu-
ous work underground
to his credit. He is
a great temperance
man and a persuasive preacher with a beautiful
big voice and the command of mellifluous phrases.
Judge Scholes (N.S.W.), who battled so
hard to patch up the Newcastle coal trouble, and
Wade, who intentionally or otherwise battled so
hard to prolong it, met over an Arbitration
matter once before. Scholes was counsel for the
Miners’ Association in the first big case at Broken
Hill; Wade was counsel for the mine owners. A
two years’ award was fixed up that time.
“The Wanderer”: S. E. Lees, who has
been selected as the Tory candidate for East
Sydney, has been out in the political cold for a
long while. He is the same old oyster who used
to periodically represent the one-time Nepean
State electorate. So fickle-minded were the
electors of that constituency that they used to
elect Lees and T. R. Smith in turns. T.R.S.
seems to have become a back number politically
since the redistribution of seats tacked the
Hawkesbury on to Penrith. B. Hall managed to
scratch in the first election after this change was
effected, against T. H. Kelly (brother to Motor-
Car Kelly, of Willie fame). Kelly was a Car-
ruthersite at the time, and Hall was supposed to
be an Independent, although he had been sup-
porting the See Government. Kelly, at the
declaration of the poll, said he would not oppose
Hall again if he (Hall) did the correct thing. The
“correct thing” evidently was to join Carruthers,
which said Hall lost no time in doing. For the
nine years that Hall has been in the Ma House he
has spoken fully six times, his remarks being to
the effect that he would support the Bill. When
he offered no remarks he supported the Bill just
the same.
Mrs. Jane Stockham, who died near
Adelaide last week, wasn’t like most so-called
centenarians —she knew just when she was born,
and where. It was in Wiltshire (England), on
July 8, 1808. That is, she was a matron when
Queen Victoria was crowned, and a woman when
the first railway in England was opened. She
could remember Waterloo, and also the fact of her
grandfather paying a sovereign as a wig-tax.
Even that moderately democratic Fusion -
ist, McPherson, candidate for Melbourne city,
lately sneered at King O’Malley because the
flamboyant person with the cowboy hat “owns
a terrace of houses.’’ The Fat person has two
distinct views on this subject: (1) If a man
hasn’t property he shouldn’t be in Parliament, for
his failure to accumulate wealth shows his in-
capacity ; (2) if he has property he shouldn’t be a
Labor member, for no Labor member has a right
to own property.
At the end of February, Victoria’s Parlia-
mentary draftsman, Edward Carlile, K.C., re-
tired from his long and thankless job of framing
other men’s good intentions. Reaching Victoria
at the age of nine, Carlile entered the Law
department, and in ’79 took up the job of knock-
ing the crude efforts of politicians into shape.
Over 3000 Bills have had their finishing touches
given by his fingers, and half of them have at
various stages been ruthlessly slaughtered or coldly
dropped or enthusiastically jumped on by the
House of Fat. He has seen 16 Governments come
and go, and has said nothing ; but if he will sit
down and write in his leisure years about the
politicians he had to endure and the Bills he had
to shape—such as Irvine’s first Strike Suppression
Bill, for instance —his remarks should be worth
reading.
Dr. Lenihan, R.C. Bishop of Auckland
(M.L.), who was found dead in bed the other
morning, was about the brightest and happiest-
looking man in the staggery isles of Ward. To
him life was a sort of pious jest. He was English
born but of Irish parents, and became an orphan
at the age of 11. Bishop Lenihan made a special
study of early Maoriland history, and dug deeply
among the greenstone remnants of the past. Also
he was a great student of politics, but he seldom
talked that subject; being an advanced democrat,
he possibly feared that he might burst if he let
himself go. He suffered from two incurable
diseases —a large, careless, casual leakage in the
pocket, which kept hint poor, and a weak heart
which eventually cut him off like a thief in the
night, as the same complaint did old-time Arch-
bishop Vaughan, of Sydney.
THE LAMBSWOOL LION.
Chief Justice Madden, at the farewell dinner to the
Rev. Dr. Bevan, spoke' with admiration of the guest’s
leonine head. “Dr. Bevan,” he said, “has proved a
decoration for this State. His leonine head asserted
itself beyond question.”— Melbourne Argus.
Mr. Madden, Chief Jester, might hare added that
this sample was the nearest approach to a com-
bination of the lion and the lamb that the Church
has yet produced.
THE JOB OF OTHER DAYS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Rev. Hughes, the new Baptist minister who has
been appointed to the church in Hastings (M.L.). was at
one time a reporter on the Auckland Star.— Wellington
Dominion.
No more the pen will be his knife to slay the truthful
story ;
No more he’ll boom the politician fool.
Farewell, a sweet farewell, unto the Grafter and the Tory,
The Sweater and the balance of the school.
No more he'll pat with glowing words the rotten play
and actor
(The ad., alas, is mightier than the sword) ;
No more he’ll take his pay as journalistic malefactor—
’Tis honester to hustle for the Lord.
No more he’ll dread the cursing sub. when space is short
and narrow ;
No shorthand note will drive him to despair ;
No waiting leader-writer’s scowl will pierce him as an
arrow ;
For him the chief-of-staff has done his swear.
No fire at dawn will bring him forth unless it burns his
bedding ;
No midnight'files for make-up pars, he’ll skim ;
Ten blanky ships can wreck themselves, the Pope dance
at a wedding—
His troubles on the lot—no more for him.
Yet he will miss the restless life, the free life and the
rovin’
When time is dragging heavily and slow—
The fever of the foreword, with his nerves is interwoven ;
The longing for the Inner and Below.
And, most of all, he’ll miss “ the boys ” —no Gospel dis-
pensation
Will pay him for those sterling hearts of gold ;
Not fifty blessed churchee could supply the compensation
For the press work that he banned in days of old.
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.
GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Nipped in the Bud.
A cold, cough, or influenza can be nipped in the
bud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery for coughs and colds. Trice Is. 6d.
and 3s. *
TRADING AND INVESTMENT
COMPANIES.
O.T. LIMITED.
The first half-yearly meeting of share-
holders of O.T. Limited was held recently
at the company’s offices, Prahran ; Mr.
John Dixon, managing director, being in
the chair. The chairman said the profit
for the half-year had been £5072, and
after putting £350 to reserve and carrying
£330 forward to the next half-year, a
dividend at the rate of 12 per cent, per
annum was now payable. The increase in
sales had been greater than in any similar
period since O.T. had been placed on the
market. The output for 1909 was more
than double that for 1907. Incidentally,
it was mentioned that the rapid growth
of the business was in no small degree due
to the increased sale of non-alcoholic
drinks in hotels during recent years.


Prove that your Headpiece
.I"': :,m
i,. . I
is all right, by letting your
be
€€
East
I • t* ' >'/
made from tbe finest
Leaf, and obtainable in all
shapes from all


POLITICAL
POINTS
“ Asia is more crowded than Europe.”—
Burst of wild inaccuracy from Sydney Telegraph
leader (19/2/’ 10).
“Crass-ig”: “The National Liberal
League ” (title under which the anti-Labor busi-
ness is carried on in Westralia) is composed of a
queer mixture of ultra-Conservatives, quasi-
Liberals and ex-Laborists. From the latter the
league has picked out “Bawbee” Hastie, one
time a Minister in the State Labor Government,
to fight Labor-member Mahon for the Coolgardie
seat. Hastie’s claim to the “National’s” con-
fidence is that he, like Fowler, backslid from the
Labor party. The uncanny Scot is stumping the
country with the same old yarns, and they are
being greeted with the identical old yawn and the
snore of ages.
JOY AT THE ZOO.
Three hundred taxicabs are shortly to be placed on tha
streets of Sydney.— News item.
“ Three cheers for the taxi, and a tiger for
the horse.”
The Victorian Employers’ Federation is
one of the supporters of the Deacook Fusion ; and
it is interesting, therefore, to see the sort of
things this prop really aims at. It met for the
first time this year the other evening, and told
itself how good it felt. It had fixed up the
Amending Factories Act to suit itself, by securing
complete finality for the Wages Boards’ determina-
tions within the State, and by keeping all other
than actual employees off such Boards ; it had
smothered the Electoral Bill “so that the business
men of Melbourne were not yet disfranchised ” ;
it had got the Land-Tax Bill thrown out; it had
had the product of the State coal mine restricted
to the use of the railways ; and it had done several
other similar things. How grateful Deakin must
be to his distinguished “ Liberal ” supporters for
exposing their hand in this fashion !
Said the old hand :
I have, in the course of 30 years’ experience of the
N.S.W. Lands Department, known men to be promoted
for taking a keen interest in geology; I have known
them to be promoted for a knowledge of astronomy ; I
have known them to be advanced in the service because
of a steady profession of piety of the right brand ; but I
have never yet known a man to be promoted for doing
his duty and intelligently helping to promote settlement
and protect the interests of the public. On the contrary,
I have known some who, foolishly believing the latter to
be their duty, came near to being fired out.
“ Phil Mite ” : What palpably bogus
affairs these voluntary burstings-upof bigsheepruns
are ! The other day the famous Tabletop Estate
(N.S.W.)—which contained between
30,000 and 40,000 acres of magnificent
land right at Albury’s back-door —was
hacked up by the owner amid loud
cries of “ patriot,” “ philanthropist,
etc.,” from his fellow squatters. The
Albury people were assured that the
subdivision marked a new era in their
history, “because what the town had
long needed was an influx of settlers
on the adjacent land.” But when the
sale was over it was found that the in-
flux was as dead as before. Although
a lot of the land (and much unearned
increment) changed hands, not a soli-
tary genuine farmer was brought to
the district. Most of the blocks were
mopped up by wealthy adjoining
holders, and a few rich speculators
got the remainder. The same thing
has occurred in the case of half-a-
dozen other estates in the same dis-
trict. In fact, the same thing has
occurred wherever one troubles to
look. The one answer to this scan-
dalous and dangerous state of affairs
is a progressive land-tax, and whole sections
Outback don’t care how soon it is supplied.
The Wages Board in the N.S.W. cooper
industry has promulgated its award. The Im-
perial Government employs coopers on Garden
Island (Sydney), and an application was made to
exclude them on the ground that they are in
Government employ. But the Board refused to
make any distinction; so Ed. VII., viewed as a
boss cooper, will have to pay full wages.
Thus Sydney Telegraph (28/2/’10) :
Replying to a question whether it was right to allow
Hindus to ballot for land, Mr. Wade said Hindus were
British subjects, and the Government had no power to
discriminate so far as land ballots were concerned.
It is wild inaccuracy. As a fact, under the
Lands Act (1905) Land Boards have full power to
discriminate between applicants, and reject those
who are deemed unfit. The sole test is whether
or no a man is likely to make a useful settler.
During the last five years some hundreds of ap-
plicants have been turned down in various parts
of N.S.W. for the reason that they were
burglars, sneak-thieves, Fiji uncles, or what not.
It is true that no would-be settler has yet
been discarded on the ground that he was a
nigger. But that has been the fault, not of
the law, but of the Lands Board officials, who
don’t seem to see anything anomalous in en-
couraging black men to settle down and marry
and rear colored children in the only country in
the world which is striving to dedicate itself to
the white races. Withal, the fact that the Land
Boards haven’t done their duty in this regard
doesn’t excuse Wade’s ignorance of the fact that
they might have done it.
Last year the Maoriland railways partly
biffed the big bag off the face of the earth by
framing a by-law to the effect that any sack of
barley, wheat or oats carried by the rail-
ways would be charged for at four times
the usual rate if the weight exceeded
2001 b. Fat and the farmer roared, and
wildly prophesied the general bust-up of
the entire grain business. Deputation
after deputation stormed the fort of the
Minister of Railways, and implored him
to cancel the by-law before the country
was ruined. The fort, however, stood
firm, and the inhuman half-ton wheat sack
was no more. Curiously enough, Fat still
prospered, nor did the country go bung
to any great extent. The quadruple rate
now applies to everything in sacks—pota-
toes, onions, coal, cow-grass, or anything
else. If a consignor wants to send iron-
mongery or gold or fencing wire in sacks
bv rail, he mustn’t load the sack beyond
the 2001 b. limit if he wants it to be car-
ried at the usual rate. One pound over
weight means that he must pay foup times
the rate. Fat declares that this is the
last straw, etc. ; but he is wrong. The
last straw will be the cental bag, bolding
1001 b. net. It is already on the horizon.
The Fuse is finding a lot of difficulty in
finding a man to oppose that good Democrat, Geo.
Wise, for Gippsland (Vic.). It is a scattered
electorate, and the individual who is well known
at one end is often almost an alien at the other.
But nearly everybody knows Wise. The Fuse
hunted up one “ representative citizen,” but be
referred them to another, who was alleged to be
more popular. The second said his health
wouldn’t stand the strain, and suggested some-
body else for the sacrifice. Now the “caucus
party of free men” has rounded up one J. J.
Bowden. The Argus vouches for him as “a
good judge of cattle and a frequent exhibitor at
shows.” It seems a mixed sort of reason. Plainly
if Gippsland wanted a cow to represent it, Bow-
den ought to select the cow. And if cows had
votes, they would probably select Bowden. But
why drag cows into politics ?
The struggle nowadays to fuse Parliamen-
tarians into two parties recalls that in the days of
the old N.S.W. Legislative Council—then the
only Parliamentary body in Australia—dihere were
but two parties; and yet there was trouble.
Though numerically small, the old Council was
a strenuous fighter. On most important topics
the parties divided equally. Fire and frenzy fol-
lowed. At last King William IV. sent out a dis-
patch stating that the Council could do as it
pleased in small matters ; but as regarded the
Estimates, the dispatch ordered the Governor,
where a deadlock took place, to forward to the
Secretary of State a copy of the document, with
the arguments of members for and against, and
thereupon the King would decide which was
right. King William (otherwise “Silly Billy”)
was very seldom right, but his method brought
finality.
The citizens of Smythesdale (Vic.) at pre-
sent hold a very poor opinion of the Law, and a
worse one of the voracious beast known as Costs.
The trouble arose through four citizens appealing
against their rate valuations, which, after much
argument, were reduced by £9 altogether. I his
means that the four ratepayers will save Bs. a year
among them ; but the Council’s bill of costs comes
to £3O, and as Smythesdale is only a trifling borough
it will mean an extra rate for a year. Of course,
this disaster is chiefly due to making a borough
out of a 10-acre paddock or thereabouts; but
Smythesdale hasn’t noticed that aspect of the
matter yet.
THE SAME OLD VISITOR.
It is said that three Japanese battleships are on
their way to Sydney. —Daily paper.
AUSTRALIA : “ Hullo! —here again!”
N.S.W. Premier Wade is the latest Free-
trader to cast bis sacred principles overboard and
throw bilge-water at them. There was some row
over the Commonwealth s action in giving a job
to the State’s works at Fitzroy Dock. “It is
quite true,” said Jiggery, “that only one firm was
consulted.”
Discretion was necessary, inasmuch as, if the fact be-
came known to American manufacturers, an inducement
might thereby be offered to undercut the Colonial ten-
derers, and so lose the benefit of the work for the
Commonwealth.
Yet, as a good Freetrader, Wade knows that
work is a curse to the Commonwealth if the
Commonwealth can buy it (even with borrowed
money) at 2-I,d. cheaper from the foreigner. At
least Wade did know it until lie threw the sacred
principles overboard, as hereinbefore mentioned,
and threw bilge-water at them.
Yictoria’s Lands Minister and the Closer
Settlement Secretary between them are going to
open a register in which they will file the names of
all persons who want land, and, per contra, of all
landowners who are willing to sell on closer-settle-
ment conditions. But if it is simply going to be
a list, or two lists, the Government might save
time and stationery by assuming that every land-
lord is a seller and every other person is a buyer.
The only reason why the multitude of buyers and
sellers don’t come together is that they can’t agree
on the small matter of price, and how a mere
register is going to cure that defect isn’t obvious.
AS. M. Herald editorial (18/2/’10) :
Mr. Deakin’s reference to the birth-rate problem in
his speech at Inverell touched the very heart of a great
subject. We have already shown how serious is the
position in this vast empty land, when employers
practically refuse work to men and women with families,
and when advertisements for help are made emphatic
with the words “ without encumbrance.” In 50 years
more of the policy of “ no encumbrance” there will be no
White Australia.
And a S. M. Herald advertisement, same issue:
TXTANTED, young and energetic married couple,
’’ without encumbrance, for small property.
General station hand and general servant.
The Herald’s love for White Australia may be
quite genuine, but it is a poor thing when com-
pared with the paper’s devotion to the shilling ad.
HITCH'S DOG AND COOK'S DOG.
The Minister for Defence commented on Lord
Kitchener’s report as follows : “ Naturally I am very
pleased that the report of Lord Kitchener stamps
with a general approval the defence policy of last
session.”
JOE COOK: “ Marvellous resemblance ; one would
think they were the same animal!”
Philadelphia (U.S.A.) has been indulging
in a tramway strike. Some of the items : 750
cars destroyed ; one depot dynamited ; 12 people
killed ; 91 badly hurt; about 1000 less seriously
injured; gaols overcrowded ; business paralysed;
police barely holding their own ; militia treated
with scorn by women, who stuck empty meat tins
on their bayonets and cut the buttons off their
clothes; one car-driver hanged by the crowd, but
cut down before be reached the banks of Jordan.
And when a few' Australian miners leave off work,
and one boy, in the general excitement, throws a
bit of road metal at a Chinaman, the Stinking
Fish party says that our industrial unrest, as com-
pared with the much more stable conditions in
other lands, will “drive capital out of the country.”
Before the Federal campaign is over in
N.S.W. Fused candidates will be calling on their
bosses to whistle Joe Cook off. That bitter
snarler, with the awful capacity for making people
want to kick him, has been up in Calare “help-
ing ” the Fuse ; and at Parkes he got the audience
so annoyed that, after asking if there were no
police about, he snapped out to the crowd a re-
minder that there were penal clauses dealing with
interrupters. After which naturally “ the meet-
ing was the most disorderly ever held in Parkes.”
Archer, the Tory member for Capricornia
(Q.), who is being opposed by ex-Senator Higgs,
is the famous low-wage person who thought
225. 6d. a week and keep an excessive salary in the
sugar industry. An idea begins to prevail that
£6OO a year is a very excessive salary for Archer
in the political industry, and a great effort will he
made to reduce him to the purely honorary re-
muneration which is a heap more than he is
worth. There are three classes of men : (1) Those
who should be paid ; (2) those who should get
nothing; and (3) those who should be charged a
license fee for existing. Archer belongs to the
third lot.
“Boswell” indicts the N.S.W. Ministry:
Prior to the Christmas vacation two teachers at Broken
Hill attended meetings of the P.L.L.,and debated thereat.
Then a storm arose. The Illiberal and Deform crowd
Waded in. The Education Department put down its
Deformed hoof, and the delinquents were “ transferred"
to distant places. One of them is a determined sort, of
cuss, and asked the Education Depart meat a few awkward
questions. He w'anted to know why several teachers
attended Deform league meetings. The Department
“ wasn’t aware.” Did bis attendance at a Labor meeting
at 8 p.m. impair his efficiency in teaching Broken Hill
junior his lessons? No, he was an efficient teacher, and
highly spoken of by the Head at the Hill. Didn’t the
Department think it would be better ro make men of its
servants by giving them full political rights? The
answer was non-committal. It is said now that the
Mudgee Laborites have an eye on this schoolmaster, and
that he will probably be asked to carry their flag in on
attempt to uppercut Deform at Mudgee. Anyhow, it’s
time old man Bob Jones was sent along, seeing that the
age of miracles is past. Only a miracle would make Bob
Jones any use.
A RHYME OF THOUGHTLESS FEET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The meeting closed with enthusiastic cheers for Mr.
Deskin, the only counter note being furnished by a few
hoots, barely distinguishable through the cheering. —
Daily paper.
I like to cheer a bit myself, of course, upon occasion ;
When I am pleased, I rise, chair-high, with very slight
persuasion,
And let the welkin or the roof ring with my loud
approval,
And clamor, when a groaner groans, for his enforced
removal.
When 1 get up and cheer I know exactly why I’m
Shouting ;
I cheer because I like the sense the platform-person’s
spouting;
I show it when I roar “ Hooray ! ” or yell plain “ Ho-o-o! ”
or thunder
With my well-meaning feet enough to split good floors
asunder;
But there be those who stand and howl
Or yodel like a farmyard fowl
At nothing but hot air—and that fills saner men with
wonder !
There is one kind of bloke who cheers whenever there is
Cheering—
One kind of silly bloke who loves to go electioneering
So long as there are platitudes for him to greet with
yelling,
And perorations packed with rot, the tumult he’ll keep
swelling j
There is one kind of bloke—and he turns up in thought-
less legions
Irt all the cities and in the remoter cow-cursed regions—
Who cheers whenever Deakin speaks. He cheers if
Deakin sneezes
Or takes a drink, and every other chance to cheer he
seizes;
He will start up and scream or yelp
With crazy joy, the Cause to help,
While Deakin fans the tumult with a bunch of tattered
WheeZes.
ViCtORIA.
FRANK HENTY.
The Magic Healer —
Chase’s Universal Ointment
Chase’s Universal Ointment is the latest and
greatest advance of Science. Its remarkable sooth-
ing and healing qualities have earned for it a place
unique in the history of ointments. It gives
instant relief in all cases where pain is present, is
thoroughly antiseptic, and heals quickly.
Chase’s Universal Ointment is composed of the
rarest materials by a perfected process known only
to the proprietors. It destroys all germ life i nstantly,
thus paving the way for a speedy and certain cure.
Burns, scalds, cuts, bruises, abrasions, swellings,
sprains, bites from animals and insects, boils, acne,
pimples, carbuncles, poisoned wounds, festering
sores, corns, piles and old wounds, all yield to the
soothing and healing influence of Chase’s Universal
Ointment.
No home should be without Chase’s Universal
Ointment. It is sold in large jars at 3/6. Send us a
Postal Note for that amount to-day, and we will
immediately forward you the ointment by return
post, postage paid. Send the order now. Addressit:
i The Rldgway Society, Box 1700, C.P.0., Sydney.
“I have used Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera
and Diarrhoea Remedy, and speak from experi-
ence,” says Mr. F. Cchmaka, Paddington, W.A.
1, 1 have never known it to fail in an attack of
colic, cramps, or diarrhoea, so always recommend
it to my friends and customers. To my mind, no
mother should be without a bottle of Chaniber-
lain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy in the
house. Many people are prejudiced against
patent medicines, but if they only knew the
splendid qualities of this one it would go a long
way to wear down that prejudice.”*
Rexona,
The Rapid Healer, is an ointment which heals
with remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-
fashioned ointments, which are very slow in their
action, Rexona speedily effects its cures after a
very few applications. Sold in triangular pots at
Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Thought To Be
Dying in Irak
+
This Girl's Friends Gave up all
Hope.
Fainted Almost Every Day-
Hospital Treatment. She
Tells how She was Cured.
The most direct way of treating anaemia or
bloodlessness is to increase the blood supply.
That cures the root of the whole trouble. When
the blood supply is increased there is no longer
anaemia, and, of eourse, no longer the symptoms
dependent on anaemia, such as pale, ghastly com-
plexion, indigestion, headaches, backaches, con-
stant tired feeling and heart palpitation. The
reason Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have cured so
many cases of anaemia so promptly is because they
assist in the formation of new blood. There is
nothing round about in their action. They start
directly to make up the deficient blood supply.
The case published below was a bad one. So
bad that the young lady’s friends thought she was
dying, and the minister used to see her often,
thinking the same thing. You see they can cure
some of the worst cases. The following are the
sufferer’s own words :
“I was always very healthy, but one day I
gave myself a strain,” said Mrs. Esta Tanguey, 15
Dale Street, Sydney, “and that night 1 vomited
a great deal of blood. From then I began to fall
away. I’d have a craving for food, and assoonasl
swallowed a little I’d bring it all up again, and
then I’d start to vomit blood. My'mother got
quite alarmed at the quantity that used to come
up. For weeks I’d live on peptonised milk. I
hardly dare take anything solid, but I had beef
tea and milk pudding and such light things. I
got pitiably thin. My clothes just hung on me.
As to color, I was like a corpse. There was
hardly a morning when I did not faint on geting
up, and mother would have to stand by and, help
me out of bed. I was a complete invalid. I’d be
helped on to a lounge and taken out into the sun
for a few hours. I never slept well unless I took
a sleeping draught. My mother looked on me as
dying. I was terribly downhearted. My hands
were waxy and transparent. Mother had to wait
on me hand and foot. The minister would come
and see me, thinking I was not long for this world.
I felt so wretched that I hated to see my friends
come to enquire after me. I took ill when I was
17, and I was suffering till I was 23. I went to
two hospitals, but I got no lasting good. Then a
lady friend of my sister advised Dr. Wilhams_
Pink Pills. I didn’t feel a scrap of benefit till I
had reached the third box. Soon I could eat a little
solid food and keep it down. Soon everyone
could see the improvement in me for themselves.
I looked less ghastly and my cheeks grew
plumper, and I could feel my 7 strength coming
back every day. I began to sleep well at night
and began to wish to go out and enjoy each day as
other girls did. Every dose of Dr. Williams
Pink Pills made me feel stronger. I began to
help mother instead of her waiting on me. At
last I was completely cured, and I am indeed very
grateful.” ,
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills make the good, red
blood that women at all ages need to keep them
well, happy and attractive. Sold by all dealers
(but insist on having the genuine pills, for sub-
stitutes never cure). If in doubt, send to the Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co. of Ltd.,
Sydney; 2s. 9d. one box, six boxes 15s. 3d.
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
s
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
Bail Guns, &C.
Write for List.
DENYER RROTHcRS
Also at Melbourne.
281 George St.
(uufi ""tiler St.)
SYDNEY.


THE
CLAVIOLA
PIANO PLAYER
Is the latest and
best of all piano
players.
It has improve-
ments found in no
other make,
We have a
beautifully illus-
trated catalogue
describing these
improvements,
which we forward
post free on
application.
PALING’S,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
no
LIPP PlftHOS }
Built on the experience gained
during 70 years of continuous
manufacturing, Lipp Pianos
are guaranteed to stand true
as a rock in any climate.
Their tone is bright and clear,
and of that singing quality
so greatly admired by all
musicians.
Their touch is light and
responsive, and their case
designs very handsome.
We sell these Pianos on Easy
Terms, and Catalogues are free
for the asKing.
If you have an old piano, we
will take it in part payment for
a new piano.
W. H. PALING® Co.
- LIMITED
338 George Street, Sydney.
ACCORDIONS
eO-
C>J
cs-
ALL PRICES FROM 7/6
IMPERIAL BRAND from ... 10/-
CHROMATIC ACCORDIONS
from 25/-
CONCERTINAS
GERMAN CONCERTINAS.
Single-toned from 3/6
Organ-toned from 9/-
ANGLO-GERMAN CONCERTINAS.
From 25/-
Steel Reeds from 31/6
ENGLISH CONCERTINAS.
From 70/- to £2l
CATALOGUES FREE.
WRITE FOR ONE.
PALING’S
333 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY. 107
1
w
fc
ll
*3,
(I*3
iTTf
It
lm\
U
sr
S&H
TD
flu
Buckley
MELBOURNE, S.E.
Suits
TO
MEASURE
FOR
s Business
\ MEM.
CUT , FIT.
AND
FINISH
Guaranteed,
ANDREW McCEE,
A Splendid Moustache
In ANDREW McGEE’S MOUSTACHE DYE you. get ev<
> you need in a dye—with all the unpleasant thing's left 01
Brown or Black—easy to apply— perfectly natural colors,
rub off. 2s. 6d., posted 35., froih'
Dye.
ry thing
t.
Won’t
SYDNEY’S LEADING TOBACCONIST
AND GENTLEMEN’S HAIRDRESSER,
5 6 7 Castlereagh Street, corner Hunter Street, Sydney.
Saloon open all day Wednesday. , ;
fg
The Keen Edge of the PLUM RAZOR
remains long after you expected to send it to the
razor doctor. The 'PLUM has an extra hollow-
ground, keen-edged blade—guaranteed and kept,
in order for at least two years. That’s the reason
you can rely on your morning shave being
thoroughly comfortable with the PLUM. Try it.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Strong Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 7/6
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All tlie above Post Free.
Send for our Free Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
s
df
gsd
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS.
See the passing Show.
Your friends grotesquely
Photographed stout
people look thin —thin
people look stout. The
Laughing Camera fur-
nishes all this, and more.
By getting a focus on
passing pedestrians,
horses; waggons, trains,
trams, etc., the most
grotesque and ludicrous
pictures are witnessed.
All grow fat from laughter.
It is well and strongly
made, and cannot get out
fg
Tub Laughing Camera.
of order. Price 1/-; post free anywhere.
The Chinese Ring Bar Puzzle.
The object
is to remove
the handle
from the
rings. You
{ret it out of
one ring,
f a » 4 S t
you may get it out of two rings, but can you get it
out of all the rings? It is sufficient to say that it
can be done. Very neatly and perfectly made, and
can be carried quite easily in the vest pocket. Made
of polished brass. This puzzle was made in China in
the early part of this century, and a few were
brought home made of ivory. Price complete, with
full directions. 1!- post free anywhere, -
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of the
most useful novel-
ties obtainable.
Best quality steel
blade, buff horn
handles, spring
back. Puzzle to shut
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
sdf
as well as to open. Makes a splendid knife for general
\ise, also a superior rabbi ter’s knife. Price, with full
directions. 2/2, post free anywhere.
The TOUCH-ME-NOT SUR-
PRISE MATCH BOX. Can be
carried in the vest pocket, and
never fails to jrive the mateh-
cad <rer a shock. When your
friend asks for a match, just
hand him the box, and im-
mediately he attempts to open
same he receives a very sudden
shock. Nicely made of nickel,
and finished in leather. Price,
post free anywhere for 1/2.
I -
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue
New Edition just published.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 QEORQE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
NO.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Ha.vmarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 26 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
2 Branch ; 111 King Street, between QeorgejajidJ^ittJStreetß^JSydne^


WOMAN'S
LETTER
Syjjnky, March 1, 1910.
My Dkar Arini, —
Last week I got an invitation to join “The
’' , . a . nc *'. urn Self-Realisation,” newly started in
tins city by one Wilson Fritch, of America. The
circular, which expounds what Wilson calls his
“ purpose and plan,’’ says :
• 11 ' ve have a teacher qualified by nature, train-
ing and experience to do incalculable service to the com-
“hnity hy organising the public tuition of Adults and
Children in the Reality of Being, awakening their inner
powers, and so leading to complete expression in health,
character, success and happiness. He seems to be the
man demanded by the times to give consistency and com-
pleteness to the fragmentary teachings tossed upon the
vast mental wave now surging over the world.
The maxims of the Sanctum are :
(1) We seek to realise the inner self. (2) Within yourself
lies the cause of whatever enters into your life.
I am willing to accept Fritch as a Heaven-sent
teacher of adults and children. I applaud his
yearning to make people realise their Inner
Selves. Biit the proposition that “ within one-
self lies the cause of whatever enters into one’s
life ” seems to me to fairly yell for contradiction.
For instance, I know a man who lives at Hunter’s
Hill. He set out, the other day, in one of the
Private Lnterprise ferry-boats, which monopolise
the passenger-carrying trade of his suburb, to
keep an urgent business appointment. Owing to
the trouble in N.S.W.’s Private Fnterprise coal
mines, the steamer was late, and my ac-
quaintance missed his appointment. Walk-
mg back to the wharf he was run over
by a motor-car, which whirled unexpectedly
round a corner on the wrong side of the road.
When he recovered consciousness lie was in a hos-
pital. The car had vanished, uninjured and un-
identified. The victim dropped a considerable
sum through failing to keep his appointment.
Aqy attempt to argue that “ within himself lies
the cause of whatever enters into his life”pro-
vokes him to a passion of fury. He denies that
1)0 has swallowed either the coal-strike, the ferry
boat, the motor car or the hospital. Not one of
them is within himself. He hasn’t even swallowed
the insult that the driver put upon him by run-
ning over him. As a refutation of Fritch’s doc-
trine I reckon this battered citizen is a host in
himself.
Lady Langford is mentioned by a haughty
English monthly as having started for Australia,
lhe thrilling item made me browse amongst the
Langfords, but I cannot locate the starter for Aus-
tralia. There is a Baron Hercules Edward Rowley
of that title, an Irish peer, but his wife died a few
years ago. A brother of this baron—Hon. Ran-
dolph Rowley—lives in Wanganui (Maoriland).
Old Rowley, once King of Great Britain and Ire-
land, was not, I believe, the ancestor of this
family.
An item of cabled fashionable intelligence : Our
past and present Governess-Generals, Northcote
and Dudley, have dined with the King and Queen
at Buckingham Palace. We are glad they keep
such good company. Report says the King calls
Lady Dudley “Rachel.” As he is venerable
and has known her from her pinafore days—why
not ?
The wife of the High Commissioner will leave
Sydney for London in the Otway in April.
Daughter Thelma, who is now 17, will be sent to
Pans to finish her schooling, and the two boys
will be educated in London.
The youngest son of Tobacco King Dixson is
taking congratulations on his engagement to Miss
lurland, a very pretty and clever blonde who
was noticeable at the Glaciarium last winter.
If ever I go to Lismore, I hope its new Bishop,
Rev. Dr. Carroll, will ask me to dinner. Don’t mind
what aliment he provides ; I just want to see the
service of silver plate that was presented to him
yesterday (Monday) at Sydney. It is said to be
quite fit and sufficient to put before a deputation
from the Nine Choirs of Angels, so that they may
eat manna out of it.
Mrs. Toohey, of Wahroonga, and Mrs.
Dormer are chronicled in the small-beer
mail news as having had an At Home in the
winter garden of the Carlton (Lon.) to announce
the engagement of Miss Josephine Toohey
and Mr. Kenelm Dormar. An admiral and
a general, with the admiraless and generaless
several knights and their dames, a brace of majors
(not Salvation), and a host of more or less well-
known Australians are mentioned as amongst
those who came to congratulate. The step-mother
of the bride-elect and mother of the bridegroom-
to-be dressed up to the occasion in beautiful taste.
Black, old lace and natier blue garbed the first;
and the combination looks artistic even in printer’s
ink. The second lady was in black and sabies.
Ihe get-up of the ingenue was also in good style—
white, silver, blue, and black hat. No mention is
made of the doomed man. Surely if he were pre-
sent his tie was worth a line. The Importance of
Being Engaged should include him.
A recent and dearly-beloved visitor of ours,
Mrs. Freddie Shipman, at present living among
the meat cans of Chicago, has had a narrow
escape of having her soul required of her. She
somehow fell under a train that had either just
started or hadn t stopped. Details are meagre,
but the accident was sufficiently serious to make
her take lying-down exercise for some months.
Mrs. Marcus Clarke, Mrs. George Essex Evans
and Mrs. Alex. Britton, the widows of three
noted literary men, have been grauted £52 a year
each from the Literary Pensions Fund. Little
enough, but better than nothing.
Mosquitoes are in such billions at the seaside
resorts this month that the summer dwellers’only
refuge is under their mosquito nets. They go to
bed as soon as the mosquito gets up, soon after
nightfall, taking their books or writing-pads with
them. One lady has her sewing machine under
the drapery, and its buzzing drowns the insect
chorus. Interruptions of diplomatic relations
between the residents are frequent, owing to vain-
glorious statements about the number of mos-
quitoes each possesses. When you know you have
at least 10,000,000 mosquitoes in one room of your
house, it is annoying for the quite new people
next door to give out that they don’t even miss
the few that have gone to you from the hordes
in their cottage, thereby implying that you
sponged on them for your mosquitoes instead of
honestly hiring a house with the animals attached.
Already there are rumors of coining Easter-tide
frivols. The Union Club is to give another big
ball at Sydney Town Hall on April I—its second
within six months, which is a tribute to the pros-
perity of this allegedly Protection-blighted
country. And a band of matrons talks of stand-
ing its friends a hop at Paddington Town Hall
about the same time. Small dances will be pro-
vided at their respective houses by Mrs. T. H.
Kelly, Mrs. G. Fairfax and Mrs. Spencer Brun-
ton, whose husband owns the swift and successful
racehorses.
The sight of St. Vincent’s Hospital Ball cards
gave me a joyful shock. For the twentieth of a
second I thought it was early winter. The Vin-
cents always get in first in the dancing season,
and their cards, ear-marking March 30, are out in
good time. The committee lias got the patronage
of the Dudleys. What is that worth ? Let us
hope the trio—the Earl, the present-date Countess
and the post-dated Countess —will all come along.
The president of the ball committee is Mrs.
Hughes; vice-presidents, Dames Griffiths, R. E.
O’Connor, W. P. Manning and Dalton; hon.
treasurers, Dames Boesen and Macneil-Simpson ;
hon. secretaries, Mesdames Barlow and G. Lane-
Mullins.
I erred slightly in saying last week that the
edition of “ Petronius ” which Norman Lindsay is
illustrating is to consist of 500 copies. It isn’t.
There are to be but 200 volumes, and each of them
will cost £5. Angus and Robertson are arranging
to take a big section of the issue for disposal in
the illustrator’s native land.
From Le Fogge flies a wild duck quacking that
Mrs. Pankhurst, the Pethick Lawrences and
other leaders of militant suffragettism have
decided to call off their wasps and conduct the
Votes-for-Women campaign on milder methods.
The olive branch, the documentary evidence, and
the petition will, according to the duck, be the
means employed in future. The story may be
true, but Votes Fob Women, the English organ
of the Women’s Social and Political Union (my
latest copy is dated January 21), doesn’t hint that
there is to be any change in the methods of war-
fare. In any case the poor old olive branch was
tried to no purpose for so many years that it must
be quite withered by this time. Any fresh hold-
ing out of the jaded old tree looks like labor in
vain.
And what good did the aged thing ever accom-
plish? It was personal violence that wrung
Magna Charta from King John, and that shifted
King Charles of the long essenced hair; and it
was mostly by personal violence that the great
Reform Acts were secured. With these cheering
instances before them, why should Woman abate
her fury, and why should the egg cease to hurtle
at the head of Asquith ?
Dr. and Mrs. Alan Carroll, an abnormally
vigorous pair, who are usually At Home to a host
of friends and scientists (the scientists are some-
times friends and sometimes acquaintances) on a
day right in the perspiringest part of every
February, did not depart from their usual pro-
cedure this year. They received at Baumann’s
rooms last week the anthropologists and the Child
Students, who ran along with great enthusiasm.
The doctor edits that learned little paper, The
Science of Man, and straightens, mentally and
physically, innumerable crooked infants who
would otherwise remain deficient through the
poverty or ignorance of their parents. He came
to Australia not many years since for climatic, not
professional, reasons, and is rarely seen or heard
of except in connection with the Child Study
Association charity. One of our Governors-
General, who was his very great friend in other
lands, sought him out as soon as he (the G.-G.)
arrived and renewed the intimacy. The quiet
sojourner in our heat is on friendly or inimical
terms with all types of microbes in English,
Parisian and Viennese laboratories. Report says
they write to him in their own Babel.
At Derby (England) last week the law fell on
Violet Charlesworth and her mawith three years’
gaol apiece. Violet, who is aged 26, has figured
in the cablegrams a good deal during the last year
or two. She had a working man for a father and
a penny-dreadful for a motherland she spent her
early life in a house rented at 7s. per week. Two
or three years ago she suddenly set up as a sort of
Mrs. Humbert, and began to figure as the heiress to
gigantic sums of money which people named Brown
or Smith or something of the sort were to leave
her by will. She never produced any of these
people, nor showed the will, nor explained why
gigantic sums should be left her. When she
turned up in the Bankruptcy Court she frankly
admitted that she didn’t even know the address
of her chief alleged prospective benefactor—the
one who was to leave her £155,000. Yet on this
amazingly thin story, backed up by the handsome
exterior and large bashed hat of the adventuress
of melodrama, Violet lived gloriously, and owed
£5696 for jewellery and many thousands for furni-
ture, plate, clothes, motor-cars and even bagpipes.
She went broke for over £27,000 in all, which is
evidence that a handsome girl with brains and a
large bashed hat need never starve while there is
an affluent fool left on the premises. The trouble
was, of course, that Violet became intoxicated
with her own success and didn’t gather up her
plunder in time and bolt for the country at the
back of Moscow. She did make an effort by
throwing her motor car over a precipice, or some
such device, and then fleeing to Scotland, but
Scotland was too near and Donald McHaggis, the
policeman, found her easily. Violet will be
nearly 30 when she comes out, and, in the wild
language of the push, she will have “done her
dash.” Her choice will probably lie then between
washing and petty larceny, or else marriage with
someone in a humble walk of life. Still, she has
had her crowded hour.
Two elands have been given to the Perth
(W.A.) Zoo. The dictionary says this graceful
animal belongs to the antelope family and has
spirally twisted horns. The news itself is not
calculated to send one’s temperature up. It
merely reminds me that I’ve heard from
Westralians how favorably Perth Zoo compares
with our Sydney wild beast domain. It has a fine
area of land on which are sundry cricket pitches
and 14 tennis courts, and the rent of these helps
to buy bear-food, also betiding for the rhinoceros.
The elephant is, I fancy, the only source of in-
come our Zoo possesses other than the Govern-
ment subsidy and the gate money. He is really
self-supporting, and earns piles of thruppences for
carrying children.
Perth Zoo, by the way, once had an Allan Poe-ish
happening. Our relatives in the monkey cage,
thirsting for knowledge, toiled at the nail that
held the door between them and Eve’s friend
until they pulled it out, and then opened the panel
to see wiiat was on the other side. Later, the
keepers found an enormously overblown python,
but no sign of the monkeys except, of course, the
swelling of the python. Imagine the horror of
Mandril Treetop No. 111. while he was waiting
his turn, the python being then busy crushing and
swallowing No. 11. ! When I am alone on wet
nights I recall that shuddery yarn. The rustle of
the wet leaves outside sounds so like the python
coming for me—coming to wrap himself around my
waist measurement and fix me with his Pecksniff
eye. Then I rise suddenly and seek companion-
ship. If none human is available I bring in the
dog or the cat. If the dog is off on the jag, as he
often is, and the cat won’t come off the top of the
bush-house, then I hastily get hold of a book and
try to divert my thoughts.
Miss Kate Rooney, all the way from Coota-
mundra, smites “Exasperated Englishwoman”
about the fuel question :—“ My observations were
gleaned, not only from the middle-class homes of
my friends in Suburbia, from Harrow on the Hill
to Norwood and from Tooting to Whitechapel,
but also through Belgravia and Mayfair as a paid
singer at the town houses and country seats of the
nobility and millionarity. I cannot say what
Edward Rex burns, for my agent has not yet
engineered a royal command for me. I would
like ‘Exasperated Englishwoman’ to send me the
address of her wood merchant who sells ‘ scented
pine ’ logs at ss. a cord ! He never calls at my
house.”
Miss Sylvia Blackston, back in town after her
whirlwind tour around the Northern Rivers,
announces herself as eminently satisfied with the
people to whom she sang 164 times. She gave 14
concerts in 16 days. It is a district of big dis-
tances, and the contralto girl and her pianiste and
violiniste did 600 miles of coaching besides the
railway travelling. They deserved to have the
“ House Full ” piece of cardboard waving in the
wind.
The Mabel Batchelor stocks are up ! As soon
as Hazon heard her soprano (after my last letter
to you) he accepted it with joyful haste, and she
is principal under-study to Bel Sorel, the Madame
Butterfly of the opera of that name.
I was deeply interested in a cablegram which
arrived last Monday. It set forth that Paris is
apparently going to have its third flood, and that
the tombs of 16 deceased archbishops are under
vvater. They were inundated during the
first flood —the big one; and they hadn’t
been baled out when the Seine did its second rise.
Now, before anybody has had time to pump out
the vaults of Notre Dame, the river is whooping
up again. After all, cremation has its advan-
tages. It is sudden and dry and complete.
Miss Braddon—who is rising 80, and has been
writing novdls about people named Lady Isobel,
Capt. the Earl of Hurstpierrepoint and their
faithful servitor, Giles Earthshifter, at the rate of
about one novel per annum for half a century—
was credited with a severely anti-Socialist pro-
nouncement last week. She said :
I regard Socialism with unmitigated terror. It would
set class against class, and tend to dry up the fountain of
benevolence. I think we all love to help the poor ; but
not with a loaded pistol held to our foreheads.
It is characteristic of the sort of British authoress
who produces works like “ Lady Audley’s Secret,”
“Raoul Plantagenet, Aristocrat, Guardsman and
Hero,” and so forth. The Braddon point of
view is much in vogue among members of the
county families of old England—folk who
simply love to “ help the poor ” (provided they
can do it in their own way), and who, in fact,
would often be at a loose end if they had
no poor to help. In England the pastime known
as “visiting” is one of the soundest patents of
respectability. The county dame may gamble
half the night and pillow-fight the rest of it—yet
if she calls on some indigent tenant the following
afternoon and obtrusively leaves three pen-
n’orth of soup, some flowers which have
“gone off” so that they are of no further use
for table decorations and a few kind (though
strictly inexpensive) words, she is absolved
of all suspicion of frivolity by the vicar
and the world. The practice of calling on the
poor of the district is one of the most effective
weapons in the armory of the country and sub-
urban husband-pursuer. Man is a guileless ass
where women are concerned, whether he be
named Auberon St. Leger or Simpson Bloggs.
When man sees the spintuelle daughter of the
house in which he is staying, take a great clumsy
basket in her absurd little hand and trudge forth
in the rain and mud like some tailor-made angel
of light, bent on heaping fodder on humble Mrs.
Ponderbury, widow of stonebroke old Ebenezer of
that ilk, he doesn’t pause to reason that if a Is. 6d.
postal order had been despatched unobtrusively
to the old female, she could have bought the con-
tents of the basket herself, and been saved a lot
of profitless talk and humiliation thereby. No, he
seizes his hat, pursues the maiden into the rag’ing
elements, forcibly commandeers her burden.°and
sits in the Ponderbury cot, in a state of blithering
fatuous adoration, while all sorts of elevating but
highly-impertinent counsel is proffered to the
aged inmate. Mostly he proposes on the way
home, under the delusion that he is ensnaring
a Great Soul to preside over his hearth.
The type of Briton whom Miss Braddon under-
stands and writes about has sympathy for the
poor only so long as they are very, very ’umble.
The moment the poor revolt at being used as
cheap advertisements of the charity of their
betters they are regarded with suspicion and dis-
uV> po ? r Person openly admits to one of
the Braddon clan that he prefers a svstem of old
age pensions to being buzzed to death by patron-
ising old women with precarious donations, he is
denounced as a terror and a contumacious villain
who is eager to hold a pistol to the heads of his
benefactors and burst up their homes and rob
them of their haul—l mean their all.
That e 52?? 1 l lent charity, the Benevolent Society
of N/S. Wales, which, when it gives you a bun
or a bed, doesn’t ask you the complexion of your
religion, sends out a pamphlet to tell of the things
it has done and the other things it has tried to do
in the past 12 months. The Society has
three irons in the fire now—the Women’s
Hospital at Paddington ; the Infants’ Hospital
and Asylum for Women and Children in Thomas-
street'; and the Outdoor Relief Department in
Quay-street. It cost £15,326 to run these three
places, which was £26 more than was reaped
from the public and the Government; the
Government’s contribution to the harvest
was £3250. Into the hospitals and homes
during the year came 3717 women and children—
including 870 little Australians of whom the
society’s doctors and nurses had the welcoming.
But the work that is done inside the Women’s
Hospital is only a scrap of its mission; for 5130
visits outside were made by trained nurses,
mainly in connection with the pilgrimage of
the stork. Now, the little Australians being
here—the hospital has watched over 4170
arrivals in five years—the question of a pure milk
depdt presses on the Society; but though the
question has been “seriously discussed,” “nothing
definite has yet been done owing to a lack of
certainty as to the possible obligations, finan-
cial and otherwise, involved in the scheme.’’
So it’s the same old trouble—“financial con-
siderations” chiefly. And it’s the same old
result—hundreds of little crumbling graves.
Yours affectionately,
AEKNEBI.
“ Yellow Ribbon ” : Let me, through The
Bulletin, urge Dill Macky to drop his laudable
scheme for buying up and destroying the city o{
Rome, and to pack his swag for New York.
According to the N. Y. Herald, things are alarm-
ing in that part of the world. Of the 1,000,000
immigrants who annually enter the 17. States
fully 750,000 are of the Roman Catholic faith, and
the adherents of Rome are well on the way to
20,000,000. So Dill had better get there quick and
lively. I hereby head a subscription list to defray
the costs of the Crusade by forwarding a button.
Let every Protestant boy give up one beer for the
Cause. Let the cry of Derry bounce across the
ocean. Let us fry our breakfast chop on the
flames of Smithfield ! In fact, let us make a devil
of a fuss !
Vintage 1904.
Champagne
IF YOUR HAIR FALLS
you cannot afford to neglect it; neglect spells
ruination to the hair. Those advertised hair
tonics are useless, sometimes even injurious.
You need individual treatment.
The Hygeia Treatment goes to the root of the
trouble and eradicates the bacteria that cause it
to fall. Then it tones up the scalp, bringing back
luxuriance and health to the hair.
Mrs. Cowling, the President, prescribes indi-
vidually for all patients. She gives free consulta-
tions every day but Saturday from 2.15 to 4.45,
and on Wednesday from Gto 7. Those unable to
call limy write to the President, Dept. B, Hygeia
Limited, Ocean House, Moore Street, Sydney.
BOMB
”
My doct-ah told me to be
dev-Jish careful what 1 drink,
and so 1 nev-ah take anything
now but tea —Ro-bah tea! —
a little of the very best is always
good enough fo-ah me, and
having found out that those
analyst chappies pre-fah R o-b a h
tea to any other, 1 take jolly
good care that 1 drink Ro-bah
too, don’t-cher-see.
My landlady says she can't
always afford to buy the No. 1
Grade Ro-bah expressly fo-ah
me, but l kick up a bally row
if she gives me any o?her
and so you see she has to get
it and jolly good tea it is,
don’t-cher-k low.
The Johnnie.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”


HARDY
BROTHERS
LIMITED
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
ftV APPOINTMENT
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
DIAMOND and GEM ORNAMENTS
IN LARGE VARIETY.
INSPECTION INVITED.
gsd
Five Per Cent. Discount
for Cash.
Goods Forwarded on
Approval.
DIAMOND, PEARL AND GARNET PENDANT AND GOLD
NECKLET, WITH DIAMOND SET SNAP,
£36.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
• AND AT LONDON
m
ZX
j
WHEN you come to think of it, the Edison Phonograph
is one of the greatest triumphs of mechanism that
man, in his ingenuity, has ever conceived, and
actualised. Not alone can it express every phase of the human
voice, either vocally, in dialogue, or oratory ; but it is more
than the violin, the piano, or any other musical instrument.
The violin cannot become a piano, nor can a harp give you the
range of harmony of the orchestra, but the Edison Phonograph
does all this, and more.
You can start off with grand opera, and run through dance
music, orchestral selections, comedy and dialogue, all by the
simple expedient of changing records.
Evenings at home are rendered enjoyable by the possession
of one of these superb instruments. You can entertain your
friends, and enjoy the very class of music you like, whenever,
you choose. ,,,
You can have an entertainment where every performer is
a star, and every number a selection of your own. You need
not dress for it, go out after it, nor pay admission to it.
Do you doubt the excellence of the Edison Phonograph ?
Then hear it. Go to an Edison dealer, select the record of
some famous singer and a song you know. This test has
placed the Edison Phonograph in a million homes.
All the latest models of Edison Phonographs are equipped
to play both the Standard (Two-Minute) and Amberol (Four-
Minute) Records.
The prices of the Edison Combination Phonographs are—
The
The
The
The
The
The
“ Gem ” -
“ Fireside ”
“ Standard ”
“ Home 99
“ Triumph 99
“ Idelia 99
£3 3s.
£4 15s.
£6 Os.
£8 8s.
£12 12s.
£27 lOs.
Call at an Edison Dealer, and ask all about them. If you
do not know the address of one, write to us direct.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, Ltd.,
Dept. B, KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
m
w.
This House is a Good Investment.
At the present time we have on our books .a
great number of houses returning in rent 10 per
cent, or more on the purchase money. All are
in growing localities, and values are increasing
substantially each year: Easy terms on 5 any
property if desired. Here are some good ones :
RAND WICK.— Wood Street. Sub-
stantial Brick Cottage, 5 rooms, kitchen and
conveniences. Handy to tram. Price, £6oo.
SUMMER HlLL.— Grosvenor Cres-
cent. Two D.F. detached Brick Cottages,
each 6 rooms, kitchen, etc. In good location,
only 3 minutes from the station. Torrens
title. Price, £650 each.
SUMMER HILL.— Four minutes.from
station, close to Haberfield train, in the
best locality, detached Brick Cottage, 5
main rooms, 2 weatherboard rooms at rear,
kitchen, pantry, etc. £5OO.
BRIGHTON-LE-SANDS.- New de-
tached D.F. Brick Cottage, 5 rooms, kitchen,
laundry and every convenience. Half a
minute to Lady Robinson’s Beach and
Rockdale tram. Price, £6OO.
PARRAMATTA. —Two doors from
Smith Street, on George Street, stone shop
and dwelling, 5 rooms, kitchen, cellar,
large store, etc. Let at £32 10s. a year.
Price, £3OO.
STRATHPIELD. Detached Brick
House, - 5 rooms and kitchen; ■ all' con-
veniences ; a choice property, in a first-class
locality; only 8 minutes from the station.
£625. ' ■> . •;> ■ ’
NEUTRAL BAY— B minutes from i
ferry; very fine position; modern Brick
Villa, G rooms; kitchen and all conveniences ;
leasehold, 72 years to run;:ground rent,
£6 10s. a year. Price, £700; exceptionally
easy terms. . , . ■ < i
CROYDON PARK.— Arthur Street,
opposite Badminton Road, New D.F.
Brick Cottage, modern in every way; 4
large rooms, kitchen and laundry. Only 12
minutes’ walk from Croydon Station and 3
minutes from Enfield tram. £6OO. ,
TEMPE- -2 minutes from station, 2
semi-detached Brick Cottages, each" 4 rooms,
kitchen arid laundry. Price, £325 each.
MARRICKVILLE. High - grade
Brick Residence, 8 rooms, kitchen, etc. ;
fine grounds; 5 minutes to Dulwich Hill
tram. £900; very easy terms.
Arthur*
wckarx
&Co^£fd
To JAVA,
“The Garden of the East,”
by the
"ROYAL PACKET."
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS for
Java and >Sigig'apore t
via Brisbane, Townsville, Port Moresby, Thursday Island, Dobo
and Macassar.
S.S. VAN DER HAGEN, 3500 Tons,
Commander, J. A. LUGTEN.
Leaves Melbourne 21st MARCH; leaves Sydney 27th MARCH.
S.S. VAN HEEMSKERK, 3500 Tons,
Commander,, T. L.. ARNOLD. , ,
Leaves Melbourne 21st APRIL; leaves Sydney 27th APRIL.
New Steamers specially built and equipped for voyaging in the Tropics.
Large, airy two-berth cabins. Spacious promenade decks. English spoken
on board, and English Stewardess carried.
For further information apply to
ROYAL PACKET S. N. CO.,
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 953 City.


MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, Februart 28, 1910.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The Newmarket at Flemington brought out
the butterflies. They fluttered and swarmed and
paraded their pretty frocks in a mild sunshine
with a cool breeze. The Dowager-Countess
looked sedately handsome. From top to toe her
gear matched her sloe-black eyes. Her crSpey
silk black dress clung in decorous curves, and she
was topped with a black plumed hat and a veil
full of the black smudges so dear to present-
day fashion. Also, the veil was tacked in firmly
round the throat—which is a hint to those fashion-
lovers who paraded with veil canvas blowing.
Paris declares that such sails are to beset snugly,
with no free ends afloat. There was yet again
no Governor of any species. Grandmamma
Countess had seen the Lady Honor safely off
on the Osterley, with her governess and maid ;
and she brought along the next of the bunch to
the races. Lady Morvyn, with her hair a-blowing
down her back and a rose-pink frock, chattered
all day like a small magpie. She is a beauty-
child, and will probably repeat grandma’s earlier
triumphs. She has live black eyes, fine features,
much animation, and a complexion like milk and
roses.
The Dowager-Countess does not contemplate a
long visit. Probably she will carry off this fasci-
nating granddaughter, and so help in the gradual
family exit. On Saturday the Governor’s box
was rather curious. It is one big enclosure. No
Carmichael household was represented ; but the
Maddens, in full force, occupied one part of the
box. There was no barrier discernible to the
naked eye or touch, yet there was a
strongly-defined line separting the two parties,
and the Maddens did not “mix” with the
Countess and child Morvyn. A strong bevy of
Guv’ment House aides balanced the division on
the Dudley side; but they occasionally broke
cover for a polite word with Mrs. Madden
Vallange, or sister Beatrice, or other of the tribe.
When Lord Dicky and a steward or so got the
Dudley party a-walking, no Madden followed. It
was a hollow joy—the glory of sitting in the same
box with the unapproachable Countess.
Mrs. Leslie Macdonald was a happy vision on
the lawn—brisk and smart in the colors of a black-
and-tan terrier. That tan, earth-of-Egypt, cinna-
mon tone is to swamp clothes this winter. Alack,
it rarely suits a woman unless she be auburn or
has warm reds in her hair and eyes. One com-
pensation is that the approach of the comet, or
something, is gradually but decidedly turning
most fashionable women’s hair that color. Medico
Murray Morton paraded with his wife all day—
the paddock had no fascination as keen as his
newly-returned half. The Paris gadding has evi-
dently produced clothes ; Mrs. Morton looked as
if she were moulded smoothly out of beeswax, so
closely did her yellow-tan tailorings hug her.
People are always “returning” at race time.
Society runs across to Europe as easily as to local
Sorrento or Queenscliff. The Henry Harpers are
in the category. One wore the mark of London
in his frock-coat and tall hat, the other jammed
her Parisian chapeau smash off her face with a
shriek of bird plumage. Muriel Gumming was a
soft blue delight on the green lawns ; and Mrs.
Holden, a Sydney girl, the wife of the new
manager at the Grand, wore very smart black
togs.
The stage stayed severely at home for a change,
or labored at rehearsal. But Musgrove was there
and all his edges were a delicate lavender. There
was a purple streak in his brown sac suit; his
cuffs showed a lavender edge and his shirt a
lavender stripe. His tie and gloves were an
exquisitely tender shade of sweet lavender.
Muzzy has a sense of color even more abnormal
than that of Julius Superbus.
The Madden maidens use their plump persons
to great advantage on the Frankston beach, and
mix with a select party of beautiful youth in bath
and parade. The golden beaches at Frankston
are adorable curves, and the Madden menage is
perched high above on a 10-minutes’ climb of the
cliffs. The girls wear tricky bathing gowns and
seductively secret dominoes, and trip down de-
murely to the boxes below. Masculine house parties
are easily raised this weather, and the beautiful
male creatures get into Gussie bath-gowns of good
color effect and escort the girls to the box doors.
The girls discard wraps and all-sheltering hats
and emerge with silk bandanas round their locks
to do the water-baby act. Fat Guy mostly fishes,
and goes far out in a boat with any man he can
lure from the surf temptations. At a recent week-
end, swimmer Beaurepaire and manager Collins
were the lions of the bathing-house party. But
the champion and his business man are now off to
the colder waters of Britain and thereabouts.
The Maddens intend to give up Cloyne, the
family castle, after the wedding of daughter Ruby.
The house on the cliffs at Frankston attracts the
family for as much of the year as it can reason-
ably escape from Melbourne, and even during the
last “season ” it divided its girl forces, and went
one half to the beach and one half to the ball.
Whether the girls took turns of the ball frocks I
don’t know; but they are all of a muchness in
build. When Cloyne. the grey house in East St.
Kilda, is dispensed with the Throng will have a
flat in the old Janet Clarke house. Cliveden, in
the hands of a Baillieu-Clarke-Melba-etc. syndi-
cate, is to resolve itself into most important
flats with a couple of storeys added for further
expansion. The ball-room and state dining-room
will be kept intact for especial hiring by flattites
who wear a guarantee of good faith or pedigree or
passably-gained money.
The Reverend Evelyn Snodgrass (of the Janet
Clarke clan) and brother Douglas are camped in
an extensive flat at Oxford Chambers—perhaps
absorbing practical hints on flatting, or going
through purgatory for the heavenly bliss of the
future flat state when the glorified Cliveden is
finished. As for the Maddens—the nest will be
almost empty after the disposal of Ruby. There
will be only two girls left—and brother Guy.
Sister Leslie is already taking notice again after
the crumpled bisected engagement of some time
ago, and Baby Beatrice has blossomed like a
flower with the removal of the grown-up sisters.
Mr. Paul Maistre, one-time viee-Consnl for
France in Meltiourne, has retired from Consular
service enveloped with two valued distinctions.
He has received the Cross of the Legion of Honor
and the Cross of an Officer of the Crown of Italy.
Mister Maistre was also at one time French
Consul at Santiago de Cuba. The gentleman
left here, by order from Paris, to help clear up a
wild tangle of shrieks. Someone of Importance
was blackballed—or its equivalent—from the
Alliance Fran§aise, and there happened a most
excited tussle of parties over the matter. The
faction that disagreed with the amiable Maistre’s
arbitration pulled some strings (ex-Governor
Talbottle being the leading string) to get him
summoned to Paris. His friends have been dis-
gusted with the wire-pullers-ever since.
Miss Elsie Young is to be married on March 12
to bank-manager Gillespie. The bride-to-be is
impatiently watching in the depths of a cripple’s
couch the growth of her glorious trousseau. She
has sprained a knee and ankle; but the doctor
promises her the power to walk to the altar
on the eventful day, if she will have
patience in the meantime. Miss Young is
one of the last of Tom Young’s girl tribe.
They have all been rushing into matrimony
in the last year. They are small, dainty, fair
girls, and a dozen or so of them seem none too
many. The wedding ceremony is to be an even-
ing happening, whereby girl friends are rushing
into deep discussion as to the best form of evening
dress. Saint Paul objected to women going to
church with uncovered heads, and modern woman-
hood still respects his antiquated opinion. A
hat with full evening undress is not a
usual combination here ; but it is be-
coming with a youthful neck to help.
To my thinking, there is an easy way out of the
difficulty. Women must wear hats in church —
men must uncover. Now men always worry
about those shiny monstrosities they call hats,
and have a great time finding an unkicked dust-
less place under the seat. Let the men place
their hats on the heads of their women as they go
into church. The idea is luminous.
“Come and bring your Freezer ! ” People are
often worried with a rush of dinner invitations
for their assets —a voice or a violin or even a
cornet —but I know some people who get asked
often and pressingly to a Pierrot evening and
supper at St. Kilda with an added “Do bring
your Freezer !” These favorites of Fortune have
the latest thing in ice cream freezers. (You can
make cherry ice pudding with it in one flirtation.)
They ring up, accept the invitation and bundle in
to the motor with the Freezer sitting proudly in
the place of honor in the tonneau. A Melba with
all her bird notes isn’t in it on a hot night with
these Freezer folk.
Mrs. McPhail, a Sydney bride, has been flutter-
ing at the Grand for a week. She took wing on
the crowded Osterley, along with hubby and a
young brother.
Gaud-Mayor Burston has been raised to the
rank of President of the Royal Horticultural
Society of Victoria ; and Governor Carmichael
will open the institution’s Autumn Show on
March 17 next.
TheSassshow is to be opened by the (Carmichael
Excellency on Wednesday afternoon, March 16.
Very wisely Sass has engaged Furlong’s Studio in
the Royal Arcade for the display, Furlong’s
being the cosy and accessible room which Will
Dyson brought into fashion, and Norman Lindsay
established as the home of black-and-white
artistry. Not that Sass is confining himself to
b.-and-w. The 200 drawings he has readied up
for exhibition will include a good many efforts in
color.
Pen Boyd, since his second financially-cheering
sale of paintings, has planted himself down in this
country, and is enthusiastically covering a six foot
canvas with gum trees. He wanders into the city
occasionally with the paint daubs turpentined
from his immaculately-cut clothes, and prates
loudly of his country deeds. He is making canvas
gum trees while the sun shines to take with him
to the land of Fog in October. There he opti-
mistically looks for the luck that has been so good
to him in Australia.
Busybodies are always curiously debating why
Melba spends so much time in her native country
when she might be grabbed in welcoming arms in
London or some other brilliant spots of Europe.
Every dog has its day (though there may be some
days without any dog) and every singer has hers.
And every day has its end, therefore a wise dog
looks to that end. Melba, who has seen most of
the world’s spaces, apparently concludes that
Australia is the best place to store up the bits and
straws she has accumulated to make a nest for her
later years. Melba is an Australian, and she
doesn’t forget it. She is a clever business
‘woman, and during each of her visits she has
done much more than warble. She has bought
land and houses and horses and cattle, and rushed
headlong into various profitable businesses. It is
a curious thing—that particular species of Aus-
tralian who cannot see the gorgeous possibilities
in his native land, but focuses all sight on to
England, like a creature that opticians know well,
gifted with vision of things at a distance but
almost blind to nearby objects.
Somebody tells me that when motor
was being shipped on the barque with the flowing
sail for London, careless lioisters let the precious
baggage slip, and it smashed on to the wharf.
Considerable damage was done, but I believe the
ship people take no responsibility in such matters
—they see your heart or your motor or your
favorite saratogt. smashed without so much as a
“Sorry !”
The Clarke-Meynell people have been hard put
to it to secure suitable choristers for their
forthcoming production of “The Arcadians.”
During a large section of the piece the
ladies have to carol and caper in bare feet.
Some of the fairest of the old chorus own feet
which don’t hear public inspection in a nude
state, and they have withdrawn from the stage in
consequence, and refuse to appear again till the
old order of thing is re-established. The pro-
ducers aver that it is the hardest thing to find
presentable girls who are able to sing and at the
same, time unveil a sightly,pair,of feet in the view
of the audience.
An opposition stage lady watched Lily Bray ton
one recent night at the Royal. She evidently
meant to make an impression on a Melbourne
audience were it only from a box. She threw
most friendly kisses to the gods ; but when she
tucked'her feet up on the plush ledge of the box
her escorts felt the house had had enough for its
money, and her carriage was called.
The Asches, who have bee"n adored of Sassiety,
farewelled on Wednesday night. .It is a tempo-
rary farewell. An Adelaide season will fill in
dates, and Sydney and Melbourne be Shak-
speared yet again. The “Sergeant Brue” people,
newly flocked into Melbourne for the Thursday
opening night, helped the applause. Ruth
Lincoln, with gold bands in her hair and gold and
white clinging to some parts of her, sat in the
manager’s box.
Molly Linden, the show nurse of Melbourne
hospitals, is going to take on a new line of indus-
try—she is to be a bright-plumaged member of the
Rupert Clarke-Clyde Meynell company. In
addition to a smooth fair beauty, she has a Voice
—a very important stage qualification. She was
engaged to one of the Whitings, but broke it off
in favor of healing the sick and bandaging the
wounded.
Houdini, like most magic-makers, uses a wife as
right-hand man on the trap-holed stage. His
domestic and business helpmate is a natty little
figure—in black tights and tunic. The missus, by
the way, is a sorry woman because she has
no little Houdini to spank and cuddle ; so she
solaces herself with chewing-gum (compagnons de
vmmrw aav t.bnt she chew^d-jjL-alUdmLlLimkmaMaar
on the boat) and carries always a huge German
doll that “puppa” kisses before going on, greatly
to the edification of behind-the-sceners. The doll
has his outfit tailor-made, and as many suits and
etcetera clothes as a pampered puppy. There-
fore, it has been cynically suggested that the
effigy of babyhood is just another Houdini advt.,
intended to catch scornful paragraphs and pro-
mote the business interests of its foster parents.
Rinks still roll in great favor. Wirths’ big
rink had a White Night on Thursday. No one
was allowed on the white ice unless he or she was
clad altogether in white. It gave onlookers a
Polar or Dr. Cook feeling. A great snow-storm
or a great beating of big white surf was flung at
dazzled eyes as they watched the skaters. The
tricky prizes for best waltzing and capers took the
form of silver skates of full size—not to be rolled
on, but to hold strawberry dishes and other trifles.
An unhappy girl is trying to rush herself into
prominence by wearing no stockings. It is cer-
tainly an economy—silk wear will rub through so
at the toes, and the daintiest stockerie in embroi-
deries, even if it is not silk, is a price that is
calculated to crumple up the heart. One may say
of stockings that they come high in more ways
than one. Possibly this sandalled charmer drops
all the saved money on pedicure, but she gives
very little uninterrupted view of the result. At
“ Sergeant Brue,” last Friday eve, the bare-
ankled girl went with her very young
cavalier to be fed on ices and other coolths.
She walked to the Lounge and back as
if she were attacked with severe colic or had
housemaid’s knee, or stringhalt, in her endeavors
to make the glimpses of the tootsies as few and
brief as possible. The skirt of her dress was short
and bunchily pleated, and the dress.bore signs
about the arms and neck of being the species
called “evening.” Her hair was bound into
golden bands, and, falling in a mournful Psyche,
voted with the Grecian sandals. But the bunchy
short frock and modern kimono shrieked for other
circumstances.
It was in a tram, and the glitter of gold lace
drew feminine eyes like a hat show or a bargain
placard. There sat a completely fledged naval
uniform, with a corresponding male along of it.
It was the full rig-out of an officer of the Royal
Navy, even to the epaulets and stripes and fringe.
Yet something seemed missing. The show petered
out at the feet. The feet were plebeian feet,
encased in sturdy, serviceable boots. Assuredly,
by all the traditions of the stage, a naval person-
age would have spanking patent leathers, The
boots “queered the pitch,” as Milton says. Then
a buzzing conversation between the uniform and
a neighboring train-traveller elucidated the busi-
ness. It had been whispered that the gorgeous
creature was “second in command” to the Boy
Marine Scouts at Williamstown or somewhere.
The neighboring tram-traveller remarked on the
R.N. flavor of the outfit. “ S’pose you’ve passed
all your exams.?” he said. “Know all about
navigation and such like ? Have you been much
at sea ?” “ Much at sea ! ” glared the magnificent
circumstance; “ Im always at sea. I’m tenth
steward on the Courier. As for navigation, I
could take the ship to Geelong all on my own if
the captain fell overboard.”
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide :
Orroroo has had its hair in curl papers for a month ;
but last Thursday it took the papers out and wore a laurel
wreath instead, because its Pekina Irrigation Scheme was
at last ready to be opened by his Ex. It is a great scheme
—the only one of its kind in 8. A.—and the residents have -
been asking for it for 16 years. A train went up from
town, 176 miles—a very well-fed train that had breakfast
at Riverton, luncheon and tea at Orroroo, and dinner at
Riverton coming back. You see, we don’t starve our
Governor and Ministry and officialism when we send them
on affairs of State. They got the scheme open, by the way.
One of the Avoca Station Oudmore maidens (Frances)
and the J. W. Porters’ son, Fred, have promised to look
after one another. And the Surveyor-General Straw-
bridges’ daughter Nellie and Dr. Wilson are also an-
nouncing the glad tidings to an interested world ; like-
wise Dr. H. S. Newland and a Mount Lofty maiden,
Nellie Tendon ; and Dr. D’Arcy Cowan and Eflie Cox.
Finally, Elsie Warmington, a daughter of Wallaroo (which
is quite near Moontaj, and a nephew and namesake of
John Forrest, have been telling the old tale to one another
■jhis sort of thing is evidently infectious.
Also somewhat interesting to us is the just-announced
engagement of the eldest son of the lateT. P.'(“ Tommy”)
Hudson. Mrs. Hudson, mother of the benedict-elect,
was in her lifetime a charming woman and a brilliant
pianist. She lies buried out at the picturesque little
North-road cemetery. Young Hudson’s fiancee is Phyllis
Warner, a pretty and soulful-looking little Melbourne
mummeress.
The Voice could hardly breathe the other Wednesday
at St. Luke’s, when the ornithologist Mellors’ daughter
Barbara, was getting linked for life to Mr. Brooke
Nic’nolls. The bride, in long traily empire arrangement o
chiffon taffeta, had three girls to help her, and they were
white-clad also, with black picture hats and pink posjes.
Ornithologist diaries Barrett came over from Melbourne
to aid and abet Mr. Nicholls, and a few of the bride’s
brothers and cousins were groomsmen.
Glenelg’s residents hauled the ex-mayoral Varleys into
the Town Hall on Thursday eve, made six speeches at
them, and handed them a tea and coffee service and an
illuminated address in return for many years' careful
attention to the drain, the culvert and the gilded bun.
On Wednesday last their Ex.’s only son was married off
in the Fog Isle. Mother and father couldn’t witness the
interesting event and get back in time for dinner, so they
gave up the because meals are very punctual at
Marble Hill. By way of compromise, Lady Bosanquet
went and opened a two days’ fete on the Norwood Oval.
The authorities had managed to get the heat-wave turned
off at the meter, and that improved matters. Mrs.
Holden, who was mistress of ceremonies, asked several
hundred froeky peoplfe to come and taste tea with her
Ex. in a marquee wearing scarlet flowers with facings of
aspargus fern and gilded cakes. The lady brought her
pretty floral-muslin daughters with her, and other attrac-
tions included a decorated umbrella contest.
We are going to have a Pageant, too, for the laudable
purpose of gathering pence into the coffers of that most
deserving society which prevents cruelty to every animal
except man. Mrs. J. R. Anderson (who was hon. sec. and
worry-bearer to the S.A. Women’s Work Exhibition) and
Mrs. Box (of the Queen Adelaide Club) are chief movers,
and her Ex. is taking an interest in it. A booklet
is to be published, containing programme, autographs
original black and white work, verse and prose, and her
Ex. will put on her oldest clothes and be editor of the
same.
Mention of the Queen Adelaide Club reminds me that
Melba rushed ashore to breakfast there on her way
through our hamlet. The star has a relative over this
way, who is the charming wife of Major Patterson, and
she had a breakfast party for Melba and vice-royalty.
Afterwards the songstress ran into the Children’s Hospital
(of which she is a life governor), before the mailboat car-
ried her off. ♦
Titheradge, Kingston, Emma Temple and a host of
other old friends have come to cheer up this community
at the Royal for a brief fortnight. This is the first
Williamson show we have captured for over three months.
If the Port River isn’t burnt down between now ahd
Saturday the South Aus. Rowilig Association will have
had its champion fours there before you get this.
Supposing also that the railway isn’t destroyed by earth-
quake or torn up by a pack of infuriated Caterpillars,
half the salt of Adelaide will have got into its Sunday
frills and boarded the Leveret, the craft chartered by
the Association for its guests. Supposing the weather
was satisfactory it will probably have beeh a Very nice
function altogether, but owing to the uncertainty of life
and the postal department in particular, I don’t like tb
commit myself to any positive statement about the mattef
at all.
1 'The last lone spider has beert pdrßded from hiS laif ill
the tiyric Club, and the rooms have been throWh opeh
after their Summer sleep. This is Considerably earliet
than Usuah but Until “ the season ” opehs the club Will be
handy for ted and nose-powdering Purposes. Wanborough
Fisher-, a fathom of tenor, who was the club’s first secre-
tary, is keeping a fatherly eye on it until the annual
meeting.
Winsloe Hall, who has come to train Adelaide’s voices
skywards, in place of charming Guli Hack, brought his
wife and plate-basket by the Moldavia, and is now busy
getting introduced to the Conservatorium. He is a
Bouhy pupil, and has done sundry eminent things, in-
cluding the composition of two operas and the conduct-
ing of 9,765,4J1 more (these figures are approximate). His
wife, who was Georgina Delmar, will sing in this country
before very long. There is one young Hall, but I’m not
sure if he is big enough to be called more than a vesti-
bule yet.
Social matters are already beginning to threaten. The
Mayoral Cohens hold their first reception in the ToWtl
Hall the Tuesday before Easter, and the onslaught bn the
frock-builder has begun,
We lent Sydney Mr. TramvVays Goodman, the other
day, and the Harbor City ungratefully tried to poison
him. He went over to fish for troUt, ot tram-fails, or
something, and got ptomaine-poisoned. It isn’t the way
We treat visitors.
Sincerely. J'Otffs,
JOHANNA.
One painful epidemic that attacks Victoria periodiedli.V
Seems to be dying mil) the \Varrnambool bratlch of the
A,N,A. having decided to drop its ahhlial elocutionary
and mtisical competitions, The last series left a deficit of
£‘9l, so it dawned on the committee that the public had
lost interest in the Weary proceedings.
fg
Corsets
.. of..
Quality!
ON the quality of the materials and
workmanship depends the whole
fabric of beauty and comfort in
Corsets. But these qualities alone do
not constitute the essentials of the art of
dressing. Generations of thought and
study concentrated In the making of the
famous French
ROYAL.
<§>
RUSTLESS CORSETS
have made them the finest Corsets the
world of fashion has ever known.
Science, skill, hygiene are so woven
into every pair that they are deservedly
regarded as the acme of Corset perfec-
tion. You are assured of a graceful and
stylish personality—they follow the
undulations of the body with such free-
dom that you are always comfortable.
“ ASK YOUR DRAPER 1 ”
Si
SQUARE -TREAD
******#*»*%%**»*** ' *
. tam&mmmmto&mtfm&s? <*<, *
#**>#&%*#»% %m
m
gg m ■
5 slip'-
559&


Wl
m
n
r*
ffS)
ft
e
4
!
:h,y<
7L
v
o
179-0-
$
OM
4
/I .A
yjp
i
w
rA
S 3
&
=?
"V^
5J*
8
1
f. /
/ /s
I
5
m
I~TV
V!
/H
(W
(W
VS
m
vv;
The demand for the Auto Buggy has during the past six
months been far in excess of the capacity of our factories.
Some of our indents have been over eight months in completion.
After refusing scores of orders through want
of stock our belated indents are now being filled.
We have no less than 159 of these vehicles now
landing and to arrive in Australia before March 15.
Our storage space is fully occupied, therefore
the first portion of these consignments must be
moved before the latter portion arrives.
To do so we offer them fully equipped as shown above at
£179-0-0 Spot Cash, or on terms at a slight additional price.
We send at our expense a competent expert to remain with
each purchaser a week to instruct in operation.
Every Buggy offered has been manufactured since September
Ist, 1909, and contains the latest improvements.
Every Buggy is backed up by our warranty the
broadest ever given with any Auto Vehicle ._
More than 7,000 “I.H.C.s” are already in successful use.
We haven’t space in this advertisement to give details
about this vehicle, but you can get them from our
pamphlet No. A 2, which is yours for the asking.
Condensed our claims are: — cheaper, quicker, and
more comfortable than horse vehicles; the simplest,
handsomest, and most reliable Auto Vehicle
ever offered at anywhere near the price.
This cut price will be withdrawn
without notice when a certain
portion of these vehicles are sold.
The time to act in this
matter is NOW.
International Harvester Co.
of America
(, Incorporated)
200 Roma St., BRISBANE.
37 Broadway, SYDNEY.
545 Bourke Street.
MELBOURNE.
\ 17 Bank St.. ADELAIDE.
k\ 75 York Street,
{293) LAUNCESTON.


OPEN
PACE,
10/-
HIGHER
GRADE,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Black Open-faced Keyless
WATCHES, Strong and Accurate
Timekeepers, ..
" <S/6.; V -
Price according to quality of movement.
10/-, 12/6, 15/-, 17/6, 20/- up.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird, Heart, and Spray
BROOCH,
5/6;
' A. .SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Scroll and Spray BROOCH, set
with Amethyst,
7/0. ‘
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Floral Spray BROOCH, set with
Amethyst and Pearls,
i 12-/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set with Pearls,
17/0
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Diamond, set
with Hearts,
17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
35ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set line
Opal and Diamonds,
£Z/10 J-
THE GIFT THAT IS APPRECIATED
When you buy from A. SAUNDERS you get “QUALITY” and best “VALUE,” and the beauty and enormous variety of
Our Stock earns the highest Commendation on all sides. Selection is quite an easy matter, and the Gift coming from
OUR Stock gains the greatest appreciation. Write for a copy of Our Large Catalogue. We send it post free to any ad-
dress. All Goods (with the exception of Clocks and Chinaware) sent carriage paid to any address in Australia.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct. Gold Bird, Spray, and Heart BROOCH,
Neat Floral Design,
S/(i.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, set with Diamonds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£3/5/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Bird and Fancy Bar BROOCH,
Bell and Chain attached,
A. SAUNDERS.
'Jet. Gold BRACELET, 3 Diamond-cut Amethysts,
Safety Chain Attached,
30/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, Hall-
marked MOTTO
RING,
10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BAND
RING, 7/0.
Heavier, 10/- and 12/6.
loct. Gold, 20/.
Heavier, .25/; 18ct.
Gold, 25/-, Name Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT,
set Pearls and Tur-
quoise,
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold BRACELET, Set with Diamond and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£2/15/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Hand-clasp
RING,
25./-
15ct. Gold, 40/; 18ct..
Gold, 50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ot. Gold SIGNET
RING,
20'-.
15ct. Gold, 40/; 18ct.
Gold, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
loct. Gold Heart and Spray BROOCH,
Pure White Pearls and Ruby or Sapphire,
£2/10/-
Pearls and Diamond, £2/10/.
V
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, Pure Diamonds,
Pearls, and Rubies or Sapphires,
£6/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, set fine Pearls
and Tourmaline or Peridot,
£2.
SOLID
SILVER
25/-
SOLID
GOLD,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver Hunting
Keyless WATCHES, High-
grade, Patent Adjusted Bal-
ance.
257-
Higher Grades, 30/, 40/, 50/.
Solid Gold, £3, £3/10/, £4/10, £5 up.
W<-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Scroll BROOCH, set with
Red, Green, or Blue Stone,
6/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold 2-Bar and Circle BROOCH,
' Set Red or Green Stone,
10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set with Pearls
and Ruby or Sapphire,
17/0.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold LACE
PIN,
4/6.
Larger, 5/6.
A, SAUNDERS, -
9ct. Gold, PENDANT,
Set Fine Pearls and:
Amethyst,
A, SAUNDERS..
Morocco PEGGY BAG* Chamois
Lined, Extra Division, Best Rivet-
' ted, Nickel Frame*
15/-.
Other Styles, 4/6;, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6,
8/6* 10/6, 12/6, up to 60/-..
9ct. Gold WEDDING
t’TNGS, 10/-.
15ct. Gold, 20/, 25/,
18ct. Gold, 20/-, 30/-,
40/-, 50/-.
18ct. Gold, Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires, £2.
18ct. Gold, Dia-
monds-and Rubies
or Sapphires, £3/
All, Diamonds,
£5.
18ct. Gold,' Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£l2/10/. With
Emeralds, £l5.
ENGAGEMENT RINGS.
A. SATJNDEES’ SPECIALITY.
WE ARE SHOWING some beautiful
ideas in Engagement Rings in choice
new designs of exquisite workmanship.
The stones are of the finest quulilty,
the settings of solid 18ct. Gold.
18ct. Gold, Dia-
monds and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£3/10/. All Dia-
monds, £5.
18ct. Double-row
J-hoop RING, set'
8 Diamonds and
8 Rubies, Sap-
phires or Oliv-
inesi, £6/10/-.
18ct. Gold, • Dia-
mond and Ruby
or Sapphire,
£l2/10/. 2 Dia-
monds, £22/10/.
18ct Gold, Double
Opal Heart and
3 Diamonds, £4/10/-.
18ct. Gold, set
Diamonds and Rubies
. or Sapphires,
£7/10/. All Dia-
monds, £l2/10/,
£l5.
18ct. Gold, set
Diamonds and Ru-
bies or Sapphires,
£l5. Diamonds
and Olivines,
£l7/10/.
9ct. Gold KEEPERS,
12/6.
15ct. Gold, i;o/-, 25/-.
18ct. Gold, 22/6. SO/-,
10/-.
18ct. Gold 5 Pure
Double-cut Dia-
monds, carved, J-
Hoop, £lO
Larger Diamonds,
£l2/10/-, £l5/-/-,
£l7/10/-.
18ct. Gold, set
Fine Pure Double-
cut Diamonds and
Rubies or Sap-
phires, 8/10/. All
Dmnds., £l2/10.
18ct. Gold, set
Fine Pure Double-
cut Diamonds, £2O.
ANY STYLE OF RING MADE TO YOUR ORDER
IN OUR OWN WORKSHOPS.
A. SAUNDERS
15ct. Gold
SCARF PIN.
set Pearls, and
Diamond,
30/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, Ivy Leaf BROOCH,
12/6-
In 15ct Gold, 25/. Set with Diamond, 41)/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold, 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires,
'25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold, 2-Bar BROOCH, set Pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
£U.
Larger Diamond, £2/10/, £3, £3/10/.
OPEN
FACE,
HIGHER;
GRADE,.
rv* /
815 GeargeStreet
SYDNEY
o~
V
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel Open-face Keyless Knockabout
WATCH, Non-magnetic, Patent Adjusted
Balance, Dust and Water -Proof Cases,
, 20/-
IlighkrGrade, 25/, 30/. Guaran-
teed to last Jkrai-J 5 .to-20 years.
LU.*
A. SAUNDERS..
15ct. Gold
BROOCH, Sot
Pure White
Pearls,
£2/2/-.
A. SAUNDERS.
act. Gold COLLAR STUD,
5/6.
15ct. Gold, 8/6, i-o/.
Silver, I/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et. Gold LINKS, 22/6.
15ct. Gold, 40/-.
Silver, 4/6.
Initials Free.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, Set Fine Pearls and
Tourmalines or Peridots,
, £2- ,
A. SAUNDERS.
loot. Gold Bee BROOCH, Set Fine
White Pearls and Opal Body,
£4.
All Pearls, £5.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Tortoise-shell Back COMB,
Set with Brilliants, Peacock Design,
8/6.
Other Styles, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6, 6/6, 7/6,
10/- up.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gola HORSESHOE
CHARM, set w a
Red Stone,
8/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold LINKS, Heart
and Dumbbell.
20/-.
Smaller Size, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold BROOCH, Set Fine,
Double-cut Diamonds, Pearls,
Rubies or Sapphires,
£B/10/-
Pure
and
A. SAUNDERS.
Morocco Strap PURSE, Ster-
ling Silver Mounts and Lock,
Large Handkerchief Flaps at
Back,
9/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold PENDANT.
Set Fine Pearls and
Amethyst,
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct. Gold Lyre
BROOCH,
Set Fine White
Pearls,
SOLID
SILVER
£2/-/-.
a
mkm
S_V5
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver Hunting Keyless J-plate
WATCH, Fully Jewelled Compensa-
tion Balance. Perfectly Timed and
Adjusted, £2/10/ m - .
Higher Grades, £2/10/-, £3, £3/10/-,
£4/10/-. Solid Gold, £7/10/-, £B/10/-,
£l2/10/-, £l5 to £lOO.
SOLID
t GOLD,
£7/10/-
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith,
and Optician.
A. SAUNDERS
807. 809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEORGE-STREET.
(OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION.)
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


m
eP
•=
«D
Si
tii)
c~ii
§
s
hifj
C 9
a
JEa
:iiv
3
m
ym is
J
MO
3
£
i
/
rT TTTp
I
U’
w
©
e>&
\. i,. ih nun
~11
■FOR "mi 3
ICPHSRS OP"
PORTO' #


SPORTING
NOTIONS
If the V.R.O. stewards saw full cause for satis-
faction in Mala’s capture of the Newmarket Handicap,
they couldn’t have viewed the matter with the public’s
eyes. That the handsome little black colt ran badly
several times in the spring was not surprising. There
was something amiss with him—a fact duly noted in The
Bulletin. But a recent performance of Mala seems
absurdly inconsistent with his run-away victory
in the Newmarket. A week previously he started
for the Futurity Stakes (seven furlongs) at an outside
price, and was never near the front in the first
six furlongs of the race. The colt finished seventh,
however. Had he run more prominently in the early
stages of the Futurity sprint, the present writer would
have picked Mala “in twice” to win the Fldnington
event; not because he was meeting Comedy King and
others on much better terms than before (for a big differ-
ence in weight over a short course doesn’t justify a great
difference in form), but because the spry-looking son of
Malster had been backed for the Newmarket weeks ago,
and was said to be vastly improved since the spring.
The fact that this speedy colt went out at
25 to 1 for the Futurity and ran almost
as poorly as in his previous races this season,
naturally put the public right “off ” him. Though Mala
was quoted at 25 to 1, s.p., for the Newmarket, the
odds gave no idea of the contempt in which punters
generally held his chance. On form he had no chance.
He didn’t show sufficient speed in the Futurity Stakes,
where he hadn’t the excuse of being left at the post, like
Malt King. I
.}
What a difference in Mala’s performance last
Saturday! He got away in front; kept in front;
remained in front; and won by a length and
a half from Malt King, who finished nearly a
length ahead of Flavinius. Compare the- unsatis-
factory reversal of form in Mala with the consis-
tent running of Flavinius ! In the St. George’s Stakes
(nine furlongs) at Caulfield, a fortnight earlier, Flavinius
made the running until the mighty Alawa passed him,
and eventually he finished third to Alawa and Maltine.
On the following Saturday, with 9st. 71b. up, he finished
fourth to Comedy King, Maltine, and Conge D'Eslire,
beaten only by a head by the latter. Flavinius ran third for
the Newmarket, carrying Bst. 91b. He represents con-
sistency in sprint racing, and will doubtless be penalised
accordingly, consistency being bound to suffer under a
handicapping system which draws no distinction between
the respectable failures of triers and the disrespectable
failures of such as are not on the job.
Two first favorites won at Elemington last
Saturday. Prince Foote triumphantly landed the odds
of 25 to 1 on him for the Leger, whilst Alawa was worth
two “bob” in the £ to anyone who hacked him for the
Essendon Stakes. The four beaten favorites were :
Yield .. .. 7to 4 against
Gigandra .. 6 to 4 on
Comedy King.. 7 to 2 against
Matourie .. sto 2 ~
A punter putting £1 on each of the first favorites would
win 3s. over two races, and lose £4 over the others—a net
loss of £3 18s. on the day. Had all six favorites won, he
would have gained £8 11s. 4d. on the day at starting
prices.
Although there were but three runners for the
Y.R.C. St. Leger, and two of them were practically out of
it, Prince Foote made record time (3min. sJsec.) for this
proverbially slow run race. On two occasions at Rand-
wick the Leger time has been half a seeond faster t han
this, but Prince Foote’s galiop was remarkable, seeing
that he won by 20 lengths, unextended.
* He ■* *
Just as this issue was going to press word came
along from Melbourne that Orline had won the Austra-
lian Cup, with Pendil second and Diaholo third.
This means a very considerable shock ,in the
eye to- the wise people who arrange what horses
will win certain events, and why. Nobody thought of
Orline, it appears. The unpopular animal isn’t a good
enough Australian to read Tiie Bulletin, which, judging
on form, gave'the racelast week to Pendil, who ran second,
or Ungarie. It’s a disheartening thing to be picking
winners that won’t win ; and, besides this, Orline’s vic-
tory means more than mere discouragement to many
followers of the game who had their money on more
likely-looking mokes.
* * * m
With such balderdash as this does the average
horse reporter for the daily press profess to account for
startling “ reversals of ‘ form ’” in gee-gee racing. Mel-
bourne Argus said :
“ Mala s disappointing race in the Caulfield Futurity
Stakes was the cause of his drifting out of the Newmarket
Handicap calculations ; but the weight off his back made
all the difference to him. While Bst. 121 b. anchored him at
Caulfield, he handled Bst. lib. readily enough at Fleming-
ton. In addition, he probably ran in kinder fashion for M.
Connell than he did for E. King.” And again : “ The
faot was overlooked that Mala is a mere pony, and the
weight off his back meant a great deal more to him than
to the other horses that finished behind Comedy King at
Caulfield.”
All of which is the same old nonsense which has been
talked a thousand times in excuse for unsatisfactory
racing. Mala is no smaller than was Boz, who ran second for
a Newmarket Handicap with lOst. lib. up. As a two-year-
old Mala won the Select Stakes at Flemington (seven
furlongs) with 9st. up, and giving 351 b. to four of the
starters. Also, he won the Sires’ Produce Stakes (six
furlongs) by six lengths with Bst. 101 b. on his hack. Yet,
now that the horse is a three-vear-old, a horse reporter
has the foolishness to say that Bst. 121 b. anchored him in
a seven furlong race, whereas Bst. lib. a week later
enabled the animal to win the Newmarket from start to
finish. And why did the Argus refer to Mala’s perform-
ance as disappointing ? The horse started at 30 to lor
thereabouts and finished quite as forward as an outsider
is expeoted to finish. As for the artless suggestion that
he “ probably ran in kinder fashion ” for one jockey than
for another, the same excuse would cover every extra-
ordinary reversal of form that ever was.
* ■ * * »
The section of the sporting world that had to
remain in Sydney last Saturday occupied its If pleasantly
iat VVarvviok Farm and Kensington. Most of its
bntellect was engaged at the former haunt of
oeauty and fashion and gee-gees in the solution
of the problem why Flavigny and Margo only,
out of the 10 entrants, faced the starter in the
Liverpool Mile. The wisest of the wise ones gave up the
conundrum after some prayerful wrestling, and probably
the truth will only be known —if then —when the world
knows who struck Mike and who wrote the Letters of
Junius. The race itself was no chop, Flavigny winning
comfortably by a neck, which might have been as long as
Alice’s in Wonderland, if he had liked. The favorite,
Asturias, went down badly in the Flying Welter, which
Lady Hasty won after a really interesting race. Little Lill
proved herself too good for her company in the Farm
Stakes, and Newport delighted the lucky few who had
put some money on him at 12 and 14 to one for the War-
wick Handicap. The Nursery Handicap was a gift to Black-
pool, who finished sixth in the race of the same name at
Canterbury Park earlier in the month. The Stewards’
Mile was an exciting scurry, and fell naturally to Conduc-
tor, who the week before distinguished himself by com-
bining the lowest place with the lowest weight in the
Parramatta Mile at Rosehill.
* « « *
“Tourist” : Maoriland’s chief human curse just
now is the common thief who has turned licensed bookie,
and has therefore “ lawful visible ” means. He presumes
so much on the lawfulness of his calling that the Welling-
ton publican has begun to deal with him. One infuriated
beer-merchant, got so tired of trying to break through
the wall of bookies in his passage-ways that he posted
notices everywhere warning the irrigating public to be-
ware of “ bookmakers and other thieves.” Several well-
known ex-feetballers and one-time constables have re-
ceived lucrative appointments, patrolling passages and
“ moving on ” the horde that takes a bet, a silver tankard
or a stray “portsammy” with equal skill. Whiskered
furies from the Backblocks, coming to Wellington to de-
mand another barrow-load of metal for the Pukewai-
noniniomatatukirewi-road, complain that the gambling
curse is so bad that they can hardly ever see the Minister
for By-Roads and Swamps ; he is always liable to be
away seeing Solomon Abrahatnson about a horse. Pos-
sibly this is an exaggeration, hut the fact that there is
something wrong with the latest sporting, law can be
smelt through a strong-room door.
* • ■* *
The 29th chapter of Miller’s “Australian
Racing Chronicle” is just published. It brings the
“Chronicle” down to January 31, and trives particulars
of 700 race meeting's which happened subsequent to
August lof last year. People who buy the “Chronicle”
twice a year (and are not, as a rule, profound students of
any other kind of half-guinea literature) are reminded
that Vol. 29 is now obtainable from the J. J. Miller Print-
ing Co., Melb., or from any bookseller. Post free.
* ■*•*•*
Syd Day’s pluck deserved the reward he desired.
Twice before he has attempted to break the record —G. G.
White’s—for the motor trip between Sydney and Mel-
bourne, and last Saturday he succeeded, the driving
time—2oh. lOmin. —heating White’s bv lh. 9min. Day,
who drove a 25-h.p. Vinot, fitted with Dunlop tyres, had
all sorts of difficulties to contend against—rain, boggy
roads and heavy traffic, not to mention inflamed eyes and
a lost “tooter.” As a weight-reducing exercis" this
breaking of motor records would seem to be considerable
of a success, for Day, who drove all the way, was 71b.
lighter when he got into Melbourne than when he left
Sydney.
* * * *
J.P. ; If rumor isn’t a liar the Standard Oil
octopus is about to get a fearful bump as far as petrol is
concerned. A German scientist claims to have perfected
a motor spirit far superior to petrol and capable of being
retailed at 5Jd. per gallon—less than half the present
price of petrol. A factory is being erected in Berlin to
turn out the new article, which leaves no deposit and is
quite odorless. So far, Standard Oil has succeeded in
squashing alcohol and all other types of spirit; but the
new discovery will be beyond its reach in highly pro-
tected Germany, and this looks greatly like Standard
Oil’s Waterloo. Anyhow it’s high time the animal that
puts 34 gallons of petrol in a tin and charges the motor-
ing public for four gallons was definitely squashed.
* » » *
Much to the chagrin of A. D. Ellis (Ballarat),
the 100yds. champion, and G. A. Wheatley (Essendon),
Australasian mile and half-mile champion, the records
put up by them at the recent sports meeting, held at the
Melbourne Exhibition Oval, cannot he allowed, owing to
the bungling, sbort-sightedness, or something of the per-
son deputed to measure the track. Following the fine
performances of these two runners, the officials, since the
meeting, ran the tape over the track, when it was found
that the 300.vds. course was 2vds. short—a most annoying
revelation. Even if this shortage were taken off
Ellis’ time, he would have still beaten the record,
although lie had to negotiate the asphalt bank
in passing a field of eight men. Geo. Moir
(Melb.), the present holder of this distance, declares
that Ellis in his present form can beat his time if he has
another shot at it. Wheatley has also be-n ruled out
over the same bungle ; and he, too, could have managed
to get inside of record, as he took things rather easy at
the pistol, and could have used the spurs on himself a hit
if required. However, next St. Pat’s Day, “ Dad ” will
endeavor to slaughter his record for the “half” at the
same oval, but states he is going to have it properly
measured and be officially “ clocked.” This ped. holds the
Australasian record for the half—viz., lmin. 56sec.
* * * *
There was a time when the professional racing
cyclist moved easily with the swiftest society and earned
a good living by rigging races with his fellows. But those
days have passed away in an atmosphere of corruptipn,
and the good track man with the fixed look and the
racing hump has either passed from the face of the earth or
has straightened up and started to earn his living in other
ways. One of him, a German sprinter named Otto Meyer,
has turned up as head executioner for Germany ; and he
will shortly, in his official capacity, behead a former track-
mate named Bauer, who was unwise enough, two years
ago, to shoot a rich miller of Cologne. Bauer has spent
the intervening time trying to dodge his friend the
executioner ; but the German law at last has him nailed,
and Meyer is to have the job.
» * s *
The M.L. League of Wheelmen having wiped
the Arnsts off the slate, the match between A. Birch and
Jack Arnst, from Timaru to Christchurch, for £5O a side
had to fall through so far as Birch was concerned. Arnst
made a great noise over the matter, and litigation is
promised over the stake-money. Then Arnst shut his
teeth, decided to attack the figures by himself, and finally
succeeded in covering the distance between the towns in
6hr. 12Jmin., thereby slicing five minutes off the previous
“best,” and being 2l£min. ahead of the time recorded in
the last event over-the same course, from which he was
barred by his disqualification. Arnst at present is a very
wild man, and approachable only with much caution.
E. A. Pearson, the Sydney long-distance road-
rider, has made public his schedue for his forthcoming
attempt on the Svdney-Melbourne bicycle record. He
is timed to start at 10 a.rn. on Thursday, March 24.
His intended times of arrival at different towns are as
follows :
Leave Sydney 10 a. m.
Town. Miles. Arrival. Rid. Time.
Arrive—
Liverpool .. .. 20f 11.10 a.m. lh. lOmin.
Cafnden .. .. 384 12.30 p.m. 2h. 30min.
Mittagong .. .. 77| 3.35 p.m. sh. 35min.
Goulburn .. .. 133| 7.10 p.m. 9h. lOmin.
Yass 188 12.5 a.m. Fri. 14h. smin.
Bookham .. .. 209 2.20 a.m/ 16h. 20min.
Gundagai .. .. 254 6.20 a.m/ |2oh. 20min.
Upper Tircutta .. 294 12.15 p.m. 26h. 15min.
Germanton .. 338 4.0 p.m. 30h. Omin.
Albury .. .. 376 7.29 p.m/ 33h. 29min.
Wangaratta .. 422 12.42 a.m. Sat. 38h. 42min.
Seymour .. ..512 10.35 a.m. 48h. 35min.
Melbourne.. .. 574 3.56p.m. 53h. 56min.
J. Salvana’s record for the overland trip stands at 55hr.
56min. So Pearson intends to reduce it by two hours.
Of course everything depends on t,he weather and road
conditions. At present the route between Gundagai and
Seymour is in a frightfully loose and dusty condition, and
a rider would have a poor chance of reducing Salvana’s
figures; but a few heavy showers would soon remedy
this. Pearson, who intends doing the trip without
sleep, will ride a Dunlop-shod Speedwell, fitted with an
Armstrong three-speed hub.
* * * *
The one-mile and five-mile Australasian ama-
teur cycling championships, at Sydney Sports Ground
last week, provided a boil-over. Perhaps the attendance
helped it —a crowd of 6000 at an amateur cycling carnival
in N.S.VV. is perilously near a record. The one-mile
event was won by E. Schneider (N.S.VV.), C. Cutcliffe
(N.S.W.), being second, and V. Schultz (Q.), the bolder of
the record, third. The five-mile was a triumph for
N.S.W. riders—Cutcliffe, Stewart, Goodhew and Priestley
taking the places. Cutcliffe was due for a win. He filled
second place in no less than six previous championship
races.
* * * »
The overlanding cyclist has now struck Africa
in the person of one Don, who recently wheeled from
King William’s Town to Cairo. He left civilisation
at Bulawayo, and made thence to Tanganyika, through
German East Africa, Uganda, Equatoria, down to Gon-
dokoro in the Soudan, on to Khartoum, and thence
through Egypt to Cairo. He reported a pleasant journey,
hospitable treatment by the natives, and an entire lack
of thrilling adventures. He never had to point a gun at
a man, and had very little trouble with wild animals. It
was a trifle lonely, as he travelled absolutely on his own ;
but that was all. Years ago a Maoriland man named
Ward wrote a book describing his explorations in Congo
Land. He travelled thousands of miles, and never had to
fire a shot in self-defence till he met some Belgians, with
whom he had a stand-up fight. To escape them he had
to cross over into the Zambesi basin, where he immedi-
ately struck trouble with the officials of the English
African Lakes Co. According to Ward the wildest beast
in Africa was the irresponsible white man with a rifle
which fired explosive bullets. Lions were bad, he ad-
mitted, but the human circumstance with the gun was
worse.
* * * *
Sydney first-grade cricket dragged out some
more of its lingering length last Saturdav, when Padding-
ton distinguished itself by petering out for 67 against
Waverley’s 179 for three wickets. Moreover, it notched
another point in the emblazoned roll of fame, for the
team refused as one man to be caught. Eight w re
clean bowled, one got l.b.w. and another was run out.
Trumper took it into his head to make 105 out of
Gordon’s total of 186 against Balmain’s 92 for seven
wickets. Th a’s a perplexing little way Trumper has got.
No sooner have the wis<* men decided that his day is done
than he gets up and smites the bowling with
great emphasis. The other man who made a
century on Saturday was E. F. Waddy, of the
appropriately named schoolmaster brethren of Central
Cumberland. When you take his 125, Smith’s 39, and
O'Neill’s 32 out of the total of 253, the melancholy taili-
ness of the C.C. team is very striking. North Sydney
has two wickets down for 90, thanks largely to the gener-
osity with which the Ouinberlanders let the ball slip
through their fingers.
Redfern put up the biggest total for the day—
-341, to which Goddard contributed 78 not out and Foster
76. Sydney meekly replied with 46 for two wickets,
which doesn’t look too promising in the circumstances.
But University went, one lower with 33 for three wickets
against Petersham’s 223 ; and as Middle Harbor had lost
seven wickets for 91 against Glebe’s 201, it looks as if,
bar accidents, the game has emerged from the “ might-
have-beens ” to the “ was.”
* it * *
Collingwood sustained the most undignified
defeat in Melbourne Pennant cricket last Saturday.
Totalling 179 on the previous Saturday, it allowed St.
Kilda to knock up 398 for five wickets (Ainslie 119), and
thus lost the match by five wickets and 219 runs. Fitzroy
was also a material loser. Urged to excel East Mel-
bourne’s two for 327 (ddared closed), it made an infini-
tesimal 111. Carlton, against P’ran, accomplished 340,
all told; dismissed P’ran for 232, and won with 108 runs
in hand. University, failing to overtake South Melbourne’s
262, carried off a suspicion of a licking by 87 runs ; whilst
Northcote had the glory of sneaking 30 runs in front of
Richmond’s 193. Also Melbourne vanquished North by
53 runs, though, considering the superior talent of the
Melbourne Club, the victory was nothing to gas about.
» » * «
Canterbury blocked the triumphant march of
the Australian XI. in Maoriland by making a draw of the
last match. On Saturday it put up 321, to which D.
Reese (captain) contributed 108 and Carlton 63, whilst
Sundries, that consistent run-getter, came next with 35.
He only made 20 for Australia, however, a total which
was surpassed by Emery (50 not out), Smith (49), Bardsley
(35) and Kellewav (32). Australia was 81 behind on the
first innings, and Canterbury replied with 259 in the
second. With 341 to get to win, Australia would have
gone down badly if it had not been for Armstrong (149
not out) and Mayne (102). Stumps and the game were
drawn, with the score at 307 for eight wickets.
The other touring teams seem to be enjoying
life. New South Wales whipped Tasmania to
the extent of 156 and 448 against 139 and 132,
being a trifling majority of 333 runs. Barbour
helped much in the good work with his 160, and
Waddy (65) tried hard not to be outdone by his
brother in Parramatta. The Victorian XL has evidently
a soft thing on against W. A., 524 for six wickets (McKen-
zie 211, and Kortlang 197) looking a triumphant proposi-
tion when compared with 134, all out. The humorous
corresp indent wires that the match was played in fine
weather, and adds that the shade temperature was 96°.
It is possible to imagine pleasanter ways of passing time
than playing oricket with a shade temperature of that
altitude.
• •* * *
Playing in Sydney third-grade cricket competi-
tion on Saturday, one Weatherlake put up an excep-
tional afternoon’s work. In a total of 99 by seven
players the smiter amassed 93. Then he lent a hand
with the ball, and gathered in six wickets for 77. Another
mighty smiting record happened recently at Maitland
(N.S.W.). L. Hawkins scored 92 not out in a total of 114
for two wickets in half an hour. In one over he smote all
six balls for six runs each—a fresh record for the cricket
crank’s book—and altogether hit 10 sixes during his stay
at the wicket.
* * * *
A Victorian cricket authority tells of a crack
Australian batsman who, just before a big international
match, walked into the secretary’s office and casually re-
marked that his figure was £5O. “ But,” said the
harassed official, “I’ve only got £30.” “ Well, I’m sick
and can’t hat; let the public stay away.” He got his
fifty ; and the worst of it was that another crack, learn-
ing the facts, demanded a similar “ remuneration for ex-
penses ” before he would move out of the pavilion for the
second innings. Now try to guess the names of those
two “amateurs.”
* * * *
N.S.W. Cricket Association’s actual figures for
the Turner “ benefit ” match show the gross proceeds
£534 18s. Bd., and expenses totalling £2OO 9s. 2d.
The fact that the expenses were over £2OO for a four days’
match sounds like a death-note to future “benefits” in
Australia.
Auckland (M.L.) continues to howl with glee
in the van of Maoriland cricketing affairs. Otago was its
latest victim, and Auckland scored 579 (Sale 121, Hemus
109, and Relf 118) —the three centuries in an innings
being a M.L. record for inter-provincial matches. Otago
crumpled up for 237 and 181, despite that C. G. Macartney
(of the last Australian XI.) was in the team. He scored
22 and 35, which was nothing extraordinary.
# m * *•
The P.A.Y.C. races in Sydney Harbor on
Saturday would have been more exciting if the yachts
could have been fitted with powerful engines for the
occasion. For there wasn’t enough wind to blow a
match out, and the races were like processions of sea-
snails. However, to the yacht enthusiast the breezeless
condition was probably welcome as a test of seamanship.
Rawhiti, which started scratch, kept the lead in the
Championship Handicap and crawled in ahead of Petrel
by 37min. ssec. ; whilst Magic, the only other yacht that
finished, was 3mm. 48sec. behind. Herreshoff won the
Cruisers event by 33nun. 4sec., with lmin. 58sec. between
Goora and Thirlie. A pleasant incident in the afternoon's
outmgr was supplied by the skipperof the Lady Hampden
which followed the race. On the way back from Manly
there were heavy rollers coming in through the Heads
and the intrepid mariner thought he’d cheer ud the
passengers by steaming as fast as he could into then:
The result was that he shipped some heavy seas to the
delight of such of the club’s guests as enjoyed the’ luxury
of a sea bath without the trouble of undressing
* * * '
The articles of agreement between Richard
Arnst, of Maoriland, and Ernest Barry, of England for
the world’s sculling championship are drawn up in exhil-
arating legal phraseology, with a due assortment of
“ whereas ” and “ thereinafter ” and “-hereinafter ’’ The
main items are that the race is to take place on the
Zambesi at 4 p.m. some day next August, and that the
winner is to collect £750 of the £lOOO purse, together
with the title, whilst the loser is to content himself with
* * * .
The most important swimming event in Sydney
last Saturday was the finale of the A.S.A.’s scheme of
long-distance water-hurry. The previous events were •
880yds. in November, won by F. Jenkins; 1320yds in
December, won by W. Longworth ; and a mile in
January, won by J. Hay. Saturday’s fixture was three
miles, and of the 40 competitors, of whom 39 started, A.
Wilks, a 19-year-old from Mai: land, got home first. Ilis
actual time was lhr. 20min. 24 less than
the record of H. Hardwick, the State mile champion, by
36sec. At Bronte, on the same day, W. Thompson won
the Eastern Districts 220vds. championship after a close
struggle.
* * * *
Two more State swimming championships went
last week to Victoria’s Beaurepaire, who now holds the
lot from 100yds. up to one mile. At the Fitzroy baths on
Thursday night he won the 220yds. championship by
30yds. from J. Gunn, in 2min. 33sec.; and on Saturday
Brighton Beach saw him annex the three-quarter-milehv
110yds. from B. Powell and W. Claringbold in 19miti.
lOsec. This week “ Bogey” leaves for Brussels, to attend
the World’s Championship meeting in August, under the
guardianship of the youthful V.A.S.A. lion, see., R. M.
Collins. His portmanteau will be weighty with medals,
even if it isn’t with cash. The Commonwealth can trust
the youngster to maintain its sporting reputation ; and
there will be no smell of decayed fish in the atmosphere
thereabouts.
* * * *
Some variegated remarks should happen when
the once mighty Carlton (Vic.) football club holds its
annual meeting next week. A while back certain nialcon-
tent members sent the committee, per the secretary, a
requisition for a special meeting to consider the methods
employed at previous annual elections. Though rule 13
states that the sec. shall call such a meeting if asked to
do so by 50 members, the committee declined to call it.
Thereupon 1000 discontented members held an indigna-
tion meeting-, and demanded the committee’s backdown
or resignation. The committee went on doing nothing.
Now the malcontents, who include several prominent
players, are preparing some awkward questions to fire off
at the annual meeting ; and if the whole truth comes out
there will be a large-sized scandal. But whether it will
come out is another matter.
* * * *
The English Football Cup (Soccer), for which
every club of any standing at all enters, produces
some odd financial bargaining. A club with no
earthly chance, getting a match on its own ground
with one of the finest teams in existence, clearly has a
gate-money haul in sight. Then the big club, which can
draw a larger crowd at home, and doesn’t want to be
bothered with a long journey, “approaches” the little
ohe with a cash offer to change the scene. Wolverhamp-
ton paid Reading last month 1420, besides the travelling
expenses, to make such a deal. The smaller club will
doubtless invest its haul in buying- up some good players
from Lancashire or Scotland to strengthen its team for
next season.
* * * *
The weight-lifting craze has got another hoist.
Clarence Weber—who has the enviable reputation of
being the best developed man in the world—having lifted
a bar-bell, weighing 206j1b., from floor to shoulder, and
then jerked it 12 times above his head to arm’s length.
As Weber himself weighs only 1911 b., this is a somewhat
remarkable performance.
* « * *
Fitzsimmons spoke more than was good for him
to bis American friends about the then-coming fight
with Lang. “ Aftpr I’ve whipped this fellow,” he wrote,
“I shall meet all comers in Australia, and, if Tommy
Burns wants a fight, he can have one. I’m not a back
number by any means, and I’ll prove it when I meet
Lang.” Pugs, of all men, ought to recognise the un-
wisdom of opening their mouths too wide—especially to
friends who forthwith publish their effusions in Ameri-
can fight papers. Another min who has been talk-
ing too much is Charley Griffin, the Australian feather-
weight. He boasts in one issue of a New York
weekly of his 150 battles and the 40 knock-outs he has
scored, whilst in the next we read how “Tommy O’Toole
was the aggressor throughout and had Griffin weak at the
end of the six rounds.” But, of course, the great artists
in the production of chin-music to beat the hand are
Jeffries and Johnson. Each of them has the other com-
fortably put to sleep on paper, and the only outstanding
difficulty seems to be whether the defeated man is to have
a State funeral or be buried privately.
HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair. &
> Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., ' 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
PlLES.—There is no more
painful complaint from which
than Piles. The most effectiveci
BALM. Certain in every case,
all chemists at 2/6 per bottle.*
distressing and
you can suffer
re is BALLAS
Obtainable from
DEFYING FATHER TIME.
Time seems inopportune when he brines a
woman to the turn of life. Life is, or should he,
at its ripest and best for her, and she approaches
this change with a dread of its effect born of her
w\
<e
7>r
r
knowledge of the
sufferings of other
women at this sea-
son. There is not
the slightest cause
for fear or anxiety at
this period if Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills are taken occa-
sionally to keep the
system toned arid the stomach in proper working
order. Doctors prescribe them, nurses recom-
mend them, and thousands of women who have
successfully and cheerfully passed through that
stage can testify to the value of these pills. _
“I have found your pills to be highly beneficial
for headaches,” writes Mrs. E. Wilson. 406 Harris
Street, Ultimo, Sydney, “and also during that
critical period known as the change of life, through
which I have passed. I can conscientiously
recommend Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills as a
genuine remedy for all general family ailments,
and also to all women for complaints peculiar to
their sex. You are at liberty to publish this, ana
I shall be pleased to give my personal experience
to anyone calling on me.”*
’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & 00., PERTH. KALCOORLIE anti COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices:
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.


X X'
“Conformat” Hats
. “ The Acme of Comfort.”
A new line of the highest grade HARD
HATS, hand-made in a special way from
the choicest materials; conforms to the head,
making it most comfortable and easy fitting.
Although exceptionally light, they are very
durable, and guaranteed absolutely fast
dyed. They are made in all the newest
season’s styles. Every hat is guaranteed
to give satisfaction.
Price = - 13/6
The “ Mota RBGD.
Tliis is an entirely new shape nf our own design,
and registered ; it is exceptionally smart and stylish
and very comfortable. In all the latest colors.
Prices - 7/6 to 12/6
The “Lambaa.”
REGD.
A very nobhv SOFT FELT, giving excellent
wear. Made in all shades and latest styles.
Prices - 7/6 to 10/-
The above lines are sold by all the leading stores
throughout Australia. Ask for them, but be sure
that the Trade Mark “Conformat,” “Mota” or
“Lambaa” is stamped on the leather, without
which none are genuine.
If you cannot obtain “Conformat,” “Mota” or
“ Lambaa” Hats in your district, write to us direct.
AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LTD.,
Manufacturers of High-grade Head Wear,
X ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE. X
O’ER THE OCEAN WAVE FOR
760 KNOTS
AND NOT A SINGLE ENGINE
TROUBLE, USING
“SHELL”
MOTOR SPIRIT,
(Vide recent testimonial from Mr.
Q. R. Norman, who accomplished the
journey Melbourne to Sydney in his
26ft. motor launch, “ Fay & Bowen.”)
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing One
Dozen Assorted Uirge Bottles, 25/-.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
sdf
Free to You—A Cycle Catalogue!
We want to send you our Catalogue of the B. & B. Cycle,
about which it gives full particulars.
Cut this advertisement out and post it to us, find we will
send you our Catalogue by return mail.
OUR PITT STREET DEPOT IS OPEN EVERY FRIDAY TILL 9 P.M.
BENNETT & BAR KELL,
Specialists in Modern
Oyde Building-,
234 Pitt Street, @nd s v< l n /, v
Castlereagh Street,
Here’s a Serviceable Shoe for a Man !
gsd
lt y s a RIGNEY SHOE.
A well-made, comfortable high-grade Shoe.
It is a Dark Tan Willow Calf Tourist and Golfer’s
Shoe, double soles, wide welts, rope-stitched
soles, the latest perforations.
Price - 275. 6d.
•i i Postage 9d. extra.
Write for Booklet, “ The Kigney Shoe for Men.”
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
| “ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,”
' 305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Martin Place and Hunter Street).
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORDEON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
8 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-* post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 15/-, post free.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
©
S
?
j
THE MOUSTACHELESS MAN’S FRIEND.
Buy a jar of CAPILLARINE, rub a little well in each evening before
retiring, and the result will soon appear in the starting of a hand-
some moustache.
CAPILLARINE is a boon to men with straggling moustaches, or with
down in place of a vigorous hair growth.
Price 10/6 a Jar,
Posted Free in Plain Wrapper
to Any Part of the World.
Craig; & Aitken, 654 George 'St., SYDNEY.
Escablished 30 Years.
A. M. L. 8 F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Banßers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stock and Station Agents.
£4,000,000
£3,000,000
£520,000
£300,000
CAPITAL
SUBSCRIBED ...
PAID-UP
RESERVE FUND
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral
Properties and Stock, and on the Growing Wool Clip.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in the World.
Australian Mortgage, Land U Finance Co.
... Limited ...
Bligh Street. SYDNEY.
“Riverina”: The Yes-No disease breeds,
in allFusionists. B. J. Grogan, who is making a
long shot to defeat that old patriot, Bill Lyne, for
the Hume, has got it bad. In the course of what
the sarcastic Germanton Courier termed “an
able, logical and closely-reasoned address,” he
remarked
Of course, under the Constitution the Federal Govern-
ment could tax the land and income of the people, hut
he believed they should not exercise.that right unless it
was in a national emergency, such as war, as at present
in five of the States out of six a progressive land-tax was
not needed. He did not, however, close his eyes to the
fact that there was a growing heed for more land.
In the town of Yass, where he was a business man, the
scope of his success was limited, as that of other men
was limited, for the town had been landlocked for 25
years, and their population was drifting away, because
their sons and daughters could not get their feet on the
land.
An individual who sees no need for a progressive
land-tax to open up the locked lands, yet bewails
the fact that business is hamstrung and the popu-
lation fleeing afar because of the locked lands, is
a contradictory brand of mule.
“Stony”: Under the present lumpish
administration of Victoria’s Education Depart-
ment, Willie of the suburban State school, has a
miserable time with his lavatory-towel. Towels
are changed in Melbourne’s State schools not
oftener than once a day—usually much less often ;
and there is only one towel provided for every
697 boys or thereabouts. The result is that a
State [I had almost written a Stale] towel is a
fearsome object at the end of a day on which one
of Melbourne’s brickfielders has done its dusty
work. The Board of Health, which of late has
put in a lot of work—and a,terrible lot of talking
—would do well to analyse a batch of these State
school towels, or boil them, or dryblow them, or
take other suitable measures.
A BEAUTIFUL FACE
and a Lovely Complexion can be secured
by using' the BEAUTY CUP or Rubber
Complexion Bulb. It prevents and re-
moves Wrinkles, Pimples, Blackheads and
oth**r blemishes, and makes the skin soft,
smooth, clear and healthful. Produces
immediate benefit by promoting circula-
tion. The best and pleasaniest form of
fg
Self-magsaee. Also serviceable for developing the 'bust and
filling hollow places. Price, HALF-A CROWN, securely
packed and delivered free at any address. Full printed
directions. With each Beauty Cup orderen within one month
from the date of this paper will be GIVEN FREE a two-
•unce Tube of ALMOND BLOSSOM BEAUTY CREAM
value 2s. 6d.), the most exquisite emollhnt and skin food;
preserves ih« biooni of youth and the velvety softness of the
complexion You should order at «vce and mention this
paper. Obtafnanle only from THE UNION COMPANY,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
OnQ
Nfi
-an
v/,
as
/r>
1«»
i^oo
|bO ° o o 0 o^0 Oo °e?OA0 O 0 0 5n O <
po O
»
’oOOoSo
,noo_Or
»^“oo
O'-’Po S o°o
PqOO
)‘- , r rooc
OSOOO
P,Q C
I^OgO '-Vp O Oo o^o°°f'' J Q , °y\ 5> ° (
0 OnnO’OnHP o_M>3°
■to°?6o? 0 ° 0° o o 0 <*
g&§&‘
r\
a OoO^oSi
Pr>qp°o°o
s°_ O
n o“o, v ooQ.o>
jO°OOoO°o£
“»P°oc oo 0 0
0~0
k?o& (
Po
o_o
HJ.V-
USE <
DUNLOP
HOSE
It does r\ot.
Cretck
or Burst.
IT’S SO GOOD
That it lasts for years!
That’s why most of the Garden
Hose used in this country bears
the “ 1 unlop” Brand. If your
Storekeeper will not supply you
with “ Dunlop ” Hose, please
order from us direct.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brlibant,
and Christchurch.


J->. : A London jury has just laid it down that the*
lnusic - hall expletives “ Blime,” “ Bliiney ”
’.Lorblimey,” and all their variants amount to blas-
phemy, and must in future be discontinued on the stage,
bast December a troupe, by name Thorne and Francis, sued
the management of the Surrey Theatre (an aged play-
house on the south side of the Thames) in that their
services had been peremptorily dispensed with
because one of their number kissed a girl ylurino-
hisi turn, and afterwards turned to the audience"
and, winking, said “My old woman oug-ht to
see me now Oh, blimey, ain’t I a-going it.”
A verdict was swiftly returned for defendants—judgment
accordingly, with Costs. It isyet another example of the
inarch of l uritamstn. The day threatens when the word
damn itself most infallible of applause-winners—will
be warned off the boards on the score of profanity. It is
a mournful prospect. One doesn’t care to think of the
melodrama hero debarred from rebutting with a manly
shout of “No, you hound, I'll see you damned first”
(deafening cheers) the villain’s suggestion that he shall
dynamite his elderly benefactor. The comic stage-
curate will miss the effect he used to produce by the
utterance of thisinvaluable word in ft piping treble what
time the debonair juvenile-lead accidentally poured hot-
tea over his legs. Expressions such as “ pish,” “ tush,”
“ bother,” “ blow ” and the like are poor substitutes for
the virile, meaty old phrases that are being discredited
arid banned. Even “ drat ” doesn’t fill the aching void.
Fancy Hannibal dratting the Romans.
“ Philovid ” : The great actress, Rachel, was one of five'
sisters, with one brother. All the six were connected
with the stage. The last of the family,. Dinah, the
youngest sister, died a few weeks ago in Paris. She was-
a quizzical little woman. At 15 years old she was the
original Parisian Eva in “ Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” The novel
was dramatised by Dumanoir and Dennery, and acted in
January, 1853. Dinah was a stage name, like
Rachel (Rachel’s name was Elise Felix, and she-
was born at Mumpf, in Switzerland). Father and
mother were Alsatian Jews of Metz, a Frenchi
city until Nap 111. fooled it away. The father
was a pedlar and the whole family lived in the pedlar
van, even as the Edouin family travelled in a big vehicle
round the Victorian goldfields (riving its performances
The eldest of the Felix sisters, Sarah, withßachel, used
to play instruments and sing about the streets. This led
to Rachel being picked out by a musical entre-
preneur, after the manner of Jenny Lind and Chris-
tine Nilsson. However, her singing voice gave Wav
and she had to turn to acting, like Genevieve Ward’
De Veron, who had much to do with fugitive
glories, offered Rachel gold galore if she would dictate
her memoirs to Dumas. “ No,” said she ; “ the most in-
teresting part of an actress’s life cannot be told.” Sarah
Felix was popular at the Paris Od(k>n Theatre, but left
the stage and became rich through selling her invention,
of Fairy Water for the complexion, still used. Rebecca
Fehx was a clever actress of the Com6die Fran-
gaise. Lia Felix was popular as late as 187$
in Barbier’s “Joan of Arc.” Dinah was for 21 vears
a high-class soubrette in the ConiGdie Francaise'
Raphael Felix was an eminent theatrical manager in
Pans and London, and accompanied Rachel to America
His daughter is an actress at the Odgon. Little Dinah
who had trod the French stage for nearly 30 years in a
time of splendor, and lived 26 years afterwards, was laid
in the same grave with a man she had loved and lost
She used to place fresh flowers upon it every day.
“Prompt Side”: I see that Pollard’s Opera Co. in,
Ward’s Dominion, has revived Buccalossi’s tuneful opera,
. The Black Cloaks” (“ Les Manteaux Noirsassociated
in Australia with ex-fruiterer A. T. Dunning’s co., of which
George Dean seems to be the only survivor. Henry
Bracy, now busy on grand opera work for J.C. W was
the original exponent of the tenor r6le at the London,
Avenue in 1882, and he had as comedy companions Fred
Leslie as Don Jose, and Marius (here with Bemiard Beere
in 1892) as Don Philip. Both these comedian,s fetched, the
Big Smoke publib with the once popular “Cat Duet” in
the mill scene of Act 11. Marius, as the giddy old Spanish
sovereign with a passion for pawingpretty girls, had acatch-
phrase (which he addressed to his long-suffering queen)
“Tell me, Isabel, tell me if f am going too far.” He
said this every time he started to make love to a divinity
in petticoats. In Australia T. B. Appleby played the
chief comic rdle—one Dromez, a miller, the part Chas.
Groves had in the original London production. Appleby
was more than a comedian, as those who recollect his
Rip Wan Winkle in the third act of Planquette’s opera
can testify. His nephew was in Australia with the
recent “Miss Hook of Holland” co. Comedian Harrv
Paulton (in Australia in 1896-7) was responsible for the
English version of “Les Manteaux Noirs.”
“ Vulcan ”: Melbourne Board of Health has proposed a
new scheme to protect theatrical audiences against fire.
Each management is to be compelled henceforth to ex-
hibit a plan of the theatre on its fire-proof screen. The
said plan must be garnished about with such wise saws
as : “In the event of fire, get up and walk out quietly.”
“ Don’t push.” “ Keep cool,” and so on. The fire-proof
curtain must be dropped during the first interval of every
show. This will, at least, give it sufficient exercise to
Keep its joints from rusting, and furnish the stage-hands
with an idea where to find it when they want it. The
ordinary fire-proof curtain, which isn’t lowered from
January to December, generally' proves, when called for in
haste, to be hopelessly bbgged and rusted, and most of
the stage servitors hardly know that it is there.
Max Beerbohm, the smartest of the younger dramatic
■critics in London, gets heavily on to H. B. Irving for his
“ filial piety ” in relying almost entirely' on revivals of
plays in which his father was famous, “ for the benefit of
sentimentally-minded old play'goers and archseologically-
minded y'oung ones.” H.B. (say's M. 8.) is now a finished
■artist, and ought to strike out an original line. “ I
recommend to him the impiety of being henceforward
himself. Not even Hamlet, sorely lacking in initiative as
the was, spent all the time in following his father’s ghost.”
“Louis”: A great fuss is being made about “grand
opera in English,” but what about “ English grand
opera”? Dead as the rabbit of Assyria. While we throw
ourselves into ecstasies over English versions of foreign
composers, the poor English ditto is neglected. Carl
Ko«a, who did so much in his time forgenuine native
English opera, deserved, but didn’t get, a tomb in West-
minster boneyard. Some of the original works lie
mounted, along with Gus Harris, at Drury Lane,London,'
and the Court Theatre, Liverpool, and elsewhere in Fog-
land, would bear transplantation to Australia. All lovers
of good melody' would welcome Stanford’s “Canterbury
Pilgrims,” Oorder’s “ Nordica,” Goring Thomas’“ Esme-
ralda” and “ Nadeshda,” Mackenzie’s “ Colomba,” and
-MacCunn’s “Jeanie Deans.”
OE
Health
is the
Best Wealth.
Happy are the homes where California Syrup of Figs is
always kept handy as a safeguard against sick headaches,
everish colds, bilious attacks, indigestion, sluggish liver, and, most
important of all, constipation, with its serious tendency to become
habitual if not properly counteracted. California Syrup of Figs
has just the required influence on the organs which ensures their
being cleansed promptly and thoroughly, without that violent
action of purgatives which weakens the system and tends to make
constipation habitual.
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
Its equal suitability for the delicate, or robust of all ares
makes California Syrup of Figs an ideal corrective
which no family can afford to be without.
Please that the circular Trade
n- .. Mark shown herewith
JNOtlCe and the full name
of California Fig
Syrup Co. are on the package.
Of Chemists,
id two sizes.
STYLISH BOOTS FOB MEN
Tliis Stylish Gent.’s Bal. Boot can be had in five
shapes, either Tan or Black. Is the verv latest
style and eminently suitable for Summer wear.
Price 18/6
Postage
9d. extra.
Sample line of Ladies’ Imported Shoes,
with Wnrt.embnrp heels, in seven sizes,
either Black or Tan. Very special value.
Price 7/G.
Send for our Booklet, “ Shoelight.”
LEEHING’S,
103 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
303 Chapel Street, Prahran.
1 and 3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
©
r.o
ENO S FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating ot Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno's ‘Fruit Salt ’ assists the Functions of the Liver Rnwpio ,
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken
stages of a aisease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious iUnessf 1 *
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S 'TItUIT SATT'
otherwise you have the sincerest form of flattery -IMITATION
Prepared only by % Ud. MLHrwoHKB. London,
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
sdf
LIGHTING
■
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest lllummant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
A W e( ! t,J « N.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W
and Victoria, .Thousands already in use in-Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.'
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 GO., 5 Spring Street, Sydney.
THE TRAGEDY IN ONE ACT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HORRIBLE TRAGEDY !—FULL DETAILS!!
—Any evening paper, any evening .
Ere in the morning:, cool and sane,
The Evening Bloodstain’s editor
Doth climb into his clothes again,
He humbly kneels upon the floor
And prays in all sincerity:
“ Give us this da}' our tragedy !
“The frowsy streets where fights abound,
The busy wharves where cargo swings—
’Tis there the headlines thick are found
In gory fights or breaking slings.
O Gods of Chance and Destiny,
Give us this day our tragedy!
“ A wreck—a suicide—a fire —
A railway accident—a flood—
Something to make the world perspire.'
And feel ice-needles in its blood.
Let it befall ere stroke of Three —
Give us this day our tragedy ! ”
The working day departs in peace,.
And peace doth reign in train awfßost,.
Where workers, clean or daubed with grease;,
Over their Evening Bloodstain, gloat,
While speeding homewards happil}- •
“ Give us this day our tragedy ! ”
The gun must burst—the boat must sink,
The rope must break—the trains collide
W e are not certain, but we think
’Tis written on the Other Side.
So we on this side cry to Thee :
“ Give us this day our tragedy ! ”
N.S.W.
E.O.F.
:.v
mm.
s-
BY APPOINTMENT
TO H.M. THE KING.
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
SCRUBB’S-AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes,
oplendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Remove 3 Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing;. Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites,
nvigorating m Hot Climates. • Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
51 >
*
i®^
PALMER TYRE,
SHOWING SQUARE
TREAD WITH
CIRCUMFERENTIAL
GROOVES.
The Reason Why a
The Palmer Cord Tyres
I take precedence with
experienced motorists.
Absence of internal friction makes them the
coolest running tyre.
They increase the speed at a lower con-
sumption of petrol.
They raise less dust—have greater wearing
powers than other tyres.
Their immunity from side slip make them a
safe and gilt-edge tyre investment.
PRICE LIST FREE.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY,
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Perfected. Self-Fining FOUNTAIN PEN.
Everyone is interested in tlie New Invention applied to the “ Torpedo ” Self-filling- Pen. It has the following
advantages Fills itself id a moment; Cleans itself instant!} 7 ; No rubber to perish or other parts to g-et out
of 01 dei , Does not leak or bjQt, and is always ready to write : Twin feed and all latest improvements.
The Makers claim the TORPEDO ” Self-fillingr Pen the Best Pen made,
being convinced everyone should use it.
A REMARKABLE OFFER is MADE TO READERS OF “ THE BULLETIN.”
The 10/6 “TORPEDO” Self-filling: Pen, with 14-carat Cold Nib, for 4/-; or 3 Pens for 10/6.
The 15/- “TORPEDO ’’Self-filling: Pen, fitted with Massive Diamond Pointed 14-carat Cold Nib, 6/-;
or 3 Pens for 15/-.
The 21/- Cold Mounted Self-filling- Pen, with 14-carat Cold Nib, 8/-: or 3 Pens for 20/-
DPP VP ADG» /ITT ADA "VT TTU'T?’ \UTfTTT '
A THREE YEARS’ GOABANTEE WITH EVERY PEN FOR RELIABILITY, and if you are not satisfied,
money will be returned or Pen exchanged till suited. Points can be had Fine, Medial
, , „ ■ ,■ ! - x i ,, c jjicuium, Broad, or J, soft
or hard. Evfcry Pen, securely packed, sent by Registered Post to ensure safe delivery.
Readers of The Bulde-hic can Lave full,: confidence ; n e “ TORPEDO ’
reliable, or such pleasure to use.
Pen.
No other pen so simple,
ORDER AT ONCE. Metiers: BLOOM, & CO. LTD., 37 Cheapside, London, E.C. Agents appointed.


BEALE PIANOS
FRANCO-BRITISH
EXHIBITION,
LONDON,
1908.
/£
$
%
Ik
a
n
SB!?h
CMnoS
'r 1
£
//
■*./
m
<*' ■
£
yy.'f
i
mm
so
vv
1)
ff
v
AWARDS ?
Grand Prix,
Diploma, of Honor,
and
Two Gold Medals.
COPY
r $3O fffy£neJJ.
o4<lm>Uw« •-
- /4e<yo&bris fynum/.
5
ts/IUtT/l/, fVC.
16th. December, 1909,
Messrs. Beale & Co., Ltd.,
Pianoforte Manufacturers,
Sydney., Australia.
Dear Sirs,
In reply to your enquiry; I am instructed by my
Directors to inform you that the various Pianos you supplied
to this Company are.giving entire satisfaction and to say
that they are much appreciated.
I am, dear Sirs,
Yours faithfully
Secretary.
And on February 12, 1910, we received the following cable:—
STRAND PALACE HOTEL, LONDON, FRIDAY.
We require another Beale Horizontal Grand Piano. Execute the order with all possible despatch. Philharmonic pitch.
BEALE CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
-378 George Street, Sydney (3 D c“or 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 Queen Street, Brisbane (next G.P.O.—our Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay Street, Perth, WJ.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Goulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
* Mackay and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. Write for Catalogue, or for Representative to call.
Head Offices & Factories : Trafalgar Street, Annandale, Sydney.
Cash or Easy Terms. 25 Years' Guarantee. Repairs and Tuning.
Old Pianos Allowed For. Direct from Factory to Family.
Save importers' Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


IN
BANANA LAND
Sand.
“ Mallarapoonie” writes on a drifting subject:—
Among the most striking— not to say astonishing—
features of the Queensland central regions, and more
particularly of the Lower Georgina and West Diamentina
country, are the solitary sandhills, upreared like petrified
tidal waves from the floor of the dead-level seas of blue-
bush. Low down on the vast flood-plains, which
are subject to inundation by those rivers in times
of heavy wet, are to be found the great isolated
sind waves rearing their steep, bald, wind-scarred
crests as high as 80ft. above the black-soil expanse.
Exactly how those curiosities were formed is a
subject open to some debate. They stand like minia-
ture mountain ranges of pure, unbound, wind-desiccated
sand, finely disintegrated, and mostly white or red-grey
in color. Their ridges run for leagues, trending mostly
north and south, upreared out of wildernesses of sun-
cracked river silt. They are clothed, for the most part,
about the base with a few saline growths—pigface, roly-
poly, and perhaps some stunted needle or wild cotton
bushes; but they are clean and naked at their summits,
where the prevailing winds, sweeping across the wastes
play listlessly with their shifting substance, rolling it to
and fro and from slope to slope.
Of course, the natural hypothesis is that the sandhills
were formed in very remote times before the rivers com-
menced to bring down their earth-impregnated waters
from the great lower cretaceous beds high up on the
watershed, and, by inundation, to distribute their silts
on the vast clay plains from which the dunes were swept.
But what particular set of circumstances made for the
selection of the sites of the dunes, or located them
almost exactly north and south, Heaven knows. Heaven
also may be presumed to know how- the hummocks
have withstood the levelling agency of wind and weather
through the ages past. They seem as clear cut and
erect as though uplifted last year ; though, as a matter
of fact, they appear unassociated with the topography of
the rest of the country—isolated, as it were, by the
dignity of extreme age.
Furthermore, it would seem that the sand-dunes belong
to two (or more) distinct periods, which point to two (or
more) distinct movements of the earth’s crust. The
first period was that following the uprising of the region
from the floor of the cretaceous sea, the drying back of
waters, and the fracturing and disintegrating bf the
sandstone beds t.e., the period in which the dunes were
swept up. The second was the period of subsidence
which permitted of later inundations of the region by
river silt, and ended (by permeating and bindin<>-
the sand-plains with soil) the truly appalling
of atmospheric demolition which must have been in
vogue. Out of this idea arises a thought to the tremen-
dous power of the agency which upreared those Old
solitaries, and a question : What kind of an Inferno must
that region have been when they were in the making?
Only those who have knowledge of places whereon the
wind has been permitted to wreak its free and Unham-
pered will have any conception of what an appalling and
devastating element plain, ordinary air can be when its
power is turned loose, as it must have been in the dim
Pliocene times, to vent its fury on an unprotected waste.
r urther, there is to be seen in those lands evidences
of the strenuousness of old days long dead. Ancient
ocean beaches are traceable with the trend of some sand-
hill belts beaches where once Eocene surf hammered
the sand and on which now abut, not sparkling seas, but
illimitable tracts of stone-strewn plain, stretching in
purple barrenness as far as the aching eve can scan ° On
those ancient shores are reared the white-capped sand-
hills, glistening in the noontide sun, bald, wind-worn and
grim, set like gleaming fangs in the desert’s jaws.
The Queensland Labor party is distress-
ingly slow over the Australian elections. Brisbane
has only just picked its man—one Finlayson, a
fruit merchant and temperance apostle. The
Oxley (Edwards’ seat) apparently can’t produce a
Labor candidate at all; while the chosen Darling
Downs man after considering the situation for af
few weeks, has handed back his ticket. But these
three seats number about 100,000 electors - and
though a Labor man may not be able to win them’
a vigorous campaign is needed to save the Labor
Senators from disaster. For the fate of the
Senators is going to be settled in the Houth. *
One H. C. Ttansome, an unusual species
of Parliamentary candidate, has issued a pros-
pectus to the electors of Queensland, wherein he
offers himself as a fully-developed saviour of his
country. All that is necessary is to elect Ransoms
to the benate as an Independent Liberal and the
national liberty will be held inviolate so long as
he keeps his health, bays he ® ‘
To those electors who may not know me, I niav sav T
adopted Queensland as my home 50 years ago, and have
always taken great interest in political matters I have
contested several elections, but have invariably been
defeated by trickery. J
He is a supporter of “ honest labor,” and shies at
the land-tax. “ The farmers are already taxed ”
he says. “ I profess to be fully able to represent
the farmers, having run two farms for about 10
years. 1 should strongly oppose a land-tax.”
.Judged by his photograph at the top of his pro-
spectus, he is a parson—the kind of parson that is
always opposed to a land-tax—and if he saves his
nomination fee The Bulletin will be surprised.
Some London syndicators are discussing a
proposal to construct a railway from Townsville
to Ingham. Queensland’s Agent-General has had
a visit from them, with a hint that he should find
out if the Phidston Government is willing to be
hooked. They apparently don’t fear Kidston’s
boot. What they are nervous about is “the
scarcity of local labor for railway construction.”
Which, being interpreted, evidently means that
the syndicate’s idea of railway labor is cheap
labor; and Queensland ought anyhow to be grate-
ful to the syndicate for mentioning it so soon.
“Vid” : Eleven years ago at Brisbane
G.P.O. the officials were clamoring for more room,
but the State Fright boss only smiled. “Let it
rip,” he said, “ till the Federal authorities take it
over. We ain’t going to spend big sums on their
property.” And it ripped right up to 1908, when
the harassed officers almost had a strike. Mean-
time the affable Federal Government was
returning huge sums to the States to keep
the Insects quiet. Then, instead of selling
the present site at Brisbane and erecting an up-
to-date place on' a more commodious allotment
which was offered, the fatuous Federal Minister
spared a few thousands for patchwork. And now,
after 12 months’ discomfort the officials in the
patched buildings again report want of room. As
with Brisbane, so Toowoomba (five patches in
nine years), ditto Townsville, Cairns and else-
where. It is all patchwork and petty additions,
and the putting on of a hen-coop here and a dog-
kennel there, and the results are miserable
and unsatisfactory. Apropos, in less than
10 years the Commonwealth authorities will be
weeping because they didn’t seize upon the chance
to secure the Queen Victoria markets in George-
street, Sydney—by far the cheapest site offering
in the heart of the city. It looks too big now,
but everything looks too big to the person who
only peers over his spectacles at the day after to-
morrow.
MUST BRAW THE LINE SOMEWHERE.
"Don't tork like that, Maria. I’d do anything at all fer you.”
“Get work, then, per lazy ’ ound ."
“ Anything in RFASON, Maria.”
“ Boro Belle ” : The itinerant teacher who
instructs the young outback Bananalander has
to do a good deal of humping of- Matilda. One
man’s educational run comprises the district ex-
tending west and north from Cloncurry to the
Territory border, and to the Gulf near Burke-
town. He has to travel 900 miles to get round
his dominion, and this was done four times last
year. The camps of miners and boundary riders
are visited, and the distance from one to the other
often means as much as four nights’ camping-out.
In addition ter other paraphernalia the wandering
teacher carries a stock of remedies wherewith he
ministers to the health of his scattered flock of
youngsters.
“ Boro Belle ” writes ;
Maekay, which boasts ] 0 large sugar-squeezing factories,
has just taken the first step towards getting an outer
harbor built. At present the town is served with a tender
service, across the bar of the Pioneer River, out to Fiat
Top Island, sojua, two miles from the mainland. There
e M? hipP T combine keeps the unfortunate passenger
b :i ab rG Vain?, ° r - the bj k boat six or
12 hours. So Jlackay is given a,-wide berth, save
for a few_commercial travellers, showmen and noli-
. J-®, harbor Board, which collects a yearly
ston in f On °>. arose about a year ago and asked' Phi.i-
-«n tw ° W -G C 0 '"cease its borrowing powers
wftli h which J l n' Srf "' ° ,tain a Quarter-million loan,
. msed nn it. construct a jetty. Phidston re-
, fused, on the ground that the revenue didn’t iustifv
fts e ts,T e oti ? a,bor Board then looked into
of harbor due s, and found that the biggest
article of export—sugar—was only charged fid. a ton
w ereas in other towns the rate was 2s. a ton The
Boardlooked harder, and found that, years ago
the tfine a o°f rhl" 2s - a ton, but at
reduced to ' fid on droUffhfc ’ tbe figure was
muwt ,h ;°, 9 ‘ on . the representations of the
while the the n a i gln of profit was - 80 scant. Mean-
and better ° n and the harves > became better
therecord’ a h e SpreSentyear P rn| GBes to easily be
millers had ?£ tr ?- Powerful eye discovered that' the
V Si; n J 1 tbe tlme been allowed 2s. a ton by the
Harb l dr ( RoTd any k ° C ?l er har bo'' dlles ' Thereupon the
Price un to vs r ° Se . w ' tb £reat enthusiasm, and put the
vet died n,,. 2 ’ v pal ": Tbe shou t of the miller has not
have i-mndo ’ „ the Board estimates it will now
unt tm’p o hidL £ 2 ’° o( ! a - vear coniir| g in , and intends to
MackaTtincd d V nd make another attempt to have
Maekay fitted as a deep water port.
That Southern Cross!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
WE LL let you sing of wattle bloom,
O Poet small, if sing you will;
Although it fills us up with gloom
To hear again that “ wattle” trill ;
We’ll let you woo and coo and hill
Of Dora’s hair of silken gloss—
(We’re pleased to find she owns it still)
But spare us with your Southern Cross !
We’ll bear it when you ’gin to boom
Our Harbor and our One-Tree Hill;
We feel that till the Crack of Doom
With song thereon you’re bound to fill.
We’ll bear it when our song-birds spill
Their lovelorn lays of flighty Floss
If but they’ll spare that bitter pill—
That saddening, maddening Southern Cross !
We know the sliprail must have room,
And lilting lassies lilt on still,
We’d like to drown in dam or flume
The bard who has no local frill;
But him we’d damn to direst ill
That hopeless loon whose metric dross
Presumes our callous hearts to thrill
With ravings re the Southern Cross.
Envoi :
’Tis not our wont to seek to kill,
But to the Deil we’d gladly toss
The bard who calls our creek a rill
And raves about the Southern Cross !
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane. February 26, 1910.
My Dear Tharoomindah,—
Already there is a twang of autumn in the
morning air, and with the first whiff of it the
Macgregor is thirsting for adventure. Accord-
ingly, all going well, he intends to set out, in com-
pany with Mr. Speaker, for the woolly West next
month. There’s a suspicion that he really wants
to find a new microbe or two, for his Ex. is a
medical man all the time, and a Governor only
now and then. Anyhow, after the Macgregor
wanderings, there’s a hope that something more
may be done to abate the eye-sufferings of the
little ones in the Outback fly country.
The Cabinet has had an epidemic of travel
during the past week. Kidston and “Bishop”
Barnes went in search of sewerage experts, the
Home Secretary fled to festive Goondiwindi, and
the Minister for Railways made his escape to
giddy Goombungee, which was having a show.
Now the Minister for Lands and he of the Rail-
ways are off to Roma. But what’s the dignity of
the country cqjjiing to? Time was when the"ser-
vants of the people took a splected number of
their masters with them on these jaunts, and used
them up afterwards as election committees; but
now they fly about unattended by even so much
as a Courier reporter.
Major Kyngdon, who is a D.A.A.G. or some-
thing else serious, has arrived to take up the
labors left behind by Major Harrington Morris.
The new arrival has all the qualifications for social
success grafted on to a stern eye for defective
shooting.
Queensland’s swimming ladies have returned to
their native baths from the recent inter-State
carnival in Melbourne. They are in a perfect
haze of indignation. It wasn’t thought anything
out of the way to want to pack ten of a visiting
team into three rooms, they say ; but the energetic
manageress (Mrs. Jack Wiley) put down her
prettdy-shod foot on the sardine idea; and then
there was a row and a writ and a rebellion. The
Queenslanders found the climate a mixture of the
Bad Place and the Arctic regions, and the water
was so rough that more than a few little wins
were out of the question. But these drawbacks*
they explain, couldn’t be helped ; what they
minded was the lack of fresh air, and the local
association’s lack of business methods.
Brisbane officialdom is in a froth of discontent,
all because Kidston has given the much kought-
after presidency of the Water and Sewerage
Board to a southerner hailing from Melbourne.
President Arthur Midson, of the old Board, is said
to have been so sure of the new job that, like
several candidates for municipal honors last week,
he had his picture taken afresh ; and if all the
other candidates did the same thing, there must
have been a boom in the photo, business. The
Cabinet was divided over two men at £lOOO
a year; then it got out of its own troubles by.
choosing somebody else altogether at £750. Now
Brisbane is being invited to insurrect over the
importation of a “ cheap foreigner.” But it will
probably think better of it, and remember that
Melbourne wasn’t petty enough to howl when
ex-Queenslander Dr. Ham was . lately chosen as
chairman of its Board of Health.
Mr. and Mrs. John Stevenson are this week
moving out of Fernberg in order that those
spacious halls may be made ready for the Mae-
gregor. Tne present occupants are taking a cot-
tage by the bay side of Sandgate for the rest of
the summer.
The effort to raise a trifle for a christening gift
to H.M.S. Commonwealth caused a meeting at
the Eschenhagen Cafe, at which the new mayoress
made her official debut. She is a small and com-
fortable person who does not seem to feel unduly
heated in the seat of the mighty. Mr. Mayor
doesn’t seem so heat-proof ; hence the matter of
the long-deferred Town Hall foundation-stone
may be expected to have its due effect upon him.
He may even be driven to get up some night and
lay the blessed thing without fuss, so that when
the reactionaries awake they will find the matter
completed. At present an unsightly hole deco-
rates a portion of the Albert-street corner where
the cube of granite ought to be.
How’s this for casualness and courage? Re-
cently the daughter of a close-in squatter had her
finger bitten by a snake in the twilight The
reptile was not visible, but she took no chances
A male cousin was requisitioned to at once slash
f ° pen ’ ?°\ ld £ S cr - vstals were applied
after the poison had been sucked out, and the
first intimation that the parents had of the affair
was a request to ring up the doctor. That
energetic person, having arrived per motor-cycle
assisted to keep the drowsy victim awake until all
danger was over, when a night’s rest completed
the cure. No fuss, no screams, but lots of
presence of mind and grit.
Miss Daisy Clifton who won in the Queensland
section of The Lone Hand “Fair Women” com-
petition, has decided to turn nurse, and will
shortly enter on training. Which reminds me
that one of the prettiest of local ministering
angels is a niece of Arthur Morgan Lieut -
Governor; she is a daughter of Brisbane’s Dis-
trict Lngineer for Railways.
• Robin Dods have returned from wandering
in foreign parts. The man of the house, who is
our most fancifully-minded architect, has brought
home a trunkful of ideas for villa residences and
town halls, not to mention some dainty works of
art for the pretty New Farm home.
When the Island steamer Moresby went on to a
reef one day last week, and the third heavily,
aden boat didn’t get ashore for 36 hours, Bris-
bane people didn’t worry much. They reckoned
it must be all right—Captain Osborne was aboard.
iNot that Captain Osborne is a mariner. He is
merely a mining captain who helped Philip
Charley to float the Great Fitzroy a while ago.
But he has been knocking round in all sorts of
places for close upon SO years, and he has been in
more tight corners than most men can even dream
about. Lately he was sick; but after pulling
himself together in Tasmania he insisted on going
to have a look at a new copper mine in Papua.
Philip Charley tried to dissuade him; hut when
Charley pointed out that a Papuan swamp was
hardly the place for a convalescent of 80 or so,
there was nearly an insurrection. It’s all the
effect of this deadly climate of ours, I expect.
Yours affectionately,
MABIO.
Brisbane persists that Premier Kidston is
only waiting till the Australian elections are over
to go to London as Agent-General. The Cabinet
is not a happy family, and when the vacant port-
folios are filled up, there will be ructions in the
party. Toltnie, Forsyth, Macartney are all
aspirants, to say nothing of Macintosh and various
small fry ; and no Premier can satisfy them all.
The Roma (Q.) gas bore is becoming an
adept swallower of tools. It has now three sets
in its innards. The last set was lost the other
day in an attempt to haul up the second set,
which had been lost in trying to recover the first
lot. A deputation which waited on State Treai-
surer Hawthorn recently to ask for a grant for
removing the obstructions, didn’t get mueh en-
couragement. He told them that as they had
already had a £5OO grant, a loan of £2OO was all
tney would get this time. The Government has
spent something over £OOOO on the tool-eater, and
thinks that’s quite enough.
To find the Big Australian go outside the big
cities. You can find him—scores of him—in the Faf
North. Thus the other month the Bovril people,
who have bought Victoria Downs and other N.T.
squattages, proposed to establish works at Wynd-
ham. Port Darwin said it was a mistake—they
ought to get some nearer place than that. But
Port Darwin didn’t howl for the works for itself.
It didn’t want everything dragged that way. It
knew that the more shipping places there are the
quicker the country will move ahead; so it
sent out an expedition to find a track from
Victoria Downs to some place suitable for ship-
ping ; and after a lot of labor the place was found
at Indian Hill, on the Victoria River.
THE
MARSHALL
■sHotl
0
ASK FOR
MARSHALL
STYLE
BOOK.
Look
for the
Name
on the
Strap.
Marshall Shoe Co.,
Richmond, Vic.


“ Maori ” : The Commonwealth Post Office
officials might learn a point from South America
when they are casting round for replies to a worry-
ing public. To an inquiry as to the loss of certain
parcels, the head of an Argentine post office
wrote: —“The parcels were delivered in error to
Senor ,T . That gentleman, however, had the
misfortune to be assassinated, and further inquiry
is therefore impossible.”
CANT
B'
BEAT
g
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
J/-EACH POST FREE 1/2
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
'STOREKEEPERS* TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND TOR OUR TRADE US T
sdfg
“KURLO” produces beautiful curls or waves—no
pins or tongs required. Curls the straightest hair if
not too short. Pleasant, harmless, not sticky. Not
affected by sea air, .damp weather, or heated rooms.
Bottles, 2S. 6d., post free.
American Toilet Agency, Box 466 G.P.0., Melb.
sd
’NUHAIit" Restorer makes hair grow, prevents
falling hair, gives beautifnl gloss to dull hair, re-
| stores grey hair.
Bottles, 2S 6d. and 55., post free.
American Toilet Agency, Box 466 6.P.0., M«lb.
£
“GKO-A-Mu” forces growth of moustache and
whiskers. Bottles, 25., post free.
American Toi.et Agency, Box 466 G.P.O. Melbourne.
Briar
Pipes
GBD
Briar
They copy us
They follow us
They never catch us.
You buy
and you buy
the Best.
GBD
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Mahager : .T. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING, AX 8.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
has Achieved a Singing and Acting' Triumph
—IN
A WALTZ DREAM.
The Beautiful Viennese Light Opera, by Oscar Straus and
Hamish MacCunn.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE & CLYDE MEYNELL SEASON.
Positively the Farewell Season in Sydney of
OSCAR ASCHE—LILY BRAYTON CO.
in a Magnificent Production of Shakespeare’s Comedy,
THE MERCHANT OF VENICE.
Prices —65., 35., 25., Is. Plan at Elvy’s.
SYDNEY GLACIARIUM.
DIRECTION OF T. J. WEST.
Nightly at S; Matinees. Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30
W K ST’S PICTU RE S,
“THE FINEST IN THE WORLD.”
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s, Is (id, Is, &. Gd. Popular Prices. 6d, Is, Is 6d, & 2s.
Amusements.
HE LYCEUM
EVERY EYENING AT S
T
M ATI HECS-WEDNESDAYS. SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2 30
CPENCER'SIHEATREKOPE <s>
J PICTURES
-o rfKE SUPERIOR ro /.ILL OTHERS. *
Popular Prices —Plan at Palings.
IVOLi THEATRE, S Y O N E Y.
Sole Proprietor & Manager — Mr. Harry Rickards,
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
WILLE BROTHERS, Acrobatic Artists.
THE MARVELLOUS MAD MUSICIAN, VASCO.
ALEXANDRA & BERTIE.
TWO VIVIANS.
Vliss LILLIE LANGTRY.
Mr. TOM DAWSON.
BERT TERRELL.
KELLY & KINGSTON.
POST MASON.
Mr. HARRY MARTE.
Miss OLGA GREY.
DOROTHY FORBES.
A BA-BE’S LIVING POSTCARD ALBUM.
PRICES—3s., 3s. and Is. • Plan at Palinsr’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
HAPPY TOM PARKER, Comedian and Dancer.
WM. ROBYNS, Operatic Basso.
THE AUSTRALIAN DARTOS.
THE HARMONIOUS HUXHAMS.
BROTHERS MARTINE, Comedy Trampoline Acrobats.
THE DONNELLEYS, Specialty Dancers.
Plan at Allan's. it®* PRICES—3s, 3s, Is.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager —William Andkrson.
SOMETHING NEW. SOMETHING SENSATIONAL.
Mr. WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS
DRAMATIC CO.
—IN—
THE PRINCE AND THE
BEGGAR MAID.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
JER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
* Lessee and Manayer : J. O. Williamson.
SATURDAY, MARCH 5,
THE LION AND THE MOUSE.
A Graphic Play of American Power Money.
JULIUS KNIGHT as JOHN BURKETT RYDER.
KATHERINE GREY as SHIRLEY ROSSMORE.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual
yHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
AN UNDOUBTED TRIUMPH.
Messrs. CLARKE & MEYNELL’S COMIC
OPERA CO. in
SERGEANT BRUE.
Prices—ss., 35., Is. 6d. Plan at All in’s.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
RUPERT CLARKE and CLYDE MEYNELL Present
GEORGE WILLOUGHRY’S ENGLISH FARCICAL
COMEDY CO. in
THE NIGHT OF THE PARTY
Weedon Grossmith’s Funniest of Farcical Comedies.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices—ss., 35., Is.
IRTHSOLYMPIA
every evening at 8.
W
M ati nets-Wedhesd ays. Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30.
CpencersiSeatrejcope <?.
JPICTURES
-o. pre superior. ro pll
Popular Prices Plan as usual^j
G LAC '
A R I U IWI,
Lessees
MELBOURNE.
J. &N. TAIT.
J.fc'N.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & HoUdavs.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
WE S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE PERMANENT HOME OF THE
UNEQUALLED and UNASSAILABLE
WEST’S PICTURES ™ E “K LL .
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
THE FINEST PICTURE HALL IN THE WORLD.
Popular Prices—l/6, 1/-, and 6d. Dress Circle, 2/-.
Box Plan at Glen’s.
Children 6d. TO ALL PARTS at Matinees, except D.C. 1/-
THE JES THII S, ~
“ARCADIA,” ST. KILDA ESPLANADE
(OPPOSITE FIGURE 8),
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME ON MONDAYS.
PRICES—Is. 6d., Is., and 6d. Plan at Glen’s and
Haber’s, St. Kilda. Day Sales at Ronald’s Central.
A GENUINE MEDICAL BATTERY
We offer a genuine Electric Battery—
the same kind that is used by the best
hospitals and by medical men in private
practice.
Anyone can use it.
It is a sure relief for many nervous
complaints—for SCIATICA, BUM-'
BAGO, RHEUMATISM, etc.
It can be made strong enough for an
adult or weak enough for a child.
Price 35/- Post Free,
a
or Write
for BooKlet.
JORDAN’S
(formerly OSBORN & JERDAN),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS
and ELECTRICIANS,
393 QEORQE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
INDIGESTION!
m
&
X 2
Baa
o~
ANGRY TURKEY: “ With my last breath I denounce thee, and may
my last ounce choke you with Indigestion ! ”
CRUEL KITCHENER: “ Pooh! Pooh ! Fisher’s Phospherine is my
fortification and protection ! ”
Eight drops in water after meals is the greatest aid to Digestion known.
The after effects of over-eating and excess-drinking are removed by this Famous Tonic.
RELIABILITY TEST.
Mr Thomas Forsyth, of Ashfield, writes and declares on oath the following I suffered
from acute inflammation of the stomach, with a burning pain. My tongue got a thick coating
over it, and I constantly suffered from nausea. Why, I used to be almost constantly vomit-
ing I consulted two doctors at Ashfield for years without getting relief. But in three weeks
FTSHER’S PHOSPHERINE completely cured me. lam Noble Grand for the Royal
Ashfield MUIO O.F. I have been in the Lodge for 18 years. Most of the members know
of mv illness. ' Five to ten drops of FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE always takes away a sour
taste in the mouth, and keeps my stomach in regular order. Let everyone know of my case.
Subscribed and declared at Ash field this
twentieth day of August, one thousand
nine hundred and three, before me,
A. R. LEM AIRE, ,T.P.
fg
In the morning, half an hour before breakfast, take in water ten
drops of “ FISHER’S ” PHOSPHERINE, to remove a sour taste
from the mouth, and make the breath sweet and pleasant.
IF YOU PAY £5 A BOTTLE YOU CANNOT GET A BETTER
TONIC FOR INDIGESTION THAN
FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE.
ALL CHEMISTS, 1/- per Bottle. Four times the Quantity, 2/6.
ALWAYS ASK for “FISHER’S.”
POST FREE FROM
FISHER & COMPANY.
Allopathic Dispensing Chemists, 337 GEORGE STREET (opp. G.P.0.), SYDNEY.
BACKACHE!
ALMOST A MIRACLE.
Backache and Kidney Disease at Randwick.
A merchant of high standing, and also a Justice of the Peace, but who does not wish his
name published, has communicated the following. , , ,
“Suffering Acutely from Kidney disorder and muscular Rheumatism ; in fact, the whole
system felt broken down. I consulted two, eminent doctors, and also the best analytical
chemist. scientific gentlemen analysed some water I handed to them, and each of
them pronounced my case most critical. They made frequent examinations, and prescribed
for ,ny ailments. After months of treatment there was no improvement whatever, and they
pronounced my case hopeless. .
“The most distinguished doctor asked me if my will was made, declaring in a most
solemn manner that I might drop off any day.
“ A friend advised me to put the doctors to one side, and take a course ot h lbtiEK, !s
PHOSPHERTNE.’ I did so, taking three doses every day, and in one month I again handed
water to the leading doctor for analysis, and he assured me I was cured. Sincerely and
truthfully, though nearly 60 years of age, J now feel like 18, and can eat all kinds of food
snd 'dav and can sleep as soundly as a young child.
“I consider ‘FlSHEß’S PHOSPHERTNE ’ a marvellous medicine for BAD KIDNEY,
MUSCULAR RHEUMATISM and BACKACHE. It should be in every household.”
At the cost of only Is. per bottle.
If you pay £5 per Bottle you cannot get a Better Tonic for INDIGESTION, HEADACHE,
NEURALGIA, RHEUMATISM, KIDNEY AILMENTS and BACKACHE.
“FISHER’S” PHOSPHERINE. All Chemists, Is. per bottle; four times
the quantity, 2s. 6d. Insist upon “FISHER’S.” Take Nothing Else.
This famous Tonic is sold outside of New South Wales under the name of “ FISHER’S
GREAT NERVE TONIC,” therefore always ask for “FISHER’S GREAT NERVE
TONIC.” All Chemists throughout Commonwealth.


To prevent dry, thin and falling
hair, remove dandruff, allay itch-
ing and irritation and promote
the growth and beauty of the hair,
frequent shampoos with
Cuticura Soap
And occasional dressings with
Cuticura are usually effective
when all other methods fail.
Special and full directions accom-
pany each package of Cuticura.
In the preventive and curative
treatment of eczemas, rashes, itch-
ings and chafings, for sanative,
antiseptic cleansing of ulcerated
and inflamed mucous surfaces and
all purposes of the toilet, bath and
. nursery, these pure, sweet and gen-
jtle emollients are indispensable.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London. 2'
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris. 5. Rue do la Paix: Austrn
lia, R Towns <fc Co., Sydney: India, B. K. Par
Calcutta: China, Hon? Kong Drug Co.; Japan. Z. I
Maruya, Ltd.. Tokio: Russia. Ferrein (Apteka
Moscow: South Africa. Lennon. Ltd., Cape Towi
Natal, etc.; U.S. A., Potter Drue & Chem. Corp
Sole ProDS., 135 Columbus Ave., Boston.
BifPost-frce. 32-paee Cuticura book telling hm
to preserve, purify and beautify the skin and seal]
m
ARHET
M
0
; P
»
AND
HOES
234 GLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
AND ALL STATES
CHANGE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR ME.
LAXATINE The Peerless Aperient.
LAXATINE The Gentle Regulator.
LAXATINE The Lollie-like Laxative.
LAXATINE The Cure for Constipation.
LAXATINE Sold by AH Chemists.
LAXA TINE Equally Good for Children and
LAXATINE Adults.
LAXATINE ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
Confusion in the Cold-Tea Camp.
A Maorilander writes
The old row that periodically breaks out in the Cold-
Tea camp between the No-License section and the Prohi-
bition section is raging again in Maoriland, and all the
rum is ablaze. For some considerable time, both in the
Dominion and New South Wales, the Whole-Hog section
has been growing restive, and every now and then has
uncorked itself and bubbled over with indignation at the
tactics of the Half-Hog section. And, after all, there is
some justification for kicking the Half-Hog round the
yard on the plea that the Half-Hog is no better than a
total absence of Hog. In M.L., after years of organisa-
tion, hard toil and strenuous cadge for funds, the
No-License section has nothing to show but a
growing figure majority on the voting sheet, without
any r majority at all that can be demonstrated on the
teetotal sheet; and a long list of closed bars,
without any reliable list of diminished beer. Wherefore
the party which holds that No-License should be also No-
Drink is muttering severely at the procrastinating party
which says the time is not ripe. The same thing is going
on in N.S.W., where the Prohibitionists have made it
very clear that the views of the Alliance are not their
views. Sooner or later, both in N.S.W. and M.L., there
will be a serious split between the factions, and a general
reorganisation.
At Auckland recently there was some very plain
language on the subject during a debate between
Richardson, leader of the Auckland Temperance Cru-
saders, and Macdermott, a local member of the
M.L. Alliance. The debate arose out of a chal-
lenge issued by Richardson to Macdermott in support
of his (Richardson’s) statement that the Alliance platform
and policy originally, or at one period, embraced legisla-
tive suppression and prohibition of the use of liquor. A
jury of 18 adjudicators was set up to decide the point
after hearing the arguments. Richardson, after ad-
vancing evidence to show that in the beginning the
policy of the Alliance was absolute Prohibition, walloped
No-License all round the premises. “ I know,” said he;
“ that it prevents the sale of liquor by the pint, but it
does not prevent the sale or purchase of it bv the gallon,
or the hogshead, or the shipload. In ’ No-License
areas the consumption of liquor is not prevented,
and is, I think, scarcely diminished.” Which is,
of course, a fairly accurate outline of the position.
Up to the present, the No-License party, despite the
absolute knowledge it must possess of the fact that the
sly-grog industry is working overtime in most of the No-
Pub areas, has made no bones about insinuating bias or
yelling “Liar” at any investigator who published the
failures of the system. But Richardson has to be swal-
lowed, and Ricuardson declares that “ waggon loads of
the stuff are taken into Gray Lynn ” (Auckland’s No-
License suburb).
Richardson’s main grievance—and the main grievance
of the Whole Hoggers generally—-is that the Alliance has
practically entered into an unholy agreement with the
moderate drinker whereby as much liquor as the moderate
drinker desires for his private consumption is assured
him, provided that he votes for the abolition of the open
bars. In other words, the scheme provides a whitewashed
fenee round a beer-stained yard. In a final burst of can-
dor Richardson said that if the Alliance, with the exist-
ing voting majority at its back, did not return to the old
policy of Prohibition it ought to leave the track and let
some other contraption get busy.
Then came Macdermott, and, if Richardson had been
candid, Macdermott was bursting with plain defiling.
‘The fight of the Alliance,” he said, “is' against the’
‘ trade,’ and not against the beverage, or the use of liquor;
... I deny absolutely that the Maoriland Alliance ever
fought against the use of liquor." Macdermott’s argument
was that the business of urging the inhabitants to give
up the booze and stick to lemon squash was left toother
societies, such as Bands of ’Ope ; and that the time was
not ripe for cutting the grog right out where a three-
fifths majority decided for No-License.
The jury divided itself into equal parts, but the scuffle
has done the Cause no good—especially the Half-Hog
portion of it. Beyond doubt the Alliance has not altered
its view of things since 1904, when it refused Seddon’s
logical offer that when a district voted No-Lieense not
only should the pubs be closed, but the manufacture,
introduction, sale, possession, presentation and consump-
tion of liquor should all be prohibited. And so long as it
maintains that attitude there is no visible virtue in the
No-License or Half-Hog party.
r-+.
Something seems to have gone wrong with the
works again—something which brothers Brunt-
nell, Judkins and Isitt are invited to explain.
The Victorian Licenses Reduction Board closed
311 hotels in that State during 1907-8-9 at a cost
of £140,846, and vet the value of liquor purchased
by the remaining emporiums increased from
£1,607,760 in 1907 to £1.643,334 in 1909. At this
rate of increase, the Board has only to close
another thousand hotels, and the population will
spend all its earnings on tanglefoot. Simul-
taneously with this mournful announcement in
Victoria, S. Australia complains that, while it is
steadily reducing the number of its pubs, the
number of its drunks increases most seriously.
In 1895 there were only 838 convictions
at the Adelaide police court, while last year
there were no less than 1572. Perhaps it is that,
pubs being now very far apart in S. Aus., the
average drunk has further to travel than of old
between his grog and his home, and is, therefore,
more liable to meet a policeman on the way. It
sounds like a simple sum in proportion : If 24
drunks going one mile each meet three policemen,
then 12 drunks going four miles each would
naturally meet six policemen. On the other hand,
14,080 drunks, going each one yard, would never
meet more than one constable among them. But
that theory doesn’t account for the increase in
Victoria’s drink expenditure.
“Cornucopia” hears the footsteps of the coming
harvest;—
Probably half the population of Sydney don’t know
where Temora is ; don’t even know, perhaps, that it is in
N.S.W. ; yet its existence threatens to cause something
of a revolution in the Ma State. Not, perhaps, Temora itself,
but the class of country centre of which Temora is a type.
Years ago someone discovered the fact that N.§W.
couldn’t grow wheat. Everyone embraced the fact ivith
great enthusiasm, and for near a century N.S.W. didn’t
grow any wheat to speak of. Now it is ascertained that
the whole of the vast area of country, of which Temora, is
the centre, north to the Lachlan and south to the Mur-
rumbidgee, is one potential wheat paddock. Even Wya-
long the goldfield is playing second fiddle to Wyalong the
wheat-centre. Becom is a small platform-station on the
new line to Ariah Park. Five years ago, the land around
there ran about two sheep and 580,000 grasshoppers
to the acre. Last month it was sold at the rate
of £5BO an acre for township lots. Men still young
can remember when the country from Temora to Barellan
was in the hands of a comparatively few past oralis ts-
when it wasn’t in the hands of the banks. Last harvest
the Temora district turned out over 1,000,000 bags of
Wheat—five bushels to the bag ; 3s. lid. a bushel. But
this is not all. Victorian and South Australian pioneers
have shown the money to be made by wheat-growing in
those districts, and the wheat belt is being extended
right and left and all round the compass. Modern
methods are superseding the old surface scratchings, and
in 10 years’ time the Temora corner of the Ma State will be
turning out fabulous heaps of grain. And here is where
the revolution is to come in. The N.S.W. railway
’system simply can’t carry the wheat. Its rolling
'stock is insufficient, its stores and platforms are
wretchedly inadequate. Expenditure and hard work
; gan remedy these, perhaps ; but there is a fatal obstacle
‘to progress in the Bottle Neck at Sydney through which
the future groaning golden harvest must pass before it
(5 an reach Darling Harbor, where the ships are
patiently waiting their turn to load. And what
steps is Ma taking ? She is feverishly grappling
with the situation by debating how best to
build more railway from Barellan to Hillston, thus
doubling at one blow the wheat belt and multiplying bv
tens the number of bags of wheat which Johnson will
have to trundle through the Bottle Neck. Temora is
going tne right way to make history for Ma. Some of its
denizens have been guilty of harvesting 36 bushels to the
acre. If this habit becomes chronic and general, some-
thing will have to break through sheer force of wheat.
Tor if Temora finds that it has 5,000,000 bags of wheat
and Sydney can’t shift them, Temora will arise in wrath
grapple Sydney by its Bottle Neck and throttle it. I tell
you . Temora is going to be better known than Bill
Squires or Warren Bardsley.
CONSTIPATION
If you have ever been to a doctor,
because you felt ill all over, the
chances are a hundred to one that he
asked you if your bowels were right.
Why ? Because constipation is a
common sign of indigestion which
makes people feel ill like that. When
your bowels fail to expel the waste,
impurities are soon drawn into your
system, to lower your vitality, make
you dull, heavy, and right down ill.
You cannot remove the effects
of constipation without removing
the cause —
INDIGESTION!
Mother Seigel’s Syrup removes
both the cause and the effects of
constipation. This- standard remedy
for all digestive disorders is made of
herbal extracts which gently stimu-
late the liver and bowels to natural
activity ; and it helps your stomach,
too. Thus it makes food nourish
you, vclears your system without
piirging you, and keeps you in health
and strength. If you have indigestion,
constipation, biliousness or headaches,
take Mother Seigel’s Syrup daily, after
meals. It will surely, swiftly cure you.
CURED BY —MOTHER
SEIGELS
SYRUP
System
of Induced Draught for Mine Workings,
Tunnels, etc., and of Forced Draught for
Combustion, is Effective and Economical.
ESTIMATES SUBMITTED.
THE HYDROBLAST CO.,
Patentees and Makers,
FLETCHER STREET, WOOLLAHRA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
WHEN
Doctors, Mineral Drugs,
Electric Belts and similar
devices have failed to cure
you, consult the Old Herb Specialist, and you will set the
berfefit of his 30 years’ practical experience and success-
ful treatment. Arrangements can be made for small
payments by results, or when you are perfectly satisfied
with the treatment. All consultations free. Write if
you are unable to call.
HERBAL DISPENSARY,
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
sdf
WOMEN
SUFFER More
Than MEN!
Corpulence and Obesity
inflict more hardship on
women than on men.
Excess fat takes away a
a woman’s loveliness—
gives her an ugly, ungainly appearance, im-
pedes her gait, interferes with her maternal
instincts, injures her general health and
makes life a burden, rather than a pleasure.
"Fatcure"
by removing the excess fat, removes all
these unpleasant conditions. It is certain
and reliable, non-poisonous and harmless.
The fat, once reduced, does not return.
“Fatcure is always dependable, and gives
absolute satisfaction. It is the only safe and
harmless treatment for Obesity. Send 2d.
stamp for FREE TRIAL Sample and full
particulars, or call if convenient. 9 till 5.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
THE FOLLY OF DRUG-
TAKING.
Do not take tonics for nervous breakdown. They will
spur your already exhausted nervous system to further
effort; but as they give no compensation for the further
consumption of nerve force, you must suffer a reaction,
which will leave you in a worse condition than before.
There is only one way in which nervous breakdown can
be repaired, and that, is by feeding the brain and nerve
centres with Lecithin in an active, organic form. Anti-
neurasthin does this, and actually builds up the nervous
system by administering to it its natural food.
If you suffer from brain fag, inability of concentration
of thought, want of application, dyspepsia, indigestion,
neuralgia, headaches, languor and irritabilitv, send to the
wholesale distributor for Australia and New Zealand,
Eagle Street, Brisbane, Queensland, enclosing one shilling
in stamps or postal note, and a sample of Antineurasthin,
with pamphlet dealing with nervous troubles, will he
forwarded to you by return of post. [1
TOO FAT
Ladies, we have the
most successful
treatment known
for reducing superfluous flesh, especially upon the hips
waist and abdomen. We will inform vou how you can
obtain a full course of our Normal Obesity Cure bn trial
and you pay us when the desired results are obtained’
Full particulars sent on application to the
LONDON SPECIALITIES AGENCY,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
THAT HAVE CAUGHT ONI
They’re books every Australian should
read.
They’re typical Australian from cover
to cover—full of intense interest from
start to finish. They’re written,
printed and illustrated in Australia—
you ought to read them—they’re pub-
lished in cheap editions.
Here we enumerate just a few of them.
Lonely Lands, by F. E. Birtles ; price, cloth, 3/6
postage sd.
The Poor Parson, by “Steele Rudd”; price
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
Duncan McClure, by “Steele Rudd”; price
paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
(The above two combined); price, cloth, 3/6
postage sd.
Sandy’s Selection, by “Steele Rudd”; price
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Back at Our Selection, by “Steele Rudd”
price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
From Selection to City, by “Steele Rudd”
price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
For Life, by “Steele Rudd”; price, paper, 1/-
postage 3d.
Dad in Politics, by “Steele Rudd”; price
paper, 1/; postage 3d.
(The above two combined); price, cloth, 3/6
postage sd.
Settler and Savage, by Ohas. De Boos; price
cloth, 1/- ; postage 4d.
Do., paper, 1/ ; postage 3d.
On the Fringe of the Never-Never, by H. K
Bloxham ; price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
The Selector, by Janies Green ; price, paper, 1/-
postage 3d.
The Missing Link, by Edward Dyson ; price
paper, 1/; postage 3d.
Seafarers, by C. D. Websdale; price, cloth, 1/-
postage 3d.
a
And other equally good
books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.
476 George Street,
SYDNEY.
All Branches
and
Book-
sellers.
fir*
N''\\\\\
A
&
?
/y///<? •
tfoiiowf\y
$ c '" / * f /eyf
K^ri£&f' t ' X *^ s *CojeA/-'r€
' a Cee rA//v r/
of *r -
HOLLOWAY’S
are acknowledged the
longest-distance killing
guns in the world. Won-
derful results. Low in price. A week's Free Trial given.
Obtainable everywhere, or write to the Agents—
S. COHEAI SONS CO., Hardware Merchants,
310-16 King Street, Melbourne; and at London.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
&
W
MORRIS’S ]
hree Witches
n CIGARETTES
10
for
Made
London
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.


SUPERFLUOUS
HAlRand MOLES.
MANY BEAUTIFUL WOMEN have enlisted my aid to
remove Superfluous Hair and Aides, and if .you are afflicted
with these annoying little growths I am willing to extract
a few hairs for you free of charge. Then, if satisfied that
my system of Electrolysis is practically painless, that it
destroys the growth for ever, and that no scarring will
result, you can begin the treatment. Could I offer to do
this if my method were not certain ? Electrolysis enables
you to avoid depilatories, that often cause blood-
noisoning and have al «ays the effect of increasing the
hairs. I OFFER £lOO REWARD TO ANYONE
PROVING MY SYSTEM UNSUCCESSFUL. Absolute
privacy is maintained by individual waiting-rooms. Call,
write or ’phone (Central 19;>) for appointment ; or get
my new Booklet; it is free for the asking.
FACE MASSAGE A SPECIALITY.
MISS MAUD MADDOCKS,
Federal Chambers, 100 King Street,
Corner of King 1 and Pitt Streets, SYDNEY.
ENTRANCE IN KING STREET.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and interna), organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Qo.„Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
&
of
AO
*£G '
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GENASCO
READY ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing in
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe 8 Company Ltd.
583-5 Rent Street, SYDNEY,
Amott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE: childre:n\s FOOD.”
m
Under Vice-Ivegal
gsd
Patronag'e,
THE NEW TURBAN FRAME,
in two sizes, 1/6 and 2/6, postage 3d. extra; covered with natural
hair, 21/- Light, dull and grey shades extra. Obtainable only at
The MISSES ISAACS,
Ladies’ Hairdressers. Hairworkers, etc.,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Telephone 21b,S Central, between Elizabeth and Castlereaprh Streets.
Combines Made Up. Country Orders promptly attended to.
fg
Useful, Instructive, Handsome
Height 12 Inches.
IS
S. SMITH & SON’S
(Ltd
"EMPIRE
(LTD.)
55
As Supplied
to
CLOCK.
H.M.
The Kin*.
•r,
SHOWS THE EXACT TIME IN ANY PART OF THE WORLD
GLOBE BEAUTIFULLY COLOURED.
BASE HANDSOMELY-CHASED BRASS.
Price £3 3
Larger Size (15 inches) £6 6
Write for Catalogue, WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY
SPECIAL TERMS TO SHIPPERS.
00
9 Strand, London.
THIS
is one of the distinctive features of the latest
AUSTRALASIAN MODELS of the famous
B.S.A. CYCLE FITTINGS
and has been specially designed as a protection
against the possible substitution of cheap imitation
parts for the GENUINE B.S.A. in your bicycle.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —This Chain Wheel embodies the registered
B.S.A. Trade Mark, which renders the fitting of it to any bicycle
other than a Genuine B.S.A. punishable by law.
This Chain Wheel, like the B.S.A, Transfer, is the mark of
The Most Perfect Bicycle in the World.
For fuller particulars of B.S.A. Fittings, Eadie Coaster Hub, Two-Speeds,
&c., obtain the latest B.S.A. Handbook (Australasian Edition). Post freu from
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
5 Stock Exchange Building, Melbourne.
mj
An Invitation to You to Prove the Efficacy of Harlene Free of Cost.
UNIVERSAL HARLENE HAIR DRILL.
WHY BE BALD?
“ Harlene Hair-Drill ” is now the vogue.
“ Harlene Hair-Drill ” is not a mysterious
process. It is a scientific method of treat"
ing the scalp. It is, of course, the un-
healthy scalp that causes the hair to fall
out or become weak, dry, or brittle.
The scalp requires loosening, so that the
blood may circulate freely and generously
feed the roots of the hair and distribute
health. Why should men be bald and
women lose that rich blessing which is
their birthright—their beautiful, profuse
hair?
Messrs. Edwards, the proprietors of the
famous “ Harlend,” winch has for so many
years done a great deal to check the alarm-
ing increase of baldness, and to check hair
troubles generally, desire to spare no ex-
pense to convince the public that Edwards'
“Harlene-for-the-llair ” can do what they
claim for it; with this object in view they
are distributing a free outfit sufficient tor
one week’s trial.
The outfit comprises:—
(1) An instruction book that fully de-
scribes the nature of the hair and the cause
of hair troubles. It is illustrated and will be
found not only interesting, but instructive.
It fully explains the “ Harlene Hair-Drill,”
and the instructions are simple and concise.
(2) A Trial Bottle of Ilarlene. This trial
bottle contains sufficient Harlene for the
scalp and hair to carry out the week's hair
drill with thoroughness.
Iteinember this is a free trial. The outfit
will be sent on receipt of the coupon below. ,
Three penny stamps must be euclosed for
postage, although, if the package is called
for, there will be no charge whatever.
Further supplies of Harlene may be
obtained from all chemists at Is., 2s. 6d.,
aud4s.6d.per bottle, or will be seutonreceipt
of Postal Order (which must lucludecarriage)
from tho offices of Edwards’ Ilarlene Com-
pany, 9b-96, High llolboru, London,
England.
To Messrs. HOWARDS’ HARLENE Co.,
95 & 96, High Holborn, London, England.
Sirs, —I desire to try your offer of one
week’s “ Harlene Hair-Drill,” and accept
your free trial offer of instruction and supply
of “ Harlene.”
I enclose id. for postage or carriage to
any part of the world.
Name
Address
195
TAILOR-MADE
COSTUMES.
cl"
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
have an excellent range of patterns of all
kinds of cloths suitable for Ladies’ Garments,
Including pure Indigo Serges, Woolly Bannock-’
burns, West of England and Scotch Tweeds,
newest designs and shades in striped and
plain Faced Cloths, and also Cloths of
Australian manufacture.
Mr; Murphy, the cutter, has a wide reputa-
tion for his success in ladies’ work, and gives
every customer his personal attention and
advice.
Ladies’ Tailoring in all its Branches.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDS
STAR DJBk
srsTrsiaiE'
Custard <« Mt
1 l -... f i •
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gopt and
Rheumatism that has-stoocl the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box.
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London, England
sdf
THE FLY PEST.
HOW TO DEAL WITH IT.
\/OU hear Some recommend poisoned fly papers,
V some, stick to the sticky papers, otiiers even
say use Formalin; but the simplest and most
reliable means of all is
With this powder you don’t have to invite the
fly to *• come into my parlor,” as the other remedies
require; you just. sprinkle it. where you know
Mr. Fly will go on the window sill, arid at the foot
of the pane, or diffuse, it in the air with the
INSECTiBANE blower.
All . Gheniists and Stores sell INSECTIBANE,.
which, though so deadly to all forms of insect life, ”
including cockroaches, fleas, ants, beetles, aphis,
etc., is
HARMLESS TO MEN AND ANIMALS.
One small tin of INSECTIBANE wiII kill 1,000,000 flies.
TRY IT.


Shipping;.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Culling- at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
J;™*DON .. .. .. £ j6 ~0 £66
' APRTOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by these Steamers.
ROUND THE WOR|,l> TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS
1-or Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SAf'DERSO' 1 , LTD..
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melbourne Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
ORVIETO ..
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO ..
OTWAY ..
ORSOVA ..
ORONTES ..
OMRAH ..
OPHIR
ORMUZ
Twin-Screw
12,130 Tons.
12,129 „
12,124 „
12,077 „
12,036 „
9,023 „
8,282 „
6,814 „
6,465 ~
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking;, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring £33.888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
Unveiling. Liberal Bonuses equitablv distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hor.. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp &Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager : R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
Capital Paid-up ' £508,197 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,824 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) . 73,500 0 0
£744.521 0 O
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ~
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Mattnews.
London Office: 31 Budg-e Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World. *
The Australian Bank of
Commerce Limited
Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.
Authorised Capital—£2, 000 OOb.
Head Office: George and King Streets, Sydney.
London Office—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS: —Philip H. Morton, Esq., Chairman ;
Chas. H. Myles, Esq. ; Sir William. P. Manning, ,Jvt. ■
Hon. Sir Francis B. Suttor, Kt., M.L.C. ; Rowland
H. Ducker, Esq. ; Geo. J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
The Bank has now taken over the active business of
THE AUSTRALIAN JOINT STOCK BANK LIMITED,
and will transact all usual Banking business.
Branches throughout-New Soutli Wales and Queensland.
Agencies in all the principal parts of the world-
-Ist January, 1910. A. P. Stewart, General Manager
The Commercial Banking [jo.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up ' £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund 1,340,000 0 0
Reserve Capital 1,500,000 0 u
£4,340,000 0 0-
DIRECTORS:
G. J. Cotien, Esq. Chairman.
Hon. H. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. ... Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager : T. A.. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager A. J. Soutar.
Accountant f*W. R. Sayers.
Secretary “ *l. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors :
W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Bircliin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
Shipping.
Nor d Deutscher Lloyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
1 PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
tv Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best, Accommodation, Excellent
Gui-ine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents. f ‘ .
REGULAR
HONGKONG
Tel. 698.
FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANILA,
and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA.
LOHMANN & CO.,
7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Bank of |)aui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up
Uncalled Capital
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits
£2.000.000
£600,000
£710,998
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: J. Cami-belc-Wood, Esq. ; W. 0.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.) ; Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L.A. ; E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY,
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
s
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,</00 tons, to sail about
March 19
RUI\IC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
April 10.
MEDIC, AERIC and SUEVIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES —Cauetown or Durban £.15 15 0 Co £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 co 30 0 0
New Sfork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 34 10 0
Melbourne 1 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
Steamer. | Tons. | Commander. | Leave Sydney.
* Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARESr- Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £3O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &e., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
* holi pay
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
Bv Coastal Mail Steamer
to Cooktown. and thence bv
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makatnbo tc
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
gsd
CRUISES. *
AND
THE ISLANDS*
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT. —INTEREST is.paid qn the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT. —CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms.' REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS,
lull particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
Office. j H DAVIES, Secretary.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
rim
£2,500,000
£1,650,000
£2,500,000
£6.650,000
DIRECTORS :
The Hon. C. K. MaeKeDar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Janies Tliomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckiand, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
„ Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, Esq. ; Shephemd Edjfeeliff Lnidlev, Esq.
»•«* Office-George St., Sydney. London Office-64 Old Broad St., E.C.
W)thvß ranc n es in all the Australian States, iNew Zealand and Fiji, and Agents and Correspondents through-'
outTasmama, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the
United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies. 6
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J- RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
Hotels, &c.
Grosveivor Hotel,
Church Hill,
SYDNEY.
The coolest and most comfortable Hotel in
the City. Every modern convenience. Ex=
cellent cuisine and service. Tariff cards on
application to the Manager.
TEL. 860 CENTRAL.
f/i\
n
"■EORGE HOTEL
* St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Hotels, &c.
W(>
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., Lcndon, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
(jIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
ostrich
TIPS.
O / A the Bunch
u post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [6
Shipping:.
THE ATELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (VV.A.)
S.S. K.varra, Maich 19.
(Without transhipment.)
.S.S. lvoombana (from Fre-
mantle), April l, callin''
at all N.-West Forts to
Wyndham.
(Shortest route to Tanami
Goldfields.)
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports Norrh to Cairns.
S.S. Grantala, March 5.
S.S. Bombala, March 12.
Best anti Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE. BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
Via BRISBANE, SUVA (FIJI), HONOLULU
and VANCOUVER (8.C.).
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER.
t Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Choice of the Finest
Vessels in the World
crossing' the Atlantic.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, Georye-street, Sydney.
F.—H.
5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “SUFFOLK.”
11,400 Tons. P. Daviks, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBAN E - - 2nd April
,) » ~ SYDNEY - - 7th April
>, » ~ -MELBOURNE - 12th April
ii it i, HOBART - - 19th April
,1 ii ~ ADELAIDE - ■ 23rd April
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dininy room on the upper deck.
Weil lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throuyhout the voyage. Suryeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric liyht throughout. Return
and Round. Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES — Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and ( 1A
LIVERPOOL ( L 49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svduey and Brisbane ;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hbhart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN <fc Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
Insurance, Public Companies, &c.
THK
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of V-essels,-Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
of various classes.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
INSURE WITH THE
Metropolitan Accident, Fire
AND
General Insurance Co., Ltd.
30 Castlereagh Street, SYDNEY.
148 Queen Street, MELBOURNE.
Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
Agents Wanted. J. J. ALLEN, Gen. Manager.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Coliins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £36,000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt: Hon.
Thomas Skene ; J. H. MacFarland, Eso., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manage:.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
GLOVER’S NEW CATALOGUE OF PUBLISHERS’ RE-
MAINDERS. BOOKS IN NEW CONDITION, but
Greatly Reduced in Price, Post Free. Biography, His-
torical Memoirs, Travel and Theology are special features.
HENRY W. GLOVER, Remainder and Discount Book-
seller, 114 Leadenhall Street, London, England.


It really looks as if the growing sedition in
India was beginning to rattle the authorities when
the Council passes a Bill to authorise the suppres-
sion of newspapers. It is as idiotic as Wade’s
Strike Suppression Act, which, so far from sup-
pressing the Coal Strike, merely prolonged it. In
the Viceroy’s Council: —•
The Home Secretary gave a startling picture of the
details of the Anti-British propaganda bv newspapers
among the youth from whom the great body of civil ser-
vants in India are drawn, and of the manner in which
peaceful villages are invaded by preachers of political
murder and sedition.
Political murder and sedition have been preached
in Inflia for hundreds of years, sometimes by one
class,’’sometimes by another. Fifty years ago the
preachers were Moslems ; now they are Brahmins.
Other preachers, much more dangerous to the
British Raj, are the preachers of “Swadeshi”—
not sedition, nor having any relation to murder.
The \vord simply means. “Mv own country’s
products for me.” One of its greatest advocates
is a Parsee cotton-mill owner in Western India,
and his profession of political faith is as follows :
In the lifeless and depressed state of Lancashire trade
our real chance of advancement lies in this —if we can
produce finer cloth at favorable rates, we can, with the
growth of the Swadeshi movement, drive out Lancashire
and Manchester to a great extent, if not wholly, from
India.
That is suggestive of future disaster for the Man-
chester Freetraders, who have lately been voting
for the big and allegedly cheap loaf. Suppressing
newspapers won’t make the niggers buy Lan-
cashire cottons.
“ The Waybacks Again.”
Another
stack ot
joy and laughter about the famous family. Is.
Points
inventors
BY LETTER. Reliable informa-
tion and advice on all matters con-
cerning- the obtaining of Patents,
and the best means of keeping the
titles thereof inviolate during the term of grant.
a. a
If you have an invention and wish to patent it, forward
an accurate description of it, and- you will receive an
answer by return o? post las to whether it is patentable,
and what will be the cost of completely protecting it (in-
cluding drawings, etc.). No charge made for such report
and all communications treated strictly confidential.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings. Collins Stroet. Melbourne.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING # MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
The Milk Foods closely approximate In composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence arc far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns.
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN «& HANBURYS Ltd., LONDON, * Bridge Loftus Sts., Sydney
o«
1
9 o
3i
Y
When Mosquitoes annoy you
S remember how useful, either for pre-
> venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
f bites, so many people have found
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
STUDY;
AT
HONE
IN
you it
LEISURE
HOURS
'Education
by Post
" mmmm—mmmmmam • «»-—■■■■
We teach by Post
Shorthand, Typewriting, Bookkeeping, Accountancy, Penmanship, Arith-
metic, Mensuration, English, Civil Engineering, Commercial Correspondence,
Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Applied Mechanics, Building
Construction, Illustrating, Designing, Architectural Drawing, Languages.
WE COACH BY POST FOR ALL EXAMINATIONS, including the
* following:—
State Public Service, General and Clerical; State Public Service, Regrading;
All University Examinations; Bankers’ Institute, Pharmaceutical, Municipal
and Shire Clerks’ and Engineers’, Sanitary Inspectors, All Accountancy
Examinations; Telegraphy, Telephone Instrument Fitters; Telephone
Attendants; Australian Trained Nurses’ Association, etc., etc.
Write for Free Copy of Descriptive Pamphlet “S.”
Federated Correspondence Colleges.
New South Wale- Stott&Hoare’s Business Col lege, Moore SI, Sidney.
Victoria. Zerebo is Business College, Melbourne.
Queensland. — Stott $ floareis Business College, Brisbane. —
South Australia r RerningtonTraining college, Adelaide.
Write to nearest College for Information, a 3 our Systems, which are
unique, are not available at other so-called Correspondence Schools.
’S3L
m
WS:
mm
MBmumm&WlA
L- e\»
QHOMS 3HI
NVHi
U3IIH3IM
Something Unique in Pens !
BALL-POINTED PENS neither stick, spurt
nor splutter, and they are so delightfully
easy to write with.
Get. a 6d. Sample Box from your stationer,
and adopt the style which suits your hand.
jpp- They write just like a Gold Nib.
ORffiSToW & GLASS
LONDON
THE
WORLDS RECORD BREAK
66 99
836
«-
4
mm
y
5175
a m $
a 1
« ui &
NO more positive proof of the worthiness of an “ Alcoclc ” billiard table conld
be given than by the splendid performance of George Gray, the young
Queensland player, in his recent match with Fred Lindrum, jun.
A Standard “ Alcoclc ’’ Billiard Table was used, and certified to by the
Amateur Billiard Association of Victoria (which is affiliated with the Billiard
Association of Great Britain and Ireland).
Gray, who made 836—831 coming off the red—used Crystallite balls, and the
marvellous accuracy with which they came off the cushions, the ease with which
the most difficult shots were accomplished, speaks for itself of the merit and
superiority of “Alcoclc” Billiard Tables.
Write for illustrated catalogue—it’s full of information.
ALCOCK & Co.
Ply.
Ltd.
397 George Street. SYDNEY ; 155 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
[3.
COO LS AN D REF RE SHES THE S-K I N
BEETHAM'S LAIT LAROLA
Invaluable
frteSKIN
in HOT
or COLD
climates.
Removes all
IRRITATION
andTAN.
(WO
Reg
DOLE.
LAIT
M.BEETHAM & SON,
CHELTENHAM, ENG LAND.
Gives a
Perfect
Complexion
Soft
as
Velvet.
BEETHAM'S LAIT LAROLA
VERY SOOTHING AFTER SHAVING
o
&
Food.
TikA
In the preparation of Benger’s Food the natural digestive principles
are combined in proper proportion with those elements of food which
are necessary to restore health and to sustain life. It assists nature
in cases of weakened digestive powers.
For Children, Invalids, and the Aged. Benger’s Food is sold
in tins, by Chemists, etc., everywhere.


OUR SPECIAL SNAPS.
Stevens’ “FAVORITE,”
22 W.R.F.. or 22 Calibre Rim Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel,
case-hardened frame, solid breech block, take down action, open front and rear sights
weight 4Jlb. Postage—l/9 N.S.W., 3/2 Inter-State.
We can supply the above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Sight and Vernier Rear 37/6.
25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each
• extra.
“The Continental,” 5.8.8. L. Bicycle Collector Gun,
410 bore, finest Sieinen’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut stock, case
hardened locks, 24in. barrel, length over all 38£in., weight about 41b. A splendid tz
gun for use in Orchards. Postage— Is. 9d. N.S.W., 3s. 2d. Inter-State. uOs>
Winchester Repeating Rifle, 1906 Model,
16 shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide action,
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges. S!
Postage—2s. 3d. N.S.W. ; 4s. 2d. Inter-State. **\JSm
“ The Continental” D.8.8.L. EJECTOR Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30-inch Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke,
Greener cross bolt, rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut
stock, snap fore-end, weight 12-gauge, about 71b., 16-gauge, about 6£lb.
Delivered,
£3/15j-
Send for our Illustrated Sports,
Fishing and Tobacco Lists, FREE.
‘SNOIAIIAIIS XOIIAI
Mead Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N. S. W.
Branches—Hunter Street, Newcastle / 273 Darling Street, Balmain ; 197 Oxford
Street, Sydney ; Church Street, Parramatta; 113 King Street, Newtown. [2
SUNSHINE
GATES
For Garden, Field, Homestead
and Carriage-Drive Entrances
They are mads in a large variety of
styles and sizes—from 3 feet to 14 feet.
STYLES— Bar, Tubular, X
Stay with Double-twisted
Cable Braces, Rabbit
Netted, and Wove Wire.
Ornamental Scroll supplied as extra, when
ordered. Hinges and Fastenings with
each Gate. They are Neat, Strong and
practically Everlasting. *1 Write for Free
illustrated Pamphlet Gl. showing Prices,
Sizes and various Designs. No other
Metal Gate Equal to Sunshine Gates
H. V. ivicKAY, Sunshine
Branch Offices: 9 Barlow Street, Sydney
56 North Terrace, Adelaide
l Melb. Show Room: 102 Spencer St.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing- it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
Send in your Application
NOW, and we will send
to your Address
one
Absolutely FREE
l>Vy
/ & Jlk ; '
(Drawn'.from Photo)
“ The
Champion
Senior,”
Phonograph
List Price,
£6/10/-
A FREE PHONOGRAPH
FOR — YOU!
Owing to the enormously increased demand forour Records
as the result of our last" Distribution of Free Phono®
graphs we have decided to GIVE AWAY a further
ONE THOUSAND PHONOGRAPHS FREE.
You may choose the machine you prefer from our various
styles, including our latest and best,
“ The Champion Senior,”
exactly as illustrated, which is listed at £6/10/- and Guaran-
teed for 5 years.
How can we afford to give away these expensive
machines without charge ? The explanation is a 4V#
simple one. We hold and control enormous
stocks of Phonograph Records. Records are 6
of course, useless to anyone without a Phonograph. Picture yourself with plenty of ammunition, but
no GUN. We propose to give j'ou the GUN to make you feel the need of our ammunition—in
other words we give you a Phonograph to create an increased demand f&r our Records. Do
you see our reason Now? We will send you one of our “ Champion Senior Phono*
graphs” Free of any charge whatever if you promise to give a practical demon-
stration of its wonderful merits in your own home circle and among your friends,
using our new and popular Records and distributing our Circulars and Price Uists,
which are sent free for this purpose with each machine. Write at once to
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING COMPANY
Opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY, New South Wales.
CUT, THIS OUT
and mail to the
ANGLO-AUSTRAUAN
IMPORTING CO, SIDNEY
I hereby make application for a
FREE Phonograph as advertised by
your Company,
Name
Street
Town
State,
fg
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cotigh, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the chest it is invaluable, as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4'6 Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by W. G. HEARIME & Co., Ltd.,
Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
IE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is Od. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.y De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, ’ls • 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, poste’d. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made.EasT, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter. Favorite
Reciter, is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, is 3d. Rheumatism and its
Cure, lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, Is ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
ls3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s6d. Aust.Miners’ GuiDE(simpletestsforminerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
Rosario, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
sdf
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmerise, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Plat Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d., Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMBRACINO
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man II is Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements ok Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Hf.ptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established S 5 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
16
Cheap Book Depot-
Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
«
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere (or the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY. .
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan's
Freemasonry. Exposed, Key to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s fid post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure., Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Compi :te Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted." The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is fid posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.


When Mary Told Her Soul.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
? mWAS Evensong— Bolotu is
That function’s native name—
And, some to prose, and some to quiz,
The bronze elect all came
Within the roomy meeting-place,
Of weatherboard and tin,
Where penitents took heart of grace
To tell aloud their sin.
Humdrum, at first, these records—just
Plain, ordinary, trite—
But growing strong, as such things must,
When rivalries excite,
These applicants at Heaven’s gate
A frenzied mob became ;
And, lo ! there rose, regenerate,
A much-too-well-known dame.
Meri Butako, dark of skin,
But murkier of mind.
Had felt “ a special call ” within,
And, with a heart inclined
To tears and self-abasement, stood
Before the gaping crowd.
And in a humble, contrite mood
Her ancient sins avowed.
That was a sad, a damning night,
When Meri told her soul;
For deep contrition’s moving might
Induced, unchecked, to roll
In a fell flood, from fervid lips
And most unflagging jaws,
Dire instances of moral trips
And outraged mission laws.
To that conventicle she brought
A tale of such a taste
That most of her male hearers sought
The outer air in haste.
For most of them were husbands, and
Their wives were sitting there,
And most had fondled Meri’s hand
When she was young and fair.
She reached their hearts ; at least, she \yaked
Their dread of common talk.
What wonder that staid Elders quaked
To see thus grimly stalk
Before them, in the public eye,
The ghosts of lapses past,
When they recked not of by-and-bye,
And of a church aghast !
Chapter and verse the lady gave
For all of her remarks,
And not a name she tried to save
In all these bygone larks.
Both sins and sinners she exposed
Beneath the lamplight’s &lare ;
Facts unadorned, and far from glozed,
Truth that was very bare.
And many households in that place
(Savana is its name)
Thus found “ the woman in the case,”
And never were the same
Calm temples of blind trustfulness
Their masters, erstwhile, knew.
When Meri wakened to confess
Domestic concord flew.
The story throbs through Tonga yet.
It deals with long ago,
But people do not soon forget
An eve which wrought such woe.
And, though Bolotu still exists,
More reticence controls
The candor of such moralists
As start to tell their souls.
But when I sit at Evensong,
’Mid mine own special sect,
And watch the primly-pious throng
Of its, self-deemed, elect,
I think of the distressful scenes
That church, too, might supply,
Should our frail Mary Magdalenes
Be moved to testify.
TONGA.
TALAFEKAU.
An Emotional Fog.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THROUGH the thin fog that still even-
ing Harry Truscott brought his motor-
launch daintily up to the old wharf at
Musgrave-street, Mosman, and saw that the girl
was punctual. He made her out, serenely wait-
ing on the gaunt old jetty. And though the
manoeuvring of the launch required all his atten-
tion he noted that, dimmed and blurred by the
fog, she had an exceedingly attractive figure.
The next minute he was amazed to find that she
was in evening dress. A soft, shimmering thing
of white, she waited, with a blue, gauzy scarf en-
shrouding her ruddy hair and half concealing her
face. Harry felt sure that the features would be
worth inspection.
For a moment Harry was tempted. As a rule,
Harry thankfully embraced temptation, and, if
occasion offered, the temptress. But now, with a
groan, he remembered. He could not play his
friend false. He must send that innocent, trust-
ing female home.
For Harry was due that evening at the ball at
Government House, and beneath the oilskin
waterproof that enveloped him he was garmented
like a magpie for the business of dancing.
But to explain his presence in a dress-suit in his
launch at this corner of Sydney Harbor at half-
past seven on a foggy evening it will be necessary
to go back and begin this history at the beginning.
The dictates of editorial persons always insist
that you should begin your story—even a true
story like this—with the Girl. Having offered up
the Girl to the editorial altar, I now thankfully
commence where I wanted to.
As he was dressing for dinner that evening
Harry remembered that he had promised the Kid
—that bright young acolyte whom Harry was
initiating into" the mysteries of Life and other
things—to lend him his launch. For the Kid had
promised to take a nice girl out in Harry’s launch
that evening.
Harry rushed through his dinner, put on his
waterproof, and got out his launch. On his way
across the harbor to the Kid’s boarding-house
Harry half-envied the Kid’s luck. For Harry
would be harassed at Government House by a
horde of nice girls, while the Kid would be alone
on the Harbor, on a night that promised the
splendid isolation of a fog, with one nice girl. He
made fast the launch and ran up to the Kid’s
boarding-house. There he found the Kid in bed
with influenza.
The Kid was sorry —more for himself than the
nice girl he was disappointing. But he appealed
to Harry to run across to Musgrave-street wharf,
and tell the nice girl the sad news.
“Is she pretty ?” asked Harry, consulting his
watch.
“She’s a peach!” lugubriously came the
muffled answer from the blankets.
Harry found that he would just have time to
make the detour on his run back.
“She’ll be dreadfully disappointed, though,”
said the Kid. He looked anxiously at Harry’s
handsome face. “ I say, old man, you won't ” ——
“Flirt with her?” laughed Harry. “Don’t
worry, Kid. She’s yours. I’ll send her packipg.”
So he had promised the Kid the launch for
another night, and gone off full speed through
the gathering fog for the trysting-place, where
Miss Dorothy Dight—such, he learned, was the
lady’s name—was serenely awaiting her lover.
And now, as he looked up at her, Harry doubly
regretted that she belonged to the Kid. Such a
night on the harbor with such as her —why, he
would miss a dozen Government House balls for
that miraculous conjunction.
As Harry with a boat-hook hung on to the jetty
the girl smiled friendly-wise at him, and promptly
began to clamber down the wet timbers.
He was too astonished at the suddenness of her
action to protest. In the dark and the fog Miss
Dorothy Dight had evidently mistaken him for
the Kid ! For the moment, he had no chance of
disillusioning her, for the descent of those slippery
timbers was an awkward one necessitating mascu-
line assistance, and Harry could not well talk to
her ankles, pretty though they were. Near:the
bottom, her foot waved vainly for foOthbld.
Harry guided it to the edge of the launch, and
lifted her bodily in. She stood prettily balancing,
still clutching his not quite necessary, but not
altogether reluctant,’ arm.
“Thanks.” she" breathed, and then Harry,
rather but of breath, got in his tardy explanation
of the non-appearance of the Kid.
“It isn’t the Kid!” she said, in dismay.
Then, peering into his face: “Of course not.
But—in the dark, I took it for granted it would
be him. And he’s ill, and can’t come. I am
sorry.”
She was so sorry that she relapsed into the com-
fortable seat of the launch.
“ I suppose I had better climb up again.”
It was almost a question as she said it, regard-
ing the looming jetty with a pouting disapproval.
“ Oh, I can’t let you clamber up those wet beams
again,” said Harry. He had noted in that first
anxious gaze of hers into his face that the Kid’s
eulogy was not exaggerated. She was the
peachiest peach he had met since Alice . . . and
Juliet . . . and Barbara . . . and Anne.
“I’ll just run you round to the Mosman wharf,
and you Can get a tram. You can land there
quite safely.”
Miss Dorothy Dight gave the suggestion a pen-
sive assent.
Harry started the engine. They backed out
from the jetty, and in a moment the fog had
obliterated the world. It seemed to Harry, as he
looked at the girl in the blurred light of the lan-
tern, that the fog had obliterated the conventions
of the world too ; but he remembered in time that
this peach grew on the Kid’s preserves.
The distance to Mosman wharf was but a few
hundred yards, but in the fog the turn round to
the head of the bay would have to be negotiated
with care or else he would find himself on the
rocks or running down the yachts at anchor.
Harry determined to go dead slow, and the pic-
ture his passenger made as he looked a,t her deter-
mined him to go even slower with his emotions.
But when his fair freight moved to his side his
attention wandered from the wheel—and perhaps
the wheel wandered too.
At any rate, when he reckoned he had rounded
the point and began to nose about for the ferry-
wharf, he found no sign of it.
“ What are we stopping for ? ” asked the girl.
“ The silly wharf ought to be just here, and it
isn’t.”
“Oh,” Miss Dight mused, with far-away eyes,
“you don’t know where you are?”
At the sight of her, so close, so terribly far,
Harry did not know where he was—unless it was
in Hell.
“You don’t seem to know much about the har-
bor to lose yourself so easily.”
“On a night like this it is dead easy to lose
oneself,” Harry said shortly. The one thing that
could annoy him was a reflection on his knowledge
of the navigation of the harbor. He had always
said that he could find his way about it blindfold.
But it was not only the fog that was blinding him
now.
He set the propeller slowly working and went
on, expecting every moment to crash into the
wharf, or a moored launch, or the rocks. The
girl gave him conflicting suggestions, and he tried
first to port and then to starboard without hitting
anything of real importance. Then, stopping the
engine, lie came to the girl’s side.
“I’ve lost my bearings,” he admitted.
“Well?” she asked kindly, making room for
him at her side.
“ We’ll just have to wait till the fog lifts,” he
muttered.
“But that mightn’t be till the morning?”
Harry was glad to note that for the first time
his passenger looked pertubed. Her wide-opened
eyes and lifted hand made a picture that blotted
out the pictures of Nancy—and Marie—and Helen
and Flo.
“ Can’t be helped,” he muttered ; and to re-
assure her he put his arm round her back—and
remembered his promise to the Kid.
He took the offending arm abruptly away and
went back to the wheel. Then he made a few
confidential remarks to the engine.
In the midst of his eloquence he felt soft fingers
on his arm.
“ It’s not your fault,” she said. “ I don’t blame
you a little bit. It was all my fault getting into
the launch without seeing who it was. Please
forgive me.”
The appeal in her voice made Harry look at her,
and owing to the faint light of the lantern he had
to look close. He saw her eyes were radiant with
unshed tears.
“ Here,” he said, “ if you come fooling about the
engine you’ll get your dress all over oil. In even-
ing dress, too.” He gently led her back to her
'Continued on next vaye.J
Life was One Long Continual Headache
A Mosman Lady tells how she suffered
from Liver and Stomach Troubles —Tried
Laxo-Tonic Pills—Was completely cured.
Headache, that common, yet disagreeable, complaint is not a disease, but jt
symptom of disease. To treat it promptly is, in the majority of cases, to pievent t e
MS
W/A
appearance of the disease of which it gives
warning. Biliousness, Liver Complaint, Fever,
Kidney Disease, etc., are all caused by bad,
corrupt matter clogging the passages, and causing
a rush of blood to the head, and consequently
pressure on the brain, resulting in Headache,
Giddiness, etc. Remove the unhealthy con-
ditions of the blood with Laxo-Tonic Pills, and
in so doing you also remove the disease they
cause.
This is what Miss N. Brear, “ Ngahuia,”
Avenue Road, Mosman, N.S.W., did, and her
letter given below shows what satisfactory
results followed. She says :
“ For several years I have suffered acutely from a com-
plication of Liver and Stomach Troubles. Instead of
obtaining nourishment and benefit from the food I ate, I
got nothing but pain and distress. Frequently I was
unable to retain my food, sometimes not being able to
keep down even a cup of tea. Headaches were so com-
mon with me that I might almost say my life was one
long, continual headache. I often had bilious attacks,
and on these occasions was so giddy that I dare not
attempt to stoop to pick up anything for fear of falling.
I consulted doctors, and tried numerous medicines, but
neither did me an atom of good. One day I saw an
advertisement of Laxo-Tonic Pills on Perth (W.A.) Rail-
way Station, and was thereby induced to purchase a box.
I took these Pills, and I can only describe the change they
produced as simply wonderful. By the time I had
finished the box I could eat heartily, and retain my food
without the least sign of biliousness. After another box
or so of Laxo-Tonic Pills I was completely cured of the
Liver and Stomach Troubles and Biliousness, Headache
and Giddiness which used to so burden me. This proves
to me that the Laxo-Tonic Pills effect a radical cure, and
do not merely gloss over one’s illness with a temporary
relief.”
We want to prove to you that Laxo-Tonic Pills are beyond doubt the best and quickest blood
purifier in the world—as well as the most reliable laxative and tonic—so we will send you a free
sample as soon as we get your name and at.dress. Send for it to-day, and when you have tried
the sample you will not rest contented until you have bought a 10Jd. or Is. 6d. box. Address
Laxo-Tonic Pill Company, 15 O’Connell Street, Sydney. On sale everywhere.
w
10fc D
1/6
Nothing can surpass
Horrockses’
SHEETINGS for
GRAND PRIZE
FRANCO - BRITISH
EXHIBITION,
1908.
G. & G. 604
durability
When buying see HORROCKSES’
name on Face-plait and decline
substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and
Storekeepers.
o
□
Unfortunately all
whiskies look alike
—that’s the trouble.
Johnnie Walker
tastes different —
That’s the remedy !
1. > ,
Its the Purity and
Maturity that tells.
Johnnie Walker is obtainable
wherever good whisky is sold.
John Walker & Sons, Scotch Whisky
Distillers, Kilmarnock.
o
Born 1820.
going
strong.
CHEAP EDITION of OH THE HOP!
Price
2/6,
Postage —N.S.W., 7(1. ; other States, 1/2.
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.


seat, and the lantern lit the loveliest white shoul-
ders he had ever seen since—well —a fortnight.
“ Why,” she gasped her surprise, as in remov-
ing his arm his waterproof was flung back, “so
are you ! ”
“Fact is, I’m due for the ball at Government
House to-night,” he lightly admitted.
“So am I! ” she laughed.
“You?”
“Yes. I wasn’t very keen on Government
House—if the Kid proved interesting, that is.
If he didn’t —well, I got into my frillies on the
off-chance. No use wasting an evening, is it?”
Harry fervently acquiesced.
“So, if he didn’t come up to expectations, I
was going to get him to run me over to Sydney,
and I could make an appearance at the ball. But
I think,” she serenely added, “ that, after all. it’s
nicer on the water to-night than in a stuffy ball-
room ; don’t you?”
Harry thought so, too. “Then you don’t much
care for the Kid?” he hopefully asked.
“That depends. If he was very nice, of course,
and was polite enough to pretend that he rather
liked my company instead of fuming and saying
things to an inoffensive engine and shutting his
teeth and regretting he had ever set eyes on me—
well, I’d like any man ! ”
She smiled up at him in a way that Harry had
seen May and Harriet and Alice and Myrtle so
often smile. The next thing to do was —well,
just the very thing he was in honor bound not to
do. He wondered forlornly what St. Anthony
would have done in the situation, and decided
that St. Anthony got his saintship cheap.
“And now I’ve spoilt your evening for you,”
she delicately sighed. “ And for a total stranger.”
“I am not quite a total stranger,” Harry hope-
fully asserted.
She nestled up to him cosily. “ Why,” she
murmured, “ we’ve not been introduced. I don’t
even know your name.”
Harry hastily supplied it.
“Harry Truscott! ” she gasped ; then in a tone
that was charged with meaning—or a hundred
meanings—she said “Oh ! ”
Harry silently cursed his reputation. Every
girl in Sydney knew him as a fast young man.
Well, he would show this shrinking, trustful
creature that he could, on occasion, be slow.
He moved away.
But a soft hand took his, and a soft voice
pleaded, “Oh, I don’t believe all that the girls
say about you, really.” She looked up at him
with big, brave eyes. “ I trust you, Mr. Trus-
cott.”
Harry squeezed that persuasive hand with a
squeeze that was meant to convey an expression
of deferential chivalry. The girl seemed re-
assured. She conveyed her absolute trust in him
in the same delightful manner.
Then, hastily withdrawing her hand, she
sighed, “ And now you can’t get rid of me, and
I’ve spoiled your whole evening.”
“Not spoiled,” Harry protested.
“ Yes I have ! You—you hate me ! ”
Harry appealed to the fog. “Why
He stopped in time. The girl was weeping
luxuriously.
Ho comforted the poor child. It necessitated
the use of his arm (to support her), his shoulder
(to lean against), his handkerchief (to dry her
tears).
After the operation she looked up at him from
his convenient shoulder. “ Now, you’ll think me
a silly school-girl, won’t you ? ”
Harry assured her that he thought her an angel.
She brightened sufficiently to lay her trusting
hand on his.
“ Then you don’t regret this fog—nor me?” she
timidly asked.
“Regret? Why, Miss Dight, this is the most
exquisite fog I’ve ever been in. Why”
And he remembered the Kid.
How, even in thought, could he have been so
base as to think he might kiss this girl who
belonged to the Kid ? He withdrew both his
arms and groped his way to the engine. He
pulled a lever, and the launch shuddered.
“ Wiiatever are you doing?” she asked.
“ I’m going to get you back to earth. I’m going
to find that wharf.”
The launch gathered way. Already the fog
fanned the girl’s cheek.
“ Stop !” she cried. “ We’ll run into something
and be drowned.”
“ I’d rather be drowned,” snapped Harry at the
wheel.
She implored him to stop. She put her arms
round him and appealed to his honor. She even
attempted to pull his hand from the lever. She
assured him she didn’t want to go anywhere, or
run down anything. Surely he did not hate her
so much that he wanted to drown her? Couldn’t
hedike her a little bit—just a teeny little bit—and
let her live ?
Harry cared not. Staring straight into the fog,
he did not even shake her arms off. He held the
little boat grimly on its rushing way, instantly
swerving to port or starboard as the doleful
whistles of wandering ferry-boats came blindly
from out of the fog. Thus they swept across the
harbor—in what direction he did not know, nor
care. At any moment he expected to hear the
crash that would tell him he had escaped.
But none came. Wondering if he had got out
side the Heads and was whirling wildly across the
Pacific, he slackened speed and swung round ; and
a few minutes later the launch, with hardly any
way on, slid softly on to a slope of sand. Harry
was saved.
He groped his way forward, and found the bow
of the launch almost against a stone wall. He
had not the remotest idea where he was ; but he
had evidently reached some private frontage on
the harbor. He threw out the anchor, grabbed
the girl in his arms, waded ashore, and lifted her
to the top of the stone wall.
“You’ve saved my life!” the girl cried, im-
pulsively flinging her soft arms about his neck.
“Oh, however can I thank you !”
He could have told her. Instead, he remarked,
“By letting me go. I must make the launch
fast.”
He disentangled himself from that dangerous
embrace, secured the vessel to the wall, and re-
turned.
“Whereare we?” she asked, as he pulled him-
self up to her.
“ Haven’t the least idea, except that we’re in
somebody’s garden. You didn’t get wet, I hope ? ”
She lifted her skirt —well, perhaps a little high,
but it was dark.
“I wonder if my shoes are damp?” she
anxiously asked. “Oh, I’m sure they are.
Please feel them ! ”
He did so. They were very dainty feet in very
dainty shoes. He was able to assure her, after a
careful examination, that they were not damp.
“Now,” he hastily said, “come on, and we’ll
find out where we are.”
“Aren’t you going to carry me?” the girl
asked.
“No.”
“Oh.”
“Look here, Miss Dight,” he said, exasperated,
“if I had you in my arms again, do you imagine
for a moment that I wouldn’t kiss you ? ”
“ Oh, I trust you,” she said with her innocent
appeal.
“ Yes, but it wasn’t you I was thinking of,” he
admitted brutally, and thought he heard at his
side a soft. chuckle of delight. But when he
peered into her face her eyes were dreamy and
demure. He remembered having seen the same
look in the eyes of Harriet and Linda and Mar-
garet and Jane ....
‘‘Come on !” he said savagely, grabbing her
soft hand.
Together they stumbled through the garden.
It was quite a big garden, or in the darkness
their progress was erratic.
At last they came to another wall, a high wall.
They followed this carefully along and came to a
little gate, locked. Harry helped her over this—
a delicate job, which, had she been Stella or
Madge or Tottie or Charlotte he would have
lingered at.
They found themselves in another big garden.
“ We’re in next door,” Harry muttered. “Left
turn ; we’ll find the house this time.”
Half-way across the lawn they found it, or
rather it found them. A blurred blaze of light
met their eyes. But as Harry hastened on be-
neath the big trees the girl pulled him back.
“Listen!” she said. “There’s music. It
must be a dance. And oh, I couldn’t be seen
like this.”
“ Why, you’re all right—evening dress.”
“ Yes ; but you ? ”
Harry became conscious of his oilskin cloak,
his dripping, flapping trousers, his soggy evening
shoes.
“They won’t notice me,” he said, and threw
his waterproof to the ground. They advanced
hand in hand, the girl frenziedly patting her hair.
They ran right on a couple in evening dress
that peacefully occupied a bower lit by swinging
Chinese lanterns. A tiny breeze was in the
boughs of the trees, and the fog was already ap-
preciably thinning.
The girl on the seat rose wi th a start of surprise,
recognition in her wide-open eyes.
“Why, Agnes!” the stranger cried, “so you
came, after all ! ”
“Dorothy!” gasped Harry’s girl—the girl he
thought was Dorothy Dight, the girl that belonged
to the Kid.
“We’ve been wrecked at Government House,”
said Harry ; then, to the girl called Agnes, he
pleasantly said, “ Agnes, won’t you please intro-
duce me to your friend ? ”
Agnes saw her lapse, but braved it out.
“This is Mr. Truscott, Miss Dight. Then to
Harry, after the other youth had been intro-
duced, “Dorothy was full up of the Kid, and
wanted badly to go to the ball. So, for a lark, I
took her place. Of course, I thought it would be
the Kid in the launch. I thought I could manage
it somehow that he could take me.”
“ You did,” said Harry, glumly. Then a sud-
den hope lit his face. “ But then the Kid ”
Agnes said, carelessly, “I don’t even know the
Kid, but Dorothy said I would find him rather
nice.”
“You didn’t even know,” began Harry.
“ Look, there’s a seat over in that far corner and
no Chinese lanterns.”
He drew her away, unresisting. They found
the seat —a most secluded seat.
“So we’ve come to the Government House ball,
after all,” Agnes murmured, making room for him
beside her.
“I say,” said Harry, placing his arm in the
position it should have been all that evening, “ I
thought you were in love with the Kid, and I
promised the Kid I’d be careful. What a lot of
time we’ve wasted ! ”
“Well,” Agnes happily sighed, “the night
isn’t over yet.”
“ This is our dance,” said Harry.
“ Let’s sit it out,” said Agnes.
And they did.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
The Kingdom of Wrong.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The slow progress of the King-dom of God is one of the
sorest trials of Christian faith. . . . Things were going
on in the same bad old way they always had done. There
was no sign of right’s triumph. Wrong seemed just as
firmly seated as ever upon the throne. — Rev. J. D. Jones,
M.A., 8.D., in The Quiver.
sIND I went out to war
In armor bright , A sun-shot lance
y M. Upon my hip. My love, her token
On my arm. A soldier pledged
To Honor's cause
And God. |v
With tears I watch the youth go forth
Into the glare of manhood’s field
High-browed, and purpose-strong to trace
The star of honor on his shield.
How swells his heart towards the fight!
How swift to greet the nearing flag !
How thrills his throat-strings at the call
Of bugles waking vale and crag !
I see him reach the crowding lines
Whence snarling challenges upspring;
I hear his clarion answer : “ Truth !
My sword and arm to Right I bring ! ”
Just as that day when I strode down
And cried my mission, so again
I mark the shrinking from the Beasts
Who pack upon him, lest they stain.
There is no war ’twixt Right and Wrong
Where all are wrong—each hand unclean !
And Youth found but a camp of thieves,
Dog-fanged and foul, and, God, how lean !
Above them floated to the sun
A flag that symbolised the part
They played e’er Death stamped out their lives—
These beasts that tore a smoking heart.
I saw him once more e’er the day
Had hid its face in lap of night—
A disillusioned man, and aged ;
Blood-splashed on left hand and on right.
Nor eye-flash there, nor clear-toned voice—
A dead Hope drifting with the throng—
A hireling sword beneath the flag
That leads the Army of the Wrong.
. . . And I crept home from war
With blooded mouth. With foul-struck dints
Upon my mail. My love, her token
Smirched is. A broken wretch
Who asks you —
Where is God ?
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.
Outdoor Workers
Fall Causes Nasty Wound—
Zam-Buk Promptly Heals.
“Q F reliable efficacy, wide utility and small cost ’’—here are
three of the MANY qualities which go to recommend
Zam-Buk as the ideal healer to
be kept handy in the homes of
working-men for the prompt
treatment of the bumps and
bruises of the children, the pain-
ful knocks, burns, and
scalds of the housewife, and
the cuts, sprains and lacer-
ations of the breadwinner
himself.
“ No home, and especially those
of working-men, should be
without a pot of Zam-Buk,”
says Mr. G. Ritchie, of O’Sul-
livan St., Wood End Pocket, Ipswich, Q.
“My occupation of pipe fixing necessitates
climbing ladders, and recently I had a
nasty fall through the ladder slipping
from beneath, resulting in a wound about two inches long on my leg. It
became swollen and was very painful, but knowing the value of Zam-Buk,
as soon as I arrived home I bathed my leg and applied the balm, and the
next morning the pain had all gone, and in a little while the swelling
went down and the wound disappeared. I was soon at work again, which,
for a man of my age, sixty-four, is very gratifying, and shows how
quickly and well Zam-Buk did its work.”
ZAM-BUK is invaluable for Cuts, Bruises, Burns, Scalds, Boils, Eczema, Scalp Diseases, Poisoned
Wounds, Festering Sores, Bad Legs, Abscesses, Ringworm, Barber’s Rash, and similar
injured and diseased conditions of the Skin. ZAM-BUK is obtainable from all Chemists and Stores
at 1/6 per pot; and 3/6 family size (containing nearly four times the 1/6 pot).
w
..lllllllltl- 1
u
s
THE.
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE. YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on tbe other band
—that is, on both bands, and on tbe
face, and on tbe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
bappy, for you will have done tbe
best tbat possibly can be done tor
tbe skin’s bealtb and beauty. Tbere
can be no question about tbat.
PEARS bas been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
A UNIQUE CHANCE for
Lovers of BLACK <md WHITE
THE well-known firm of Messrs. Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
will hold a Sale Exhibition at its New Picture Gallery,
8.9-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney (N.S.W.), of Original
Drawings which have been reproduced in The Bulletin and
The Lone Hand. The Exhibition will open on March 14
and continue till April n, 1910. This will be the most
comprehensive sale of Black and White ever held in Australia,
absolutely every artist of repute in the Continent being
represented. Practically it is the sale of the first great
Australian Artistic Crop. Australian Art may flourish, and
Artists be found under every stone ; but none of the work
they do will have the historical interest that attaches to the
collection of pictures about to be sold. These are the
first of the matured art of a new land, and, as time rolls
on, will become increasingly valuable and interesting. The
whole of this unique collection will be disposed of at
. prices so reasonable that every lover of Black and White
will be able to indulge in the luxury of a couple of
samples. The prices have been kept low for that purpose.
ANGUS U ROBERTSON, Ltd.,
89-95 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
e the Most
you must enjoy good health. While there are cases on record
of men and women who, in spite of much bodily suffering and
weakness, have yet been able to accomplish great things,
and to find some amount of happiness in life, these cases are
extremely rare, and do not at all disturb the conviction that
success in the accepted sense of the word is largely dependent
on physical fitness. To successfully overcome the difficulties
and disappointments of life, to satisfactorily discharge its duties,
and to realise to the full its possibilities of happiness, you must
be in full possession of sound, robust health. For this reason
it is all-important to deal quickly and thoroughly with every
symptom of disease, no matter how unimportant it may seem.
If you suffer in the least degree from indigestion, biliousness,
sick headache and loss of appetite, your nervous energy,
mental grip and physical power are reduced and enfeebled
accordingly. Happily such troubles may be easily and quickly
remedied, as well as completely prevented, if you remember to
6
BUCHAN'S
PIU.S
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Eng.
Sold everywhere in boxes labelled price 10\d. (36 pills),
Is. I\d. (56 pills), and 2s. 9d. (168 pills).
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
WOLFE’S
The Family Stimulant.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibaplt. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines, sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
P. Danvers Powkr.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
m
&Q
honestly and without charge.
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending 1 all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your ease
and I will advise you
S.H. HENSHALL,
Regd. Chemist,
by Examination
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing:
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/6
gsd
fg
sdf
gsd
fg
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
D/ARRHCEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seucn
Prize Medals,
Works :
M&irmtn&lnaLtm, Emgria.B'icl.
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention ’s also
drawn-to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series-
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
sdf
gsd
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centime*
SINGLETON’S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
* -
CURES
Australian Blight, Failing Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free or write
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
THE BALLET GIRL
*
X
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Poet Fraa, is.
The I.ife, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frae, Is.
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lists or Books and Novelties
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G. P. Q., SYDNEY.
ASTHMA CURE
Difficulty „in expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GBIMAULT * Co's INDIAN GIGAB-
IT T-ES. Raid bv all Ch^-am.
L h i Britisl)*flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
POST FREE, £i per year,
* in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
Price
Sale—2/6 ; Postage,
States, 1/2. The Bulletin
Street, Sydney.
N.S.W., 7d. ; other
Office, 214 George
SMtT4£
MlO'i
Superior to *
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
the same
diseases without
inconvenience
_in
48 hours.
Each Capsale bears the name
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
I Series, IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.


PERDRIAU’S
GOOD
SPORTING
FOOTWEAR.
1
_ The man who indulges in athletics of any kind
likes to have good footwear—the kind that is adapted
for hard wear and long wear. That’s why so many
sportsmen buy their boots and shoes here. White
Duck Shoes, with welted soles of pure red rubber.
Men’s, 11/6 ; Women’s, 9/6. Maltese Cross White
Canvas Shoes, Men’s, 5/6 ; Boys’ and Women’s, 4/6.
Others are listed in our Catalogue, which is free
for the asking.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“The Best House for All-Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
HOUSE LIGHTING.
BATTERY SETS
always in stock..
For particulars and prices apply:
T. K. Steanes, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Waters
IN ABUNDANCE
May be had by using
our
HOT-AIR
PUMPING
BfifflM—
vvr. *
Write for
“ B"
RkJer.
fg
Catalogue
' SIMPLICITY
& EFFICIENCY.
rpHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
JL Senes, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve. 6d •
Paoket of Ten. sd.
Reliable 8 Cheap Motive Power for Sheep Shearing Machines
THE WORLD-FAMED
"TANGYE” Oil Engines.
SIMPLE and DURABLE.
“Clayton 8 Shuttleworth’’
PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES.
STRONG and ECONOMICAL.
NOW IS THE TIME
To send in your
Handpieces, etc.,
for overhaul and
repairs.
PREPARE FOR THE
COMING SEASON
By bringing your
old outfits UP-TO-
DATE.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LIMITED,
Depot, Showroom and Workshop,
Miller’s Point, SYDNEY.
r ■
THE
THE NEW
‘WOLSELEY’
Screwless
Joint
Saves Time and Money.
Have it fitted to
your Handpieces.
R,
m
A.E.G. TURBO-BLOWER PLANT.
1
40 Clarence Street, Sydney;
172 William Street, Melbourne.
Electric Hoists, Dynamos,
Motors, Cables, Steam
Turbo Generators, Lamps
and Accessories.
SPECIALTY.
Complete Electrical
Equipment of Mines.
BROS
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(flfJolbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Comtr.erc al BarC; Chambers,
it. George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
7 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
Rabbit Proof Wire Netting
and All Supplies for
the Man on the Land.
0 m
etaittem and
60
Clarence $t
Sydney
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.,
265 George Street, Sydney;
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
T.
INSPECTION
INVITED.
Having erected a Crushing and Concentrating Plant, we are prepared to treat trial parcels
of ore at a small cost, We»*ch will enable you to prove the value of any mining proposition.
