

DEWAR'S —All that a perfect Whisky should be.
R. G. WATKINS «SC GO.,
10*7 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
S&sXHV £• £<? SSsr
Stone Sawing and
. v
rioulding riachines
For Masons and Builders.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide.
HOBART.
jjadleys Orient (joteS.
PIONEEP
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
V.
"Take it back,
1 must have—
HUTTON’S
Fine-Apple Brand I
TF
CHUBB'S BIAGONAL BOLTS
FIT PERFECTLY.
uuxv.ik.xix mime from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
fsds
HANSENS
unket,
n,
im
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
Ct^aU,
w
o
i‘2s,‘
t-i'CA.
; \' ~ ' - «*. ; .»*• ■ - ... ■ .• . .
THE SECRET OF IT’S POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
<A>
%
J>/ e
%
%
> ♦
% *
% °«?.
VM
%
%
°*
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
BENSDORPS
Dll
m
fg
is the Queen of dl Cocow
FOI^
|Arom^Stm\(jthfrPurify:
mm
J-
m
MALTIiOID has been used in the first buildings erected at the
Federal Capital. MALTHGID is water, weather and vermin
proof. It is inexpensive, easy to lay, and permanent in wear.
You need a perfect roof-covering for your building, therefore
select MALTIIOID. Send for sample and full information.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
REFRIGERATORS
ECONOMY
4
SIMPLICITY
C. A.
ac
ss
PUMPS
FOR ALL SERVICES KEPT
im
Sbnis fob Catalogues.
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 32 8 34 ClarCHC€ Street, Sydney.
THORNE’S
MARTBLL’S
BRANDY.
HELIDON SPA WATER
The wonderful efficacy of HELIDON SPA
lies in its capacity for rapid absorption.
DEWHURST 8 HALLORAN, Ltd.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 31—No. 1593.]
[Thursday, August 25, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaner.


REMOVAL NOTICE .
We have Removed to our new spacious and well-lighted premises at
238 PITT STREET,
Opposite Sydney School of Arts.
The public are cordially invited to visit our new premises, where our enormous stock of books in
every department of Literature is so arranged that customers can inspect the books on the shelves.
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd.,
BOOKSELLERS AND STATION ERS, SYDNEY.
EXHIBITION
OF
ORIGINAL “BULLETIN” PICTURES
IN MELBOURNE,
Upper Athenaeum Hall, Collins Street.
Admission //» Illustrated Catalogue Free.
THIS Exhibition comprises 500 Original
Pictures which have been reproduced
in The Bulletin. All the best Aus-
tralian Artists, including work by “ Hop,”
Norman Lindsay, Alf Vincent, B. E. Minns,
Lionel Lindsay, Geo. Lambert, Mahony,
etc., will be shown. The Exhibition will be
open from August 27 to September 10, from
io a. m. to 6 p.m.
Those unable to visit this unique picture
show are advised to write for the Catalogue,
and to send along their cheque for the amount
they wish to spend, mentioning their favorite
artist. A good picture guaranteed. .
The Private View of the Pictures will be
opened on August 26, at 3 o’clock, by his
Excellency Sir Thomas Gibsori-Carmichael.
EXHIBITION open 10 p.m.
from August 27 to September 10.
Thomas C, Lothian, Manager.
£he
British. Australasian
* i’-l <■ ' W- .• r'TK: i**
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
fSft POST FREE, £t per year,
UU* ; n advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingswayl
LONDON, W.C.
Price
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
prolonged
periods." y
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
ƒ
G. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/S post free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., I 9 York Street, SYDNEY.
THE RED PAGE
What’s Wrong with Australia
John Foster-Fraser knows. He has spent
a few months in the Commonwealth, has
talked with men in the club, listened to
after-dinner speeches, collected two bags
full of pamphlets, and then diagnosed our
complaint. After some hesitation, his im-
pressions and advice have been put into a
book— Australia : The Making of a Nation
(Angus Robertson and Dy mock’s).
Too much attention has been paid in
advance to the opinions of Foster Fraser.
He has written about many countries of
which he has only a superficial acquaintance,
and his books have sold well because they
have been smart journalism. His remarks
about Australia are important only because
they will be taken by many people outside
of Australia as a correct account of our con-
dition and prospects. They are not that,
and, in the nature of things, could not be.
They are interesting to Australians, as any
criticism about oneself, however absurd, is
bound to be interesting. The book is really
written for Australians. Fraser has looked
at our tongue while hurrying by, and now
tells us what’s wrong inside.
First, there is our “ touchiness.” Because
of that weakness of ours, this book was
nearly killed before its birth. He anticipates
Australian irritation at the comments of a
journalistic sprinter and tells us that our
comments on Britain are worse. “If you
are pained by the casual chatter of the globe-
trotter who visits Australia for a couple of
days and fails to be enthusiastic, what justi-
fication have you to be contemptuous about
Britain, which the majority of you have
never seen?” One boy says: “ Your father’s
a liar;” to which the other aptly replies:
“ Your mother is drunk.”
Britain, with its ancient record, its wealth,
its millions of population and its immense
self-satisfaction, does not mind criticism, if
it gets any, from Australians. In a new
country like Australia the people, who are
conscious of its newness find relative small-
ness, get rather tired of the procession of
Britishers who condescendingly visit us and
tell us that we are “no class.” It does not.
matter if the globe-trotter fails to be enthusi-
astic ; it matters if he fails to be accurate.
The Americans got tired of the same sort of
ignorant and vulgar criticism. One of them
printed last year As Others See Us, a selec-
tion from published criticism by Britishers,
most of which was supercilious or con-
temptuous.
“Ho Englishman,” says Foster Fraser,
“ has ever given such a picture.of Australia
as Australians have themselves provided.
Remember that.” No Australian who has
attempted to criticise England in print has
given such a picture of England as\ the
English themselves have provided in hun-
dreds of books ; or in one, The Condition of
England, by 0. F. Masterman.
Then there is the slackness of Australians.
Their forefathers, the sturdy pioneers, were
mostly of British stock. The present gene-
ration is losing its doggedness—“ there is a
growing dislike towards bush life ” —“there
is a singular absence of commercial ambition
in Australia”—“there is more vim in the
British youth than in the Australian young
man.” The energy which put Australia
where it is came from imported stock or the
children of Europeans. The race trans-
planted from Europe to Australia is losing
fibre.
Humidity undoubtedly has an effect on the
energy of the people. Now, mark how pleasant,
soft-voiced and delightful the Queenslanders are.
Come south, and you find more commercialism in
the air of Sydney than in Brisbane. Drop further
south still, to Melbourne, and there, there is
really something like energy. Continue south
till you get to New Zealand, and there you can
pass from the charming, easy manners of the top
of the North Island until you get amongst the
rugged, determined business men who live at the
bottom end of the South Island.
This journey should lead to the discovery
that more business is done at the southern
end of Maoriland than anywhere else in Aus-
tralasia, which is not quite the case.
Foster Fraser says that he has studied the
influence of climate on heredity, and he has
obtained the opinion of one Dr. Buttner, of
Melbourne, who is very emphatic about the
steady degeneracy of the white race in Aus-
tralia, and says :
Were it possible to cut the Australian continent
off from the rest of the world for a few centuries
I am convinced that not a single descendant of
its four million white population would be living.
The race would have become extinct.
Both these learned gentlemen forget that
it is the invariable tendency of organisms to
adjust themselves to a new environment
A few generations may slacken and suffer
after the removal to the other side of the earth.
It may take five or it may take fifteen
generations; the fibre of the white race is
tough enough to become acclimatised at the
tropics or in Antarctica. Life always con-
quers environment in time.
Fraser has many complimentary things to
say about Australia and her people—espe-
cially the pioneers. The people of to-day
are a courteous, contented, pleasure-loving
people, though not a joyous-looking people.
The holiday crowds are solemn. “ Austra-
lians are a town-proud people.” They con-
centrate in their charming cities, each of
which is like a well-managed English pro-
vincial city. A view of Sydney from across
the harbor “ was more fascinating than
Venice at night when approached from
the Lido.” “ Adelaide is one of the most
charming towns I have ever been in.” The
cabled summary—“ Adelaide for culture,
Melbourne for business, and Sydney for
pleasure ” —turns out to be a first impression
which was afterwards corrected. “ A beau-
tiful land. I loved it. I loved the people.”
Yet always after the pleasant impression,
the anxious physician thought “ what are
these people taking for their big complaint—
the yellow peril?” The first thing, of
course, is to get population; and he has
much to say about our systems of land settle-
ment, labor legislation, l-ailways, etc., so far
as they affect immigration. His advice, in
brief, is—get population ; offer free land;
tap the surplus population of Italy and other
continental nations ; give land grants to pri-
vate enterprise in return for railways into
the bad lands; permit the introduction of
colored labor in Queensland and the Northern
Territory—get population. That is the good
old “ boom or bust ” policy which every
ordinary Muggs or Scroggins has advised
Australia to take. Australia, with the
example of the United States before it,
thinks cheap colored labor too costly to
touch. Australia would rather grow like a
tree than swell out suddenly like a toy
balloon of many colors.
Fraser has noticed a number of obvious
things that are wrong with us, things Which
good Australians are sorry for and are trying to
mend. He saw the State jealousy which
had delayed the Central Australian railway,
and the town selfishness which had run the
railway systems of N.S.W. and Victoria for
the benefit of their respective capitals.
He saw also some things in a small degree
which he magnified into national charac-
teristics, such as disregard of history and
geography and the use of the Cockney accent.
There are many aspects of our life which
he has not noticed. There are some mis-
takes of fact, and some slipshod English in
his book. For a flashlight view, however, it
is reasonably accurate. Fraser has endeavored
to be kind. Like the fond parent, he is
severe only for our good.
Some Novels and a Few Titles
Theoretically, the possible combinations
of words suitable for book titles are much
nearer to infinity than the possible combina-
tions of musical sounds. Yet titles for
novels seem to be running out already. Not
only are there many groups of titles which
closely resemble one another ; but a number
of titles are identical. Two books called A
Reaping appear within a short space of time.
Es P. Oppenheim’s The Moving Finger, now
coming out as a serial, repeats the title of
Mary Gaunt’s book published in 1895. And
there are numbers of similar cases.
Last year Harper’s published The Inner
Shrine without the author’s name. The book
was skilfully boomed by an announcement
that it was written by a well-known
author who wished to test the public
with an anonymous novel, and then
a big newspaper discussion of the mys-
tery was worked up. According to the
English “ Literary Year Book,” Mrs. Sidg-
wick, wife of a well-known writer on logic,
and authoress of several novels, is respon-
sible for a book called The Inner Shrine,
published by Harper’s in 1900. No copy of
a book with that title over her name can be
obtained in N.S.W.
A story called The Wild Olive, “By the
author of The Inner Shrine, ” has just come
to an end in “ Harper’s • Magazine, ” and
Atethuens, the English publishers, announce
a new book called The Wild Olive, by Basil
King, who is known as the author of several
stories. One of these, The Giant’s Strength,
was published by Harper’s, and bears some
resemblance in style to the above mentioned
anonymous novels. Mrs. Sidgwick’s acknow-
ledged work does not.
The position is that the anonymous Inner
Shrine and Wild Olive may be the work of
(1) Mrs. Sidgwick, (2) Basil King, or (3)
somebody else.* Also (4) “ Basil King,”
which looks like a woman's pseudonym, may
be Mrs. Sidgwick or some other person.
The Giant's Strength was written according
to a popular American formula :
A Giant of Finance.'
His daughter— “ the
greatest, heiress
on earth.”
A poor artist, whose
father had been
ruined by the
Giant. ¥
Daughter and
Artist
fall in love.
Love conquers
the Giant
and Time is
. revenged.
In the contest detween Love and Money
Love must win. The painter chap did not
want the girl’s money at any price. The
Giant emphatically vetoes the proposition
that she should marry without it. After
telling the old man what lie thought of his
“tainted money,” the artist turns to the
daughter with this appeal :
“Don’t you understand, then, that when I see
you in the midst of all this”—he threw out his
arms with a wide gesture—“it’s as if I saw you
living clothed in the ruin of beggared men and
hungry women and children ! When I set; you in
your splendor, your pearls are to me like their
tears, your rubies like their sweat of blood. I
can’t bear it. I can’t bear it. It’s like dese-
cration. It's like sacrilege. I must take you
out of it. Oh, come away—come away 1 ”
* * * #
There is some good stuff in Herrick’s
A Life for a Life (Macmillan). The
reader gets interested in the country
lad who is drawn into the city, becomes
a bank clerk, and goes through the
usual struggle. The sign over Gossom’s
Business College spelling the word “Suc-
cess ” in letters of fire was the symbol of the
city. Every agency tended to spur young
Grant on, and he found himself ‘‘ climbing the
bright steps of power, and far off at the apex
stood a smiling figure in white and gold—a
woman who loved Power.” Of course, like
the rest of the heroes, he loved and was be-
loved by the millionaire’s daughter. When
he learned the sources of her. father’s wealth
he curdles more violently than the artist in
The Grant’s Strength:
“See!” He crushed the soft fabric in his
hand. “Silk with thread of gold. It is the
tears! See ! ” He touched her girdle with his
hands. “Gold and precious stones. They are
the groans ! See ! ” He put his fingers upon the
golden hair. “ A wreath of pure gold ! Tears
and groans and bloody sweat! You are a tissue
of the lives of others, from feet to the crown upon
your hair. See!” His hot hands crushed the
orchids at her breast. “ Even the flower at your
breast is stained with blood. I see the tears of
others on vour robe. I hear their sighg in your
voice. I see defeated desires in light of your
eyes. You are the Sacrifice of the many—l can-
not touch ! ”
The latter half of the story is crude melo-
drama, which is astonishing after the good
opening. The book as a whole is a dis-
appointment, for the previous novels of
Robert Herrick were among the most
promising that have come out of America
during the last ten years or so. Their
pictures of life were not all drab, like
those of Howell’s ; nor all yellow, like
those of the astute writers who charged into
the muck-raking business when it became
profitable. The '.Real World and The Com-
mon' Lot were finely-balanced studies.
Together, published last year, was still
better ; showing Herrick to be a realist of
the right sort. Since 1905 he has been Pro-
fessor of English at the University of Chicago.
He is only 42, so that, probably, he has
plenty of time to recover from such a bad
break as A Life for a Life.
A Thousand Dollars for a Song
Australian versifiers have a chance of
winning a prize of $lOOO (say, £200)
offered by the State of Missouri (U.S.A.)
for a song. Apparently it must oele-
brate the glories of the State or be cal-
culated to stir Missourians to do some-
thing glorious. It must be original and in
no way adapted. Words and music pre-
ferred, but words alone may be sent. The
committee reserve the right to divide the
prize or withhold it altogether. Sign your
manuscript with a motto or pen name only,
and send your real name and address (to-
gether with, the motto or pen name) in a
separate envelope. Address—Prof. W. H.
Pomnier, University of Missouri, Columbia,
Miss., U.S.A, The competition closes on
October 31, 1910 ; but Australians, who are
specially invited to enter, will be allowed a
few days’ grace. There ought to be a good
chance for an Australian song-writer to win
the prize, as our informant states that “Mis-
souri is a land of hogs and humorists and
does not breed poets to any extent.”
In Songs If the Happy Isles, by Maud
Peacocke (Whitcombe and Tombs) there are
some capable verses and some attempts at
high flights which fail. The ideal which
she aims at, like the happy land of her song,
is far away :
I know not as I fare
Where ends my journeying,
Or what the day may bring;
My thoughts one purpose bear,
My lute’s a single string.
Meti know it not, nor care—
I seek the Perfect Thing.
A miss at a far mark is often more creditable
than a score at closer range; yet it is well
to recognise one’s limitations as soon as
possible. It needs greater skill than Miss
Peacocke’s to give any interest to Lotus
Land, the Valley of Dreams and other vague
regions in which it is all too easy for the
rhymer to flop.
Miss Peacocke can rhyme well; her metre
is almost always correct; and there are
spirited lines in “ The Timber Scow,” “ For
Broad is the Way ” and “ The Pagan.” This
extract from “The Pagan” expresses an
independent attitude :
I raise no altar to the stars;
I walk erect and free.
>' I forge nivself no prison-bars,
And nothing fetters nie.
For Life, I know, hath largesse still
If one but claim his dues.
And joy is when and where he will
Who only dares to choose;
Who fears no future, counts no past,
But grasps the good he may,
Nor lets a vague To-morrow cast
Its shadow on To-day.
Her “songs,” however, have no singing
quality. There is more fire in her attack on
critics than elsewhere in the book. By flying
closer to the earth, expressing definite emo-
tions and wandering not too far from Here
and Now, a writer of Miss Peacocke’s ability
could make Verse which would have real
value.
Where’s Master ? by “ Caesar,” the King’s
Dog. There are people who will buy and
read the slush put into the mouth of the late
King Edward’s dog. It is good enough for
them ; but if dogs had their rights “Caesar”
would get damages out of the sycophant
who has made free with his name.


ik
u
.1
INTHONY HORDERNS’ FUR-
NITURE stands in a class
by itself, and is free from all
the evils associated with the
product of cheap, unskilled
labor, indifferent materials,
and low quality. It is made
by the highest skilled Austra-
lian labor from well-seasoned
timber, and the workmanship
and finish in every case is
the best.
Many other Designs are
Illustrated in our COMPLETE
GUIDE TO FURNISHING.
Write for a copy, posted free
on application.
cfb
Ah
D
if 3
€7
1
s>
M
’•iM
07®'
A®?
o-
' '
*?
The Catruthers Bedroom Suite, .£l6/15/-
The Carrutliers Bedroom Suite consists of 4ft. WARDROBE (£6/11/6), full hanging compartment,
fitted with hooks and swivel hook, large bevelled plate-glass mirror door, with long drawer underneath.
3ft. Sin. TOILET TABLE (£5/12/6), with bevelled swing mirror and side reflectors, 2 full length drawers.
3ft. WASHSTAND (£4/11/6). fully enclosed, rouge marble top, double row of art tiles in back, towel rails,
and 2 CANE-SEATED CHAIRS. Finished Old
Anthony horderns sons’
FURNITURE, CARPET and
BEDSTEAD SHOW ROOMS are
acknowledged the finest in
Australia, covering an area of
nearly fifty thousand super-
ficial feet, well lighted and
lofty. Here are displayed
samples of Modern Art Renais-
sance, Chippendale, Sheraton,
Rococo, and other styles of
Furniture, and while the claims
of High Art in Modern Furni-
ture are not forgotten, neither
is the necessity for the cheaper,
stronger made and more useful
kinds ignored. We can Furn-
ish a cottage or a mansion
with equal ease.
The Empire Bedroom Suite, “£l4
The Empire Bedroom Suite is made in fumed oak, and comprises :
4ft. WARDROBE, fitted with large bevel-glass door, and large roomy drawer underneath
hanging space.
3ft. Half Cheval TOILET CHEST, fitted with large centre mirror 24 x 18, and side
reflectors ; also three drawers.
3ft. WASHSTAND, fitted with double-door pedestal cupboard, rouge marble top, and
double row of art tiles, also towel rails attached.
&
&
ss
I
4^?
m
rr
The Kitchener Bedroom Suite,£|6|lo|-
In Fumed Oak, £23/10/*
The Kitchener Bedroom Suite is our own design, and offers value that cannot be equalled.
The Wood is thoroughly seasoned, and the Suite is well made and finished, whilst the
furnishings are the best. The Kitchener comprises:—
WARDROBE, 4ft. wide, that gives full hanging space, fitted with hangers and. swivel
hook. The door is plate-glass, bevelled mirror, and the full length drawer runs easily.
The panels on either side of the plate-glass mirror stand out in bold relief, and with
the carved pediment impart a handsome appearance.
FULL 3ft. 6in. TOILET TABLE on Castors, with bevelled Swing Mirror that can be
securely adjusted to any angle. There are two full-length drawers and one small
jewel drawer.
WASHSTAND, full, 3ft. 6in. wide, richly grained rouge Marble Top, enclosed cupboard,
double row of Art Tiles, and Towel Rail.
TWO CANE-SEATED CHAIRS, the design of which is in harmony with the artistic
feeling of the Suite.
The Kitchener Suite is finished in Walnut Color, but may also be had in Morris Green,
Rosewood or any desired shade.
r -;
<>
\7\7
-VT
o
* s ~ ’
The Brooklyn Bedroom Suite, <CI2/I©|-
The Brooklyn is one of several new designs in Bedroom Suites, and is made in Fumed Oak.
It comprises :
WARDROBE. 3ft. 6in. wide, with amplis hanging accommodation, bevelled plate-glass
mirror door, and full length drawer at bottom.
Bft. TOILET TABLE, having 18 x 14 bevelled plate-glass swing mirror, and two full-
length drawers in body of table.
3ft. WASHSTAND, fully enclosed, having towel rails on each end, handsome, .rouge
marble top, and fancy art-tiled back.
%
m.
Y-"/A
m
R
%
The Stella Bedroom Suite, «£II/12|6
The Stella Bedroom Suite is one of several attractive designs that are offered at a price
v![r n i leet t^le requirements of those who demand an inexpensive suite. It is finished in
Walnut color, Morris Green, or old Mahogany, and the furnishings are the new
oxydised metal. The Stella comprises:—
WARDROBE. 3ft. lOin. wide, bevelled plate-glass mirror door, full-length drawer and
full hanging compartment fitted with hooks.
TOILEI IA BLE, of new design, 3ft. wide, with large bevelled swing mirror, two
jewel, drawers, two long and two short drawers.
WASHSIAND, 3ft. wide, with white marble top, tile back, enclosed cupboard, and
towel rails.
TW O C A NE-SE A TED CHAIRS.
lbe SIELLA is finished in Walnut color, Morris Green, or old Mahogany, and the
furnishings are the new oxydised metal.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, Sydney
WiliTaSdrade ™ BOOKS.
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
Contents— ,
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Post Free, 1/2.
Kbi.lt Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Com Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Wats
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 1/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Ctclo-
pasdia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonrt Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
gdfgd
2
.
Marvellously Simple 1
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Thk Above Two Tricks (which require no stage
no confederates and no special skill), post free any
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/8.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
COUGHS
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELLS
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
Of All Stores
and Chemists ,
«MSA MW^/j
Trade
Wholesale Agrents for Victoria: DUEROEN & SAMS3URY, Melbourne
natural
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
DINNEFORD'S
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
MAGNESIA
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
MAGNESI
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural L f*rjs* s ’ O*V fheAus*
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Tr ®?®“ r y p/ T |c. y OF INTEREST-
traIian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF ini an
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of re P a i* r V'
ut> to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any • T>« n i am in
Directors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy lt £C. ;
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Horn F. E. pS S
Adrian Knox, Esq.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., *•*•*•• r • fc „
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, !>ecret)_
HIGH PRICED QUALITY
Model “ T ” Touring Oar, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 6-passenger, £3lO (full equipment Included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials :
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
STEVENS RIFLES
“BULL’S-EYE KIND”
More Records hold than all other makes combined!
E. W. Fielding recently won the Tanunda, South Australia,
Kingship (a notable Rifle Tournament) for the second
successive time. Total of 148 out of a possible 156 points
under most unfavorable weather conditions.
Write for Catalogue to
Ask your Dealer and
Insist on STEVENS.
There are no sub-
stitutes.
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens - Pope Cata-
logues. [1
‘c?
PRIZES Value £2250
IN THE
8-HOUR
ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 29,1910.
Ist Prize, value £5OO. 2nd Prize, value £250.
3rd Prize, value £lOO. And 297 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. J. Bawdy, 'Warner
Avenue, North Bondi, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 8.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had frbm Agents in all
towns, or direct from JOHN TRAVERS, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
fd
Mr. ROBERT McLEiSH.
Here is a letter from one of the best
known baritone singers of Melbourne,
and proprietor of the Circuit “ Pops”
Concerts, Mr. Robt. McLeish, living
at 235 Abbotsford Street, North
Melbourne. It is worth while reading
what he says atout Clements Tonic.
This letter is worth remembering by all those who
have to follow business duties, and upon whose nerves and brain
there is always a tax. Mr. McLeish was in such a bad state of
health that he almost despaired of being strong and well again
until he cured himself with this reliable medicine. Thousands
of persons spend hours reading the latest fashionable novel, or
the sensational storiette from the latest London or Australian
magazines, but it would pay many of them better to read this
story from the book of this man’s life, and its sequel to a grand
and ‘splendid health. Here is his letter, true in every particular :
Clements Tonic Ltd.
“ My friends and the public will remember when I lost my voice for
twelve months nearly three years ago, and which was largely due to general
break-down of the nervous system, affecting the vocal chords. I tried a good
many medicines and treatment without permanent result-, but was told to take
the nerve and blood medicine, Clements Tonic. I was surprised at the
almost immediate effect it had upon me, and by continuous use I improved
daily. It performed a miracle in my case, for after a few weeks my voic e
returned, and in less than three months I was singing as well as ever, j
regained my normal health, and now I am never without a bottle of the Tom c
whenever on circuit. It is the best nerve, blood, and stomach medicine p
have ever used. (Signed) ROBERT McLEISH.
4
YOU CANNOT BE ILL AND USE CLEfTENTS TONIC TOO.
Very many persons who have used Clements Tonic, and have been entirely
cured of theiinailments, declare that to have this remedy in the house is to
he ensuredagainst ill=health. They write thus to the manufacturers.
Therefore, it is wise for everyone to keep it, because here are three things
that it does ; —(ijlt makes the liver active ; (2) the heart regular jJ3) the
gm.nd as steel. If you keep these functions in this
will keen well. All Stores and Chemists sell th's medicine everywhere.


True Economy
is to have the best. When
that happens also to be
economical in use, who
would be without it?
Cerebos
Mr
goes a very long way.
A rents— Harrison and At/wood, Sydney.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
SSSeSSsssssw
Coventry Flyers
t f lan J® wei »t manufacturers' nrices.
guaranteed longer than anyothlrm^ke
r
LATEST
MODELS
£3*lo to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Do live rod
tree to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AfiFNTQ r? nted Jn each dis.
easily made. Write u. once, osi n g tiffl "d o n't nee *
on samptemlShtae?* Catalogues “ d our Special Offer
MEAD CYCLE GO,, Dept. 280
JAS. J. GILTINA V
*57 Clare nee Street.
LIVERPOOL
» Agent,
SYDNEY
VARICOSE
VEINS
Can be successfully
CURED without the
aid of the surgeon’s
Knife.
II YOU suffer from Varicose Veins in the
legs you should send at once for full par-
ticulars of the wonderful VECSEY
METHOD OF TREATMENT. The
discovery of this splendid method of curing
Varicose Veins ranks amongst the scientific
achievements of the past decade, and its
wonderful properties have given relief and a
cure to hundreds of sufferers who had des-
paired of getting even permanent relief. The
method is simple, efficacious and reliable, and
is essentially a home treatment. No laying up,
SEND 2d. STAMP for our Free Book,
which gives full particulars of this wonderful
treatment, and also contains much useful
information about bandaging. Bent free to
any address. Advice Free. Call.
The Vecsey Varix arium,
lO4 Linden Court, Sydney. 603 ,
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
m
PATENT?
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide
Established 1877.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
I doubt you wish to becured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
ttrelv new—is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance oT the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease trom the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
C *i- a^ne un derstraps. The pad is made
Ql soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Potted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
* 6l Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
~ “ LINSEED COMPOUND ” for
Cold*. Loosens phlegm. Allayg jnit»Upn-
Coughs and
rs
t-
ffi'.v
*§s§>
Sj#
For Children’s Coughs and Colds
There is no better remedy for Children’s
Coughs and Colds than
BONNINCTON’S
IRISH MOSS.
It does them as much good
as it does the older folk.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES.
Ask for Bonmngtons’s, and insist on getting it. It is dangerous to experiment
when you can get a remedy that has stood the test for over 45 years.
Sold Everywhere. Price, Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.
[2
HEALTHFUL.
ECONOMICAL.
CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee 9
JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “ PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6
A-j!Ij ICKFQRI) & SONS> LTD - Fitt St -> Sydney; Currie St„ Adelaide ; Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
>
IDEAL FOOD >
for children from birth is
| Horlick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constit-
uents in their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch, and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infant Foods containing; Starch.
_ , ,i N £ Co ? kin «’ No added Milk.
Of all Chemists. Wholesale & Retail Stores
Samples : 82 PITT ST., SYDNEY, NS w'
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough En?
Srlud Unrtds2*
1
Va
7l£rfi&/0& i&g,
Latest Evolution of Modern fharmacy.
“ GOLCRYST ” is a Combination of
Epsom Salts, Senna, Sarsaparilla,
Dandelion, Liquorice and Ginger.
crystals dissolve in water, forming
a Blood-Purifying and Rheumatism-Curing
Aperient Medicine.
SOLD IN 3d., 6d. and Is. PACKETS.
Write for Free Sample to the Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO., MELBOURNE.
BARROWS
English Portable Engines
m,
PASTORAL-
ISTS AND
FARMERS
USE NO
OTHER.
SOLE
AGENTS
J. H. YOUNG 8 CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LONGREACH, CHARLEVILLE.
a. *
Zaw Points
jSr inventors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest way to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to
" nte to me describing- your invention, enclosing a small
sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will-at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining reallv reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cc/dially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an hones opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings. Collins Street, Melbourne.
lubncates the mechanism, prevents rust on the
ipetal parts and cleans and polishes thes stock.
For cleaning out the residue of burnt powder,
especially smokeles£*powder, it is unequalled.
Write for free sample to
REID A REID (Dept. A ), Australasian
- Rep resentatives—
\\VV Wellington
New Zealand.
5C
1
V
W HY should any woman look
dowdy and frumpy, why should
she court ill health in the old fashioned
corset when she can so easily secure
the fashionable, easy flowing lines by
the newest and latest corset and enjoy
the best of good health as well ?
How can you show the latest
figure, the long graceful lines,
exacted by the recent Paris
styles, when you are wearing old fashioned
corsets with their ynnatural and unhealthy
abrupt break at the waist line? The
fault is not in your figure. Try our
D & A Directoire designed after a
close study of Parisian styles at Long-
champs, in the tea rooms Rue de Rivoli,
and at the famous dress-makers of
Rue de la Paix.
t-
This corset will give you the most fashionable effect, absolutely beyond criticism—yet will
be more comfortable and more healthful, since it supports and does not compress, than any other
corset you ever put on. For Sale by all leading drapers. A-a
THE DOMINION CORSET COMPANY, QUEBEC, CANADA.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Whisperers.
The hosts of scandal everywhere
Seem stationed where we go ;
They smile at us, and nod and stare
As if strange facts they know ;
For we robe not in drab disguise
The joy we feel in life,
And we are far too loverwise
To be a man and wife.
Your finger wears a hoop of gold ;
And whispering of this
They think your husband should be told.
And wonder where he is ;
Great odium on him they throw—
They say he must be blind ;
They little think that he does know
And doesn’t seem to mind.
When on the tram’s front seat we ride
And revel in the breeze,
The half-drunk on my other side
Beams beerish sympathies.
When in a restaurant we sit,
Our table is our own ;
They know who kindly by us flit
We like to be alone.
We are, as we go where we wis,
The butt of many stares
Of people whose great business is
In other folks affairs ;
And in the love we show to life
They easily discover
That you’re another person’s wife,
And I your wicked lover.
Yet for these things we do not care :
They only aid our glee ;
They add the racy atmosphere
That glorifies a spree.
And our devotion it doth show
That in things looked and spoke,
Near everybody seems to know
We are not married folk.
We laughed at him, who o’er his steak
Said, as he ordered stout,
“ These gay young scoundrels love to take
A married woman out! ”
We laugh at all of them because
Though they may whisper ill.
Defiant of convention’s laws
We are true lovers still.
Perhaps ’twere better we should go
About more cautiously;
You should disguise that you are so
Deeply in love with me,
And I a surly aspect wear—
A husband to the life—
And pass, unnoticed, everywhere
As lawful man and wife.
So at us is aspersion hurled
In whisperings and all;
It seems unto us that the world
Is strangely cynical.
And does not think, since it appeals
We have such zest in life,
Though we are lovers, ’tis two years
Since you became my wife.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
A Philosopher.
When the laughter turns to frown, when the song
is over, 6
When the lips that used to kiss and smile are
turned away;
Sorrow not; the world goes round, the bloom is
on the clover,
And the sun but slips a-down to rise another
day.
Never dove so foolish-fond but he goes a-straying,
Never friend so faithful but he wearies of his
chain ;
Though you die they will not turn for anguish
nor for playing.
Laugh then ! Sweep the temple clean and build
the shrine again.
Safely lock your heart away, nor falter in your
smiling;
Then for all you need them not, when summer
skies are blue
You will surely see again with tender eyes be-
guiling,
Friendship stop to crack a joke, and love to
smile at you.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
A. M. BOWYER-ROSMAN.
Viking Song.
Clang, clang, clang on the anvil.
In the smithy by the dark North Sea.
Is it 111 or that is smiting with the hammer?
Is it Odin with the leather on his knee?
Clang, clang, clang on the anvil,
There are steel ships wanted on the sea !
Clang, clang, clang on the anvil,
And the flames of the forges leap.
Old Thor with his red beard glowing
Has his eye on the furrows of the deep.
Clang, clang, clang on the anvil,
For the forge of the viking may not sleep.
Clang, clang, clang on the anvil,
And the hammers of the south-land leap.
Australia with her bright hair glowing
Has her eye on the furrows of the deep.
Clang, clang, clang on the anvil,
For the blood of the viking may not sleep.
Clang, clang, clang on the anvil,
On the margin of the sun-bright sea.
Is it Odin that is watching in the shadow ;
Is it Thor where the sparks fly free ?
Clang, clang, clang on the anvil.
There are steel ships wanted on the sea !
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


Combination Couch and Bed
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
m&s&m
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get oat of order; is
exceptionally strong and durabfe.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
T apestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY,
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ... ... 6d
Packet of Ten ... ... 5d
A3NOIAI 3AVS
bvbuying one of DWYER’S VEHICLES. Ihey cannot be
equalled for Beauty of Design, Durability and Light Running.
Fadories-WOLLONGONG and NEWTOWN.
gfgd
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street. —Local Director: A. MESTON.
ms
few
■
>r%
cT
9.X
K
Omega
WATCHES
IF THEIR COST WBRB
TEN TIMES WHAT IT IS,
OMEGA Watches would
still be “ worth the
money.” The enormous
facilities of production
in the OMEGA factory
have, however, brought
the price of OMEGA
Watches within the
scope of the most
modest purse.
In GOLD, SILVER, NICKEL and CUNMETAL CABES.
Stocked by Jewellers throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
i
CIGARETTES.
TURKISH, EGYPTIAN, VIRGINIAN.
DALQETY & CO. LTD., Wholesale Agents for Australia.
[Hf#
m
■Mk
ml
m
WM
m
W
m
|p
P
;sfs
TEWART DAWSON/
CORNER, 412 George Street, Sydney.
HANDSOME WEDPING PRESENTS in Sterling Silver and Electroplate.
THOSE of you who are interested In approaching Weddings should make a point of
inspecting our fine selection of High-Grade' Goods. As we purchase direct from
only the actual manufacturers for Spot Cash, you may be sure of getting supreme
value for every shilling spent with us. Our stocks are always up-to-date—each week
sees new shipments arriving. If you are unable to call, write for our new Art
Catalogue, 112 pages, beautifully illustrated in fine art cover. We post it Free 1
u-g
m
$
>
: . '
! " •- I
mi
mm
m
5®5
i
P«
No. G42B6—Finest quality Silverplate on *
Hard White Metal, Embossed Pattern
Biscuit Box, £2/7/6.
No. B499o—Finest quality Silverplate on Hard
White Metal, Revolving- Vegetable Dish. Each
dish can be removed and used separately.
£6/6/- ...
52o3—Best quality Silver-plated
2-Bottle Inkstand, 16/6.
No. J26ls—Solid Silver
Flower Vase, 8 inches
high, 21 /»
No. 64269—Finest quality Sheffield Silverplate
Asparagus Dish, with Removable Rack, £2.
No. J2BB2—Fine Cut Glass and Silverplated
on Nickel Silver Dinner Cruet, 16/6.
Other designs at 27/6, 37/6, 50/-
No. F4B49—Embossed and Fluted
Silverplated Fern Pot—
4in., -122/6 4Jin., 27/6
sJin;, £2 Bin;., £3/7/6
No. H 2095 —Handsome Claret
Jug:, Finest Cut Glass and
Silverplate, £3/15/=
Others at 16/6, 25/=, 35/=, 60/=
nSn
!•<
No. G2s34—Finest quality Silverplated
on Nickel Silver Triple-Expanding
Biscilit Box, £B/10/-
-,"W .
No. F 9421 —Six Solid Silver Afterh.bort/IJake Forks
with Mother of Pearl Handles, in Sitk-lineci Ckse, £3
No. H366—Fine Polished Oak Tray, with best’
quality Silverplated Pierced Border Mounts, *
20 inches long, £4/10/= —,
Other designs from £l/5/= __


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 31.—N0. 1593.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 1910.
Price fin.
A MATTER OF NO IMPORTANCE,
The Opposition has abandoned the ground of policy and is contenting itself with a campaign of onseruputous calumny and abuse. The reason given for the adoption of this
course is the extraordinary one that the Government has stolen all the Opposition's legislative trump cards. Even if the Government had committed the tlueft of Mr. McGowen's
precious policy, as it is charged with having done, that act from a sincere politician in the Opposition leader’s place might he expected to evoke quite a different kind of feeling. He
Caucus from being carried into effect.-Sydney TELEGRAPH.
McGOWEN: “Look here, these are my clothes you’ve got on.”
WA DE: "My dear sh, clothes were made to be worn, You say they are good clothes, so you should be glad to see me wear them. It
is a compliment to you. It shows that I appreciate your taste. Every man whose goods are stolen should be grateful to the thief."


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maolkod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Thf Bulletin Newspaper Go.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 Georgre-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES s Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly , ... ... ... 0 7 0
By Rending direct to Tiir Bulletin Of ice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Thk Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, iManaging Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Thk Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy.” Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
ojlicials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. 'The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
Tins Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian subjects, and not exceeding
hoc columns in length, Jr, say, 3000 loords, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Thk Bullktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the.
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ivill be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Thk Bullktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not. responsible lor the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tint Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
Tiik Bullktin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and ’Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London. W.C.
South Africa. —The Central. Neivs Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouvei, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U. S. A. —1 sserlis A., Seattle, Washington ; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
Uonq Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Ilong hong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tiik Bulletin met.al advertising plates,size 6‘f in. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
TRe'^tdlefx/n.
THU11SDAY, AUGUST 25, 1910.
WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH OUR
WADE?
About six weeks from the present date the ques-
tion at tiie head of this article will come up for
settlement in N.S.W. The State will have to
decide what to do with its Wade, and the matter
is one on which it can’t makeup its mind too
early or too definitely. No good thing that can
be done to-day slipuld be left till to-morrow, and
no Wade who can be got rid of in 1910 should be
left over till 1913. The world may come to an
end before then; and the spectacle of Charles
Gregory Wade, as the representative of N.S. W.,
leading the N.S.W. contingent to judgment
would be calculated to terrify the seraphim.
* * *
The present Premier is the outward and visible
embodiment of the gang which attained to office
by false pretences in 1904. In those days re-
trenchment was in the air, and economy was a
useful war cry. There was something of a revolt
against the old loan frenzy, and Carruthers,
Wade and co. revolted also, and went with
what looked like the biggest crowd. Their denun-
ciations of the incapable financier Waddell
were great and terrible, and that notable
shoveller-out of loan funds went down with all his
sins upon his head. He had spent £2,288,742 of
loan money in the financial year just before the
election, and that fact slew his chances. No
corpse was deader or more buried than Waddell’s
prospect of retaining office. Six years ago, when
no one really knew how much public opinion
was behind the anti-borrowing movement, it was
good to hear the noble Carruthers propounding
theories about the rigid restriction of loan
expenditure to not more than £1,000,000 a year,
and the possible complete abolition of the nefarious
old I 0 U habit. And certainly Carruthers did a
good deal in the way of financial reform ; in his
last year of office he blewed only £1,094,238 of the
money which is raised at the place where the nose
of Israel looks out from under the sign of Lom-
bardy. Ware has been less scrupulous. Hislast
year’s loan expenditure was £2,906,507—fu11y
£600,000 more than the amount which cost Wad-
dell his job. Waddell, by the way, is Wade’s
Treasurer these days. The only reason why
Wade is in office is the declared unfitness—
the utter, hopeless, ruinous unfitness —of Wad-
dell to be Treasurer, that being the only public
billet Waddell ever held; and one of the
men who declared his complete unfitness was
Wade. Yet, when the latter found that a
few votes were to be gained by taking in
Waddell, he took him in, and with blushless
cynicism he offered him, of all jobs, the one in
which he was described as being a monumental
failure. Waddell, with equal cynicism, took
the job. Whether the story about Waddell’s
unfitness was all a lie, or whether Wade simply
doesn’t care a straw whether Waddell is fit or
not, doesn’t appear. Anyhow the Wade-
Waddell Fusion is a marvellous affair.
The head of this Fused Government is pro-
bably the most utterly unpopular politician in
N.S.W., if not in Australia. As a politician he
has always been found pottering around
among little cantankerous parish-minded trifles
and prejudices. He was Attorney-General
and legal adviser to the Carruthkrs Government
when it attempted to provoke civil war by a
violent and illegal seizure of goods out of the
Federal Customs House, with the result that the
boasted mother-State of Australia was found
guilty in court and fined, just as if she had been
Jiggety Jane run in on the usual charge of beer.
Carruthers lost his Premiership over that
matter, but Wade, his colleague and legal adviser,
didn’t fall with him. Instead he got the vacant
position. If it was by Wade’s advice that Car-
ruthers rushed to his political doom, then it said
little for Wade’s law, and things that have hap-
pened since say still less for it. The present
N.S.W. Premier has appeared before the public
as a sour, cantankerous, litigious man, who
would pursue his own shadow at any cost
through all the courts of the empire. His luck
has been horrible, and the Courts have seemed
to decide, almost as a matter of course, that
his case was bad. But however bad his case might
be his perseverance was good, not to say magnifi-
cent. He became notorious for his efforts to pare
a trifle off the dole of some superannuated
civil servant, and for small matters of that
sort. And, bad as was his luck, he didn’t
quite always go down. He had gleams of
good fortune. After two years of fierce and
costly litigation, ending at the Privy Council, lie
managed to get his own railway refreshment-room
keeper fined ss. over a sale of cigarettes. And
the Greville case certainly went his way.
Greville was an aged civil servant, whose pen-
sion was disputed. The High Court decided for
him and against Wade. The matter being
carried to the Privy Council in London, that
body gave leave to appeal on the extraordinary
condition that the N.iS.W. Government should
pay Greville’s costs whether he won or lost.
It was a condition which seemed to imply
that the Privy Council regarded the affair as one
savoring of persecution. But Greville died—
possibly worn out with law and worry—before
the final appeal was heard. His affairs went into
the hands of one of Wade’s functionaries, the
Curator of Intestate Estates, and as that Govern-
ment officer appointed no one to represent the
deceased’s estate at the appeal, Greville’s ghost
lost his case and Wade won. It was on this occa-
sion that the Australian High Court made dis-
paraging remarks about Wade as if he were guilty
of sharp practice such as might be expected from
a police-court practitioner. And that gentleman
had another victory of a sort when he remitted
half the fine imposed on master-baker McKye for
a second very gross breach of the Industrial Dis-
putes Act, and did it without even consulting the
Judge who had heard the case. All this stress of
legal work began to tell on the Premier’s consti-
tution, and at last it was necessary to appoint a
Solicitor-General to help bear the heat and
burden of useless, cantankerous, and mostly un-
successful law-suits. Consequently, the State has
now the pleasure of paying the salary of Mr.
John Garland. It is 37 years since a Solicitor-
General was a regular part of the Government
outfit, but Wade is apparently unable to pursue
his own railway refreshment-room keeper single-
handed any longer.
■K * * ♦
Gregory Wade is the only Premier N.S.W.
ever possessed who was openly accused of
an intention to use his position for his
own profit by appointing himself to the
Supreme Court bench, and he is the only one
of whom it was said that his colleagues
were so anxious to get rid of him that they
made great efforts to shove him on the
Supreme Court bench. His Coercion Act is
too well known now to require further descrip-
tion. His Industrial Disputes Act is such
a supreme botch that it has already been
patched and amended four times. His career
as Premier was one long, sour, discourteous,
bumptious quarrel with the Federal authorities
until a new Prime Minister arose who refused to
submit, with old complete humility, to
WADE-ite dictation. Then Charles Gregory
became a weepful complainant about the
treatment meted out to him by the Common-
wealth. He was always a Tory, and always out
of sympathy with the workers. He refused to
aid the Federal authorities in suppressing the
back-breaking 3001 b. and 4001 b. cornsack—but
then he invariably refused to aid the Federal
authorities, so that was in no way remarkable. He
has always been a man of political side issues, half-
sayings and cheap innuendoes. A very large
gun in his arsenal is his frequent remark that the
other fellow had better keep quiet, because if he
(Wade) were to tell all he knows about the
other fellow, the latter would have cause to
wish he hadn’t spoken. He tried this method
with B. It. Wise after he had, by his own
disastrous admission, deprived Wise of his
Government briefs because Wise expressed disap-
proval of the Government policy. He tried it on
the Labor party, with mysterious hints that some
member or members of it had urged him to pro-
ceed with extra severity against Bowling, and
then, being urged to supply particulars, he re-
tired to his shell, requesting that he might not be
“ dragged into” the matter which he had himself
started. A man of devious, sidelong and crab-
like politics is Wade—a small man who has sur-
rounded himself with small men—a potterer in a
small way after small parish-pump things. Only
the weakness and good-nature of his opponents
have made his continuance in office possible.
* * * *
Wade was always a Foreign-trader, with a
conviction that Protection would bring ruin on
N.S. W., and an anti-Federalist with an assurance
that Federation would spell disaster. The
result shows him to be as bad a prophet as he is a
politician. As a financier he has been an amazing
circumstance. He has enjoyed a revenue such as
never came to any other Premier of N.S.W., and
every increase of revenue seems to have merely
hastened his feet on their way to the pawnshop.
His so-called sinking fund is an absurdity. His
railway and tramway superannuation fund is de-
nounced by even the Herald and Telegraph
as a thing that must come, by reason of its in-
herent rottenness, to utter disaster, whatever
temporary luck it may bring in the shape of rail-
way and tramway votes next October. His
struggle to keep the outports closed and to
concentrate everything at Sydney is merely
hastening the break-up of the State. His
Closer Settlement policy has consisted mostly
of buying out greedy landlords at absurd prices.
At the Federal election of last April the people
of N.S.W. repudiated the party with which
Wade has always been associated —repudiated it
root and branch. Now, with the State election at
hand, many of his own followers show signs of
drifting away, and those who remain are largely
occupied in explaining that the part} 7 has become
so utterly corrupt and disorganised that the
selection ballots are a farce, and the nominations
a disreputable jest. It is a drear*- situation for
the “great Liberal” pus. ' plain, quiet,
honest James McGowen were not so uninspiring
a figure as he is, it would be hardly worth while
for the Wade crowd to go to the poll at all.
A PEACE SOCIETY KINGDOM AND
WHAT HAPPENED TO IT.
A fkvv days ago there was a gathering in Sydney
of those well-meaning fools or ill-meaning traitors
who call themselves the Peace Society. The
chief apparent purpose of this institution is to
slander and denounce the white race, to allege
with great energy that whenever the white man
and the colored person come into conflict it is
solely the white inhabitant’s fault, to give the
nigger an illuminated certificate of character, and
to hold forth on the absurdity of having any
defences whatsoever against the black or brown
or yellow individual, or, indeed, against any in-
dividual at all, because all people save ourselves
are so angelic and so absolutely perfect that there
can never be any war hereabouts except by our own
grievous fault. To quote the words of the parson
who was the star item of the meeting :
It the Chinese or Japanese ever become aggressive it
will be our own fault for setting them the example of
'war and goading them, into retaliation for wrongs
suffered at our hands.
It sets one wondering what is the use of God in
Heaven when there is a perfect Jap on earth to
take His place. For if the Jap will never do any
wrong to us, a strange and alien people, save in
iust retaliation, it is much less likely that the
same Jap will ever do any wrong to his own brown
brother and fellow-Jap. And a person who never
does wrong to anybody is so good that he doesn t
require a Deity. * * #
And then this writer read over once more
McKenzie’s “ Tragedy of Korea,” the story of a
doddering and almost unarmed nation, which let
things slide even as the Peace Society wants Aus-
tralia to slide, and which received its reward,
even as this country may do a ' few years
hence. It trusted to Providence, and it col-
lapsed in a day and a night. The real
tragedy of Korea began in 1895. when the
Queen was murdered and burned by Japanese
soldiers and officers at the admitted instigation of
the Japanese ambassador. Heaven only knows
what speechless horror would have resulted if the
German or Russian ambassador in London had
murdered, and burned the body of, Queen Vic-
toria or Queen Alexandra, especially if he had
burned her before she was quite dead ; but so in-
sane is the worship of the colored races by Tories
and Peace Societies and Conservative parsons
and anti-White Australia scum, that the Jap
could do this unutterable deed without in the
least degree forfeiting their respect. Says the
author of “ The Tragedy of Korea ”
A large number of low-class Japanese appeared in all
parts, and the Japanese soldiers assumed a much more
aggressive and domineering attitude. The more prudent
Japanese themselves saw the danger of this. Count
Inouye . . . made charges against his fellow-countrymen
in Korea. . . . “The Japanese are not only impolite, but
they often insult the Koreans. They are rude in their
treatment of Korean customers. . . . They do not hesi-
tate to appeal to fists, and even go so far as to throw
Koreans into rivers or use weapons.”
That was the very first stage of the trouble in
Korea, when the Jap was still only a visitor and
trader in the country.
* * * *
Then, a few pages further on, there are these
developments: —
Count Inouye was succeeded [as Japanese Ambassador]
at the beginning of September by General Viscount
Miura. . . . Miura had the reputation of being a man of
the sternest manner, a strict religionist, and a Buddhist
of the Zen school, who carried the ascetic practices of
his sect to their utmost extreme. He found himself
constantly met [in his schemes for the extension of
Japanese influence] by the Queen’s stubborn opposi-
tion. . . . How was he to overcome her ? His First Secre-
tary, Sugimura, was all in favor of extreme measures. . . .
Oniv one little woman stood in the way of their desires.
. . .' To quote the exact words of the Japanese official
report: “ It was further resolved that this opportunity
should be availed of for taking the life of the Queen;” ...
Miura summoned a few Japanese Soshi, professional
bullies, revealed his plan to them, and bade them collect
their friends and help to carry it out. Again I quote the
official report: “ Miura . . . instigated them to despatch
the Queen when they entered thepalace.” The Japanese
police were also instructed to co-operate. . . . The
Japanese officers . . , made a central group. There was
no difficulty in entering when they reached the palace,
for the gates were in the hands of Japanese soldiers.
Most of the regular [Japanese] troops paraded outside
according to orders. Some went inside. . . ,
The royal apartment was of the usual qne-storeyed
type. . . . The Japanese made straight for it. . . .
Some caught hold of the King and presented him with a.
document, by which he was to divorce and repudiate the
Queen. Despite every threat he refused to-sign this.
Others were pressing into the Queen’s apartments.
The Minister of the Household tried to stop them,
but was killed on the spot. The Soshi seized the
terrified palace ladies . . . dragged them round and
round by the hair and beat them, demanding that they
should tell where the Queen was. They moaned and
cried and declared that they did notknow. . . . Okamoto,
who led the way, found a little woman hiding in a corner,
grabbed her head, and asked her if she were the Queen.
She denied it, freed herself with a sudden jerk, and ran
into the corridor, shouting as she ran. Her son, who
was present, heard her call his name three times ; but
before she could utter more the Japanese were on her
and had cut her down. Some of the female attendants
were dragged up, shown the dying body, and made to
recognise it, and, then three of them were put to the sword .
The conspirators had brought kerosene with them.
They threw a bedwrap around the Queen— probably not
yet dead —and carried her to a grove of trees in the deer
park. There they poured the oil over her, piled faggots
of wood around, and set all on Are.
* * * *
That happened only 15 years ago. It was a
sample of what the best variety of Japanese gentle-
man—a man so high and dignified as to be at once a
general, a nobleman and an ambassador —is
capable of, not merely in his dealings with the
common people, who might seem of little
account to a Japanese dignitary of his superb
tonnage, but in his relations with the sovereign
to whose court he had been accredited. It
is rarely—very rarely—that an ambassador
burns the Queen of the country to which he is
sent in his official capacity ; but our blessed allies,
the Japanese, did it just 15 years ago. And they
did more. They issued a decree in the name of
the now half-crazed King degrading the dead
Queen from her rank, reducing her “ to the level
of the lowest class,” and declaring her a prosti-
tute. But the foreigners in Korea raised a fren-
zied stir and cursed at large. They denounced
the Japanese as savages and devils; and the
Japanese Government, which seemed amazed
that anyone should object to its methods, was
almost driven to put its ambassador on trial. The
judgment was that he was the cause and
originator of the murder of the Queen of Korea,
and that he should be acquitted. To quote again
from the written history :
The Judge of the Court of preliminary inquiry re-
ported that Miura and his assistants had planned, in co-
operation with the Tai Won lvun, to murder the Queen;
they had used the military and police to aid them ; they
had enlisted the services of a number of men for this
purpose; they had instigated them to despatch the
Queen, and the men had been led against the palace to
accomplish this. “At dawn the whole party entered the
palace through the Kwang-hwa Gate, and at once pro-
ceeded to the inner chambers. Notwithstanding these
facts, there is 710 sufficient evidence to prove that a7iy of
the accused actually committed the crime. . . . For these
reasons the accused, eacha7id all, are hereby discharged.”
Thereupon the Mikado confirmed the murderous
ambassador in all his honors and dignities, and he
was publicly banqueted and became a national
hero. Also his barrister, Mr. Masujima, a high-
class counsel, who ranks with B. R. Wise in
Sydney, or Pabis Nesbit in Adelaide, or Rufus
Isaacs in London, published a statement to the
effect that Miura’s act was wholly justifiable and
commendable. As a matter of form, three Koreans
were executed, on the pretence that they did the
crime which Miura so cheerfully acknowledged
as his own.
After that the miserable Peace Society King-
dom of Korea, which had listened to its local
Rose Scott and Parson Rivett till everything
was too late, went from bad to worse. Here are
some scattered extracts from the story after the
Japanese had superseded the King and started to
run the show :
As victory followed victory [in the war with Russia]
the attitude of the Japanese grew less kindly. A large
number of petty tradesmen followed the army.... They
travelled about sword in hand, taking what they wished
and doing as they pleased.... There is little doubt that
many people were unju-tly put to death.... More and
more Japanese gendarmes were brought over and estab-
lished themselves everywhere.... Men who protested
against Japanese action weic arrested and imprisoned or
driven abroad. The Japanese military authorities decreed
that Japanese time should be used on all public works,
and they changed the names of the towns from Korean
to Japanese. Martial law was now enforced with
the utmost rigidity. Scores of thousands of Japan-
ese coolies poured in.... They went through
the country like a plague. If they wanted a thing they
took it. If they fancied a house they turned the resident
out. They beat, they outraged, they murdered in a way
and on a scale of which it is difficult for any white man
to speak with moderation. Koreans were flogged to
death for offences that did not deserve a sixpenny fine.
They were shot for mere awkwardness. Men were dis-
possessed of their homes by every form of guile and
trickery. It has been my lot to hear . . . from white men
living in the districts, hundreds upon hundreds of inci-
dents ... all to the same effect. . . . The Korean who
approached the office of a Japanese Resident to complain
was, as a rule, thrown out by the underlings. . . .
In Japan opium-smoking is prohibited under the
heaviest penalties. .., The Japanese permitted numbers
of their people to travel through the interior of Korea
selling morphia to the natives. . . . This caused quite
a wave of morphia-mania.
The Japanese . . . staked out large portions of the
finest sites in the country. . . . Hundreds of thousands
of acres were thus acquired. A nominal sum was paid as
compensation to the Korean Government —a sum that
did not amount to one-twentieth of the real value of the
land. The people who were turned out received, in many
cases, nothing at all.
* * * *
And even these are only a fraction of the
horrors. There is the story of the confiscation in
one act of 15,000 houses, and the eviction of the
inhabitants with violence and murder. There is
the tale of the murky prison cell which contained
18 Korean men and one woman—some of them
fastened to the ground with stocks, some scarred
all over with the lash, and one with his eyes
beaten out. They were old inhabitants of the
cell ; one had been trying for six years to catch
the pure and limpid eye of Japanese justice and
get a fair trial. Some of them lay on their backs
all the time bound with ropes that had cut
their way to the bone. There is the narrative of
Weigall, the Australian mining engineer, and his
' wife, who were waylaid, arrested, insulted, and
jabbed with bayonets by Japanese soldiery. There
is the tale of the white missionary’s wife who was
assaulted by a Japanese soldier in the streets of a
Korean town ; and the anecdote of the Roman
Catholic bishop who was beaten by Japanese
soldiers in his own cathedral. And there are scores
of horrors besides. The poor old Peace Society
nation, with its long robes and its absurd hat,
which trusted for its safety to the fact that
Japan, the United States and other countries had
solemnly guaranteed its independence, hasindeed
got all that was coming to it. The Land of the
Morning Calm has become the Land of the Mid-
night Slump, and there is not the least reason to
suppose that Australia, when its turn comes, will
get any different treatment from that which befell
Korea. When a Japanese ambassador helped to
burn a Queen without even taking the trouble to
make sure that she .was dead, it isn’t likely that
the next Japanese ambassador will make any
bones about burning Bruce Smith or Miss Rose
Scott or Lord Dudley ; or about flogging the
manager of the Bank of New South Wales and
sending him to perpetual imprisonment. Aus-
tralia is already freely spoken of in Japan
as that country’s “natural heritage.” Various
announcements have been made to the effect that,
when the Anglo-Jap treaty expires in 1915,
Nippon will join the Triple League of Germany,
Austria and Italy ; so that, while their combined
fleets balance that of Britain in European waters,
the brown men will be supreme in the Pacific.
Under these conditions Australia can’t arm too soon,
it can’t rush population into its empty Northern
Territory too quickly, it can’t be too sudden about
its transcontinental railways, and it can hardly
hang its Peace Societies too high. Not that
its Peace Societies do much actual damage. The
real trouble lies in popular ignorance, slackness,
indifference and general optimism. But if the
hanging of a Peace Society tended, even in a
small degree, to dispel this indifference and fix
public attention on the chances of the near
future, that body would not have been suspended
in vain.


PLAIN ENGLISH.
Australia's New Capital: The City of
Pumpwater.
ftliat, therefore, does the parting with this small area of
additional territory mean to New South Wales ? Nothin°-
at all. TO ALL INTENTS AND PURPOSES THE
CAPITAL WILL BE A SUBURB OF SYDNEY It
seenis to me that our request is so trivial a thing that
the New South Wales Government ought, without hesi-
tation to comply withjt. But let it be thoroughly
understood that our request for this concession will be
no har to a final issue of the proclamation. As soon as
we get a Bill passed to enable us to govern the territory
we shall be ready to make the proclamation. -Federal
Mmister O’Malley.
Mr. Poynton : Is it true that the provision for water
supply is to be a pumping scheme'?
The Minister for Home Affairs (Mr. O’Malley): Yes •
that is quite true ; but you must not forget that is the
/vl“,T e Cll ' raA ,° and ,° > ther big American cities.-
House of Representatives Report.
Australia’s proposed Yassberra Federal capital
horror has had many bad things said about
it by its own supporters, and now the same
old disaster is happening to it again. Minister
O’Malley (once known as the Bald-Headed
Vultuiefrom the ttocky Mountains, or some such
term but now a very ordinary elderly gentleman)
is a Yassberra-ite,-and he cheerfully denounces his
as being only ‘-a suburb of
bydney. ihe fact is glaringly and conspicuously
true, but one would hardly expect a Yassberra-ite
to mention it. Australia went out to look for a place
where it could raise the only city in the world
that is to be the capital of a whole continent, and
that continent the only one in all history which is
under one Government and speaks one language.
It requires a city with vast and noble possibili-
ties to live up to that destiny. But, unfortunately,
the matter fell into the hands of rotten little men
with retail-cheesemonger souls—insects who hated
Australia and its future, and exalted greatly the
parish pump—and the result is that the capital of
a continent is to rank with Botany and Balmain
as a sort of suburb of Sydney. And O’Malley
damned the place almost as badly when he
described it as one to which all the water supply
must be pumped up—and added in defence that
Lineage was in the same depressing situation.
Ihe statement about Chicago is, of course, quite
true, but the difference between the two cases is
that the people who founded Chicago didn’t
select the site for the mere joy of pumping
water. They went there because the immense
bhicksoil plains of Illinois, where for hundreds of
there is neither rock, pebble nor sand, are
among, the richest in the World) because the
btate has coal everywhere; because iron, lead
copper, zinc, petroleum, etc., are handy; and be-
cause the affluence of Illinois required an outlet
on the Great Lakes. Chicago was selected as the
outlet because it had a good natural port, and
because it, was one of the few places in Illinois
with good building material at hand. It justified
its selection by becoming the greatest manufac-
turing city, and probably the second greatest port,
in the U.B. ‘ It has to pump up its water supply
Because there is no water supply to be procured by
gravitation within hundreds of miles, but the
advantages of its site enable it to earn the cost of
the pumping business a hundred thousand times
over. Its people never pretend, however, that they
want to pump, that they like pumping, that they
regard pumping as an advantage and a thing to be
proud of, or that they selected the site of their
city because they were pump maniacs who yearned
to perish at the handle. On the other hand, no
one suggests (1) that Yassberra is a port; (2) that
it is the natural centre and outlet of any great
agricultural district; (3) that it has any advan-
tages as.a manufacturing centre; or (4) that
N.S.W. is a dead flat country where it is impos-
sible to get a cheap and abundant water supply
by gravitation. Deliberately, and of malice
aforethought, and by reason of insane stupidity
and lack of patriotism, certain wretched poli-
ticians are shoving on to Australia a capital
which has practically every disadvantage
they can find. The Australian metropolis,
if its site were carefully selected, might, before
to-day s baby dies of old age, become, a great
manufacturing, commercial and railway, centre,
bringing in £2,000,000 or £3,000.000 a year to the
Commonwealth in ground rents with which to
relieve taxation or subsidise the State Govern-
ments. Instead, it is to be a place with no re-
sources of its own, a pauper city supported by
the contributions of the people, and with trains
dragging coal towards it at. ,public expense all the
time from now till Judgment Day, in order to
keep going the costly engines which are to pump
up ■ its water. All this silly extravagance is
because parish-pump politicians have deliberately
arranged ■ things that way. They like pumping
because they are parish-pump politicians of the
species which was represented by Pumpkin
Smith.
—— » ——
How the Police Play into the Wowsers’ Hands.
Premier John Weary, the champion of O’Cal-
laghan and his Vic. police, has struck a suf-
ficiently artful means of evading the charges
which Wowserdom makes re the existence of
gambling “schools” and “dens” in Melbourne.
These charges come wildly from Judkins and
more directly from the Argus, but instead of
opening a personal line of communication with
the hot-gospeller or the newspaper—in fact, he
ignores the newspaper’s more definite statements
altogether— Premier Weary merely repeats
O’Callaghan’s police reports on the vexed ques-
tion. Which reports amount to not a positive,
but a comparative, denial of the allegations.
The gambling establishments of to-day, says the
champion of O’Callaghan, are so much
less numerous than the “dens” of yore
that they have ceased to be worth men-
tioning. “The existing Gaming Act gives
the police much greater powers than they
formerly possessed, and if they even have a sus-
picion that gambling to an undue extent is being
carried on, a notice to the owner of the place that
it will be quarantined is quite sufficient.” The
term “ undue extent,” as defined by the Police and
the Premier, means, apparently, an extent that
is an open, howling scandal. The police don’t
make a scandal by raiding the premises, but a
newspaper calls attention to the two-up school,
and Judkins howls about it, and then it is moved
on. The present Act came into force some 3J
years ago. fsince then the police have had no
flimsy excuse for saying they were “powerless”
to apply anti-gambling law to law-breakers; but
they are the same old force, under the same old
O’Callaghan, who formerly winked audibly
at John \ViuijN’s Tote and Club until the persis-
tent Judkins and Co. and the sometimes out-
spoken Argus had fanned the long-smouldering
scandal into a consuming flame. In the light of
the history of Wren’s Tote, the sophistry of Pre-
mier Weary is glaringly audacious. He told the
Vic. Assembly last week that “ the police, instead
of being lax in looking after these matters, had
been very much on the alert, and the record of
what they had done, and the condition of things
as they existed now as compared with what they
we're a few years ago, if they could be known to
lion, members, would perfectly satisfy them that
the police had done their duty.” This leaves
the counter-allegators on exactly the same
ground where they have been standing for
years. They argue that the only motive power
which compels the police to action is Public
Scandal, whereby “undue extent’’ in Melbourne
gambling has been reduced to a small evil com-
pared with its immensity a while ago. What the
police have been forced to do under the present
Gaming Act they could have done before it was
passed, but they didn’t—not as far as the law-
breaking Wkkn was concerned. What they do
now is done at the compulsion of Scandal, created
by the wowsers. The ordinary sane, sinful public
wishes it were not so. Public morality has, in a
measure, come under the control of Wowserdom
because O’Callaghan’s police leave scope for
Judkins to prance around. There is too much
wowsering in Melbourne owing to the inefficiency
of the police.
The Right to Throw Dirt into Your
Neighbor’s Tank.
The N.S.W. State Government has lately re-
ceived a request which, in a staggered sort of
fashion, it regards as “ unprecedented.” The
Fisher Ministry wants a slight increase of the
proposed Federal capital area at Yassberra. The
point on which it has begun to take a gloomy
view of things concerns a certain section of the
water supply. In the days when Carruthehs
and Wade, of Sydney, were persons of gigantic
circumstance, and used to kick the mild Deakin
Cabinet every morning just to show their im-
portance and the size of their boots, they laid
it down that the State must reserve to it-
self certain powers of being horrid and beastly.
So it was arranged that part of the watershed
which is to supply the Federal city is not to be
handed over, but is to be reserved by N.S.W.
On the other hand, N.S.W. is to guarantee the
purity of the Federal city’s water-supply by pro-
hibiting settlement on this particular area, so that
it won’t be worth a straw or half a cuss to the
State as a source of revenue. In fact, its reten-
tion will be dead a loss to the State, which will
have to maintain any roads which uappen to be
thereabouts. If the Federal city’s water
supply is befouled by neglect of this bit of
the watershed, and typhoid breaks out in con-
sequence, the Australian Government, in-
stead of simply sending somebody to stop
the defilement, will have to hunt up its boss
(boss so far as this matter was concerned) the
State, and ask it to kindly do something in the
matter. And the State may do much or little or
nothing ; also, it may do it at once or in 18 months
or in 5i years. The only possible advantage to be
gained by this arrangement is the gratification of
a certain bumptiousness on the part of small local
persons clothed with strictly local authority. The
careful retention of the right to throw dirt into your
neighbor’s water-supply pays no dividend except
in bumptiousness. The Fisher Government has
now suggested that it might save much confusion
in the future if the Commonwealth had sole
control of its own water-furnishment; but it has
weakened its case by adding that it won’t press
the point if the Wade crowd objects. Deakin’s
mantle of affability is apparently falling on
Fisher and co., and getting somewhat tangled
about the feet of that well-meaning firm.
«
Capital Leaving the Country.
Lord Sandwich, the British peer who declared,
as reported a few days ago per cable, that Lloyd
George’s new taxes would probably cause him to
leave the country, may not be t after all, quite the
ordinary kind of Tory wailing the ordinary kind
of wail re the prospective flight of capital. As a
rule, this sort of person is wholly bogus ; but there
are exceptions. In the present case the complain-
ant is presumably a descendant of the peer who
invented the piece of meat between two bits of
bread, so that he could hold his food with one
hand and continue gambling with the other. For
people who, like this eminent namesake of a well-
known article of provender, own purely agricultu-
ral property, things are not quite what they
seem in England nowadays. The big landlord
with iron, coal or manufactures on his
estate may have a glittering time, but
for the wholly bucolic peer it sometimes
happens that beer is scarce and skittles few and
far between. His position is complicated. Free-
trade has to a great extent killed agriculture and
has made the country almost wholly dependent
on foreign food supplies, and fear lest some enemy
should cut off these supplies keeps shoving up
the cost of the bloated armaments. Bull’s de-
fence bill for next year is estimated at well over
£68,000,000 —the biggest thing of its kind on
earth ; and in that year he proposes to collect
£199,791,000 in taxes, apart from the enormous
local rates. The tariff revenue is comparatively
small, because it is against Bull’s principles to
tax the foreigner; in fact, the.whole Customs and
Excise money doesn’t pay for defence, and every-
thing else comes out of direct taxation. The
wail of the agricultural landlord is (1) that his
particular industry has been almost destroyed,
and (2) that he has to pay extra for the
cost "of its destruction. Local taxes include
police rates, road rates, poor rates, educa-
tion rates, lighting rates, and a number of sun-
dries. Then the central authority calls round for
estate duty, temporary estate duty, probate duty,
legacy duty, succession duty, iand-tax, house-
tax, property-tax, income-tax, man-servant-tax,
carriage duty, coat-of-arms-tax, motor-car tax
(£42 per annum is the maximum), bicycle-tax,
gun-tax, tax of 10s. for appointing a game-
keeper, and all manner of small items, including
40s. if the taxpayer goes mad. It is alleged, too,
that the British agricultural industry is hampered
by the railways, which charge higher rates on local
than on foreign produce, and the railways cheer-
fully admit that they do; but defend them-
selves on the ground that they get foreign
grain by the shipload, while they have to
pick up the local stuff in smaller lots at
wayside stations. Also, they defend their high
charges on the ground that State and local taxes
take more than a third of their profits. And,
when the Government is appealed to, it says that
if it doesn’t levy all these taxes it will have to
bust up Freetrade and tax the blessed foreigner.
Poor old Sandwich, as an agricultural landlord—
not a great mine and iron-owner like Dudley— is
up against all this. The bulk of his property
lies in a backwash county which is steadily losing
population. He has all the dignity which
attaches to being a landed magnate; but it is
probably a rather shabby-genteel dignity in his
case. So he may yet gather up the remnants of
his greatness and flee to Germany, and there call
himself Baron Sausage.
The Cable Subsidy and its Assailants.
Of course, the Sydney daily papers, which enjoy
and exploit for all it is worth a cable monopoly of
their own, railed bitterly at the Australian
Government last week in connection with its
Cable Subsidy Bill. But between them they
succeeded in being pretty unconvincing. Thus
the Evening News, in denouncing the scheme as
“one of the most barefaced proposals ever,
perhaps, put forward by a Colonial Government,”
remarked :
It consists in appropriating £6OOO of the taxpayers’
money to subsidise certain newspapers which are able to
“ show to the satisfaction of the Minister ” that conditions
approved of by him have been complied with. This can
only be supposed to mean that papers which accept the
subsidy, and thus become Government organs, are to be
under a sort of Ministerial censorship as regards the
cabled news they publish. Thus, presumably, any news
that might affect unfavorably the party in power’ would
find no space in the columns of the subsidised Press.
And the Telegraph laid it down that
The proposal of the Federal Government to take £6OOO
of the taxpayers’ money and devote it to subsidising
newspapers which give “ proof to the satisfaction of the
Minister” that certain conditions regarding the publica-
tion of cable news have been complied with maybe re-
garded as the first feeble' attempt to introduce the
Russian system of Government press censorship into
Australia.
However, the S. M. Herald gave this particular
show away as follows :
Gross misstatements are repeatedly made. There is
the suggestion that cables are “ cooked ” to suit the poli-
tics of che leading journals. This is a ridiculous assertion
which carries its refutation on its face. To begin with,
foreign politics are never very burning questions with us,
and there would be simply no motive at all for an Aus-
tralian paper takiny up a partisan attitude as regards
European politics. In the second place, it would be
impossible to do so. A newspaper exists for its public.
As soon as it fails to satisfy its public it is well on the
road to extinction.
Which disposes effectually of the News’s wild
charge that those papers which accept the sub-
sidy “are to be under a sort of Ministerial cen-
sorship as regards the cabled news they publish.”
Also of the Telegraph’s blither about the intro-
duction of “ the Russian system of Government
press censorship into Australia.” The fact is, the
United Cable Association has brought this trouble
on its own head. For more years than the oldest
local newspaper-reader cares to remember, the
Cable Association has existed as a monopoly in
direct restraint of newspaper trade. It is true
that those who control it have been willing to let
in, at a price, the country newspapers—those harm-
less, wilting sheets which are kept in a chronically
phthisical state by city centralisation schemesand
pro-city railway arrangements. But when it was
a question of a metropolitan daily getting the
benefit of the cable service, the figure leapt up in
a horrifying fashion. Nominally, any newspaper
can come into the United Cable vend or combine;
in practice, only favored sheets can do so, the
combine reserving to itself the right to charge a
prohibitive entrance-fee if it so wishes. A
metropolitan Labor daily has about as much
hope of getting a footing in that concern
as a Labor member has of getting a foot-
ing in the Union Club. There will be no
injurious discrimination of this sort under the new
arrangement. The Association that secures the
subsidy will have to supply cables to any news-
paper that wants to buy them ; and at the lowest
possible rate. Which, if there is anything in the
contentions regarding the educative influence of
news-dissemination advanced by the Herald and
Telegraph last year, when they were trying to
persuade Commissioner Johnson to so arrange
the railway time-table as to enable them to slay
the Newcastle and other Northern morning
journals, must be all to the public good. A
feature of this disturbance is the stupendous
hide of the folks who are fomenting it.
The whole uproar is occasioned by a pro-
posal to subsidise a news-getting agency
that shall be at the disposal of anyone who cares
to pay for it, and to expend not more than £6OOO
per annum on the scheme. For years and years
the newspapers that are squealing loudest enjoyed
a subsidy, not from all Australia, but from the
State of N.S.W. alone, of some £40,000 per
annum—that being the figure at which experts
estimate the free postage concessions the Ma
State dailies enjoyed before Federation happened
along. And, for some considerable time after
Federation, these same papers travelled free over
the State railw'ays—equal to asubsidv of some £4OOO
a year apiece —and never howled a howl about the
“barefacedness” of using "the taxpayers’ money
to subsidise private enterprise businesses.” There
is no doubt that cabled information as to foreign
happenings is of public value. Also, there is no
doubt that, under the present evil system, the
Commonwealth isn’t getting either a sufficiency
of the article or the right sort of article. The
Government which provides it by the expenditure
of £6OOO per annum will be making a good, cheap
investment.
The Antiquated Signal.
The slow-going investigation into the causes of
the railway disaster at Richmond (Vic.) appears,
to some extent at least, to have missed its voca-
tion. It was started on the assumption that Vic-
toria possessed the most up-to-date signalling
system which the world knows of, and that the
business of the Court was to find out by what
miracle that marvellously exact system came to
grief. As a matter of fact, the signalling and in-
terlocking system in Victoria, even on the crowded
suburban railways around Melbourne, is in
some cases more antiquated to-day than that
which prevailed around the little muddy town
of Dunedin (Maoriland) 26 years ago. In
many places it is rotten and ancient, and
depends wholly on the ill-paid, badly-clad, over-
worked individual in the signal-box. If things
go wrong, then the only way to find out how they
went wrong is to listen to the discordant testi-
mony of a horde of ill-paid and over-worked
officials, and try to sift the real story out of their
conflicting narratives. For many years past Vic-
toria has been loaded up with unprofitable coun-
try lines which trail through the empty wilder-
nesses of the land monopolist, and, having very
little of either freight or passenger traffic to keep
them going, they find it hard to pay for axle-
grease. The city and suburban traffic has to
pay for their losses, and nen it has paid
for them there is not much money left with
which to buy up-to-date appliances. So some
kind of shift is made with hand-to-mouth
methods and prehistoric devices, and there are
tons of insane regulations to the effect that the
fireman or the guard, on a crowded and intensely
hurried suburban railway section, must get down
from the train, and tramp on foot to the signal-
box, and ask the operator by word of mouth why
the signal is against the train, and then tramp
back to the train on foot, and report to the driver
by word of mouth how the thing happened, and
then haul himself up again on to the train by
hand, after which the train, having by this
time blocked and hindered several other trains,
will proceed by wheel to its destination unless it
meets some more hostile signals and has to do
the same thing all over again. As the Melbourne
Argus recently put it with undue gentleness:—
The absence of the electric lock and block system at
such an important station as Richmond has been the
subject of general comment since the accident. Bv this
system of train-signalling the presence of more than one
train at the same time in the section between two block
signal boxes on one line is prevented. This is accom-
plished by a signalman not being able to lower his start-
ing signal (or the signal controlling the entrance to the
block section ahead)until thatsignal has been electrically
released by the signalman at the signal-box in advance,
Who cannot so release the signal until the preceding
train has passed his own signal, where a rail contact is
provided and that signal has been replaced at danger....
Railway officials state that it is intended to have the lock
and block system installed throughout the inner suburban
area. The necessary apparatus for fitting up the Rich-
mond station has been anthorised, but some delay has
occurred in procuring it.
“It is intended to have the lock and block
system installed,” Well, it is to be hoped that
the Australian navy isn’t quite so backward, else
it will be just intending to emerge from the stone
club and bark canoe fern.
♦
The N.S.W. Legislature closed its doors last
Friday night, and the panic-stricken Wade
Government wiped the cold perspiration off its
brovv with half a ton of Bills that it had been
unable to crowd through, despite its desire to
placate the enemy at the gates. In the Assembly
Kids!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Treasurer said that the policy of importing: farm
laborers had been undertaken at the request of the Rev.
Mr. Gwvnnr, of Tunbridge Wells, Kent, who, on behalf
of English immigration societies, had asked the Govern-
ment to take from 100 to 200 lads a year.
Mr. Bowser said that hundreds of farmers badly needed
laborers. The Labor Bureau wanted 100 unmarried
farm laborers, at £1 a week and keep. Farm life in Vic-
toria offered boys better general opportunities than they
would get in any other country. (Cheers.)— Debate in
Vic. Assembly.
Kids !
Hundreds of ’em for the farmer ! Kids of an
imported brand ;
Thousands of ’em for the country ! Lo, the man
upon the land
Bids
Loud for England’s surplus youngster—five whole
bob a week, ’tis said ;
And their vatue to the nation stands at many
pounds a head.
But the nation never riz ’em.
That “ would tend to Socialism ” ;
So we have to fetch ’em over from the country
where they’re bred.
Kids !
Send us kids from good old Britain—sons of men
who won’t be slaves—
From the land where countless paupers seek dis-
honorable graves
Quids !
We’re prepared to offer for them. Ship them out
across the deep,
From that dear old Freetrade country where the
cost of labor’s cheap.
While, of our unmarried, workers—
(Married men are costly shirkers)
We will take a meagre hundred at a pound a week
and keep.
Kids?
We can’t raise ’em in Australia, where employers
by the score
For the bloke without a missus in the labor depdts
roar
Bids.
Ship ’em out! The noble farmer yearns to mould
their bright young lives.
Ship’em young that fora dozen years they may
not seek for wives.
When they think of getting married
Maybe they’ll regret they tarried
Where the kid-encumbered worker vainly for a
billet strives.
Kids?
We don’t want ’em when they’re babies, for their
raisin’ costs a heap.
We don’t want ’em when they’re married, with
their own young broods to keep.
Skids
And brakes, upon the wheels of progress are such
futile folk. Just look
At the bob advertisement. You’ll see their chance
of work is “crook.”
Ship ’em out in handy sizes
For the cove that advertises
For the unencumbered couple—“ Man to milk and
wife to cook.”
Kids ?
Spare our days ! Why should we raise ’em ? We
can get ’em ready-made
¥r()rn, a land where there’s a surplus, thanks to
good old Bull’s Freetrade.
Quids
Tt will save the careful farmer. He can give his
man the sack—
Costly man who owns a missus and a child or two
to whack.
Ship ’em out, he’s yearnin’ for ’em ;
While they’re young he’ll just adore ’em ;
Then, when they grow up and marry, someone
else can ship ’em back.
Ships
Pass in with cheap boy labor—“badly needed
farming hands ” ;
Ships pass out with young Australians seeking
work in other lands.
Hips
Hurrahs ! are loudly sounded for the patriotic
bloke —
He who perpetrated this unseemly emigration
joke.
Cheers for him who brings the kiddy
To a job that’s sure and “ stiddy ” !
It will balance the outgoing of our workless
married folk.
Kids ! !
Lo, we want them—want them badly ! There is
none denies the fact—
Kids to populate the country. And behold, our
noble act
Rids
England of her surplus toilers—we can do with
quite a heap.
We can’t breed them in the country—boys to
plough and boys to reap. '
And who says it is surprising
When we’re daily advertising
For a hundred men — unmarried—at a pound a
week and keep.
victoria:
DEN.


s
One of Sydney’s Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for, Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
fg
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
JPMT* Moving Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney—3B6 George Street; Melbourne—266 Collins
Street; Brisbane—93-95 Queen Street; Adelaide—
Gawler Place ; Perth—Tillys’ Photo. Stores.
The South African cricketers appear to be
inclining their ears to wisdom and their feet
towards Austral’s sunny strands. This is one
of those brilliant decisions to which the finest
intellects are constantly inspired by D.C.L., the
whisky of the wise. The team which includes
D.C.L.—in moderate quantities—in its personnel
is never lacking in sure judgment and the spirit
of enterprise.*
the usual platitudes were exchanged between the
leaders of the parties; but the bitterness was
thinly veiled. Wade was candid enough to
remark : “He hoped that while they could say
personally they would meet again, at the same
time it would not he taken in a wrong sense if he
said that politically it scarcely could be the
desire of either side.” It has been a
bitter session all right—a session in which
Ministers and private members, in their
fervor and frenzy, gave each other the glad lie
and bellowed “pig,” “scoundrel” and “thief,”
while.a harassed Speaker banged his auctioneer’s
hammer and prayed for Blucher or night or
something. Even Wade, who generally keeps
himself in hand on the floor of the House, followed
the example of Whirling Wood on more than one
occasion, and during the passage of the Saturday
Half-Holiday Bill referred to members of the
Opposition as “behaving like so many infuriated
wild beasts.” Ministers have been a miserable
family for weeks past, moving nervously through
the business as if expecting Doom to rattle the
front door at any minute. On a recent night
Meehan was so struck with their death’s head
appearance that he interrupted his speech to say :
“Look at that bed across the Chamber with a
corpse lying upon it! ” And now the corpse is on
its way to the boneyard—unless the age of miracles
has not passed.
♦
Barren Jack, “Slander” and the “S. M.
Herald’s” Wildly-Conflicting Voices.
Last Tuesday the S. M. Herald printed a lead-
ing article headed “Slander and the Labor
Policy,” which was something unusual in the
matter of impudence. An extract: —
No part of Mr. Wade’s speech on Saturday night was
more effective than his denunciation of the story re-
cently circulated about the Barren Jack resumptions.
The building of the dam is a characteristic part of the
Government policy. It will remain a monument to the
foresight of Ministers, to their confidence in the country,
and to the skill and perseverance of our engineers. It is,
at the Same time, a mark of their determination
to encourage the distribution of the soil among
a race of small freeholders, who will each have
enough land, and no more, to enable him to provide for
his own familv, and to add to the wealth of the com-
munity. THE SLANDER WHICH MR. WADE EX-
POSED IS CHARACTERISTIC OF THE POLICY OF
THE LABOR PARTY. It has been said for electioneering
purposes that the Government proposed to allow a
rich man, Samuel McCaughky, to get the benefit of their
enterprise, by resuming his land at the enhanced value
given it by the new canals. The answer is a twofold
refutation. . . . This particular misstatement has
one obvious advantage over others circulated from the
same source. It has been kept in reserve so long that it
will be difficult to disseminate the answer as widely
as the falsehood. . . . THERE CAN BE NO
EXCUSE FOR THOSE WHO MAKE USE OF IT.
And here—right here— is what the same S. M.
Herald said on Wednesday, August 10, under
the heading “Exploiting the State” :
The knowledge that private landowners are already
reaping a benefit from the sale of land in the vicinity of
the Northern Murruinbidgee irrigation area, owing to
the inereased'value arising from the building of this great
scheme [Barren Jack], will be viewed with indignation by
the major portion of the community. It is a realisation
of an often-expressed fear, and is intolerable, in
view’ of the numerous warnings that have been made. . .
The schem.e is being exploited by private individuals.
The enterprise of the State, the expenditure of money
for which the taxpayer is responsible, are taken advantage
of tp fill the pockets of individuals with money they have
done nothing to earn. It would have been thought that
we had passed that unenviable stage of civilisation —a
stage.universally condemned by modern thought as being
most disastrous to the common we d. We have suffered
so milch from the exploitation of our lands in the past
that the lesson should have been too severe to be
forgotten. And it is the more confusing and
irritating, in this case, because there is absolutely
no excuse or justification for the failure of the
Government to take steps to protect the State.
Months ago, in dealing with this scheme, it was pointed
out that it w’as imperative that the Government should
resume these so-called second-class lands if the full
benefit of this scheme was to accrue to the State. The
machinery is in existence to allow of this being done —
ihe need is beyond question. It is painfully, prominently
plain What makes the whole business the more extra-
ordinary is that, during the last 12 months, notifications
of probable resumptions of estates have been made whole-
sale in different parts of the State for the probable
demands of closer settlement. Yet in the case of the
irrigation area, where, as far as can be seen, heavy' set-
tlement is absolutely certain in the future, and where it
was apparent that the value of the land must increase as
the irrigation; scheme progressed, the attitude of the
Government has been markedly inert.
On Wednesday, August 10, th& S. M. Herald
did not regard Barren Jack as ■ a monument to
the foresight of Ministers and to the skill and
perseverance of their engineers.” On the con-
trary, the Herald thought and said this :
So far, the handling of this great scheme cannot he
viewed with equanimity . As we have before pointed out,
it. is a great conception ; but having been conceived,
there appears failure to maintain the environment of that
conception. It should have been handled on the same
broad scale that gave it birth. Can it be said that this is
the case ? We find miles upon miles of great canals built
in the most obsolete and expensive manner. The scoop
and plough are painfully working their slow progress
across the plains where the latest machinery should be
rapidly cutting its way. These monster machines are in
use in America ; they should be in use here.
And so on. It is a quaint circumstance that the
hardest words that have been discharged at the
Wade Government, in connection with Barren
Jack, the identical arguments on which Labor
speakers on this subject have relied during the
past week, have emanated from the Herald—
the paper which now has the mammoth hide to
wail about “class prejudice,” “slander,” and
“disreputable calumny” every time an anti-
Wade ite ventilates the unsavory topic. Put
shortly, the Herald is either a slanderous liar
on August 10, or a plain, ordinary liar-for-political-
purposes on August 23. The Bulletin is satis-
fied to submit the documents in the case, and let
the public take its pick.
L - J r& ;
The Crime at Richmond.
From a Man on the Spot:—
The report of the Board appointed to inquire into the
cause of’the Richmond (Vic.) railway smash is not ex-
pected to dig down to the root of the matter. The
worst of railway systems is safeguarded on paper by
regulations which shield the head management from
direct attack when the inevitable accident happens.
In the Richmond case there were sundry little
breaches of the rules which, on that fatal foggy
morning, conspired to cause the incoming train
to bang into the other as it stood waiting
at the station. The system left the passengers
at the mercy' of workers who are not infallible,
and human fallibility, overwork and a heavy fog
will be blamed for the disaster. But the sin of Tait’s
“economical” antiquated system is the one glaringly
apparent sin nevertheless.
The Melbourne suburban lines as far as Richmond are
worked on the “ Winter ” block, with only two positions
of the needle, whereas from Richmond to Melbourne
proper the “lock and block” system, whereby an
engine secures its own safety, prevents the pos-
sibility of such an accident as occurred last
month. This lock and block signalling invention dates
back to 1875; so to he without it means being-35 years
behind time. But 20 years previously the London and
North-Western Co. introduced the “ three positions of
the needle ” instruments on their lines. Block-working
by means of the three-positions instrument is the stan-
dard practice in Britain and America. The two-positions
instruments have the grave fault of throwing too much
responsibility on the signalman, who must rely on his
memory, and on his book if his memory fails him. When
there are 37 trains to be signalled, forwards and back-
wards, within one crowded hour, both his memory and
his book are apt to be untrustworthy.
The system, then, which still remains in force cuiTait’s
lines outside of Richmond, is a dangerous one ; a relic of
the times when trains were few and a signalman’s duties
comparatively light. It has never been practised in
N.S. W. within the memory of John Marrs, Assistant
Superintendent of Lines. The evidence of Marrs before
the Inquiry Board, last week, was wholly condemnatory
of Tait’s antique system. Naturally an explanation of
its continuance is looked for. An English expert, writing
on the subject of the “ lock and block ” versus the modi-
fied (or two-positions) block, siys that the latter is
recommended only by its comparative cheapness in in-
stallation and cost of maintenance. On the Melbourne
to Richmond section the necessary “lock and block” was
introduced 20 years ago, as the result of the outcry arising
from the Windsor accident, and a promise of its extension
beyond Richmond was published in the press in Janu-
ary, 1909. It was then going to be substituted for
the existing system within three months. Twenty
months have elapsed since January, 1909, and still the
promised safeguard is denied to the public The system
that throws too much responsibility on the signalmen's
memories, and gives the engines no chance to make their
own safety, has been continued by Tait all this time,
and 170 people—lo of them dead—have been victimised
by it.
Nor is this all the indictment against the Vic. Railway
Commissioners. The Vic. system of keeping the books
that, record the signals is—says John Marrs—morelikely
to lead to an error by the signalman than if things were
done as in N.S. W. The records are all jumbled into one
book, and under this system, which astonished Mr.
Marrs, mistakes seem practically certain to occur.
Unless these facts are duly emphasised in the Inquiry
Board’s report, the Sins of the System will be only
dimly perceived by the public through the dust raised by
the Report’s specific charges against certain of the
workers.
■+-
No one appears to know for certain why the
Fisher Ministry decided to apply its progressive
land-tax to city lands. The idea seems incon-
gruous.. The purpose of the tax is to hurst up
big estates, but £BO,OOO worth of land in the
business centre of Sydney is quite a small
estate —it may be only 27yds. long and of
no great depth. Very often it can’t be
burst up into four pieces without bursting
up the business conducted on it. As for the
owner —if he is also the occupier, and especially if
he bought during the boorp—he probably wishes
to Heaven that the land was worth only £5OOO.
If he had been able to get it at that price he
would have had £75,000 more with which to buy
stock. Right in the business centre of Sydney
to-day the tax on big estates —the tax levied on
estates because of their size—commences
when the estate has about 6ft. frontage. The
amount of the tax isn’t large enough to signify ;
but, all the same, the circumstances looks unusual.
Possibly the Government got some cheap and
inefficient legal advice, and acquired an erroneous
view of Clause 2 of Part 51 of the Constitution ;
though a brief consultation with Senator Gould,
who fell in badly-over that same clause some
years ago, in the days when he clamored 'that any
kind of Federal progressive land-tax was unlaw-
ful, should have averted the error. On the other
hand, it may be that the idea is simply to raise
some much-needed revenue. In any case, the fact
remains that a tax, supposed to be devised for the
express purpose of bursting up a big estate with a
frontage varying from 2yds. to 27yds., is out of
the ordinary run of events.
' " ♦
Prime-Minister Fisher’s defence of the proposed
Yassberra capital, as reported last Saturday in
Sydney Telegraph :—
The Government policy is that this Parliament has
selected the sight rightly or wrongly, and they don’t in-
tend to spend money on taking members to view other
sites. s
Now this Parliament didn’t select the site ; the
wretched spot or blot was selected by the last
Parliament—the one which the people repudiated.
This ,seems to be the Fisher Government’s posi-
tion in the matter :
(1) A Tory crowd in last Parliament selected Yass-
berra by a small majority, despite the opposition of the
bulk of the, members of the first Fisher Government,
who knew the utter badness of the place.
- (2) Rather than resign, the Fisher Government slewed
round and accepted the site.
(3) The Fisher Government lost its job after all.
(4) The general elections showed, so far as a general
election can show anything, that the people agreed with
the first attitude of the Fisher Government and not with
the second one. The confirmed Yassberra-ite push was
slaughtered root and branch.
(5) Now the Fisher crowd, having turned a very sharp
corner, once at the bidding of a very small Tory majority,
doesn’t know how to.gracefully back-pedal’ round the
same corner again. So it has apparently decided (a) to
impose the will of the Tory Parliament that isdeadon the
Democratic one that is living ;■(&) to keep on smothering
and voting against its real Convictions ; (c) to shove the
wretched business through and be done with it, even at
the cost of going back on its own sacred principle of the
Referendum. ,
In other words, the Fisher crowd went unthink-
ingly into a mud hole, and hasto either scramble
ungracefully out or else stay there and deny that
it is in. It. seems to be,adopting‘the latter course.
Neither Fisher nor O’Malley dares to say that
he believqs in Yassberra. Each takes refuge
behind the absurd assumption that everything
which a Parliament has endorsed—whether it be
Freetrade, big estates, a naval loan, a Fusion or
Yassberra—is sacred for ever afterwards. Yet
both Fisher and O’Malley know that the atti-
tude can’t stand a moment’s inspection, for they
have just repealed the last Parliament’s naval
loan policy, and thereby thrown clods at their
only argument.
Coneybeer, Minister of Education in
S.A., has been telling a country deputation, which
asked for a bigger schoolhouse on a new site, just
what he thinks of the usual country tactics. He had
found, even in his short reign, that as soon as he
had agreed to a thing of this kind and looked
round for a site, the same people who had
“approached” the Department asked £4O an
acre for their land, though just before they had
assessed it at £6. So he proposes, in all such cases,
to secure the land quietly in advance, and spread
the glad news afterwards.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's..., “The Orchid.”
Royal “When Knighthood was in
Flower.”
Criterion “ The Arcadians.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
ijYceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess Theatre “ The Third Degree.”
Her Majesty's “Carmen.”
Royai “Pete.”
King’s “ The Work Girl.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Athenaeum Hall Taits’ Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
The question is pancakes. Meakin says
the cook is of no avail if the eggs have seen better
days. But Meakin, though gardener at an agri-
cultural college, is not necessarily an authority on
either hen-fruit or its cookery. A person like
Kitchener might easily have won the battle of
Waterloo with an army of men like the St.
George’s Rifles,' but it would take a genius like
Marshal Neild or Bill Adams to pull the thing
through with a collection of Old Guards. In
fact, the great cook scores in being able to make
you unaware that the lobster wasn’t as innocent
as W. M. Hughes or Mr. Judkins when it called
shrilly for removal to the salad dish, or that
the wild duck would have been rabbit if you had
called and eaten him a fortnight earlier. Meakin
may therefore be dismissed as a sort of cheap
boarding-house person who has generalised from
an acquaintance with nothing more colossal in
the way of genius than Mary, the young woman
who put things in the oven in the intervals
between attending to the bedrooms and preparing
herself to suitably entertain the butcher’s young
man.
* * * *
J.C.W.’s Royal Comics are, fortunately,
not that sort of Mary; so ‘‘The Orchid,”
although by this time a somewhat stale egg, is
turned out into something reasonably palat-
able at Her Majesty’s, Sydney. Some of the old
cooks remain on the staff, and there is no varia-
tion to speak of in their part of the menu. But
there have been many changes ; and, as the old
ones left their recipe books behind them, and
the new ones have thumb-marked and dog’s-
eared' them, the ancient feeder notes with
interest the differences in the “handling of
the aged and familiar egg. There is a joy
that rarely comes the second time the dish
is served. The bloom that is on the hash
of to-day is never quite the same as the bloom
that was on the hash of yesterday. But the
feeder can at least get this much out of a resur-
rection —he can compare George Lauri who was
and Bertie Wright who is; he can listen to
Florence Vie singing “In My Time,” and recall
how another lady did it; and Fanny Dango’s
“ Little Mary ” will make him remember Evelyn
Scott. So, in a manner of speaking, he can get
twoshows for the price of one. And, so far as “The
Orchid” in particular is concerned, one of the
shows will be largely filled with Lauri in just
about his happiest character. As for the unfor-
tunate person who only gets one show for his
money, not having seen “The Orchid” bloom
before, it can at least be said for his encourage-
ment that it quite deserves the three exhibitions
J.O.W. has given it. The musical numbers that
hit hard are not numerous, but there are
some of them. There is a story to it, and
a ripple to the book, and dulness nowhere. And
Bertie Wright, the new chief comedian, is very
good. He isn’t, of course, quite the same
as his predecessor. If George Lauri had been a
bar of soap he would have lathered beautifully.
He would have made a splendid shaving stick.
Wright is not so smooth, not so foamy. He is
drier; and he is humorously whimsical. Lang-
ford Kirby makes a capital ass as SCryinglour, who
has been egged into Parliament by his influential
people, and egged out of it by his more influential
constituents. Florence Young is the same hearty
Florence Young that she always is. Arthur
Hunter reappears in his excellent little study of
the ancient registrar who didn’t get his fee ; and
the others don’t, at any rate, need to pray for
forgiveness.
** * *
“ When Knighthood was in Flower ” con-
tinues to blossom strongly at Sydney Royal.
There are to be seen Henry VIII. and three of
his wives, together with Wolsey, Buckingham
and other historical persons whom we cursed in
childhood’s happy hour; and amid them is Miss
Mary Tudor, played by Nellie Stewart, who
looks her best and acts divinely.
*# * *
There is nothing new to record concerning
“ The Arcadians,” at the Criterion. The show is
enjoying what the daily paper stylist would term
“a career of unexampled prosperity,” and all is
merriment and brightness.
*# * *
The Sydney Stage Society played Suder-
mann’s “Fritzchem,” Lady Gregory’s “In a
Workhouse Ward,” and “Pierrot in Australia,”
a fantasy by A. H. Adams, at the Standard
Theatre last Friday night. “Fritzchem” is one
of those grim, simple domestic episodes in which
the German dramatist delights. The soldier-son
of the house confides to his father that he has had
an intrigue with the w fe of a brother officer, and
been caught en flayrant clelit. He must fight
a duel to the death with the husband, who
is a dead shot. The situation is intensified
by the father’s remorse (he is indirectly respon-
sible, having counselled his son to “see life by
the mother’s innocent cheerfulness, and by the
presence of the girl whom the doomed youth
really loves. W. Beattie shone like a good
deed in a bad world as Von Drosse, the father.
“In a Workhouse Ward ” expresses the English
theory that the Irishman has an infinite capacity
for. being dissatisfied. Two aged Hiberniaps—
one (W. Beattie) stout, red-haired and trucu-
lent ; the other (M. C. Stephen) thin, pale
and querulous —are shown hurling argument
and bitter abuse at each other, as they
lie on their work house stretchers. To the
fiercer of the twain comes a countrywoman
with the news that a comfortable home has
been found for him outside. He is gratified
till he grasps that his companion is not coming
too. Then he turns the offer down with loathing,
and the curtain falls on the infuriated old friends
exchanging maledictions as before. A delightful
Irish atmosphere of inconsequence, kindliness
and humor imbues the whole play, though the
dialogue is obscure, in parts, to the mere Sas-
senach unlearned in the Gaelic. A. H. Adams’s
gracefully-written “Pierrot in Australia” was
handicapped by having to follow this play of
naturalism. The eccentric with the whiterfed
face and the bizarre costume has figured, during
the last decade or so, in almost every conceivable
situation and country, and in most languages,
including modern Greek and dumb show. He
may be well enough in a Latin Quarter
garret, but somehow the primeval bush seems
no place for him. Despite the skill and resolu-
tion of W. Beattie, Pierrot’s fanciful aspira-
tions and imaginings rang false. One felt all the
time, that in real life the sturdy back-blockers,
eager to get on with the milking or burning-off or
what not, would speedily have given their visitor
the option between curbing his eloquence, wash-
ing himself and donning sober raiment, or retiring
to solitary confinement, in the fowl house till the
asylum people arrived. Consideration of last
week’s entertainment suggests that the Stage
Society needs a further stiffening of profes-
sionalism. It is hard for a practically all-amateur
cast to do justice to the sort of stuff the members
aspire to, talented though so many of them are.
“ WHEN
KNIGHTHOOD
WAS IN
FLOWER,” AT
SYDNEY ROYAL.
J B. Atholwood
as the horrid
Duke getting
the drop on.
Harcourt Betty
as the dashing
Brandon.
“ D.’s ” yarn or narrative ~
Has anyone observed the many points of resemblance
between the position of the modern amateur actor and
the Roman poet (say) of the time of the Empire? Some
of them smote me as I sat and watched our Sydney
players hard at it in the Standard Theatre (Sydney) last
Friday night.
The amateur mime, like the ancient versifier, gets
hardly anything for his dr her services. The paltry
bunch of flowers passed over the footlights to the one
about balances the few sesterces or denarii scored by the
other. At the shop of Atrectus, near the Forum of
Caesar, in Rome, a book of brand-new epigrams by
Martial could have been secured about 80 a.d. for 2s. Bd.
(4 denarii), and that was all the profit that came to the
author. His “Xenia” brought him in a grand total of
4d. (2 sesterces). For the rest, valueless crowns and
palms were, all too often, all that the star-poets of the
Roman Empire earned by their toil.
The amateur actor’s solitary appearance demands the
expenditure, on his part, of an immense amount of time,
work and brain-tissue ; also the disbursement of a good
deal of hard cash. And so with the Roman poet, who
had to waste his patrimony absorbing grammar and
rhetoric in order to qualify for his profitless trade ; and,
furthermore, had to wear a decent toga, and otherwise
“ live up to his position ” once he had got it.
The amateur actor has the utmost difficulty in securing
a public. Accordingly, he either seizes a charity by the
scruff of the neck and insists doggedly on identifying it
with his art, or else he joins a society whose members
possess a herd of docile relations, calculated to roll.up
and watch him act at short intervals. The Roman poet—
inasmuch as the Charity Entertainment was unknown in
his day, while jealousy hindered the poets of the period
from combining to any extent—was less fortunately situ-
ated. But he was equally determined to be heard. So
he used to go into the streets and public baths, and
declaim his writings in face, often, of the annoyance 'and
derision of the vulgar and the uncultured. He would
pursue people into their houses in order to read his works
to them, even going so far, on occasion, as to insist
on delivering his wares after the householder had gone
to bed.
The better-to-do Roman poet was accustomed, like the
affluent modern amateur actor, to rent halls forthe purpose
of displaying his art to the world. Like the amateur, he
not. only hired an orchestra, but also the chairs for the
players to sit on. Like the amateur, he was mostly in a
state of cold fury kt the inappreciativeness of his public.
Like the amateur, he was always awaiting a Maecenas
capable of recognising and adequately recompensing
really good stuff when he saw it.
Of course, the amateur’s conception of a Sabine farm is
a job with J.C. Williamson at £5O a week.
** * *
The programme of Sydney Tivoli asserts
that Powell and Yesey are to depart this week,
and that Fred Keeton and De Lyle and Brunin
are in their last nights. There seems to be no
reason why the document’s word should be
doubted ; so The Bulletin accepts the notice in
a spirit of Christian resignation. It takes this
opportunity of publicly hoping that whatever
turns may be ordered on as reinforcemen ts will bear
comparison with the excellent revolutions remain-
ing on the premises, i.e., those of the acrobatic
Kremo Family, Mrs. Yeamans Titus, Olga Grey
and Tom Dawson.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films lor
subjects constantly arriving,
parts, and accessories stocked,
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street,
hire —new
Machines,
Write.
Sydney.
&Y
Dr. B- Alien’:. „ „
Mexican Walnut Stain
is guaranteed W ashab e
and absolutely harmless.
None genuine without the sig-
nature of Alf ed Ardley
(Registered).
WK
Adelaide, with heaps of wheat-money in
its pockets, has caught the amusement habit
pretty severely, and entertainers so widely diverse
as William Robyns, the Sydney basso, and Ryu-
gora Shima, the Jap wrestler, have found it good
enough to settle in the Plain City for a while.
They have been giving evenings in their respec-
tive" ways; so have the Liedertafel, and the
Orpheus, and Reeves the reciter; and Violet
Paine, who does opera selections in costume after
the Blanche Arral style ; and the brilliant young
instrumentalists, Alderman, Silver, Ethel Cooper
and Nora Thomas; and the Literary Theatre,
which makes a specialty of plays that for various
reasons are not a commercial success, and so don’t
get staged elsewhere; and the Stadium, where
willing amateurs do each other far more damage
than the pro-champions whose very pictures Pre-
mier Verran wants to keep out but cannot.
Talking of pictures, there are more of these alone
than there were of all kinds of shows put together
a few years back : West’s at Olympia, Prince’s
at the Town Hall, Lyeeum-films at the Empire,
and others at a new house, constructed for the
purpose (the Arcadia), with Best s and Bruce s
and various others which advertise only fitfully,
but seem to have a solid public behind them. The
Tivoli has built up agood programme with themusi-
cal Huxhams, Frank Travis (whose ventriloquism
has been interrupted by illness) and the Charlenes.
“The Dollar Princess” has run a successful single
week at the Royal. Its main idea seems to be
the throwing of Petruchio and the Merry Widow
together and developing the mutual attraction.
There is some fine, almost grand-opera, music in
it, with action, and much Yankee “cross talk.”
“The Bad Girl” hasnowcomein. This play makesa
straight-out appeal to Woman—always the main-
stay of the drama—and it fetches her, and makes
large holes in her husband’s pocket, or her house-
keeping money..
** * *
Melbourne just now is undergoing a
terrible epidemic of melodrama. It is not all of
the frankly and unreservedly preposterous kind
that rages in a certain district all the year round ;
some samples are of the dissembled variety that
attacks reasoning human minds at their weakest
spot, and leaves them in a sickly sentimental state.
“Pete,” lately seen in Sydney, and now being
playedattheßoval, would persuadeus that ayoung
womafi, after being indiscreet with a lover who
declines to make her “honest,” cannot rest con-
tented with an easy deception of the simple-
minded worshipper who pops up in the nick of
tiifte to marry her, and thus provides her with the
opportunity of escape from the discovery
of her “shame.” The argument of Hall Caine’s
melodrama is false, all the situations arising
from it are false, and as there are no situations
after the beginning of the first act which don’t
breathe the same argument, the drama is all false.
The outward, visible sign of its falseness is a
baby, and the continual nursing, rocking or carry-,
ing around of this small, dumb infant by Pete,
Mrs. Pete, or their resident cook-lady is some-
what exasperating. The presence of the baby or
its little empty cradle keeps one’s pot of critical
oontumely always on the boil.
* * * *
Conscience doth make cowards of us all,
as the late Hamlet remarked ; but it never yet
caused a Kate Quilliam (nie Cregeen) to drop her
luck and her “ character ” and her lawful baby
and fly from the home of the providential hus-
band, whom—as she admits to the lugubrious
partner of her spinster indiscretion she is
“learning to love.” Women, fortunately, are
not built that way. Such husbands as Pete are
made to be blissful dupes, and their wives,
whether they love them or no—probably feminine
nature is incapable of true devotion to a slavish
“ mug”—would be the last creatures in the world
to undeceive them. It is only in melodrama that
women, having the strongest possible motive for
deception (the deception in Kate s case being
practically a pious fraud), feel any great compunc-
tion about fooling a man. Forcible acting may
give a surface appearance of truth to an impos-
sible, conscience-stricken character; but the
acting in “ Pete ” is not very forcible, nor is the
drama itself so deceptively constructed as its
prototype, “The Manxman.”
"MADAM BUT-
TERFLYAT
HER MAJESTY’S,
MELBOURNE.
John Zerga as
Pink'[?]ton.
Edward Wynn as Goto.
“Pete” challenges comparison with
Wilson Barrett’s dramatisation of Caine’s novel,
which he played here nine years ago and four
years earlier. Many people remember the
more able productions. Barrett had his physical
disadvantages in the name part — i.e., be was
elderly and heavy—and these helped to make
Kate’s scruples of conscience seem the more un-
natural, though they gave her fair excuse for
getting tired of his company. Matheson Lang,
at least, is a fins, tall, comely figure of youth,
wearing smarter clothes than Barrett wore, and
therefore more likely to be an acceptable husband
in need to the young woman; But Barrett had
more dramatic power and stage experience than
Lang possesses, and his drama had less baby in it
than the “ Pete ” version. Lang, in the baby
scenes, reminds one rather of a mild and gentle
Irish comedian who followed in the Melbourne
wake of Andrew Mack, and used to warble sugary
love songs and play with precocious kiddies.
Visions also of Charles Arnold as Hans the Boat-
man come stealing out of the dim past when
Matheson Lang beats the big drum. Even his
athletic action in downing old Caesar Cregeen
suggests a good young man’s desire to be not too
rough, though an impulse of passion is never half-
hearted. Other members of the co., with the
exception of Miss Mortyne, are doomed to bump
against the snag of odious comparison. Miss
Britton is tame and colorless where Maud
Jeffries was strong and magnetic. Tyrer is mis-
placed as the aggressive cad, Ross Christian ; the
bitter hypocrisy of Caesar Cregeen is not quite
in Styan’s line; and, though one may grant that
Philip Christian is an unreal character, it cer-
tainly admits of more effective treatment than it
gets from Robertshaw. The other people are
mostly comic-relief folk, who call to see the over-
powering baby.
SIGNOR HAZON, OF HER MAJESTY'S
ORCHESTRA , MELBOURNE.
The opera season at Her Majesty’s (Mel-
bourne) is within easy distance of the finish, and
the nights of “ Butterfly ” are numbered. The
four weeks’ run of the quaint little opera ends on
Friday. “ Boheme ” transpires on Saturday with
Miss Pampari as Mimi, and “ Carmen ” befalls on
Monday. Mrs. Bel Sorel will be Carmen.
** * *
“The Work Girl,” revived by Anderson
at the King’s last Saturday, is the deed of two
bellow-dramatists who must have swallowed
“Silver King” and chewed sundry cuts from
other joints ere starting to collaborate. The plot
wanders aimlessly around. The various heroes
and heroines and comic-relief parties are fitful
and uncertain. Some of them are cut down like
the grass and cast into the oven. One of them is
dropped, in a murdered state, into the flowing
tide through a hole in the floor ; but the story
of the crime, like bread cast upon the water,
comes back after many days and knocks the
villain out. The villain, who is Rutland Beckett,
starts business in a prologue, where Bailey is his
accomplice. Beckett, however, exceeds the limits
of respectable wickedness by killing a gentleman
whom Bailey had decoyed to their room over the
river. For the rest of the drama Beckett is at the
mercy of Bailey, it seems. They are the only two
persons in London who ever knew the gentleman
now deceased, or saw him murdered ; so the accu-
sation of either of them against the other one
would be equally ineffective in a court of law,
especially after alapse of 14 years. All the same,
Bailey holds the trump card, and finally euchres
his old pal. Redgrave is the incidental Den ver of
the play. He gets sent to prison, and reappears as
the father of an extraordinary work-girl (Eugenie
Duggsh). whose dismal mother dropped dead
through wearing a black cloak with a hood to it.
George Cross is a belated young man in love with
Eugenie, yet he is about to get married to the
villain’s daughter when a lot of people recognise
each other, and the curtain falls on a bewildering
tableau, with several horses and vehicles in the
background. Owing to the number of deaths —
not violent, but just plain, ordinary deaths—some
of the characters are converted from young brides
and bridegrooms into middle-aged widows and
widowers, and the relationships all round need a
lot of sorting out. The drama derives its Work
Girl interest from an irrelevant revolt of sewing-
machinists against the Jew bookmaker who runs
the factory. They tear his coat from his back.
Also they tear his pants from his legs, and leave
him nothing but a tablecloth to conceal his
blushes. Which goes to explain why “ The Work
Girl ” is a thrilling and popular drama.
** * *
“The Third Degree,” which opened a
new season at the Princess’s on Saturday, is a
dish of hot melodrama, served with literary sauce.
Some of its situations are intolerably strained,
and one or two of its characters barely supportable.
Howard Jeffries, sen., for instance, is so paltry
and passionless as to be hardly human ; whilst his
son’s wife has virtues peculiar to all the angels. She
is not only better than most women of her age and
attractions, but her nobility reaches the trans-
cendental. In a moment of extravagant pity she
allows her virtue to be damned by the tongue of
Scandal to save the name of her ma-indaw. In
the circumstances °f die play this action looks
like insane holiness. The episode, however, is
only one in a plot full of unreality. The first
scene in the first act is possibly the most convinc-
ing, but some of the later scenes—such as
the hypnotism of Jeffries, jun., halt between
the absurd and the improbable. The act-
ing is entitled to more respectful attention.
Probably Miss Katherine Grey is not absolutely
ideal in the part of Mrs. Jeffries, jun., but her
picture of the lady will pass at least as an earnest
effort. As Mrs. Jeffries, sen., Miss Ethel War-
wick inspires successive feelings of faith, hope
and charity; while Julius Knight as Richard
Brewster is his old, suave and satisfying self.
Good character work is contributed by Sydney
Stirling and Leslie Victor; while Winter Hall
possibly plays Jeffries, sen., in the only way the
author intended. That is to say, Hall plays a
man w T ho has made himself a religion, and has
become supreme pontiff of his own creed.
Prayerful consideration of West s Mel-
bourne pictures leads to a certain amount of
reckless applause for an unusual item called,
“The Punishment of the Samurai.” The film
presents a piece of Japanese bellowdrama with
a strikingly sensational last act —a fight to the
death conducted with great energy and one
corpse. Some excellent views of Innsbruck are
afforded in “Scenes in the Austrian Tyrol,
while some of the blessings of nigger civilisation
are observed in “ A Trip up the Mekong River,
Cambodia.” The popular “ Animated Gazette
shows pictures of rifle-shooting at Bisley, the
flooding of Lucerne, the fatal railway smash at
Villeprieux (France), and other current events
tending to show that Providence has been at it
again.
** * *
At Melbourne Town Hall, this week, Mary
Conly and Walter Kirby will raise their voices
singly and in unison on Wednesday and Saturday
nights. Next week they will appear some more.
On Saturday afternoon the Vic. Professional
Orchestra is to be heard, this time under the
direction of the city’s long-lost friend, Slapoffski,
who has come over from Sydney to put the con-
cert through.
** * *
The juggling —serious, humorous and
mysterious—-of Morris Cronin and Party con-
tinues to be the chief ingredient in an attractive
bill at the Opera House. Cronin and his foot-
men, particularly the one who is always waiting
round the corner, are worth more than one visit;
moreover, there are other bright pebbles on the
Rickards beach. A recent arrival is Godfrey
James, the “singing collier,” for whom the advt.
claims a world-wide renown. Therefore, Ihe
Bulletin assumes that Godfrey ceased colliering
before starting his renown. You can’t knock the
universe by singing in a coal-mine.
“Stargazer”: Where the concocter of the picture
drama has the pull on builders of stage plays is in the
scenic effects. A recent set, reeled off at pretty well all
the metropolitan flick-shows, is a case in point. It
is “Ramona,” a pictorial dramatisation of a well-
known Wild West novel. The machine squats in the
bjcr.hill country in California, and the incidents are
enacted in the setting that belongs to them. It is nearer
to the actual than any flicker play previously put on
calico here, and, with the heroine’s part played by a
little actress who can look daggers and smile cataracts ot
roses, it gets home on one’s crude emotions.
Dear Bulletin, —I am, as a rule, hopelessly discour-
teous ; but when “ Billy B.” and Mr Frank Gerald con-
tradict my remarks on “ A Chance of a Lifetime, I feel
that humility is becoming and apology imperative. I
will, therefore, be humble and apologise to Billy B.
for forcing him not only to confirm one of Mr. Gerald s
erudite statements, but also to support his confirmation
with an obviously necessary reference to Mr. Michael
Joseph. Also, I apologise to Mr. Frank Gerald, and ex-
press my regret that anything I may have said should
have unconsciously reflected on his “ horsey ” knowledge,
or on the artistic management of Mr. Anderson s enter-
tainment. Ido this, however, less in recognition of Mr.
Gerald’s crushing information than in lowly acknow-
ledgment of the breadth of his vocabulary. A gentle-
man who calls me “ a mug as regards the game in Eng-
land ” must possess a flow of eloquence worthy of
his intellectual prestige. Yours, with a contrite heart,
Jean Sibi.
MR. J. CURRIE ELLES, OF SYDNEY.
The only Scotchman this 'paper has ever
met who apparently considers his oxen nation
inferior to Chinamen.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney.
Sydney Telegraph is filled with rage at the
action of the State Legislative Council in swallow-
ing the bogus railway superannuation scheme,
and the sound of its axe, breaking up its joss*
awakened the citizens at an unusually early hour
one morning last week. In between the onslaughts
the infuriated journal howled :
The question that ought also to go to them [the people]
is whether the Council should be retained or abolished.
The view is taken by many, perhaps the majority, that
a second Chamber is not needed, and that if all but two
of the progressive Canadian Provinces can govern
themselves with one House we can do the same.
Others, again, must see in this week’s proceed-
ings in the Council complete dissipation of ttie
idea that that House is a cheek on hasty legislation.
In that character, and as a revising Chamber, the Council
finds all its functions ; and here we have had it refusing
to either revise or check a superannuation' fund which
came to it clouded in the gravest doubt. A Chamber so
complaisant or indifferent as this, so easily scared by
threats to discuss its existence if it dares to do its duty,
can expect no reliance upon its usefulness ; and the ques-
tion whether it shall be blotted out quite logically follows
its own evidence that its supposed character it not its
real one.
After all, perhaps it was not so much rage as
careful business instinct unrolling some soft goods
to fall on next October—just in case.
AT POVERTY POINT.
A new and pathetic interest clings to the dapper fjjr
of Freddie Beard, choirmaster at St. Patrick s Oath ■
Next time lie conducts an orchestra the audient
tremble in dread of somethin* happening to h m fro
the rear. Frederick’s fatal beauty and nmsical charm
have captured the affections of a shrill, lively btue
spinster whose years were summed up in the Heraldr
ports as “35 or thereabouts.” She says she is
him, and if she finds him abroad she follows him to see
that he gets home all right.” Also she dissembles her
love by banging him with her ’brella. One day, when she
caught him riding in a hansom with another I_a1 _ a
sprang into the vehicle and play.d gooseberry the
attentions of the amorous spinster, whose name is Oonej ,
have been most embarrassing to poor Mi. Hear.
She rejoices in the fact. Says she joined M.
Patrick’s Cathedral choir in order to make thingsex-
citing for him, whilst he protests that he has do e
nothing to deserve her furious regard. A'l tbis canie
into print when Miss Coney charged her dear Pred
with pushing her away from him, and was dismissed wit
21s. costs. She’s just another illustration of what woman
can do for man in this world. “ For two years she has
made mv life a perfect misery to me, Mr. Beard tola
the Bench, and there’s a hunted look m his cyes wh.eb
gives sad cenfirmation to the tale But the position of a
choirmaster is fraught with such terrors. No sort
of professional man is so likely to get chased MOdnd and
banned with an affectionate umbrella as the musician. If
cores of girls adore him a few of them arc bound , ,
uffer the pangs of despised love—and they cant an
uffer in silence.
“Harrison O.” : “ Edyson ” chides me (B. 4/8/’10) be-
cause I objected recently to the clamors of certain Mel-
bourne pedants for the allegedly educational plays of
Shaw, Galsworthv, Barker, etc. Incidentally, he misre-
presents me most villainously. He starts thus . Ha -
rison O.’ hurls the ancient cat of derision into the hair
of those pedantic and wildly impracticable Persons who
prefer the plays of Shaw, Barker and Galsworthy to the
dramatic rot that is the nightly fare of the frequent
theatre-goer.” As a matter of cold fact, I never cavilled
at those who prefer Shaw and Galsworthy to Nht Goul
and Jerome; I merely protested against the djijfication
of the Court Theatre supermen, and pointed out that
o-ood drama—drama that is not content with being merely
“ literary,” but is also dramatic—that will appeal to all
intelligent theatre-goers, and not only to a small coterie
—can be obtained without the assistance of the Shaw-
Barker school. What we want ismoreofPinero, Grundy,
Jones and Carton, and less of N. Gould, Duggan, Be asco,
W. Howard and others of this class. Edyson allege s
that T draped in “the business aspect. I didn t. in
mentioning that “ Man and Superman ” (the Shaw play
that enjoyed the longest run in Fogtown) lasted for only
10 weeks at a theatre less than half the size of the Mel-
bourne Bijou, I was merely endeavoring to display the
utter absurdity of the impudent scoff that Australians
are not “ literary ” because they do not pass resolutions
demanding plavs by Shaw and his satellites ; for if a lack
of appreciation of the works (on the stage) of these per-
sons is a proof of the absence of “ literary tastes, then
the intellectual hub of the universe lacks these qualities.
Eddy angrily inquires: “ How many Second Mrs. Tan-
oueravs’ are we being refreshed with in Australia?
Echo sadly asks “ How many?” Let him commence an
agitation for more Pinero—for the immediate production
of “ His House in Order,” “ ’Mid Channel and The
Thunderbolt” (together with other plays of the sort that
we have not had the chance of viewing out here), and 1
will holler with him, and, between us, we should make a
devil of a row. Finally, “ Edyson ” (who would like us to
think that he is an authority on Shaw) asks : Does
Harrison know what he is talking about?” Harrison
can only reply, in all humility, that he is too well
acquainted with the works of Shaw to make the blunder
of referring to “ Mrs. Warren’s Confession” instead of
“ Profession,” or to be guilty of changing “How He Lied
to Her Husband” into “ How He Lied to His Wife.
A real Japanese play, acted by Japanese
artists, is the latest thing in Path 6 Frferes filmography.
Of course, it goes without saying that the thing is beauti-
fully tinted, and the colors blended with the amazing
dexterity which seems the monopoly of these Frenchmen.
The film discloses the fact that the gay Japanee is
artistic inasmuch as he inclines to the short story play.
In this affair only four actors appear on the stage. The
principals are Udagawa and Kawamoura, of the Imperial
Theatre, Tokio. The scene opens with an aged traveller,
carrying a bag of treasure, wandering with his son
through the scenery of old Japan. While he takes a
siesta a samaurai, carrying the long sword of his class,
appears, half-strangles the youth and grabs the bag. The
old man wakes in time to grab the noble’s foot, and is
immediately butchered with the long sword. He (the
noble full of Bushido and other fine qualities) retires to
a cave and is noticed by a pedlar, who afterwards meets
the distracted youth, disguises him as a geisha, and
assists him to avenge his father’s death. The pedlar
delivers a note to the effect that Lotus Flower has dartd
to lift her eyes of forget-me-not blue to the powerful
samaurai, and will be waiting at the foot of the statue of
Buddha ’ The samaurai, eager for a new mash, hurries
to the spot and finds the supposed girl wrapped in
her kimono. Instead of a kiss, he gets the point of a
da<™-er • but it is only a flesh wound, and the samaurai
draws his sword. Then ensues a fearful struggle in which
jiu-jitsu and sword and dagger all play an equal part, and
in the end the samaurai is slain and the curtain comes
down with a rush on the son bending over his father's
murderer. This is the first really Japanese play, acted
by real Japs, which has been shown in Australia.*
THE TOO-CONSCIENTIOUS ARTIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Her performance of Ophelia was a triumph, b"t a
clamoriner audience persisted m making her g P
of her dead faint, though her own artistic instincts kept
her firmly fixed on the floor for n .° 1 * ss
tains. — “Rosna" (Adelaide Letter in B. iS/a/ ivj-
The vast crowd clapped, stamped, yelled, hoorayed
And, ultimately, swore.
The Artist resolutely stayed,
Insensate, on the floor.
The curtain rose and fell and rose,
Then did it all again ;
Yet still she kept her prostrate pose.
The people cheered in vain.
Her Boss, a coarse, uncultured hound,
Rough words of anger hissed :
“ Get up," he clamored, “ orf the ground,
No single word she missed.
But did she shift ? Not she. She lay
Immovable as lead ;
Her ev’ry aspect seemed to say:
“ Please, stop it. I am dead.”
And now the second act is called.
The lover, debonair,
And ingenue are both appalled
To find her lying there.
The comic servant spills hot tea
Upon her upturned face,
And scones and milk —despite which she
Stays firmly in her place.
Duels are fought, love made galore,
And crimes done over her
Recumbent form. Not till all’s o er
Does she consent to stir.
You’d think her Art in divers ways
Would be repaid. Alack !
A brainless inanagexnent.no praise
Accords her —but the sack.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


m
m
mm
MODELS—
-7 H.P. 1 CYLINDER
... to ...
70 H.P. 6 Cylinders
Illustrated Catalogues
posted on application.
Enquiries should state
approximate horse-
power and style of car
required.
The Very Best Motor Cars for AUSTRALIAN USE
are those Imported by Dalgety 8 Company Limited.
• The above statement is a real fact, for Dalgety’s-Car Agencies were specially selected ■on aceoilnt
of the advantages theyoffer to the Colonial buyer. Apart from this, all models for Australian
use are specially equipped to
stand our rough conditions.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle.
By Special
Appointment
fdg
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS, M#o “ s '
THE CATERER, Tel. No. 2, Ascot. VIIIUKIA.
Wedding: Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Ring: up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
Are You Sore?
Does your back ache? Have you neuralgia?
Do you know that Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Lini-
ment will cure you? It is the only external
remedy that will take out all the inflammation.
It can’t help but do you good.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
fgd
By The Bulletin’s chained anarchist: —
The new Civil List, to provide beer, skittles and other
necessaries of life for George V., goes one better than
Edward VII. by £13,000, making an annual total of
£634,ooo—and George hasn’t got his hand in yet. I pro-
test. It’s too hot altogether. In 1837 the Civil List was
fixed up for Victoria at £383,000 per annum. When
Edward VII. was handed the crown and reigning battery
and the imperial cyanide appliances the allowance was
increased to £470,000. But Ed couldn’t live even on
that. He complained bitterly that the bailiff was melting
down the Crown in the only sound kettle in thehouseand
breaking up the throne to keep the fire going; and that
lie (Edward) couldn’t, go off the premises to get a whisky
and soda because («,) he hadn’t the price of it, (6) his
only pair of boots were being soled and heeled. So to
prevent Ed from fifing his schedule and laying bare
a statement of his affairs (which might have been
extremely awkward to quite a number of people) a few
extra pounds were handed over, and in the last year of
his reign the total payments, exclusive of the revenues of
the Duchies of Cornwall and Lancaster (which bring in
about £160,000 a year), amounted to £621,000. Now
George, who hasn’t got half the expensive habits of his
old man, passes his hat up for £634,000, and gets it. It’s
over the odds. I tell you straight I don’t reckon George
is worth it. There are any amount of blokes would take
the job on at £1 a day—decent blokes, too. I don’t
mind telling you I'm wild about it, and, like Comrade
Wade, I give you the dark hint that something will
happen some of these times. Only, my “something”
will be loaded.
THE HIGHER LIFE.
AERO-AMBULANCE MAN : “ Wot sorter ’plane
wossit that run yer down ?”
VICTIM: “ Dunno. It wAS a hit cloudy, an' I
couldn’t see the number.”
NOT A RIVAL.
MISTRESS: “I can’t understand it, Jane. My husband hasn’t kissed me once this week.”
JANE : “ Same ’ere, mum; but I'm, sure it ain't uone of our fault.”
George V. has sanctioned a curtailment
of the period of full mourning for Edward VII.
deceased. Instead of stopping on November G
(the original limit) it will break off or dry up on
September 30. The horse-carnival at Randwick
(Sydney) begins on October I—the day after
full mourning dies out; so vice-regality and
fashion can attend the spring meeting, and the
bookmakers and the girls will be able to spread
themselves in all their glad adornments. Thus is
the old saying vindicated, that it is better to be a
live horse than a dead king.
-X- * * *
“ Bill the Goose ” ; There is a small but
friendly building on the Axedale-road, near-
Bendigo (Vic.), which, for many years, has been
hanging out this sign: “Perseverance Hotel.
Best Liquors and Cigars sold. Civility and Hot
Water free.” The Licensing Reduction Board
has decided, in its alleged wisdom, to close this
pubbery at the end of the year. This
resolve .calls forth my loudest protest, as
it is the only hostelry in Australia which
advertises (to my knowledge)
anything of a drinkable nature
“free of cost.” Why can’t they
close the Shamrock Hotel, the
City Family Hotel, all the Chow
fun-tan,, p’eanut and preserved
ginger establishments, and pre-
serve to the Matilda carriers this
one, small, kind-hearted drink-
ery ? And what about closing up
half a dozen churches? There
ought to be local option for
churches ; for, if local option is a
good thing for rum, it can’t be a
bad thing for religion. The
trouble about churches is, in fact,
much the same as it is about
pubs. There are too many
churches and not enough decent
parsons to fill them. So three to
one you turn into a place where
the preacher is no good, and then
you don’t get religion, but you
waste your time and wear out
your trousers. Also you think all
churches are like that one, and
you don’t go any more, and then
you are Lost., Onhigh moral and religious
grounds, therefore, local option , for churches is a
long-felt want; and as Judkins say’s Local Option
is a Principle, I’ve got* to rely on him, to give me a
hand to extend it.
“ Pat O’Maori ” : The Cold Tea movement
which to-day is working its passage around Aus-
tralia originated in Ulster with an Irishb.yterian
parson famous for his great height and vast bulk.
In those days it was customary for the meenister
in the be-Scotted parts of Ireland to make an
annual visitation of his flock, accompanied by two
elders, and the period of visitation was equally
divided between exhortation and whisky-drink-
ing. It was a common thing, after a round of
such calls, to see the two pillars of the kirk hold-
ing down the keyhole of the manse door while an
unsteady parson with a caved-in hat endeavored to
spear it with a cork. Therefore it was an amazed
and indignant congrega-
tion which heard the
peace of the Sawbath
sermon suddenly shat-
tered by the preacher of
Anaghlone, who unloaded
his wrath on the sacred
name of Whusky. On
the Monday morning a
deputation waited upon
the shepherd and called
upon him to withdraw
his blasphemous remarks,
but the shepherd, far
from showing any re-
morse, went on another
jag of moral exhortation,
and rode straight into
Baunbridge to have his
original observations put
into print. That pam-
phlet created consterna-
tion in the fold, and
started a widespread
disturbance. It reached
the well - known Dr.
Edgar, of Belfast, just as
he was finishing dinner,
and the scandalised
population of the linen city was suddenly
confronted with the spectacle of a Doctor of
Divinity throwing bottles of whisky through the
front windo|v and emptying decanters of rum in
the public streets. Several years later the dying
echoes of the upheaval in Ulster reached the ears
of Father Matthew in the south, and he hardly
waited to button up his cassock before descending
upon England in the glad, soul-stirring cause of
lemon-squash.
The lady who is found gagged and moored
with ropes has often been lopaed upon with a
doubtful eye as a romancer ; but in the case of
Mi s. Lewis, of Forbes (N.13.W.); there was certain
corroborative evidence. In tire first place, her
head had been shaved, which was an extreme
measure. Very few women shave their own
heads, and still fewer could do it without causing
haemorrhage of the scalp. In the second place,
there was left behind a letter of apology. The
writer said it was a case of mistaken identity ; in
his haste he had tied up and shaved the wrong
woman. The police are now looking for an im-
pulsive man with a razor and a habit of rushing
at conclusions. So far; they have captured a
syvagman, but swagmen seldom rush at conclu-
sions. It is such a long way between stations on
the outside tracks that the rushing habit dies out
for want of any place to rush to. A notable
feature in the case was the wording of a senience
in the written excuse : “Have mistaken party.”
It suggests the advisability of looking for a Cock-
ney who used to be a commercial traveller in a
small way or clerk to a cheap solicitor. The
habit of describing a human being as a “ party ”
is not widespread, and the word ought to be a clue.
“ 10-2-4 ” : I never felt wholly resigned to
the plain, drab, flat sort of face and insignificant
form with which Nature has hampered me till I
read last week’s newspaper-descriptions of Hawley
Crippen, the alleged sensational murderer and
burier of his dead wife in a London cellar. Then
I learned that Crippen had won the frantic love
(1) of a handsome young theatrical woman, (2) of
a beautiful typewriter, under serious disadvan-
tages. Consider Crippen, as others see him :
Age, 50; height, sft. Sin.; hair, sandy, scanty and
bald on top ; long, sandy moustache, rather straggly' ;
fiat on bridge of nose; false teeth ; wears gold-rimmed
spectacles ; slovenly appearance ; throws his feet out
when walking.
And, finally, according to one Rylance, a friend :
He was the sort of man who would wear a black frock-
coat with a red waistcoat and a white bowler hat.
Bald, sandy, flat-nosed, be-spectacled, splay-
footed and a dwarf—and yet he was capable of
subduing two of the most intolerantly proud
female types known to mankind. Almost was I
emboldened to go forth in my Norfolk jacket,
Jemima boots and cricket cap, and attempt to
subjugate a telephone-girl.
The evidence in a slander case tried at
Melbourne County Court last week disclosed
a lot of belief in the holiness of the matri-
monial state. One married lady, whose
husband ha;! been the indirect cause of the
slander, stated that when he wrote and told her
not to cotne home any more, she immediately
went to his house arid found a lady housekeeper
attending to his wants. He said: “Who sent
you here?” and she replied: “God sent me
here.” As the sister-in-law of a parson the
aggrieved lady doubtless assumed that God did
send her ; but, like other unwelcome wives in such
cases, she merely made a lot of unpleasantness.
When one thinks of how many regular church
attendants of both sexes are in the habit of sup-
posing that God sent them somewhere to make
sinful strife, one is forced to the belief that some
religious convictions are essentially rowdy. The
Almighty is quite a popular excuse for a
lot of domestic disturbance. But the wife
who felt herself prompted by the Deity
to invade her husband’s peace at Mary-
SO HE SAYS.
THE FELLAH : “ Gad, what fwrights winmen make
of themselves! ”
borough was quite orthodox as compared with the
Ironbark (Vic.) spinster who muriL.ed her three
children because she suspected her man of * ‘ carry-
ing on.” Her artless statement to the ’tec who
arrested her is a lesson in the logic of feminine
jealousy. “Well, it has come to this at last,”
said Camelia, weeping for her wrongs. “ 1 have
destroyed the children. My life has been miser-
able for the last three months. He said he
was going out to Woodstock, but I know
he hasn’t. Those women are up here again.”
Owing to her paramour’s presumed unfaith-
fulness Camelia slew her three offspring with a
hammer and drank two small cakes,of camphor
in solution. The camphor water proved harm-
less, so “ finding that she had no way of killing
herself,” she gave herself into custody. In the
excitement of her grief and jealousy she even lost
the nerve to cut her throat with a carving-knife
or hit her own head with the hammer aforesaid.
BALLAD OF LONGING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A conviction is the end of every aspiring J. Hop’s
desire.—“ Plain English,” 11I8J’10.
Upon their beats the law-preservers tread,
And men of sin arise in haste and flee ;
Beneath the helmet on the Peeler’s head
There is One Thought that Howls, eternally—
“ O that some burgling bloke might captured be,
Or else some shameless cove who lights a fire ;
Convictions help us climb Promotion’s tree” —
This is the end of every Trap’s desire !
When honest folks are fast asleep in bed,
And dreary clocks are slowly striking three;
Then rise the ghosts of burgling chances fled,
Which gibe and mock the ruminant P.C. !
The harmless drunk, who wanders aimlessly.
Serves but to rouse the murmuring Dunn to ire :
O, to arrest some cove for larceny—
This is the end of every Hop’s desire !
The old bushranging days, alas ! are dead—
Delightful days of wholesale robbery ;
A Cop can only find a cook to wed,
And raise a large, flat-footed familee !
A sergeant’s stripes a Cop can hardly see,
In vain young members of the force aspire ;
Ah, for convictions piled in majesty—
This is the end of every Hop’s desire !
LAST LAP.
Have pity, blokes, upon X%3 —
Let’s burst a bank, or light a warehouse pyre,
To save the Bobby from obesity —
This is the end of every Slop’s desire!
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
CONVERSION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Young Men’s Christian Association in Melbourne
has entered upon a season of self-denial in order to raise
£5OO for building purposes. It would appear there re-
mains some frivolity which members of the Y.M.C.A.
may swear off. They are invited to forego afternoon tea,
abjure sweets at dinner, and devote the savings to the
good cause :
You’ve sworn off beer, and turned down gin,
You never touch the whisky ;
You have no kind of dealings in
Excursions fond and frisky ;
You scorn them all,
Cards, pipe and ball.
And never seek a music-hall.
Bright spirits of Y.M.C.A.,
Drop farther dissipation !
With pies refrain from going gay,
Cease seeking elevation
In sweets, and flee
The giddy spree
Provoked by seven cups of tea !
The penny that you save each day
Our sacred movement blesses.
’Tis needful, then, to keep alway
Some little wickednesses ;
Small sins, you see,
Can always be
Converted into £ s. d. !
VICTORIA.
EDYSUN.


A Cold Bath on a Slot Bay.
A cold bath on a hot day is refreshing
Every pore of your body is more open it)
hot weather and requires more frequent
cleansing than in cold weather The pores
in hot weather absorb more freely than in
cold weather; it is therefore most unde-
sirable, after taking a morning bath, to
cover the body with underclothing that
has been washed with adulterated common
soap. For comfort, cleanliness and free
dom from skin disease the clothing worn
next the skin should be washed with a
pure and well-made soap. If Sunlight
Soap be used in the laundry your pores
absorb purity.
A cobbler once suffered from shortness of breath,
Allied with a terrible cough ;
His doctor condemned him to lingering death,
His sweetheart declared the match “ off.”
He’s married though, now, and breathes freely once more
His troubles have fled with the past;
Woods’ Peppermint Cure cured the coughhe’d before,
And helps him to stick to the “ last.”*
Gentlemen who wisii to look smait should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. Ihe establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).
f
New Fancy Sox.
Fancy Sox will be among the wants of the season,
and we have opened an assortment in the new
vertical stripe designs.
The patterns are quiet, r than those of previous
seasons, and the colors are Green, Slate, Brown
and Black.
FANCY CASHMERE SOX-
Price, 2s. Pair; 3d. extra Posted.
Half a Dozen Pairs, Post Free, 12s.
These half-dozen pairs would give you a splendid
variety for the season.
“ Men's Outfitters,”
309-311 Gsorge Street, Sydney.
A S. M. Herald article last week revealed
the fact tha<r Johnson has four different kinds of
swindlers to contend with on his Sydney tram-
ways—tickers, short riders, panel riders and
gazers. The ticker simply wants tick. He has
accidentally come out without any money, and he
gives someone else’s name and address. The
short rider is the man who takes a short ride. He
gets on the end of the car farthest from the con-
ductor, and gets off just before his penny is
demanded of him. The panel rider travels on the
footboard farthest from the pavement—the foot-
board that the conductor doesn’t use—and stands
unobserved opposite the panel between two doors.
The gazer, however, is the best of all. He is full
of deep thoughts. His eyes have a far-away
expression and an upward trend. He is so buried
in contemplation that he doesn’t hear the clamor
for his copper. The conductor doesn’t like to
shake him, and at last concludes that he paid on
the last round, and goes away. And all these
four—tickers, short riders, panel riders and gazers
—are officially known in the bright lexicon of
Johnson as scalers.
* * * *
“X.” : The Chinese of the Hay market, Syd-
ney, are i m proving on the gli b nicknamesfor foreign
religionists prevalent in the Flowery Land. In
China nearly all the terms connote peculiarities
in rites and ceremonies. Those who baptise are
“Washee,’’ those who don’t are “No Washee.”
In Sydney a different nomenclature is coming
into use. I asked Loo Sang the other day what
was his familiar name for a Roman Catholic, and
he promptly replied “I’m the One” —probably
in allusion to the exclusive doctrines of the cult.
“What do you call Church of England?” He
smiled softly and said, “Guv’ment ’Ouse.” He
evidently recognised that it is a fashionable
creed. “Well, any name for Presbyterians?”
“ Dillies,” he answered. Just then a Methodist
parson happened to pass. “ And what Method-
ist?” “Shakee,” cried Loo; and the parson,
meeting an acquaintance, seized his hand and
shook for several minutes. “ Samee always,” ex-
plained Loo, “shakee, shakee ; can’t stop shakee
hand. One comes in my placeshakee me,
shakee my brudder, shakee my two’packers, and
shakee my dog—little fella dog, sit up on hind
legs on counter an’ put out paw.”
.ac * * * *
“ Effelle ” writes :
The following paragraph, printed in the Melbourne
Argus (18/8/TO), looks as if somebody had that family
journal by the limb
“Port Fairy, Wednesday.—At the borough council
meeting,Oounciliorßailey drew attention to the suitability
of Port Fairy harbor as a naval base ; and, on his motion,
it was resolved that the Defence Department should be
asked to urge Admiral Henderson to inspect the locality.”
It was my ill-fortune to spend nearly five years in the
vicinity of Port Fairy, so I cannot be accused of
speaking out of my turn. Quite apart from the fact
that the position of Port Fairy on the map reduces
its value to about 4Jd., the existence of a harbor was
quite unsuspected by me until the publication of the
above paragraph. The town, which is in an advanced
state of decay, is half a mile up the river Moyne, and
owing to the scarcity of water in this stream the small
coastal steamer Casino was forced to abandon it as a port
of call some three or four years ago. A steamer of particu-
larly shallow draught was then built in Scotland for the
especial benefit of Port Fairy. In this flat-bottomed
vessel (the Eumeralla) I twice visited Port Fairy. On the
first occasion the skipper sailed before more than half
the cargo had been discharged, as he was afraid of being
left high and dry when the tide fell. Even then, the
grating of the keel on the bottom was distinctly felt
half a dozen times on the way out. On the second trip
she stuck in the mud several times, but was got
off by reversing engines and hauling on a line made
fast ashore. A few weeks later she stuck fast,
and remained so for some days. At the time
of these two visits the dredge Pioneer was en-
gaged dredging a channel for the Eumeralla, fully a
quarter of a mile out at sea from the mouth of the river.
The Australian squadron called at Port Fairy during my
residence in the district, and I have vivid recollections
of endeavoring to board one of the warships, and, with
many others, being refused a passage out by the local
boats on the ground that the weather was too
rough. Many excursionists went out to the anchorage
earlier in the day. Some reached the warships. Others
didn’t. The latter were lucky, as those who got
aboard were forced to remain there until evening,
and when finally landed their extreme dampness spoke
eloquently of the unsheltered state of the anchorage.
The writer lays no claim to being a naval expert, but he
cheerfully presents the Defence Department with his lay
opinion, which is that almost any stretch of open beach
has advantages equal to Port Fairy’s, and could be trans-
ferred into a naval base at the same cost.
WIRELESS AS AN AID TO RELIGION.
CAPTAIN (of damaged ship): “ Well, gentlemen, I have wireless on hoard. Shall I use it, or
do you prefer to depend on prayers!"
In connection with the current N.S.W.
Local Hop Shan scrimmage, Bung has suggested
that Wowser should have a “Local Option
Sunday” and preach from this text (Deuter-
onomy xiv., 26)
And thou shalt buy with the same money whatsoever
pleaseth thee, either of the herds, or of sheep, wine also,
and strong drink, and all that thy soul desireth ; and
thou shalt eat before the Lord thy God, and shalt feast,
thou and thy house.”
Wowser is now busy explaining, as usual, that it
doesn’t mean what it says.
THE LAST WORD.
AERONAUT (who has fallen out of the car after
heated argument): “Murk me! Another
word and I’ll cut you adrift!”
The exposure in Vie. Parliament and press
of the clairas-settlement tactics of Tait’s Railway
Department, seems to have scared the Commis-
sioners and the doctors acting for them. Injured
passengers in most cases have got relief from the
worry of being ad vised to take as little compensa-
tion as the Department offers. There are no more
stories of the sick room being invaded by a
brigade of medical men under instructions from
the Railway claims agent. The publicity given
to the case of Miss Reddish has put a stop to this
form of intimidation, anyhow ; but the fact
remains that the girl in question, when lying in a
private hospital, was reduced to a state of fear
and trembling for three days afterwards by having
to undergo examination by four or five unexpected
doctors at one fell swoop.
Some of the score or so of companies that
have been formed to plant rubber and tilings in
Papua have just started reaping their first crop of
trouble. “ The supply of cheap labor is practi-
cally inexhaustible,” the prospectuses said in
effect. Tommy Kiki squats down diligently and
answers, “Is it?” Why, Tommy asks, should
he work? The missus grows the taro, and' the
banana scarcely needs any growing, and there s
cocoanut to be had for the climbing; and what
can anybody want besides taro, banana,s and
cocoanut, with an occasional cubic
foot of roast pig ? The one thing
more Thomas does hanker after is
tobacco; and, though he—or the
missus—grows most of the family s
supply, they all like the white
man’s stuff better, wherefore tabac
is easily the most powerful re-
cruiter in Papua to-day. But a
pound of tobacco goes a long way,
and Tommy Kiki won’t do much
graft nowadays for lib. And,
anyway, of the two evils—shortage
of white man’s tabac and work—
work is the worst, which accounts
for the fact that when a veteran
recruiter lately went out for 70
“boys” he came back with just
three. There may be from 50,000
to 60,000 “boys” in the Posses-
sion, but no more than about 5000
are toiling ; the rest go on squat-
ting and asking “What for?” And
when some truthful person says that it’s for the
good of Tommy’s health, Tommy calls up his best
English and says “My oath ! ’’—usually with
trimmings. For Papuan Tommy is no fool of a
trader. He can swap a dog with anybody—some-
body else’s dog for choice.
* * * *
Adelaide has been commemorating the
history of an early failure. In August, 1840,
when the province was only 3£ years old, the city
got to work with a mayor, aldermen and a council
of 19. The mayor (Hurtle Fisher) was to have
£3OO a year, and the total salary-list was close on
£lOOO. The first annual report said that this was
“ the first instance of the application of municipal
authority or constitution to any one of our colonial
possessions”; also (candidly) that the mayor
•• would have been gratified if he could have con-
gratulated the council upon having effected any
considerable benefit to the city or its inhabitants ;
but that satisfaction was denied to him.” Then
the corporation went in for severe retrenchment,
got to* loggerheads with Governor Grey, and
quietly wound itself up, not starting again till
1852. Still, the fact that the infant would have
been 70 years old if it had lived was enough excuse
for Mayor Cohen to give a banquet last week.
Tait, of the Victorian Railways, has at
last got his Institute in going order, and the
overdriven employees are now expected to he
properly grateful for the means of relaxation pro-
vided. The Institute occupies part of the Flin-
ders-street station building, and has billiard-
tables, library, class-rooms, etc. The most
popular course of instruction so far is telegraphy,
with 110 students ; but the dramatic society has
17 members, the musical 65, and the orchestral'3o.
Tait himself says it is “ the finest Institute he has
ever seen or heard of.” Yet it lacks two things.
There doesn’t seem to be a single class for Com-
missioners in the prospectus. And there is no-
body to teach an employee at 40s. a week how to
be in three places at once.
Although a paltry case, a magpie lawsuit
in a North Sydney court last week carries morals
in its tail. The central trouble was whether or
not Mrs. Hollard had sold her magpie to Daniel
Morris. Instead of sticking to that particular
trouble, the solicitor for Morris started off to
question Mrs. Hollard about her relations with
her husband and other relatives. Smithers, the
presiding magistrate, denounced that line of
defence, and on the solicitor saying, “I take the
responsibility of it,” retorted, “Then I don’t
think a great deal of you.” The dictum of Magis-
trate Smithers needs support from Judges of High
and Supreme Courts. A legend of the N.S.W.
Bar says that Chief Justice Alfred Stephen
stopped a barrister from this easy method of
showing he was a cad out for hire, by demanding
that he should hand up his brief to the Bench.
But individual Bench actions are not enough. A
rule of court, or Act of Parliament, should enable
the presiding officer in a court of law to confine
advocates to the immediate issue, with a right of
appeal should personal credibility be a material
point.
“Edyson”: A book allegedly by the
immortal Caesar, who filled the billet of
Chief Dog to the late King, has already
appeared in England. It is entitled “Where’s
Master?” and pretends to be the bereaved
animal’s reflections on the last days of King
Edward. It is the kind of book which a sane
mind may regard as a national calamity ; but it
is seriously reviewed by grave, elderly London
dadies. Here is a choice selection
“I’m sorry, old man,” Master said. “I’m tired too.
I’ve done a bit too much lately, and there is still so much
to be done. But I must go to church, you know.”
I didn’t take anv notice, and his voice was so low and
weary that I thought if I kept very still and breathed
very hard, as if I were fast asleep, he might rest too.
For a minute or two he sat quite still. Then he jumped
up and sent me flying, and said, quite sharply for him :
“ You know I never miss church on Sunday.”
The rest of the book is up to sample. On the
whole, it is an insult to the dog.
ALFRED DAMPIER MEMORIAL FUND.
£ s. d.
Amount previously acknowledged ..57 18 6
J. F. Archibald 5 0 0
— Maloney 10 0
Win. Anderson 2 2 0
Harry Rickards 5 5 0
£70 15 6
The Commonwealth is charging a Benalla
(Vic.) Chinaman with attempting to help a Cus-
toms officer to an easy £50. The matter was
mentioned in The Bulletin a few weeks ago, and
is to be also mentioned at the current Melbourne
Criminal Sessions. The vegetable gentleman’s
yarn seems to be that some official told him that
another vegetable gentleman would be allowed in
for £50, and he accordingly took along the £50.
It has been turned over to a jury to say whether
Willie Tue is a rogue or merely an unsophisti-
cated vegetable John, with no clear ideas as to
the party the £50 should be paid to.
“ Galleryite ” writes : —
Of the N.S.W. State Cabinet, Hogue (Minister for Edu-
cation) Oakes (Hon. Minister), Moore (Minister for
Lands), and Wood (Chief Secretary) have the best chance
of bein'"' thrown out of nolitical work at the elections in
October. Except for ‘the loss of two votes, Premier
Wade would probably not care more than a pair of brass
pennies if Hogue and Oakes were stranded at the bottom
of the poll. In fact, he would be rescued from a
very awkward position. Strong outside influence has
helped to anchor Hogue to his Ministerial moorings,
so that even his connection with the wire-netting
steal which overset Carruthers didn’t shift him, but
the younger and more ambitious men in the party are
growing increasingly insistent that Dreary Jimmy shall
be used as whale-bait. As regards Oakes, he has not
been the success anticipated as a fighting force, and the
mutterin"S grow that one or other of the rank and file
who are battling hard to keep the boarders from climbing
over the bulwarks should be given a place on the quarter
deck while Oakes, as well as Hogue, goes for ard to help
the cook or something. If Sammy Moore is beaten in
October it will be the best thing that ever happened to
him He is the hardest departmental toiler in the string,
and'if he doesn’t watch out something will hit him hard
and sudden. Of two evils the undertaker is the worse.
Strong efforts are being made to save Wood m the Bega
electorate, which is another illustration of Wades
capacity for finding trouble. If I were the leader of the
Government, and had a chance of losing Wood, I d feed
the chance up on champagne and raw steak, and pay
Snowy Baker to massage it.
THE FRUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It is a well-known and observable fact: the waitresses
never take soup or made dishes at restaurants. Why?
Well, they know. —S. M. Herald (17/8/10).
When Ermyntrude, the waitress, dines,
You’ll find she always throws
The sort of glance that one defines
As “ chill,” when haricots
Appear among the menu’s lines—
You see, the lady knows.
No joy responsive lights her eyes
As you, with pride, disclose
That you have bade the chef devise,
For all he’s worth, or owes,
A brace of Resurrection Pies—
She knows, alas ! She knows.
The tear of hopeless grief bedews
Her fair young cheek, when those
Who bring the viands break the new
That chops, steaks, fish, bee f.roe
Ay, everything is “ off,” bar stews.
She’s hungry —hut she knows.
From hash and mince and soup she turns
As though they were glucose ;
Entries and bouillabaisse she spurns.
It is no senseless pose,
This scorn with which the waitress burns—
She knoivs, she knows, she KNOWS !
N-S-W ,
H. SLNOEMOINE.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” CAS ENGINE and PLANT
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England. and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Arthur Leplastrier & CO., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
“NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE?^
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Melbourne Tramway and Omnibus Co.:—
Net Re-
serves iri-
- eluding’
Dividends on Capi-
£2so,ooo Writ- Added taiised
actually paid by ten to Re- Re-
June, Profits. Shareholders. Off. serves, serves.
1899.. 56,629 11£ p.c. = 28,800 10,000 17,829 446,056
1900.. 73,270 15J „ „ 38,400 10,000 24,870 470,926
1901.. 107,505 24 ~ ~ 60,000 10,000 37,505 508,431
1902.. 92,538 24 „ ~60,000 10,000 22,538 530,969
1903.. 80,944 19 •„ ~ 48,000 32,944 563,913
1904.. 104,579 24 „ ~60,000 44,579 608,492
1905.. 102.555 24 ~ ~60,000 42,555 651,047
lqn ~/'131,649' 24 „ ~60,000 71,6491 7 , 7
\ Overpaid municipal rates.. ..24,758/
1907.. 137,661 28 8/- =72,000 65,661 813.115
1908.. 148,315 38 8/- „ 96,000 52,315 865,430
1909.. 163,578 38 8/- „ 96,000 67,578 933,008
1910.. 38 8/- ~96,000 76,962 1,009,970
The reserves shown above are made up like this: —
Transferred to capital.. .. .. .. ..£230,000
Dividend reserve • .. - ... .. .. 12,000
To safeguard investments 20,000
For depreciation of properties, stock and plant 220,000
For return of capital 252,564
For renewal of tramway and other purposes .. 248,602
Unappropriated 26,804
Total £1,009,970
The co. has a lease of the Melbourne tramways until
June 30,1916. It is required—(l) To pay interest on the
debts of the Municipal Trust, which borrowed the money
to build the lines; (2) to provide a sinking fund to ex-
tinguish that debt; (3) to keep the lines in repair and
hand them back in good working condition. The annual
sinking fund contribution is now £45,000 ; prior to 1905
it was £33,000. • Obligations 1 and 2 have been so far
met; wherefore the past three years’ history may be set
out this way:—
1908. 1909. 1910.
Profit as shown above .. £148,315 £163,578 £172,962
Sinking fund for Trust.. 45,000 45,000 45,000
Interest on 'Trust’s debt 74,250 74,250 74,250
Total net revenue .. £267,565 £282,828 £292,212
This includes the interest earnings on the do.’s invest-
ments : last year the total was £36,921, including the
'amount earned on. the fund for the return of capital.
The total income and expenditure of the tramway under-
taking itself for last year and 10 years ago were as
follows:
1900. 1910.
Receipts .. .. .. £416,687 £580,494
Expenses 241,485 314,133
Surplus earnings .. .. £175,202 £266,361
To the expenses of the past year must be added £8847,
appropriated out of profits as a bonus for certain em-
ployees. This amount has been deducted from profits in
the first table. For the previous year—when apparently
this payment was first made —the total was £4328.
In six .years, according to present arrangements,
the co. must hand over the lines in good working condi-
tion. Let us see what it would have if it had to do so at
once (last year’s figures added for comparison)
1909. 1910.
Liquid assets .. .. £995,415 £1,023,708
Freeholds .. .. 244,507 248,641
Other property.. .. 149,541 156,116
Total .. ..£1,389,463 £1,428,465
Less debts .. .. 212,878 145,310
Surplus .. ..£1,176,585 £1,283,155
This was at June 30, when £72,000 of the dividend in
each year had been paid. After paying the dividends,
and the previous year’s bonus, and making repairs, the
co. thus added £106,570 to its possessions in the past
year. There is no obvious reason why that record should
not be maintained. Admittedly such a record was not
achieved in the dull years a while back, and there may
be dull years again. But, on the other hand, the rapid
accumulation of interest-earning assets, apart from the
business, will keep up the present annual Surplus even in
the face of a very considerable slump in traffic. This
year’s interest on last year’s interest earnings alone will
add £l2OO to the pile. And so the snowball will grow.
The surplus, as shown above, does not quite cor-
respond with the combined capital and reserves also
mentioned above. A word or two will reconcile the
apparent discrepancy:—
Surplus, as above .. . .. £1,283,155
Leaseholds (not reckoned there-
in as assets) 9,662
' Total .. .. £1,292,817
Less Dividend .. .. £24,000
„ Bonus .. .. 8,847
32,847
Total £1,259,970
And on the other side :
Capital actually paid .. .. £250,000
Reserves as per first table .. 1,009,970
Total.. £1,259,970
If the past year can be taken as a criterion, then after
paying the dividends there will be this amount at June,
1916: \
Six years’ surplus . . .. .. £639,420
Present net surplus assets .. 1,259,970
Total £1,899,390
There are 960,000 shares. On the foregoing calculation
there would be enough to continue the present dividend
of 2s. per share, and then there would be £ll9s. 6d. per
share to distribute at the end of six years. Twelve
months ago a calculation was made, taking the previous
seven years’ profits as a basis; and it was then shown
that, if things went on in the same way, there would be
in all £2 2s. lOd. per share to divide in annual dividends
and otherwise. The calculation on the basis of the past
year’s figures naturally shows the best result. But from
the foregoing it will be seen that all the assets are not cash ;
and it is not certain whether they will bring 20s. in the
£of their book value. The “other property” mentioned
consists of cars, grips, ropes, material, etc., and whether
that lot will bring the £149,442 mentioned in the balance-
sheet can’t be told by merely viewing the figures. The
bulk of the stuff will probably be of very little use when
the system is electrified ; but the Trust won’t be able to
electrify the system in a night, and to tide over the space
between June 30, 1916, and the inauguration of the new
order, it will probably have to take over some at least of
this co.’s assets. But, after all, the non-liquid assets—
the only assets affected by the foregoing doubts—amount
to a comparatively small part of the great heap.
Mercantile Mutual Insurance Co. (N.S.W.):
Bonus Added Capital
to to and
Net Policy- R e - Re-
June, Profits, holders. Dividends. serves, serves.
1900.. i 11,932 £4578 17£ p.c. =£4578 £2776 £74,908
1901.. 12,430 4818 16 „ „ 4818 2794 77,702
1902.. 13,229 5543 18J ~ „ 5543 2143 79,845
1903.. 12,805 5869 19f „ „ 5869 1067 80,912
1904.. 16,498 6067 16 „ ~ 6067 4364 85,276
1905.. 14,5i8 6247 16£ ~ ~ 6247 2024 87,300
1906.. 15,048 6536 14| ~ ~ 6536 1976 89,276
1907.. 18,753 6707 14} „ „ 6707 5339 94,615
1908.. 15,620 7048 J 15$ „ „ 70484 1523 96,138
1909.. 15,768 7571 16} ~ „ 7571 626 96,764
1910.. 19,355 7890 J 17$ ~ „ 7890$ 3574 100,338
This co. is in 150,000 shares of £1 each, of which 6s. has
been paid, leaving shareholders liable for 14s. The origi-
nal paid capital in 1878 was £10,000; all the other £35,000
appears to have been paid up out of profits capitalised
from time to time. In the table, therefore, capital and
reserves are combined. The dividend is calculated on the
amount paid, no matter how it has been derived. The
policy-holders get the rebate of 20 per cent, allowed by
the rules of the fire-insurance-men's union ; and for
many years past an equal amount has been divided
among the shareholders. Thus the total of the dividend
has increased automatically with the total amount of the
business, without regard to its profitableness or other-
wise. As a matter of experience, however, this co.’s
profits have kept pretty uniform, the result of a very
conservative underwriting policy. With scarcely a break
the underwriting profit (that is, the surplus of premiums
over losses and expenses) has been from 20 to 23 p.c. of
the premiums:—
Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895 .. £34,333 £13,376 £14,356 38‘9p.e. 41#p.c.
1900 .. 37,235 9,068 18,489 24'4 ~ 49‘7 „
1905 .. 50,534 12,051 26,961 23# „ 53 3 „
1908.. 61,871 16,538 33,307 267 „ 53# „
1909.. 68,356 20,616 35,456 30‘2,, 51 # „
1910.. 72,406 21,656 35,078 29’9 „ 48'4„
Besides the underwriting profit a co. of this kind has its
interest earnings to look to. Except a little till money,
all its possessions can be at work. In this case, with
capital and reserves totalling £114,244 at June 30, before
paying out bonuses, etc., there were no less than £111,403
of investments. For the year these produced £3631,
equal to paying slightly over 8 per cent, on the
capital. The lay-by is nevertheless smaller than that
of several other Australian offices, and the reserves
(including capitalised reserves) have not grown as
fast as the risks. It is, however, likely that
things may improve in that respect. The co. has gone
lately into accident and other business of that kind ; and
the rebate, if any, made to insurers in these classes is not
appropriated out of profits. Therefore, as long as it is
the business in the fire branch only which governs divi-
dends, the latter will clearly not increase with an in-
crease in the accident and guarantee business; and the
surplus profits from the latter branch must, therefore,
be laid by. Thus, while the total distribution for 1906-7
(the year before the accident branch was founded)
equalled 23 - 6 per cent, of the total net premiums, for
the past year it amounts to only 21# per cent. Under
the present system of distribution it means, then, that
shareholders will not benefit directly in the shape of
divs., from the accident and guarantee business, but that
the profit that comes in from that branch will go to re-
serves, which no doubt will be capitalised from time to
time. The co.—strong, no doubt, now—will be still
further strengthened by this increased lay-by.
* * * •
The Austral Hat Mills, Ltd. (Melbourne),
which began with a deficit of £273, representing pre-
liminary exes.:—
Dividends.
r ■— Written Re-
June, Profits. Pref. Ord. Off. serves.
1908.. £2282 7 p.c. =£224 10 p.c. =£9s £437' £1251
1909.. 1612 7 ~ ~1190 3$ „ „ 175 174 1324
1910.. 2559 7 „ ~1190 10 „ „ 500 269 1924
In this co. there are 17,000 cumulative pref. shares of £1
and 5000 ordinaries of £l, all fully paid. The latter went
to the old co. —a proprietary concern—in part payment
for assets. The vendors got nothing for goodwill, but
took the right to call for a further 5000 ordinary
shares at par within three years, and that terrii
will expire somewhere about March next. It was
a very fair arrangement—it meant that they wouldn’t
get anything at all for goodwill unless shares went
to a premium. As a matter of fact, the ordinaries
are now quoted at about 305., so the option is worth
having. The prefs. will be benefited in one way by the
issue of the new shares. The value of a preference lies
largely in the amount of ordinary capital; and obviously
if prefs. are entitled to the first bite, they are more sure
of that bite the larger the proportion of ordinary capital
which has to work for the prefs. before it can work for
itself. On the other hand, it isn’t easy for capital to earn
a steady 10 per cent. ; and ordinaries are entitled to 10
per cent, before prefs. get any more than 7 per cent.
The prefs. will, therefore, be a somewhatsafer investment;
but they will have a little more trouble to pass the 7 per
cent. mark. The co. could use the new money, for it now
owes the bank £6282, all of which debt was accumulated
during the year. This debt is represented partly by new
plant, but mainly by increased stocks. Profits show a
good improvement. But in a business of this kind any
statement of profit must be more or less of an estimate,
governed by the valuation of the stock. The total-assets
are £34,585, and stocks represent £20,864. So if two men
came in and one valued the stock at an average of 2$ per
cent, less than the other, the lower man’s profit and loss
balance would be £520 less than the other man’s, and
that £520 would have to come off profits. And the
valuation of stocks can’t, of course, be checked by a
balance-sheet. Also, as to the plant, which stands
in the books now at £5706, the question may be raised
whether the £214 written off for the year’s depreciation
is sufficient. Still, even if it isn’t quite enough, the
amount put by, and available for future writing off, is
substantial; and, as the habit of wearing hats isn’t likely
to change, while the habit of wearing Australian hats is
likelv to become a good deal more general, and as the
number of Australian heads to be covered with Aus-
tralian hats is growing steadily, this co. ought to have
the worst of its life behind it.
* * * *
The Emu and Prospect Gravel and Road
Metal Co. (Sydney):—
Written To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1904.. £lOO5 7 p.c. = £952 £53 £2lBB
June, 1905 . 944 6} „ ~ 850 94 2282
Dec., 1905.. 612 Nil 612 2894
June, 1906.. 706 3Jp.c.= 425 £225 56 2950
Dee., 1906.. 1050 3$ „ „ 425 275 350 3300
June, 1907.. 1375 6} „ „ 850 375 150 3450
Dec., 1907.. 2443 6} „ ~ 850 500 1093 4543
June, 1908.. 3555 6} „ „ 850 675 2030 6573
Dec., 1908.. 3751 9§ „ ~ 1275 825 1651 8224
June, 1909.. 3439 12$ „ „ 1700 500 1239 9463
£6BOO of Reserves transferred to Capital .. 2663
Dec.,,1909.. 3555 12$ p.c. = 1700 960 895 3558
June, 1910.. 4057 10 ~ ~ 2040 950 1067 4625
This co. has been travelling first-class express, which
isn’t what it has always been used to. Back in the past
it was the Emu Gravel and Road Metal Co., in 34,000
shares, paid to £l. It didn’t do much good, and in 1903,
on a revaluation of assets, it was found necessary to
write off £6BOO of the capital. That was when the new
co. was formed. The shares were at that time
made 16s. paid, with a 4s. This 4s.
was recently called up, and at about, the same
time the £6BOO of capital was restored out of
res rves. The capital is now therefore £40,800 ; and the
shares, which were worth about Bs. when Jack Want died
in 1905—this was one of the very few things of which
Jack was a director—are now a handy 28s. The assets
are mainly quarry land, with plant and sidings. The
former is to some extent a wasting security, but the
waste is very small. The depreciation of the plant is
rapid ; but the amounts shown as written off are
directed towards this item, and, besides that, repairs and
renewals are charged to Profit and Loss. On the whole,
then, it looks as though wear and tear is well provided
for. For a good many years the financial position
was not very satisfactory, and down to a year ago
liabilities were £3082 in excess of liquid assets. The new
capital has, however, squared things up, and given the
co. a good balance on the other side, though nothing—
not even the equalisation of dividend reserve—is invested
apart from the business. What the future of the gibber
market is to be this paper doesn’t profess to know ; but
it seems highly probable that it will be affected rather
more than most by the ups and downs of the country.
There are a good many things that people must buy no
matter how poor the times are ; but neither gibber nor
gravel is in the list.
* * * *
The Hobart Gas Co. (Tasmania).;—
Writ- To
Dividends and ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves
Dec., ’03.. £5132 8/17/9p.c. = £1620 £512 £6,267
June,’o4.. 5032 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620 412 6,679
Dec., ’04.. 5192 8/17/9 „ „ 4620 572 7,251
June,’os.. 5075 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620 455 7,706
Dec.,’os.. 5138 8/17/9 „ ~ 4620 518 • 8,224
June,’o6.. 5083 8/17/9 4620 463 8,687
Dec.,’o6.. 5242 8/17/9 „,, 4620 622 9,309
June,’o7.. 5238 8/17/9 „,, 4620 618 9,927
Dec., ’07.. 5903 8/L7/9 „,, 4620£3000 8,210
June,’oB.. 5432 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620 812 9,022
Dec., ’OB.. 5690 8/17/9 „ „ 4620 1070 10,092
June,’o9.. 5633 8/17/9 ~ ~ 4620 1250 9,855
Dec., ’09.. 6211 8/17/9 „ „ 4675 500 1036 10,891
June,’lo.. 4571 8/17/9 „ „ 4675 10,787
Owing to the N.S.W. coal strike thisco. had to pay about
50 per cent, more for its half-year’s supplies, which meant
about £2200 added to the bill; but it managed to shear a
few hundreds off other items, including repairs and
renewals, and in one way and another reduced the net
shrinkage to about £l2OO or £l4OO. The co. supplies
electric light and power as well as gas, but it apparently
doesn’t regard the electric side of the business with much
enthusiasm. The assets of that branch are set
down at £18,054. Gross sales amounted for the
half-year to £3155; but as no less than £1430
is charged for “repairs, renewals, alterations, and
depreciation of plant, including maintenance of lamps,”
a profit of only £123 is shown after paying working ex-
penses. In the gas department, whose assets are valued
at £105,500, the corresponding depreciation and main-
tenance item amounts to only £2Oll. Further, the heavy
charge against the Electric Department recurs year after
year. It may be all perfectly legitimate, and an electric
light undertaking may rush as rapidly to destruction as
the figures indicate ; nevertheless, a suspicion always
remains, in the absence of any explanation, that the co.
isn’t particularly anxious to demonstrate that electric
lighting is a profitable thing to tackle in Hobart. And
when one remembers the very unpleasant experience
of the Launceston Gas Co. through outside electrical
competition, one can’t be very surprised if the Hobart
Co. doesn’t care to give it much encouragement. As
things are now, the co. is making very good bread and
butter. It has been steadily paying nearly 9 per cenr.
on its capita] of £99,009 for 15 years, and it has been
making revenue pay for all new plant and extensions.
It follows from that that there has been no increase in
the co.’s own liabilities to speak of. For instance; —
June, 1903. June, 1910.
Liabilities.. .. .. £550 £5,103
Liquid assets .. .. 7434 11,652
Surplus .. .. £6884 £6,549
In those seven years the revenue of the gas business has
gone from £12,601 to £16,400 (Jan.-June half-year in each
case), and in the other branch from £1364 to £3155; and
from those figures it looks a good deal as though the ex-
tensions had been fairly considerable. Whatever they
have been, they have been paid for out of revenue.
* * * *
Richardson and Wrench, Ltd. (Sydney)
Deficit
In (Goodwill
Reduc- not
tion of reckoned
Profits. Dividends. Deficit, an Asset).
Dec., 1903. . £2055 sp.c.= £l5OO £655 £42,613
June, 1904.. 1611 5 „ „ 1500 111 42,502
Dec., 1904.. 1622 5 ~ ~ 1500 122 42,380
June, 1905.. 1661 5.,, „ 1500 161 42,219
Dee., 1905.. 1730 5 ~' „ 1500 230 41,989
June, 1906..’ 1830 6 ~ ~ 1500 330 41,659
Dec., 1906.. 2704 5 ~ ~ 1500 1204 40,455
June, 1907.. 1527 5 ~ ~ 1500 27 40,428
Dec., 1907.. 3112 5 ~ ~ 1500 1612 38,816
June, 1908.. 2487 5 „ ~ 1500 987 37,829
Dec., 1908.. 3005 5 ~ ~ 1500 1505 36,324
June, 1909.. 2762 5 ~ ~ 1500 1262 35,062
Dec., 1909.. 3411 5 „ „ 160 b 1911 33,151
June, 1910.. 5060 6 ~ ~ 1800 3260 29,891
The shareholders have fairly earned the increased div. ;
for the lay-by these several years past has been most sub-
stantial. Besides, owing to the briskness in the real-
estate market, the profits lately have been showing a
splendid increase ; and where it can be done it is advis-
able to give shareholders some of the benefits of an
increase of that sort—it encourages them to take
a personal interest in the concern, and put business
in its way when they can. The co. has just
got past its 21st year. For the first few terms profits
were fairly gorgeous, and a 10 per cent. div. was paid.
Then Sydney felt too unwell to buy land or bricks, and
the co.’s div. shrank to 3 per cent., and only rose to 5
per cent, in 1900. Its great trouble was it's excessive
capital, nearly all represented by nothing more sub-
stantial than goodwill—the right to use the names of the
dead and gone and now long-forgotten R. and W. Of the
capital of £60,000, no less than £57,500 was in that
shadowy asset. Gradually, something visible has dis-
placed the invisible, and, as show'll above, the invisible
£57,500 has been reduced to £29,891. Instead, therefore,
of having only £2500 of substantial and revenue-
producing assets the co. has now £30,109, mainly in
Treasury bills and bank deposits. From this source
alone, say, £llOO a year is now coming in ; and every
little bit added to the interest-earning heap will further
lighten the directors’ job, for practically all the savings
can be invested—the business itself calls for very little
capital. At present the heap amounts to just a shade over
10s. per share, so that in paying 16s. for shares the public
now pays 6s. for goodwill, or a total of £lB,ooo—a very
different proposition from the original £57,500.
*-* * *
N.S.W. Fresh Food and Ice Co. (Sydney) :
Writ- Added Nomi-
ten to Re- nal Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903..£6,609 Nil £5OO £6109 £55,025
June, 1904.. 6,311 Nil 6311 61,336
Written off : Capital, £73,384 ; Reserves, £44,909 16,427
Dec., 1904.. 6,011 6 p.c. = £5503 508 16,935
June, 1905.. 3,977 Nil 1308 2669 19,604
Dec., 1905.. 7,127 8 p.c.= 3669 3458 23,062
June, 1906.. 6,999 8 „,, 3669 3330 26,392
Dec., 1906.. 7,897 8 ~ ~ 3669 4228 30,620
June, 1907.. 7,546 10 „ ~ 4586 2960 33,580
Dec., 1907 . 6,287 6 ~ „ 2752 99 3436 37,016
June, 1908.. 5,635 6 ~ ~ 2752 99 2784 39,800
Dec., 1908.. 4,996 6 ~ ~ 2752 2244 42,044
June, 1909.. 6,458 6 ~,, ‘2752 3706 45,750
Dec., 1909.. 4,627 6 „ „ 2752 1875 47,625
June, 1910..12,230 12 „ „ 5504 6726 54,351
This extraordinary spring in profits is not explained in
any way. The bigger figures just fall into the accounts
with a splash. Sydney certainly has been feeling good ;
and probably the co.’s management has also been better.
The business used to suffer from too many changes; Fur-
ther —and this may be due to more settled managemen t—
the co. has gone into the catering line with more energy
and apparently withmuch success. Finally, stock has been
plentiful as the result of a succession of good seasons, and
that generally means a lot of profitable freezing and cold-
storage business for this co. At any rate, between one
thing and another, the profits have bustled along remark-
ably. It may, nevertheless, be dangerous to assume that
they can be kept up to that level. In the first half of
1905 they got down to £3977, “owing,” the Board ex-
plained, “ to several causes, the principal of which has
been the absence of meat freezing ” —and that absence
will no doubt occur again when Wragge’s drought moves
this way. Further, when that time arrives, the co.’s
meat-pie will cost the co. a trifle more, Whether the co.
can get a trifle more for it or not, and it probably
won’t risk its pie’s reputation by putting less animal
into the pastry. As to the profits for the past half-year
in particular, and for previous half-years in general, it
has to be noted, too, that one portion of them is appro-
priated for a depreciation fund, and another portion for
a reserve “for renewals and contingencies.’’ “ After
providing for renewals, etc.,” the net profits for the past
half-year are said by the accounts to have been £12,002,
or £228 less than is shown in the table above ; but that
amount was earned by the Redemption Fund, which is
invested apart from the business. Whether anything
has been written off profits in addition to the amounts
spent on renewals in the half-year is not clear ; but
it in clear that the book value of the property
and plant item has shrunk a trifle, though that may be
due to sales and not to writing down. This question of
depreciation is very important with this co. Wear and
tear is very great, and the scrap-heap calls often for obso-
lete plant, with the result that a few years ago a big
slice of capital had to be written off, not enough revenue
having been put by to counterbalance the depreciation.
Of the present reserves £51,011 is in the three funds—
redemption (£14,716), depreciation (£23,641), and re-
newals and contingencies (£12,654) ; and, though some
of that may be a set-off against general decay, and a pro-
vision for future special renewals, it is a large and im-
pressive reserve for any such purpose, considering that
the book value of “freeholds, leaseholds, plant, pro-
perty', etc.,” is only £109,039. Further, the cash position
has improved very much .
June,’o4. Dec.’o9. June, 10
Liquid assets (incl. stock) £42,267 £50,159 £58,750
Liabilities 31,188 22,707 16,204
Surplus .. .. .. £11,079 £27,452 £42,546
That may not be all net profit in excess of the dividends,
because some of it may be called for presently to renew
works. But even so, it is a very' good showing indeed ;
and, though future profits may be uneven, the present
accounts and the past few years’ record leave a very
pleasant taste in the mouth.
, * * * *
Broken Hill Proprietary Co.— This once-
huge mining concern has done no mining at all for the
past six months, or, in fact, for the past 18 months, the
directors having decided to shut down rather than obey
the Arbitration Court’s award. It wasn’t done wholly
out of nastiness ; the Board saw that it would probably
pay best to keep the ore in the minewhile metals were
cheap and tear it out when the markets rose again. For
a co. with 960,000 shares valued at about 335. it has no
great amount of ore left; 2,750,000 tons were proved,
according to the last estimate, and strenuous efforts to
find any more have failed. But the B. H. Prop, has per-
haps the finest metallurgical plant in the world —and the
world is a pretty large place. This plant, or as much of
it as is finished, it has been using to treat other cos.’
ores and to re-treat some of its own tailings ; and out of
these things in the past half-year it made £46,047, of
which it wrote.off £BlB3 to cover wear and tear. One Is.
div. was paid (£48,000), bringing up the record of the past
few years to this: —
Nov., 1903 .. £48,000 May, 1907 .. £240,000
May, 1904 .. 120,000 Nov., 1907 .. 288,000
Nov., 1904 .. 96,000 May, 1908 .. 72,000
Mav, 1905 .. 144,000 Nov., 1908 .. Nil
Nov., 1905 .. 144,000 May, 1909 .. 'Nil
May, 1906 .. 192,000 Nov., 1909 .. Nil
Nov., 1906 .. 240,000 May, 1910 .. 48,000
That makes £8,762,000 in 25 years, apart fron) what the
co. has got by floating off “pups.” It is a wonderful life
to look back upon. Unfortunately, that isn’t the part of
a life that a co. can pay future dividends with.
The B. H. Prop, has now now three strings to
its bow—with a fourth that may be string, or again may
be only a cobweb : (1) the mine ; (2) the stored residues’;
(3) the reduction works; (4, which maybe only a cobweb,
with a blood-sucking spider attached) some outside
mining prospects. The mine has seen its best days.
Still, as mentioned before, it is estimated that there are
close up to 3,000,000 tons of ore remaining. On top of
that there is an unknown quantity, perhaps 300,000 tons,
which may be got out of what is known as the fire area—
a part of the mine that has been shut up since 1897, but
may now possibly be re-worked. The ore in this shallow
section was rich and tractable. What the whole lot will
be worth depends on the priceof metals when it ismineP-
Including what was got from zinc, the profit in the last
half of 1906 was equal to £1 Is. Id. per ton of ore mined;
in the first half of 1907, £1 os. 9d. But so violent are the
changes in the market that in less than two years similar
work showed a loss. The £1 Is. Id. was realised during
an unusually violent metal boom. There will be high
prices again ; but £2l per ton for lead may not recur this
generation.
The B. H. Prop, has reached the third stage
with regard to zinc. First it treated the stuff as rubbish
and poured it into tailings dumps ; then, about six years
ago, it began to reap a crop of zinc concentrates (about
44 per cent, zinc) from the tailings and ship them to
European smelters; now it has begun to do the zin 9
smelting itself. Nine furnaces are built, and a tenth is
building. This lot will cost about £lOO,OOO and should
turn out 8000 tons of spelter a year, worth at present
prices about £lBO,OOO. It is a brand-new industry, and
what profit there is in it remains to be seen. The co. is
handling probably 150,000 tons of other cos.’ ore am.
concentrates a year; last half-year—a broken term—it
seems to have taken about 50,000 tons. No esti-
mate can be made of the profit likely to be de-
rived from this custom-smelting business, which is
one of the most erratic in the world. Evidently
there wasn’t much in it last half-year. By re : grindin’g
and re-concentrating its own tailings the co. produced
6457 tons of silver-lead concentrates ; it produced, also,
25,948 tons of 46 per cent, zinc concentrates from
103,792 tons of its own tailings ; and it produced for sale 830
tons sulphuric acid. If it made only 4s. per ton out of
its tailings, and £1 per ton on its silver-lead concentrates,
there is a balance of only £10,619 of net profit left; and
about £6500 of that came from interest on reserve-fund in-
vestments. At present prices, at any rate, it is clear that
the B. H. Prop, is doing a lot of work for very little money ;
for present prices are not even as good as the average of
last half-year’s prices—a fact which offsets the extra
expense incurred during the half-year owing to the coal-
trade trouble.
The Chillagoe Co., which owns mines and
railways in North Queensland :
Written To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1906 .. £10,498 Nil £9,965 £533 £533
1907 .. 55,201 Nil 49,051 6,150 6,683
Premiums on new shares .. 14,750 21,433
/ 33,091 Nil. 30,620 2,471)
1908 -! Written off new share j- 23,899
(. premiums.. 5 J
1909 .. 63,679 Nil 49,563 14,116 38,015
1910 .. 56,775 Nil 56,017 758 38,773
So the net profit, after writing off depreciation, was
really £758 on a share capital of £451,349. It isn’t what
you would call sparkling. And yet Chillagoe’s record has
been mostly like that. Watch its changes •
Chillagoe Proprietary.—Formed in 1893 or thereabouts.
Capital, £960,000, in £2OO shares.
Chillagoe Railway and Mines.—lB9B. Money wanted.
Shares split up ; old co. got 480,000 for nix (£2 shares)
and another 120,000 for £l.
Ditto, first reconstruction.—lB99. More money wanted.
Shares reduced to £1 in order to encourage a debenture
issue (£400,000).
New Chillagoe Railway and Mines.—l9o2. More money'
wanted. Share for share issued, but the new shares
made liable for 3s. Debenture issue by this time,
£498,300 at 6 per cent.
Chillagoe Co., Ltd.—l9os. More money wanted.
Numerous shares had been forfeited, but 688,983 were
left. These offered to old shareholders at Is., with Is. 6d.
liability, on payment of which they would be fully paid
to 10s. Another 1017 shares offered for subscription ;
and 10,000 given to the Tolhurst-Keats people for bullock -
ing the thing through. Total shares, 700,000 of 10s.
Things also rearranged with debenture-holders.
Ditto.—l9o6. More money wanted. Debenture-holders
agreed to put 'up some more provided the shareholders
put up another £150,000, in 300,000 shares. As money


For Security
Stability
Economy*
Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited),
stands alone.
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under Power
Agents.
2,4, (Bl O Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE.
Manager.
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER * CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
' 13
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ing's of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
» * • *
“Ferrodor” Paint.— Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort's
Dock and Mt. Lyell buildings; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. &O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
THE LOSS of LIVE Steam in generating
steam power through faulty joints, badly packed piston
glands and leaky boiler mountings and stop valves causes
waste of fuel which can be prevented by using Bell’s
Asbestos “Bellite” Jointing, “Dagger” Packing and
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Water Gauges, Blow-Off Cocks
and Stop Valves. Permanent economy is also ensured
by protecting steam pipes and boilers with Bell’s Asbestos
Non-Conducting Composition or Flexible Rope Lagging.
Send for illustrated catalogue of engineering specialties to
BELL’S ASBESTOS AUSTRALIAN AGENCY LIMITED
(A. J. Borchert, General Manager), 315 Kent Street,
Sydney.*
The Bigelow Patent Rock Breaker commends
itself to mine managers who welcome an effective
machine which is cheaper to maintain and repair than
Gyratory and other crushers. This machine is of the
well-known Blake type, but has some additional improve-
ments which have justified in practice all the claims
advanced by the patentee. The work of crushing is done
on the down-stroke of the pitman instead of the up-
stroke ; there is no strain on the pitman cap ; two large
side rods resist the thrust of the toggles, and enable the
jaws to be regulated within a large range ; the back
toggle is so made as to resist all legitimate strains of
crushing, but will shear under exceptional conditions
and save the machine. The shaft and eccentric bearings
are self-lubricating ; the jaws are convex and concave,
and with the cheek plates are made of steel and are
reversible. The Austral Otis Engineering Company, of
South Melbourne, have installed a great number of these
machines, and hold the sole manufacturing rights for the
Commonwealth.* I 3
“ Fibro-Cement ” Asbestos Fireproof Sheets.
In large size, Bin. x 4in. x (about) Jin. thick, now largely
used for walls, for homesteads, bungalows, silos, cottages,
shearers’ quarters, dairies, stables. Fire, heat, acid and
ant proof. Strong, cheap, everlasting. Lower insurance
rate. Photos, and testimonials free from sole importers.
James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney, and
581-583 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.* [1
• * * *
The Joint Stock Companies’ Journal, Lon-
don, of 23/9’/08, writes regarding The Colonial Mutual
Life Assurance Society, Limited : —“ There is this good
reason why those who contemplate assurance should con-
sider the advantages of this powerful colonial office, viz. :
that its policy forms are fully as liberal and compre-
hensive as those of other such institutions, as witness the -
‘ Twelve Option ’ contract lately placed on the market.”*
* * * *
WOOD PIPE SAVES MONEY, for it is 25%
to 65% cheaper than metal pipe, costs less for freight, re-
quires less labor to lay, and is practically everlasting.
Catalogue from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain, Sydney,*
Hr * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
* » * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Mine managers will be largely guided by the
wide experience of the N.S.W. Government Railways.
Half this year’s contract has been placed with Messrs.
Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, for
their Genuine Nobels Explosives. Large stocks of high
explosives on hand. Write for contract forms and
quotations.”* #
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout Australia by Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinder are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangement of valves, and automatic lubrica-
tion, and these are testified to by Australian users. The
eno-ine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annum/ [1
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
ail purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron 'founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
* «* *•*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* * * *
Assayers, Mink Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. SilißEßßkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth's
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan's crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
has been coining in ever since under this last arrangement
there has been no need for another reconstruction since
then. The present share capital is £451,349 (most of the
1,000,000 shares are still liable for Is.), with £573,300 on
general debenture account, and £200,000 on Etheridge
debenture account. The Etheridge railway has been
built under arrangement with the State. The latter
undertakes to buy it in the distant future, and mean-
time guarantees 2J per cent, on the expenditure. The
capital outlay on it to March 31 was £448,221; as at De-
cember 31 vouchers for £414,842 had been passed, and on
this the Government is guaranteeing the 2£ per cent.
= £12,371 for the year. The annual interest on the special
debentures is £lO,OOO. Their interest is therefore all
right. The general debentures, which used to carry 6
percent., now carry 5 per cent., springing to the old
figure in any year in which the co. pays more than a Is.
div. So far it hasn’t done any springing.
The eo. has now six chief groups of assets —(1)
the Chillagoe mines, (2) the ore-reduction works, (3)
Chillagoe railway, (4) Etheridge railway, (5) Etheridge
and other mines and options, (6) Cairns wharf. The first,
valued at one time at about a million, may be almost
disregarded. Very little work is now done there, and
there is no encouragement to do more. The ore-reduc-
tion works therefore depend on outside mines. Buttheore
available from that quarter is not the same as the co.
expected to get from its own mines. It is this miscalcu-
lation which is responsible for a large amount of the very
heavy writings-off. Of the £56,017 written off for the
year about £BOOO comes off old smelting works, £6OOO off
sidingsand ore-bins and £lO,OOO off rollingstock. A further
£23,000 odd is written off mines development. This last
is, however, scarcely a writing-off. It merely means that
the co. swells its profit by shutting its eye temporarily
to certain outlay in the mines ; then, opening its eye, it
observes the outlay, and provides for it out of the
fictitious profit.
Of the future? Well, say how the Etheridge
mines are going to turn out, and an answer may be pos-
sible. Even then a good deal would depend on the
behavior of the copper and lead market*. So far as
financial results are concerned, the co.’s great trouble is
that its “ mining properties, railway concessions, water
rights, etc., etc.” represent £315,863 ; and nine-tenths of
this is quite unproductive. Most Of it is, in fact, merely
so much paper. As for the railway (exclusive of the
Etheridge extension, which stands “on its own”) this
has been the record :
Expen- Balance
Dec., Receipts. diture. over Exes.
1903 .. .. £60,300 £26,071 £34,229
1904 .. .. 50,112 21,927 23,185
1905 .. .. 63,871 23,753 40,118
Mar.,
1906 (3 mos.) .. 14,503 5,777 8,726
1907 .. .. 87,628 26,475 61,153
1908 .. .. 114,840 36,847 77,993
1909 .. .. 105,038 37,125 67,913
1910 .. .. 82,639 22,186 60,453
The unpleasantness on the N.S.W. coalfields is blamed
for spme of the past year’s shrinkage ; but maintenance
and repairs were cut down. This railway stands in the
books at £333,261 ; and even if £5OOO is deducted from
the balance over working expenses to cover office ex-
penses, etc., a return of 16§ per cent, is shown. Unfor-
nately, however, the railway has to carry a tremendous
lot of deadweight. The co.’s total net revenue can be
shown this way :
Chillagoe Railway £60,453
Etheridge Railway.. .. .. 17,500
Cairns wharf ... .. .. 1,508
Mines and reduction works .. 8,887
Total .. .. £88,348
Those mines and works, which returned only £BBB7 above
working expenses, may be reckoned as representing
£450,000 of money—practically the same amount as the
total of the share capital. If we include the £23,000 odd
spent on the mines but not reckoned as mine expendi-
ture, then the actual loss on mines and reduction works
was over £15,000. By the development of the Etheridge
and other shows beyond Chillagoe, it is possible that both
the reduction works and the Chillagoe railway may do
better. There is, however, very little to go on at present.
The mines are many but not large, and their behavior at
depth has yet to be proved. The behavior of N.Q. mines
at depth has usually been found very bad. The future of
the co. is therefore gravely uncertain—the future of the
share capital in particular.
■sr * * *
Broken Hill South Silver Mining Co.
Written Re.
Profits. Dividends. off. serves.
June, 1904 .. £41,283 £20,000 £20,300 £52,328
Dec., 1904 .. 51,119 20,000 6,937 76,510
June, 1905 .. 53,596 35,000 6,205 88,901
Dec,, 1905 .. 71,149 35,000 19,081 105,969
June, 1906 .. 67,535 60,000 7,488 106,016
Dec., 1906 .. 99,976 ' 60,000 18,975 127,017
June, 1907 .. 103,381 80,000 9,492 140,906
Dec., 1907 .. 73,350 70,000 10,000 134,256
June, 1908 .. 15,497 20,000 491 129,262
Dec., 1908 .. 51,016 Nil 10,693 169,585
June, 1909 .. 46,795 40,000 10,742 165,638
Dec., 1909 .. 47,980 40,000 100,000 73,618
June, 1910 .. 42,624 20,000 5,166 91,076
The falling-off in profit is put down to the same old un-
pleasantness at Newcastle: the South had its shutters up
for two months. During the other four months it rushed
things considerably, and used up 132,757 tons of ore. The
gross profit was thus at the rate of 6s. sd. per ton. This
includes payments received from the Zinc Corporation
and the De Bavay people on account of the zinc tailings.
More tailings were supplied to the De Bavay people than
were actually produced ; and the other co. also paid
something on account of the old dumps, though it didn’t
draw upon them. It is possible, no doubt, that there
will be a bonus to come from De Bavay’s(the latter has to
divide net profits with the co.) ; but, apart from that, it
is clear that the co. was last half-year paid for consider-
ably more of the zinc material than it produced—a fact
which may be worth remembering by those who are in-
clined to go fanti over South shares. Not, of course,
that the South isn’t a great mine. But even a great
mine has its limitations.
The yarn now is that the South is an invest-
ment —the same thing that used to be said of the B. H.
Prop, and Block 14 and others. Well, if it is an invest-
ment, it is an investment that will come to an end some
day. There is a point somewhere at which the lode will
either disappear, as it has done in the B. H. Prop., or will
not pay to work further. Consequently the man who
“invests” cannot regard all his divs. as divs.; part of
them is his capital coming back to him. But he
cannot make any hard and fast rule as to how
much is capital and how much interest, because the
payments vary so much. Last year lead averaged
£l3 os. 6d. ; and the output (four months’ work) was
20,171 tons lead, contained in concentrates. Even on
that diminished output a difference of £1 per ton means
£20,000 ; and £1 is nothing at all in the lead market. In
1902 the highest point touched was £ll 155.; in 1907 it
reached £2l; and in 1909 it got down to £l2. There is no
reason to suppose that the future won’t see just the same
changes. As for spelter (zinc), the position is not a bit more
settled. Market plunges have been just as great in the
past, and, in spite of the Zinc Convention, will no doubt
be as great again. There are probably 4,000,000 tons of
ore in the mine, containing, say, 450,000 tons of lead re-
coverable in concentrates. A pound a ton either way for
that lot makes a difference of £'450,000, equal to 455. a
share ; and nobody knows which way the pound is going
to be—up or down. As an investment it must be ad-
mitted that a proposition of this sort has its disadvan-
tages.
Mention was made of 4,000,000 tons of ore.
That is putting things roughly. Twelve months ago
there were offieiallv said to be 3,250,000 tons down to the
970 ft. Since then,'3oo,ooo tons (about) have Mine out.
But good ore has since been got at the 1070 ft.; and,
though its size is unknown, it is large and going under-
foot, so 4,000,000 tons is probably safe. Supposing
things keep as they are at present, that would mean, as
shown just now, 6s. sd. per ton gross profit, or £1,280,000
for the lot. That, again, means £6 Bs. per share. In
that calculation, no allowance is made for depreciation—
that is to say, for the renewal of plant. On the other
hand, the liquid assets in hand have not been added on
to the mine value ; and the surplus of more or less
liquid assets over liabilities was, on June 30, £85,112,
which would buy a lot of plant.
It is not put forward that shares are worth
£6 Bs. That valuation is based on these assumptions—
(l) That there are 4,000,000 tons of ore in the mine ; (2)
that last half-year’s profit per ton of ore can be main-
tained to the end ; (3) that the liquid surplus will pro-
vide the neoessary plant. It disregards the fact that
there are large'accumulations of zinc material, as that
can be taken as a set-off against the fact that last half-
year more of this stuff was paid for than was produced.
Further, it has to be noted that £6 Bs. in the mine isn’t
£6 Bs. in the pocket: at the present rate of production
the last of the £6 Bs. wouldn’t be available for, say, 12
years.
* * * *
The new Kyloe (N.S.W.) has finished its second
year upon earth —or, more strictly, its first year and five
month-". The old Kyloe was a mostly-Adelaide co.,
whose management was so indifferent that at last the
office-seal and paste-pot were passed on to Sydney.
Progress since then has been as follows:
Written
Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
Jam, 1909 £585
Reserves.
June, 1909 .. £6,102 Nil £3461 2056
June, 1910.. 14,210 £7OOO 1887 7379
But mining cos.’ reserves are treacherous animals. A re-
serve ought to mean something owned by the co. in
excess of capital—an accumulation of undivided profits.
Usually a mining co.’s reserves consist of a certain
amount of profit which hasn’t been divided for the excel-
lent reason that it hasn’t existed. When half the mine
has gone it would be a fair thing to say that half the
capital had gone, too ; yet mining cos. are in the habit of
claiming their full amount of capital to the end, plus re-
serves, even though they haven’t got a stick or a stitch
away from the exhausted mine. This, however, doesn’t
refer particularly to the Kyloe. In fact, its bookkeeping
methods are far better than those of most mining cos.
It certainly does show “Development” among the
assets; that is to say, it doesn’t reckon among the ex-
penditure all the money it spends on mining. But
it does this—instead of writing development off in
large lumps out of fictitious profits, it wipes off
this development account at the rate of ss. per ton of the
ore raised, and it charges the total in with working ex-
penses. Thus there are neither the fictitious profits nor
the fictitious writings-olf which show up in some con-
cerns—the Chillagoe, for instance. What the Kyloe does
show as Written off is for plant depreciation. The year’s
provision is £lB6l, or 10 percent, of the total book value.
It is not enough. On the average, mining plant ought to
be writteh off in seven years at the outside. Some of it
lasts longer; the bulk of it is worn out or found unsuit-
able in much less time.
■*■***
Kyloe’s financial position has suffered these
changes in the year :
June, 1909. June, 1910.
Liquid assets .. .. •. £10,329 £6318
Liabilities 266 1882 '
Surplus .. .. £10,063 £4436
Meantime £7OOO has been paid i n di vs., and £11,932 has been
spent on plant. Disr garding the few pounds of capital
got in, it can. therefore, be put this way : The year’s
work has paid for the new plant and for £1373 of divi-
dend, leaving the other £5627 of dividend to come out of
previous profits. Fortunately, so much won’t have to be
paid for plant again ; and the money should go to the
shareholder instead of to the machinery man. There are
120,000 shares of 10s. ; 20,000 of them are prefs., ranking
with ordinaries for divs., but entitled to an additional 10
per cent, in any year in which the ordinaries get a div.
Managing-Director Ashcroft, of Kyloe, esti-
mates reserves of 6500 tons of 20 per cent, prill ore and
29,500 tons milling ore. The year’s output was 1003 tons
copper, and on that the average net profit was £l2 ss.
per ton. Assuming the same average profit, there should
be about £30,625 in the reserves. Taking the two classes
of ore in detail, the profit would be less, because the
proportion of prill ore remaining is less than the propor-
tion of Drill 4are lately extracted. And £30,625 is equal
to 6s. id. per share! Wh tever more than that the
market pays for shares it pays, not for what is proved,
but for what may be proved later on. The big ore shoot,
no doubt, does go below the No. 4 level. It is wider at
that level, in fact, than it was at the level above. Ashcroft
estimates that another 100 ft. of ore would give, another
20,000 tons; and at present metal prices there might be
£16,000 profit in that, equal to, say, another 3s. 3d per
share.
It may be patriotism or it may be profit; but,
profit or patriotism, Mount Lvell is giving Australia a
chance to refine its output of blister copper. Instead of
the stuff being sent to America to have the gold and
silver and less valuable impurities taken out of it, the
job will be done at Port Kembla, where Mount Morgan’s
output is also handled. L.vell’s lot will amount to close
on 8000 tons a year. The refined metal will go on mainly
to Europe, instead of being added to the stock that the
’Murkan manipulators have to play with.
Great Cobar (N.S.W.) has found a royal road to
cheap production. The yarn spreads from London to
Australia that, after allowing for the net value of gold
and silver contained in the copper, blister copper can
be produced for £l5 per ton. The substance of it all is
that, if there is sufficient gold ore handy to salt the
blister-copper with, the red metal can be produced for
next to nothing. Cobar Gold Mines, recently amalga-
mated with Great Cobar, are supposed to offer this chance
of enriching the copper ; but all that is known for cer-
tain is that the old co. never paid a dividend. For the
past five years (from January, 1905, to December, 1909),
Great Cobar smelted 984,928 tons ore for 22,423 tons
copper, so that on the average it has required 43 tons of
ore per ton of copper. Obviously it is low-grade, and
the inclusion of gold ore carrying £ per cent, copper and
a few dwts. of gold will not help matters unless the gold
ore introduced into the charge, or the copper ore from
the Great Cobar mine itself, gets appreciably richer than
it has been for the last five years. Of late it has taken
rather too many minted sovereigns to produce the
copper, and the remedy held out is to put gold, in the
form of rich ore, into the furnace. A very good remedy
it would be too—if the golden stuff cost nothing.
The over-boomed Main Ridge Deep Lead
(N.S.W.) has had its second crushing and its inevitable
collapse : 152 loads gave 38oz. 16dwt. It is the quantity
as well as the quality of the stone that has caused the
scatter. But as likely as not there will be a swing now
the other way. There are thick faces of washdi i t esti-
mated to be worth 3jdwt. per ton, and thin seams worth
over half an ounce, so there is plenty of scope for irregu-
lar returns. The official estimate—6ooo tons at 7dwt.—
never warranted the flight the market took, especially in
view of the grave doubts as to working costs.
* * * *
Vegetable Creek tin (N.S.W.) announces
another change of programme, anti its backers are disap-
pointed at the mine having to suspend blocking-out in
order to complete the new crosscut and carry out more
extensive development. The management strongly ad-
vised this before blocking-out was started, and this early
suspension of operations seems to show that the manage-
ment was right. Progress will be slow, for the ground is
very heavy 7 and requires great care.
* * * *
The “insiders” of Broken Hill Block 10 got a
fairly good start from the rest of the world in the matter
of the recent favorable development in the Central mine
adjoining. It was three or four days after Block 10’s good
luck was assured that the public was very gently 7 let into
the secret. The lower levels of Block 10 had come to be
regarded as fairly hopeless; and it was with a despondent
sigh that the directors had ordered diamond-drilling for
the eastern lode to cease. They did quite right in that
case, anyhow, for the drill was not going out in the
direction of the ore at all. Now they don’t require to do
any diamond-drilling, because the Central, by driving on
the lode at the 1100 ft. level up to Block 10 boundary,
can locate it for them without any trouble. This eastern
body in the Central has been a mystery ever since it was
accidentally tumbled upon in the “blind” shaft sunk on
the footwail side from the 1000 ft. level. What concerns
Block 10 most is the fact that the eastern and western
bodies seem to have functioned on their boundary, and
that a solid ore body 60ft. wide is lying at their back door.
* * •* *
8., M. & Co.’s report on Gwalia Consolidated
(W.A.) just about paints this bag of tricks in its true
colors. Among other things the firm reckons that the
plant is useless to treat sulphide ore, but can be made, on
a further outlay of £2OOO, to get better returns from
oxidised ore, of which six months’ supply remains. The
installation, at a cost of £lO,OOO, of an experimental
plant to grapple with the hideously refractory sulphides
is recommended, and the urgent need of funds for other
purposes is made known. The report say's that the mine
may be expected to provide plenty of tonnage in depth ;
but until the treatment difficulty is solved the co. is
advised to go slow with development and rake up as
much capital as it can. 8., M. & Co.’s idea of things may
not be just what the Board would have liked it to be ;
but it shouldn’t surprise anybody who reads The
Bulletin.
* * * *
Chaffers (W.A.) have firmed a bit in London
lately ; but as nothing ha? happened except the arrival
of twins at the manager’s house. The Bulletin is at a
loss to account for the rise. Since the shoot out of
which tributors did so well disappeared, developments
both in shallow and deep ground have been monotonously
poor, so that the present upward tendency of the market
is puzzling. Perhaps the stock is being supported on the
slender off-chance that the prospecting now in progress
in the bottom workings at 2270 ft. will lead to something.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe’s return for July requires
explanation. During the month 22,682 tons were treated
for a recoverable average of 28s. 3d. per ton ; but, as this
is more than 31dwt. less than the grade of the ore re-
serves on June 30, the co. might have had something to
say about the discrepancy. The value set upon so-called
ore reserves is very often wide of the mark, and this
seems to be a case in point.
* •* * *
Associated (W.A.) managed to get adwt. better
return for July, and partially offset previous monthly
losses bv a surplus of £1447. The Board is still toying
with the recommendation for additional plant; but an
announcement that it has aroused itself to a sense of the
fitness of things is expected at any time. Meantime the
management is at its wits’ end to make a profit. Good-
ness only knows when shareholders will get another divi-
dend ! Unless the div. is paid out of capital or accumu-
lated profits, it certainly won’t come to light for a year
or two, if then. # #
Mountain Queen, near Southern Cross (W.A.),
has been bought by the Oroya-Black Range for £BOOO
cash and a share interest. A golden ore deposit of good
width and plenty of length has been prospected with
first-rate results down to 200 ft., and, according to local
report, the property is one of the best latter-day 7 shows
that has been unearthed in the West.
* * * *
What is up at the Cassilis (Vic.) now ? Coote
went the way of Andrews, and Askin Nicholas came to
put up a slimes plant and pay dividends. Now Askin
Nicholas departs, and Cassilis welcomes Dickson, brother
of the promoter, legal manager and factotum of the co.,
who is to prove whether experience under 8., M. & Co.
can help the Cassilis out of the hole from which it never
emerges. Dickson, the newcomer, is as hopeful as others.
If he has imbibed Westralian ideas he’ll give the plant
a rest and dig out some ore reserves. No one has heard
Nicholas’s story, but a half-yearly meeting is just due,
and he may open out there. As calls have been more
plentiful thin were promised, a whip-up is going on to give
the Board such a welcome as will remind V. J. Sadler of
his old railway-building experiences on the Terowie-
Broken Hill line. He picked up a vocabulary there, and
it hasn’t rusted ; so honors may be easy.
Great Northern Extended Consols. Rutherglen
(Vic.), is in the penultimate stage. Six months ago it
recovered from a relapse which threatened to be fatal,
good wash having been got in driving to the west of the
old lead. Drives, like politicians, do not always tell the
truth, and when panelling took place white sand and
boulders showed that a big, unproductive crabhole
had been reached. Yields drifted below lldwt., and call-
payers, sniffing trouble, began to slither out. As it
happened, the Board had a shot left. This proved to be
the slum deposit, and that saved wholesale forfeitures of
scrip. The State has also lent the co. a bit; and the
point is whether the sale of the slum deposit will cover
that liability and leave the plant free to give a farewell
and only div. from a claim that was always thought to be
the Naboth’s vineyard of Rutherglen.
* * * ★
One Thomas Cook, described as a miner, is
ruffling more feathers in Bendigo than any one citizen
has managed since the social upheaval over the Exhibi-
tion. The Lansell estate, as successor to old George
Lansell, held the Sheepshead lease on the Sheepshead
line. Dead George, having put £30,000 into the claim,
ceased work in 1902. Since then the rent has been paid
and the mine left to the rats. Lately better stone has
been got in the North Bed White and Blue and the Little
180 mines next door. Up comes Cook, puts his pegs in,
and applies for forfeiture. By doing so he hit certai n other
Bendigonians, who had thought of a float of the property—
with a consideration to the Lansell family. So the matter
has had to go (1) to the Warden and (2) to the Minister.
The Lansells’ estate has to stand or fall by its deeds of
to-day. not by the deeds of old-man George Lansell. The
law is clear; either the labor conditions have to be ful-
filled or suspension obtained. If not, others can claim
possession. Minister Mcßride is the umpire. Whether
he gives the Lansell family another chance does not
matter much beside the great question whether he in-
tends to stamp out idleness on the side lines at Bendigo.
An idea has grown out of Mount Bischoff’s
half-yearlv meeting that the output of tin is too small.
For July 18,678 tons of dirt were treated for 90 tons
concentrates, so if the latter are valued at the high price
of £lOO per ton, the average value of the dirt is slightly
under 10s.; and it takes a lot of plant kept at a high
state of efficiency to make the required profit from dirt
of that value. Any big increase will therefore mean big
outlay ; so if the increase is pressed for, a new issue of
shares may be in the wind.
After considerable delay, caused by an attempt
to have the surveyed route of the Hampden-Mt. Elliott.
(Q.) railwa3' altered at the last moment, a fresh spurt has
been put on, and a single line of rails is being pushed into
the Elliott mine for the haulage of coke. This should
reach the mine before the end of the month. The Elliott
treatment plant is finished, the ore bins at the smelters
are being fitted, and as soon - as coke arrives smelting
should start —either late this month or early in September.
* * * *
The brightest bit of news from North Queens-
is the development in the United North Australian tin
mine at Watsonville. There is a fairly extensive body of
high-grade ore occurring between nearly horizontal
floors of rock. The party which worked the North Aus-
tralian in the early days was very close to the make of ore
recently disclosed —so close, in fact, that it actually
touched the ore. A battery and dam are under construc-
tion.
* * * *
No less than 1400 h.p. has within the last few
weeks been added to the power of Sydney factories in
one brand of engine alone—the National gas suction
variety, supplied by A. Leplastrier and 00. Goodlet and
Smith, Ltd., have, after tests, lately put in two powerful
suction machines at Granville ; and numerous Melbourne
manufacturers are paying the makers the same compli-
ment.


What’s the time? Just the time for
glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lilt and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel‘^32l.
t Proprietor
Ideas. Look back ! Yes, look back ! Just a
few years. Trains were not so frequent then, nor so
ponderous, nor travelled so fast. Increased trains of
increased weight at increased speeds must provoke in-
creased dangers. Man’s infallibility is not increasing in
the same ratio and if he fabricate huge engines of destruc-
tion and makes not means of preventing accidents there-
with, accidents can only be expected. Trains must be
constructed to control trains automatically. The human
element be entirely eliminated. Inventions are needed
ra J lw;, .v accidents, think Phillips Ormonde,
26(1 Hinders Street, Melbourne.*
McKenzie’s excelsior baking powder.
Lewis & Whitty’s Harness Dressing
(BLACK OR TAN)
Gives ct brilliant finish, preserves ana nourishes Buggy
or Motor Hooas, Harness, Leggings ana all Leather Gooas.
LEWIS & WHITTY, MELBOURNE and SYDNEY. r ,
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
TIT FOR TAT.
THE STRAW HAT: “ Wot yer doin’ wiv yer
faroer’s hat on?”
THE OTHER: “ Katin ’ a happle.”
“ Quan ” : How many people have seen a
white .’possum ? Two, which were caught in
Central Queensland, were exhibited at the recent
Brisbane show. They were the first I had ever
seen or heard of ; and several authorities whom I
consulted reckoned that they had never seen any
of the color previously, nor had they heard of
them. Incidentally, two of the first brood of
Queensland-raised ostriches were exhibited at the
recent Brisbane show. They were bred on Gar-
field station, near Jericho, by squatter Behan,
and are the progeny of the first pair of ostriches
imported by him into Bananaland about years
ago.
) Vhere did “ Dandalup ”
, i f “ /10 ) geb that strip of she-oaks, about a
00100 Hm V ’ W m ° h u“ rUnS f, '° m Che foot of Kal-
ne;U' N °; th Narrewar ™. in a straight
our rMtv 6 '' l^ en,; ' y i lls information from one of
’ rl . lv A you want liee-ah is population.”
put Smlt^ce' rt,SS,sfor * ”“™ d °»“P le wi.il-
* *
Foster ' T ll , 6 exacfc whereabouts of
at last liin a r r S ‘ degenerate Australians” has
of till nd?ef of w r6 1 J t Ue ? live within a radius
(NS W iut l B D k b P'"'gs, m the Oberon
s“ 7 d„“d,l!y pi^ s T ;£. Üblished P*~sreph in' the
e-e!u'';j t 'P l e, Whose families total 82, of
g-». *» “XV*-X SZJR'&S
eijht S:'^3e' l oS'd' <, Cr' 1 ?- a? 0 ' > ft*
t i‘! ] < i e Sf'fls, two deceased, total 14 ; No! 4'five boys four
one S dece U a r sed C S^°. ta J 13 « ; N °‘ 5 - six boys? fou'r ’gir"
deceased total is I Jii Jl°’ 6 ’ n,ne boys, two Srirls, two
have tilt A iSSr nta are robust ’ a ' ld theie
Kodak : Within the last year or so
°° w . s seem to have developed an alarm-
u aMt of mvading licensed premises and be-
haymg m a more or less riotous manner. At the
Colac Court quite recently a storekeeper of Lome
had to pay £lO damages on behalf of a pub-
wrecking cow owned by him. According to the
ston told by the anguished licensee—a lady—the
h ! , wandered into the place, explored it
oughly (including the bedrooms and balcony),
eaten mattresses, broken furniture and upset
Castfrt gene /v b ,° Uta - year a <*>w Of
Casterton (Vic.) broke away from its herd
and squeezed through the side-door of a
drinkery. It shuffled along to the billiard-
room, walked round the table, mooned about
tne Oar and dining-room, and then, st.ll perfectly
sober squeezed out at the front without
even knocking over a flower-pot or attempting
to graze on the green-baize door. The Cow has
always been closely identified with the Cold Tea
prigade; so probably the Casterton beast was
just having a look round to see what the pros-
pects for No License were. The Lome beast, how-
ever, is a plain drunk and disorderly, and helps
to support the theory—formed since the advent of
dairy-farm slavery—that the Cow is really the
Devil in disguise. The disguised Devil at Lome
evidently wanted a drink and was making
desperate efforts to get it for herself. It must
be a terrible thing to be the Devil in want of
whisky and to see the whisky in front of you,
and to know that you haven’t hands wherewith
to use a corkscrew—only four hoofs, a tail and a
pair of horns.
Shackle ’ : How’s this ? I was booked
tor a trip Outback, away from train and coach
routes, and decided to do it per bike. All the
information I could get about the road was that
and 5 miles out there was a pub. Left at 9a. m„ and
expected to strike the pub in time for
dinner; but, instead, I struck sand
galore. Twelve o’clock found me 15
miles away from the hotel, and, seeing
a big homestead about half a mile off
the road, I decided to prospect for a
meal. I was not hungry enough to
beg for a bite, and as once before I
had been roundly abused by a cocky
for offering money for what I had re-
ceived, I resolved to steer a middle
course. Wherefore I shoved a pin
into the front tyre, and there was the
excuse for knocking at the frontdoor.
An elderly woman answered the
knock, and in reply to my query as
to whether anybody on the premises
was a bike plumber, said she would
send the boys out. In the meantime
I could smell a dinner that was just
about done to a turn. Presently
three able young fellows came to the
door, and one immediately said he
could fix up the bike. He took it
away, leaving me standing with the
other two, and presently there came
that joyous sound to the empty—the
dinner hell. It seemed 10 to one on
me being asked in, until the two
young fellows looked at each other and
the youngest sneaked off. The odds
fell to even money then, and when the
other brother said he would go and see if
the bike was ready I scratched the engage-
ment. After a wait of 10 minutes the bike car-
penter brought out the machine and I started in
to thank him, but he replied that it was all right,
he “liked the work, and as he didn’t have much
trouble with it he would only churge me eighteen-
pence ! ” I paid and staggered back to the sand-
hills.
* * * *
u Drunk as a Cow ” discourses at length
Beer friends,—After diligent investigation, extending
over some years, I claim to have discovered “ How to be
Unhappy, Though Drunk.” When you have reached
that stage of rottenness when every cloud is lined with
pint pots, and you can see 100 ways of getting an honest
or a dishonest living, listen with rapt attention to the
kindly advice and cocksure vaticinations of all your
solicitous friends. Then stand pensively on the kerbstone
where the street is most crowded, gaze stupidly into the
gutter, and try to think deeply. In proper sequence, the
advice and the awful possibilities before vou are • (1)
You’ve had enough. (2) Have you any work to do? If
this is answered in the affirmative, there follows (‘>a)
bettergoand do it. Don’t be a fool. If you have any more
beer you’ll be too full. (3) If you don’t pull yourself
together you’ll get bundled out. (4) If you get bundled
out you’re settled. (5) If you have another you won’t be
able to get home. (6) If you don’t get home, and vou
sleep in the open, you’re sure to get shot in. (7) If ‘you
miss getting shot,in you’ll be run over by a tram or fall
in the harbor. (8) Even if you have some luck, and do
get home, you’ll feel crook to-morrow. And (9) if vou
don’t feel crook to-morrow you’re a blessed marvel, it is
all so gloriously disfigured with subjunctives that it ap-
pearsblessed rot, and in despair you dash to the nearest
pub. There, throwing down your tanner without the
option, you call for, get and imbibe two (2) pints of beer
So endeth the last chapter of the Second Book of Drunk’
A PLEASANT SURPRISE.
DRUNK (gleefully): “ On'y six cr clock (hie)! Won’t the Missush be pleashed at vie gettin'
home s’ early?"
“Pat O’Maori” has a scheme to regenerate
the world :—
While the war over bush hospitality is still raging I
would like to step into the midst of the carnage and make
a remark. I cannot tell a lie: I have never been in the
Australian Back-of-Beyond. But I have been in 50 places
in Maoriland that were 50 miles from anywhere and 20
miles from anybody, and the said 20 miles were 20
inches deep in mud, except where the mud was crossed
by flooded rivers, which were 20 feet deep. This, I
think, amounts to isolation. In such places I have felt
so hospitable that even had an insurance man come
along I would have given him the last pannikin of tea in
the billy. The heart expands in exact ratio to its dis-
tance from human habitation, and all lhat it is neces-
sary to do to bring all men to a due sense of their human
brotherhood is to space them out 50 miles apart for 12
months, and then let them meet in one grand re-union.
Under such circumstances Judkins would weep upon
the neck of the Mackinstoush, and Dill of the yellow sash
take the Scarlet Female to his bosom.
* * * *
“ The Battler ” : “ Itan ” (B. 14/7/’10),
shuddering at the spectre of desolation that hangs
over a mining town, instances Mount Jackson
a typical deserted village. It is typical
enough; but Westralia can provide enough com-
panion spectres to ensure it against loneliness.
Abbot’s and Gabinintha, on the Murchison, are
now dry skeletons guarded by parched pubs;
Londonderry, the riches of whose reef made the
world wonder if Nature’s laboratory had been dis-
covered, is now but a wayside shanty;
and Mertondale, where “Judd’s john-
nies” once enlivened the landscape in
spotless tennis suits, has Started an ex-
port trade m busted fan tod shops.
Bonnievale is dead, and Broad Arrow,
Bardoc, Kurnalpi and many others,
with the names of which the boomster
used to conjure, fight desperately for
life behind a solid phalanx of goats. !
The deadest of them, however, is not
without hope that the metal will
again be discovered in sufficient quan-
tities to re-awaken the sleeping jim- <
jams of the boom.
“ Yigilans” speaks for the station nigger
S. P. Mackay, one of Westralia’s shepherd king's of the
North-West, recently donated £IOOO to be distributed
amongst the blacks of Groperland. Which is possibly
another trihute to Conscience. Eive years ago, when the
squatters of the West and North-West were piling up
dollars on the boom (wethers were selling on the gold-
fields at £1 a head), all the station work from Carnarvon
to Derby was done by the aboriginal man, his lubra and
family. The labor included shearing, fencing, boundary
riding, well-sinking and carting. It was quite a common
every-day thing to see two blacks driving a bullock wag-
gon to the nearest port, 100 miles or so from the station
and leturning with a load of Stones. Some of the nigs,
were first-rate shearers, averaging over 100 jumbucks
a day on the bitzroy, De Grey, Gascoigne, Ashburton
Murchison and other sandbed rivers, the pay at the end
of the season being a jersey, pair of pants, half a pound
of nigger twist, and a few pounds of flour. The tucker
<-ondated of damper, mutton and post-and-rail tea, and a
stick of twist on Sunday. Although a good deal of coer.
cion was used, the squatters trusted the nigger, and the
results showed that the aborigine conld have been made
useful in orher parts of Australia. Especially does this
apply to the Northern Territory. Government sheep
stations have now been formed in Westralia for the
nigger, but the Territory native is still in his chaotic
state. Some of the coastal natives are fine strapping
fellows who could be made useful to help defend the
White Elephant. I guess these darkies would fight all
right if properly trained. They become great shots, both
with rifle and shotgun, and are endowed with the true
fighting instinct. But what can you do with a spear or
boomerang in these strenuous times?
‘ Kola : It is up to “ Jimmie Pannikin ”
now to change his name. He has no right to
masquerade as a tin mug when he is really a
china cup or a champagne glass. Or how would
James Decanter do ?—he could spell it James de
Canter. I was going to suggest Jimmy Goblet;
but this might seem personally offensive, and any
of us is liable to grow old and fat. My acute
sense of the fitness of things impels me to pen an
appeal to him to do something.
PHWAT FOR?
HINNISSY : “ Phuat for? Don't yez know it's
illagal! Look at that notice beyant! That's
phwat Oi luk th ’ cottage for. An ’ ye’ve
brought me nothin’ but bills wer since Oi've
bin here. Be gobs! yez may thank ycr
shtarrs Oi'm not girin' yez in charrrrrgc,
ye dirit?"
“A.V.” : I’ve been wondering for some
time past what becomes of the cranks who set out
on foot to travel around the world. During a 12-
years residence in North Queensland X have met
12 Germans, two Japs, a Yankee and his wife
who started from Townsville to foot it round the
globe. In every instance they were to return to
the starting-post in three years’ time. The Yan-
kee’s wife died down south somewhere, and her
husband chucked up the sponge. But the Ger-
mans and .Taps have not been heard of since. Of
course their yarn was that they were doing the
boot-wearing business for some paper in their own
country, and they carried extensive cameras to
supply photos, for the periodicals they repre-
sented. The Japs preferred views of the
harbors every time, which made me think they
must be fishermen.
MICROBES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dr. Bull, of the Melbourne University, said that
microbes were everywhere, and everybody was sur-
rounded by an invisible host of microbes.— tfeivs item.
Microbes, microbes,
Beautiful tinted microbes:
Pink and red and yellow and brown ;
In the city and bush and town ;
Some of them young, some of them sere;
Here and there and. every where—
Beautiful, beautiful
Microbes.
This is the Chant of Microbes
Old Bill Smith in the Outback bar
Cashes the cheque that he’s carted far,
Orders the beers in accents loud,
Grasps his own and invites the crowd ;
Chucks fair Hebe under the chin,
Informs the boss that he's looking thin ;
Tells a story of crimson sin,
And drinks and drinks
With the
Microbes.
This is a Psalm of Microbes :
Good Brother Jones, with stately grace,
In the polished pulpit takes his place,
Tells how he’s battled with Ancient Nick
And settled his case, with a mighty kick ;
Speaks of haloes and harps and things,
Jasper cities and whitewashed wings ;
Tears his hair and prays and sings
’Mid the sanctimonious
Microbes.
This is'a Song of Microbes :
Avoirdupois, the golden king,
Acclaims that “ life ” is just the thing.
Rises at ten ; golfs half the day ;
Dines right well and seeks the play ;
Looks on the ballet with sinful eyes ;
Swindles all, with the same old lies ;
Is coffined up, when at last he dies,
With a million
Corpulent
Microbes.
This is a Dirge of Microbes :
In slum and lane where the foetid air
Has robbed each cheek of roses rare ;
Where children cry' for a crust of bread ;
Where the Harvester gathers his crop of Dead ;
Where crime is stamped with a blood-red brand,
King Pestilence, with sovereign baud,
Ruleth the masses of Hunger-Land
And a hundred
Million
Microbes.
VICTORIA.
BURNETT GRAT.


COLDS CAUSE HEADACHE.
LAXATIVE BROMO QUININE, the world-wide Gold
and Grip Remedy removes cause. Call for full name.
Look for signature—E. W. GROVE. 1/IV. [2
The Old Blend
d^usurgh.
writs ky
of the
WH
f ,h ' Horse
DIRECT PROM DISTILLER ft.
(Jllak,
DISTILLER »
Influenza at Toowoomba.
“My little girl was ill with influenza for over
two weeks,” writes Mrs. M. Rawlins, Neil Street,
Toowoomba. “Nothing gave her any relief until
we tried Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery, which
cured her at once. It also cured the other
children of coughs and colds.” Price Is. 6d.
and 3s.*
DIAMONDS REDUCED ENORMOUSLY.
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Rings and Pendants,
and Jewellery generally at prices never before attempted
in Australia.
WHY?
Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that
calls for an enormous output, and we have to
live up to it; and so, to increase our already large output,
we are offering all diamond goods at merely a commission
on the actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisements and the increase of
customers.
Diamonds and Rubies,
£3O.
Plain Figures'
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
“Tracker,” about an old inhabitant, who
may be real or may be an effort of the imagina-
tion :
Mention of the difference in tariffs for blokes and gents
at Port Moresby’s collective pub (B. 4/S/’10) recalls the
patriarch of the Port who adorns the head of the bloke’s
table—Peter. No meal is complete without Peter.
Owing to the surplus of eaters over seats, immediately
the tin is walloped there is a stampede for the festive
board with a prologue in rainbow language from the
“ also rans.” But Peter’s squat is always immune from
assault, and the nigger waiter, with his thumb carefully
inserted in the food, always delivers Peter’s plateful
“ first time.” Nobody knows how long he has sat there
perseveringly chewing “ bulumucau ” and taro. The
oldest inhabitant is discreetly silent in his presence ; it is
rumored that Peter was in the Port with theO.l.’s grand-
father. According to the pub statist, Peter speaks
on the average three times per week and nods his
head 86 times. When he does speak it reminds you of
Judkins, because what he says is so different; yet any
reference to Peter in other than reverential terms would
be instantly followed by violence from the blokes and
severe reproach from the gents. Peter’s job is to repair
Port Moresby’s hoofgear, and he is an 18-carat trades-
man. He refuses, however, to make more than 6s. per
day, which he says is ample for his wants. To get a pair
of “crabs”half-soled and heeled costs Port Moresby only
three bob. (There are no shod policemen there.) If
Peter is introduced to a small sewing or patch job after
he has earned his daily 6s. he cheerfully undertakes the
task at a fee of nil sterling, and all persuasion or argu-
ment against this policy avails nothing. In extenuation,
Peter once implied that he wasn’t going to leave good
money to the (vacuum) Government. Since then he has
merely remarked that it is his own business.
“U.N.H.”: “ Vigilans ” (B. 21/7/10), in
writing of marriages between young aboriginal
children and old men, is wrong in his facts.
There are many customs amongst the blacks that
are not learned in a day or a year, and not Dr.
Roth or any other blackfellow-expert that I have
read knows all their customs. In the first place,
the old bucks don’t marry young gins, or old ones
for that matter. The old man takes a girl in
order that he may be kept in food dainties which
he would have to do without if it were not that
the young bucks, on marriage bent, have a reason
for supplying his larder. The girl is not a wife ;
she is a decoy or bait for provender. Marriages
are scientifically arranged by the old men, and a
young buck can only get a gin as they decide. This
gives the old blokes their opportunity. One from,
say, theEmutribe, exchangesayounggin of his tribe
with an old man of the Snake tribe, and promises
the boys of the Emu tribe that one of them shall
have the girl when they have been through the
ceremonies. He takes good, care that no tip is
given as to the prospective winner, consequently
each vies with the other in squaring the ancient '
parasite. “ Vigilans” need have no fear that the
young gin is badly treated. She has to look happy
and in good condition to keep the young fellows
buzzing round with offerings of provisions for the
ancient and hungry hunk who acts as her
guardian. *
“Kola”: Concerning the starling, which
The Bulletin (28/7/’10) cursed vigorously in con-
junction with the sparrow. There are countless
thousands of the birds in Victoria’s Western Dis-
trict, where they thrive amazingly ; but, instead
of viewing them as a curse, the farmers regard
them as a blessing. They consume millions of
grubs and insects; in fact, they live on them, as
there is practically nb fruit for them to trouble.
In past years a grub pest grievously afflicted the
grass lands, but since the starling set up business
the grub has ceased from troubling. The starling
doesn’t eat grain, but he fossicks amongst the
stooks for a grub which eats the grain-heads off.
So far, he has developed noobjectionable qualities.
He (or she) certainly has been seen to pick an odd
bit of wool off a sheep’s back at nesting time; but
it is generally admitted that it is a fair thing for
the farmer to help the lady when she is setting up
housekeeping.
* * * *
“Echo” : Nothing in the bush can equal
the infernal row kicked up by Koaia, jun., at the
period when Mrs. Koala shakes him off her back
to scramble henceforth for his own livelihood and
other necessaries. On first hearing the outbreak
of protest you’d swear someone was being mur-
dered. It always reminds me of a bookmaker
bring stewed in glycerine.
REASONABLE.
DAD (who likes to leave things “lying about handy”): “Where’s that saw I was using
last week?”
MOTHER (who likes “tidying up” after him): “In its proper place, of course.”
DAD: “ Well, it’s no business to be.”
“ Toby ” : I will back the cock bower-bird
to beat the lyre all day as a mimic. It can imi-
tate anything from the wail of the busted
marriage-tie to the howl of the football barraeker.
And it is more than a voice mimic. It suits the
action to the song, whistle, yell or lamentation. I
have even seen it burst into tears. The bird I
refer to is mottled, of fair size and full-throated,
with a tuft of pink feathers at the rear of the
head. It is very prevalent in Central and Western
Queensland, so I daresay several correspondents
will rise from their
lairs in George
and Collins streets
and deny its exist-
ence.
PERPLEXED.
“Now, where did I put them worms?”
Wherever Jerry Jerome, the Queensland
aboriginal boxer, goes, he takes with him an
ancient Binghi. The old fellow plays no part in
the proceedings beyond sitting in Jerome’s
corner; he doesn’t even make remarks upon the
way things are going. He knows nothing of box-
ing ; but Jerome will not fight unless the patriarch
is there to give him some moral support. He has
hitherto been regarded as a kind of maseotte ;
but since the Cripps-Jerome disturbance his stock
as a luck-bringer has slumped a degree or two.
“ Quan ” : One of the curiosities of the
Brisbane show, lately, was a live oeratudus. D.
O’Connor, of Oxley, owns it. There are only
three brands of ceratodi in the world, and Queens-
land produces one of them ; but there are not
many of any of the sorts. They all ought to have
disappeared with the megatherium and the dip-
rotodon a few half-million years ago; but they
got left over somehow. Their specialty is that,
though they breathe with gills like other fish, this
ceratodus and the other two lots of dipnoi also
have lungs ; or, at least, so far as the gentleman
on the Queensland remnant-counter is concerned,
he has one lung. Until recently the remnant
existed only in the Burnett and Mary Rivers;
but about 15 years ago over 70 of him were put in
seven other streams in Southern Queensland, and
in two of them—the Condamine and the Upper
Coomera —-young ones have since been seen. An
old one, killed in the Condamine, near Warwick,
was 3ft. 3in. long, weighed 191 b., and was full of
roe. Another, about the same size, was shot in a
pond near Enoggera (Brisbane). In the Burnett
district the ceratodus is generally called the Bur-
nett salmon on account of its red flesh, while on
the Mary it is called barramundi. Bingbi calls it
teebine.
“K.”: Years ago some darned fool
brought the prickly pear or vegetable
porcupine to Australia, and it spread mar-
vellously. Then some thousands of other
fools were too tired to start a vigorous
crusade against it, and it continued to
spread. Its seeds are carried around by the
winds and the streams ; by horses, cows and bul-
locks; by coaches, railway trains and bullock-
by the clothes of stockmen, bagmen, hosre-drays;
men, footmen, parsons, boundary-riders, loafers,
publicans and others; by the hens that
walk on the ground, and by the birds
that hustle in the air; and, incidentally,
by the emu. So man proceeds to make up
for his own laxity and incompetence by
a furious attack on the most harmless and
picturesque bird in the Australian category. The
emu is being murdered wholesale because he is
suspected of circulating the infamous cactus, just
as everybody else does. As a case in point,
Terranbah station, on the N.S. W.-Queens-
land border, is paying 2s. per head for full-
grown emus, Is. perhead for emu chicks
and Is. each for eggs. But there is no news
of Terranbah station putting in a solid
effort at the destruction of the prickly-
pear. When the millennium comes it will
probably be found still loafing on the pear
and offering eigliteenpence for each archangel that
is shot and Is. for ordinary angels, while sera-
phim and cherubim will be 7s. Gd. a dozen.
MARY’S DINNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dr. Brown, Chief Inspector of Meat, states that Aus-
tralians are the biggest meat-eaters in the world. The
annual average for man, woman and child amounts to
two sheep, one-fifth of a bullock and one-fourth of a pig.
—Retvs item.
I look askance at Mary’s waist
And wonder if it’s true,
I think of cutlets grilled in haste,
Of plates of steak and stew,
Of tripe, potato-pie and paste
Our happy hash-house knew.
Mary, did you consume of sheep
A meek and woolly pair?
. Did ninety pounds of mutton sleep
Beneath your bosom fair?
Alas, the grave is dark and deep
That frizzled jumbucks share !
Did you and your four sisters eat.
Between last spring and now,
So vast a mountain of dead meat
As these accusers vow?
Did you perform this awful feat ?
Did you consume a cow ?
Alas, the silence dark and drear
Of those red lips divine
Might almost make me shed a tear—
But tell me, Mary mine,
Did your four sisters in one year
Consume a fatted swine ?
I dream of cutlets grilled in haste,
Of plates of Irish stew,
Of beef and kidneys under paste
Our happy hash-house knew.
I look at Mary’s slender waist
And wonder if it’s true.
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAGRL.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Harper : But, after all, the Argos professed to
indicate the whereabouts of the gambling establishment,
and that clerical cove seems to have merely alluded to the
remarks of the Argus. Surely the office of the big paper
was the place where the police should have applied for
information Woolbul : Sorry, but the staff isn’t a
long-distance cow, and can’t knock off eating for 12
months and live on the past 20 years’ victuals. It would
be handy if it could, for there’s a slaughtermen’s strike
on here at present... W.D. : Yes; it would take about
five years Mary A. : Liked the two fat cats ; but they
alone couldn’t claw it in. Besides, the basket is much
more comfortable for cats Tom Slack : Have no cer-
tain information about Kitchener’s alleged glass eye.
He certainly has one eye which doesn’t seem as energetic
as the other ; but he doesn't make it a practice to lake
it out in company. On the other hand, the fact that a
man leaves his eye in when he’s in company doesn’t neces-
sarily prove its bona-fides M.L. Limekilns : Thanks ;
but the old hand isn’t usually reliable as to such matters.
... A.M.L. : Not quite enough meat on its bones.
... Cob: Verses below par....Darling Pea: Tiib Bul-
letin hasn’t got a “set” on anybody except the
rent collector... .O.J.O.: Story of the rival town-
ships may be regarded as hopeless... .D. B.D. : You
are a purveyor of nightmares, and no poet. Three
hundredweight of moonlight, ghouls, memories, mirth-
less laughs, gnomes, shrieks and brain fever thrown out
with a hearty curse.. ..James I). (Q.): Your habit of ex-
claiming “Alas!” for no apparent reason every third
line or so is an objectionable one, and will yet get you
into serious trouble. It is better to drink heavily and
breathe beer at your editor than to sigh wildly in his ear
about nothing. We hate draughts... Mary H. : No;
notone VV.B.F. (Q.): Once and for all, this sort of
thing has got to stop :
I often sit when the day is o’er and think of times gone by
And the tears will trickle down my cheek and dim my
tired eye ;
For I think of mates that I used to know and trusted
when Out Back
And wonder if they think of me as they go down the
track.
Honestly now, have you ever shed one tear in this idle
. and shameless fashion, oris it all flam and slop-over?...
l,awro(V.): We rejected the slang rhyme after looking
at it from several points of the compass Lin Foster
(S.A.) : It is a dull, badly-constructed yarn, and the fact
that it is written in faint pencil doesn’t make us feel
kindly disposed towards the author. . R.C.L.H. : “The
Show” is too slight and uneven... L.B.W. : You must
howl outside this office alongside the hurdy-gurdy afflic-
tion Lou S. (V.) : It has been better said before. (P.S.
Nearly everything has been said before.)... .Seebee : Have
reserved “ Song ” for a second glance. Other is common-
place.. . .M.B.P. (V.): You’ve made a remarkably heavy
poem out of a small idea. Blank verse does away with
the bother of hunting for rhymes ; but it needs a bit of
chiselling all the same. Your poem is a sort of boulder.
I.E.H. : Alleged w'owser poem is merely mangled
prose... .Madge : Unskilful work. You lack originality
and skill Phil G. : “A Retrospect” received. We
can make a better burst of language by simply
boring a hole in a heavyweight dictionary, in-
serting a dynamite cartridge and firing it. Get out !
K. McK. : None. You have a long distance to travel on
the Inky Way. As near as we can estimate, it is 57,284
miles J.M. : “ The Shot ” missed and the cash box is
uninjured Charlton : Verses unskilful H.H. :
“ Rural Spring” is pleasant and soothing. We extract
two verses :
Picturesque and vimful,
Pleasure and content;
Evolving the weary
To salubrious mind.
Scan the floral genii,
Efflorescence seen ;
Every where birds gleeful,
Rougish scamps the have.
. M*Liss: The original device of putting page 5 im
mediately behind the title page and following it with
pages 4, 3, 2 and 6 in that order, gives the dull and
gloomy yarn two or three refreshing jolts ; but even that
doesn’t make it worth while. Try writing it backwards
from the end, starting with the derelict drunk and
the dead cat, and end it up happily with the derelict per-
fectly sober and the cat alive and vy’ell Parson :
Neither up to print level Pat Maloney : When did you
turn up that ancient idea with your trusty ploughshare ?
We buried it again in the basket... .C.J.O, (V.): The
story’s effort to faithfully depict rapid society is painful.
It is like watching a slow, respectable snail trying to
catch an express. Even when the “gay girl ” fixes her
garter and pats the elderly gentleman on the cheek and
calls him “ a naughty boy,” it doesn’t exceed the speed
limit G.M.B. : Guess you are no relation to that
humorous cuss, Josh B....H.E.R. (W.A.): “The Won-
derful Umbrella” is not up Sam Spry (Q.) : “Riding
of Vickers ” is just the usual post-and-raii bush jingle....
lv. McK.: It isn’t at all “ A Fair Heal.” Go and
rhyme no more Tibby (S.A.): Patriotic poem is a
rambling, shambling thing with a minimum of rhymes
Ern (Heywood, V.): It is a dull rhyme. We will not
publish it, and you must buy your Bulletin in the old,'
sordid way. You will probably conclude, on reading
this answer, that this is a hard world. It is Vie-
toranni: Unsuitable W.A. W.B.: Verses of no value...
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
J. Spot: Never saw a more discouraged-looking man
than the Smith you have drawn H.C.: Still rather
crude, but show'ing signs of improvement.. ..Franz G. :
A belated thing. The very name of Maude Allen is
almost forgotten now W.N.: Both drawings are poor.
The “monkey” isn’t familiar slang, anyhow, and the
false hair joke is wholly unpleasant J.L. : Declined.
It isn’t a joke ; only a bald statement made by one
badly-drawn Jew to another Charles G.: Send in your
101st attempt. Your first is no use to anybody
Will Not: It didn’t either. Can’t say what would have
happened if it had....The Mug: Grievous lack of life
and action in your figures. The three wooden people
who are urging the dead horse up the cast-iron hill are
not human.... F. Noonan : The joke is old, which is bad,
and the man’s legs are startlingly new, which isn’t much
better Schneider: Drawing, apparently by cave-man’s
apprentice, received Jack L.: Sometimes we fancied
that the pictures were worse than the jokes. Other
times we thought that the jokes weren’t any better than
the pictures. Sometimes we thought they were both
worst. Other times we gave it up ...A.E.M. : Scratchy
to the last degree Homo: That scheme for wholesale
Hebrew immigration to Westralia has lost all its
freshness J. G. Campbell : Ultimatum to hand. You
' will derive no pecuniary benefit from your drawings so far
as this office is concerned. As an artist you come near
Toeing a tragedy


o.llect evidence*o7^Ukedn^'sTCsh^dy 0 Melbournc P®' l ** to
self and make his own investigations * P ' aCeS ’ determined *o disguise him-
He had not gone far on his
se.ret errand when a young
woman Inquired: *• Dearie, where
did you get that face ?’* "I fear
she Is connected with the Social
Rv||,” said Judkins.
•“ He stood with the gamblers at the
tables ” and won 9d.
His mask procured him inst “ n *
admission to a Chinese gambling
den. “ You allee same as China-
man ; walk lite in l ”
He changed his first mask for a broad-
grin one, and picked up a Wesleyan
friend and accomplice, whom he like-
wise disguised.
Together they saw some awful sights.
Judkins disguised himself as a cab-
horse, and heard things that would make
any self-respecting animal blush.
Walking through Richmond Reserve,
where couples desecrate the Sabbath by
canoodling, they struck terror to all
beholders.
Judkins then disguised himself as a dawg, and took notes of
Sunday-trading at a pub.
Finally he returned to his virtuous domicile. (The cigar Is not
the real wicked thing but a chocolate Imitation.)
THE DISGUISES OF JUDKINS.


jThe gentlemen in Mrs. Allen Taylor’s set at the Fresh Air League
Ball wore £4500 worth of jewellery.—Sydney Son.
London, Wednesday Afternoon.—The new radium waters at
Carlsbad, Bohemia, have cured many cases of chronic rheumatism,
sout and neuralgia, but are Ineffective in cases of senile weakness.
hiivo e What of it? The Bulletin knows of gentlemen who
ue ar better than this in the jewellery-wearing line.
No, there is only one brand
of radium that’s any good for
old age:—
“ The light that lies
In ladies’ eyes.”
Especially if the lady be a
young widder.
Mr. John Hughes, in the Legislative Council re-
cently, was asked whether, in consideration of the
numerous cases of loss of life or grave injury from the
ignorant'use of benzine or similar mineral spirits for
domestic purposes, the Qovernment would direct that
instruction as to the danger from such liquids should
form part of the teaching in the State schools.
The Wade Government goes to the country.
Under the new Defence Bill, intro,
duced to the Federal Parliament last
night, it is explained that “ persons
who satisfy the prescribed authority
that their conscientious beliefs do not
allow them to bear arms ” will be
exempt from compulsory training.
“ARE YOU A TOTAL ABSTAINER?”
The Minister for Home Affairs is con*
sidering the methods to be adopted for
ensuring secrecy in the answers to
census questions.
Incidentally it Is hoped
that they will carry some
of their books in their
heads.
Professor of Explosives: “Now, 1 will show you the
danger of cooking breakfast by pouring kerosene
on the kitchen fire.”
The above is a fancy portrait of the
Minister for Home Affairs.
At the historic battle of Bull’s Run
there were many sudden converts to
such “beliefs.”
THE WADE GOVERNMENT AND SUNDRIES.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
NEEDED EVERY DAY.
A good liniment, and one that can always be
relied upon, is nowhere more appreciated than in
the country. Scarcely a week passes but some
member of the family has need of it. Chamber-
lain s Pain Balm is more widely known than any
liniments for cuts, burns and sprains, and it not
only gives relief but. heals the wound in about one
third the time required by any other treatment.
The great power Chamberlain’s Pain Balm has
over pain is shown in the relief it affords in cases
of acute and inflammatory rheumatism. Cham-
berlain’s Pain Balm is also an antiseptic.*
As Burglar Bill stole up to the stairs
(Stole up, of course, to steal)
His cough came on him unawares,
And rang a sudden peal !
The baby of the house crept down
And said, “ Yous ill, I’m sure,
Take this and go away.” He went
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Have a Dash of
A m
® H *' ,rade^
%
y
SSSB9- •*’
R
IS
KS
Exfracr of *
Fruifs&Herba.
Moderate Drinkers take O.T.
with Whisky, Gin and other
Spirits, to moderate the effects
of the Alcohol. Try O.T. with
Schnapps or Gin.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
MUSIC.
Scenes at the Commonwealth Eisteddfod, at
Sydney Town Hall.
The game of pull-devil, pull-baker at St.
James’s, Sydney’s ancient Anglican tabernacle,
isn’t necessarily over yet; though the Rev. Went-
worth Shields was dropped last week into the
departed Carr Smith’s long-empty boots. The
Rev. Wentworth will, it is expected, make an
appeal to the Very Best People. He married the
Bishop of Ripon’s daughter just before he left for
Australia some years ago, and even royalty
attended the wedding. Bishop Barlow was, in
those days, his Ludshipof North Queensland, and
by him the Rev. Wentworth was imported as
sub-dean of Townsville. But Wentworth promptly
discovered that Townsville was no place for blood
with streaks of blue in it, so he packed up his
beautiful sermons and followed uncle Barlow to
Goulburn (N.S.W.).
Sir William Abdy, a recognised student of
Chinese language and history, died the other day.
He was not a very old man, so his end was proba-
bly hastened by his wife’s recent craze for aeron-
autics. A wife who is always wanting to fly would
naturally fill her husband with yearnings to soar
aloft.
The late Florence Nightingale’s natural
enthusiasm for hospital nursing work might never
have made her famous but for her wonderful con-
stitution. She was born with a capacity to live
to the age of 90. Moreover, she never had to
worry about her future. When a £50,000 testi-
monial was raised for her by public subscription
she could afford to devote it to the endowment of
a Training Home for Nurses.
A MIXED LOT.
There were many strange tongues, dresses and pic-
turesque scenes at the opening of the World Missionary
Conference in Edinburgh on Tuesday.
“ Berruther Catchemaneatum will now testify ,
after which Berruther Sandy MacPherson
will lead us in perayer.”
“ Puketapu’s” story :
The accidental burning- to death of Alexander Shand
(one of the best authorities on the Maori race and Maori
tribal history) at the Chatham Islands, recalls that
inhuman savage, Te Rauparaha, chief of the Ngati-
toa. Shand and his parents were residing in the Wai-
whetu district in the early ’4o’s, when Te Rauparaha
started raising a dust, and they had to seek refuge in
Wellington. Te Rauparaha had then practically closed his
long career of battle, murder, cannibalism and treachery,
but the terror he had inspired was such that even his name
was sufficient to cause a stampede for safety. Te
Rauparaha generally wrote liis name in blood—as deep
as it was long—and, although often enough he did not
appear openly in the distribution of cardases, a finger-
print expert would have had no difficulty in satisfying
any qualms a Presbyterian hangman might have felt.
In later years Shand used to tell some hair-lifting
stories of Rauparaha, amongst the worst of them being
about that blood-thirsty warrior’s invasion of the South
Island. One Rerewhaka, a chief of the Ngaitahu tribe,
whose principal settlement was on Kaikoura peninsula’
threatened that if Rauparaha dared to set his foot in
Ngaitahu country he (Rerewhaka) would rip him
(Rauparaha) open with a shark’s tooth. Which
was a nice, friendly sort of peace offering. • Rauparaha
nursed the insult for a while, and then made a sudden
onslaught upon the peninsula. A fearful massacre of
Rerewhaka’s people followed. The chief himself was
taken, tortured, killed and, with hundreds of others,
devoured. But that didn’t satisfy Rauparaha. He
hunted out the body of the grandmother of another
Ngaitahu chief named Tamaiharanui, and it was eaten,
all decomposed as it was. Naturally, Tamaiharanui
made a fuss about it, and the ensuing shindy
ended in unspeakable atrocities. Tamaiharanui,
his wife and daughter were beguiled aboard the brig
Elizabeth, commanded by one Stewart (I hope Stewart is
still frizzling on the hobs of Hell). They were immedi-
ately pounced upon by Rauparaha and his gang, who
were in hiding aboard. Tamaiharanui was chained in the
cabin, but he managed to free his hands sufficiently to
strangle his daughter and save her from a worse fate.
The unfortunate chief was afterwards handed over to
three or four women of the Ngatitoa tribe, suspended
from a tree, and a riot of cruelty closed with a red-hot
ramrod being forced through his'neck till he died. Rau-
paraha finished his career as a Christian, worshipping the
Almighty ; but I reckon it would take more than that to
square his account.
A grandson of Captain John Piper, the
naval officer who acquired so much land in Wool-
lahra (Point Piper was named after him), in the
early part of last century, was recently sworn in
as the first Australian-born priest of the Fran-
ciscan order. Rev. Piper is a son of H. ,T. Piper,
of Point Piper, and left Sydney for the Killarney
(Ireland) establishment of St. Francis about seven
years ago. In all probability he will be attached
to the Australian mission of the order which
Joseph McCabe sacked without a reference.
“ U.K.” hangs up the crape :
A pathetic note on the R.A. Society’s walls at the
Spring Exhibition in Sydney is a portrait of Harry Gar-
lick, Australia’s best animal painter, just dead, aged 33.
The portrait was painted during the last few months—
while poor Garlick was practically dying—by his chum,
A. E. Rosebra.v. By the side of the portrait is hung the
dead artist’s palette—probably placed there by the com-
mittee as a grim warning to those about to tread
the thorny paths of Art. Garlick was quite a youth
when he left Molong home and his people
to join the small but vigorous art world of Sydney. He
worked first with Collingridge, and then drifted on to
Ashton, Watkins and Mahonv, greedily absorbing the
best that each had to give. He was a frightfully
thorough student, and took all sorts of care against inac-
curacy. In order to get the right touch of realism in the
first picture he ever exhibited, “ Dying Horse and Foal ”
(R.A.S. Exhibition about 10 years ago), be made a busi-
ness-like bargain for the purchase of a nearly defunct
cab horse, from which he made a series of rapid and
faithful drawings before the poor creature pegged out,
and after its decease (over which he wept) he used its
anatomy for unlimited study. Garlick got most of his
models at the Sydney “ Zoo ” ; and before he had been
long amongst them, his fellows recognised him as the
best beast-man we have yet produced. Unfortunately a
painter cannot live on the appreciation of his brother
artists, and Garlick didn’t find picture-making as nourish-
ing as, say, blacksmithing, which would probably have
been his calling had he remained in the home circle. Black-
smithing is a notoriously healthy occupation, and it is
more than likely that if he had chosen the better part he
would now be a live and vigorous member of the com-
munity. Instead, when art refused a regular crust, he
found it necessary to toil in a city office, a life for which
he was constitutionally unfitted, and which helped him
out of this badly-assorted sphere long before his work was
done.
From the Oldest Inhabitant:—
August 20 was the fiftieth anniversary of the starting
of the Burke and Wills expedition from the Royal Park"
Melbourne. I well remember that start—Burke moutoed
on a cream pony, and Dr. Eades, the Mayor, biddingthe
leader an official “Godspeed.” The expedition was not
then known as the “ Burke and Wills ’’—that designation
came later on, at the time of the public funeral. Wills
was not even second in command at the start. Landells,
who brought the camels from India, held the second
position ; but he couldn’t work with Burke, and resigned
very soon. As far as I know, only one member of the
party survives. He was attached to the botanical staff,
under Dr. Becker, and now lives at North Sydne3 T .
Dr. J. M. Mason, formerly Chief Health
Officer for Maoriland, is a man of considerable
attainments, who no sooner gets one branch of
science into his gripsack than he is out hunting
for another. Although only 45 years of age and
not physically strong, he has got through an
incredible amount of study, and since Seddon
picked him up he has held the following posi-
tions in addition to his heavy job in the
Health Department: Examiner in bacteriology
and pathology to M.L. University, 1895-1900;
vice-president Australasian Association for Ad-
vance of Science, 1903 ; corresponding member
of Epidemiological Society, London ; ditto of
Association Generale des Ingenieurs Archi-
et Hygieneistes Municipaux de France,
Algerie-Tunisie, Belgique, Suisse et Grand
Duche de Luxembourg; president-elect of
Public Health division of Intercolonial Me-
dical Congress, Melbourne, 1908 ; Surgeon-
Captain M.L. Militia, besides being a
voluminous writer on public matters. Re-
cently Mason packed up and went to
London as Examiner of Immigrants,
and finding time hang heavily on his
hands, he took up the study of law, and
in a remarkably short time passed his
examinations as a barrister, and was ad-
mitted to practice. Now he is returning
to M.L. to see if there is any small job
that he has overlooked.
Judge Heydon, of the N.S.W. Arbitration
Court, is 65 years of age to-day. He was born in
Hoadley’s Buildings, King-street, Sydney, ad-
joining the present head office of the A.B.C.
His father carried on business there as an
auctioneer. Hoadley’s Buildings are still stand-
ing. Hoadley himself was a butcher, and the
murder of his wife on these premises was one of
the mysteries of the ’40’s.
One of these lonesome, single-barrelled
men, who sit for a single Parliament and are then
forgotten, has just passed out—Thomas Henry
York. He was elected for Wellington (N.S.W.),
in 1891, on a purely accidental minority vote,
occupied an unobtrusive back seat for three years,
was a very bad third at the election of 1894, and
went back to look after his pub.
N. S. Wales’s most indefatigable bridge-
builder of the early days is still living at Camp-
belltown ; and the other day he and Mrs. Bock-
ling had their 50th anniversary of housekeeping.
After finishing his apprenticeship on the Crystal
Palace (England), Bockling came to Australia,
and soon started on his hobby. He built a bridge
at Yass'; then the Denison Bridge across the
Macquarie at Bathurst; and next the Menangle
Bridge over the Nepean. In 1857 came his
magnum opus', in that year he got to
work for a company on the old Pyr-
mont Bridge, Sydney. Of this company
George Allen, M.L.C., was chairman, It. A. A.
Morehead vice-chairman, and Walter Beames,
John Fairfax and John Taylor directors. The
bridge cost £75,830, and was opened for traffic on
St. Patrick’s Day, 1857. Foot-passengers paid a
penny to cross it, and vehicles and animals more.
In 1884 the Government purchased it for £49,600,
considered a good price after 27 years’ wear and
tear. Another 16 years’ work was got out of it,
and then E. W. O’Sullivan set to work to
build a new bridge.
VERY BURY.
Mr. King O’Malley proposes to include the following in
the census paper:- “Are you out of work ? If for more
than a week, say how long.”
There won’t be anyone unemployed when the census
papers are delivered.
Vic. Police-Chief O’Callaghan’s relaxation
of energy in fulfilling his duties, if one may put it
that way, is at last explained ; he is occupied in
compiling a “History of the Police Force in
Victoria.” One chapter will, no doubt, be
devoted to that Commission which once suggested
that Mr. O’Callaghan would be an ornament to
private life; another will probably give full details
of the negotiations which preceded the closing
of the notorious Collingwood tote; another will
assuredly account for the force’s failure to capture
the perpetrators of many murders and minor
crimes of recent years. In fact, if o’Callnghan
will but tell all he knows, and will get those who
do know to also tell what he doesn’t know, that
volume will have a sale that will surprise even its
author.
The election of Father Michael Barrett to
a seat on the Smythesdale (Victoria) Borough
Council doesn’t create a precedent. Father
Maurice Wolfe held the office of Mayor three
times at Blackall (Queensland).
“A. Fiend-Hunter, D.D.,” writes re J.
Currie Elies, the person who told the N.S.W.
Institute of Bankers that “the majority of white
races were far below the Asiatics in intelligence,
ability and integrity ” :
Some years ago, whilst doing missionary- work in
China, I managed to induce a young Chinese, who,
I was confidentially informed, had been concerned
in several Boxer risings, to join my Bible class. He
was an intelligent Celestial, extraordinarily quick at
arithmetic, and fairly reliable so long as he knew he was
under strict supervision. His great fault was an inveter-
ate and bitter hatred of all white people, and I could
never dissuade him from calling them “foreign devils.”
Though hating the white people, he was clever enough to
see that their knowledge was worth having ; so he stayed
on until we could teach him no more, and then left with the
idea of attending some school in Hong Kong. I heard,
years afterwards, that he had got on wonderfully well,
and had become a sharebroker. He used to shock and
yet amuse my dear wife by saying that when he grew up
he would travel to England in his wheelbarrow and
throw a stinkpot at our late beloved Queen Victoria,
who, he said, was far inferior to the Dowager Empress of
China in intelligence, ability and integrity. He was a
great student of Indian and English history, and often
declared that the cruelty and abject cowardice of such
people as Marlborough, Nelson, Wellington, Drake,
Havelock, etc., when compared with the heroism of Nana
Sahib, of .Oawnpore, and other persons whom he men-
tioned, showed the degeneracy of the white communities.
GEORGE WILLOUGHBY (of the Willoughby
Go.), Actor and Producer.
“ X.” : Has anybody ever suggested that
Bruce Smith is Baruch Schmidt transformed?
No ? Then have another look at him. I saw him
the other day for the first time; and then I
remembered that when I was travelling in
Judea
“ T.F.M.” among the tombs :
The Bulletin reference to Thomas Muir, one of the five
“.Scotch martyrs,” reminds me that, though George
Howe is usually credited with being Australia’s first
printer, Muir beat him by several years. Howe arrived
in 1800, and three years later established the pioneer
Australian newspaper; but Muir, in 1796, obtained the
use of the first and onlv printing press in the colony
(imported by Governor Hunter), and with it struck off
“ dodgers ” containing short extracts from Holy Writ for
the edification of his co-exiles. Bobby Burns is in a
roundabout way mixed up with that matter, too. It was
in September, 1793, that “Scots Wha Hae ” first saw the
light, and it was inspired, so Burns said, partly by what
bad happened at Bannockburn, and partly by more
recent events. The italics are Burns’s. The events referred
to were, no doubt, the “ chains and slavery ” to which
Muir and the other reformers had been consigned by
Judge Braxfield—the Jeffreys of Scotland—just prior to
the publication of the famous ode.
Extract from an article in the S. M.
Herald (16/8/’10), that consistent admirer of the
Foreign-trade policy of Great Britain
From the maze of British politics issues this week an
intensely human document. Certainly it is intituled
“Report of the Departmental Committee on the Em-
ployment of Children Act, 1903,” but the cold formality
of that suggestion does it but scant justice. Its pages
speak the pathos of the London streets. The forlorn
realities within the glamor unveil themselves. The
struggle for a foothold of existence is seen all-encom-
passing, for even the children may not escape its sweep.
Here, indeed, is evidence of many thousands of them
flung out to grasp for the barest livelihood. We in
London know them well. VVe see them pathetically
active, in all weathers and despite their rags, and the
hard fare of the crusts of dry bread stuffed in their
pockets, grimly set in pursuit of the few pence sufficient
to [maintain the place they know as home—tiny lives em-
barked upon a perilous voyage in what ought to be their
season of calm security. But we did not know that their
numbers reached the totals disclosed by this report. It
appears that in London alone there were last year
13,873 boys and 1000 girls known to be engaged in street
trading, 10,486 of the boys being between the ages of
11 and 14 years. The total in London and the provincial
towns amounted to 37,000 children.
PHRASER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Foster Fraser alleges . . . Mr. Foster Fraser con-
tradicts. . . . Mr. Foster Fraser asserts. ... In answer
to the Agent-General, Mr. Foster Fraser remarks.—
Cablegrams.
Now hearken, ye nations slandered, as I leap for the
distant Ghauts,
Whence I send to the London Standard mv large un-
sorted thoughts !
I? ° r Nil™'' 86 * rra ' an d I pose by the tepid
And I see that all things are shoddy and I notice all lands
are vile !
I pace through the streets of ’Frisco, I sit on the northern
floe ;
And I dwell for an hour at Disko, whence the Arctic
whalers go !
I stand at .the Gates of Hazor, and I rush to the ends of
earth ;
For I am the high-geared Phraser who straddles the old
world s girth !
I pass by the ditched Atlantic, and the stub of my spent
cigar
Is tossed where the bergs gigantic in the darkness loom
afar !
I whiz at an earnest canter from Memphis to gav New
York, “
And lam the arch-descanter on (lie ways of Chicago's
pork !
I pause for an hour in Melbourne, I blacken mv boots in
Perth ;
Then swift to my next hotel borne, I sample the flustered
earth !
Yea, I am the Globe-Appraiser who weighs all the stars
slap-dash
(Theie are wings on the heels of Phraser, and he leaps
like a lightning-flash 1).
I smoke a cigar in Durban, have a whisky at Zanzibar ;
And I glance on the Pathan’s turban at the gateway of
Candahar.
I know the Oopts and the Norsemen ; I nod to the
Japanee ;
I have met the Bokhariot horsemen, and no one is
hidden from me.
I flee past the Maori’s geyser, in those quaking islands of
Ward’s ;
Then I rush where the bones of Caesar lie lost with the
Roman lords.
I bound in a maddened hurry, I tip you the breathless
wink ;
I live in a constant flurry—and I haven’t not time to
think 1
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


JOHN STRANGE WHTQ!
mid-food
THE J.S.W. HAIR FOOD, now placed on the
market at the express request of numerous
friends who have proved its merit, is the re-
sult of a series of exhaustive experiments con-
ducted by John Strange Winter (Mrs. Stannard)
the well-known author of “ Bootle’s Baby,”
and a hundred other famous novels. At the
age of forty-four, Mrs. Stannard, as the
result of a serious illness, culminating
in brain fever, lost nearly all her hair,
and after trying many “remedies,”
was compelled to wear a wig Ne-
cessity in this case was the mother
of a series of experiments, and
aided by a volume of Court
Recipes, dated 1711, John
Strange Winter discovered
a successful lotion for
making the hair grow.
To-day Mrs. Stannard,
at the age of 55, has
a perfect head of
hair again.
V
Good
news tra-
vels quick-
ly, & friend*
soon began to
ask Mrs. Stan-
nard for the recips.
For a time she wil-
lingly complied with
all requests until at last
they became too numerous
to handle personally. After
considerable persuasion, she
agreed to place the preparation
on the market, and to-day the
wonderful preparation that re-
stored this popular novelist’s hair is
obtainable at a reasonable price every-
where. Sold by all leading Chemists
and Stores. PRICE 2/6, or Post Free
3/-
/*/w w t/>/w w w w\
/W.*'S/W%/\/WWWWWv
w>/\/s/w W Wx,
'WWW
»'\/W WN/
/W\'V
; Vt'Ww
'W>'W
'WW > /
WWWWWN'W
\*>t\'\'\'\/\/S
...... ,/\/'.n^/W'/>»WW\/W^^\/N'y\^/S/WN/^W
<Wt«WW'#WW\IMWM* **«%**«
MADAME ELVKY, the great singer,
writes: “The Hair Food is really wonderful.
X 'tnd it a great boon, and my nair has never
been thicker or in better condition, even in
my youth.”
John Strange Winter,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
European Depots:
LONDON, PARIS and VIENNA.
£995.
The Lone Hand
E
VERY fatherwlth a son
to set up in life wants
to know the truth about
the land as a career.
Are the rewards greater or less
than those of commercial or
professional life ? A selector who
made £BOOO in six years from
a capital of £75, by taking up a
selection in Victoria, tells in THE
LONE HAND for September
(price 6d.) the astonishing story of
his success. He gives full figures
and yearly balance-sheets. The
article, which won THE LONE
HAN D’S competition, “ The Land
as a Career,” is worth every-
body’s close perusal.
On Sale Everywhere Thursday, September 1.
To JAVA,
“The Garden of the East,’’
by the
“ROYAL PACKET.”
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS for
Java and >Smg'apore,
via Queensland Ports, Port Moresby, Thursday Island and Dobo.
S.S. VAN WAERWYCK, 3500 Tons
Commander, T. L. ARNOLD.
Leaves Melbourne August 27; Sydney Sept. 2; Brisbane Sept. 5.
*S.S. VAN LINSCHOTEN, 3500 Tons
Commander, J. GOEDHTJIS.
Leaves Melbourne Sept. 27; Sydney Oct. 3 ; Brisbane Oct. 6.
* For Singapore and Penang DIRECT, calling at Port Darwin and Port Moresby on
her in- and outward voyages.
New Steamers specially built and equipped for voyaging in the Tropics.
Large, airy two-berth cabins. Spacious promenade decks. English spoken
on board, and English Stewardess carried.
For further information apply to
ROYAL PACKET S. N. CO.,
. 7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone 953 & 1332 City.
The New Edison
Records are
now on Sale
at all Dealers.
•
igysa
A? "TIROL RECORDS play twice as long as Standard Records, They give you
other verse or two of the songs you like, a waltz or a two-step that is long
enough, a monologue that everybody can enjoy, and high-class music that is not
cut or hurried. Edison Records afford a clearness and sweetness of tone not possible in
Records made in any other way. They always do justice to the singer, band or
orchestra—that is why the great singers and musicians prefer to make Records for the
Edison Phonograph.
In the September issue of Records, which we list herewith, there are 22
Amberols and 19 Standards. Every item is a good one and every artist is a star.
Read the list over, check off those you like, and, as soon as you can get to his store, ask
your dealer to let you hear them. If you do not know a dealer, write us for the name
of the nearest to you, and complete lists.
Amberol Records for September
(Four=Minute)
362 I’m Glad I’m a Boy and I’m Glad I’m
a Girl Jones and Murray
365 “Roses” —Waltz from “ Rose of Shiraz ”
Sousa’s Band
366 Put on Your Old Grey Bonnet
F. H. Potter and Chorus
367 Do They Think of Me at Home ?
Manhattan Mix. Trio
370 Monologue on Married Life .. .. Hill
371 Tnere Were Shepherds Ed. Mix. Quartette
372 White Wings .. .. .. Manuel Romain
373 Fantasie on Themes of Leonard and
Paganini .. .. .. .. Banner
376 Dreams Elizabeth Wheeler
377 American Students’, Waltzes N.Y. Mil. Band
378
379
381
382
384
12111
12141
12144
12140
12148
12149
12150
Davey Jones’s Looker .. .. Gus Reed
Nearer My God to' Thee
Knickerbocker Quartette
Balmy Night .. Vienna Inst. Quartette
The Hat My Father Wore
Murray and Chorus
King- Karl March .. N.Y. Military Band
Doreen .. .. .. Ernest Pike
“ Mignon ” Selection National Mil. Band
Bonnie Scotland .. .. Alexander Prince
The Dear Little Shamrock
Miss Carrie Lanceley
The Blind Boy .. .. Jean Schwiller
We’re All Waiting for a Girl Billy Williams
Florentina March.. ..National Mil. Band
Standard Records for September
(Two=flinute)
10302 Sweet Bunch of Daisies
Wheeler and Anthony
10315 Long-, Long Ago .. Manhattan Mix. Trio
10317 La Lettre De Manon .. Sousa’s Band
10319 Hunting Song .. Stanley and Gillette
10320 Laverne —Waltz Caprice.. H. Benne Henton
10321 When lam Away from You Manuel Romain
10322 Sun of My Soul .. Anthony and Harrison
10323 Irish Blood Ada Jones
10327 Uncle Josh in a Department Store
Cal Stewart
10328 Four Little Sugar Plums
American Sym. Orchestra
10330 What Makes the World Go ’Round
Jones and Murray
10331 Falcon March .. .. N. Y. Mil. Band
13912 Where Have You Been To, Matilda?
Florrie Forde
13924 Mary’s Ticket .. .. Florrie Forde
13937 Le Oaid Overture .. National Mil. Band
13938 It’s a Wonder What Little Thinks Lead
To Williams
13940 On The Go March .. .. Alexander Prince
13943 The Canary ’s Love Song Joe Belmont
13945 With Sword and Song March
National Mil. Band
Watch for details of the Edison Grand Opera Amberol Records which are to arrive shortly.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
DEPT. B, KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


V.
BE wise and use Cherry Blossom
Boot Polish. Prom the very
first 3?ou will realise that it
shines better and is more econom-
ical than any polish you have tried.
Continued use will simply serve to
confirm your opinion, while you will
also perceive that Cherry Blossom
Polish softens the leather and re-
sists the damp, thus making vour
boots easier to wear and doubling
their wear.
Managing’ Agents for Australia:
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
“ Well, well! ”
We often hear folks say
“ Well, well! ”
They’ll say it twenty times a dav
“ Well, well 1 ” ’
Now repetitions we abjure,'
Yet, all that take that mixture pure
That’s known as Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
Can say say “ Well, well.”*
THE NEWEST INVENTION.
Of all the thousand and one newly-invented things of
to-day, there’s nothing that will appeal to the dalnrv
and practical woman more than this newest of all new
inventions, this charming and ideal TEA STRAIN tw
and DRIP STAND illustrated here, just landed from
the English makers. .
It’s so delightfully different from anything previously
f
In use that it will
prove itself a
source of immense
delight and real
pleasure in ever3’
home.
It is pure silver'
plated, with hard
metal base, the
... , , strainer (designed
with handsome handles) being easily lifted and replaced
on the stand, the whole an attractive and practical
addition to any table, and the price, 4/6 post free, a
marvel of moderation for the quality and value offered.
Why not send for one straight away ?—A. SAUNDERS,
Sydney’s Leading Jeweller, etc., 805-817 George Street.
Sydney.*
Ringworms Cured.
“ My little girl had ringworms for two months
on her face and head,” writes Mrs. O. L. Gilder,
18 Addison Road, Marrickville, N.S.W. ‘‘l was
recommended to use Rexona, which cured them
entirely in a few days.” Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
SPEAK HIGHLY OF IT.
Everyone speaks well of Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy after using it, and its best friends are
people who have used it for years. Thfev have
found that it can always be depended upon, and
while they may occasionally try other remedies
that they see advertised, or that are recommended
to them by friends, they are almost certain to
return to Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy and
acknowledge it to be the best and most reliable
medicine they have ever used for coughs, colds
and croup.*
ACUTE NEURALGIA.
♦
This Woman’s Life a Misery
until she found a cure.
■ —O-—■■■
“The pain was enough to drive me crazy.”
That is the way Miss A. G, Holland, 47 Tower
Street, Leederville, Perth, speaks of the severe
attacks of Neuralgia in both sides of her face to
which she used to be subject. She gives the
following account of her suffering and cure :
“Last year, towards the close, I was suffering
greatly from Neuralgia and was generally run
down ; the pain in the whole of my face was acute
and hard to bear. The attacks would come on
practically without warning. I might wake up
free from pain and as soon as I went outside the
house, a puff of wind would bring on an attack. I
would have to press each temple hard to get a
little relief for a few moments. My head would
throb violently. I would have the neuralgia
stabbing each side of my face, as if needles were
being plunged in. I used to rub my cheeks with
eucalyptus, but the attacks only yielded for
a while. I did not leave my work, but I would
pften have to take a spell and sit down for a few
rpoments. The pain was enough to drive me
crazy. Every tooth in my head seemed to ache,
and the gums were as tender as possible. Some
nights I could not close my eyes for hours with
the pain. I could not enjoy a meal. I would Tie
afraid to eat for fear an attack would come on,
and I began to feel very pulled down in every
wgy. I happened, however, one day to come
across a pamphlet left under the door, so I resolved
to try Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, and two boxes
toped my nerves up completely. The attacks be-
came less severe and wouldn’t last nearly so long,
and before the second box was empty the
neuralgia had vanished. I felt ever so much
brighter, and stronger too in every way, and have
kept so ever since.”
Dpn’t let any dealer talk you into talking some-
thing which he says is “just as good.” If you are
pestered to take a substitute, send 2s - 9d. for one
box. or 15s. 3d. for six boxes, to the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney.*
TRUE RELIEF
is available for all who are
raptured by wearing'
DENYERS’ SPECIAL ELASTIC TRUSS
OENYER
It gives all
the neces-
sa r y sup-
port, never
i r r j t a t es,
causes no
incon v e n i-
ence, and is
perfectly comfortable. We are
experts at fitting 1 you perfectly.
Single, 17/6. Double, 22/6.
No Springs to Irritate.
DENYER BROS.,
Truss and Abdominal Belt
Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Huntei St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Commonwealth Government, which,
according to the poisonous insects, never does a
thing for the States, has just passed over to them
2400 copies of Knibbs’s “ Year Book ” for use in
the public schools—the third gift of the kind.
And it couldn’t make a much more valuable gift;
for the book is crammed full of things to make
good Australians with.
A TORY COLORIST.
Towards the end of the lecture Mr. Elies referred to
the question of colored labor in Australia. The Indian
coolie, he said, should be employed in Australia in what
is called the “ Empty North,” and in justification of that
statement he mentioned what had been done elsewhere
by these men. There was a chance for Australia in this
direction, but ignorance and narrow-minded obstinacy
prevailed, and meantime the waters kept running under
the bridges, time and money were lost, and the danger
attaching to ineffective occupation came nearer and more
menacing every day. —News Item.
When alleged Australians encourage anti-Aus-
tralian proposals , the location of the “ Empty
North ” is not a difficult matter.
Said the Sydney Telegraph (18/8/’10) re
the proposal to subsidise a cable service which is to
supply news, on equal terms, to all papers :
The proposal of the Federal Government. . . may be
regarded as the first feeble attempt to introduce the
Russian system of Government press censorship into
Australia. Papers which accept Ministerial subsidies for
the publication of news cannot well object to the Minis-
ter who pays the money selecting the matter to be pub-
lished.
It is a pity that the brilliantly-honest Telegraph
didn’t think of that in the days when it took a
stupendous subsidy in the shape of free newspaper
postage.
Melbourne Argus, circularising the news-
papers on the capital-site question, was care-
ful to address its questions to “the pro-
prietors” of the Australian press. One bru-
tally-frauk manager, sending on the queries
to his friendly bosses, dropped in this
shocking truth: “What special weight
attaches to the opinions of newspaper proprietors
any more than bone-mill proprietors, I don’t know.”
There is a way to get the opinion of bone-prill
proprietors and newspaper proprietors-alike ; but
so far that way has been carefully dodged.
In S. Aus. even Anti-Sosh professes to
have given up the hopeless job of trying to con-
vince the people that Sosh is a ravening monster
wherefore the Anti-Sosh plank in the new
, * Liberal ” Fusion’party’s platform runs :
Encouragement of private enterprise and opposition to
extreme Socialism.
Of course, it is the same old gag—the gag of the
Protectionist who believes in Protection as
long as it doesn’t protect, and the man who
believes in a straight railway as long as it goes
askew far enough to touch his property and im-
prove it, and the burglar who believes in police so
long as they stay out of the street where he’s
doing a little job.
Last time N.S.W.’s Wade Government
was seen alive it was fooling with a Parliamentary
reform” scheme, whereby the Upper House
was to have a fixed membership—so many and no
more. In other words, the power to swamp the
Council by new appointments when it refused to
obey the will of the people was to be abandoned,
and the House of Aged Nominees was to be placed
in an impregnable position. The Wade Govern-
ment was always fooling with something. It is
now fooling with its own tombstone.
The cabled report that an Australian
woman had been murdered at Kur-
rachi (India) by a member of that estim-
able and reliable Asiatic race, the
Afghans, is a sad smirch on the national
character. In fact, it is so great a
smirch that the death penalty is about
the only thing that fits the misdeed.
This degenerate female, it seems,
married an Afghan, and is referred to
as “Mrs. Dost Mahomet.” The Go-
vernment might do worse than intro-
duce legislation for these three pur-
poses:—(l) Prohibition of marriages
between white and colored people; (2)
the gaoling for three years of any par-
son who performs the marriage service
over a white person and an indivi-
dual of color ; and (3) the gaoling for
three years of any white, male or female,
who attempts to live with a colored per-
son, also the gaoling of the colored per-
son for three years.
Closer settlement, as practised by the
present N.S.W. Government, received an un-
happy advt. at Nyngan on August 11, when
50,000 acres of improvement leases (unhappy
term) were put up for auction. The Government
valued one 10,000-acre paddock at £36 per year,
another at £3O, and so on. Then a crowd of land-
starved men turned up at the sale, and the bid-
ding started to soar like an aeroplane. The £3O
valuation climbed to £96, and the £36 valua-
tion to £74; and at that altitude the land-
starved people fell out, leaving the ad-
joining holders of Overflow (significant
name) station to acquire the whole 50,000
acres. Already Overflow is becoming a catch-
word in the Western N.S.W. elections campaign.
By accident or design Fitzpatrick, M.L.A.
gave Wade another opportunitv in the N.s' w’
Assembly last week to clear himself from the un-
pleasant-smelling McKye case.
The Premier, in answer to Mr. Fitzpatrick, said he had
seen a political leaflet issued by the Labor party to the
effect that, in the case against the baker, McKve of
North Sydney, for several breaches of the Industrial Di-
sputes Act’s award, “Judge Heydon fined him (McKvel
. flO for each offence ; total £l5O, or two months in gaol
Later on . . . Mr. Wade reduced the fine by half, that is'
£75. The wages the offender deprived the men of
amounted to £79 95., so that by Mr. Wade reducing the
fine to £75, the baker was £4 9s. in pocket.” The Court
did not make any order for payment of wages’ but in
addition to the fines, defendant was reouired to pav costs
amounting to £2l. J
One obvious reason why the Court did not make
any order for payment of wages was because the
Judge thought jVXcKye would be JidequMtely
punished by a flue of £l5O. Had he known that
the Premier was going to reduce the amount by
one-half he would probably have inflicted a very
different penalty. Iheonly new point raised is
the question whether Wade or Fitzpatrick is the
larger size in bunglers.
The Herald remarked last week, apropos
Foster Fraser’s book : r
It cannot be matter of complaint if intelligent critics
from outside comment upon the tragic stupidity which
is responsible for the poor encouragement which is given
to white people to come in.
The Herald didn’t mention it, but High Protec-
tion is one form of encouragement that might be
tried. Germany, for example, which is supposed
to be a congested country, has no difficulty in
attracting Between the census of
1900 and that of 1905 Germany lost only 168 849
people by emigration, while the number of
foreigners in the country increased from 757 151
to 1,007,179, or a gain of over 250,000. Vorwarts
the organ of the Social Democrats, in 1907 said
this :
We have in Germany not too large, but too small a
number of workers. This may be seen from the fact that
every year foreign workers are imported into Germany bv
the hundred thousand.
According to Government statistics, 600,000
foreign workers were imported into Germany
in 1906. Of these 240,000 were set to work in agn-
culture, and 360,000 in manufactures. In 1907
700,000 were so imported. It was not done'for
the sake of cheapness either, since the German
Government forbids the employment of Russian
and Austrian Polish laborers between December 20
and February 1; so the employer has to pay for
two long railway journeys beside the wages.
One manufacture, anyhow, shows no fall-
ing away in Freetrade Britain. That country
created 35.719 fresh paupers last year, thereby
bringing the figures up to 1,179,501. In 1900
Britain had 247 paupers for every 10,000 inhabi-
tants; in 1909 the proportion had gone up to 262.
It keeps going up all the time.
A CAPITAL SUGGESTION.
The question of restricting the competition for Federal
capital designs to Australian natives is being considered
by the Minister for Home Affairs. —News Item.
This should produce a design worthy of the pro-
posed Yassberra site.
When he is dealing with interjectors,
the method of Robert Best, alleged-Liberal-elect
for Kooyong (Vic.), is to apply the insult direct.
Best spoke at Burwood the other evening, and
advocated immigration on certain lines. “ That’s
right,” broke in a bitter voice; “bring more
people here. I can’t get work now.” Whereupon,
without offering any opportunity to the inter-
jector to produce a clergyman’s reference as to
character. Best spoke the following rude words:
“ I can quite understand that. The fact speaks
well for the discrimination of those to whom you
applied.” In the same way Robert’s politically
unemployed position shows the discrimination of
those to whom he applied last April. Fancy
applying, as Best did, to 672,054 old employers
for a job, and being thrown out.
A DOUBTFUL HONOR.
A poll was taken in the Manly municipality yesterday
for the purpose of testing the feelings of the ratepayers
in regard to the negotiation of a proposed loan of £7000.
Everything passed off satisfactorily, leaving Manly with
the honor of being the first municipality to hold a refer-
endum under the N.S.W. Local Government Act.—
Sydney Daily Paper.
Manufacturer Joshua lately gave the best
definition of an “anomaly” that need be looked
for. Said he :
When the duty on an article fails to afford effective
Protection to the Australian manufacturer it is an
anomaly.
This was at a deputation to Prime Minister
Fisher, asking for a permanent Tariff Board, en-
couragement of the iron industry, and other pro-
gressive measures. Fisher was sympathetic, but
he didn’t give any hint that he would appoint
such a board ; and as for the iron industry, he said
he was wholly in favor of making it a State mono-
poly. Joshua promptly said “Hear, hear!” and
other representative manufacturers did the same ;
jjo there doesn’t appear any reason why the Aus-
tralian Government should not straightway bog
into the business. Among the men who say
“Hear, hear!” is William Sand ford ; and there
isn’t a male person in Australia who kndws more
about the business, from hard, practical experi-
ence, than Sandford does.
Ever since the first days of Young Turkey
the world has been assured that the Asiatic had
reformed at last, and that the leopard had thrown
his spots into the ash-barrel. Then last week a
cablegram came along :
According to the bishops of the Greek Church in
Turkey, the position is little better than in the days of
Abdul Hamid. . . . Innocent people are severely pun-
ished, the Encyclical asserts; churches are defiled and
cemeteries are dug up. Priests are arrested and citizens
are beaten to death or are tortured.
And a day later came the cheery news of a Cretan
landowner being burned alive by Mohammedans.
Apparently the Asiatic is the same old Asiatic all
the time.
A letter from Melbourne :
The antagonistic attitude of the Vic. Political Labor
Council towards the Commonwealth Protectionist Asso-
ciation indicates that Hannah, M.L.A., the secretary of
the C.P.A., has revolted against Wren government in
Vic. Labor politics. Of the pernicious influence of
Wrenisin in the P.L.C. The Bulletin spoke a year or two
ago, when some of his old gambling agents were figuring
actively in connection with that autocratic power. The
P.L.C. seemed then in a fair —or foul—way to be ruled by
John Wren, the bloated, “toted” capitalist whose ilf-
gotten gains have enabled him to pose as a beneficent
patron of Labor. And now it seems that the president of
the P.L.C. was Solly, M.L. A., generally regarded as a friend
of John Wren, when the executive commanded Hannah
aforesaid to withdraw, from the Commonwealth Protec-
tionist Association under penalty- of expulsion from the
P.L.C. The workers of Victoria in general, and Mel-
bourne in particular, can make their own inquiries and
form their own ideas as to the value of the C.P.A. in
comparison with the P.L.C. When they have arrived at
a full understanding of the attempt to suppress the Pro-
tectionist Association they will perhaps get an idea of
where Wrenism comes in, and why it comes in. Ob-
viously it does come in. Labor politics in Victoria are
tainted with it.
This letter has just come to hand :
Dear Bulletin, —If it is true, as alleged recently before
the Institute of Bankers by J. Currie Elies, of Sydney,
that “THE MAJORITY OF WHITE RACES ARE VERY
FAR BELOW THE ASIATICS IN INTELLIGENCE,
ABILITY AND INTEGRITY,” what kind of tyrants and
scoundrels are the members of the British House of
Commons and House of Lords, also the Ministry and the
royal family, who refuse to nearly two-thirds of the best
people of the British Empire (f allude to the races of
India) any share in the control of the Empire’s affairs?
These millions of people, who are ahead in intelligence,
ability and integrity, are not even allowed the measure
of self-government that is permitted to petty British towns
of the t wo-a-penny variety. What I would earnestly urge is
that Mr. Elies and his Hindu or Mohammedan or Afghan
son-in-law, if there is such a person, should deliver a
series of lectures throughout Australia on the iniquity of
the British authorities, from George V. down to the
honorable members for Pecksniff and He< p—l mean
Peckham and Hythe—in treating this great and superior
Asiatic majority as if it were, in a political .sense, a mere
herd of oxen. I beg to suggest that lectures should be
delivered, among other places, at Port Darwin, Thursday
Island, the Chinese quarter of Cairns, and Little Bourke-
street, Melbourne. If Britain can’t be roused to a sense
of its moral responsibilities, and induced to give the Hindu
an equal share with the white man in the control of the
Empire, let us have secession for' the sake of our own
souls, even as Lot seceded from Sodom ; and then we can
federate with China. Heaven knows we are a poor lot
and our politicians are a poor lot, and if we could get a
Mandarin to govern us things would be much better.—
Yours, etc., Mohammed Brown.
FATOSAURUS DAMNATUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The value of the N.S.W. railways and tramways
owned by the people is estimated at £58,000,000, and yet
the Wade Government is entirely at the mercy of a few
mine-owners.— J. P. Osborne.
When Nature working overtime, in ages dead and gone,
Compressed in seams of shining coal the splendid suns
that shone
Upon her vast swamp forests, swathed in robes of living
green,
I wonder if she ever thought of days forlorn and lean,
When larger saurians would hold her treasured hoard
in fee—
The coals she left a legacy in trust for you and me?
Her suns that shone, her winds that blew, her silver
brooks that ran
Had one great purpose still in view—the making of a
man ;
And when she made him from the dirt the woods were
loud with song,
Where, standing upright on his feet, he learned of right
and wrong;
And suns and cycles ran their course, but all the tune
went flat
When, bulging at the waistcoat band, the first boss-man
grew fat.
Yes, with reversion to old type, he clawed the earth
again,
And drew the vastness of his bulk o’er pasture land and
plain,
His saurian talons raked the mud, and grabbed the
living earth,
And in a world of bounty made a place of death and
dearth.
He grabbed the mines, he grabbed the seas, he grabbed
the people’s bre id,
Till scarce the toil of all the earth could keep the monster
fed.
To-day, across Australia’s States, he rolls his ponderous
length,
The coal that drives a thousand wheels, and is a people’s
strength,
Is his to sell. He makes his price, the land obeys his nod,
The priesthood of his dreary press upholds him as a god,
Till, stuffed with plunder to the gorge, his fishy vision
gloats
Upon the ones who bear with him and yet are armed
with votes.
N.B.W.
MARY McC.


Brand)
SffiD foR
Ea.TTEB.J4S.
Obtainable
Only from
r
0
Ir
MELB»DR2ii S.E.
THE
FEURICH PIANO
' -4' v V , W',
of to-day is the result of the conscientious
work of a family of master piano-builders,
who, for over fifty years, have maintained
the FEURICH PIANO as the most
advanced, artistic product of the times.
The tone quality and workmanship of
this instrument please the most critical.
OUR TERMS.
We sell any instrument, if desired, on terms of extended
payment to suit each individual. We arrange for payment
to be extended over one, two, or three years according to
the desire of the customer, whose wishes we meet in
every possible way. We go further: we are prepared to
take old instruments in part payment, so that the purchasing
of,a new one is hardly felt.
In a Word, Your Wishes are Ours.
NICHOLSON § CO. LIMITED
342 George Street, Sydney; and at Newcastle.
gfg
6 SHOTS
BY THE PRESSURE
OF YOUR FINGER!
WINCHESTER
SELF-LOADING RIFLES
.32 and .35 Calibers
THE TRIGGER-CONTROLLED REPEATER.
HERE is nothing: to take your mind off the
game if you shoot a Winchester Self-Loading
_ Rifle. The recoil does the reloading for you,
which places the complete control of the gun
under the trigger finger. You can shoot six shots as
fast as you can pull the trigger and without taking your
eye off the sights. As this rifle is made with a detach-
able magazine, you can replace an exhauted one with
a loaded one in a jiffy and continue shooting. No
recoil-operated rifle but the Winchester offers this
advantage. Other desirable and distinctive features of
this rifle are —a stationary barrel with sights attached,
and a 1! moving parts enclosed. The .32 and .35 Caliber
cartridges have great killing power, making them
heavy enough for the ordinary Australian game.
WINCHESTER GUNS AND AMMUNITION—THE RED BRAND—SOLD EVERYWHERE
Beauty s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the- skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.


i
m
a
Esteb
1818
At last people are beginning to realise the
folly of dying prematurely grey hairs. It is
always detectable, and may lead to scalp troubles
of a very disastrous nature.
Every day one hears of the great successes of
the Hygeia Individual Treatment.
One patient writes during its course
“My hair continued to change color gradually,
and is getting darker and darker—that is, the
grey hairs. There is not a scrap of irritation, and the
new growth is growing very quickly, is very stVong, and
is all the proper color. lam extremely satisfied, and
wish you the success you deserve.—With kind regards,
jours sincerely, J.W.C., Wellington, N.Z.”
The President ntay be consulted, free of charge, anj' day
but Saturdaj’, between 2.15 and 4.45, and on Wednesdaj’
between 6 and 7. Those who cannot call maj’ write to
the President, Dept. B, Hygeia Limited, Ocean House,
Moore Street, Sydney, enclosing 3d., stamps to cover
postage, and they will receive booklet and testimonials
without delay.*
R°B W R
m
S 3
'-'f- if/ N v
MfWMJiuuvwrt ''U"'
tfjfTyw 1 )
cW/
I’ve been handling tea since 1
was a boy—of course l always
say my own’s the best —perhaps
it is and perhaps it isn’t —anyhow
it’s the best for me to sell.
Putting aside personal interests,
1 find a lot of pleasure in selling
tea, and when 1 can’t sell my
own, 1 don’t mind selling any
of the packed teas —the thing
that annoys me most in business
is for a customer to buy
groceries from me and tea from
somebody else
I’m not going to blow about
the quality of my own tea, but
I’ll swear it isn’t possible for
any house-to-house canvasser to
sell tea equal to Robur, for
the same money—he couldn’t do
it, and make enough to keep
himself in shoe leather, let alone
tucker —l suppose you wonder
when thete’s not much profit
on “Robur” why 1 sell it —
well, you see it’s like this,
if l didn’t sell it my customers
might go to another shop and
the chances are they’d buy their
other groceries there too, and
I’d rather sell an article for no
profit than lose a customer.
Talking about Robur, there’s
never been a tea that has given
such satisfaction —my people
like it—it is nicely packed and
the quality is always the same,
and once customers get used
to it, it’s the devil’s own job
to get them to take any other
tea if you happen to run out.
Some people like the No. 1
grade, and others the No. 2.
I’d say give an extra 3d. and
get the best.
The Grocer.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
S yon icy. August 23, 1910.
My Dkar Arint,—
A few more items from my Javanese note-
book :
Punishment of children by their parents is
practically unknown amongr t the Javanese, and
the sight of a European mo: her spanking her
offspring would fill the native matron with super-
stitious horror. They are great animists, and
believe that the spirit which always enters very
reluctantly into the new-born infant would depart
hurriedly if the child were whacked. The real
rulers of the kampongs, or villages, are the boys
between the ages of eight and 12 —youngsters who
watch the caribous, otherwise the graceful native
buffaloes, whilst grazing, and who wash them after
ploughing in the black mud of the rice or cane
fields. The animals are as lambs in the hands of
the natives, but report says their hostility to the
white person is remarkable.
In the mountain district of Garoet two of our
party were riding along a narrow path by the
edge of a stream when the way was blocked by
three buffaloes. They flashed their splendid eyes
and lowered long, threatening horns, and refused
to get out of the way. A hold-up of some dura-
tion was terminated by a boy of about four. He
was dressed in nothing at all, and was bursting
with indignation that his father’s unworthy
caribous should block the path of the honorable
red-hairs. The fury with which he slapped the
faces of those buffaloes and punched their sides,
pushing them the while towards the stream ! The
riders looked back to see the animals lying meekly
in the water, while the youngster, standing on
the head of one, was still pouring forth vitriolic
abuse.
An official told me that he one day saw two
brothers, of seven and eight years, fighting. (A
very unusual occurrence.) The mother came
along, picked up the younger and walked away.
The elder followed, and they continued their
quarrel by hurling awful insults at each other on
the morals of their lady parent. “Your mother
is ! ” “ No, your mother is all that and
, etc., etc.” The gentle, stupid parent
merely bade them “ Be quiet, children.”
Another anecdote, showingtlie childishnessof the
adult Javanese. It wascommon belief amongst them
that on a certain date Halley’s comet was todestroy
the world. On the day before the disaster new uni-
forms were served out to a certain regiment of
native soldiery. “It is bad enough,” said the
men, in effect, “for us to die, but it is wanton to
waste the new clothes.” They sold the uniforms,
spent the proceeds in gin or arrack, and passed
the night in revelry. The dies irae dawned,
but it was the wrath of the commanding officer,
not the destroying comet, that smote them.
With the exception of five days in Singapore
we were travelling in Java from the last week in
May to the first week in July, and during that
period we made no acquaintance with any insect
pests. As every bed is voluminously and care-
fully netted against mosquitoes, the precaution is
significant. The complete absence of flies was
surprising, because the native cooks and eats out-
side his thatched house, and on all the city roads
one meets the travelling restaurant. The food is
carried generally unprotected, slung on bamboos.
The little pallid grey lizard, mentioned by most
tropical travellers, we saw in plenty on the ceil-
ings and walls of our rooms. It is a bene-
ficent reptile, and scavenges for flies, mosquitoes
and ants; but I never saw enough of them to
make a meal for it. It makes a protesting little
sound like “ tut, tut, tut, tut.” This tiny achro-
matic creature has a big relative, the tok-
keh. It is black, from 6in. to Bin. long, and looks
like a miniature crocodile. It, also, is harmless to
humanity, but is sudden death to mice, moths
and the like. Even if attacked, its nip and claw
stabs have no bad result; yet from it is got one
of the most deadly of poisons. At Solo we were
shown a jewelled and gold-scabbarded kris (be-
longing to one of the watchmen at the Sultan’s
palace), the blade of which was poisoned with
tokkeh. The lizard is hung up by the hind legs
and tickled under the chin until it foams with
rage. This foam is white and innocuous. There
follows further tickling of a by now very infuriated
lizard, and it shows its appreciation of the humor
by exuding greenish froth. This is the green
death.
The Sydney Sun printed an inspiring photo-
graph last week of our Lady Mayoress’s arms and
hands, as they appeared at the Fresh Air League
Ball. The extremities were shown in an upraised
position, suggestive of Moses blessing the Jordan
or Susan rebuffing the elders or some other bibli-
cal episode of the sort. Disposed about them
were some hundreds of diamonds and rubies—
indeed, in the Sun’s glowing phrase, her hands
were “full of jewels rich and rare.” Never have
1 seen a more typically mayoral set of digits.
They are no slim taper affairs, the sort that
bespeak futility and nervous prostration and
general weakness. Rather are they the fine ex-
ecutive variety, expressive of capacity, resolution,
and a well-fed, pleasant and thoroughly sensible
existence. The word “failure” would be an
absurd anomaly in the lexicon of their owner.
Her gown of white satin, with Court train of
crimson velvet, was a good background for the
jeweller’s shop contents that made up the re-
mainder of the Mayoress’s costume. A diamond
tiara, some necklaces and collars of diamonds
and pearls, panellings and strappings of dia-
monds and emeralds, arras of emeralds, frogs,
stars, aigrettes, panaches, epaulettes and ear-
rings were a few more of the civic
lady’s illuminations. She would have lighted
a subway or the spiritual darkness of the Gentiles.
In company with the three ladies who helped her
to bear the moral and physical burdens of so many
hundreds of thousands of pounds’ worth of jewels
she would have been the Light of Asia. Mrs.
G. L. Goodman, one of the precious stone
quartette, was dressed in diamonds and rubies
and some black velvet, and the other two dames
scintillated in more Arabian Nights goods and
more black velvet. Mrs. Julius Caro, hon. sec. of
the shining charity, shone in grey satin and cob-
web hued ninon. It was a beautiful ball, and it
is worth a teardrop that Lady Dudley was pre-
vented by her Royal mourning from being present
with her diamond assets. She has “misled the
morn,” as the poet said of his girl’s eyes, at more
than one revel by wearing £BO,OOO worth of jewels.
But this price-listing of gems is rather vulgar, even
if made in connection with charity balls andcount-
esses-general.
Anything with a beak may be regarded as a
“feature,” and when a number of beaks fore-
gather the more emphatic the effect. At the
F.A.L. ball one Mr. Heaton again broughtout the
Chanticler set that first appeared at the Glaci-
arium carnival with such success. It was a fine
confederation of roosters. When one of the birds
sat down it had to do so on the back of a chair, so
that the tail could adjust itself. Young Heaton,
the Bird-in-Chief, a sapling of Heaton, Ltd., the
timber people, seems to have shed his pin-
feathers, grown up suddenly and come out at the
Glaciarium. Now the hen and chicken pheasants
are taking notice. He departs by-and-bye for
circulation of the world, the tour that is supposed
to put a silver-point finish on its victims.
Last week Lady Poore went to Manly and in-
jected three-quarters of a column of optimism into
the suburb of the league-long roller that does the
long wash. That wonderful old lady, Mrs. Cur-
now, and Mrs. Maeldnnon of the Beautiful Eyes
went with her, and now Manly has a branch of
the Optimists’ Club. The wife of a shepherd (or
boundary-rider) of souls, Mrs. Anderson Gardiner,
is president. The optimistic mistress of Admiralty
House backed her definition of optimism with
quotations from unimpeachable literary authori-
ties. If, at her next meeting, she should be short
of citation matter, I hereby commend to her
R. L. Stevenson’s essays. He has something
fine to say about the Kingdom of God being of
the cheerful and child-like of heart. Optimism,
by the way, is another name for sound digestion,
and pessimism is the equivalent of half-a-pound of
cheese eaten in undue haste.
Artist Alek Sass’s panegyric paragraph on
London is being widely quoted here. Its people,
the kaleidoscopic life of its streets, its art gal-
leries and its immense Revelation he has cleverly
summed up in a few sentences. Yet he is return-
ing to Australia. So is Norman Lindsay.
Concerning Miss Nellie Stewart, the Poor and
Radium, I am told that there is very little radium
in the world, above gtound—not more than two
ounces, and all Rockefeller’s money could not buy
it—at least not for “cornering” purposes. The tiny
scrap exhibited at the Radium Fund meeting last
week cost £5OO. On the other hand, there are so
many poor. And to many of these, radium would
spell salvation. Exhibit one : A healthy-looking,
rosy, round-faced ma:i stood up before the meet-
ing. Not a scar on his face or head. Some four
months ago he was suffering from cancer of
the ear and side of the face, and was
in expectation of having half his face
and the whole of one ear removed by surgical
operation. After 127 hours of treatment with the
wizard thing, radium, he was cured. “ Absolutely
cured,” remarked Dr. Steer Bowker, “and the
flesh of his face is quite soft and healthy. Yon
may see for yourselves.” We saw. “ Unsightly
birthmarks,” continued the speaker, “disappear
under the action of radium,” and two of the lis-
teners with hats as big as pagoda roofs got excited
in whispers about its being a cure for freckles.
Mayoress Allen Taylor was, as usual, a capable
president. Robed in black, and with a vase of
daffodils at either elbow, she told of the matinee
of “Sweet Nell” which Miss Stewart is to give
presently in aid of the fund, and requested those
present to take tickets for sale.
Mrs. Alfred Milson, Mayoress of North Sydney,
is interesting herself in that worthy charity, the
Mater Misericordise Hospital in her suburb. The
Bank of N.S.W. Dramatic Society will give a
performance in its aid in the Criterion someday
soon. Further particulars will be furnished in
due course.
Miss Florette Murray Prior, a musical member
of a well-known family, was married last week to
Mr. Sydney Herring.
Who is the “Mr. Chapman, an Australian
staying in London,” whose “private motor-car”
recently ran over and killed a boy ? The Daily
Mirror makes pathetic mention of the tragedy.
The lad, who was but 16, had been the bread-
winner of a family of six, and his relatives were
too poor to bury him. Let us hope that Mr. Chap-
man, if he read the paper’s reference, sold his
jigger-juggernaut for the benefit of the victim’s
family.
At the little rustic church at Epping last week,
Doris Covier Passmore took for better or for
worse Ernest Chetwynd Jones, of Chillagoe
(N.Q.), where the heat and copper are. The bride
is the youngest daughter of Mr. Frank Passmore,
who helps things along so successfully at Palings’
musical centre; the bridegroom is an engineer
who makes the wheels go round for the smelting
people at the hereuntobeforementioned mining
settlement. He is English, and posterity to a
long line of churchmen ; but has broken the
record by side-stepping into the engine room. A
brother does things in the art line in Sydney, and
another made a target of himself for several years
during Britain’s trouble with the Boers.
Mrs. Gadsden, who died at Caradon last week,
was one of Sydney’s rich women. She owned
Cromer, where the flats are, and a whole raft
more city property. Also, she was the possessor
of one of the “ most desirable mansions”—as my
tame house-agent delights to put it—in all the
length and breadth of Burradoo (N.S.W.). One
of her daughters is the wife of Mr. J. L. Camp-
bell, K.C., and the other of Mr. G. Ellison Rich.
The cabled announcement of last week to the
effect that a Captain Weigall had married Baron-
ess Eekhardstein, is of more interest to Aus-
tralians than the average social item dealt in by
Reuter. The groom isanephewof that Mr. Weigall
who directs the fortunes of the Sydney Grammar
School; also a relative of the Mr. Weigall who
went from Australia to Corea the other day, and
found the hordes of Nippon waiting for hirn with
weapons and dreadful language. Baroness Eck-
hardstein is a matrimonial catch of some magni-
tude, inasmuch as she is sole heiress to the big
Blundell Maple furniture business. She divorced
her first husband, a German of frivolous morals
and prodigal habits, last year.
Now there comes a very emphatic word that
the newly-wed Blackburns were not the 13th pair
of honeymooners to seek sanctuary in the Arthur
Allens’ Port Hacking retreat. The moon was
clipped to a fortnight, spent in motoring on the
South Coast.
Countess Morner, the lady who was Mrs.
White of Havilah, has lent her grounds at Green-
oaks, Darling Point-road, for the Bush Book
Club Fete on September 16. It will be an after-
noon and evening revel with music, drama, side-
shows and refreshments.
The Ewan Frazers—Dr., Mrs. and four infants
—depart for foreign travel in October. Mr. and
Mrs. Philip Morton also go hence when Mrs.
Morton has quite recovered from her remarkable
throat operation ; and the Julius Caro dame and
two younger daughters are booked as birds of
passage.
I am assured on several authorities, both reli-
able and unreliable, that Nellie Stewart is being
entreated by a Melbourne syndicate to go to
that city to be founder and principal of a beauty
institute. Whom the gods love live young.
Mr. Nelson Illingworth’s “ Humoresque ” for
violin and piano is one of the brightest musical
studies of this springtime of 1910. The com-
position is dedicated to the young composer’s
friend, Cyril Monk.
“ Vandorian” Cox-Taylor, whose ‘'ln Society,
and out of it” made the SuN-beams stronger and
more alluring to readers, has resigned her solar
billet to devote herself to her short story work. To
signify their appreciation of her writings and per-
sonality the literary and mechanical staffs be-
stowed upon the lady the most able-bodied gold
bangle and padlock to be got in Sydney.
Respectability is assured in London (so a male
friend writes me) by a pair of gloves. Judiciously
used, one pair will last a lifetime, for there is no
necessity to wear the article. That is done only
in extravagant circles. The silk hat is passing
away, and no longer is it necessary that the city
clerk should wear the frock-coat. But gloves he
must carry. In the evening, in the underground
tubes, the underpaid shabby-genteel returns from
the city in hundreds. His coat lapels may look
distressed, collar and cuffs may show evidence of
wear and tear, but he preserves his qplm. For in
his left hand is clutched a pair of gloves, which is
the passport to respectability. Even the absence
of boots might perhaps be borne with equanimity,
but the absence of gloves—that is the Final De-
gradation, and the Limit and the Dead Finish.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide: —
Our Governing-Admiral has come back from Sydney,
and we are merry and briirht once more, and the lark
isn’t in the same street with us.
Port Adelaide had its municipal party last week in a
town hall garlanded with red and golden floriculture,
these being the colors of the town. The Mayor and Mrs.
Rofe stood in the usual place, and said the usual thing to
numerous officials and mere citizens, whereafter a concert
occurred. The singers included Muriel Cheek and the
nice, new contralto, Miss Forsaith, whose voice is of the
melting variety that plays ecstatic scales up and
down your spinal chord. Afterwards the guests
were led down palm-clad staircases into a maze
of rooms, and each way they turned and every
room they stumbled into they were confronted by
supper, always with red and gold flowers in its hair.
The mayoral' Cohens, the Robert Cruickshanks, the
medical Bollens, the likewise medical Jiirs, and some of
Parliament and its wife were there.
Next night Mr. and Mrs. Rofe fed the hungry cor-
poration, every man who had dug up or planted half an
inch of Port Adelaide being asked to dinner and a revel
afterwards.
In Adelaide you may have noticed we make a point of
forming 1 a Society of Culture every week and twice on
Sundays. This week’s formation is floricultural, in the
shape of a “Wattle League.” Mr. Register Sovvden
called a meeting, and the meeting came as it was bidden,
and agreed to take a pick and shovel in its strong right
hand and plant wattles all over the face of the city. The
Svnion Dame was made President, and Miss Farr, who
runs the National League, became secretary. If the new
organisation really guides and guards ihe native flora, it
will be a useful beast, for Adelaide has a horrible way of
chopping down beauteous old gums and planting silly
cork elms in its public parks.
Adelaide became a septuagenarian recently, and on
Thursday Mayor Cohen gave it a birthday party and
asked several hundred celebrities to eat and drop crumbs
on the floor and be merry.
Balls of varying shapes and sizes are rolling freely over
this landscape. On Friday last the Mayor of Norwood
and Mrs. Prosser had the juvenile municipality in to
dance the local town hall underfoot. Tons of fern
and peach-blossom were strewn around, but the prize
blooms and peaches danced below, and a royal time they
had of it. Mrs. Prosser, in a spangly black chiffon con-
fection over white, and with a pair of beauteous small
daughters to assist her, worked hard, and saw that there
were no young human mural decorations. And Mr.
Hugo Leschen, who trains all our young athletes the
way they should climb greased poles, and is therefore a
tower of strength in juvenile affairs, was master of the
revels. The supper tables groaned beneath Sturt peas,
yellow daffodils and food.
The same evening Mrs. William had a dance
for her daughter Alice at their home in Palmer-place.
the R. H. Holders’ revel at Bricknell’s on Thursday
eve was another cheery circumstance. Forty or 50
youths and beauties danced underan atmosphere entirely
latticed with palest pink blooms and fern. The palm
for complete loveliness was divided by the hostess’s musi-
cal daughter Kathleen and a dainty Pybus girl in old
rose.
Artist George Webb has just achieved a very goodly
portrait of that good sport patron, Edwin Smith, to the
order of the Cricketing Association, of which he has been
a kind godfather ever since Ctesar plundered Gaul. The
likeness is so good that the onlooker half expects the
subject to suddenly walk out of the frame and present
someone with a silver cup or embossed bowling crease or
something.
On Friday our college boys, familiarly known as Saints
and Princes, grappled for sports honors on the Oval, in
the presence of portion of the peerage and an immense
quantity' of girl.
Out at Mitcham we have an orphan home, which for
half a century has been training: housemaids and cooks
and other rare and invaluable fowl. The other day it
celebrated its fiftieth birthday by asking- Lady Bosanquet
s=nd the vice-regal daughters to come and help some
lesser celebrities to say nice thingsaboutit. Teaand com-
pliments were distributed gratis. Then the visitors viewed
the landscape and the little orphan Annies, who may one
day stand between them and floor-scrubbing, or rescue the
breakfast chop from their helpless and ignorant clutch.
The youngsters are thoroughly trained in all the
domestic arts until they are 15 or so, when they may be
allowed to go to service—to suitable applicants. If you
want an orphan Annie, however, you generally have to
order her a year or two in advance —because she’s a
good deal in demand. No wonder, for she is quite a ver-
satile infant, having served her term as cook, house-
maid, nurse, needlewoman and laundrymaid.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


I i
IS
*
m *
J
r
/
r
,■/
'-\*i
/
MUJ
sK
spy.
M
m
' I
’<®P
igg
m
r>
'Jr
nfto
&
4^
/'** r*
N.L.
C-O-B-R-A Boot PolisH!
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Plays a little
Cricket too ;
When the bear
With “COBRA”
All three wickets
Would demolish,
Polish
Chunder trembles
In his shoes.
(Which reminds him
YOU should use
“COBRA” on the
Shoes YOU cherish —
“COBRA” will not
Let them perish.)


Ensure
Satisfaction.
DUNLOP
RUBBER CO.
Melbourne, Sydney
Adelaide. Perth.
Chrialchurch, N.Z.
Mininc
Goods
.are now used on all
the leading Mines on
account of their
Quality, Wear & Price
OUR Suction
Hoses, Rubber and
Ba lata Belting,
Packings and In-
sertions, Valve and
Sheet Rubber, etc.,
have no equal.
That’s why we are
now doing over 70%
of the Mining Rub-
ber Goods Trade
of Australasia.
Tenders and Samples Submitted.
IVA.Vwi
-
y. *
|7|C
DUNLOP
-KELLY
«TYRES
are Solid R übber Tyres,
that do not come off.
Eleing made of best Para
Rubber, they run for
years, ensuring you
comfortable driving
and freedom from
Coachbuilder’s Repairs.
Fitted from d£,s per pair.
Let us forward you our
Illustrated Price List.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Melbourne, Sydney,
Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, and Christchurch.
I
4
Medical & Toilet Blacks Green fecket R e i a
GOLD MEDAL FRANCO-BRITiSH EXHIBITION.
AN IDEAL TOILET SOAP . . .'I being absolutely Non-Irritating even to the
A DELIGHTFUL NURSERY SOAP/ most delicate skin.
A Perfect BATH SOAP, being most Refreshing in use and at the same ti me Antiseptic.
AN IDEAL SOAP FOR THE HAIR, as it cleanses the Scalp perfectly, and makes the
hair Soft and Glossy.
A PERFECT SHAVING SOAP, as it Lathers Freely in even the hardest water.
F. H. FACLDING 8 CO., London, Adelaide, Perth, Sydney.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, August 22, 1910.
My Dear Yarrie,—
The Turley-McDonald sessional dinner to
members of the Senate and the Reps., wdiich took
place on Wednesday of last week, was a speech-
less affair. Prime-Minister Fisher, in the chair
of honor beside massive Senator Turley, wore a
more youthful appearance than usual. Bruce
Smith, with an enormously-bulging shirt-front,
was strenuously genial to a bunch of Ministerial
neighbors. There was only one toast (“the
King”), and the yawning period, usually filled
with speeches, was occupied instead with Bathe
Frbrespictures, projected upon ascreenatthelower
end of the Queen’s Hall. Against this screen,
during the dinner, the Deakin profile showed up
sharply, while the member for Ballarat was being
incessantly affable to Speaker McDonald, at
whose right hand he sat. The affair was cor-
rectly described by the daily papers—every one—
as a “ most successful function.”
Stella Deakin—the science-learned one of Alfred
Deakin’s three handsome daughters—has just re-
turned from Berlin and other European places.
She has been putting in solid study in that city on
the Spree. Miss Aunt Deakin has been alongside
chaperoning. The latter is Alfred Deakin’s sister,
and has been an important factor in the musical
life of the family.
Bess Norris has returned from Sydney, now that
husband Nevin Tait has departed for a Maoriland
tour with Calve. She has been fed up with com-
missions for miniatures to such extent that it will
practically take her all her time in Australia to
make good. She returns to work in Fogland
some time late next year. Bess Norris designed
the poster-ticket for the most exclusive entrance
to the Artists’ Ball of the Masks. The sketch is
a fascinating caricature of her extremely slender
self.
Artist Alf Vincent has been winning golf glory.
He stalked off with the club medal—a much-
coveted bauble—at the Victoria Links, Fisher-
man’s Bend. These are the most important man
links near Melbourne (no women even allowed to
look from afar off), and all the golf maniacs of the
city are grinding their teeth and waving brassies
and clubs in an agony of envy.
Telephone Bell is ringing violently in Mel-
bourne. He is not very visible, but he sounds
quite a lot. The visit is proclaimed quite a
pleasure trip, nevertheless important meetings
about telephone matters have a habit of drawing
the great man within their orbit. It is to be
hoped the Presence will have some effect.
The Percy Hunter Sydney Tourist Bureau is
showing Melbourne what it can do in the way of
all-Australia gadders. "The last lot it passed on
to this State have been perching at the Grand.
Poppa and Momma Tourist were typical storybook
millionaires with a strong shriek of dollars about
them. They filled the lounge daily with a hum
of arithmetic—having £ s. and d. converted into
“dallers” for their benefit. Everything seemed to
be a “deal.” A pretty pampered daughter rode
along with poppa and momma, and the partner of
the firm was in the party. The partner was
considerably a junior, and the pussies who purr
on the cosy cushions of the lounge have already
arranged details of marriage before the first gun
shot of engagement.
The daughter t)f the Justice Isaacses is prepar-
ing for her wedding with her Monty-millionaire.
The ceremony will happen in Cup week, and will
be awe-inspiring to the worshippers of the aurife-
rous progeny of the cow. The bridegroom comes
over from Sydney, and will mix race frivol with
wedding affairs.
Miss Aileen Shiels, of the Shiels family of
Summerlands, daughter of the brilliant, eloquent
but unstable man who was once Premier of Vic-
toria, is handing herself over for keeps to an
Anglo-Indian, so it really looks as if the Glassy
Harem will lose the light of her countenance for
always. The Anglo-Indian is C. F. Fitzgerald-
Moore, of the 123rd Outrams Rifles, which has its
address and headquarters at Ahmednagar, India.
It isn’t by any means the most rernarkably-
named regiment in India, for there are also
in the Indian army the 9th Hudson’s Horse, the
14th .Tat Lancers, the 22nd Sam Browne’s Cavalry,
the 3Gth Jacob’s Horse (fancy Jacob having a
horse), the Ist Brahmins (which is very like the
Ist Baptists), and many more curious institutions,
including the 59th Skinned (or is it Scinde?)
Rifles. Papa Fitzgerald-Moore (to return to the
original question) was an Anglo-Indian who
snread to Australia. Now he is dead, and Mamma
Fitzgerald-Moore has gone back to the estate in
Bedfordshire, Engle-land (as Wilson Barrett used
to call it).
A lady cricketer of renown tried to drown her-
self at St. Kilda (Melbourne) last week, because
her dearest girl chum is leaving her to get married.
“ I have loved and lost, and can endure my loss
no longer,” she wrote in a letter of farewell to
the world. It doesn’t say much for cricket as a
gamefor young women, that it reduces thebossbats-
woman to melancholia when her favorite member
of the team retires into matrimony, A number
of distinguished male cricketers have gone ment-
ally wrong, but in their case the trouble usually
arose from beer.
Melbourne’s evergreen ancient, the “Tolly,”
who will never be old, caused his younger pais a
lot of needless anxiety the other night in the
lounge at the Savoy. Tolly had just arrived, and
was being greeted by the boys when he executed
a strategic movement and made for the door. A
shining-haired charmer, accompanied by her
cavalier, had passed out the moment before, so
Tolly’s sudden rush was thought to indicate a
reckless intention to pursue the lady. With one
accord his friends leaped to prevent him. They
grabbed his arm, his neck, the tails of his abbre-
viated fawn overcoat, and were still wrestling
with him when he breathlessly explained that the
vision had left her muff behind her, and he had
picked it up and was going to present it to her beau
in a good Samaritan way. Such occasional mis-
understandings are among the penalties that the
veteran must pay for his hard-earned reputation
for youth.
All sorts of exciting events transpire in restaur-
ant lounges. For instance, the violent ejection of
a notorious member of the squattocraey—lie who
is said to have no higher ambition in life than the
presentation of diamond rings to barmaids. The
gentleman had seemingly been looking on the
barmaids when they were red, and with unsteady
step he advanced to a married woman who was
taking coffee in the lounge. Mistaking her ex-
pression of alarm for a tender glance, he went to
sit down beside her, whereupon, with splendid
presence of mind, she pushed the chair aside, and
the lord of many acres bounced hard on the floor. *
His language was so strong that three or four
waiters and the general manager had some diffi-
culty in rushing it off the premises.
The allegation that Melbourne’s most renowned
divorcee of yore had settled down to simple life
and puritanical pastimes in her London flat is
wholly unconfirmed by the egregious Algie and
other recent travellers. The beauteous creature
not Algie, but the divorcee —has been appearing
on the stage as leading “show” girl in a musical
w’here one of her costumes cost 30s. a
yard. She soothes her sorrow with 50 cigarettes
a day, and has developed her taste in letter-
writing to an amazing degree.
Talking of people who are never mentioned in
polite society, one of them has gone and married
a boy of 20, and club men are comparing reminis-
cences of the bride’s career. The historians say
it was in her boudoir that a military Lothario
breathed his last, the body being discreetly re-
moved to a private hospital for the sake of
appearances. Fortunately he had remembered
he.r in his will. The wife of a subsequent ad-
mirer died of her husband’s infatuation for the
charmer, and left him free to follow the devices
of his own heart; lint his happiness turned his
brain, and he killed himself. Which cleared the
way for the new young man.
A much-talked-of Lothario has been cutting
another swathe on the pleasant lawn of existence.
I he story, which crackles along like a bush fire,
concerns a, fascinating grass-widow who got out of
her financial depth and was sinking in deep water,
with the life-buoy of her husband’s cheque-book
quite out of reach. The gallant Lothario came to
the rescue. The g.-widow thereupon plunged
more d.eeply into extravagance, and this time she
sank to the bottom and had to be dived for. In
other words the bailiffs catne in. Lothario bailed
them out, and just then the vegetable husband
returned, and, of course, fell upon the neck of the
generous Lothario.
Lambert, Streeton and Hardy-Wilson get in row
for exhibition. Hardy-Wilson, a Sydneysider re-
cently returned from the place vaguely described
as “abravvd,” brought out the triple collection.
It will be hung in the Guild Hall on Tuesday
(30th), and will hang for a week or two like the
ancient malefactor who wasn’t cut down hurriedly.
The Th ree were squeezed out of the rushed new
Athenaeum, where The Bulletin drawings will
have possession on the same dates. Streeton
achieved his first big lucky sale of pictures in the
Guild Hall. Circumstances forced him there.
He had everything arranged for the Athenaeum
(in the earlier days), but came up heavily against
the hard-to-move rules of Fat. The artist lost his
temper, refused to argue with the rules and,
grabbing his canvases under his arm, rushed
round the city till he found the Guild
Hall. There was the ferocious Streeton,
with his exquisite moustache curling up
at the waxed ends, simply dancing over unhung
pictures, like an egg-dance gentleman, with
Invited People, who would not be cancelled,
thronging in on top of him. Things were sorted
out very soon, and the exhibitor cleared a thou-
sand or two on the show. This restored his tem-
per. The Athemeum discovered that it was not
the Earth, and condescended to listen to the wily
and expensive voice of the Improver. Things
have been improved with a high hand, and now it
is the Athenseum or nothing.
The Guild Hall, though, should retain enough
Streeton memory to draw to this tricky show of
Three. Beside the pictures will lie a fiiscinating
collection of old fans with famous signatures; also
embroideries and textiles. These are not for sale,
but are promised as a very special favor of seeing,
and as a lure to the Very Best People.
The Authority on What to Wear—the lady
who reflects the glass of fashion and instructs
Modern Victorian Society on the moulding of the
form—has returned to Messrs. Buckley and
Nunn’s after visiting London and Paris. As you
will have guessed before you came to the preced-
ing full stop, the lady is Mrs. Brook.
In “ Butterfly ” there is a most dramatic gentle-
man who rarely gets a notice. He makes one
appearance only, each night; but he is a circum-
stance. Just as Butterfly is safely converted into
Mrs. F. B. Pinkerton, her Japanese uncle arrives
on the scene full of scorn and abhorrence that one
of his house should marry a beastly foreigner.
He strides in over the red lacquer bridge, and
thunders out four or five bars of tremendous opera
to Butterfly, shrinking behind her wings. Tenor
Pinkerton rushes in and snorts: “Get out of
here ! This is my bit of all right ! ” or words to that
effect, and the uncle departs. He is a beautiful
uncle. In his haste to come and complain he has
slipped a gold cloth kimono over his nightie—not
pyjamas, but the real thing in flapping, square-
cut night-shirts. His hair is still twisted up on
top in curling-pins, and he has the canary’s perch
slung round his neck. It is a beautiful purple
bar of a perch, suspended with gold cord. The
feather duster on a long handle, that he carries to
punctuate his wrath, may be a sign of exaltation,
but it looks as if he had been doing the house
chores before he got properly dressed. His one
entrance, glittering and forceful, and his half-
dozen bars of thunderous chortle, are worth going
to see on their own. He goesaway and you never
see him again—unless you go next night to the
opera. Probably he goes off and drowns a ser-
vant or so, or boils someone in oil to let off more
steam.
Julius Superbus has started another life as the
darling of the girls. Julius must be the Wander-
ing Jew'or the Continuous Roman. Just as his
supremacy is dwindling—just as he seems to be-
come an aged man, he rises anew like the 300-
vear-old fowl that was burned in Arabia, and
takes a good fresh hold on loving womenkind.
His time of legs seems a past dream. P’raps
the legs are still there in all their regal magnifi-
cence, but the cunning one tries fresh diversions.
He likes to do the telling parts of the middle-aged
man with a Past—a man with a deep look in his
eyes and touches of becoming grey at the temples.
He covers the old-time glory of leg in the re-
spectable bags and spats of 'the well-seasoned
man about town. On Saturday night ador-
ing girls were asking anxiously : “Is Kather-
ine Grey married ?” Their revived sentimentality
saw' rose-colored possibilities in the tenderness of
middle-aged Lawyer Brewster-Knight and the all-
conquering American heroine.
Though Julius has d iscreetly taken to the garb of
modern midday—yet he gets’ his picture effects.
The curtain rises on the wealthy lawyer, seated
behind a luxurious mahogany desk, with an
effective background of rich crimson curtains.
Trust Julius for a good setting. Then, though
the pomp and circumstance of tights and short
Roman skirts and other gorgeous sartorial glory
is denied him, Brewster-Knight gets a waist-
coat into the scheme. It is not colored, nor em-
broidered. It is plain and decorous black ; but
its cut!! ! It fits over the curved chest like a
glove on a plump hand, and the waist is as marked
as a woman’s. Two rows of buttons (black) taper
to a delicate point in the middle distance. That
waistcoat is a poem.
The Knight gallant had a great house on Satur-
day. Prima donna Amy Castles beamed from a
box and got a shrill welcome from the gods above.
Prime-Minister Fisher brought Mrs. Fisher, and
trundled on later to a smoke-night and eerie hours.
Senator Curly Keating had his lady over for a
week’s rush round. She spends most of her time at
Rosemount, Launceston, one of the most charming
of Sleepy Isle homes. All the Americans in Mel-
bourne seemed to lie crowded into the Princess’s
to hear Katherine Grey talk about her " dooty.”
Katherine Grey is an artist who always sacrifices
her “frocks” to the actuality of her part. No
woman who was not heart and soul in her part
would wear a factory-made coat and skirt as
“ Annie ” does in the first act. It is very modern
and ’Murlcan to have a heroine named “ Annie.”
Mrs, Warwick, who is the position-hunting second
wife of the millionaire, is named Alicia, and pos-
sesses a stole cape of dusty sable that makes almost
every woman condone her sins. She wears dar-
ing color under the furs—pink and purple—yet
the effect hits out all right against her glowing
brunette face.
There must be novelty infused into everything
under the sun, especially if it be entertainment
for feverish pleasure-seekers. At fashionable
hops the Shadow Dance is the big-print attraction
of the programme. All ordinary lights are
lowered, and a concentrated, stagey sort of beam
is flung on the room through a cloudy, revolving
screen. This throws shadows—fantastically-
dancing shadows—above the dancers’ heads, and
the embraced waltzers waltz in the dark. Jud-
kins—Judkins, where art thou ? Shadowy dark-
ness and voluptuous music and the embrace of
the waltz. Oh, ye gods and chaperones !
Bland Holt dashes round town, nowadays, in a
high dogcart. It is one of the few survivals of
the spanking dash that the motors have chased
from the city. Mrs. Tom Payne is another con-
servative, and she whips through the most-
crowded streets, at the fashionable hour, with an
acrobatic tiger smiling like a glued-on sausage on
the back seat. He suggests. Bailey, junior, hang-
ing on to the tail of Montague Tiggs’ chariot. A
bright youngster, belonging to feminine fashion-
able circles, tries to follow this capable dame’s
lead. Her driving at the tricky corners is mostly
a flounder as yet; but she may learn. Another
girl who remains faithful to the horse is Bonnie
Watt. When Bonnie rides, spick and span, on
her chestnut through Collins-street, the afternoon
tea motorists simply curl up and writhe. There is
not much aristocratic city horse left; but what
there is shows. The motor-car, even in most ex-
pensive guise, is unpicturesque and styleless.
The Vic. Professional Orchestra, which has
invited Slapoffski to conduct its next concert
in Melbourne, receptioned the conductor last
Thursday. The affair transpired at the Athletic
Hall, Exhibition-street, and the proceedings were
set to the music of that gluggety sound which is
made when a fluid falls from one vessel into
another. Slap, discoursed on sundry topics, and
gave an impromptu memoir. He appears less like
a musician as his hair gets older. He is little of
the professor, whose pedagogy grows with his
hirsute adornment, and less of the virtuoso, who
is often a small soul set in a boundless sepulchre
of flesh. Slapoffski strikes one as a practical
citizen who has borrowed a face from an old
Roman coin. It is an interesting face, and its
owner is an interesting and popular man, probably
the most popular conductor among orchestral pros.
They are hard to deal with, these stars from
Italy. One pritna donna had to be discarded be-
cause she bites. If anything goes wrong on the
stage at rehearsal, this gentle, gazelle-like
creature will rush at the offending tenor or
manager and stick her teeth in him. It seems
that there is much to be taken into account in
selecting foreign stars besides their angel voices.
Her Majesty’s advertised for extra show girls
for “The Whip,” a production that runs big
racing scenes. The demands were piled on
thickly—good looks, smartness, etc. —but self-
satisfaction is not lacking in the damsels of this
city. About 200 rolled up and stood outside the
stage door. The flock was tallied, one by one. in
the narrow tally gate and out again. The
management wanted “Ladies.” A number of
society damsels hurried on the scene in search
of a new sensation.
Another scrap of London letter is rhapsodic
about Melba’s re-entry at Covent Garden this
year. They say that Tetrazzini is a very dim
star these days.
Mark Twain said “classical music is not as bad
as it sounds,” but then, poor fellow, he did not
live in Melbourne. Melbourne is musical; is it
not crow’ding to see “Butterfly”? But when it
comes to chamber music, then you find the exclu-
sive of the Exclusives. At the third concert of
this species given by the M. Hall section of the
divided musical factions, the attendance was thin
but most intensely and musically appreciative. It
was a concert at which no one whispered,
giggled or snorted ; there was welcome stillness
and silence “during the performance of a
number.” Musicians swear by chamber music as
the be-all and end-all of refined composition ; and
to hear a Schubert string quartette played by
Miss Pianist Masson, with North. Dawson and
Hattenbach ‘ was sufficient to justify any such
swear. Miss Masson and Violinist John Dawson
played the Rubinstein sonata for piano and viola,
and the Mozart clarionet quintette was led by
Mr. Tipping—good name for the clarionet; you
can’t imagine a Tipping on the big fiddle, for ex-
ample. A feature of the evening was a string of
eigiit Schumann songs, sung right off the reel.to
the sympathetic accompaniment of Miss Masson,
by Mrs. Patten (Miss Alice King that was). The
songs were sung with exquisite feeling, but they
would have sounded better in a cosy room with
the lights turned low. The glare of electric
lights in a half-empty hall is not a favorable set-
ting. At the same time the Cathedral Hall, in
which the concert was held, is a fine building,
and it is a pity it is a little off the concert-goer’s
track.
Mrs. Brough is back; again in Melbourne. It is
only a few months since she went to Fogland, but
I suppose Australia was calling. Someone had
caught a glimpse of the lady and her husband in
Sydney, and on Saturday night the two were in a
box at the Clarke-Meynell show.
Men’s hats are sadly uninteresting things, but I
pass on a fashion note for the benefit of any
stray male who may read this document. The
new straw-boaters are like cart-wheels. Their
inches of brim stretch out like a Romney or a
Gainsboro’. The Willie Boy who sent me this
news, hot off the Fog, is studying out a means of
retaining his newest fashionable lid upon his
head. Not being born with a spike in the top
of his head, and being deficient of hair (the
wherewithal for hatpins), he is the sport of the
gentle zephyrs. By the way, has the straw bell-
topper or vegetable plug hat ever been invented,
and if not, why not ?
Sincerely yours.
JOHANNA.


DEWARS
m::
m
m


CHARMING JEWELLERY « A. SAUNDERS
THOUSANDS OF OTHER BEAUTIFUL IDEAS IN OUR FREE CATALOGUE
SEND FOR ONE.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Bird and Crescent BROOCH,
Pure Pearls,
£3/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold BROOCH, set Diamond and Rubies
or Sapphires,
£4/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set Diamonds
and Rubies or Sapphires,
35/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9c* Gold LINKS, 22/6.
loot Gold, 40/. Silver,
5/6. Initials Engraved
Free.
E
£5
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold Christian En-
deavour CHARM, nicely
chased.
13/6.
loot Gold. 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold PEN-
DANT, set Ame-
thyst and Rcarls,
12/6.
f[ f]
i'O
O
.Solid Gold EAR-
RINGS, set Pearls
and Garnet,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Gold Open-
Faced Keyless WATCH,
Fancy Dial, Perfectly
Timed and Adjusted,
£2.
With Bow, £2/10/.
Higher Grade, £2/10/,
£3, £3/10/, £4/10/,
£5/10/.
WITHOUT Bt‘
£2.
701/23
‘AU>n HXIW
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Circle BROOCH,
set Pearls and Turquoise,
or Red or Blue Stones,
20/-
15ct Gold, 35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold EARRINGS,
set Pearls and Turquoise,
30/, 15ct Gold,
Rec,N?3SO.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Map of
Australia BROOCH,
set Red or Blue
Stones,
10/6.
15ct Gold, 15 J.
9ct Gold Square
and Compass
CHARM,
10/-
15ct Gold, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar and Circle BROOCH, set
Red or Green Stone,
10/6
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Pure White Pearls,
15/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold 2-Bar Scroll BROOCH, set Pure
White Pearls,
15/-
m
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BROOCH, set Pearls and
Coloured Stones,
10/6.
A. SAUjnDERS.
Oct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Amethyst Centre,
25/- 15ct Gold, £2.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Spray BROOCH, set Pearls and Ruby
or Sapphire, 35/-
15ct Gold Opal BROOCH, Fine Quality
Opal,
£2/10/-
r
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set
monds and Rubies or Sapphires,
Dia-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
Diamond and
Rubies or Sap-
phires,
30/-
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds and Ru-
bies or Sapphires,
£2.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
5 Pure Double-
nut Diamonds,
£5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Dia-
mond and Emer-
ald Cluster
RING.
£7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS
18ct Gold, set
Pine, Pure,
Double-cut
Diamonds,
£l2/10/-
A. SAUNDEKb.
Oct Gold LINKS
20/-
15ct Gold, £2/10/. Plain,
with Initials Engraved,
same price.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Half Round BRACELET, Beautifully Chased,
35/-
15ct Gold, £3/10/, £4.
A. SAUNDERS
Lady’s Oct Gold, expan-
ding WATCH-BRACELET
—The newest style. The
little timehecper has fine
-J Lever movement, is
fully Jewelled, with com-
pensation Balance, Ac-
curate, Reliable, perfectly
timed and adjusted.
£6/10/-
Other Styles, £7/10/,
£B/10/, £lO.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
14 Pure Double-
cut Diamonds and
Choice Black
Opal,
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Spe-.
dal Quality, Pure
Double-Cut Dia-
monds.
£2O.
Smaller Stones,
£lO, £l2/10,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS. ,
Silver Enamel BRACELET, in Dark Red, Pale Blue,
and Dark Green Enamel, Safety Cham attached,
6/6.
Others at 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
I8ct Gold, set
Diamonds and Ru-
bies or Sapphires,
£3/5/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold Mar-
quise RING, set
15 Pure, Double-
Cut Diamonds,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
Diamonds and
Olivines,
£4/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Dia-
monds and Ruby,
or Sannbire,
£lO.
Emerald Centre,
£l2/10/.
18ct Gold, set
S Diamonds and
Ruby, Sapphire,
or Black Opal,
£lO.
18ct Gold, 2-
Heart RING, set
with Fine, Pure,
Double-Cut
Diamonds,
£17,*10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Bow BROOCH.
A. SAUNDERS.
Dot Gold 2-Heart BROOCH, Diamond Set,
3 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, set Diamond
and 4 Rubies,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
loct Gold 2-Bar Buckle BROOCH, set Pure
White Pearls,
35/-
A. SAUNDERS.
loct Gold 2-Bar BROOCH, Pure, Double-
Cut Diamond,
£2.
Larger Diamond, £2/10/, £3.
A. SAUNDERS.
loct Gold Heart BROOCH, set Diamond or
Ruby.
£2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
GOLD CRESCENT PHEASANT BROOCH
Pearls and Turquoises,
30/
SIUNDERS.
Oct Gold Bird and Fancy Bar BROOCH,
Bell and Chain attached,
12/6.
A. SAUNDERS,
yet Gold 3-Bar BROOCH, Pure White
Pearls,
17/6.
15et Gold, 35/; 18ct Gold,. 45/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Band
RING, set Red
or Blue stone,
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold
EARRINGS, set
Pearls and
Peridot.
£2/5/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold Claw-
Set Band RING,
Amethyst or Topaz,
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold MEDAL,
set Ruby or Sap-
phire.
17/6.
15ct Gold, 32/6.
GOLD-
FILLED,
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s lOct Gold-Filled Hunting Key-
less Waltham WATCH, Full Jewelled,
Compensation Balance, Plain or Engine
Turned Cases, Guaranteed Free Repairs
2 Years,
£2/10/-
Special
Value.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Sig-
net RING,
Heavier, 25/.
lact Gold, 40/.
18ct 50/. Blood-
stone or Sar-
donyx, 9ct Gold
25/. 15ct Gold,
40/. 18ct Gold,
50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold
Pearl and
Turquoise Set
PENDANT,
15/
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold Band
RING, set Red,
Green, and Blue
Stones,
20/-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold
EARRINGS,
Pearls and
Brilliants,
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold 3-Bar BROOCH, Pure,
Double-Cut Diamond,
£3/5/-, £4, £4/10/-,
according to size of Diamond.
&
V-
-15ct Gold Heart BROOCH. Pure, Double-
Cut Diamonds and Sapphires,
£2O.
All Diamonds.
£3O.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Crescent and Star BROOOH, Fine,
Pure White, Double-Cut Diamonds,
and Rubies or Sapphire.
£lO
JEWELLER,'
-jpjCH iClOQfj
k MAKER A
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER.
807,809,811,815.815.817, GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Sfarion) SYDNEY,N.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
C ONSULT//V C
sOPTICIAN


Teach the Children
to Kodak !
THERE is nothing in which a girl or boy takes greater
delight than picture taking. And you yourself will take
pleasure in using a Kodak. There are so many occa-
sions upon which you will find it useful, and, you know,
there is no pastime more absorbingly interesting or simpler.
With a Kodak there is, of course, no dark room required
for loading, unloading, developing or finishing. It’s daylight
all the way, and you are interested ail the time.
For yourself you can invest in a Kodak at from 265.
up; and for the children you will find the Brownie-Kodaks,
ranging in price from 55., to be all that could be desired.
Call at one of our stores and get full details, or write for
a copy of the Kodak Catalogue, which is free for the asking.
i Mgsmm
1 mm£
|ji ■
J:
*'£&asai 2-m
m
mm
fe
&
*£*&
*w
3v';i
.'■■•■-•
■ s
Suggestions from the Kodak Catalogue.
The No. 1 Folding Pocket Kodak
The smallest and simplest of all the Pocket Kodaks.
Pulling down the bed automatically springs the front
into position, no focussing necessary —just locate the
image in the finder and press the lever.
Equipped with first quality Meniscus Achromatic
lens* fitted to Pocket Automatic Shutter, adjusted for
both snapshot and time exposures. Brilliant Rever-
sible Finder. Covered with black seal grain leather,
nickelled fittings. Pictures x 3j^in.
Price £,2 2s.
Postage extra, 1/-
THe No. la Folding
PocKet HodaK-Special
Made for those who want a dainty little pocket
camera with quality all through. Light and compact,
yet possesses every requisite for serious work.
Equipment includes Rapid Rectilinear Lens, Kodak
Ball Bearing Shutter, Automatic Focussing Lock,
Tripod Socket and Brilliant Reversible Finder. Covered
with fine quality black seal grain leather, hickelled
fittings. Pictures x 4X>n.
Price £,3 3s.
Postage extra, 1/-
The No. 3a Folding Pocket Kodak
The most popular of all cameras ; takes the full size
postcard picture, x s^in.
Provided with every feature for the most serious work,
yet so simple as to be effectively handled by the novice.
Equipment includes double Rapid Rectilinear Lens,
Kodak Ball Bearing Shutter, Automatic Focussing Lock,
Brilliant Reversible Finder and Tripod Sockets.
Covered with fine black seal grain leather, nickelled
fittings. Top coat pocket size.
PriC6 10S. Postage Extra, 1/3
AUSTRALIAN KODAK, LTD.,
Incorporating Baker
& Rouse Prop., Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney.
78-80 Queen St., Brisbane.
“The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba, Q. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill.
37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
TWO
tnc cm.Y
TYRE / 3
BUILT 01\
/CIEttTIFIC ,
FRIACIPLE/
&
v
Y
<5.
Z
oo
n 7
A
(y
<Yy
.$r
TflE
/ILVEETOTO
CUBBED O’
ZB GEOGGE f !
.mm
c^Jt
NEW ti°4 HOME
medical APPARATUS
WITH DRT BATTERY
m
m
&
I
JERDAN'S
HOME” BATTERY
IS A SPLENDID GIFT.
What better present for the home than our
handy, reliable “HOME” BATTERY.
It will answer a thousand purposes in health
or sickness.
After a day’s bard work, mental or physical,
a touch of rheumatism, or a sleepless
night, its reviving properties will tone
up the system, relieve and cure.
The “ HOME ” Battery is easily adapted,
easily worked, and costs nothing to use.
FOR ATHLETES, Business Men, Tired
Mothers, Old People, Young Children.
PRICE
Post Free.
Money Back if Unsatisfactory.
JORDAN’S
(Formerly OSBORN S JERDAN),
“ MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS and ELECTRICIANS.
393 GEORGE STREET,
PACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
ONTHE HOP!
A supferb library volume, ham’comely printer!
ind bound ; containing upwards or .rin ee hundred
of “Hop’s ’ ’ best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
jjF®
wm>
Hf
panto*
41IlhnTTmTruiiftflIJ||hzngntngiirT?l^
■SARGENTS’ is
iished in popular regard
as the pleasantest resort
for LUNCHEONS and
DINNERS.
The Dining Rooms are
spacious and tastefully
appointed. The excel-
lent menu, apart from
being on quite an elab-
orate scale, represents
the most appetising and
wholesome dishes in
season.
m
«
m
I
A commentary on the superior goodness of the cuisine is the
increasing number of connoisseurs who daily dine at the Cafe*
The tariff is extremely moderate. Tea Room from 6d.;
Dining Room from \j-
SPECIALTIES: WEDDING CAKES, PASTRY, FRPIT PIES and MEAT PIES.
Sargents’ Ltd.,
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High»Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
(’Phone—Office, 355;?;
Cafe, 1876; Catering’, 4250).
MELBOURNE : 28-32 Elizabeth St.
(’Phone, City 1344).


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies' hair and for Children tt is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
o Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
PILES CURED IN 6 to 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding Piles in 6 to 14
days, or money refunded. 2/3.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES * CO., PERTH, KALCOOBUE and COOLOARPIE.
Brewery and Officer :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Aviation seems to be a paying game for the
fliers if they live to collect their winnings. The Lanark
(Scotland) Carnival, at which the new soaring record was
established by Drexel, ended in a huge loss for the pro-
moters, but the fliers came out very well. Cecil Grace,
on the Short-Wright biplane, got away with the lion’s
share, £1950. Cattaneo, the Italian, on a Bleriot mono-
plane, was second biggest prize-winner, with £1395.
Drexel, also on a Bleriot monoplane, bagged £1355.
James Radley, on a Bleriot, secured £l2OO ; and Captain
Dickson, on a Farman biplane, whipped in the crowd
with £9OO. But they earned it, our oath !
The cloud-scalers have changed the international
position. Till last week Germany, with its 14 war diri-
gibles, was the boss aerial Power. The French dirigibles
had proved better aerostats for manoeuvring, and able
to keep up longer without being recharged ; but there
were only about four of them. But when the cloud-
scaler proved that the aeroplane could go higher than the
dirigible, the position underwent a change. The great
bulk of the best aviators are French, and the French
Minister for VVar has enrolled them in the “League of
Aviators.” He has ordered 50 aeroplanes of a new and
speoially-strong type of great power, and is about to
establish aerial forts along the frontiers where
attacks may come or be delivered. The greatest height
attained by a German war dirigible was about 40(>0ft.
made by tne Gross 11. in January last, somewhere above
Cologne. But Drexel soared 6750 ft. at Lanark, and the
value of the dirigible as an attacking machine vanished.
The aeroplane had proved that it can soar above it, and
dirigibles are as frail as mosquitoes. One man, on an
aeroplane costing £4OOO, could easily destroy one or more
dirigibles costing anything from £40,000 upwards and
carrying 60 or .70 specially trained men. The German
aerial menace immediately became small potatoes.
Another horrible game lias been added to theinternational
contest, and the' next move of the Mailed Fist will be
interesting to watch. + #
London Daily Mail is out with another big
money-prize for aviation. This time it is a matter of
£5OOO for a flight from Paris to London, and Hubert
Latham was the first to try for it. Starting in the old
Antoinette from Issy, a suburb of Gay Paree, he made
straight for the coast, but, after 70 miles had been
covered, something suspicious in the behavior of the
engine attracted his attention, and he is too old a bird to
fool round in the upper air with a sulky engine. So the
attempt ended with a sudden, graceful swoop to the
ground. By the time this is in print probably Paulhan
will have scooped the prize. Paulhan, by the way, talks
of retiring. He has made enough to keep him in comfort
for the rest of his days, and the death of Rolls is said to
have made him uneasy and disinclined for further risks.
It is a fearful thing to make 19s. lljd. in the £ of your
fortune and then to fall 2577 ft. while earning the final
id. in the £, which is really superfluous after all. And,
while Latham tarried, the Unknown again butted in. This
time it was a Yankee Spaniard named Moissant, who had
reoeived only four lessons in aviation. His fifth ascent
was an attempt to win the big money, and he went up at
Paris and blew down at Deal, in England. He flew high,
and thereby saved his life, as three times on the way he
dashed into air funnels and was sucked down 100 ft. or so
before escaping from the vortex and recovering control
of his Bleriot monoplane. But at Deal, Moissant’s luck
left him. Everv attempt to resume the journey to
London ended in disaster, finishing up with a broken
propeller, which threw him right out of the race. While
these things were happening Le Blanc won the Parisian
Matin £4OOO prize for a circular flight from Paris to
Troyes, Nancy, Charleville, Douai, Amiens, and back to
Paris. He blew through the 489 miles in 12 hours, and
on the flight from Amiens to Douai outstripped sundry
pigeons, though they took him for a new and horrible
kind of hawk and went for their lives.
Cabled that an English aviation meeting (held
at Blackpool) resulted in a loss of £lO,OOO to the club that
provided the big prizes. But the gentlemen with the
flying machines must have done well. An employee of a
Melbourne motor garage, who was among the crowd at
this Blackpool meeting, wrote home recently about it.
He was dying to have a fly, and hoped to be able to get a
back seat on a machine for £2. The pariicular seat that
he had his eye on was secured by a countess, who bid up
to £l5O. All she got for her money was a minute in the
air, a broken arm, and a ducking. The machine had
hardly got going when something went wrong with
the works, whereupon it collapsed and fell into a lake.
Then the Australian jingled his 40s. in his pocket and
smiled audibly.
* * * *
Arnst made the usual remark as he wiped the
tank of moisture from his brow and shook hands with
the defeated Barry : The Englishman had given Kim the
hardest race of his career. It is a nice thing to say, and
while it was new it was balm of Gilead to.the loser. But
the edges of the solace are getting frayed. As a matter
of fact, Barry seems to have been a comparatively soft
thing for the mighty Maorilander. The climate did not
suit him, and he confessed he was in trouble at the half-
mile ; and a man who is in trouble at the half-mile with a
rival like Arnst is as good as dead. The amazing cock-
surety of Arnst before the race, when be advised bis
Sydney friends to put their money on him at any price,
is good evidence that Barry was beaten before he started,
for Richard Arnst is a most unassuming man, and brag-
ging is quite foreign to bis nature.
The race itself was a most picturesque affair,
and finished at a point about a mile above the famous
Victoria Falls. In fact, the musical thunder of that
splendid cataract was audible over the whole course.
The day was perfect—cloudless sky, and absolutely no
wind. So still was the river that the reflection of the
palms was as real below as the palms were above. It was
a well-filled paradise, for along the banks was crowded
the whole colored population in its varying and fearful
brands of finery. On the south side, the hippopotami
crowded together in the shallow water and marvelled at
the strange business, and no doubt wondered if this was
the affair so many of them had lately been killed over.
The party was conveyed to the starting point in the
Administrator's launch, and everything done in style.
Spencer Gollan, of Maoriland fame, was the referee, and
the proceedings started in a way that would have shocked
Mr. Judkins. There was a tossing for places, and Barry won
easily. He chose the northern bank, which gave him
deep water all the way. Barry was white about the body
and Arnst as brown as the hackneyed berry. Both were
.as fit as training could make. them. Barry is regarded as
the most finished oarsman in the world, and Arnst holds
pride of place as tffip Strongest. The start was a beauty,
and like a flash Arnst went to the front. And there he
stayed, although gontg'like fury all the time. Arnst
weighed 13st. 61b., Barry l list. 81b.,-and the difference in
weight was just the margin between their capacities.
Barry rowed a fine, game race, but had never a chance,
and 200yds. from the post lie gave up hope. The judge
said seven lengths.
* * * »
Records live brief lives these days. Only last
June we were opening our eyes in admiration of Duer’s
remarkable bike ride in California when he dashed over
the mile in limn. o*ssec. And now comes word that
even that velocity has been eclipsed by George Kraemer
on the new track just laid down at Los Angeles in Cali-
fornia, where the new star streaked over the 1760yds. in
58sec. neat. At the end of his ride Kraemer, who ap-
parently did not understand that the job was com-
pleted, dashed into the rear of his pacing-car and had a
bad smash up. This may damp his ardor and prolong
his life. Pace-following is a dangerous game, and hardly
worth the risks that beset it. Although Kraemer’s mile
is the fastest on record it has been all but equalled
before, but never under proper conditions. Many
and many a year ago a Yankee “ Frenchman,” bight
Murphy, had a special track laid on a railroad, and
along this he swept in the rear of a thundering
locomotive till the mile was covered in 58 3-ssec. Later
on E. L. Collins, down on the Ormond-Daytona Beach in
Florida, streaked along behind a motor-car fitted with
enormous wind-shields, and equalled Murphy’s time. But
the conditions in both cas* s were abnormal, and there
is little doubt both men were assisted immensely by
the gale that blew into the vacuum created by the pacing
machine. In Murphy’s case it was very noticeable. He
wore his hair long, and it streamed out in front of him like
a mop while he flew along trying to overtake it at the rate
of over 60 miles per hour. So far Duer appears to be the
only one of these remarkable whizzers who has taken the
trouble to get the necessary formalities fixed up to
entitle him to have his performance put. on record. It is
a glad reflection, by the way, that this branch of record-
making must stop some day. When a mile is done in no
time at all then a period of rest and calm will surely
set in.
* * * *
Died last week, B. J. Gleeson, who (as secre-
tary) carried the League of Victorian Wheelmen on his
back for 10 years. In the palmy “Austral” boom days
Gleeson had a hard battle ; but in the declining years of
the League the graft became even harder. Cyclists will
miss him in Victoria.
* * * *
There were signs and portents in Sydney
League Rugby on Saturday, when the baby club, Annan-
dale, held the premiers at bay, and for a time threatened
almost anything. South grew desperate, for Newtown, the
dreaded rival, was certain to beat Balmain, and if South
lost this game the balance of power would be in a bad way
—from a South standpoint. Half-time found the premier
club leading by only a point, and somewhat depressed by
the fact that only the Annandale men’s inexperience had
prevented them beginning the second half with a big
credit margin. With the change of ends Annandale
seemed to wither somewhat, and when time was running
out South came with a series of splendid charges and
turned a dangerous game into an overwhelming victory of
19 points to two. At North Sydney the men from Glebe
found themselves overwhelmed at first by the rush of
wild hilltnen. Glebe clawed desperately through the
ruck of battle, but could do pothing for a time, and in
less than 15 minutes the Northmen had piled up 10
points. Then, apparently, the Northern boiler burst,
and Glebe, wiping the mud out. of its eye, waded in.
North scored only once again, and by the time the second
half arrived it was dead, and Glebe stepped lightly on its
grave till 23 points were piled up. As everybody ex-
pected, Newtown crushed Balmain by 29points to eight;
and out at Concord Eastern Suburbs ran over the West
till the whistle blew, when the scores were 38 points to
eight.
The first round of the Sydney Metropolitan
Rugby Union competition concluded on Saturday in
favor of Newtown, which topped the poll with *22 points.
University and South Sydney were next with 18 points
each. There the definite aspect of things ended, for
Glebe and Eastern Suburbs being together with 16 points
it becomes necessary for.them to play off to see which
shall have the right to take part in the second round.
The slump of Glebe was due to the damage dealt out by
South Sydney on Saturday, when the men from the dusty
suburb leaped on the butchers with 24 points to 13. Still,
Glebe would have had a free run into the second round
had not Eastern Suburbs, bumping Western Sydney, had
the luck to win. But it was East’s day out, and West
went under by 11 to 16, and Glebe's chance was slain for
one week, anyhow. Nobody took much interest in the
rest of the scraps, as they did not effect the competition.
University was safe whether it beat Balmain or not, but
It made sure by crushing Balmain —16 to eight. North
Sydney versus Sydney was, of course, quite uninteresting
as both were out of the second round, and a drab struggle
ended with an astonishing surprise. Sydney came out
on top with nine to six.
* * * *
The spectators at Melbourne’s chief League
football match on Saturday comprised some 20,000 per-
sons. two cinematograph operators and one gale, if one
may put it that way, and the gale had a lot to say in the
argument. Carlton’s solitary defeat this season came
from the boots of the ’Dons, and the Blues were eager to
avenge the insult, but the ’Dons willed otherwise. Start-
ing with the aforesaid gale in their rear they took full
charge of operations, and in the first spell put on 19
points while Carlton vainly strove to snatch even one.
Changing ends the operation was reversed, and at the
interval the tally was ’Don 19, Carlton 21. Third quarter
the “ Same Old ” raised its figures to 47 while the Blues
again stopped stationary. The last quarter was theirs
and they sailed in ; but though they managed to heap up
52 points altogether, the'Dons had refused to abide by
the implied understanding not to score against the wind
and bad most unfairly pushed on another 13 points, thus
winning by a majority of eight. It was a strenuous
scuffle throughout, with few unseemly episodes, and the
most durable team won. Meanwhile ’Wood, ’Varsity
and South were struggling to keep their ends up and to
squeeze into the finals. ’Wood’s men had the toughest
contract, Richmond being their ; but, after
struggling heftily against the breeze in the first quarter,
they carried all before them thereafter, and won easily
by.6l points to 34. ’Wood, in this game, gave its best
exhibition this season, its certainty in handling and
swiftness and ease in passing being beautiful to behold.
But it wasn’t up against a tiptop team. The Students
disposed of ’Ro.v with comparative ease, 48 points to 23
being the record ; and South beat Melbourne, but only
by 58 to 54, which circumstance gave the red-and-white
barrackers the shivers. A single straight shot meant
defeat to Skinner’s hirelings, and one defeat now means
absolute disaster. Even as matters stand, South wants
all the points it can get. Geelong outed the Saints, as
usual, but the result mattered not to either party.
, * * * *
The prime scuffle in the Victorian Ass. was
between North and Brunswick. Both teams have al-
ready won into the finals ; but there is ever a desire to
see the upending of the unbeaten, and North hadn’t
been vanquished this season —though it drew with Essen-
don. On Saturday the disaster arrived, and on North’s
ground too. Neither side could score against the wind ;
so it came to a matter of defence for North in the last
quarter, and the defence wasn’t quite good enough.
Banging away at the posts, the ’Wicks steadily over-
hauled the deficit, got level, and added two more points.
North gathered itself together and strove furiously for
the goal that meant so much. It got a chance, but the
shot went just outside the big post. Again it raged
along the wing regardless. The point that meant
at least a draw had got to be snatched somehow. But
the gods and the timekeepers willed otherwise, and the
scores were : ’Wick, 47 points; North, 46. It was more
than a mere defeat; it meant the loss of North’s chance
of going down to fame as the club that went through a
whole season without once breaking the egg of victory—
a feat that only Essendon (League) has ever achieved.
The result was a lesson for those who claim that only
money counts in hoofball, inasmuch as neither victory
nor defeat could alter the position of either team in the
competition, and there was nothing to be gained by the
extra bogging in. None of the other disturbances
counted. Es-endon disposed of ’Town by 25 to 23 ; ’Scray
capsized Brighton by 56 to 38 ; P’ran spiflicated ’Cote by
83 t0!42 ; and Port passed Preston its customary wallop-
ing by 93 to 49.
• * * * *
■ Somebody once wrote that rough football was a
sure indication that the game was pure. In which case
they appear to have an extra special brand of purity in
Victoria just at present. On Saturday last, Broadford
was at home to Nagambie, and just now most of it is
sorry it was. Nagambie was very pure, and not content
with doing ordinary breakage, one Nagambie enthusiast
is said to have seized his opponent and tried desperately
to bite his nose off. To say the least of it, this is rather
a stigma on Nagambie. But think of the superlative
purity of the game !
The Australian Football Council, which meets
in Sydney shortly, will be glad to receive suggestions as
to how to improve the Australian game. Well, here are
a few: Adopt the suggestion of solicitor Jagelman, of
Sydney, to do away with the “behind posts,” and intro-
d’uce the cross-bar 6ft. from the ground across the goal
posts. This would improve the quality of the kicking.
Also, forbid under a penalty, kicking out of bounds ;
this would tend to make the game faster. Third, supply
fat central umpires with small motor-cars or aeroplanes,
that they may keep up with the ball and be in a position
to see everything.
* * * *
The Australian Rulers are holding a carnival,
and on Saturday last two invading teams were beaten at
Erskineville (N.S.W.). Riverina, where the game was
invented, sent down a combined team, all hard meat and
harder muscle and still harder hone. The Riverina team
flung its huge mass about gaily enough, but it lacked
combination, and was beaten by 99 to 52. The other
invading team was that from Queensland, and it would
be hard to find a better-looking combination. It put on
a great game, too ; but Mick Grace has got the Sydney
men into fine condition. So the Land of the Crocodile
was beaten by 75 points to 48. Paget, the captain of the
visiting Queensland team, is an enthusiast. When he is
at home he is far from the maddening barracker, and has
to journey 20 miles to play his game. Then, when he
has run about five or six miles over the football ground,
he starts back over the 20' miles, and is said to arrive
fresh and well. Forty miles to play a game of football—
it is too much enthusiasm to be wasted in the kicking of
blown leather. It should be utilised to kick an Austra-
lian defence scheme into shape.
* * * *
In the struggle of the Soccers of Sydney for the
Gardiner Cup some amazing things have happened, The
preliminary saw Canterbury go out, and the fiist- round
eliminated eight clubs, including Glebe and Newtown.
The second round saw Adamstown, Ultimo, Balmain and
a second Glebe team vanish. On Saturday and Saturday
week last the semi-finals were played at Epping, and
again the wonderful happened. H.M.S. Powerful, on
Saturday week, outed Wallsend by 10 to nil ; and this
Saturday Helensburgh fell on Rozelle, which was caught
napping with some of its best regulars away. The ’Burgh
was in great form and Rozelle was not, so down went
McGinty, the ’Burgh winning by two goals to one. It
was not a very wide margin, but it was enough. Next
Saturday the Powerful and Helensburgh teams will de-
cide which of them will hold the Gardiner Cup and State
championship for the term of one calendar year.
Ultimo having been knocked out of the Gardi-
ner Cup by the sudden-death clause, concentrated its
attention on the Association Cup. The Powerful men
.have recently adopted a new scheme of forward play, and
it worried Ultimo considerably. Had the Powerful team
organised its hacks the same way, St. George’s cross had
not been hauled down. But it hadn’t, and a great tussle
was ended when Ultimo finished on top by three goals to
one. The Association Cup looks a good thing for
Ultimo now.
* * * *
There are some humorists in the bruising game
in Victoria. Among them are the promoters of the scrap
between Ed Williams and Bill Turner, who sought to
boost up their drab battle by declaring that it was for
“ the resident championship of Australia." What a resi-
dent championship is only the Lord and the Vic. pro-
moters know. Presumably it is a jest. It was a beastly
uneven scrap, as Turner, with I3st. 91b. behind his elbow,
had the advantage of nearly two stone weight. Williams
had what traces of skill there were lying around ; but
Turner had the punch, and by the eighth round Williams
was a fallen tower. The punch seems to count for a
good deal in modern bruising.
* * * *
There was some notable billiards in Melbourne
last week by A. E. Williams, the English pro. who was
put into the shade by Fred Lindrum soon after his arriva
in this country. That William* was justified in comingl
here as a star is evident from the form he showed in play-
ing Sawkins (an ex-Victorian champion) after disposing
of Memmott. His best breaks were 205, 266, 346, 379 and
593, and twice during the game his sessional average was
133. In all, he scored 4000 whilst Sawkins was totting
up 1266, though the Victorian held his own in one of the
sessions and achieved the respectable break of 196. It 1
only in comparison with veteran Roberts and 1 red L
drum that Williams appears rather stiff and incon-
sistent in his play: but when he got a severe
doing from the young champion he was some-
what short of practice. Moreover, Lindrum s rapid
scoring—two or three long runs in quick succession
staggered him and even jarred his temper. One da\,
when the local man had been scoring monotonously off
the red, Williams complained that it was a cold and
weary business to sit watching his opponent making a
hundred losing hazards in succession. Lindrum s reply
extinguished the Englishman. “ You ought to play
George Gray,” said he. In his long series of exhibition
games with the young phenomenon, Lindrum naa
suffered the weariness of waiting. Speaking of the
awful ordeal to Gray, senior, he said: When George
gets fairly going at the red I 101 l my head against the
wall this way, and throw my right leg over the left, then
I 101 l my head that way and nurse the other leg; then 1
sit straight up and yawn.”
The Golf Championships of Australia were held
in Adelaide (S.A.) this year at the Seaton links. Seaton is
possibly the most difficult “ sporting links m the Con -
monwealth. Among the amateurs, Michael Scott won
very easily from J. D. Howden. Both men hail from
Victoria. The Open Championship went easily to
Carnegie Clark, who won in 1906. Soutar was second, as
usual." He won in 1905, and has been runner-up ever
since. Both are professionals, and come from the Ma
State. Scott and the Pearce brothers, from Hobart, came
next. „ *
■* * * *
N.S.W. made short work of Queensland at
inter-State tennis last week, winning by 16 rubbers, 21
sets, 283 games, to 3 rubbers, 13 sets, 224 games. N.S. W .
players pocketed the bulk of the Bananaland champion-
ships ; in fact, all they left behind was a bundle of per-
spirin''opponents. The N.S. W. team was exceptionally
strong ; and, as it played well up to form, the Banana-
landers had a sudden time.
John Roberts celebrated his 63rd birthday last
week by having a high time, at Billiards Ltd., Sydney, at
the expense of Australian champion Fred Lindrum. In
three matches, conceding 500 start in 3000, Roberts won
respectively by 242, 500 and 32. The cunning of the
master billiardist was pitted against the vigor of youth ;
and by consistent breaks and by affably leaving the
balls where Lindrum found it difficult to manipulate
them, Roberts won. It was the old story of the aged dog
and the macadamised road.
* * * *
The semi-finals of Sydney first-grade lacrosse
on Saturday produced an unlooked-for result, when
Sydney upset the mighty Petersham by nine goals to
six. Previous to the upsetting, Petersham had won 12
out of 13 matches. Mosman vanquished Stanmoreby six
goals to two ; and the final between Mosman and the
“surprise packet” will be battled out on Che coming
Saturday.
* « * * *
Bill Lang is “up against it” in America.
Matches with Ketchell and Kaufman have fallen through,
and the Australian contingent is finding Yankeeland any-
thing but Tom Tiddler’s ground.
* * * *
The Australian Racing Chronicle, published
by J. J. Miller and Co., of Melbourne, has reached the re-
pectable age of 15 years. The latest volume is No. 30,
and it records some 880 race meetings, between Feb. 1
and July (31. The increasing fatness of these volumes
testifies to the swelling mass of details contained therein,
and indicates that the awful gambling evil flourishes in
spite of Judkins. #
“Adelaide”: I see the N.S.W. Cricket As-
sociation is calling tenders (so to speak) for livening up
the game : I rise to send in my specification. Here it i* :
The umpire shall call “no ball! ” if, in his opinion, the
bowler deliberately tries to avoid hitting the wicket. If
the C. A. thinks this too drastic, it can be softened down
a bit by making the rule read “if, for two successive
balls, the bowler tries,” etc. Cricket is a game of attack
and defence, and “caught out” was an after thought.
The modern bowler who breaks away, over after over,
runs right up against the spirit of the game. The old
batsman leaves him alone, and deadly dulness sets in.
The young batsman, of course, gets impatient, and starts
out leather hunting. Then he learns from his seniors, or
from the papers next day, that he has “ fallen into So-
and-So’s trap,” and straightway registers a solemn
vow he’ll fall in no more. After that he leaves the
tempters severely alone, and the dulness becomes more
deadly than ever. The calling of “ aides’’ also requires
close attention and alteration. A bowler slips, the
leather goes astray, and the bowler is fined one run. Yet
what offence has he committed ? History tells us that at
one time bowlers started to send down wides intention-
ally to annoy the batsman and waste time, also to “ raise
the batsman’s dander.” So our sensible grandfathers,
after much talk from fierce Conservatives about Socialism,
revolution, and the spoiling of the Grand Old Game,
made a law against the wide. And the innocent bowler
of an accidental wide suffers under the rule to this day.
But, illogically, the bowler of an intentional wide is
allowed to go scot free. Which is Rats.
THE AIRMAN’S PASSENGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
M. Moissant, who has learned the art of flying aero-
planes only during the last month, flew on a monoplane
from Paris to Amiens, thence to Calais, and across the
Channel to Deal, carrying a passenger.— Cablegram.
The Airman is not lonely ;
None who has ever flown
Embarked upon a journey
Into the sky alone.
Always the Airman carries
A Figure, gaunt and tall,
Who watches, hungry-vissged,
For that which may befall.
The Airman resteth never,
For he must mark his friend,
With keen and strained attention,
Unto the bitter end.
No cunning is so matchless,
No sky so fair and still
(As sweep the pair together
O’er sea and plain and hill).
But that pale, grim wayfarer,
Who lurks unbidden there,
May summon swift disaster
Upon the ship of air.
The stoutest stay or rudder
That ever left the land
May orumple up like paper
Beneath his cruel hand.
He flings the-howling whirlwind
Upon the vessel’s flank ;
He checks the whirring motor.
And bends the tempered crank.
Ever, though gales rage wildly
Or tremble to a breath,
The Airman travels double — ;
He makes his flight with Death.
N.S.W.
U. J.
FOUL BREATH.
The old saying that “ Distance lends enchant-
ment” was never more aptly to the point than
when applied to those people whose breath is
laden with evil-smelling and offensive odors.
Many persons appear most attractive at a dis-
tance, but produce a feeling of pity and disgust
when close to,
because of the
condition of their
breath. For in-
stance, it makes
little difference
how beautiful a
woman may be,
or how charming
her manner, if
her breath ■ is
foul; her charm
is gone, and she
is at a disadvan-
tage whenever
she comes in con-
tact with other
people. Foul
breath in woman
arouses in man a
feeling of repug-
nance and a de-
sire to get out of the company of such a woman as
quickly as possible ; and even women will avoid
her. It is, therefore, important for every woman
who values her personal attraction to take such
care of herself that this unpleasant and unneces-
sary complaint is avoided or corrected. Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills will be found a search'
ing and cleansing remedy, which will overcome
this complaint. They give you clean bowels, a
healthy stomach, a lively liver and blood that is
rich and red. They are a safe, sure and reliable
remedy, and will prevent many of the complaints
so common, if taken once or twice a week to keep
the system in a healthy condition. They are
purely vegetable, and their action is not accom-
panied by any nauseous or griping sensation, but
is mild and gentle. For all complaints arising
from imperfect digestion and impure blood Dr.-
Morse’s Indian Root Pills are unexcelled.*


For Sale.
HIQH=CLASS DAIRYING FARM IN
FULL WORK.
FINEST LAND IN THIS STATE, 100 yards from
Wharf, and three miles from factory. Stocked with
the best of cattle, piggeries, and complete with
every mgdern equipment, comprising' a Model Up-to-date
DAIRY FARM OF ABOUT 127 ACRES, thoroughly well
watered and securely fenced. Excellent opportunity
Gentleman’s Son desiring to walk into a highly remuner-
ative farming industry. Easy Terms.
R. C. WATKINS & CO., 107 KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Suppose You Order
If you live too far away to come into our store, you can
order Rigney Shoes by mail.
Our perfect mail order system enables us to fill your
requirements equally as satisfactorily through the post.
The Shoe illustrated is a Willow Calf Shoe, Bespoke
style—the very latest perforations. In Black or Tan.
Ditto in Boots.
Prices, 22/6, 25/=, 27/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for Booklet.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY <
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
dfg
The Machine that is Made by Experts.
dfg
All over Australia are to be found enthusiastic riders of B. & B. Bicycles. They
are machines that give the best results for the money paid, and in the case of our
Model 3 nothing better at the price can be procured.
We sell this fine machine for £ll, and guarantee it for twelve months. All
parts are British-made and of standard size. Call and have a look at one, or write
for Catalogue.
BENNETT & BAR KELL,
Largest Cycle Building House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Missing; Friends.
WILL PATRICK TONER, of Bar
widgee, write to Denis Toner, Waterloo,
via Mvrtleford, Victoria. (Urgent.)
Business Announcements.
Shell Motor Spirit.
ITS PERFECT PURlTY—
that’s the Point.
THE MOTA
i r'-’s' \
(Regd.).
The “ Mota ” Hat simply leapt into popular
favor this season.
Young- men and old men, city men and country
men, travellers, sportsmen, business men—all
recognise in the “ Mota ” a particularly smart
soft felt hat with materials and workmanship
decidedly above' the average to recommend it.
Stocked by all leading Houses throughout Aus-
tralia in all fashionable colors.
Prices 7/6 to 12/6.
If unobtainable in your district write to us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS LIMITED,
Abbotsford, Melbourne.
Amusements.
TOUR OF
Antonia DOLORES
DIRECTION .. H. N. SOUTHWELL.
MELBOURNE-OPENING SEPTEMBER 24.
PERTH OPENING OCTOBER 15.
ADELAIDE OPENING NOVEMBER 7.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. 0. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
TO-NIGHT AT 7.50,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
THE ORCHID.
A CARNIVAL OF MUSIC AND MERRIMENT.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE & CLYDE MEYNELL SEASON.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
THE ARCADIANS.
Played by RUPERT CLARKE a*nd CLYDE MEYNELL’S
NEW ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
First Appearance in Sydney of “ CHANTECLER,”
introduced by THE SHOW GIRLS.
Box- Plan at Elvy’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager : J. G. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
TO-NIGHT, AT 8,
NELLIE STEWART, Australia’s Idol,
in Paul Kester’s Romantic Play,
WHEN KNIGHTHOOD WAS
IN FLOWER.
Prices as usual. Plan at Palinsr’s.
pALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
WEST’S "PACT U RES,
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir.: T. J. West.
WEST’S PICTORIAL JOURNAL OF EVENTS.
“ What the Papers give you for Breakfast West’s Pic-
tures will illustrate for your amusement Supper.”
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
SYDNEY GLACIARIUM.
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY
10 to 12 Noon ; 3 to 5 p.m. ; 8 to 10.30 p,m.
ADMISSION, 2s. ; SKATE HIRE, SIXPENCE.
CHlLDREN—Admission Morningand Afternoon Only,ls.
Saturday Alorning Only, Sixpence.
Particulars of Season'.Tick,ets will be sent on Application.
LAST THRBILWKEKS OF THE SEASON.
’Phone, 493 GlebU ' DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
Amusements.
HE LYCEUM
.EVER'*' EYENING AT 6.
MATIHEES -WEDNESDAYS SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2 30.
C PENCERSIftATREJCOPt <?.
J PICTURES
KRE 3 UPE nr OR. TO PLL OT/fERS. «t
Popular Prices PLAtjAtPAUNoa.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mil. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
IvREMO FAMILY, the Greatest of all Risley Acrobats.
MDE. LYDIA YEAMANS TITUS. High-class Vocalist,
assisted by PROF. FRED TITUS, Accompanist.
TOM DAWSON, Popular and Favorite Comedian.
PIP POWELL an<l KATE VESEY, presenting a Rustic
Trifle—“ Where Are You Going- To ?”
FRED K'-ETON, England’s Popular Comedian.
BERT TERRELL, Dutch Comedian and Yodeiler.
PRICES—3B., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager. Mr. Harry Rickards.
MORRIS CRONIN AND PARTY, Jugglers.
GRACIE GRAHAME.
GODFREY JAMES, Singing Collier.
FANNY POWERS, Mimetic Artiste.
DONNELLY TRIO, Song and Dance Artists.
FRED BLUETT and HIS BOY SCOUTS.
LES WARTON. IRVING SAYLES.
VAUDE and VERNE, Comedians.
Plan at Allan's. it3T PRICES—3s, 2s, Is,
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager — William Anderson.
AN INTERESTING PRODUCTION.
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co. in
.one of the Most Successful Dramas Ever Written,
THU WORK GIRL.
Magnificent New Scenery and Effects.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s, and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
SATURDAY NEXT, AUGUST 27,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
THE GRAND OPERA CO. in Bizet’s Opera,
CARMEN.
BEL SOREL as CARMEN.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
LAST PRODUCTION OF THE SEASON.
MATIIESON LANG and HUTIN BRITTON in the
Enormously Successful Play,
P I7T E,
Dramatised from Hall Caine’s Famous Play,
“THE MANXMAN.”
Plans at Allan’s. &T PRICES AS USUAL.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MELBOURNE.
JULIUS KNIGHT, KATHERINE GREY,
and a Brilliant Supporting Co.
—IN—
THE THIRD DEGREE.
Prices as Usual. Plan at, All in’s.
At E S T’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
HE BEST WEST’S PICTURES, THK best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Pic ure Worthy of Note"always to he seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
gy| ELBOURNE GLACIARIUM,
IC INSKATING
EVERY AFTERNOON
■
AND
EVENING.' :
Wl RTHSOLYMPIA.
.EVERY EVENING AT 8
Matinees-Wednesdays.Saturdays and Holidays at 230.
C PENCERSIBEATRESCOPE <?.
J PICTURES
o PRC SUPER.IOfZ TO PLI
Popular Prices —Plan as Usual^
A
T H E N /E U M
Lessees
HALL. MELBOURNE.
J. & N. TAIT.
J.4.N.TAIT 5
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s.
Legal Notices.
IJ.URSUANT to an Order of the Court of Chancery of
the County Palatine of Lancaster Manchester Dis-
trict made in the matter of the Estate of WILLIAM
PEILL deceased in an Action wherein John Peill is Plain-
tiff and Christopher Ashburner is Defendant 1910 Letter
P No. 118 whereby an enquiry was directed whether
MARIA ASHBURNER is now living or dead and if dead
whether she attained the age of 2T j’ears'or died under
that age leaving- lawful issue and in either of such cases
when she died and who is her legal personal representa-
tive. ALL persons claiming to be the said Maria Ashburner
or to be her legal personal representative are by their
Solicitors on or before the 12th day of October 1910 to
come in and prove their claims at the Chambers of the
Registrar of the Manchester District of the sa>d Court
situate at Duchy Chambers 4 Clarence Street in the City
of Manchester England or in default thereof they will be
peremptorily excluded from the benefit of the said Order.
Thursday the 27th day of October 1910 at 11 o’clock in
the forenoon at the said Chambers is appointed for hear-
ing and adjudicating upon the claims. ALL persons
having knowledge of the whereabouts of the said Maria
Ashburner if living or if she has died of the time or place
of her death are requested to communicate with Messrs.
George Gatey &Son Ambleside England Solicitors.
NOTE.—The said Maria Ashburner is believed to have
left Bolton in the County of Lancaster England for Aus-
tralia in the year 1881 in the service of one Robert
Gregson of Bolton aforesaid.
Dated the 11th day of July 1910.
HUBERT WINSTANLEY,
Registrar.
Business Announcements.
MAKE A NOISE LIKE AN ORDER.
CADILLAC,
25-30 H.P. £,500.
450 in Australasia.
35,000 in the World.
j WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. |
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., Brisbane.
SAUL’S MOTOR CO., Launceston.
B.S. A.
MATCH RIFLES and
D A DDFI ' 303 LEEENFIELD '
dAKKdLnJ Special Target Quality,
can now be obtained In ample time lor the
big Rifle Meetings of Australasia. Rifle-
men should not wait until the last week,
but should order now and get the maxi-
mum amount of practice before the meet-
ings commence.
B. S. A.
Special Target Rifles
have accomplished extraordinary records
during the past year, particularly at the
recent English Bisley, when so many fresh
world’s records were put up.
B. S. A.
Special Target Barrels
can be fitted to Government Rifles at a
comparatively sitiall cost within the reach
of any rifleman.
B. S. A.
No. 9 Aperture Sight
needs no comment. It is sufficient to say
that OVER 8000 have been sold in Aus-
tralia during the past year, and ail open
sights have been rendered obsolete.
Write for special catalogue to me, and I
will (if desired) give you the name of an
expert who will not only supply but also
fit and test your B.S.A. Barrel or Sight.
DO IT NOW.
D.Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A. Co.
5 Stock Exchange Buildings, Melbourne.
For the P.M.G. -and others
1. Gambling is trying to get gain at
another’s loss ; it is a part of a larger whole,
an outward trouble begotten of something
inward — viz., love of money, excessive desire
for gain.
2. Finding money and keeping it ami
winning money by gambling, are morally
about equal. •*
3. Betting is, upon occasion, both lawful
and right; but gambling never is.
4. An opinion worth having is worth back-
ing ; but let it be done more to show that
you believe in what you say, that you have
the courage of your convictions, than tp
make money. Many a battlefield has been
but a backing of opinion.
5. If all backing and betting were done ip
silver coin only, and winnings given tjo
charitable purposes, there would be increase
both of real sport and of enjoyment frojp
same, as well as of income to the charities,
with a corresponding decrease of desire fojr
unlawful gain.
6. If some of the “upper ten” were tp
set example as above suggested, same wouJ<|
spread to the multitude ; and what is now
largely a nuisance, if not a curse, would
become a means of amusement, for all equally
pleasurable and useful. —Advt.
Some considerable time back, before N.S.W.’s
Wade Government began to hear the carpenters
of Providence hammering at its coffin, very em-
phatic assurances were given to Parliament that
the unearned increment in connection with the
Barren Jack irrigation scheme would not escape
to the maw of the Big Landowner and the Shark-
like Speculator. The most emphatic man on
this point was Solemn Lee, Minister for Works ;
but lately Solemn has not been nearly
so emphatic. In fact, he hasn’t said a
word about it—which is being about as em-
phatic as a dwarf who has been dead for
several years. And, although some little time
must elapse before the huge scheme is complete,
it is now almost too late to insure to the State the
return due on the enormous public outlay. A
new province will be added to N.S.W.’s farming
area when the country is watered down as far as
Narrandera. and most of it—certainly most of the
more valuable land—is alienated and held by
Big Men. Already the land-jobber is at work,
and by the time the water is turned on and the
rate struck most of the improved land will have
been sold and re-sold over and over again.
Samuel McCaughey (the man who is called
“McKakkey”), through whose North Yanko
station the canal runs for 25 miles, has already
sold some of the frontages to the canal, and
another large area is marked up for sale.
Had the Government resumed McCaughey’s
stations and all the lands that the Barren Jack
water will serve, anci resold or leased them when
the scheme was complete, a very large portion of
the capital cost of Barren Jack would have been
recovered. As it is, the Government’s only
chance of making a satisfactory explanation is to
be defeated at the polls next October.
A significant item in the report of the
Richmond (Vic.) railway inquiry is that when the
members of the Board went to view the scene of
the accident they were driven out. They didn’t
go by train, though it would have been a saving of
time.
The Bulletin received, some time ago, a
letter bearing at the end of it the pregnant words
‘'H.J, Thomson, alderman of Moruya ” (N.S. W.),
and referring to the alleged misdeeds of the local
dredge, and portion of the document was pub-
lished. Now it receives another letter from
Moruya, purporting to be signed by ’’ H. J.
Thomson’’and witnessed by “ Charles Williams,
J.P.” This testifies that Alderman Thomson
didn’t either write or authorise the first letter,
and that he wholly disclaims the anti-dredge
statements therein. As this paper doesn’t know
the signature of Alderman Thomson from a crow,
it can’t verify either of the two autographs but it
accepts the assurance of the second Thomson that
the first Thomson was a forgery. If, later on, it re-
ceives another letter, in which the first Thom son re-
appears, with the dredge as a witness, to declare
that his letter was quite genuine, and announces
that the ; denial of the second Thomson was a
fraud or a joke, and that there is no such person
as “Charles Williams, J.P.” (whose signature
this paper doesn’t know from a vulture), then
The Bulletin will frankly admit that complica-
tions are setting in.
In another column appears the prospectus of the
Shortland Island Rubber Co. —capital £15,000, in shares of
£1 each. The Company is formed to take over from Mr.
H. P. C. Armitage 5000 acres of freehold land suitable
for rubber and other tropical products. The price is
£l5O, and the promoters are asking for £3OO, cash dis-
bursed for taking up the land, and 1200 fully paid-up
shares.*
PERSONAL EXPLANATIONS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. King O’Malley added to the description by interject-
ing, “That’s good democracy,” and Mr. Elliot Johnson
put the finishing touch to it by interjecting, “Good
blackmail !”— Melbourne Argus.
Mr. Elliot Johiison : On a personal explanation I wish
to say that the interjection I made was: “ Business of
that kind savors very much of blackmail.” [Uproar.]—
From another report in the same paper same date.
The interjecting member’s face was almost purple. In
his place
He shook a clenched and hairy fist. “ A lie ! A lie!” he
roared.
All sorts of awful things occurred when these tremendous
words were heard ;
The House sat up with one accord and stared, no longer
bored; ' si
The clang of many tongues arose ; black-eye loomed near
and punched nose,
And loud, tumultuous echoes bumped against the
chamber walls;
But, when the tempest waned somewhat, though breaths
came short and hearts were hot,
The interjector spoke amid loud bellows, groans and
bawls
As follows: “What I interjected was, ‘Things ars not
always what they seem, and the lion, member for
Bullswool has made a mistake.’ ”
The snappish member may get up and call his vis-a-vis a
“pup”;
He may denounce him as a “ dog,” or brand him as a
“cow”;
With bitter scorn, in undertones, he may shake up old
cupboard-bones,
And bring the flush of wrath or shame to someone’s
smarting brow ;
In whispered speech he may obtrude opinions grossly
rank and rude,
And, with a sort of pride, perform his interjecting act,
Observing, gruffly: “ Bounder ! Cad!”. ..Of course,
his memory may be bad,
Or possibly he did remark, with quite consummate tact,
Something like this : “ I think that the hon. member for
Dryandusty might be a little more judicious in his
methods of expression.”
All is not gold that glitters, nor, when carping inter-
jeetors roar,
Is each dull, verbal missile mud, nor every call-down dirt.
Brothers, let us be prudent yet, our minds on higher
matters set,
When some crude member starts to work his interjecting
squirt.
So, when uproarious persons rise with crimson anger in
their eyes
And lash around in sudden rage, and “ Blackmail ” seem
to shriek,
There is no need to show concern—for everyone-will
shortly learn
From one who would explain, with smiles and armor-
plated cheek,
That what really happened is that he, the member
for Steak Valley, interjected thus : “ The hon. mem-
ber for Skunk’s Misery might take a somewhat
higher pattern of manners in the animal scale —for
instance, mine.”
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


; Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund’s Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by this Steamer.
BOUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mkuioorjjk Agrnts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adki.aidr & Frkmanti.k Agrnts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT^LJNIL
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Sailing: every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of Oortb Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of D eu > Zealand.
EQUITABLE
SYDNEY BRANCH:
BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
GRANTS DRAFTS
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking 1 business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000.000
HEAD OFFICE —George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— PhiIip H. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Hon.
Sir Francis B. Sottor, I£t., M.L.C. ; Ciiarlks H. Myles,
Esq. ; Rowland H. Ducker, Esq. ; Sir. William P.
Manning, Kt. ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth and
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £513,632 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,449 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 74,500 0 0
£750,581 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. ====s
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.) ; Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L. A. ; E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A. 1.A.,
Write for Prospectiis. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
R. M. Phillips, Esq., J.P.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.R.C.5.1., L.K.Q.O.P.L
Claude Manning, Esq.
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq.
D. VV. Watkins, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderson.
. Secretary:
FrKkman J. Eaton.
Consulting- Actuary
. W. R. . Day, F.I.A.
Head Office:
30 CASTLEREAGH ST. (fa.cingrMoore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland:
Metropolitan Buildings,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen St.,
Melbourne.
The “ Metropolitan ” aljvays has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
“ LINSEED COMPOUND ” of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis etc.
Shipping.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
N ord D
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Arriving in London in good time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR ■ WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
rnilE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
_l_ Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
Gd. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
dfg
Twin-screw Steamers.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
August 31.
MEDIC, 12.000 tons, to sail about
September 28.
AFRIC, *SUEVIC and *PERSIC to follow
* Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Only One Class of Accommodation-
FARES—Capetown or Durban £.15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne 1 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Dav of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth , and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
•Twin Screw, a One class only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. r . From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Branch Service.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, -fee., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
fg
WINTER TOURS <
to Papua and the Pacific Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Sept. 23, Nov. 4 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Sept. 9, Oct. 21 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT. —INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.— CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
I ull particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
Office- J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
nsurancc, &c.
*fhe Colonial jljotual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154 —Assuring £33.888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling'. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wares :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Ilor.. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.0., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Colline-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP .. .. .. .. £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND(lnvestedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £36,000 0 0
Dirkctors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; J. H.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
CARBIDE.
For FirsDclass Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
L
i ■■
..
. >
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-CAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and Victoria. Thousands already in use in 'Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEDEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Yonprala, Aug. 26
(Melbourne only).
S.S. Kanowna, Sept. 17
(To Fremantle without
transhipment).
BRISBANE
MAGKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oiirns.
[s.S. Yong-ala, Sept. 3.
JS.S. Marloo, Sept. 10.
Best artel Cheapest Route to Goldfieltts.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after tbe
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on »i
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained,
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER,
t Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Laundry on board.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F.—H.-=>S.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “ SOMERSET,”
11.300 Tons. B. G. Hayward Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE about 2nd Sept.
„ „ „ SYDNEY ~ 7th Sept.
„ ~ .. MELBOURNE „ 10th Sept.
„• „ ~ ADELAIDE ~ 14th Sept.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and
LIVERPOOL..
£49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdnev and Brisbane ;
H. JONES & 00., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & C 0.,. Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide. .
Hotels, &c.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel,
VICTORIA STREET,
LONDON,
Opposite Westminster
Abbey and the Houses
England, of Parliament.
A thoroughly comfortable Home-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms from 3/6, and Double Bedrooms
from 5/6 per dav, and NO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet S' nt on Request.
GEO. J. BRINK WORTH, Manager.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W.
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
** EORGE HOTEL,
T St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.


The WORLD S
i
\ i-
(JM/IU
d
m
MllU': ,U^
j[^'CORMICI<jj§J
X^-~W-
y
11 U'lTPlJIBW
r
r^i
/^n
\
tap
///
; flefftlSrS
<4*wKfcy>
M
.\lr,n V'"
rt , 'hr
mm
p "
«/A
V
fw
m
WjL
&
: i
€l5
r>:
u.
yy.
W?B.
;T.
%»**s ■?’•
y/y~y;y.v3
n. i !4
VypX&'-A
**.’ V*_ * * *#•
>w»
‘5 1
. *\
i>/ iy
fM Ti
) \
■\• < -
yym
. • Y-
• 0
r
&
•>5
I
"(V*
?-V
£
s
*
ft
e
&
r.
M
Pyttf people realize
JfuFtistonishing fact that
'pgefmg\jXnd
iders hope fofpfhe past five
years gatherecFcoksiderably more than One Half the
world's supply of Wlteat, Oat^H^arley,and Rye.
The sale of these mhcfiines hap, dufryg in variably exceeded One
undred Thousand per am
\ln the Harvest of 1909 liMs! safe to estimate that mo\e tfian One Million of these
Binder were engaged.
It wguld require approximately Twenty Million men tOs do tfieiryymk - far more
than the combined armies ofyhe world. C^~ v
No other machines (ff ppy character or for any purpose are so univh&zljy
pre-eminem.
They practically stand between Humanity and Starvation.
Their sokd merit has enabled them to distance alf rumpetifi on.
A larger number of them will be put out in 1910
ever previously been sold in any one year.
t)tan
has
Where they are now “IN FRONT ” there
they will remain.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
(INCORPORATED)
'3071
Roma Street; Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney.
545 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
17 Bank Street, Adelaide. 75 York Street, Launceston.
GEO. WILLS & CO.. Perth. General Agents for W.A. (Deering)
WM. SANDOVER & CO, Perth. General Agents for W.A. (McCormick)
r APIT T AHUMF THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
K
A PROVED MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
Thousrh you have only the “ slightest showing of down ” on your lip,
CAPILLARINE will assuredly bring to perfection in a very short
time a moustache that you will be proud of. CAPILLARINE is
indetectable in use, and needs only rubbing on with the tips of the
fingers before retiring at night.
Price 10/6 a Jar,
Posted to any address in the World in Plain Wrapper,
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Craig 1 & Aitken, 654 George St., Sydney,
Established 30 Years.
H
A
*
*
IS YOUR moustache: grey? «
APPLY A LITTLE OF ...
McGEE’S Celebrated MOUSTACHE DYE
to it —get the shade you want hv following the directions—then your trouble
ceases. All the moustache needs afterwards is an occasional touch up with it.
Effective and economical. 3/« a Bottle; post free N.S.W., 3,2 Inter-State.
MeGEE’S CELEBRATED HAIR STAIN, 4/6 and 8/6 a bottle ;
Posted—9d. extra N.S.W., Inter-State 1/2.
ANDREW McGEE,
GENTLEMEN’S
HAIRDRESSER..
5 and 7 Castlcreagh Etree*, corner Hunter Street, Sy dney.


mm.
>. e> tv
(
t
msM».
&;&■
- A
Mo®
<
«c
It should be borne in mind by igli
purchasers that the. full-size-flask
is more advantageous to them
than the half-size flask , as it will
TWICE as long.
last
When the teeth are cleansed
with Odol the whole Jiiouth is
rejuvenated as the body fsfpy a bath.
m
u\t
se
Qvalltx
AUSTRALIA'S
MOST BEAUTIFUL
STORE.
That’s what Southern visitors say. Aus-
tralia’s most beautiful store !
But that’s not the point we want to make
We want you to know that there is no
house in the land better able to satisfy the
needs of out-of-town residents than The
Big Block.
We publish comprehensive, splendidly
illustrated catalogues, which make it as
easy for you to order from Urandangie or
Bourke as if you lived in the metropolis
itself.
And we sell none but dependable goods
at the lowest prices.
Shall we post you the catalogues ?
Finney, Isles & Co.
LIMITED,
THE BIG BLOCK, BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
A Bulged Railway and a Full Moon.
The Commonwealth shall ... construct or cause to be
constructed a railway line from Port Darwin soutlnvaras
to a point on the northern boundary of South Australia
proper .
Construct or cause to be constructed, as part of the
Transcontinental Railway, a railway from a point on the
Port Augusta Railway to connect with the other part of
the Transcontinental Railway at a point on the northern
boundary of South Australia proper.— Extracts from the
Northern Territory Agreement now before the Australian
Parliament.
The Anglo-Japanese alliance has only five more
years to run, and it is an open secret that it will
not be renewed. It is a fairly open secret that it
will be replaced by a Jap-German-Austrian alli-
ance. It is a secret, so very wide open that it is
never likely to be shut again, that, until affairs
assume a wholly different complexion in Europe,
the British Government can’t spare a single first-
class ship for naval adventures south of the line.
Under these conditions Australia’s two transcon-
tinental railways are matters of urgency to give
this country even a show of defence, and it is up
to Queensland, which has beeig-tbe.'chief difficulty
in the way, not to make of itself a suicidal
damphool by its clamor for some absurd eastern
deviation, and thereby hang things up indefinitely.
As a matter of fact, no eastern deviation is
possible under the existing agreement; such a
thing can only be arrived at by tearing up the
entire proposal and starting the whole weary
negotiation afresh. The agreement specifies a line
southwards from Port Darwin to the border of
S.A.—not a line running in a south-easterly
direction, then south again, then west, and then
south once more ; and even the amazing legal
theories of Attorney-General Hughes can’t alter
that obvious circumstance. Apart from this diffi-
culty, it is not easy to see that Queensland has very
much to gain by an eastern deviation evep when
the matter is viewed from the wholly selfish and
un-Australian and parish pump point of view:
There are two possible courses. One is to carry
the transcontinental line a little way across the
Queensland border, and deliberately build it
southward through the worst part of the State—
the dreadful south-west. It is hardly worth add-
ing many miles to the length of the railway in
order to bring it round in the cheerless vicinity of
Birdsyille, and the profit to Queensland by the
building of a line in that locality seems very small.
The other possibility lies in bringing the line about
500 needless miles east to about Cloncurry, then
carrying it south through moderately good coun-
try, and afterwards rushing it about 500 miles west
again, sothatit may strike the northern borderlof
S.A. This would certainly “link up” (as the
common phrase goes) Queensland’s three big rail-
ways, but it would increase the distance from south
to north by about 1000 miles, and make the trans-
continental line a ruinously expensive joke to build
and an absurdly-protracted means of conveyance.
Of course, no person in his senses denies that
Cloncurry, Longreach and Charleville should be
connected with the transcontinental line; but
that is hardly the point at issue. It was realised
long ago that Mount Gambier and Oodna-
datta, in S.A. ; Swan Hill, Bendigo and
Bairnsdale, in Victoria; Cooma, Cobar,
Broken Hill, Bourke, Brewarrina and Hay,
m N.S.W. ; and Charleville, Cunnamulla,
Blackall and Longreach, in Queensland, required
to be connected with the great line that runs from
Adelaide to Rockhampton, but no one was so mad
as to advance that as a reason why the main rail way
should wander round all these places and. be about
15,00 Q miles long. Yet it is on just that kind of
madness that the demand for the eastern deviation
is based. Australia’s first transcontinental railway
wants to be connected with all the places men-
tioned and with a lot of others, including Derbv,
Port Hedland, Kalgoorlie, Leonora and Albany in
Westralia; but the idea of dragging the main line
round so that it may touch all these places is the
sort of inspiration that one only looks for at full
moon. The eastern deviation idea deserves to be
handed down to posterity as the full moon theory.
Home-Secretary Appel threatens to cut the
Gordian knot of Queensland’s hospitaldifficulties
by a Napoleonic stroke of nationalisation. This
talk sounds like bluff. When the Morgan
THE FLICK ERIN SECTORAPH.
WATER (upholding the dignity of the restaurant): “ You haven't tasted your cheese yet. sir!”
FASTIDIOUS PATRON (shuddering): "No, I cant stand moving pictures! ”
Government attempted to nationalise hospitals
some four years ago the Tory party, to which
Appel belongs, fought the Bill furiously, and
finally induced the Legislative Council to reject
it. The principal opponent of the measure was
the Brisbane and the Courier is the
journalistic boss of the present Government.
From Treasurer Hawthorn’s Budget speech
(Courier, August 18)
The ordinary expenditure had been kept close to the
estimate, so that at the end of the year there was the
full advantage of. the lirge increase in revenue, allowing
the Government to make a number of repayments and,
adjustments which would greatly strengthen the financial
position this year to face the enormous reductions front
the Commonwealth without resorting to fresh taxation.
The Government had succeeded in getting in a large num-
ber of accounts , amounting to £IIS.OOO , which ordin-
arily would not have been charged until July.
To pay July accounts in June may not appear a
particularly atrocious crime ; but in this ca,se the
object has to be consider ed. Under the Audit Act
Amendment Act of 1906 it was provided that
future surpluses should be used either to wipeout
old debt or to do away with the need for new
debt. In the former case the money would be
used to buy up Treasury Bills ; in the latter, it
would be transferred to the Loan Fund. The
Kid-Philp Government defeats that admirable
provision by the simple process of paying July
accounts in June, and thus preventing a surplus.
Whether the Auditor-General will put his name
to the beautiful little schefne remains to be seen.
If he thinks he has to—well, Queensland will
know then just what weight to attach to Queens-
land Treasury reports in future.
The Ballade of Bread and
Butter.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HE sings, when in his twentieth year,
The tuneful song of Julia’s eyes;
He tells the world how doubly dear
The world is for its tender ties ;
The years pass on—despite his sighs,
His one-time soft melodious trill,
He sings at last, in otherwise,
To meet his bread and butter bill.
When birthday twenty-five is near
He chants, in proud heroic guise,
Of furious fray and savage spear,
Of clash of arms and battle cries ;
In strong Homeric strain he vies
With all who drive a warrior-quill—
But now his warblings only rise
To meet his bread and butter bill.
When summers round to thirty veer
His battle-fury droops and dies ;
In fierce satiric gibe and jeer
He lashes all Convention’s lies.
But now the whip he seldom plies,
No scorn has he for Wrong or 111 ;
With hackneyed pen he simply tries
To meet his bread and butter bill!
Envoi :
His vista holds no golden prize
To lure him on. His metric skill
Must find the fish his guidwife fries
And meet his bread and butter bill.
QUEENSLAN d.
FURNESS BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, August 20, 1910.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The week has been a haze of Mater Miseri-
cordiae hospital openings and visitations by his
Eminence the Cardinal* to various schools. The
Nudgee College, the Christian Brothers and All
Hallows each had a turn. A yellow devil that I
happened across, and who hadn’t any right to be
there save that he was a former patient of the
old Mater Hospital, whispered to me that he had
found a dog and an oil painting to admire; but
for all his jubilant air I believe it was only an
oleograph. Anyway the sun shone, and his
Eminence decorated a carpet-square and spoke
with a certain amount of eloquence.
The opening of the new hospital drew a crowd
that could not have been far short of 10,000,
and from an upper balcony the seething mass of
curious humanity that fried in the western sun
was an edifying spectacle. What interested
me most was the lace of the episcopal cutty
sark. or dolman, or dressing-jacket. It was
lovely, and 1 longed to ask the owner to leave it
to me in his will. The doors having been duly
opened, the offerings were counted, and they
reached £2500 for the afternoon.
“Drink, said the Demon.” And this must
have been his advice to the guests of the Local
Authorities down the river the other day. I am
told that the supply of all manner of liquids was
the largest per head ever put on board the
Lucinda, and yet, on arrival in town, the canteen
had run dry. Stranger still, not a delegate but
could walk a plank at the end.
The promises of Minister Paget to give rail-
ways here, there and everywhere are now coming
home to the departmental roost like an endless
flock of crows. First, there’s the section from
Clermont to Ravenswood, 220 miles; and from
Longreach to Winton, 120 miles ; and from Bar-
ealdine to Hughenden, 120 to 180 miles by alter-
native routes, which will keep the present staff
hard at it for the next three years. There are
also such small jobs as the Woodford and Mary
Valley, Mitchell to Barcaldine, Chinchilla and
several other points to Taroom, Bobawabba (re-
minds one of Bishop Webber), Ayr to Ravens-
wood, and dozens more. But why go on ? The
Government will be dead of senile decay long be-
fore it can even add up its liabilities.
Several wholesale tea-drinkings have taken
p]ace during the past week. Mr. and Mrs. Trude
bid a large and chatterv gathering to their roof-
tree at Bowen Terrace, arid sister May Gore had
a like foregathering in the winter garden at
Rowes. Then Mrs. Craig, of Sydney, who is
with us for the Carnival, filled several tables at
the same place a day or so later.
The warships have departed, and the tw°
pretty girls who have been the chief pilots of tw«
of the most eligible bachelor Jack Tars ar e
thrown out of occupation.
Speaker Bell is really going to get well again,
and congratulations are being showered upon him
on account of his recovery.
Quite the smartest orange-blossom party that
has happened along for years was that which took
place at Banksia on Wednesday last, when Ernest
Bell, the owner of Coochin Coochin station, and
Pauline, the youngest daughter of the house, said
“Yes” to each other in a bower of palms and
other agricultural verdure. The reception was a
crush of magnitude. Wedged in among a forest
of gigantic hats I found Nellie Wilson in
a fetching black garment that fitted like Bil-
lingsgate abuse, arid Florence Vie in A blue frock.
Mrs. Florence McNeile, who was, in a stage sense.
Miss Walton Taylor, and is, in a personal sense,
eldest sister to the bride, topped a champagne
satin with a white hat adorned with blue. The
bridesmaids. Misses Bell, Moya Cuppaidge and
Ella Sydney Jones, were frocked in violet,
with green stalky arrangements on rather peculiar
purple hats. The bride and bridegroom will
strike Sydney and its harbor the day this is
posted. From there they proceed to the moun-
tain that Freedom shrieked when he fell, but as
he afterwards owned a farm in France and pros-
pered greatly in various bucolic occupations, I
presume that his fall wasn’t so serious as might
be imagined. These remarks have an obscure
reference to Kosciusko,
The Tennis Tournament bounced its.last ball at
the AuchenflOwer Courts on Saturday, with the
usual win for the light blues. Yet the week held
some surprises, such as the defeat of Rice by
Turner, and the sterling fight put up by St. John
against Parker. In the doubles championship
the battle was a noble one, and the.victory of
Rice and Wright was brought about chiefly by
the wild play of Thurlow, who mostly banged
things into the net. It is strange that the
dependable St. John should not try his luck with
Turner, who, if less flashily brilliant than the
Thurlow person, is at least dependable.
Mrs. Wolstenholm beat the Queensland girl,
Miss Mackintosh, but had nothing to spare at the
finish ; and the Queensland Ladies’ Pair also put
up a meritorious performance.
Mr. Herbert Carrol, to whose genius we owe
that stirring ballad, “Rip Van Winkle,” immor-
talised by Peter Dawson, is in our midst, and
speaks of settling in Brisbane. He is on the
point of posting to his basso two or three more
bits of rousing song, which ought to be as suc-
cessful as his first effort. I made one of an ex-
clusive audience one day last week when he Car-
rolled his melodies, .and the rollicking “Dare
Devil Dan” and a couple of other trifles brought
down the carefully-selected house. Carrol is an
Adelaide boy, and it was while touring with the
musical All Blacks that he first felt the longing
to imitate Rip. He thought about it so much that
at last he committed it to paper, and now draws
a nice little royalty therefrom.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
“ O. A. Garland ” tells the tale of an ass :
The Damphool stood upon the Edge, vvliich is between
Camooweal and the Last Drink, and looked back over the
far ways he had come. “Ah,” said he, “if I had only
known ! If I had harked to the call of the Ideal instead
of following the vulgar thing- we call Reality! What a
world of transcendental loveliness could I have dwelt in
if I had only repulsed the attraction of Earth and
avoided the false lodestar of flesh we know as woman !
Alas, why do we not gain knowledge until it is' too late?
If I could only live my life again? If 1 could”
Came a grinding and rattling roar. Heavy darkness
descended on all things. The lightnings flashed and the
thunders shook the earth as it turned. Loud screamed
the wind. Then all was hushed and the darkness lifted,
and, lo ! the Damphool was born again.
The world rolled on and the years went by, and once
again the Dantphool stood upon the Edge, which is
between the Gulf and the Devil. “Ah,” said he, “how
misled I have been ! All the good and real things of
life I have passed by in my vain search for the ideal.
Scorning true happiness, I have sought for a shadowy
thing of wind and illusion. I could have possessed the
love of a good woman, and been the father of happy
children. Alas ! Blinded by moon vapor and ridden by
a chimera, I have spurned them all. And only now,
when it is too late, has the truth come to me. Oh, if I
had only known ! If I could only live my ”
A shrouded figure crept up behind and pushed the
Damphool over.


IT IS A PLEASURE TO WRITE WITH
The Complete Writing Outfit
INKSTAND, PEN AND PENCIL CASE,
PENCIL AND ERASER.
TABLETS FOK MAKING A
Pint of Best Ink
Only 3/-
VALUABLE LOT OF
REMARKABLE PENo
The Shading Pen,
The Reservoir Pen,
The Changing Pen,
The Braham Foun-
tain Pen and the
Fountainette.
A Great Bar-
gam-
The Lot
FOR
Only 3/-
We pay carnage.
fgd
'T'HE Inkstand is of burnished metal with glass well, very
neat and of good app* arance. The Pen and Pencil Case is
British made and a really handsome article. The Pencil has
the best quality Eraser. The Ink Tablets have merely to be
dissolved—a little at a time—in water to produce a pint of ex-
cellent Ink, either black or bright red, as desired. A fine
assortment of wonderful Pens are given with the
outfit. The Shading Pen writes a thick and a thin stroke at
the same time, and it produces most remarkable effects. The
Top-Feed Reservoir Pen will write 200 words with one dip.
The Changing Pen can be altered in a moment from hard to
soft, or to any intermediate degree. The Braham Fountain
Pen has another style of reservoir, and it will write hundreds
of words with one supply of ink. The Fountainette is a clever
attachment that converts any ordinary nib into an effective
fountain pen. These items purchased separately would cost
fully double the price mentioned. They are a great
bargain at Three Shillings for the Lot. carefully packed
and sent carriage paid to any address in the world other
firm can supply these goods at anv price.
THE UNION COMPANY, 299 _^ z e £SnI™
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
" AWL-YOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWE.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sew*
2s. Posted.
(Awl, ? needles,
i reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
ďfg
j Its immense value in repairs to Boots
'and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Siraps, etc., it
lis the " Awl-you-want,” Thread from the
' reel (wjiich may be kept in one's pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight—l reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post tree. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for as. Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Coliina Street. Melbourne.
Antiquarian Gazette,
CONDUCTED BY
ISIDORE KOZMINSKY, F.R.H.S., F.R.N.S.,
Assoc. Brit. Soc. of Archaeologist*, Bond., etc.
Second Quarterly Number of the new series
contains articles on :
The Newly Discovered Jewish Docu-
ments in Egypt, by Professor A. H.
Sayce, D.D., LL.D.,D.C.L.
Romance of Heraldry and Note on the
Career of Flora Macdonald, by Sir
Edward Mackenzie Mackenzie, Bart.
Copper Tokens of New South Wales, by
Dr. Arthur Andrews.
Profligacy in the time of Charles 11.,
by Rev. G. F. South.
Phuzpa Devil Dagger of Tibet, by Mrs.
A. Mclntyre.
ETC., ETC.
ss. Yearly.
Office—Block Place, off Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i \ & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co„ 229, Strand,
London, England
GOUT
Congo
NEVER
LEAK-
ROOFING
SS
r!
CONTINUE to patch your roof when a few rolls of Congo “ Never-Leak ”
vv Roofing will put an end to all of that expense at very little cost over what you
are paying for repairs ?
You can lay it right over your old roof, it is so soft and pliable.
Congo will not leak or rot. It is pliable, non-shrinkable, unaffected by climatic
changes, winds or water.
It is easy to lay, durable, and will give the most service for the least money.
Free Sa?7iple sent on request. Write to-day.
Congo Damp Course for making foundations damp-proof.
G. C. DELMAR, Australasian Representative for “ Gongro,” Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents Millar’s Karra Jarraii Co., Perth, W.A.; Noyes Bros., 109 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W. ;
Noyes Bros . 153 William Sr,., -Melbourne ; Harrold. Colton & Go., Currie St., Adelaide ;
Brabant & Co., 157 to 163 Charlotte St., Brisbane ; Walter Reid & Co., Rockhampton.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS.
The Shortland Island Rubber and Tropical Produce Co.
NO LIABILITY.
SOLOMON ISLANDS.
Nominal Capital—£ls,ooo in Shares of £1 each.
10,000 Shares offered to the public, 5/- on application, 5/= on allotment, and balance, If required,
2/6 at intervals of three months.
1,200 Fully paid-up Shares to Promoters.
1,450 Reserve for half salary for Superintendent over a number of years.
2,350 held in reserve for future issue.
15,000 Shares.
' Provisional Directors :
H. O. WALPOLE, Esq., Somerville Road, Yarraville.
L. B. VERNON, Esq., Victoria Crescent, Mont Albert.
H. HESSELMANN, Esq., 44 Hotham Street, East Melbourne.
G. L. BLASHKI, Esq., 104 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
A. C. SIMMONDS, Esq., 133 George Street, Fitzrby.
EACH OF WHOM WILL HOLD AT LEAST 100 SHARES.
Allotments of Shares will proceed on the whole 10,000 Shares being applied for.
Further details are fully set forth in the printed Prospectus, copies of which can be obtained at the officesof the
company, or from the brokers, Messrs. MENZIES & MOULE, 94 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Applications for Shares must be made on the forms provided in the printed prospectus.
The promoters receive £3OO in repayment of the necessary expenses which they have incurred, in addition to
the paid-up Shares before mentioned.
Cost of flotation will not exceed £6OO.
The company js formed to take over possession from Mr. H. P. C. Armitage, and complete title to about 5000
acres (freehold) land at Shortland Island.
The island is out of the hurricane zone, and only 7 degrees from the Equator. Heat and moisture, the two
essentials for successful rubber-growing, are assured. The climate is most forcing.
Mr. Armitage, an ex-Ceylon planter, and for many years in the Ceylon Forest Department, has been secured as
superintendent of plantation, and bis faith in the venture is shown by the proviso insisted on by him—that one-half
of his salary should be paid in fully paid-up shares.
The land secured has a sea frontage, and is withip flve miles of “Faisi,” the port of call. Transport will there-
fore not prove a serious item.
With Freehold Land at cost price, and under most favqrable conditions for growing rubber, this enterprise,
with capable management, which is already secured, should be a highly successful one.
APPLICATION FOR SHARES may be made to the Brokers, or to
J. EDWIN MOIR, 436 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
9
Or
<o.
WE ARE PRACTICAL HAIRDRESSERS.
We have sold hundreds of repeat orders for PLUM
RAZORS, solely because of its ability to give thorough
shaving satisfaction in .every way. We are practical
hairdressers, and know how to turn opt a razor with
the shaving edge. Guaranteed and kept in order for
two years free of charge.
Price 10/6
Post Free to
any Country.
We Crind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Strong Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Singie Razor, ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6,
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoteo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the abce Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years. '
Mark Foy’s Ltd
SYDNEY
No. 1024.—“ Dlnna
Forget” Charm,
gold, 5/6.
No. 1130— Gold
Heart Pendant,
pearl set, 10/=
N . 10X4—Unks—
Silver, 2/6; Gold, 10/6.
WE PAY
CARRIAGE
ON ALL
THESE
GOODS.
No. 1148—9 ct. Gold Band Bangle, 22/6 ; others 25/- &30/-
“ The Home of Good Values.”
No. luSO— Oct. Gold Crescent and Star Brooch, 15/6.
SEND CASH
with ORDER.
We Buy for
Cash and Sell
for Cash.
No. 1046 — Sapphire
and Diamond Dress
Ring, 15ct. Gold, 25/-
Others to 50/-
9ct. Gold Wishbone and
Comet Brooch, pearl set, 10/
O her Designs to 17/6.
No. 1047— Betrothal
Ring, olivine and
diamonds, £6/10/-
V.
\r
li •
1>
gunnp
Forest Devil.
The Roots Must Come Out,
as well as the Trunk.
POSITIVELY the hardest work the Farmer, Settler or Squatter is called upon to do is
grubbing. The old method of uprooting dry or green stumps and trees is now entirely
revolutionised by the introduction bn the market of the. most, marvellous labor-saving
device for Farmers, etc., ever invented. It is called "The Bunyip Forest
Devil.” This particular Forest Devil is far superior to any other Forest Devil in the market,
in that it is the very essence of simplicity m adjusting and in manipulating. The most
admirable features of “ The Bunyip Forest Devil ” are that it is not only light in weight
and can be moved with the greatest ease from tree to tree, where it can be rapidly fixed and
adjusted, but it is absolutely certain to accomplish almost any task set to it.
The tremendous strain which can be brought to bear with “ The Bunyip Forest
Devil ” makes it absolutely imperative for the tree or stump to leave the ground entirely
roots and all, no matter how big the tree or stump, how long it has been growing, or how
firmly it be rooted in the ground.
Many “land men,” once doubtful of the assertions claimed for it, are now loud in their
praises of the unbounded and entire satisfaction it has given in their case, and in many
instances they have paid for the cost of the machine in a very short while by hiring it to
tiieir neighbors.
Convincing proof of its wonderful power and its durability, the quickness with which it
can be adjusted, the labor and money it saves, will be found in a special and attractive
catalogue Messrs. John Cooper & Sons, 287-289 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, have just issued.
Copies will be sent free to every enquirer, together with any other information required.
When writing, please mention this paper.
John Cooper &
Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth Street (opp. St.
Francis’s Church), MELBOURNE.
m
Of all Dealers,
Uneasy ric/es the 7}ike S'
without a “grooms”
Your dealer, and every dealer,'will tell you of the unrivalled
security of seat, the perfect comfort at all speeds and on varying
road surfaces, which belong to the BROOKS SADDLE.
Your bicycle cannot do its best without a BROOKS.


T
&
£
&
C>
C'J
CO
FOR MBYS
imam
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London, 27,
Charterhouse Sq.: Paris, 10. Rue de la Chaussee
i’ Antin; Australia, K. Towns & Co., Sydney;
India, B. K. Paul, Calcutta; China, Hong Kong
Drug Co.; Japan. Maruya, Ltd.. Tokio; So. Africa.
Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town, etc.: Russia. Ferrcln
(Apteka), Moscow; U. S. A., Potter Drug & Chera.
Corp., Sole Props.. 133 Columbus Ave., Boston.
oypost-frce, 32-page Cutlcura Book, an Author-
ity on the Care and Treatment of Skin and Hair.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION IN THREE MINUTES
PULCHRIT,
A GENUINE SKIN TONIC, AND SUBSTITUTE FOR
FACE CREAMS and ALL OTHER SKIN SPECIFICS.
(1) Pdpchrit is the only powder which produces
amazing effects after being washed off. (2) If used'
as ordinary powder (dry), lightly rubbed into the skin,
it becomes equally invisible. (3) It produces a dazzling,
beautiful skin, and idealises the complexion. (4) It im-
parts to the roughest skin a velvety softness, and .pro-
duces that fascinating appearance which is so much
admired. (5) It is indispensable for the culture of the
hand. (6) Instead of clogging the pores it cleanses them,
removing all blemishes, such as wrinkles, freckles, red-
ness, yellow skin, pimples, etc. (7) It creates a feeling
of comfort and ease by neutralising perspiration ; there-
fore indispensable at balls, theatres, etc. (8) It stands
for health and hygiene of the skin.
Price 45., post free, from the wholesale agent for Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, H. A. Goddard, Eagle Street,
Brisbane, Queensland ; or a sample will be forwarded on
receipt of Is. in stamps or postal note. [2
HOME CURE
for FAT PEOPLE.
ARE you one of those people who imagine
that excessive fat “ is natural ” —and that
you should “let well alone,” as a foolish
old frump of a family doctor once told one
of our most successful patients ?
If you saw a man about to stab at your heart
wouldn’t you resist to your utmost? Obesity
attacks your heart and is more relentless than
he who would attack you.
Wake up, you are drifting towards destruction.
Science has found a method, safe, harmless and
reliable, by which you can reduce your weight bv
as much as five pounds a week—without discom-
fort or detention from your daily routine.
You are no different to other fat people. Yon
are just fat, unhealthily fat; and so-were they until
“FATCURE
came into their lives and reduced their weight tp
normal, and prevented all possibility of deati|
from heart failure.
Send 21. stamp, and let us send you a free trial
treatment and descriptive book on Obesity.
Call for Free Advlpe. J [605
Wat worth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
OH ! ONLY A COLD !
But why have it when .you can throw it off so easily ?
Don’t waste time witli various nostrums. Help
Nature to expel the poison from your systenj„by a
trial of the ideal aperient— -
LAXATINE,
THE LOZENGE LAXATIVE.
Tleasantly flavored. Perfect in action. You’ll feel
ihe benefit immediately. No griping effect. Creates
pew life.
Is. per Box—all Chemists.
[l
COMFORT-SPEED
& DURABILITY
fg
ON THE
ROAD
ARE UNEQUALLED.
BARNET GLASS
RUBBER CO. LTD.
231 Clarence Street, Sydney;
13 Perkins Street, Newcastle.
AND ALL STATP:S.
m
m
m
DR. MCLAUGHLIN’S
ELECTRIC BELT
is fully described in our grand illustrated
Free Book. . . . This Book tells
how Weakness, lassitude, Toss of Power,
Nervousness, Weak Back, Insomnia, Indi-
gestion, Dyspepsia, Sour Stomach, Diabetes,
Constipation, Skin and Blood Diseases,
Kidney and Diver Troubles, Rheumatism,
Sciatica, Lumbago, Varicocele and Rupture
are cured to stay cured. . . . Write for
Book to-day, and it will be sent you Free
and Postage Paid by return mail.
THE McLAUGHLIN CO
12 Linden Court, Sydne,
Early Spring
Suiting's.
WE have made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest productions in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to us.
We have received the first two consign-
ments, and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall he pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer’s).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
For your everyday use,
and your everyday
comfort, buy . . .
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Toilet Soap,
For you want a soap that is'"pure
and cleansing, you like a soap that
is pleasant and refreshing, and an
antiseptic soap like this, containing
10% pure Carbolic—an ample
you against risk of
contagion. Sold at Local Stores and
Chemists, in three-tablet boxes.
Makers, F. C. CALVERT & Co v
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
the; best
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
fflßMßtttissiiaS
C.USTARP
arsES
Bird’s
Custards Sruti
The delicious Fruits ot New South
Wales,When stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
ftREME LA FRANCE
W-
An Kxqnisite Lotion and'
CO'inetic for Beautifying
and giving Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion, Neck and
A rins—is most bene-
ficial to the skin
when showing a
tendency to be-
come thin, flabby
and discolored.
It softens a hard,
dry skin, and is
perfectly harmless to
the mostdelicate skin.
Price 2/6, Posted 3/-
Obtainable only from
MADAME LEIGH, Hairand
Skin Specialist and Ladies
Hairdresser, 23 The Block Arcade, COLLINS STREET
ENTRANCE, MELBOURNE.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
11^
MORRISS 1
bree Wtches
b CIGARETTES
ills.
10
for
Made
London
HIGHEST GRADE.
6s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, sydnet.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists sholild
send tor our Trade Lists.
The Inky Way.
“ Tiie Snake ” : Another change of editors is announced
for the restless Wellington (M.L.) Times. P. 0. Freeth
appears to h ive got into holts with the scratch schemes
for boosting the circulation—such as giving away a ton
of doughnuts in return for a shilling advt. ; and Fred
Kirby (the old bo’s’n), who was associate editor, turns in
to the captain's cabin. Probable Kirby is the one man
who will be able to nail himself to the mast, and stav
there. In addition to his ability, he has all through the
years of trouble and storm remained at the tiller of the
ship, and has possessed the confidence of all the various
owners and crews. When men we. e beingheaved overboard
fore and aft, or were climbing through the portholes and
swimming ashore, Kirby went on navigating steadilv.
New owners came aboard and hanged old editors and
ancient pastepots at the yard-arm; but nobody even
shook a belaying pin at Kirby. When Seddon was one of
the controlling influences he never did much more than
fuss with Kirby (who was then sub-editor), although the
sound of his periodical onslaughts on the editor could be
neard above the shrieking of the gales in Cook Strait.
•Seddon knew, and everybody else knew, that the qui t
marble-faced ■*«»« was the navigator without the gold
lace. He could always get the best out of the most
mutinous crew ; he set the watches fairly ; and he hardly
ever left the deck. It is hard to say what progress the
paper will make with the awful management that has
always rested on it like Vanderdecken’s curse; but if
anybody can get it lound the Cape and into the peaceful
Sea of Established Prosperity, Kirby is the man for the
job.
* * * *
“ Itan ” (from Queensland): One Wages board award,
which will come into operation early in September,
will snuff out many of the mushroom newspapers which
at present cut into the business of the decent provincial
papers. Unholy wages are paid by most of these mush-
rooms, one owner of about a score of them paying editors
as low as 30s. a week and comps, less. Most of the matter
they print is cribbed from the brisbane dailies and sent
out in stereos. The award places the northern State far
in advance of New South Wales, and the Inky Way up
north has just blown the froth off a pint in celebration.
*** ' *
Choice sample of the manufacture of “news” on one
side or the other: —
Sydney D. T. Cable
One Day.
President Taft, speaking
at Jackson, Michigan, de-
clared that Socialism was
the great problem confront-
ing America. The issue, he
added,'would soon come,
and when it came it must
be skilfully met.
Sydney Sun Cable
Previous Day.
President Taft made a
notable speech in Jackson
yesterday, while taking part
in the celebration of the 50th
anniversary of the found-
ing of the Republican party.
Socialism, declared the
President, was i he dominant
problem of the hour in
American politics. Of the
abuses that grew out of the
present system many were
due to the unequal distri-
bution of property. “I
would, therefore, say,”
added Mr. Taft, “we will
have a new rule of distribu-
tion, which, for the want of
a better name, we will call
Socialism.”
Tiik Bulletin doesn’t, know what Taft did say; but if
the Sun lied, it lied with more convincing circumstance
than the Anti-Sosh rag supplied.
■** * *
‘Waif and “Stray,” otherwise the ex-Australian
lando-Webbs, after endeavoring to illumine the Foo- for a
year or so, have gone to East Africa, where there are
some hundreds of whites, a few million blacks, and three
newspapers. The East African Standard has acquired
the “ Waif ” as general factotum in Mombasa and Nairobi.
Mombasa, by the bye, is a coral island, where the palm
and the clove flourish exceedingly, and the inhabitants
regularly hang their washing on the equatorial line
which is only a few yards distant.
“S.T.S.”: Have just come across the (rather belated)
item that Kitchener is reported to have told a New York
reporter that the girls there were the prettiest in the
world. It sounds unlikely ; yet probably it happened
or near enough to make it impossible o'f contradiction.
Years ago I was in the U.S.A., staying with some
shipboard acquaintances at Meadville, a tiny town in the
oil-country of Pennsylvania. The inevitable daily paper
had a standing notice that it would be glad to see callers.
“ Walk right up. The door opens inwards.” So I called
and had a pleasant chat with the editor, not dreaming
that it all would appear in the little paper’s next issue as
an Interview. Incidentally the harmless question was put •
“ What do you think of our girls?” Well, what can one say
inreplytoa question likethat? “Rotten! No class 1 > ”?
Hardly,even if one thought it. K. of K. wasasked thesame
question, probably, and knew that a lying report would
go down as his answer if he did not give one. Doubtless
he said much as I said : “ Haven’t seen much of them ; but
those I haveseen look very nice.” In my case it appeared
in type as: “ Our Australian visitor says he is quite taken
aback by the visions of loveliness seen on the Meadville
streets.”, >
* * » *
M. . The dodge of post-dating foreign magazines to
hoodwink the purchaser into believing be is getting up-
-10-date matter has become more noticeable since
Tiik Lone Hand commenced publication in Australia
Picked up a mag. from abroad the other dav, bearing
date d une 15 on the cover, while on the first" page was
the announcement of a new serial “ to commence in the
next issue, June Ist.”
/ * * * *
‘fjnkd”:‘ Maoriland owns 232 newspapers, of which
140 are pubbshed in the North Island. And the tally is
Sixty-seven of these are dailies. There are 24
‘TtM.ES, d 7 Heralds, 14 Presses, besides Stars, Mails
News, Chronicles dud Advocates. M.L. loudly boa ts
thgimost southerly rag in the world ; it is printed at the
Bluff. That is to say. it is the most southerly unless some
Chilian editor runs a paper at Punta Arenas," in the Straits
of Magellan, and the Chilian person is quite capable of
doing so. He has already torn away from Maoriland the
distinction of possessing the farthest south lamp-post in
the world. An attempt was made some years ago to
establish a half-penny daily, the Sun, in" Wellington,
but the venture only survived a dozen issues. Journals
have also at times been printed in the Maori language
for the benefit of the native race, but they all burst " ’
* * * *
Papua, Australia’s big baby Possession, has no news-
paper, though it thought it was going to have one a
while back. A “literary gentleman ” arrived, and easily
persuaded the population that what was really wanted
to make the place shift was an Archimedean lever. He
got hold of the ear of every principal inhabitant and
whispered into it that its owner was the very man to go
on the Board of Directors; and the owner of the ear,
scenting greatness, mostly beamed on the proposal!
Then, all being ready, the literary gentleman set out to
look for the necessary machinery, and apparently he
hasn’t found it yet. In some houses in Papua voti be-
come suddenly unpopular now if you even mention that
it looks as though the place wants a newspaper.
PRODUCTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“What are Australia’s literary products?” —Foster
Fraser.
Our literary products? Fie :
What ignorance does this imply !
Pray, will you tell us whose berries
Are bigger than our gooseberries?
Who grows the maize so thick and high ?
And where in all the world around
Can such enormous spuds be found?
And answer if Atlantic has
Sea-serpents as gigantic as
The ones that hereabout abound ?
Our melons that a half-ton weigh,
Our wondrous pig that fills a dray,
Our locusts—the internalist—
The bright, tri-weekly journalist
Produces these things day by daj.
Our literary products they 1
VICTORIA.
EDYSON.


*
- * +
' - --
SAND SHOES.
Postage extra —
Adult sizes, 9d. ; Children’s, 6d.
Do You see that
ASBESTOS SOCK ?
Asbesto=Plims DO NQT DRAW THE
FEET, and this is the reason.
THE ASBESTO-PLIM is furnished with an Asbestos
Sock, vulcanised on so that it cannot get out of place.
Asbestos is a perfect insulator, and used as a sock
prevents the heat front external influences striking
through to the foot, thus reducing perspiration to a minimum
and greatly increasing the comfort.
Vs
§?
That unpleasant and even painful burning 1 sensation, usually referred to as drawing the feet, P
of bv wearers of the ordinary plimsoll and other rubber-soled shoes, has always been a drawback in the rubber
shoe trade. Every retailer knows that many buyers of plimsolls, especially of children s sizes, a\ g "
givings about doing so, while a verv great number will not purchase rubber shoes of this description a . ,
because of this complaint. The cause of all the trouble we have now successfully overcome. Allay
the fears of your friends by recommending
NOVELTY RUBBER CO.’s ASBESTO-PLIMS
which from a hygienic point of view have nothing but j.dvantayes.
IT IS THE ONLY RUBBER SHOE ON THE MARKET WITH AN ASBESTOS SOCK.
We cut these insoles to fit any size shoes—a boon to those who suffer from
tender feet. Men’s, 1/6; Women’s, 1/3 per pair. Postage Free.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NOVELTY RUBBER CO., 250 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE.
SOLE AGENTS. Write for Catalogue “ B,” posted free.
HAVE YOU GOT?
1. A Tearing, Hacking Cough ?
2. A Stuffed-up Chest?
3. A Teasing Irritation in your Throat?
4. A Difficulty in Breathing ?
5. A Cold in Your Head?
6. A Fit of Sneezing ?
7. A Pain in Your Chest?
8. A Shortness of Breath ?
9. “Only a Bit of a Cold?”
HAVE
YOU?
IF YOU HAVE, TAKE
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
THE GRANDEST REMEDY FOR
COUGHS & COLDS
••A STITCH IN TIME SAVES NINE.”
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS, AND
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
N S.W. Branch Office; 522 George Street, Sydney.
Tshe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN sd.
THE DEMON OF DRINK.
HAS HE
GOT YOU?
Drunkenness, the curse of so many homes, has for
years baffled scientists, but now a remedy has been
found. Dr. Shaw’s Anti-Alcohol (Registered by the
Govts, of Vic. and N.S.W.)isa certain cure —is harm-
less, andean be given secretly or taken voluntarily.
Advice Free. Write or Call. Dr. Shaw’s Establish-
ments, 54 Russell Street, Melbourne ; 1161 Hay
Street, Perth, W.A. [2
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centuries
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
cures ".
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes,Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or writ*
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road. London, Eng.
4-
You
cannot
strop it
Wrongly
Insert the
strop in the Auto Strop
Safety Razor —move the
Razor to and fro —the
blade reverses automatically
at the end of each stroke,
thus stropping itself —in an
instant you have a keen edge.
That is why the
Auio&trop
rAToR
always gives a smooth and luxurious shave. And the Auto Strop user avoids
continual outlay for new blades —required by any ordinary safety razor,
k There is nothing to take apart to strop or clean. Far quicker handier
ana cheaper than a no-stropping razor.
The Standard Outfit consists of quadruple silver-
plated, self-stropping razor ; one dozen specially
tested lancet - steel blades; one horsehide
strop ; the whole contained in handsome
leather case, size 2 in. by 3} in. The
price complete is
25/-
and no
further
expense.
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO.,LTD
The Rialto, Collins St., Melbourne; and'*
222. Clarence St., Sydney.
0
PATRONAGE.
UNDER VICE-REGAL
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hairworkers and Dermatologists,
161 KING ST., SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Sts.
Transformations, from £4 4s. Tails, from 7s. 6d. Natural Hair Pads, from 21s. Fringes, from 7s. 6d.
TRY OUR GLORIA HAIR TONIC. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Telephonq 2133 Central, Country Orders Promptly Attended To.
THE
WORLDS RECORD BREAK
66 49
836
<®l
4
>5
5273
NO more positive proof of the worthiness of an “ Alcock ” billiard table could
be given than by the splendid performance of George Gray, the young
Queensland player, in his recent match with Fred Lindrum, jun.
A Standard “ Alcock ” Billiard Table was used, and certified to by the
Amateur Billiard Association of Victoria (which is affiliated with the Billiard
Association of Great Britain and Ireland).
Gray, who made 836—831 coming off the red, and thus making two world’s
records—used Crystallite balls, and the marvellous accuracy with which they came
off the cushions, the ease with which the most difficult shots were accomplished,
speaks for itself of the merit and superiority of “ Alcock ” Billiard Tables.
Write for illustrated catalogue—it’s full of information.:
dfg
Ply.
Ltd.
397 George St., Sydney. 7 Ring William St., Adelaide. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Murray St., Perth. [3 .


Rickets
can be cured
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Scott’s Emulsion perman-
ently cures rickets. This
statement is made because
hundreds of parents have
written to say their children
were cured of rickets by
Scott’s Emulsion. For ex-
ample, Mrs. Grant, jr., wrote,
September 18th, 1908, from
43, Merriman Street, Miller’s
Point, Sydney, N.S.W.:
“Diphtheria left my daughter, aged, one
year and eight months, with a nasty cough,
and she ivas unable to walk, owing to
rickets. I gave Scott’s Emulsion, ana
fg
her cough was quite cured
after the second bottle.
Scott’s made her flesh quite
firm and solid, and she was
soon able to walk. She is now
stronger and better than she
has ever been, and locks
bright and healthy. This
trademark was on the emul-
sion I bought.”
If you wish to get rid of
rickets, and decide to buy
Scott’s Emulsion, decide
also to GET SCOTT’S
EMULSION. You may be
asked to buy another emul-
sion and told it is “just as
good as Scott’s.” Substitute
emulsions can. only be sold
on the reputation of Scott’s
Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion cures the disease—
no matter the age of the patient- and
will be approved by your Doctor for
Rickets if you ask him.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
“MAN TO MAN”
is the title of a Valuable BOOKLET explaining
the Causes and Cure of
NERVOUSNESS and ALLIED TROUBLES,
which embitter life, a'nl cause premature decay.
A copy of this Booklet will be sent FREE
(sealed) to anyone interested.
London •Specialities Agency,
44 Castle'reagh Street, Sydney.
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
' Compound
r A cafe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL. mucous membranes
or linings of tbo nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
IVhy not cure yourself
, Treatlso wl th each bottle
or mailed on request.
. The Etui Chemical Co.
Cadmjati, Ohio,
U.S.&.
nnHE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New
JL Series. IV.. V.. VI. Packet of Twelve, (id ;
Packet of Ten, sd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
“LINSEED COMPOUND.” —The “ Stockport
Remedy ” for Couyhs & Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
The
Tie
that
will not
Grease
IRIS
Real PoplinTiesj
IR
BEAL POPLIN
5ilk&Wool.
RECF
None'"
Genuine
without
th ij
Tab.
Obtainable All Mercerr
DIARRHOEA
MMT Freeman’s Chlorodvne never fails to cure even the worst cases of
oP”Diarrhoea. It rapidly stops the pain, dispels all sensations of
r collapse, and restores comfort. In such kind-red troubles as Dysentery,
Cramp, Spasms, Ague, and Colic, its value as a home remedy is priceless.
TRADE
MARK
Price 1/14, 2/9, and 4/6 per bottle.
Used by doctors all over the world. Refuse imitations, which cannot
possess the wonderful soothing and healing powers of Freeman’s. *■“
If your Chemist
is out of stock,
order a bottle
he can quickly
get it.
FREEMANS
CHLORODYNE
LEEMING’S
fg
PRICE,
14/6
FOR. . .
Ladies’ Footwear.
This High-Class Model is one ft of the smartest and most
popular of Ladies’ Shoes. It is fitted with neat Patent
Leather Caps and Facings, and can he had with either Pump
or Welted Sole.
Price - - 14/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; otiier States, 1/- extra.
SEND FOR OUR BOOKLET, “SHOELIGHT.”
In it are shown all the newest and most fashionable styles
in footwear.
LEXMING’S
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ; 1-3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
sr
'T
?
THE OLD
LINES
and
HOLLOW
PLACES
are
GONE FOR EVER
where formerly themirror
reflected only hollow
cheeks and a scrawny, bony chest in evening
dress, after a course of
DR. FALLIERE’S
“FLESH-FOOD”
It reflects a face and figure resplendent in
the acme of perfect development.
“Flesh-Food ” adds inches to the measure-
ments, and will increase your weight by five
pounds a week. It is pleasant and harmless
to take, and will prove a wonderful benefit
to your health. Send 2d. stamp or cal! for
Free Trial Sample and Free. Descriptive
Book. Send to-day. Hours, i) a.m. to 5 p.m.
FALLIERE “FLESH-FOOD” Ca
DEPT.
Linden Court,
Castt<ei!Kagh St.,
SYDNEY.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
TDiliault. ' 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power,
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
i; - ill!. i|
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rig#.
Aus. Rep.— T. Nieholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
Public Notices.
£3OO REWARD.
Stolen from Westg'rove
(UPPER DAWSON, QUEENSLAND),
About February this year, eighteen (18) head unbroken
HORSES (seven fillies and eleven colts —two saddle and
balance draft, majority bays), branded BVS over distin-
guishing number on off shoulder, with number seven (7)
on cheek (brand probably since mutilated).
The above reward will be paid to any one (not being
the principal offender) giving information which will
lead to the conviction of the thief or thieves and the re-
covery of the stolen horses. A substantial- reward will
be paid to anyone giving information which will lead to
the recovery of any of the horses. For further informa-
t ion refer to the police or to the undersigned. fN.B.—No
horses answering to the above description have been sold
from the station.)
JOHN COLLINS & SONS.
Tamrookum, Beaudesert, Queensland.
19th August, 1910.
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
¥7W*
(|| '%
7 /r 3
mill
F.WOIFF&SOHN
&L H 3!
F.Woiff&Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
BERLIN * LONDON
Obtainable from all tlio leading' establishments.
9
Wi
ALL
WOOL
Hosiery.
From the ordinary point
of view is tKc best
Hosiery. It is all-wool, is the most
durable —the most comfortable and
is obtainable in all styles. But it has
the unique advantage of being un-
shrinkable—- stockings never
become too small to wear with com-
fort as other all-wool stockings do.
Men’s Socks and Stockings. Ladies* and
Children's Stockings and Babies' Socks.
In all prices and colours.
Of Men's Outfitters , Drapers, and Store*.
In cas* of difficulty write for “Jason**
Booklet and name of nearest agent, to
JASON HOSIERY Co.. LEICESTER,
Ab 2 ENGLAND. . <S>
Chil
L ofi i
V
“LINSEED COMPOUND” —Trade Mark of Kay ’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“ San Remo ” : I am surprised to see a progress-
ive person like “ 0.K.” patting in a plea forthe retention
of the half-crown (B. 28/7/10). William Ewart Gladstone,
who was responsible for the introduction of the florin into
Britain, reckoned that the half-crown would go down
before the common-sense decimal coinage ; but William
under-estimated the stuek-in-the-bog conservatism of
his fellow countrymen. In Britain to-day the half-crown
is as stout as ever ; and even the brain-shattering guinea
puts up a stiff fight. In the whole and extensive world
is there, I’ask, a more muddled up coinage and weights
and measures system than Bull’s? Can anybody prove
that the job of fixing the standards was not entrusted
to a committee of lunatics? It is high time
the Commonwealth followed the example of Canada and
adopted the decimal system. Take my case. I’m a
calico manipulator. Mrs. Toorak Potts comes into the
shop and demands nine yards of silk at 2s. 9fd. per 86
inches. Consider the wear and tear of my brain power
and the loss of Mrs. T. P.’s time w hile I wrestle with the
arithmetic. Now, in New York it is different. Mrs. Van
Ness would drop into the emporium and order seven
yards of silk at 2 dols. ■59 cents. Observe the child-like
simplicity of the decimal system. Multiply 259 by seven,
place a dot before the last two figures of the
result, and you have 18 dols. 13 cents. It is
because of his decimal system that the Yankee
can talk and think in millions where the Britisher
would go off his chump working out the fractions. I
never could get at the basic principle of Bull’s system.
He starts off with four farthings to the penny, gets a
touch of sunstroke and declares 12 pennies to be a shil-
ling, and 2£ shillings to be a half-crown, and four half-
crowns to be five florins, and then goes fair ratty with 21
shillings to the guinea. Apparently, he was then thrown
into the padded (cell, or he would have invented a coin
worth 31s. 9d. and called it a googly. Meanwhile, another
escapee from Bedlam was fixing things so that lib. would
be ltioz. (when it didn’t happen to be 120 z.), 141 b. would
be Ist., 1121 b. would be lcwt., and 20c wt. would beoneton.
How 20cwt.. ever came to be a ton I don’t know-
on all precedent 19Acwt. and one florin and half
a mile should have been a ton. Then there.was the
fool who decided that 36in. constituted one yard, and
that 1760 yards.would go to the mile. Why not 1769 J
yards? How simple it all could have been made thus :
10oz., lib.; 101 b., Ist. ; 10st., lcwt. (1001 b.); 10ewt.,
1 ton (10001 b.); 10in., Iyd.; 10yds., 1 rod, pole, or
Murray cod; 10 cods, 1 furlong; 10 furlongs, 1 mile
(1000yds.), and so on. I don’t advocate that system ; I
merely’point out that it would in all human probability
have been adopted originally if Bedlam had kept the back
gate locked.
*•* * *
“Piitdan”: Nor’-west pearlers are having
happy times. Shell has passed 11200, which means that
if the present season pans out as well as it promises,
the profit on each lugger will be about £5OO. That is for
shell alone ; any pearls found are extra. The diver—
Malay or Japanese solely employed—gets a “ lay ” of £2O
per ton on the shell raised, so he has a standing
inducement to put in good work. The shell-opener—
usually a smart young fellow out after experience and
not averse to his own company for a couple of weeks at
a stretch—receives a “ lay'” of 10 per cent, on all pearls
handed over. But it is a monotonous job. The diver
and four attendants are all colored, and conversation
with that crowd is limited, when it isn’t impossible.
There are more boats in commission this season than for
10 years past, arid as the take is good Broome has never
been so prosperous. And when the lay-up season
arrives Sydney will probably be able to see the reflec-
tion of a crimson township in the western sky.
The Dutchman, who is Australia’s most fre-
quent white neighbor in its northern seas, has dropped
tne English sovereign quite comfortably into his own
decimal or metric system. The Dutchman’s unit is the
cent. A hundred of his cents make a guilder, or Dutch
florin or rupee, which is worth 20 pence ; so the sovereign
pa-ses current everywhere for 12 guilders, though if you
want the piece of gold from a bank you have to pay 12J
guilders to get it. Though the cent, is only one-fifth of
a penny, the Dutchman’s Javanese and other brown sub-
jects (there are from 42,000,000 to 45,000,000 of them) am
find plenty of use for something even smaller than that ;
so there is the half-cent, which runs to one-tenth of a
penny’, and buys brown brother a breakfastbf rice or
bananas, or enough coke to do the day’scooking. Besides
the cent and the half-cent there is the 2J pent (£d.) in
bronze, and the 10 cent (2d.)in silver, and 25 and 50cents,
and the guilder and the 2J guilder, which last is
the dollar (50 pence). But the Dutch dollar is
a clumsy, cart-wheel of a coin, and the man
who gets it passes it on as soon as he can find some-
body to take it. Brown brother, if it comes his wav,
"rings” it with great care on the nearest stone, and
views it: back and front; for if the Chinee coin-
manjpulator can pass a bogus two-and-a-half on to the
innocent, there is great profit in the transaction. Where-
fore brown brother alw'ays has his suspicions when he
finds gn innocent foreigner and a two-and-a-half trying
to part com nan v.
* * * *
“ D.” : (Jons.dcr the infamy of Aleck and the
ingenuousness of the' serving-maid of Brown; also the
simplicity of the hired girl of Jones. All these persons
are residents or frequenters of a Melbourne suburb.
Brown’s serving girl.is a large, lubberly damsel from Dim
Distance, and her crude faith is excusable. Mrs. Brown
notieed that, although drawing a princely' 15s. a week,
Matilda was alw'ays impecunious, and associated the fact
with Matilda’s young man, a youth of comely appearance,
seemingly- far above Matilda’s station in life and away
beyond her reasonable expectations. By accident Jones
discovered that his girl and Brown’s girl were apparently’
victims of the same attractive stranger, and when next
smart Aleck whistled at Brown’s back gate, Jones and
Brown fell upon the young man, dragged him into the wood-
shed and demanded explanations. “ Why shouldn’t I bank
her money ? ” said Aleck in answer to Brown’s impertinent
questions. “Ain’t we engaged ?” “ But what about my
servant?” queried Jones. “You are her fiancee and
financial agent too.” Aleck was nonplussed for a
moment. Then he growled: “Well, you can’t expect a
bloke to live on 14s. a week.” The servants of Brown and
Jones are now without a follower, but no doubt Aleck
has other clients in the same humble sphere. He cer-
tainly looked as if he were making the game pay.
BALLADE OF FAN-TAN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
At one time Chinese gamblers held complete pos-
session of portion of the eit.v. Now that is all changed.
The Chinese gambler is fast, disappearing. Bv means of
the Gaming and Betting Act, the police have,'during the
past four years, been able practically to stamp out “ Pak-
a-pu ” and “ Fan-tan.” A couple of years before the in-
troduction of the Gaming and Betting Act “Fan-tan”
and “ Pak-a-pn ” were declared illegal games, and the
Chinese were notified that they played these games at
their own, risk and to the great displeasure of his Majesty.
—Sydney Telegraph.
Where is Ah Sooey and sad Wing Fat,
Scattered, alas ! to the breezes raw ;
Never again will they tremble at
The harsh command of the waiting Law :
“ Come on, ye divils ! open th’ door !
Give over, Sooey ! It’s no use, Wing !
Ye know quite well 3’e were told before
It gives offince to our Lord th’ King !”
E’en as they pounded, in gloom we sat;
Out in the passage the mad uproar
Swelled as each Chow like a maddened cat
Grabbed for his money and squealed and swore ;
Some of them crawled on the filthy floor ;
Some of them tried through the roof to spring ;
Loudly (in Irish) we heard once more :
“He doesn’t loike it—our Lord th’ King!
“ Raqehor-rses, poker and back-a-rat!
Thim are th’ things kings like, asthore !
A tin-poun’ note or a bran’-new hat
They’ll bet on thim from th’ kingly store ;
But haythin games make thim cruel sore ;
They mustn't play thim— that is th’ sting
That dimes th’ blood in the hear-rt’s red core ;
Ye mustn’t do ut—it galls th’ King !
Envoi.
“ Divils unhung ! Whin our clothes is tore,
Sorry ye’ll be that ye played th’ thing!
Open tins minit an’ hold yer jure 1
lie's woild about it—yer Lord th’ King ! ”
N.S.W.
AU TOO SOON.


‘ The Waybacks Again.
Anotln r
stack of
joy and 1 mghter about the famous family.
Is.
4
INFANTS,
INVALIDS,
AND THE
AGED.
r FOOD
Wherever there is a
case of enfeebled diges-
tion, whether from ad-
vancing age, illness, or
general debility, there is a
case for Benger’s Food.
When the stomach becomes weakened, the digestion of ordinary food
becomes only partial, and at times is painful, little of the food is assimilated,
and the body is consequently insufficiently nourished. This is where Benger s
Food helps. It contains in itself the natural digestive principles, and is quite
different from any other food obtainable.
All doctors know and approve of its composition, and prescribe it freely.
The British Medical Journal says : “ Benger's Food has, by its excellent, established a reputation of its own."
BENGERS FOOD. LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, Eng
Bengers Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere. 831
A Boon to Good
A Blessing to Bad
Writers!
"BALL-POINTED” PENS
glide smoothly over the roughest surface without spurting, sticking or
spluttering. By using “ Ball-Pointed ” Pens you dispense with blot-;
tings, scratchings and—bad language. •
Buy a 6d. Assorted Sample Box —choose a nib to suit you,
and you will be delighted.
BALL-POINTED” PENS WRITE ON BALL POINTS.
a
vg
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
‘ COAGULINE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ 4 TENASITINE ’
•Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE U.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL.
will stop the most
vicious dog (or man)
without permanent,
injury. Invaluably
for cyclists, unpro-
tected ladies, night-
watchmen, and
others. Can be
f
charged with water or other liquids, and will
carry a distance of 25, feet. It creates' great
amusement for both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical
novelties ever produced. Price ,2/9, or post free
anywhere for 31- .
NICKEL-PLATED CHANGE PURSE.
Beautifully chased, and guaranteed to wear white
throughout. Will ■ hold any of the .. coins, as illus-
trated, and will also take sovereigns apd half-
sovereigns in the 1/- and 6d. compartments, and
pennies and half-pennies in the 2/fi and 2/- com-
partments. Split ring attached for affixing to watch
or key chain. Price, post free anywhere, 1/2.
THE “JOKER” TRICK MATCHBOX.
The box can betfilled with matches and then closed,
and, to the amazement of your fronds, upon re-
opening the box, the matches have completely dis-
appeared. A great joke on cadgers, who, upon
begging a match, are shown the empty box, and the
next moment, if the owner chooses, he may help
himself to a match from the same box. Strongly
made of polished nickel, and can be carried in the
vest pocket. Price, with full directions, 7d. post free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
Schufe, Bell & Go.
limited.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices: 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow t etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in theinterestsof their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
m
W'
Ti
m
J,A
AGENTS:
Melbourne—T. R. lJones & Co.,
366 Bourke Street.
Brisbane—Elliott; Donaldson &
Douglas, Ltd., 108-110 Eagle
Street.
Adelaide—Lord & Heseltine, 90
■<j Pirie Street.
Launceston —John McKenzie &
Co.
Hobart—John Ferguson & Co.
OLD
ORKNEY
WHISKY
" The Whisky of
Age & Flavour
Made in the
old-time way.
And We hold a
10 Years ’ Supply
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London.
Proprietors of STROMNESS DISTILLERY.
ORKNEY, SCOTLAND.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
-BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with' over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
T.nGLand, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, pew enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How tc( Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book iby De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks,” Is 2d. All Zpla’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
i Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Qasanova’s .Love Stories, Is 6d.
joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Win now Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop HandYbook, 1 s 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
ls2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with CaßOs, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book op Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9<i. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. SandoW’s Book of Sire noth, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Ron (Fiagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce> 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
GOD and My Neighbor, fid. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is- 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How Tp Make Sweets, Jams and SyuuPs, Is 2d. New
Tricks, wtVil Coins, is posted. House Painting and
PaPerinP, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
life Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.
I
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Passes.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just Arrived.
. SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS —LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal. Gusta've Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How, TO
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magio, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Eas.v, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor. : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
'•fs posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science' 3s fid. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. W annan’s Engine. Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want/I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. SOP~ Established 25 Years.
ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot--*- '■>,
16 Park Street. Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
Write for my ......
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks wrru Gauds, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bdsii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Olog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
INGERSOLL’S WORKS, Bd, 28. HOW TO READ HEADS
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d pest free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
ls2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post lOONew
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore's Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid pasted. ■ Tiie Secrets of Clairvoyance,
.Is post. -200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
Th» Hordern v. Hordern Equity suit,
which raised the question whether the late
Samuel treated the family of the late Anthony,
Inn., well, came to an end on Friday. The
• Court had no doubt about the matter,
and the Privy Council had less; so the N.S.W.
Equity Court last week finally ruled off the ex-
pensive matter.
“ White Rod’s ” endorsement:—
“ W.8.M.” is right (11/8/’10) as to the recent improve-
ment in Willie Kelly’s manners and general bearing in
Parliament. He a chastened and humble
Willie compared with what he used to be. When he
came to Melbourne first he impressed members as an
almost perfect specimen of the genus “unlicked cub.”
He combined with the ear-racking fluency of the Domain
nmnologist a vast lack of knowledge in respect of the
subjects he handled.' He was thus exposed to constant
reverses and humiliations. The years which the locust
have eaten have made him wary. He has taken to
thinking first and orating afterwards. Sometimes he
goes so far as to think first and then decide not to orate
after all, which is even better.
He seems to be losing his old fixed idea as to the power
and glory of what I may call “ Englishism.” He has
learnt that the House doesn’t really mind if a member’s
accent and clothes have never seen Bond-street, London,
provided the owner has something to say. Certainly,
Willie still stands manfully by his imported clothes and
accent, but palpably he has lost much of his old faith in
their efficacy to awe and impress.
Apropos, I have often fancied that one of Willie’s minor
troubles must be his name. I think he would have liked
to have been called Plantagenet—for preference, Cyril de
Horsey Plantagenet. His chief pose in life is that of
Plantagenet, and a laborious pose it is too, oftentimes.
In the circumstances, it is. a handicap to be called Kelly.


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.5.W.
Sfie LEADING
HOUSE
CANT
&
BEAT
Sporting Goods
Fishing TacKle & Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on ai! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
{J" d h.V all the Champions of the World, fast and fancv. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing: Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago. U.B.A.
RICHARDSON”
CHICAGO
ELVETEEN
■!! Draper 5 throughout the World. Manufacturers 57, Newton St., Manchester, Eng,
DISTINCTION IN DRESS
No dress looks so rich and feels so soft and silky as one of Louis
Velveteen or Chiffon Vel-Duvet. Its lines are graceful and
flowing, and for Pile, Lustre, and
Brilliancy, it is unsurpassed. It is famed
for its exquisite Colours and won’t crush
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
JAY
F/*
y\
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever-increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO., London, England.
N.B.—The genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
°” special Snap
and Pegs.
5 x 12 Clap or Ground Nets, 22/6 each.
6x 15 do. do. 27/6 each.
dfg
We also carry in stock Rabbi Nets, Fruit
Tree Netting, and all Net Sundries.
' a
m
w
Bridles
SEND FOR OUR RET PRICE LIST—POST FREE.
FURSKINS ARE BRINGING BIG PRICES!
TO GET THE BEST RESULTS SELL YOUR LOT THROUGH
New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY
Experts Carefully Supervise the Handling of Each Consignment.
The British & Colonial Aeroplane
Company, Limited.
Directors.
SIR GEORGE WHITE. BART.
SAMUEL WHITE. I P.
G. STANLEY WHITE.
Bankers—THE BANK OF ENGLAND.
Builders of the British
Zodiac Aeroplanes
<Ot *•
“Zodiac” Biplanes
50/60 h.p. - - Price £l,OOO.
“Zodiac” Monoplanes
25/30 h.p. - - Price £5OO.
fg
fgd
Terms— One-third with order, balance before delivery.
Delivered F.O B. any port in Great Britain in one month from receipt of order.
Write lor Catalogue and full particulars.
Offices and Works - - BRISTOL, ENG.
Flying Ground - SALISBURY PLAIN (W.D.)
Telegrams: “Aviation. Bristol." Codes-A r, A.8.C., and MOREING.
BY APPOINTMENT TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KINC.
BOV R I L
makes delicious bouillon, rich, tasty gravies; adds flavour
and strength to stews, hashes, entrees, etc.
BOVRIL IS THE TRUE ECONOMIST IN THE KITCHEN.
Prompt Relief
p from Rheumatism
LUMBAGO, SPRAINS,
AND ALL ACHES AND PAINS
Assured by Applying;
S T JACOBS
Sold everywhere.
w
m
Vk
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
ostrich
TIPS.
O/A the Bunch
” post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller's Feather Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
I Mention The Hi lletin.J ‘ lu*.
Ladies’ and Gent’s Watches FREE.
%
*=<
*
f.'ll
Test your Size.
Send us your Number,
Solid Sterling Silver
3EBS:
N9I
N? 2
N? 5
Rings FREE
IF THEY FIT YOU.
They are not made of brass, tin or white metal, but aTe
Guaranteed to be PURE STERLING SILVER through-
out, STAMPED and WARRANTED, and are sold retail
from 2s 6d to 4s 6d at all jewellers, THESE RINGS ARE
FREE IF THEY FIT YOU.
HOW TO WIN ONE.
Cut out the inside of the Rings marked No. I, N 0.2, and
No. 3, and try on any finger of either hand, forward us
the number of the one that fits your finger, and we will
immediately forward one of these SOLID SILVER RINGS
W//U£&
MOTHER
KIA-ORA
FREE, With Ihe ring we will send you also FREE 12 of our NAME or MOTTO BROOCHES (as illustrated)for
Distribution Among Your Friends. These Brooches, which are very strongly made (acid proof), and unique in
design, are sold Sydney Price 2s. each, and WE GUAR ANTEE THEM to be the BEST VALUE IN BROOCHES
EVER PLACED ON THE MARKET.
All We Require You to Do
A RELIABLE WATCH and CHAIN (Lady’s or Gent’s)
OR ANY OTHER PRESENT FROM OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST which we will send with the Brooches.
Remember, We Require No Money * n js dvance ’ , Simply : „ send us your Name andFuii
■ ■ i . M i ' Address, and we will send the Solid Silver Ring
and the 12 Brooches by return mail, postage paid, at our own expense. We know you wiILHAVE NO TROUBLE
in SELLING THESE BROOCHES, owing to their Excellent Value, or we would not go to the expense of sending
them. We send them out at our own risk and if you are unable to sell the 12 we will reward you according
to the number disposed of by you upon you returning us the balance unsold. 6
All letters must be
addressed direct to
the Sole Manufac-
turers,
Jewellery Supply Co.
Pitt-st, Sydney,
N.S. Wales.


eadache
“My Head Felt as though
Crushed in a Vice.”
THE following case of Mr. John Bath, of
Queenton, Queensland, affords another
typical instance of the prompt and perfect
curative powers of Bile Beans.
Mr. Bath is postmaster at Queenton, and writes :
“ I have been using that grand family medicine, Bile
Beans, for the past four
years or more, and have
derived great benefits from
it. At one time I suffered greatly from head-
ache. The terrific throbbing was terrible. My
head felt as if it had been crushed in a vice, and
I could not bear it to touch the pillow.
“ I took a dose or two of Bile Beans—a box
of which I am never without—and was soon
relieved of the agonising pain, and after a few
hours I was quite well again. 1 was able to
attend to my duties as usual, which I feel sure 1
would not have been able to do but for Bile
Beans.
“ Bile Beans are a splendid family medicine,
gentle in action and certain in effect, and I
recommend them to anyone I hear complaining
of feeling unwell.”
*s.
fe 5
I
Mr. J. Bath—grateful to Bile Beans.
THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
BLOOD IMPURITIES.
Impure blood poisons the whole system. The complexion and the whites
of the eyes assume a yellowish tinge, and the eyes become dull. The
pores of the skin are obstructed, and give rise to pimples, boils, blotches, etc.
Bile Beans act on the sources of the blood supply, the organs of digestion
and assimilation, and so invigorate them as to send a tide of rich red blood
through the veins and arteries, bringing the hue of health to pale cheeks.
He
eans
FOR •
Bile Beans are a
reliable family
medicine and a
proved cure for bili-
ousness, headache,
piles, indigestion,
liver trouble, back
pains, stomach dis-
order, giddiness,
nervous debility,
loss of appetite,
anaemia, bad blood,
and female ail-
ments. 1/lt, and 2/9
large box, of all
chemists & stores.
“// Stopped
My Cough'*
fgd
fgd
A REMEDY OF 60 YEARS’ STANDING.
AllcockS
I sss°2£ PLASTERS
Apply Wherever There Is Pain.
Equally effective for
Rheumatism, Backache, Weak
Chests, Colds, Lumbago,
Sciatica, Stiffness of
Joints or Muscles,
Sprains, etc.
Sold by Chemists Everywhere.
SSI
*-ri nsaEn
WHO HAVE USED “H E LA"
SAY IT IS MAGIC
We »ay " HulA ivmoves pain immediately and cures diseases. It supersedes
pmil ices and ointments, stops bleeding instantly.
EASILY APPLIED, DOES NOT IRRITATE, IS CLEAN and EFFECTIVE.
Before giving up hope or undergoing an operation for anything, try
Dr. H. F. Bell’s Wonderful Remedy, “HELA.”
Used internally lor ASTHMA, BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, RHEUMATISM, NEURALGIA, etc.
Externally for ABSCESSES, BURNS, ECZEMA, EYE COMPLAINTS, RHEUMATISM, PILES, etc.
Senator M'Greuor says:—“l have used ‘Hela,’and everything in your pamphlet has been fully, verified in
respect to myself. It only wants to be once used to become popular.”
Extensively stocked by The Big Store, Foy & Gibson’s, Civil Service Society, Cole’s Book Arcade, and all Medicine
Vendors. A booklet containing full information and testimonials sent anywhere on receipt of a penny stamp.
Price 2/6 per bottle, or by post 3/6, from “HELA” DEPOT, 295 Malvern Road,
VVe ask you to give “ HELA ” a trial. Tel. 290 Yarra. South Yarra, Vic.
Hotelkeepers! Storekeepers! Confectioners!
Make your own AERATED WATERS with an
r,
“AUSTRAL”
Aerated Water Machine
at a cost of 4d. per dozen.
Requires only ONE (unskilled) MAN to work it. No special
bottles. Aeration superior to any others. Catalogues and
full particulars from the SOLE PROPRIETORS :
Eckersley 8 Sons,
628 Bourke Street, Melbourne
and 3 Bond Street, Sydney.
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, 108-110 Eagle St., Brisbane.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Cliff Street, Fremantle.
S. 0. BILLOWS, c/o New Zealand Express Co., Wellington
and Invercargill.
AULD & 80NS, Gilbert Place, Adelaide, S.A.
The Beach.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
LIKE Cleopatra’s neck incurved,
Or Phryne’s arms of snow,
From Bastion Rock to Gabo swerved
And bended as a bow ;
It offers to the Austral sun
It’s miles of silvern sand,
In virgin beauty, yet unwon
By any spoiler’s hand.
At night I hear the ancient seas—
White-headed seers, along
These darkened shores their memories
Pour forth in epics long
Of years primeval. And in strange,
Soft, minor chords reply
Old pilgrim winds that reef and range,
TJnrested, wander by.
Deep secrets theirs —of aeons gone,
When suns and systems, worn
By endless forces, fiercely shone
In nascent strength newborn ;
When gave the seventh Pleiad out,
Unshamed, her starry boon ;
And glowed, o’er jungles north and south,
A tropic polar moon.
Time’s burdens and the yoke of years
Have tamed their early might;
No more the cow’ririg caveman hears
The storm gods in the night;
No more do chartless shallops hie
A furtive course from shore;
And in their quiet havens lie
The dead ships evermore.
But they who nursed the germ of life,
The new amoeboid cell,
From which, or science errs, the strife
Of all that follows fell.
What marvels have they locked within
Their ocean hearts ? What dreams
Of empire and of effort in
Their world-encircling streams ?
For they, who cradled first of Eld
The lon, shaped in cell,
With Man and Man’s far future held
All Heaven, Earth and Hell !
And when ensuing epochs rang
With rage of death and birth.
On vanished shores they proudly sang
The oldest songs of earth.
Betimes, a-dreaming, when my camp-
Fire reds the foreland, I
Can dimly hear the Titan tramp
Of Ages inarching by ;
And, scroll by scroll, the Eras, rolled
On mighty parchments, pearled
With priceless truths to me unfold
The Story of the World.
Then deep-sea voices faint recall,
And deep-sea echoes bring
The roar of monsters and the fall
Of preying foot and wing ;
These pass and perish at a breath,
Their weaker types remain—
Slow evolution armed with death
From bulk, reduces brain !
I hear wild winds primeval fan
Volcanic mountains steep,
Where, in the quiet future, Man
His fertile tilth will reap.
I see an Everlasting Force
Re-mould, destroy, re-shape;
Give firmer foothold to the horse
And forehead to the ape.
« * * *
Anon these songs of effort cease
And kinder themes outpour,
In turn the diva-throated seas
Unto a listening shore.
Aye, then methinks, I hear retold
Old stories ever new,
Of Jason and the heroes bold
Red-hearted, proud and true.
Old galleys dip their carven beaks
Into the azure brine,
That in their Delphic feasts fair Greeks
May pour the Samian wine.
In rose gondolas, silken-sailed
The royal Doges go,
And young Crusaders silver-mailed,
With bannerets of snow.
Rome’s daring eagles, flaunting high
Their wings of blood, go on,
Fair burn across a sunset sky
Brave banners of St. John.
Columbus, peering through the dusk,
I see fare forth amain—
A glory harvest from the husk
Of Littleness to gain.
j glimpse John Cabot with his white
Hair rimed by northern spray ;
And grandly through the awful night
I hear his courage say :
“ As near to Heaven, friends, by sea—
Though Death wait either hand —
As near to Heaven now we be
As e’er we’ll be on land.”
I hear Magellan dauntless cry,
“ Not if we eat the hides
From off this vessel’s yards shall I
Turn back, whate’er betides,
Till these new seas are conquered ! ” Drake,
A-roaring down the main,
With gallant ruffians in his wake
I see go out again.
Aye, out again and home again,
Along historic years,
For either glory, love or gain,
Go forth these buccaneers ;
The pirate brood, with laden chests,
Outspilling plundered toll ;
The black sea eagles in their nests,
Blood-stained, but brave of soul.
The saucy sloop, the frigate gay,
The fighting forty-four ;
The oaken hulls of Nelson’s day,
The ships of trade and war.
Night long the roving waters bring
Their ghostly memories;
Night long the ancient surges sing
High human histories.
But when the east, attendant, waits
Her mansions to adorn,
And with skilled magic decorates
The bridal couch of Morn ;
With royal purple drapes each plinth
Of frowning rock, and fills
With topaz and with hyacinth
The hollows of the hills.
When low the inlet and its isles,
In Asiatic guise.
Salaam with soft and pliant smiles
The Sultan of the Skies;
As from the lakes a silver veil
Of mist is deftly drawn,
An Amazon in golden mail
The Beach salutes the L»awn.
White lace of foam around her knees,
She flutters like a girl;
And threads her blue embroideries
With seaweed and with pearl.
The spotted cowrie and the fair,
Frail nautilus are hers,
Bose spirals and the shining, rare
Sea shells and mariners.
The jewel caskets of the deeps
Lie ready to her hand.
In ev’ry tropic wave that leaps
Foara-freighted to her sand.
And now, in cadence, measured, slow,
From minstrels submarine
Sweet rhymes and rondels gaily flow
Across this sunlit scene.
Of Life and Now these minstrels chant—
A pagan song of old,
The song dark lovers of Levant
Outsang in hours of gold.
A radiance now, a rare delight,
A dream of love and wine.
She lieth in the morning light
This Austral beach of mine.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
The Education of Harold.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
<< j"''* OME away with me,” he breathed
8 ] ever so softly.
. “Away?” she replied; “ away—
where?” , ,
“Where? What matter where so long as we
are together ? ”
“You’re not game.
“ Not game? I’d go to Hell with you.
“We may. Meantime, please pass me the
From outside came the snarling voice of a tinny
gramophone wheezing horribly the classic “Don’t
Take Me Home.” The atmosphere of the cafe
was hot and stuffy as a sewer shaft, and the butter
ran around the rim of the dish. One of the wait-
resses had the neck of her dress gaping open, a
fact which interested the man and worried the
woman. Such small details are sufficient to em-
phasise sexual differences.
“ Well, suppose I go, what happens?
“ Happiness 1 ”
“Folly!”
“ Heaven 1”
“ For instance, where would you go ? ’’
“9ay—to Como.” (It was inexpensive, and a
friend there owned a boat.)
“Gracious ! —to fall over amorous couples from
Waterloo pickle factories.”
“ Well, then. Port Hacking, Hawkesbury,
Cowan Creek, Paris, London, anywhere.”
“ Heavens ! And the cost ? ”
“ Cost! Who would dare speak of dull,
material cost to the man your love has made a
god ? ”
“ Don’t be a fool; and, like a dear, order me a
cup of tea.”
“Yes, darling.”
“ And ”
“Yes, darling ? ”
“ Ask that woman for Heaven’s sake to go and
dress herself.”
Absent-mindedly he repeated both commands
in a breath, which caused the girl to back out in
indignant amazement and upset a crockery jar-
diniere with a rag palm contained therein. The
proprietress behind the cash register snorted
audibly.
The woman sniggered.
The man cursed, softly and sweetly.
“ Are you, then, really not married ? ”
“ Have I not told you, soul’s breath, that my
spirit has mated with yours from the dim dawn of
dreadful eternity—waited single and unashamed,
to be —to be ”
“ Pass the sugar.”
“ To be—wedded ”
“ How many lumps ? ”
“ O damn ! ”
“ Harold ! ”
“Estelle, forgive me. lam mad?”
“You are.”
“ Mad with love.”
“ Try a cup of tea.”
He gulped down half of the scalding liquid at
once and choked himself ridiculously, affording
intense amusement to the menial with the un-
dressed neck.
“Listen —I will go with you, wherever you
will.”
He gasped his joy like a stuck frog in its agony.
“You will, you splendid darling? ”
“Yes. Listen, I know a sweet spot ”
They whispered and cooed softly, and the Neck
nigh snapped itself in its frantic efforts to ap-
proach without its attendant body. One foot
rebelled at such suicidal attempts, and insinuated
itself beneath the edge of a recalcitrant carpet,
whereat the whole anatomy upset noisily over a
chair.
The proprietress behind the register seemed an
imperial purple hue, which portended some brain
calamity.
They left.
* * *
Arrived at their destination, she pointed out to
him a cottage high up the hill among the trees,
stating that she had prepared for him a little sur-
prise. She possessed a maid, who was a faithful
little dear, and a very old girl friend as well as a
maid. She was sure that Harold would very soon
know her. Then she sniggered a lot more, and
Harold, walking on pneumatie moments of god-
like happiness, found himself speculating upon
the amorous proclivities of the maid, to fill in the
absences of his goddess. He retained sufficient
sense to leave with the grinning coachman a wire
and a shilling. The latter had a hole in it dis-
guised with sordid lead; the former read as
follows :
Called away unexpectedly on country trip. Will write
from first hotel. —Harold.
This matrimonial obligation fulfilled, he took
up his cross—two tremendous portmanteaux—and
set his face toward his Calvary.
They reached the door of the cottage—a sweet
little cottage, suffocated with roses and sun-
flowers and marsh-mallows and milk thistles.
How beautiful and peaceful it all seemed.
“This is too easy,” gasped the amazed Harold
to himself; and then aloud : "Am I dreaming ?’’
“If so, then it’s about time to wake up,” shir
replied with redundant sweetness, as in reply to
her ring the door opened and the maid appeared.
“ Harold—my maid and dear old friend ”
“ My wife ! —Elsie —the Devil! .”
WILLIAM H. ELSUM.


KIDNEYS NEVER REST
The kidneys never take a moment’s rest, they keep on with their great work of altering out uric acid and kidney
poisons day after day, night after night, as long as we live. And so important is their work that, eveu though they get only
a little behind, no part of the system is free from danger; the back aches, the limbs drag, the evelids seem like lead - there
are dropsical swellings, rheumatic pains, dizzy spells, urinary troubles. The sufferer is moody, despondent and irritable
lhis is how the fatal Bright’s disease begins. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are special kidney help; all their healing
power goes to the kidneys, and they have no action on the bowels. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills correct urinary disorders,
stone, gravel, bladder troubles—cure backache, rheumatism, dropsy,
and every kidney complaint—give tone to the whole system, and
make you feel brighter, healthier and happier.
-SYDNEY PEOPLE CURED.
WAVERLEY.
Mrs. F. May, 48 Newland Street, Waver-
Sydney, says: “I have read the testi-
mony which I gave eight years ago, stating
my good opinion of Doan’s Backache Kid-
ney Pills, and I can truthfully say that
every word is correct, and I have still the
same good opinion of this remedy. I had
contracted a severe chill across the loins,
and for a couple of years suffered with
lumbago-like pains in the small of my back.
I also had a touch of rheumatism. But
DoaU s Backache Kidney Pills, cured me.
eight years ago, and I am still quite free of
every symptom of kidney complaint. I
have recommended this great kidney remedy
numbers of iiMOTse
sny good opinion of it.’- . ... • —...
DOWLING STREET.
Mrs. E. Chapman, 133 Dowling Street,
Sydney, says :—“My mother suffered with
severe pains across the back and in her legs.
For six months she was very bad, and some
days would not be able to get up at all. She
tried a lot of remedies, but they did her no
good. We saw Doan’s Uackache Kidney
Pills advertised, and thought we would get
some and give them a trial. After taking
the first half bottle we knew they were good,
for she felt a little better, and from that on
the improvement was marked, and eight
boxes completed her cure. She is now
splendid, and can get about easily. It is
12 months since her cure, and during that
time she has not needed to take a single pill.
We feel sure that she is cured for,good.”
For sale by all Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per bottle (six bottles 15s. 3d.),
or will be posted on receipt of price by Foster-McCellan Co., Pitt Street, Sydney.
“ Ever y
Picture
Tells u
Story.”
//M
7-f
&
\
5?
u\ lf~ -
\ a w *
\\ t\\ ir
v\
33
The Angel and the World.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Angel to the earth drew down,
Cloud-white, as petals through the rain
Sink downward to the meadow brown
In dappled streams when orchards wane.
She swept, with song of saintly laws
And soft-keyed psalm of heavenly dooms,
To where the Watcher stood at pause
Amid the roaring of the looms,
Whose tireless eye the Great World scanned
Ear forth beyond God’s lattice-bars,
With sight that, ever-widening, spanned
From out this planet to the stars ;
And those grave eyes had iron to hold
The spirit of the Angel, free
Her gaze to watch the World unfold
. Hike widening ripples in the sea—
Tdshow where passed, each dinning each
With creeds, to which its dreams gave birth,
Races, that overpoured to reach
The utter limits of the Earth ;
And far beyond where Mars burned red
And distant Neptune green and dim,
Outward the wave of Sight still spread
Till the whole World became its rim.
Sphere after sphere rose into place,
Each with its freight of hurrying lives;
She saw the islanders of Space
Swarm from a myriad starry hives :
She watched where reptile-birds and elves.
Plants, dragons, apes and monstrous weeds
Shaped their dream-visions of themselves
To gods and images and creeds.
Then in her soul grim Fear had birth
Amid the widening wave, her sight
Straining to where the little Earth
Drowned in that wilderness of light.
Its pale king lost ’mid mightier kith,
The glory and the guise grown vain,
Dimmed in the seething myriad myth.
Fashioned each moment in some brain ;
Till as she gazed, and stars still grouped,
Swarming like hiving bees impearled,
Lo, her sweet shape, as stricken, drooped.
Blanched by that vision of the World.
Fluttered to earth, her heavenly veil:
Dropped down, the harp with sundered
strings:
Vanished, as woven moonbeams fail,
The filmy glory of her wings,
And the grave Watcher, from whose cast
In starry pools that wave had grown,
Marked the faint shuddering fret that passed
Till her whole shape grew frozen stone.
His sad gaze searched the rigid stole
And blank eyes void of living flame :
What sudden memory burned his soul ?
Or whose the shape, the face, the name ?
Alas, that muted form of Fears,
Stray from a dream-world’s gated bars,
Fronting the silvery surf of spheres
That breaks upon the Isle of Stars—
Was not that carven stone his form ?
Was not that strange-wrought Angel, he ?
Swift in his heart the doubt bred storm,
Like a slant whirlpool in the sea.
“ Speak!. .. Is this image hut mine own ? ”
There came no whisper from the stone. . . .
But, from the tiny planet’s stress
Around him, to the last star’s rim.
Life swarmed in one great eborded Yes ! . .
So the Great World held ant ered him.
VICTORIA.
HUGH McKAY.
A Home-Coming.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HEAVY rain was falling. The noise it
made on the iron of the,roof and the tick
of the old-fashioned clock on the mantel-
piece seemed to possess the room. It was a, large
room, the low ceiling stained with many rain-
marks and already damp i<n a few places. Vivid
wallpaper and gilt-framed oleographs shone in
the intervals of shadows cast hy a group seated
about the fire. A kerosene lamp, with a paper
shade, was turned so low that it lit only a small
circle of the worn tapestry of the tablecloth and
made a dim moon on the murky ceiling. The
group by the fire consisted of two women and
three men. For the most part they sat in silence;
but now and then, weary of the strain, one of
them would make some trivial remark: “The
coach is late to-night ” ; “This rain ’ll do a lot o’
good ’’; “ The crick ’ll be a banker.if this keeps
up ' ; and the like. A monosyllabic answer
would cut off the attempt at conversation and
silence would again ensue. Apart, in a large old
chair, a grey, withered woman rocked softly to
and fro. Her lips murmured and her hands
twitched nervously. Suddenly she ceased rock-
ing and all the others turned towards her.
“What is it, mother?” asked one of the
women.
“ Listen,” said the mother.
All did so in strained attitudes.
“ I can hear nothing,” said the woman who had
spoken already.
“ Hush, Jane ! ” said the mother.
Presently she arose and turned up the light.
“Here they are,” she said.
At the same moment a noise was heard on the
verandah.
“ Hang it all, why couldn’t you show a light?”
cried a voice. The door was thrust open, and an
old man came in, streaming with water. He
fumed, and tore off his oilskin coat.
4t “ What’s up with you, mother?” he cried.
“ Can’t we afford karrasene now ? Bring in your
luggage, Dick ; they’re all here.”
“ Dick, oh Dick ! ” The grey, withered woman
threw herself into the arms of a young man who
had followed his father.
“Mother—how are you,' mother? All right?
Not been fretting too much, have you ? ”
“ No-o, no, Dick. I’m all right now, Dick. Oh,
I’m glad. lam glad.”
She slipped from her son’s arms into her rock-
ing chair and began to cry. He stood as if unde-
cided how to act.
“Your mother’s'all right,” said his father.
“Let her cry a bit; it’ll do her good. Here’s
the rest of the family glad to see you.”
His two sisters kissed Dick, and his brothers
shook hands with him.
“No,” he said, in answer to a question. “I’m
not very wet. I rode inside. I’ll slip off this
overcoat and we can have a talk. Where are you
off to, mother ?”
“She's going to get you some supper,” said
Jane. “She’s always feeding some one up. I
thought they used to shave your head. Why,
you've even got your moustache.”
“They give you time to grow a bit of hair
before they let you out,” said Dick, u “They’re
not too bad.”
“I reckon not,” said his brother Harry.
“You’re a reg’lar swell. Where’d you get all
that good tailor-made clobber from ? A honest
man’s a fool, I think.”
“ These are the clothes I had before I went in.”
“You ain't got any more, have you ? ” asked
Jim. enviously.
“There’s another suit in the bag,” said Dick.
“Better’ll these?’’ said Bill, fingering the
material.
“Yes.”
“ My oath, you must ’a’ spent money like water
—two spankin’ good soots ! ” cried Jim.
“ Well, you can’t wear dungarees in an office.”
“Dungarees! Who said dungarees?” asked
Bill. , “ Anyone can see how yer rooined yerself.
Livin’ like a millionaire—that’s what was wrong.”
“ Well, you can’t do it no more,” said Jim.
“My oath, you can’t,” said Harry.
“ Hush 1” said Jane as the mother came into the
room and proceeded to clear the table.
“ Don’t trouble to do that, mother,” said Dick.
“I can have it in the kitchen, if you’ll let me.”
“All right, Dick,” said the mother, and the
two went out together.
The group about the fire clustered closer. The
father took the empty rocking-chair and sat
smoking. The rain had ceased. Around the fire
sounded a low hum of vehement conversation.
The old man’s half-attentive ears caught stray
phrases: “Dressed like a dook ” ; “Mother’s as
big a fool as ever”; “Hard graft’ll take the
starch out of him.”
The old man shrugged his shoulders and
smoked calmly. Presently in came Dick, fol-
lowed by his mother. He was smoking a cigar.
All eves fastened on to it.
“ Bli’ me ! ” said Bill. “It’s a great thing to be
a swell. It’s a great thing, aiii’t it, Harry ? ”
“It’s a great thing to earn your livin’ honest,”
said Harry ; “ that’s the great thing.”
“ My oath it is,” said Jim ; and Jane said it was
noble, and Mary said'“lndeed it is.”
Then they all sighed and looked at Dick, who
nodded approvingly and said they were right.
“ It’s not ev’ry one that’s able to do hard work,”
said the mother.
“Nor every one that’s willing,” grunted Bill.
** Wet’s that there hard labor they give yer?”
said Jim.
“ I was working with the masons,” said Dick.
His mother wiped her eyes.
“Don’t snivel, mother,” said the old man. Jim
got up and had a look at Dick’s hands.
“You been doin’ a bit o’ graft all right,” he
said. “ Yer best come with me, an’ I’ll break you
into the farmin’.”
“ What wages dp.you pay ?” asked Dick.
“Wages! Pay !” Jim opened his mouth in
astonishment, and then shut it severely and sat
down.
“Wot d’ you perpose doin’ then?” said Bill.
“ I’m going back to Sydney to look for work,”
said Dick.
Jim laughed. Bill was surprised.
“W’y,” he said, “you ain’t got no friends in
Sydney. Now, don’t be a fool; I can do with a
man on my bit of a dairy. It’ll be your keep,
anyway.”
“I’m sure,” said Jane, “Robert ’d give you a
chance on the cart. O’ course, it’d be hard on
him havin’ to keep a closer eye on the money.”
“I won’t trouble your husband, Jane,” said
Dick.
“Oh, you needn’t be so high and mighty,” said
Jane; “it’s not everyone ’d trust a convicted
embezzuler.”
“ Shut up, Jane,” said the father.
“ Well, if Dick wants honest work,” said Harry,
“ he can have a job with me keepin’ the tail race
clear. It ain’t hard work once you get used to
it, an’l’ll stretch a point for his sake. I’ll give
him three bob a, day. There now.”
Harry stood up four-square to the world and
began to refill his pipe.
“Harry,” said the old man, “ you know yon
can’t get men to do it for nine.”
“He don’t want work —that’s my opinion,”
said Mary.
They all looked at Mary, and Dick’s three
brothers and Jane agreed with her unmistakably.
“ He’s been spoiled since he was a kid,” said
Bill.
“Mum always made a fool of him,” said Jim.
“ He had too much blasted education for a poor
man’s son,” said Harry.
“He’s lost his taste for honest work,” said
Jane, “if he ever had any.”
“Let Dick alone,” said the father; “you’re
like a pack of dingoes.”
“Never mind, dad,” said Dick; “ it’s like old
times.”
“Ole times,” yelled Jim. “We never had no
thieves in the fambly in the ole times.”
“ Such a disgrace ! ” moaned Mary.
“Not able to hold up pur heads in the town,”
said Jane.
“ But he can give himself airs an’ set himself
above the honest members o’ the fambly,” said
Bill with deep pathos.
Then the little grey woman took the floor.
“ Bill,” she said, “ you did honest work duffin’
cattle from old Robertson’s run—enough to earn
you seven years if you had your due. Jane, the
biggest disgrace this family has suffered was you
havin’ to marry in such a hurry. Harry, you
never robbed them Chinamen’s sluices, did you?
An’ Jim never swindled the Coopers over that
dummyin’ business ! An’ Mary and her husband
never burnt no store down when ’twas empty an’
got the goods an’ insurance too ! No, none of
you ever did anything bad at all, an’ your old
wizened mother don’t regret bringih’ a bad-
hearted, evil, lying lot o’ hypocrites into the
world, God help her.”
The old man opened the door for thern.
“The storm’s over,” he said. “The stars are
out. I never seen ’em so bright. Nor tjje air so
fresh an’ sweet. I’m glad you all kem along to
welcome your brother. The road’s dirty, but
you’re used to dirt. Good night.”
G. J. R.


THE OLDEST BEJ’T
m
U2-J
H
m
Baa
For over
60 years Ayer’s Sarsa-
parilla has been tested and tried.
It is known as the one great family
medicine. You may travel in any part
of the world—in Spain, China, India,
South America, Egypt, Australia,
Africa, or wherever you will— A
there you will find this fam-
ily medicine ready
to give relief.
AYER’S § arsaparilla
removes all impurities from the blood, at the same time
making the blood rich in life-giving properties. It restores
the appetite, strengthens the digestion, and thereby enables
one to obtain full benefit from his food.
Accept no cheap and worthless substitute. Be sure that you
get AYER’S Sarsaparilla—as now made,it contains no alcohol.
Take Ayer’s Pills with. Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other
Prepared by Dr. J\ C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Maas., U. S. A.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*. 2/9 & 4/6
fgd
Checks and
arrests Fever.
Croup. Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHCEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePoFt
Nature's Gh’ft.
'YAY?
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0, for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
© s?
honestly and without charge.
CONSOLT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending: all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your case
and l will advise you
S.H.HENSHALL
Regd. Chemist,
»by Examination
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne.
B
Superior to *3
INJECTIONS 4
kdJBEBS and 4
■ COPAIBA.
I Cures_ the same
' diseases without <
inconvenience .
in
48 hours.
Each Capsule bears the name
m
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
'B1
<\LL SHAPES
/-EACH POST FREE 1/2
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
f / UREKEE PERS 4 roBACCONfSTS
SHOULD SEND EUR OUR TRADE. UST
Compulsory Winding-up of the insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsorv
winding up of same, and beg to submit the
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Brice.. .. £3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks. No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price .. £5 0 0
•» Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 15 0
3 Single-Barrel Duck .Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
S Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, excellent stock:
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. ..£2 17 6
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or' Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue— posted free.
ASTHMACURE
GHIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTFS
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma,NervonsConirtis
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immedlntelv
relieved by GRIMAUI.T & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR 7
KITES. dn dbi, allC'- — oIGAIt-
‘‘LINSEED COMPOUND” for Oou*hs n,„i
Golds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.
Well Regulated fern? Hies
are fully alive to the importance oi being prepared for those troublesome
attacks of Indigestion and kindred ailments common to all, and of effectively
dealing with them in the early stages before they have become dangerous
or chronic. Well regulated families are careful to have always a sound
reliable remedy immediately available, and as experience has clearly proved
the undoubted superiority of Beecham’s Pills as a family medicine, a box of
this invaluable corrective is always kept at hand. For removing such
distressing disorders as Dyspepsia, Biliousness, Liver troubles in general,
and Constipation, it is ever the wisest and most satisfactory course to
Jake
Beecham’s Pills. The remedial properties of these pills, however, are not
limited to the cure of digestive troubles alone, but exercise a specific and
beneficial influence upon the nervous system. Well regulated families are
aware that there is no finer tonic, nor any more certain means of banishing
disease from the household than may be secured by a judicious and regular
use of
Beccham’s Tills.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price ///£ (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
oyfL&L&ctJi
OTHER MODELS
From 7/6 to 40/-
The Accordeort with
The Mellow Tone
ic Just, perfection for Song Accompaniments. Dance Music end
Picnics, The Organ like Tone of these Instruments is attained
by the uu of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-fitted aad utneou
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
S Sots Bell Metal Reeds, Price 22/6, Post Free.
FOR A FREE CATALOGUE WRITE TO
ALLAN & Co.,
276 Collins Street, Melbourne,
And also at BENDIGO & GEELONG.
ip* COC.WI..E.
Dread of Indigestion
drives many men and women to a mistaken dietary regime,
and —chronic dyspepsia. It is the greatest mistake in the world.
Anybody who knows the supreme corrective value of Cockle’s Pills
can enjoy all the rational pleasures of the table with impunity. Cockle’s
Pills thoroughly purify, regulate, and strengthen the digestive system.
They ensure natural functional activity. Physicians have recognised
this for the last century.
PI LLS.
ZERCHO’S
CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE.
m
ii
ii
i~rllr~
£SXuX
rr
rc
rr
s!®
STu
Uli
iM
is
Ll'i
ni' V,
Ef^
3
mo*
• **-*»2r!
159 Collins St, Melbourne.
28 Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Currie Chambers, Adelaide.
Utilise your spare time by
of the following subjects :
.
bend for Descriptive Pamphlet “ S
in which you are interested,
at home
and state subjt
Typewriting
Bookkeeping
Accountancy
English
Penmanship
Arithmetic
Correspondence
Latin
French
Greek
Algebra
Geometry
Trigonometry
Elementary Science
History
Geography
Surveying
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Draftsmanship
Freehand Drawing
Pen and Ink Drawing
Illustrating and Designing
Let us coach you for a University, Local Government
(Shire Clerks or Auditors). Public Service, Sanitary
Inspectors', or any other examination.


Perdriau’s “Watershed”
OILSKIN
The “ Watershed ” Oilskin is made on a patented plan by
means of which it can be buttoned in various ways, thus
ensuring; absolute comfort and protection to thewearer.
/
. The “Dugong Watershed"
is made of light and superior
material, and is priced at 30/-
The “ Rainbow Watershed ”
is made of heavier material, and
is for rougher wear. Price 25/-
“ Watersheds ’’ are sold by
Storekeepers all over Australia,
or they may be ordered direct
from us. We pay postage on
all orders.
Call or write for a copy of the “ Watershed ’’ Booklet.
It is Free.
Per O r /AU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
PUMPS.
The Victoria Turbo-Pumps
Manufactured by
Willans (Si Robinson Ltd., Rugby.
We can quote for High or Low Lift Pumps, either Belt or Electric Drive.
Apply— T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney
DICKS PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADI.
S'^Q'R/gtt#
o\£
BALATZ
"V*
\HS£
BELT
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a guard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: James Hardie & Do.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, fid ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
The Most Wholesome Spirit Obtainable.
A real
Health
Tonic.
fgd
Buy
Whole
Bottles.
“SENTINEL
JUNIOR.”
SIMPLE
ENGINE.
DIRECT
DRIVING
A DYNAMO
FOR
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING
PURPOSES.
L
SEND FOR CATALOGUES.
SENTINEL
AIR COMPRESSORS
Highest Economy
and Efficiency.
.special Designs to meet all requirements.
HIGH-SPEED ENGINES
Economical in Steam Consumption and Thoroughly Reliable.
HIGH-PRESSURE STEAM TRAPS
The Best High=Pressure Trap now in use.
Feed Water Filter 8 Oil Separator
Simple and Efficient, with large Filtering Surface.
J. WILDRIDGE & SINCLAIR, Ltd ,
82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Prell’s Buildings,
Melbourne; 8 A.M.P, Buildings, Brisbane.
m
THE
HORSE CLIPPERS
Give Wonderful Satisfaction.
Several Styles to choose from. PRICES from 6/9 to 11/6 each.
An Illustrated Booklet sent to any address in Australia—Free.
Sole Agents for Australia—DALCETY g COMPANY, LTD., Miller's Point, Sydney.
TEL.
3236
5221
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY SPECIALISTS
WARBURTOIM, FRANKI & CO.
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE.
162 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
m
:
Four-Stamp Nisseu Mill
FOR MODERN MILL WORK
THE NISSEN STAMP MILL
has important improvements over the ordinary Stamp Battery.
It is the only STAMP having a circular splash-with a circular
screen; and therefore the only STAMP which can screen the
discharge as fast as formed.
For Full Particulars write to the Manufacturers,
Parke 8 Lacy Co. Ltd.,
Engineers and Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St, Sydney, n.s.w.
RAGKAROCK
FOR ROCK BLASTING.
CONTRACTORS
QUARRY MEN
BRICKM AKERS
Send for
Testimonials .
Cheapest and Most Efficient Explosive Known.
cs&ocK>
RENDROCK
FOR LAND CLEARING.
TREE SPLITTING,
STUMP LIFTING.
Carried as Merchandise. No Explosive Rates.
■J
263 George Street, SYDNEY;
525 Coliin Street, MELBOURNE.
