

S-THE WHISKY OF WHISKIES
R. Car. WATKINS «Sfc 00.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
S&km. .battle & C? M-
Shay
Locomotives.
For Light Railway, Steep Grades and
Sharp Curves.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide.
hobarx.
Ijadley’s Orient jjotel.
pi ON EE
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
d. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
sdfs
**
Take it back.
I must have
HUTTON’S
fineApplc Srand
df
S SAFES
with PATENT ASBESTOS INNER
JUNKET maae irorn these, genuine la Diets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
HANSENS
L
sd
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily alter meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
S’ S& //
• N V Cs>- J- *
V*
cdJL. (* &JL, -feet-
*?&*/ to&jjK/Lf (JUt/C Mas &(£(&, fabfajL ClejuO &&&
Ctifa,
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS IiSBRY,
And a.l MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
.“■Mm
fsd
f
sd
FOR ALL SERVICES KEPT
IN
Send for Catalogues.
The one white roofing for White Australia
The roofing with the soft, artistic effect without glare
The roofing that will keep you cool and comfortable
The roofing that you should write and ask us about
IT
Sole Australian Representatives, 32 8 34 Clarence Street,
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WUXI AM BALDWIN. GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER!, CH ALLIS HOUSE. MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
PABCO
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U?
fs
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T?
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
C. A. MACDONALD LTD.,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
H ELI DON SPA WATER
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES.
CREAM COOLERS. BUTTER FACTORY REQUISITES.
P/ease choose your “ SPA ” carefully.
You may be penalised otherwise .
DEWHURST 8 HAELGRAN, Ltd.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Vol. 31.—N0. 1608.]
[Thursday, December 8, 1910.
■Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS FOR PRESENTATION.
THE NORTH POLE, by R. E. PEARY. With Introduction by Theo. Roosevelt. 1M illustrations from
photographs. Price, 18/-.
A New anti Cheaper Edition -
SIR E. H. SHAOBLTjETON’S THE HEART OF THE ANTARCTIC. Price, 7/6; poster#, 8/3.
Profusely illustrated from photographs taken on the journey.
LEGENDS OF THE ALHAMBRA. Illustrated by
GEO. HOOD. 9/-( posted, 10/-
KIPLING’S SONG OF THE ENGLISH. Illustrated
by W. H. ROBINSON. 181- ; posted, 19/6.
OHATTERTON, E.K. : STEAMSHIPS nn(\ their story.
153 illustrations. 25/- (.posted, 26/6.
100 POPULAR PICTURES. Facsimile reproduc-
tions in color of popular pictures from the world’s
great Galleries. 12/-; posted, 14/-
GILBERT’S lOLANTHE, and other operas. Beauti-
fully illustrated. 18/- / posted, 19/6.
EBBtJTT : HERO MYTHS AND LEGENDS OF
THE BRITISH #?4C£. 9/-; posted, 9/9.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 238 PITT STREET (opposite School of Arts), SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EIIMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says
“These Jujubes
should be of
special service
to Lecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro lon ged
periods."
0.
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
df
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
The RED PAGE
Louis Esson
The title of Louis Esson’s book of verses,
Bells and Bees (Lothian), suggests music and
sweetness, and there is something of each
quality in this small sheaf of lyrics. There
is none of the “tintinabulation that so musi-
cally wells ” from the bells of E. A. Poe, nor
is the honey from the bees of Mt. Hybla.
In the bush poems one hears the note of dis-
tant cow-bells and gets honey with a eucalyp-
tian tang, such as is gathered by the stingless
Australian bee. These have a charm of
their own to Australians.
The verses do nob fall into any recognised
class. There is “The Splitter,” without
rhyme but a rhythm of its own :
Back in the bush
Unbroken, the splitter
Hews stroke on stark stroke
Through black-butts and blue-gums.
And “ The Shearer’s Wife,” whose husband
is away shearing, is drawn in a few telling
lines :
I patch an’ darn, now evening conies,
An’ tired I am with labor sore,
Tired o’ the bush, the cows, the gums,
Tired, but must dree for long months more,
What no tongue tells.
The moon is lonely in the sky,
The bush is lonely, an’ lonely I
Stare down the track no horse draws nigh,
An’ start.... at the cattle bells.
It is a far cry to Jaipur, where was written
the “Evening Hymn to Krishna ” :
Call on the Lord ! Cows leave the byre,
And milk pails foam. The sunset’s fire
Kindles the gopis’ wild desire
To feel they kiss, and thrum
Cymbals, and clash their bracelets bright,
Breaking the Still air of the night
With lilting lyrics of delight,
Lord of the Milkmaids, come !
Then in eight lines we get the substance
of Gautier’s “ Art ” ; and in
“ Brogan’s Lane ” we learn how
Flash Fred when he dives on a red lot, can choose
To moscow the swag at a Polacky Jew’s.
Esson has apparently made a careful selec-
tion from his scattered verses, and has
represented the variety of his subject matter
and style. The book leaves the impression of
experiment rather than achievement. The
pagan spirit which flashes out in “ Silenus to
a Young Satyr ” (which it would be unfair to
the book to quote) and in “ Nomad Chant ”
has hardly had full fling. There is a cramped
feeling about one or two poems, but the
workmanship in most of them is fine, and
some are so good that one wishes Esson
would put his whole heart into verse. Bells
and Bees is a welcome addition to the books
of Australian verse that are worth while, and
is, perhaps, a promise of bigger work to come.
Professor Tucker, of Melbourne, has sup-
plemented his Life in Ancient Athens with'a
similar account of Life in the Roman World
of Nero and St. Paul (Macmillan). He has
aimed at the general reader, and presented
his digest of a large amount of reading in an
easy style. You may get a more vivid pic-
ture of Nero from Tacitus or Quo Vadis ,
and a better view of one phase of Roman
life from Petronius ; bub these would be as
partial as the snapshots of St. Paul. Not
every patrician was a Nero nor every woman
a Messalina, and Prof. Tucker, by setting
forth the life of the average Roman in each
class, from the cradle to the funeral, will
help a good many to know what the
man on the street and his missis at
home were like. They are a crowd
worth knowing, as our civilisation is built
on their ruins ; and Prof. Tucker’s book is
the most complete, accurate and readable
account of them that can be had in English.
Walter Murdoch, also of Melbourne Uni-
versity, reprints in Loose Leaves (G. Robert-
son and Co.), a selection from his literary
articles in the Argus and Australasian. The
blend of scholarship and humor makes
attractive reading. There is little in his
literary judgments to quarrel with, and local
writers are treated with just generosity.
Captain John Tombleson, of Gisborne
(M.L.), has discovered the knack of home-
made poetry, and prints a selection of his
“effortless strains of earthly harmony ” in
Bothasberg and Other Verses (Walter Scott
Co.). He has learned the goose-step, and
can jot down any old thing in verse while
you wait. For instance :
We started shearing yesterday.
We went about it in this way :
First of all we moved the engine
From its shed beside the wood,
Where it stood, firm and good—
It was bolted to its bed ;
Then we jammed the exhaust wide open.
And we laid it on the fly-wheels,
And we took it by the head.
And put the belt on true,
Connected up the battery
And pumped the benzine too.
Then away she went like blazes,
And coughed and coughed and coughed,
And all the woolshed rattled
And shook the very loft.
The information is no doubt reliable. And
one need not question the accuracy of his
description of a military tournament :
On King Edward the Seventh’s birthday,
November the 9th, ’O9,
The East Coast Mounted Rifles
Had determined to take all the shine
Out of previous sporting fixtures. ...
or how it feels to be “ Wanted at the tele-
phone" :
They called me up from out my bed,
Pyjamas thin, nought on my head,
To stand on doormats, hear what’s said
Over the telephone.
The spoken words, they all escape ;
I wish it wrote them on tape;
I cannot hear, I stand and gape,
Chilled to the bone.
To keep idle hands out of mischief they
might be encouraged to keep a diary in verse
of this kind, with the proviso that each
volume, when filled, must be buried in the
back yard.
Juveniles
Australian books for Australian juveniles
are increasing in number and value; in
fact, faster than the juveniles. Amy
Mack’s Bushland Stories, referred to lately,
is an admirable mixture of instruction with
amusement.
Freckles, by Tarella Quin (G. Robertson
and Co.) is a prettily told story of a little city
boy on a Victorian station.
‘ ‘ Tom' ’ Who Was Rachel, by J, M.
Whitfeld (Angus and Robertson), will suit
girls who go to Sunday-school. There is a
touch of priggishness about the characters ;
but they get through floods in the bush and
picnics at Lane Cove in a plausible fashion.
Boys will appreciate The Lone Patrol, by
John Finnemore (W. and R. Chambers), a
Boy Scout yarn of the N. Queensland bush,
with as many adventures as can be honestly
squeezed into 300 odd pages and some that
can’t. The Boy Scouts have all the re-
sourcefulness and luck of that impossible
Stviss Family Robinson. Finnemore seems
to know the bush and its inhabitants, though
he brings in a 15ft. python as a boa-
constrictor.
The Invisible Island, by Alex. Macdonald
(Blackie and Son), is as good as the average
Max Pemberton romance. The island is
just off the shores of Carpentaria, and is
used by Australian-bound Chinamen as a
jumping-off place. A great gold discovery
is made there, and many Chows slaughtered.
Mary Grant Bruce takes a place not far
from the author of Seven Little Australians.
Her first story— A Little Bush Maid ( Ward,
Lock and Co.) —is one that boys will read with
as much interest as girls.
Tolstoy and Turgenev
There is some resemblance between these
two great Russian writers and the Nor-
wegian pair, Ibsen and Bjornson. Their lives
covered about the same period—Turgenev,
born 1818 ; Tolstoy and Ibsen, born 1828 ;
Bjornson, born 1832. In each case the pair
were friends who quarrelled, were estranged
for some years, and eventually made it up.
And in each case the bigger man—bigger
because his work cut deeper—was the greater
egoist and the more “ unclubbable ” human.
While young Tolstoy was still ruffling it in
St. Petersburg society he did not hesitate to
act as censor to the 10-years-older Turgenev,
and abuse him for lack of sincerity. The
poet Fet, who knew them both, gives much
information about Tolstoy at the most in-
teresting period of his life.
On one occasion, Turgenev, beside himself with
excitement, strutted through the rooms where
they were all staying. “ I cannot stand this 1 I
have bronchitis ! ”
“ Bronchitis.” grumbled Tolstoy, “ is an imagin-
ary disease. Bronchitis is a metal! ”
Turgenev continued to strut through the rooms
with his hands in his pockets, while Tolstoy lay
on a sofa in the middle room. To avert a catas-
trophe, one who was present tried to calm the
agitated Tolstoy by telling him how much he was
respected and loved by Turgenev.
“I will not permit him to spite me,” Tolstoy
replied with dilated nostrils. “He is purposely
walking past me and wagging his democratic
haunches.”
* * * *
Tolstoy had little humor. A comedy
which has been translated into English as
The Fruits of Enlightenment is a ponderous
effort to treat lightly the fashionable interest
in Spiritualism. A specimen of this terribly
earnest man in a jocular mood is given in a
letter to Fet, quoted in Wiener’s biography:
D. begs me as a friend to write a story. Really,
I want to write one. I will write one just to beat
the band. , T
The Shah of Persia is smoking tobacco, ana 1
love you. That’s what. Jests aside, how about
your Hafiz ?... At times I want so much to be a
great man, and I feel so provoked because that
has not yet come to pass. I sometimes even hasten
to get up or finish my dinner in order to begin.
*** . *
Turgenev had a broader view and a finer
touch as an artist. . . . And as a man he
shows up better than Tolstoy. Their quar-
rels were not made up until 1878, but when
The Cossacks appeared in 1862 Turgenev
“ went'into transports ” over it. Later on
Turgenev superintended the translation of
Tolstoy’s novels into French, and on his
deathbed the elder writer sent an urgent
appeal to Tolstoy to go back to art. ‘ ‘ That
gift came whence all conies to us. Return
to your literary work, great writer of our
Russian land.”
* * # *
The only authentic poem of Tolstoy’s was
addressed to the poet Fet in ’72. This is
Wiener’s translation of the first two stanzas :
As in the presence of the rose
The onion vainly feels regret,
So I feel shame to meet in prose
Your challenge, my beloved Fet.
And thus I’ll answer you in rhyme—
My first attempt —which makes me fret;
Decide yourself, where, at what time—
Be sure you come to see us, Fet.
A Real Cute Barbarian
George Sylvester Yiereck is—to paraphrase
the lady in “Our Miss Gibbs” —a German
by birth and an American by profession. In
The Confessions of a Barbarian (Sydney Book
Club) he tries to explain Germany to the
Americans, and America to the rest of the
world. “ There was a time when I wavered
between two literatures. I consulted with
my friends on both sides of the ocean, and
it was finally agreed upon that America
being poorer than Europe needed me most.
I decided to become an American classic.” . . .
The “ Confessions ” are written “ with the
truthfulness of St. Augustine, of Rosseau, of
George Moore.” There is not much of scan-
dalous interest about himself ; but his spas-
modic sentences are often witty and nearly
always smart. Chapters of them, however,
have the same effect as the explosion of
cheap crackers.
The picturesque is conspicuously absent in our
history. We haven’t much of a history, anyway.
There is the story of the Cherry Tree and the
Declaration of Independence, a couple of wars,
and Lincoln’s assassination. For me, American
history begins with Poe, not with Plymouth ; not
with the,Constitution, but with Annabel, Lee.
We have raised humbug to a fine art. But we
are quick to discern it. Shaw is afraid we’d find
out that he is merely a resuscitated epigram of
the late Oscar Wilde, dropped by mistake in a
volume of Marx.
Viereck’s remarks on Kaiser Bill, whose
name “ flares.from the century’s forehead,”
on the advantages of military service, on the
revolving stage of the German theatre and
those remarkable German writers, Bier-
baum and Wedekind, are worth looking at.
Though Yiereck is more serious of intention,
for some reason he reminds one of Frank
Richardson, whose latest clever futility is
labelled Whiskers and Soda.
. * - -<*.— —
Snaith’s Mrs. Fitz (Dymock’s) is a Ruri-
tanian romance, with the principal Ruri-
tanians quartered amongst some specimens
of British aristocracy. The latter are drawn
with the same playful irony that redeemed
the badly-constructed Araminta. Mrs. Fitz
is a “ novel ” character, but Mr. Fitz is
bully. Odo Arbuthnot, M.P., and “the
partner of his bliss ” are people that Snaith
knows how to handle charmingly.
*** " " *
Enchanted Ground, by Harry J. Smith
(Constable and Co.), is a well-written story
of a good New England young man in New
York. Like Tannhauser, he is tempted and
led astray by a delightful creature; and the
Puritan strain undergoes a severe testing.
He is saved for his Elizabeth, although she
has’ renounced him, and only takes him back
on finding that her pa had been naughty
when young. . . . A nice book for Y.M.C.A.
young men.
* * * *
Lady Good-for-JSfothing is a good “Q.”
story, which leaves the Delectable Duchy
and very much resembles De Morgan’s
Affair of Dishonor. There is an interesting
account of the great Lisbon earthquake.
■* * * *
Peggy Webling’s A Spirit of Mirth does
not belie its title. It is an amusing story
which can be cheerfully recommended.
♦
Died in October, Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, aged
91. Made famous by her “ Battle Hymn of the
Republic,” she wrote a good deal else of little
account. She was a Bostonian in Emerson’s prime,
and joined the Brook Farm communist colony
which Hawthorne has preserved in The Blythedale
Romance.
The Queen Elizabeth of Cathay
The Empress Dowager of China—other-
wise Yehonala, Tzu-Hsi, the Old Buddha,
etc. —who seized and held the throne of the
Manchus for more than 50 years, was not
merely a remarkable woman ; she was an
Astounding Personage.
The story of her life, as told for the first
time in China Under the Empress Dowager, by
J. O. Bland and E. Backhouse (Heinemann),
is crammed with incident, and puts the
Chinese in a new light for English readers.
Upon the death of the Emperor Tao-
Kuang in 1850, his eldest surviving son,
Hsien-Eeng, aged 19, and already a widower,
ascended the throne. After the expiry of the
prescribed period of mourning (27 months !),
a decree was issued in true Solomonistic
style, commanding that all beautiful Manchu
maidens of eligible age—l 3 to 17—should
present themselves at the Imperial House-
hold office, so that a selection could, be
made for Hsien-Feng’s harem. Among the
maidens who rolled up to share one-seven
tienth of the affections and favors of the
Son of Heaven—7o being The Limit in
China, as against 700 in Old Palestine—was
Yehonala, sister of the dead wife of Hsien-
Feng. The girls passed under the coldly
critical eye of the Emperor’s Ma, who
selected 28 varied samples of Girl, which
she divided into four classes of Imperial
concubines. Yehonala (delightful name ! >
was made the First Concubine and an
“Honorable Person.” The job of nominal
Empress went to a girl named Sakota. It
should cheer many rebellious daughters-in-
law in this and other barbarian lands to
know that “in all domestic matters of
the household the widow of the Emperor
last deceased exercises supreme authority,
and although precedent allows the Son of
Heaven to inspect the ladies selected for
him, he has no voice in their disposition or
the determination of their rank ! ”
The profligate Son of Heaven had broken
up (or down), and was a paralytic at 25.
The young, energetic, intelligent and ambi-
tious Yehonala almost at a bound became the
real ruler of one-third of the human race.
How she governed and schemed and wrote
(she had a fine, uncompromising literary
style, and no occasion to descend to euphem-
isms) and fought and loved and worked and
feasted and punished and rewarded is told
in full. You see her interviewing her gene-
rals de haut en has , putting questions with
Caesarian directness. She was a stickler'for
etiquette, an adept at “face-saving” arts,
and a past-mistress in the game of squeeze.
Not only did she levy toll, as every official
did, in a barefaced manner, but each of the
honorific titles “ presented ” to her on
birthdays and other occasions carried a grant
of £20,000 a year from the public funds.
At the end of her life she had 16 of them.
Her official designation then ran :
The Empress Dowager, motherly, auspicious,
orthodox, Heaven-blessed, prosperous, all-nourish-
ing, brightly manifest, calm, sedate, perfect, long-
lived, respectful, reverend, worshipful, illustrious
and exalted.
She won theng all by her Napoleonic force
of character. Here is an instance of her
suddenness. When the “foreign devils”
under Admiral Seymour arrived on the scene
of the Boxer outrages, the Old Buddha,
making ready for flight, decreed that all the
imperial concubines should remain in the
capital : /
They were summoned to appear before her
Majesty at 3.30 a. m. .. . The Pearl Concubine
came with the rest. .. . She had always been
insubordinate to the Old Buddha, and now actu-
ally dared to suggest that the Emperor should re-
main in Pekin. Without a moment’s hesitation,
she shouted to the eunuchs on duty: “Throw
that wretched minion down the welt!’’ The
Emperor, greatly grieved, “fell on his knees in
supplication, but the Empress angrily bade him
desist, saying that this was no time for bandying
words. ‘ Let her die at once, as a warning to all
undutiful children !’” . . . So the eunuchs took
the Pearl Concubine and cast her down the large
well which is just outside the Ning-Sbou Palace.
This sort of thing happened frequently.
Heads fall off with “ a short, sharp shock ”
in nearly every chapter, and one condamne
commits suicide by swallowing mud. *
The authors insist, and back their in-
sistency with adequate examples, that the
“devilish cunning” of the Chinese exists
only in the mind of Europeans, prone to see
in John’s simple language (of flowers) and
artless behavior the acme of diplomacy
Consequently the most transparent childish-
ness of John is misread as triple extract of
Machiavelli!
Messrs. Bland and Backhouse give a fine
view of Chinese character, and also present
in letters, extracts from diaries and other
documents, the superior Chinese opinion of
European civilisation.
O. C. C.


JL
<a
Popular Presents to Suit Every Purse.
No. 201*—Perfume Spray, Green
Glas9, Fancy Floral Design,
4s. 3d
No. 200 Perfume Spray,
Shaded Red and Gold Designs,
3s. 9d.
aw
i'.:
aw i.naa
Altana
No. 203 Perfume Spray,
Shaded Red and Shaded Green
Glass, Floral Design, 4s. 9d.
sd
No. 1803c —Shaving’ Set, in
White Celluloid, with 6in.
Bevelled Mirror, Shaving
Cup and Brush, 12/6,17/6.
THE AUSTRAL MCLiIAivX uituSH CASE.,
in Morocco, contains two jrood quality Hair
Brushes, with Polished Wood Backs, Mirror and
Comb, 14s. to 275. 6d.
No. ISOOa—Shaving Set, two
China Cups, Shaving Brush
and 6in, Bevelled Glass, on
Nickel Stand, 16s. 6d.
8 am
mmsgs&
fiSSBSSi
IiSsSSS!
iSSESfSgi
22*
s a
No. 204 l J erfame Spray, Pile
Pink Glass, Floral Design,
os. Bd.
No. —jfui'fume Spray, Green
and Gold Frosted Glass, Fluted
Design, 2s. 9d., 3s. 3d., ,4s. 3d
No. 205—Perfume Spray, White
Out Glass, 4s. 9d.
No. 1807—China Shaving:
Bowl, in Nickel Cup and
Badger Brush, 4s. 6d.
No. 1818a —levelled Mirror Stand for Dressing-
Table, with Nickel and Black-mounted Brushes,
21s.
No. 1818x —Ditto, ditto, with Embossed Nickel
Brushes, 21s.
No. 1815 Shaving Sol.,
Polished Wood Base, with
sin. Adjustable Bevelled
Mirror, Nickel Mu<r, China,
lined Bowl, and Brush,
13s. 6d.
No. itfo
-9ct. Gold Half-round Bracelets, with Buckle, Chased,
Chain attached, 195., 235. 6d., 295., 345.
No. 842—Oct. Gold Bracelet, set with imitation Ruby in centre,
with seven Pearls either side, as illustrated, 275. 6d.
S'-*,
No. 836—9 ct. Gold Bracelet, Pearl set, with Garnet, Sapphire or
Amethyst centre, 355.
I I
No. 510—9 ct. Gold Amethyst-set Bracelet, 30s.
No 488~9ct. Gold Engraved Han<i Bangle, in various designs,
195., 235. 6d. 295., 345.
No. ”70—Patent. Expanding YVaieh Bracelet. The Watch is a
strong, reliable Keyless Lever, an accurate timekeeper, in
Sterling Silver Case, and the Expanding Bangle is also Sterling
Silver. Prices £4 4s. and £4 7s. 6d.
Anthony Horderns’ 1/- Triumph Pipe.
The best 1/- Pipe south of the line. Selected Briars, Vulcanite Mouthpiece. Postage 2d. ,
Write for
Price List
of Tobacco,
Cigars and
Cigarettes.
Posted
Free.
7a
8a
1
9
Try our
Registered
Brands of
Cigars.
They ars
Top Quality
at Bottom
Price.
The A. H. (Si, S. Briar Pipe.
The A. H. & S. BRIAR at 2/6 (posted 2/8) is the equal of Pipes often sold at four times the
price. It is Fi ist Quality Briar.
Selected Briar.
Silver Band,
2|6.
Post Free
2/8.
fs
Push Stems,
Any Shape,
2/6.
Post Free
2/8.
ORDER
BY
NUMBER.
Triumph Extra Briar Pipe.
TJie 4/6 TRIUMPH BRIAR is the finest Pipe made, and guaranteed to be of the finest
materials. Shapes Nos. 26 and 28 can also be had with Silver Push at 6/6 each.
2i\ ay 4 O
mm— Post, T O
as
London-Made,
Silver-Mounted,
4/6.
Post Free,
4/8.
Hand-Cut
Vulcanite Stems,
4/6.
Post Free,
4/8.
No. 511 —9ct. Gold Bracelet, set with 11 Garnets, Topaz
or Amethysts, and 20 Pearls, 50s.
No. 509- 9ct. Gold Gem Set Bracelet, Pearls anti Kilbies, or
Pearls and Sapphires, or all Rubies, or Sapphires, 425.
No. 512—9 ct. Gold Buckle Bracelet, Engrared.
Half-round, 255. 6d., 295., 345.
Flat, 205., 235. Gd., 295., 345.
No. 517 —Set.. Gold Bamboo Bangle, 21s.
No. 513 not. Gold Gem-set Bracelet, Pearls and Rubies,
or Pearls and Sapphires, 375. 6d. ; 15ct. ditto, from £4 4s.
No. 4S9—9ct. Gold Flat Bracelets, with Buckle, Chased
Chain attached, 195., 235. 6d., 295., 345.
HORDERN & SONS
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
v Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
t • ,
Kent Brewery, Sydney
- n #
mtnmM
Id ikii 1
I'S%L
SrtiMftHfjmm • • •. i
iitiiitiniiiiiiiiMiitiiniih.9
mmilMmimimniHiiii..............
lIIIIIIIIMVmHWfimiHIMUIIIUUIII....
inWWWMHMIHiWIHMii
ft
••
g\# ■niiiimnmiun
••
€
A. C
© ®
••jd
#oj .111111
3k illiuniii
iiiidlMiii
•••
'TliMiiiiiiiiliiiiiimiiiiiit
<l ll l>■ 11 11 1 M 1 1 ■ 1 11 111 i > >I 111 IM t
III! tUlll4Ml|miltllll|l|llMll|lllllll|l<
It is not difficult to select a present
for Xmas if you know about
The box of hosiery is specially
packed for a Xmas gift. It contains
three pairs of men s socks or three pairs of ladies stock-
ings of seasonable weight in the latest art shades and
vertical stripes. Every pair has the tra<^e mar^
attached, which is a guarantee to you that they are made
of purest Australian wool and absolutely unshrinkable^
jUuoru hosiery has a soft silky finish that no other
all-wool unshrinkable has, and is most comfortable in
wear It has set the standard which is aimed at by
other makers.
Do not be content with “ just as good. It must be
frz&m, —ii it is it is marked
Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores.
In case of difficulty, write lor
Booklet and name ol nearest agent to
Jason Hosiery Co.
Leicester. England.
or
filin’
yz v
Useful, Instructive, Handsome
is /
S. SMITH & SON'S
m . (ltd.)
mm
ii.
Height 12 Inches.
As Supplied
CLOCK,
H.M.
The King.
SHOWS THE EXACT TIME IN ANY PART OF THE WORLD
GLOBE BEAUTIFULLY COLOURED.
BASE HANDSOMELY-CHASED BRASS.
PricG ? * 3 O
Larger Size (15 inches) £6 6 O
Write for Catalogue, WATCHES, CLOCKS, JEWELLERY
SPECIAL TERMS TO SHIPPERS.
9 Strand, London.
WATCH AND CHAIN AND RING
For Selling Our High firade Art Post Cards
GIVEN
ONIM
IN3JLS
.STEM
SET
df
ffl¥^s^KK^^«^^j^if»M* , s? , iass:
will send you the twees and we will positively send yon at once this beautiful
SiTCHIa%AI“a»VMNif W° a wm riimd the mob., II s ou are net perfectly
HERUSSW*TMCOMPm:m7 East OH St,eat, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, 0. S. A.
Australian Hutual Provident Society.
r a t 31st December, 1910 .
Ntixt Distribution of Cush Surplus as a
next uiszrioutiu tifpartment before the close
POLICIES EFFECTED IN THE BO NUS TO BE THEN ALLOTTED.
OF THE YEAR WILL SHARE IN THE CASH BONUS XO BE
rq9 Total bonuses distributed, £is,no,oo*».
Surplus divided for the year 1909, * 779 ’ 692 . q{ flCs earned are divided among the partiei-
The Society being a purely mutual i nstl J“ tlo " f every mem ber to recommend the Society to his friends.
pating policy holders. It Annua ! Income, *3,380,000.
Accumulated Funds, £25,750 0 . H ead Office, 87 Pitt Street, Sydney, or
Policies can be effected for any sum up to WOO. Wrlte ? -
or Agent o 7 the Society, for full particulars.
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A, F.F.A., F - S -S-
General Manager and Actuary.
H. W APPERLY.
Secretary.
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
The Grandest Remedy in the World for
COUGHS & COLDS
ONE DOSE IS GENERALLY SUFFICIENT.
THOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at
its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, Difficulty
of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience
delightful and rapid relief; and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a
complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irrita-
tion in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice,
and, it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is
not known where “Coughs” have,, on their first appear-
SMALL
SIZE:
2/6
ance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without
it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or
two is generally sufficient, and a com-
plete cure is certain.
LARGE
SIZE:
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE VENDORS, and
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
N.S.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney
THE LIVER & KIDNEYS
ARE
AMONGST THE
MOST IMPORTANT ORGANS
OF THE BODY, AND
CLEMENTS TONIC KEEPS THEM SOUND.
A Well-known Justice of the Peace writes thus :
Queen Street,
Brisbane, 3i/8/’io.
CLEHENTS TONIC LTD.
“ 1 have pleasure in informing you that I have
derived great benefit from the use of your splendid
remedy, Clements Tonic. It possesses this advan-
tage over other tonics. It stimulates and braces up
the nervous system without the * slump ’ which has,
in my case at any rate, inevitably followed the use
of other similar remedies.
(Signed) “ CHAS. MORRIS, J.P.”
Thousands of men and women, as well as Mr. Morris, swear by Clements Tonic as a nerve
strengthening and blood purifying medicine, of rare, remarkable power. It always benefits,
■ind in numberless instances it has cured cases that for years had defied the best medical
treatment It corrects at once the action of the stomach, removes excess of bile in the liver,
destroys all poisonous properties in the blood, thus curing irritation of the nerves that lead
to Nervous Ailments, Exhaustion, Nervousness, Sick Headache, Neuralgia, Rheumatism and
Sciatica Clements Tonic in the house is a guarantee against ill-health, and it makes it a
stranger. If any proof of its health-restoring powers is required this letter gives it.
ALL CHEMISTS AND STORES SELL IT EVERYWHERE.


Arc
You
PaSe?
wm
m.
m
m
mm
All run d<L vn, easily tired, nerv-
ous? And do not know what
to take? Then go direct to
your doctor. Ask his opinion
of Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. It con-
tains no alcohol, no stimulation,
and is a blood purifier, a nerve
tonic, a strong alterative, an aid
to digestion. Ask your doctor
about Ayer’s non-alcoholic Sar-
saparilla as a strong tonic for
the weak.
Ayer’s Sarsaparilla
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
WARRANTED FIFTEEN YEARS
0
, Packed Free. Carriage Paid direct from
our Factory to your Port. Ten Days' Free
Trial. Best British-made MEAD
Coventry Flyers
Defiance Puncture-Kesisting or Dunlop
Tyres, Coasters. Variable-Speed Gears,
l BiS. A. Free Wheels, Flyer or Brook’s
I Saddles, etc.
I LATEST
MODELS
£ 3.10 to £9
Tyres and accessories at half usual prices.
I Write at once, using sufficient pos:age, for
Free Art Catalogue and special
Offer on sample machine
Agents wanted.
MEAD
CYCLE COMPANY,
Dept. 230, LIVERPOOL.
JAS. J. GILTSNAN, Agent, 157 Clarence St., Sydney.
25
&
r&m
Always
Reliable !
Eley Cartridges 1
offer a degree of
accuracy and relia-
bility which the lead-
ing sportsmen of the
world have not been
slow to appreciate.
To Specify *ELEY’ when buying
cartridges, is the easiest and quickest
way of ensuring complete satisfaction
ELEY
CARTRIDGES
Above is shown the
Eley 44 Winches-
ter Central 1-ire Rifle <
i artridge.
Ihe Eley ' Univer-
sal,’ for Shot Guns, is
known throughout the
world as a reliable
black - powder car-
tridge.
*Eley Smokeless’is
the popular low-
priced cartridge.
Eley ’22 Rim Fire
Cartridge, black &
smokeless powder
Of Gunmakers
and Dealers
iiley Bros.
* Ltd.
London.
sd
■JL& w Points
i3r /ni/enters
BY LETTER. Reliable informa-
tion and advice on all matters con-
cerning' the obtaining of Patents,
and the best means of keeping the
titles thereof inviolate during the term of grant.
If you have an invention and wish to patent it, forward
an accurate description of it, and you will receive an
answer by return of post as to whether it is patentable,
arid what will be the cost of completely protecting' it (in-
cluding drawings, etc.). No charge made for such report,
; tid all communications treated strictly confidentially.
A. J. CALLINAIM, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
fa
Good for
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for BONNINGiON S
1/6 &. 2/6
HEALTHFUL,. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“ guR JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 116 -
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide ; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
CLASS
Halted mil*
IS AN
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
BOTH
Nourishing 0? Invigorating.
In Hot Climates it makes a most
delicious drink for use in Soda
Fountains.
Horlick’s is on draught at
most Chemists in Australia, &c.
On sale by Chemists and Whole-
sale and Retail Stores, &c. Sam-
ples : 82 Pitt St.,Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK CO.
Slough, Eng.
sdf
There was an old maid of
Prahran,
Who thought she could
capture a man;
“All I want’s a clear skin,
I’ll take GOLCRYST and
win!”
Now she’s Mrs. Jemima
McCann.
QOLCKYST consists of Salts, Senna, Sarsa-
parilla, Dandelion, Liquorice, and Girifrer,
and is sold everywhere in 3d., 6d. arid 1/- packets.
Write to Proprietors, Rocke, Tompsitt &' Co.,
Melbourne, for free sample. GOLCRYST is the
best blood purifier known. [3
DEVELOP
YOUR
BUST!
A painfully thin
woman is placed at
a great disadvan-
tage nowadays. No
woman now need
stay thin and un-
developed.
[2
\
DR. FALLIERE’S
“ FLESH=FOOD”
is a natural tissue builder, a scientific bust
developer, that will add five pounds to your
weight weekly, and adds inches to your
measurements. Send 2d. stamp for Free
Trial Sample and full particulars, or call.
FALLIERE
“FLESH-FOOD” CO.
Dept. 5,
Linden Court,
Castlereagh St. ,
SYDNEY
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new-is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease from the first day's use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
THE DEMON OF DRINK.
HAS HE
QOT YOU ?
Drunkenness, the curse of so many homes, has for
years baffled scientists, but now a remedy has been
found. Dr. Shaw’s Anti-Alcohol (Registered by the
Govts, of Vic. and N.S.W.)isa certain cure—is harm-
less, and can be given secretly or taken voluntarily.
Advice Free. Write or Call. Dr. Shaw’s Establish-
ments, 54 Russell Street, Melbourne; 1161 Hay
Street, Perth, W.A. [2
The Association of Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
Cable Address : RUSPOLI, LONDON.
Amethvstand Pearl Ear-
rings, £2 150. per pair.
Gold Art Locket, set
4 Diamonds, £1 Is.
Pearl and Amethyst
Brooch, £3 3s.
Amethyst & Pearl or Coral
and Pearl Brooch, £1 Is.
Amethyst & Diamond
Pendant, £lO 10s.
Same price with
Opals or Peridots.
Ruby 01
Sapphire &
Diamond
Scarf Pin,
£1 15s.
New Pearl
and Peridot
Earrings,
£2 lbs.
per pair.
Gold Oiarm Crystal
Bowl, 12s. 6d.
YOU CAN BUY FROM ENGLAND. Pav your Duty and purch - se Cheaper and
Belter than you are now doing. Write tor Catalogue containing 6,000
lllustrations, Post Free to any part of the world.
6, Grand Hotel Buildings, London, W.C.I
VAIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Botany Bay.
There is a long dream in the golden sun,
A far, dim vision on the shining sea,
A haunting memory holds the steeps of sand.
I rest beneath grey, bending boughs, as one
Who gazes towards the evening and the free,
Full parting of the day with one curved hand
Above his dazzled eyes, while sharp roofs stand
Half-seen,against the glory. So to me
Come back the long thoughts of this quiet strand.
So much I know, so little have I seen
Of that rich moment in the storied past
When round yon headland, hoar with destiny,
The white sails fluttered. These soft woods were
green,
This scented dust of gold was lightly cast
On all the winds, the young spring’s mystery
Breathed low beside the lone enchanted sea
Ten thousand waiting seasons till the last
Blue day of doom broke, and the winds were free.
White tufts of cloud, like angels on their knees,
Rapt in the sweetness of a dreamy prayer.
Make soft the skies. The voices of the day,
The songs of mating birds among the trees,
Long whisperings of wavelet and of air
Cling in their wanton sweetness of world-play
To all my thoughts. That dream of yesterday
Is but a shadow that this light may share
With all the lights of ages passed away.
Strangers, they came to this deep-bosomed shore,
Rich with a stranger wealth of weed and tree.
They paced along these sands; their voices made
Strange echoes that live on for evermore
Upon our kindle 1 lips. Their memory
Clings to the grass and foam, and flowers that
braid
The sandy dune and conquered forest glade—
Clear white sails on the blue breast of the sea—
Tall masts aflame with sunset fires that fade.
They came. I know no more. This wide, bright
world
Raises its century of crystal days
Between me and that vision. Skies of blue.
Vast sweeps of green with shining mists up-curled,
And heaviness of blooms that skirt all ways
With gold and snowy lustre, and the new
Imperial purple washed in clearest dew
Of trailing ground-bines, these their barriers
raise,
Walling with sweetness all the past from view.
They came. We came. No matter whence or
how.
The treasure of the sun-gold all is ours.
And ours the costly splendor that can twine
Morn, noon and evening in the living Now
With such a plenitude of fadeless flowers
That none may lack delight. A nation’s vine
Strikes its deep roots in gladness, and the fine,
Large purple clusters, under silver showers
Of light and laughter, ripen to clear wine.
N.s.w.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.
Chanty of Greenshoes.
Where lay my drab ship by the Quay,
Spring came to say adieu to me.
Whey-hey the Southern Ocean !
And in her gown of silken sheen,
With hat a-tilt and hose of green,
She tripped the gangway like a queen.
Oh, hey ! the Outward Bound !
But rose-and-satin though she glowed,
I heard the calling of the road !
Eh, hey ! the Southern Ocean !
I heard the ancient ships go by,
Each golden beach and foreland high.
And sadly kissed her cheek good-bye!
Ah, ha! the Outward Bound!
Aye ! yester eve, all fresh from town.
Upon these transoms Spring sate down.
Alas ! the Southern Ocean !
To-day, in blue, the lissome sea.
Deep-bosomed, fond and Phryne free,
Her Siren song sings low to me.
Along the Outward Bound.
And yet, methinks, if Spring but came
With Summer’s wiles my heart to claim
Across the Southern Ocean,
Her lips would prove the tender fee
Of Love’s divine inconstancy,
And life grow fair to her and me,
Across the Southern Ocean.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
The Widow.
Coal black her eyes are. In their deeps
There glows a deeper light, and yet
Her cheek like some wan lily sleeps ;
No warmth of loving comes to fret
Its marble whiteness or to draw
To her curled lip a gentle thaw.
She will not hear, she does not see ;
Her eyes look.past the kindly day ;
Her soul that has no place for me
Clings to the coffinfcd man in gray
Who stole her heart’s blood yester-year,
And left his ghostly essence there. .
She’s given beauty, and she gives
No beauty and no love. Oppressed
She shivers from the sun. She lives,
But fondles Death’s hand on her breast.
Within that icy bosom pent
Her heart is termed a monument.
VICTORIA.
EDWARD DYSON.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. • in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY,
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
as
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It bas a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
lar<re bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price d£l
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Heeds, Celeste and Or<ran Stop,
15-fold Bellows, with steel corners, Price £1 7s. 6d. ;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Aecordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
p"'-
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful, country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery. ’
Crown Hand suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets. Brisb
T. C. TROEDSON, r
General Director,
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
LJLfLj
nun
BIS
Mm
iWW
HOTEL
METROPOIE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. Gd. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ... ... Gd
Packet of Ten ... ... 5d
FTiv**^
V
UNDER VICE-REGAL
dfa
PATRONAGE.
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereafrh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 213 S Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders reoeive prompt attention.
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
GOMPLETE arrangements have been made by t(ie new proprietor (Mr. VV. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming- season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office—or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Oaves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Oastlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
SILVER PLATE
Original and Exclusive Designs, combined
with the Highest Standard of Workmanship.
We take particular pride in our fine Silver Plate, and have no hesitation in inviting you
to come and look, with the assurance that our stock in Artistic Merit apd Character will
appeal to you, and nowhere else in Sydney can you get such Value for Ready Money.
Our Christmas Illustrated Catalogue Posted Free Anywhere.
Stewart Dawson 8 Company
(Australia), Ltd.,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.
J 4237 —Best Electroplate on Nickel Silver
Cheese Dish, with Glass lining', £l/7/6.
J3l96—Best Electroplate on Nickel Silver Table
Gong and Vases, £l/17/6.
J4s79—Fine Cut Glass, with
Silverplated Lid and Spoon,
Preserve Jar, 4/6.
R
J3l24—Fine Cut Gloss and
Silverplate Preserve Jar, 11/6.
H 9194 —Flower Stand, best Electro 1
SiWerplate, with four clear Glasses,
£l/17/6.
J4239—Best Electroplate on Nickel Silver and
three “ Royal Doulton ” China Plates for
Afternoon Tea, £l/10/-
J44s2—Best Electroplate on Nickel Silver, 35/-
J 1406— Best Electroplate on
Silver Sauce Boat, 10/6.
J42oo—Best Electroplate on Nickel
Silver Candles! ick, 10/6.
J 4304 —Best Electroplate on Nickel Silver and clear
Glass Stewed Fruit Dish, with Spoon, 16/6.
J43o3—Best Electro Silverplate Soup Tureen
and Spoon, £2/5/-
J 423-4 —Best Electroplate on Nickel
Silver Kettle, Stand and Lamp, JE2/15/-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a
you si-no ics
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1910.
y M
A NASTY JAR FOR MR. WADE.
....“When
A chunk of old red sandstone took him in the abdomen,
He smiled a sickly kind of smile and curled up on the floor,
And the subsequent proceedings interested him no more.”
—Bret Harte.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“ Australia for the White Man.”
I'tinted and Published by William Macltcod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Go.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co-. 214 Georp-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO STTJISCKTBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Ihi fending direct to Tun Bulletin Office Troenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tint Bulletin posted
regularly to you, every week for a, year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Macleod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tint Bulletin would, oblige. the paper
"and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods o f address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the. Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
ahvays is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian subjects, and not exceeding
tree columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs. Betters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
The Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the.
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. The Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone, supplying to The Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative, of a current event,
will be paid for same bn acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
■ — i.e., any picture whi. h has to be re-dr awn—will be paid
for as <t suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide.—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Lndgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 110 liigh Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency r, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Trvine and Forsyth, UUI Hastings Street; Borman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.— lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington ;International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Swd.
ITong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6'fin. x linn.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1910.
A LOAN AND SOME REFLECTIONS.
The time of big borrowings is coming back in Aus-
tralia—if a thing which has never really departed
can be said to come back. Kidston, of Queens-
land, has a schejne for a £6,000,000 loan. Verran,
of South Australia, has another scheme of the
same dimensions, and Westralia and N.S.W. are
so regularly at the pawnshop that they might
almost as well have their mattresses on the premises
and sleep there. If the Commonwealth should
also take the primrose way to Lombardy with a
view to finding money for its transcontinental
railways, as some people fancy it will, it is quite
possible that £30,000,000 or more will be
added to the aggregate debt of Australia
in the next year or two. Among all these
borrowings and prospective borrowings the
sudden upheaval of Premier Verran excites
the most surprise. Verran is Prick’s successor
as leader of the S.A. Labor party, and under
Price the party maintained a reputation for fairly
honest finance. Also, Verran is a preacher of
great fervor and tonnage—an expounder of that
uncompromising Scripture which says, “Owe no
man anything,” and which doesn’t even regard a
sinking fund as adequate excuse. Furthermore,
he represents a State which has less justification
for borrowing than any other in the Common-
wealth. S.A. has done marvels out of poor
material, but it is impossible to disguise the fact
that the material is poor. It has hardly anything
of its own which can be called a river without risk
of perjury, it has few minerals, and it has the
worst rainfall in Australia. A place like that
should go to the pawnshop sparingly, and carry
its water-bag with it when it goes.
* * * *
Yet there was nothing very sparing about S.A.
even before John Verran brought down his pro-
posal to borrow £6,807,000. Exact figures for the
current year are difficult to arrive at; but at
.Tune, 1909, the Crow-eater State owed £30,436,183.
It wasn’t the most deeply-hogged State in propor-
tion to population—in fact, its ear was still quite
visible above the financial surface—but it was
bogged quite deeply enough. In 1909 the net debts
of the various States loomed up in this cheerless
fashion :
Amount Owing per Inhabitant.
Victoria ..£42 0 9 I Westralia ..£'72 14 2
Tasmania .. 53 7 0 S.A 73 3 10
N.S.W. .. 56 0 7 | Queensland.. 78 0 3
As a redeeming feature in the case, S.A. lias
raised a larger proportion of its loans locally arid
a smaller proportion abroad than any other State;
out of every £lOO of debt £36 13s. is held in Aus-
tralia, while at the other end of the scale only £l3
7s. lOd. out of every £lOO of Westralia’s debt is
locally owned. And S.A. has some pretence of a
sinking fund—in fact, it has more sinking fund
than N.S.W., though it has only one-third as
much debt. But its record in lie matter of
diverting loan money to unproductive purposes
is pretty awful, though even there it is not
so bad as that of Tasmania. And the facts remain
that its net debt per head is the largest save one
among the States of the Commonwealth, and its
security, so far as concerns all that Nature has
done for the country, is the very worst. The fact
that the energy of the people has achieved much
more than might have reasonably been expected
is another matter.
* * * *
The devices of Premier Verran are as immoral
as those of his predecessors. He doesn’t show
any more scruple than the worst of them about
charging repairs, renewals and odd jobs of ordi-
nary expenditure to loan funds. A trifle more
than half of the proposed loan is for railway
purposes, and railways are commonly regarded as
the most reliable and respectable of “permanent
and reproductive works,” despite the fact that the
mono-rail threatens to make the old lines quite
obsolete,.and the airship may yet lift traffic off the
ground altogether, and send even the mono-rail to
the scrap-heap. But a huge proportion of Pre-
mier Verran’s railway works are mere patches
and repairs upon old works, and are not new
undertakings in any sense of the term. The har-
bor improvements are doubtful, for harbors have
a marvellous fashion of silting up. The building
of new wharves is doubtful, for wharves are tran-
scient, and require a lot of repair, and the pro-
posal to devote a huge sum of loan money
to the reconstruction of old wharves is an
infamy. The idea of paying out of loan
funds for such wholly unproductive things as
lighthouses and schools, for rabbit-proof fencing,
for the repurchase of land which the State sold in
earlier days treating the proceeds as revenue, and
for the replanting of the trees which were reck-
lessly cut down or burnt off when the Orow-eater
was young, is quite as bad. Roughly speaking,
out of the great loan of Premier Verran,
£1,833,000 will be plain swindle upon posterity,
including the tree-planting, land repurchase, rab-
bit fences, lighthouses, schools, railway repairs
and wharf reconstruction. A considerable portion
of the balance will be modified or dubious swindle.
The new railways, for instance, will be right
enough, provided (1) their routes are well selected ;
(2) they are not suddenly rendered obsolete by new
methods of locomotion ; (3) a recurrence of gigantic
droughts doesn’t turn them for a long series of
years into a bad debt; and (4) the present genera-
tion pays for its share of the use of them, which,
unfortunately, it shows no signs of doing. And
the harbors, are excusable (1) provided they are
not allowed to silt up again ; (2) provided a
gigantic increase in the size of ships—something
that even dredging can’t meet—doesn’t render
many of them obsolete; (3) provided air traffic
doesn’t make even the ship a back number;
(4) provided nothing else happens; (5) provided
the present generation pays its fair share of the
bill. The loan business requires so many pro-
vises and saving clauses before it begins to look
even partly justifiable that it is a sorry affair at
best.
* *
There are really only two logical excuses for a
policy of borrowing fof public works. In the first
place, it is logically excusable if it is proposed to
repudiate the debt. Repudiation may be immoral,
but at least it suggests a connected train of
thought. To borrow money on absurd terms for
the mere joy of repaying it and making a dead
loss on the transaction implies lunacy; but to
borrow it and not repay at all only implies sin,
and in business sin is a small matter compared
with lunacy. Again, borrowing may be excus-
able in a very temporary fashion if there
isn’t, in any given year, enough money in
the State to meet the year’s expenditure
on public works ; but that never happens in Aus-
tralia, nor anything dimly resembling it. When
local money is spent on local undertakings,
the coin and the undertakings both remain
in the country, wherefore £1.000,000 of local
cash can build, gradually, £100,000,000 worth
of railways, and yet the cash remain unim-
paired. Of course,” the taking of local money
for such purposes may involve very heavy
taxation ; but it is difficult to see why, in a
democratic community, there should be any
objection to that. If the works are profit-
able, they represent the national savings. The
human community which pays its way saves up
railways and such like for its old age just as the
bee community saves up honey. Even the mad-
dest bee doesn’t borrow its honey needlessly at
high interest while its own resources lie idle ; yet
that is what man frequently does. The trouble
apparently lies in the desire of the individual to
know for certain which special fathom of railway
is his special fathbm before he pays for
it. He is the bee who wants a deposit re-
ceipt for his particular load of honey. There-
fore, he occupies the curious position of an
allegedly reasoning being who often puts his
own money into a 2 per cent, wild cat, while
lie borrows at 4 per cent., in order to build
a railway which he expects to yield 3 per
cent. These methods of fihance have produced
startling results. One million pounds would have
built all the railways and other public works in
N.S.W. if that State had decided at the beginning
of things to construct its works out of taxation,
land revenue, and the revenue yielded by the
works themselves, and had also decided to make
all its material locally. A single million sove-
reigns going round and round in constant local
circulation would have been abundant for every-
thing. On the other hand, the policy of borrow-
ing money abroad while the country’s own capital
lay idle in the banks, and the great device
of" buying railway and other material abroad
in order to discourage local industry, has
had the result that N.S.W. has paid some
£70,000,000 or so in interest, that the State
still owes £90.000,000 to its friend Cohen,
and that there is no guarantee whatsoever that it
won’t pay another £500,000,000 in interest on that
£90,000.000 before the account is closed. And all
this insane business is done to avoid taxation.
* * * *
Verran and Kiiiston and Wade and their
kind have learned nothing from the past. The
loan policy was started on the principle of taking
no thought for the morrow. The morrow came
when the drought and the broken boom and the
great bank crisis arrived simultaneously, and the
country repented in ashes and old bag-
ging, and scraped itself with a potsherd,
and sat on an ash-heap swearing off drink and
promising to lead a better life. Eight years of
prosperity have obliterated these unpleasant re-
collections. Yet never within a generation has
Australia been in a better position to raise a little
extra money of its own and start financing its new
railway schemes out of revenue. And it knows
now by bitter experience that the idea of avoiding
taxation by loans is a fallacy ; its first railway was
built with borrowed money to avoid raising
£1,000,000 bv taxation, and it has already cost
about £2,500,000 in interest, and the million is
still owing. It is perfectly aware that for
20 years every Government has been con-
stantly devising new taxes to meet the interest
on money that was borrowed to avoid taxes. It
knows, in short, that the whole 1.0. U. policy is a
fraud and a futility ; yet it sticks to it by sheer
vicious force of habit. Even religion can’t coun-
teract the habit, for, as already mentioned, Pre-
mier Vkrran, of S.A., is a pious man, a preacher
of the thunderous variety, an inveterate passer of
the plate, and apparently a believer in all Scrip-
ture except the Scripture which commands man
to live on C.O.D. principles.
YASSBERRA: A POSTSCRIPT.
This news that a certain official proclamation is
now quite ready presumably completes the
Firmer Government’s share of the squalid drama
of the Yassberra Federal capital site. It has
been a mean proceeding all through—shabby,
shifty, smelling of disgrace and ancient fish, and
wholly unpleasant and disreputable. Even after
the first Fisher Ministry did its famous turncoat
or somersault act, nearly two years ago, and
began to toil in the’Berra interest, it never once
screwed up its courage so far as to say that it
believed it was advocating the best possible site in
the interests of Australia. Low down as it had
got, that effort was apparently beyond it. King
O’Malley, the Bounding Book-fiend from Balti-
more or some such place, didn’t rise to the
occasion, though there are mighty few occasions
when O’Malley’s assurance is found wanting.
When this aspect of the case —the only aspect
which called for any honest Government’s con-
sideration-turned up, the Ministry was, and
still is, wont to disappear evasively round a
corner, like a Tory politician who has been bowled
out in some particularly disastrous election yarn
about the bursting of the marriage tie and the dis-
solution of the home. It evaporates as Wade
used to do when asked for the name of the alleged
Labor member who urged him to put Peter
Bowling in gaol. It becomes dodgy, cat-like,
serpentine, elusive and suggestive of an eel in
haste, and it mostly takes refuge in the simple,
old Anti-Sosh device of ignoring the question. At
other times it falls back on the silly fable that the
matter is settled, and that the decision of the
old Tory-majority Parliament which the people
repudiated last April must not be over-set,
which is a painfully thin narrative, considering
the enthusiastic repeal of the previous Parlia-
ment’s Naval Loan Act and other reversals.
# * •:> *
In older and better days almost every one of the
present Ministers declared, openly and repeat-
edly, that he regarded the proposed Monaro capi-
tal site as vastly superior to the wretched place that
wasultimatelyselected-Miheplace with the “river”
that Sydney Telegraph now mockingly describes
as a mere chain of ivaterholes. Among those who
did so were Fisher, Batchelor, McGregor,
Pearce, Findley, O’Malley, Frazer and Thomas
—eight Ministers out of ten. When they were
defeated by a small majority the Government—
the original Fisher Government, that was—
changed sides, and sacrificed what it 'had declared
to be the public interest. It may have done so
for the sordid and mercenary purpose of retaining
its salary, or it may have done so for some other
motive ; but no motive save that connected with
its sordid salary ever appeared on the surface
of things. The sacrifice was in vain, for the
Ministry lost its job none the less, though it
gained a good deal of public contempt in exchange.
But later it came back, and by this time a new
election had put a new complexion on affairs, and
relieved it of any necessity to sell its political
honor and the public interest for the sake of any
dilapidated old billet. Yet it stuck to its new dis-
honest attitude rather than face the diffi-
culty of going back to its Old honest one.
The Yassberra selection was forced at last
through a Parliament the majority of whose
members didn’t believe iri the fitness of the place,
and this was done by the votes and influence of
Ministers who had also declared the place to be
unfit, and who dare not, for very shame’s sake,
allege that they now regarded it as any more fit
than it was before. And, in doing this, they
were backed by Tory newspapers which, despite
the magnificent record of lying they have often
put up, couldn’t screw up their courage either to
say openly that they regarded the place as the
one which should be selected on its merits, and by
certain Tory politicians who alleged openly that
the Yassberra capital would never amount to
much, and that they admired the site on that
account.
* * * . ... *
It was a strange spectacle—this of a Ministry
needlessly shoving through a reluctant Parlia-
ment, a proposition which its members had almost
unanimously denounced. Possibly they were so
ashamed and degraded, and so tangled up in the
consequences of their previous treachery and
time-serving, that they didn’t know what else to
do. As already mentioned, the one thing that
could not lie dragged from them was a plain, un-
equivocal declaration in favor of their own rotten
site. Yet the matter was, and still is, large
enough to call for some such declaration —
for something better than the Comic Cuts
humor of the remarkable O’Malley, who says he
is going to plant maple trees at Canberra in order
to supply the House of Reps, with sugar. The
amount at stake may lie £45,000,000 or more
of public money—the money of every State and
every individual in Australia. A new city planted
on the most promising site available—and the in-
dependent N.S.W. expert who was appointed to
report on the matter declared Monaro to be the
best available, site within his knowledge—might
be another Sydney, or another Berlin or another
Vienna. Sydney is the smallest of these, yet the
bare ground on which it and its suburbs stand is
now worth something like £50,000,000. On the
other hand, a capital planted where there is no
chance to raise anything better than a
fair-sized country town—and that is how
Canberra is described by many of its own
warmest advocates—may be just another
Goulburn, and the bare ground on which Goul-
burn stands is worth about £500,000. Even if it
is another Newcastle, the unimproved value of
Newcastle with its suburbs is less than £4,000,000.
* * * *
All the millions which make the difference be-
tween the possible values of the two places consti-
tute as absolute and disgraceful a robbery of Aus-
tralia as if the money had been stolen in any other
fashion. Sydney has made nearly £50,000,000 of
land values out of a bald sand-patch simply be-
cause it is a good port and a capital. The Monaro
site, with its water-power and its great
back country—with an equally good port
at Twofold Bay, and, with the prestige of
being the capital of a continent—would have
chances which even Sydney never possessed.
These chances, and the millions attached to them,
are being wilfully thrown away in favor of a place
which is not expected to be much more than a
group of public offices and' official residences,
supported at the public expense. In many
countries such an act would have been set down
as a gigantic deed of boodle. The apparently un-
accountable efforts put forward in defence of an
arrangement by which the Federal territory is to
be in two parts separated by many miles of State
or private land, so that the value of these inter-
vening lands must be vastly enhanced by the
building of a railway at Federal cost, would be
assumed as solid evidence that part of the land-
owners’ profit was going in payment for votes given
in Parliament. In Australia there is no suspicion
of personal boodle; the case merely ranks as
one of humble and muddled truckling to Tory
interests, and as a sample of such folly and
subservience as the worst previous Government in
Australia never surpassed. When the worst
previous Government did the worst deed on its
record it at least made a pretence of believing—
and possibly it did believe—that it was acting for
the public good. The wild novelty of the present
situation lies in the spectacle of a Government
toiling hard—if its own old-time assurances
can be relied upon—for the public injury
and the public loss. And the visible reward
is the grudging approval of Oarruthers
and Wade, two local Tory politicians of
small calibre who are now out of office and ranked
among the mere fallen idols of public life. There
are not many points about paying homage to a
perpendicular idol; but this sort of humility in
the presence of a pair of ruins amounts to
ignominy.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Sydney "Telegraph” Turns Dog on
Yassberra.
Even the daily paper which lies most enthusiasti-
cally in its political columns is apt, simply by
reason of division of labor, to tell awkward truths
now and then. That is to say, its fish or chess or
turnip expert, not having been sufficiently
warned, often says things which burst up thecare-
f ally devised leading article and make the political
notes look foolish. For instance, this appeared
in the “Fish and Fishing ” column of the Sydney
Telegraph on November 26 :
A report is to hand from the Cotter River to the effect
that two anglers caught 42 trout, from }lb. to 2£lb. in
weight. The Cotter rises in the ranges not very far from
BVindabella, and there is said to be a waterfall of appall-
ing height near its source. It is a river which cannot
conveniently be fished without camping out, as there are
no accommodation houses. IT IS A SLUGGISH
STREAM, AND, FOR THE MOST PART, LITTLE MORE
THAN A CHAIN OF WATERHOLES, WITH A SMALL
RUN BETWEEN.
That is the river which, when it was being con-
sidered as a source of supply for the Australian
capital, the Telegraph boomed even more than
it boomed ex-Premier Wade’s exploits at the
Mount Kembla coal-mine, while the Wade
Government’s special authority told tales about
the amount of water he had measured there which
put Mount Kembla wholly in the shade. And now
the Telegraph’s own fish man, sticking closely
to his own prosaic job of telling people where to
look for their scaly victual, mentions in a perfectly
casual way that the Cotter isn’t a river at all—
only a chain of waterholes. In the same column
on the same date he made another unlucky
remark :
The Badja, Kybeyan and Tuross, are splendid nurseries
and hatching grounds for ttie best possible kinds of trout
feed, viz., shrimps, crayfish, various kinds of water
beetles, and larvae ; caddis in every stage of development
are there in enormous numbers, multitudes of crayfish,
frogs of all descriptions and sizes ; these find a home in
the weeds which line the banks, and it is evident that
we must look for our largest fish in the sluggish, weed-
grown streams, whose current, even in flood time, is not
strong enough to wash away the weed beds and destroy
the shelter provided by nature for the various creatures
mentioned. The bottom is soft, NOT WASHED CLEAN
AND HARD BY A RUSHING TORRENT LIKE THE
SNOWY RIVER, FOR INSTANCE.
It was partly because of that rushing torrent and
that fine clean river, with its vast possibilities in
the way of irrigation and the supply of water
power, that The Bulletin persistently advocated
a Federal capital in the neighborhood of Dalgety,
beside the Snowy. It seemed a fair thing, in the
interests of Australia, that its capital should have
a chance to be a big city with great manufactur-
ing possibilities, and the water power which the
Telegraph could never see till its fish expert
made the discovery, represented some of: the
possibilities. On this same subject the Tele-
graph, on November 30, did another lamentable
falling in after this fashion :
Bega, Tuesday.—The Decentralisation Commission took
evidence here to-day as to railway' connection between
Eden and Monaro; witnesses attended from Bega, Bem-
boka and Candelo. They almost unanimously favored a
line starting from the Monaro line, 10 miles south of
Nimitybelle, via Glehbog, Bemboka, Bega and Wolumla
to Eden.
It was held that this line would not only serve the Bega
district, but also Monaro and back to Temora and Coota-
mundra, and also ultimately the Federal capital area rail-
way to Eden. It would greatly facilitate the industries
of the district, and lead to the establishment at that port
of bacon-curing and meat-freezing works, which were at
present impossible owing to the primitive means of
transit.
It was stated that land on Monaro, which would be
served by this line, could be bought for £1 per acre, and
was as good as the Bega flats, which were worth £lOO per
acre. Monaro had at present no facilities for marketing
produce. Eden was the only port on this end of the
coast, and was the natural outlet for a great extent of
country.
To which Tiie Bulletin replies: “Certainly.”
This paper declared that Monaro was fertile,
when the wretched Yassberra push, of which the
Telegraph was a notable mouthpiece, described
it as a howling wilderness; and now that the
howling-wilderness story has served its purpose,
the Telegraph cheerfully speaks of Monaro as a
gorgeous country where land might easily be
worth £lOO an acre. That same daily realises
for the first time that Eden is a genuine
deep-water port, that it is “ the natural
outlet for a great extent of country” (».<*.,
that a seaport city thereabouts might be a very
great city with a big hinterland to support it);
and that there are industrial possibilities there-
abouts, hence the mention of meat-freezing and
bacon-curing. All these were things that The


Bulletin insisted upon, in season and out of
season,’ but which the wretched Tory publication
couldn’t see till it and its party had got the capital
fixed at a place where, on solid Tory evidence, it
is never likely to be more than a good-sized
country town, and planted on a “river” which
the Telegraph now declares to be a niere row of
waterholes. By way of specially impressing on
the Australian people what fools they were to
listen _ to its glozirig lies, it carefully suggests
that if Twofold Bay were made a real port
and opened up by a railway, £99 per acre might
be added to the value of local agricultural land.
Assuming that the increase of value was only half
that amount, and that it spread only two miles
on each side of the railway, that means that,
with a Federal city thereabouts, a line 50 miles
long would create over £6,000,000 of new
land values for the profit of the Commonwealth,
quite irrespective of the ground value of the
federal city itself and the Federal seaport. The
Bulletin mentioned these things several times —
or several hundred times —but in the multitudi-
nous clamor of Toryism it didn’t get much of a
hearing. Now the principal Tory organ seems to
experience a certain joy in explaining to Australia
how much wealth it has helped to rob the people
of, and how much money might have been made
for the Federal Treasury if they had treated the
same old Telegraph with the scorn it deserved.
A Naval Congestion Policy.
Some recent remarks by Defence Minister Pearce
upon naval affairs had the effect of shaking Syd-
ney Telegraph out of its ancient equanimity.
Pearce laid it down that “naveil bases should
not be placed in the vicinity of large popula-
tions,” and the daily paper, which had hitherto
travelled on the general statement that the
Australian naval headquarters must be at Syd-
ney, and that to put them anywhere else would
be shameful and immoral, found itself called upon
to defend its position. So it discoursed in this
fashion :
The onlooker’s common-sense susrg-ests another view,
quite different from that of Senator Pearce, particularly
in Australian conditions. Having- naval bases apart from
centres of large populations means doubling the safe-
guards. The big city on the coast must be fortified,
since if an enemy came here he would naturally make for
it as the place where most was to be got. The naval base
must also be equipped against attack ; so that what the
Minister’s proposition comes to is that we should fortify
two places where it would be much better to fortify
only one. Old-world experience in this respect mav
easily be misapplied, for the capitals of the older coun-
tries are not all comparable with ours, fl which are
mostly on the sea. London, Paris and Berlin are all
disqualified by nature as naval bases. Besides, a base in
Great Britain, France or Germany supplies an enormous
area of requirement, provision for the assemblage in safe
haven, as well as for the very extensive refitting and re-
equipping, of a big fleet. What we need in Australia is
very small in comparison. The warships will be wanted
at or near the principal ports in war-time, so that to have
them placed remotely would really be a disadvantage.
The Minister’s argument can be understood if its
object is to diplomatically compose conflicting local
interests in the west by making a base at Fre-
mantle, notwithstanding that the shipping importance
of that port heavily discounts his contention that the
base should be apart. Or if the idea is to soothe Vic-
torian opinion by planting the eastern location of the
navy at Westernport, where the ships certainly might be
effectively stowed away from the area of defence as well
as from the enemy. But if effective defence is what he
aims at, he will put the squadron where it is needed—
and that is in one or more of the larger ports, the neces-
sary fortified centres of what is really to be defended.
Why the naval requirements of Australia must
always be “ very small in comparison ” with those
of, say, France, a place less than one-fourteenth
its size, the breathless Stinking Fish paper
didn’t stop to explain. Otherwise, its point is
a curious one. Britain religiously keeps its naval
stations away from London, Liverpool, Glasgow
and all its other great commercial ports ; France
keeps them away from Marseilles; Germany
doesn’t have them at Hamburg, Bremen or
Stettin; or Austria at Trieste; or the U.S. at
New York or Philadelphia or New Orleans ; or
Russia at Petersburg or Odessa. In fact, every
State which has grown old and battered and pro-
fane in naval warfare makes it a cast-iron and
boiler-metal rule to keep its naval ports and its
commercial ports separate. Presumably, there is
reason for this ; but the local parochial press, full
of the knowledge which comesfrom seeing a second-
class cruiser tied to a buoy in Farm Cove, reckons
th;ii all these countries are idiots. They doubtless
areun some respects ; but they should know some-
thing about fighting after their thousands of
years of experience, and when they are unanimous
on any given point of warfare their joint
opinion calls for at least a shred of respect.
The Telegraph, in particular, differs from the
hardened sea-battlers of the Old World inasmuch
as it holds that all the fortifications should be
concentrated at Sydney ; that all the battle and
slaughter should be there; that all the corpses
should float aboltt there; that if the disabled
ships have to be sunk to avoid capture, their
bones should block the traffic of the greatest port,
in the Commonwealth ; and that the congestion
of things in Sydney should be so complete
that when it sui’renders the whole game will
be up. The idea may be all right, but,
as already mentioned, it doesn’t seem to-
appeal to the meh who have Been There. Their
idea is that if, a great seaport can’t defend
itself it should send its portable wealth inland
and make the best terms possible. And they hold
that if a defeated squadron has fled into its har-
bor of refuge, it should have a chance to make
the best fight it can, aided by its shore fortifica-
tions, without having moral pressure brought to-
bear upon it- by the fact that every day it holds,
out involves the further butchery of a peaceful
civil population. When a fleet goes out to give-
battle in the open sea, it doesn’t take women and
children and coin and merchandise with it to-
hamper its movements. When it retreats, after
a grievous disaster, to put up a defensive
scrap with the aid of its shore defences
and try to effect repairs, it doesn’t want
to be hampered by women and children and
coin and merchandise any more than it did before.
That, at least, is the theory of nations which have-
grown grey and wicked in naval warfare,
and they base their ideas on experience. As a
case in point, 1100 years of experience haven’t
caused-England to vary these ideas.
Tasmania and Some Barnacles.
The Tasmanian Labor party beat the Lewis
Government last week on a motion to raise the
Governor’s screw. In opposing the proposition
Labor-leader Earle said that he disapproved of:
imported State Governors, anyhow; if the coun- ■
try held that the official was needed, he could be
got pn the spot, and the success of the locally-
manufactured Governor-arrangement in Canada
was instanced. To this Elliot Lewis replied
“ that Canada had a system of Unification, which
was quite a different matter. He hoped Tas-
mania would never submit to Unification, which
would mean insignificant State Parliaments and-
insignificant State Governors.” This is a matter
which has to be looked at from a business
point of view. Australia pays to State Governors,
aides-de-camp, private secretaries, etc., by way of
salaries alone, about £35,000 per annum. In addi-
tion it provides them, rent free, with lavishly
furnished town and country mansions; it adds to
these dwellings on the lightest hint (one of the
last acts of N.S.W.’s Wade Government was
to spend £lO,OOO on a ballroom at Cranbrook);
and it keeps the premises in repair. Governors,
their wives, children, aides, servants and effects,
are franked over the railways; and Governors do
a lot of travelling. The Customs charge no duties
on the goods they import. One way and another,
then, the State Governors draw on Australia for
nearly twice as much as it costs to administer old-
age pensions—a sum equal to that which Canada
spends annually on advertising itself in Europe,
with profitable results in the matter of immigra-
tion ; and a fifth of the entire amount which it is
proposed to spend on the upkeep of the Australian
navy. And what are the returns? State Gover-
nors sign documents; they open Parliaments,
bazaars, Dogs’ Homes, and so forth ; they attend
Y.M.C.A. and such-like meetings, and deliver
little speeches full of sound and platitude, but
signifying nothing ; and, from time to time, they
entertain a tiny section of their employers.
Cut out the entertaining, which is not necessary
to save the country, and there is nothing a State
Governor does that couldn’t be done equally well
by a State official. For its State Parliaments,
Australia pays every year four times the esti-
mated cost of the Commonwealth’s fixed defences,
and five times as much as the compulsorily-trained
citizens will get under the Pearce defence
scheme. The cost of the State Houses works
out at nearly double that of the average mail
subsidies of the last decade; if the money
spent on them were diverted, say, to bringing
the telephone system up to date, Australia would
possess within a year or two the most effective ser-
vice on earth. In return for all this great outlay,
members of the State Parliaments mainly occupy
themselves in insulting one other and the Aus-
tralian Parliament. They are no more worth the
money they cost than the State Governors are.
Yet the best arguments State Frightism can find
against Unification is that it would militate
against the power and glory of the absurd
anomalies.
Mere Imprudence, or What?
IjAST Thursday night ex-Premier Wauk uprose
hi the N.S.W. Assembly to vindicate himself in
■connection with the Bun Abdah scandal. The
■S. M. Herald shied off all comment on his
■effort; the Telegraph said
Nothing more than imprudence maybe disclosed by
the facts of this case; but it is one of those kinds of im-
prudences that can - be as damaging as acts to which a
■worse name might apply.
Consider the Telegraph’s idea of “an imprud-
ence.” Ben Abdah, an undesirable alien, a
•criminal and an associate of criminals, gets five
years’ penal servitude for abortion. According
to the police report:—
Until the time of his arrest he was practising on both
married and single women, but in such a cunning manner
that it was very difficult to lay a charge against him.
Before coming to N.S.YV. he was well known as
an abortionist in Victoria. “And there is very
little doubt,” said the police a year ago, “that if
this person is released he will again resort to the
same course of making a living.” After this
colored horror had been in gaol for a year a peti-
tion was presented for his release. It was turned
■down at once by C. G. Wade. Another petition
which was presented the following year, met with
a similar fate, although it was accompanied by an
assurance that, if released, Benjamin would leave
Australia for ever. Then came the elections.
.T. L. Fkgan was nominated against McGowen
for a constituency in which Ben Abdah’s
countrymen are a force worth considering.
“Liberalism” conceived the idea that it might
score the paralysing triumph of downing the
chief of the anti-WADK party. Fegan’s chances
were said to be bright, and no stone was left
unturned that might make them brighter. Nine
days before polling day one Aboud, of Redfern,
again petitioned for Abdah’s "release. Then
things moved. In fact, they may be said to have
hummed. A minute materialised with astonish-
ing swiftness recommending the release of
the dangerous criminal in whose case the
Wade Administration had previously been unable
to find any mitigating circumstances. That
minute, like the others, was signed by C. G.
Wade. Followed this astonishing letter from the
Justice Department to J. L. Fegan, whose
chances of ousting McGowen were considered in
“ Liberal ” circles to be growing brighter daily :
Referring to personal inquiries with regard to the peti-
tion of M. D. Aboud, of 76 Regent-street, Redfern, for the
release of prisoner Bun Abdah, I have the honor to in-
form you that his Excellency the Governor has been
pleased to approve of the prisoner being released forth-
with on license, provided that he finds two sureties in
i-40 each, or one in £BO, for his observance of the terms
of license until the termination of the period of the sen-
tence imposed on him, namely, until May 16, 1912.
The normal person can, without straining his
eyesight, discern a lot more in all this than “im-
prudence.” It was more than imprudent for a
Minister to let loose, a day earlier than was
necessary, a criminal like Ben Abdah. a man
with a particularly murky record, and whose
only means of livelihood was the crime that
landed him in prison. “Imprudence” doesn’t
fit the case of a “ Liberal” Minister who, having
released a criminal in the manner described,
allows a letter to be sent from his Department to
a Liberal ” candidate, stating that the release
followed upon his (the candidate’s) personal inter-
cession. Nor is “imprudence” an adequate descrip-
tion of the conduct of a Premier who, though his
signature stands on the minute, tries to shift the
burden of blame on to a subordinate. Of all the
unsavory cases that have marked the Wade
Government’s justice administration, that of Ben
Abdah smells highest. And that is crediting it
with a dreadful odor, indeed.
Some of the political ideas of England sound
strangely antiquated to Australian ears. The
Unionist leader, Arthur Balfour, has plunged
into the electoral campaign with a proposal that
the tariff question should be decided by a refer-
endum—that there should be a clear, straight-out
vote on it, and that it should no longer be tangled
up with matters of drainage, Home Rule, etc.
Balfour, in fact, wants to make the referendum
a regular feature of British politics, as a means
of settling many vexed problems which have hung
in the balance for years. That seems demo-
cratic enough, and seeing that Switzerland,
the home of the referendum, can be reached
from England inside two days, the Englishman
has so many facilities for watching the simple, in-
expensive device at work that he ought to know
all about it. On the other side of the discussion
is Lloyd George, the violent solicitor from Wales,
who is at present the “Liberal” Chancellor of
the Exchequer. Lloyd George says wildly that
“the referendum is a dodge to put the poor man
at the mercy of the wealthy,” because “it would
be impossible for the workmen of the country to
find the £1,500,000 which a referendum would
cost.” There is no one-man-one-vote in Bull’s
country; members are unpaid; and when
a man wants to stand for Parliament he
has to hand out £4OO to pay for the
polling booth, ballot papers, returning officer,
scrutineers, etc. Lloyd George evidently can’t
imagine one-man-one-vote. He plainly can’t
conceive of the simple idea of taking a referen-
dum along with a Parliamentary election, and
thus making the expense almost nil, the point
being that in England all the fixtures, fittings and
utensils of a general election are the private pro-
perty of the candidates, andean only be used for
their purposes. He can’t get away from the
grotesque view that any kind of popular vote
must be a private speculation. His picture
of some humble individual having to put down
£1,500,000 for expenses before a poll can be taken
on any subject is very quaint to those who have
seen the referendum at work, but it is also very
English. And the spectacle of allegedly incurable
old Tories advocating the democratic idea of the
referendum and alleged Liberals frantically howl-
ing it down is more than quaint. It is the upside-
down sort of thing that happens only in Britain
and China.
♦-
A Victorian citizen named John McGlenn is
engaged in a semi-polemical discussion with the
Law. The other evening he stepped into the
Melbourne watch-house and requested to be
locked up. He said he had no home or money or
friends or work, and he thought the Law might
have some sort of provision made for liis case. Pos-
sibly he hadn’t sought work very energetically, or
he may have been trained to a trade that was
temporarily languishing, or he may have been a
cabinetmaker displaced by cheap Chows. Any-
how, the Law said it had no use for him as he was
—he must “do something.” Whereupon he
promptly stepped to the watch-house window
and kicked three panes of glass to smithereens.
Then the Law locked him up. Also, it next day
gave him one month’s hard labor; after which
it spent 15s. in repairing the damage, and then
fell asleep again. These proceedings, however, in
no way advance the discussion that McGlenn is
liable to resume at the end of the month. ' The
point is that McGlenn needed treatment and
knew it, and he should’ have been attended to
without being forced to indulge in the reckless
waste of good window. If he be a confirmed
Criminal, then the indeterminate sentence and a
term in a proper reformatory should have been
applied. If he were merely a lazy man, devoid of
energy and self-respect, then a period of methodi-
cal training at profitable toil on a labor colony
would have met his case. If he were a genuine
unemployed, down on his luck and temporarily
disheartened, then the State Labor Bureau should
have taken him in hand and stood him' upright
once more. All these agencies arq. supposed to
be at work and in going order in the Weary
State; but presumably they are merely make-
believes and frauds, for the Law made no attempt
to pass McGlenn on to their keeping, but told
him to go and “ do something,” and then sent him
for a month to a situation where he will not earn
even his scant tucker. Moreover, it is doubtful
whether, at the end of the month, he will
have acquired much hard cash, or a home, or
a steady, job, ,or any better habits or friends
worth having. Wherefore it is not easy
to see the advantage of the Law’s action.
The State is a window to the bad ; and itlsn’t at
all likely to be a profitable citizen to the good. It
had in its hands the raw material out of which a
profitable citizen might have been made ; and if
this is the best it can do with raw material, then
it had better give up the job of being a State—or
allow somebody else that isn’t so weary to take
charge of the machinery.
♦
“ A.8.W.” on Costs
As The Bulletin has drawn attention to some remarks
made in the Labor Call with regard to Solicitor Joseph
Woolf’s connection with the Vic. Labor unions, I am sure
it will allow a rejoinder, the more so as the Call’s slur
upon the good faith and honesty of Victorian trades
unionists is undeserved.
The case of the Fellmongers’ Union and the Wool-
sorters’ Association may be quoted as an example of the
relations between Mr. Woolf and the unions. The
unions had occasion to appeal against a determination of
a Wages Board, to the costly and cumbersome State
Court of Industrial Appeals. Solicitor Woolf, after
giving an assurance that the cost would not be heavy,
was entrusted with the preparation of the case. The
actual hearing occupied three weeks. When the case
was finished Mr. Woolf was in no hurry to send in his
bill; but the unions were uneasy, and wanted to know
the worst. They asked him for his account, so he sent
then* a summarised statement (marked “greatly re-
duced ”) for £675. As the meriibers wanted particulars,
he was requested to send in a bill showing items. Mr.
Woolf responded right nobly by forwarding what may be
termed a true and proper bill for £lOl3. The receipt Of
this caused consternation amongst members, some of
whom suggested compromising ; but wiser counsels pre-
vailed, and it was decided to risk something and have the
account taxed. Then ensued a battle royal before the
taxing-master, theoutcome of which was that Mr. Woolf’s
bill was reduced from £lOl3 to £465, and he had to pay
the Costs. The account is nearly all paid off, and in a
few months’ time we hope to have cleared our indebted-
ness.
After having related these facts, it is just as well to
point the moral, which is that there is no cheap law,
despite the fact that bills are marked “ greatly reduced,”
and that Labor organisations should avail themselves of
the protection and power of the Taxing Court, even when
dealing with “ reduced ” bills.
Had some of the other unions sought this relief, it is
probable that the debt now said to be owing to Mr. Woolf
would be much less. However, lam not so much con-
cerned with that as I am u'ith the charge of ingratitude
which has been laid against the unions of Victoria. I
have shown that, in one matter at any rate, we have
precious little to be grateful for.
♦
When the railway gets out, as it presently will,
to Mungindi, on the Macintyre River (N.S.W.),
that place will be an interesting object lesson.
As the crow flies, it is about 280 miles from Bris-
bane, as many from Coff’s Harbor (N.S.W.) and
400 from Sydney. By rail to Sydney, where the
trade is to go, the distance will be about 500 miles.
The Mungindi extension will bring the N.S.W.
line up.to the Queensland border in three places,
out owing to what are called “State interests,”
there is only a connection at one. These are in
addition to the six points in N.S.W. and many in
Queensland, where the lines come fairly close, or
very close, to the border, but don’t touch it.
A . particular joke % is the Queensland line
which strikes westvvard along the boundary to
pick up N.S.W. trade and carry it to Brisbane,
It is so close that in places one could stand in
N.S.W. and hit Kidston’s locomotive with a
clod. This, of course, incites N.S.W. to build
a somewhat similar work on its side, and little
one-truck towns bid fair soon to have two whole
railways to choose from—lines that don’t connect
and don’t speak except when they cuss, and which
take more pride in one truck of pumpkins snatched
from the other fellow’s railway than in ninety-
and-nine just men that need no repentance.
3
One of the lowest exemptions from income tax
in the world has just been fixed bv the Lewis
Government in Tasmania, viz., £80" If a man’s
income from all sources is £BO he must pay 3s. 4d. ;
if it is £llO, he must pay 16s. lOd. ; if he
earns £3 per week his tax is 3Ss. 3d. A wise
Treasurer would have taken the wind out of
the Labor party’s sails by exempting incomes
below £l5O at least, making up the revenue-defici-
ency byputtinga trifle extra on thennearned incre-
ments of the big landholders. ButLEWis isn’t wise ;
a long course of Tasmanian politics has left him so
dreadfully dull that he really sees no injustice in
taxing the miserable earnings of laborers and
washerwomen. He considers it quite proper to
allow a business man to deduct from his income-
tax returns whatever it has cost him to produce
the income; but when asked why the same rule
should not apply to the toiler at 40s. a week, who
generally expends the whole of his income in pro-
ducing his taxable amount, and draws on his
capital every day in addition, Lewis no savees.
like Ah Sin. The total revenue from taxa-
tion in Tasmania is £250,000 a year. Of this,
£25,000, or one-tenth, is paid by those whc
possess nothing, while only £70,000, or less
than three-tenths, is paid bv those who pos-
sess everything, including £14,000,000 worth of
land-values which they didn’t create. As a direct
result of this policy, every steamer that leaves the
Flyspeck carries a little crowd of toilers who are
driven from home. Unless the Labor Party
takes charge of the island pretty soon, or unless
the Commonwealth annexes the State and ad-
ministers it as a half-crown colony, or something
of the kind, it is obvious that the best of the
capital will flee the country,
Judge Gordon of S.A., who never touches politics
now, but was once Attorney-General in a Kingston
Ministry, gave some straight talk over the haggis
and heather to the Scots at Adelaide on St.
Andrew’s Day. Said the eloquent Judge:—
Scotland has become a glaring example of excessive
landlordism. Out of her small total of under 20 million
acres, one man alone, the Duke of Sutherland, Holds
1,300,000, from which, during the last century, the clans-
men,, to whom the land originally belonged, were expelled
to make way for sheep. It is quite likely that large areas
grow' bigger sheep than small farms. But what Scotland
needs is not so much bigger sheep as bigger men, even at
the risk of smaller mutton-chops. Last year’s army returns
showed that out of 5361 men who offered for enlistment
in Glasgow, Edinburgh and Dundee, nearly half were
below the very moderate physical standard required for
infantry—sft. 3in. and a chest measurement of 32in. .. .
Men with chest measurements under 32in. would never
breed an Imperial race He was not advocating any
particular system of land tenure. Methods were for the
legislator. But the move he read and thought upon the
subject the more firmly he was convinced that the per-
manent national prosperty of a nation depended upon
ample subdivision of its land. Civilisation rests upon
the slender spiral of the wheat stalk.
The Bulletin isn’t prepared to admit that civili-
sation depends wholly upon the slender spiral of
the wheat stalk ; but, anyhow', it depends as much
upon that as it does upon a sheep or an dx.
Wherefore the nation that uses the gentle per-
suasion of a progressive land tax to compel its
landlords to grow wheat instead of deer, grodse
or scenery, or make way and let somebody else-do
it, has made a good start on the road to civilisation.
- .... .
It is the fashion among excited Tories and sueh-
like cattle to make wild statements about “postal
mismanagement,” with a careful avoidance of
dates and particulars, but occasionally they give
dates and particulars and fall in. The yarn about
how 10,000 letters and packets for England were
left behind at Sydney post office when the last
mail left, was a specially bad fall-in. It was a
very fine yarn, with trimmings to the effect that,
no provision was made to cope with the Christ-
mas rush; that the letters left behind were
mostly of the “late fee” variety (described as
Gloom (a Node)!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
STROPHE.
Hush ! In Cimmerian darkness downward hurled
From HStnean furnaces which fiends are stoking
Moves an amazed and up-groping world
To view the prospect left by its own smoking !
Long shudders tremble through the Great
Opaque ;
Encaustic blazes leap the smouldering ridges—
Just gods! who heaven and earth and Ma did
make,
In these convulsions men are less than midges—
Oh, hear us ! hear our loud and anguished cry—
If this process of absorption and spoliation by the
Commonwealth is permitted to continue, what
will become of our grand, old jokes of Roads
and Bridges l
Help us, O gods !
ANTISTROPHE.
By the bars and the bolts.and the jars and the
jolts of our glorious Past —
By the fire and the ire and the pain and the strain
that have reached us at last,
By the sin and the din and the foul bursting-in of
maleficent Powers
She is rent —she is shent —she is spent, is this
grand Ma of ours 1
Eor, behold, how accentuated is the friction between
the State Government and the Parliament of
the Commonwealth, and under what threat of
final' extinction New South Wales now cowers.
Hellup 1
STROPHE.
Hark! Frona Plutonian battlements cometh a
clang—
Where in the gloom armedGorgonzolas muster!
Under the murkiest pall of Night—Listen—Bang !
Pallas Athene! What was that terrible
buster ?...
Horrible crests flash forth from the Stygian gloom
Save us, ye gods ! See where their red eyes are
glaring !
Ma, the pale virgin, lies stricken —Ah, dole-
fullest doom !
Hearten us, gods! Buck us up!—Make us
daring
Otherwise we shall all be in such a chaotic tangle of
Statefright and Like-to-Bitc that, before we
know where we are Ma will disappear in a
general Unification —nobody caring !
Hump yourselves and help us, 0 ye gods !
ANTISTROPHE.
Woe, oh woe ! The gods are killed, or, with wine
filled, are sleeping !
Alas! Alas! ’Tis come to pass—we hear the
tyrants creeping—
Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Lament for Ma —upon
her they are leaping—
W e sowed the Federal wind, and now the whirl-
wind we are reaping—
Because the Referendum dealing with the question
of labor and employment cuts at the very root
of the independence and self development of
the several States—and hence this hearty
weeping !
N.slvv.
O. C. GAROT.


The ink fraud business is assuming large
dimensions in Australia. Cheap dyes, and even
soot and water, form the basis of most of the
so-called “ inks ” thrust daily upon a gullible
public. If the public would only ask for a
standard quality ink of known reputation, like
“ Caldwell’s,” instead of simply asking for “ ink,”
they would find the remedy in their own hands.*
Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
maF" Moving Picture Machines and Films.
BESTHIRINC SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney—3B6 George Street; Melbourne—266 Collins
Street; Brisbane-93-95 Queen Street: Adelaide-
Gawler Place ; Perth—Tillys’ Photo. Stores.
ZENOBIA
Perfumes
As supplied to H.M.
QUEEN ALEXANDRA.
Sweet Pea
Blossom.
Lilyof the
Valley
Natural.
Nig'Jit-
Scented
•Stock.
The Zenobia Per-
fumes charm
everyone by their
absolute fidelity
to Nature and
their Refreshing
and Lasting
Fragrance.
ar.i
m
Manufactured at the Zenobia Laboratories, Lough-
borough, England. To be obtained from leading
Chemists and Stores.
Wholesale Agents for Australia:
THE AUSTRALIAN MFC. & IMPORTING CO. LTD.,
108 Pitt Street, Sydney.
important commercial comirtunications); that
when the rush was over the floor was strewn
with neglected and nnsorted correspondence ; and
that even matter posted 24 hours before the
mail nominally closed got left. Then there swept
in an infuriated reply to the effect that, so far from
no provision being made for the Christmas rush,
the force of sorters was far more than doubled ;
that 2000 ft. of extra floor space had been set aside
for sorting purposes ; that though the mail was 16
per cent, larger than that of last year, there
weren’t 10,000 letters left behind but less than
1000; and these were posted late; and they
weren’t “ late fee ” letters; and there was no
reason to suppose that they were important com-
mercial communications ; and they weren’t lying
on the floor; and, anyhow, they went almost
immediately by another steamer. So amid adust
of curses the subject dropped.
• ♦
The Sydney Telegraph burst out last Tuesday in
a leading article of great bitterness headed “Ten
Square Miles at Jervis Bay.” It complained that*
the Federal area at the bay had been increased
from one square mile to 10, and that the Federal
Government probably intended to make a
port there. Tearing off in its anger the
few remaining rags of hypocrisy, it revealed
that it had always intended the so-called
Federal “port” at Jervis Bay to be a delusion
and a useless fraud, and was maddened because,
though still a fraud, it was no longer quite so
stupendous a fraud as it had been. And it
accused the Commonwealth of “a desperate effort
to create a city.” Think of Australia—a mere
Australia ! —wanting to possess a city !
The wise words of “ Carburettor” :
The possibility of creating an Australian motor-car
industry (B. 3/11/’10) is acknowledged by every com-
petent engineer. There is plenty of skill here, tons of
money, and even the machinery to start on a pretty big
scale. The only thing lacking is a proper Protective
duty. The duty on car bodies is giving work to hun-
dreds of coachbuilders, upholsterers, etc. Gan anyone
doubt that the same result would follow if the Federal
Parliament clapped a good, strong, effective duty on the
chassis as well ?
There’s nothing mysterious about a motor-car. The
essential thing is the engine, and Australia has already
made internal combustion engines equal to aCny in the
world. In principle the motor-car engine is the same as
the marine oil-engine ; it is merely a question of modifi-
cation. The fools who talk about the impossibility or
Australia manufacturing motor-cars are the same fools
that talked a few years back about the impossibility of
competing with the foreign marine oil-engine, and
they’re all tainted with the queer old idea that the Aus-
tralian is essentially inferior to the foreigner. That is
why, among other things, the motor chassis gets in free,
and no local maker has a hope of competing against the
lower-waged foreigner who has got his business organised.
Another streak of lunacy shows itself in the gigantic
delusion concerning the alleged “inadequacy” of the
Australian market. There are not enough people here,
it is said, to support large factories, and the idiots who
have that microbe in their brains are fond of referring to
the Australians as “a mere handful of people.” But
when it comes to purchasing capacity, the 4J millions
in this Commonwealth are easily equal to three or four
times their number in Europe or America, and about 50
times their number in Asia. When discussing the possi-
bilities of manufacturing in Australia the fact ought to
be constantly borne in mind that we have here the trade
equivalent of 15 or 20 millions. Now, the United States,
with 90 millions, has scores of motor-car factories ; Ger-
many, with 65 millions, has dozens of works ; France and
Great Britain, with 40 millions or so each, have also
dozens of factories. Isn’t it obvious that Australia could
easily keep half a dozen factories going ?
All that is wanted is a suitable duty. And by “ suit-
able ” I don’t mean a mere 20 or 25 per cent. The people
who buy these cars are usually on “ Easy-street,” and
many of them are so desperately fond of the foreign
fetich that they would pay an extra price for the
privilege of buying their luxurious joy-cars from Uncle
Sam or Bill of Potsdam. They are so horribly eager to
chuck good Australian gold into the foreigner’s factories
that the tariff bar would need to be high and strong.
Make it 50 per cent, and Australian factories will spring
up, and there will presently be work for thousands of
men at good wages. The moment a satisfactory duty
was imposed there would be a rush to start motor-car
manufacturing companies, and soon Australia would be
relieved of the enormous tribute that is now being paid
to the foreigner—a tribute, too, be it remembered, that
is rapidly increasing. In 10 years’ time a horse will be a
comparatively rare sight in the streets of the cities.
Horse-breeding, an Australian industry, will be seriously
cut into. It is time we made the gallant steed’s dis-
placer, the motor-car, an Australian industry also.
*
The sectarian torch is blazing spasmodically in
the S. M. Herald under the heading of “The
Persecuted Church.” There is much digging up
of the dry skulls and leg-bones of long ago, and
among them this sample, re the Irish troubles of
1641: —
Without provocation, without opposition, the aston-
ished English, living in profound peace and full security,
were massacred by their nearest neighbors, with whom
they had long upheld a continual intercourse of kindness
and good offices. But death was the slightest punish-
ment inflicted by the rebels. All the tortures which
wanton cruelty could devise, all the lingering pains
of body, the anguish of mind, the agonies of
despair could not satiate revenge excited without injury,
and cruelty derived from no cause. The inhuman mon-
ster who w'as in command of the savages who carried out
these massacres was Sir Philim O’Neill, and Hume states
that 40,000 was the lowest estimate of the number of his
victims, while other estimates place the number of vic-
tims as high as 200,000. A Parliamentary report, which
was published not long after the massacres, placed the
number at much nearer the latter figure than the former.
History is indeed a curious animal. On this
same subject Haydn’s “Dictionary of Dates”
remarks briefly:—
Ulster Civil war. .. . The Catholics said to conspire to
expel the English and massacre the Protestant settlers in
Ulster. Massacre commenced on St. Ignatius Day (some
doubt the massacre), 23rd October, 1641.
And this is “ Nelson’s Encyclopaedia,” published
in 1907 :
The never-ceasing confiscation of the Irish land was the
m i in cause of the great Celtic rising of 1641, which has
been unjustly described as a general massacre of the
English settlers. This was followed by a partial rising of
the old Englishry.
And the “Encyclopaedia Britannica”:—
In 1635 . . . Strafford began a general system of ex-
tortion. The Connaught and Munster landowners were
shamelessly forced to pay large fines for the confirmation
of even recent titles. The Irish woollen manufacture was
discouraged as hurtful to England. . . . Twelve bishops,
headed by Primate Usshkr, solemnly protested that “to
tolerate Popery is a grievous sin.” . . . The helm of the
State remained in the bands of a landjobber and a super-
annuated soldier. . . . The Catholic insurgents of 1641
just failed to seize Dublin. . . . That there was no definite
design of massacring the Protestants is likely, but it was
intended to turn them out. Great numbers were killed,
etc.
These are four accounts, derived from purely
English sources, of an event which happened at
England’s very door only some 270 years ago. And
after the bones of it have been dug up and pawed,
over by historians, politicians, sectarians and
others, the accounts vary from about the most
horrible massacre in history to no massacre at all.
“ Orient” : Australia ought to get its daily news
direct from China, Japan, and that way generally.
It is more vital to us than news from England, or
even from America. For intelligence about the
Chinese Parliament I have to take up the London
papers just to hand. The Times gets a column at
a time by telegram from Pekin, and we are over a
month behind with it, whereas we ought to be the
first served. China gallops so that Australia
needs news every day. The so-called Parlia-
ment of Pekin met on October 22. There
had been preliminary Assemblies in all the
numerous provinces, and they sent their
best men to the Pekin gathering. The
proceedings of this Assembly, more properly
a Convention than a Parliament, were marked by
ability. Men spoke with the knowledge of
the National Assemblies of America, Germany,
Britain, France and Japan. The Government had
proposed to convene a regular Parliament in seven
years ; the convention unanimously agreed that a
Parliament should be called at once. Especially
cogent was the talk on the disordered state
of the finances and the naval and military re-
quirements. The Government has not yet (I pre-'
sume) decided on what to do. Give us direct cables.
Brown, in the hardware business in Adelaide,
doesn’t care a straw what the Lapland drug-
merchant is doing. But he does want to know
what Smith, the hardwarer in Melbourne and a
probable business rival, is doing. In this matter
Australia is Brown, and Smith is China.
There is no bitterness like the bitterness of the
importer when he sees a local article making head-
way ; even the fury of a woman corned is nothing
to it. For instance, there is a brand of good Aus-
tralian whisky made by Joshua, of Melbourne,
and on it is this plain blunt Government guarantee
as to its age and purity—a guarantee that only
whisky made in the country can get:—
THE COMMONWEALTH STAMP is issued by the
Dept, of Trade and Customs to be applied only in Bond
by an officer of the Dept, in accordance with Sec. 7
Spirits Act 1906.
The term “ Australian Standard Malt Whisky ” may
be applied only to whisky which complies with the fol-
lowing requisites:—
(а) It must have been distilled wholly from Barley
Malt by a pot-still or similar process at a strength
not exceeding 35 per cent, overproof.
(б) It must have been Matured while subject to the
control of the Customs by storage in wood for a
period of Not Less than 2 years.
(c) It must have been certified by an officer to be Pure
Whisky containing all the essential elements of
Pure Malt Whisky.
This has led to curious consequences. The Aus-
tralian (Australian, Vie it noted) Brewers’
Journal (21/11/TO) reprints from Ridley’s Wine
and Spirit Circular (London) an article in the
importing interest denouncing Joshua and all his
works. It is headed “ Abuse of Age Certificates
for Spirits,’’ and it claims that the British Govern-
ment must be made to issue similar certificates so
that the importer can enjoy the advantages of the
same abuse. And there is also this specific howl:
We trust very few business men would adopt such
tactics in pushing the sale of their goods.
So, apparently, if any English whisky-builder had
the luck to get a east-iron certificate from the
Government of a whole continent that his liquor
was made under close official inspection, and was
guaranteed to be good and old, his noble and sen-
sitive feelings would prevent him using the docu-
ment. Rather he would hide it in a cellar and
deny that he had it. And he is shocked because
the Australian whiskv-maker actually publishes
his official guarantee, and thereby sells Australian
whisky in Australia instead of letting the im-
porter have a monopoly of the business.
Australia gets another warning, and the Jap gets
another biff in the character, from Malcome C.
Fenwick, of the Corean Itinerant Mission, who
is lecturing through the United States and
Canada. He has been for long stationed at
Corea, and may be expected to know what he is
talking about; and this is what he talked to the
Montreal Witness
Japan has broken every treaty made with Russia and
Corea, and falsified every guarantee given the Powers
promising Corea her independence. It is not generally
known, owing to the strict press censorship which
Japan enforces in Corea, that they have slain 60,000
Coreans since the treaty of Portsmouth. Most of these
were innocents, guiltless of offence. The tale of the
atrocities committed, of, the villages burned to the
ground and other things done by Japan would form a
story so gruesome that nobody would believe it if I told it.
It is doubtful, if the full horrors of Japan’s ascendency
over Corea will ever be known, for Japan controls every-
thing under a peaceful treaty, and all stories telling the
truth are promptly denied. Through Japan’s wonderful
advertisirtg, which, like her espionage and press censor-
ship, is unique, the world has come to believe that the
Coreans are a poor, worthless, good-for-nothing race. I
bear glad testimony to the fact that they are a very
noble race, superior to the Japanese in every particular,
except shrewdness, conceit and deceit.
Fenwick urges the public 1 to read Mackenzie’s
“ Tragedy of Corea ” or HuLbert’s “Passing of
Corea,’’and, even when the public has read these
books, he declares that half the horrors which
have fallen upon this unfortunate people will not
be realised. As for Australia, whenever it reads
about the Coreans and the things that have hap-
pened to them, let it read with this as a standing
P.S. ; “ These people thought that a Defence policy
could wait until to-morrow ! ”
The decision re the fatal Kilmore (Yic.)
railway smash is that no one is to blame. Of
course, if no one is to blame, then nothing is
wrong ; and, if nothing is wrong, then it can’t be
put right. So John Weary’s subjects must just go
on being smashed.
The Asquith Government in Britain started
the election badly. The first batch of 55 members
was chosen on Saturday, and, as the Opposition
captured seven of the Government’s old Seats and
only lost four of its own, it is three, to the good.
A gain of three makes a difference of six at a
division, and a difference of six in a batch of 55
members is considerable of a slam. If things go
anything like this with the other 547 seats, it will
be a cold time for that gorgeous “ Liberal ’’ party,
which opposes the referendum on the ground that
the people can’t be trusted.
Sitting in Divorce in Melbourne, J ustice
A’Beckett lately decided a point so fine that only
an experienced circus mosquito could balance on
it. The petitioning wife, finding her husband’s
behavior quite unbearable, was forced to leave
him, which constituted constructive desertion on
his part. Two years afterwards he became in-
curably insane. The ground of the wife’s plea
for divorce was desertion for three years and up-
wards; but the Master in Lunacy, as respondent’s
guardian, put it that, since respondent became
irresponsible at the end of two years, there was
only two years’ desertion, and therefore the lady
should be fired out. The argument looked logical;
but his Honor capsized it by stating that the
respondent had committed the desertion, and it
was for him to terminate it, and if he couldn’t
terminate it that wasn’t the lady’s fault. Decree
nisi accordingly.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs ” (till Saturday).
r . j “ The Lion and the Mouse.”
KOYAr ' /“Our Miss Gibbs.”
Criterion “The Winning Ticket.”
Palace “The Prince Chap.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
GtACiARiUM West’s Pictures.
IiYCKUM Spencer’s Pictures!
Olympia “ Buffalo Bill ” Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Royal “ Miss Hook ol Holland.”
Kino’s “ Her Second Time on Earth.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co,
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Taits’ Pictures.
Open Air, St. Kilda.. The Follies Comedy Co.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
- -♦ ;
It has been argued that 4 4 A Gambler’s
Sweetheart,” which was revived at Sydney
Palace on Saturday night by the Maggie Moore-
H. R. Roberts co., is a better play than that old-
time favorite, “ Hans the Boatman,” by the same
author (Clay R. Greene). Also, critics who
make a hobby of things theatrical are not
agreed upon the issue as to whether Maggie
Moore, as Bessie Fairfax in “A Gambler’s
Sweetheart,” has not better opportunities for a
display of her stage art than as Lizzie Stoefel in
“ Struck Oil.” As far as this paper is concerned,
the argument closed on Saturday night, when the
lady captured an audience, so tightly wedged into
the Palace that two ushers had their chests stove
in, as thoroughly as ever she did in Sydney. The
controversy can go as a dead heat; and if any-
body feels called upon to dispute the decision, it
can only be done at advertising rates.
* * * *
As for the play itself, it is clean and
healthy, a good story, and devoid of those
streaks of insanity which suggest that the average
modern bellowdrammer should be run in under
the Demented Persons Act. The scene is laid
amongst the rough mining camps of the United
States, made immortal by Bret Harte, and the
story works round a conspiracy to jump a claim of
the Chaffinch family. For two acts the con-
spirators put up a bluff which would even
lay over the bluff of a Chamber of Com-
merce at the introduction of an amending tariff
schedule to Parliament, but, about last drink
time, examination with the powerful rays of a six-
shooter exposes its fallacies, and blows them to
smithereens. H. R. Roberts, as the gambler who
has come to realise the errors and take-downs of the
game, is seen in one of his best character sketches,
and his acting with his “old pard ” (Greenaway)
in the second act, when under suspicion of
having betrayed the said pard’s sister, is good.
Same to Greenaway. On Saturday night “The
Prince Chap ” will attend to the customers.
** * *
44 Our Miss Gibbs” retires from Her
Majesty’s (Sydney) at about midnight next
Saturday, and will be found on the following Mon-
day evening enthralling all hands at the adjacent
Theatre Royal. The lady is changing her address
because “ The Whip ” co. is booked to start busi-
ness on Garrod’s present site next week ; and
it is impossible for a musical comedy store and a
racing melodrama to crowd on to the same stage.
“THE WINNING TICKETAT
SYDNEY CRI.
The Villainous Count (Roy Redgrave) and his
accomplice Cohen (Edmund Duggan).
The writer has not paid a second visit to
Sydney Criterion to find out if the motion-
less horse starts for the Melbourne Cup, but he
presumes that that deadly-calm animal got a move
on it after the first night, and has run its hardest
ever since. If it hasn’t, he foresees a time
when the Cup will be won by a cow,
for, on the opening Saturday, the horse in
question kept well ahead standing still, and a
cow, especially when it is full of grass, can do that
sort of thing as well as any horse. With the
arrival of the hot weather a feeling of profound
sympathy sets in for the stoutish farmer-hero who
gets married in the atrocious plug-hat and the
massive frock coat. On the other hand the Count
pursues his fiendish career in a light suit and a
straw “boater” adapted to.the season, and he is
so much better fitted for the race of life that the
hero would be left ignominiously if it were not
that the hand of Providence gives him a shove.
** * *
To-night (Thursday), also on Friday and
Saturday, “ The Lion and the Mouse ’* is to be
revived at Sydney Royal, with Miss Katherine
Grey in her old part, and William Desmond, as
the iron-jawed N’Yorlc financier, originally por-
trayed here by Julius Knight. Sydney art-lovers
are hereby reminded that the people of this fine
co. migrate to M.L. next week; and it is much
handier to call in at the Royal to see them than to
wait and then have to pursue them to Wellington.
** * *
Frank Harwood, descriptive singer, and
the Meymotts, a pair of sketch artists, infused
some fresh interest into Sydney Tivoli bill last
Saturday; but the average Tivolean, overawed
by Manager Rickards’s recent announcement, is
inclined to hang back and wait for the £05,000
avalanche of cleverness that is shortly to descend
on this corner of the continent, and make Cape
York rise dripping from the sea like the bow of
alight skiff when a member of the Upper House sits
in the stern sheets. Thebreathless nightsof summer
are now coming along ; if the south wind could be
engaged at enormous expense to blow through the
theatre during the interval, heated patrons would
be willing to forego at least two imported
comedians and six foreign serios without further
inquiry. The Marbas pair, Carl Howard, Fred
Bluett, Godfrey James and Fanny Powers are the
other capital-letter entertainers of the document
which is distributed gratis by the usher. The
managerial advertisement alleges that Barnold’s
clever dogs will depart on Saturday.
* * **
J. Edward Sykes, whose face has beamed
at Sydney audiences for 20 years, is to be feted at
a testimonial concert in the Town Hall on Thurs-
day, 15th inst. The offers to assist were shovelled
at the committee by the ton, and it was a delight-
ful task to discriminate. Dolores comes specially
from Victoria to sing for her old friend, and a big
programme should more than repay the crowd.
“ THE WORST WOMAN
IN LONDON ,” AT
MELBOURNE KING’S.
C. R. Stanford as a
Dipsomaniac, and the
Worst Woman s
father.
At the King’s there
will be two more exhibi-
tions of the lady who
became lovely on brazen
living. On Saturday, how-
ever, “ The Worst Woman
in London ’’ retires be-
fore a re-trial of “ Her
Second Time on Earth.”
This -latter is one of the
shockers that make a
morgue a necessity in the
vicinity of the theatre.
“Jack and the Beanstalk ” will open at
Her Majesty’s (Melb.) on the 17tli instant. This
year’s panto., it is understood, will be liberally
dotted with new sensations, and will introduce
a number of enrapturing strangers. “Harbor
Lights,” with its whiffs of stage breeze and pro-
perty brine, has been filling in an interval, but if
j c 'w. adheres to his published intentions it will
be a thing of the past by the time these impas-
sioned observations see the light of day.
** * *
The event at Melbourne Royal last
Thursday evening was the managerial benefit to
William Cromwell. The programme, which com-
prised special items from various sources, wiis
merely an excuse for sundry actors to relax their
reserve and become personally frivolous for one
night only. In the Court scene from “ Sergeant
Brue ” the show became unofficially elated ; even
Miss Gilliam tried to hide an unrehearsed smile
beneath a hat like a band rotunda. However, the
audience would willingly have stood much worse
for the sake of Cromwell.
* •* * • *
After to-morrow night, patrons of the
Royal will no longer gaze on that lovely Arcadia
where men are not obsessed by the ritual of seven
clean collars a week. On Saturday, “ Miss Hook
of Holland,” with a comparatively new cast, is to
revive many melodious noises from Dutch
interiors. The reign of Miss Hook, however, will
be brief, for at Christmas she will abdicate in
favor of “ The Gay Gordons,” and the breath of
gin will flee before the odor of haggis.
** * *
At the Melbourne Princess’s, last Satur-
day afternoon, there was a further revival of “The
Geisha,” by Miss Brenan’s talented midgets.
The youngsters gave a very intelligent perform-
ance ; the work of some of the principals, like
Nellie McCarty and Florrie Allan, was thoroughly
enjoyable. Also, the chorus betrayed a desire to
be something more than a bundle of attitudes,
mechanically warbling to the conductor’s baton
and occasionally smiling to the manager’s
nod. As regards “The Dollar Princess”
at the Spring-street house, little comment
seems to be demanded. This musical comedy con-
cludes its season next Saturday night, and
subsequently departs for Maori land, where at
least one person in the show should be a highly
popular figure. This is millionaire Conder’s
clerk, Bulger, who, with the sign of the Montde
Piete on his blazer pocket, surely symbolises the
spirit of lou Ward’s Dominion.


JERDAN’S, the big Cinematograph people at
393 George Street, Sydney, have just got out
a Catalogue for Picture Showmen that’s just it.
If you’ve leanings that way you’d better write for
a copy. It’s free.*
Always merry and bright, eh ! Yes, if in
the hot weather you drink “ Montserrat ” Lime
Juice. It cools and purifies the blood.*
In Britain once more the suppressed vol-
canic forces of progress are producing election
eruptions. And with the assistance of D.O.L.
wisdom a wise policy of forwardness and defence
must result. The country must advance whose
politics are illuminated by D.C.L., the Whisky of
the Wise.*
TANCOcS
vjiiii {jjjg
Weare Born to
offer BENEFITS
THE INSURANCE OFFICE
1 OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Head Office-
-263 George St., Sydney.
Complete Cover will be
granted promptly against
your liability under
The Workmen’s Compen-
sation Act, 1910.
WRITE AT ONCE.
H. H. Slockfeld \
H. S. Doherty /
Joint
Managers.
Portion of the Opera House programme
is now given over to the eonversation of Julian
Rose. He delivers his reflections in a light-
grey suit and a Yiddish dialect, and makes
a good score with a comical misuse of the English
tongue. The Gilbert sisters were also added to
the bill on Saturday. They dance pleasantly,
and occasionally show their teeth as a panoramic
testimonial to some unmentioned body’s dentifrice.
** * *
Max Linder, who dissipates a night in an
epic “drunk,” was screened at the Melbourne
Glaciarium last Saturday. He again proves him-
self one of the greatest of flicker comedians.
Among the Taits’ other items there is a good pic-
ture, “ Hunting Hippos on the Nile.” Also, there
is “The Unfair Game”—the dreadful tale of a
man who meets a city siren; gradually notices
the angels’ choir in her voice and the Milky Way
in her eyes; and then dies in the snow in a
delirium of unrequited love. He ought to have
had medical attention much earlier in the day.
*# * *
Last Saturday’s pictures at Melbourne
Olympia included a tale of the Catiline con-
spiracy. It makes a showy story. “The Mo-
hawk’s Way” is still another Indian drama, full
of primal emotions and fetish worship ; while the
beauty of the scenes about Amalfi atone for the
banalities of “ Fatty Buys a Bath.” Altogether
it is a varied and attractive programme.
** * *
The theatrical carnival in aid of the Dis-
tressed Actors Fund, already alluded to, will
occur at Wirths’ Park, Melbourne, on Saturday
afternoon, 17th inst., and the public is hereby
cordially encouraged to go. It will be a very
foolish public if it doesn’t. If this paper had two
millions to spare it would give them to the fund,
after which it would feel at liberty to throw
Sussex-street produce at the bad actor when he
appeared on the stage. At present it has to put
up with him, because if he didn’t act he would
starve. There are several other reasons why the
public should go to the carnival, one of them
being that it threatens to be worth going to.
* * -;*? *
Adelaide Royal, after a long period of de-
depressing melodrama, has got lively with the
American-French frivolity, “The Girl from
Rector’s.” The Yankee label, “A spicy
salad with very little dressing,” has un-
wisely been retained, not in the advt., but
in the circulars sent round to recognised patrons of
the drama. Unwisely, because, while the U.S.A.
frankly appeals to extremists, knowing that the
other extremists won’t go near a theatre anyway,
Australians are mostly moderates, who would much
rather not have it taken for granted that red-hot
goods will attract them. And really the play has
been toned down a good deal. Gorgeous frocking,
by the way, is another? attraction held out—in-
consistently. Neil Kenyon, of the Scotch accent
and the pawkily humorous anecdote, has moved
on, after holding the Tivoli stage for a week, and
Barnes and Miss West, very active and very
American, are the star turn of the moment. The
leading picture-shows have for unknown reasons
been simultaneously struck with the merits of
“Uncle Tom ”.as a film subject, and are booming
the weary old nigger against each other. Strange,
unseasonable December weather has been all
against open-air shows, and the Dandies at the
Exhibition, Follies and Pierrots on the sea-beach,
Casino and Trocadero, and others in the picture
line, consider that the name of the weather clerk
is Mud.
“ HARBOR
LIGHTS,” AT
HER
MAJESTY’S,
MELBOURNE.
Ambrose Manning
([?] Tom Dossiter)
returns from
the wedding.
(Future
mother-in-law
in sight.)
Illuminative admission by the S. M.
Heiiald ,
There are indications that there will be a number of
subdivisions next year in various parts of the West, and
already surveyors are out on more than one pastoral pro-
perty. These are in centres that are suitable for wheat-
growing, and this activity is due in a measure, it is
believed, to the coming of the Federal land tax.
Yet only a few weeks ago the Herald spent quite
a lot of space in pointing out what a wrong thing
the tax was. Didn’t the Herald want the big
holdings cut up ?
For light, instructive reading, the Fusion
crowd should turn to the recent speeches of an
American gentleman named Roosevelt. Some
of his recent remarks :
I believe in such a measure of Protection as will equalise
the cost of production here and abroad. . . I believe in
such a supervision of the workings of the law as will make
certain that the protected industry gives the difference
to the man that we are most anxious to protect—the
working man. And if I found that it was not giving it I
would take the tariff off that particular thing. . . What
we want is a square deal for the employer and capitalist,
and a square deal for the general public.
Which is the Labor party’s new Protection that
statesmen like Joe Cook and Irvine ridicule.
Also :
He declares that he is in favor of a wide increase in the
authority of the Federal Government, arid maintains that
coal-lands and water-power rights should be permanently
excluded from private ownership.
This is not from “a visionary ” or an “impracti-
cable Labor demagogue,” but from a man who
has been President of the U.S. twice, and has
been so good at the job that it is waiting for him a
third time. All the same, the yelp of Willie Kelly,
the croak of John 1 Quick, the snarl of Irvine, and
the howl of Jocook will still be heard in the land.
Fortunately, noise won’t stop progress. Still,
noise is a nuisance.
AT POVERTY POINT.
A United States music hall man has added to the
wrath of the world, the flesh and the devil by offering
the British Chancellor of the Exchequer £lOOO a week if
he will denounce the House of Lords twice a day as a
variety turn in a’Yankee theatre. Either U.S. variety
managers have less sense than they used to have, or the
present Chancellor of Bull’s Exchequer is an undignified
person with whom people naturally take liberties, or
possibly both causes are at work. Certainly, Lloyd
George conducts political campaigns in a fashion which
staggers men old enough to remember the huge shirt
collar of Gladstone and the tremendous plug hat of old
Salisbury.
“Melb”: In the current production of “Harbor
Lights,” Manning, as Dossiter, is almost the only one who
flings himself in heartily. Most of the others are very
English. I object to any performers trying to convey the
idea that they are superior to their work. Manning is
about as good as Gilbert used to be in the part, though
there is rather too much now of the cheap fun of hugger-
mugging. Yet I wish Manning’s hearty, human style
was spread all round. Phil Beck was the original Melb.
hero of the “ Lights.” What a phenomenal memory that
man had ! He recited the whole of Coleridge’s tragedy
of “ Remorse ” before Judge Coleridge and family. In
the end, he shot himself on shipboard. About the last
part he acted in Australia was in “ Madame Midas.” He
played the villain, who shoots himself with “How for the
great conundrum.” Talking of memories, those of Brooke
and Brough were great. They only had to read a part
over. So Brooke was never perfect in anything. Worried
with bad memories were Ireland and Stuart O’Brien.
Charles Hall was a mighty rapid Swallower, or Swallow,
as the pros, call it. Sometimes a man is credited with
rapid memory when he only has rapid perception. He
will seize the gist of a speech at a flash, and remember
cues. Many eminent actors have been shocking bad
studies—Webster and Beerbohm Tree, for instance.
Harold Ashton sends news from New York, concerning
some Australian stage girls abroad. Ivy Scott is playing
Natalie in “The Merry Widow ” with an American co.
Irene Dillon, who was said to have been engaged by
George Edwardes for musical comedy, is settled in the
vaudeville specialty line, and is to do a “turn” on her
own at the Palace, London. And Lilian Meyers, who left
Australia as a spinster in July, is now a married lady
with a footing in one of Frohmann’s New York com-
panies. Miss Meyers took letters from J.C.W., asking
his agent in N.Y. to do what he could for her. A few
weeks later the agent wrote toJ.C.W., to say that he
had done his best for the young lady by getting her
married into the family. The happy man is his brother-
in-law, who assists him in his play-booking business. So
Lilian is in a fair way to get all possible chances to score
on the stage.
“ The Reefer ” : “ Hanco,” one of the long line of hand-
cuff kings, who is, or was, receiving homage at the
Wellington (M.L.) Theatre Royal, has been roped,
chained, manacled, nailed up, or sunk at the bottom of
the sea in a Chubb safe by policemen, firemen, warders,
stockbrokers, sailors, lunatic asylum experts, etc. ; but
on every occasion he has risen unshackled, handed the
safe or the shin-irons to their owner, and gazed gloomily
into the future. He could see no more knots, hand-
cuffs or nails to conquer. But, even as he gazed,
Waterloo banged at the stage door. It took
the form of a committee of pressmen, who chal-
lenged “Hanco” to submit himself to a test at their
hands. The handcuff monarch did so with tears of grati-
tude, and the shipping editor of the local Times trussed
him up with a few clew-line hitches, or clothes-line
skewers. That was somewhere about 10 p.m. At 11 p.m.
the Fuller staff was engaged sweeping from the stage the
perspiration of a prince whose kingdom was oozing away
from him. At 11.30 p.m; he handed in his resignation.
The shipping editor thereupon removed the bonds and
received the crown.
“ Blue Mack ” : London Academy, after sitting out “to
the bitter end,” as it says, Hall Caine’s latest, “The
Eternal Question ” (in u'hich little Tattle Brune is show-
ing), spoke very seriously to all concerned. Bad? The
Academy does not remember to have seen anything “ so
vulgar, or so foolish, or so pretentious since ‘ The Sign of
the Cross.’ ... It is obviously a work for a man’s family.
Like the collection of poems of the rhyming stock-
broker which are published by himself for private
circulation, ‘The Eternal Question’ should have been
played by the author’s family to celebrate a birthday,
and servants only should have been admitted.” As to
’Tilda herself; “ The heroine (which is ’Tilda), utterly
unheroic, gibbered and tore curtains, and broke busts,
and cried Addio ! and used the telephone, and thrust back
her hair, and drew herself to her full height, and flung
her eyes across the room, and sobbed as though her heart
would break with the same dry eyes, and, finally, crying
out the . same inconceivably silly things, moved out and
away to death, instantly to be brought back again by the
talented author to bow and to be bowed to, amid the
tremendous applause of the attendants at the back of
the pit.”
The Episcopal Church of the United States has decided
to cut out from its collection that old hymn “ From
Greenland’s Icy Mountains.” The trouble arose over
that line which describes Ceylon as a place “ where every
prospect pleases and only man is vile.” Ceylon has at
last got to hear about this, and it declares that it isn’t
viler than other places. It will have nothing to do with
a church which says such things about it. Further, it
alleges that the writer of the hymn was a vile-tempered,
stingy reverend cuss who once paid Ceylon a flying visit,
got mad at the size of his hotel bill, and proceeded to take
it out of the hide of the whole community under the
mean pretence of writing a hymn.
Alfred Hill’s fine opera, “ A Moorish Maid,” is to be
revived at the Standard Theatre, Sydney, on Boxing
Night, December 26, with an attractive-looking cast
which includes Mrs. Slapoffski. The wise Boxing Knight
who loveth good music will put some money in his wallet,
and, forsaking the big, shallow shows for once, go charg-
ing up on a tram to the Standard. It should be worth
the quest.
H. Rickards had a fine chance of becoming his own
landlord in Adelaide last week. The Tivoli, the Clarence
Hotel and a small new block of offices alongside were
offered for sale by their absentee owner, tickled up by the /
land tax. The rental was stated at £2498 a year ; but the
block was passed in at £32,ooo—about the value of the
buildings.
Chas. Frohman, the New York manager, after fighting
tooth and nail against Sabbath theatricals, has gone head
over heels, and is now battling for a modification of the
old restrictions, to enable him to put on plays of a suit-
able type, dealing with “moral and ethical problems.”
He mentions Barker, Galsworthy and Shaw as manufac-
turers of the proposed Sunday drama, and teachers of
“righteousness, brotherhood and humanity.” All Bri-
tish, mark ! The American playwright runs more to
dollars than to righteousness and humanity. Frohman
seeks to dish the churches with dramatic sermons. But
not on the thrippenny basis—“ prices as usual.”
London’s big White Elephant, the Crystal Palace, is to
be galvanised into life for one year at least by the
Pageant of Empire next summer. A kind of captive fly-
ing machine will carry 50 people at a time (on a wire,
presumably) from one of the towers to another ; an
island in the lake is to be fitted up on Robinson Crusoe
lines; a mono-rail over a mile long will run through
Australia, Maoriland and other countries, with glimpses
of the “ habits and customs ” of the natives ; and a kind
of Future London is to be built up on H. G. Wells’s lines.
“H.E.R.”: After the Glittering Bullfinch came
“ Glittering Gloria ” to Westralia, with Hugh Ward,
Wykehana, Grace Palotta, Celia Ghiioni, MaudChetwynd,
and a bulldog as outstanding nuggets in the face of the
lode. The show, described as a “screaming song-farce,”is
the usual sort of thing—except for the dog. His name is
Garibaldi, and he licked his chops with blood-curdling
rapidity; and the way he strained to get at the seats of
the mighty or the mean was something more than acting.
There is the usual fearfull.y-in-doubt wife, the same old
fearfully-in-doubt engaged girl, the identical misjudged-
by-the-female-and-loved-by-the-male woman, and, of
course, her maid, who wears her mistress’s clothes.
Here, again, we come upon the husband wjio is
cruelly doubted, and the engaged man who has to
invent compromising yarns to wriggle out of one
scrape only to fall into another. The other men
who ' love the misjudged woman are Zebedee Pos-
kett, Col. Gallagher and Algernon Entwistle. Poskett
is put down as a rural solicitor. Gallagher is a man
who will cheerfully shoot his rivals or shout them lemon-
ade, according to the “fair one’s” taste. Entwistle is a
poetical mannikin, engaged by Col. Gallagher to write him
speeches to quote to the “ fair one.” “ Glittering Gloria ”
is by Hugh Morton, the author of “The Belle of New
York.” It is faultily written and the characters are incon-
sistent. Grace Palotta is Gloria ; Ward is Poskett, an
eccentric old skinflint; Wykeham is Gallagher; and
Celia Ghiioni and Ruby Baxter make the best of impos-
sible parts. “Glittering Gloria” hangs on the purchase
and presentation of a £5OOO diamond necklace, and Col.
Gallagher is willing to . buy the dazzling bauble to clasp
round the neck of Gloria’s bulldog. Which shows the
great cost of love in the Colonel’s case.
Miss Marie Hall, the English violinist, will shortly pay
a return visit to this country. She is at present touring
S’Africa.
Word comes of the death of Fred B. Norton, well
known in Melbourne theatrical circles. The unfortunate
Fred 8., who had been a victim to lung trouble for many
weary months, passed out at Ivanhoe (Vic.) on Monday
morning.
“ U.S.”: President Lincoln’s assassination is represented
in Melbourne by the biograph. It has been done in
France —the American public would not tolerate it, nor
would the Government allow it. Wilkes Booth is acted
by Ravet. He is too old and heavy, but yet powerful.
Lincoln is much too old also, and is given white hair and
beard. The original affair was in Ford’s Theatre, Wash-
ington, on Good Friday night. The play was “Our
American Cousin,” without either Sothern or Jefferson.
Lincoln was in an upper stage-box, xvith another gent,
and two ladies. The President was laughing at the play
when Wilkes Booth shot him from behind. There were
three Booth brothers, all actors —J. 8., Edwin and
Wilkes, the sons of Junius Brutus Booth, Kean’s rival,
and very like Kean. The three brothers acted together
in “Julius Caesar,” as Brutus, Cassius and Antony ; and
this might have put the damnable deed into Wilkes’s
mind. Edwin Booth, who had a little previously played
in Sydney, declared after the assassination that he would
never aet again. He did go back to the stage, though,
and, while acting Richard 111., was shot at by a man in
the pit. But he had more luck than Lincoln, and lived
r,o act with Irving in London, alternating Othello and
iago.
“ Wonga " : Dan Cooper, who holds the record tally of
316 sheep, shorn at Ballindallock (Q.), put through 214
wethers between smokes recently. That is solid going
for one day. Cooper did his 316 in eight hours 40
minutes; it is said that Jim Power put through 315 at
Barenva in ’96 in seven hours and 40 minutes. Shearing
records are causing a lot of talk in the North just now,
and they are trying to arrange a contest between Cooper
and Harry Livingstone (the most consistent shearer in
Queensland), the test to last a week. What a draw it
would be, if properly stage-managed. Where’s Bill
Anderson ?
MISS PHYLLIS HOPWOOD-FOLDI,
Musical Monologuist.
Photo, by Talma, Sydney.
Somewhere in the neighborhood of this paragraph ap-
pears the picture of Miss Phyllis Hopwood-Poldi and her
hat. The lady, a Sydney native, was lately described by
the Westminster Gazette as “far and away the best
musical monologuist at present to be heard.” Her
Sydney appearance occurs on Saturday, 17th inst., at the
Y.M.C.A. Hall.
“ Billy T.” : A representative of a big balloon house in
England, son of Britain’s oldest and most expert con-
triver of aerial gasbags, came to Australia some time ago,
with balloons, and all the appliances and means to boot.
The scheme included a series of tethered balloons to take
up paying guests in connection with outdoor entertain-
ments in Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide. After many
tests and much patient waiting, the expert folded up his
bags, heaved them into a ship, and went ’Ome, utterly
disgusted with the Australian climate, which, he says,
damns the possibilities of successful aeronautics in the
Commonwealth. With a climate invariably variable, the
expert adds, men who go up to the air in ships will have
small profits and quick returns. He estimates that nine
out of 10 will return on their ears. Unhappily the
motto : “ If you don’t at first succeed, fly, fly, fly again,”
rarely applies to aeronauts.
“The Chocolate Soldier,” now booming at London
Lyric Theatre, has two Australians in the cast —Lrm-
priere Pringle, of Tasmania, and Roland Cunningham, a
Melbourneite. Pringle is a baritone ; Cunningham a
light tenor with some exquisite high notes.
“ Snell” : A young actor who is coming along smartly,
and who will probably make a little noise elsewhere (an
Australian actor’s chance of making disturbances in his
own country being very limited), tells how he came to the
fierce white limelight: “ I was a billiard marker by night,
and general boot-peeler and potato-polisher by day, in a
provincial pub, when one evening a fat man with a clean
shave and an eye in fine frenzy rolling, rushed in on me.
‘Did you ever act the ghost in Hamlet?’ yelled he.
‘No,’I replied. ‘l’ll give a quid for a ghost for one
night only.’ ‘You can have mine. Terms cash,’said I.
I’d never dreamed of an artistic career, but I played the
devil with Hamlet’s defunct parent that night, and I’ve
never slept in a barrel since.”
“ The Mactavish ”: Last Saturday afternoon I was
intercepted in an attempt to penetrate an outer Rate of
the Ciifton Gardens Hotel by an undertakerish person in
a dusty frock-coat. He said : “ Yercarn’t come in ’ere.
It’s engaged be the ’lghland Society uv Noo Soutn
Wales.” “The hotel," I asked, “or the grounds?”
“The ’ole place,” he said. “Are you a Highlander?”
I asked. “Yus,” he replied. “Then you should
know that it is impossible to keep a sober
man out of a pub,” I rejoined, and passed
within. The grounds were full of Caledonians
with Darling Harbor accents. At about 4 the hasrgis
arrived, preceded by 19 pipers doing their worst, and a
drum-major destitute of any vestige of humor. Cries of
“ ’Ear ’Ear ” rent the heated atmosphere. A child in a kilt,
sporran and sundries astounded me by remarking that
“ the bloke waving the clothes-prop was bosker.” The
general verdict proclaimed him “ or-right.” I proceeded
to where the Highlanders were competing in athletic
events, arriving in time to see a footrace won by a Scot
named O’Meagher. On my asking where the brose
was to be found, I was urged to “chuck
it,” and told that they were boiling the billy
in the shed. All of which served to convince me
that the day for these national festivals has passed.
When, at an allegedly Highland gathering, you fail to
identify a dozen folks capable of distinguishing a chunk
of peat from a capercailzie, the thought occurs that the
function is travelling under false pretences.
An Italian opera co. (really Italian —the co. as well as
the opera) was in London last month. It revived the
now seldom seen “ Don Pasquale,” by Donizetti, and the
opening of the third act was brightened up by an attack
on the conductor by a man in the stalls. A conductor’s
baton is quite a handy weapon, and the visitor got well
hammered, finally rushing out, pursued by cries of
“ scoundrel ” and “ liar.” As he went, he informed the
audience that he was a singer wrongfully discharged.
Then the conductor made a speech, saying that this was
an “incapable,” and the audience cheered everybody im-
partially. It was a pleasant and unusual diversion.
“ Stargazer ” : Melbourne girls have discovered new
idols in the more picturesque performers at open-air
beach entertainments at St. Hilda, Brighton and else-
where. The performer need not be particularly pic-
turesque, either. General favor slops over tubby tenors
and beefy baritones —in fact, any kind of a bulby ballad-
singer who makes up to resemble a pink seraph, smudges
in his eyes till they look like faint glimmers in a coal-'
hole, and goo-goos the front seats with the tender
intensity and small intellectual pressure of Cow, while
trilling' his sentimental lay'. The decided drift of girlish
fondness towards stout buskers is causing trouble. When)
a y r oung lady' handed up a rose to one fat artist the other
night a young gentleman promptly added a bouquet to
the tribute. It was the bouquet of an addled egg—and a
duck egg at that. But with big audiences of girl mutely
adoring, the fatted tenor is willing to chance the ducks.
The Law in Victoria has been trying to
put a hammer-lock hold on the Papanui. That
steamer, a while back, tried the overland route
with such disastrous results that she only reached
port by reason of her watertight tanks. As it
would have taken nearly £20,000 to repair the
damage, she was put up for auction and knocked
down for a hymn or thereabouts. The shindykit
that made the spec., however, had ideas ; it pro-
posed to run her under some foreign flag to Yoko-
hama, or some place where labor is cheap, and get
her transformed into a new vessel for £6OOO or
£BOOO. Scenting something irregular, the Marine
Board told the new owners that their battered
purchase was not to leave port as she was. Also, it
instructed the pilots not to navigate the wreck
to the Heads. That was all the Board could do,
and it doesn’t seem to amount to much, for the
broken shell has taken on 2000 tons of coal and
provisions for a two months’ voyage, imported a
Filipino crew, and crawled out of the harbor.
The decision of the Ward Government to
severely deprecate Bam Bux, A.B. on the Maori -
land coast, has brought to light some figures “ to
show the value of the P. and O. Go. to the ports
at which its steamers call.” For 12 months ended
July 31, 1910, the expenditure is thus set down
(the Auckland figures are for only three steamers):
Mel- Ade- Auek-
Sydney. bourne, laide. Perth, land.
Coals.. .. £46,751 £8,495 £1,638 £14,730 £1,423
Port, etc. .. 3,418 5,064 3,654 2,352 591
Bents, etc. .. 4,116 1,546 667 964 173
Labor.. .. 25,807 9,818 4,814 1,185 60
Provisions .. 21,862 6,417 5,771 3,350 476
£101,954 £31,340 £16,544 £22,581 £2,723
Having added it all up, and found that it came
only to £175,142, the M.L. people decided that,
even if they got the whole lot, it wouldn’t be
enough to compensate them for the loss of their
prosperous and growing white-manned mercantile
marine. Also, they remembered that even a
locally-owned and white-manned line isn’t run on
air any more than the P. and O. is. So the
prospects of Ram Bux, A. 8., in those parts were
suddenly discouraged with a legislative belaying
pin.
The successful Maoriland pubkeeper of
the future will be the one with a large family of
handsome daughters. Under the latest Act, no
new girls are to be admitted into the barmaiden
profession, though those who are there may re-
main till they grow old and peroxided, provided
they register themselves, the same as Towzer
or Carlo. But the publican’s wife and daugh-
ters are not to rank as barmaids, provided they
sell beer on the old man’s premises only. So Miss
Public-house will be an asset of no small value.
If there is only one of her, and she is a dazzling
beauty, and old Father Public-house has got the
premises on a long lease, and his wife is a faded
proposition, the girl will be able to make any
terms in reason to remain, instead of going
away and getting married. So far as that pub is
concerned, she will be the Last Woman on Earth.
If she leaves there will be no means of replacing
her unless Mr. Public-house divorces his faded
wife or buries her in the cellar, and weds a young
beauty who will bring business. So far as he is
concerned, woman might as well be extinct. So the
Courts will probably look askance when Mr.
Pub, aged 45, seeks a divorce from the faded
drab vision of Mrs. Pub, and will wonder
how much the elderly lady gets for not defending
the case, and what the proposed future Mrs. Pub
is like. It is noteworthy, by the way, that the
House, by a big majority, shut out the hotel-
keeper’s sister. Anyone can get a sistor. If the
name doesn’t correspond it can always be ex-
plained that she is a beautiful young widow.
THE AERONAUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
VICTORIA.
He said he simply longed to fly.
He made himself a neat machine,
And sought to skim the heavens high,
To scorn the lowly and terrene.
“ I cannot rest,” he cried, “ till I
With conquering wings have swept the sky.
I’ll fly!”
From Macedon, a lofty hill,
He started with his neat machine.
It was a truly awful spill.
His grave’s particularly green.
Now on white wings above the skies,
If all is true the Church implies,
He flies !
SILAS SNELL.


The "AUTOTHERM” FLASK
sdf
THE “Autotherm”Flask is the most inexpensive, most
easily cleaned, and most scientifically constructed
Vacuum Flask obtainable. Boiling Liquid placed in
one of these Flasks will retain almost the same temperature
for 24 hours and longer; and Ice Cold Liquid will remain
so for some considerable time. Breakage is almost impos-
sible, as the weight of the vacuum bottle is borne by a
rubber buffer—but, should it break, a refill can easily be
put in by anyone. The screw stopper prevents any leak-
age, and the bayonet fastener ensures no slipping. To
Tourists, Travellers, in cases of sickness and in the
Nursery, the “Autotherm” Flask is invaluable. Illus-
trated here is an “ Autotherm,” with, canvas cover, which
can be had in the following sizes:—
Half-Pint size - - - 9s. lid.
Pint size - - - -12 s. 6d.
Quart size - - - -20 s.
WE PAY CARRIAGE on a.ll goods except Furniture, Floor Cover-
ing, Kitchen and Hardware to any part of the Commonwealth.
•TMfwnnicuiof
XHA3 Hanaca
SK»a¥K
Write for our
XMAS
CATALOGUE.
Cratis and Post
Free on reque3t.
DAVID JONES LTD.,
... SYDNEY,
ii
Christmas is Coming!
The Best Value selected from
the World’s Leading Makers.
BE UP TO DATE, and Present
Your Friends with One of jt
HARRINGTON’S
iPT- A CAMERA IS ALWAYS ACCEPTABLE TO YOUNG OR OLD.
CAMERAS
THE
“ENSIGN”
DAYLIGHT-LOADING
FILM CAMERA
DEFIES ALL
COMPETITION.
Takes Photos 2\ x 2J.
TWO VIEW FINDERS.
Price 6/- Complete.
FULL INSTRUCTIONS GIVEN AVITH EACH
CAMERA.
SEND FOR OUR FULLY ILLUSTRATED CATA-
LOGUE. OVER 400 PACES.
YOU SHOULD NOT FAIL TO SEE THE FOLDING
“ ENSIGNETTE FITS IN THE VEST
POCKET OR A LADY’S HANDBAG.
Takes Photos 2J x l£. Daylight Loading. One
movement brings it into action.
PRICE, COMPLETE IN CASE,
SIX EXPOSURE SPOOL OF FILMS, 1/-
35-
FOLDING CAMERAS
FOR
ROLL FILMS OR
PLATES STOCKED
IN ALL SIZES
AND PRICES.
ASK TO SEE OUR 2iß
POCKET “ENSIGN.”
DAYLIGHT
LOADING.
25/-
HARRINGTONS LTD
386 George Street (near G.P.0.), Sydney;
and at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, ADELAIDE.
SOCIETY
A FAIR ESTIMATE.
" How many fellows work in your office?”
"O, I should say, roughly speaking, about two-
thirds of ’em.”
Lyttelton Harbor Board (M.L.) is a care-
ful soul. as was instanced a few days ago when
Scott’s expedition left for the South Pole or its
neighborhood. The Board invited a number of
guests aboard its tug to accompany the Terra
Nova down the harbor, and on the back of the
invitation card was the following declaration,
which had to be signed before its holder was
allowed over the gangway :
The acceptor of this pass assumes all risks of accident,
and in consideration of its receipt expressly agrees that
the Lyttelton Harbor Board shall not be liable under any
circumstances, whether by negligence, criminal or other-
wise, of its servants, agents or others, for any injury to
the person or for los- or injury to property whilst using
this pass, or for any such injury or loss whilst embarking
or disembarking from the said tug, or whilst on any boat
or launch the property of or used by the Lyttelton Harbor
Board in connection with the said tug, and that as to such
acceptor the Lyttelton Harbor Board shall not be con-
sidered as common carriers or liable as such. In con-
sideration of this free pass I hereby agree to the above
conditions.
Even if a person were drowned he couldn’t bring
an action against the Board in the face of that.
It is none too soon that
the Commonwealth starts to
accumulate a navy of its own,
judging by the number of break-
downs the hired Imperial ships
have whilst ambling peacefully
about on their routine work.
Two mishaps were reported dur-
ing November. The Pyramus,
whilst steaming along the Vic-
torian coast, got a pain in the
condensers, and had to put into
Western-port and anchor whilst
the engine-room artificers got
busy. Later on the Pegasus
rolled home from a particularly
peaceful cruise in the New
Hebrides, and a hoarse, guarded
voice, from the keel or there-
abouts, remarked that something
had gone wrong with the boiler
tubes on the way back, and that
the cruiser had been practically
stopped for one day in mid-ocean.
It is just as well these two ships
have never had to pursue any-
thing more speedy than a naked
person in a canoe. If ever one
of them is compelled to hurry
after a fast launch, it will pro-
bably surge forward for a mile
or two like a white-vested
party hurrying for a tram,
then stop dead with a bang
and a hiss, like an enraged
geyser which has just had a few
bars of soap dropped down its
neck.
* * *
Up to the present, the
unfortunate farm kiddy lias been
safe from the cow while lie was
at school, even though the
weary little beggar often went
to sleep there ; but now, alas,
even that refuge is threatened !
Here is a joyful suggestion
from a Leader (Vic.) corres-
pondent :
Milking should not be taught in a milking shed, but in
a milking school. . . It would not be difficult to rig up
an imitation of a cow’s udder and teats, charged with
water in place of milk. . . What a blessing such a school
training would be in all our large towns, starting the boy
at 10 years old, with an hour a day, under the supervision
of a good milker. Then in the spring time a holiday on
the farm would make him an expert. The farmer would
only be too pleased to receive such working guests.
No doubt! But really the whole system wants
altering. What this country should do is to sack
its Tates and Boards and other Education direc-
tors, and put the Public Instruction Department
under a cow-cockv.
Melbourne has a new sensation to keep
the bloodstain-lover going till Christmas. On
Nov. 12 Annie and Alma Moodie, who with sifeter
Olive, ran a white-work shop in Prahran,
consumed a mid-day meal"consisting of cherries,
tinned tongue, cucumbers and other hardware, and
presently became poorly. At the hospital the
doctors diagnosed ptomaine poisoning, and the
coroner, who next came into the episode, let
it go at that. The widowed mother of the
girlV had also attacked the conglomerate re-
freshment, and was also affected, but got on
nicely for 10 days, when she suddenly relapsed and
died. At this stage the doctors sniffed; arid
when the post-mortem indicated arsenic, and the
State Analyst confirmed the indication, the police
probed around, and found that Olive had bought
arsenieforrat-destruetion awhile before. Then they
arrested her. The two dead girls are to be ex-
humed, and should they also be found to have
lunched on arsenic, the case will look unlovely.
So far, however, no one has been able to suggest
the slightest motive for the crime, if it was com-
mitted, and a healthy, well-developed and
pleasant-Tooking woman of 28 doesn’t usually slay
her mother and two sisters merely for amusement.
And nobody is likely to learn much from the
accused woman, as, prior to arresting her, and
before charging or cautioning her, two detectives
spent four or five lioqrs in extracting and taking
down a statement which filled 50 pages of fools-
cap, but which, on account of the absence of the
caution, can’t be used at the trial of the lady.;
■Vr * * *
“ San Remo ” fires up :
Re Australian defence and railways, “ Rooinek " (R.
10/11/T0) calls over from S’Africa that a 3ft. 6in. gauge
“is good enough for any country.” Well, I don’t care
what he calls. The latest example of a transcontinental
railway (the trans-Siberian) is on a sft. 6in. gauge ; arid
what a lesson that railway conveys to the Common-
wealth defence authorities! That single track, 5000
miles long, bore the strain of a million men and arma-
ments during the Russo-Jap war, and, according
to General Kuropatkin, an average of 19 train-
loads daily was maintained. If Pat had been
confronted with three different gauges and six
different railway managements, as in Australia, he would
have drowned himself in Lake Baikal before the first shot
had been fired. Two years ago, when the railway gauge
argument was raging in the United States, 90 per cent,
of the experts plumped for Oft. as the gauge requited to
cope with the increasing haulage power and high speeds ;
bur, I’m prepared to let the sft. Bin. gauge go as the stan-
dard for Australia, seeing that it already has a clear run
from north of Adelaide to the N.F.W.-Victoria border at
Albury. “Rooinek” says that to change from sundry
broad gauges to a uniform narrow gauge is easy, simple
and inexpensive ; while the change from narrow to broad
is a Sheol of a job. To all of which I reply, that the
effective defence of Australia is two Sheols of a jhb ; that
a change from rifles and cannons and ironclads to bows,
arrows, clubs and dugouts is also a dead easy proposi-
tion ; and, finally, that in national affairs, the line of
least resistance is the subway to perdition.
A TALE OF DARKNESS.
WUFE (back from a month's holiday): “ Can you
explain why last month’s gas bill is only 4d.?”
When the bride steps over the threshold
of her new home, she is generally met by nothing
more desperate than the new furniture which
gleams like a cheap set of false teeth, the garish
cooking utensils, and the violently
beeswaxed linoleum. But there are
exceptions. There is a gruesome
story of an Indian bride who entered
her bungalow and sat down, and
then heard a ripping sound above
her, and was staggered by a dead
body falling on her. The ceiling
was calico, and the remains had torn
it from its fastenings. Then there is
an unaccountable yarn of a bride
who reached home to find the
spectre of her predecessor standing
guard over the wedding-cake. She
had her throat cut and was visible
to no one save the bride. The in-
terminable search for, the body of
Ethel Harris at Perth (W.A.) is now
diversified by a ghost story. Mr.
Smart is said to have first married
a girl in Victoria; then to have more
or less married Ethel Harris (the
lady who vanished) at Perth; and
finally to have wedded Mary Pem-
berthy. And it is now alleged that
twice in her new home Mary Petn-
berthy, the new Mrs. Smart, saw
the ghost of a woman struggling
(presumably drowning) in her own
bath. This discouraging apparition
is now connected with the vanished
Ethel Harris, but there seems to be
no reliable evidence whatsoever.
There isn’t much left of the
old gag that the white man can’t live
in the North, and Dr. Breinl, the
director of the Tropical Diseases In-
stitute at Townsville (Q.), having
now had time to look round, has torn
a bit off the little that was left. Com-
pared with other tropical countries,
North Queensland, lie says, possesses ideal con-
ditions, and people need only to live reasonably,
take plenty of exercise, eat proper food, maintain
temperate habits, and live in houses adapted to
the climate to enjoy vigorous health. When
you come to think of it, no less than that has to be
said of every other part of the earth. If an
Eskimo tried to live in a canvas tent, on a diet of
stewed fruit and ice-cream, lie might find his
climate unhealthy. Even Heaven mightn’t turn
out to have quite the climate it is alleged to have
if the Eskimo, on arrival, insisted on eating blubber
and wearing 13cwt. of furs.
•X- * * *
The sort of innings the wowser is having
in John Weary’s Victoria may be judged by the
fact, that a bookstall clerk who, to oblige customers,
took a few casual shillings to put on horses at the
races, was fined £4O, beside which he lost his
billet; while, the same day, sundry shopkeepers
who sold unwholesome potatoes, 80 per cent, of
which were rotten, were fined only £5 apiece.
According to reliable information, the two-
gallon license holders at Powlett (Vic.) vend their
wares in handy spring carts, just as the common-
or noisy Milk-oh ! does. And the billy is stuck out
just as the milk jug is. That is one of the beauti-
ful results of No License. Another is the exist-
ence of an abnormal number of barbers’ shops,
where you pay 6d. for a shampoo—and drink it.
Weary and co. talked about establishing a State
hotel at Powlett months ago; but, since then,
Weary has seen still more clearly the advantage
of “conserving energy,” wherefore he apparently
favors a system under which each family has the
pot on the shelf, instead of having to toil to a pub
to wet its whistle.
* * * *
“ Three Star Joe ” : This is how it works
out in M.L. (same old thing in a nutshell) :
1896: Proportion of total voters who struck out the
topline (to close pubs), 37'82 per cent. ; drink bill per
head, £2 19s. Bd.
1899 : Top-liners, 42'23 per cent, of all voters ; drink
bill per head, £3 4s. 9d.
1902: Top-line voters, 48 - 88 per cent. ; drink bill,
£3 10s. 3d. per head.
1905 : Top-liners, 51 ’27 per cent. ; drink bill, £3 Bs. 2d.
190 S : Votes against licenses, 53 - 45 per cent, of all votes
cast; drink expenditure per head of population,
£3 15s. lOd.
I’m going to plump for total prohibition. It’s
only half-and-half prohibition just now. When we
get it “ straight,” it’ll be Christmas every day.
“C.A.M.,” just returned from the place
he writes about:—
The opponents of the universal military service in
England are up against it. Two years ago they were
jubilant. “ There is no need of conscription,” they said.
“ See how the youth and valor of the nation are flocking
to the volunteer standard.”
Two years ago young men were rushing the volunteer
movement. The ranks of the Territorials swelled amaz-
ingly. The phenomenon was due to hysteria. There had
been a German scare, which the play, “Ah English-
man’s Home,” brought to a head. Adolphus fled
straight from the theatre to the recruiting sergeant. The
whole thing was inspired by a play; its chief features
were costume and claptrap sentiment, and its duration
was that of a successful London production. Before long,
people began to think of other things. The general
election, the fight at Reno, and the increased price of
beer claimed their attention. Territorials whose service
had expired didn’t swear on again. No recruits came to
fill their places. At the best of times, the volunteer army
is a paper army ; now the paper is beginning tobe blank.
Further, many of the recruits found that the annual
fortnight in camp was not quite the picnic they expected,
and so failed to turn up at all. There have been hun-
dreds of prosecutions as well as hundreds of inquiries
over false medical certificates. Altogether, the voluntary
system of enlistment has collapsed, and people are
beginning to realise it.
THE BARGAINER.
OLD GENT: “My boy, I’ll "give you a penny if
yon give up that horrid cigar to me."
GINGER: “Not enough, guv'nor. Sling us the
penny and I’ll let yer ’ave two draws.”
A FEW MAXIMS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Heave not the stone of reproach at the busy portfolio-
holder,
Lest he turn in his wrath and reply with a sizeable
boulder.
Promise no miracles when you talk to a man of his
pension ;
The faith of a fool will give way if strained at too high a
tension.
Seize not the rescuer’s laurels amid the loud din of mine
whistles;
The false-alarm lion’s an ass, and his garland a bunch of
stale thistles.
The State is a part of the Nation—the Youngest Inhabit-
ant states it;
The tail is a part of the dog, and ’tis vain to assert that
he hates it.
The flea may sit up on the tail and exclaim : “ See ! the
head fights it madly ! ” \
’Tis the flea on the tail the head seeks, and the big snap-
ping jaws want it badly.
Who will claim that the flea is the tail, and the tail an
annoying insurgent?
Or deny the head’s right to attend to a matter that’s vital
and urgent ?
Who tries to pour gallons of trade through the long,
smoky neck of a bottle
And spilleth good wine in the country, that party the
country will throttle.
Beware of dark tricks and dark men. Frown on Syrian,
Zulu and Tamil;
Ben Habdah it was broke the back and the heart of the
Telegraph camel.
When bidding for place in the council and homage of
sages and bounders,
It will profit you little to tell of your wonderful record at
rounders.
N.S.W.
HAFIZ McGINTY.
THE “SAUCY KATE."
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fresli from the darkened waste she haunts,
She waits at anchor in the stream ;
Upon her copper hat she flaunts
A ragged, feathery wisp of steam.
The city, like a magistrate,
Observes her coldly in the morn.
“ Now, where have you been, Saucy Kate V"
It asks the damsel all forlorn.
And Saucy Kate says nothing, but
Emits a loud, exhausted snort;
The city says: “ Now, Kate ! Tut-tut!. ..
Until the rising of the Court! ”
N.S.W.
FOE.


tfvos
iraniM
1‘
10,000,000
tabletsof Sun>
light Soap are
sold every week;’
this is the high=
est possible proof
that Sunlight
Soap comes up
to expecta-
tions.
No. ST. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
"PURE FOOD ACT. 1908,“
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY. N.S.W. No. 57.
By Special
Appointment
asd
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS,
THE CATERER, Tel. No. 2, Ascot.
MOONEE PONDS,
VICTORIA.
Wedding 1 Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
King; up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, wheD
our Manager will call and give all details.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
If you want something really good in the way
of razors or razor strops, buy the Diamond Edge brand,
the best that money can buy. Razors 7s. 6d. and 10s. 6d.
each. Strops 6s. Sold only by the Sole Agent, T. Wild,
Vice-Regal Hairdresser, 30 Sydney Arcade; entrance
from George or King Streets, Sydney.*
fa
Here’s a Happy
Xmas Gift!
The illustration speaks for itself—a pair
of English-made Military Hair Brushes in
solid leather case—real bristles in every
Brush. J
For one who travels at all, a pair of
these Brushes makes an ideal Xmas
present, and just as good for men who.
don’t travel.
Ebony Back Brushes, 16/6, 21/- and
30/- pair.
Satin Wood Back Brushes, 10/6, 16/6
and 25/- pair.
Peapes 8 Co., Ltd.,
“ MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
THE MARRIAGE SETTLEMENT.
THE UNMARRIED ONE: “Suppose you're quite
settled now?”
THE OTHER : “ Quite."
Tiae other day a N.S.W. Supreme Court
Judge, in an action for damages against the
Kailway Commissioners, opined that the practice
of riding on tram footboards should be dis-
couraged. He didn’t say how the people were to
get around if they didn’t hang on to the footboards
which was a pity. Following up the judicial
observations, the Vice-President of the Executive
Council made some remarks to the House of
jb at:—
With regard to the overcrowding of trams, it arose
fiom the fact that the main thoroughfares of the city,
through which the trams ran, were absolutely congested'
and we had now reached the maximum at which trams
could run safely through the city. It would be absolutely
dangerous to increase the number of cars running along
Pitt, George, Castlereagh and Elizabeth streets. He had
not lost sight, however, of the danger to which attention
had been drawn, and, as far as he was concerned, he
would do what lay in his power to prevent any serious
catastrophe occurring. If people persisted in riding on
the footboards of trams, they did so at their own risk.
But you can’t stop the butchery merely by telling
the people that they will be butchered at their
own risk; at the best, that will only save the
Government something in damages when the
butchery happens. If the trams can’t carry any
more people, and more people insist on being
carried, the only way;, out of the difficulty is
either to kill the surplus people or pro-
vide some other means of carriage. As there
is some objection to steady massacre, there
appears to be nothing for it but the city
railway. And if “we have now reached the
maximum at which trams can safely run through
116 fairly obvious that we have also
reached the time when the city railway should be
started. In fact, we have reached the time when
it ought to be available.
“ The Gunner ” : The Melbourne Cavalry,
a corps formed some 10 years ago, is just now in
the public eye owing to the commanding officer
having been unexpectedly placed on the officers’
reserve-list. If I remember rightly, this regiment,
when it first paraded itself, had, attached to the
back of. its head, a horse-tail which had been
dipped in blood or red ink. I met it going up
Bourke-street and
mistook it for the
advance guard of
a circus. I re-
member that I
was disappointed
and annoyed at
the absence of the
usual band-wag-
gon. Most of Mel-
bourne saw that
dyed horse - tail
parade, and made
the same mistake.
The Cavalry,
shortly after-
wards, tore the
pink horse-orna-
ment off its hel-
met, and tried to
get the public to
take ;t seriously ;
but first impres-
sions are very
lasting, and the
populace were
disinclined to be
solemn about it.
So the cavalry re-
treated into the
background an d
took to providing
guards of honor
for bazaar-open-
ing Governors. It
is alleged that the
top-rank military
men have always
looked coldly on
the cavalry, and
given the officers
the refrigerated
shoulder. I guess
that the long-
standing dislike
is rooted in those
scarlet horse-tails—
now probably de-
corating thesummits
of backblox band-
majors. In this part
of the world, the sol-
dier who starts out with
the end of a horse on his
skull is as heavily handi-
capped as the would-be states-
man who commences life by clog-
dancing at a thirdrate variety show ; it is practi-
cally impossible in both cases to overcome popular
prejudice and live down Life’s initial absurdities.
* * * *
Robert Stout, M.L.’s Chief Justice and
Principal Faddist, made one of his perennial
attacks on alcohol and tobacco the other day,
and buttressed it up with this
The use of alcohol is fatal to the mental alertness of a
race. ... What had enabled Germany to get into such a
forefront position in the world to-day?
If the eminent faddist had looked up his statistics
he would have seen that Germany is one of' the
hardest-drinking nations in creation, or any-
where else. Per gullet, Germany swallows 1’55
gal. of hard drink (spirits) annually; France,
which Stout must admit is another of the brainiest
nations, suppresses 136 gal.; United States (also
no slouch in the matter of brains), P2l gal.; and
Holland, one of the great business nations of the
earth, I‘so gal. The United Kingdom’s beer
figures are 28'4 gal. annually per man, woman
and child; Germany follows with 26'1 gal. ;
France, 7‘9 gal. (and 30'7 gal. of wine); United
States, 15'4 gal. On the other hand, the
races that do not seem to be much in
the way of “mental alertness” are parti-
cularly abstemious from alcohol. For in-
stance, Roumania averages no more than "97
gal. of spirits, ‘24 of beer and 4’5 of wine ; Servia,
•62 of beer and 2'46 of wine; Russia, -95 of
spirits and ‘97 of beer ; Bulgaria, 13 of spirits,
•33 of beer and 13'2 of wine. Turkey drinks
hardly anything ; and black brother, of ancient
Australia, who was a perfect whale in the matter
of making no progress, didn’t know what alcohol
was. On a charge of contempt of facts, Stout,
being a vegetarian, is hereby fined seven peanuts.
Sweet charity, or sweat charity—which ?
At the last meeting of the Anti-Sweating League
in Melbourne it was reported that the assistant-
engineer in “a public hospital” received 20s. a
week and keep for 80 hours’ work,
and a married man with a family got
255. a week for 70 hours’ work.
“ Sweat charity ” has it.
THE COMFORTER.
ENTHUSIASTIC ERIC: “ Now , this is my last, and
it's the best I’ve ever done .”
SYMPATHETIC CECIL (misunderstanding): “ Oh,
never mind, old man, don’t be disheartened—
try another. You must hare been simply
awful at one time, you know."
“S.S.”: An item akin to the following
has appeared in half a dozen Melbourne papers.
The happy air that goes with the glad tidings of
great joy irritates me grievously :
The authorities of both the Melbourne and Sydney
National Galleries have again given Messrs. So and So per-
mission to copy works hanging therein for their tea-
calendars. The subjects chosen this year are “La
Defenestration ” (Melbourne Art Gallery), “ The Widow-
er,” and “ The Race to Market ” (Sydney Art Gallery).
The papers seem to be congratulating the
Australian public on the fact that the
nation’s pictures are being vulgarised for
the purpose of booming Brown’s tea,
Jones’s soap, or Robinson’s sugar-cured pig.
There are artists in Australia whose living
depends upon their ability to sell the
works of their hands. Is it, then, fair
dinkum that the national galleries should
enter into cut-throat' competition with
them, and give the money-grubbing busi-
ness person the free use of pictures that
have cost thousands, so that the aforesaid
money-grubber may save the few pounds
an Australian painter might ask for a
calendar design ? If Brown, the wealthy
owner of Right-Ho tea, found the insigni-
ficant Jones pirating his packets, so as to
save himself the expense of getting up a
trade-name, etc., of his own, I’m almost sure
Brown would talk to a lawyer about it. And if
Jones asked Brown’s permission, I’m almost sure
Brown would tell him to go to Booligal or some-
where.
* * *
“Floater ” : The Melbourne National Gal-
lery is reported to have paid £250 for a picture by
“Charlie” Wheeler. The canvas represents two
ladies, well nourished and reposeful, bending over
a volume of beautiful pomes, while another, who
looks like a last rose of summer got up for the
autumn, is apparently employing her fingers in
the family mending. The composition is charm-
ing ; but, as to color, the background strikes one
as especially noisy, while bits of foreground color
chip in displeasingly. On the whole, I should
say the, picture is not nearly the best from
Wheeler’s brush, having the built-to-order appear-
ance of a travelling scholarship work.
“Lex This dialogue took place in a Syd-
ney Court last week :
Counsel: You are a member of the Blank Picnic Club?
Witness : Yes.
Counsel: Who was the captain that day ?
The Judge : What does that matter?
Counsel: I want to show this is merely a drinking
club.
It is a sociological axiom that wherever a dam-
phoolish law bumps against an irresistible human
tendency, the law is hound to go down. So when
Wade’s Liquor Act became operative, those who
held that they had as much right to absorb beer in
company on Sundays as the wowser had to collect-
ively gnaw buns on the same .ay proceeded (1) to
join clubs, (2) to patronise hotels which went in
for illicit Sunday-trading. But the clubs which
are empowered to vend strong drink on the Sab-
bath are too expensive for the average citizen;
and there isn’t much joy in imbibing in a pub
which may be rushed by the police at any moment.
Wherefore the Sunday picnic club came into
being. Some picnic clubs —and that which came
before the Courts last week is possibly one of
them—are blameless institutions. But the average
body of the sort is different. It proceeds, during
the early part of the Lord’s Day, to an unfre-
quented spot, accompanied by enough liquor to
float a dredge. It may affect to be there for the
purpose of fishing, or playing cricket or cards, or
to admire the scenery or what not; in reality,
its main object is to down a vast quantity of
alcohol. There are Sunday picnic clubs which
don’t even call themselves clubs, and whose mem-
bership list totals no more, perhaps, than half a
dozen. They may be observed on harbor yachts in a
lamentable state ; in small suburban houses, in the
corners of beaches adjacent to the members’
homes, and in various other places. In every
ease they exist because those who compose them
are forbidden to foregather in a bar, and in every
case they make for chronic drunkenness. The
legislator will never appear who is capable of devis-
ing laws which will prevent people from drinking
in company when enough of them want to. There
is a vast mass of evidence to show that the Sun-
day Closing Law has by no means checked Sun-
day drinking ; its principal achievement has been
to make one-time “moderates” signalise the
Sabbath by drinking about 14 times more than
they used to in the pre-WowSer period.
* # w it
A Sydney divorce-case report of last
week contained touches of humor. The solicitor,
one Albert Horatio Jones, on going to serve the
respondent, found the co-re, an Italian Count, with
her: —
“Have you served the Count yet?” the lady asked.
“No,” said Jones, “but lam going to.” To which she
replied: “He is here. Will you come in?” The co-re
was sitting at a table. The bed was behind a screen.
Respondent introduced witness to the co-respondent,
who said : “ I should have been pleased to meet you under
other circumstances, Mr. Jones.” He added : “This was
not a moment’s passion, Mr. Jones. It was all thought
out between us.”
The elaborate, old-world courtesy of the harassed
parties, the gallantry and romanticism of the
nobleman, the bed behind the screen—and Jones !
There is an incongruity about it, suggestive of
exiled monarchy in a threepenny bar.
* * * *
Not content with killing his workmen with
the blessing of Freetrade, Bull insists that the
foreigner shall make their tombstones
When a monumental mason who gave evidence at
Lambeth was asked how many men he employed, he re-
plied that at present, owing to foreign competition, he
employed none.
“Do they make tombstones, then?” Judge Emden
asked in surprise.
“ Yes, they do,” the witness replied vehemently.
“ They are cutting us out, us Englishmen. Ninety per
cent, of monumental work is imported.”
Still, Bull does not believe in taxing the “neces-
saries of life ” ; and as hundreds of thousands of
Bull’s people are constantly on the verge of star-
vation, he probably regards tombstones as very
necessary.
ISAACS' SHORTER VIEW.
INSURANOE AGENT : “ Do you want the insurance
for one or three years !"
ISAACS: “ Er—von veek vill do.”
THE TRAIN FROM HAUNTED HILLS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Double-headed engines bring the train from Haunted
Hills down to Moe at a great speed, and retired officials
are firm in their belief that a smash will occur sooner or
later, as the brake power is not sufficient to control the
engines. The bridges, which weru constructed when the
line was first opened, are still doing duty, having been
patched up from time to time. Retired officials state that
brick foundations should sjupDort these structures, instead
of the repair's being effected chiefly by timber. It is sug-
gested that the Department should compel drivers to
exercise the greatest care when travelling from the
Haunted Hills into Moe.— Melb. Age.
The old rails, chatt’ring each to each
Above the trembling bridge,
Have heard the engines’long-drawn screech ;
The train has topped the ridge !
For miles ahead the gleaming road
Before the Terror thrills ;
Can it to safety bear its load —
The Train from Haunted Hills?
Loudly along the ringing steel
The frantic warning runs :
“ Beware ! The crazy engines wheel
Once more their senseless tons !
Hold fast, dear Brothers Bolt and Rail ! -
There’ll be a few more bills
If any one of us should fail!
The Risk f rom Haunted Hills ! ”
The Departmental prophets sit
And watch the coasting' trains ;
The track (they know the strength of it !)
Is bearing dreadful strains ;
With certainty they prophesy
Some things that give us chills.
Speak up ! 117(0 wants to travel by
The Hearse from Haunted Hills}
VICTORIA.
WESTINOHOUSE B[?]EN.
FREE!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The young lady was proceeding to illustrate her point
that the softer sex was quite capable of undertaking the
world’s work, when her ankle turned, and she fell into
the orchestra.— Age report of a women’s meeting.
The girl stood proudly for her sex.
Her cheeks were flaming red.
“ We strike the chains from off our necks—
We shall be free 1 ” she said.
(Of course, the crowd could not ignore
The pretty necklet Mary wore.)
“Let woman stand in Freedom’s pride.
Our sex must walk alone ! ”
She illustrated with a stride,
And fell in the trombone.
(The poor young thing was rather hurt—
She had forgot her hobbled skirt!)
VICTORIA.
SNELL.


He (Mr. Judkins) would sooner be alive
now rather than 25 years hence, as he
felt he was laying the foundations of
Australia’s national life. (Applause.)
_ *s■?** •*
V v6& v° »* & !<v«^
I^l*7^
METEOROLOGIST’S ILL-LUCK.
Broken Hill, Thursday.—Mr. A. Hunt
(Commonwealth Meteorologist) has re-
turned to Adelaide after a visit to Broken
Hill. During the time that he was here
the weather was extremely dusty and
windy, and a perfect hurricane was blow-
ing when he left by train.
r e %vV
Suli'tfKn
Should set 'lba.
tnorxl cViVActei-oj'ijt-
njllKer sYio«l4
Ji-J l °lo OVfcrj>roof ;hereby
minings;**? *'!,**'
”7 a * r >*
i$
-ft
v/f,o C •* f^v * re
y fabtfZkx +o )>[*
require me *l% *'*\p
WorfZ toej.v'fWs
< |jjL
This land tax should not be regarded
as being necessarily a permanent im-
post. The excuse of the Treasurer is
that he must have the money it will
produce at once, and that no other means
of raising it are immediately available.
— Argus.
)
This cW
xs «».V lhe
fX»j &i‘ 's°r§,;:it-
fo sty wittryo« J“‘ r
visitor, you K*iow -
W V't'® vT
«a<v6& & . tv \*%' v»' tW ftv \\ 6& s
&6 *»* A .w« e *
' X 'nV6< & \ w \o^
Vic (To Ae
JUeO)
h>*vj fo** 2V II »" ** '
w<> sbku *« ver ,ooK
apo.
(breaM £,oWn j
Hhe Doc
Now, you njus-t' be careful, don't puTtoo much
Strbjri on your you Krt* w youre. too
s tVorie to worK -
A MELBOURNE MEDLEY.


LEWIS & WHITTY’S OLIVE OIL.
Guaranteed in conformity with the PURE
FOOD REGULATIONS of the Australian States.
LEWIS A WHITTY,
Melbourne and Sydney. tl
McKENZIE’S
EXCELSIOR
BAKING POWDER.
A Marvel in Clocks.
WE have just opened a large shipment of all kinds of Carriage
Clocks, and among them is one line that we consider the
most marvellous value ever produced.
IT is a Gold Lacquered Case Clock that goes for eight days.
IT is 3fin. high.
IT has unusually large numerals.
IT is sold in a Solid Leather Case.
IT is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for two years
without charge (breakages excepted). There are only half
a gross in the shipment.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
FAIRFAX (EX ROBERTS,
Plain Figures'
Cash.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
••• 23 HUNTER STREET.
Good, Reliable Movement in
Gilt Lacquer Case, and with
a Leather Case, 3|in. tiig-h,
21s. 15 Years’ Guarantee.
ABORIGIN
ALITES
“ Stone Head’s ” diagnosis of berri-berri:
I was with the pearling fleet in the north-West of Aus-
tralia for many years, and was often brought into contact
•with Asiatics suffering from berri-berri in its two recog-
nised forms, the chronic and the acute, and noted that
the acute supervened, as a rule, on the chronic.
As to the source of the disease, I am not surprised
that “Gentleman James” did not receive a testimonial
•from the medical faculty re his stale water theory. The
•very fact that both the whites and colored crews drank
the water shatters “ James’s ” supposition. If “James”
was correct, would not the white men be just as open
to infection as the Asiatics?
I have seen many remedies tried by medical men, with
indifferent, success, among them being the diet treat-
ment. This was a failure. Undoubtedly the most effica-
cious—used by myself with much success, and invariably
prescribed by Captain Parkes and other well-known
of the North-West—consisted of a mixture of
ground ginger and cream-of-tartar, followed by a course
of pure litne-juice and the discontinuance of rice as a
food. Rice has long been suspected of having something
to do with the etiology of the disease ; in fact, some
HIS FEARFUL PREDICAMENT.
“Help, help! I can't hang on another minute."
scientists aver that berri-berri is caused by an unknown
parasite in rice, as pellagra is generated by diseased
•maize. Yet the sepoys in India ascribe it to a fish diet.
Berri-berri is closely allied to dropsy and scurvy, and the
symptoms, in some cases, are characterised by a peculiar
•staggering gait, coupled with inability to stand with the
feet together and closed eyes. The greatest difficulty is
experienced in raising a cup of water to the mouth, or in
picking up a pin from a table. Acute cases are charac-
terised by sudden and extreme difficulty in breathing,
with rapid failure of the heart’s action. The pulse is
very rapid and weak ; in many cases the patients become
quite pulseless for an hour or so before death. No
organic disease of any kind can be detected ; t he nervous,
cardiac, respiratory, digestive and urinary systems being
all normal. When difficulty in breathing has once set in
the case is hopeless.
SYMPATHY.
BLACK BRUDDER (sympathetically): “Poor phcller!”
“ Pick At one time schnapper, the best
fish of the Australian seas, could be caught in
plenty from any of the points along the N.S.W.
south coast, and old anglers still talk of the cart-;
loads of many-pounders that used to be landed
from Schnapper Rock or Schnapper Point, Schnap-
per Inlet or Schnapper Bay. Nowadays, the fish
is a rarity inshore, and the deep-sea supplies are
gradually diminishing in the markets. The
reason ? The schnapper spawn annually in the
tidal lakes along the coast, the young fish being
variously known, according to size, as squire or
cock schnapper, and these constitute the prize
catches of the lake
net - men, whose
wholesaledestruotion
of the young fish
effectually prevents
the re-stocking of
the ocean waters.
This everlasting
slaughter is largely
carried on, not by
Australians, but by
Dagoes and China-
men. At Narooma,
a one-time favorite
fishing resort, a
horde of the latter
aliens have- been
netting the inlet
seven days and
nights a week for
years, and .shiploads
of squire, salted and
sun-dried, have been
regularly consigned
to China by them,
instead of being
allowed to grow into
decent schnapper to
replenish our de-
pleted coastal'
waters. Where white
fishermen are en-
gaged, the regula-
tions regarding
length of net, width
of mesh, and weight
of fish to be market-
ed are generally ob-
served ; but not so
with the Chow net-
ter. He has a cun-
ning habit of using
two or three nets of
full regulation
length; but when
a big haul is contem-
plated, hejoins them,
and since his hauling is almost invariably at night
he is difficult to apprehend in his unlawfulness.
What is urgently needed to prevent the extermi-
nation of the schnapper is a close season against
all netting in the lakes, backed up by more strin-
gent regulations in the open seasons. When Jack
Want spent a holiday in fishing at Narooma some
years ago, he promised the residents that the inlet
should be closed to net men generally and Chows
particularly. But Jack Want is dead.
* * * »
“ T. Huff” : Haven’t met the white hawk
(B. 3/11/TO), but recently saw a pure white crow
on the West Coast of South Aus. He hangs out
at a drinkery, and was captured in a rabbit trap.
This incident cost him one of his legs; but he
looks well, and is able to stand up to the bar on
the other.
“ McGinty” : A word in the shell-shaped
ear of sheep-shearing experts. Never take a job
in a strange shed without first examining the
birth certificate of the engine you are to superin-
tend. I grasped, with both hands, a billet offered
by a western wool-grower. At dawn the overseer
led me out to an ancient colander on four wheels.
The dignity attached to age sat heavily upon it.
In a confidential whisper he told me that the mass
of iron and rivets was the lOh.p. portable
steam engine with which it was pro-
posed to propel the 12 stands of
machines. Good breeding forced me
to remove my hat in its presence, and
I tiptoed round it three times at the
risk of being stricken down by the
steam gauge which rocked to and fro in
the breeze. Many variegated words and
a £5 note were exchanged; so I
decided to attempt to get up steam ;
but not before I had written kindly
to the wife. As I crept toward the
firebox with kindling wood in one
hand and my life in the other, it came
as a pleasant recollection to me that
I had always paid my life-policy pre-
miums promptly. But fear claimed
me as I thought of that fiver. What
if they broughiin a verdict of suicide ?
Anyhow, one, two, three, four hours
passed, and though she perspired at
every pore, frost gathered on the
cylinder as night fell. Notone revo-
lution could I get out of her. The
overseer handed me my return fare in
the morning, and explained that I
would not be needed, as I had offended
the boss. He had paid £45 for that en-
gine, so he knew it must be good. A 10-
horse portable for £45 ! lam now convalescent.
* * * *
“ The Loafer”: I see that the winning
ticket in the Brussels Exhibition lottery (first
prize, £8000) was found on the corpse of a Char-
leroi miner. It was ever thus. What battalions
of bashmen have perished in the howling scrub
with winning tickets for Tatt.’s in their swags ! I
am a non-gambler, so far as Tatt.’s is concerned,
for the simple, all-sufficient reason that the ex-
perience of a thousand bar-yarns has convinced
me that with success in Tatt.’s marches prac-
tically certain death. Which reminds me of the
dire calamity that smote a plump and pretty young
pub-maid in a North Queensland mining town,.
where I ruffled it in the long ago. After some
years of conscientious toil she suddenly began to
look upon brooms, scrubbing-brushes, dish-clothes
and other domestic toys with aversion. The day
came when she turned a frigid ear to the adoring
and Caucasian groom who was saving up slowly
but firmly to make her “a home,” and mar-
ried a repulsively ugly but very financial old
Chow gardener. “I had not loved the Chow at
all,’’she remarked simply, in explanation, “loved
I not yakker less, ” or words to that effect—and
so to the loathly Mongol’s monkey-house. Next
day the heartless post brought the result sheet,
which notified the bride that her Tatt.’s ticket
had drawn second horse in the Sydnev Summer
Cup !
“ Moorabinda ” : The lady who leads the
strenuous life ’possuming on her own in Queens-
land, as depicted hy Ashton Murphy (B. 3/11/TO),
recalls old “ Mrs. Mountain Moss,” who, dressed
in masculine attire, knocks out a living on Man-
grove Mountain, about 13 miles from Gosford
(N.S.W.). This lady gathers giant maiden-hair
fern, which is sold to an agent in Woy Woy. The
vegetable passes to Germany, and from there,
after going through a “silvering” process, some
of it comes back as a decoration for wedding-
cakes, etc. Mrs. Mountain Moss lives in a tent,
and her work lies in the gullies around Man-
grove. She is assisted by a son of 15. The pay
is 6s. per 1000 ferns delivered at Woy Woy, and
this brings in somewhere near £3 a week all the
year round. As a side line, she gathers mountain
moss, waratahs and other wild flowers. I tried
hard to get a photo of the old lady at work; but
she objects—and you don’t quite know how
vigorous an objection can be until you have
caught Mrs. M.'M. at it. A representative of a
Sydney weekly who once tried to get some
“ copy ’’out of her was headed off with an ancient
blunderbuss. The old dame spent three years in
Queensland, and intends going to Papua as soon
as her present field is played out.
“ Ramoth Gilead”; Talking about, cow-
feed growing in streets (recent Bulletin leader),
Grafton (N.S.W.) is the show that, for its size
and the important air of its aldermen, pockets the
food in that direction. There is verdure growing
luxuriantly in the main streets and on the foot-
paths, and it even sprouts up through the inter-
stices of the floors of nearly all the business
places, including the post office and courthouse.
As for the council chambers, they’re a veritable
Eden. I asked some of the “ leading residents” —
at least, they said they were “leading,” although
I could never discover what it was they lead,
except one man who leads a grievance against the
Labor party around with him, and tries to explain
to everybody that it is real, while they all say it’s,
brummagem—about this plethora of verdancy.
They blame the aldermen—all, that is, except the
aldermen themselves, who put it on to Provi-
dence. , Anyhow, it’s an awfully green place.
*.* * *
“ Mimosa Can any “Abo.” writers give
instances of Australian animals or birds that are
naturally able to count, and up to what total can
they do it \ lam perfectly satisfied that baboons
can get up to three, but not beyond that. In
South Africa, where the hairy men cause consider-
able destruction amongst the mealie crops, this
arithmetical weakness is commonly relied upon in
any concerted scheme for slaughtering the raiders.
A farmer will sink a pit in the centre of his land
where the crops are growing. Then any number
of shooters over three will enter the pit
in full view of the baboons, who have
collected at a safe distance to watch the proceed-
ings. Presently three of the shooters rise from
the pit and depart, leaving the remainder en-
trenched. The baboons, seeing three guns go
away, reckon up that there were no more in the
party originally, and immediately return to feast
on the mealies. Result—a volley, with appalling
effect to baboons. This operation can be repeated
twice daily, owing to the hairy person’s confidence
in his calculating powers.
THE SERMON ON THE MOUNT.
“The Battler” •
What’s in a name ? This deponent urges that there is
a pretty good index to the nominator’s soul—or lack of
it —in a name. “ Linger and Die,” “ Shadow of Death,” ,
“ Roaring Gimlet,” “ Never Never,” “ Bread Arrow ” —all i
these Westralian names sum up the pioneers’ stern out-
look on life ; yet are they tinged with the poetic fancy !
which is part of the outfit of every rover on the Outskirts. ,
Comes civilisation and bathos. The tent-decked land-
scapes grow into towns; the towns spread out into
suburbs ; and the suburbs are the Blank Page at the End.
Respectability names the suburbs. Ooolgardie, 'whose
surrounding gullies were named in the early days with an
18th century realism, flashes its stodgy Toorak and Mon-
tana ; Kalgoorlie speaks breathlessly of its gilded snob-
oeracy that lives among the artificialities of Piccadilly
and Lamington Heights. I am moved to these remarks
by belated intelligence from Bendigo (Vic.). I lived there
when I was young and innocent. A mile from the city
was a terrific region peopled by uncouth O’s and barbarous
Mac’s, and as a small boy I had a notion that the inhabi-
tants of this quarter, which was appropriately named
Back Creek, were wont to slay ultra-adventurous
citizens that fell amoug them, and to celebrate the event
with wild orgies round the bodies. Popular opinion of
the quarter fostered this notion. Now I learn that Back
Creek is no more. Auctioneers and'house agents refer to
it as “ that eminently suitable and\ select residential
quarter, Kensington.” Alas! Respectability must have
overtaken it, and its end is German pianos.
THE RESCUE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
His manner was wild and his clothes were not the clothes
of th e haute noblesse ;
His speech was thick, and he seemed to be in a state of
extreme distress,
And, as he sped by geranium-bed and perennial-plot, he
placed
■Rude, trampling hoofs on the brightest blooms, in a flurry
of eager haste.
He came to the back door, wide of eye, with his hat in
his shaking hand,
And “Spirits !” he breathed in a voice that showed how
sadly he was unmanned
By the cause of his haste. “ There’s a bloke fell down,”
he said, “in a faintin’ fit,
An’ I came to get ’im a drop of somethin’ to bring ’im
around with it.”
My heart was filled with a vain regret for the poor soul,
fainting thus
On a hard, rough world, and 1 looked with pain in m3’
soul at the hast3’ cuss ;
For we’d had a party the night before, and Johnson was
there and Smith
And Jones and Brown ; and the Scotch had gone, and
the best of my beer therewith.
And so I said to the waiting one : “My sorrow is great,
indeed ! ”
And I thought of the wretch who lay on the hard blue
metal in mortal need.
I’m sorry, old feller,” I said, brimful of really acute re-
morse,
•“I haven’t a drop in the house—and beer’s no possible
good, of course.”
His breath came fast; he was panting sore from his
sudden and frantic dash,
And his eye' flashed bright in the morning light with a
rescuing-hero flash ;
And he looked at me with a keen, close glance, upraising
his noble head,
And he swept the sweat from his loft3 T brow. “ Oh, beer
oughter do 1” he said.
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


Carters
ITTLE
IVER
PILLS.
Your Liver
is Clogged Up
That’s Why You’re Tired— Out of
Sorts—Have No Appetite.
CARTER’S LITTLE LIVER PILLS
will put you right in a few days.
They do their duty. Cure Consti-
pation, Biliousness, Indigestion, and
Sick Headache.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
A SLUGGISH CIRCULATION, begotten of sedentary
habits, leads to congestion of the brain, liver and other
organs. The best remedy for this undesirable state of
affairs is to stimulate the activity of the whole bodily
economy by taking a wineglassful of “ Hunyadi Janos ”
natural aperient water every morning.*
nbur
The Old Blead
Wlusky
of vfertf HoßSlJ
Cellar
DIRECT PROM DISTILLERS.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURS
MATURED SCOTCH MALT*
Seasons change, Spring, Summer, Autumn,
Winter. Wolfe’s Schnapps at all seasons.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson. Proprietor
“Sniff” : I once came across the Stinking
Fish Tree. It was at a picnic by the sea at Port
Phillip. Towards sundown, a detachment of us
walked along the beach to a small grassy cove
tucked in the elbow of a small lightly-wooded
promontory. There we sat down—three pairs of
us—andstarted togetmoreor less sentimental. The
red-faced sun, like a flushed publican, was going
slowly down the cloudy stairs to rest in the cool
grey cellar of the sea. The world was wrapped in
silence—like the week’s provisions when the
grocer is wondering if he will ever be paid for
them. Occasional cool puffs of wind, like the
breath of an angel, stole inland and caressed
our fevered brows. We would have reckoned
ourselves in the reserved seats of Heaven, only
that every puff brought with it a dreadful whiff
of something dead. We fought bravely against
the awful, haunting smell for half an hour or so ;
then stifled Romance skied the valentine, and the
ladies arose and retreated hastily, while the mad-
dened males sought diligently for the Horror.
We found it on the seaward side of the promon-
tory. Months—or years—before, some lunatic
fisherman had hung the latter end of a shark on a
wind-twisted ti-tree, and then had wandered away
and forgotten it. We did not cut the Tragedy
down; we left it rotating slowly in the breeze and
fled after the distant girls. Nothing is quite so
fatal to Romance as the smell of dead shark.
* * * •
“ Agricola Last October I was much
interested in a clutch of nine ducklings, which
were prevalent in a lagoon near my camp. Their
mother, a fine old lady of the black persuasion,
came to regard me as an egg-father, or something
to that effect. The infants considered me portion
of the scenery, and ignored my presence.* They
grew rapidly. Then one day there were only
eight, and the next day seven. I diagnosed a fox
and lay in wait for him. But the shrinkage in
ducklings had become chronic by this time, only
four birds remaining. Had I been in eel country,
I should have given myself one guess to locate the
miscreant. Next evening I was trying for a fish.
Insects were plentiful, and swallows were darting
over the lagoon. One flew so low that he touched
the water—and disappeared promptly. I took
the hint. A line set from a snag that night
arrested the murderer—a 601 b. cod. The ducks got
no fewer until February 1, when a “sportsman,”
who can’t be hanged too suddenly, shot the lot
sitting.
* * * •
The appointment of a Bishop for Nor’-
West Australia recalls the story told of the first
cleric sent up to the Top End. Much indigna-
tion had been expressed by veteran pearlers of
the settlement when they heard they were to
have a parson, and elaborate arrangements were
made for his reception. His steamer came in late
on a Saturday night, and on the Sunday morning
early a couple of leading citizens called to wel-
come the rev. gentleman and take him to the
hall, where it had been announced his first
service was to be held. The parson received his
visitors with great cordiality, and the party
started out. On every vacant block of ground en
route was gathered a group of men round a fierce
pair of pugilists; wagers were being freely laid, and
noisy and demonstrative barracking going on at
such a rate that 16 side-fights seemed imminent.
The parson turned a pale face to his guide, and
“Is it always like this?” he asked. “Oh, no,”
replied the citizen; “you’ve got simply rotten
luck in striking a quiet Sunday. Generally you
can see half a dozen first-rate mills going on with-
out leaving the hotel verandah ; but some of our
best men are 4 outside ’ or in the hospital this
week. Perhaps things’ll warm up, though, by-
and-bye. They’re touchy-tempered fellows, the
pearlers, so unless you keep yourself in nick
you’ll have to be careful how you take ’em.” Next
day he decided that he couldn’t stand the climate,
and left by the return mail.
THE LAST PUB.
(The Dream of Weary Walter.)
A DEATH OR GLORY ROY.
PHRENOLOGIST : “ Dear me, your bump of destructiveness is very large. Are you a soldier!"
CUSTOMER: “NO, I’m a chauffeur.”
“J. 5.8.”: “Werrimee’s” experience of
shearers’ huts (B. 6/10/TO) was either gained years
ago, or if of recent date, on one of those stations
where the Accommodation Act is a dead letter. It
is a Fosterfraserism to call a shearers’ hut a den of
horror—to anyone but a “free laborer.” The
unwritten law, nowadays, is, “Lights out at nine
o’clock,” and any noise after that hour meets with,
“ Give the cook a chance.” On most stations now
there are only four or five men in a sleeping apart-
ment, and concertinas, crib, euchre, hazards,
mouth organs and other games of skill are con-
fined to the dining saloon. And, anyhow, if
“Werrimee” is a “bustler” or a “tiger,” a
paddockful of State Frights in full cry wouldn’t
keep him awake after a day’s shearing.
“Agricola ” : Wayback uses many
curious expressions. Instead of a block of
land, he talks of a bit of country, no matter
whether it is 50 acres or 500 square miles.
Your host on the farm asks you whether you
will have “meat or mutton.” Presently you
deduce that only beef is meat. Mutton is
simply mutton. The bull’s step-brother is a
“beast” except when he is in a team, and
then he is a “ bullick.” One may hear com-
plimentary reference to Jones’s" “ bull,” and
the whole family may fall down and worship the
strawberry 44 cow ”; likewise Spot’s 44 heifer, ” and
the 44 bawley ” steer may be comprehensively
cursed (and, incidentally, called “cows”) for
getting through the wire into the crop. But if
Harry Brown were to drive the lot through, with
half a dozen others, you would hear that he had
passed with 10 “beasts.”
* * * *
“ McGrinty ” : “ Pick ” (B. 3/11/TO) says
white ants shun wood that has been well soaked
in salt water. “ Pick ” and I have evidently
struck different species either of white ants or of
wood. I was building a week-end bungalow at
George’s River (N.S.W.) 10 months ago, and in
getting a punt-load of hardwood flooring, plates,
etc., across the river, I struck a bad punt and
worse weather. The lot retired from sight for
three weeks, but was resurrected by a big ebb
tide and a sand-bank. In due course all the
timber went into the place ; yet, in spite of the
soaking, it had to be replaced a few days back, as
the pests had made a holey show of it. From the
speed with which they got to it, I am inclined to
think they like salt with their tucker.
“Eddyson”: Dickie Jumm, to be sure,
was always a man partial to beer and prone to
long periods of insobriety; but during '2O years’
residence at Pete Hill he had not been known to
raise his hand against man, woman or child till
the afternoon when he met jovial Dr. Peabody in
the street, dragged him from his buggy, and
there, in the sight of the whole township, gave
the medical gentleman the father and mother of a
hiding, and ended by plunging his
victim bodily into the horse-trough
before Hill’s general store. The
case went to court. Jumm offered
no defence whatever, and went to
gaol for 21 days. It was not till a
fortnight after his release that
Dickie explained things to a few
bosom friends. “You know,” he
said, “my missus takes a drop
now ’n’ agin. Of course, that
ain’t nothin’ to her discredit—
it’s done in the best fam’lies—
but she hadn’t no judgment. She
alius got tight when I wanted to.
That was illconvenient; so I goes
to Peabody. 4 Put ’em in the tea,’
sez he, handing me some pow-
ders, 4 ’n’ say nothin’. Well, I
done it. Every mornin’ at break-
fast ’n’ every evenin’ at tea fer a
week I slipped a powder in the
teapot. Then I took home a billy
o’ beer, jist t’ see how she was
gettin’ on. It was a hot night, ’n’
I give you my word the missus
got at that tin ’n’ punished it,
while, ez fer me—’struth, I couldn’t
touch it! Then the orful truth
domed on me—the infernal pow-
ders had cured me ! ” After that
nobody wondered at Dickie
Jumm’s attack on the doctor.
“M.Y.” : Be “J.G.’s” cut afc“E.S.S.”
on the wet-sheep question, it seems to me that
the former must have a rooted aversion to damp
in any form except in a glass. I have shorn a
bit in my time, but never saw anyone get
wet as “ J.G.” describes—“from his waist to his
toes and from his elbows to his finger-tips.” As
for his sneer concerning “squatters’ darlings,” the
writer spent his boyhood back of Bourke,
before darlings of “J.G.’s” stamp came on the
river, and shearers did know when sheep were
wet. But since the voice of the rouseabout (a
weekly worker) became a power in the land, no
man can say how a vote will go on the moisture
question. My own humble opinion is that if
rousies were on contract rates, like shearers,
pressers and cooks, the wet sheep trouble would
just about come to a full stop.
* * * *
“Condamine”: “Pick” (B. 10/11/’10)
avers that rabbits cannot live without water for
more than a week. Well, at Burrumbuttoek, on
the Murray, about four years ago, a farmer netted
off about 20 acres of a rocky hill-top from his dug-
out country. The rabbits" inside this enclosure
could get no water, and were there to mv know-
ledge for seven months. During that time there
were several dry spells ; and as the soil was very
sandy, water would not lie five minutes after a
shower. The bunnies increased rapidly; in a
fortnight’s trapping writer gathered in 500 pairs,
and they were all in good condition, while there
were fully as many left that seemed perfectly
satisfied with their lot—or little. Any one who
knows that district will agree with me "that, if all
the dew that fell on a 20-acre surface in the
summer-time were whisky, Judkins could drink
the lot and then not kid himself that he was
having a devil of a time.
“ Jimmie Pannikin ” : I am still laughing
so heartily at the bright, breezy, but brazen
effrontery of 44 A. W. Cann’s” last lot of alleged
memories (B. 10/11/T0) that I am unable to reply
effectively. Later or., when I get my breath, I
shall deal severely with “ A.W.C.” (how sug-
gestive his initials are —I was thinking of A
Water Course!). He has great gobs of humor, i’
faith, and also oddsbodikins, in his mental and
moral make-up. Ido not recall the pasear (I expect
that’s some sort of divagatious detour) which
44 A.W.C.” says he took with me three years ago.
It is five (or, to be accurate, 5’083 - ) years since I
divagated West-o’-Darling, and certainly the
cheerful bugle-blowing Gann was not with me,
save in his fecund, fertile fancy. His fancy-
flights are remarkable. He claims to have crossed
the Alps with a late lamented French aeroplaner ;
and talks freely and familiarly concerning his
doings with the most eminent aviators. Of course,
one naturally expects a gas-bag to be a fairly suc-
cessful balloon. I would write at greater length,
but at present I am patenting a plan for making
bricks out of the weird water of the Cotter.
**# * *
“Williecan”: Do spiders perspire? I’m
hazarding my bit of currency that they do. The
outside shade temperature was 106° as I lay ab-
sently gazing at the near-side wall of my 10 x 8
canvas villa. The feet of the very flies were
blistered, and the tarantula, working his weary
passage up the wall, caught the owners of the
trotters as they let go owing to exhaustion. Close
observation of old tarantula’s whiskers satisfied
me that he was, at first, as dry as any Wowsers’
THE RISKS WE RUN.
THE AIRMAN : “My oath, a dangerous game this
pedestrianism .”
smoke-night; but after he had negotiated a nearly
perpendicular climb of 2yds. 14|in.—and inci-
d? captured nine full-grown and four pup
flies-my attention was drawn toa fine spray-like
moisture pervading his hairy overcoat. Now, as the
nearest water was a dry tank 300yds. away, and as
1 satisfied myself that the cork was secure in the
bottle by my side, I leave it to any fair-minded
person to explain that moisture if it wasn’t per-
spiration. F
THE NEW MISSION FIELD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A Melbourne parson (Wesleyan) has been arguing that
the lower animals have souls, “and exhibit what may be
called moral qualities. They display sympathy, gene-
rosity, courage, cowardice, jealousy, vindictiveness and
dishonesty.”
We won’t deny that this is true,
But merely hasten to assert
The Church should take to measures new—
Send missionaries to the Zoo
The wicked lion to convert,
To lead the fierce chimpanzee to
A far more moral point of view.
A polar bear has got a soul ;
The difference ’twixt bad and good
Is by the jaguar understood ;
And e’en the tiger, on the whole,
Could play a highly moral role.
If some kind pastor would but stay
To point him on the better way.
The chances are the lion grim
Would eat his teacher then and there ;
Or that the tiger, lithe and slim,
Would make a trifling lunch of him.
But what of that ? ’Twould not deter
The earnest-minded missioner,
Who would observe : “Go on, my son.
Pray help yourself ! It’s alivays done."
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.
BUSH-HUNGER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
It’s pleasant, in hot December, to row on the glassy lake.
And pleasant the rippled water where the black duck,
flap and fly.
In a tent rose-flushed with dawn-light, it’s there we would
awake
And hear the surges booming when the fresh South,
wind blows by.
We have tired o’ books and pictures, and the light o’ the
study lamp,
And tired o’ cottage gardens and the little fields o’
wheat ;
With lust of savage Nature we ache for the bush and the
camp,
Our hearts are filled with the dust and cares blown out
of the weary street.
The city calls for a season, with women and wine and
friends,
We sit at the caf6 table, our words are bitter as gall,
For friends are busy, and wine is weak, and the dream of
the woman ends.
And the bush lures, and the sea lures, and the fret is
over us all.
Where pigeons coo and fishes leap, and summer’s all
delight,
To seek the new adventure, it’s there that we would be.
The picture never painted and the book no man can write—
And, haply, meet the morning ’twixt the mountains
and the sea.
VICTORIA.
LOUIS ESSON


~2_
i -o v^>s
ztri
VIEW OF THE COTTER RIVER.
As Described by the Sydney D.T.'s Fish Editor. —(See also “ Plain English.”)


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
UL
AND
WATER
r /ar
Trade
Mark
fitea.
FOR INDOOR WORKERS.
Cooling! Refreshing!
Tnirst Quenching! Sustaining!
DO YOU WEIGH TOO MUCH?
The Heal Remedy and the Recipe.
There are some stout people whom the above
question does not seem to trouble very much.
They, are, however, wrong to be so careless, for
obesity is a complaint which brings many evils in
its train. There are others who have sought long
and earnestly for a really reliable remedy for
obesity, and to these the following prescription
will be of absorbing interest, because it presents
in a simple and harmless form and sure relief,
a remedy which is rapidly gaining a world-wide
reputation. The reader may make up the pre-
scription for himself (or herself) on getting the
ingredients from the chemist—or the latter would
do so willingly. This is the full recipe : One half-
ounce of Marmola, one ounce of fluid extract of
Glvcyrrhiza B. P., one ounceof pure Glycerineß.P.,
and Peppermint Water to make six ounces in all.
Take a dose of two teaspoonfuls after each meal.
This admirable and quite harmless remedy will
soon take off two pounds of the offending fatty
excess ; and, as day by day the weight decreases,
strength and vigor will return in equal ratio ; for,
be it observed, there is no fasting or exercising
required. Rest, good food, regular doses—these
are all that is necessary to reduce weight to
normal, increase the supply of pure blood, clear
the skin, beautify the complexion, and restore
energy and excellent spirits.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
“ West End,” from London :
installed in a Princes Gate mansion
(Princes Gate abuts on the pleasantest part of Hyde Park
London? 6 most . ex P ensive residential sections of
London). He runs an immense motor-car, and is enter-
tain,n<r freely. How he does it at the price is a source of
wonder to those who know their modern London The
blessings of Freetrade notwithstanding, things cost' as
much here nowadays as they do in New York, and fully
15 per cent, more than they do in Paris or Berlin. Ser-
vants wages are higher than ever before, and the vil-
l.unous secret-comnnssmn business, in which nraetioaliv
all ot them indulge, about trebles’their cost. P That the
Reid menage should keep afloat on the tide of fashion is
in all the circumstances, amazing. Plainly, Reid is a
sounder financier than his political opponents used to
Peary, the alleged finder of the North
.role, has published a- book in which he deliber-
iitely writes himself
down as a mean hog
from Pennsylvania.
He explains how a
vast share of the
credit of his success
was due to Captain
Bartlett, the Eng-
lishman, and then
tells how he ordered
Bartlett to remain be-
hind 133 miles from
the Pole, because his
cheap soul wouldn’t
allow another white
man even a subordin-
ate share of the honor
of the great discovery.
He took with him
only four Eskimo
and an ignorant
nigger. Pos-
sibly Peary
will yet be
sorry. There
are still
plenty of
people who
don’t believe
in his alleged
find. The Es-
kimo and the
PADDY HANNAN, discovcrer
of Kalgoorlie Goldfield.
nigger, being wholly unscientific men, are not
evidence. If Peary left Bartlett because he didn’t
want a capable witness hanging round, that is
evidence that a fake was in prospect; and if» he
left him behind, as he describes the case himself,
out of petty, sordid jealousy, then a lot of people
will reckon him the sort of man who was cauable
of any sort of fake.
Concerning two mining top-notchers :
John Howell and John Warren, some years ago man-
agers of the two neighboring mines which at the time
were the greatest silver producers in the world, died last
month within a day or two of one another—Howell in
America Warren in Australia. You couldn’t get two
men much more unlike. Howell, manager of the Broken
Hill Urop., and the introducer of the open-cut system of
mining to Australia, was an ice-cold, cunning, calculating
Yankee, who opened his mind to nobodv ; Warren the
Cornish manager of the Broken Hill Block 10, bulky in
body as the other was spare, boiled up in a moment and
bubbled over, wore his heart on his sleeve, and couldn’t
plot and scheme worth tuppence. These two and Zeb
Bane, now of Westralia and London, had to do the
fighting for the owners in the great ’92 strike which
landed Sleath, Ferguson and a few other “ conspirators ”
in gaol ; bin, the fight was soon left to Howell and Lane,
bhow Cap n Jack ” human suffering and you had him
ii1 r !’ a , nc l th . ere was plenty of suffering before that
cold-blooded crime was finished. It wasn’t long before
Howell had his quarrel with the Fat men for whom he
had fought the long strike. They introduced an assist-
ant-general manager; the shrewd Yankee laid low, as
usual, then sniffed, smelt something unpleasant, and de-
cided to quit. Not that he oughtn’t to have been used
to bad smells. There were enough in connection with
the Broken Hill mines in their early days to stock any
half-dozen Yankee meat trusts.
Australia is not so old, and mailmen are
not so numerous, yet it has one who has been at
the job for 64 years. “Old Tommy” Thompson
he is nowadays, and nearly all his long life he has
lived on the Hawkesbury (N.S.W.). At 10 he
started carrying the St. Albans-Windsor mail,
and m recent years his run has been between
Wiseman s Ferry and Pitt Town. Probably he
reckons that he needs a bit of fresh air ; anyway,
at the end of his present contract, he says he is
going for six months’ caravanning somewhere.
The Baillieu family and one of the Baillieu
motor-cars have come within the clutches of the
Prahran (Melb.) J.P.’s, who are now collect-
ing the greater part of Victoria’s revenue
in lines for alleged wild speeds along
roorak-road. It is pretty hard to
avoid clutching a Baillieu in
Melbourne these times. They
are a huge fanii’y of long-
legged brothers, « no sprouted
out of the kelp on Queens-
cliff beaches into Collins-
street finance. The boss
of them all is big Bill,
Minister of Pu blic Works
in the Drowsy Govern-
ment; the rest of the
tribe clings more or
less to his coat-tails, as
they whisk through big
financial and mining
deals. The clan, or sept,
or tribe is multiplying at
a laudable rate, and some
day Victoria will awaken
to the fact that most of
its population is named
Smith or Baillieu. And
the Bailheu half will certainly have most of the
hood le.
Lots of expectant respondents and co-
respondents and people of that kidney in Victoria
nnd consolation in Purves’s death. Commenting
on the uprising of the wowser, said J.L.P. over a
little lunch lately: “No, the Australi ans are no
worse than their neighbors. But they would be
it they were not so frightened of me and the
Devil.”
A pot of paint, a strap, a kettle of tea, a
bicycle-lamp, a cruet-stand, the axe from the
woodshed and his own fist—these were the
missiles and weapons which a playful husband
was alleged, in Melb. Divorce Court, to have used
with hostile intent towards his wife. Then she
jwided, as an after thought, that “he was a very
short-tempered man.” It might almost have been
guessed.
The Australian flour-milling trade lost a
good man the other day in Theodore Henry
Barenscher, who went off shift at Granville
(bydney), aged 51. Barenscher was a Hanoverian
but he spent half his life in Australia. He learnt
his trade at the old-fashioned mill-stones: then,
when steel rollers revolutionised the business, he
iearjied_ that way too. He came out to run Strut-
ton s mill at Echuea (Vic.) 25 years ago, and after-
wards spent a few years with the big Brunton
1: V n he venture d his savings in the Austral
mill at Parramatta—built a model mill, but failed
at the business end of the show. That put him
back where he had been 25 years before—a mill
manager and designer. His epitaph might run :
lhere was nothing about milling he did not
know, and milling in Australia would know a lot
less but for him.”
“Gallery Hand,” sadly :
It I were asked to name the N.S. W. member who was
most disappointed at the emptying out of the Wade
Government, “Danny" Levy would be the man. For
some time before the election it was no secret that a
reiolution was hatching among the younger Wade
eelers, and if the “Liberals” had been victorious altera-
tions would have had to be made in the Cabinet. Amongst
the more ambitious of Gregory’s followers was Levy, who
"as judiciously boomed as the bright young intellect that
would polish up the first vacancy. Then came the debacle
and the dispersal of fond anticipations. Still, Levv
took it well—until last Thursday night, when he whirled
his disappointment round his head like a mad mullah
running amok. He roared: “Coward of the worst
description, ’ “political buffoonery ” (this to poor old
David Storey), ‘ dastardly lies,” “misrepresentation ab-
solutely unparalleled in Australian history ” (this about 20
times in 20 different ways), and finally, When he seemed
all used up, he fell back on that good old Tory standby :
lr ah, you pro-Boer.” Of course, the press gang gave
the speech the “star” place—said it left the Govern-
ment ‘ too pitifully impotent to retort.” But that
couldn t salve Danny’s sore place. And the hardest
thing about it is that Danny knows that we know it.
“ Singemoine,” on some points of be-
havior:—
Two public men have lately missed the chances of their
lives through similar weaknesses-Jack Johnson and
Wade. Had Johnson endured Burns’s insults
with the stolid calm of a racked saint; had he proclaimed
that Burns was a game and good fighter and a kindly
soul, his one weakness being an unreasoning dislike for
the colored brother ; and had he exhaled modesty kind-
liness and self-depreciation, he would have become a
pubiie idol. As things were, Johnson behaved through-
out like a common or garden buck-nigger ; and the Aus-
tralian crowd, which likes to see a man win like a
sportsman, developed a loathing for him.
Now Wade. Had he been gifted with ordinary horse-
sense, he would have sat down after the Federal election
?r n lT d ir Y °u are in for a licking. See that you take
it well. Try to imitate the attitude of a Big Man Be
calm and temperate. Avoid personalities, overt charges
and vague hints. Be generous and self-restrained in pro-
portion as your assailants are the other thing. Never
forget the fact that you have three daily papers ready to
ex'ploit all the anti-Labor slander that is required. The
crowd loves a man that is good-humored in the face of
attack and dignified in f.hfe hour of defeat. Play vour
part well, and your exile from office will be brief.”
How' did Wade actually comport himselfV Well I
hUllr.?. y '« e e . ,lth >fiastic “Liberal” is proud of
his leadei s efforts during the past three months, the past
month especially. He has figured as the most cantan-
kerous, unreasonable, abusive, point-snatching, rotten-
bad ioser of them all—the buck nigger of provincial
politics; for the bad loser is on a par with the bad winner
when titie numbers go lip.
London Truth attributes to a very dis-
tinguished visitor to King Edward’s funeral this
summing-up of the affair: “It was a mighty
tribute to a mighty monarch. I should have been
the centre of all eyes and the most popular feature
of the procession if it had not been for a darned
spaniel.” Name the supposed speaker in once.
FULFILLING SCRIPTURE.
TAILOR (seeking to recover debt): “ It’s not a
fair deal after what I did for you—you
wcre naked and I clothed you.”
DENTPR: " And you were a stranger and I took
you in.”
From the Oldest Inhabitant:—
One would think that “ the chairman of the Board of
Advice of the Education Department at New Norfolk,
Tasmania,” would know everything of importance in con-
nection with Australian history ; yet we lind him writing'
to Mr. E. S. Smithurst, whose fad'is school flays : “ I am
proposing the erection of a monument in the Back River
Cemetery here to the memory of Betty King—the first
white woman who landed in Australia —the monument to
be on the spot where she was buried- It. was arranged
that the Governor’s wife should be the first woman to land ;
but as it had to be done on the back of a sailor or marine,
the lady was afraid of the surf and of this novel means of
transport, and in consequence Betty took her place. She
married a marine or a soldier—a marine, I think, named
King, in Sydney. They were afterwards moved to Tasmania
(about the time that the Norfolk Islanders came here),
and had a small grant of land, where they lived for years.
There are those living who remember her.” The weak
spot in this bit of old history is that Governor Phillip did
not bring his wife with him. The first myrried Governor
was the third, Philip Gidley King.
R. H. Levien, Father of the N.S.W. As-
sembly, has just completed his 30th year as M.P.
for lam worth. Ho is the only surviving’ member
of the Assembly of 109 who sat in the 10th Parlia-
ment, although Bill Lyne and Bruce Smith are in
the Australian Parliament and a
few others are in the State Council.
Two celebrities are over the seas
—Dan O’Connor and Tom Slat-
tery. One-time leader Barton is
on the High Court Bench, where
sits Chief Justice Griffith, who
was dux of the West Maitland
High School, where Harry Levien’s
young ideas were taught how to
shoot. Tamworth’s undetachable
member was born at Singleton 61
years ago; so, in 12 months, he
will have legislated half his life-
time. He served his law appren-
ticeship with R. M. Robey, and,
afterwards, with W. H. Mullen,
who were famous compilers of Costs
in Maitland for many long years.
Consider the Crick-Meagher coincidence.
They were Sydney solicitors; they were partners;
they were both tried, both struck off the roll,
both members of the N.S.W. Assembly, and both
held the job of Chairman of Committees. Two
things Crick was that Meagher was not —a
Minister and dead. But one of them may come,
and the other certainly will.
From the nest of the Bullfinch :
Almost all the old Coolgardie hands who are alive make
Southern Cross look like Kalgoorlie in 1894 instead of
Yilgarn in 1910. Leslie Norman bobs up serenely again.
He was the first writer-man to get on to the possibilities
of the big mine, and his journalism started the boom.
Rodda, and Jack Wilson, and Bob Hair, and Craze, and
“Cupid” Brimage are all there; and Jerry McAuliffe,
his talk and pocket full of leases ; and Cutbush ; and
P. K. N. Crozier, fresh from the Mirror ; and kindly
Jowett; Mackey, brother of the late Vic. Minister for
Lands Mackey, having battled his fine Transvaal show
into the hands of Bewick, Moreing; David Lindsay, in-
separable from camels, though the Bullfinch is a cuff-
and-collar rush, and motors scurry all over the fields, and
the railway should hit the big mine within two months.
No more talk of soaks and gnannua-holes as essentials,
for the pipe-line is already walking out to the new fields.
De Rose is around, too, and Bull-ant Maclntyre, who
runs the local paper in conjunction with a drug store,
writes a “ bull” par., then draws a tooth or two, and
i hen curses the fitters who are replacing the
old Columbia press with a two-feeder printing-
machine. There are also many men distinguished
in various ways; the wild boomster whose every goose is
a swan, and the man who calls granite micaceous schist,
and the mis-spelling man who reports on the wildest of
cats and hits the truth by writing that it is a gilt-edged
mining investment, and the men who once lifted a whole
battery off an abandoned mine and forgot to put it back
again. Also there are the heroes of the place—Dorrie
Doolette, modest and cool in his success, and so thorough
in his knowledge of the mine that he is almost on speak-
terms with every stone ; and his mate, Charlie Jones, too
young and energetic to be stopped by one success, and
still looking for work. Likewise Harris, now managing
the Bullfinch after some years of heart-breaking struggle
with the low-grade St. George. Martin Walsh isn’t there,
because he’s dead, and if he were alive, the fact of the
water pipe-line would disgust him with life anyhow. In
the Southern Cross and Bullfinch, solicitor Charlie
Stawell, son of the late Chief Justice of Victoria, calms
the litigious ; and in Bullfinch, before a tent with a bough
shed over it, is the shingle: “Chas. Mann, Solicitor;”
and what a name was that in S. Aus. ! There should be
plenty of legal work directly. Leases are so overpegged
that some of them cannot exist, and the people who buy
shares in them are securing only stock in the atmosphere.
Also, there is an excited Dutchman who shifts his pegs so
continuously and quickly that he looks like a biograph
film of telegraph poles seen from the Sydney express.
Edward Tregear, minor poet and Maori
ethnologist, who has been the bold and brainy
head of the M.L. Labor Department ever since
there has been one, will shortly quit the job. The
unions propose to ask him to let them say what
they think of him before he goes for good.
“Bullfinch” Doolette has undertaken to
put a little of his gift into a Westralian .maga-
zine, the Lekuwin. A. G. Plate started it, and
retains an interest in it; but A. T. Chandler will
be the editor. Years ago Chandler burst into a
small volume of lyrics ; but he has been too busy
in these later years chasing news-paragraphs to
do much in that way.
J. L. Purves used to tell the yarn against
himself. He was addressing a political meeting at
Footscray, and one elector asked another “ Who’s
thatbloke?” “That’s Purves, theQ.C.” “Q.C. !
What’s that?” ‘‘Queen’s Counsel.” “What’s
he got to do with the Queen, anyhow?” “Oh, he
has to defend her.” “Ura. Now I know why
they sing ‘ God Save the Queen ’ ! ”
J. M. Brigham, secretary and autocrat for
Heaven knows how long of the Harbor Board at
Auckland (M.L.), is to retire next month, and
will be succeeded by H. B. Burnett, lately secre-
tary of the Greymouth Harbor Board. Brigham
has had a couple of trips to Bull’s Island over the
Admiralty station business, and is understood to
have had a good deal to do in arranging the
matter which lias so annoyed the Sydney daily
papers.
Guilfoyle, late Curator of the Melbourne
Botanic Gardens, and formerly of Sydney, is
“layingout” an estate for Melba at Coldstieam,
not far from Lilydale (Vic.). A job like this may
fairly be undertaken by a first-rate scientific
botanist like Guilfoyle ; but it is far from good
enough to occupy his best energies. Still he may
do bigger work yet: with proper encouragement,
he would produce a comprehensive book on Aus-
tralian botany, chiefly from the industrial aspect-
and it is a thing that is needed. Guilfoyle’s con-
nection with the subject in these parts goes back
to the days of the Challenger and its scientific-
cruise ; he was botanist in that famous party.
Old Captain John Strachan, of the Envy,
has been wrecked at last—in a figurative way of
speaking. After sailing up and down the world
and taking pieces out of the cheque-books of the
newspapers in at least three States, the old Ad-
miral asked for a few thousands from the German
Consul for the old thing—libel. The German
Consul was alleged to have imputed that Captain
John was a kidnapper of Island “ boys,” and tho
S. M. Herald printed a yarn to that effect. He
got a few hundreds from the Herald; but the
Judge told the jury it had to remember that,
anyhow, the Consul’s story was told to onlv one
person ; and that that one person was a news-
paper person apparently didn’t make any differ-
ence. So the jury said a farthing; and half a
dozen lawyers won’t work even in a slack time for
much less than tuppence.
Died lately, in the New England district
of N.S. W., aged 92, a lady who made her honey-
moon trip in a bullock-dray over 70 years ago.
She and her young husband, Kelly, had decided
to “squat” somewhere beyond 'the Liverpool
Ranges ; so they trekked north and made a deal
for Stony Creek Station. They were there when
Australia's biggest tin rush, to Tingha, took place
in 1870; and while the excitement lasted “the
Creek” was famous for its hospitality. Things
didn’t, however, go well with most of the old
squatting hands of that rugged part, and in the
late ’Bo’s, like a good many other Inverell proper-
ties, the Kelly’s place passed on to the A.J.S.
Bank, though the old lady managed to keep hold
of the fragment where the very numerous little
Kellys were born.
CONSCIENTIOUS SCRUPLES.
On Clause 18, “Temporary Exemption,” Mr. Higgs
(Q.) said that he would like to exempt children whose
parents had conscientious objections to the military train-
ing of their children. Mr. Hughes said he could not
agree to such a suggestion. An alarming number of
conscientious scruples would be developed.—Argus.
RECRUITING SERGEANT (to protesting farmer):
“ Think of your country
Farmer : “ Country be-! Think of me cows!"
Maoriland’s prophet Rua still thinks no
small pumpkins of himself. He sent a follower to
town the other day to buy “nighties” for the
adoring ladies of his kainga. The follower re-
jected with scorn the plain calico garments he was
shown, and demanded silk. And none of your
plain silk either ; wherefore an order was left for
a supply in pale blue, with profuse adornments in
purple and gold.
QUERY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
" aSk y °VL Ur :- Wade ’ s action in ’"to the
at the time of the South Coast collierv
disaster was that of a coward. A monument had been
erected in memory of Major McCabe, who lost his life in
£S°fTe”wX M ° l “ r ‘ “»“«»!»
X put the question, Charlie, as a pal.
My plain, straight, downright, honest Liberal;
Assuming you had gone to fight the Boer,
And, ultimately, got upon his spoor,
And then—done nothing. Riddle this for me,
Would you be right in wearing a V.C.?
Say, for the sake of argument, we two
Are surfing. Someone shrieks in terror. You
Make swiftly for the beach, and stay there. I
Swim to the Shriek and land it high and dry.
Would it be “straight ” of you to take my cheers,
Bask in my glory and absorb my beers ?
Take yet another case ; A crowded street,
A bolting horse, a Bloque strong, daring, fleet
Whose action saves a life. Would it be just
For you to stand there dumbly, ’mid the dust,
What time the crow’d spilled plaudits by the ton
Upon you for the deed you had not done?
We have a law which stringently forbids
A n.an from taking other people’s quids.
And yet the normal person does not name
Mere gold or dross in the same breath with Fame.
Why wear another’s Glory, when the thought
Of filching cash would render you distraught?
N.S.W.
BLEOGGS.


me
for
ken
Qs
I
Tobacco
The Manufacturers of “VENUS” TOBACCO will give FREE in return for the
RED PAPER SEALS from the 2oz. Tins, or the TIN
'VENUS\
figureJ
TAGS
from the Plugs, as under:
NICKEL KEYLESS
WATCH.
,
m
For
75 Venus (2oz. tin) Seals
or
75 Venus (plug) Tags.
LADY’S MOROCCO LEATHER BAG.
For 75 Venus (2oz. tins) Seals or
75 Venus (plug) Tags.
LEATHER PUZZLE
PURSE.
For
25 Venus (2oz tin) Seals
or
25 Venus (plug) Tags.
For 10 Venus*
(2oz. tin) Seals.
SELF-FILLING FOUNTAIN PEN.
sdf
Or 10 Venus
(plug) Tags.
For 15 Venus
(2oz. tin) Seals.
FIRST QUALITY TWO BLADES POCKET KNIFE.
Or 15 Venus
(plug) Tags.
DIRECTIONS,
-Send or post the Seals or Tags to KRONHEIMER LTD., Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, or Perth, and write your name
£Lnd address distinctly on the outside of the package.
Post at the same time a letter stating the number of Seals or Tags in the package, and the gift you desire.
-The Gifts can be obtained on personal application, or will be posted free of charge to anyone complying with
the foregoing directions.
4-This offer will absolutely close on 301 JUNE, 1911. J


WILBERFORCE” Sluicing' Pumps For Sale.
1 10in. Gravel Pump.
1 12in. Water Pump.
1 10in. Swivel Cland and Bend.
1 11in. Delivery Flap Valve and Bend.
1 Ejector and Cock complete.
1 11in. Clant Nozzle.
N.B. These Pumps were selected by Experts and they are perfectly new, and can be inspected in our
Sydney Stores. Will sell 20 per cent, below cost, owing to a Sluicing Company, for whom they were
intended, going into liquidation. If required, we can offer 2 “Robey” Portable Steam Engines to
work the above Pumps, viz., 25 Nominal H.P. and 30 Nominal H.P.
Appiy-ARTHDR LEPLASTRIER 8 CO., Circular Quay, Sydney; 34 Queen St., Melbourne
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
“NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE.”
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
the WILE CAT
COUMN
Interest in the “Central” Sugar Mills in
Queensland has been revived by the agitation to get
some more. There are now 13 of them, built with
money advanced by the State. The owners in the first
place were little companies which took matters very
easily, for the good-enough reason that the State pro-
vided the capital, and the State in those days was
mostly the easy-going Philp and others like him. Kidston
was kidston when he arrived to power, and he said
“ Pay up ! ” Seven of them had done pretty well ; the
other six had drifted on to the rocks. The Government
took these six over, though it subsequently allowed two
of them to go back to private control. Dr. Max-
well had charge of the State mills for five years;
then J. R. Paddle became general manager, and he
lately issued the accounts. Three out of the four lame
ducks have had their legs cured and are going along
nicely; and the other one looks as though it wifi do all
right now. The tables and remarks that follow set out
briefly the history of each. It will be seen that each
began State control with a deficit on Capital account
and a deficit also on Profit and Loss account. That is to
say, on revaluation the assets were found to be worth less
than the capital which they were supposed to represent;
and there was also a deficiency on past working.
Nerang Mill :
Written Off Deficit.
(Capital (P. and L.
Account). Loss. Account).
Dec., 1903 .. £BBB6 £3921
June, 1905 .. £lB3O 5751
„ 1906 .. 404 6155
„ 1907 .. 100 6255
~ 1908 .. 575 6830
„ 1909 .. 436 7266
„ 1910 .. 1799 9065
Twelve months ago this column did this mill an injustice,
and figured out a bigger loss and a bigger P. and L. defi-
ciency than it actually owned. The matter has been
adjusted in the foregoing table. The trouble in this case
was the absentee landlord. The State, when it advanced
the money - for the mills, in the first place, took a
mortgage over the lands as collateral security ; and
subsequently, when it took over the mills, it released
these mortgages, as it found that, when there was no
mortgage hanging over his head, the landowner did more
to improve his holding, and increase the area under
cane, and thus indirectly improve the prospects of the
mill. But at Nerang the land was mostly owned by
absentees, and the State insisted on the tenants
getting the chief advantage out of the cancellation of the
mortgages. The owners would not come to terms, and
the doubt and uncertainty almost killed sugar-growing in
that district. Within the last few months terms have,
however, been arranged : the owners (mostly - absentees)
hand over the cane lands to the State for 21 years, at a
nominal rent, and the State sublets and collects for the
owners a royalty - of 9d. per ton on cane and 3s. to ss. per
acre of grass lands. So Nerang is now expected to hustle
like the rest. It has a lot of leeway to makeup. The
assets were valued at £BBB6 less than the liabilities when
the State took the mill over ; and a further deficit of
£9065 has been accumulated on account of interest, etc.
Total deficit, £17,951.
Mount Bauple Mill :
Written Off Deficit
(Capital Net (P. and L.
Account). Profit. Account).
Dec., 1903 .. £2575 £6165
June, 1905 .. £1551 4614
June, 1906 .. 2436 2178 '
Reserves.
Tune, 1907 .. 3658 1480
Deficit.
Written off to cover capital a/c deficit, £2575 .. 1095
Loss.
June, 1908 .. 39 1134
June, 1909 .. 2623 3757
Profit.
June, 1910 .. 982 2775
When the State took this plant over the total deficit was
£8740. Though it isn’t in a particularly good district for
sugar, and though 1908-9 was a very bad year, the State
has now recovered all but £2775. The prospects are said
to be improved here also.
Proserpine Mill :
Written Off Bonus Written Deficit
(Capital to Off (Old (P. &L.
Dec., Account). Profit. Growers. Loss). Account).
1903 .. £14,461 £5069
June, Reserves.
1905 .. £5,523 454
1906 931 1385
1907 .. 4,721 £1,196 4910
Deficit.
Written off (capital a/c deficit) .. 14,461 9551
1908 „ 6,189 £1245 30 4637
1909 .. 3,869 1317 6 2091
Reserves.
1910 .. 12,852 5020 11 5730
This has been one of the great successes of the experi-
ment in State control. The deficit which the State faced
was:—
Capital account £14,461
Profit and Loss account.. .. 5,069
Total .. £19,530
It has not only recovered the whole of that money, lost
in the days of private control, but it is now paying a
bonus to the growers ; the total for the past three years
is £7582. Altogether, it is a magnificent record.
Gin Gin Mill :
Written Off Bonus Deficit
(Capital to (P. & L.
Account). Loss. Growers. Account).
Dec., 1903 .. £16,148 £5Bl
June, 1905 .. £682 1263
Profit. Reserves.
June, 1906 .. 1856 593
June, 1907 .. 5879 6472
- . Deficit.
£16,148 written off (capital account deficit) 9676
June, 1908 . j —. 9081 £3168 3763
June, 1909 .. 5008 1776 531
Reserves.
June, 1910;.. 2176 1645
Though thp past year hasn’t been very bright, another
great success has on the whole been achieved here.
The original deficiency was £16,729; and, though in
two years the growers have had a bonus, the deficiency
has been changed into a surplus of £1645.
To summarise :
Total Result of
Deficit Present 6J years’
(1903). Deficit. working.
Nerang .. £12,807 £17,951 Loss £5,144
Bauple .. 8,740 2,775 Profit 5,965
Reserves.
Proserpine.. 19,530 5,730 Profit 25,260
Gin Gin .. 16,729 1,645 Profit 18,374
Total.. £57,806 Res. £13,351 Profit £44,455
So, whereas under the old private control these mills had
lost £57,806, under the State control they have in 6J- years
made a profit of £44,455. In the face of such figures it is
absurd to say that “ Private Enterprise can always do
.better.” It is mostly a question of management; and if
the State, through its larger operations, can afford to get
better management, then the State should do better, as it
obviously has done in this case.
* * * «
The S.A. Government has issued its usual
beginning-of-December forecast of the wheat harvest.
It reckons a yield of just on 12 bushels to the acre, and
a total of 24,000,000 bushels, or within 1,000,000 of last
year’s “ record.” There will be nearly 20,000,000 bushels
to export and that means a value of about £lO for every
man, woman, and child in the Central State —with a trifle
of half a million tons of hay thrown in. Which raises
this question : What sort of a harvest does Premier Ver-
ran think the State should have before it pays its way
and quits going to the pawnshop to get the money for its
schoolhouses, netting fences and the like ?
* * * *
The Executor, Trustee and Agency Co. of
Sooth Australia (Adelaide): —
Writ-
ten off Added
Lease- to Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. holds, serves, serves.
1900 .. £927 5 p.c. = £745 £75 £lO7 £2,386
1901 ... 1877 5 ~ „ 767 685 425 2,811
1902 .. 1833 5 ~ „ 767 690 376 3,187
1903.. 2836 6 „ „ 921 1915 5,102
1904 .. 1987 6 ~ „ 921 95 971 6,073
1905.. 2302 7 „ ~1075 100 1127 7,200
1906.. 2662 7 „ ~1075 151 1436 8,636
1907.. 4013 7 „ ~1075 100 2838 11,474
1908 .. 3776 8 „ ~1228 100 2448 13,922
1909.. 4340 8 ~ ~ 1228 100 3012 16,934
1910.. 5568 8 ~ ~ 1228 100 4240 21,174
This co. has for many years had the S. Australian field to
itself; but another is now offering to look after the dead
man’s money. And S. Australia nowadays has so much
money - to look after that two of them can be quite com-
fortably occupied. As a matter of fact, however,
the S. Australian has not, as a rule, got into
the habit of going to the trustee co.; he has preferred to
depend on the lawyer, who is often a shockingly bad
business man, or on some friend of the family. The
friend of the family isn’t always a business man, either ;
and if he is, he isn’t always trained to look after the
investment of money. Further, he has a bad habit of
dying ; often, in fact, he gets to the grave in front of the
man whose trustee he has been appointed. Then, if the
man who has made the will thinks of it, he has to go to
the expense of altering his will or making a new one. At
other times the trustee dies soon after the testator; or he
leaves the country ; or he does some other inconsiderate
trifle. Notwithstanding all these things, the practice
of appointing as trustee a co. or other body whose busi-
ness it is to be a trustee—a body which doesn’t die or
quit the country - —isn’t anything like as general as it.
should be. Still it is growing. The amount of funds
(other than the co.’s own capital and reserves) under
this co.’s control has moved this way:—
1895 £482,987
1900 654,500
1905 1,413,953
1910 2,309,316
The first table shows how the co.’s own profits have
moved along. This, however, has been to some extent
due to the fine additions that have. been made to
reserves. Last year, for instance, the interest earnings
were £ll7B, so that almost all the profit made from the
business proper was available for reserves—for the pro-
tection, that is, of the people interested in the trusts,
etc. For that is another advantage of the trustee co.:
its funds are a guarantee that it will do what the man
who made the will or other deed instructed should be
done. If it doesn’t, it can be proceeded against just like
any other person who has undertaken to do a job accord-
ing to specifications and fails to do it. The commission
earnings last year were £8637, equal co 7s. 6d. per
cent, of the value of the trust estates. In other
words, on the average an estate paid 7s. 6d. per
cent, for this co.’s services; and even that, though
it is a bit above the average, is little for the work
an experienced trustee co. can do and the savings it can
make. Considering the profits, the dividend is very
modest; but, since Adelaide has set a value of about 50s.
on the 30s. shares, it is evidently already allowing for a
slight improvement by-and-bye. The shares (30s. paid)
carry a liability of £3 10s. The reserves shown above in-
clude a sinking fund which has been started to wipe
out the capital cost of a safe-deposit lately added to the
business.
* * * 4,
Farmer and Co., Ltd., with an office in London
and a universal providery in Sydney :
Reserves
Dividends. (Goodwill not
. * > reckoned as
July, Profits. Pref. 6 p.c. Ordinary. an asset).
1905.. £18,411 £12,000 10 p.c. =£15,608 £lB7
1906.. 19,001 12,000 4 „ „ 6,249 939
1907.. 22,223 12,000 7 „ ~'10,936 226-
1908.. 28,702 12,000 8 ~ ~ 12,498 4,430
1909.. 32,706 12,000 8 „ „ 12,498 12,638
1910.. 35,206 12,000 8 „ „ 12,498 23,346
Farmer’s old-established business was taken over by the
present co. in 1897, the purchase price being about
£293,000. Of that amount £150,000 was paid in ordi-
nary shares; and of £200,000 in pref. shares, the
vendors also took £66,666. The present capital
is £156,230 in ordinary £lO shares, and £200,000 in
£lO cumulative pref. shares, the latter carrying
6 per cent, and restricted to that figure. All
the issued shares are fully paid. The preference shares,
as already hinted, were the only ones put on the market;
and practically they are the only ones whieb—the in-
vestor has had a chance to deal in until very lately. For
many years neither class was quoted in Australia, and
only prefs. were quoted in London. Latterly, however,
both lots have been listed in Australia. Having so large
a pref. capital carrying a fixed rate, the ordinary divi-
dend has been subject to big variations ; and no attempt
at equalisation used to be made. It was 10 per cent, in
1905, and only 4 per cent, in 1906. That shouldn’t have
affected pref. quotations seriously; but it did, and,
though the pref. div. was never in danger, the pref:
quotation went down to £7 17s. 6d. in the early part of
1907. In the last two or three years great changes have
come over the business, which has undergone a thorough
course of modernisation. That modernisation has
reached from show windows to methods of finance.
Ordinary divs. don’t now spring up and down
with every. movement of trade; for three years
past, in spite of great prosperity, they have been
kept to a fairly modest 8 per cent.—fairly modest, any-
way, considering the size of the pref. capital, and remem-
bering also that it is a cumulative preference. The profits
for the same three years, after paying the pref. dividend,
have averaged more than enough to pay 13 per cent, on
the ordinary capital. The large additions made to reserves
not only add to the already excellent security of the
prefs., but also make it easier to pay the ordin-
aries a fair div. even in poor times. Even if the
£23,000 which has been put by in the last three
years earns only 4 per cent., that means just
on to £lOOO more in the till at the end of the year.
Also, besides adding this profit to reserves, probably as
much has been written off freeholds and plant. In 1908
this item stood at £234,681 ; it is now down to £222,616,
though a very large sum has been spent on the premises,
In other words, not only have the current profits paid
the dividend and provided for a large addition to visible
reserves, but they have paid also for the large additions
and alterations to premises, and written off something
besides. These premises—a very valuable block—carry a
mortgage of £80,567 ; and that and sundry creditors for
£16,719 represent the whole of the liabilities. The re-
serves in the table are shown less goodwill. The latter
stands at £30,000 ; and when the formal reserve fund has
been got to £lOO,OOO (it is now £41,000), it is understood
that the paper item will be wiped out by the simple pro-
cess of striking £30,000 from the reserves. Sydney - has
been having a wonderfully good time ; and these accounts
reflect it admirably.
The Kauri Timber Co.
Net
Written Visible
Aug., Profits. Dividends. Off. Deficit.
1900 .. £33,731 3 p.c. =£17,550 £32,530 £155,014
1901 .. 59,646 4 ~ „ 23,400 66,472 185,240
1902 .. 38,476 4 ~ „ 23,400 5,927 176,091
1903 .. 37,691 4 ~ ~ 23,400 10,000 171,800
1904 .. 32,390 4 „ „ 23,400 16,000 178,810
1905 .. 23,065 4 „ „ 23,400 10,000 189,145
1906 .. 40,276 4 ~ ~ 23,400 172,269
1907 .. 68,062 5 „ „ 29,250 14,500 147,957
Reserves.
Assets written up, £227,458 .. .. 79,501
1908 .. 74,902 Bp.c.= 46,800 2,922 104,681
1909 .. 65,667 8 ~ „ 46,800 9,360 114,188
1910 .. 55,162 8 „ „ 46,800 8,852 113,698
This c'o. was formed in 1888, and just 10 years afterwards
a resolution was carried clipping 7s. off each of the
600,000 shares on account of “ capital which has been
lost or is unrepresented by assets.” Up to that time the
co. had done poorly, and divs. didn’t arrive till 1899.
Timber has, however, been increasing veryrapidly in value.
The greedy world is consuming it at a tremendous rate,
and is planting very few trees. So, after having steadily
written down its timber assets to £382,510 in 1907, the co.
made a re-valuation of what was left, and decided
12 months later that they were worth £547,112. Instead,
therefore, of having a net visible deficit, the co. suddenly
found itself flourishing reserves; and the investor, who had
been neglecting the shares (335. paid) ac 14s. lid. at the
beginning of 1907, found himself payingpar at the end of
1908. Whether the co. was working in the dark itself, or
whether the insiders had an idea of how matters were
shaping, hasn’t even yet been made clear. One question
which will push itself forward is: Was the 1907 valuation
a conservative one? Naturally, when an asset can sud-
denly be written up from £382,510 to £547,112, a doubt
remains as to whether, with a turn of the market, it
■won’t have to be written down again a few hundred
thousands. The past half-year’s figures are cer-
tainly not very cheering! It is true that the
table at the top of these remarks shows a net
profit almost equal to the 8 per cent, dividend—the
reserves only have to be drawn on to the extent of £490.
But to make up that profit the bad and doubtful debts
(del credere) reserve had to be drained of £BOOO. “ Pro-
fits on timber sold, gum and flax, royalty - , etc.,” have
moved this way : 1908, £119,758 ; 1909, £93,130 ; 1910,
£69,323. Certainly there has been a reduction, too, in
management and other expenses ; but, for all that, those
figures are not comforting. The directors themselves
reckon it time to make some explanation : “The year’s
results have been considerably below expectation,
chiefly in consequence of the inferior run of
logs with which we have had to deal producing a low
percentage of the higher grades of timber; but these
conditions will be greatly improved during the year now
current.” Whether the expectation will be realised this
time will transpire 12 months hence. Meantime, the
failure of the expectations of 12 months ago doesn’t
strengthen one’s faith in the revaluation made in 1907.
The paid share capital is £585,000, and there
used to be a heavy swag of debentures. As the timber
has gone, so has the latter debt; and the accounts show
a big change during the last few years :
1901. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Liabilities, including
debentures .. £327,610 £55,953 £82,430 £90,793
Liquid assets .. 148,342 185,242 159,709 176,534
Deficit ... .. £179,268
Surplus.. .. £126,289 £77,279 £85,741
“Liquid assets” here include everything except timber
and other lands, stocks (including standing timber), and
plant. In nine years a deficit of £179,268 has been turned
into a surplus of £85,741. And meantime, though much
vegetable has been slaughtered, much other vegetable
has been bought—which last explains the big shrinkage
in the liquid surplus in 1909. No hint is given
as to the period over which the co. can con-
tinue to cut at its present rate. For the past year
£3396 is written off for depreciation of timber and some
other assets; but it is doubtful whether that is intended
to represent the reduced book-value of the asset on
account of the removed timber. This matter ought to
be made much plainer than it is. Altogether, as shown
above, £8852 is written off ; and, according to the Profit
and Loss account, this is made up as follows : Shares in
other cos., £2922 ; “depreciation on mills,” £5506; ditto
on rolling stock, furniture, etc., £424. From that it
doesn’t seem as though anything whatever was written
off to cover depreciation through reduction of supplies.
On the other hand, something may be written off which
isn’t shown; for instance, a small amount may be
charged against profits in the Profit and Loss account.
Once before the insider probably had a great advantage
over the outsider; and if the insider doesn’t know
more about some very essential things than he tells
about them in these accounts, then the insider isn’t
bursting with information.
The Fourth Victoria Permanent Building
Society (Melbourne)
i Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1899.. . £4,214 2 p.c. = £2022 £2192 £4,315
1900 .. 5,586 3 „ „ 3036 1550 £lOOO 5,315
1901.. 6,865 4 „ „ 3864 3001 8,316
1902.. 11,402 5 „ „ 4578 6824 15,140
1903.. 12,811 6 5248 1046 6517 21,657
1904.;. 7,746 6 „ ~, .14820 2926 24,583
1905.. 7,640 6 „ „ 4542 208 2890 27,473
1906.. 8,768 6 „ „ 4549 1061 3158 1 - 30,631
1907 .. 9,496 7 „ ~ 5289 838 3369 34,000
1908.. 10,711 7 „ ~ 5332 5095 284 34,284
1909.. 11,566 7 „ „ 5392 3767 2407 36,691
1910.. 11,988 8 „ „ 6241 3824 1923 38,614
This s'ocie'ty,! whicffhad the benefit of the services of the
lace J. M. Templeton as chairman, had its troubles in the
’9o’s ; But they were comparatively little ones, so that in
1895 the directors were able to say: “ Not one of the
society’s depositors has ever been asked to forego
one penny of the interest agreed upon, or wait
a single day for his principal when he required
it.” Nevertheless, the shareholders had to do a
bit of suffering, £11,869 being written off in 1904.
This writing-off was, as a matter of fact, insufficient, and
for some years afterwards some of the profits had to go
into the same sink. Then the turn came ; values re-
vived, and sales were made (on terms mostly) in excess
of the written-down values ; and by 1905 there was a
special reserve, consisting of “profits on contracts not
yet completed,” of £7013. There is still a little of that
reserve left; but as the sediment of the assets has been
got rid of, at less satisfactory prices, calls have been
made upon the fund. In the past year £824 has been
written off this reserve; the other £3OOO has come off
premises account.
Besides its own cleaning-up, the society has
done a great deal in that way for ocher and lamer ducks.
All that was left of the Lygon Permanent, South Mel-
bourne, City of Prahran, Premier, and Planet building
societies has been taken over at various times ; and, no
doubt, on account of the general upward tendency of
values, these transactions put something fairly heavy into
the society’s pocket. Certainly the society hasn’t kept it
there ; for as fast as money has come in it has gone out
again in advances. This shows various movements (figures
are as at October 31, before the annual appropriations):—
1895. 1900. 1909. 1910.
£ £ £ £
Permanent capital .. .35,606 72,741 72,741 72,741
Investing capital .. 58,171 28,003 4,625 5,580
Deposits, etc 134,076 74,334 200,034 182,048
Advances .. .. 117,357 89,345 268,781 259,636
Foreclosed properties.. 64,146 49,935 10,369 6,411
Other freeholds.. .. 40,000 44,478 40,000 37,000
Interest earned p.c. on
average assets ... 3/18/ 4/19/- 6/17/- 7/7/
The best feature of that, perhaps, is the wholesale way
in which foreclosed properties have been got rid of;
only £6411 remain in hand. Still it has to be said once
more that, when values are so high as to induce
banks, etc., to get rid of their own properties,
the chances are that they are advancing on
other properties on the same basis. Nevertheless,
in the case of a building' society there shouldn t b®
losses unless the property market falls with a suaaen
smash. Something is being, or should be, regularly pam
off all its debts ; and the repayments ought to keep pace
with any gradual shrinkage. The society’s risk is, of
course, increased in proportion to the amount of bor-
rowed money which it uses and which it pledges itself to
repay ; and from that point of view this society’s risks
are fairly - substantial, for its liabilities are £182,048,
whereas its own permanent capital and reserves are only
£113,550. Its premises, written down in 1594 to £40,000,
now stand at only £34,000, though meantime £4478 has
been spent on them. Altogether the position looks good ;
the visible net assets are worth (according to the
accounts) £llos. 9d. in the £ of the share value.
* * * *
Bendigo Mutual Permanent Land and
Building Society (Bendigo, Vic.)
Net Added to Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1900 .. 5 per cent. =£2480 £21,296
1901 ..£2641 5 „ „ 2461 £lBO 21,476
1902 ~ 2310 5 „ „ 2323 21,463
1903 .. 1905. 5 „ • „ 2151 21,217
1904 .. 1611 5% „ „ 2309 20,519
1905 .. 2124 6 „ „ 2407 20,236
1906 .. 3527 6J „ ~ 2633 894 21,130
1907 .. 3247 6i ~ „ 2909 338 21,468
1908 .. 3572 "ei ~ ~ 3160 412 21,880
1909 .. 4538 6£ ~ ~ 3356 1182 23,062
1910 .. 3907 7 „ „ 3815 92 23,154
The figures in the last line relating to the total amount of
the dividend, and also, of course, as to the amount avail-
able for reserves, are only approximate. They shouldn’t,
however, be more than a few pounds out; but they can’t
be stated absolutely because the capital is shifting all the
time. The bulk of the reserves is in a contingency fund
to meet possible losses on securities which have to be
realised. This shows how that fund (which is fed by
appropriations of profit) has been drawn on :
Gross Written Off Gon- Net
Profit. tingencv Fund. Profit.
1904 .. £3431 £lB2O £l6ll
1905 .. 3474 1350 2124
1906 .. 3946 419 3527
1907 .. 4363 1116 3247
1908 .. 4333 761 3572
1909 .. 4732 194 4538
1910 .. 4400 493 3907
Other particulars follow :
1900. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Capital .. .. £52,064 £51,028 £54,246 £54,713
Deposits and
other debts .. 79,063 80,501 78,507 80,886
Advances.. .. 138,838 139,203 141,773 138,220
Properties .. 14,519 16,189 16,323 16,463
Cash .. .. 1,228 944 944 7,569
Other assets .. 318 233 130 131
No notable changes are shown here for the past year.
Advances keep very steady ; and that is as much as can
be expected, seeing that Bendigo is growing in such a
leisurely way that its progress might easily escape notice.
On the other hand, no sudden slump is likely ; if Bendigo
fades, it will do so very gradually. Hence this society is
in no great peril. It has very substantial reserves in pro-
portion to its capital—and the bigger the reserves the
safer, of course, the capital. Naturally - , therefore, its
credit is very good ; in fact, what it is suffering from at
present is not so much that it can’t borrow as that it
can’t lend.
* * * *
N.S.W. is to have a State coal mine to supply
the State railways and other departments. Apparently
it isn’t proposed to acquire some of the existing mines,
but to open a new one ; so the existing mines, having lost
a big customer, will presumably toil harder than ever at
exporting an irreplaceable national asset to make up
the loss. The coal export business isn’t an especially
cheerful affair. Australia has a large supply of the sub-
stance that got Peter Bowling into gaol, but there is no
assurance that it has a large supply in proportion
to the population it is capable of carrying. The
reserve store may look large for a population of
5,000,000, yet it won’t look nearly so large for a
population of 100,000,000. The increase of population
is naturally increasing the demand. The falling off in
the timber supplies is giving the demand an extra shove
ahead. The expansion of manufactures is making the
business put on an additional spurt, such as wasn’t
dreamed of in the days when Australia simply dug up
gold and floated loans, and exchanged the proceeds for
the pants and ironmongery of Europe. And there is the
vast and increasing export trade on top of all. In 1881
the Commonwealth had 2,306,000 people, and it dug up
1,846,372 tons of coal, or about 16cwt. per head. In 1908
it had 4,275,000 people, and it dug up 10,193,635 tons of
coal, or more than 47cwt. per head. Evidently, this
country is getting a move on it in the way of disposing —
largely by export—of its irreplaceable asset.
* * * *
From Cobar: “Great Cobar report was anxiously
awaited, and it hasn’t cheered the field at all. In fact,
the place feels so bad about it that just at present it
would be hard to sell here even a broody hen. The
pretty general idea is that Cobar Gold Mines will be the
big co.’s salvation, if it has any salvation worth speaking
about; and the quantity of ore pulled from both there
and the Chesney must be regulated by the quantity of
basic ore raised at the parent mine. Rumors are floating
round that,a shut-down for a week or so is to happen at
Christmas. To make thatters worse, there are continual,
irritating troubles with the employees, especially truckers.
A first-rhte man in some respects, Bellinger hasn’t yet
got the measure of Australian workmen, and one or the
other union is almostvoontinually interviewing him re
some grievance or other. The co. is laying a railway line
from the Chesney to the Cobar Gold Mines. This will
considerably reduce the cost of handling the Gold Mines
ore.”
* # * ■»
Great Britain Sluicing Co. seems to have lived
down most of the objections to the purchase of the
Moore lease. There is nothing like regular dividends for
sand-bagging hostile criticism. The half-year worked
out this way :
Revenue. Outlay. Profit.
Britain lease .. .. £7,393 £5llO £2283
Moore lease .. .. 5,947 4125 1822
Total .. .. £13,340 £9235 £4105
Outlay includes all expenses—management, law, royalty.,
etc., included. Of the £4105 divs. absorbed £l5OO (equal
to 60 per cent, per annum on the capital). On November
5 liquid assets (including stores) totalled £3017, and lia-
bilities were £lBO7, leaving a surplus of £l2lO. In the
co.’s three years £4500 has been paid in divs. on the paid
capital of £5OOO ; and the directors reckon that between
a quarter and a third of the available area has been
worked out. It is apparently impossible, though, to give
any estimate of the quality and value of the unworked
ground. ,
•** ! *
Baker’s Creek, Hillgrove (N.S.W.), is still
worked on tribute; for 70 tributors the' total for six
months was 15480 z. gold, so the men haven’t averaged
more than moderate wages. The manager favors con-
tinuing the system, and thinks it may lead to discoveries
that could be worked profitably by the co. But he also
advises an expensive course of development at No. 11
and No. 12 levels and the installation of electric power.
The New Hillgrove Prop, introduced electric power, and
subsequently found that the mine couldn’t keep the
plant at work ; and Baker’s Creek should take that as a
warning to get some reserves first.
* * * *
It is likely that the Broken Hill Prop, will
resume mining work early in the new year. Some of the
big men in the concern reckon that it has cried Stinking
Fish long enough.
* * * *
“ There is the Bullfinch, and, when all is said
and done, there may be nothing but the Bullfinch.” That
early summing-up of the situation, so far as the imme-
diate Bullfinch neighborhood is concerned, can still
stand. There are prospects elsewhere, but their value
has to be proved. It always has to be remembered
that Doolette and Jones weren’t poking about in
that district for the good of their health, and that
with them a few pounds of lease-money was neither here


GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
13
Everv engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one ot
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct then-
special attention to these bearing's and to car boxes 101
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* » • *
“Ferrodor” Paint. —Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cvanogen gases. Used on Mort s
Dock and Mt. Lvell buildings; Hawkesburv, Princes and
Victoria bridges ; P. & O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
It takes a long period of success to justify con-
fidence in manufacturers, but for many years the product
of The Farnlby Iron Company Limited, Leeds, has been
recognised by engineers as the highest class of iron (best
Yorkshire), safe under the most onerous tests. For
Rolling Stock, Ship Building and General Engineering
Work it is indispensable, being used by all Australian
State Railways. To be obtained from Sole Agents, Bell s
Asbestos Australian Agency Limited, 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, and Fremantle, W.A. ; also Reid Brothers and
Russell Prop’y, Ltd., Melbourne ; and Chas. E. Bernays,
Brisbane.*
* * * *
The Bigelow Patent Rock Breaker commends
itself to mine managers who welcome an effective
machine which is cheaper to maintain and repair than
Gyratory and other crushers. This machine is of the
well-known Blake type, but has some additional improve-
ments which have justified in practice all the claims
advanced by the patentee. The work of crushing is done
on the down-stroke of the pitman instead of the up-
stroke ; there is no strain on the pitman cap; two large
side rods resist the thrust of the toggles, and enable the
jaws to be regulated within a large range ; the back
toggle is so made as to resist all legitimate strains of
crushing, but will shear under exceptional conditions
and save the machine. The shaft and eccentric bearings
are self-lubricating ; the jaws are convex and concave,
and with the cheek plates are made of steel and are
reversible. The Austral Otis Engineering Company, of
South Melbourne, have installed a great number of these
machines, and-hold the sole manufacturing rights for the
Commonwealth.* *•“
„ * * *
The original “Balata’ Belting, patented by
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its high standard
of excellence, and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand on ever3 r few feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* [4
* * * *
The Insurance Freeman, Liverpool, under date
October, 1908, writes re The Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society, Limited: “In every branch of business
success has been marked with sagacious management, and
it must be highly gratifying to all concerned to note that
the huge surplus at the last valuation has been.put.to
most excellent and practical use in strengthening its
resources.”*
* * * *
WOOD PIPE lasts as long as the best e.i. pipe
and four times as long as steel. Economy and ease in
handling are further strong points. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so,
write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney , and
9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* I 2
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,'Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Nobel’s Dynamite Factory, Hamburg, at the
recent Brussels World Exhibition received the highest
awards, viz., Three Grand Prix for explosives of allgrades
for both mining and military purposes. This against all
comers. Mine managers in New South Wales, who are
experiencing trouble, write the agents, Win. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Large stocks on hand.*
* * *
Mine managers when requiring air compressors
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not fail
to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they will be
impressed by its simplicity, compactness and portability.
Owing to the working parts being entirely enclosed it can
be placed to work on any part of the mine, either on the
surface or underground. The number of repeat orders
which Messrs. Reavell have received from the mining
community proves how greatly their compressor is
appreciated. The representatives for Australia are
Messrs. Babcock and Wilcox, Haymarlcet, Sydney.* [2
* * »
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
* * * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* • ■* *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh 5 hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
nor there. They probably didn’t want the whole earth,
but they were not likely to pass values that hit them in
the eye. They therefore pegged what Thk Bulletin man
called a ranch ; and the more they pegged the less, off
course, remained for anybody else. The ridiculous
boomstering of some outside shows that followed had, at
the best, no better foundation than narrow streaks of
gold in big aiid very ill-defined bodies'; and the people
who were deceived by those lOOoz. assays deserve to pay
for their lesson.
* * * *
Some of the little eastern syndicates at the
Bullfinch are making the mulga laugh. One representa-
tive wired : “Got great mine and want camel and more
money.” And the portentous secretary in Adelaide
replied, “ If want camel must increase capital.”
* * * *
Bullfinch Main Lode at last goes to Lionel
Robinson for £15,000, after the greedy holders who paid
£BOOO for it had tried to get first £30,000 in Melbourne,
and then £45,000 in London, and had failed in both
•cases. Bellbird remains in the same position because of
imore greed. Bellbird was bought for £3OOO, and they
wanted £30,000 for it. The Melbourne syndicate that
ifirst took on the Main Lode raised £6OO. After paying
£5OO deposit it had £9O left in the world, with a liability
■of £14,500 payable in a few days. Yet the syndicate that
ow'rted £9O and had to raise £14,500 to be worth anything
at all was valued at £70,000 on the market for one brief
week. Now, having missed the ’bus, it stands at less
than nothing.
* * * *
A recently-quoted stock in Sydney and Mel-
bourne, the Great Bullfinch, is not the Bullfinch nor the
Great Finch either. With Lew Aarons’s East Bullfinch
and the Birthday Gift, the Great Bullfinch is east, and in
the granite, and, therefore, almost certainly a blue duck.
The south end of the Bullfinch field begins to
be prospected fully now ; and the low-grade ore already
proved in the Oorinthian and Never-Never encourages
nope that that part will make a good bread-and-butter
field. Black and Colreavy have got what looks a good,
big find north of the Bullfinch, and Yilgarn is in for the
prospecting time of its life. #
Great Boulder (W. A.) developments are attract-
ing attention owing to the appearance in the bottom of
Edwards shaft of a body of mineralised quartz, which
appears to have come from nowhere in particular. It has
gone away west of the shaft, and the probing of it at the
2Sooft. is looked forward to. Unfortunately, where passed
in the shaft there were no values. In the main shaft dis-
turbed country still prevails.
* * * *
Over the Transvaal (W.A.) there has been one
of the pluckiest mining fights in Australia. Edmund
Mackey, a Victorian, and his metallurgist, Nardin, own
mo9t of the show, and have stuck to it during
the years of half-starvation in the Cross. They
mined a shoot of oxidised ore over a length of
1200 ft. and to a depth of 60ft. In all, 30,000 tons
gave £38,000. At the bottom the ore is dense arsenide.
Bewick-Moreing have an option ; they are to winze to
100 ft. in two places, 145 ft. apart, and connect. Mrs.
Rumor said that the arsenides were untreatable at a profit;
Mackey made an experimental plant and proved they were
not. 8., M. and Co. didn’t believe they were profitably
treatable, though Moss, of Kalgoorlie, had proved that
the concentrates were worth £1 per ton more than their
gold values. The white arsenic product is worth £2O a ton,
or 6s. Sd. per ton of ore. Costs of transported parcels to
Moss’s works are said to be: Mining and raising, 6s. a
ton ; milling, 3s. 6d. per ton ; railing of concentrates to
Kalgoorlie and treatment, 17s. 4d. per ton ; total, 265.
10d. per ton. Treated on the mine, this might be re-
duced. Moss got a 92J per cent, extraction ; but, ad-
mitting a 90 per cent, extraction, there is a profit of
38s. 2d. per ton in the stuff, taking its gold value at 60s.
Much of it will go that. While they were battling
Mackey and Nardin worked 15 hours a day. Helped by
one engine-driver for eight hours, the two owners ran the
hauling, pumping and milling plant, and crushed for 12
hours a day. Probably the gritty pair would have been
blown out but for Government help. They say that Minis-
ter for Mines Gregory, seeing that they meant business,
helped them all the law would let him.
•» * 1 * *
The tricky business in connection with Hannan’s
Star, which so upset Australian holders of the Star some
time since, is gradually sorting itself out. Briefly put,
the directors of the Star combined with the Boulder
.Deeps, and levied 3s. a share on holders, at the same time
;giving a free option and a commission to a firm of London
sharebrokers. Before holders had time to gather breath,
• Govett, of Lake View, cornered the manipulators, and
the Lake View leases and plant on to the co. The
.directors could not bear to lose the 3s. a share gathered
sin ; so, instead of returning it, they coolly informed
holders that they were going to take Is. 6d. of
the money to form a finance corporation. This
flatter co. is now faeingknockedinto shape under the style
of the Hannan’s Star Exploration 00. Holders of Stars
get one share in the Lake View and Star Co., Is. 6d. in
■ cash out of the 3s. subscribed by them, and one share in
rthe Exploration concern. The assets of this latter co.
■ consist of a chance in an exploring party in Northern
Nigeria. It is hoped that it will be more successful than
• one sent by the same crowd to Ravensthorpe. That jaunt
■ resulted in securing a share in a pub. The co. owns also
:a share in the profits of the Mountain Queen flotation, a
if ractional interest in adoption at Meekatharra, the profits
t(if any) in the heap of old Star tailings (which even the
(Chairman says are of doubtful value), and, curiously
enough, an option on some Star shares—practically its
own scrip. Directors, of course, now get two sets of fees
instead of one. The only holder to come well out of the
tricky business was Colonial Secretary Connolly. He re-
fused to join in the reconstruction, demanded the value
of his holding, and got it!
* * * *
After many years’ weary struggle, the Ora
Banda district (W.A.) is getting into the light. Tackling
a district rich in lodes but without water, and on a
generally dull market, is not the most joyous of proceed-
ings ; but after spending their own money and a good
hit of the storekeepers’, the prospectors have turned the
corner, and now there is a rush to the locality, where
500 oz. were the other day got from a leader in a big reef.
Ora Banda is about 22 miles from Broad Arrow, or a good
.40 from Kalgoorlie. On the Ora Banda itself there is a
Vhig lode, but it is of low to medium grade. A few miles
■ off, the Gimlet line seems to give richer values, and ttie
■ party working one show gives proof of this by taking out
[some 800 oz. as a Christmas box. Water is still scarce,
It,,in values appear fairly,consistent in the lodes. Kal-
5-oorlie is taking the district up, and the Government
promises to help in getting water ; so something may be
heard of it.
* * * *
The Lake View Consols (W.A.) shows a profit
for the year of £25,931. There was £12,152 brought for-
ward, so the total available for distribution was £38,083.
After paying a shilling dividend, amounting to £17,480,
dividend duty, the 1 percent, on profits to the general
management and other amounts, there is left £16,188 to
carry on. Against the Lake View mine, which was
formerly valued at £199,128, there are now 500,000 shares
in the Hannan’s Star and Lake View. Evidently it is not
proposed to divide these among shareholders. The full
report of the co.’s holdings in various concerns will be of
more than ordinary interest, as there have been some
good chances of marketing in the past 12 months.
* * * *
Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) shows some wonderful
-values in latest developments, and cables to London
follow one another, like stars out of a rocket. The Gwalia
South shoot at the No. 2 level shows ore worth 90s.
•over 73in. At the No. 13 level there a£& 92in. giving
705., and from other parts of the mine big values are
talked of. Nevertheless, the feature of the London
market in this stock has been the selling from Australia,
which has puzzled J. Bull a good deal ; for Australians
have a habit of getting out of this class of security in
good time. However, in this case it looks as though the
attraction of a gamble in Bullfinch stocks was the real
reason for the disposal of Gwalias, these latter being
readily realisable, and mostly at a jjrofit. *
Mararoa, Norseman (W.A.), still talks a good
deal of the ore above the No. 6 level, but says very little
about what is below. The two latest reports both deal
with rises above the No. 6, one showing ore worth 48s. 6d.
and the other 28s. 6d. per ton.
* * * *
Hills Proprietary (W.A.), for some time owned
by one Hill, who could not decide whether to devote
himself to a cattle station or the mine, is now being
worked systematically by a local syndicate, which is em-
ploying 120 men to get the workings shipshape and the
tailings treated. The mine, if values continue below the
300 ft. level, will prove one of the big propositions of the
West, as above this there is a small fortune in sight. Hill
did very well out of the show.
* * * *
French engineer Kuss, who has been measuring
up the Horseshoe, departed without any band playing,
and no one saw him off save the manager of the mine.
He writes his report on the voyage back to Europe.
Kalgoorlie will be much interested in seeing how he ex-
plains the failure to keep up a lOdwt. average, though there
were said to be a million tons or so of that grade. Mean-
while some members of the staff are looking round for
openings elsewhere into which they may presently be
glad to crawl.
The Queensland Government is about to take
over the Cloncurry-Mount Elliott railway. This line was
constructed by the Government in conjunction with the
Elliott and Hampden cos.—the former co. putting up most
of the cash. The construction of a line from Malbon to
the Hampden Co.’s Duchess is to be carried out by the
State. Hampden Co. arranged for £lOO,OOO debentures
for the line, and most likely some arrangement has been
made whereby the co. will advance the cost of the work.
The Hampden mine is opening up well, but slow progress
is made with the smelter and converter plant.
* * * *
It is figured out that Mount Elliott’s last costs
for blister f.o.b. Townsville were £26 per ton. This
would give close upon £19,000 profit for the month.
Judging by the large consignments of copper leaving
lately and tonnages of products on hand, costs for No-
vember should be a shade lower ; but it is impossible to
speak definitely. In the open-cut machine-drilling is
being continued on the silicious, flint-like outcrop ; but
as this carries oxide of copper, no sulphur and hardly
enough iron to make a matte, and also requires a large
addition of sulphide ore in smelting, very little of it can
be utilised; so the bulk of the ore is coming from the
various levels—principally No. 3 and No. 4. One crosscut
at No. 3 has now proved the ore to bulge out nearly 200 ft.
wide. At the No. 5 (bottom level) the ore is still poor,
but may improve when they get under a rich shoot
worked above. The bottom is the important end of every
mine ; so it is this part that needs watching. The furnace
and converter plant goes now without a hitch. Some
2000 tons of coke are on the way to the mine ; but the con-
struction work on the railway retards delivery. The
Government will take the line over on December 15,
according to present arrangements.
* * * *
Mt. Cuthbert, on the fringe of Oloncurry (Q.),
reckons ore reserves at 102,160 tons, containing 9256 tons
copper, above the 350 ft. level. There are also 49,000 tons
of 4 per cent. ore. Valuing copper at £5O per ton, and the
gold contents at £4 per oz., the gross value is £573,998.
It is a mine all right; but the co. has very indefinite
ideas with regard to smelting equipment and railway
communication ; and whether the metal will be got out
this decade, or in some future one, isn’t a matter you
could safely take an oath about.
• * * *
The Blair Athol Coal and Timber Co. (Q.) pays
a sixpenny div. on its 60,000 shares. Within the half-year
(into which, by the way, seven months have been
squeezed) the output of coal has increased from 2606
tons in April to 5176 tons in October. The total is 23,077
tons. A profit balance of £2242 is shown, from which the
div. takes £l5OO. A while back the co. bought the freehold
of the Peak Downs Copper Co. and sundry adjoining leases,
and created 7400 shares at 10s. to pay for the bargains.
“A boiler and two generating sets, complete to the switch-
board,” have been ordered, and this electric plant, with
coalcutters and coalbreakers, gives the co, dreams of an
increased output (“ up to 2000 tons a day if necessary,”
says the report).
* * * *
Mills’ United, Charters Towers, is the only
deep sinker just now. The sinking is following the
underlay of the original Day Dawn fissure, which at the
higher levels of the Day Dawn P.C., Mills’ United and
Block and Wyndham hatched so many dividends. To limit
the expense the shaft has been pulled in, but can easily
be enlarged if the deeps turn out payable. So far the
only streak of payable stone in the deepest levels has
been in the extreme eastern section of No. 13 ana No. 14 ;
the latter, at nearly 1000 ft. east of the shaft, is showing
some improvement as it comes under the payable stone,
which is being stoped above No. 13 level. This make is
near the Freehold boundary ; and these levels will no
doubt at some future time be driven beyond the boundary
into the Freehold.
* * * *
New Brilliant Freehold, Charters Towers, still
manages to produce from £BOOO to £9OOO per month,
though that isn’t as good as was accomplished early in
the year. The market is, however, a little firmer again,
because the two deepest levels are showing some im-
provement. There is hope, for several formations were
passed through in sinking the shaft.
New Mount Agnes, near Herberton (Q.), doesn’t
look as if it will live to a ripe old dividend-giving age. For
September 562 tons gave close on 6 tons tin oxide, valued
at £530, while in October 403 tons gave 5 tons, worth
£337. The low-grade stuff won’t do, even at the present
price of the metal, and hands have been slackened pend-
ing completion of the bottom tunnel, which will cheapen
the cost of getting at some good ore in the deepest winze.
The co.’s capital is only £1562, which doesn’t give it much
room to swing the pick of development. The Vul-
can, on the other hand, moves on again, and
thus dodges calls. In September 553 tons gave 18J
tons tin, worth £1250, while October is credited with
21 tons from 574 tons of ore; value, £1533. The
Stella has been getting out a little rich stuff ; and the
Governor Norman, same field, supplied 600 tons from its
open cuts, for 12 tons—not much of a record, but there
seems to be better ahead. Tommy Burns is still an in-and-
out proposition ; just lately it has been mostly out,
though on the Boomerang lease a rich leader has been
sweetening the cup in a small wa3 r . A 5-head stamper
battery is under order from Sydney. Meantime no ore is
to be sent away, wherefore there will be a brief splash
when the battery starts.
4C* # If #
Breslin, who represents Gladstone (Q.), drew
some information from Mines Minister Appel the other
day about the keep-it-very-dark operations on the
Dawson coalfield. The Government has, it seems, spent
£9713 on the field, as against only £lOOO put into the
Oallide field, in Breslin’s own electorate, and Breslin is
annoyed about it. But he will have a tough job to show
that Callide coal is equal to the Dawson stuff ; and until
he can do that it won’t be much use complaining.
* * * *
The Palmer, which was one of the first of the
Northern goldfields, refuses to die. The Ida, at May-
town, is held by a Melbourne syndicate, which proposes
to do things in style. Large supplies of hardwood have
been taken from the forests around Cairns for timbering
purposes ; iron poppet legs have been ordered ; the shaft
is to go down to 400 ft.; and an electric plant, it is said,
is to come from Germany. Whatever metal value it may
strike underneath, the shindykit is certainly putting a
fair value on the surface.
* * * *
The Aldershot Smelting Works (Q.) seem as
hard to pass off as an aged maid. First, the Government
was tickled with the property on the plea that the pur-
chase would be an easy way to get rid of an old promise
re State-owned smelters. Matters ended nowhere, so
the mortgagors tried to coax P. Enterprise to carry off
the plant, etc., in pieces. So far, the coaxing has availed
nothing, wherefore there is now to be an auction, practi-
cally without reserve.
# * * *
The Daimler road-train, ordered by the Chil-
lagoe Co. some time ago, was unshipped at Cairns the
other day from the Banffshire. It consists of an 80-h.p.
six-cylinder motor, with four followers for passengers
and (roods. The speed is up to 10 miles an hour on a fairly
hard road, and any hill with a gradient of one in five can
be negotiated.
* * * *
Burnt Creek, Dunolly (Vic.), has been tiring
perceptibly since the Oathcart boom brought alluvial
stocks on to the table. Older than its neighbor, the Duke
and Main Leads, it never has done better than to tlatter
supporters. In a way-back epoch a div. or two were paid.
Since then the water trouble has had to be fought.
When it was got under control, the wash did not
respond to expectations. The cement at the bottom of
the gutter isn’t like that in a sewer pipe. It has ribs ana
ripples, so the wash does not drain as it should, this
wouldn’t matter so much if Burnt Creek had a decent
run of gold like the Duke and Main Lead, or slugs like
the Cathcart. All it can catch hold of is just enough to
keep the University professor, who mainstays the mine,
in a thorough Micawber-like spirit. He waits for s 01 * 1 ®"
thing better to turn up, and he deserves it. But reduced
yields mean more dead work, and apparently the shelling
out of more monthly thrums.
* * * *
Lord Nelson, St. Arnaud (Vic.), looks better
than for many a long day. Before and immediately after
the North amalgamation it appeared that the old co.
hadn’t made a bargain when it doubled its capital and
absorbed or was absorbed by the North. Now the North
is proving that good stone is in the claim where the reel
made over the boundary. The co. looks like paying a
div. or two at least out of the shoot it is on. This is over
300 ft. long, and the word has gone round that “ up to oz.
dirt” has been proved. Oz. dirt to the Lord Nelson would
be bonzer dirt, for its average has been about 12dwt. or,
if only recent, years be taken, between sdwt. and 6dwt.
The average of the stone at 2225 ft. is more like lOdwt.
than loz. stuff; but even so it will yield good profits,
despite the low' grade of the gold. The wobbly side of
the Lord Nelson argument is the size of the share
register ; 80,000 shares is a hig lot to pay decent divs. on
for any length of time. Wiien a mine is down over
2225 ft. in Vic., even at Bendigo, one begins to think what
depth means, and whether it is not time to swim out.
* * * *
Mt. Bischoff Extended (Tas.) has not yet un-
ravelled its own particular mystery—How can its big
brother alongside pay divvies, while it flounders in the
narrow ditch between profit and loss itself ? It is not
for want of trying, because managers have been almost
as plentiful as the snow-berries beside the gully paths
below Mt. Waratah. The truth is the Extended dribbles
a small output and publishes a big plan. If things were
just the other way about—a big output and a
small plan— what-oh ! The price of tin is high, and
now is the time for the co. to get on a hustle.
Manager Lonsdale Smith has been trying to find
out if there is much stuff in the upper levels,
and to get costs down to mine requirements. After
all, it isn’t the scraps in the upper reaches that want to
be picked up, but a big shoot at No. 6 level, and it is here
he is making his effort. The mine has possibilities ; but
it also wants a bit more cash. Why shouldn’t another
call or two be made to add to the hustle?
* * * *
North Mount Lyell (Tas.) has been boring to
pick up a straggling ore-body supposed to live west of its
main north drive at 1100 ft. Bore holes sent out west-
ward for 260 ft. showed a blank, but Sticht stuck to it,
and at last the drill has penetrated 26ft., assaying from 6
per cent, to 8 per cent. It is the probability of ore living
down much below 1100 ft. that keeps hope alive in Lyell
Blocks. It is a gamble, of course ; but the money is
being put up readily enough to sink the shaft.
* * * *
Kulamadau, Woodlark Island (Papua), has just
finished a crushing ; it put through 1100 tons and cya-
nided 1400 tons of sand for £3OOO worth of gold. A divi-
dend is mentioned confidently.
* * ■* *
The Tongkah has the advantage of cheap colored
labor, and this is how it works out. For the past 12
months total costs were 5'055d. per cub. yard, plus
lT36d. for salaries, management, etc.; total 6'191d.
That includes, of course, stores, fuel and repairs—to-
gether about 2jd. The actual cost of running the Tong-
kah dredges was over 2d., while all costs on various
Victorian dredges is under 2d. It looks ajrain as if “ cheap
yellow labor were about 100 per cent, dearer than
“ dear ” white labor.
* * * *
Tongkah Compound, which is very sensibly
getting a reliable Australian-made dredge, expects to
begin production on its Siamese patch at the end of next
June. There will have to be a few calls first, though, to
pay for the dredge ; for, unlike the Tongkah, this co. is
working on e.o.d. principles.
* * *
There has been talk in Sydney about a great
gold-dredging area in Sumatra ; but there is no definite
information about it. Bruford, the engineer who was to
report on it, fell ill before he could make a complete ex-
amination. “The wash is certainly very rich in places,”
he wrote, “ and the overburden carries a good per-
centage of black sand and fine gold. There may
be barren parts, but I have not yet seen any.”
But he could not go into figures. In hospital
at Batavia, in Java, he wired: “ I have the very
highest opinion of the Belambangan property, judging
without one assay.” The question was whether that was
enough to go on. As an option had been secured, a
syndicate decided to take the sporting chance; and
A. W. Freeman and T. W. Horton are to leave in a week
or so to give the 12 square miles a thorough overhaul.
* * * *
Athol: Sorry can’t advise that way, but it
might be worth “while looking into Dalgety’s, Mort’s
Dock, and Hotel Metropole...). J.S.M. : Always struck us
as pretty safe. * » *
“Platman” : The Commonwealth badly wants
a Companies Act to apply all over Australia. It is wanted
for a score of reasons—among them because the law in
some of the States relating to calls and forfeited shares is
most unsatisfactory. At present, in Queensland, for in-
stance, the “ office ” is on a good wicket, and the investor
(whether he lives in Queensland or elsew here) is on a had
one. The scheme is something like this : Barabbas Ex-
tended is in 144,000 shares, of which 96,000 are paids. A
3d. call is made on contributings, and a number of shares
forfeited. In due course another 3d. call is made,
and more shares forfeited. Then the “office” com-
munes with its brokers, and the forfeited shares
are distributed at, say, Id. each. The gang
then proceeds to “ make a market” ; and Barabbas Ex-
tended again appears on the share list at, say, buyers
6d., sellers 9d. Those who have paid their calls—amount-
ing perhaps to many shillings—won’t sell ; in fact, they
frequently buy to average. The outside public is induced
to nibble, - and" soon all the forfeited shares are unloaded
at a good profit, whereupon the scrip promptly goes out
of the market. Another 3d. call is then made, and so
the game goes on. In the particular Barabbas Extended
in the writer’s mind, nearly 30,000 shares have been thus
dealt with during the last few months. All forfeited
shares should be advertised and sold by public auction.
That is the law in some States, and it should be made
universal. It would give the callpayer a chance to get
in at the same price as the Stock Exchange raider, and, at
any rate,would destroy the monopoly of information now
heid by the “office” and its friends.
* * * *
Waihi Grand Junction (M.L.), in hunting for
the Royal lode beyond the fault, has cut two ore bodies,
one 7ft. wide, worth 16s. ; the other, 4ft. wide, worth
£1 19s. They may be on the Royal line, but more w'ork
will have to be done to prove their identity. The
liquidator of Ross Goldfields, Westland, has let the water
up in the mine till he gets a new co. in order. He pro-
poses a capital of £BO,OOO, issuing 70,000 shares to give
a working capital of £21,000 after paying liabilities.
Thames Deep Levels sbheme is in swing again, the ven-
tilation trouble having been met by a Roots blower.
Golden Cross at Waitekauri is putting up a 10-head mill
to give a part of the old ground another trial. Gisborne
has welcomed its oil experts. The father of one is Said to
be big on the financial side of the business.
* * * *
The M.L. Mines Department begins to take
a very hopeful view of mineral oil prospects, particularly
in Taranaki. Recently, in a report laid before Parlia-
ment the Mines Department stated that success appeared
to have been attained by at least one of the cos operating
in that province, and, if the rate of flow continued, the
co expected to soon be in a position to claim the bonus
of 3d. a gallon which for years has been univaihngly
offered by the Government. A month later
it was announced that the
barrels of petroleum from the Taranaki Petroleum Co. s
wells at Moturoa to the British naval authorities
for experimental purposes. This oil was similar to
that reported on some tune ago by £" d £?•’
the Paisley refiners, and described bj that firm
as “the most superior oil they had ever examined. The
main question in connection with petroleum in M.L. <
to the extent of the supply ; and the Government appears
to have large hopes on that point, seeing that Prenuei
Ward recently asked the Admiralty to become a big cus-
tomer. The Admiralty was quite willing. Now a cable
message says that I. D. Henry, a well-known expert, re-
presenting two or three wealthy financial groups, is
leaving Britain for Taranaki; which recalls an opinion
already given by him that “ there is nothing 1 in the rich
oilfields of Trinidad and Newfoundland that cannot be
duplicated in Maoriland.”
* -X * *
Had the directors of Marvel Loch (W. A.) put
the June sixpenny div. of £2500 into machinery, shaie-
holders would have been a shilling or two per share
better off now. Some readjustment of machinery is
inevitable.


CHARLES
HEIDSIECK
Nipped in the Bud.
A cold, cough or influenza can be nipped in the
hud by a few doses of Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery for coughs and colds. Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
ROBUR
m
CrO
w.
S
sr
>cZM
Useful to Hang
up in your home
'pHB pictures are copied from
works of art in the Sydney
and Melbourne National Gal-
leries.
The calendar portion has a
small blank space left so that
you may make a note against
each date to remind you of an
appointment made or anything
that has to be done.
When the calendar portion
has served its purpose, the
pictures are worth cutting off
and keeping.
We are only supplying
grocers with about enough for
their regular Robur tea
customers, so if you want one
you had better ask your grocer,
before he gives them all away-
The Robur Tea Co.
James Service & Co.,
Proprietors.
>Or “high-class” family every-
day use we recommend the No. 1
Grade. It is excellent tea—it has a
full, rich flavour —is wonderfully
wholesome, and is very saving.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, December 5, 1910.
My Dear Artni,—
Lady Dudley’s serious illness caused no special
mental disturbance in this State. Everyone was
sympathetic, of course; but the press mentions
were of the cold, official type. But when Lady
Poore took to her verandah-bed, a fortnight
ago, a wail like unto a concerted de pro-
fundis went up from all our women writers,
and was echoed by most of their women
readers. The daughter of the 51st Bishop of
Limerick is a great favorite with women. She is
clever, humorous and sympathetic. Most par-
sons’ daughters are clever and sympathetic, just
as most parsons’ sons are scallywags. I am always
running across women of no importance who have
enjoyed heart-to-heart talks with Lady Poore—
or say they have. Anyhow, the Lady who
can look the Southern Cross in the pointers all
night if she be so minded, is recovering, and is
able to sit up and read the reports of the meetings
called by the Mayoress to talk over the souvenir
to be given her. Lady Poore’s written regrets at
having’ to leave Sydney have the ring of real
sincerity. (Written things don’t usually ring, but
let that pass.) Most distinguished ladies who
have eaten our bread and salt, and drunk our
water and wine, and opened our canarv and car-
nation shows, say how desperately sorry they are
to leave us. But they say it with a loving clasp
on their outward-bound ticket, and in a I’m-mad-
with-joy tone.
Concerning the gifts given to Mrs. Wade at
the great Liberal Rally” on Monday week.
Two of them have been on view in Hardy
Brothers’ window during the week. They were
a gold mesh bag, big enough to hold a cheque for
an enormous amount, and a diamond and pearl
pendant. Beautiful things, both. A photo-
graph of the cheque should have accompanied
them, for the figures painted on it were
£2559. Ao wonder Mrs. \Vade was too overcome
to speak her thanks ! If I had 25 unearned shil-
lings handed to me, first aid to the drowning
would fail to restore me to consciousness. My
“ overcomeness ” would be permanent, and the
funeral would take place at the usual date. Mayor
Allen Taylor gave the ex-Premieress the golden
sack, and the Mayoress clasped the superb orna-
ment round her slender neck. And ex-Premier
Wade looked unutterable things. “Itis a very
onerous business this of being served, and the
debtor naturally wishes to give you a slap.” The
Wades didn’t. Perhaps I’d better mention that
Emerson said what I’ve quoted. If I don’t
acknowledge, the SuN-flower will go and credit it
to Lady Poore, just as she (the flower) did last
week when she handed that lady a phrase of my
“littery ” property. (A poor thing, 'ma’am, but
mine own.) However, Lady Poore has said
better things than her quotation from the para-
graph relating to Important Imported Ladies
and their charities abandoned like infants on
doorsteps. The fact that she thought it worth
quoting is enough to reduce its originator to a
mush of flattered vanity.
To revert to that Wade cheque. The Wades
must now surely thank the Labor gods that they
are out of office. Ho cross, no crown—you know.
They will go to the Coronation on the £2559."
(Wonder if there’s any chance of the grev-eyed
ex-Premieress sending' me the odd £9 for the
Hospice and the C.S.A. charities?) Nearing
Christmas is a good time to get up presentation
cheques. It is such a fine and warming thing to be
generous, such a vexatious matter to pay the
milkman.
Two nights after the Wade testimonial, the
Allen Taylors went through the conversazione,
offered them by admiring citizens, with fortitude
A silver and gold scroll emblazoned with fair
woids and waratahs and flannel flowers was pre-
sented to the Mayor. It also is a beautiful speci-
men of the goldsmith’s art and intrinsically valu-
able, but it is purely ornamental and heirloomish.
Mayor Taylor can’t wear it round his neck or
carry it in his hand or stow State papers in it.
Mayoress Taylor, robed in white satin, and hold-
ing an immense posy of crimson flowers, looked
well despite the late nights loving citizen folk
compel her to keep. Mr. Nesbitt and Mr. Layton
were, as they always are on such occasions, most
useful in saving the shy citizen from walking
into a tub of grovving palms or shaking hands
with someone who isn’t Anybody in mistake for
someone who is Something. Most of our well-
known people had paced up the red carpet with
the Jleur de its before' the Chelmsfords arrived
with the Earl of Harrowby party. It was a very
“black ” procession, and the Mayoress must have
rejoiced that she had frocked herself in its op-
posite hue. Lady Chelmsford was in black ; so was
the visiting Countess ; so was her daughter, Lady
Frances Ryder, who is a very good-looking girl of
22. Another black-froeker was Mrs. McGowen.
Men reft her from her Premier, and talked
politics at her until the National Anthem made a
diversion. Mrs. Sam Hordern’s gowning was a
beautiful royal-blue and black charmeuse and
ninon matter. Mrs. Markell’s was star-frock-
ing—turquoise charmeuse with black veiling
and pink roses on the edge of the tunic; and a lot
of embroidered decoration. DecollcUage showed
a fine white tucker. Tuckers seem to be coming
in again ; a few other smart women were also
wearing them. Mrs. Sargood, from Wahroonga
had put her blondeness into pale-blue charmeuse
and white lace. The ever-faithful friend of Mrs.
Taylor, Miss Margaret Harris, was to the fore!
In fact, where there wasn’t a representative
citizeness there was a citizen of that class.
The “About Town” section of a London paper
resurrects the rumorthat, in the event of Lord Dud-
ley resigning the Australian Governorship it is
probable that the Prime Minister will appoint
la O iU ent ] a married to the only
dangntw of Lord and Lady Aberdeen. It was
the brother of our future (?) G.-G.’s wife who
married for pure love, and not monev, a widow
lady over 20 years his senior.
.. " Jimmy »* Graham left for Europe aboard
the Monproha last week. A political pal tells me
that Dr. .Jimmy” was one of the Wadeites
whom Labor was least anxious to see pushed into
tne political murk. He was never known to lose
ms temper, in the House or out of it; he eschewed
libel, slander, innuendo, personalities and un-
charitableness generally; he didn’t “wowse”;
ne was wont to speak of Laborites as human
beings ; and his election battles were models of
good-humor and fair dealing. It was possibly
owing to these things that he was pushed on to
ourrv Hills, where a “ Liberal’s ” chances were as
like to melt as an ice-cream in the very warm
place.
rS TvJ^ ae inty re ’ who left for England last week,
was a MacCabe, a sister of the gentleman who lost
nis life in the mine which Mr. Wade, apparently,
down - She is a widow, the relict of one of
IN.b. vv.s wealthy pastoralists. Her good-looking
sister, Mrs. Dr. Jenkins, follows in her wake
early next year. The object of both ladies in
abandoning their native land is to put their
children to school abroad.
Mrs. John Toohey, who will be back here in a
month or two, has rented Cranbrook Cottage,
ex-Mayor Tom Hughes’s place, next door to the
btate Government House at Rose Bay. So
evidently the mansion at Wahroonga will be back-
nurn bered as a residence. Mrs. Toohey would do the
residents of this suburb, where your Akenehi now
abides in an atmosphere of soft-goods, beer, drugs
(its a whale of a place for consulting physicians
and eye-men, who charge you two guineas a
glance), mosquitoes and sweet-pea, if she’d take
her artificial lake with her to Rose Bay. Or she
might fill it in or drain it; or do any old thing to
f pf m ' ,er mosquito-breeding ground. The able-
bodiedness of those Toohey mosquitoes ! The
vitality and billionarity and vocalness of them !
lhey come into my house and take my books,
and wear my shoes. A lot of them are now in my
bedroom trying on my hats, and 50,000,000 of
them are trying to steal the lawn-mower.
The Tom Hughes couple are booked for foreign
travel.
Sydney is to have a new club, the United Ser-
vices, to include not only naval and military
P eo P'®' but also Red Tape and Red Tape, jun.
ihe Broughton, in Phillip-street, restricted to
Anglicans, was gradually falling to pieces as its
members drifted away to the showier and more
liberal University Club. But the Broughton
had a license, a possession worth saving in
these days of Wowserism. So the Public
Service, when it heard the circumstances,
promptly came to the rescue, seeing a way to
quicken the interest of its own members. The
new body, though it starts its career unblest by
Canon Boyce, has, with the Public Service behind
it and the growing defence force in front of it,
the nucleus of something formidable.
The officers of the Challenger gave a farewell
dance on Garden Island last Thursday. Most of
the mariners are leaving shortly to make way for
the new Commission. It had been intended to
hold the festivity on board, but the record down-
pour that occurred during the day ruined the deck
for dancing purposes.
Hon. Fitzroy Erskine, a young man, said to be
one of the best pigeon-shots in the world, is at
the Australia. He is a scion of the house of
Rosslyn. His eldest brother is the much-married
Rosslyn earl, who is known in England by the
playful pseudonym of “ Harry the Eighth,” and a
sister is the beautiful Duchess of Sutherland. Mr.
Erskine has a wife, achieved five years ago, but
she has not come along with him.
The young man who, according to a cable
message of last week, has just succeeded to the
Ghurston barony was the central figure of a
stirring romance, embroglio, unpleasantness—call
it what you will—the other day. As Mr. John
Yarde-Buller he was the co-re. in the famous
Atherton divorce suit. Mrs. Atherton, accord-
ing to several more or less reputable wit-
nesses, averred that he was the only man she
had ever loved—a largish order. When the decree
nisi was pronounced, Mr. Yarde-Buller firmly
refused to marry the lady, whereat she brought a
breach-of-promise action against him. His reply
was to lead to the registry office Miss Denise
Orme, a musical comedy star. The groom’s ex-
planation of this conduct, so unusual in all the
circumstances, was that Mrs. Atherton had not
played the game. The lady’s stated reason for
bringing the suit was that she wished to prove to
the world that she had loved well even if she had
loved unwisely. The Court found against her on
the grounds that a promise of marriage made in
anticipation of a divorce was opposed to public
morals, and invalid in 17 other directions.
A Sydney girl, talking to me of her four
months’trip to Europe : “I had £l4O. Of that
I paid £69 9s. for my passages, going second-class
P. and O. I had a fortnight in Paris, a fortnight
in London and three week? in the country in
England. Went overland to Marseilles, and did
theaviation meeting, twodays, atßheims. In Paris
I stayed in the Latin Quarter, paying 255. a week.
Only one man—old ‘Yosef ’—on the big premises!
I did not stint myself in taxis. Even I bought a
little whistle to summon ’em. No, I did not stop
with friends anywhere, and no stray gallants paid
for a taxi or a theatre for me. Last, but most— l
brought back thirty pounds’ worth of raiment.
Yes, since you will take no denial, I will join you
in cream cakes.”
A girl, who departed by the Malwa’s last trip,
writes from Colombo that in the intervals of the
ship’s buckjumping the passengers in the first
saloon had much good music. During the “ buck-
ing” of the liner Mrs. Ewan Frazer would often
be the only lady on deck. The Calv<s group of
three and Mrs. Frazer are enough to make a first-
class company. Calve plays bo-peep around thedeck
with Gasparn to the acute amusement of the
others. Ship’s report says they were married
in Melbourne, but no one is sure. “In spite of the
awfully pretty bunch of women we’ve got on
board—Mrs. D’Arcy Osborne, Mrs. Kelly, Mrs.
Frazer (and, of course, myself)—the captain takes
no stock in grown-ups. He passes us all by and
plays with anything under 10 or 12. The hus-
band would be no ‘ marine product ’ (to quote you)
if the travelling man was always like him.”
Australians who come back here talking London
lyrics after foreign travel often mention the
Princess PI ess (a daughter of the Cornwallis
Wests) “amongst those we saw at the opera” or
heading for her motor. Well, the latest fashion
chronicle about her is that she is using her rope of
famous pearls to hobble a white satin skirt. The
rest of the rope—it is between seven and eight
yards long', and consists of 2000 pearls—was
drawn up and looped three times round the
beauty’s neck. No doubt she feels somewhat of
the same satisfaction in her hobble of first-water
gems that Rameses had over his charger’s gold
shoes.
Whether to surf-bathe or not to surf-bathe? That
is the question. As a recoil of evil to the good
the rollers do by slapping electricity into you, sand
gets into your ears and in time sets up deafness or
other troubles. If you forego surfing, how are
you to acquire the light-tan tone that is the
fashionable complexion from September to March ?
“ The dream of the white Australian surf-bather
is to be brown,” says Adams in “ Galahad Jones.”
Well, if you like, I’ll send you a circular that has
come to me from London, telling the address of
the shop where “sun-tan ” may be purchased foi-
ls. lijd. “ Handsome men and charming women,”
lam told, “desire this tint. Detection quite im-
possible.” The italics are the sellers.
At the Wade conversazione a group of women
were talking of the alleged engagement of one
who was not present. Said the chief purveyor of
information : “She has ordered nine corsets from
her stay-maker. That ought to be regarded as
conclusive evidence.” Does any woman ever
order nine corsets at one fell command ? Months
ago, in the dead waste and middle of the winter,
the person under discussion, who hasn’t any
“staymaker” in the proprietary sense of the
word, did order one corset; but the distinguished
armor-maker who took the plans and specifica-
tions for it hasn’t delivered the goods yet. She
is too busy building corsets for others of our
nobility and gentry. By the way, at such a rate
of building, how long would it take to get a
clearance of nine corsets ? Another point: The
present style of figure will have yielded to other
fashions in compression many times before the
turn of the ninth corset came to be worn, even if
those nine muses in whalebone were delivered
to-morrow.
A heroic person arose lately in the Upper House
of N.S.W. and proposed that Sydney people
should be prohibited from riding on the footboards
of tramcars. Naturally, the question arises whether
they are expected to ride on the roof. After every
possible person has sat down inside, and all these
people have been sat on, and all their feet have
been stood on by people standing up, where is it
supposed that the other 18 folk are to go except
on the footboard? Something might possibly be
done by having a rope at the back so that
active citizens could seize it and run be-
hind, or at busy hours every car might
drag a vegetable truck at the rear; but,
after all, these ideas might not be a
great advance on the present system. Experi-
ence has shown that it is possible to put three
rows of men on the footboard—the first one hang-
ing on with its hands to the car and denouncing
the one behind ; the second hanging on to the
first and vituperating at the one in front and the
one behind ; and the third hanging on to the
wreckage of the splintered atmosphere and objur-
gating the universe. Of course, when two
such cars meet, some of these people are swept off,
but if they have paid their fares it doesn’t matter
so much. When the case is considered calmly
and dispassionately, things might be worse.
Antonia Dolores's tour has been so successful
that she has made an agreement with Mr. South-
well to extend it for another six months. After
appearing at Wagga next Monday night, she will be
here in time to sing at the Testimonial Concert to
her old friend Sykes on the loth. Dolores loves a
Christmas in Sydney, and she will get what she
loves before leaving for M.L.
If you want a waltz—a waltz that would make
you dance even if you were wearing a diver’s
boots and had never danced before—get the
“Orvieto,” by Mr. Seymour Middleton. Its
time is as well marked as the music of the
spheres, and, to quote someone, it is one of those
irresistible waltzes that first catch the ear and
then curl round the heart, till on a sudden they
invade, and will have, the legs. The “Orvieto”
is got up in good taste, with a picture of the liner,
its name-giver, and a dedication to Captain
Ruthven.
Two photograph post-cards of Katherine Good-
son by this mail. In one she is pictured as
climbing the Alps (sounds a large order) wearing
what seems to be an unhobbled railway-rug skirt,
and fastened by a clothes line to a file of men. In
the second she is seated at a spreading grand
piano in the music room of her house at St. John’s
Wood. The versatility of these musicians!
Miss Gertrude Palmer has arranged a capital
programme for an invitation musicale for Dec. 14
in Nicholson’s Salon. It will in a sense be a fare-
well to two clever young pupils, the daughters of
the Philip Mortons, who go to Europe with their
parents. Miss Florence Quinn, Mr. Bryce Carter,
Mr. Tschaikov, Miss Lily Seton, Mr. Archie Ran-
claud, Miss Nina Holt, and Miss Linda Johnson
will be the performers; and Miss Palmer wfW
play a Grieg concerto with Mr. Ranclaud.
Pauline Chase, who is to be married to Aviator
Grahame-White, England’s greatest airman,
possesses a queer personality, and has had a queer
career. She was born and reared in the humblest
circumstances in New York. For long she stood
unnoticed in the ballet. Eight years ago she
came to London and got her chance. Despite an
insignificant figure, an irregular-featured face and
no particular talent either as a dancer or singer,
she immediately made good in musical comedy.
The gilded youth of the town went mad
about her. All sorts of notabilities were said to
be languishing at her feet. As “Peter Pan”
she moved J. M. Barrie to ecstasy. Indeed, the
critics agreed that she was uniquely suited for the
part of the child who never grew up. Her most
useful stage asset is the delightful childish irre-
sponsibility which radiates from her and gives her
the appearance of perennial youth. She made
Grahame-White’s acquaintance by the unromantic
step of offering him £lOO to take her up in his
aeroplane, which offer was promptly accepted.
The name of the man Mrs. W. Baumann (a
Sydney smart-frocker and race-goer) has married
in London is Mowbray Bessell. He is on the
Stock Exchange, and one of his gifts to his bride
was a two-thousand guinea motor-car.
Sir George Doughty and his wife have won
back Grimsby from the Liberal foe in England.
Sir George, you will remember, married my old
colleague “ Tryphena.” He is a militant Protec-
tionist, and is said to be one of the Balfour party’s
most effective orators.
I have been sent the annual report of the
Sydney University Extension Board. The Board
does good work. Wherever a number are gathered
together with a little spare time on their hands,
there the Board is prepared to send a professor to
lecture them. Thus the shearers on North Yanco,
the famous McCaughey station, were told all
about Agriculture by Professor Watt. Professor
Douglas Stewart lectured elsewhere on the ab-
sorbing topic of Veterinary Science. And Dr.
Todd, Professor David and others helped to
lighten the bucolic darkness in various ways.
There is a pleasing catholicity about the subjects
selected. During last year different lecturers dis-
coursed on all sorts of topics, from Kipling to
Coal, and from Shakspeare’s heroines to Savagery
and Civilisation.
“ Petals in the Wind,” a little booklet ot verses
by Helen Jerome, blew on to my desk just as I was
tying the strings of this Letter’s sunbonnet under
its chin, and was about to push it out of the door
and into the printer’s premises. Mrs. Jerome has
imagined a perfect little title for her gathered
verses. “When Men Sleep” and “A Bar of
Music,” two charming lyrical things, are in the
collection. But the Letter won’t wait for further
appreciation.
The hon. sec. of the Child Study Association
asks me to say that 123 Elizabeth-street, Sydney,
is the address to which donations in aid of that
charity may be sent.
From the Roycroft Library comes a beautiful
bunch of Christmas remembrancers, chiefly in
the form of calendars. The Maxfield-Parrish
Blotters are seen at the Library in all
their comely perfection ; and in Austra-
lian work there are beautiful specimens of
wattle post-cards, as well as the Australian Bird
Calendar, in which the kangaroo hops over the
Southern Cross and the magpie chortles in the
epacris.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.


HARDY BROTHERS,
LIMITED,
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS.
ANTIQUE SILVER
AND
OLD SHEFFIELD PLATE,
Hardy Brothers, Ltd., have just opened at their Sydney Showrooms a new department
for Antique Silver, Old Sheffield Plate and Bric-a-Brac, and have at the present time a
unique collection on view.
INSPECTION INVITED.
13 Hunter Street, Sydney
118 Queen Street, Brisbane
19 Charter House street, London.
Turn Your Boy’s Xmas
to Good Account!
That boy of yours ia a smart lad—perhaps be has the makings of a big
Engineer in him. Notice how interested he is in machinery !
Here’s your chance to set his mind working along a line that’s one of
thh best paying in the world—Engineering !
Give him a real working model for Christmas—not a toy merely, but
instructive as well. We have just out a fine range of
OVER
Ele«stric Trains,
Dreadnoughts,
Cinematographs,
Steam Trams,
Aeroplanes,
Magic Lanterns,
£tc. f etc.
*s,
It t°lls all about them!
Send for our Free Illustrated Catalogue now
(Formerly Osborn & Jerdan),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS
George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney.
QNB
more
riarht
A Notable Sydney Business Development.
5 of the masft: tfernarkable instances of successful enterprise to be found in Sydney is the well-known business of
V. Saunders; Jeweller and Silversmith. So rapid has the growth of this business become, So urgent the cry for
space and‘room, that in place of the premises formerly occupied, a magnificent building has been erected
onnosite .Sydney’s Central Bail wav station. The floor space alone covers an area of over
7
A.SAU!miey
ft
m
ASAUKDERS
a
12,000 square feet, laid
out In magnificent
showrooms, optical con-
sulting rooms, waiting
rooms, etc., lofty, light
and air>% every item
conducive to the com-
fort and enjoyment of
visitors, from the rapid
American tube system
of transmitting cash, to
the delightfully unique
style of electric light-
ing. Massive stairways
lead to a series of
modern, up-to-date
offices, engraving rooms
watchmakers’ rooms,
repairing departments,
etc., and finely situated
hulk rooms arranged to
carry the largest stock
of jewellery and silver-
plate this side of the
equator. Finally, the
building (surmounted
by a flat roof) is
finished by a hand-
some clock tower
rearing; high to the sky and soon to become a noted city landmak. The 250 feet frontage to George
and Quay Streets embrace 18 magnificent windows of British roll-plateglass, each window filled with delight-
ful goods representing the firm’s various departments, such as jewellery, silverplate, toilet goods, leather
goods, watches, clocks, art china, optical goods, etc. Verandahs on the Cantilever principal encircle the whole
frontage, thus enabling an uninterrupted view of interesting window displays, and a refreshing shade from light and
glare. Lastly, the magnificent stock of goods procured by this popular firm for the opening of their building, and
to cope with the rush of the Christmas trade is wonderful. The very latest and best goods obtainable in the world’s
markets have been procured with a view to making the opening of these new premises a memorable event, when
there will be on view the most attractive displays of Christmas presents in the Southern Hemisphere. A visit of
inspection will be an education, and the address is A. Saunders, Jeweller, George Street, Sydney.
The Pen is Mightier Than the Sword,
but ...
THE FOUNTAIN PEN
IS MIGHTIER THAN BOTH.
THR “WARRIOR” Fountain Pen.
The Pen YOU will eventually buy. Price 7/6 Post Free.
Made in England expressly for the N.S.W. BOOKSTALL CO.
Fitted with 14=carat Gold Nib ; Iridium=pointed. EACH PEN GUARANTEED.
THE feed of this pen is based on the most scientific principles, and ensures
a steady flow of ink, which is one of the secrets of a popular pen. The
greatest care is bestowed on the working parts of this pen. The result
is that, as a writing instrument, it is perfect, being entirely reliable, and, as
its name implies, a Warrior ”in the foremost fighting-line of Fountain Pens.
Our experience in the Fountain Pen trade extends over a period of 12
years. During this time we have handled pens made by the leading English,
American and Continental Manufacturers, and are, therefore, in a position to
know all the points worth knowing about these goods. In placing the
“ Warrior” Fountain Pen on the market, we have achieved the pinnacle of
our ambition in the pen world : that is, to offer a pen of the highest merit at a
figure within the reach of all. We therefore claim for the “Warrior” Pen
that it is the best pen offered at the price, 7/6.
NIBS—FINE, MEDIUM and BROAD.
“THE SWIFT” SELF-FILLING PEN.
“By far the Best Fountain Pen I ever used is ‘ THE
SWIFT’ Self=filler ” — writes A. G. Hales, the well-
known Australian War Correspondent.
PRICE 7/6 Post Free.
IT is quite different to other Fountain Pens. It needs no filler! Has no
parts to perish ! No complicated mechanism ! No rubber bag-! No twists
or turns ! You simply pull out a piston ! Just like a syringe! Nothing
to get out of order or wear out inside of two years. The nib is *est quality,
14-carat gold. Any style of point. We can fit your hand exactly! The ink
feeds top and bottom of the nib. This ensures an absolutely even flow whether
you write lightly or heavily, with thick or thin strokes.
“ The Swift” pen writes equally well with plain, red, copying or Indian
Inks ! We guarantee that “ The Swifb ” pen will never give you a moment’s
trouble ! It takes no longer to fill “ The Swift ” than to dip an ordinary pen !
It cannot leak in the pocket if you use our patent clips. You cannot ink your
fingers ! It is just the pen for Doctors, Professional Men and Travellers, being
so clean to use and easily refilled from any inkpot.
The Price is only 7/6. COME IN AND TRY ONE !
We want to convince you it’s better than the one you are using I
NIBS—FINE, MEDIUM and BROAD.
Our Fountain Pens are the Best Value in Australia.
as
ONLY OBTAINABLE FROM
N.S.W. Bookstall Co
476 George Street, Sydney, Opposite q. v. Markets.
lfflflUiiMii»nMfl}nP HlUllilllu WinP
iflwmrc
W iPm
mu
m 0
m
An Enjoyable
Dinner - - -
depends largely on
the quality of the
cooking !
When you partake of a
“ Sargent ” Dinner
there is a delicacy of
flavor —a goodness
that instantly reveals
the culinary skill of a
superior chef*
a-96
ss>
Every conceivable idea that forethought could suggest to make
dining perfect has been carried out by Sargents' for the comfort
of patrons. Moderate Tariff.
SPECIALTIES: Wedding Cakes. Pastry. Pies.
Sargents’ Ltd.,
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High=Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
(’Phone—Office, 3559;
Cafe, 1876; Catering-, 4250).
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St,
(Phone—City 1344).


“P.D.”
Corsets
Promote
Health.
The evils arising
from crude cor=
setrie may readily
be avoided by ex=
ercising proper
care in the selec=
tion of your
corsets.
Royal
P.D
/c£%
vE y
<■£
m
Rustless Corsets
tend to promote health rather than injure
it. They do this by Imparting a correct
figure, allowing every orgau its proper
freedom, which s impossible when your
skirts have not a firm support from which
to depend. The graceful carriage resulting
from the wearing of “P.D.” Corsets is as
beneficial to health as it is desirable from
the artistic standpoint.
Ask your draper to show you the new
Season’s models—and refuse all substitutes.
TRADE
ET
y)
MARK.
Mm.
9®SB«F iK:
1
“*■
■■
-,,
B
SQVJhRE -TREAD TVS
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, December 5, 1910.
Mr Dear Yarrie. —
Governor Carmichael and his lady, with niece
Ena and a posse of lucky aides, have been strol-
ling round Lake Tyers", where the aboriginal sits
down under civilised supervision. The party
visited him one day, and Brother Bill, who loves
ceremony and show, greeted his Ex. as a brother.
In the neighborhood Carmichael, the natu-
ralist, found any amount of small things
that appealed to him. At the school he
gave an exhibition of how to feed a mantis
—the absurd insect that pretends to be engaged
in prayer until a smaller insect comes within
range of its armored forelegs. After the mantis
had been scientifically filled, the cavalcade went
along to the beautiful home of Captain Roderick
Howe, a retired Indian military man. The Cap-
tain married Miss Hilda Greene, whose people
belong to the lovely Lake country. Mrs. Howe
dispensed strawberries, while the visitors praised
the view arid admired the two babies. A few
days later, the mantis feeding vice-regals paid
another visit to Brother Bill’s head-quarters.
This time the Carmichael lady went laden with
prizes, which she subsequently distributed among
the merry “ picks.”
Since the recent severe illness of the Little
Countess, the chances of a Dudley Coronation
trip are said to have faded considerably. There
is a gentle murmur in the breeze that the Dudleys
will just stay solidly on till August, and that two
comprehensive dances —one in Sydney and ’tother
in Melbourne—will wind up their social G. G-ing.
The Earl of Rutland’s name has been men-
tioned once or twice by Mrs. Rumor. But with
English politics in their present state, the job of
the prophet is a precarious one.
Manager Meynell—huge, florid and triumphant
—is back again with the Gay Gordons, and
is already busy getting them ready to show
at Christmas. Meynell had a hot time
on the other side, buying rights and book-
ing stars —among them Ethei Irving. She
is to twinkle in May. Lewis Waller has been
nailed for 1912. His son and daughter-in-law
(Ethel Warwick) have been with the Clarke-
Meynell firm for some time.
Clarence Weber, the beauteous young strong
man, has been called in to train Lord Dudley in
the way of physical culture ; so it looks as though
the G.-G. were going back soon to take part in
British politics and the defence of the House of
Lords. The Greek god goes to Government
House every day and lures the G.-G. on to
weight-lifting, etc., with massage to follow. His
Ex. is not as yet red-hot on the work, but Cap-
tain Rome is a most enthusiastic pupil. He has
already added four cubits or inches or something
to his chest-measurement, and is still swelling
visibly.
Tait of the Cigar departed last week, leaving
the Victorian Railways in charge of new Commis-
sioner Fitzpatrick, who has spent most of his life
in the service and knows it like an A B C primer.
As General Traffic-Manager, Fitzpatrick for years
worked hard and said little; and his lift to the
top of the signal post has been earned by many
years of good service. Tait, after being sumptu-
ously dined and farewelled during the week, went
aboard the Otranto with Mrs. Tait and daughter
Winnie. In a last speech, he said he wished
every Victorian railway man (not every Vic-
torian, mind you !)“ prosperity and happiness.”
Through some oversight, “shorter hours” was
not included in the wish. The Victorians pre-
sent who were not connected with railways, and the
ones who had never been in a collision and had
escaped being flung against a dead end, there-
upon called the family petrol-ambulance and said
“ Home !” in a hollow voice.
Last Saturday evening, Cugnet, in his Bleriot,
fled across Melbourne Cricket Ground, flew into a
narrow opening between two high walls, failed to
clear the iron spikes of a fence and crashed on to
the asphalt of a tennis court. The thrill lasted
just seven seconds. The flight was originally
programmed for 3 o’clock ; but the attempt was
not made until 6.45. When it was observed that
the flags were hanging limply on the poles,
Cugnet came out dressed like a pilot who expects
rough weather. (It seems that aviators get
drenched with oil thrown back from the engine
unless they wear some protecting garb.) The hope-
ful band played the “ Marseillaise,” and Cugnet
mounted the machine and waved to some friends
on the stand. Ercole, the mechanic, gave
a turn to the propeller in front, and the
aeroplane glided along the grass, turned sharply—
and stopped. But the show wasn’t over yet.
The machine was brought back and placed facing
due west. Then the motor was started again;
but the aviator stopped once more and waved his
hand at the sun, which had blazed suddenly
through a bank of clouds, throwing a glare
straight into the opening through which he hoped
to fly. The crowd, which had done some laughing
before, laughed again, forgetting that the man was
not on an open plain, but in a sort of saucer,
with only one narrow outlet. The ’plane got
to work all right and rose gracefully, but
it rose a few inches too little. Cugnet
stepped out of the wreckage unhurt, the
crowd rushed across the carefully-prepared
wickets, and I came away. Had he got through
to the open park beyond, probably a good flight
would have turned the scoffers to enthusiasts. The
’plane is not the very latest Bleriot model, but an
exact replica of the one on which the famous flier
swooped across the Channel.
News of Fan Dango’s marriage to S. P. Mackay,
of Berwick, Melbourne, flickers through from the
overgrown village by the Thames. Mackay is a
well-known Australian sport; he owned Soultine
when that horse won the Newmarket Handicap
last year; also he has big woolly and mining
interests in Westralia. He is a tall, fine-looking
man with pepper-and-salt hair, and he used to
haunt the tracks of the dainty Dango in Australian
cities. To the theatre people be was known
generally as “ Miss Dango’s Widower.” But he
wasn’t exactly a widower.
Fan Dango, it seems, is now remotely con-
nected, through her husband’s property, with
poet Louis Esson and his half-brother, Frank
Brown. That is to say, the Melville Park estate,
formerly belonged to Mr. Gibbs, the third hus-
band of Mrs. Gibbs, who was previously Mrs.
Esson and Mrs. Brown.
Ordinary mortals flock up to the Gallery to say
sarcastic things anent the smallness of the ex-
pensive Watteau, while artistically-inclined souls
gloat over the few precious inches of canvas
and try to see something unusually fine in
the young man in the foreground. That
same young man looks mighty uncomfortable.
The only apparent reason for his uneasiness seems
to lie in' the fact that he is wearing a pair of old
faded pyjamas instead of ordinary clothes. There
is, however, some consolation for the bitterest
critic, for the trustees have just made the place
comfortable with new seats of some beautiful
Queensland wood, and upholstered in green
leather.
Teddy bears and golliwogs are out of date in
the nursery, and the pink-cheeked doll has come
back to her own. Dolls that have been accumu-
lating dust in the far-back corners of the play-
room cupboard are once more being smoothed and
petted and told to be good—or careful. So the
Malvern mayoral people, who happen to be the
Alex. McKinleys, last week organised a Doll Fete,
which raged all Friday and Saturday. The pro-
ceedsand the unsold dolls were afterwards trundled
towards the Children’s Hospital and the sick
babies therein. The little show went with a rush,
as the Tooraketty dames took the thing up
enthusiastically.
R.C. Archbishop Carr has recently suffered a
bereavement. His sister, an Ursuline nun, has
left an Irish convent for a higher existence. The
deceased lady was a professed nun for 52 years,
and for more than a quarter of a century was in
spiritual command of her retreat.
The St. Kilda Howard Smiths are in mourning
for the death of Mrs. Horne, who was Mrs. Smith’s
sister. Her husband, one of the several medical
Hornes, died only five or six months ago, and the
widow never held her head up afterwards. “Dr.
Dick” died at Broken Hill. Now there are two
graves side by side in the dusty cemetery among
the saltbush and the mulga.
Senator Curly and Mrs. Keating hurried across
Bass Strait the other day from their Launceston
home for a summer voyage round to the Golden,
but panicky, West. Possibly he wants to have a
look at a finch or two. I hear the birds had a bad
turn the other day.
Mrs. William Biisst, the wife of one of the
musical Biissts, is departing this week for Ger-
many, where the sonata grows wild. On Friday
there was a farewell At Home at Paris Cafe ; and
Saturday was made notable by an immense party
at “ The Dollar Princess.”
A brand-new engagement is that between May
Hepburn, one of the prettiest of South Yarra
damsels, and Norman McGeorge, a gilded youth
who has long been in the eye of matrons with
marriageable daughters. He is a conspicuous
glider at the Glaciarium. Both he and the lady
dabble in Art, and devote many hours to the Gal-
lery. The visible link of the engagement is a
wonderful emerald ring, which has been copied
from an antique circlet in the Museum.
Clyde Meynell brings his wife and daughter
with him from England this time. Mrs. Meynell
is a confirmed invalid. The daughter is a pretty
girl of 20, or less.
The Norman Menzies pair and the kiddies are
returning on the 17th from their six months’jaunt
to the colder countries.
Comedian Cromwell’s benefit at the Royal was
a breathlessly successful affair. He wasn’t in any
particular need of a benefit, but Melbourne felt
it couldn’t part with him without throwing a few
bouquets, so the big house in Bourke-street was
crammed to the doors. Most people thought it
was to be a last good-bye ; but, at the end of the
show, Cromwell gently broke the news that he
intended to return later on under the Clarke-
Meynell management. The Protector himself
contributed several of his most popular scraps,
and mummers from every Melbourne stage
skipped, strode and floated on, and gave the best
they had.
Saw a small farce for three characters in the
stalls t’other night. A girl, whilst furtively dab-
bing powder on her nose, dropped her bag on the
floor. The light was dim, but her faithful escort
promptly doubled himself up and groped for the
spilt property. At this stage, a dignified old lady
in the seat behind became hysterically agitated and
started to rain Jas. J. Jeffries love-taps on the
hunched shoulders of the young man, who seemed,
to the onlookers, to be having a hard tussle. “ Let
go at once ! ” cried the furious old lady at last. The
dazed youth straightened up with something
clutched tightly in his hand. “Give it to me,
sir ! ” chattered’ the old lady. The boy gave one
glance at his prize, and shoved it at her. He had
wrenched off the matron’s shoe !
Professor Henry Lingham broke out in melo-
monodrama at the Austral Salon last Tuesday
night. He appeared in three scenelets, attired in
Greek costume, and wearing many stage jewels.
The first scenelet was a mixture of Christian
belief and Greek mythology. Frequent mention
was made of a Chorus of Nymphs; but they
failed to appear, to the bitter disappointment of
the male part of the audience. “Fonteius
Capito ” was supposed to lurk behind some very
modern screens, whilst Markus Antonius wrote
a long one to his “ Dear Serpent of the Nile
otherwise Cleopatra spelt with a “K.” Explana-
tory notes were sprayed all over the programme.
One or two of them had apparently been mis-
placed by a baffled comp., but it really didn’t
matter.
The sporting Suffragettes in Fogtown are exult-
ing over the victory of Miss Leitch, a 19-year-old
golfer, who beat H. H. Hilton, an ex-amateur
and open champion, in a specially-arranged match
at the swaggah Walton Heath links. The superior
males of the Victoria Links (Melbourne) will not
allow a woman to whirl a club over their con-
veniently-situated domain, and my sex resents it
strongly. Perhaps the conquest of the Leitch
lady will convince them that we cm play the
game, after all.
Pictures dealing with the French rail way strike in
October are worth looking at; the display of ankles
is wonderful. You see, crowds of Frenchwomen
were forced to walk and the weather was muddy.
So the French photographers took most of their
strike pictures at street corners. Some of the
motor-cars that helped to smash the railway men’s
chances were almost as luxurious and comfortable
as the special trains that kings hurry about in to
the openings of bazaars; there were wheeled
sleeping cabins, dining rooms, and observation
cars, with every convenience and nothing to worry
about except the vengeance of some hungry rail-
way worker.
Some time back a blessing from Heaven de-
scended upon the family of a well-known press-
man here in the shape of a perfect servant. Jane
was so excellent a handmaiden that the family
used to brag about her just as the neighbors
bragged about their babies, and the rejoicings
blasted many a home with envy. Jane had one
trifling fault—she could not be persuaded to
remember to bring in the early-morning paper.
But that deficiency was overlooked in considera-
tion of her abounding virtues—till one morning,
when the housewife happened to be abroad
earlier than usual, she heard the rustl-
ing of paper in Jane’s room. She pushed
open the door. There was a man luxuri-
ously disposed in bed, reading the daily. On
a chair, easy and accessible, was a tray with
hot coffee, two light-boiled eggs and sundries.
Jane, being called, was furious at the intrusion.
“I’ll not'submit to a mistress poking her nose
into my affairs,” she said. “ I’ll leave at once !
Naturally. The man left, too. He took the eggs
with him. Jane didn’t even trouble to tell the
truth that the gent, in the bed was her husband
a weary spirit who did not see the need of mak-
ing provision for himself when his wife cou ®
provide a comfortable home for him bv the trifling
expedient of leaving an open window.
The children of the late minor poetess, Jennings
Carmichael (Mrs. Muliis), are due in Melbourne
in a day or so. They are aboard the s.s. Norse-
man, and will be met on the vessel’s arrival by the
committee which raised the fund to redeem them
from pioverty.
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide :
His Ex. went to Kangaroo Island the other day and
opened a new jetty at Kingscote. Sassiety flocks to the
island in such bulk every summer that the place had to
get a new jetty in self-defence.
The boat that carried Mr. and Mrs. Aide Wright to
Britain bore the vice-regal daughter Beatrice to Malta.
She is going to visit a brother whose regiment is stationed
Gilbert Wood, son of the Peter Woods, brought back a
wife from Parramatta (N.S.W.) recently. She was a
Miss Ritchie. The twain have taken a house at Medindie.
Meantime the bridegroom’s people are inviting the world
to meet the new daughter-in-law at an “At Home at
their pretty place at Burnside.
The Conservatoire gave a concert on Monday, tne
vocal sensation of the evening was provided by Mr.
Charlton, a pleasant-looking boy, with so much soul in
his warble that the Elder Hall was nearly washed away
by the tears of his audience. His voice is a baritone of
great beauty and promise. Misses May Chamberlain and
Hilda Wheeler also collected some singing honors, and
Mr. Bevan’s song-birds committed a psalm, which the
audience had really done nothing to deserve. Dr. Vice-
Chancellor Barlow handed out a selection of guineas to
the prize-winners for the year, among whom there was a
curious preponderance of Marys. Every girl who won a
prize was Mary, plain or garnished.
There is much sorrow over the sudden death of pretty
little Mrs. Dave Fulton in Sydney the other day. She
was EflSe Melrose, one of Adelaide’s beauty-girls. Pathetic
features of the case are that one brother and the mother
died only a short time ago, and Mr. Melrose and the two
unmarried daughters are now away in Europe. Mr. and
Mrs. Fulton motored across to Melbourne for the Cup.
Then she went on to Sydney while he went into camp at
Albury. He was called from there to her bedside, the
pneumonia fiend having gripped her. .
Miss Hilda Felstead, a melodious Adelaide girl, has
been getting vocal culture in London of late, and at the
same time acting' as a sub-professor of singing' at Trinity
College. She has now been persuaded to change her pro-
fession—and her name, the man in the case being a South
American engineer. Engineers must, run riot in South
America. This is the second who has recently run over
to London, and swooped on a South Australian damsel.
Miss Felstead expects to come home and see Adelaide
before committing matrimony.
Arthur Adams’s “Doctor Death” and Pierrot in
Australia,” are to be given at the Unley City Hall this
month. The box-plan is already looking fat and satisfied.
Mr. Frederick Bevan’s choral angels are giving a secret
performance of “Trial by Jury” this week. But, alas .
the public can only view the same by gumming its counte-
nance to the window, the seraphim being both audience
and artists. The thing is a kind of friendly break-up
party among the angels themselves.
Harold Parsons, who teaches’cello students at the Oon-
servatorium to draw the long' bow, was busy getting mar-
ried to Miss Helen Wreford when this letter left Adelaide.
Arthur Williamson, a pianist of renown, also a sizeable
organist, cable back recently from a year’s browse on the
musical pastures of Europe. He brought with mm four
of his original songlets, published in Britain. The best
of them is “The Blue Flame,” a quaint and haunting
ditty, and there is also a very charming setting to
“ Where Go the Boats,” from Robert Louis Stevenson s
“Child’s Garden of Verses.” T’others are “The Thrush ”
and “ Sea-way,” both tuneful and goqdly.
Wit is positively seething in our dear old Legislative
Council. Just listen to this : “ In the Legislative Council
on Tuesday the Hon. J. Warren asked—(l) Is it the in-
tention of the Government to move for a Board or Boards
to regulate the hours during which wives may attend to
their household duties and mothers to their infants?
(2) If not, why not? The Minister of Industry (Hon. J.
Wilson) replied: The Government do not propose to
move for a Board or Boards for the purpose indicated ;
but should the hon. member be desirous of so doing, he
will be afforded an opportunity after the Council has
dealt with the Wages Boards’ propositions which have
been on the notice paper for the last 13 weeks, together
with the additional propositions that, have lately been
received from the House of Assembly.” .
The Society of Arts entertained its friends at the
Federal Exhibition the other night. There was a string
band to drown the groans of the artists, and a supper to
revive them in case they were starving—a very necessary
precaution considering the fewness of the sales. Some
presidents and people received the guests and drifted
round the room with his Ex. Among those present were
no millionaires or fat cheque-books. A
The Glenelg Sailing. Club opened its season the other
Saturday, and a large crowd was given tea at the Kiosk,
to reward it for its arduous work of looking at stray
craft meandering aimlessly over the brine.
The Yarra and the Parramatta arrived at the Sema-
phore on Monday, and numbers went down to the sea in
trains and motor-cars and things to give them a welcom-
ing cheer. It was in Adelaide some 18 months ago, that Mr.
Joseph Cook denounced these same destroyers as futile
craft, fit only for work on rivers, creeks and such like un-
troubled waters. Learning that the vessels had not only
journeyed from England, but passed through some stiff
blows on the trip, the natives’trust in Mr. Cook as a
naval expert slumped severely.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
Thus Solemn Lee in theN.S. W. Assembly:
Notwithstanding that the rolls were collected in
January, it was lamentable to find that when the elections
took place in October there were hundreds, if not
thousands, of voters left off the roll. . . I have been told,
not by one but by many electors, that they sent in their
names, yet their n.ames never appeared on the roll. 1
know cases where ft was brought under the notice of the
local authority and when he has been taxed,with the
matter he has'stated that the names were actually sent to
Sydney on the roll, but yet they never appeared on the
printed roll. The whole thing is as bad as it can possibly be.
In niy own booth at Casino, when I was there on poll-
ing dav, not less than 100 people came into the Doothand
then found they were not on the roll. Some of them
were residents of the district for 20 ,\ears, and then
names always appeared on the roll ; but on this occasion,
for some unknown reason, they were left off the roll.
And Solemn Lee, the man who had thus proved
what rotten administrators he and the other ex-
Ministers were, actually had the nerve to pro-
pose at the opening of Parliament that the new
lot should be thrown out before being given a
trial to allow the same old blundering incompe-
tents to come back again.
From a Brisbane daily ‘
a WELL-TO-DO Hindoo, aged 32, with good pro-
■A. perty, wishes to correspond with a ycmng'''onu
between 20 and 30 with view to matrimony , property
may be inspected if desired. Address - >
South Brisbane. .
This is putting it pretty plainly, anyhow, »tiu,
might be plainer. For instance
-tttANTED to Buv one white woman, for the pur-
W pose of breeding- mongrel Hindoo-Austrahans.
No money will actually be paid for the woman but
she may inspect her Hindoo’s property. Later on,
there will probably be a row over the property. Then
she may have the further joy of being . hacked to
pieces the same as Mrs. Dost Mohamed, who also mar
ried a well-to-do Hindoo. Apply
While the well-to-do Hindoo is waiting for
his bargain, Australian Parliaments might do
worse than consider the wisdom of providing a
little gaol for (1) parsons who affect mongrel mar-
riages ; (2) persons (including newspapers) which
aid and abet the outrage.
Speaking on the second reading of the
NS.W. Electoral Act Amendment Bill, which
provided for one-man-one-vote and the abolition
of the “ propputy ” vote (30/9/’9O) Jokarruthers
said (page 4129 Hansakd) :
The great enemies of the Liberal programme have not
been those who have intelligence and reason, but those
of whom the hon. member spoke—the monopolists and
others who have more than a fair share of the good
things of this earth.
How keen, then, must have been Joke’s disap-
pointment when ill-health prevented him lately
from assisting Wade, Jock Garland, Henley and
other great persons to fight for the Liberal pro-
gramme against Pat McGarry and the other
monopolists “ who have more than their fair share
of the good things of this earth.” One sighs for
the good old times when one thinks of these
bloated monopolists grabbing 20s. a week with
tucker or 50s. b» week without tucker from
struggling people like the C.S.R., the Bank of
N.S.W. and Sam McCaughey.
The S. Aus. Parliament has suddenly
arisen and wiped out the “ bona-fide traveller,”
who could call for his pint. The five-miles limit
is a mile or so short of the distance from Adelaide
to each of the sea-beach resorts, and hundreds
have made the journey just for the sake of getting
liquor that could not be had close at home ; and,
naturally, having travelled so far to get it, they
mostly took more than one. A manifesto from
Goodman, manager of the Tramway Trust,
settled the question. In spite of his name, he is
no Wowser, and when he said that the Trust was
tired of carrying home loads of tipsy revellers every
Sunday night, that turned the scale. Anamend-
-ment limiting the new publess-Sunday idea to the
city district was lost; so was another which, by a
savage counter-thrust, tried to stop all cool
drinks. Now the. completely publess Sunday is
to be a feature of the S.A. summer. And the
Wowser, who, apparently, hasn’t heard of the
Sunday picnic clubs of Sydney and Maoriland,
thinks he has abolished Sunday beer.


i mm. \
*££ sU NNUAL
■B
I
m
•5$
: t ■
V M
BOY’S OWN ANNUAL, 6s. 9d.
GIRL’S OWN ANNUAL, 6s. 9d.
YOUNG AUSTRALIA, 4s. 6d.
HAND BAGS in all the newest leathers and
shades. Peggy Bags, 4s. 6d., ss. 6d., 7s. 6d.
upwards Vas illustrated, to 70s. The Cir-
cuius 1* Bag, in polished crushed Morocco,
325. 6d. The “Ritz” Shopping Bag Puma
leather, 17s. 6d., 21s. The “Vanity Muff
Bag, comfortable and practical, 13s. 6d. to 255.
Our stock of Bags is the best assorted in Vic-
toria ; our prices, quality considered, are the
lowest.
pi
BONNET WHISKS, in untarnishable white
metal, 6s. 6d. each ; same style Ladies’ Hair
Brushes, 10s. 6d.,125. 6d. ; Gentlemen’s Hair
Brushes, 8s . 6d. , 10s. 6d ; Hat Brushes, 3s. 9d.;
Clothes Brushes, 7s. 6d.
BRIDGE SETS, in linen-covered boxes,
ss. Oil., 6s. (id. upwards; in leather-covered
boxes, Bs. 6d. upwards. Each set contains two
packs cards, two scorers, and rules.
BELT BUCKLES, plain, 2s. 9d. ; spotted
enamel, 3s. 6d. ; floral designs, 3s. lid.; others
from Is. 9d. upwards.
GENT.’S GTJNMETAL WATCH, English
Lever, guaranteed for two years. Excellent
timekeeper. 225. 6d.
WORK BASKETS, Satin-lined,
Dainty Shades, 7s. 6d., 10s. Gd.,
upwards.
CARRIAGE WATCH, in leather
case, for travelling, 255., 305.,
355. each.
STERLING SILVER PENHOLDERS, 4s. 6d., ss. Gd., upwards.
Gift Problem
What is the best thing to give? This is the
difficulty of Gift-Giving, and it is to ASSIST OUR CUS
TOMERS to solve the problem that our Special Gift List
of 110 illustrated pages and index has been prepared.
We will be pleased to mail you a copy on receipt of
your request.
The List is suggestive rather than exhaustive
—as a matter of fact, new things suitable for presentation
purposes are constantly being added.
Everything is strictly up-to-date, and
there is much that is exclusive and out of the ordinary.
Our extensive and careful preparations make it easy for you
to select an acceptable and artistic present for every
occasion.
Our friends out of town may order their
presents by post, with the assurance that their instructions
will be rigidly adhered to by our Country Order Staff.
Goods carefully selected, faithfully packed and promptly
despatched.
THE MUTUAL
' ■ ; ; , , •-? . .
Melbourne’s Leading Department Store, (
Opposite FLINDERS STREET STATION
Where Everything is the Best by Actual Test.
FOUNTAIN PENS—“SWAN,” 10s. 6d. upwards ; the Gold-mounted, 11.. hd.,
MOORE’S NON-LEAK ABLE, 14s. Gd. upwards; WATERMAN, 12s. Gd.,
“GLOBE,” 3s. 9d. ; “ STYLOGRAPHIO,” 2s. upwards each.
COMBS, in Shell and White, with White Metal Mount,
4s. 6d., 4s. lid.
1
iai
is
. r
MOTOR OARS, fitted with “Moko” Springs, very
strong, is., Is. 6d., Is. lid. to 10s. fid.
Ask
for
the
Gift
List
SHAVING SETS, Single
Glass, with Cups and
Brush, 225. 6d.
SHAVING SETS,Double
Glass, with Cups and
Brush, 30s.
THE EMPIRE ANNUAL FOR GIRLS,
3s. fid.
THE EMPIRE ANNUAL FOR BOYS,
3s. Gd.
REWARD BOOKS, for Boys nnd Girls, by
Popular Authors, Is., Is. Gd. to 6s.
TRICYCLES, Girls’, 325. 6c1., 355., 425.
VELOCIPEDES, Boys’, 10s. 6d., 12s. 6d.,
14s. 6d., 175., 215., to 325. 6d., with and
without rubber tyres.
PIN BOXES, Metal, Nickel, Celluloid,
Plush, etc., 9d., Is., Is. 6d. up.
I'^.
LADIES’ CARD CASES, to match Hand
Bags, black, 2s. 6d. upwards; colors,
4s. 6d. upwards.
/
xm
SHAVING MUG, Nickel, with Heater,
17s. 6d. ; without Heater, 7s. 6d., 10s.
upwards.
SHAVING CASES, 10s., 155., 17s. 6d. up.
SHAVING TIDIES, Is. 6d., 2s. 6d. up.
HAND MIRRORS, Nickel Rims, 2s. 6d.>
2s. lid., 3s. fid., 4s.
SHAVING MIRRORS, Double Glass, Mag-
nifying and Ordinary, 6s. fid., Bs. 6d.
upwards.
WORK AND ETUI SETS, with Fittings.
Is. 9d., 2s. 9d., 3s. 9d., 55., 7s. Gd. to 15s.


A REMINDER.
Of what does a bad taste in the mouth remind
you ? It indicates that your stomach is in a bad
condition and will remind you that there is nothing
so good for such disorders as Chamberlain’s
Tablets. They cleanse and invigorate the stomach
and regulate the bowels.*
CHERRY BLOSSOM is a Boot
Polish that will fully realise
your expectations. It is the pro-
duct of a life time’s experience,
and is known and used in practi-
cally every part of the British
Empire.
Cherry Blossom Boot Polish
is sold in 3d. and 6d. tins—Black
and Tan—the largest on the
market at the price. If you have
any difficulty in securing l it,
V »,
write direct to us, and we will see that you are supplied
immediately.
Manasrinff Asrents for Australia :
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Aching Back,
The bane alike of the housewife and of the
working man. In some cases every movement of
the body is accompanied by a sharp stabbing pain
in the small of the back, and in others the pain is
dull and continuous. These are symptoms of
kidney disease. Arrest its progress by using Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which will act in a surpris-
ingly prompt manner. Price Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.*
The Australian-invented beverage, “O.T.,”is
being strenuously boomed on the London market as “ an
absolutely new type, eclipsing all beverages both with and
without alcohol.” So far, common beer is keeping its end
up ; but the hustling'Australian who is pushing the red
chillie essence through the fogs reckons that when the
public gets the “0.T.” habit the breweries will have to
pawn their vats to keep the bailiffs out.*
LIFE’S LITTLE THINGS.
If you were able to live just right all the time
there would be little need for medicine, less need
for doctors. But some little thing is constantly
coining along to put us out of balance—exposure,
change of diet or drinking water, irregular meals
are little things that will at times upset the best
of us. Nothing particular the matter, but we
don’t feel good. At such times the wise among us
will take a few doses of Chamberlain’s Tablets
with certain knowledge that they will put us
right right away.*
The pleasure and healthy effects of outdoor
recreation and exercise, to which the advent of summer
invites both old and young, can be materially increased
by the use of Scrubb’s Cloudy Ammonia. A little of the
Ammonia is effectual in the hardest water, and its action
upon the body, exhausted with unusual exercise, is most
refreshing and invigorating. For nursery use during the
warm weather Scrubb’s soap is a boon to the mother.*
Laxo-Tonic Pills
Are both laxative and tonic in action. They do
not gripe, but do their work quickly, effectively
and painlessly. Sold at 10|d. and Is. fid. *
ECZEMA-THE
SKIN SCOURGE.
+
This Man Tortured Night and
Day—Cured by Rich
New Blood.
♦
Eczema is one of the most torturing of skin dis-
orders. The burning, itching, prickling sensation
is often maddening. Sometimes persons appar-
ently healthy in every other way are attacked.
Often it is a symptom in stomach trouble, rheu-
matism, gout, or a generally low state of health.
Lotions and ointments are only of value to allay
the itching sensation. They do not cure. All the
highest medical authorities agree that a tonic is
necessary to drive the complaint from the system.
Amongst tonics Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills stand
alone. They actually make the new, good blood
that drives the impurities from the system and
leaves the skin soft and smooth as a child’s.
“For months I suffered with eczema,” said Mr.
Malachi O’Mara, 409 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne,
Victoria. “It first appeared on my arms, and
then spread all down the front of my body oh to
my thighs, and as far as the calves of my legs, in
the form of a dry scale which would rub off in a dry
powder. If I rubbed the skin hard it would go
quite raw and inflamed. I could not go to busi-
ness for some weeks. Countless tiny red pimples
with matter would push through the skin, and a
rash would come out in large patches. I might
say my body was covered with small sores, and as
fast as some would go others would come. I got
very thin. I could not eat or sleep for the terrible
itching. I was told if I took mineral water baths
I would get better, so I went to Daylesford and
took them some weeks. They didn’t do me any
good, so I bought some ointment and took sulphur,
thinking that might cure me, but it did not. It
would only stop the itching for a little while. I
grew quite ill with worry and weakness. I thought
I was permanently affected, when one day I read
that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills would cure eczema,
so I sent at once and got some, and took between
nine and 10 boxes altogether, and here is the
result: lam completely cured, and my skin is as
clear as ever it was. If it had not been for Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills I don’t think that I would
ever have got better. I am sure no one ever suf-
fered more than I did, and in curing me Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills have proved their worth—l
shall always advertise them.”
Don’t let any dealer talk you into taking some-
thing which he says is “ just as good.” If you are
pestered to take a substitute, send 2s. 9d. for one
box, or 15s. 3d. for six boxes to the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia Ltd., Sydney.*
dfa
THE LOSS
OF A LIMB
need not mean the loss of
your activity. Large num-
bers of people to-day are
comfortably pursuing their
avocations by wearing skil-
fully-constructed Artificial
Limbs. We are Makers and
Importers of the most
perfect that up-to-date
skill can produce, including
those with Rubber Hands
and Feet, which have
proved such a boon.
DENYER BROS.,
Artificial Limbs, Trusses
& Deformity Appliances,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Australia doesn’t borrow all the money for
its public works. The proposed transfer of the
Port Augusta-Oodnadatta (S.A.) railway to the
Commonwealth has led to the discovery that it
was built with :
Borrowed money £1,180,145
Out of Revenue .. .. .. 10
£1,180,155
That £lO looks very lonesome.
There may have been nothing in the
Bowling jury-packing business, and Wade’s
actions may have been all right; but, if so,
Wade did the best he could to excite suspicion.
When Meagher brought up the question last
session, Wade, instead of making an explanation
of the whole thing, tried to bluff Meagher off;
and for the rest of his life he will walk in the
shadow of a suspicion—largely created by himself
—of having played hanky-panky with the course
of justice—of having at least made sure beforehand
that the Crown would get a fair deal without
taking any unusual steps to see that the prisoner
would also get the same thing.
George Reid’s record exploits are being
eclipsed. When his financial administration was
challenged, Reid appointed a committee of experts
to go into the matter. The committee decided
that Reid’s administration was as rotten as any-
thing above ground could be; whereupon George
gaily published the report, with a footnote to the
effect that it completely cleared his character.
When Wade’s connection with the Ben Habdali
case was brought to light, that still more extra-
ordinary person explained that he had merely car-
ried out somebody else’s disgraceful scheme for
capturing the Syrian vote in Redfern, and he
added proudly that that did away with the dis-
graceful imputations, innuendoes, etc. If some-
body threw a brick at Wade and knocked off half
his head, he would immediately use the other half
to say that the brick completely cleared his
character.
Before quitting Victoria, ex-Oommissioner
Tait made an interesting statement. Pursuing
the subject of his beloved railways, he “thought
it an amazing fact that 77 per cent, of the pas-
senger traffic, apart from suburban traffic,
travelled to and from Melbourne, and that 78 per
cent, of the goods, live stock and parcels traffic
was consigned to and from Melbourne.” It is
amazing ; and then, again, it isn’t. According to
McKissock, M.L. A., it costs Bs. 3d. per ton more
to send goods from Ballarat to Hamilton direct
(123 miles) than it does to send them first to Mel-
bourne and then to Hamilton (272 miles). Under
such a schedule, it isn’t amazing that almost every-
thing tends to be railed to Melbourne. The
amazing circumstance is the management under
which such a grotesque anomaly has grown up.
“ Gallery Hand ” : Who’s the one ? Who
is this single, solitary individual so consistently
boomed as the slender barrier between the N. S.
Wales Labor Government and defeat ? When
the vote on the censure motion was taken I rushed
into the gallery to have a look at him and give
him a round of applause. There were nine of
him! Since then he has been increasing in popu-
lation so rapidly that last week he numbered up
to 25. In the sitting held on the last day of
November there were seven ordinary business
divisions taken in the Assembly, and this is how
they worked out : (1) Government majority, 25;
(2) Government majority, 21 ; (3) Government
majority, 19 ; (4) Government majority, 21; (5)
Government majority, 18; (6) Government
majority, 17 ; (7) Government majority, 22. The
only one I could see anywhere about was Wade—
he voted in only one division. He's the one !
“ Evoe ” (from Port Darwin) :
Apropos those espionage cases in England and Ger-
many. Ihe other day a German, the third mate of the
only regular coaster on Australia’s North Coast, went,
overboard for a swim, got cramp and was drowned.
*' en " ls effects were examined, it was found that he
had a first lieutenant’s discharge from the German navy,
also papers showing that he had been to Russia on behalf
of the German Government. In his cabin were three
large envelopes sealed and addressed to a Govern-
ment Department in Germany, which were forwarded to
their destination without scrutiny by an unsuspecting
lot of mariners. Of course, it might have meant nothing ;
and j’et, on the other hand, it might have meant a lot.
Two consecutive items of British election
news :
The feeling against Mr. Churchill at Sheffield was so
strong that he was guarded by 200 special police.
Mr. Churchill said their opponents were on the run and
a general scuttle had commenced.
Winston Churchill is a “ Liberal,” a Freetrader,
a prominent member of the Asquith Ministry
and an incurable optimist. Only an incurable
optimist could stand up guarded by 200 police-
men for fear the admiring populace should tear
him asunder, and declare that his opponents
were fleeing in all directions.
The wrangle about the four Independent
members of theN.S.W. Assembly who voted with
the Government over the censure motion is a
weariness. It is alleged that debate is useless
these days because the Labor party votes solidly
and refuses to listen to argument; also that David
Storey should have voted solidly for Wade and
not listened to argument. It is also complained
that Parliament has ceased to be a deliberative
body because the Laborites alwaj's have their
minds made up beforehand ; and the people who
say this threaten Storey with political extinction
because he didn’t have his mind made up before-
hand to go the way Wade wanted him. So it is
a tangled case.
Premier John Weary, of Victoria, may be
in trouble at any moment. It is the corner
Liberals who are tired now—tired of the Premier’s
tiredness. The straw that broke many backs was
his weak truckling to the country Tories in the
matter of extending Wages Boards to cover the
whole State, and many of them would welcome
almost any temporary combination that would
oust him. He could still save himself bv fighting
the Landlords over their vital amendments to his
Electoral Bill ; but he collapsed like a dishclout
when a similar scuffle was called for last June,
and it doesn’t look as if he had any more fight in
him now than he had then.
Geelong’s Harbor Trust is appealing to
John Murray to help it out of a trouble. The
Trust—one of the several energetic things that
Geelong owns—is authorised to carry on farming,
slaughtering, freezing, etc. But it is also com-
pelled by its Act—or at least the Crown Solicitor
says it is—to pay into the consolidated revenue
one-fifth of its gross receipts; and, of course, it
can’t do this and carry on its industrial work.
The Act went through the “ House of Review ”
all right, but this clause wasn’t noticed ; though
if there had been a similar proviso in a Private
Enterprise Bill—say the one the Tram Co. works
under—every landlord’s eye would have fallen
on it at once. Even as a House of Review, the
landlords seem to be mostly concerned in seeing
that their fellow-Fatmen don’t make a bad bar-
gain. When it comes to saving a public authority
from making a bad bargain, their eyesight gets as
dull as their wits.
THE POLISHED HERO AND THE DOWN-
TRODDEN VILLAIN.
The Labor Ministry in power in the Federal Parliament
had the effrontery—he (Mr. Wade) called it the wicked-
ness—to want the people of this State to hand over New
South Wales to a Commonwealth of one great Federal
Government.
THE POLISHED HERO (played by Mr. C. G. Wade,
who has had great experience in acting hero
parts): “Ha ! Wants to grow up, does he!
Gur-r-rse him! I will fr-r-rustr-rate his
wicked scheme.”
The Powletfc (Vic.) miners and other citi-
zens gave a cold reception to the Select Committee
of the House of Fat when that body went along
to investigate the working of the State mine.
The Wonthaggi Progress Association notified that
it saw no need to give any evidence, while the
traders who proffered their opinions assured the
Committee that everything would be all right if
the Government would run the business on the
commercial lines which Fat says it is eager for,
and sell coal to the public. Then the Committee
hurried away. That wasn’t the sort of evidence
it was after.
Journalist George Black, Labor member
for the Namoi, was the cause of the utter rout of
the discredited Wade party in the N. S. Wales
Assembly last week. The Government had nomi-
nated Black for a seat on the Public Accounts
Committee, and the Waders objected. They
demanded a division, and were promptly met by
47 votes to 22. D. Fell (the best financial critic
in the Hourse), M. F. Morton, F. J. Thomas,
Hindmarsh and even “ Briggy ” Bruntnell voted
against their out-of-offiee friends, and McLaurin,
Donaldson and Briner, of the Independents,
added their weight to the Labor majority.
Deserters are steadily stealing out of the
“ Liberal ’’ camp, and sauve qui peut is rising
above a whisper.
PASSING IT ON.
Mr. A. A. Dangar, of Singleton, in refusing a donation to
the Wallsend Hospital, informed the committee by letter
that if the “ iniquitous ” land tax became law he would
withdraw all his subscriptions from hospitals, except bis
local hospital and church.— News Item.
Two characteristic chunks of wisdom from
the Australasian :
(1) When the hired man wants all “the law allows,”
which is the easier—to change the law or change the man.
(2) The hired man who wants to commence with and
knock off work at the whistle, is no good to the farm or
to the farmer.
Well, what about adding this other proposition—
(3) The farmer who won’t give Gslb. to the bushel is no
good to the wheatbuyer.
That, at least, would even things up a bit.
When Labor-leader Hughes protested
rather shrilly against the first Commonwealth
Labor Government's summary ejection from
office, Deakin got off a gibe to the effect that
Hughes “was like a small boy who had got into a
tart shop, but was dragged out kicking before he
had eaten his fill.” In the N.S.W, censure debate
Wade moaned for hours in frenzied and unavailing
sorrow; while Wood, who spoke for five hours,
gibbered during the last hour like a chimpanzee
whose cherished cocoanuts had been stolen. Who
is the small boy squealing outside the tart shop
now ?
“ Aedile ” : The treatment of the N.S.W.
Parliamentary Labor leaders by the Sydney daily
press is a scandal of great magnitude. The
Herald, for example, fully reported the dismal
platitudes of Solemn Lee, frenzied Wade, Five-
hour Wood and others, down even to the party’s
Mary Janes —Levy and Fitzpatrick; but the
replies of McGowen and of Holman, against
whom Wade’s attack was chiefly directed, were
. cut down to a few inches. Labor should not take
this lying down ; it should appeal to the platform,
as the See-O’Sullivan combination successfully
did, to counterpoise the gross ill-treatment it
gets from the N.S.W. daily sup-press.
The squelching of the brawling Wood was
one of the few bright spots in last week’s perfor-
mance in the N.S.W. Assembly. “You just try
and gag me ; just you try it on ! ” howled Wood,
like the small kid who shrieks to another mud-
lark: “Just you hit me—just you try it on ; that’s
all !” And then through the murk came the voice
of someone moving that, “The honorable member
be no longer heard ! ” Carried by an overwhelm-
ing majority. The gag isn’t a pleasant instru-
ment; but when a body means business and a
member means obstruction, it is the only treat-
ment that is left.
The Commonwealth Government is in the
hands of the Labor party, so the Argus and the
Sydney D.T., and the Brisbane Courier call on
the people to save themselves and vote to
strengthen the State Governments. But now the
State Governments have also started to fall into
the hands of Labor; and when that disaster is
complete, there will be nothing left for the Argus
and the Courier and the D.T. but to call on the
people to save themselves by strengthening the
Tory municipal councils. Thus the Argus’s
watchword will yet be: “Vote for Alderman
Bloggs and the Salvation of the Country.” If
they turn Labor too —well, this paper doesn’t
know where its dearly beloved brethren will look
for salvation.
This statement appeared in Saturday’s
paper:—
Mr. McGowen agreed to transfer to the Federal Govern-
ment 10 square miles of land at Jervis Bay, in place of
the one square mile provided for in the Federal Capital
Act.
That alleged Federal “ seaport ” at Jervis Bay—
the one which stops at high-water mark and is
situated several miles inside the prohibited area—
threatens to be a chronic difficulty. It is many
miles away from the rest of the Federal area, so it
requires its own water catchment, reservoir,
escape for drainage, etc. —in fact, it has to set up
a little business of its own. And how this
can be done on so small a patch the
Lord only knows. But as a set-off, the
absurd policy of dividing the Federal area
into two widely-separated fragments compels the
building, with Federal money, of a long connecting
line over purely State territory, to the great en-
richment of the local private landlord.
Alfred Deakin can’t feel too comfortable
over the revived energy of local Laborites in his
Ballarat district. Recently that dull and digni-
fied city awoke to find four new militant unions in
its midst. These were the Clerks, Tramway Em-
ployees, Reporters and Pastrycooks’ Unions,
which are carrying on a ceaseless propaganda to
increase their membership. At present they are
only infants, but they are bubbling over with en-
thusiasm.
It seems as if Australia is getting under
the heel of a typewriter combine. Recently,
when the Vic. Government called for tenders for
the supply of machines in certain State depart*
ments, the four tenderers, representing different
makers, all quoted high but uniform prices.
Recently, also, when
the Vic. Railway De-
partment wanted some
more of the jiggers, the
prices, though somewhat
lower, maintained,
nevertheless, their sin-
gular uniformity. Can’t
Australia make a type-
writer of its own by
now? Isn’t it as good
a mechanic as Canada?
Last year the declared
value of these goods
was close up to £70,000 ;
and £70,000 would keep
a good few Australians
in victuals. Hitherto,
however, the goods
haven’t carried a duty ;
and there has been
enough profit on them
to allow the makers' to
sell under cost for a
while, and thus flatten
out any Australian who tried to make the machines
without Protection.
The piety of Melbourne is driving the
Federal Government to strong measures. In
Sydney, out of 293 telephone attendants only 14
have conscientious scruples re Sunday work ; but
in Melbourne 146 attendants out of 256 object
to answering the bell of Judkins or any other
citizen on the day of rest. This makes it so diffi-
cult to keep the services going that Postmaster
General Thomas reckons the only possible device
is to shift a lot of the conscientious people to small
country exchanges which never open on Sunday,
and transfer a few bush sinners to the metropolis.
This will at least save the conscientious people
the misery of seeing Sunday trams, and trains
tearing large holes through the holy occasion. l
THE IMPORTED BUOY.
[FOR THE BUL LETIN.]
The three new occulting' buoys—two red and one white
—recently imported by the Harbor Trust, were winking
in their appointed stations in Sydney Harbor last nighL
~-JVews item.
They ordered my brothers and me
From Canada, and (see here !)
Two thousand we cost, we three !
When you see us winking clear
Just think of the price they paid
As the ferry goes its way,
And say to yourself: “ Can’t they he made
{Wink!) here any day ?’’
When the sea is as still as glass
And black as Indian ink,
As the inward coasters pass
Along the channel, we wink ;
Shark Bay at George’s Head,
Then George’s at Lady Bay ;
We have our joke when the day is dead !
(Wink !) What did you say ?
All the shore-lights fiercely stare ;
And the stars look coldly down ;
Have they no artisans there
Waiting for work in the town ?
Buoys, that is a good joke, eh ?
Wink, buoys ! they are all in bed '
Foreign-made all are we ! Hooray !
Wink White ! Out ! Wink Red !
N.S.W.
E. O’F.


THE
CLAVIOLA
PIANO PLAYER
Is the latest and
best of all piano
players.
It has improve-
ments found in no
other make.
We have a
beautifully illus-
trated catalogue
describing these
i mprovements,
which we forward
post free on
application.
PALING’S,
338 George St.,
Sydney.
no
Victor Pianos
Victor Pianos are manufac-
tured for us and embody our
Half century’s experience.
They are g'rand wear resisters,
and we specially recommend
them where worK is heavy
they will last a lifetime.
Every Victor Piano is sold fully
guaranteed.
We sell on easy terms, and
catalogues are free for the
asKing.
W. H. PALING <a Co.
338 George Street, Sydney.
4? «
'Mm
OOOOOOIDi
'»»•
No better Organs
than the Estey
are manufac-
tured.
They are the
result of over
60 years experi-
ence.
We sell them at
all prices from
&IO s O : O.
Catalogue and
price list shew-
ing* easy terms
on application.
PALINGS,
338 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
100
15he
Best Christmas Gift.
you want your children to learn to appreciate the best of music-
and vocalism, give them an Edison Phonograph at Christmas-..
Wo other present will appeal to them so fully as that. There's-
pleasure in its possession all the year round. It talks, plays and sings,,
it amuses educates and makes home happy for every member off the
family, it provides a greater variety of good, clean fun and vocal- and!
instiumental music than any other sound-reproducing instrument.
T , Edison Phonograph ranges in price from £2/12/6 to £45.
Ihe difference in cost is due to variation in the style and finish, of the
instrument, and no matter Which you choose you can be sane- of
securing the very best entertainer ever devised.
r . We-wUI send complete lists of Machines and Records (kjcPmdirrg a
snnnlv ! SpeC f lly SeleCted for Christmas) on application*. and
supply the address of your nearest dealer if you do not know k.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD,,
Dept. B, KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Big'g'est and Best
Xmas Gift Catalog'ue
. > ■.
• • • is • • •
FARMER'S.
No. FX4S4.
Toilet Combination, com-
prising' Soap Dish, Tumbler,
Nail and Tooth Brushes, Fine
Polished Nickelplale Telescopic
Stand (as illustrated).
Price 19/6.
Other Similar Designs, with
Two Tumblers. Price 25/-
A Few Examples from
FARMER'S XMAS
CATALOGUE.
Copies Post Free.
No. FX49I.
The Etna Water Heater
(collapsible), for travelling,
various sizes. Prices 6/0
and 7/6.
No. FX4O6.
Fancy Oak Silver-mounted
One-Day Clock, 6in. high
(similar to illustration), 22/6
each.
No. FX4SS.
Bathroom Wall Combination,
comprising l Tumbler in Nickel-plated
Rack and Clips tor Tooth Brushes, on
Mahogany Board (as illustrated).
Price 9/6.
FARMER’S CHRISTMAS
CATALOGUE, 116 Pages
—TOYS, GIFTS and
GAMES.
Christmas Gifts are Best—Bought at Farmers.
sdf


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, _ is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland &' Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
WORMS-THE CHILDREN’S ENEMY.
Undoubtedly there is no greater enemy to the
health, happiness and comfort of children than the
presence of worms. Parents should be on their
guard if a child shows any of the marked symp-
toms, such as disturbed sleep, grinding of the teeth,
restlessness, irritation and picking the nose, to,
ascertain for certain if the child is afflicted with»
these parasites, and if they are, to at once admin-
ister Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm Pellets,
according to directions. They are a safe, sure-
and reliable remedy, prepared in the form of ai
lolly, and children take them without any hesita-
tion.
O OMSTOC/f$
"HEAD SHOT"
asd
Children
Adults.
For sale by all chemists, price Is. 6d., or will be
sent post paid on receipt of price by The W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street, Sydney.*
SELECT STOCK ALE
LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents-RICHARP HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KAICOORUE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The first part of the annual function of which
the Austral Wheel Race used to be the centrepiece, but
of which it is now merely a side-show, transpired on the
Melbourne Cricket Ground on Saturday. There were
about 20,000 present: 4000 paid, 4000 entered on M.C.C.
tickets, the others stood outside to see Cugnet fly in his
Bleriot monoplane. First, the heats of the Victoria Mile
were run off, the final being' won by I. R. Munro, who
holds the Warrnambool Road Race record; then the
Austral heats' were put through, the only riders of
note to arrive at semi-finality being the same Munro,
Kett and the evergreen Gascoyne (scratch). Between
times Ludwig Alberti endeavored to demonstrate the
uses of his patent “ roloplane,” which is in reality a large
kite, up the string of which he runs a camera, “so
adjusted that a photo may be taken of the surrounding
country.” Unfortunately, all efforts failed to persuade
the “ kite ”to soar. Thus ended that item.
As for the aeroplane, Cugnet had very little
more luck than on the previous Saturday. At 6.30 a
megaphonist notified that the wind the lightest
of breezes had been blowing all the afternoon
—was still too high for a successful ascent, but
Cugnet desired the public to wait another 20
minutes. At 6.50 the little man stepped out, donned
overalls and padded helmet, bade adieu to his friends,
and took his seat. The engineer twirled the propeller,
and the engine commenced its uproar. Then the assist-
ants hung on to the tail of the 25-h.p. monoplane a few
seconds and let go. The machine ran along the
ground to the centre, then bore round to the left
and returned about whence it came. The crowd
laughed. Cugnet spoke to the megaphonist, who
charged the spectators that “Mr. Cugnet wished them
not to cheer when he rose; he desired perfect silence.”
Even the band, which was attacking the “Marseillaise,”
was told to hold its noise. Cugnet climbed aboard once
more, the attendants performed their parts afresh, and
the plane moved. As before, it ran to the centre, the
tail rising slightly ; then the wings and body began to
soar aloft. Cugnet was steering- for the gap between the
new members’stand and the old scoring-board, and got the
direction all right; but he didn’t allow for the air-shaft
that swept between those two buildings, or he wasn’t
high enough, or his horizontal steering gear went adrift,
or his engine stopped, or something else happened—any-
how, he just shaved the fence behind the spectators and
crashed down on the asphalted tennis court. He wasn’t
seriously hurt, but his machine was a wreck. As Cugnet
came to Australia, not as a showman but to teach the
local savages the art of aviation, it would appear he has
misjudged himself, or the atmosphere, or the general
conditions, or something. Anyhow, there ended the
second lesson.
* * * *
The Vanderbilt Cup motor race, recently held
at Long Island, was again won by H. F. Grant in a loco-
mobile in 4hr. 15min. 58sec., at an average speed of 65 - 2
miles an hour. The same man, it will be’ remembered,
won the same event last year in the same sort of machine
at an average speed of 62’9 miles per hour. The
distance was the same, 278'8 miles. This is the
sixth race for the Cup, and was easily the most
strenuous and disastrous of the bloodstained series.
No less than three men were killed outright and 20
people injured—the latter through encroaching on the
course. It was not quite so gruesome as the infamous
Race of Death, held from Paris to Madrid in 1903. No
less than 275,000 people swarmed to Long Island to wit-
ness the struggle—probably the last of its kind. They
stayed on the ground all night not to lose their
coigns of advantage, and 25,000 cars were scattered
round the 12J miles circuit. No less than 30 cars, repre-
senting the world’s best makers, started at intervals of
15 seconds. Grant’s driving was a marvel of calm steadi-
ness, and his 120-h.p. 6-cylinder Alco reeled round and
round the course with practically no more than a few
seconds’ variation in the time of each lap. The runner-up
was J. Dawson, on a Marmon ; and he was followed by J.
Aitken, on a National.
* ■*: + ■* ■*
The international cycling sprint championships
were held in New York on Monday last, and Kramer
came out on top, with ex-Australian A. J. Clark second
twice. O’Sullivan, from Maoriland, ran second to Fogler,
of New York, in the 10-mile professional event. Some-
how, Yankees win everything held in New York.
* * * *
N.S.W. League of Wheelmen has done the
crayfish act over the Victorian embroglio. At the last
meeting it rescinded its minute recognising the Victorian
Union, and intimated that any member of the Victorian
League is free to compete in any N.S.W. League fixture.
This is the death warrant of the insurrectionary move-
ment in Victoria.
* * * *
The selection committee might have chosen the
Australian XI. to meet S’Africa after a bad night out
on striped drinks. The old school has been greased
and crowded into the limelight once more, owing, it is
said, to the young blood failing to arise to the occasion.
Drunk as it may have been, the selection committee
seems to have been on a good wicket in some respects.-
Take the inclusion of Cotter, for instance. Against South
Aus. the gentleman’s record was two wickets for 102—
aud it that doesn’t justify inclusion in a national XI., what
does ? Emery is 12th man, and so he ought to be, with
three for 100 and two for 95, equal to five wickets for 195.
The only man new to Test cricket is Kelleway, and he
richly deserves his place. Just as an afterthought this
paper surreptitiously calls attention to the performance
of young McLaren, who did well for Bananaland against
the Springboks. But suggestion is wasted on a crowd
with the chilled-steel armor of the selection committee.
* * * *
Trumper, like the kid with the soap, wouldn’t
be happy till he got it, and now he isn’t feeling too good
over his acquisition of the captaincy. He called
at the spin of the coin, and sent S. Australia to the sticks,
having but little faith in the Bulli soil to absorb the
couples of inches of rain that had fallen on
the previous day. It soon became apparent that
there was nothing wrong with the wicket, and
the Ma State bowling received an awful pasting. Scott
and Cotter, who were in the team purely as bowlers,
were stored away among the dunnage with the soft
drinks, or somewhere, till Hill and Gehrs were set and
184 runs had appeared on the board. Collins, accompanied
by Folltard, started the bowling, and after getting rid of
Mayne with one wicket for 11 in three overs, Trumper
wiped him out and forgot that he (Collins) was alive. Then
Cotter was turned loose for four overs in the first innings
of 342._These doings of Trumper as a captain have no
glory in them. On the other hand, there is nothing to
show that anything else he might have done would have
been any better. Cotter’s recent performances justified
Trumper’s action ; but, all the same, in the popular esti-
mation, Trumpet’s name as a captain is Slush —Unmiti-
gated Slush. A captain’s job is a beastly one, anyhow.
* * * *
Clem Hill and D. R. Gehrs have been a-going it
this season. In the three Sheffield Shield matches Gehrs
has amassed 346 runs at an average of 69 - 2, while Hill has
totted up 376 at an average of 62'66. For a retired
cricketer, Clem is doing very well indeed, thank you.
Also, the spectacle of a retired cricketer captaining the
Australians in an international Test, even though the
other nation be only South Africa, is a howling joke. By
the way, Hill’s efforts against the Ma State sent his
Sheffield Shield total soaring up to 5382 runs.
* •* * *
N.S.W. wicket-keeper Gorry was far from suc-
cessful in the first innings against South Australia. Sun-
dries totalled 35, of which 25 were byes. Over and above
which was a goodly number of missed catches. But,
then, Gorry was not alone in that respect. The Ma
State fielding right through was beastly, shock-
ing and darned bad. The bowling also was far
from gay. Emery gathered in three wickets for
100 runs in 114 balls ; Folkard was also un-
lucky, and had 85 scored off him without taking a
wicket in 13S balls. Kelleway took one for 45 in 108
balls. The only man who coruscated at all was Scott—
he did take wickets, four of them for 48 runs in 96 balls.
Collins got one for 11, and Cotter none for 18. Summed
up, 498 balls were sent down during the innings, and
South Australia whacked 342 off them. Which is a fact
calculated to make South Australia feel gay.
* * * *
On soggy wickets Melbourne Pennant cricket
was very sad and tired last Saturday. The best of
the batsmen took long siestas between runs, while
the worst added monocles to the scores. Only
the bowlers were cheerful. Speirs, of ’Varsity, slew
eight Essendon warriors for 32 runs ; Robinson, of
Carlton, dismissed eight P’ran bats for 47 ; Hart,
of North, got five Northcote scalps for 31; while Boulter
and Cannon, of Fitzroy, took four for 23 and three for
nine respectively against the flower of Coilingwood’s
chivalry. The largest batting total was University’s 166,
and the highest individual score was 52 by Sandford, a
promising colt of the Melbourne club. As previously
hinted, the noise of poultry was remarkably frequent,
23 “ quacks ” being recorded during the afternoon.
OLD IRONSIDE—a Sydney Cricket Identity.
All-round Victorian cricketer J. Kenny came
to the front with a sudden bound in the match against
South Aus. With 77 runs and five wickets for 49 runs in
the S.A. secon'd innings, Kenny takes his place among
the demigods on the first rung of immortality. His failure
to do anything with the ball in the first innings is ex-
plained by the fact that he had no chance, never being
put on.
* * * *
“ Bails ” : A. E. Clarke, who was for many
years president of the East Melbourne Cricket Club, hits
the nail with a Jubilee History of the Club, 1860-1910.
In the beginning Clarke, two Dights, two Murphys, and
other Scotch College boys formed the Abbotsford Cricket
Club, plaving at East Collingwood, near the Yarra, by
Dight’s Mills. That was as far back as 1857. They
moved to a pitch on the corner of Clarendon and Albeit
streets, East Melbourne; then to another in Richmond
Paddock, outside the Melbourne Cricket Ground : then
to Lonsdale’s Cow. Paddock, near the East Melb. Cricket
Ground. Here they adopted the name of East Mel.
Cricket Club. Clarke, with the help of “ Almanac ” Scott,
“Felix” Horan, “Mid-On” Hedley, and other racy
scribes, traces on the history in a most engaging
fashion ; and the reminiscences about Willtee, O’Mullane,
Goldsmith, the Campbells, Gaggin, Boyle, Allee, Riggall,
Eggleston, Hastings, McShane, Peryman, Phillips, Tait,
Conway, Laver, and a shoal of other leather-chasers are
turtle soup and champagne to many an ancient buffer of
to-day.
* * * *
They are advocating fishing as a pastime for
women nowadays, on the grounds that it inculcates
patience and endurance;. It certainly ought to inculcate
something, but writer would have expected to have found
exasperation* moroseness, or anything in the world but
patience.
* * * *
Sydney Sun scintillated a bit this week when it
held a long interview with Arnst on board the s.s. Uli-
maroa at sea by means of wireless. Arnst came up on
deck and this was what hit him : “ Congratulations from
the Sun on being the first passenger in Australasian
waters to be interviewed by wireless.” Arnst:
“ Hooray! ” Arnst then went on to talk about
ships, sunken ones, and owned up that he con-
templates turning diver with a view to cleaning up
the £15,000 that is still lying under the Three Kings in
the wreck of the Elirigamite—if somebody hasn’t already
got it. He said his race with Barry was the hardest he
ever rowed, and that it was true he was in bed three days
after it. He announced his intention of rowing in the
Parramatta Hundred in March. His African excursion
left him with about £lOOO clear cash profit, and altogether
he has made about £3500 out of his sculling' champion-
ship. Which is better than bike-pushing for appearance
money.
* * * * *
Webb, who is about to meet Pearce, of Aus-
tralia, has made a new departure, and will race the Aus-
tralian champion in a boat of his own design and build.
It is close up to a record in diminutiveness for a racing
craft, the dimensions being 24ft. length, 7in. depth, and
the beam only 9in. In fact, Webb and his boat will look
remarkably like an arrow' with wings. One thing is cer-
tain that, unless Webb’s hair is parted exactly down the
middle and each particular hair is balanced by another,
over the whole show goes. It will be necessary even to
make sure he has exactly the same amount of corn on
each little toe.
The report that Arnst had demanded £5OO
exes, and a £5OO side wager to row on the Thames l°°ks
like a mistake on the part of somebody. If that £5OO
exes, isn’t a misprint, then it is obvious that Arnst has
blundered badly and is darned well afraid to meet the
Englishman on the Englishman’s accustomed course.
£5OO exes. ! Bah 1
* * * *
The threatened invasion of Yankee baseballers,
under T. Burns, Esq., has gone bung. The terms of the
invasion were £lOOO guarantee and all exes, while in
Australia. The Australian guarantors were to take the
first £lOOO from the receipts, and after that the Yankees
were to pouch 75 per cent, of the takings. When the
Australian governing body read this bald, bleak sugges-
tion, it just fainted right away. When it came round it
rushed to the cable office, and begged T. Burns to keep
the Yankees in their own country by any means, even if
he had to hire professional chokers to do it. In fact,
such a blizzard iblew out of the Pacific cable that it is
understood T. Burns is still in bed from the shock.
These Yankee “sports.” have gall.
A beknighted Sydney wight named S. Sheaves
has just shorn hunks off all previous records by walking
7 miles 165yds. in an hour. So say the local admirers.
But it won’t hold water. G. E. Larner, on Sept. 30, 1905,
walked 8 miles 438yds. This was not in Yankeeland,
either, but in London, England, where the Cockneys
come from. The nearest Yankee approach to it was John
Meagher’s 8 miles 302yds. on Nov. 29, 1882, and Meagher
was, as everybody knows, an Irishman. Still, Sheaves s
walk is a record for N.S.W. apparently.
* * * *
Sydney Royal Yacht Squadron held a drifting
race on Saturday last for the Lipton Cup. There were
only four starters —Yeulba, Petrel, Magic and Sunbeam.
It took half an hour to drift to Bradley’s Head, and there
Yeulba caugbt a few catspaws, and, making the most of
them, got a break on the squadron, winning out with
llmin. 2sec. to spare from Petrel, the second boat.
Magic was third, and Sunbeam drove the fleet home.
On the other hand, the open boat people had
some excitement. The finish of the Sydney Club s
general handicap was almost sensational. Five boats
came splashing and plunging on a sudden gust for the
finishing line, and all so close that a biscuit could have
been shied over the whole lot. Exactly how they got
into that position is not clear, for it had been a race of
mostly short, jerky spurts; and exactly' how the judge
sorted them out is still more obscure. But he did ; he
said Arthur won by 25 seconds, with Vision and Golding
second and third in that order. And as he was in the
best position to see, it goes. But it was an exciting
moment, and to the vulgar eye it looked as though at
least four boats had dead-heated. But, then, things are
no more what they seem in boat-racing than other
branches of life.
* * * *
Hackenschmidt, the wrestler, was supposed to
be out of the game for ever on account of housemaid’s
knee, or Mary Ann’s elbow, or something of the sort. But
it was a false alarm, for the latest news is that Hackey is
going strong; and on Friday last, at Indianapolis
(United States), wiped the floor "with Yussif Hassan, the
latest of the “ Terrible Turk” tribe who is understood to
have scared Frank Gotch out of the game. Hackey won
two straight falls, and never gave Yussif a show at all.
* * * *
Papua is becoming civilised, and “ the Inaugural
Meeting of the Papuan Racing and Sporting Club ” will
be held on Ela Beach, Port Moresby, Papua, on Boxing
and New Year Days. It is to be a mixed programme ; of
16 events only eight will be horse races, including one for
mules with native jockeys, for one sov. added money,
with no sweepstake. Other cheerful items will be foot-
racing by whites and blacks, tugs-of-war, sailing, rowing
and canoe-racing. Patrick Noses is not mentioned on the
programme, but, presumably, the brute will be around
laying what he calls odds against humans and beasties
impartially. # # *
The proposal to present “ Bogey ” Beaurepaire
with a terrace of houses for services rendered the
national advertising department in England and on the
Continent shows how the times are changing. Ye olden
swimmer or athlete generally, who went abroad, was
usually received on his return with sniffs, and the
remark that he had had a darned good time. “Bogey ” is
likely to lucky youth. #
Anybody who expected Yankee Johnny
Thompson, the alleged cyclone from Sycamore, to soak
down to lOst. in order to meet Australian Hughie
Mehegan at that, weight at. Sydney. Stadium on Saturday
night, must have had plenty of expectation. So much,
in fact, that he could afford to waste it. When the men
were weighed at the ringside the American rang
the bell at list. 7Jlb., while the Australian went only
9st. 9|lb., and the £5O which Thompson had agreed to
forfeit if he passed the lightweight (lOst.) limit was duly
handed over. To all intents and purposes that was the
end of the fight, for all that the audience—the biggest
housed in the Stadium since Brudder Johnson whaled
T. Burns therein—got out of it afterwards was five
rounds of huddled in-fighting worth about tuppence a
round. At the sound of the fifth gong Mehegan ordered
the towel to.be hoisted, and Thompson sailed through a
gale of hoots for the dressing-room. If the Yankee string
Ts so lightly bound by its contract with the Mclntosh
that it can afford to treat its appearances as a joke, the
sooner the public is shown the humorous side of it the
better —for the Mclntosh.
* * * *
And Thompson deserved his hoots. It was to
be expected that a man who is a heavyweight, finding
himself opposed to a lightweight, would give a fine,
scrupulously' fair exhibition. But that was what the
alleged cyclone from Sycamore did not give. He was
Yankee in the worst meaning of the word, and instead of
fighting his lightweight opponent, he roughed, mauled,
used his elbow, and applied a modification of the
strangle-hold with the object of forcing his rival’s
head into a position where he could punch it. He
showed no knowledge of bow to box, but proved
to be a sort of champion rough-and-tumbler. As
far as boxing Was concerned, he was not in the same
street as his opponent; and as a sportsman and fair
fighter his name is Mullock. In fact, so unfair were his
tactics, that it looked as though he was afraid he would
get the worst of the deal if he fought fairly. The Stadium
people are to be blamed for allowing such an unequal
scrap to take place, and so is the referee for not outing
the alleged cyclone when he was getting in his fine elbow-
work in the clinches. These Yankees are given altogether
too much latitude.
* ■* * *
Just when he was almost forgotten Bill Lang
blew into public notice again twice in the same week.
First, he discovered an oyster in a plate of tomato soup
somewhere in the States; and, second, he has been
matched to fight Jack Burns under the atgis of
The Mclntosh. The first was the greater perform-
ance. It is hard enough to find a bivalve in oyster soup
in Yankeeland, but to find one in tomato soup is a
world’s record.
* *: . . * *
Invited by the Mclntosh to smash Lang in
January and stoush Langford in February, T. Burns re-
plied that his knee compelled him to definitely retire
from the ring. Which announcement makes his recent
clap-trap-if he ever said it (most likely it was a
Yankee press lie)—about smashing- Jeffries in 15
rounds to P win £4OOO all the more ridiculous. Seems
likely that, now he is out of the actual fighting, Burns
will devote his time to managing, bringing forward you"?
boxers, and generally fostering the game in which he ha.
made a fortune in his early youth.
* * * *
The death of Jem Mace removes a picturesque
old figure from the world’s stage. The old man was
born away back in 1831, of gipsy parents, at Beeston,
Norfolk (Eng.), where the Humber bikes come from, ne
was 30 years of age when he won the championship of
England, and 39 when he walloped Tom Allen, champion,
of the United States, and thereby became legitimately
champion of the world. During the latter <oshe ran a,
pub in Melbourne and visited Maoriland, where an angry
cabdriver gave him the father of a hiding in connection!
with a dispute about a shilling in the fare. Mace was all.
but out when somebody mentioned his name, and the
cabman, terrified at his own temerity, made a dash toi
his vehicle and escaped—from the disgrace of having
slugged out the “greatest fighter of them all. It is.
said of Mace that he taught the Australians how to-
fight, and they passed the art on to the Yankees. In his.
latter days poor old Mace had something like a hard time-
—79 is a bad age fop a boxer to live to.
**■*-*
Larry Foley is in possession of an “ unknown ”
heavyweight. The new man is 25 years of age, 6ft. high,
weighs 14st., and is the owner of a gorilla-like strength,
cunning and activity. A mass of black hair, or fur, en-
velopes him fore and aft, greatly adding to the dreadful-
ness of his aspect. His hands resemble hams. His punch
reminds Laurence of the article he himself bore in either
mit in his palmy days. After a few months, Larry pro-
poses to unloose his discovery at some of the lesser
heavyweights, and when they have been extirpated, he
expects to see the young man destroy the Texan horror.
But Larry always was an optimist.
* * * *
“Sardonyx”: First studied stoush under re-
cently-defunct Jem Mace nearly 40 years ago, when he
and Jack Thompson kept the V.R.U. Hotel, in Melbourne.
Mace was then, so he said, getting stiff; but, when he
chose, it was still absolutely impossible to land on him.
I don’t mean for me, but for anybody I ever saw up
against him. I won’t try to reproduce his East-Anglian
locution, but some of his obiter dicta are worth recording.
“ They say I can’t stand punishment. How do they
know ? Nobody ever saw me get any ! ” Which was
almost literally true. Again: “ They say my heart isn’t
in the right place. Well, my fist always is!” Once
more : “ Most men learn just about enough boxin’ to
spoil their figbtin’. If a man takes the game on at all he
should follow it up till he becomes a regular tommytun.
[presumably automaton]. Then he does the right thing
at the right time without havin’to think about it.” I
was highly amused once to hear him say that the doctors
attributed his astonishing hitting power to his “ trice-ups
stensor cubit-eye.” Not such a bad shot at triceps
extensor cubiti.
* * * *
Tim Tracy, Wellington’s 3turdy little profes-
sional boxer, beat H. Halley, of Auckland, at the latter
town the other night in a contest for the M.L. residential
welter-weight championship. Tracy was giving the
local man half a stone and some reach, but a beauty in.
the right place in the fourth round settled things.
“Ranji” Wilson, the well-known Wellington
and All-Black toe-ball expert; had to stand his trial the
other day on a charge of smashing an opponent’s jaw.
The jaw was smashed all right, but the jury decided that
“ Ranji ” wasn’t the culprit.
Last February Paddy Shea, a Bathurst livery
stable employee, paid £3O for a horse named Signal.
Since then, Shea has won over £530 in Show jumping
prizes with the horse, which is still as sound as ever. It
rather queers the general theory that there is no money
in Show jumpers. Shea, who is one of the best Show-ring
horsemen in Australia, schools and rides all his horses
himself.
* * * *
Hock Keys, of Sydney, notched another vic-
tory in Melbourne the other night, when he encountered
Sam Grey’s promising small boy, whose rather foolish
ring-name is Kid McCoy. Keys has made some cast-iron
resolutions, and sworn off things that sting like the
adder and make a poodle of the brightest pug, and is on
his way back to the Australian championship. Hock
hadn’t an easy thing in McCoy. In fact, had the Kid’s
hit more “git” in it there might have been an earlier
finish and a sad set-back to Hock’s high-flown pride. As
it was, theSydneysider was down twice in the seventeenth,
and his chance of weathering it looked as dismal as a wet .
cat on an icepack. But H. Keys has extraordinary re»-
cuperative powers. The gong gave them a chance to.
work, and after that McCoy hadn’t a hope. Keys was alb
over him, and out-boxed the youngster so thoroughly,
that “Keys the winner” satisfied the whole congre-.
gation.
“Demo”: How nauseous is this rush of;
Labor members to get to the Coronation as dead-
heads ! Trust none of us, as Hamlet says. The?
Coronation is an act of folly, anyway. The
German Emperor is not crowned yet, and quiet.
George would do capitally without it. It wilt
cost a pot of money, and leave us the poorer foie
the outlay.
From a N.S.W. politician, who is getting
tired :
The sooner Mr. Speaker Cann jettisons the phrase : “ I
don’t want to use the powers I have, but will the honor-
able gentleman cease calling the other honorable gentle-
man a rogue, and refrain from reflecting on the bona-
fides of his parents’ marriage certificate?” (or words to
that effect), the better for the peaceful conduct of the
House. In a Wild West House, such as the N.S.W. Par-
liament has been from time immemorial, you want a
Speaker who will use the powers he has, and use them
quickly. Where there are whiz-bang politicians like Fitz-
patrick (who, when not speaking himself, is interrupting
others) or Wood (who can never, much as he tries,
achieve the Parliamentary manners which have the repose
that marks the caste of Vere de Vere), there will always
be explosive elements about; and Oann should drop the
sheep-like deference of his predecessor to the rowdy ele-
ments, and comedown heavily on disorderly interrupters.
Also, he should pin a card on the Speaker’s chair, “ Do it
now.”


fa
LOOK FOR NAME IN SHOE.
Now
the question reduces it-
self to just this: Are
you willing to trust to
chance in buying Shoes,
or are you going to
assure yourself of get-
ting the Finest Shoes
ever made in Australia—
Marshall
(never so Id without
name on strap) ?
HALF & QUARTER SIZES
All GOOD Shoe Stores keep them in Stock.
1/ yours don't , write and we will send you
address o/ the nearest Dealer, with Catalog
Marshall Shoe Co.
BRIGHT S DISEASE
CHRONIC and
ADVANCED,
can now be cured. A new method of treatment has saved 87
lives in 100 cases. After keenest investigation, many doctors
convinced; some indeed cured themselves. Don’t hesitate;
get particulars. It will save your friend’s life. Benefit
notic jable in a very short time ; tests show remarkably steady
relief of adverse conditions. Many persons rejected for life
assurance have been accepted after treatment by Fulton’s
Compound. Warranted free from injurious drugs ; it stops
degeneration of kidneys and assuages inflammation.
Send for full particulars and valuable booklet, posted free
to any address by the sole agents—
THE ONION GO., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
Missing: Friends.
MAKK KEENAN.
"VTARK KEENAN, formerly of Ardgaeneeri, Drum-
• griffin County, Galway, Ireland, will hear of some-
thing to his advantage by communicating with Messrs.
HOSKING & COOK, Solicitors, Dunedin, New Zealand.
Any information sent to them enabling proof to be made
that the said Mark Keenan is alive or dead, and if alive
which.; would lead to his discovery, will be appreciated
and recompensed.
s
M
s
L
SHELL
is the cheapest in the long run, because
it gives you more fuel mileage than
any other, owing to its perfect purity.
MAKE A NOISE LIKE AN ORDER.
CADILLAC,
25-30 H.P. £,500.
450 in Australasia.
35,000 in the World.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., Brisbane.
SAUL’S MOTOR CO., Launceston.
* *>
ss* 5
3
Fai W(g
%
Fits any nut on any Car !
The Bay State ** AtitoKit **
is an invaluable and universal combination for
Motorists. It is a complete, simple and practical
Ratchet Socket Wrench, fitting any nut on any
make of car, as well as sparking plug, and should
be aboard every motor.
No. i, as illustrated, consists of handle and
reversible ratchet wrench, two steel shanks,
screwdriver, coupling, universal joint, spark plug
socket, 30 steel sockets, white nickel finish,
mounted in wood box. Price 50/- per set.
Set No. 2, same as above, except that only 12
sockets are provided. Price per set.
Only one 0f.2,000 Toqls and Requisites for farm and
workshop shown in our Write for it !
When writing, please mention this paper.
AUt<s
STATE
BAY
m
qqqqooqOOOO
ipgfn 0 fj O o o b o
Thomas McPherson O. Son
established so years. 582-588 Collins Street, Melbourne.
“Triumph" Motor Cycles
are Silent, Speedy
and Sure.
They embody many new, patented features that are exclusive to
“Triumph” Cycles. The Carburetter is a special make, the
engine is flexible and very powerful, and the silencer is more
effective than in other models.
Price £67 lOs
Send for further details or call
and make arrangements for a
trial spin. Our Pitt Street Depdtisopen every Friday night till 9.
df
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Sole Agents for “Triumph” in N.S.W.,
234 Pitt Street and Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
RIGNEY SHOES for Men
are as high grade in appearance as perfect in fit,
and as excellent in finish as any made-to-order
footwear.
Take a look at the shoe illustrated —it is a Black
Phoenix Calf Derby.
215., 225. 6d., 255.
Ditto in
Boots.
Also in Tan, 235. 6d. and 255.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for our Booklet, “ The Rigney Shoe for Men. 1
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
asd
A. M. L. 8 F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
i '
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stock and Station Agents.
CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300.000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral Pro-
perties and Stock, and on the Growing Wool Clip and Wheat Crop.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in Australia, being all
recently constructed.
Australian Mortgage, Land & Finance Co.
LIMITED,
William Street, MELBOURNE;
BligH Street, SYDNEY;
Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
m
CYCLISTS!
off Right"
fa
DUNLOP
For they
sdf
Dunlop Co-all States & N*Z ***
S. M. Herald tells, disgustedly how the
defeat of the Wade Government was announced
in Vancouver as the downfall of a Socialistic
party. Yet there is nothing surprising in the
mistake. The Wade party stole the titles of the
foremost Labor planks and passed off imitations,
hoping to hoodwink Labor voters in the State ;
small wonder, then, that it succeeded in deceiving
a journalist on the other side of the Pacific. The
Herald’s trouble was that the dodge failed to
deceive the people nearer home.
John Liddell Kelly, formerly editor of the
Wellington (M.L.) Times, has been dropping
some pebbles of cold fact into the froth of a boil-
ing argument in the London Westminster Re-
view as to whether “ the colonies ” should be per-
mitted to shut their front doors in the face of
Asiatics and other undesirable aliens. Kelly,
who has studied his subject in most parts of the
world, included this among the pebbles
The people of the British Isles do not realise the con-
ditions Of the colonies, or they would sympathise with
the anti-alien legislation. Whether they do so or not, of
this I feel certain : that if any attempt were made by the
Imperial Government to coerce the great colonies in the
matter of freely admitting Chinese, Japanese or Hindus,
the colonies (uitra-loyal though they be) would face war,
separation, and the risk of foreign invasion rather than
open their gates to a flood of Asiatics.
Apropos the election of R. D. Meagher as
Chairman of Committees, the Sydney Telegraph
under the heading “ An Oligarchy of Twenty-
Four,” said: —
There are 46 members of the Caucus, sothat24constitute
a majority. If this number decided that Mr. Meagher
should get the nomination, even though the other 66
members of the House were opposed to him, he would be
elected all the same. The 24 would beat the 66. This
seems like an impossible caricature of majority rule.
When R. G. Watkins stood against Onslow for
the “Liberal” selection in Waverley, the warrior
from Camden got badly beaten. Certain man-
oeuvres occurred in the Central Cellar of the
League, and Onslow was given the party nomina-
tion. Watkins decided to contest the seat.
The Telegraph, and “Liberalism” generally,
spent weeks insisting that it was the duty of
those Waverley electors who considered Onslow
a political joke to stifle their convictions and vote
for him. The “Liberals” of Waverley obeyed.
In a manner of speaking, the “ twenty-four ” in
the Pitt-street cellar fought for Onslow, and they
beat the “sixty-six ” who reckoned him a political
calamity. 'ln fact, one may go further and say
that an oligarchy of half a dozen fixed things in
the cellar, and thousands of Waverley “Liberals ”
aboveground obeyed their mandate.


. SAUNDERS’ SUGGESTIONS FOR
CAREFULLY SELECTED GIFTS—HANDSOME—USEFUL—LONG-WEARING—AND WITHAL THOROUGHLY REASONABLE IN PRICE.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s BACK COMB, Fancy 9ct Gold Scroll Mount,
20/-
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
: : i
a. Saunders.
Ladies’ Nickel HAIR BRUSH and COMB,
Handsomely Embossed, with Fine White Bristles,
in Silk-lined Case, 12/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Richly Hand-engraved Solid Silver
Oval or Round TOBACCO BOX, Gilt-lined,
25/.
Extra Heavy, £2, £2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted COMB, Embossed Design,
. Full Size, 5 /6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Morocco PEGGY BAG, Buckle Handles,
Leather-lined, with Inset Purse, Strongly
. Made, Well Finished, 7/G-
Other Styles, 5/6, 6/6, to 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
.SHAVING MUG, Pure Silver-plated, Nickel
Silver, A 1 Quality, handsomely embossed,
20 A
A. SAUNDERS.
SPIRIT FLASK, Morocco
Covered, Pure Silver-
plated, Screw Top,
10/6
Baynet Top, 15/6.
OUR
CATALOGUE
IS FULL
OF
OTHER
IDEAS.
LET’S SEND
YOU A
COPY.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ Solid Silver PURSE and CARD
OASES, Handsomely Embossed, Extend-
ing Frame Fitting, Size 5 x 3J, £ «_»•
4x2 inch, £2/5/.
WE PAY
CARRIAGE
ON ALL
THESE
GOODS.
A. SAUNDERS.
SCENT PUMP, Solid
Silver, Embossed or
Plain Mounts. Fancy
Cut Glass, 15/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s SHAVING TIDY, Seal Leather, Plain
Domed, Solid Silver Mounts, Fane,y Mount, or
Pierced, 115/6.
m
st?
I
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Silver Hand-engraved CIGAR-
ETTE CASE, Concave Back, 25
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver NAIL FILE,
open 3in long, 3/G-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s 9ct Gold-mounted CIGAR HOLDER, in Solid
Silver, Hand Engraved, Tube 2&in long, 20A
Cigarette, Same Design, 12/t>.
A. SAUNDERS.
INKSTAND, Pure Silver-
plated, Pierced and Em-
bossed, Out Crystal Glass
Bottle, size 5x5,
20/-
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/6,
20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION,
solid Silver Mounted,
comprising 4 articles and
2 sets of needles,
12/«
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6,
10/6, 12/8.
A. SAUNDIJRS.
iLady’s H*AIR BRUSH,
Solid Silver, Handsomely
Embossed, Fine White,
Bristles, 10/6-
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/6,
15/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent, ’s Leather BRUSH CASE, containing Pair
Military Hair Brushes, finest quality, Silver-mounted
Comb, 35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Silver CIGAR CUTTER,
5/6- Plain, 4/6. Gold Mount-
ed, 15/. Larger. 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hat or Clothes BRUSH, Solid
Silver Back, Finest Quality
Bristles, 15/6-
Other Styles, 5/6, 7/6, S/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BELT BUCKLE, Pure Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, with Emu, Kangaroo, or Jackass
Design, 3/6-
REMEMBER !
WE
HAVE
THOUSANDS
OP
OTHER
DESIGNS
JUST
AS
DAINTY
AND
PRACTICAL.
iMse
Jr 1
mmueassssm
m m
on
iI2*LVr"/J
wm.
mm
msSß9Bmm
PSiSllsj
I
sra
a a
A. SAUNDERS.
POWDER PUFF JAR, Solid Silver Top,
Handsomely Embossed, Crystal Cut Glass
Jar. 12/0.
A. SAUNDERS.
PIN CUSHION, pure Silver-plated,
Stand, Velvet Top,
7/6-
A. SAUNDERS,
Real Mother-o’Pearl Shell TRINKET
STAND or ASH TRAY, Ebony Base,
Solid Silver Mounted, 4/6.
U-L' -LfJEjJLVO.
FIELD or OPERA GLASSES,
Pocket Size, Morocco Leather
Covered, Achromatic Lenses,
Enamel-finished Frame, 25/-
Other Powers. 1 to 35/.
a. SAUNDERS.
Gold - mounted
CIGAR CUTTER,
12/6-
1, A. SAUNDERS.
CARD HOLDER and COUNTER, Pure Silver-
plated' on White Metal, Handsomely Embossed
/', ."'.Jr Design, 15/C-
A. SAUNDERS.
Gcnt.’s Automatic SHAVING STROP, Pure Silver-
plated, Handsomely Embossed, Satin Finish,
HOI.
Smaller Size, 11/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Teddy Bear
RATTLE, Ster-
ling Silver,
Mother-o’-Pearl
Teething Ring,
5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s ASH TRAY Pure Silver-plated,
5/0.
Other styles, 2/6, 3/6, 7/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS. .
SHOE LIFT and HOOK, Solid Silver, 7in lonjr,
Nicely EnVbnssed, in Silk-lined Case, 7/(j.
Other Styles, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6/ .-12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, Handsomely Pierced and
Embossed, Pure Silver-plated,' Silk-lined, A 1
Quality, 1770-
Other styles, 15/6, 17/6, 20/, 25/, SO/.
JEWELLER,
iClOC#
!i MAKER/
AT;
v
SILVERSMITH
o ohsulti* c i
j!
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER.
807.609.811.815.815.817. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Srarion) SYDNEY.N SW.


Scientific Evidence!
What Sydney’s Leading' Analyst says about
“ALOR.”
Nothing' Better than "ALOR.”
H. MOLESWORTH, F.C.S., F.G.S., Public Analyst, late Lecturer in Chemistry
to the S.A Government and Technical College, Sydney, reports to Messrs
Lisher & Co. as follows
Dear Sirs,—
/ have carefully examined
the composition of your pre-
paration known as “Aiok,” and /
find that it contains Kola Nut with
all its well-known tonic properties, and
in addition there is present a soluble
extract of the Paw-Paw Fruit which is now
so firmly established as a great power for the
restoration of diseased tissues to a healthy condi-
tion, and also a good anti-dyspeptic (aid to digestion).
The combination, as prepared in Aiok, has all the
good qualities of both these plant products per-
fectly preserved, resulting in the yield of a
really powerful tonic restorative stimulant,
st Aiok” is a most wholesome drink,
which may be drunk as freely as
tea or coffee, and complies with
the regulations of the Pure
Food Act.
DIRECTIONS. —One or two tablespoonfuls in Sodawater makes a palatable, refreshing
and wholesome drink, and can be taken freely like Tea or Coffee.
UNINTOXICATING.
As a Potent PICK-ME-UP
“ ALOR” is Unrivalled.
HENRY BRACY, Esq., Operatic Manager, writes : —“ Alok lias invariably
a most reviving effect, and I have got quite fond of it."
MADAME ALBANI, the Queen of Song, writeslt is of great benefit
in stopping sea-sickness, and of great assistance to anyone who has
_ fatiguing work to do."
After Hard Work a Splendid Drink—
“ALOK.”
(Registered.)
Don’t Ask for KOLA
If you merely ask for KOLA you may get anything. Hotelkeepers
naturally serve what costs them the least money.
By asking for “ ALOK,” the registered trade-mark for FISHER &
CO.’S famous preparation, you obtain the genuine and
original Tonic.
This proprietary is therapeutically and skilfully compounded by
FISHER & CO. from the celebrated African Kola Nuts, Paw-
Paw and other valuable ingredients, which have a salutary
effect upon the Nerves, Head, Stomach, Liver and Kidneys.
Remember, the public do not pay any less for imitations than they
do for the original.
Therefore, why not ask for and demand the original, which is
protected under the registered word, “ ALOK ” ?
Fisher’s “ALOK.
91
Paw-Paw!
A CURE for CANCER.
A Remarkable and Wonderful Discovery.
The following appeared in the “Sydney Morning Herald,”
September 21, 1910:
“ THE TREE OF LIFE.—Or. Thomas P. Lucas, who some years ago sent
a letter to the S. M. Herald in defence of the properties of the paw-paw as a
great power for the restoration of diseased tissues to a healthy condition, states
that since that time he has further advanced the'discovery, and found that apart
from the therapeutic action, the paw-paw contains germicides or ferments, which
destroy dying and dead tissues or diseased products. He has been able to
separate this active ferment. He does not claim that it cures all diseases, but
after years of experiment fearlessly affirms that it resolves dying diseased organic
products, and so nature re-asserts health and strength. This is splendidly seen
in diphtheria. He has, he states, relieved three cases of cancer of the stomach
and adjacent parts after operations had been performed and pronounced hopeless.
In the case of abdominal tumors, male and female, he has succeeded in curing 85
per cent, of the cases treated. Regarding breast cancers, he has cured a few
cases of reversions after a first operation, but can only relieve the scirrhous or
indolent metamorphosed cancer caused by a second operation. He has cured a
number of neck glandular tumors, and has had special success with goitre.
People are all talking radium for cancer, he points out, but with regard to
the paw-paw, he says to the medical profession, ‘Try it for yourselves.’”
CANCER is the dread and agonisingly painful disease we all fear,
but which, alas ! is rampant throughout Australia*
We hail with delight any agent which will prevent or alleviate
this fell disease*
FISHER & COMPANY have decided that
in the future there shall be added to their
already Famous Tonic, “ ALOK,”
FLUID EXTRACT OF
PAW-PAW—
as a great aid to DIGESTION—in
sufficient and necessary quantity to
accomplish the desired effect.
PAW-PAW is celebrated as a STOMACHIC*
By this valuable addition, u ALOK 11 becomes more wonderful as a
Drink and Tonic.
asdf
He won’t laugh till he gets it!
I love a tonic—a bonnie, bonnie tonic !
Pours out a rich ruby color —TAKE NO OTHER.
All Hotels, with Sodawater, 6d. per Glass.
All Chemists, 2/6 and 3/6 per Bottle.
Manufactured from the Celebrated
KOLA NUTS
SOLELY BY
FISHER & COMPANY,
Dispensing Chemists, 337 George Street,
Opposite
G.P.0.,
Sydney.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTING AGENTS
TUCKER & CO., CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY.
TAYLOR, FERGUSON & CO., King St., Melbourne.
PUBLIC NOTICE—If you do not insist upon being served with
FAMOUS “ ALOK,” you may obtain only ordinary aerated
water, or some other inefficacious liquid. DEMAND
‘Alok,’ ‘Alok,’ ‘Alok,’ ‘Alok.
ORDER FROM YOUR CHEMIST or GROCER A BOTTLE for 2/6; LARGE SIZE, 3/6.
9


— A
:Allens
(US AX
&
m.
Or. AU.ENJ
USA
CAN
Mf
mAiiNUj
m
Ha
rev
Mexican
Walnut
otain
Grey Hair
A young face looks
old if it is surrounded
with grey, faded or
dead-looking hair. Dr.
B. Allen’s U. S. A.
Mexican Walnut Stain
will make from 10
to 20 years’ differ-
ence in your ap-
pearance if you are
grey or prematurely
grey. It is perfectly
harmless and easy to
apply, and will quick-
ly restore the hair to
the natural shade of
youth. Contains no
Lead, Mercury, Silver or Sulphur.
None genuine without the signa-
ture of Alfred Ardley.
All Chemists.
HEALTH AND
HAPPINESS!
1
iii
m
Electricity is a remedy provided by Nature.
If you are drugging and dosing yoUrselt
STOP! and give Nature a chance to cure you.
If you suffer from Nervousness, Debility,
Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Indiges-
tion, Constipation, or any Chronic Ailment
or Weakness, ELECTRICITY, as applied by
Dp. McLaughlin’s Electric Belt,
will cure you—if you are curable.
Free Book.
Write at once for our free
Book which tells all about
our Belt—how it cures and what it costs.
the McLaughlin co.,
12 Linden Court, Sydney.
“MAN TO MAN”
is the title of a Valuable BOOKLET explaining
the Causes and Cure of
NERVOUSNESS and ALLIED TROUBLES,
which embitter life, and cause premature decay.
A copy of this Booklet-will be sent r KEE
(sealed) to anyone interested.
London Specialities Agency,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
gORRISS \
ureeWtches
CMABITTSB
nmrm
10
6° for
Made
London
HIGHEST GRADE.
Ss per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
Two Remarkable Cases
OF STOMACH AND LIVER DISORDER
CURED BY
Mother Seigel’s Syrup
Throughout Australia, indeed the whole of the Brit,ish^Emp«re,rt
would be difficult to fin a' l ra °p ersons -who frankly state that
houses, m which there , A an( j world-famous remedy,
all over the world. Here are two cases m point
A world-famous trainer of Gym-
nasts and Athletes, Mr. James De
Grasse, of 82, Herbert Street, Spring
Hill, Brisbane, writing to the pro-
prietors of Mother Seigel s Syrup,
on Feb. 10, 1910, says:-
“ Shortly after my arrival in Australia
in 1885, I.'began to suffer terribly from
that scourge of humanity Indigestion.
It was caused, I think, by the strain of
constant travelling, badly-cooked meals
at hotels, and the after-effects of hard
training. At first, I only had a vague
uneasiness-a slight feeling of distress
after eating. Gradually, the symptoms
became more numerous and, at length,
I began to suffer so severely after meals,
that I had to give up meat, vegetables,
sweets, etc., and take to a diet of milk,
esgs, and stale bread.
“ But even this frugal fare did not save
me from attacks of the most painful kina.
I was often seized with sharp, stabbing
pains around my heart that almost took
my breath ay? ay. At other times, I felt
as though something was pressing on my
heart, preventing its free action. I also
had violent palpitation. I feared I had
some form of heart disease.
“ I tried manv medicines, but got no
benefit from any'of them; and my attacks
became so bad that once -I almost fainted
in the street. I staggered into a
herbalist’s shop and had a draught,
the herbalist telling me that I had
severe Indigestion. . , ,
“Later on, a valued friend of mine
after hearing details of my illness, said
‘ You try Mother Seigel’s Syrup. I am
certain it will cure you, as it has cured
me.’ I laughed at first, but he gave me
a bottle containing a few doses and made
me promise to take them. Just to keep
ray word, I took the Syrup, and to my
surprise, after the fourth dose, I felt a
decided improvement. Thus encouraged
I used bottle after bottle, until I had
taken about seven bottles of Mother
Seigel’s Syrup in all. . , „
“By that time, I had regained all the
weight I had lost during my illness
and was 'permanently cured of those
distressing pains at my heait and all
my other symptoms of Indtgesttun.
Of equal importance is the case
of a well-known nurse. In a letter
dated Dec. 12,1909, Nurse Ashby, 80,
Carrington St., Adelaide, writes:—
“ Some two years back, in consequence
of over-work, my h alth began to fail. I
was completely ‘run-down’ and fit for
nothing. My liver got out of order and
became very sluggish. I was bilious,
unable to eat, and so dizzy and nervous
that I was afraid to venture out of doors
alone. My eyes became dull, and my
complexion quite sail ;w. I felt I didn’t
care what happened to me. Me deal
friends said an operation would probably
be nece sary.
“Th n an old school-friend sud :
‘ Why not try Mother Seigel’s Syrup!»
I did so, and in a couple of weeks I was a
well woman once more. Another friend
actually said to me, ‘ Why, Nurse! you
look ten years younger than you did a
fortnight ago,’ and I replied ‘Mother
Scigel’s Syrup has made all the difference.
‘ ‘ I most heartily recommend Mother
Seidel’s Syrup to help women and to pre-
vent their suffering at the change of life,
and also as a good, reliable family remedy
for all everyday complaints. A bottle of
Mother Seigel’s Syrup should be at hand
in every home in case it is wanted.
Such letters as these arc received, almost daily, by the Proprietors ol
Mother Seigel’s Syrup, not only from Australia, but from all over the
world and they afford conclusive proof that Mother Seigel’s Syrup is a
r,e cursor sToLch and Hver troubles. The lac, Mo,he S g »
Svruo for forty years, has cured men and women of these ailments, even
after all ordinary medicine has failed, should convince you that this
herbal remedy possesses curative properties not found m any other
medicine. Indeed, the extracts of roots, barks and leaves of which Mother
Seigel’s Syrup is made possess, in combination, the power of tonmgi «P
andstrengthening the organs of digestion as nothing else doe*. Test it
yourself! Take the Syrup daily, after meals.
AGENTS:
Sydney—Tooheys Ltd.
Melbourne—T- R. Jones & Co.
Brisbane —Elliott, Donaldson
& Douglas, Ltd.
Adelaide—Lord & Heseltine.
Launceston—John McKenzie
& Co.
Hobart—John Ferguson & Co.
The Merit of a
Whisky is not
dependent on its
name, but on its
A
0.0:1
Ifii
<// ,
/-
*
nan
Old
qrknev
Is a Real Liqueur Scotch
from a century-old distillery,
reserving its whole output
for this one brand.
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London.
Proprietors of STROMNESS DISTILLERY, Orkney. Scotland,
Business, Robbery, etc.
The Adelaide dailies (11/11/TO) tell of a reaper-
and-binder that knew its business. It encountered a
hare accidentally, but did not worry a bit. It slew him
abruptly, cut his hind legs off, bound him up neatly in
the middle of a sheaf, and delivered him along with the
other goods—the meat with the vegetables, so to speak.
•* * * *
“Fleece”: The writer of the par re Aus-
tralian woollen mills and the Commonwealth contract for
cloth and cord (B. 24/11/’10), ought to get his geography
brushed up. Of the mills securing the contracts, the Ma
State can claim only three, whilst two of the others, named
the Collins and the Albion mills, happen on the Barwon
(Geelong), and the Doveton is at Ballarat. Woollen mills
are sized up by the number of carding sets that they run ;
and Victoria, which got a start with the old State Pro-
tective tariff, has more mills and more sets than N.S. W.
twice over. In Victoria, Geelong has four, Melbourne
three, Ballarat two, Castlemaine and Warrnambool one
each. With the exception of Warrnambool, which only
began last month, all the others have been running full
time for over six years—with the result that Yoik-street
and Flinders-lane are greatly dependent upon them for
both blankets and flannels, and to a lesser degree for
tweeds and rugs.
AMelbournemilk-seller lately bought a “round”
and the necessary accoutrements from a man who was
retiring from business.' This man showed the purchaser
a neat contrivance to aid him to speedily retire too a
watertight receptacle screwed under the driver’s seat,
with a dummy hinge and keyhole. When the driver
pressed a spring, a fine flow of water came fiom
the keyhole. As the Milk-0 diluted the cow-juice
iust before delivering it, the inspectors might test
his cans till further orders without discovering any
thin<»- amiss. This cheerful rascal boasted that the
thing was worth 30s. a week, and the swindle might have
contTnued but that the purchaser happened to be an
honest man and put the Department wise. Now the Law
says it can’t do anything to this scoundrel, there being
no statute in such case made and provided. Which is
particularly soothing to the citizens, especially those who
remember that, when it has been a matter of lagging a
few strike leaders now and then, the absence of a statute
hasn’t saved them from gaol—the handy common law has
been dragged in to do a turn.
* * * *
“Echo”: Some of the big agencies for dairy
machinery have arrived at a charmingly simple method
of pushing business. Lists of residents in cow-districts
having been obtained, a deluge of high-art catalogues
descend upon them, and a carefully-worded letter is
mailed to each inquirer, pointing out the advantage of
the “Bunkum” machines, and conveying the in-
formation that the inquirer, on becoming a pur-
chaser, will be made an agent on commission in
the district. It is remarkable how many cookies
consider themselves born salesmen, and this agency
business catches them on a weak spot, Old Brown
reckons that he can induce Sliprails and Mrs. Mulligan
and others to purchase a separator, say, and he closes
with the offer held out. But when he springs his project
at Sliprails’ house, he is much mortified to learn that
that cow-odored person is also a full-blown agent. So is
Mother Mulligan. I started out to make tobacco and
other food as a canvasser in Victoria for dairying instru-
ments a year or two back, and, in the first district
I struck, every cultivator of the she-bull was an agent for
some blamed contraption or other. And most of them
could talk me blind.
* * * *
“ The Sexton ” : A ray of light was cast on the
chill and silent tomb the other day, when two rival
dealers in Christian burial started to wrangle in the
midst of much horsehair about a matter of advertising.
Sepulchre alleged that Headstone had “ wilfully and
maliciously ” induced the proprietor of a suburban news-
paper to break a 12-months’ contract with him (Sepul-
chre) thereby causing him to lose about 30 cases. In
reply’ to questions, he said he reckoned that advertising
brought him two-thirds of his business, and that the pro-
fits on funerals ranged from £1 Is. to £2 apiece. This
frank admission is a pretty fair indication that the awful
trade is overcrowded. The grave should need no adver-
tisement ; and the unnecessary expenditure of cash and
printer’s ink helps us to understand why the head plume
of Death’s henchman is always so battered and why his
trousers drape so outrageously at the knees. Some time
a o-o a Wa"es Board dug out the information that the hajt
of the undertaker’s man is generally purchased second-
hand for the price of a few beers; and I remember a
funeral I werft to where the drivers tile smelt Strongly
of prawns.. The professionally-gloomy undertaker, with
his awful thirst for tomb-advertisement, his distressingly
dilapidated helpers, and his hungry black horses are all
unsightly and unnecessary. Wherefore I want to see
undertakers abolished, all cemeteries closed up and
Death declared either an illegal game or a thistle within
the meaning of the Act. Failing all these, the general
adoption of cremation, carried out without ghoulish
advt. by the municipality, would comfort me greatly.
* * * *
“ Kodak ” : The fish-shop was full to the oyster
slabs with voracious sports just back from the races.
The band of three performers in the fly-spotted gallery
was playing so loudly that no man could hear his neigh-
bor’s explanation of how he missed backing the card ;
al«o the kitchen could not hear the orders howled from
■ the shop Pete, the big Dago at the helm, occasionally
snarled and showed his yellow teeth at Gecko, the
fuddled violinist; but Gecko was too far gone to notice
anythin"- and gloomily sawed away with his bow half a
bar behind the harp and the flute, thereby making hash
of the “ Waltz Dream.” “By Cri’! ” breathed Pete into
the ear of his piratical first oyster-opener, “By Cri’! I
sack Gecko to-morrow. I will not hava the damn
rotten music so loud. (Oystatre stew one !) Didda
you see him go for the beer? (Yes ; Oystaire
'stew one !) I cannot hear what I say to myself ! He has
taken the damn beer because the horse didda not come
first 1 Nota so loud there , you Gecko ! Nota so loud the
music, I say!" For a moment Guiseppe’s shrieks for
the dilatory stew drowned the beer-soaked band ; then
the mourning violin broke out into louder shrieks and
wailings and business and conversation alike came mo-
mentarily to a dead stop. Big Ben, the bookmaker,
whirled round on his chair and roared at the raging pro-
prietor : “Stop that blanky row, Pete, for God’s sake,
and let’s have some peace ! ” With a frightful Greek
curse, Pete leaped from behind the cash register
and bounded up the steps of the music gal-
lerv “Shoot up the rotten music! he screamed.
“ Put-a the blanky fiddle in the box ! The music
is alia rotten, I say ! You play him too loud and know
not your business ! Shoot it up!" Gecko dashed down
his precious two-and-sixpenny Cremona and flung his
arms abroad. “ I plava no more !” he howled. I shoot
up for good ! My music is nota the good music, but tor
a reason I play him so loud ! Gentlemans all, I playa 1,1 * n
so loud to drovvna the damn bad oyst and the blanky fly
in the kitchen. Gooda night!” Then t J' e , n ° t d ’
Before the police arrived, three crayfish had been killed
and a dozen oysters mortally wounded. Also five agile
men had escaped without paying.
HER CHOICE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Black puddings, stout and solemn, lay
Along the marble slab, in rows;
And others, fat and whitey-grey,
In just the same impassive way,
Lounged grimly there and seemed to doze.
Above, in gay festoons, there hung
Some yards of sausages, long strings
From hook to hook profusely flung—
Plump sausages, and round and young,
Such as each hash-house morning brings.
A brand-new housewife saw the sight,
And halted on her homeward way
And stood, her eyes extremely bright,
Gazing at puddings, black and white,
And sausages in garlands gay.
The butcher stood beside his block.
“Yes, ma’ain?” he breathed, prepared to seize
Her choice from all his slaughtered flock . . .
“Some sausages”—she scanned his stock —
“A pound,” she said . . . “ the pink ones, please! ”
VICTORIA.
STONY.


BEALE HIGH-GRADE PIANOS.
We are sending to London the fifteen thousandth Piano manufactured by us in
Australia, and it is for use with the Band of the Coldstream Guards. One of our
large horizontals has been, for a couple of years, in a palatial establishment in London
for a similar purpose, but now a semi-grand is demanded in addition for a concert
room of less size in that city.
The success of the BEALE PIANOS is not due to cheapness. Cheap engines, cheap
motor cars, cheap instruments are very dear in actual use. In such things high
quality and durability are the chief requisites. But you cannot have efficiency with
rush methods.
Hence we extend our buildings and facilities instead of working two shifts
with the same space and machinery. Again, delicate and accurate work cannot
be done by artificial light; therefore there is no overtime nor speeding-up in our
factories. Cheap materials and short-cuts are not permitted by us at all.
The BEALE piano factories are the largest and most complete in the British
Empire. Moreover, we are the only piano makers in the world producing veneers.
These veneers are not mere ornaments; the whole instrument is reinforced throughout
by cross-plied timber to insure strength, permanence and resonance. Imported pianos
are made with boards veneered on one side for purposes of show. Ours are laboriously
built up in many plies so as to resist all or any climates. Climatic conditions in
Australasia embrace wide extremes, and the BEALE PIANOS withstand them all. Our
system provides for drought, atmospheric saturation, tropic heat and winter frost.
No other method affords security, and ours is unique, but not cheap. Cheap in
the long run, certainly, because buying from factory to family you actually pay no
more than you would for an inferior article which has to carry two or three profits.
Before purchasing a piano, you owe it to yourself to make inspection, when
we will gladly demonstrate all our claims.
BEALE CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
378 George Street, Sydney
(3 Doors from
G.P.0.)
107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 Queen Street, Brisbane (next-G.P.O.
127 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A.
our Only Address in Brisbane).
837 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Goulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Mackay and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE, Write for Catalogue, or for Representative to call.
Head Offices & Factories : Trafalgar Street, Annanda/e, Sydney,
Cash or Easy Terms. 25 Years 1 Guarantee. Repairs and Tuning.
Old Pianos Allowed For. Direct from Factory to Family.
Save Importers ’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


ill ■
mgßgssßßHKmm
■p
B
i H
pttl
gi®*
flfc#** 1
WWff
aww
BM
58
■
lEwSK?
Km
,
11
„, 4- .i- '-ytj
jf
11
.
y |jj
i|
•€§m» PgMigfef
ijjiißiii
lie!
■
MHI
i lllll
1
■
t ■’■ •■•'•■.»•
lllliilHi
Wi
Hi gNll
Will
IBS
■■■■
iw
SB
ill
;
■BmP 9 *
,
VICTORIA. NEW SOUTH WALES, QUEENSLAND
MS
**r
and all porfs in each
AUSTRALIAN STA
ADELAIDE S. C° L TD A.U.S.N.C 0 LIMITED
t.
■
B^SH
HOWARD SMITH C°L TD HUDDART PARKER & C?PT Y LT?
M9ILWRAITH, MPEACHARN &C° P TY L TD
OFFICES & AGENTS AT ALL PORTS


Farmer’s, of Sydney, send out their Christmas
list—not that Parmer’s really need send out a list, for
Sydney knows that the big house with the brilliant win-
dows has everything: that is new and good and sensible
and ornamental and tasteful in houseware and human-
wear. And, besides having the goods to sell, Farmer’s
is the shop where you can buy the goods in comfort.*
Amusements.
|J|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
*■ Lessee and Manajrer : J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
IN
OUR MISS GIBBS.
On MONDAY, DECEMBER 12, “OUR MISS GIBBS”
will transfer to THEATRE ROYAL.
Box Plan at Paling's. Prices as usual.
THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
• Lessee & Manajrer .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
TO-NIGHT (THURSDAY), FRIDAY & SATURDAY,
Charles Klein’s Orijrinal and
Powerful Play,
THE LION AND THE MOUSE.
KATHERINE GREY as SHIRLEY ROSSMORE.
WILLIAM DESMOND as JOHN RYDER.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Direction of MAGGIE MOORE and H. R. ROBERTS.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of A GAMBLER S SWEETHEART.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 10,
MAGGIE MOORE and H. R. ROBERTS
in a Grand Reproduction of the Brilliant Play,
THE PRINCE CHAP.
Box Plan atElvy’s. Prices—3s., 2s. and Is.
THE NEW OLYMPIA THEATRE, SYDNEY,
Located Corner of Elizabeth St. & Wentworth Avenue.
Under Direction of William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
A Superb Collection of Animated Gems, headed by the
Picture Sensation of the hour,
BUFFALO BILL.
Popular Prices—fid., Is. and Is. 6d.
Booked Seats at Elvy’s, 6d. extra.
The glacia r r u m, Sydney.
Opposite Railway Station—Where all Id. trams stop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER!
WEST’S PICTURES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. :T. J. West.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
Amusements.
THE. LYCEUM..
Leyery evening at 8
Matinees -Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30.
asd
fa
sdf
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Proprietor & Manasrer — Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
LAST NIGHTS OF
BARNOLD’S WORLD-FAMED ANIMAL ACTORS.
Instantaneous Success of MR. FRANK HARWOOD,
England’s Popular Descriptive Vocalist.
MR. and MRS. H. A. MEYMOTT.
LES MARABAS, CARL HOWARD, GODFREY JAMES,
FRED BLUETT, FANNY POWERS, HILDA LANE,
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES—3s. and Is. Plan at Palinsr’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
JULIAN ROSE, Monologue Entertainer.
THE DANCING GILBERTS.
THE BLESSINGS, Strongest Lady Athlete and her
Partner.
ALEXANDER PRINCE, King of Concertina Players.
THE QUEALYS, Musical Sketch Artists.
MDME. LYDIA-YEAMANS-TITUS, Mimic Impersonator
Vocaliste.
FREDERICK J. TITUS, Composer and Accompanist.
Plan at Allan’s. JBT PRICES—Bs., Bs., Is.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager— William Andkiison'.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 10,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION
in a unique play,
HER SECOND TIME ON
EARTH.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
JHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 10,
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S NEW ENGLISH
COMIC OPERA CO. in
MISS HOOK OP HOLLAND.
LAST NIGHTS OF SEASON.
Plans at Allan’s.
PRICES AS USUAL.
UWEST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
WEST’S PICTURES,
LIMITED.
THE BEST
OF AEL.
THE BEST
OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.&N.TAIT'S
PICTURES.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices—2/-, 1/6,
1/-, 6d. Matinees —Wednesday, Saturday, All Holidays.
Amusements
J. & N. TAIT’S
Q PEN -AIR THEATRE, ST. KILDA.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
THE POLLIES
NEW COSTUME COMEDY CO.
PRICES—I/6. 1/-, 6d.
W IRTHS OLYMPIA.
.EVERY EVENING AT 8
Matinees-Wednesdays.Saturdays and Holidays at 2 -50.
E<£>.
cs
asd
Public Notice.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Treasury,
Melbourne, 30th September, 1910.
COUNTERFEIT COINAGE PLANT.
£2OO Reward.
YWHEREAS certain imitations of gold coins have
* * recently been passed into circulation at Broken
Hill, in the State of New South Wales, NOTICE is hereby
given that a Reward of Two hundred pounds will be paid
by the Government of the Commonwealth for information
leading to the apprehension of the coiners and the dis-
covery of the plant used in the manufacture of the coins
referred to. The Commonwealth Government will request
the State Government to extend a full pardon to any
accomplice who will give the desired information. This
offer will remain open for three months from this date.
(Sgd.) ANDREW FISHER, Treasurer.
:: THE NEW ::
AUSTRALIAN NIB
GOLDEN WATTLE
DOES NOT BREAK OR CORRODE, AND
WRITES WITHOUT HARSHNESS AND
SCRATCHING. IT HELPS TO FORM
THE LETTERS NEATLY, SO AS TO GIVE
CHARACTER TO THE WRITING. LADIES
LIKE IT FOR ITS SILKEN SMOOTHNESS.
SIXPENCE PER BOX
SOLD BY STATIONERS AND DEALERS
Wholesale Agent
ROBERT HUTTON
321 FLINDERS LANE
: MELBOURNE :
Every Man Likes a Good Pipe
fasd
—one that draws freely
—that won’t crack or
bum—that looks neat
and is evenly balanced
—so, if you are casting
round for a
071
Oval Bowl,
for vest
pocket,
4/6 & 6/-
SUITABLE XMAS GIFT FOR “HIM.
Push Stem,
7/6.
oQI
Bent stem,
4/6, 6/6 to
8/6.
buy a 8.8.8.
Own Make
Pipe. I have
just opened up
a small ship-
ment of excellent shapes, and
can honestly recommend them
as being full value for the price
you pay. Add 6d. for postage.
600
Push Stem,
4/6, 6/6 to
8/6.
Andrew McGee
Sydney’s Leading
Tobacconist,
5 & 7 Castlereagh St., corner Hunter St., Sydney.
TWO BEAUTIES
IWL OHLY
TYRE j
BUILT ol\
/cimTinc
PRINCIPLE/
&
v
Y.
£
xr
,
W,
Oa
rrj
JS.
O
C>
*£
&
'P
£i-** Hi o 1
sp
the
/ILVEBTOWtt
RUBBER (?
m GEORGE r
yTBHEY
KING OF ALL” CIGARS FOR XMAS !
THE IDEAL XMAS GIFT FOR THE SMOKER,
tzzs
A man wants leisure to smoke a cigar—and it’s just during the Xmas holidays
that he’ll appreciate them most. That friend of yours loves a good smoke give
him a box of 100 “ King of A 11” Cigars, and see how delighted he’ll be. They are
lovely cigars—fragrant, draw splendidly, and quite equal to the 6d. cigars' sold
generally.
Box of 100,18/6 post free; 50 for 9/6, post free.
We’ll send them direct to your friend, if you give us his name and address
and enclose your name in the box as donor. Send for our Catalogue, post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 years.
Legral Notice.
TN THE SUPREaIE court of new south wales.
J- MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION.
No. 7322.
Between MARY JANE ROWE VON MORITZ
Petitioner
and AUGUST GEORGE RICHARD VON MORITZ
generally known as Gus Morris Respondent.
To August George Richard Von Moritz, also known as
Gus Morris late of Redfern (Sydney).
TAKE NOTICE that the said Mary Jane Rowe Von
Moritz, has commenced a suit against you, in this Honour-
able Court, and is applying for a divorce, on the ground
of your having without just cause or excuse wilfully
deserted her, and without any such cause or excuse left
her continuously so deserted during three years mi
upwards. AND TAKE NOTICE that you are requir I
i o enter an appearance to the said suit, at the proper
office of this Honourable Court, on or before the twenty-
eighth day of February, 1911, and in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtaining further
time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be heard
and determined your absence notwithstanding. A copy
of the Petition filed herein may be had on application to
the undersigned free of charge.
Dated this 21st day of November, 1910.
ROBERT WILLIAM FRASER,
Solicitor for the Petitioner, Post Office Chambers, 114 a
Pitt Street, Sydney. For the Registrar (Signed), JOHN
GEO. LEARY (1.5.), Chief Clerk.
Government Advertisement
COMMONWEALTH OF~ AUSTRALIA.
Department of Defence,
Melbourne, 2nd November, 1910.
Manager, Commonwealth
Woollen Mills.
APPLICATIONS are invited for appoint-
ment as MANAGER of the WOOLLEN
MILLS about to be established for the manufac-
ture of woollen cloths for the Defence Department.
Applicants, whose age must not exceed 45 years,
are required to send copies of testimonials, with a
statement of their service and qualifications.
General business qualifications, previous experi-
ence in connection with the manufacture of cloth,
cord, serge, flannel, stockinget.te, and a knowledge
of modern machine appliances will be regarded as
essential.
The salary will be £6OO per annum, and, before
selection, proof of medical fitness must be pro-
duced.
Applications will be received up to 31st Decem-
ber, 1910.
Forms of application may be obtained at this
office, or the Military Headquarters, Sydney,
Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth (Western Australia),
and Hobart.
S. A. PETHEBRIDGE, Secretary.
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Treasury, 31st October, 1910.
Designs for Australian Notes.
THE Government of the Commonwealth J of
Australia invite ORIGINAL DESIGNS)
for AUSTRALIAN NOTES.
Three prizes are offered, viz.:—
£5O for the best design for the 10s. Note.
£5O for the best design for the £1 Note.
£5O for the best design for the £5 Note.
Designs for Notes of a higher denomination
than £5 are not required.
The design for each Note should provide for both
front and back of the Note. It should be simple
in character, and such that a watermark may be
easily seen. Not more than three colors should
be used for either side of the Note.
Preference will be given to the design which in-
cludes the Australian Coat of Arms on the front
of the Note and Australian scenery on the back.
The sizes of the Notes are to be :
10s. Note 7§ inches x 3J inches.
£1 Note 7 inches x 3f inches.
£5 Note 6| inches x 4 inches.
Accepted designs are to become the property of
the Commonwealth.
Designs are to be furnished to the Secretary to
the Treasury not later than 31st December next.
C. E. FRAZER, for the Treasurer.
THIS FREE BOOK TELLS HOW
CAN BE CURED,
even after the attacks have lasted for years.
Dr. Niblett’s Remedy Cures
the Disease Permanently.
It is the result of the most exhaustive research
by a London physician, who for 35 years made
epilepsy his special study.
CONFIDENCE may be placed in this remedy,
which for nearly 40 years has been used with the
greatest success. Letters of r> commendation from
D -ctors, Clergymen and other persons of the
highest standing.
THE ONE REMEDY THAT CURES.
FREE.— Send for very interesting booklet, giving
particulars of cures, etc., post free. Kocke,
To Ml's itt & Co., 292 to 29S Flinders St., Melbourne!
A HUGE SUCCESS!
■a*
Custard
1
Bird’s
Custard With Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,When stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
Lying prone on an out-of-the-way sandhill
at Cottesloe (W.A.) head), where they had appa-
rently been for five weeks, have been found the
bodies of Reginald and Ernest Toe, aged respec-
tively 22 and 18. On October 29 they departed
from the home of their father, Albert Toe, carry-
ing a bottle of chloroform and leaving behind a
letter in which they said: “We have gone to
stoke for the Old Gentleman.” It seems a drastic
proceeding. No one could reasonably be asked to
live under the name of Toe ; but between death
and a change of name to Smith, the latter course
seems easier. Besides, a person might be named
Toe in the next world.
J. L. Fegan has now had his say about the
release of the Syrian abortionist. He (Fegan)
didn’t see Wade. Fegan, the Wade candidate,
wanted the Syrian vote in Red fern; and Wade,
even without troubling to see Fegan and ques-
tion him, signed the paper for the Syrian’s
release. Then, presumably to show that he was a
good man at opening prison doors for Syrians in
trouble, Fegan wanted a letter from the Justice
Department. “ I asked Mr. Williams to send it,”
he says. And Mr. Williams sent it. And no
doubt Mr. Fegan used it. Thus is Mr. Fegan
completely exonerated. Likewise Mr. Wade. In
fact, everybody. So all ends happily: the abor-
tionist is out; so is Mr. Wade ; so is Mr. Fegan.
After 35 years’ honest toil as secretary of
the Wellington (M.L.) Chamber of Commerce,
Samuel Carroll this week left to inspect his credit
balance in the bookkeeping department of the
Hereafter. A kindly citizen was old Sam Carroll ;
one of the lovable type of business men who sur-
vive chiefly in the stories of Dickens; a man
devoid of social ambitions; a little cheerful
gentleman in a glossy belltopper, who looked
upon the world as a vast counting-house and
found it good. He learned his commercial alphabet
in London, wherehe got a grip of the East Ind ia and
China trade. Later, he worked through Batavia,
Singapore and Manila. Returning to London
(this was in 1859, before the Canal was cut), his
ship, the Aiwa, was wrecked, and all hands cast
away on an island in the Red Sea. There was
not a drop of water to be had, but there was
plenty of beer, barrels of which floated ashore.
Subsequently, when a man-o’-war sighted the
party and sent some kegs of water ashore, the
marooned men fought for first share. Samuel
Carroll declared he never knew the real taste of
water until that day. “It was,” he used to
reverently say, “ like the nectar of the gods.”
Died on Sunday, at the age of 90, Mrs.
Baker Eddy, faith-healer and Chris-
tian Scientist, probably the greatest liar, thief
and impostor of a century. Joseph Smith might
have 'ranked before her if he had been the sole
creator of Mormonism, but that work was shared
by man}’, and the name of Brigham Young almost
eclipses that of the Prophet Smith. Dowie, the
stinkpot man, was hardly in the same street with
Mrs. Eddy. They all flourished in the United
States. That land of pills, Private Enterprise,
trusts, hysteria, Tammany, lynching and pork-
and-beans is the one place on earth to-
day where a gigantic holy fraud may
flourish. Like all her kind, Mrs. Eddy
was a shockingly commonplace delusion. She was
coarse, ordinary, grasping, abusive and ignorant,
and had the temper of seven fiends. She was in
e u ly life a quack, a mesmerist, a spiritualist, and
almost anything else that suggested a chance of
living without honest work. She was wildly
litigious; in fact, she quarrelled with so many
people and dragged them to court so furiously
that she almost required to keep a tame solicitor
in the house. She was not beautiful. She was
married three times. Her personal cleanliness
has been aspersed. It is almost a certainty
that she stole the idea of her new re-
ligion. She was a healer who never healed
anybody. Yet by mere vitality, energy, effron-
tery, persistence, driving-power and Billingsgate
she became immensely rich and the head of a sect
which numbered some 60,000 adherents. And the
utterly dreary book in which she expounded her
views ran thrPugh more than 500 editions.
An especially gorgeous work of many pages is
“ Picturesque Travel,” issued by Burns, Philp & Co. It
contains a well-executed picture of everywhere, and tells
everybody how to get there. Nobody could ask for more
than that.


Shipping.
P. and 0. BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund’s Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
f
*Twin Screw. Calling-at Plymouth.
J Carrying one class of passengers only.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by this Steamer.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
SPECIAL ROUND TICKETS for return by P.O. Com-
pany’s Mail Steamers, First-class both ways, £lll 2s. ;
Second-class, Mail Steamer, £B4 6s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mk.liiO'Jrnk Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-’uxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Roome, Private Bathrooms ;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing everv fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of Horth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, EC.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout, QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of H e|U Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £564,134
PRAUTQ riRACTQ
UnttN I O unfir I O
on Australia. New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Ban kin? business.
THE
Australian Bank nf Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,042.960
PAID-UP £958,172
HEAP OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONI ON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRI JTORS — Philip H. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Ciias.
H. Myles, Esq. ; Sir William P. Manning, Kt. ; Hon.
Sir Francis B. Suttor, Kt., M.L.C. ; Rowland H.
Ducker, Esq.; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian C mimomvealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,368 18 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) 89,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO, Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the Ea3t.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE.
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial Mutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring- £33,888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible!
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hon, C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping;.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
N ord D
eutscher
'loyd.
FARES TO LONDON.
SINGLE .. 1., £66 11., £3B 10s. 111., £l5 to £l7
RETURN.. 1., 99 11., 57 15s. 111., 27 to 30 12s.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
asdf
w Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
Arriving- in London in good time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
EXECUTORS
THE TRUSTEES,
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAP IT AL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £37,500 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M, Pratt; J. H.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. DANG, Assistant Manager.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown . Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
asd
t New Steamer. * Twin Screw, a One class only.
w Fitted Wireless Telegraphy. h Calls Hobart.
FARES — Saloon. 3rd Class.
London ... ... From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. <& O. Branch Service.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way) ; £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
1
*
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
December 21.
RUNIC, 12.500 tons, to sail about
January 18.
. ICDIC, AFRIC and SUEVIO to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling- Apparatus.
On,/ One Class of Accommodation.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £.15 15 0 to £34 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne 1 10 0
New fork, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 34 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
I Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
fasd
HOLIDAY CRUISES <
to Papua and the Pacific islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Dec. 16, Jan. 27 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Jan. 13, Feb. 24 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT. —INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.— CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
Full particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
Office. j. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liabili y
49*.
£2,817,660
£1,872,695
£2,817,660
£7,508,015
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. O. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt. ( M.L.C.
Auditors: Alfred George Milson, Esq. ; William Harrington Palmer, Esq.
Heid Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 319 Branches in all the Australian States, New. Zealand, Fiji and Papua(New South Wales 159, Victoria 37,
Queensland 47, Smth Australia-5, West Australia 11, New Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1); and
Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and
the East, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
FURS,
The Largest Store in Aus-
tralasia. Established 1860.
TOST & ROHU,
Taxidermists, Furriers,
Tanners and Island
Curio Dealers,
10, 12 & 14 MOORE ST.,
Opp. C.P.0., SYDNEY
Central 2196.
And 605 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY. City 2374.
fa
CURIOS, SHELLS 8 OPALS.
Large Showrooms and Museum, containing thousands of
Australian Souvenirs. Inspection invited.
Returning Boomerang's from 1/6 each. Carved Emu Eggs,
4/6 each. Native Grass Dresses, 4/6. Bow and Six Arrows,
2/6 the set. Spears, Clubs, Idols, Kava and Food Bowls,
Shields, Masks, Stone Axes, Bark Belts, Tappa and Matting.
Pet Snakes, 20/- Snake Skin Ties and Watch Guards, 2/- each ;
Snake Skin Belts and Braces, 7/6 ; Slippers, 12/6 ; Boots,
£l/2/6 per pair. Skins made up into Ladies’ Furs, Mats,
Rugs and Foot Warmers.
Stuffed Birds and Animals in Large Variety.
All Purchasbs Packed Free and Labelled.
Collections of Genuine Curios from £3.
Hotels, &c.
mm
George hotel,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Business Announcements.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrak
Co. (1902), Ltd.
Wk Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant*
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.C.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6SJ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Shipping:.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE co and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE ''i
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, Dec. 10 and
Jan. 7
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), conrtect-
in<r with Koombana
in Fremantle for North-
West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North bo Claims. .
S.S. Grantala, Dec. 17.
S.S. Yongula, Dec. 24.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on il
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD,,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-IiED ROUTE.
To via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
sdf
* Twin-screw Steamer.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraph.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply— ,i
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-sGreeC, Sydney.
F.—H. —vS.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “ DORSET,”
11.400 Tons. VV. L. Prentice, Commander
Will be despatched from SYDNEY about 20th Dec.
.. » » MELBOURNE „ 27th Dec.
.. » ADELAIDE „ 3rd Jan.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with, dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
PARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and I
LIVERPOOL.. (
•eZTZiar •scx stcP 'SSI SI3T 'SOI 6fy
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN &; Co., Ltd., Melbourne*
ELDER. SMITH & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.) ; Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L.A. ; E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
FITZ’S
Genuine
Folding
Panamas
Perfectly
Bleached,
12(6
Post Free
Anywhere.
b/wiiiiiiiimiimiiiiimunimiiin
FITZGERALD BROS.,
Drapers, Importers, Manufacturers,
ERROL STREET, NORTH MELBOURNE.
YOUNG AUSTRALIA, and Boys and Girls’ own
1 Newspaper, invites the submission of STORIES
VERSE, suitable PARAGRAPHS and ILLUSTRA-
TIONS. Australian and General. “FARMER AND
SETTLER ” OFFICE, 435 Kent Street, Sydney.
“A Feast of Festive Things ” —The Christ-
mas Number of The Lone Hand.


■
“THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE”—
Famous Schebler Carburetor
The best Vaporising- Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving. If yon want to get more HORSE-
POWER from your Engine or a GREATER
NUMBER OF MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor-
mation Free. Correspondence Invited.
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.,
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
(The Acetylene Burner House).
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
" AWL-YOU-WANT."
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
. EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2s. Posted.
(Awl, 2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
asd
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
Its immense vaiuein repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
|is the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one’s pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICK—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight—l reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post tree. Extras: Cotton,
gd., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent). 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
STAR NOVJBLT? (JO , 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
STRAW and PANAMA HATS
fas
CLEANED EQUAL TO
NEW
Two for
SIX PENCE
Done in a few
minutes.
Does not Alter Shape or Harden
the Straw. Dries Quickly.
CTROKLEEN is a Straw Hat Cleaner absolutely free from
poison and injurious acid. Makes soiled Hats like
new in a few minutes. The straw becomes bright and fresh,
not dull and yellow as with other cleaners. Simple and easy ;
a child can use it. Failure impossible. Six Pence per Packet
(Seven Pence posted), Two Packets for One Shilling, posted
to any address. Note carefully, as this advertisument may
not appear again. Obtainable only from
The Union Mfg. <& Agency Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
jm
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
3 for 10/~
Black, White,
Cream, Natural, or
Black tipped with
White.
(Length, 10 inches.) Post
Free to any address.
Worth twice the money. Write
to-day. Send Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention Tun Bulletin.] [5
LIGHTING.
;
.
'
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest lliuminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and Victoria. Thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc. •
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-lifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
Buy “Him” a
Gillette for Xmas
The most useful and appropriate gift for any man. Enables him to shave in
comfort without cutting his face or making the skin smart. Nothing to
learu. Quickest and easiest to use, and shaves best. British made and
sold everywhere.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR, Ltd., 17 Holborn Viaduct, London, England.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
Safety
Razor
Will Anprape -»« BOOKS.
Dr. Thomas Faulkner’s
GREAT
BOOK OF NATURE
and ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE,
1908 Edition.
Vastly Improved.
The ONLY GENUINE -»JS
UNABRIDCED EDITION.
3/6, Post Free 4/-
Write for Descriptive
Circular of Contents,
post free anywhere.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engraving's, 7/6. Du.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
If-. How to Mesmerise, !/-
ND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention Tiie Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
ra
Marvellously Simple 1
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing- at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage
no confederates and no special skill), post free any
where, wit h Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2,6.
Stamps or Postal Notes of anv State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
§
i
SHRINK*®^
on
ALL
WOOL
? Hosiery &
Underwear.
When buying
stockings, half-hose,
socks or underwear ask for
. That is if you want the best,
have all the good features of the
highest quality all-wool wear.
More than this. wear is unshrinkable.
Do you realise the importance of this ? It means comfort and
longer life for the stockings and underwear.
Next time you are buying ask for
“Jason” Stockings, Socks, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores.
If your dealer does not stock "SaAonJ he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for "Jason" Booklet and name of nearest Agent, io
Aa3 Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England. <|>
df
Imagine being able to get a Pen that never sticks nor spurts
And here it is !
A fine ball is formed on the point, and the pen becomes a “glider
You don’t know what a boon they are until you try the
Ball-Pointed
Ask your Stationer for a 6d. Assorted Box.
very finely-tempered steel, they write like
and last a long time.
Made of
a quill
asd
Latest Additions to
Macmillan’s
Shilling LIBRARY.
Globe Bvo. Is. net per Volume.
LEAVES FROM THE NOTE-BOOKS
OF LADY DOROTHY NEVILL.
Edited by Ralph Nevill.
H.M.I. Some Passages in the Life
of one of H.M. Inspectors of
Schools. By E. M. Sneyd-Kyn-
NERSLEY.
TALES OF OLD JAPAN. By A. B.
Freeman-Mitford(Lord Redesdale).
Illustrated.
AT LAST: A Christmas in the West
Indies. By Charles Kingsley.
Illustrated.
THE RELIEF OF CHITRAL. By
Colonel G. J. Younghusband and Sir
Francis Younghusband. Illustrated.
BARRACKS, BIVOUACS AND
BATTLES. By Archibald Forbes.
REMINISCENCES OF THE GREAT
MUTINY. Including the Relief,
Siege and Capture of Lucknow,
and the Campaigns in Rohilcund
and Oude. By William Forbes-
Mitchell.
CAWNPORE. By the Right Hon. Sir
G. O. Trevelyan, Bart.
NORTH ITALIAN FOLK. Sketches
of Town and Country Life. By
Mrs. Comyns Carr. Illustrated by
Randolph Caldecott.
ALCOHOL AND THE HUMAN
BODY. An Introduction to the
Study of the Subject, and a Con=
tribution to National Health. By
Sir Victor Horsley, F. R.S., and
Mary D. Sturge, M.D. With a
Chapter by Arthur Newsholme, M.D.
Macmillan’s
Sevenpenivy Series.
Pott Bvo. Cloth Gilt. With
Frontispieces. 7d. net each.
1. THE FOREST LOVERS. By
Maurice Hewlett.
2. A ROHAN SINGER. By F.
Marion Crawford.
3. THE FIRST VIOLIN. By Jessie
Fothergill.
4. MISUNDERSTOOD. By Florence
Montgomery.
5. ELIZABETH AND HER GER-
MAN GARDEN.
6. THE HOUSE OF MIRTH. By
Edith Wharton.
7. DIANA TEMPEST. By M ary
Cholmondeley.
8. THE CHOIR INVISIBLE. By
James Lane Aulen.
9. A WAIF’S PROGRESS. By
Rhoda Broughton.
10. JOHN GLYNN. By Arthur
Paterson.
11. MARZIO’S CRUCIFIX. By F.
Marion Crawford.
12. A CIGARETTE MAKER’S
ROMANCE. By F. Marion Craw-
ford.
13. NANCY. By Rhoda Broughton.
14. A STRANGE ELOPEMENT. By
W. Clark Russell.
15. MY FRIEND JIM. By W. E.
Norris.
16. THE STOOPING LADY. By
Maurice Hewlett.
17. MR. ISAACS. By F. Marion
Crawford.
18. A TALE OF A LONELY PARISH.
By F. Marion Crawford.
19. COMETH UP AS A FLOWER.
By Rhoda Broughton.
20. CECILIA DE NOEL. By Lanoe
Falconer.
21. DR. CLAUDIUS. By F. Marion
Crawford.
22. THE SOLITARY SUMMER. By
the Author of “ Elizabeth and Her Ger-
man Garden
23. MAMMA. By Rhoda Broughton.
24. MRS. LORIMER. By Lucas
Malet.
25. A BELEAGUERED CITY. By
Mrs. Oliphant.
Macmillan 8 Co. L*
LONDON and MELBOURNE.


fasd
Pike Brothers Limited,
The Australasian Emporium for Men’s Wear.
Our Famous Guinea Boot,
THE WALDORF.
Especially Recommended for Business Wear.
Very Smart and Dressy in Appearance. Stocked
in the Best English Tan Willow Oalf and Black
Glac6 Kid. SSW Write for our Large Catalogue.
211-
Brisbane, Townsville, Toowoomba & London
HOTEL DAN I ELL
(Late imperial), Brisbane, Queensland.
AND ROYAL HOTEL,
Maryborough, Queensland.
A Home for Commercials and Others. - *®
(
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
fa
TO
H.M. THE KINO.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBS & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
sdf
IN
BANANA LAND
W. H. Standish, a man who made a hobby
of blazing tracks, got to the end of the journey
the other day. In the time of the old Roads De-
partment he linked up Rockhampton and far-ouc
Peak Downs, Springsure and St. Lawrence, Rock-
hampton and Gladstone, and. many other remote
places, and subsequently had to. spread his eye
over the tracks and culverts'of a small Central
Queensland patch of 7400 square miles. And a
gold-beater couldn’t have done the job better even
if the eye had been the best quality metal from
Mount Morgan.
Kidston’s idea is that his western railway
to Camoweal shall form part of the “trans-
continental” line, and thus blow out the scheme
to build a straight “ transcontinental ” from Port
Darwin to Adelaide. Unfortunately, Kidston
can’t explain the whole conspiracy to his heelers;
wherefore he gets this kind of support :
Squares would be laid out, and artesian water would be
used to make them beautiful, so that in the worst times
these towns would be a g reen oasis in the desert.
And all the time Queensland has been grabbing
to get the transcontinental to googly into that
State, on the ground that this “desert ” is already
a Garden of Eden which the railway can’t enter
with too much haste.
The guarantee system is to apply to the
coast railway which Kidston threatens to run
from Cairns to Rockhampton. When lines have
hitherto been laid on this system the squatter and
the cocky and the country bumpkin have done the
paying in case of loss, while the big town from
which the line started has smiled at the increase
in its trade and paid nothing. In this case, how-
ever, Rockhampton is to be called on to pay one-
fifth of the expected loss on the line to St.
Lawrence (120 miles), and other towns are to be
prodded the same way ; and they begin to wonder
whether this guarantee business is what they have
always cracked it up to be.
They wondered, how it was that the Aus-
tralians had so much initiative in S’Africa. The
Education Department’s itinerant teachers don’t
wonder. One of them the other day dropped on
a Far West camp. The “ old man ” owned a few
cattle and took mail contracts. When the itin-
erant teacher struck the camp, the younger lad, an
11-year-old, was in charge. He had been on his
own for four nights. The other boy, of 13, “ ran
the mail ” on a 60-mile track. The youths don’t
know much Latin, and they haven’t started
Hebrew yet; but they know a heap of other
things that would be handier if it came to a fight
for Australia.
After its last boom Queensland was so
crushed by the interest bill that it couldn’t afford
itself a coat of paint anywhere; and it is going to
be the same after Kidston gets his “ transconti-
nental ” line through. That line will pass through
country which is not, and probably never will be,
any good for anything but squatting ; in fact,
good judges say there isn’t an acre fit for
closer settlement on the whole route.
Anyhow, it isn’t better than the land
served by existing pastoral-country lines;
and this is the return shown by three of
the best of them: Hughenden to Winton,
£1 16s. 3d. per cent.; Jericho to Blackall,
£1 17s. per cent. ; Emerald to Springsure,
14s. sd. per cent. There are several others worse
than that. These lines and the line that Kidston
says he is going to build may save Philp and the
other Western squatters vast numbers of sheep in
drought time; but it seems dead-sure that it
is the Queensland taxpayer who will-have to pay
for saving Philp’s sheep.
So many deputations have lately asked
Kidston for central sugar mills that he has
decided to push the responsibility on to the
shoulders of a commission. Brisbane’s P.M.
Ranking is chairman ; while Paddle, who manages
the Government Sugar Mills, and Dr. Gibson, of
the sugar experiment stations, will attend to the
expert end of the inquiry.
Supreme Court Judge Chubb was the first
immigrant to be given a land order in Banana-
land. That was some time in the ’6o’s, when
he was a youth, and lie selected 30 acres (the area
allowed) between Ipswich and Goodna. Being
too busy chasing Costs subsequently, he didn’t
make personal use of it; nevertheless other people
got busy in that neighborhood, so that Chubb was
able to presently sell it and rake in unearned in-
crement at the rate of £7 per acre.
In its latest Marsupial Bill, Bananaland
Parliament has stretched the term '‘dingo” to in-
clude “fox,” whether pure bred or half-caste. It
also steadies the ’possumer who has been catching
the fur by snare and poison. The measure abso-
lutely bars cyanide ; but as the cyanide bait is
usually set on any old piece of bark, and as there
is but one policeman or informer to every 10
million pieces of bark, there is a large-sized danger
that the murderer will’crawl through the good
provision oftener than he should.
THE JUDGMENT OF PARIS.
The Brisbane Telegraph has been the
chief journalistic opponent of the Bible in State
Schools Bill. It was, therefore, entertaining to
note that Freddy Brentnall, M.L.Q.,. a big Tele-
graph proprietor, led the pro-Bible Wowser
brigade in the Council, while Cowlishaw, M.L.C.,
also a Telegraph director, sat up all night wrapt
in blankets to vote for the Bill which his paper
was vigorously denouncing. In what quaint
witch’s cauldron is the policy of some newspapers
concocted !
“Drillbumper,” on the agitation to live
white :—,
If “Settled” (B. 17/11/TO) and “ Bromide ” had gone
along the line a little farther than Mareeba they would
have found a white oasis at Mungana. There are five
pubs in that township, and all of them employ white
cooks. One time Mungana was like the rest of the North,
yellow in the tucker department ; but the miners who
board at the pubs decided to put their feet down with a
firm hand on the agony. They delivered their ultimatum
that Pong must go ; then, taking no heed of the old
wails of “ Can’t get white cooks,” they packed their
blueys and hinted at a co-operative boarding-house.
Bung promptly surrendered, and Mungana, I believe,
will be white till the end of time.
Terrific indignation has of late babbled up
in the Brisbane Tory press re the scandalous
refusal of the Australian Government to pay
rates to the City Municipal Council on its
various Brisbane properties. But the Queensland
State Frights Ministry has refused for years to
part up one copper for rates to local authorities.
Here is the Kid-Philp’s chance to put the Fisher
Ministry to shame by paying up present rate's and
arrears, and challenging the Federal Labor
Government to do the same. Until it does so,
the Brisbane Tory press might at least halve its
indignation, and give some to its own State joss.
It is about time the Bananaland Govern-
ment was brought to book by its own Shops and
Factories Department for gross sweating in State
schools. The Education Department's inspectors
have complained frequently that the curriculum
is overloaded. A few weeks ago, nevertheless,
lessons on hygiene were introduced, while Minis-
ter Barnes is now busy re-introducing a school
temperance catechism. Last week a committee
was appointed to draft Bible lessons. Heaven
knows wha,t’s next.
The shire of Noosa has just been through
the capital-site business on its own little account.
The council decided to build a hall at Cooroy.
But about one-third of the ratepayers, petitioned
the Home Secretary to exercise a certain by-law
and say where the buildings should be. He had
expert inquiries made, and suggested Pomona,
and advised the council to wait till the next shire
elections in February. But the council had its
own axe to grind, and ordered the builders to get
busy. They rushed the thing through at Cooroy;
whereupon the Home Secretary, disapproving of
that sort of business, simply exercised his power
and ordered that the pffices. be at Pomona. So
the place that was rushed up at Cooroy will have
to be pulled down again. Which suggests what
will probably happen at Yassberra after the first
big drought.
Labor-leader Bowman is slowly regaining
his strength after his recent breakdown, and is
expected to be soon well enough to travel. Over
£650 has already been subscribed to drop in his
pocket before he leaves.
Charles Stumm, Queensland’s newest
iSO., has been at the Bar only 16 years. He was
a six-and-eightpenny Gent. One for five years be-
fore that, and before that again was for three
years a State-school teacher.
In view of the coastal railway proposal.
Northerners begin to see now that there was
method in Wullie Kidston’s mad haste to build
the mangrove railway from Rockhampton to the
alleged deep-water port down the river. Rock-
hampton wants to catch the trade from up the
coast for miles, and it can’t do that unless it
offers a bait in the shape of deep-water wharfage.
The mangrove railway was evidently designed to
euchre little Mackay, a possible rival, before the
game really started.
Babette Replieth.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
(On reading Frank Morton’s “ Soul of Babette.")
Soul of Babette was a trifle, but what
was the soul of her swain ?
■- A fellow who fiddled and flirted and
fiddled and flirtqd again—
A fellow who laughed with his Lais and called her
“Of Aidenn the Proem,”
And then to his garret departed and chided
Babette in a poem.
He sipped at each cup that was offered in genuine
butterfly fashion,
But suddenly found that Babette had inspired a
magnificent passion ;
And when she tripped off for a change, he whim-
pered, “ Her Love is a Barter.
And, lo! at the feet of Babette I bleed as a
Passionate Martyr !
“The Shrine of our Love has she sold and gloried,
O Shame ! in the vending,
.She barters her mouth for red gold, and laugheth
for joy in the spending;
And I—l have loved her so well—but little she
knows what her debt is,
For Passion and Truth are unknown in the soul
of the shell where Babette is.
“She driveth me back to the husks where prodi-
gals’ porkers are feeding,
And though I protest and protest, she goes on
quite gay and unheeding,
The Love that was lapped in my soul it dies
where a heartless coquette is, •
And itsdeath must he laid at the door of the man-
sion of ice where Babette is.
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, December 3, 1910.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
Some inquisitive people have recently been
getting on familiar terms with the various Acts
affecting the Brisbane tramways, with the result
that a question may be raised as to whether the
co. is not entitled to claim goodwill, in addition
to the value of the visible property, when 1921
arrives. The thing is tangled in legal cobwebs.
The municipalities were quite sure that goodwill
could not be claimed ; but the serenity of Manager
Badger when the gun has been pointed his way
has raised a suspicion or two that something was
overlooked. And if anything was overlooked, I’ll
go nap it wasn’t on the part of the co.
Queensland took off its hat a few days ago, to
the youngest and most enterprising immigrant
who has so far put in an appearance from beyond
the State. This young person, who was a pas-
senger by the steamer Levuka (Sydney, last port
of call), travelled without escort, although she
was onl’v a trifle over 10 weeks’ old, and practi-
cally without luggage. The first that was known
of her presence on the ship was a loud complaint
from a state-room where she had taken up her
solitary quarters, that it was a long time between
drinks; and, although the sentiment was not
new, the method of expression was startling. For
the remainder of the voyage the stewardesses were
kept busy attending to the young party’s calls,
and the "passengers collected £7 12s. 6d. with
which to give her a start in the new country to
which she was bound. On reaching Brisbane, the
language test was waived as a special concession
to “Miss Levuka,” and good-natured Mrs. Cruse
(ex-Mayoress) invited her to be her guest. At
present the travelled lady is occupying a suite of
rooms at a local nursing home.
At last we are getting a little reminder that the
summer is upon us, and, spoiled by the coolest Oct-
ober and November on record, we are wailing at
the sudden humidity. Even the Springboks, who
have been giving us some interesting expositions
of cricket, are complaining. The parboiled atmo-
sphere, however, is not hobbling them in the social
game, and they are springing with prodigious
“ leps” right into the heart of the local girl.
The long arm knocked at my door the other
day, and handed me a copy of the London Daily
Mail, which contained the announcement that
the Westralian representative of the Oversea
Dominions Club was “Arthur Bowman Kidson.”
And Bowman was just getting well again, too.
A returnee, this week, from the wilds of the
United States portion of America, is Mrs. Mabel
Grant, who used to be Mabel Perry. She has
happened along minus hubby, for a short visit to
her mother at Folkstone, and if appearances go
for anything, she seems to find life in Sitting
Bull’s country healthy and cheering.
Letters from Melbourne tell me that the
Senator Simon Frasers have booked their pas-
sages for the Cold Land in April next. The
establishment of a son at Oxford more than the
Coronation function is the moving influence.
Changes in the Public Service bring me to a
consideration of my own sex there, some of whom
are in a somewhat strange case. There are in the
various State departments 30 female typists, each
receiving £lOO per annum, and it is proposed to
raise those who are typists and shorthand writers
to £l2O, an examination to be passed before they
may finger the extra dibs. The unfair part of the
proposal is that seven of the long-service girls
joined the service before Pitman was as popular
as he is to-day, and although they are doing really
important work which does not call for a.n exereise
of his hieroglyphics, it appears that they will have
to mark time on the £lOO limit because they can-
not pass the shorthand examination. It seems to
me too precious mean to be the truth.
An attractive young woman by the name of
Brewster married very early on Wednesday morn-
ing the Rev. Arthur Lionel Edwards, a recent
addition to the Bishop’s plant of fire-escapes.
The scene was the new Cathedral of St. John,
and the little choir boys rose early to help the
Archbishop do the welding.
To-day, with the aid of 30 motors and much
energy, the Auto Club packed away over 150
youngsters, mostly crippled, ailing or very poor,
to Sandgate, where they met good times waiting
with open arms. No one minded the heat except
the cinematograph man. West’s will reproduce
the merry party.
Which reminds me that on a recent Saturday
there was a rush of motors to the sea side, where
the Queensland Automobile,Club held its monthly
revel at Redcliffe. The weather was threatening,
and what ought to have been a sapphire bay was
churned by a gale into something that recalled
“ skilly.” About. 90 people made an attack upon
the tea provided by Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Hobbs,
but presided over in their absence (they are at
your harbor side) by Mr. and Mrs. Macnish. One
sbe-member of the club travelled over 100 miles
to take part in the revel.
Miss Frank Payne is back from Sydney again,
looking “mightily fine ” (as old Pepys might have
put it) and full of business. The art of artisting
is not the starvation job it used to be, specially
when talent, youth and enthusiasm run in a
unicorn team.
Queensland had one grand old man the less
when Lieut.-Col. Jas. Irving died on Thursday.
For many years he was chief veterinary officer in
Queensland ; but for some time past he has been
invalided. He did good work, was a good Aus-
tralian, and battled all the time to improve the
continent’s stamp of gee-gee.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.


#
l Hi
m
or.
i #+*4%*
4?* : k:
s«g»
r**s
f
iS'S
■■* ,//
•v
h l*:
1 - z& ea-Ti? ndl&u-t;
pwi»HP^
,k«4 Offtt. LON
S of MINERAL WATERS
H.M. THE *1
H K H. THE PRINCE
Prepared tat
t)ONTS(BBir LIME FRUIT JUICE.
Ml
-N
RASPBERRY
fb
SYRUP
m
r A \*ry<Mcicw &p Wfri
1%,. 49 PALL MAIL.LOI
a_
x
I<Ld
Drink to me only with thine eyes,
And I will pledge with mine,
Or leave a kiss but in the cup
And 1 ’ll not look for wine.
Ben Jons on.
SCHWEPPES’ LIME JUICE CORDIAL
and VERSE COMPETITION, £4O.
FIRST PRIZE- £2O.
SECOND PRIZE £B.
12 PRIZES of £1 EACH.
READ . CAREFULLY.—
1. Competitors must write £ verse of not less than six nor more than eight lines, bringing
in the words, “Schweppes,” “lame Juice Cordial,” and “Raspberry,” or “Raspberry Syrup”
once in such lines. Metre of verse to conform to the style of Ben Jonson as far as possible.
Verse to be accompanied with the name and address of sender, and name of paper from which
advertisement is taken. Address the envelope, “Lime Juice Cordial, c/o Schweppes Limited,
Foveaux Street, Sydney,” on or before the 31st January, 1911.
2. Competitors may send in any number of entries, provided the special labels of Schweppes
Lime Juice Cordial (Note : not Lime Juice) and Raspberry Syrup are enclosed with each entry.
To remove the labels from the bottles, soak the bottles in cold water for a couple of hours, when
the labels will peel off. Note specially that both labels must accompany each entry —Lime Juice
Cordial and Raspberry Syrup.
3. The names of prize winners and winning lines will be published in the Sydney Bulletin
on February 16, 1911, and the daily papers of 14th February.
4. If the entries should be so numerous as to prevent the judges completing their work by
the 14th February, the daily papers will contain an intimation on that date to that effect, and a
later date, not later than the 28th February, will be announced.
5. In order that every entry shall be considered within the time allowed on its merits, and
the skill of the competitors and their exercise of judgment in the verse, three or more judges will
be appointed. Each judge will select out of the entries allotted to him to adjudicate on, one
hundred of those he considers the best. The three hundred or more, as the case maybe, of the
entries selected will be then submitted to a final judge (from whom the names of the competitors
will be withheld), and the final judge will adjudicate from the list of such entries so submitted
to him.
6. The decision of the last-mentioned judge will be final. Mr. Daniel Levy, M.L.A., has
kindly consented to again judge the competition.
7. Schweppes Lime Juice Cordial, prepared exclusively from Montserrat Lime Fruit Juice,
and Schweppes’ Raspberry Syrup, made from fresh raspberries, without the aid of artificial essences,
can be purchased from all leading grocers, hotels and chemists throughout the Commonwealth.
b. For names of winners and winning lines of our 1909 Lime Juice Cordial Competition
see Sydney Bulletin of April 21, 1910.
Prizes
£>4o
Schweppes’ Lime Juice Cordial
(Prepared Solely from Montserrat Lime Fruit Juice). Obtainable All Leading' Grocers.
Schweppes Have Held Royal Warrants ojf Appointment for over seventy years.


Suffered Beyond Words for 3 Years
Pain was Maddening —Skin
Peeled, Flesh Grew Hard and
Broke—B Doctors did No Good.
• •
ONE BOX OF CUTICURA
ENDED THE TROUBLE
“About eleven years ago I vras trou-
bled with sore hands, so sore that when
I would put them in water the pain
would very nearly set me crazy, the skin
would peel off and the flesh would get
hard and break. There would be blood
flowing from at least fifty places on
each hand. Words could never tell the
suffering I endured for three years. I
tried everything that I was told to uso
for fully three years, but could get no
relief. I tried at least eight different
doctors, but none of them seemed to
do me any good, as my hands were as
bad when I got through doctoring as
when I first began. I also tried many
remedies, but none of them ever did me
one cent’s worth of good. I was dis-
couraged and heartsoro. I would feel
so bad mornings when I got up, to think
I had to go to work and stand the pain
for ten hours, and I often felt like giv-
ing up my position.
“Before I started to work mornings
I would have to wrap overy finger up
separately, so as to try and keep them
soft and then wear gloves over the rags
to keep the grease from getting on my
work. At night I would have to wear
gloves in bed. In fact, I had to wear
gloves all the time. After doctoring for
three years, and spending much money, a
single box of Cuticura Ointment ended
all my sufferings. It’s been eight years
since I used any and I don’t know what
sore hands are now, and never lost a day’s
work while using Cuticura Ointment.
Thomas A. Clancy, 310 N. Montgomery
St., Trenton, N. J., U. S. A., Nov. 11, ’09.”
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
The suffering which Cuticura Soap
and Cuticura Ointment have alleviated
among skin-tortured, disfigured infants
and children, and the comfort they have
afforded worn-out and worried parents
have led to their adoption in countless
homes as a priceless treatment for all
humours of the skin and scalp.
Cuticura is the most economical treatment known
for alTections of the skin and scalp. A single tablet
of Cuticura Soap and box of Cuticura Ointment are
often sufTlclent to cure. Depots: London, 27. Char-
terhouse Sq.: Paris, 10, Rue de la Chaussee d’Antln;
Australia, R. Towns & Co.. Sydney: U. S. A., Potter
Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props, Boston.
m
A
©
00IU5
UhonSoimsi
REGDTtBEDTDfIDE-fMPH LEflO5
"Mother
Omrpn
Brooke’s Lemon
Squash is a pure and
satisfying beverage of
the very highest stan-
dard of quality and as
a thirst-quencher it is
unequalled.
1,500,000 lemons
are used annually in
making this popular
beverage.
Made from Lemons
only
To PEARL Fishers, Dealers
in Pearls and Opal.
We have been continuously buying 1 since 1880.
We pay the Highest Prices.
We buy the largest or smallest parcels.
We pay Spot Cash to all.
Send through any bunk for our Inspection.
P. KLEEMO & CO., Ltd.,
Pearl and Diamond Merchants,
8 Wynyard Street, SYDNEY.
FOR YOUR HEALTH AND WELL BEING.
o
s
w
f
\
S 2
m
i
OF
□
c<'n
>
MONETS, LIVER AND ROWELS.
VA
WA
'C
&
TP 4
One
Remedy
that
Cleanses
the
System
pleasantly
and
naturally.
Acts
Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
and
Bowels,
overcoming
Habitual
Constipation
Price
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
A delightful liquid laxative, and the only true remedy for habitual
constipation and the many ills resulting from a weak or sluggish
condition of the kidneys, liver, and bowels. Pleasant to the taste;
and prompt, gentle, and thorough in action.
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
The Ideal Summer
Shoe for Ladies.
Beauty, daintiness, adaptability and ease of fit
were never better exemplified than in the fine
Shoe here illustrated—-it is one of the latest and
most fashionable models.
PRICE 16/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, l/= extra.
GAZEKA SHOE PASTE, in Black and
Brown, large tin, 6d.
Write for Booklet, “ Shoelight."
LEXMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 257=259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ; I=3 Errol Street, North Melbourne. ]i
3R< HARTMANN’S
ANTINEURASTHIN
& NERVOUS
BREAKDOWN
In nervous breakdown the brain and nerve cells must
be FED, and not stimulated by medicines in the form of
tonjcs or sedatives, which give temporary relief, but
cannot effect permanent improvement.
Lecithin is the ONLY substance by which the brain and
nerves qjfri be nourished ; andic is Lecithin which the sys-
tem requires in all cases of neurasthenic conditions
disorders, Dyspepsia, Neuralgia, Brain-Fag,
Insomnia, Depression, insanity, etc.). If the brain and
netyescan be supplied sufficiently with Lecithin; the cure
is certain ; Antineurasthin) applies that substance and
effects the cure.
ANTINEURASTHIN is the ONLY known preparation
containing an effective percentage of Lecithin in an
active organic state ; completely assimilable; and with its
valuable principles undiminished in any way.
A sample of Antineurasthin, together wdth a valuable
treatise on Nervous Disorders, will be despatched by
return mail by the wholesale distributor for Australia and
New Zealand, H. A. Goddard, Eagle Street, Brisbane, on
receipt of ninepenee in stamps. [2
608
•W
are:
you
TOO
FAT
For Fat Women exercise is good, but a
Sydney Physician who has investigated says
“that without any doubt, the most successful
harmless, reliable, pleasant and certain
remedy, as well as the cheapest, is
“FATCURE”
It reduces weight in many cases by over five
pounds a week, and when reduced the con-
dition does not come on again. The cure
is permanent. . . . This method is perfect,
its results are marvellous, its clientele tre-
mendous. . . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE and full particulars.
No ill after-effects result from the use of
“Fatcure,” and it can be taken with abso-
lute secrecy. WRITE or CALL at once.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Casllereagh St., Sydney
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing- it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
The Elite
Eau de Cologne
0
sa
P JBHS
[mi!I!!!i!. f !l!l!fnij! r l!! T y)!!;i! f j :ii| n |,iii i i||| ni | iiiiiini!i!!n!i!i!!iDißiii(iiiiJiifiinnniinHnfTH'i rl,l,,,, !!!!m3
EaudeColog
nDELITAS
F.Wolff&Soi-in|W,
•Karlsruhe JII
Baden
Triumph of
Modem Science
“ The Waybacks Again.”
Another
stack ot
joy and laughter about the famous family, is
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
/Vo notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (o f any State) accompany.
Stephen : The Telegraph’s fish expert had to
t.ell the truth about the miserable Cotter River at Yass-
berra. If he told the sort of lie about the immense flow
of water which an official can tell with impunity he
would have got into horrible trouble with fishermen who
went there on his description. So he stuck to facts and
described the place as a chain of waterholes. Quite a lot
of the people who went up to see the Cotter mistook the
Murrumbidgee for it... Nogoa: Too wordy. Boil it
down. The man who opens with “ our feathered tribes”
when he means “our birds” takes the first step to the
basket... R.: Off our beat Wang : When a forwarded
paragraph has not appeared in print, don’t trouble to
forward it again a few weeks or months later. We haven’t
got time to throw the same catfish back into the water
twice.. Lover of the Sport: Searle won the sculling
championship of the world from Kemp on the Parra-
matta in 1888 in 22min. 44Jsec. In 18S9 he defeated
O’Connor on the Thames in 22min. 42sec. Returning to
N. S. Wales, he died on Dec. 10 the same year.... Belle-
rive : We will make room for the monster :
THE WIFE POISONER.
A loathsome husband with a fatal tonic
Bent over his poor wife’s dying Bed ;
By him she had been slowly poisoned.
He had ends to gain when she lay Dead.
More laudanum he grimly muttered
And she’ll sink into everlasting sleep.
When the dirt is shovelled upon her coffin
Mv secret will be buried Deep ;
A Detective and the Doctor entered
And the monster began to moan and weep,
He recognised he had been witnessed
Which made him tremble like a leaf.
Assassin, exclaimed the stern old Dr.,
Thou hast si nvl.v poisoned thy poor Wife ;
But sure as there’s a God in Heaven
You’ll pay the forfeit with your life.
H.A.S.: So far as we can see, you have, tried to boil
down an ancient three-volume novel into seven, quarto
pages, and the effect is confusing. It has a few bright
patches ; here is one of them : “ He immediately became
seized wi th a fit of passion at this refusal without anyseieni-
ing cause, and he immediately fled from her side ; more-
over, he left the house unceremoniously.” M. Long-
wood : We will make no harsh remarks; it was brief,
anyhow . T. Thu(V.): Totalisator verses cannot pay a
dividend .. R B.H : Sorry; they get stranded on the
way M.C.D.: Both unsuit ble S.T. (S.A.): Cannot
use them .... Horace B. M. : Guess you are no relation of
the B. C. Horace... .C.E.McA.: Sincere, homely verse,
but much too rough.... Blue and Black: Unsuccess-
ful W.P.B. : Fairly well done, but too slight....
Sabretache : A keg of words Languid L. : Threw out
“The Cryer” with some violence The Corporal:
Sympathise with you ; but the verses are only worth five
daysC.B Ethei(V.): Fairly well written.' Trvoneof
the Melbourne weeklies S.F. (Eng.): Returning MS.
Regret unable to use .. ,P.A. (N.S.W.): Wh.vsendusthe
size of your neck ? Bad as the story is, we have no desire
to hang you Kimbriki : Dull, colorless verse
P.M.S. : Your letter: “The accompanying production
may warrant the most severe punishment. I am pre-
pared for that. But, for God’s sake, don’t call me a
Wowser!” Vef-y well, we won’t. We will merely sen-
tence you to death W.R.F. : Poor verse. Judkins is
about worked out as a topic. We are shortly going to
proclaim him extinct Midge: Turned both down....
F.E. : Can’t dig any meaning out of it; also some of the
couplings are broken and there are too many feet in the
last line. All these defects in an eight-line production.
E.L.S.M. : Have no clear recollection of Foster
Fraser and don’t remember what he said about
Australia. Fraser to us is merely' twb feet, a
cloud of dust and a shout. Every time we hear a
bolting horse we think he has come back....L.K.
(V’.): You jingle cheerfully across “ Billy’s Flat” ; but you
arrive nownere in particular Corinella : Sincere, com-
monplace verse bn an old theme....W.J.B.: It died of
general vagueness. It is all very' well to brew a mist of
words if, towards the end, the puzzled reader’s
e.ye can discern the meaning shining white and
clear, like a gas-buo t v on a foggy night. Un-
fortunately', you omitted to provide a gas-buoy
J.G.G.: Too wooden ...Jay K.: Stodgy'. Put your
name and address on the copy next time.... J. W.B.
(Vancouver): The first verse wrecked the poem’s chances
by attempting to rhyme “doubt” with “south.”
Another knock-out for the reader was waiting in the
eighth round, where “mine” unavailingly snarled at
“time.” Your poetical footwork is bad and your style
faulty E.H.C. : Unsuitable Mizzentop': Marine
jingle unseaworthy B.J. : The poem promised well,
hut it couldn’t cash its 1.0. U Ta Pu : Minahan, the
Labor member, was jumped on for undertaking to scatter
his £3OO in his electorate, and jumped on hard Kobbi :
Bit unfair to “Bromide,” who, at the moment, was pro-
testing against intensifying the evil by pouring out more
public money in the less naturally-blessed place....
Comme Je Fus : The man who wrote that article had
just travelled over more Queensland railways than you'
appear ever to have seen ; and his statement about the 2ft.!
lines is true, every word of it. As a matter of fact, almost
half of the local bodies’ lines are on the 2ft. gauge
Irish Linen : Half a column about a matter that isn’t
worth two lines Nai Nai: Nav, nay !..... A.S. (V.):The
skies were shrouded in gloom when your letter fell in on
us : “ It is my first attempt, and I think of adopting the
composing of poetry as a hobby in the future.” Follows
the fresh-made poem :
Disconsolate I stood and gazed upon the turbid deep
Befitting mirror of my storm-tossed heart,
Soon beneath that seething, hissing mass my soul shall
sleep,
So haste, and from this dun-black misery' depart.
I plunge into that seething foam, when lo ! beneath the
crest
Appeareth a lovely' mermaid sweet, who kindly bade me
rest.
Let us implore you to go in for something else—piracy,
stamp-collecting, politics or bushranging.
Charles Heber Clarke, the leading Ameri-
can authority on fiscalism, has lately been writing-
something which ought to comfort those timorous
souls who fear that the imposition of a stiff duty
means an equally stiff increase in price, at least
until local producers are thoroughly established.
Last year, the U.S. Congress reduced the duty on
hides, whereupon the Argentine exporters at once
raised their prices by an amount equal to the duty
withdrawn, so that the U.S. paid just as much
when the duty was low as they had paid when it
was high. Likewise, a few years ago Congress
foolishly listened,to the cry for a “free breakfast
table,” and took the duty off coffee altogether,
but there was no more frbeness about the morning
meal. The Brazilian Government simply shoved
on an export duty equal to the one the Yankees
had lifted. The Yankees lost many thousands of
revenue, and the Brazilians had collared it. ..
fe- f
Whether the trouble in. England ispivil
war or just riot, it is hard to say, but the coal-
miners’ difficulty recently supplied a record of 030
wounded in one day, and a member of the British
{Ministry has been kicked so hard by a suffragette
that lie is laid upin lied. If these doings are com-
pared with those of the Middle Ages in Italy,
when a desperate battle led to two great armor-
plated creatures being wounded, and culminated
in the suffocation of one huge'knightly crustacean
who had fallen off his horse and couldn’t get up
again owing to the dead weight and tonnage of his
armor, they look very like civil war—the real goods.
Some towns have been partly destroyed, and there
has developed a habit of throwing boiling water
at the police, which seems to justify a 245.-per-
week cop in asking for extra wages. i


Arnott’s Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
©
J 42 S
.. *
$
1 . -'X'
-v aI/ 'm
.i i
■.... j
■
- v ■'
mm
. ' • • , 1 . >:
■
\
■
iiiiiiils
n
■ ® . .■•■ ■ ■
. .
The “Bijou” for Home Billiards.
The “ Bijou ” is an ideal table for home billiards, fitted with slate
bed and fast-running cushions, and covered in superfine billiard cloth
and beautifully finished. By a simple adjustment of leaves it is readily
converted into a fine dining-table. Easy terms arranged if desired.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALCOCK & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
397 George St., Sydney. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Murray St., Perth.
Magic, Mystery and Mirth !
Wizards and Magicians have mystified their
audiences, and made lots of, money out of their
trickery. You can dq the same with our Wonder-
ful Tricks and Surprises, if you carefully observe
the instructions.
As a Christmas Home Amusement they are
unique, and provide fun and wonder for a very
little cost. .
w
m
L . i
GREAT PHANTOM CARD TRICK.
You show five cards —one of the audience
mentally notes three of them. You cover
with handkerchief, withdraw the two not
chosen, uncover, and, lo! the others
have vanished. Most bewildering.
7d. Post Free.
Write
for
our
Free
Catalogue
of
Makers
of
Mirth
and
Mystery.
Free Complete Instructions with every
Novelty and Trick.
THE LONG AND
SHORT PACK OF
CARDS.
The company select,
any number of
cards, shuffle pack,
and return to per-
former, who holds
them behind him
and produces every
one chosen. Un-
•equalled effect.
Simple to perform.
Is. 6d. Post Free.
>5
—sFZ.
'’Z^ZSd %
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.
MARYELLODS MULTIPLYING BALL.
Rapidly increases in number, and as rapidly
returns to the one-ball state. Like billiard balls
in size and make.
2s. Post Free.
710 CEORCE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 111 KING STREET and
25-27 OXFORD STREET.
IT- FAMOUS FROM EARTH TO MARS.
Dr. Thomas Elouis Phenomenal Invention
THE
The Rapid Disease Destroyer
Can be worn on Any Part of the Body Without Inconvenience.
Cures immediately Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Weak Back, Kidney Trouble, Varicose
Veins and other Diseases of the Nerves and Blood.
Eminent Scientists say that it will bring about a revolution in therapeutic medicine, because it destroys
at once uric acid, albumen and other poisonous matter in the blood.
Read the daily papers what wireless telegraphy is doing. More wonderful still is THE MARCONIDON,
alleviating suffering humanity. \
Write for Our Book, “ Victory Over Disease,” which will be sent Free to All.
NO CURE. NO PAY.
Please address to Dept. S.
THE DR. THOMAS ELOUIS "MARCONIDON” CO.. 11 Elizabeth St., Melbourne
If yon use a “ no-stropping ” razor
blade 20 times, you’ve had 19 dull
shaves and one keen shave.
Dulling begins with the first shave. If
any blade could rea ’y hold its edge, you
would never have to throw the blade away.
If you use an Auto Strop Safety Razor,
every shave is as keen and smooth as
the first shave. No continual expense
for new blades. Automatically the
Auto Strop Safety Razor gives you a
perfect shaving edge. To strop it is as
easy as to wash it, —far easier than
inserting a new blade in a “ no-
stropping ” safety razor.
Aulo&trop
klToft
This is the Razor used by His Excellency
the Governor-General of Australia.
25/- and no further expense.
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., LTD.,
The Rialto, Collins St., Melbourne ; 222, Clarence St., Sydney
POSTAL INSTRUCTION.
Are You Ambitious?
r
L
LET US PREPARE YOU BY POST
For any of the Following Positions.
Electrical Engineer
Mechanical Engineer
Sanitary Inspector
Architect
Mechanical Draughtsman
Surveyor
Mine Manager
Mine Engineer
Mine Electrician
Incorporated Accountant
Hospital Nurse
Shire or Municipal Clerk
Shire or Municipal Auditor
Public School Teacher
Commonwealth Official
State Official
Bank Official
Chemist
Engine Driver
Forest Guard
Station Bookkeeper
Let us know what subject you wish to learn, and
we will give you Instruction by Correspondence.
SEND TO-DAY FOR DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET. “S.”
STOTT & HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE,
Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
For your BOOTS and SHOES.
Mel lonian
bo^calF 1
6LACE Klp xk
faltC teAitmc
4-FOIJSHfW
m
nrrur 3mu.QwNnry with &rvsh
TO A rotJSH THCH FINISH
. \w|TM PADOR SOFT CLOTH./
PASTE.
In BLACK and BROWN.
The best and also the cheapest
PASTE POLISH on the market
for cleaning, polishing, and
preserving all kinds of Leather
<■ Boots, Shoes, Harness, Sec.
SOLD EVERYWHERE.
Made by the Manufacturers of the Celebrated
MELTONIAN ” BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN 8 SON
(Blacking and Boot Polish)
' Manufacturers, '
LTD., LONDON and PARIS.


Swan
FOUNTAIN
PEN
For . . .
Christmas,
New Year,
Birthday,
Wedding,
or any
occasion.
The Meet?Present*
asd
Use
SWAN”
INK.
The “Swan” has dis-
pelled the mistaken ideas
as to the dirtiness, unre-
liability and costliness of
fountain pens, and is a neces-
sity to every writer.
The “Swan” never leaks. Its
perfectly designed Gold Nib ensures
smooth, comfortable writing. It does
not splutter or scratch.
Full particulars and illustrated Brochure
free from all Stationers, Jewellers and
Importers, or from the Manufacturers,
MABIE, TODD 8 CO., London and Branches.
Australian Representative (Wholesale only)—
J. A. BURKE, 15 Waltham Buildings,
24 Bond Street, Sydney.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.
‘VITA” BOTTLES'
keep liquids Icy cold or Boiling hot for over 24 hours. They come in
beautifully finished and fitted enamel metal and real leather cases with
Aluminium Tops and Drinking Cups. Either would make an ideal
Christmas Gift. Retail and Wholesale from the Sole Agents.
Scheele & Gibbs, Ltd.,
2 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Tel., City 864.
fas
Shavers’ Xmas Boxes.
Buy a man something: he has daily use for—-your Xmas
Gift will then remind him of you every day of the year.
If you could read his mind you’d probably find there was
nothing: he would like so much as a pair of good razors
for, mind, a bad razor is an abomination.
Buy a pair of our “PLUM” Razors for him. They are
real Razors, not toys—we use them ourselves in our Hair-
dressing Saloon, and sell them to men all over Australasia.
We put the right shaving edge on them, too we know
how to as practical men.
Pair of “ PLUMS,” in Handsome Case, posted anywhere
for 30/-
Single “ PLUM” Razor, in Case, 10/6 post free.
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue, post free.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
mm
Cooling—Satisfying
Lime Juice
C A healthy drink for hot days and all days. Good for the
youngsters. It communicates its own delightful purity
and coolness to the blood, and it quenches thirst better
than stimulants. Its delicious flavour appeals to everyone.
Made in two kinds : Unsweetened, i,e„ Plain Lime Juice
Sweetened, i.e., Lime Juice Cordial, Sold everywhere.
BOONARA
Queensland’s Greatest Agricultural Proposition.
OITUATED in the famous Kingaroy District, at Goomerri Railway Station, right on the Kilkivan Railway Line,
eight and a half hours rail from Brisbane.
Described as a plateau or steppe, on the coastal side of the Main Coast Range, about 60 miles from the sea,
807 feet above sea level, with a delightful climate, well sheltered in winter, yet cool and breezy in summer.
Excellently watered by numerous ever running creeks and large lagoons. Level roads throughout. Free from
pests. . Proved drought proof. Ample rainfall of 35*14 inches. The home of the rich Queensland blue grass. Nearly
43% of first-class agricultural land and less than 1% of inferior land, certified by a Government expert. The best
potato, onion, and lucerne soil in Queensland.
Large new hotel on the estate. Butter factory in course of erection. Reserves for school, church, and show
grounds. Motor cars meet every train for inspection. Fares paid from Brisbane to the Estate when inspecting and
when attending the sale, if you purchase.
Subdivided into 172 Farms from 32 to 423 acres.
Acres.
EXPERT OPINIONS
MR. W. D. LAMB , •who was one of the Agricultural Pioneers of the
Darling Downs, where he has been farming for 48 yearß, says:—“The average
quality is exceptionally good. . . , The soil is specially adapted for producing
large crops of lucerne and potatoes. . . . I can conscientiously recommend this
country, &c.”
MR. DAVID McCULLOCH of “ Roscneath,** Parkes,
/V.S. W., a prominent agriculturist, who will harvest 4,<00 acres of wheat this
season, saysßidges and flats alike will compare favourably with the richest lands
of Victoria and N.S.W., and the potentialities for dairying and lamb raising are
practically unlimited.”
MR. PHIL. McGRATH, Snr., who has been 44 years lucerne farming
in Laidley, says:—"l consider the Boonara Flats are exactly similar lucerne soil
. . . The ridges are exceptionally good soil.”
MR. H. RAFF, Surveyor, with 30 years experience of
Queensland, says : —“ I have subdivided many large estates in Southern, Western,
and Northern Queensland . . . Boonara leads them all. Its physical features
combine to make it the finest farming and dairying proposition I have ever seen.”
MR. J. W. WALDRON, who has had considerable farming experience
on the Tweed Biver and elsewhere, says : —“ So adaptable for farms ... . plenty
of permanent water . . . rich alluvial deep soil flats for lucerne, potatoes, etc.”
To be Sold by Auction at The HOTEL (on the Estate) on
TUESDAY and WEDNESDAY, 7th am Bth MARCH, 1911, at 2 o’clock p.m.
Write TO-DAY for Illustrated Plans to —
ISLES, LOVE & GO., Auctioneers, Brisbane. G. W. MARTIN, Sworn Valuator, Bourke St., Melbourne.
E. G. Y. BROUGHTON, Auctioneer, 113 Pitt. St., Sydney. YOUNG BROS., Auctioneers, Horsham (Vic.)
EDI LARGED PHOTOS of the Estate may be seen at Spencer Street Railway Station, Melbourne; Ballarat,
Geelong, Hamilton, and Warrnambool; Central Railway Station, Brisbane; Wallangarra Railway Station
Queensland; and at the offices of the various Agents.
MAGNETIC TERMS
20 Years at 5 per cent., with one-tenth Cash Deposit
and no payment except interest for 24 months.


Early Spring
Suitings.
WE have made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest productions in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to us,
and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(N6xt to Farmer’s).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING # MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
A
i
9
0
The Milk Foods closely approximate In composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as- easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
ALLEN & HANBLRYS Ltd., LONDON. 15 ’ 17 Market street ’ Sydney
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
What You Get- Not What You
TR,Y
THE
EAGLE
Built by men who know the
essentials of GOOD WORK.
The PERFECT PRODUCT of
practical experience.
df
Brand
Footwear
Made from Australian Materials by Australians for Australians.
They meet the demand for STRICTLY RELIABLE and UP-TO-DATE FOOTWEAR.
They Will Satisfy YOU!
Obtainable from Leading' MERCHANTS everywhere.
Sole Manufacturers and Proprietors —
The Davey Halliday Company, Limited
Wholesale Only. BRISBANE.
STEVENS
MAYNARD JR. RIFLE NO. 15.
asdf
Measures 33 inches over all. Weighs pounds. “Take Down”
Chambered for .22 Long Rifle —will also shoot C. B. caps and
.22 Short R. F. and .22 Long R. F. cartridges.
Feature.
Ask your Dealer.
Insist on
STfiVJENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues- [9
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
TBAHK Australian Magazine. THE LONE
JL HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
Richardson Cushion Frame,
Bearing Roller Skates.
Anti-Jar Ball-
S j^v. eXc^us * ve^ r ,e l ar §’ e ®k and most successful rinks in America,
cli d A^c a i 1 th ® 0118 of the World, fast and fancv. RICHARDSON
bKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue,
lells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing' Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.C.A,
‘RICHARDSON’
CHICAGO
WOOL,
Grain, Hides, Furskins,
Fat Stock or Store Stock
WILL BRING GOOD PRICES ALWAYS
WHEN THE SALE IS ENTRUSTED TO
New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY
Small Lots and Large Lots receive the same careful attention.
[2
£5
GIVEN AWAY
For Correct Answers.
To each and everyparson sending in the Corre etEoluticn of the following Puzzle we hereby undertake
and agree to send them the sum of
FIVE POUNDS
subject to the conditions hereunder :
Encouraged by the enormous demand for our PICTURE POST CARDS, we have devised this simple
Method of advertising, with the object of making our name mere widely known, and to introduce our
1911 Series. We expect by this competition of brains to make such an impression on your mind that
you will be compelled to talk about us to your friends, and the extraordinary value of our FINE ART
PICTURE POST CARDS.
ALL WE ASK YOU TO DO IS THIS :
Fill in the missing letters in the following Puzzle :
O*R P**T C*R*S A*E T*E B**T V*L*E IN A*S # R # L*A.
Your answer must be posted and addressed to the Manager of the Fine Art Post Card Co., Hunter-
street, Sydney and received by him, and must agree with oursolution, lodged in the BankofN.S.W.
PRIZES WILL BE SENT PROMPTLY.
With your solution to the above Puzzle (to which there is no entry fee), send us a Postal Note for '2 /6,
for which we will send you Free a sample packet of thirty (30) Selected and Assorted Post Cards, and if
your solution is correct, we will also send you within a fortnight your prize of £5, and will ask you to
accept this reward for your services for showing our Post Cards, and recommending them to your friends
WE GUARANTEE this Cempetition to be a straightforward Competition of brains and work. A copy
of the right solution we have lodged with our Bankers (BankN.S.W.).
Due notice of the closing of this Competition will appear in this paper, but if before the date of the
closing of the Competition more than 100 oorrect answers have been received, One Hundred Cash Prizes
of £5 each will be awarded to those sending correct answers in the order in which their answers shall
have been read by the Manager of the FINE ART POST CARD CO.
Should your solution reach U 3 before the closing date, and be correct according to our conditions and
not be within the first 100, we will send you FREE A SOLID SILVER WATCH AND CHAIN (Lady’s or
Gentleman’s). No person will be entitled to more than one prize.
N.B—Your solution is to be accompanied by attached Coupon whioh forms part of this conmetition
and addressed to THE MANAGER OF
FINE ART POST CARD CO.
HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
My Solution to your Puzzle is as follows :
And I AGREE TO ABIDE BY THE DECISION OF THE MANAGER OF THE FINE ART POST
CARD CO,, which I accept as fi ml and legally binding.
Signed .
Address
Date
Ufie BULLETIN POST CARJD6’
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN sd.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
graving's, new. 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 6d. Howto Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
op Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, ‘ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Oomic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s Cd. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Fiageilations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
m
B
1
I
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning maiv
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covfered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
BOOKSELLER TO THE COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE.
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, 1 s
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern. Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Gd.
Self Instructor • Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The VVaybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be tooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. IW Established 25 Year s _
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Thicks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
is. Old Busii Sonus, Is 3d Dost. Dh. Milford's Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s fid.
Aristotle, 3s fid. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King.
Is -2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. (id. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Bead Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Oiievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, lfiOOillus., leather
bound, my price, los post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO DAY’


OUR SPECIAL SNAPS.
I
mm
C. H. Crawford’s D.8.8.L. Gun f
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, double bolt, 30in. barrels,
left cboke, pistol grip, walnut stock, scroll engraved, bar locks, nitro proof, weight
of 12-gauge, about 7ilb. ; of 16-gauge, about Gjjlb.
Greener cross-bolt. DELIVERED,
£4 12s. 6d.
Stevens' “Little Krag,”
22 Calibre Rim Fire, bolt action, blued steel
round barrel, 20in. long, walnut.stock, steel scroll trigger
guard, Y-sight, length over all, 3Gin. ; weight about
Postage—l/6 N.S.W. ; 2/8 Inter-State.
asd
18s. 6d.
9:
The “Continental” Combined Double
Barrel Shot Gun and Rifle,
30in. Krupp Steel Barrels, bar looks, cross bolt, the gun barrel full choke, 12-
and 16-gauge shot, 25/20 and 32 Winchester Rifle calibre, we^htabout
£5 10s
SEND FOR OUR
Illustrated SPORTS,
FISHING and
TOBACCO LISTS,
FREE!
'
Winchester ” Single Shot
Rifle, 1904 Model,
l'vii'j.li i
all. 37
which
for 22 short or long rim fire cartridges, 21in. heavy
■iteel barrel, plain trigger, bolt action, ladder rear sight, length of rifle over-
fill., bead front sight, with patent alloyed tip,
will not tarnish ; weight, about 41b.
Postage—l/9 N.S.W. ; 3/2 Inter-State.
245. 6d.
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HAYMARKET', SYDNEY,
Branches—Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darling St., Balmain j
St., Sydney; Church St., Parramatta; 311 King St., Newtown,
N.S.W.
r 197 Oxford
[3
77/.
YOU WILL FIND
A NEW DELIGHT IN
“ WINCARNIS” AS A
SUSTAINING AND INVIGOR-
ATING BEVERAGE. TRY IT,.
ALSO WITH A DASH
OF SODA WATER—IT IS
SIMPLY PERFECTION.
THE WINE OF LIFE.
“I gave a glass of “ Win-
carnis ** to a poor woman
whom the dodor said was
dying, hut it restored tier,
and all say I saved her life.*’
—Mrs. L. A. Scott, Chilton,
Foliot, fixingerford.
Many thousands have written like this who
have taken “ Wincarnis ” on the advice oJ
their doctor, and have been brought back to
health and str6ngth.
£
M
WINCARNIS
99
Nature’s Great Restorative
Refreshes and Revives the tired and exhausted System, giving Life and Vitality by Nourish-
ing the Blood. When run down, despondent, when work seems irksome, take “Wincarnis.
It will invigorate and tone up the jaded body, brace up the nerves, create strength and stamina,
checking deterioration, and bringing every organ to a natural state ol health and, efficiency.
Test “Wincarnis” now—to-day —it will be a revelation of the good “Wincarnis” can do.
A DOCTOR writes Dear Sirs ... I need hardly say that during the twenty years I have been in practice I have continually ordered “ Wincarnis,” and do so
daily here (Mr. is the Agent). I can positively assert I have myself ordered close on 1000 bottles, and I know of no better value for money in the market.
A few weeks ago I made a laborer here, who contracted Pneumonia, practically jump the crisis of his disease with a bottle of “ Wincarnis. We have in it not
only a stimulant, but a powerful food as well, which is easily assimilated, pleasant to take, and show results in an average of twenty minutes, need
no such eulogy, but the facts remain, and with them my thanks. Yours faithfully, ’ ' '
Australian and New Zealand Depots s-FASSETT <EL JOHNSON, 5 and 7 BarracK Street, SYDNEY.
COLEMAN (St CO. LTD., “Wincarnis** WorKs, NORWICH, ENG.
GOLD MEDAL FRANCO-BRITISH EXHIBITION.
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT TO THE RING AND QUEEN OF SPAIN.
Model “T” Touring Car. 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment Included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castkreagh St., Sydney.
Schute, Bell & Go.
limited.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.B.W.
COOLS AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
fa
Invaluable
forfheSKlN
In HOT
orCOLD
cjimafes.
Removes all
IRRITATION
andTAN.
sdf
Lalt
V
Reg?.
Sole
Makers
M.BEETHAM &SON,
CHELTENHAM,ENGLAND.
Gives a
Perfect
Complexion
Soft
as
Velvet.
LAITLAROLA
asdf
The Bulletin Christmas Number
Contains the Best Stories, Verse and Sketches
Superbly Illustrated* Ready DECEMBER 15th
Price 6d.


f,
e
asd
fas
You cannot afford to take chances with a had leg- . If
you have a sore on the leg 1 , whether it be an old one which
has been troubling you for many months or years, or
whether it is one of only recent date, which refuses to heal, you should give
it prompt and careful attention.
It is pai'ticularly in the treatment of severe sores of this kind that
Rexona has been used with such success. This new rapid healing oint-
ment will speedily give life to the tissues of the old sore so that it will
heal up whole and sound. Rexona is not intended simply to dull the pain
of a sore, or merely to prevent it from spreading. The primary object of
Rexona is to stimulate, or vivify the cold and callous tissues of the sore
into life and action. Without this the healing process cannot go on, and the
sore remains to all intents and purposes asleep. Weeks, months and even
years may pass, and the sore, especially a leg sore, may continue in the same
r >
’ f
1
SB
Rexona, tKe
last word of
Science.
Rexona is a tried and proved
specific for Running Sores, Bad
Legs, Piles, Eczema, Chilblains,
Varicose Veins, Chapped Hands,
Sore Feet, Scabs on the Head,
Pimples, Blackheads, Ringworms,
Erysipelas and all skin diseases.
Rexona is sold every-
where i n triangular
pots at 1/6, and in large
pots at 3/-, holding
nearly four times the
quantity, or will be sent
post free upon receipt
of the price by the
LaxoTonic Pill Co., 15
O’Connell St., Sydney.
A Sample Pot of Rexona Free.
Cut out this Coupon, write your name and address on
the blank lines below, and post to us and we will send
you a sample pot of Rexona free, so that you may test
it and see what it is like. Rexona is so universally suc-
cessful that we want everyone to write and set a free pot,
for we feel sure that the sample will convince you that
there is a remedy for you in Rexona, the Rapid Healer.
Name
Address ..,
Cut this out and post to Laxo-Tonic Till Co., 15
O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.IV.
Nothing can surpass
HORROCKSES’
SHEETINGS for
durability
condition, or perhaps be slowly spreading.
This is the sort of sore for which Rexona
is specially compounded. Rexona will first
wake the sore from its long sleep, and then
gradually assist the natural curative pro-
cesses till the old, indurated and callous
tissues have disappeared, and new and
healthy flesh makes its appearance, shortly
to be covered by a healthy skin.
A CONSTABLE’S EVIDENCE.
Constable J. Don, of Port Melbourne, one of
the best-known members of the Melbourne
Police Force, writes :—“ I have much pleasure
in testifying that I have used Rexona on my
leg, which had been bad for the past seven
years, having been injured whilst oh duty on
the street crossings in Melbourne. I had been
attended by several doctors, none of whom could
effect a cure, but after a few applications of
Rexona, the sore healed up wonderfully. My
weight is 21 stone 81b., and my leg being bad
was a serious matter to me, so that I feel very
grateful to your Rexona. 1 might add that
whilst using Rexona I took a course of Laxo-
Tonic Pills, which I also found very beneficial.”
Q/XOTtCL
THE RAPID HEALER ■
GRAND PRIZE
FRANCO-BRITISH
EXHIBITION,
1908.
G. & G. 604
When buying see HORROCKSES*
name on Face-plait and decline
substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and
Storekeepers.
k
IM.
A
Dwnwnr.
as
S.A,
STRENGTH, LIGHTNESS & SPEED
Are three of the principal features of a Cycle built of
GENUINE B.S.A. FITTINGS
These Fittings are constructed of the finest material by expert
workers in the most scientific factories in the world. Every part is
rigidly gauged and tested at each stage of manufacture, and after
the final operation they receive the stamp of the three pileJ rifles
which represents the
HALL MARK OF RELIABILITY
Refuse all fittings which do not bear the B.S.A. Trade Marks, and
insist on the famous fittings with the world-famous reputation. The
new Australasian Edition of the B.S.A. Handbook will tell you every-
thing about B.S.A. Fittings. Eadie Coaster Hubs, Two-Speed Coasters,
eic., and a free copy can be obtained from
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.)
5 Stock Exchange Building. MELBOURNE
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony fiordern <SL vSons
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
The Labor of the Mountain.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BEN DANVERS was tired of life.
When you are tired of life there remains
but one reasonable course. That is, if
you are really tired. But, as will shortly be seen,
there was an Unconscious reservation in the case
of Ben. Most of Ben’s reservations were uncon-
scious; he was not naturally an introspective
man, though he tried hard to be.
Which should it be —razor, bullet or poison ?
The razor, he decided, was messy and painful,
The bullet was open to the same objection. This
dread of the inartistic and unpleasant may be
understood when it is advertised that Ben was
more or less—according to taste —a poet.
Ben was by trade a saddler, and owned a decent
little business and a nice little wife —a jewel of a
woman who never complained of his frequent
flirtations with the Muses. Perhaps, good girl,
she felt that these august ladies were not inclined
to her Ben, and consequently the idea of real mis-
conduct never entered her head. And, mind you,
she had to bear the worry of the misunderstood
poet’s moods—Ben had read somewhere that
Byron was a very moody fellow. She had to look
after two pretty babies—better composition here
than in Ben’s other authorship—and cook Ben’s
meals, and, worst of all, listen to his verses as she
washed up the tea-things. She was a fine little
thing, and a great deal too good for Ben, although
she didn’t think so. To do him full justice,
neither did he.
Now it has doubtless been observed by other
great writers that a man cannot do two things at
once. A woman can, but a man—no ! Unless he
is an extraordinary genius, which Ben was not.
He thought he was, though, and grew so besotted
upon Melpomene and her sister Calliope that
Smith, the general storekeeper on the corner,
Collared the trade in leather goods. Smith was
not handicapped by an emotional nature ; he was
—well, most of the Smiths are good businessmen.
And as trade declined, Ben’s moods became
blacker and more frequent. For, of course, the
decline worried him—he was sensible enough for
that; yet his ears were too long to allow him to
recognise the cause in his divided attention.
Even if he had, it is doubtful whether, at this
stage of the proceedings, he would have shown
himself man enough to have kept the “fine
frenzy ” out of his eye in office hours. Here was
a case calling loudly for a sharp lesson from the
gods. The gods sent three.
Firstly, he was burnt out. “From trifling
causes great events do spring.” A rat and a box
of wax matches; an alarm at midnight; much
excitement and shouting ; a fire brigade with no
water to squirt, and a smell of burnt leather.
Burnt leather smells very nasty. Anybody who
has dried his boots in the oven knows that; but to
the despairing Ben it smelt like the flames of
Judgment Day playing over the Chinese Empire.
The trouble was that the insurance barely covered
one quarter of the damage. And—insult to in-
jury—the mail that day brought four more
rejected poems.
Poetry is a good servant but a bad master, in
this resembling fire, or love, or drink, or religion.
In its latter manifestation it had sapped Ben’s
brains, so that the lesson of the fire was lost upon
him. He might have started to build up his busi-
ness again from the beginning—he was only
thirty-five. He might have gone to work for
Smith —intolerable ! No, poetry had the strangle-
hold, so he did neither of these things. He took
the third way, and went to the chemist. He
wanted, he said, something to kill rats.
The chemist took down a large bottle of bilious-
looking green powder. “ I s’pose, Ben,” he said,
cheerfully, “ you want something that’ll make’em
sorry they’re rats, after what they did to you the
other day? This he patted the bottle—“’ll
give ’em beans.”
“How—how does it act?” asked Ben, a trifle
feebly ; the affair was taking shape with a venge-
ance. He found himself suddenly awake to the
fact that he, Benjamin Danvers, was buying
poison to take his own life. It had been rather like
a bad dream, so far, but this brought it very close.
“Well, first of all they feel hot inside, then
hotter, then '” the chemist waved his hand ex-
pressively. “Naturally they feel as if a drink
ivould do ’em good. They rush out of the house
for the nearest water (that’s the advantage of this
kind ; kills ’em out of the house). As soon as they
get the water aboard they begin to tie ’emselves
into knots and squeal. After they’ve disported
’emselves like this for half an hour they pass over
Jordan with their four legs simply plaited to-
gether, their tails wrapped three times round
their necks, and their ears turned inside out. It’s
great stuff.”
“ I won’t have it,” cried Ben, his eyes bulging.
“ It’s too cruel, even for rats. Haven’t you
got something that’ll—er—just— er—put ’em to
sleep ? ”
The chemist looked at him sharply. “ Well—
yes,” he admitted with some hesitation. He went
behind the dispensing screen for awhile and
studied his customer through a hole cut for the
purpose of just such examination, making a con-
vincing tinkling of glass as he chewed the nor-
thern end of his moustache in his perplexity.
When he came into Ben’s view again his face
had cleared.
“This is what you want, Ben,” he declared,
wrapping up a small parcel of regular white
crystals. “They’ll die like babies going to ni-ni.
You remember the Woodruff case ? No ?
Poisoned his wife in Melbourne. With this” —he
tapped the packet. “And she was found in the
morning with a smile on her face. But—l can’t
see why you should consider the feelings of the
rats, darned if I can. They didn’t consider yours.
Better have the other.”
“ ‘ There are more things in Heaven and
earth,”’began Ben, but suddenly pulled himself
up. Was he not going to kill himself ? “I s’pose
you’ll want me to sign for this ? ” he said.
The chemist did not insist upon this formality
with an old friend. “If I thought you were tired
of life’’—Ben’s start was quite noticeable—“ I’d
have to conform for my own protection.”
Ben handed over a shilling. “Is that enough,
Jim?” he asked.
It was not. The stuff was very expensive, and
Jim very apologetic. But to obligee a friend he
would let it go for half-a-crown. Ben was about
to argue the case when he remembered again that
it didn’t matter, since he would soon be where
half-crowns are the merest trifles.
Hereupon we see Benjamin William Danvers
emerge from the apothecary’s door and walk up
the little main street of the straggling township
of Bungaroo, with enough poison in his possession
to set half the inhabitants thereof scrambling for
halos. He walked slowly, his head down, his
fingers playing with the string of the packet in
which was all this concentrated death, his mind
occupied with the cheerful subject of coroner’s
inquests, coffins, Hell, and what the newspapers
would say. He determined to leave a dignified
and explicit note to the jury : “ I desire that the
jury will not attempt to soften the verdict of
suicide by any insulting references to an ‘un-
sound mind.’” How fine it sounded ! He would
show the world how suicide should be conducted.
For there is really a great deal of art in an im-
pressive exit from the stage of life. Yes, he
ought to get at least a couple of columns from the
Independent.
To sleep—never to wake again ! Never ! To
be blotted out of being, blotted out from know-
ledge of the sun and the scent of the wattle and
the sweet, shy rains of September on the forehead
of the virgin Spring. Never more to hear the
cicada in the baking summer noon, nor to feel the
keen, westerly breath of autumn search its way
through his clothes to his flesh ! And then—the
other side ! To rest secure, lapped in dreamless
sleep, sheltered under never-fading poppies from
the harsh mockery of unkind Fortune, from the
knowledge of wreck, from misunderstanding, from
(bathos unutterable) those gadfly, “Answers to
Correspondents ” ! Ben’s fingers tightened upon
the package.
* * * *
Ben Danvers sat up, writing. His wife had
gone early to bed. He had given her case due
consideration, having written her a brief note,
telling her not to worry—thoughtful Benjamin !
But his present composition was, to his view, an
infinitely more important affair. It was his ex-
planation of his perfect sanity to the gentlemen
of the jury. It put forth his recent business losses
as a palliation of the “step I am about to take,”
hinting darkly, moreover, at other troubles —the
four returned manuscripts lay before him on the
table. He himself had, as yet, no suspicion that he
was about to die, because he was an ass with an ab-
surd passion for melodrama. He quite looked for-
ward totbepublication of hisaddress, and was sorry
he couldn’t stay to read it in print. It took away
a great deal of the charm of notoriety to be dead.
Sighing, he laid down his pen, and sat huddled
up, his head in his hands, simply brimming over
with self-pity. He took up the packet, opened it
and smelt it. To his biassed olfactory nerves the
odor suggested burnt leather.
Rising quickly, he snatched a tumbler from the
shelf, half-filled it with water, and poured in some
of the poison, his hand trembling so that the crys-
tals tinkled against the sides of the glass, and
some fell upon the floor. Then, in the frantic
haste which fears the weakening of great resolu-
tions, he swallowed two mouthfuls and let the
glass drop to wreck amongst the scattered poison.
It was done. A momentary feeling of satisfaction
took him that he had shown himself a brave man.
It was all over except
Yes, except Exactly! The most unpleasant
part was to come. How simple it had all been up
till now ! How simple—and how easily revocable !
Nothing could save him now, though, he must die
—Good God! he must! What had he done?
What if there were pain, agonising pain, after all!
What if there were a Hell? Even everlasting
sleep—horrible ! He knew now that he had never
really meant to carry the thing so far. Posing
was over. Here was death—grim, pitiless death—
at his throat, and the beating of the clock which
coldly measured out his last hour cut into his con-
sciousness like the thong of a whip. The thing
was a nightmare —a fearful dream from which he
struggled to awake. The sweat of his anguish
laced his forehead in little glistening beads strung
along the furrows. He screamed, and at the
scream his wife was in the room, hanging upon his
neck, her feet cut by the broken glass upon the
floor.
“What is it, Ben?” she cried. ‘‘God, Ben,
' what is it? ”
“I took poison,” he gasped. “ Poison—the
doctor—quick ! ”
She was wrapped in her cloak and out of doors
almost as he spoke, and for five minutes the man
fought his terror alone. The battle revealed the
soul of Ben Danvers to him as it is given to few
men to know themselves. Too late—alas, too late !
And then came the doctor, driving his patient
whimpering to the bedroom, and for an hour he
and the woman fought for the life of the man who
had found himself. So much for tragedy !
The stomach-pump is neither an artistic nor a
pleasant machine. Emetics are experiences which
most men recall with a shudder. Between these
two benign influences Ben found little to choose;
death were almost preferable, he thought, to
either. They left him an invalid, limp and quite
careless of destiny. Sleep came upon him con-
solingly—if it were death, what matter? As he
himself would have probably expressed it, “ his
troubles ! ”
Thus reduced, the doctor took Mrs. Ben out of
the room by the arm. “Now,” he said, “how
did it happen ? Did he
She shook her head, loyal to the undeserver.
“ And how do you fit in this broken glass?”
he asked, stooping and rising again with the frag-
ments glittering upon his outstretched palm.
“ They’re the remains of a tumbler. And this
paper?”—he bent again, and tapped the red label
as he laid it upon the table.
She began to cry. “You won’t let anybody
know,” she pleaded.
“Of course not—unless—but we won’t talk
about that. I think he’ll be all right now.”
“God forgive him,” she whispered. “I believe
he did. You see, he’s been worried about the
fire. Oh —how could he ?”
“There, there, Mrs. Danvers,” said the doctor,
consolingly. “I really think he’ll be all right
now. But it’s just as weil to know exactly what
he took, and I’ll get along to the chemist. I
could analyse this stuff—he’s spilt about an ounce
of it—but I think that’ll be the quicker way.”
As he closed the gate, he bumped into a man.
“Good-night, Doctor,” said the latter. “ Any-
body ill ? ”
The doctor recognised the voice. Confound
these newspaper men ! Always poking about
where they weren’t wanted. He gave a curt
negative to the question, and moved off, some-
what ruffled. That is where he made his mistake.
It never pays to lose one’s temper with reporters
who ask rude questions. It is much better to tell
them some smiling lie. And this one was not
more of a fool than many others. “Of course
not,” he muttered. “ He’s only paying a friendly
visit at 2 o’clock in the morning. Wonder
(Continued on next page.)


iruJlfL
•r
©
r*yji
sr:.s
©
Suffered for Many Years —Husband
and Wife’s Gratitude to Bile Beans.
MR. J. KNIPLER, of 53 Baptist Street, Redfern,
Sydney, says “ I was a martyr to Bilious*
■ ness for many years. I tried several medi=
cines advertised as a cure for this dis=
tressing complaint, besides numerous
doctors, but the relief 1 received was of
short duration. Not long
since, I received one of your
booklets bearing upon Bi»e
Beans, at my house, and,
noticing that many com-
plaints similar to my own
had been cured by Bile Beans,
1 decided to give this medi=
cine a trial. 1 derived great
benefit from the very first
dose, and, continuing with their use, .
was restored to perfect health. My wife
also derived great benefit from Bile
Beans while in a delicate condition of health.
We are never without a large box of Bile
Beans in the house, and can confidently
recommend them to fellow sufferers.”
tie
eans
u.g. FOR _
mousness
THE BEST FAMILY MEDICINE.
mu
§
Bile Beans are a
PROVED remedy for
Indigestion, Bilious-
ness, Headache, Con-
stipation, Piles, Dis-
turbed Sleep, Bad
Blood and Breath,
Anaemia, Debility,
Loss of Appetite,
Belching, Nausea,
and all Liver Ail-
ments. 1/14 and 2/9
per box, of all
chemists and stores,
or direct from the
Bile Bean Co., Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Pears' Christmas Feasi for igio .
PEARS’
ANNUAL
Ready November 21st.
CONTAINS
5 Splendid Tales by
5 Famous Living Authors.
With 19 specially drawn Illustrations in Tints :
The Handsome Stranger, by Geo. R. Sims, Illustrated by Frank
Dadd, R.I-; Means of Transport, by W. Pett Ridge, Illustrated
by Bernard Partridge ; Corporal Jim, by Max Pemberton, Illustrated
R. Caton Woodville ; The Dragon*s Tooth, by Dick Donovan,
Illustrated by Gordon Browne, R.I. ; A Model Man, by Barry Pain,
Illustrated by Will Owen.
Together with a Page of Music—The Old English Hunting Song,
“JOHN PEEL,”
Illustrated with a Series of Four incidents in the Song, comprising
Four Full Pages in Colours, Facsimile Reproductions of the
Original Drawings.
THE ANNUAL IS AS USUAL ACCOMPANIED BY
Three Presentation Plates
Each Printed in 12 or 13 Colours.
1. TEMPTED BUT SHY, by G. G. Kilbume, R.I.
2. OVER THE GARDEN WALL, by Fred Morgan.
3. BUTTERFLIES, by W. S. Coleman.
Sold by all Booksellers. Agents for Australasia—GOßDON & GOTCH.
Why he lied about it?” The mystery promised
copy. The passion for copy is not developed only
in the city—nor the ability to get it.
The reporter, who was also the chief compositor
of the Independent —besides being the editor
when the careless mixing of drinks had reduced
the other half of the staff to joyful oblivion—
opened the gate and walked up the short pathway
to the house. The front showed no light, so he
went round to the back. Through the window of
the lighted kitchen he saw a table littered with
papers, and upon the corner of it a little shining
heap of broken glass.' There Was no one in the
room. The reporter tried the door—it opened
easily. He went in (reporters do this sort of
thing when the scent of copy blows downwind).
The papers on the table aroused his professional
curiosity. He caught a glimpse of a heading
which promised well, and drew out the sheet.
“To the Gentlemen of the Jury,” he read.
“Caesar !” he whispered as he glanced hurriedly
down the page. “Suicide!” A noise of move-
ment came from within. He crammed the paper
into his pocket, and had barely time to get to the
door and knoolt before Mrs. Danvers came into
the room, her head in her hands. At the knock
she looked up, catching sight of the man at the
open door.
“Well?” she said, dully, her voice betraying
no agitation at this astounding visit.
“Not even scared,” thought the reporter.
“ He’s done it, then.” Aloud he said i “ I was
sorry to hear the news, Mrs. Danvers. Can I be
of any use ? ”
Of course she was off her guard. “Then the
doctor told yon that Ben she flamed. “Oh !
—and I trusted him. The fool—the shallow, gos-
siping fool ! He told you, of all people—a news-
paper man. And it might have been kept from
the world. But—please go.”
Why not ? The reporter had all that he wanted
“-two columns of thrill ! He went, and spent
two hours over his copy. Bungaroo would have
a real sensation in the morning.
* * * *
Ben Danvers woke to find the sunlight stream-
ing into the open window, hot upon his face. For
a while he lay, wondering dimly at the extremely
empty sensation which dominated his physical
consciousness—he had not been so ravenously
hungry for years. The smell of frying bacon
made him positively faint. He sat up in bed.
Then he remembered the stomach-pump, and
shuddered. He remembered the whole agony of
the night, and was bewildered to find himself
alive—bewildered and thankful. There were
voices in the kitchen. He listened mechanically.
“ As it turns out, it’s something rather to laugh
at than to cry over,” said the .male one, the
familiar male voice of his late nightmare. “Gasehy
has his head better furnished than a lot of chemists
I’ve known. Epsom salts—first-rate, first-rate ! ”
The doctor slapped his leg delightedly.
“But”—this was the voice of his wife—“he
might”
“Nonsense, nonsense! They never try twice.
I’ve seen ’em hauled out of the water bless.ng
their rescuers. He’ll be all right.”
Ben sank back in bed. His feelings were the
most complicated he had ever known. Tangled
inextricably with his relief was his abjectness.
He felt that he could embrace the perfidious
chemist, and, having paid this debt of gratitude,
forthwith pound his face for making him so
utterly ridiculous. The doctor would never pass
him in future without his face turning red. His
wife would have the most potent gibe that ever
wife used for the utter subjugation of a husband.
How could he reply to this, for instance : “ Now,
dear, don’t excite yourself, and I’ll bring you a
nice dose of salts.” He almost wished he had suc-
ceeded as he pondered this possibility. But, for
all that, upon one thing he was determined—no
more suicide for him. If it ever got out ! The
idea was too awful.
He heard the doctor’s heavy step crunch down
the gravel path outside his window, and called
his wife. Carefully avoiding her eyes, he asked
her to bring him the papers he had left upon the
table over night. His dismay, when he had looked
them over,- would have even touched the heart of
the reporter. “Is this all ?” he asked, real terror
in his voice. She nodded, and, swearing, he was
out of bed and searching the scene of the tragedy.
“What was it all about?” she asked inno-
cently, and he threw up his hands and cursed
the doctor and the chemist, and Smith, and
the day that he was born. “ The doctor has
it,” he cried, struggling into his trousers, and
would have gone crying it up and down the
street. But his wife thrust his breakfast before
him, and hunger conquered wrath. While he ate
she took opportunity to ask him what the doctor
would want with his silly hysterics. He glared
at her, his mouth full of bacon. She smiled. He
had certainly fallen from his pedestal.
His voracity appeased, he put on his hat and
flung himself out of the house in a very bad
temper indeed. He had reason for his temper,
for if there is one maddening piece of knowledge
in the world it is that of having made an absolute
and phenomenal fool of one’s self. With Ben
temper soon gave place to wonder. Was the
world mad ? He nodded recognition to Ander-
son, the butcher, and Anderson’s face went white
as he staggered into his shop and banged the
door. As he passed, his fellow-citizens stood
looking after him with dropped jaws and protrud-
ing eyes, or gasped, or fled swiftly, or, if they
were very young—and this was the most discon-
certing of all—followed him with round eyes and
open mouths and much awe-struck whispering.
And as, bewildered, he turned the corner again
on his homeward way, he came full upon Smith’s
servant-girl. The girl promptly crossed herself
and fainted. It was the most sensational walk he
had ever taken. He had been simply driven
home again by the open mouths and eyes of Bun-
garoo. 1
And as he, the marvel and portent of the town-
ship, stumbled into his kitchen, his wife looked
up from tjae Independent, and in her face, too,
was an expression he could not understand.
“What’s the matter?” he growled. “Is there
anything wrong with me? Isn’t it bad enough to
have the whole place staring at me as though I
was a ghost, without you going on like that?
Speak up now —what the devil’s the trouble? ”
“The trouble !” she repeated; and in her
voice was a hint of tears, and a more delicate
tinge of scorn. “ You have the assurance to ask
that of the wife you were going to desert, like a
fool and a coward ? ”
He looked away from the eyes he dared not
meet. ..“I—-I—Oh, damn it. Annie. Don’t try
to make me feel meaner than I do. I can’t stand
it from you. Don’t rub it in.” His voice trem-
bled.
“I won’t then,” she replied. “You’ll find
plenty to do that. My poor Ben, my poor, silly
husband!” Her arms were about his neck
and her tears dropped inside his shirt. Uncom-
fortable things, tears, inside one’s shirt.
Ben comforted lier as well as he could. When she
had cried for a while, and then laughed for as long
as she had cried by way of, levelling up the balance
of her overstrained emotions, she wasable to reply
to the question thrust at her by the puzzled and
chastened Ben—how could anyone taunt him with
what none knew but the doctor and herself ?
“ The whole town knows,” she Said sadly.
Ben was incredulous. But her face began to con*
vince him. “The chemist!” he gasped. She
shook her head. “The doctor?” Then in tones
of horror, and with a decent hesitation new to
Ben, “ Annie! not you,
'•'“No, Ben,” she said. “You told them your-
self.”
He actually laughed—unfortunate, asinine Ben !
The mirth faded, though, as he took the paper she
thrust into his hands and told him of the re-
porter’s midnight visit. He fell back dazed into
a seat. It would daze anybody to read his own
valedictory address to the world in pica, with
black-letter headings and funeral borders. And
there was even a portrait with the horror —an
old trade-block pressed into the service of
Bungaroo’s one scoop. Ben did not ait long.
His wife had never know what a profound
knowledge of blasphemy the mildest man-
nered man can pick up for use upon special
occasions. She stood, open-mouthed, to hear her
Ben go on so until his wrath turned into the
usual channel where flows the rage of a married
man when the cat is not within boot-range. What
did she mean by letting anybody take the papers
from the table? Anyone but a fool would have
known -. He was going too far; she must check
him.
And so—alas for the one weak spot in the hide
of every son of Adam, and alas that he takes to
himself a companion who will, sooner or later,
surely find it !
“Ben,” she said, maternally, “it’s time for
your dose of salts.” And he collapsed again into
his chair.
HASSAN.
In the Watch from Twelve to
Four.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
OH ! he came into the stokehold
In the watch from twelve to four —
The new “fifth” just joined that
evening
From a foundry on the shore.
He was light-huilt as a bantam,
There was just a wisp of him.
He went squintin’ at the gauges
Hidden in the shadows dim,
And a-lookin’ up the airshafts
At the way the draught should dror’—
Moseyin’ about the stokehold
In the watch from twelve to four.
As the roarin’ draught so noisy
Sucked the smoke up to the skies,
The white glare from out a furnace
Brought the hot tears to his eyes.
And he dodged the scrapin’ shovels,
And stepped light across the coal
In the awkward, horrid motion
Of her nasty, jumpin’ roll.
Till at last a fireman asked him,
“ Do ye wish ye were ashore ?
Is yer temper poor at midnight
In the watch from twelve to four ? ”
Says the fifth : “ You’ve got a fellow
Somewhere in this gang to-night,
Name Bill Reilly—or O’Reilly,
And I’ve heard that he can fight.”
“Oh ! rise up, now, Bill O’Reilly,’’
I remarks, “Bill, show yer nose !
There is someone' askin’ for yer.”
And O'Reilly quickly rose,
And he says, “ Who wants to fight me?
Who is lookin’ for my gore ? ”
Said the fifth, “ I am the fellow—
In the watch from twelve to four.”
' So O’Reilly left his shovel,
And a trimmer took his place.
They went down beyond the bunkers,
And they stood there, face to face —
Bill O’Reilly, big and hearty,
With a punch like William Squires,
Born of everlastin’ liftin’
To the everlastin’ fires ;
And the fifth, a skinny youngster
From a foundry on the shore—
It seemed like in-fan-tile murder
In the watch’from twelve to four.
Bill O’Reilly made the fightin’
Pretty lively at the start —
At the ring’s extremest limit,
They was never far apart.
Yet O’Reilly couldn’t hit him,
CouldnT touch him anywhere.
But the way the fifth punched Billy
Made the blessed stokehold stare.
He would rush right in and clinch him,
Jumpin’ out, he’d hit some more,
You could hear O'Reilly breathin’
In the watch from twelve to four.
Then at last O’Reilly hit him—
Got in one almighty blow,
Like the kickin’ of a piston
Or the punchin’ of a throw.
Closed his left eye very neatly,
But the fifth just shook his head.
When O’Reilly tried the other
He got his eye bunged instead.
And the fifth got in his knock-out,
Layin’ Bill across the floor,
With his head upon some cinders
In the watch from twelve to four.
Then the fifth .carte-round and boused us—
“ Look out there, you’re losin’ steam.
Pick that big chap up there, someone,
Mustn’t lie down there and dream.”
So I shouts, “Now, Bill O’Reilly,
Oh ! arise and show your nose.”
And, a-lookin’ pretty groggy,
Bill O’Reilly slowly rose,
And took up his idle shovel
And a mighty oath he swore.
But the fifth he never heard him
In the watch from twelve to four.
M.\onrr. \nd.
WILL LAWSON.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
TWw 1 ' 1 $ «({ *,( ■■ I ' "- 1 < ■■ 1 V ’ {) / , 1 •
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
df
asd
fasd
fa
OTHER MODELS
From 7/6 to 40/-
FOR A FREE CATALOGUE WRITE TO
The Accorded! with
The Mellow Tone
Is just perfection for Song Accompaniments, Dance Music and
Picnics. The Organ-like Tone of these Instruments is attained
by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-fitted and tuned.
THREE POPULAR MODELS,
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
3 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 22/6, Post Free.
THE DANCE KING
4 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 30)-, Post Free.
I THE PICNIC MODEL
g Sets Sell Metal Reeds, Price 15/-, Pott Free.
sdf
276 Collins Street, Melbourne,
And also at BENDIGO & GEELONG.
asdf
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Afiections,
DINNEFORDS'
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
asd
IT IS GOOD to KNOW
that Beecham’s Pills never fail to have a beneficial effect; and
that when taken according to directions they are equally suit-
able for old and young. Such disorders and affections as are
due to functional irregularities of the stomach, bowels, liver
and kidneys are speedily corrected by a course of this world-
famous medicine. Beecham’s Pills cleanse and brace up the
stomach, liver and bowels, and, by improving the appetite and
digestion, produce a tonic effect upon the whole system.
Compounded from the purest ingredients, these pills are pre-
pared specially for the relief and cure of all stomachic ailments.
That they are really efficacious in so doing—that they indeed
perform what they promise—is abundantly proved by many
years of enormous popularity, and by their gigantic sale.
BEECHAMS
PILLS
have a universal reputation and enjoy the patronage of all
classes of society. They are simple, safe and speedy. They
give relief at once to the sufferer from constipation, bilious-
ness, sick headache, pains after eating, lack of appetite, etc.
When “ liverish,” run-down or seedy, Beecham’s Pills will be
found the best of all pick-me-ups, while the benefits they
confer do not pass away. A periodical dose of this medicine
is excellent for man and woman alike. Beecham’s Pills have
for years been the one and only household medicine in
thousands of homes. Their worth has been proved again
and again. You can depend upon them. They do not
vary. They are mild in action and in every way
ARE AN IDEAL
FAMILY MEDICINE.
SOLD IN BOXES, LABELLED,
Price 10#d. {36 pills), 1/1 (56 pills) and 2/9 (168 pills).
WOLFE’S
The Family Stimulant. 7
FOR MEN-
~m, FOR WOMEN
SCHNAPPS
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
V.
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail .
.
They Always Cure.
fa
The only true and safe remedy for Gout ai
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
GOUT
OP
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
A safe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, irritations, ulcer-
ations ot ALL mucous membranes
or lining's ot tlio nose, throat,
stomach or urinary orgac
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise with jact. bottle
or mailed on request.
His Enas Chanical Co.
Cadmsti, Ohio.
O.S.A.
All about the man-eating shark in the
Christmas Number of The Lonk Hand. Just the
sort of thing to take to the seaside.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’S, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
s*o M.
sdf
These series o!
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention 's also
drawn to their patent
Anti-B.oiting Series.
Works s Birmingham, England.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing'
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I£, 2/9 & 4/6
I$
Checks and
arrests Fever
Croup. Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
GOUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
asd
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centunee
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In nie since 1890.
masr"**
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Aik your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210. Lambetli Road. London, Eng.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
J/-EACH POST FREE 1/2
Quality Not Better
| in a
Guinea Pipe
r MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
Storekeepers n tobacconists
SHOULD SEND TOR OUR TRADE LIST
ASTHMA CURE
GHIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Herrons Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by QBIMATJIiT & Co's INDIAN CIGAB-
JBTTES. Sold by all Chemitt*.
fa
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the fame
diseases ■" ithout
inconvenience
in
48 hours
Each Capsule bears the name
MIDY
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePort
Nature's Gift.
!TAY?
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0, for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.8.W.
And at 19 MoKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
What Thb Bulletin Christmas Number
is to the ordinary Bulletin, The Lome Hajtd
Christmas Number (out now) is to the ordinary
Lone Hand. Same price—Sixpeneo.


“TITAN” Leather Belting.
c°-
In addition to our well-known
manufactures in Rubber, we
also carry an extensive stock of
“ Titan ” brand Leather Belting.
This belting is made from the
finest selected Australian Oak-
Tanned Leather, thoroughly
stretched before manufacture.
It is warranted to transmit the
maximum horse-power at high
or low speed, with practically
no stretch, and is a superior
and reliable belting for all pur-
poses.
It is stocked in both single
and double-ply in various
widths.
Samples and price lists on
request.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.
270 George Street, Sydney.
ELECTROMOTORS LIMITED
\
Manchester.
COMPLETE INSTALLATIONS of ELECTRIC POWER
PLANTS IN WORKS, MILLS and FACTORIES.
Queensland Government Printing Office equipped with 58 of our Motors.
Australasian Agency :
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. t 2
" Fibro-Cement"
WHAT IS IT? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with Asbestos. It has the strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
light, durable, cool, ant- and tire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made In Slates for roofing, Red, Grey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2Jin. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “ B ’’ to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY ; and
581=583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS— New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, fid ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
sdf
THE
Has a Grand Reputation.
Would it not be advisable
to install it at once, in pre-
i ference to experimenting
with a doubtful machine ?
Send us particulars of your SHED, and we will post you Plan and
Estimate of Cost of Installation Gratis.
“CLAYTON & SHUTTLEWORTH
33
-6 PORTABLE STEAM ENGINES fc*
I
ft
f
For SHEARING CHAFFCUTTING, SAWiTILLING, etc.
Thoroughly RELIABLE and Very ECONOMICAL
Sole Agents for above:
’s Point. Sydney.
, -
• 3 ~ *' .. J. , i.ili .....
»s ■
40 Clarence Street, Sydney ;
172 William Street, Melbourne.
m
We will quote you on
Complete A.E.G. Elec-
trical Equipment ojf
MINES, FACTORIES,
TIMBER MILLS.
asd
I
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
Propy.,
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers,
St. George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
Street, ADELAIDE.
THE KEYSTONE DRILLER CO.
€€
KING-LOC
99
DROPPERS.
No Ties, Wodges, or Staples. Won’t Burn .
IS THE OLDEST
MAKER OF
fa
PORTABLE DRILLS
for Well Boring, Mapping
Alluvial Deposits and
N. GUTHRIDGE, LTD., Agents,
Exploring: for Coal and all Minerals.
Awarded GRAND PRIZE, WORLD’S FAIR. ST. LOUIS.
Catalogues containing very full information furnished on request.
263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY, and
525 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
