

S3IXSIHM dO AXSIHM 3HI
WMaa
R. <3r. WATKINS & CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ĥ
Shay
Locomotives.
For Light Railway, Speed Grades and
Sharp Curves.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne,
B.A. Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman’9 Bldgs., Adelaide.
ECOBArtT.
—asift —-
fiadieys Orient jjotal.
PIONEER
* LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ħ
Take it back,
I must have
HUTTON’S
fincAppk&rand MAMS^®
h
FIRE
RESISTING
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablet s is
recommended bv numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
HANSENS
ĥ
ħ
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
(Xffo,
cUV. hToJJ&iy C° -feet-.
QiUxJlAj tM*JFtfrf(M4A/ s<l4ou£y &*A*G*S'
BBBSVw
P
O* a /.v
4f
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest. «
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, and NEWCASTLE.
h
ĥ
Royal
Dutch
ħ
h
PABCO ROOF
(WHITE MALTHOID).
The greatest consideration should be given
to roofing in Australia. PABCO covers every
requirement. It is the coolest roofing in the
world, reducing temperature considerably more
than any other.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), CHALLIS HOUSE. MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
THE PLANT ADOPTED
by THE BRITISH
ADMIRALTY.
SUCTION GAS ENGINES
? AND "V .??■’ VV.
GAS GENERATING PLANTS
C. A. MacDONALD, LTD., 03 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Plant that secured
the GOLD MEDAL at
PLYMOUTH, 1906,
against all makers .
- .. - i
\JU;\
ERVICES KEPT
Send for Catalogues.
Sole Australian Representatives, 32 § 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Old
as the
Hills.
THOISIVXS’S
WHISKY.
F rag'rant
as the
Heather.
HELIDON SPA WATER
“It is a dream of the Physician realised/' so says a medical man
TTPT THON qPA k Ftiminant.
DEWIIURST § HALLORAN, Ltd.,
The Bulletin
Tol. 31.—N0. 1607.]
[Thursday, December 1, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


NEW BOOKS.
—
GEORGE ROBERTSON AND CO. PROP., LTD.,
238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Doubleday’s Red Hcuse/jn Rowan Street, 3s6d, posted 4s.
Reed, Myrtle; Master of the Vine-yard, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Bindloss, H.: Alison’s Adventure, 3s 6d,posted 4s.
Cullum, R.: The Trail of the Axe, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Nietzsche, F.: Joyful Wisdom, ss, posted 5s 6d.
Nietzsche, F.: Gospel of Superhuman, ss, posted 5s od.
Grossman, E.: Heart of the Bush, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Reed, Myrtle : Sonnets to a Lover, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Crockett, S. R.: The Dew of Youth, 3s 6d, posted 4s,
Sleeping Beauty, illus. Dulac, 18s, posted 19s 6d.
Pierce : Priii. of Wireless Telegraphy, 15s, posted 15s 9d.
Tucker : Roman World of Nero, 15s, posted 16s 6d.
R. E. PEARY : THE NORTH POLE; 116 illustrations from Photographs, price 18s., posted 20s.
FRENCH NOVELS.— We have a number of volumes in the “ Nouvelle Collection lllustree,” cloth bound 2s. each,
posted 2s 6d. Lists Sent on Application.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
m
o
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
The Bro
Tubes of
sected Lun
A Lobe of
of the Lu
Agencies in
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
THE RED PAGE
Tolstoy
Amongst the many passages of autobio-
graphy printed in the collected works of
Tolstoy there is one in which he set down
the earliest recollections of his life :
I am tied ; I want to straighten out my arms
and I cannot do so and I cry. Somebody is bending
over me. My cry affects them, but they do not
untie me. I burst into an irrepressible cry, which
disgusts me with myself. I feel the injustice and
cruelty, not of men, because they takepity on me,
but of Fate. ... It was the first and most power-
ful impression of my life.
Another impression was that of being
washed by his nurse, and, for the first time,
observing and admiring his own body.
These recollections are significant. The
quality of mind which retained till 50 the
impressions of infancy was that which made
his fictional characters .so full of the intimate
thoughts and emotions of their creator. That
early struggle for freedom and impotent pro-
test against the cruelty of Fate were to
continue through the best part of his life.
And their influence within himself had to
contend with the pride of life and love of
the body which showed itself so early.
An aristocrat by birth, Lev (or Leo) N. Tol-
stoy went to the University, and lived the life
of a fashionable man-about-town, drinking
and gambling heavily. At 23 he joined the
army in the Caucasus, and while there wrote
his first sketches. He served at Sevastopol as
divisional commander, and showed great
bravery. He left the army in 1857, and made
a continental tour. When 34 he married a
girl of 18, and settled down on his estate at
Yasnaya Polyana, where the rest of his life,
with a few intervals, was spent.
He put himself into all his §vork, and in
his first book— Childhood, Boyhood and
Youth —which is thinly-disguised autobio-
graphy, he displayed that remarkable com-
bination of the realist and the mystic which
distinguishes his fiction from all the rest.
The duality of his nature has often been
mentioned by his biographers. Merej-
kowski speaks of him as half a heathen and
half a Christian. The heathen element in
him, no doubt, gave him that sympathy with
simple people and admiration for the free life
of the half-savage farmers which is shown in
many of his books, particularly in The Cos-
sacks. He was proud of the fact that he
looked like a peasant. For all that,” said
one who knew him, “ he bore unmistakable
evidence of breeding.” He was too much
of a gentleman to allow; realism to descend
to the depths of naturalism, as in Zola.
Brandes said of some of his sketches that
in them “he thinks aloud.” It is that pro-
cess of self-revelation which gives astonish-
ing vitality to the principal characters of his
novels. But he had also the artistic faculty
which could create character, building it up
bit by bit, with a frequent repetition of some
salient feature. He noticed commonplace
details which most people pass by. His
interest was always centred in humanity,
not in places or things, and in the humbler
ranks of mankind rather than in the his-
torically great. In the tremendous panorama
of War and Peace, Napoleon and Kutuzoff
shrunk to small proportions; it is the rank
and file who are shown there, wanning and
losing the battles. Prince Andrei stands out
as a brave man and a-gentleman ; but there
are no orthodox heroes in any of Tolstoy’s
novels.
The horrors of war have seldom been
depicted so well as in this book and Sevas-
topol, nor the tragedy of an unhappy union,
as in Anna Karenina. In the latter, the
finest of all Tolstoy’s novels, there is the
story of the fall of a woman and the auto-
biography of Tolstoy as Levin. Levins
brother died in his arms, as Tolstoy s had
done, and the fear of death —riot so much a
physical fear as a spiritual revolt against
oblivion —strikes a chilly note, which is re-
peated with intensity in The Death of Ivan
Ilyitch.
At the age of 10, says one biographer,
Tolstoy had religious doubts and read Vol-
taire. He was struggling with these doubts
through the early part of his manhood ; con-
fronting the universe with his own eyes and
endeavoring to tear the veils from the
mysteries. V' hat he thought and felt about
life and religion he wanted to tell the world,
and the conflict between the artist and the
preacher appears in his greatest novels. , At
length, at the age of 50, the preacher won.
He came to despise art, and later on made a
powerful attack upon it, which delivered him
into the hands of the Philistines.
The platform which his artistic productions
had won for him enabled him to reach a large
audience. He had learned Greek late in life,
studied the New Testament, and preached
primitive Christianity. He sought martyr-
dom, but the Government was afraid to
touch him. He tried to live according
to the literal precepts of the Sermon on
the Mount, and came into conflict with
his own family. The utility of it need not
be argued ; his sincerity was undoubted,
and whatever one may think about his views,
he has greatly stirred the consciences of a
large number of his fellow men.
His later writings are for the day, and will
not live. Merejkowski, in his acrid criti-
cism,.said of his last novel
Was this the Resurrection that we expected of
him, that he expected of himself? It is not for
nothing that he abjures those of his works which
he owes to his “world-wide fame.” In him there
was or might have been a prophet, though by no
means such a one as he considered himself to be.
He must content himself with his fame as a mere
artist.
Tolstoy has human fame, but not God’s fame,
which is man’s absence of fame, the persecution
of the prophets. His pride must be scourged by
the servile praises of innumerable pygmies.
Whatever way one looks at him, Tolstoy was
a gigantic figure.
A complete edition of his works in English
has been published by Dent, with a biog-
raphy, bibliography, etc., by Leo Wiener,
a Russian-American. The best translation
of Anna Karanina is that of Constance
Garnett, published by Heinemann.
This page is printed a week before the
date of publication—which will explain the
reference on last week’s page to Tolstoy as
“nearing his end,” when at that date he
was dead.
The Genius
Most of the characters in modern fiction
which are labelled as geniuses are artists or
musicians. It is easier to make them live
up to their high estate than to give an air of
reality to a poetical genius. May Sinclair
accomplished the latter task in The Divine
Fire. The high level of that story was not
maintained in her two later books, but she
is herself again in The Creators (Angus
and Robertson). Here she tosses no less
than five literary geniuses into the ring and
makes them perform satisfactorily through, a
long novel.
The most commanding personality is
George Tanqueray. The public would have
none of this man’s work, and his “ masterful
presence ” is hidden from the vulgar in a
proud obscurity. The three female geniuses,
however, recognised a kindred soul. As
women they went on their adoring knees to
him; and lie passed them by. All that he
had against them was that “their blood
was in their brains.” He admired them
all, especially Jane Holland—“ There was
nothing in contemporary literature to com-
pare with the serene, inspired audacity of
Jane.” And Jane’s novels were appreciated
by the public. Tanqueray wishes her to
understand that her genius, like the vestal
flame, must be guarded by a virgin, and he
exhorts her to avoid “the dreadful literary
taint,” and keep away from “ the clever
little people, the destroyers.” - For his own
part, he marries Rose, a groom’s daughter,
who drops her aitches. “He loved Rose
because she was small and sweet and sub-
servient,” and she becomes part of the fur-
niture;
Jane marries Broderick, owner of a news-
paper and a magazine. Broderick has the
nose of a truffle dog for the right thing in
literature, but he and his family stand for
Facts. There is a long and wearing struggle
in Jane between her genius and her woman-
hood, with Tanqueray as an active irritant.
May Sinclair's theme is that a woman can-
not create artistic masterpieces and babies at
the same time. “ I believe,” said one of the
writing women, “ that if any woman is to do
anything stupendous it means virginity.”
The three women hit the popular taste ; the
two men do not, yet theirs is the rarer and
greater genius. You are left with the im-
pression that they are greater because not
disturbed by sex.
The Devourers, by A. Vivanti Chartres
(Sydney Book Club) is another woman s
novel on the ways of genius. Nothing could
express the authoress’s view of it better than
her preface :
There was a man, and he had a canary. He
said, “What a dear livtle canary! I wish it were an
eagle.” God said to him: “If you give your
heart to it to feed on, it will become an eagle.
So the man gave his heart to it to feed on. And
it became an eagle, and plucked his eyes out.
There was a woman, and she had a kitten. She
said : “ What a dear little kitten ! I wish ij were
a tiger.” God said to her: “If you give .your
life’s blood to it to drink, it will become a tiger.’
So the woman gave her life’s blood to it to drink.
And it became a tiger, and tore her to pieces.
There was a man and a woman, and they had a
child. They said : “ What a dear little child !
We wish it were a genius.”. . .
* * * *
May Sinclair’s book is a psychological
study of one side of the question ; A ivanti
Chartres has made a prose poem of another.
Both reach the same conclusion. May Sin-
clair is concerned with adults, and her
children are not life-like. Mrs. Chartres has
a fine perception of the child mind.
Nancy, the first “devourer,” had an
English father and Italian mother. At the
age of eight she made little poems and asked
few questions :
She preferred not to know what things were.
She had never liked fireworks after she had seen
them in the day time packed in a box. What!
they were not baby stars.
Nancy’s first book, A Cycle of Lyrics, was
published when she was 15, and brought im-
mediate celebrity.
So many people came to speak to Nancy of
what she had written that she had no time to write
anything more. “In Italy,” she said, “we say
all the beautiful things we might write. That is
why Italian literature is so poor and Italian cafes
so interesting.”
The story of Nancy’s married life, of her
love letters to an Englishman she had never
seen, and the development of her daughter’s
genius (as a violinist) is charmingly told.
The Devourers, though only just received
knSydney, was heralded by a review in the
July Fortnightly. George Braudes there ex-
plains that the novel is to some extent auto-
biographical ; Annie Vivanti (Mrs. Chartres)
is a well-known Italian poetess, her daughter
a violinist, and this is the book which Nancy
was to write.
A. C. Benson turns out his regular quan-
tum of prose, which is written in faultless
style and expresses the views of a quiet,
well-bred academic person who looks at life
from the window of a comfortable villa. The
Silent Isle (Dymock’s), like the preceding
volumes, invites by its placidity. It re-
sembles a carefully-watered, well-trimmed
lawn, bordered by shady trees, with a view
of roses in the distance.
Some passages in this latest volume show
that the looker-on has seen the obvious
points of the game. Originality, for in-
stance, has a rough time in the British
scrum :
We still cling pathetically in our seats of edu-
cation to the study of Greek, buc whenever tiie
Greek spirit appears, that insatiable appetite for
impressions of beauty, that intense desife for
mental activity, we think it rather shocking and
disreputable. .. . Our way is to persecute genius
living and to crown it dead.
There are some pleasant remarks about
Shelley, Byron, Shorthouse, bad biographers
and other literary matters.
And Benson dips into the future of litera-
ture and sees what has been frequently
noticed before:
There comes in a new and interesting question
as to whether it is possible that any new species
of art will be developed or whether all the forms
Of art are more or less in our hands. It is possi-
ble to conceive that music may in the future
desert form in favor of color ; it is possible to
conceive that painters might produce pictures of
pure color qipte apart from any imitation of
natural objects in which color might aspire more
to the condition of music and modulate from tone
to tone. In literary art the movement in the direc-
tion of realistic art as opposed to idealistic is the
most marked development of later days. . ..
It appears to me that the poetry of the future
will not develop very much further in the direc-
tion of metre and rhyme.. . What I am daily
hoping to see is the rise of a man of genius with a
rich poetical vocabulary and a deep instinct for
poetical material who will throw aside resolutely
all the canons of verse and construct prose lyrics
with a perfect mastery of cadence and melody.
In Brief
Taming of the Red Butte Western, by
Francis Lynde (G. Robertson and Co.).
At the present moment the Red Butte Western
is the most hopelessly demoralised three hundred
miles of railroad west of the Rockies. There is
no system, no discipline, no respect for authority.
The men run the road as if it were a huge joke.
Add to theSfc conditions the fact that the Red
Desert is a country Where the large-calibred
revolver is”
And the man who was commissioned to
bring order out of chaos thought lie bad a
yellow streak of physical cowardice, ahe
taming process makes a typical American
yarn for men.
* * * *
Lady Dorothy Neville’s third volume of
reminiscences, Unden' Five Reigns, gives the
lie to Lady Cardigan of the loose tongue :
As a matter of fact, the vivacious “ Recollec-
tions” in question proved nothing at all except
that their writer was possessed of a singularly
imaginative memory, particularly retentive of
scandal.
i* * * ’*
The Newer Spiritualism, by the late Frank
Podinore, contains a good deal of interesting
matter about Mrs. Piper and Eusapia Pal-
ladino—severely critical, but reaching no
definite conclusion one way or-, the other.
O. Madox Hueffer, m the October National
Review, thinks the Next Religion will be a
revival of witchcraft —under another name.
The cult of spiritualism is increasing daily on
both sides of the Atlantic. Yet the medium ”
only does what the witch has been doing for
thousands of years past—as witness, for instance,
the Witch of Endor, who, had she lived
Would have put the names of Eusapia Palladino,
the Davenport Brothers, or Mrs. Piper altogether
in the shade. Christian Science, again, although
it masks itself under another name, follows
exactly in the footsteps of the witch.
* * * *
Chatto and Wind us have issued a new
edition at 6s. of Children of the Chapel, a tale
by Miss Gordon (Mrs. Leith) containing The
Pilgrimage.of Pleasure, a short morality play
by Swinburne. This was first published in
1864, and was for some time at a fancy
price, as the early Swinburnian verse had
never been included in any of his books. A
second edition was published in the ’seventies.
The useful Mosher, of Maine, put it into his
Bibelot (5 cents per copy), and the price
came down. It is worth having, both for
the tale by Swinburne’s cousin and the good
imitation of a medueyal morality in which
Life, Youth, Death, etc., talk in the manner
of Poems and Ballads.
* * * *■ *
The great Irish-American philosopher, Mr.
Dooley, is serving weak and sometimes stale
beer at his saloon these days. What we
get in the latest jugful— Mr. Dooley Says
(Dymock’s) has some of the old froth but
precious little body. Mr. Dooley “didn’t
used to tell Hinnissy ” old gags like this :
I waive me right to,be thried by an incor-
ruptible fair an’ onprejbdiced judge. Give me
wan that’s onfair and prejudiced, an’ that ye can
slip somethin’ to.
Grant Hervey: In the Nineteenth Century for
September is an article by Wilfrid Scarborough
Jackson, entitled “Wanted, a Gillray.” Jack-
son devotes a page or so to a description of the
enormous vogue enjoyed by Gillray as'a cartoon-
ist in England. This was at the end of the
eighteenth century, when John Bull expected to
find Napoleon climbing through his front window
any morning. It is alleged that Napoleon, whom
Gillray ridiculed as Little Boney, regarded G. as
more dangerous than nine British regiments.
German cartoon and caricature work, of which
the best examples are seen in Jugend and Sim-
plicissimus, are inferior in pungency and all-round
quality to those of France. So says Jackson, who
seems to write with knowledge. In his judgment,
the Parisian journal L’Assiette au Beurre (the
“Butter Plate”) produces the “most live and
prominent black-and-white work to be seen at
the moment —alive in the sense of being promi-
nent and active and polemical, and playing a part
in the expression of fermenting, formed or forma-
tive, ideas. It takes for its en.einy-in-cbief the
strongest combination of consolidated and estab-
lished human power the earth holds —the solid
bloc of the Army, the Qhurch, and the Law.”
Jackson complains of the deadly dulness of
English black-and-white, and cries for a new
Gillray.
“ A more pugnacious spiri t is observable in our
younger nations ; and in Australia, the most pro-
mising of our art colonies, the Sydney Bulletin,
aided by Norman Lindsay and others, jogs the
padded ribs of John Bull with something of the
old-time vigor.”
Fifty years hence, perhaps, Australia will do a
large trade with Europe in the export of carica-
turists.
♦ ■■ . ' : 0
C. Lewis Hind, an Euglish art critic, writes on
American art in the International Studio (Sept.),
and tells the Americans that a, national art
is not an illustration of national scenes hut an
interpretation of the spirit of place. Sargent and
Whistler are not, “ American” artists, though
born in TJ.S.A. The only signs of national art he
can find is in the works of Winslow Horner, born
and trained in America. “ Probably the American
national art will never be realised until the best
of the American painters find it more to their
profit and pleasure to remain at home than to take
up their abodes in London or Paris.”
Frank Henty, whose name has often appeared
at the end of good stuff in The Bulletin, will pub-
lish in December a collection of short stories,
sketches and verse, ■to be called “In Summer
Time.” Price 6d.
Will H. Ogilvie writes from Scotland that he is
doing very well as a free-lance journalist. “ I can
dispose of as much jingle as I can perpetrate ; my
stories sell easily and are well paid for, so I have
nothing to complain of.”


A
w a
No. 47(1 Cordiale.
A delicious, lasting and power-
ful perfume. Unsurpassed by
the most costly French per-
fumes. In Cut-Glass Bottles,
3/9, 7/6, 15/-, 25/-
4oz. bottle No. 4711 Eau de
Cologne, in handsome E.P.
case, 3/9.
No. 4711 EaudeCologne
Cases, with Bottle of
world-renowned Green
Label Eau de Cologne.
The case is triple-electro-
plate on nickel silver.
Elegant design. A hand-
some present, 5/-
In hall-marked silver case,
17/6, 20/-, 21/-. 22/6.
No. 4711
Toilet Requisites.
The various 4711 Toilet
Preparations meet indi-
vidual requirements,
and are put up in keep-
ing with the high
standard of excellence
characteristic of every-
thing- that bears the
No. 4711 Trade Mark.
No. 4711 Eau de Quinine
Hair Tonic, 1/7 bottle.
No. 4711 Liquid Denti-
frice, 1/3, 2/-, 3/-
No. 4711 Eau deCologne
Tooth Powder, 6d, 1/-
and 1/9 tin.
No. 4711 Eau de Cologne
Scented Sachets, 1/3
each.
No. 4711 Eau de Cologne
Fett Powder, 1/3.
No. 4711 Scented Face
Powder Leaves, 6d.,
1/- book.
Sr*
X**
max
XJ
vt
47//
m
*Mke&ofrofies
*m
I
S»2
262?
Sbs
No. 4711 Flower Soap— Violet, Heliotrope, Rose and
Carnation—three cakes in box, 1/6.
A SYMBOL OF
PERFUMERY
PERFECTION.
ħ
THE HALL-MARK
OF
HIGH QUALITY.
No. 47 \\ Perfumes, Soaps and Toilet Requisites are re-
nowned the world over for purity, delicacy and a
fragrance that is surprisingly enduring. Write for our
complete list of these celebrated preparations. Posted
free on request.
No. 4711 Benzoe Glycerine Soap. Unlike any other —unique as to quality, satisfactory
use—possessing highly stimulative Skin Tonic properties and lasting fragrance,
lib. bar, 1/9.
| V dUHIUdby
i FERD.MULHENS F
NfVIII ]|
*w'*
■
No. 4711 Laven=
der Water, ab-
solutely pure. In
dainty conical
bottles, l/=
Terms:
vSpot Cash.
No. 4711 Eau de Cologne Decanters, Cut-
Glass Stoppers. The Acme of Perfumery Per-
fection. 10/6, 11/3, 16/=, 21/-
%ICOL O ,
Fero.MUlhei
Distillatory
kjeOLOGNEi
N 0.4711 Eau de
Cologne, world-
re 11 own e d for
purity. Imperial,
1/2
tfgeceiebragrt
W//
prcparca uy mo
Emi-ramiHEiHis
Cologna
No. 4711 Eau Denti-
frice. A Delicate Tonic
for the Gums. Delight-
fully Refreshing, 1/3, 2/-
No. 4711
PERFUMES.
No. 4711 Eau tie Col-
ogne, In Wicker
Cover, 4/-, 4/11, 7/6,
14/6.
No. 4711 Florida Water.
1/11, 2/9 bottle.
No. 4711 Violet de
Parme, 1/-, 1/6, 2/3,
2/6 bottle.
No. 4711 Celebrated
Rhine Violet, 2/6,3/6
and 5/6 bottle.
No. 4711 Cordiale Per-
fumer 3/9, 7/6, 15/-,
25/- bottle.
No. 4711 Violette Royal,
5/- bottle.
No. 4711 Heliotrope
Royal, 5/- bottle.
No. 4711 Opopanax, Vio-
let, Carnation, Rose,
Wallflower or Pau
de Espagne Per-
fume, 1/, 1/9 bottle.
No. 4711 Rhine Violet
Talc. Powder, lOd.
ROSE
i;ly
uVrait uoi/67
No. 4711 Record Perfume
—Violet, Rose, Lily of the
Valley, White Lilac, Pat-
chouly and Musk, 9d. bottle.
No. 47 11 Elysium Soap— Rose, Carnation, Violet,
Orchid ; three cakes in box, 2/-
D'EAU DE COl
IT
VOE
mi
S
auf&'c- „,■,(&&'*
Eau de Colognc-tM^.jir’
r.i nnircMfiASSEN*' k
GLOCKENGAS
No. 4711 Eau de Cologne. GREEN
LABEL, world-renowned for Purity. Re-
dolent and Enduring perfume, 6d., 1/3,
2/4, 2/6, 3/9 to 32/6.
THE EMBLEM
OF PURITY
m
a gs
mm
E^TRA/7'^B*
FERD.MULWENS
Coloon 6
R I Q A
No. 4711 White Rose, a deli-
ciously fragrant Perfume,
2/6, 3/6.
/5
No. 4711 Eau de Cologne Fett Powder*
1/3 tin.
' E-2i? 4 .
mm
' %
No. 4711 Eau de Cologne Soap, 3 cakes in box, 1/8.
A SURETY
OF SATISFACTION.
No. 4711 Oumidl Extracts. Violet
Rose, Hyacinth and Jasmine, each in
neat, silk-lined case, 7/6, 12/6, 24/6.
LAVENDER WATER
absolutely pure
m
ManuFaclured by
COLOGNE vHH.
LONDON DEPOT G2.Ncw Bond Stat.W
No. 4711 Finest Lavender
Water, absolutely pure, pos-
sessing- the lasting bouquet
possible only with absolutely
pure perfume, 3/6, 4/6, 5/3.
Small size, l/=.
HORDERN & SONS,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,


TOOTH &. CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Atild Jock Whisky
;Rent Brewery, Sydney
w
©
<*G
B.S.A
RIFLES
The World’s best.
The B.S.A. WAR OFFICE MINIATURE RIFLE
may be correctly described as “ A REAL SERVICE RIFLE IN
MINIATURE ” and is altogether an ideal weapon for scientific
and accurate rifle practice up to 200 yards. ,
THE W.O.M. RIFLE is a full sized weapon of -22 calibre with
improved bolt action of the Lee Enfield type, military sights
adjustable to 200 yards and is turned out in the B.S A. Co ’s best
finish. It can be supplied with magazine if required and.the B.S.A. No. 8
Aperture Sight can also be fitted at a small extra. Fully ill uni rated and
described in the B.S.A. Rifle Catalog, which can be obtained from
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing the B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
5 STOCK EXCHANGE BUILDING. MELBOURNE.
B.S.A.
Vs
t/.
“ gunn p“
Forest Devil.
The Roots Must Come
as well as the Trunk.
Out
POSITIVELY the hardest work the Farmer, Settler or Squatter is called upon to do is
grubbing. The old method of uprooting dry or green stumps and trees is now entirely
revolutionised by the introduction on the market of the most marvellous labor-saving
device for Farmers, etc., ever invented. It is called “The Bunyip Forest
Devil.” This particular Forest Devil is far superior to any other Forest Devil in the market,
in that it is the very essence of simplicity in adjusting and in manipulating. The most
admirable features of “ The Bunyip Forest Devil ” are that it is not only light in weight
and can be moved with the greatest ease from tree to tree, where it can be rapidly fixed and
adjusted, but it is absolutely certain to accomplish almost any task set to it.
The tremendous strain which can be brought to bear with “ The Bunyip Forest
Devil ” makes it absolutely imperative for the tree or stump to leave the ground entirely—
roots and all, no matter how big the tree or stump, how long it has been growing, or'how
firmly it be rooted in the ground.
Many “land men,” once doubtful of the assertions claimed for it, are now loud in their
praises of the unbounded and entire satisfaction it has given in their case, and in many
instances they have paid for the cost of the mahhine in a very short while by hiring it to
their neighbors.
Convincing proof of its wonderful power and its durability, the quickness with which it
can be adjusted, the labor and money it saves, will be found in a special and attractive
catalogue Messrs. John Cooper & Sons, 287-289 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, have just issued.
Copies will be sent free to every enquirer, together with any other information required.
When writing, please mention this paper.
John Cooper 8 Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth Street (opp. St.
Francis’s Church), MELBOURNE.
Underwear
hade in
England
ARK
savtu.
The “ BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight. f !
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C '(
Ask for THE ' BIRD HARK ’ MEitINO UNDERWEAR
Australian flutual Provident Society.
Next Distribution of Cash Surptus as at 31st December,l9lo.
pnr TPIFS FFFECTED IN THE ORDINARY DEPARTMENT BEFORE THE CLOSE
0? L the S yIIr E wTll shlre in the cash bonus to be then allotted.
Surplus divided for the year 1909, £779,692. Totai bonuses M"'*’ ' 6 _
p H r t {riends -
Accumulated Funds, £25,750,000. Annual Income, £3,380,000.
Policies can be eSected "
RICHARD TEECE, F.I.A, F.F.A., F.S.S., * Secretary.
General Manager and Actuary.
■HAVE YOU GOT?
1. A Tearing, Hacking Cough ?
2. A Stuffed-up Chest ?
3. A Teasing Irritation in your Throat ?
4. A Difficulty in Breathing ?
5. A Cold in Your Head ?
6. A Fit of Sneezing ?
7. A Pain in Your Chest?
8. A Shortness of Breath ?
9. “Only a Bit of a Cold?”
HAVE
YOU?
IF YOU HAVE, TAKE
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
THE GRANDEST REMEDY FOR
COUGHS & COLDS
“A STITCH IN TIME SAVES NINE.”
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS, AND
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
N S.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney.
NERVE-DEBILITY.
I WAS QUITE CURED
OF NERVE BREAKDOWN
AND AM NOW IN
SPLENDID HEALTH.
CLEMENTS TONIC
CURED
ME.
A well-known Brisbane resident who suffered for
years from nervousness and debility, writes this
letter. Women who are afflicted thus should get
this medicine and good health at the same time.
Manning Street,
South Brisbane, 20/8/’ 10.
CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“Two and a half years ago
1 suffered from nervous break-
down to such an extent that I
could not eat or sleep. 1 lost
flesh and got weaker every day.
The more tired the less I was
able to sleep. I sent for a
bottle of Clements Tonic and
took a few doses. After the
first day of this treatment, my
appetite improved. At the
end of the second day 1 went
to bed and had quite a good
night’s sleep—for me. In a
week’s time 1 quite forgot I
was ill, and scarcely needed
any more Tonic. 1 was eating
and sleeping well and enjoying
real good health. This will
prove what Clements Tonic
will do. You may use this as
you think fit.
(Signed) “SARAH PRESTON.”
Witness : —J. Davies, J.P.
As this woman was cured so can others be, by the
use of this reliable nerve and blood medicine. For
Anaemia, Low Spirits, Costiveness, Indigestion,
Weak Nerves, Loss of Sleep or Appetite, it never
fails to give relief. Send for it.
ALL CHEMISTS « STORES SELL IT.


That
Little
Hacking
Cough
h
Hard coughs are bad enough, to
be sure. But it’s often the lit-
tle, hacking, tickling, persistent
cough that means the most,
especially when there is a his-
tory of weak lungs in the family.
What should be done? Ask your
doctor. He knows. Ask him
about the formula on the label
of every bottle of Ayer’s Cherry
Pectoral. Ask him if this med-
icine has his full approval for
throat and lung troubles. Then
do as he says.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr, J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
Cerebos
sat
is economical
because it is so
good and goes
so far.
Three or four tins are sufficient
for all the meals of an average
family for a whole year.
Agents—Harrison and Attwood, Sydney.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
NTj
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide. Established 1877.
“ LOVELY WOMAN! ”
is the Name of our FREE BOOK
which tells
thin women
how they
may in-
crease their
weight and
develop ni
i m m ature
bust. It
tells how
thin people
are de-
veloped to
normal.
3H
it
DR. FALLIERE’S
FLESH=FOOD”
is a pure, medicated, scientific bust
developer and flesh builder. Harmless
and efficacious. In average cases
weight can be increased five pounds a
week, and inches are rapidly added to
your measurements. Send 2d. stamp
for free trial sample and free book, or
call if convenient. Hours, 9a.m. tosp.m.
FALLIERE 41 FLESH-FOOD ” GO.
Dept. 5, SYDNEY
Linden Court,
Castlereagii St.,
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
aiLMQ&S
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE-^
of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAL CURE FOR
COUGHS, GOLDS, BRONCHITIS, CHOUP,
WHOOPING COUCH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNGS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHINC.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME. H
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
<• oxjr. JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6. j m
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St„ Melbourne.
THE IDEAL FOOD
for children from birth is
Honlick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constituents
in their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch and is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infants’ Foods
containing Starch.
HORLICK'S MALTED MILK
has been analysed by the Board of Health and admitted
free of duty. Chemists, etc., are therefore safe in
selling Honlick’s Malted Milk, and parents are
guaranteed a suitable food for children from birth,
which contains No Stanch.
No confusion arises when you order Horiick’s, as only one kind is
manufactured, and only one is needed to feed your child. No Mi Ik is re-
quired in the preparation of Horiick’s as in other foods—water only.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, etc.
Samples : 82, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horiick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough, Bucks, Eng.
■.* ■■
m
m
>■
l
>
Ah Interesting:
Experiment.
If you would like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those years of difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
-years.
1 / \
Dr. B. Allen’s oj.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies' Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of— Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Patents
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
“MAN TO MAN”
is the title of a Valuable BOOKLET explaining
the Causes and Cure of
NERVOUSNESS and ALLIED TROUBLES,
which embitter life, and cause premature decay.
A copy of this Booklet will be sent FREE
(sealed) to anyone interested.
London Specialities Agency,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
DRUNKENNESS CURED.
It is now generally admitted that Drunkenness is
not avice, but a disease—happily one that is curable.
DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered by the
Govts. Vic. and N.S.\V.)’is a oertainxaire—is harmless
and can be given secretly or taken voluntarily.
Advice Free. Write or Call. ■'
DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISHMENTS : 54 Russell Street,
Melbourne-;-1161 Hay Street, Perth,W. A. [1
Once a very good runner named Ben
Caught a chill, got Rheumatics, and then
The track he forsook,
Till some GOLCRYST he took,
Now he sprints like he used to again.
GOLCRYST relieves Rheumatism and Gout, ,
and is the best blood purifier yet produced.
Obtainable everywhere in 3d., 6d. and 1/-packets.
If your chemist or store cannot supply, write to
Messrs. Rockk, Tompsttt & Co., Melbourne, for
free sample. Everybody needs i-t; \
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation:
Have you grown tired ot wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure cim be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new —is in fact the Stest Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAt
with each appliance that we send out. Perfefct'
comfort and ease from the first day’s Use. No
ste 1 bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars F oated Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
ĥ
Zaw Points f
iSr Inventors f
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest way to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is po
write to me describing- your invention, encHpsifyjr a SIII4U
sketch wfiere necessary. Nicety of drawing- is not,€teiential',
all that is necessary at first is to give me’YOUR IDEA. :
I will at once inform you whetli4r the idea is patent-
able, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining-really reliable advice dr
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me, personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consse®t'tif>n. of.,their plans, an hones opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected. t - i
A. "J./CALLIN AN, Patent Attorney, j I
Citizens’ finfUaings ."Collins Street, Melbourne.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
December.
The bright sun loves December,
The wet sand loves the sea,
And the gay, gay winds remember
To toss their kisses free—
Oh, the brown girl of December -
Has red, red lips for me.
The blue day smiles at waking,
The brown girl draws the blind
To greet the roses shaking
Their sweetness on the wind—
Oh, the brown girl smiles at waking
To make the blue day kind.
The brown girl’s dimpled laughter
Fills noonday’s cup a-brim,
The eve that follows after
With dusks of love is dim—
Oh, the warm, warm night for laughter,
The brown girl’s waist is slim.
The white moon loves December,
The clear star loves the sea,
And the soft, soft nights remember
To set their rose-sweets free—
Oh, the brown girl of December
Has a rose-wine kiss for me.
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
Sunday.
The churchbell’s ill-tuned jangles make
A discord on the day’s repose ;
And sinners changed to saints awake
To don religion and their clothes,
And to the dreary chapel plod
To fix up their affairs with God.
Where, lying in the tangled grass,
I revel in the day’s delight,
I watch the dull procession pass,
A pitiful but comic sight.
Each Sunday saint so awkward shows
In his religion and his clpthes !
But I, full of my life’s delight,
Bask in the sunshine of the day ;
For their religion may be right,
But mine is cast another way.
And when God’s sky is blue and soft
It clangs no brassy bell aloft.
The while I take the proffered store
That is apportioned to my share,
My eager heart still hopes for more,
And surely that is but a prayer.
So while I take each joy I say
That in the act I think an'd pray.
I think of God —since He must be
Who first the frame of all things laid.
My heart holds love of all I see,
And thanks for all things He has made ;
And surely praise so put to test
To His clear knowledge is the best.
I share my luncheon with a dog
Who travels on a hungry trail,
For joy to see the poor brute jog
A recently dejected tail;
And thereby do what good I can,
And feel myself a wiser man.
The saints glare at me as they pass,
Outraged at my frivolity.
I smile upon them from the grass,
Wishing that they would smile at me.
Their tall, black hats go drifting by
Like square ink-blots against the sky.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
To a Fellow-Bard Camping Out.
For the sake of those few pleasant
Sunny weeks we lately spent,
Linking old times with the present,
There by ocean, tree and tent;
From the hard streets of a city,
Where the times seem out of joint,
I am sending you a ditty
For your camp on Captain’s Point!
Where no jarring note may find you,
You can hunt and fish and dream,
With your forest wilds behind you
And the wealth of lake and stream ;
And the glorious curve of beaches,
Like a panorama spread,
Of your grand front yard that reaches
From red Gabo to Ram’s Head ;
Where the fisher folk are botching
Nets that never were too strong,
And the silly shags sit watching,
Watching nothing all day long;
Free from Fortune’s slings and arrows,
From all thoughts of rent or meal,
Where the islets, creeks and narrows
Teem with fish and swarm with teal.
Where no tree-marked track seems lonely,
Where the best of tourists come,
And the gate is barred that only
Little cutters may get home.
Where your finest fancies now range,
And your songs ring clear and true,
And the steep and rugged Howe Range
Is a garden wall for you.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
. V y y- v. y n *1
-i- V * A i J
WULfylfitoiiiity
< -* * . *
gjsgifggfe
m
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 1 ss. • in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY.
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ... ... (id
Packet of Ten 5d
SAVE MONEY
by buying one of DWYER’S VEHICLES. They cannot be
equalled for Beauty of Design, Durability and Light Running.
Fartories-WOLLONGONG and NEWTOWN.
ħ
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
338 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALGOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
i*?L i -. Carbons and s P ares f or Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
h
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resotts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and, Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets. Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
ĥ
UNDER VICE-REGAL,
PATRONAGE.
The Misses Isaacs
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KINO STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Transformations from £4/4/- Tails from 7/6. Puffs from 25/- set. Fringes from 7/6.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Country orders receive prompt attention.
/I
AIR-GAS MACHINES
BRANDT’S AIROLITE
for Lighting' Houses.
SEND FOR CATALOGUE.
BRANDT BROS.,
Elizabeth Street, Melbourne,
and Pitt Street, Sydney.
ABDULLA
CIGARETTES.
Banish thoughts of duns and debt
With an ABDULLA Cigarette.
The Smoke for the Happy Man.
w
w
¥
W
w
0
PALGETY&C? LT? WHO S^, n a t ? for
CHRISTMAS (Sifts
THE heavy shipments of Christmas Gifts received by os from our (Hatton
Garden) London House make it a difficult matter to convey an
adequate idea of the comprehensiveness of our assortments, the variety
necessarily comprising many Exclusive Designs in quantities so small as to
make it inadvisable to include them in our Christmas Catalogue.
The illustrations shown here are taken from the actual goods, and in
all cases faithfully portray the articles as they are seen in our stock. For
other suitable gifts write for our Christmas Catalogue. We Post it Free.
STEWART DAWSON * CO.
(AUSTRALIA), LTD.,
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.
J42s2—Amethyst Set, 9ct.
Gold Brooch, 16/6.
J 3281—Tourmaline
Amethyst and Pearl Set,
9ct. Gold Pendant, 25/.
J46Bl—Fine Amethyst and Pearl Set, 9ct. Gold
Brooch, £2. **
J46B2—Peridot, Amethyst and Pearl Set, 9ct.
Gold Brooch, £2.
J3s46—Fine Pearl and 15ct. Gold Brooch
£l/15/-
J3232—-Pearl and Tourma-
line Set, 9ct. Gold
Brooch, 18/6.
J299s—Fine Aquamarine
and Pearl Set, 15ct. Gold
Pendant, £3/10/-
J447s—Solid Silver and Cub Glass
Powder Box, 9/6.
Smaller sizes, 5/-, 6/6, 7/6.
g:'.- . r
J37l6—Silver-plated “Scotch
Thistle” Sugar Basin, 26/-.
J4s29—Lady’s Superior Quality Black
Leather Bap, 8/6.
Others at 9/6, 14/6, 15/6, 16/6, 21/-.
GlOB/7—Solid Silver Manicure Set, in Case.
7 pieces, £2/15/-
G6697—Richly Decorated Solid
Silver Smelling- Salts Bottle, 30/-'.
J 4238 —Glass Tumbler and
Silver Plated Holder, 8/6.
The New “ Britannic ” Expanding Watch Bracelet.
9ct. Gold, with Fine Lever Watch, £B/10/-
15ct. Gold, with Fine Lever Watch, £l2/10/-
G264o—Opal, Ruby and Pearl Set, 9ct. Gold Bangle, £2/10/
FULL size
G 859 Solid Silver and N.Z. Greenstone Glove Hook, 4/6.
J2s76—Amethyst and
Peridot Set, 9ct., Gold
Pendant, 17/6.
Gl6Bo—Pearl and Tur-
quoise Sft, 15ct. Gold
Pendant, £3/10/-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 31.—N0. 1607.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1910.
Price 6d.
BACK-YARD MOTION OF CENSURE (not different , in its discursiveness and vigor , from the ordinary article).
“Yes, yer uncle was hanged, an’ yer husband drinks, an’ I wouldn’t let my children be seen with their stockings like your brats.”
“Oh, wouldn’t yer? And if you’d wash yer face a little oftener perhaps people ’d find it easier to forget that yer folk used to be convicts.
When yer son comes out of gaol he can put that in his pipe and smoke it.”


XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1910.
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 15.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), contributed
during the year by the foremost Australasian
writers.
The illustrations by “ Hop,” Alf Vincent, Norman
Lindsay and other leading representative artists,
will be the finest Black and White work obtainable
in Australia, and will reflect the national humor.
Tub Bulletin Xmas Number is the annual re-
flection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence of
the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be allowed
for.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us at once to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Com ■o.nvealth States and Maorilaud, 7d. ;
Foi ■ ign addresses, 9d. /
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Mar..”
Printed and Published by William Mac:.icon, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUIiSGRIBKnS.
(In Advance, Only)
I'cr Annum ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ” ' 0 7 0
e/ty, fiV'vct to Ttik Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling yon can have Tim Bulletin posted
reyularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business ('mumit.nutation*
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Mananiiw Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Biu.i.ktin would oblige the paper
fund, to an extent, themselves) by talcing some care as to
methods o f address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed, to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
■invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Biu.i.ktin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved oy
the publishers.
The Editor null carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the fount of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twe columns in length, or, say, SOOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Aewspaper Clippings.
All communications ivill be reyarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tim Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiie Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
ivill be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of The Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Liulgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, IV. C.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouvei, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Cavle and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A. — IsserlisA., Seattle, Washington ; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Ncivspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singai’OßK.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tim Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6sin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded, on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
si£~shulldz / ]i.
THUIiSDAY, DECEMBER 1, 1910.
THE NEW NOTE.
The Australian Government has been busy print-
ing £7,000,000 worth of notes as tiie commence-
ment of the Federal issue of paper money, and
their circulation commences this month. How
many more will be required later on depends on
circumstances and the inscrutable ways of Pko-
vxiience —also the inscrutable ways of Fat.
Against the. first £7,000,000 worth of notes there
is to be retained in the Treasury a gold reserve of
25 per cent., equal to £1,750,000. That will leave
the Government—assuming its notes keep in cir-
culation—a sum of £5,250,000 for profitable, or
unprofitable, investment. Against all notes issued
in excess of £7,000,000 the Commonwealth
is to hold their full value in gold, so
that part of the issue will be a dead loss; there
will be the cost of printing and renewing the
paper money, and as a set off to this there will be
no revenue whatsoever. How large the dead loss
will be depends entirely on how many notes in
excess of £7,000,000 worth are issued. As regards
the original £7,000,000 worth, there is absolutely
no evidence to show whether they will remain in
circulation or not. In Canada the banks are re-
quired to hold at least 40 per cent, of their cash
reserves in Government paper, and if such a policy
were adopted in Australia, it would provide
a reliable and permanent market for about
£10,000,000 worth of the new money; but
the hesitating and indefinite Fisiikr Ministry
failed to ' seize the opportunity. Though the
method has worked admirably for many years
in the country where it was invented, Andrew
Fisher was frantically assured by Tory papers,
sharebrokers, bagmen, importers, landlords and
directors of reconstructed banks that such a de-
vice was impossible, unprecedented, unheard-of
and revolutionary, and apparently he was terrified
by all this clamor just as he was scared into sub-
mission by Tory vociferation in the matter of the
Australian capital site. In Canada, also, banks
are required by statute to meet lawful demands,
up to a certain point, in Federal notes of small
denominations, and that arrangement creates a
further steady demand for Government paper
money. Prime Minister Fisher and his col-
leagues first proposed to require every Australian
bank to be ready upon demand to pay a £25
cheque either in gold or in any one of Jive de-
nominations of notes. When it was pointed out
that this meant that every branch bank might be
called upon to provide £l4O in gold and paper
money against a mere £25 liability they went
frantically to the other extreme, ami decided that
the banks should not be liable to take from the
Government, or to hold, or to payout any Federal
paper money whatsover.
* * * *
So the Government having given way to the
Tory party on almost every point, its Federal issue
starts business this month under hazy and unsatis-
factory circumstances. There is no Government
bank to put the notes into circulation. The
private banks may take them or not, just .as they
please. If they take them, they may issue them
to the public or not, just as they please. Sup-
posing the Government does anything that is dis-
pleasing to the private banks, they may seize
their opportunity, when Parliament is not sitting
and when their books show them that the Federal
credit balance is low, to plant £4,000,000 worth of
notes on the Treasury counter and blandly request
gold in exchange, thereby making the gold reserve
look very small and foolish. And, if they don’t
get the gold on the instant, they may publish the
news to the ends of the earth that the Common-
wealth is bankrupt and that the Labor party’s
paper money scheme is a crude, ignorant, childish
failure. There is no special reason to suppose that
the private banks will do this; but the fact remains
that they have been deliberately given the power
to do it. And the other fact remains that bank
managers and directors are not, in the aggregate,
wildly, enthusiastic Laborites, nor have they any
overwhelming desire that the Labor Cabinet’s
chief financial scheme should prove a success.
They represent a party which has prophesied
failure, and through sheer lack of grit on the part
of the Government they are given a chance to
make their prophecies come true. Experts con-
nected with menageries—cage-sweepers, porcu-
pine-feeders, washers of the hyena, suppliers of
paper collars to the giraffe,' carriers of entrails to
the bear and such-like—have laid it down that it
is dangerous to put your head in the mouth of
your own lion, while to put your head in the
mouth of your opponent’s lion is very like suicide.
This piece of wisdom may prove to be a case in
point, or again it may not.
* * * *
Assuming that £7,000,000 of Federal paper
money remains in permanent circulation, the
Government, as already shown, will have
£5,250,000 to dispose of after providing for its
cash reserve. It ought to have a certain
£10,000,000 or £12,000,000 instead of a precarious
£5,250,000; but that is another question. What it
proposes to do with this amount is still a mystery.
If the money were used as the nucleus of a sinking
fund for the redemption of the State debts, and
were allowed to accunmlatesteadilyat3Jper cent,
compound interest, a number of striking results
would ensue. The State debts would be gradually
redeemed. The question of their transfer to the
Commonwealth —which is a very tangled question
in a country where one State owes £45 per in-
habitant and another over £70 —would slowly
settle itself. The Commonwealth, by instituting
itself as the largest single creditor of the States—
a creditor, too, of constantly increasing import-
ance—would acquire a lot of useful influence.
The credit of all Australia would be enhanced by
the taking of a few million pounds’ worth of its
vast heap of securities off the open market. And
the Federal note issue would be put on a solid
basis if it started with ss. in coin and
15s. in marketable securities behind each
£1 note, especially as the reserve of mar-
ketable securities would be perpetually on
the increase. Just now, when the borrowing
disease threatens to break out again with un-
wonted fury, and Queensland and S.A. are talk-
ing of a £6,000,000 loan apiece, would be a
specially good time to set a counteracting influ-
ence at work. But on this aspect of the case, as
on others, the Fisher Government is foggy and
non-committal. Possibly it hasn’t made up its
own mind on the subject.
The Federal note will doubtless be a nice clean
crisp bit of paper, well printed and covered with
good intentions. But it is impossible to enthuse
about it as The Bulletin would have liked to en-
thuse. The Fisher Government has taken the ad-
vice of so many reliable enemies, even as it did in
the Federal capital business, that, until the law is
amended, affairs must be absurdly uncertain.
There will be no reliable market for the notes, and
no assurance of a continuous circulation. The
success of the scheme must depend far too much
on the forbearance of a crowd of people
who would gladly kick the present Govern-
ment and its plans and its reputation and
all its belongings from Slieol to breakfast
and back again. If the vain Prime Minister
had not beeu in such haste to flee to South Africa
and sun himself in the gaze of an admiring
Springbok population, something better might
have been achieved ; but even that is uncertain.
The spirit of compromise is in Fisher’s bones, and
he has very poor luck with his compromises.
BOILERS OR BROTHERS.
It was the strong point of the remarkable Sher
lock Holmes that he could trace almost at a
glance the connection between a broken shop
window in London and a bashed hat foun in a
bog in Connaught, and from these evidences the
discovery of the bones that were buried in the
Outer Hebrides became easy to him. In a
similar fashion Victoria produced recently a num-
~ber of episodes that seemed wholly separate at a
first inspection, yet the tracing of the connection
between them was also easy. It was so easy,
in fact, that no Sherlock Holmes was re-
quired. One event happened at the lone, far-
out Mallee town of Warracknabeal, in the
county of Borur.g, adjacent to Lowan, and
near Weeah, Karkarooc and Tatchera. Pre-
mier John Wearv was travelling that way,
and he was spoken to by the wheat-growers of
Warracknabeal about the scarcity of harvest
labor. To them he said soft things; but nothing
that he said made the position any better. Al-
most the same day there was a bad collision at
Spencer-street station, in Melbourne. Then a
party of legislators visited the vast, beautiful,
deep-water harbor of Westernport, which is only
45 miles from Melbourne, yet is almost as unknown
to many Melbournians as if it were located in
Bolivia ; and they proceeded to consider its possi-
bilities as a naval base. It has every imaginable
qualification for a naval base, except that
it seems to be entirely in the wrong place;
but the matter which staggered the visitors
from the other States, and many of the local men
besides, was that one of the best and loveliest
harbors in Australia should be suddenly revealed
to them, almost in sight of Collingwood and within
audible cursing range of Tait’s dreadful new rail-
way station. By way of a fourth episode, it was
mentioned that the once famous Union Foundry
at Ballarat, which used to employ 200 men, had
closed up and sold its plant piecemeal, mostly to
Melbourne speculators, thereby following to
some extent the example of the once equally
great and famous Phoenix Foundry, of the
same city. And, seeing that the Sunshine
Harvester works also fled from Ballarat to
the Melbourne district some time ago, the old
golden city is now, apparently, about finished.
The site of the Union Foundry is to be occupied
by a Christian Brothers school. Thus brothers
take the place of boilers, and, however good
brothers may be, there should be no need to shift
boilers to make room for them.
* * * *
Deliberately, methodically and of malice afore-
thought the Congestion policy has killed Ballarat
as it has killed Portland, and as it is killing every
Victorian town bar Melbourne. The place was
meant to be a great inland business centre. It lies
in a fertile district on the main railway to Adelaide,
and is a junction where five or six lines meet. It
is 100 miles nearer to all the Western District
than Melbourne, and in the early days, before the
Congestion policy was fully formulated, it created
great foundries, woollen mills, locomotive repair-
ing shops and other industries. Then the Con-
gestion system came into full blast, and Ballarat
fell. Its products were charged high rail-
way rates to the West, while those of Mel-
bourne, though they had to be dragged 100 miles
further, were charged specially low rates. It be-
came cheaper in the neighboring counties to get
goods 200 miles from the bloated city on the
Yarra than to get them half, or less than
half, the distance from Ballarat. It was de-
cided that railway repairs should, as far as pos-
sible, be concentrated at Melbourne, even though
it might involve 100 miles of needless towage for
a crippled locomotive. The prosperity of Bal-
larat, in fact, was destroyed as cold-bloodedly as
if it had been laid waste by a foreign enemy.
Other towns were treated in similar fashion, but
Ballarat had further to fall than most of them,
and it made a louder and more conspicuous thud
when it struck the ground. Of course, this policy
of congestion leads to a great crowding of traffic
on the railway lines about Melbourne, which
tends to prepare the way for horrors like the Sun-
shine accident, the Richmond accident, and the
recent Spencer-street accident. These happenings
could be averted by better management; but
when the policy of dragging everything to Mel-
bourne is laying the outside country waste,
the railway system has so many unpayable coun-
try lines to carry that it is difficult to find the
money for better management. As for the
farmers at Warracknabeal who can’t get the extra
labor they want at harvest time, their case seems
fairly simple. Harvest time represents a sudden
demand for workers who are turned adrift when
the crops are gathered in. Then such of them as
can’t get employment in the country become odd
job 1.-iOor in the city. But when, owing to the
congestion policy, there is only one city, and it is
250 miles from the Mallee, it becomes a rather
large order for the laborer to face the double
journey for the sake of a limited amount of ill-
paid employment.
* * * *
As for the alleged “ claims ” of Westernport to
be a naval base, if that glorious harbor has no
claim on its own State—and apparently it has
none —it will have a hard row to hoe to establish
a claim on all Australia. Westernport is a large
expanse of water with an entrance nearly 100 ft.
deep, and inside there is a great area with a
natural depth of 36ft. to 75ft. at low water. But
Melbourne, located several miles up a narrow,
shallow, crooked, muddy river, came into exist-
ence by accident before the adjacent inlet was
explored, and when a capital city once
starts in Australia it becomes a gigantic vested
interest or monopoly, to be maintained at all
costs. Not only must it be maintained, however
bad the site may be, but a solemn and ineffable
curse must be laid on any adjacent good site, lest
a rival city should arise there, and the State have
two great, centres instead of one. So the roads in
the neighborhood of the possible rival site are ne-
glected or non-existent; there is either no railway
or a hopelessly inefficient one, cursed with ridicu-
lous freight charges; no town is laid out, no
wharves are erected, no Customs house is supplied.
Thus it has come to pass, as the Age—the good,
old Congestion policy Age—remarked last week
with an air of surprise, that lots of Melbourne
people have only a dim idea of the existence of
one of Australia’s first-class harbors only some 45
miles from their doors, and when that paper talks
of the alleged “ claims ” of Westernport to be a
naval base, Australia in general replies frankly
that it never heard of the place, and doesn’t
believe in its existence. And from the same
cause arise the ruin of Portland, the depopulation
of the western counties, the downfall of Ballarat
where brothers are taking the place of boilers,
the unpayable country lines, and (in part, at
least) the appalling series of railway accidents
which are filling the graveyards of Melbourne.
There is Congestion even in the cemetery.
TOWAEDS THE RATIONALISATION OF
GOVERNMENT.
“ Lex ” on Parliamentary reform
Why should Parliamentary business not be carried on
at sensible hours? The affairs of a nation, or of a
and prosperous State, are not unimportant circumstances
to be yawned over late at night or in the small hours oi
the morning. The all-night sitting was one of the many
undesirable things that Australia imported from Kngiana.
It is a necessary evil of a Parliament of amateurs, bu
is out of place anywhere else. Till recently, the
of Commons, where it originated, consisted broadly oi
two classes: men of independent means, immersed in a
busy social life, and big professional and business men.
London barristers, solicitors, merchants, stockbrokers
and so on who are incidentally members of Parliament,
toil in their chambers or offices from 10 to o
or thereabouts, and give their spare time and
tired brains to the nation. The society parliamen-
tarian hacks in the park, lunches at a restaurant,
motors into the country, golfs, plays cards or polo
or what not, and drops into the House after a late dinner
with physical exhaustion sitting heavily all over him.
Legislators of this sort don’t even pretend bo give tne
country of their best, intellectually speaking. There is
no reason why they should. The nation pays most o
them nothing for their labors, and they naturally repay
the nation by devoting to it the fag-end of the day, and
the dead, waste hours of the night. Wherever the pay is
poor or precarious the service is almost bound to be
rotten.
* * * *
In Australia things are somewhat different. We don t
pay our legislators much, but we pay them something. It
can be safely assumed that theaverage man does his best
mental work during those hours in which the business
and professional worid elects to work ; also, it will be
agreed that it is desirable for the State to get the best
its law-makers can offer. The question arises : Wby
aren’t the said law-makers encouraged or compelled to
work for the State at the hours most favorable to mental
effort? The only coherent objections offered are
(1) If Parliament sat during the daytime Ministers
would have no time for departmental work, and (2)
those members who are engaged in business or professions
would have to give Parliament the go-by, to its own great
hurt and the detriment, not to say ruin, of the
country. The first objection is absurd on the face
of ; r N.S.W. has known a long series of Ministers
who.-e departmental work never interfered with their
daily avocations. John See, who was at various,
times P.M.-G., Treasurer, Chief Secretary and Premier,
attended to his Sussex-street business to such good
purpose that he died a rich man. J. H. Want, as
Attorney-General under Jennings and again under Reid,
did not find that his Ministerial duties int erfered with his
big Bar practice ; and B. R. Wise has held up his end in
the courts as readily in office as out of it. Demiam, in
Queensland, did not neglect his butter business;
Bailliku, John Weary’s Minister for Works, is probably
the biggest share-operator in Australia ; and Swinburne,
in the same State, continued his big business as a gas
and water engineer. It is true there have been Ministers
who have worked in their departments with great
energy, foregoing all outside business to that end.
The N.S.W. opponent of change mostly instances
the case of “Charlie” Wade, who fairly lived
in the Crown Law buildings during his term of office.
But the deplorable record of the litigation to which he
committed the State, and other of the legal features of
his term of office, suggest that it would have been better
had he struggled less personally, and relied more on the
permanent Crown Law officials. There is more cant
talked about the onerous labors of Ministers than enough.
The Minister who hurls himself into the breach of toil
arid elects to labor like a conscientious slave only
succeeds in getting mixed up with the departmental
machine, and checks progress. His supervision, to be
effective, wants to be of a general nature, and that is not
in any sense an all-day affair.
There is something in the contention that professional
and business men wouldn’t attend an nil-day Parliament.
Under present conditions they certainly wouldn’t. In
fact, the performances of G. Reid, Bruce Smith and
others, who put up records for non-attendance in the
Federal House while they chased briefs in Sydney, indicate
that there are occasions on which professional men won’t
even patronise an all-night Parliament. The only remedy
is to make Parliaments, Federal and State, sufficiently
attractive, financially speaking, to enable members to
forego the pursuit of gain elsewhere. The amateur parlia-
mentarian is a back number and a by-word, anyhow ;
preparations are in train to abolish him even in his
country of origin. He will go unregretted. All through
history he has stood—with a few bright exceptions—for
corruption and incompetence. Whether he has been a
Tory squire in eighteenth century England or a Liberal
land-agent in twentieth century N.S.W., his trail
has invariably been blazed with financial scandals.
Where the amateur politician has tried, in the
absence of private means, to go straight he has
generally gone broke. The career of Henry
Parkes, generously helped though he was by well-to-do
Sydney importers, is a case in point. The State is not
entitled to expect that its law-makers shall either starve
or go insolvent for it, and unless it is insane it won’t
want them to swindle it. The other alternative is to pay
them such a sum as shall put them above the reach both
of temptation and of want. Wherever the State pays its
servants a fair thing it gets good and faithful work—as
witness the records of British and Australian Judges.
Where the State pays badly—as in the case of
the inferior American Judges—it gets a poor or
corrupt return. It is not logical for a country
to give good salaries to the men who administer its laws
and Stint those who frame them. A House of moderate
size, whose members were paid from £lOOO to £l5OO a
year apiece would be likely to supply good work. It would
attract those men of brains and worth whom ex-Premier
Carruthers complained recently were drifting out of poli-
tics. Capable business men would be as ready to try for
Parliament as they now are to seek billets as Harbor
Trustor Railway Commissioners. But it would have to
be understood that the Parliamentary business was not
to be made subsidiary to hat-importing, law' or what not.
The country would have a right to expect each member
to attend Parliament as though it were his own office. It
is in the person of the well-paid professional Parliamen-
tarian that Australia will ultimately see the present de-
pressingly low status of the politician raised in the public
estimation, when the business of politics will take its
proper rank among the higher callings.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Elective Ministries: A Word of Comfort to
A. Deakin.
In the capacity of a man with a grievance,
ex-Premier Deakin uprose on a recent day to
complain that the Labor caucus methods are sub-
versive of tiie true spirit of Parliamentary
Government. On that point it would be quite
possible to agree with Deakin if it were not that
the true spirit of Parliamentary Government has
been subverted in Australia ever since there was
any Parliamentary Government; and it was sub-
verted in England, from which this country bor-
rowed its institutions, almost before Aus-
tralia was invented. So it happened that by
the time the Labor caucus arrived there
was very little left to subvert. In theory
the Australian Parliamentary system has all the
ear-marks of beauty. The people, to begin with,
elect candidates who represent their views—or at
least they would do so if it were not for certain
obstacles. In the first place, the choosing of can-
didates is more and more the work of the political
party machine, and the machine has so many cogs
that the individual voter is only a fly on the
wheel. Then the candidate, as a rule, doesn’t
accurately represent the views of any intelligent
individual elector. Assuming that he has 100
political convictions on as many possible ques-
tions—which isn’t anexcessivestock-.in-trade —the
probability of him and any one intelligent elector
having exactly the same hundred convictions
is much the same as marking a fan-tan ticket. A
free use of the referendum would help to get over
this difficulty, but the referendum has hardly
begun to arrive yet in Australia. Then, under
the party system, the successful candidate, when


he gets into Parliament, is supposed to be one of
40 or 50 or 70 or more individuals all thinking
exactly alike, which is a manifest absurdity. The
Labor party meets this trouble in the simplest
possible way. Its party of (say) 50 holds a meet-
ing, and if 26 are in favor of a certain course of
action that course is decided upon, and the whole
50 vote for it. If the (say) 48 Opposi-
tionists are all opposed to the idea, they
and the 24 Laborites who were over-
ruled make 72 against as compared with
26 for, yet the 26 win and the 72 lose. That
is the Labor method —the one which so hurts the
feelings of Deakin ; and the fact that it is a bad
method is plain enough. Among the Tories
things are different. With a “strong” Premier
like Henry Parkes in power, the Ministry (per-
haps 10 men in all, and all of them Parkes’s
nominees) decides on a course of action.
The other 40 members of the party may follow
reluctantly, but they must follow or else wreck
the Government, which they are seldom prepared
to do. Thus, under the old party system which
doesn’t hurt the feelings of A. Deakin, 10 men
may carry a point despite the indifference or
hostility of 88, and the fact that that is an even
worse method than the other is glaringly
conspicuous. And even these figures don’t
fully express how bad things may be.
The Labor caucus system makes it dead
sure that no measure will go through unless more
than a quarter of the House is favorable—26 out
of 101 is the minimum. The system under which
Deakin has been brought up makes it pos-
sible for a measure to be carried though only one
man in 101 is really favorable; if the Premier is
strong enough to bully his colleagues into sub-
mission with threats of resignation anything may
happen. Alfred Deakin may not. see this, he
never having been strong enough to drive his
party after the manner of some Premiers; but the
fact remains. The only visible remedy is
the election of Ministers at the opening of
each Parliament, and the fixing of them
in their billets for three years certain. Then
the caucus would almost certainly die out,
and so would the strong Tory autocrat who drives
his majority single-handed. The only reason
why a Labor party decides by a majority
to give a solid vote, or why a Tory party some-
times gives a solid vote at the bidding of one big
political despot, is the fact that the Government
rnust have a majority on every important measure
or else resign. If the defeat or amendment of its
measures didn’t put it out, then parties would
dissipate, and caucuses would cease to have any
real interest, and each man would vote as he felt
disposed. The one occasion when there would be
anything like a rally of the old brigades would be
at the triennial election of Ministers. Apart from
that, the cause of Alfred’s lamentation would be
wholly removed.
The Useless Habits of Parliament.
For the sake of common decency, it is up to Aus-
tralia to abolish that ancient political custom, the
debate on the Address-in-Reply. The Address
itself does no earthly good ; it is merely a state-
ment, very badly read by the Governor, of what
the Ministry proposes to do, and a circular
handed to each member would convey tl e in-
formation quite as well. The Address-in-Reply
is a silly jest. It says nothing save that the
House is much obliged to the Governor for the
remarks he made to it, just as if they were his
own remarks ; and when the committee which is
appointedto “prepare” the Reply re-appears after
a moment’s absence with the wretched thing
not only prepared but printed, the whole business
should be a subject of laughter. As for the
debate on the Address-in-Reply it is just Billings-
gate and dust and demoralisation. The occasion
is one when no member is required to stick to the
subject, for the subject is practically everything,
and a debate conducted on these lines must needs
degenerate. It presents all the features of order
and tidiness and strict observance of Marquis of :
Huckleberry rules which characterise a washing-
day denunciation conducted by two old terma-
gants over a back fence. Their range of vitupe-
ration covers everything, from the alleged hang-
ing or beer-drinking of the remotest ancestor to the
reported torn underclothing and lack of a pocket-
handkerchief of the youngest descendant. And in
like manner the Parliamentarian shouts at large
about everything his opponent ever said or did,
everything he should have said or done, every thing
that every paper ever remarked concerning him,
all the rumors that have circulated about him,
and any other sundries that he can drag in. It is
not professed that this childish uproar does any
good, that it throws any new light on anything,
or that it influences a single vote. It only repre-
sents the noise that the angry ape makes in the
tree-top, or the row of the indignant Asiatic
woman who goes on the house-roof and shouts her
grievances to an utterly unresponsive city. It
is unworthy of grown men. A menagerie could
do the job quite as well if feeding time were
postponed for an hour. A herd of bagpipes could
do it a lot better. The most that can be said for
it is that it is a deafening old habit which may
’ once have possessed some significance, though it
has none now, and that isn’t much to say. Par-
liament, unfortunately, has a whole terrace of old
habits which get in the way of business, and it
seems to be possessed by a devil of conserva-
tism which prevents it shedding any of them.
Even an intensely democratic Legislature is
generally willing to reform everything save
itself. Yet it could get through its work in per-
haps half the time if it threw overboard the
lumber of aged formality, and thus get some addi-
tional sleep that would do it a lot of good.
Further, it would probably get a greatly im-
proved class of member. The kind of person who
doesn’t quit the business in disgust after one
censure debate or one dog-fight over an Address-
in-Reply is hardly a desirable legislator. To put
the matter shortly, the fact that he remains a
member proves that he is unfit to be a member.
+
A Remarkable Case of Prophecy or
Something.
N.S.W.’s ex-Premier is not a lucky man in the
matter of explanations, nor is he the agile con-
tortionist who escapes from a corner swiftly and
gracefully. He gets into a corner very often, and
he gets out very late and in a most incapable
fashion. As an instance, he rose last Monday to
expound an awkward matter in the columns of
Sydney Telegraph :
During Mr. Joseph Carruthers s speech at a banquet in
my honor on Monday week last he spoke under the im-
pression that after the Mount Kembla explosion 1 had
gone into the mine and had actually taken part in the
work of rescuing imprisoned miners. I WAS COM-
PELLED TO TAKE TO MY BED THE FOLLOWING
DAY, and was so deprived of an opportunity of correct-
ing this mistake at an earlier date.
This reference to Mount Kembla arose in the following
manner:—When I was speaking at Dungog before the
election somebody in the audience called out, “Did you
ever go into a mine to save life like Davy Watkins?”
My answer was: “After the Mount Kembla explosion I
went to the mine and volunteered to make one of the
rescue parties to go into the mine and save life. My
name was taken down with others, but when the officials
came to make the rescue parties up they refused to allow
me and others to go into the mine, because we had no
practical experience underground.
This was the only occasion on which I ever referred to
the matter. Mr. Oarruthers’S version was incorrect, and
as I am not one who seeks for false glory I think it well
that the exact fact should again be repeated.
Therecertainly have been better performances than
that. During the recent State election one of the
strong suits of the Wade party was the personal
heroism of its leader, the great, strong man who
had gone fearlessly into the ghastly ruin of the
Mount Kembla mine—a service in which two of
the rescuers lost their lives—and toiled to save his
fellow creatures. The story was told over and
over again, on platforms in Sydney and else-
where, by Wade’s colleagues and supporters,
and it was related in the Sydney press and
elsewhere with tremendous fervor. Yet C. G.
Wade didn’t write to the S. M. Herald and
Telegraph by way of correction (unless they
refused to publish his letters), nor did he suppress
his enthusiastic supporters, nor did he frankly
explain the position on a Sydney platform—at least
there is no record of him doing so that this
writer is aware of. He says, however, that
when he was struck by a direct and posi-
tive question, he cleared up the matter, on a
date not mentioned, at Dungog. Dungog is 156
miles from Sydney, and the population is quoted
at 1082. This explanation may have been made
(at Dungog), but thepresent writer certainly didn’t
notice it. After that the story of the hero of
Mount Kembla still raged, and apparently Wade
continued to let it rage. And at last, at a ban-
quet given in his honor, that bitter jester, Joseph
Carruthers, shoved the tale straight in his face
as if it had been a clothes-prop. This is the daily
paper report: —
Mr. Wade had been vilified during the election cam-
paign in a most scandalous manner. (Hear, bear.) He
had even been called a coward. (Laughter.) But he
[Cariuitiiers] would ask them if bis action in GOING
INTOTHE MINE at the time of the South Coast colliery
disaster was 1 it of a coward. A monument had been
erected in memory of Major M’Oabe, who lost his life in
attempting to save others, and they came near having to
erect a monument to Mr. Wade for the same thing.
Despite all that might have been said to the contrary by
his opponents, Mr. Wade was one of the most clean-
living, Clean-Landed, clean-minded, and clean-mouthed
of public men. (Loud cheers.)
Wade’s explanation as to why he didn’t rise there
and then and put the matter right is that he was
taken ill next day. It reads like a remarkable
case of prophecy or foresight. Very few people
are prevented from doing something now because
they are going to be ill to-morrow, though it is
common enough for a man to be hindered by the
fact that he died yesterday. It vaguely suggests
the famous postscript: “Please excuse blots.
I didn’t make them. They got on the letter in
the post.” But just when it seemed as if the
Mount Kembla yarn had come to stay, a
newspaper correspondent, in the language of the
push, “ blew the gaff,” and made hay of the beauti-
ful stony. Then Wade kept a profound silence for
about 20 days, it being understood that he had a
cold or something. And, finally, he contributed
to the gaiety of nations by his shockingly humor-
ous explanation.
The Houses of Insult.
Last week the debate on the Address-in-Reply
was resumed in the N.S.W. Assembly. There
was a big attendance, including ex-Premier
Wade, convalescent after the shocks of the pre-
vious month. And here are some "extracts from
a report of the proceedings :
Mr. Wade began to refer to the Phillips case, when——-
Mr. Thrower interjected: What about the Green
case ?
Mr. Wade : You are very fond of green stuff.
Mr. Thrower interjected something which was in-
audible in the uproar.
Immediately a number of Oppositionists were on their
feet demanding a withdrawal.
Mr. Fitzpatrick : He called the leader of the Opposition
a dirty sectarian hound. (Great uproar.)
Mr. Levy appealed to the Speaker for protection from
repeated interjections.
Mr. I). Storey: You ought to defend, yourself. You
attacked me in my absence.
Mr. Levy : Why were you not here?
Mr. Storey (heatedly) : Well, do it now. (Uproar.)
Referring to a certain pamphlet, Mr. Levy said it was
circulated by the member for King.
Mr. Morrish (angrily) : You saw me circulate it? (Up-
roar.)
Mr. Levy: The Labor party circulated these things,
and then made out that some wicked fairy did it. It was
this that got Labor in.
There were cries of “Chair, chair” from Government
supporters.
“ What’s all the noise about?” asked Mr. Wood.
“To keep hogs in their place,” exclaimed Mr. Bkbby.
Mr. Wood walked across to the table, and leaning
across said to the Minister for Education : “ Don’t you
call me a hog."
“ Pull his nose for him,” chimed in Mr. Fitzpatrick,
going alongside Mr. Wood.
Mr. Wade, continuing on the Phillips case, said the
only contribution Mr. Holman gave to the debate was a
smile of levity. He was unfit to be in the position of
Minister for Justice. (Uproar.)
Mr. McGowen : “ And you call yourself a fair fighter.”
Mr. Thrower again interrupted, and Mr. Wade ap-
pealed to the Speaker, who cautioned the member for
Macquarie.
Mr. Wade went on to say that it had gone out to the
world that so long as Labor was in power a man could
murder with impunity. (Uproar.)
Mr. Hollis to Mr. Wood : You told the chairman that
he had only to lift his finger, and the man would be biffed
out.
Mr. Wood : The language of Parliament does not per-
mit me to describe you. I’ll describe you outside if you
will come there.
Mr. Meehan : No you won’t. No you won’t.
Mr. Wood : The man who says I used the police for my
protection is making a statement which is absolutely un-
true.
Mr. Hollis : It is true !
Mr. Wood : It’s a lie—(Uproar.).
Next April Australia will be asked to answer
some questions to be submitted to it, by the
Federal Parliament. If the country answers in
a certain way the effect will be, as the Tory
press puts it, to “filch ” a number of their powers
from the State Parliaments. When one con-
siders the average State Parliament, and notes
how its deliberations are liable to resemble a dis-
pute between the shareholders in a M.L. siy-
grog concern, it becomes difficult to see any
reason why as much power and responsibility
as possible should not be removed from it.
The truth of Joseph Carruthers’s recent de-
jected pronouncement that none but citizens of
the baser sort go into State politics nowadays,
becomes daily more apparent. The Assemblies
have, for the most part, become discredited insti-
tutions wherein small, obscure men wrangle
shrilly, ungrammatically and Sometimes blasphem-
ously over small obscure issues, desisting only to
suggest a temporary fuse or armistice for the pur-
pose of joining in one loud concerted howl at the
Australian Parliament. At present, Australia is
paying about a quarter of a million per annum for
its Houses of Insult. They are not nearly worth
the money. The N.S.W. and Victorian State
Parliaments stand pledged, practically, to reduce
their numbers. They should be encouraged to
keep to their implied agreement by every means
in the electors’ power. At the worst, an Assembly
that was decreased by, say, one-third, might be
looked to to afflict its State with proportionately
less verbal stousli and disgraceful recrimination.
And the rest of the State Houses would be bene-
fited by similar drastic reduction. Reduction is,
of course, merely a temporary salve. What com-
mon-sense demands—and the evil conduct and
rotten administration of many of the State
Houses serve to powerfully advertise the fact—is
Unification, a system under which these institu-
tions would have something of the scope of the
London County Council. Not till they are shorn
of the functions on which they base their claims
to snarl persistently at the Commonwealth, will
they go about their business in the inoffensive
fashion of the citizen who takes a normal size in
hats.
+ —
The Increase of Suicide Among Legislators.
The question, “ What shall we do with the
' Upper ’ Houses?” is not likely to trouble Aus-
tralian democracy very long, for it is obvious that
the whole boiling of Leg. Councils is determined
to commit suicide and save the States further
trouble. And, fittingly enough, the oldest—that
of Tasmania —leads the way to the pit. All last
year, and the year before last, the Eighteen Old
Vandemonians voiced one idea and one idea only,
and that was that the State must be saved, at all
costs, from Unification, and especially from that
arm of the Monster which sought to deal federally
with industrial disputes. When Premier Lewis
returned from the State Insects’ Conference in
Melbourne last year, he told his assembled
Tory friends of the Legislature that they must
get a move on, and pass some industrial laws,
otherwise the Australian Parliament would
assuredly “usurp the powers of the State,” as
Mr. Wade “had so ably put it at the Confer-
ence.” In haste, a Factories Bill and a Wages
Boards Bill were introduced. They passed the
Assembly promptly, the Labor-Opposition having
no difficulty in knocking out the “reputable em-
ployer” and “Appeal Court” clauses which dis-
figure the Victorian and other Wages Boards
Acts. The measures were then sent along to the
Eighteen Old Vandemaniacs, who really seemed
glad to welcome them. The first few clauses of
both Bills were passed with more or less alacrity.
Then an adjournment happened, and Tasmania’s
first industrial measures were left suspended in
mid-air for five weeks. During that five weeks
the N.S.W. elections cast Wade and his State-
Insect policy out of Democracy’s path. Any sane,
or reasonably sane, body of legislators would have
accepted the debacle of WADK-istn as a hint to all
State Mites to get up and hustle and demonstrate
their usefulness; but, instead of taking the spur-
prick kindly, the 18 old Vandobsons promptly
bolted off the course and got themselves hopelessly
tangled up in the barbed-wire fence. In the
stampede the Wages Board Bill was mangled
beyond repair; the iniquitous “reputable em-
ployer” clause was re-inserted, and the strike-
breeding “ Appeal Court ” clauses were treated
in the same way. The leader of the suicidal bolt
was Davies, of the Meroury. This awful icono-
clast even proposed that the provisions of the
“old and slow worker” clause should not apply
(as to obtaining permits) to any employee who
had been 20 years in the service of one employer,
or any of his relations or co-shareholders. A man
who started work at 14 would become, according
to Davies, an “ old and slow worker ”at 34 ! All
of which goes to show that the only possible ver-
dict the people can return at the forthcoming
inquest on Australia’s Upper Houses is: “We
find that the deceased committed suicide while
suffering from a fit of permanent insanity.”
The Rebuilding of a Great City.
Greater Sydney—that is to say, the area occu-
pied by the 40 odd municipalities which ought
to be Greater Sydney, but aren’t—covers 95,250
acres, of which a little over 3300 comprise
the city of Sydney proper. There are over 120,000
dwellings in the whole area, and about 23,000 are
in Sydney city. The total population is some
630,000, of which the city contains about 125,000.
Also, the capital value of the city proper is set
down at about £50,000,000, while that of the
other municipalities is about another £60,000,000.
These dreary figures are given in a casual or in-
troductory sort of way to show that the city of
Sydney, over which the gaud Mayor holds sway,
isn’t a very large place, and that most of the
immensity of the N.S.W. metropolis lies in the
suburbs. In the circumstances, it is rather stag-
gering to learn that the city is just now committed
to an expenditure of well over £1,000,000 on im-
provements—the widening of lanes and alleys,
the abolition of slums, and in other ways the un-
doing of the deeds of the old, crooked, narrow,
ill-drained, ill-ventilated pioneers. It is stagger-
ing simply because anybody' can walk at random
through Sydney for hours, and possibly even
days, and not happen on any of these million
pounds’ worth of rehabilitations. They make
a pathetically small showing amid the great
mass of things that want to be done. And
the things that are being done at the cost of over
£1,000,000 are not only small but cheap. The
really large, expensive improvements haven’t been
looked at yet. The widening and straightening
of George-street, the carrying of Elizabeth and
Castlereagh streets straight through to the Quay,
the widening and straightening of Hunter-street
(which is like the hind-leg of the scapegoat of
Israel) and of two dozen very similar streets, are
matters that haven’t been so much as considered
up till now. The digging away of the hill which
makes the way from George-street, westward
to Darling Harbor a matter of falling down a
precipice lined with public-houses, and the use of
the material to fill up the hollow of Pitt-street, so
that the cab-horse will no longer die of a
broken heart while trying to struggle past
the S. M. Herald office on the way to the
Hotel Metropole with a thirsty squatter—these
are much-needed improvements which are still
further in the background. In fact, it is quite
possible that they will always be in the back-
ground. But even dealing merely with the most
needful matters, the fact remains that it may
easily cost more to properly reconstruct a badly-
built city than the whole capital value of the place
amounts to, and a new city can often be built for
less than the cost of rehabilitating an old one.
This is a matter on which the McGowen Govern-
ment should fix its eye hard. There is room for
at least three big new seaport cities in N.S.W.
—ideal cities that wouldn’t require reconstruc-
tion, and of which the State could be sole
ground landlord for ever and a day. The revenue
to be derived from the rents of these places might
almost make taxation unnecessary. At present,
N.S.W. is not only losing all that magnificent
revenue, but by crowding all its city population
into Sydney it is adding every day to the magnifi-
cent prospective bill for the reconstruction of the
old metropolis. When the present handful of
improvements represent over £1,000,000, there
must be great possibilities about that complete
bill. Every day it is bigger than it was yester-
day. It grows while Premier McGowen is sleep-
ing ; also while he is eating, drinking (tea), talking
and taking his walks abroad. In fact, it is always
growing.
<>.
Kidston, the political backslider of Queensland,
never fails, these days, to get one in on the Aus-
tralian Labor Government. At a recent deputa-
tion on the subject of further State sugar mills for
the North, he displayed his usual malefic in-
genuity. Said he :
The industry may be considerably unsettled by the
result of the referendum next year on industrial control.
I would like to know whether the result will leave the
controlling power in such matters in the hands of people
in Melbourne before promising anything definite in the
way of providing further mills.
Now, there are some thousands of people within
the Northern area concerned in the starting of
these mills, and Kidston’s outbreak reads like
an attempt to coerce the people into the belief
that, should the Commonwealth be given the
power by the people to control the industrial
machinery of the States, then the Northern voters
may “whustle” for their mills. But the Nor-
therners are not likely to be bluffed. If they
can’t get Commonwealth industrial legislation and
State mills, they can get Commonwealth legisla-
tion and Commonwealth mills which would pro-
bably suit them better. If the State won’t do the
things it has the power to do, then the obvious
course will be to pass the power on to the Com-
monwealth/ So the question isn’t really mills or
no mills. It is Kidston or no Kidston. Ami it
isn’t for the Northerners to worry over that alter-
native.
♦
You needn’t scratch deep into any of the bogus
“Liberal” parties to come to the Toryism of
which they are almost wholly composed ; but it is
very seldom that a party gives itself away so com-
pletely as was done at Camperdown (Vic.) a few
days ago. Delegates from the just-born People’s
Party had convened a meeting, and had pointed
out the horrors of Labor rule ; whereupon one John
Thornton arose and made these remarks :
It was imperative to take notice of what had been said
at that meeting if they weie going to recover the posi-
tion, because —make no mist ake about it—they had h st
the position. They had let it go into the hands of the
people.
Thornton forgot altogether that he was speaking
at a meeting of a crowd that called itself the
People’s party; and in his forgetfulness he
blurted out the truth. Which truth is that, to
him and his like, the spectacle of “the people”
of Australia controlling the Government is an
abomination, and something altogether accursed.
A party might conceivably believe these things
and still be honest; but what does squatter John
Thornton really think of the morals of a party
which calls itself the People’s Party, but aims at
taking down the people for the power they already
possess ?
The Man Who Didn’t Fail.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the ages prehistoric, when the clubs were swif?
to wave,
Sate a party drab and dismal in lugubrious con-
clave !
For their hearts were filled with anger, and they
spoke with bitter jeers
Of some person large and hairy who had mocked
the ancient seers !
He had jumped upon Tradition—he had left the
primal Tree;
So they said: “ His ways are sinful and as wicked
as can be !
We were born to dwell in tree-tops, and to swing
by claw and tail ”
Thus they cast their malediction at the Man Who
Didn’t Fail!
He was one who dared to differ, one who walked
erect and free;
So they used abusive language as they sate wjthin
the Tree!
And to-day their sour descendants lift the same
old scoffs and sneers—
Yea, I hear them cursing sadly down the ever-
lasting years !
For their views are prehistoric—as they cursed
the Missing Link,
They denounce all innovators and all men who
try to Think !
But their choicest maledictions seem to fall like
savage hail
On that person most impious—’tis the Man Who
Doesn’t Fail!
Don Columbus had his visions of a Land beyond
the sea,
And in consequence was hated by the persons in
the Tree!
For the prehistoric creatures still abound upon
the earth.
Said they then : “ He mocks Tradition,’’and they
laughed in bitter mirth !
“Shall he find a newer pathway ? Let him perish
for his pains ! ”
But Columbus proved the winner, so they brought
him home in chains.
He was punished for succeeding—aye, they clapped
him into jail,
For the persons prehistoric hate the Man Who
Doesn’t Fail.
Hear them sing in solemn chorus: “ We’re a cheap
and jealous crowd ;
So our howls are very dismal and our wails are
very loud !
We’re the shabby little people, with our shabby
little sneers ”
Pray inspect this blessed nation’s subterranean
engineers !
For we’ve got the® in Australia, and their hearts
are filled with rage ;
How they hate the Man Who Hustles—how they
grudge his galling wage !
Yea, they hate him for succeeding, and their tears
provide a trail
As they bound across the landscape towards the
Man Who Didn’t Fail !
For alas ! they have to follow—have to leave their
ancient groove;
Yea, the Man Who Bursts Tradition makes the
whole procession move !
And the person large and cheerful, tramping
swiftly down the years.
Hears the chorus shrill behind him of the flabber-
gasted seers !
Hears them moan : “ His ways are sinful and as-
wicked as can be ” ;
For the creatures prehistoric hate to leave the
primal Tree !
They were born to dwell in treetops and to swing
by claw and tail ;
’ ‘ Let them howl — it’s just their nature,” says the
Man Who Didn’t Fail!
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVY.


What The Bulletin Christmas Number
is to the ordinary Bulletin, The Lone Hand
Christmas Number (out now) is to the ordinary
Lone Hand. Same price—Sixpence.
Laxo-Tonie Pills,
The combined Laxative and Tonic Pills, leave no
unpleasant after-effects. Sold at 10|d. and Is. 6d.*
Films'. Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
Moving Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney—3B6 George Street; Melbourne—266 Collins
Street; Brisbane—93-95 Queen Street ;■ Adelaide—
Gawler Place; Perth—Tillys’ Photo. Stores.
Franz Josef
Lag'er Beer
SparKling,
Refreshing',
Exhilarating
and Pure.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality
and character, being sharp, clean, and of
light gravity.
The Sydney Telegraph, commenting on the
Wade presentation, remarked that “ This testi-
monial was in no sense intended to compensate
Mr. Wade for what he gave up to lead the party.”
TSow, what did he give up ? Six years ago he was
a Crown Prosecutor at £6OO a year. The member
for Chatswood went bankrupt, and it became
necessary for the party to find a substi-
tute. Someone thought of Wade, and he
dropped into a pocket borough. Within
12 months there was a general election.
Garland, who, in the natural order of events,
would have been Attorney-General, was beaten.
Wade, the only barrister on the “ Liberal ” side,
got the job and started to draw £l5OO a year.
This he continued to do for three years, when
the retirement of Carruthers and Ashton auto-
matically provided him with the Premiership,
and for another period of three years he drew
£2OOO a year. Thus Walk’s six years in poli-
tics have brought him in about £BOOO more
than he ever made during a similar period
before. And now the rich men of N.S.W.
have clubbed together and heaped on him a
further £2500. To talk of “compensation” in
such a connection is as grotesque as it would be,
say, to give three cheers for a “Liberal” leader
because he stood with the crowd on the safe side
of a ruined coal-mine. The debatable point is not
what Wade gave upto lead “Liberalism,” butrather
what he gives up to pocket the rich men’s £2500.
For, despite the inevitable newspaper guff about
“sixpenny donations,” 95 per cent, of the cash
came from the rich. To the principle of
a salaried leader of the Opposition, which in its
dark hour the Liberal press is now advocating,
there can be no objection. But to reward a poli-
tician who is not old, ill, helpless or broke, with a
large wad of class money, because he fought a
frankly class fight, is a different circumstance.
By accepting £2500 from the source he did, or by
allowing his wife to accept it, Wade has practi-
cally put himself in the position of the U.S.
Senator who goes to Washington as the nominee
of a Wooden Ham Trust. It amounts to a sort of
retainer from the landowning and commercial
classes. Two thousand five hundred pounds is a
good round sum, but this is one of the cases where
a man would be better without it.
«
A very good instance of the Sydney “Liberal”
dailies’ idea of fair-play was afforded last week.
On Friday morning, during the Censure debate
or mudlark, Attorney-General Holman brought
up the case of Ben Abdah. Ben Abdah was
convicted, some time ago, of abortion, and was
sentenced to five years’ imprisonment. According
to Holman, the “ Liberal ” Minister for Justice
released Abdah within three days of last State
elections. At the same time, he sent a letter
to J. L. Fegan, who was contesting Redfern
against Premier McGowen, stating that it was
owing to Fegan’s personal intercession that he
(the Minister for Justice) had decided to free
Abdah. Now, Abdah resides in Redfern, where
the Assyrian vote is large and solid. Holman’s
charge created a sensation in the House. It was
the sort of charge that would have created a sen-
sation anywhere. Yet, so far as The Bulletin
can trace, the Herald did not print a word of it,
and the Telegraph gave it only a few words.
They, however, supplied Garland’s reply to the
accusation they had suppressed, and let the
thing go at that. There are many thousands
of N. S. Wales electors who have to rely for
all their information on the news supplied by one
or other of the morning dailies. To them, it
would appear, in the above case, that the Labor
Attorney-General had lodged a wantonly lying
charge against his predecessor in office. A
politician can't proceed for slander against news-
papers which suppress his remarks, while giving
full publicity to the construction put on them by
his opponents. And yet procedure of the sort
operates to slander the politician most villainously.
By the present look of things, Labor will need a
daily of its own in the very near future, if only as
a meftns of preserving its character.
♦
At a yelp of the Baptist Union, last week, a cer-
tain Parson Watson finished up a tremendous
denunciation with the statement: “ There is a
false standard of living among the young men and
women of Melbourne. They live on bread and
dripping in order to wear fine clothes.” Really,
parsons are hard to satisfy. Good clothes don’t
lead to indigestion, pimples, corpulence, jim-jams,
etc., though all these things are liable to happen
through abundant eating and drinking. Men dig
their graves with their teeth, but if women dig
theirs with their silk stockings, the fact hasn’t
been noticed. It is a greater pleasure to meet a
pretty frock in the street than a large and
badly-clothed stomach. And clothes lend a
picturesqueness to history that food doesn’t. That
phrase, “Solomon in all his glory,” will probably
last as long as the human race itself; if it had
been “Solomon in all his lunch ” who would have
cared to remember it? No doubt kings and queens
are foolish institutions, yet a handsome queen in
her robes of state gladdens the eye, while the same
lady dressed anyhow and carrying a ham or a ton
of bread wouldn’t gladden anything. It might be
wiser of her to spend the price of her robes on ham
and bread, but it wpuld be mighty hard to con-
vince an artist of the'fact, and art is a powerful
influence in this world. But then, perhaps, there
is no art in the Baptist Union.
♦
The Gaud Mayor of Sydney was a proud man last
week. He was able to report that the resump-
tions made in Oxford-street for widening and
improvement purposes had only cost £350,000 of
borrowed money, representing an interest bill of
£14,000 per annum. Against this it is found pos-
sible to let the resumed land which is not required
for street improvement on 50-year building leases
for £lO,OOO a year ; and when the 50 years are up
they may be re-let for perhaps five times that
figure. It is a fairly good outlook, even
though there is a prospective annual loss
of £4OOO a year for 50 years, and despite
the fact that this bit of work is only
an item in an illimitable waste of urgently
required city improvements, and that the
£4OOO of annual loss is only a drop in the pint
pot. And yet think of the chances that are being
missed ! It only requires a few miles of railway
and a little common, ordinary sanity, and the
foundations of seaport cities quite as good as
Sydney might be laid at Twofold Bay, Port
Stephens and elsewhere. And at these places a
dozen business sites might be let on 50-year build-
ing leases for £lO,OOO a year without any need to
spend a preliminary £350,000 on resumptions
—in fact, the whole city might be leased in
this fashion. Yet many strange, pig-headed folk
shriek with wrath when allusion is made to the
prospect of acquiring all this money, and behave
like a maddened Orangeman when he sees the
Pope in the distance.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs.”
Royal “The Third Decree.”
Criterion “The Winning Ticket.”
Palace “Shadows of a Great City.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaciaricm West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Olympia “Kelly Gang” Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Theatre “ The Dollar Princess.”
Her Majesty’s “ Harbor Lights.”
Royal “ The Arcadians.”
King’s "The Worst Woman in London.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co,
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Arcadia, St. Kilda The Jesters.
Glaciarium Taits’Pictures.
Esplanade, St. Kilda.. The Follies Comedy Co.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
There are three notable stage dreams —
that of Clarence concerning the sea-bottom, the
one that Wilfred Denver had, and Miss Eugenie
Duggan’s vision of the Melbourne Cup in “The
Winning Ticket.” (The writer takes no account
of mere two-roomed or skillion visions like that
of Matthias in “ The Bells,” or the nightmare
which George Leitch used to have in “ A Touch of
the Sun.”) Of the three Miss Duggan’s is the
only one in which the narrator begins to take short
jumps as she approaches the finish ; for the
moment she almost imagines that she is a horse,
and acts accordingly. “The Winning Ticket”
filled Sydney Criterion to overflowing on Saturday,
and will probably do so for a good while to come. It
isn’t hopelessly unreasonable melodrama, and it is
well staged, even though the Cup race on the open-
ing night found three or four horses galloping furi-
ously, and getting no further ahead, and the
scenery not flying past them worth while
another horse kept pace with them by standing
still, and absolutely refused to get into motionless
progress, even when the jockey smote him with
the flat of his hand as one might strike a
billiard-table with a flounder. Also the fact
that the corner of the two-up school didn’t meet
is hereby forgiven. The story attached to “ The
Winning Ticket” is not complicated. The heroine
marries Jack Willoughby, a farmer’s son, who is
stout, clean-shaved, and dressed in a massive
frock-coat and huge belltopper, like all his
kind. The belltopper is used to gather weeds
in, and it is also handy as a vessel in which
to carry milk to the calf. The lady was
previously married in France to the Count, but,
being an infant in the eye of the law, her father
got the proceedings annulled. For this the Count
slew him. He is a bad Count, but then all his
kind are bad; a good Count is as rare as
a reformed devil. The lady fled to Aus-
tralia and taught school, and married the
belltoppered farmer, and the Count fled
to Australia and became a racecourse sharp.
So he meets his former wife, and, being a
sneerful Count, he nearly scoffs her to death.
Her husband grows darkly suspicious, and drinks
or two-ups the belltopper and all his other assets,
save a Tattersall’s ticket on Moggs’s horse. The
ticket is stolen, and passes into the hands of the
Count. Moggs’s horse is nearly killed in the rail-
way accident that doesn’t happen, the Count hav-
ing shifted the points in order to wreck the train
that doesn’t turn up. He also nearly drowns the
signalman’s daughter ; but Miss Duggan, or some-
one like her, dives from a great height on to the
usual pint of rice which flies up in spray when
she strikes it, and presently she drags the child to
land. In the end, the ticket is recaptured with-
out bloodshed, Moggs’s horse wins, the hero is
able to recover his belltopper, and the Count is
arrested on the racecourse in the middle of a high-
class sneer.
*■#*••*
The company is a fairly good one, and in-
cludes all the conventional characters of melo-
drama. Boy Bedgrave is the Count with the
hereditary scoff. George Cross is the noble and
fatuous hero, who suspects his wife and two-ups
his money. Edmund Duggan is the regulation
Hebrew bookie with such whiskers as were never
seen on land or sea. There is the upright farmer
with a good horse, and the gruff person with a
good heartland the dude, and the tout, and the
sharp, and the drunken rabbiter, and the funny
man, and the deputy funny man. Also there is
Miss Duggan as the heroine. They all play their
parts respectably ; but it would be a vast relief to
strike a drama for once with a good Count in it.
It passes understanding how there are any Counts
left. They are such a loathsome gang that an in-
furiated populace would naturally have extir-
pated them 1000 years ago.
** * *
Since The Bulletin’s recent criticism of
the Melbourne revival of “The Shadows of a
Great City,” nothing has transpired to cause this
paper to change its mind. Long before the cur-
tain went up on Saturday night Sydney Palace
was packed, and long before it fell the audience
had received the worth of its money. If any
weren’t satisfied they didn’t mention it, which is
hereby put down in evidence against them.
As a play, “The Shadows of a Great-City”
might be better, also it might be worse;
which is a method of criticism dead-safe
to the critic, fair to the playwright, and
unassailable in its honesty to the public.
All the delights of the confirmed drama-fiend
have been preserved—the old elusive will that
comes home with dust on its hat in time to hand
the villains over to the accompanying law ; the
broad comedy that reaches beyond the farthest
shaft that Bernard Pinero ever flew ; the tall,
handsome hero dogged through the limelight,
suffering for his love (and a bit over on
treasury day) till the tears of the stalls
girl are as thick as the make-up on his
face; the false charge which lands in a felon’s
hutch without trial the man who stops it;
the dash for liberty ; the escape; the pursuit;
the friend in need ; in short, the whole caboose.
“ The Shadows of a Great City ” rests upon them
all, and their staging and acting do them proud.
* * * *
Maggie Moore and Harry Roberts, as
Biddy Boonan (a big-hearted Irishwoman) and
Tom Cooper (a beauteous sailor), respectively,
share three-parts of the vociferous thanks; the
balance—and it doesn’t weigh less than several
tons —being impartially distributed. A. E.
Greenaway strengthens the cast since the drama
was produced at Melbourne. “The Shadows”
will continue to shad every night with the excep-
tion of Sundays, when they will be rigorously
suppressed by the Law.
*****
“ Our Miss Gibbs ” is at the old stand in
Sydney and doing well. There she will abide,
barring war, famine or the act of God, till the
arrival of “The Whip” co. from Melbourne shifts
her from Her Majesty’s to the adjacent Theatre
Boyal.
The moan of “Salvation Nell will not
be heard at Sydney Royal after next Friday. Un
Saturday “ The Third Degree is to be revived,
with W'illiam Desmond in the role of Richard
Webster ; and on Thursday “ The Lion and the
Mouse ” recurs.
** * *
Sydney Tivoli changed its mind, after last
week’s Bulletin had gone to press, and whistled
back Dan the Drunken Dog and the rest of
Barnold’s clever animal troupe for a few more
evenings. Comedian Fred Bluett and Godfrey
James, the Welsh singer, have drifted back to
the programme. Other performers who are still to
be seen and heard are the Marbas couple, Howard
and Foy, Larry Lewis, the Dancing Gilberts,
Violet Stockelle, and Fanny Powers. Manager
Rickards returned last week from London with
a trunk full of contracts which, the morning paper
asserts, cost £65,000 —£49,000 in salaries and
£16,000 in travelling expenses. The little batch
will keep the Australian circuit supplied till the
end of 1912. After a previous raid of this descrip-
tion on the halls of the Old or Decrepit World,
Mr. Rickards mopped his brow and remarked
with some show of pride that, in his search for
genius, talent and plain and fancy feet-rattlers,
he had accomplished a great endurance test, or
words to that effect. The hardy Tivolean’s hour
of trial is now at hand, and if he is wise he will
go into training at once.
“OUR MISS GIBBS.” AT SYDNEY HER
MAJESTY'S.
D.B. O’ Connor
as Mr. Top-
lady, Manager
of Garrod’s.
Florence Vie as Mrs.
Farquhar.
Although there
are rumors of war in
the cinematograph
trade, Sydney’s two
premier shows hold
on their way serene-
ly. In fact, West’s,
on Saturday, utilised
the opportunity to
hang upon it a very
fine film of local in-
terest. The automo-
bile corps was on the warpath, and a message that
an enemy was landing at La Perouse caused the
Scottish Rifles to mobilise in the Domain. These
Scotties always have the luck. The automobile
corps swept down, whirled them up in a cloud of
dust, and in 43 minutes had them in the firing
line of the Battle of La Perouse, and,
what was more important, cinematograplied pro-
perly and truly by West’s on fhe way. It
is a great film, and should do a lot to awaken
the mind of the sovereign people to the possi-
bilities of the car in war time. There are other
scenes at West’s, naturally. “Matilda’s Win-
ning Ways ” is a forceful sermon on the danger
of mixing up with the women of the fascinat-
ing sort. By the express wish of General Desire,
the building and launching of the Olympic is con-
tinued. The Gaumont film of “The Adventuress”
is up to the high standard of that firm. But an
otherwise unusually bright programme isn’t made
any brighter by the Funeral of Prince Francis of
Teck, i a German gentleman with precious small
claims to this distinction.
** * *
At Sydney Lyceum Spencer’s Theatre-
scope is still booming along on the crowded tenor
of ,its way. “ Lieutenant Rose and the Pirates ”
shows the way the dominant white man stamps the
inferior races under foot, and causes the audience
to feel large round the chest. The life of Buffalo
Bill runs to 3000 ft. of thrills and spasms. Buffalo
Bill is a picturesque old ruffian—on films. The
Sppncerian idea of intense drama is sustained this
week itf-“ Tangled Lives,” and the strong flavor
is removed from the mouth by the atmosphere of
rippling fun that clings around “ Her Mother’s
Wedding Gown,” a piece that is officially de-
scribed as “ high comedy.” Anyhow, it is light
and refreshing, and what more does one want
these hot nights ? There is also the usual stock
of wild comics and scenic splendors.
-* * * *
Anderson, having given his Sydney
Olympia picture-show a good start with “The
Squatter’s Daughter,” follows on with a pro-
gramme in which blood and battle mingle amic-
ably with various human emotions. The late
Mr. Edward Kelly, of Glenrowan, and there-
abouts, provides a good deal of the blood and
battle ; “Forgiven ” is relied upon for the pathos;
and “How Max Travelled Round the World ” is
the place at which the audience is expected to be
really ashamed of itself for laughing so.
** * *
The quantity and quality of the audience
at Miss May Summerbelle’s concert were of the
kind that delights both concert-giver and assist-
ing artists. It was large in number and enthusi-
astic in demeanor. MissSuinmerbelle had secured
some favorite artistes who are always sure of a fol-
lowing : Mrs. Slapoffski; Miss Beatrice Day,
who recited twice; Messrs. A. Appleby, S.
Macdonald, Bryce Carter, W. J. Grieves and
Harold Whittle. Most of these are rather too high
up in public favor for adjectives to reach them
with ease unless the flattering words were first
tied on to a flagpole. Miss Summerbelle’s own
playing of some of her bright compositions
and her interpretation of the other fellow’s
masterpieces (Chopin, for instance) completed the
musicianly success of the night.
The revival of “Harbor Lights ” at Her
Majesty’s (Melbourne) is not without justification.
It is an ancient melodrama that lends itself to up-
to-date treatment in the acting, and if all the
members of the new co. were as forcible as some
of them, the performance would be even more
effective than the scenery. There is no time
wasted in the action of the piece. The sufferers
refrain from dwelling unduly on their wrongs, and
the sinners push along with their wickedness. The
manner of the proceedings is brisk and business-like,
especially at the most exciting moments. When
the bright, clean-cut heroine (Evelyn Kerry) is
chased around the furniture by the amorous
Squire, she uses her hands and feet for all they
are worth. A struggle between the hero (Atwill)
and Mark the murderer is quick and lively.
Episodes that used to be long-drawn-out are
spiritedly dealt with. If it is all melodrama, it is
all right in its way.
* * * *
Miss Kerry, as the nice girl who proclaims
her love for the hero “ before all the world,” is just
sweet and dashing. Miss Winifred Scott, although
still a trifle crude in her intensity, speaks her
lines impressively in a rich flexible voice. Atwill
is an active, sympathetic hero; Vivian Edwards
is a satisfactory Squire; and Bucklaw would
be rather more than a satisfactory old sea-captain
on coastal duty if he wore the orthodox pea-
jacket and looked untidy. The head villain
(Blackall) is too cold, stiff and angular ; and Mark
(Graham) is effusively weak in everything but his
murderous attempts. For the rest, there are
Miss Temple, Miss Marschil, Ambrose Manning
as a beefy sailor, and Miss O’Meara as the ortho-
dox Polly. The last two play the parts that
Elton and Pattie Browne filled in the very long
ago, and they make it hard to believe that the
comic relief was formerly thought funny.
*# * *
“The Dollar Princess,” staged at the
Princess’s, is the same melodious matter that it
was at Her Majesty’s some months ago. Mel-
bourne, thus far, has hardly started to cultivate a
taste for the sugary music of this hand-
somely-appointed comedy. The characters seem
to have failed to identify themselves with the
songs they sing, which, in the case of the
Hansel and Gretel duet, is the natural result
of taking it from Harry Condor and his sister
(now changed into his daughter) and giving
it to another lady and her alleged groom.
The absurdity of a young woman duetting with
her groom re their childhood’s days is glaringly
apparent, anyhow. In other respects “ The
Dollar Princess” is obviously not so well fitted to
the company as many a Williamsonian musi-
cal comedy of poorer material. It now loses
more than it gains by the putting of Florence
Young in the part of Olga and the transferring
of Olive Godwin to the name part; for, whereas
Miss Godwin filled the bill as a mock
Countess escaped from a circus, she is not much
like a ’Murkan millionairess who attends to the
housekeeping. All the same, “ The Dollar Prin-
cess” is a notably tuneful work, with intelligent
aspirations to satire in the first act. Bert Gilbert,
Lottie Sargent, Greene, Clayton, Percy and
others are back in their old positions. The show is
smartly mounted, and the rush to the Princess’s
last Saturday night promised well for the revival.
HARBOR LIGHTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is a lilt of “ Harbor Lights ” at Redeliffe-on-
the-Sea,
Where a long, lean spinster trusts the Squire, and
a sinful Squire is be ;
Where the mariners bold are good and pure, but
the landsmen are accurst,
And of all things wicked that come to pass the
comic relief is worst.
There’s a tall young villain with baleful mien, and
crafty toothful sneer,
The shadow of crime hangs o’er the scene when
Nicholas hovers near;
There’s a reckless Mark who kills the Squire,
because he’s an awful rake,
And a spry Lieutenant who’d go through fire for
dainty Miss Dora’s sake.
Virtue and Vice come oft to blows in the story of
“ Harbor Lights,”
And the Gallery knows which bloke to back when-
ever the hero fights;
And the Gallery roars when the funny man makes
love to the small soubrette,
But this is the time when the rhy mster’s eyes with
scalding tears are wet.
For nothing on earth is truly bad and nothing is
really vile
Save the wheezes old that delight the gods and
excite their blatant smile,
When the shadows have passed from “Harbor
Lights,” and the sorrow is all disperst,
One thinks of the crimes that were, and says—
“ Ah ! the comic relief was worst.”
VICTORIA.
O.K.


JERDAN’S, the big Cinematograph people at
393 George Street, Sydney, have just got out
a Catalogue for Picture Showmen that’s just it.
If you’ve leanings that way you’d better write for
a copy. It’s free.* - .
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone .No. 23G Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
Something to
be GRATEFUL tor.
Wolfe’
Schnapps,
The second innings of “The Arcadians,”
at Melbourne Royal, will be interrupted to-night
WILLIAM CROM-
WELL, Comedian and
Prospective Farmer,
whose benefit happens
to-night at Melbourne
Royal.
(Thursday) to permit
of a benefit to Wil-
liam Cromwell. Acts
of “Sergeant Brue”
and “Hook of Hol-
land ” will be played,
and on behalf of Wil-
liam aforesaid a num-
ber of miscellaneous
items are to be con-
tributed by sundry per-
sons of undeniable re-
putation.
* * *
An advt. headed,
“What’s in the Air?
Cugnet the Flier,” and
promising “The Most
Thrilling Sight of
Modern Times,” at-
tracted a large crowd
last Saturday afternoon
to the forlorn district
of Altona Bay, certain
paddocks thereabouts
being more or less re-
served under the name
of Aerodrome. Trains
from Melbournecarried
passengers to the scene
of the Thrill and
charged 4s. 6d. a head,
whilst steamers from
Port Melbourne did
the same cruel wrong
to the community for a shilling less.
,1 , a , rRe number of other victims
walked, drove, hiked or motored to the
Messed Aerodrome by various stink-lined routes.
Altona, which is beyond Williamstown racecourse,
is one of the last places that God made, and the
odors of Footscrav have cut it off from ordinary
buma.n sympathy. No reliable circus proprietor
would think of inviting the Melbourne populace
down there without paying them in advance for
the journey ; but due allowance was made for
Cugnet, the Flier, since a man in the air is one of
those free, accessible entertainments for which
nobody will pay cash if the scene can be
easily approached. As to the time when Cugnet
would perform his thrill, the only hint was an
a/? n< j ,unc ® m ®ut that one extra-special train from
Melbourne would get to Altona on the right side
of 4 p.m., and return two hours later. Cugnet,
therefore, was expected to fly at about 4 p.m., if
the- weather permitted ; and it happened«that the
weather just then and for the next two hours was
as mild and gentle as Melbourne weather can be
ever expected to be. Nevertheless, Cugnet was
conspicuous by his absence at this auspicious
time. He was officially stated to be “resting,”
according to custom. The idea of charging the
public two-and-six to look at Cugnet resting didn’t
occur to the management; so the public remained
for hours ignorant of the flier’s whereabouts.
* * * *
The Bleriot aeroplane was on the spot, in
a tent. A beautiful thing of its sort, suggestive
of a gigantic butterfly resting on a tricycle. The
open body of the butterfly is an abbreviated Eiffel
lower or fire escape, and the engine that drives
it is under its head. But one soon wearies of
looking at an aeroplane under canvas. At about
5 o clock the tent was partially withdrawn
and the machine was wheeled into the open
to be christened by Vice-Prime Minister
Hughes, who took a long time in being
discovered. Finally Hughes turned up, with-
out Cugnet, and talked a lot about the French
Nation’s conquest of the air. Then the former
policy of time-wasting was resumed. At 5.30p.m.
the aeroplane was pushed along to the place of
action, and the crowd waited for Cugnet to come
and look like business. The weather still re-
mained mild, in spite of the wav in which it
was being imposed upon. Before 6 o’clock Cugnet
came to close quarters wi th his flying-machine, and
the crowd cheered—some of it cheered ironically.
He sat on the weird animal, and was photo-
graphed in the act of being about to fly, after
which he dismounted and went on thinking of
his responsibilities. The word went round that
the Thrilling Sight would happen at 7 p.m. ; and
then everybody possessed of reasoning power gave
Cugnet up as a bad job for that occasion, and
went home. At 7 o’clock or earlier, Cugnet gave
himself up as a bad job too, and the aeroplane was
put back to bed. The moral of this thrilling fiasco
is that the French aviator—who undoubtedly has
worked the aeroplane—should retire from the
ranks of professional entertainers. As a disap-
pointer of the paying public, he took the scone on
Saturday. The enterprising stranger from abroad
is npt blamable for his extreme Caution ; but as a
showman he will get no excuses.
At the King’s the wicked story of “ The
Worst Woman in London” is being further
narrated to the fitting accompaniment of an
Andersonian orchestra. As may be recalled, the
Worst Woman in the Cockney Metropolis is
among the indigo species of bellowdramatic
oddities. In her very early years the lady aban-
dons dingy virtue and rice puddings for Sin and
satin frocks. In this way she becomes an unprin-
cipled hussy who arranges a burglary and worries
the hero ; marries and slaughters a city magnate ;
and is undutiful to a parent exhaling an odor of
gin and gentility. The desertion of a decadent
papa is, however, the one bright spot in her
career. The old boy is a well-educated rotter,
forger and lag; his hat is a freak and his coat a
derision; and he has further developed a nose
that is a silent diploma to his life of grog. No
self-respecting adventuress would be burdened by
such a relative, and certainly no lady would
endure the phantom as drolly created by C. R.
Stanford. Stanford plays the part with some
incisive humor, and, on the whole, provides a
study that is clean-cut but common, like a cameo
in bottle glass. Guarded praise is due to Miss
Harrie Ireland, who appears as the Horrible
Female in a number of satisfactory poses and
elegant dresses. Frank Gerald plays the city
financier in the quiet manner of a curate ; Rutland
Beckett wanders ahout as an oily adventurer;
and Harry Sweeney frivols with a lady who is
beyond his age and weight. Conway Wingfield’s
hero is a lugubrious scion of the House of Stodge ;
while Miss Richter’s portrait of the beautiful
heroine belongs to the picture-postcard series, six
a penny.
*# * *
At the Opera House there is nobody who
was not there last week except Ted Kalman and
Walter C. Kelly. The Virginian Judge popped
up again for five nights only, and to-night is the
last time when that old offender, Sadie Anderson,
will get 30 days in gaol for saying.” That’s me ! ”
A male Blessing is still being bestowed on the
lady Blessing’s head, and all is well with the rest
of the performing congregation at the house of
Rickards.
** * *
The Yic. Pro. Orchestra, with the Fes-
tival Choir at the back of it and a large audience
to the fore, gave the most interesting concert of
its series at Melbourne Town Hall last Saturday.
In Beethoven’s Choral Symphony the choir and
orchestra did fine work, whilst the solo singers
sufficed. A Te Deum, a ballad for chorus and
orchestra, an unaccompanied chorus, and a capital
performance of the “ Oberon ” overture made up
the first part; and the Town Hall clock regis-
tered 5.45 p.m. by the time that conductor Beard
had made his final obeisance. Some time next
year the V.P.O. will resume operations on a
strong basis of popularity.
** * *
West-by-the-Yarra is disclosing some peeps
at the Isle of Wight that have all the delicacy of
pastel pictures. “An Unfortunate Invalid”
earns the tribute of laughter by its impetuosity;
but the long, mawkish story of the “ Angels of
Luck ” has the discommoding effect of a meal of
cucumbers. As for “The Girl on TripleX,” it
presents a Red Indian capable of great acts of
self-sacrifice and devotion. Really, some of these
flickergraph Indians ought to be canonised, and
shrines set up on the sites of their noble deeds.
“THE ARCADIANS” SURVIVAL, AT THE
ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
An impression of Chistie Mulniah, the Conti-
nental Danoer (just arrived).
The Marlow Co., at Adelaide Royal—
oddly enough, the season was neither advertised
in, nor noticed by, the Register— has given a
trial Australian trip to “Nick Carter,” a wild
detective drama. It is full of familiar situations,
such as the abducted child, the burglars who get
a safe open only to have their chief opponent step
out of it, and, for comic relief, a henpecked hus-
band who does the Turning Worm act towards
the end. The chief novelty is in the matrimonial
situations. The hero’s wife is really the
villain’s; at least, she went through a church-
door ceremony with him once, but the comic
“slavey” bowls him out by producing the
“ lines” of her own marriage with him some time
before that. (Heroine’s bigamy overlooked by
the law ; villain’s bigamy dropped on, as the rules
of bellowdrama demand.) The Tivoli has been
the scene of particularly hearty and continuous
laughter, proyoked by Bovis and Zoli, Tom Daw-
son, the Meymotts (with short plays), and Arm-
strong and Miss Yerne, who have some reallv
smart Yahkee cross-talking of the jovial kind
which could be repeated in some drawing-rooms.
“Judge” Kelly was the king of them all ; but he
has gone. Brown and Robinson have come back,
not as bricklayers but as singing cavaliers; and
the McLean “ Dartos ” do a wild and fierce dance
which calls itself French. The Literary Theatre
is getting into harness again, and there is one
more open-air picture-show. This one calls itself
the Casino.
Drury Lane Theatre, London, has made a profit of
£37,000 odd in its working year, after allowing for de-
preciation. The co. declared a 15 per cent, dividend,
and placed £20,000 to reserves. The money was all made
out of a pantomime and “The Whip.”
“ Harrison O.”: A “ Poverty Point ” par (17/11/’10) states
that “A Night Off ” was “ written by Alfred Maltby, and
produced by J. C. Williamson in the 80’s of last century.”
The comedy, known also as “ A Page from Balzac,” was
staged at the Princess’s by Williamson, Garner and Mus-
grove in 1888. It was certainly stage-managed by Alfred
Maltby ; but, according to my old programme, the play
was adapted by Augustine Daly from a German piece by
Von Schonton. Was Augustine Daly merely Alf Maltby
in disguise?
“ Locust ”: I saw the other day the queerest criticism of
an actor that has ever come under my nose. It was of
our famous old comedian, George Coppin, and the more
famous G. V. Brooke, and appears in a pompous old
“ Colonial Directory,” printed in London in 1857. It
says: “An actor and manager named Coppin, whose
success in Victoria at the time of the gold discovery,
when money was easily made and foolishly squandered,
led many of the playgoers of the colony to consider the
object of fortune’s favors what the gentleman evidently
considered himself, a first-rate comedian. In our humble
opinion this person is nothing more than a second- or
third-class representative of low characters.” The
writer also ventured a “humble opinion” that, “con-
sidered collectively, the inhabitants of N.S.W. are
more respectable than those of Victoria,” and
had “superior tastes, habits and manners.” And
he proceeded to prove it by showing that Coppin
made a fortune with Brooke in Melbourne and lost it in
Sydney, owing to Sydney’s superior taste. Also, re the
failure of Brooke in Sydney: “How great must have
been the surprise of those immediately concerned, on
finding that the inhabitants of the most respectably
populated city in Australia failed in large numbers to
acknowledge or appreciate the potent brilliancy or mag-
netic influence of the evening star that condescended to
illuminate the Sydney boards for the gratification of
those who might be disposed to pay the price stipulat ed
for the promised pleasure.” Could Micawber have been
in Sydney then ! It sounds like his style.
AT POVERTY POINT.
An interesting lawsuit has been suspended over the
heads of the summer shows at St. Hilda (Melbourne).
One of the Howard Smiths seeks an injunction to restrain
the Taits’“ Follies” 00. from performing- on the land
adjoining his garden. The alleged unlawful nuisance
consists in the morning rehearsals and nightly perform-
ances of the Follies, bursts of public applause being
included in the indictment. The case stands postponed
for some weeks. Seemingly, these St. Hilda show-places
are not licensed, or the proprietors could hardly be
“ pulled ” for running an entertainment in the ordinary
theatrical way. J. O. Williamson presumably is licensed
to kick up a noise without regard to the feelings of the
man next door. And what the St. Hilda stage-shows
want is the same license to kick up the same sort of row.
“ Busk ” : Would not Tolstoi’s play of “ Resurrection ”
stand a revival? Julius Knight was not the figure for the
nobleman. It required a big man, like Beerbohm Tree.
Maud Jeffries scored well with the heroine. Charlotte
Cushman was terrible in the murder, and Nanoe O’Neil
tried to be, but Rankin’s Sikes was not like Irving’s,
which led Dickens to exclaim : “That is a great actor.”
Queen Alexandra went to see “Resurrection” at Beer-
bohm Tree’s playhouse. The seduction scene made her
tremble. “ Oh, dear, dear,” she said, “ that is rather too
much.” However, she sat on. Then came the business
of the female vagrant coquetting with the brandy bottle.
“Horrible! Horrible!” exclaimed Alexandra, and
marched out of the theatre. Of course she did not know
of the Salvation Nell doings in the next act. Impossible,
some say. Well, I was once at a Salvation meeting in
the most degraded quarter imaginable, when a respect-
able elderly woman got up and said she was once as low
down as any girl there, but was rescued, happily married,
and reared a nice family.
“ Melb ”: A new job for the Church. In a paper read
by the Rev. F. Sinclaire at the Gaiety Theatre on Sunday
night, he insisted that the clergy ought to co-operate in
securing performances of the legitimate drama all the
year round. Sinclaire placed the theatre on the same
footing as the public library. Do you allow mere public
taste to run riot there ? What would the library come
to? Deadwood Dick? No; you insist on maintaining
the highest standard. He would not bother about the
goods offered if people neglected the theatre, as in Lon-
don half a century ago. But the Australian passion for
the theatre was consuming, devouring, overpowering ; so
it was the Church’s duty to take cognizance, shaping an
irrepressible taste to beneficial ends. Sinclaire made
much mention of Shakspeare. But the question is:
Would what is vaguely called the Church prescribe
Shakspeare? Any more than it prescribes Shakspeare in
(say) the Sunday-school library ?
“Redtop” (from Wellington, M.L.): The McMahons
cinematographed the Johnson-Jeffries fight for the first
time in Australasia here on November 17. After seeing
it I am quite satisfied that the first, 10 rounds was a
frame-up under guarantee to the picture syndicate. For
over two minutes in each of those rounds the men are
in clinches, walking round in the manner of tired
waltz-rs on a tepid summer eve, Johnson languishing in
golden smiles over Jeff’s hairy shoulders. Occasion-
ally they cuddle roughly as they walk round to
waltz time. No visible band anywhere, but the pace
suggests a “Merry Widow” melody hidden under the
staging. After the tenth round Johnson gets merry,
and cuts into the jaded old man with the grace, virility
and subtlety of a black panther, his sweat-stained epi-
dermis shining like black satin. He fights, a bold,
clean, upright fight, is chock full of resource and
assurance. Jeffries butts in from a low crouch,
chewing gum viciously. But he never has a hope.
The eleventh round sees Jeff hard up against it, and in
the fifteenth he becomes dead meat—two quick lefts and
a right, and down drops “the hope,” and up jumps the
squealing crowd. “One nine?” The ex-black-
smith clambers like a wounded bear to his feet. Black
lightning strikes him on his chin, and he falls inert
through the ropes, his furry legs hanging by the calves
to the lower strand. Again up till nine, and his friends
push him through the ropes to a pathetic perpendicular.
He staggers ; the nigger gives him another clip, almost
friendly in its gentleness, and good old Jeff has gone to
rest.
“ Billy B.”: Coincidences are becoming as monotonous
as virtues, and I forward this one merely in the hope
that it will induce you to shut down on them. Last week
W. Anderson’s manager was engaging “extra ladies” for
the Sydney season of “The Winning Ticket.” Forty w'ere
required, and, of those offering, only 39 were selected,
the balance being of insufficient tonnage to carry' the
Cup frockings. The manager was in despair—4o was his
orders, and 40 he had to have ; also, he wanted to start
rehearsing. Just then a fine-lookinggirl stepped up, and
stated that she had merely accompanied an aspiring girl
friend, and with no intention of commencing life behind
the lights ; all the same, she was willing to help remove a
difficulty. Would she do? The manager reckoned she
was just the one. “ What name, please ? ” “Miss Forty.”
They thought it was a joke at first, but it wasn’t.
The Australian actor gets no reverence either off the
stage or on it. The new-comer has distinction thrust
upon him by press interviewers, w'hereas the old estab-
lished local hero of melodrama cannot even achieve re-
cognition of his greatness when he makes a public bid for
it. Walter Baker attended at Melb. Morgue the other
day, as a witness at the inquiry into the death of aboxer ;
and how did he find himself reported ? “ Walter Baker,
an actor, said that he did not see a heavy blow struck
throughout the contest.” Simply that, and nothing
more.
Frank Gerald’s Melbourne production (under Ander-
sonian management) of “ Dick Turpin ” will probably be
at Wirths’ Park. Gerald’s hippodrama, which will (D.V.)
start on Boxing Night, is a much more theatrical affair
than the “Turpin” ordinarily performed under canvas
by a circus company. It is expected to run for weeks.
When the gallant Biack Bess has finally dropped dead on
the road to York for the last time, Gerald goes back to
England on behalf of Nat Gould, the shilling shocker.
Marie Illington suffered a severe loss of dignity at Her
Majesty’s (Melb.) the other night. The chair she was fill-
ing in the Inn Scene of “The Whip” broke down in one
of its hind legs, and the lady was much upset. However,
it wasn’t quite her own dignity that suffered. The
Illington performance of Mrs. Beamish in “The Whip”
is a pretty close study of the performance of Fanny
Brough, who “created ” the character at Drury Lane.
The friends of young Percy Code, the champion cornet
soloist at the recent Ballarat competition, are fixing upa
benefit before he leaves for Europe. This is to happen at
Wirths’ Park, Melbourne, on the 13th ; and a lot of
musical folk, including the Associated Bands of Mel-
bourne, will help to make it gee. Code is only 22 ; and
Short, the English cornetist, who judged the Ballarat
struggle, pronounced him to be the most promising per-
former he had ever heard. The young fellow is, in a
sense, working his passage to Europe. That is to say, he
has joined the “ Besses” for a time, and will travel with
them.
“ Harrison O.”: The first bun or prize for wooden-
headedness is hereby accorded to the hero of “ The
Shadows of a Great City,” now occurring nightly at
Sydney Palace. In the first act, he falls, or, rather, is
pushed into the arms of the Law. In the second, he
escapes from prison, wearing the Broad Arrow of a
blameful life. The third act transpires 15 years later.
He is shown in a state of wedded bliss, none knowing
anything of his old-time trouble. Suddenly an acquaint-
ance of his Government service days projects himself
upon the smiling landscape. The new-comer is a villain.
He threatens the stainless one with exposure. Finally,
he orders the Law to arrest the hero as a fugitive from
justice. The Law hesitates. It wants proof. At this
stage the subsidiary villain observes a large trunk placed
in a conspicuous position in the centre of the room. He
goes over to it, opens it (it is not locked), and discovers
the Broad Arrow garments, carefully folded and placed
on the top of a heap of ole clo’. And the heroine actually
sniffles when he is once again taken off to quod, instead
of congratulating herself upon being rid of a blithering
idiot!
An Australian in Londonwrit.es: “ Went to see Bern-
hardt (lately divine) in a scene of * La Tosoa ’ at the Col-
iseum music hall. Was hurt and disappointed. Sarah
to-day is nothing but a voice. It is a wonderful organ,
young and sweet, clear as a cornet, mellow as the oboe.
But all the grace of her figure has gone. There is a pin
head of cranium ori a body of uncomfortable bulk. The
turn had only an antiquarian interest. One time we com-
plained of Bernhardt’s bones. Her genius was in her
bones, and is now muffled by her too, too solid flesh. She
is a great-grandmother, I believe—and she threatens to
become greater.”
Bernhardt’s assistant mummers at the London Coliseum
—where the old lady masqueraded as Napoleon’s youth-
ful son in the second act of “ L’Aiglon ’’—included a Miss
Seylor, who was a member of the Bernhardt co. that came
to Australia. The Seylor lady in those days played boy
parts and had a sweet singing voice. Probably she has
also a sweet temper, or she wouldn’t have been so long-
associated with the divine and wayward Sarah.
Irene Dillon, the sprightly little Melbourne girl who
married a circus-proprietor in America, is still suffering
from stage-fever, seemingly. She has an engagement
from George Edwardes to appear in musical comedy in
London.
“Adelaide ” : In B. of 27/10/’lO is an advt. of “A Knight
for a Day,” to be produced at Melbourne Princess’s
“Saturday next, Derby night; for the first time in-
Australia.” In the same number is a criticism of the
same piece as first played in Adelaide by the same co.
Therefore, either Adelaide is not in Australia or J. C.
Williamson was talking in his sleep.
There’s a letter at The Bulletin office for W. McCloud,
the “ Wild West ” showman ; also anxious inquiries as to
his whereabouts have been made by his people at Great
Falls, Montana.
Robert Loraine, the beauty actor who had the courage
to soar into world-wide popularity and into the heart of
pretty, prosperous Marie Lohr on an aeroplane, intends
going into management on his own account when he has
married Marie. His little intended, although not 21 till
July next—when the wedding happens—is one of the
most desirable and most desired actresses in England.
Loraine himself is doing- well on the boards, and to-dav
is the best-advertised pro on earth and in ttie air. Of
course, with an aeronaut there’s always a chance of things
not falling out according to programme ; but, all going-
well, Robert will certainly scoop both the Lohr and the
profits.
The most recent theatrical season in Londing offers a
curious record. Three of the running plays issue from
members of one family—husband, wife and daughter.
Cecil Raleigh’s “ Whip” is making heaps of oof (horse-oof
mainly); his wife, Mrs. Albanesi, is responsible for
“Sister Anne,” at. the Coronet; and a third play in
action, “Home Truths,” is the work of their daughter,
Miss Effie Rowlands. These names don’t coincide ; but
that’s a way theatrical families have.
If you want to grapple Christmas boxes of high
value, exquisite taste and uncommon nature, out of a
moderate purse, call at The White House, the home of
David Jones, Ltd., George-street, Sydney. This firm has
at all times kept an excellent stock of good variety, but
this season the stock beats all records. The variety
is infinite, the quality higher than ever, and,
above all, the prices are right. The firm is issuing
a gorgeous Christmas Number of its “ Buyers’ Guide,”
which summarises the firm’s specialities in picture form.
The firm pays carriage on all goods except floorcloth,
furniture, kitchenware and hardware to all parts of the
Commonwealth. Suburban orders are delivered by the
newly-organised motor service. Write for a copy of the
“ Guide ” and see at a glance what to choose and how to
spend your money to the best advantage and with the
most pleasure.*
“ Bosun ” pipes all hands to Court:—
The British India Co., the biggest shipping concern in
the Empire, after the White Star, is talking law to the
Queensland Government. Lately the co. has had bad
luck on the Australian coast. It is its own insurer, and
within the last few months has seen the Satara vanish
near Seal Rocks (N.S. W.) and the Waipara crumple up in>
Moreton Bay (Q.). Each disaster occurred in broad day-
light and smooth weather. The Satara was nominally in
charge of the master, but really in charge of a Queens-
land pilot, while the Waipara was actually and legally in
charge of a Queensland pilot in pilotage waters. In the
Satara case the co. must grin and bear it; in the Wai-
para matter it intends to fight the Government. The
pilot in charge was a Torres Strait pilot, licensed by the
Queensland Marine Board and dealt with by the Board..
But that does not comfort the co. On the other hand, the
Government does not receive the pilotage revenue ; so the
Treasury naturally wants to know why it should pay up.
On the third hand, a pilot in Australia earns a maximum
of £7OO a year ; so what’s th,e good of coming on him for,
say, £lOO,OOO to make up the loss of a valuable ship?
The Victorian pilot who was in charge of the P. and O. Aus-
tralia, when that vessel tried to hurdle Port Phillip Heads,
offered the P. and O. £lOO compensation for a loss which
the co. estimated at £llO,OOO. In the Victorian Pilotage Act
the maximum liability of a pilot is £lOO. Jf the risk
were unlimited, who could afford to be a pilot? Similarly,
the liability to a Government would be tremendous ; it
would stand to lose £lOO,OOO ten times every week. Yet,
pilotage is compulsory. In Sydney, for instance, a master
is forced to hand over a mail steamer to a pilot and pay £2O
for the privilege, and yet, as maritime law is generally
understood, the State’s liability is nil. Shipowners have
often threatened to fight the authorities, in case of
disaster, and there isn’t likely to be a better test case
than that of the Waipara. But, if Bananaland has to pay
up, something will have to happen to the Torres
Straits Pilots’ Association—something in the way of bein'"-
unpleasant.
THE GALLERY SPEAKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Already the old habitues of the Kinsr’s, mostly young:
in vears, have abated their demands for gore.—“ 0.K.”
(B. W/10/’10).
Give us a play, you writing blokes.
And sich,
Innocent, gay with simple jokes,
And rich
In moral acts that even Jud
Would praise.
That show attracts which boasts no “blood”
These days.
Beware our “ boo ! ” And if you wish
To score-
Change the menu—cut out the dish
Of gore !
Why you assume we like the shud-
D’r.y shows—
Dramas of gloom, reeking with blood—
Gawd knows!
Must in each play some mummer die—
Poor soul?
Must we for aye endure the pi-
Zen-bowl,
Pistols and knives? Their use we must
Deplore :
We and our wives have lost our lust
For gore.
Let’s have a piece in which no stir
Occurs,
With mobs, police and ghoulish mur-
Derers;
Quiet instead of noise and vi-
olence—
Too long we’d fed on shockers mi-
Nus sense.
Give us that play and we will hiss
No more.
It’s tide, eh ? Well, what price this—
“ No <Gore ” !
VICTORIA.
EARDLEY TURNER.


ĥ
at the Names we represent
EACH ONE A GUARANTEE IN ITSELF.
THE DAIMLER —Grand Prix Brussels International Exhibi-
tion, 1910.
THE AUSTIN —One of England’s foremost Cars.
THE DELAUNAY-BELLEVILLE —the Flower of the French
Automobile Industry.
THE F.N. (N.S.W.)—Manufactured by the Belgian Arms Factory.
Flawless as a Gun-Barrel.
THE SCHACHT Motor Buggy— Unexcelled for Country Work.
The Favorite of the “Man on the Land.”
YOU CANNOT GET BETTER THAN THESE.
Look
Sole
Agents
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD.
136=138 Phillip
Sydney.
I
w
DAVID JONES LTD.
Men’s Box Calf Boots
as illustration,
18/6.
Comfort has been the first thought in the making of
these Boots. They are made of an excellent
quality, good wearing Black Box
yet flexible. They have wide welted soles,
full round toes, and medium heels, not too
high. A style of boot that looks',
neat, yet smart, and can -be
worn on any occasion.
In all sizes.
18/6
Write for our Men’s Catalogue-
sent post free to any address
on request.
WE PAY CARRIAGE on all
goods except Furniture, FloOr-
covering, Kiichen and Hardware,
to any part of the Commonwealth.
Opp. G.P.0.,
SYDNEY.
• • •
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
THE LAST WORD.
SHE: “ You, sir. arc a child of Satan!”
HE: “ An you, mad hi , arc a (hie) woitsercss!”
A confirmed Bulletin correspondent
lie Victorian railway trucks (B. 17/11/TO) : “ Iron hop-
per coal trucks which are required for the Powlett traffic
remain just as they were in 1908." Worse than that even !
I have scarcely been one day out of sight of Victorian
railway trucks since 1888, and I have never seen a new
hopper truck. But I have lately seen a good few old
ones broken up. At Newport, on the new sidings running
parallel with the Williamstown line, men may almost any
day be seen breaking up old hopper trucks. This is pro-
bablv the result of the recent accident on the Ballarat-
Mar.vboroueh line, which is said to have been caused by
an old hopper truck collapsing. I have never seen
Powlett coal in “ hoppers,” anyway. That these trucks
are not used is perhaps another instance of the “ cussed-
ness” of Victorian railway methods. The “hoppers”
that are not used could be emptied in about 10 seconds ;
while the flat-bottomed “II.” trucks that are used take a
man an hour or more to empty per shovel. The “Q”
trucks, by the way, refered to in the same par. should
probably" read “11.” trucks. “Q” trucks are old, flat,
bogie trucks without sides. None have been made for
many years, and there are only about 20 of them in
gXistence.
A young man, accused of passing some
shockingly had money, and carrying a coining
outfit in his pocket, was lately reported to the
Victorian police by a lolly-shopkeeper. He had
been buying chocolates and things with spurious
florins. If lie himself made the coins with the
implements found in his pocket, he amounts to
a dark slur on a very old and dishonorable
profession. Coiners in melodrama are hawk-
eyed men who defy detection, and live like
fighting cocks on the proceeds of their artistic
ingenuity. The accused person in this case
couldn’t have grown rich in 20 years at the rate
he was going. His spurious coinage consisted of
half-crowns, florins and shillings, which, accord-
ing to the Government analyst, were worth about
half the value of standard coins. Also, they cost
him the labor of turning them out, of course.
When the young man had made a number of
florins, worth a shilling each, he went around
buying sixpenny cakes of chocolate and getting
eighteenpence change. And this unwholesome
method of making a small profit is described
crime ! The young man ought to have been
charged with eccentricity.
**■ " * *
Thanks to the supernatural sagacity of the
police, the identity ot a man who blew out his
brains iri' a bedroom at the Melbourne Coffee
Palace on January 15, 1010, has at last been
proved. At the inquest it appeared that the
deceased stranger was probably neither of the
two persons he had said he was, so the coroner
adjourned the inquiry for further evidence. After
a iO-months’interval, the further evidence came
to pass from the constable who had been com-
missioned to unravel the mystery :
The constable, when sworn, said that be bad made a
careful examination of the bedroom at the Coffee Palace
occupied by the deceased, and had discovered the follow-
ing message written upon the wall: —
“Charles Angus Watson, born Liverpool, England,
Feb. 13, 1887 ; died January 15,1910. Coroner’s verdict:
‘Suicide during temporary insanity.’”
Witness (continuing) said that acting upon this clue be
had been instrumental in communicating with the Liver-
pool police, who in their turn had made exhaustive in-
quiries, with the result that a communication had been
received from England Setting forth that the dead man
was in reality Charles Angus Watson.
If this should meet the eye of Sherlock Holmes
he will certainly drop his deadly calm and burst
into cheers. The discovery of the clue was per-
haps more wonderful than the following of it up.
Who but a constable would have detected a
message written on the wall? Any plain, ordi-
nary citizen might have found it on the floor
or up the chimney, but a member of the Force
was needed to spot the writing on the wall and
draw correct conclusions from it. The detectives
in England showed almost as much astuteness.
They had nothing to work upon save the full
name, age and birthplace of the corpse ; yet they
discovered that he could be identified by his
photo with the man who had supplied those
meagre particulars about himself. It is wonder-
ful ! And it only took 10 months.
* * * *
The half-and-half proposals of that gentle
M.L. reformer, Attorney-General Findlay, for
the checking of certain diseases, were not
likely to meet with the approval of men who have
a special knowledge of the subject and no good
and holy following to placate.
Among others, Kington Fvtfe, one
of Wellington’s best-known doc-
tors, got on to Findlay’s tracks.
As a professional man, Dr. Fyffe
declared that, as the result of the
clearing-out raid which the authori-
ties had made upon Flossie, “se-
duction and its attendant evil,
abortion, are rampant” ; also that,
Flossie having gone, “no decent,
good-looking girl is safe in this
town.” So he calls on the Govern-
ment, in the interests of “the
daughters of the respectable middle
class, the backbone of the nation,”
to leave off being a silly ostrich,
and honestly enforce a proper Act
to stamp out certain diseases.
F.yffe’s dreadfully plain language
has shocked the Wowser and the
Wowseress in particular, and the
air is filled with dreadful warnings
of the things that will happen to
the country if it “officially recog-
nises vice.” On the same principle,
it is a shocking thing to recognise
smallpox, and blowflies, and measles, and earth-
quakes; but the world has made up its mind that
it had better do it and save worse trouble.
* * * *
Melbourne supplies the tragic story of
what may happen to a jeweller in the day’s work.
Cyanide of potassium and beer are frequently
used in his workshop, the cyanide for gilding pur-
poses, the fresh beer for brightening the gilding.
Only a little fresh beer is needed at a time;
therefore the workers ordinarily swallow most of
the contents of a bottle when the cork is drawn,
and keep the rest for business. In the Melbourne
case one of the jewellers was too busy to take his
glass with a head on it, and when at last lie went to
drink it he, took a draught of cyanide by mistake.
If the law of compensation is properly enforced
by Providence, the day will come when a melan-
choly jeweller, weary of life, will be saved from
suicide by drinking a glass of beer in mistake for
half a pint of cyanide. Under the influence of
the beer he will recover his spirits and live hap-
pily ever afterwards. Meanwhile the Melbourne
Wowsers have bracketed the sad story of the
middle-aged jeweller with the awful narrative of
the young man who died of a boxing encounter,
KEEPING IN TOUCH WITH HIM.
MRS. GOLDSTEIN : “ Mine Gracious I were is liddle Ikey?"
MRS. GOLDSTEIN : “ He's all right , Rachel. I haf’im by der hand!"
The Broken Hill people lately telegraphed
to Attorney-General Holman at great length and
in a hostile spirit about his refusal to release
Stokes, a person with a dubious record who got
into prison during the recent Barrier unpleasant-
ness. But the concentrated bitterness of their
communication lay in the last word of the mes-
sage. It was “collect.”
* * * *
The State of Victoria now possesses a coat-
of-arms “granted by royal warrant.” Perhaps some
Gumsuckers are happier since British officialdom
has been graciously pleased to allow two draped
female figures, representing Peace and Prosperity,
to support a shield on which the Southern Cross
blazes furiously, what time the top-half of a
kangaroo holds aloft an imperial mown. The
meaty half of the ’roo has been sacrificed for that
bauble.
* * * *
W. A. Salems lately wrote to the S. M.
Herald from Temora (N.S.W.) :
I and some 20 others have lately been working with a
chaff-cutting plant. The wages paid varied from 7s. per
day general hands to JE2 10s. per week for competent
horse-drivers and feeders. Working hours: Breakfast,
5.30 a.tn. ; start work 6 o’clock, smoke (15min.) at 9 a.m.
and 4 p.m. ; dinner, 55miii.; 00 hours per week. The
cutter stands in the middle of a large cultivation pad-
dock, with no shelter of any kind, not even a pole to
pitch a tent with. When the day’s work is done, the
men are compelled to spread their blankets out in the
open ploughed field, or crawl into the haystack or. under
the machine like dogs. The meals are cooked in the
open, and served,on an old barn door supported by.props.
There are no seats of any kind. The men have to
grab what they can, and battle with flies and
dust raised by about 30 horses. On the plant being re-
moved to its present stand, the working hours have been
increased from 60 to 68 hours per week for all hands, with
the exception of the horse-drivers, who commence to har-
ness up at 4 a.m., and it is after 8 p.m. when they get
unharnessed. When I approached the boss to get either
a reduction of hours of extra payment for overtime,, I
promptly received my “ time.”
After which the cocky expects you to sympathise
with him when he can t get labor; and stodgy
old papers like the S. M. Herald want to know
why men will crowd to the “ unhealthy fac-
tories” that the Freetrade papers are so fond of
talking about.
* * ■* *
According to Adelaide Critic (16/11T0),
Labor Premier McGowen, of N.S.W., is no
gentleman ; and from its own more refined heights
it describes him thus wise:—
Premier McGow en is not pretty. Still he has a taking
countenance. Just now he has taken office, and has in-
finite opportunities for taking. From his “mug” there
is no reason to doubt that he will miss any opportunities.
New South Wales may cheerfully expect the inaugura-
tion of the reign of “Burglar Bill.” A man who has a
face like McGowen and the “principles” of his party
must have a fellow-feeling for Bill Sykes. And he is not
the man to let a “pal” stay in “quad” while he can
help it. He has begun by liberating Bowling—a bad
move there, for Peter is out for a job—McGowen’s
for choice. ... There is grim, sardonic satire in
the Parliamentary procedure which requires that a
man with a “phiz” that would convict him of
anything from pitch-and-toss to manslaughter shall be
called not only a “ gentleman,” but an “ honorable gen-
tleman ! ” Ye gods ! A good English word has become
horribly abused ; but surely we can draw the line some-
where? The curious “scallywags” that Australians
have made M.P.’s shows their opinion of Parliament.
Anything on two legs is good enough. The Labor party
would elect Satan himself but for the fact that the Devil
is a gentleman. That puts him off the plebiscite.
“ Bully ” is stamped on. that “mug” [McGowen’s] in
letters of brass, so bold that he who runs m .y read, and,
reading, rdh still harder—unless he happens to be armed
and shoots first for safety.
But, thank Heaven, there is still one party which
knows how to behave itself like, a gentleman.
What could be more beautiful, for instance, than
the quiet dignity of the foregoing remarks? How
different from the vulgar things that a person
who is no gentleman (McGowen, for example)
would naturally say about a political opponent!
If Ethel Harris, of Perth, is really dead
and buried, as the police suppose, she was interred
bv a more capable undertaker than most of hei
mangled sisters. Few of them were deep enough.
Deeming used to put his late cemented wife under
the hearthstone, and, suspicion being once
aroused, she was found in about two minutes.
When Hawley Crippen became-a widower, he put
the evidence of his bereavement in a shallow
grave, in the cellar, and its discovery was quite
easy. The famous Henry Wainwright of London,
was even more fatuous. He buried Harriet Lane
in the cellar, and nobody missed her. things
were going all right when Henry took the
insane idea of removing her to new quarters.
So he* dug up Harriet, and put her m
a bag that had no lock, and humped it
gaily through the streets of London. I hen,
finding the load too heavy, he asked the lout.
Stokes, a complete stranger, to hold it while he
went round the corner and whistled for a cab.
During his absence Stokes looked in the bag and
was astonished to find that he was holding Harriet,
and after that it was all up with Henry All
these were simple cases. But in the Perth in-
stance Ethel Harris has been dug fbr during a
A FRIENDLY WARNING.
THE BEERY ONE (to his barrow): “ Shteady, ole
bough (hie), shteady. Sktan’ up! Parshon's
domin’."
long series of weeks. Wheel tracks, supposed to
he those of the suspected person’s drav taking-her
away for burial, have been followed through miles
of bush. The ground has been prodded with
spears over vast areas, and much female clothing
has been found at widely separated spots, and
mangled remains have come to light miles away
from a lot of the clothing. And with it all the
identification of Ethel Harris is still lacking. In
fact, there is such a scatteratipn of evidence that
the force begins to wonder if it is on the track of
three or four murdered women, or if someone has
madly buried an old clothes shop over a large ex-
tent of country.
THE LOST LEGION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the Melb. Argus, a bank-manager wails: “The
trouble is to get applicants who have bad any public-
school education. There is something gained in getting
boys from among the more highly-educated class. ... 1
put it down to the good times. There has been a decided
tendency on the part of people, who have a bit of money,
to put their boys on the land. . . . We have raised the
salary from £4O to £6O a year.”
Behold, young man, the luck that may befall you !
Upon a lofty stool we will instal you,
A pen behind your ear ;
In High Finance you’ll find an avocation
With the unparalleled remuneration
Of Sixty Pounds a Year !
Consider, ’tis a gentlemanly billet;
No mere State Scholar could attempt to fill it
In any circumstances ;
Since there’s ay« ne sais quoi in such stations,
A cachet, and a shower of invitations
To small suburban dances.
Something is gained (the manager has stated) ,
By seeking ’mid the highly-educated
For clerks with manners comely.
Once, forty pound a year was thought attractive :
Won’t sixty pounds arouse the minds inactive
Of Vere de Vere and Cholmondeley ?
Why go upon the land ? ’Tis base and smelly
What boots a fatter purse, a fuller belly
’Afid toil of such pollution ?
For who would milk It cow or clean a stable,
When with a whole red quid-a-week he’s able
To join an Institution?
But, ob, our young men’s taste is vulgar growing ;
Even the tempting bait that we are showing
Won’t lure them to our stools.
The cultured Clerk, hero of tennis-parties,
Mainstay of picnics, cankered in his heart is
By agricultural schools.
No longer will Augustus, Clarence, Percy,
Take forty-pound-a-year as some great mercy,
A boon, a crowning glory ;
The Bank Clerk as we knew him has been banished
Off the world’s stage ; this butterfly has vanished
From our financial story.
VICTORIA.
L.


Keep your Table and
Household linen white
as snow by always
using Sunlight Soap.
DIRECTIONS ROUND EACH TABLET.
No. 67. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
“PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. No. 57.
By Special
Appointment
ħ
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS, M 0 0“ s '
THE CATERER, Tel. No. 2, Ascot.
Wedding' Receptions and At Hornes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Ring- up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
h
Fancy Sox for Xmas Giving!
The present style of Oxford Shoes and Trousers, turned
up at the foot hem, have given Fancy Sox a great vogue
for Summer wear.
Luckily, we’ve imported a fine range for the Xmas
season—moderate weight Cashmere Sox, in very attractive
patterns and color blends in Myrtle, Black and Brown,
Slate and Marine Blue, with harmonious stripes—quite
distinctive and new effects.
O c
Pair.
Six Pairs, Post Free.
One Pair, Postage 3d.
Buy some Yourself—or, what is a more Useful Present ?
PEAPES CO. LTD
“ MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309-311 George Street. Sydney.
An “association of metropolitan superin-
tendents ” has joined the throng of unions and
societies which attends fussily to Melbourne’s
morals. The other day the “ metropolitan super-
intendent ” informed a municipal council that a
whisky bar at the local bowling club’s green was
“ a detriment to the welfare of the citizens and
district.” Somehow, the endeavors of these various
morality associations are mostly put forth on behalf
of the Licensed Victuallers’ Association or the
League of Bookmakers. Pub keepers naturally pro-
test against all/drinking places other than hotel
bars, just as Ikey Mo protests against the totali-
sator. But seeing that direct protests from the
publicans and skinners would be too obviously
absurd, those specially-protected parasites leave
their interests in the care of certain Wowser
societies. Thus Judkins, maybe, is just a verdant
fanatic who gets his leg pulled all the time by the
Powers of Evil.
• # * * -V.
“ The Spout ” : Recently, in a little muni-
cipality up north-west way (N.S.W.) the man
who visits backyards in the night-timer esigned
suddenly. Advertisements were inserted in the
local papers, but never an applicant showed
up. It was four days since the last visit was
made, and things were get-
ting serious, so the Mayor
decided to carry out the
work himself. With a friend
of the same spirit he put in
a strenuous night, and did
the whole round. The town-
ship gave him three cheers
and' the council gave him a
voto of thanks, and I guess
he earned the lot. In fact,
if Cohen, of Adelaide, is to
be made a Lord Mayor, I
think it’s up to George Y. to
make this chap a Duke.
* * *
“Demo” : The Austra-
liiln Labor Government hints
at a Civil Service pension
scheme. Well, don’t pay pen-
sions at all, I say, or pay
enough to keep a man, and
don’t let him compete with
the unsubsidised.' The Civil
Service pensioner infests
Melbourne. You know him
at sight. He does a lfttle bit
of biz to keep his hand in,
and competes with the man
who pays him. If you are an
agent of any sort you are
bound to contribute towards
some rival. He and the sub-
sidised parson are press barn-
acles, too, taking bread out
of the mouth of the poor
journalist. No one is more
eager than I am to see the
helpless maintained out of
public funds. But all the
Civil Service pensioners I
know-—a fearful crowd—have
work left in them. My
plan is that the elderly man
should be kept at work,
and paid for doing if. If
you must “pension” him,
let him take less pay for doing less work, and
let his pension be added to that. But don’t
turn him out to be a nuisance either to himself
through doing nothing, or to others through com-
peting with them at cut rates which they can’t
afford to accept.
The most downtrodden handmaiden in
N.S.W. has at last a prospect ahead of her; the
new Labor Government proposes to reduce the
hours of the hospital nurse to eight per
diem. Of course it will involve extra expense, for
at least three nurses will be required where there
are now two skeletons, but the reform is worth
paying for. Up till now, the city hospital nurse
has, in almost every case, been a wretched being,
working 12 or more hours daily, doing the work
of i wo during these hours, snatching scanty meals
in haste and anyhow, sleeping in limited accom-
modation (often three in a room), and receiving
pay which the humblest domestic servant would
throw in her employer’s eye. In her spare time,
of which she hasn’t any, she is expected to be
found fainting over text-books or lying insen-
sible beside heavy medical volumes, by way
°f preparing for examinations. During the
earlier stages of her career she isn’t really a
nurse, but a housemaid, charwoman, generally
useful and odd-job girl without the pay which
should attach to these positions. She is under
regulations which would make Mary Ann shriek
with laughter, and in some hospitals at least the
younger variety of nurse is expected to show a
deference to the matron which almost goes
beyond that which the enslaved Louisiana nigger
paid to his owner. She doesn’t speak to the tre-
mendous personage, unless driven to that rash act
by pressure of business. When she meets her in
a corridor she stands stock still close against the
wall until the gigantic apparition has passed.
And she would no more think of remarking
to the apparition that it was a fine
day than she would think of asking the heavenly
choirs how they were popping up. In repayment
for all this misery she has a social status which
silly conventions deny to the household help.
She is “Nurse” or “Miss” instead of “Jane.”
She isn’t exposed to the familiarities of the butcher
boy at the back door. She doesn’t spend lone even-
ings in the kitchen, though it would often be a
blessed relief to her if she could spend a long, quiet
evening anywhere—even in the sink. She has the
chance to marry an impecunious doctor instead of
a prosperous greengrocer. She wears a uniform
which, unfortunately, is often assumed also by the
Daughter of the Town. She generally has a
shattered constitution, whereas the domestic help
often has a large waist. And among people who
don’t know how much of her work consists in
washing dead bodies, she wears a halo like that
which attached to Florence of Scutari, recently
deceased.
* * * *
“Chasuble”: The movement started to
complete St. Pat’s Cathedral, in Melbourne, does
not emanate from Archbishop Carr; but his
friends think the finished cathedral would grandly
commemorate the 2Gth anniversary of hisarchie-
piscopate next year. I fancy the Archbishop will
say “ No.” The central transept tower and spire,
THE CRISIS.
“ O, doctor, doctor, tell me how long he can live! ”
350 ft. high, would alone cost £40,000. Besides
that, there are two front towers and spires, each
200 ft. high, to complete; and the big money it
would cost would be largely drained away from
more useful church work. So I think it will be
“No” with emphasis. Meanwhile, Archbishop
Clarke, at St. James’s, has been taunting the
Anglicans with leaving their St. Paul’s unfinished.
This will be a mean job compared with St.
Patrick’s. There is a bride-cake-looking model of
the finished St. Pat’s inside the cathedral under
a glass case. Wonderful, but not so wonderful
as the model of Parliament House inside that
building, The designers of that were Knight and
Kerr, in 1854, and Washington’s capitol is a fool
to it.
THE “ PERKS ” OF THE PROFESSION.
"He's mine! I saw him first.”
Some bitter remarks were made last week
about the indeterminate sentence system as prac-
tised in Victoria. The original idea was good,
but there is no idea so good that it can’t be
wrecked when men like Thomas Bent and John
Weary get hold of it. The habitual criminal was
to be taken sadly but firmly by the ear and led to
a labor colony. There he was to work at some
remunerative industry and earn his keep and a
good deal over. He was to be made a thorough
tradesman of some kind and qualified to earn his
own living, which is a matter of no small import-
ance, seeing that the average criminal is mostly a
laborer, dealer, odd-jobber, or at best a very bad
tradesman. He was to be keptclean and orderly and
not allowed to fight or cuss, he was to be supplied
with education, and when it seemed he had really
got into habits of industry he was to be turned
loose on trial with some of his own earnings in
his pocket to start with. A remote country dis-
trict where farm and garden work could be added
to the curriculum would be the best place for
such an experiment. But Bent and Murray were
too tired to even look for a suitable place, and*
besides, they had the habit of bringing everything
to Melbourne—had it badly. So the indeter-
minates were put in a division of Pentridge Gaol,
supplied with workshops where they work or not
as they feel inclined (they don’t feel inclined),
and given a large yard in which they
curse and fight at large and make books
on the races. That is as far as the great
reformative scheme has gone, and it repre-
sents no strenuous waste of brain tissue on
Premier Murray’s part. But the hinder part of
Murray’s habiliments, a little below the middle,
is worn with sitting down, and he probably
thought that the indeterminates, when provided
with a yard and plenty of food, would sit down
also, and take the rest cure, and be at peace with
all mankind. The fact that they prefer to stand
up and make needless disturbances all day long
has upset his calculations.
* * * *
The Rev. E. L. .Watson, lecturing the
Baptist Union in Melbourne, remarked, more in
sorrow than in anger ; “ Sin in Australia is omni-
potent, omniscient and omnipresent.. There is a
deplorable decrease of innocence among young
people... . Marriage in Melbourne to-day is only
marriage of convenience. ... Children reprove
their fathers for their bad habits, and plead with
their mothers to be respectable.” Sad, very sad.
But since sin is omnipotent, and has
the churches and parsons beaten ; is om-
niscient, consequently wiser than all the
Wowsers in the world; and omnipresent, and
therefore in the gospel hall and the parsonage and
the hearts of the pastors and spiritual masters,
there is no escape, and rebukes are vain and ser-
mons worthless. How foolish of Parson Watson
to cruel his own pitch like this ! But we like the
picture of the children pleading with their mothers
to be respectable, although they themselves are
such a bad lot. Possibly they only want their
mothers to appear respectable. Or possibly again
Pastor Watson is simply suffering from hysterics
or over-work or bad cooking.
Two ladies
who some time
ago bought a
house at Dtibbo,
have got the
N. S. W. Full
Court to lay it
down that Par-
liament is really
sane, however
much appear-
ances may be
against it.
These ladies
bought the
house for a pri-
vate hospital;
but the local
council wouldn’t
supply water
until they had
paid up £57 of
water-rate ar-
rears. Section 23
of the Country
Towns Water
Supply Act
reads : “ Not-
withstanding
anything in
the principal
Act, the council
cannot be com-
pelled to supply
water to any person
whomsoever.” This,
argued counsel for the
defence, settled the
matter; and to the
ordinary mind it
seemed so. In fact,
it seemed that the
section gave power to
the council to cease
supplying water not
only to its debtors, but
to people who had corns, or
false whiskers or red teeth.
Cullen, C.J., however, pave it
as his opinion, anv and all other
opinions to the contrary notwithstanding, that
the Legislature is not a constitutional lunatic,
as he implied it would be if, after making
provision for the supply of water to rate-
payers, it gave absolute power to a council to say
which individual should be served and which
should not. “No good to me,” said Cullen,
C.J., in effect, and, as the other wigs were with
him, judgment was passed down to the ladies,
accompanied by old Costs.
* * * *
“ Henry Horsecollar Of two dogs lam
weary—the Smart Setter and the Poverty Pointer.
* * * *
In connection with the medical inspection
of large groups of school children in the various
States, R. S. Rogers, M.D., of Adelaide, lately
finished the overhaul of 1000 children in South
Aus. Some results and comparisons :
Tasmanian children are taller than those of other
States at almost all ages. Westralia stands next, while
South Aus. is a little behind N. S. Wales. In height and
weight, Tasmanian and Westralian boys also keep an easy-
lead over those of N. S. Wales and South Aus. at every
age ; and the boys of N.S. W. are consistently slightly in
advance of those of S.A., age for age.
Comparison of the average heights of the S.A. child
with the English child are decidedly in favor of the
Australian youngster at all ages. And at all ages the Aus-
tralian children tower above Glasgow children. At the
age of seven the S.A. boy averages 2’3in. more than a
Glasgow boy, and at 14 exceeds him by 3'2in. Similarly
with the S.A. girl. At seven she is 2'2in. taller than the
Glasgow girl; and at 14 she tops her by 2'9in.
Tasmanian children are also the weightiest. At 13
years the S.A. boy heads the list, but at 14 he falls be-
hind the N.S.W. boy, and still further behind the boy
from Tas. The S.A. and N.S.W. boys approximately
weigh the same at 14; the Westralian boy is consider-
ably ahead of the S.A. and N.S.W. boys at 10, 11
and 12, loses ground at 13, and falls away into the rear
of all the States ad 14. Tasmanian girls weigh more than,
the girls from other States at all ag-es, and greatly so at-
the higher ages. At 14 the Apple Island girl exceeds the.
next highest State average hv more than 41b. The-
averag-e Glasgow child is much inferior in weight to the
S.A. child at all ages; and the latter also beats the
English child, as a rule, although at 14 years old the-
English girl averages 2’341b. heavier than theS. Australian,
girl.
In chest measurements the S.A. boy beats the boy of:
N.S.W. ; he outclasses the boy of the United States at alii
ages ; and at 12, 13 and 14 he simply loses the British,
boy.
About 15 percent, of the S.A. children examined hadl
defective vision ; ip N.S.W. the percentage was 28; in
Hobart it was as high as 44 - 2 ; and in W.A. it ran to 38'3.
Everywhere the association of dulness of intellect
with physical defects is marked. Of the 1000
children examined in S.A. 11l were classed by the
teachers as dull, and with the exception of three
(quadroons of less than average intelligence),
practically the whole of these dullards had their
brains hobbled by defects of vision, hearing,
breathing or speech, or by general debility.
Which is cause and which is effect isn’t always
obvious; but, at any rate, the association of the
two defects—mental and physical—is a very good
reason for finding out the physical weaklings, and
striving to improve their physique, in the hope
that the brain will be brushed up in the process.
THE SCREAM AND ITS MEANINGS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Women scream when attacked because they are not
well equipped for the muscular response involved in
fighting hr running. —Melbourne University professor.
Why does woman scream ? Her voice is
Often heard across the park,
Whilst her gentle soul rejoices
In the glamor of the Dark ;
’Tis a scream of strange delight—
Not a yell of pain or fright.
Why does woman scream ? Though fickle
In her fancies and her taste,
Any sudden squeeze or tickle
From a hand about her waist
Has the one effect, it seems :
Vexed or charmed, the damsel screams.
Pallid, terror-stricken faces
Sometimes the policemen see ;
Woman screams in certain cases
Where she fain would fight or flee ;
But oft when she might run away,
The maid prefers to scream—and stay.
Good old scream ! Methinks it covers
Multitudes of pleasant sins.
Ere the silence of the lovers
Tells where danger-time begins,
Like a prelude to a dream
Sounds the noisy, rustic scream.
VICTORIA.
O.K.


“National” Gas Engines and Suction Plants
Known as the “ Royal ” Gold Medal Engines and Plants, beat all comers
in England after exhaustive trials.
EXCELLENT RESULTS FROM EITHER COKE OR CHARCOAL.
SOLE AGENTS, with experts from the English Works
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER U CO., 2 Circula; Quay East, Sydney; 34 Queen St„ Melbourne
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
mr “NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE ”
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Bank of Nkyv South Walks
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
Mar., ’04.. 119,582 10 p.c. = 100,000 19.552 1,368,024
Sept.,’o4.. 120,435 10 ~ ~ 100,000 20,435 1,388,459
Mar., ’05.. 127,811 10 „ ~ 100,000 27,811 1,416,270
Sept.,’os.. 126,963 10 ~ ~ 100,000 26,963 1,443,233
Mar., ’06.. 129,385 10 ~ ~ 100,000 29,385 1.472.61 S
Sept.,’o6.. 130,115 10',, ~ 100,000 30,115 1,502,733
Mar ’O7 /141,581 10 „ ~100,000 26,5811.™,,.
Mar., 07.. |. Voled t 0 Provi dent Fund 15,000) 1 ’ 529 ’ 3U
Sept., ,07.. 142,966 10 p.c. = 110,635 32,331 1,561,645
Mar., 'OB.. 156,742 10 ~ „ 124,399 32,343 1,593,98 S
Sept.,’oB.. 167,928 10 ~ ~ 125,000 42,928 1,636,916
Mar., ’09.. 176,426 10 ~ ~ 125,000 51,426 1,688,342
Sept.,’o9.. 182,362 10 „ ~ 125,000 57,362 1,745,704
Mar., ’lO.. 178,939 10 ~ ~ 125,000 53,939 1,799,643
Premiums on new shares .. .. 56,720 1,856,363
Sept., *lO.. 184,689 10 p.c. = 133,709 50,980 1,907,343
The figures are really amazing. Not only is the profit, as
shown in the foregoing table for the past six months, a
record, but various slices have been cut off it to bring it
down even as low as that. For instance, £lO,OOO voted
to the Officers’ Provident Fund has not been shown as
profit—it has been treated as part of the working
expenses. Further, £6958 which was handed to certain
shareholders as interest on prepaid instalments on new
shares has also not been reckoned as profit ; the only
objection to that course was that this money only carried
5 percent, while the capital proper carried 10 per cent.
Hut even though the profit has increased by about 50 per
cent, in seven years, the full extent of the wonderful
progress can’t be told from those figures only. Take first-
this as an indication of what has happened in only one
year
Sept., ’O9. Sept., ’lO.
Notes .. £1,001,334 £1,281,468 Inc. £280,134
Bills, etc... 3,965,805 4,061,568 Inc. 95,763
Deposits .. 27,765,278 31,808,366 Inc. 4,043,088
Liquid assets 15,383,529 18,578,215 Inc. 3,194,686
Advances .. 21,012,092 22,628,076 Inc. 1,615,984
Premises .. 707,500 730,000 Inc. 22,500
Over £4,000,000 added to the deposits of this one Austra*
lian bank in twelve months! And it is practically certain
that this is almost all, if not quite all, good Australian
money. In fact, this and other Australian banks are
lenders to rather than borrowers from J. Bull nowadays:
on Sept. 30 the B.N.S.VV. had no less than £3,003,187 at
short call in London, as against £280,000 on Sept. SO,
1900. Big deposits with Australian banks are not neces-
sarily anything to whoop about. It just depends upon
who owns the deposits. In this case, the big deposits
being due to the earnings of Australia, the whoop is
justified.
The comparison made in the last table covered
only a year. Here is one for 10 years (and remember
that that decade includes one very severe drought)
Sept.,’oo. Sept.,’lo.
Notes and bills .. £3,748,386 £5,343,036 Inc. £1,594,650
Deposits .. .. 20,987,103 31,808,366 Inc. 10,821,263
Liquid assets .. 7,942,942 16,153,163 Inc. 8,210,221
Bills receivable
and advances .. 19,526,476 25,053,128 Inc. 5,526,652
Premises .. .. 650,000 730,000 Inc. 80,000
The form of the accounts has been somewhat altered in
the last few years, wherefore it has been necessary in the
foregoing to show liquid assets less bills and remittances,
and to add those assets on to advances. The comparison
shows, not merely a magnificent growth of deposits, but
an extraordinary growth of liquid assets. No doubt a bank
is all the stronger for keeping a big liquid reserve ; but the
size of the reserves in this case means that the country
isn’t offering the securities that satisfy the bank. Which
looks disgraceful. This young country calls for an
enormous amount of development; and every penny
available should find profitable use. At the share-
holders’ meeting Chairman Mackellar grieved over the
progressive land tax. It may be that in 10 years he
will rejoice. A bank that has to lock up over 50 per
cent, of its deposits, etc., in its safe, or let the money
out at short call, certainly isn’t the sort of institution
that should be satisfied with present conditions.
As the public’s money deposited with the bank
has rapidly increased, the bank has very properly in-
creased its capital ; for the latter is the insurance fund
which guarantees the return of the public’s money, and
as the risk increases, so, of course, should the guarantee
fund. Ten years ago the capital was £2,000,000. Subse-
quently it was put up to £2,500,000. Six months ag'o it
was decided'to get in another half-million, by the issue
of 25,000 new £2O shares at a premium of £5. As
at Sept. 30, there was £2,726,880 of old and new
capital in hand. If the deposits go on grow-
ing, the new capital will be none too much.
At present the public’s money in the business is more
than eight times greater than the capital and re-
serves combined, and under normal conditions that
would be regarded as too much. Present conditions are,
however, not normal, inasmuch as the bank holds an
almost exact 50 per cent, of its liabilities to the public in
liquid form. It could instantly pay £5,000,000 of notes,
deposits, etc., and still have 42 per cent, of its liabilities
represented by liquid assets—and even 42 per cent, is an
excessive amount of cash, etc., to keep in hand. And if
it did pay back £5,000,000, its total liabilities would be
only seven times greater than the shareholders’ funds.
Calculated on capital and reserves, recent profits
have been as follows :
Mar., 1907 .. £7 4 1 p.c. I Mar., 1909 .. £8 10 7 p.c.
Sept., 1907 .. 712 10 ~ | Sept., 1909 .. 814 2 „
Mar., 1908 .. 715 11 „ Mar., 1910 .. 8 8 7 ~
Sept., 1908.. 8 4 1,, | Sept., 1910 ... 8 7 1 „
The figures for the past term are approximate only, be-
cause of the new capital and reserves that have been
flowing in. The rate might easily be £9 7s. Id. per cent,
if Australian industries (including the agricultural) were
more vigorously developed—which, of course, is the pur-
pose of the land tax that shareholders are invited to
weep over.
*** , *
The English, Scottish and Australian Bank :
Net Profits on
Busi- Repurchase
ness of Old Written Re-
June, Profits. Deposits. Dividends. Off. serves.
1899.. £15,411 £21,032 Nil £6,582 £67,124
1900.. 38,465 8,678 2£ p.c. = £13,486 100,781
1901.. 41,907 579 3£ „ „ 18,880 124,387
1902.. 49,329 4,929 4 „ „ 21,578 157,067
1903.. 40,806 1,828 4 „ ~ 21,578 178,123
1904.. 45,585 1,273 4 „ „ 21,578 203,403
1905.. 48,348 1,527 4 ~ „ 21,578 85,991 145,709
1906.. 48,667 1,797 4* ~ ~ 24,275 8,990 162,908
1907.. 58,324 659 5' „ „ 26,972 8,750 186,169
1908.. 61,784 599 5 „ ~ 26,972 19,590 201,990
1909 . 62,194 937 6 „ „ 32,366 9,928 222,827
1910.. 71,878 1,211 6 „ ~ 32,366 22,000 241,550
This is one of the very few banks that still carry the
scratches of the early ’9o’s upon their face. Four of
the banks which do business in Australia have their head-
offices in London—the’Asia, Union, E.S. and A., and
London. The first two got through the troubles without
reconstructing. The others made what is called a poor
bargain with the depositors. As a matter of • fact, Aus-
tralia was so demoralised at the time that the rights of
depositors were not treated so seriously here—or as
honestly, if you like —as they were in Britain. Conse-
quently, of the banks which had to reconstruct, those with
head-offices in London treated the depositors much more
deferentially than was the rule with purely Australian
banks. In this case the old debt carries mostly 4 or i\
per cent. ; and 4J per cent, net is a lot of money to earn
even on a fixed deposit. And it was—at the outset, at
any rate—all the more difficult to earn the interest, see-
ing that much of the capital was represented by nothing
better than boom-froth. The position is, however, being
steadily strengthened by the writing down of assets :
that is to say, the froth is being replaced by hard profits.
A sum equal to one-third of whatever amount is paid
away in dividends has to be applied to the repayment of
this old debt. Now, that debt, though it carries a high
rate of interest, can at present be bought up at a small
discount. This is partly because the high rate of interest
is to some extent dependent on profits ; for the deferred
stock carries only 3 percent, as a fixed thing, the other
per cent, being paid only if it has been earned. The
table shows the total amount of this discount. Out of
the profits for 1909 £10,789 had to be set aside. This was
used during the past year to purchase £12,000 worth
of stock (face value); consequently the difference
between the two (£1211) was profit to the bank. When
that £12,000 was paid off the debt, a similar amount was
written off the assets to square things. Another plan
would be to add the £12,000 to reserves and leave the
assets as they were ; but if the assets are still not worth
20s. in the £ all round, the method adopted by the bank
is the honest one. In addition to the £12,000 men-
tioned, £lO,OOO is written off premises. The latter item
is still much too great. The appalling amount which it
put into ornamental bricks and mortar was indeed one of
the very weak features of the old E.S. and A.O. Bank. In
1898, the year after the last reconstruction (there had to
be a rearrangement in 1897), premises and furniture stood
at £455,231. This item has now been got down to
£328,900. The whole paid capital of the bank is only
£539,438.
So far as the old debt goes, this comparison
shows the present position and the reduction since the
year preceding the last arrangement:—
1896. 1910. Reduction.
Debenture stock .. £983,547 £983,547 Nil
Terminable receipts 891,454 Nil £891,454
Bref. insc. stock .. 889,419 889,419 Nil
Deferred stock .. 808,758 759,500 49,258
£3,573,178 £2,632,466 £940,712
The terminable receipts were paid off' out of assets ; the
deferred stock is being paid off out of profits. The old
debt is still about five times greater than the capital.
Certainly itis itself a form of capital—cumulative pref.
capital. The effect of having to pay a fixed rate of
interest on so large a sum will most likely be that the
disclosed profits will show big ups and downs. In a good
year, when this bank can make an extra £ per cent, on
its capital—including- share capital, reserves, and the
three perpetual stocks—over £17,000 is added to the
profits, which means no less than about 3J per cent,
on the share capita). On the other hand, in a
bad time, £ per cent, less earnings will, of course,
bring the profits down £17,000 below the normal.
Hence the big variations that are likely; hence,
also, the danger of taking as a guide the figures
in a time of great national prosperity. Further,
in calculating the dividend that is likely to be paid, the
fact has to be remembered that if £3 goes to share-
holders £1 has to go to old creditors. No doubt the re-
payment of this debt out of profits will make things
very sweet by-and-bye. But by-and-bye is a very long
time coming; and lots of people are dead before it
arrives.
The only old debt paid off lately has been the
small amount wiped out by the proportion of profits set
aside for the purpose. This shows ;
Reconstructed 'Paid off
Deposits. During Year.
June, 1900 .. £3,176,074 .. £42,416
~ 1901 .. 2,941,659 .. 234,415
~ 1902 .. 2,906,379 .. 35,280
~ 1903 .. 2,790,924 .. 115,455
~ 1904 .. 2,780,482 .. 10,442
„ 1905 .. 2,681,724 .. 98,758
~ 1906 .. 2,672,734 .. 8,990
„ 1907 .. 2,663,984 .. 8,750
~ 1908 .. 2,654,394 .. 9,590
~ 1909 .. 2,644,466 .. 9,928
„ 1910 .. 2,632,466 .. 12,000
It means, of course, that it has lately paid the bank better
to keep and use the money than pay off its debts. •>
The bank has pushed things along during the
past year, especially in the matter of advances :
1909. 1910.
Notes £68,071 £84,275 Inc. £16,204
Bills, etc 305,150 484,110 Inc. 178,960
Depositsat interest.. 2,450,735 2,563,573 Inc. 112,838
Free deposits.. .. 1,713,514 2,123,546 Inc. 410,032
Liquid assets.. .. 2,797,676 3,023,334 Inc. 225,658
Advances .. .. 4,855,135 5,361,090 Inc. 505,955
Premises .. .. 337,329 328,900 Dec. 8,429
.That’s a big increase, made, too, at a time of high prices,
when the foundation for many a bad debt may easily have
been laid. It is too early, therefore, to congratulate any
bank on a big increase of business. Yet, despite the big-
increase of advances, the cash position is highly satis-
factory, inasmuch as this bank holds no less than 58 per
cent, of all its new debts in liquid assets. And the new
debts are the only debts that can be called for.
The Colonial Mutual Fire Insurance Co.
(Melbourne); —
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves. serves.
1899.. £18,922 Bp.c.= £3,000 £2OOO £13,922 £28,563
1900.. 16,184 8,, „ 3,000 2000 11,184 39,747
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 27,247
1901.. 27,789 8 p.c.= 4,000 23,789 51,036
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 38,536
1902.. 25,059 8 p.c. = 5,000 20,059 58,595
£12,500 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 46,095
1903.. 27,453 Bp.c.= 6,000 21,453 67,548
£25,000 Reserves transferred to Capital .. 42,548
1904.. 36,579 Bp.c.= 8,000 28,579 71,127
1905.. 26,069 12 „ „ 12,000 14,069 85,196
1906.. 45,886 20 J-„ „ 20,500 25,386 110,582
1907.. 31,572 20J ~ ~20,500 11,072 121,654
1908.. 35,413 20|„ ~20,500 14,913 136,567
1909.. 37,960 21 ~ ~ 21,000 16,960 153,527
1910.. 52,500 21 ~ ~ 21,000 31,500 185,027
Times have changed in Australia, as all the right-thinking
people knew they would when first the Labor party and
then Federation exerted their ghastly influence. Seven-
teen years ago there were a heap of reconstructions. But
those reconstructions weren’t exactly due to a superfluity
of money. The trouble then was that those wretchedly
inconsiderate people called creditors actually wanted
us to pay them ; and, of course, we couldn’t. The recon-
structions were mostly with the object of saving a bit for
ourselves instead of letting the creditors collar the lot.
At present, as remarked just now, things are different.
The object now is to divide up the profits in such a way
as to attract the least envious attention to their size.
Now, 21 per cent, doesn’t look too well from one point of
view ; that is to say, it looks much too well, for there are
quite a lot of peoiffe who want 21 per cent, investments
themselves. Also, there are quite a lot of people who
say—“ These fellows are making too much. They must
work for less.” So, hey presto ! Reconstruct, wipe out
the old co., give your shareholders two new shares for
every old one, and, while they don’t get a penny less, the
div. is reduced from 21 to 10| per cent., which isn’t so
horribly obtrusive. That is exactly what this co. is
going to do, though probably it wouldn’t for the world
explain it to you in that way.
Nevertheless it is quite a mistake to suppose
that all you have to do is to put up a few hundreds or
thousands, call yourself an insurance co.,buy a brass
plate and a rubber-stamp, and settle down to a steady 21
per cent. It is quite as likely that you will lose your
few hundreds or thousands. But once a fire insurance
office is well established it is a splendid proposi-
tion, provided moss and barnacles are not allowed
to grow in the manager's and directors’ quarters.
This infant got through its teething, etc., though there
were times when it didn't look an}’ too robust; and then
it started to go ahead at a great rate. In fact, it shot up
too far for its strength; and that was another time of
danger. But luckily for itself, it didn’t meet with any
serious trouble ; and so it pulled through. Even now its
back is none too broad for the weight it has to carry.
This shows the hurricane progress in some important
respects:—
Net Pre- Loss Expense
miums. Losses. Expenses. Rate. Rate.
1895 .. £61,683 £29,526 £24,433 47 9 p.c. 39 6 p.c.
1900 .. 95,254 49,101 32,113 51'5 „ 33‘7 „
1905 .. 134,748 60,632 54,911 45'0 „ . 40'8 „
1907 .. 156,990 72,829 61,343 46’4 „ 39‘0 „
1908 .. 156,769 69,321 62,038 44’2 ~ 39'6 „
1909 .. 162,356 67,700 66,012 41'7 ~ 40-7 „
1910 .. 176,949 66,079 69,661 37‘3 „ 39’3 „
Capital is at present £100,000; thus, capital and reserves
combined are 160 per cent, of the year’s premiums ; so
that, in proportion to its risks, the Colonial Mutual is by
no means the strongest office doing business in these
parts. Certainly it is stronger than the average British
co.; but the Australian office mostly strives to be
very much stronger. It would have been better if
the co. had kept its dividends down a bit lower
and laid more by. The assets are a very satisfactory lot.
A little ihore than one-third consists of public securities;
a good deal more than another third consists of fixed
deposits and cash. Only £29,422 is fixed in real estate
and none at all in mortgages. Naturally, therefore, the
interest return is only about 4 per cent., though that is
very satisfactory considering the nature of the securities.
Thehistory of the office has been distinguished by much
push ; and altogether it is a co. that takes the eye very
favorably.
* * * *
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.—This is
Jam ; and there is money in it in these days when
hardly any house-missus boils her own fruit. The co. is
what is known as a holding co., and all the information
you will get out of the published accounts won’t do you
much good. The capital is £500,000, in £1 shares, and
£499,809 represents “ shares and interests in jam manu-
facturing and fruit preserving cos. and timber mills at
cost.” The accounts of these separate cos. are not fur-
nished—are, in fact, not published—and, therefore, one
doesn’t know how much has been written off to provide
fordepreciation. The directors say: “ The reports from the
cos. in which your co. is a shareholder show that returns
have been more than maintained, and that full provision
has been made for depreciation of machinery and plant
and all other contingencies”; and we have to take the
directors’ word for it. “All other contingencies” is
a very elastic remark ; it is obvious that, if the directors
of the subsidiary cos. feel like it, they could in a good
season stuff away thousands of pounds of profit, in order
to even things up in case adverse circumstances should
strike them. On the other hand, renewals of plant might
be starved, or insufficient might be put away for future
renewals—which would amount to over-stating the true
profits—and you couldn’t get a hint of it from this co.’s
accounts. It is all, then, a matter of trusting the directors
and the auditors absolutely. It may be said at once that
the auditor (E. H. Flack) and the consulting accountants
(Flack and Flack) are very good people to trust. The
directors are the men who have mainly built up the
various businesses.
As mentioned above, shares and interests in
jam-manufacturing cos., etc., siand at £499,809 —practi-
cally the whole assets of the co. How much of this is
goodwill is not ascertainable from the accounts. The
parent concern was Henry Jones and Co., of Tasmania
and Melbourne. Then Peacock’s and other factories
became connected in some way with Jones’s, and when
Flack and Flack overhauled things, the position appeared
to be :
Properties, plant, etc. £308,672
New assets (other factories, extensions, etc.) .. 100,000
Goodwill 91,328
Total £500,000
The goodwill may now be a trifle more than that, because
a little of the money paid for new businesses may have
been for that intangible asset. The profit for the year is
stated at £44,763, which is disposed of as follows :—Pre-
liminary exes, written off, £3418; 7£ per cent, div.,
£37,500; towards reserves, £3845. But, as already hinted,
there is no telling how much or how little the subsidiary
cos. have put in their stockings or written off against
depreciation or goodwill. Of the 500,000 shares 428,992
were issued in payment for various jam mills, etc. ; the
other 71,008 shares went to the public, apparently to pay
for some interests for which cash was wanted and to
extend operations. But, in order to give the con-
cern a co-operative character, the various vendors
arranged to throw 100,000 shares into a pool,
and these (100,082 to be exact) were distributed,
mostly among fruit-growers and retail-distributors, at
par. Besides securing economy in manufacture and dis-
tribution inside the Commonwealth, one of the stated
objects of the amalgamation was the development of a
foreign trade, to absorb some of the surplus fruit. So
far, there doesn’t seem much hope of doing anything big
with J. Bull, who won’t, it seems, buy jam in tins; but a
S’Afriean trade has been started and a factory has been
built near Cape Town—to be fed, presumably, with Aus-
tralian pulp, with any local fruit that may be offering.
* * * *
Mosgiel Woollen Factory Co. (Dunedin,
M.L.): —
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Oet., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1901 .. £4582 6 p.c. = £4352 £5O £20,459
Premiums on new shares .. £B5 20,544
1902 .. 8666 7 p.c. = 5842 £3SOO 19,568
1903 .. 7272 7 „ „ 5542 1500 19,498
1904 .. 667 3£„ „ 2921 17,244
1905 .. 3312 34 „,, 2921 328 63 17,307
1906 .. 2483 24,, ~ 2086 552 17,152
1907 .. 5093 4" „,, 3338 1695 60 17,212
1908 .. 7073 5 „ ~ 4173 2746 154 17,366
1909 .. 7230 SJ„ „ 4590 2500 140 17,506
1910 .. 9845 6 „ ~ 5007 4500 338 17,844
This co. is picking up again. The trouble in 1904 and for
a while thereafter was due mainly' to the keen competi-
tion of imported shoddy goods. There is still far too much
of the stuff imported ; but the Dominion factories are now
holding their own better. In blankets, over which it
apparently isn’t so easy to swindle the , public, the
foreign trade has been almost killed. Ten years
ago the imports of blankets were valued at £14,438 ; they
are now down to £6078. But in the same time the im-
port of woollen piece-goods has moved up from £266,516
to £318,696, while “apparel and slops” have passed on
from £353,258 to £772,957. The Maorilander may have
an idea that his is God’s own country ; but it is obvious
from these figures that a great deal of his tremendous
patriotism is only hot air. The American boss of a Dipt
manufacturing works was telling the other day about the
growth of the great manufacturing city he came
from. “It had no business to be there,” he
said. “ There wasn’t any plain call for it. But
a few men owned mines round, and they' camped
there for company. Then they wanted a tailor
and they pledged themselves to buy one suit of clothes a
year from him. So he came. And others came same
way. There was wool round. So they pledged them-
selves to buy one suit of clothes a year from it if a wool-
mill started up. It started up—didn’t turn out the sort
of thing you’d wear Sundays; but it was good-wearing
stuff in three patterns. They just went on buying it till
it could make lots more patterns ; and—well, that was
how the whole thing was done.” It wasn’t all sentiment
with the ’Murikan. Perhaps it wasn’t sentiment at all.
It was most likely just the recognition of the fact that it
wasn’t good business to let any sort of trade go somewhere
else.
The Mosgiel Co. has the luck not to have big
debts. I n that respect it is better off than vriost Austra-
lian and Maoriland woollen mills, which have had to go into
pawn to the bank or someone else in order to get new
plant. Its capital is £83,457, and its debts of all sorts are
£17,452. Reserves are supposed to be £17,844 ; but that
depends on whether the plant has been written
down hard enough to cover wear and tear. A
special £l6OO U n'wd.'r? ThS
* fi£ s*„s&«s
'ZS^saL.'L^^gt^z
XoKThSt.n <ta£*S Si. case. J"
has been done in the starved factor.es of Austiaha and
Maoriland. It is not only that they have not had enough
Protection. The chief fault has been that, M tney
haven’t been able right off to
“o st »3r
i h n V ’ e the be w n or.d! bl the fco pa^ot
foreiri V stuff! 6 whateve.°°i't m'igh£ be. Which means
that this brand of patnot would rather p. y 6to
the foreigner and say good-bye to it ( f (,,ever :
mv £5 to the man next door and set a bit or it uaca next
Say. If this s“rt of patriot bad half the business sense of
a rabbit, he would upend things «> d P«*«L‘ Da P ss J b a£k
£6 to the next-door man, who would presentlj pass back
some of it to the patriot’s pocket in the course of trade.
Melbourne Ice-Skating and Refrigerating
Co -Deficit.
Preliminary expenses *- a °‘
Premium on shares, £125 .. Re -
Sept., Profits. Dividends. 08. serves
1906 ..£5732 5 per cent. = £1225 iqq?,
1907 .. 702 Nil
1908 .. 1245 Nil 1500 1/35
On Pref. Shares.
1909 .. 2067 7£ per cent. = 232 1500 20.0
1910 .. 2366 7jr „ „ 3.5 1042 3019
This is the place where it would be a fair thing to make
a few remarks upon the fickleness of man, especially
woman. The investor, hearing that man (es. email}
woman) has developed a great love for this or
that form of entertainment, promptly hands over
his coin to give man (and especially woman) the
new thing. And, in about three months, man (and
woman in particular) turns a cold back upon the
kind investor, and sprints after some new amusement
god. But the ice-skating craze wasn’t going to be like
the rest; it had come to stay. In four .months the Mel-
bourne co. which supplied the Glaciarium in that city
netted £5732, or at the rate of about 75 per cent, on the
capital ; and if only half the craze stayed and the other
half moulted and fell into the Yarra alongside, the co.
reckoned that it would still be able to buy itself another
motor-car. But there was asudden slump, and the directors
knew then that man (and especially woman) was already
pursuing some new god. So they had to do the same,
and the new god they pursued was dead meat. Getting
in some more capital, they went in for the freezing busi-
ness ; and lately they have also pinned a little of their
faith to ice-cream. They don’t exactly make it them-
selves; but they supply the necessary chill. Though
they offered 7\ per cent, cumulative preference, they
couldn’t get all the money they wanted 18 months ago ;
but a 5 per cent, mortgage for 10 j 7 ears has lately been
arranged ; and finance*isn’t therefore the worry it has
been. This, and the development of the cold-storage and
freezing business, and the side-lines, and the steady im-
provement shown in the profits column make the direc-
tors hopeful. On the other hand—(l) the cold-storage
and freezing business, though it shouldn’t have all the
old ups and downs now that railways are more numerous
and settlement is closer, is for all that an erratic busi-
ness ; and (2) depreciation is heavy.
* * * *
The Volum Brewing Co. (Geelong, Vie.):—
Writ- To
ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Feb., 1903.. £1127 Bp.c. = £396 £174 £557 £7,788
Aug., 1903.. Information not available —8 p.c. div.
Feb., 1904.. 1316 10 p.c. = 498 169 8,293
Aug., 1904.. 1266 10 ~ ~ 500 161 '605 8,898
Feb., 1905.. 1373 10 ~ ~ 500 256 617 9,515
Aug., 1905.. 731 10 „,, 500 640 t- 9,106
Feb., 1906.. 1317 10 ~ ~ 500 750 67 9,173
Aug., 1906.. 1010 10 ~ ~ 500 134 376 9,549
Feb., 1907.. 1353 10 ~ ~ 500 136 717 10,266
Aug., 1907.. 868 10 ~ ~ 500 127! 241 10,507
Feb., 1908.. 1577 10 ~ ~ 500 523 554 11,061
Aug., 1908.. 959 10 ~ ~ 500 618 10,902
Feb., 1909.. 841 10 ~ ~ 500 140 201 11,103
Aug., 1909.. 833 10 ~ ~ 500 137 196 11,299
Feb., 1910.. 1663 10 „,, 500 632 531 11,830
Aug., 1910.. 885 10 ~ ~ 501 125 259 12,089
Geelong may be slow ; but in quite a lot of things it gets
there. It is better to be a tortoise than a hare, if the
only effect of the hare’s tremendous pace is that it arrives
quicker at the soup. Here, anyway, is a brewery co.,
managed at Geelong, whose accumulated reserves are
greater than its capital, and whose rents can now
pay the 10 per cent, dividend and leave enough over for
management exes. The assets are : Brewery and pre-
mises, £6736; plant, £1430; freeholds, £20,775; stock,
book debts and cash, £4847. Liabilities amount to
£11,146, mostly due oh mortgage. The brewery and
plant have been written down hard; the freeholds have
been taken in at valuation. And it is quite, likely that
something serious would have to be done to that valua-
tion if the Judkins party prevailed at Geelong, and shut
up all or most of the pubs. On paper the co.’s position is
strong ; but it has to be kept constantly in mind that
most of the co.’s eggs are in one basket, and that basket
isn’t tied up any too securely.
* * * *
Aerated Bread Co., Ltd. (Sydney).—This co.,
which has just issued its first half-yearly accounts, began
with a deficit of £17,965, representing goodwill and ap-
parently some preliminary expenses. Another £3750
represented leasehold property, in which the co. has only
a temporary interest. The capital was £35,000; so the
co.’s tangible possessions were :
Capital £35,000
Less Leasehold.. .. £3,750
Goodwill .. .. 17,965 21,715
Net tangible assets ... £13,285
Thus £13,285 worth of assets, represented mostly by
plant and stock, have to provide dividends on £35,000.
No doubt goodwill is worth something at the moment.
But it is a most unreliable thing. In a case such as this
it represents merely the habit certain people have of
dropping in to a certain shop to feed. But a fly that hks
got out of place, or some other trivial circumstance, may
break up the habit; and then the goodwill is
gone. Or some other person may come next door,
and, by hiring the old shop’s Ermyntrude, ihay
take the old shop’s custom. This co. says that in
one case it went across the street and got double the
trade ; also it proposes to open numerous branches, and
expects to do remarkably 7 well out of them. Well, when
a co. can just open branches and do well right away, it
hints that the goodwill in a business of this sort is a very
unstable thing ; and if it occurs as an asset in a balance-
sheet it should be written off with the utmost expedi-
tion. The A.B.C.’s profit for the half-year was £2347,
which is disposed of like this :—Written off leaseholds,
£428 ; provided for depreciation, £350 ; 6 per cent, div.,
£lO5O ; towards reserves, £519. The co. may do well;
whether it does so or not is a matter mainly of manage-
ment. A point that cannot be lost sight of by the in-
vestor is that, supposing it doesn’t do well, the £35,000 of
capital is represented by no more than about £15,000 of
substantial assets.
* * * *
The country south of Southern Cross (W. A.) be-
gins to compel attention to its big bodies of bread-and-
butter values. The Corinthian, another Doolette proposi-
tion, and the Corinthian North, taken on option by 8., M.
and Co., are said to have between them 350,000 tons of 40s.
ore ; and that is the stuff to cut at. Right away south
from the Cross to Parker’s Range there are many
reefs unprospected. Sulphides as arsenides will proba-
bly be close to the surface. Arsenides are already
indicated in the Bullfinch ; and, judging by the exper-
ience of the Transvaal, a few miles from Southern Cross,
and now optioned by 8., M. and Co. for £22,500, the
arsenides carry almost double the value of the oxidised
ore.' But this was the Kalgoorlie experience with tel-
lurides.


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
Specially constituted by Act of
Parliament to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power, Agents, etc.
Trust Funds to lend on Farm
and Station Properties.
Write or call for Booklet giving full information.
2, 4 and 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
A. J. MACKENZIE)
Manager,
BETTINCTON
SMOKELESS BOILER
Adapted for Burning Slack.
Guaranteed Highest Efficiency.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building:, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kaigoorlie.
[1
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil. so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents. W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthodse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* * • «
“Ferroiior” Paint.—Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort's
Dock and Mt. Lyell buildings; Hawkesbnry, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. & O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & 00., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney,*
It takes a long period of success to justify con-
fidence in manufacturers, but for many years the product
of Thk Farnlby Iron Company Limited, Leeds, has been
recognised by engineers as the highest class of iron (best
Yorkshire), safe under the most onerous tests. For
Rolling Stock, Ship Building and General Engineering
Work it is indispensable, being used by all Australian
State Railways. To be obtained from Sole Agents, Bell's
Asbestos Australian Agency Limited, 315 Kent Street,
Sydney, and Fremantle, W.A. ; also Reid Brothers and
Russell Prop’y, Ltd., Melbourne ; and Ciias. E. Bernays,
Brisbane.*
The most modern, simple and effective Vacuum
Slimes Table is the “ Wilfley.” It is continuous, and con-
sists of a revolving drum which is partly submerged in a
tank of slimes or material to be filtered. The drum is
covered with a filter cloth supported on grooves on the
uruni, which are connected by means of holes to the
interior to allow the liquid to be withdrawn. Through
the trunnions at the ends of the drum the vacuum pipe
passes to the interior. This pipe connects with the
interior of the drum, through which the liquid and air
are withdrawn by means of a vacuum pump. The filtered
slime is removed by a simple apparatus placed at or
below the level of the pulp in the tank. So that directly
the cake is removed the surface of the filter cloth as it
revolves is immediately re-immersed in the pulp ready to
receive a fresh cake, thereby preventing the sucking in
of air, and consequent loss of vacuum between the time
the cake is removed and a fresh one is forming. The
residual liquid in the slime cake is removed by distribu-
ting water over the surface of the semi-dried cake. Owing
to the fact that the filter is circular in form, it will be
seen that it is continuous in operation, and has no com-
plication of valves to get out of order ; furthermore,
work is being done continuously during the whole revolu-
tion of the filter drum. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have the sole manufactu-
ring rights of this filter.* [2
* * * *
Cool, fireproof houses, ensuring less discomfort
in summer, obtained by building with “ Fibro Cement ”
Asbestos Slates on roof, sheeting in walls and ceilings.
Light, strong, cheap, artistic, besides being durable, fire,
acid, ant and vermin proof. Photos., testimonials, from
Sole Importers. James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay,
Sydney, and 581-583 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.* [3
■* * •* it
The Joint Stock Companies’ Journal, London,
of 23/9/’OB, writes regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society, Limited : “There is this good reason
why those who contemplate assurance should consider
the advantages of this powerful colonial office, viz., that
its policy forms are fully as liberal and comprehensive as
those of other such institutions, as witness the ‘ Twelve
Option ’ contract lately placed on the market.’’*
WOOD PIPE lasts as long as the best e.i. pipe
and four times as long as steel. Economy and ease in
handling are further strong points. The Australian
Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office ; Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
* » * *
Nobel’s Dynamite Factory, Hamburg, at the
recent Brussels World Exhibition received the highest
awards, viz., Three Grand Prix for explosives of all grades
for both mining and military purposes. This against all
comers. Mine managers in New South Wales, who are
experiencing trouble, write the agents, Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney. Large stocks onhand.*
,* * *
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout Australia by Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinder are smali consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangement of valves, and automatic lubrica-
tion, and these are testified to by Australian users. The
engine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annum.* [1
+ * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* • ■* *
Assaykrs, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silbeiibero and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASOOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
The Bullfinch gold occurrences are in a great
ore channel, and the occurrences are so frequent as to
make the ore channel a stockwork on a great scale. The
two rich occurrences are on either side of a quartzite bar
and riding it. The ore body in No. 1 shaft dips north ;
•o? “ ore body dips south. The west drive is out
bjft.; there is 20ft. of ore at the shaft and 15ft.
of ore in the face of the drive. Immediately
south of the shaft there is a crosscut in 10ft.
in schist carrying quartz makes, a foot and half a
foot wide, joining each other underfoot. Easterly the
drive is up against the quartzite bar, and there is 32ft. to
drive to connect with No. 2 shaft. The ore has been
carried from the grass, and bulks lOoz. for the 100 ft. of
depth and the 60ft. of driving. No. 2 ore body is 42ft.
easterly from this shaft and on the other side of the
saddle of quartzite. It dips south out of the shaft at
100 ft. At that point it is 30ft. wide and worth 210 z.,
with 21 oz. ore still in the face of the crosscut.
The lode seems, so far as surface can be followed, to re-
sume its more true and southerly course ; and at 300 ft.
or more away a shaft, started for water, cut at 12ft. an
ore body worth £5 per ton. This is the same class of ore
as in the 21oz. face in No. 2 shaft, apparently impover-
ished in its course, but a mine in itself. And the Bull-
finch has several other strings to its how, because Doo-
lette scented the “position” pegger from afar off, and
pegged most of the probable rich ore. But that is not to
say that outside properties have no chance. A few of
them have outcrops indicating payable gold-values, even
if the owners invite derision by attempting to convert
the Bullfinch into a centipede.
AH the Bullfinch ore-occurrences are westerly.
On the eastern boundary of the Bullfinch the contact of
the greenstone and the granites is plainly seen. Lewis
Aarons's Loudon float, the Bullfinch East, is in granite,
let them call it micaceous schist how they may. There is
a small make of quartz, mostly as floaters, marching a
little distance from the Bullfinch into the eastern leases,
and the writer hopes that none of the overpeggers will
call in the stilly night and cart it away. With a hot
London market that little quartz occurrence would be a
fine asset, for a bull this week and a hear the week after
next. Yet nothing is impossible, and the eastern float
may find gold, although it can scarcely make a mine.
The Bullfinch dumps recall the Ivalgoorliedumps
of the rich oxidised-ore days. Most likely the sulphides
will be arsenides and not tellurides, but there is no
reason why they should not be as rich. And the word
“ stockwork ” describt s the many ore-makes better than
most other words could do. A 70ft. crosscut in taleose
schist on the eastern block carries a little gold, and a 2ft.
reef and a 7ft. reef in it carry over the ounce. Thecrush
zone is a bonanza ; and there is little of the long, wide
rise, where the Bullfinch workings are, which can becalled
absolutely barren ground. Blow out the rich occurrences,
and you still have three or four reefs, any one of which
might make a mine. The crosscut at 100 ft. and the drive
westerly connecting the rich ore-bodies in No. 1 and No.
2 shaft should decide a good deal ; but there seems to
he little doubt about a great tonnage of the rich ore.
There is £250,000 worth in sight now ; the connection of
No. 2 and the water-shaft would, with scarcely a doubt,
quadruple the reserves, in values gradually' decreasing to
the bulk sample of the water-shaft—2sdwt. Doolette
crushed 320 tons for £OBOO and 135 tons for ti 1,340. At
the time of writing, 500 tons of 21oz. ore are
being railed to Kalgoorlie to carry out treat-
ment contracts, and after that the ore will probably wait
until a treatment plant is decided on. The sulphides
will settle what that is to be. But they are not far away',
and experiments to fix reduction methods should be
rapid.
Pine Hill, the Adelaide-owned mine, has been
contradicting its management, which is a very' rude
thing to do. The management said that the concentrates
of the last parcel were worth 490 z. to the ton, and the
concentrates say they are worth 9oz. ; and they further
depose than, rather than be any more than 90z., they’ll
see the market hanged first. Pine Hill has crushed 36
tons, worth loz. 4dwt. over the plates, with 4dwt. in the
tails; &d tons worth 2oz. 7dwt., and 6dwt. in the tails;
and 44 tons for loz. 7dwt., with BJdwt. in the tails. That
is good enough for anything ; but a fair thing is never
good enough for those who hold a 4s. scrip and deter-
mine not to sell it under 10s.
.**•*•*
The- cats are everywhere — Cowfinehes and Dog-
finches and Deadfinishes—while a great area of good
country wants prospecting. January will blow out some
of the very impossible. Peggers have now only to pay 7
Is. 3d. per acre per quarter rent; but the rent for the
whole year will hit them up on January 1. Many hard-
faced pioneers of 300 acres of saltbush and everlasting
flowers will be blown out by the ss. an acre for the first
year, and £1 an acre per year thereafter ; and then the
man who wants a real prospecting show will be able to
see what he is doing.
A curse hangs around the Marvel Loch. Alleged
mismanagement has knocked a good mine temporarily:
out of the market, although the sudden drop from 7s.
lOd. to about 4s. might have a sinister meaning in the
direction of a bear, a re-purchase and a re-float. Ad-
mittedly, the plant is bad ; there is, for instance, a bat-
tery box so shifty that, if it had been given a Malacca cane,
it could have walked off the mine.
* * * *
Hainault (W.A.), which struggles gamely on a
very narrow margin, had its hopes raised the other day
by the discovery of some good ore below the 800 ft. level.
But alas ! it was right on the boundary, and the only
people likely to largely benefit are the Boulder No. 1 and
the South Kalgurli.
Great Boulder prospects should get more atten-
tion, as the 2800 ft. level will-soon be heard from. Both
the Edwards and the main shaft are being pushed down.
In the latter, graphitic schist is still showing, but in
Edwards shaft further south, a good-looking body 7 of
quartz formation has been passed through, and this is
taken as a sign that the country is coming back into its
former condition. Nothing will be definitely known for
some weeks yet, for the drill must first go in’on the level.
* * * *
With the examples of the Associated and the
Horseshoe to go on, Golden Mile managers are becoming
very wary about ore estimates. It is likely that figures
will be a good deal more conservative this year than they
have been hitherto, and this will account for some
apparent shortages. The South Kalgurli shows for the
year an increase in tonnage, but a decrease in values of
proved ore. The mine declares an estimate of 171,877
tons, worth 6dwt. net, as against 156,939 tons last year,
worth 6 97dwt. Probable ore reserves, which in the case
of the South Kalgurli will always rank large, are placed at
90,930 tons, against 148,174 tons last year. The directors
are allowing the presertt management to go deeper, and
the shaft is now well on its way to the 1800 ft. level.
There are plenty of lode channels to prospect, and the
pity is that deeper work was not persevered with earlier.
The co. has some Bs. or 9s. a share in hand.
Edden, Mines Minister in N.S.W., promises
his State coal mine inside six months. The Fat of th Q
land grot a shock a few days back when it was arinonnced
that the Government had received the of"-r of the coal
underlying- 3714 acres of private territory, along with 100
acres of surface. “ What enemy' to his ciass hath done
this?” was asked. The big landlord is A. H. Warner,
who has a big estate which he is cutting up near the
Tuggerah Lakes, about midway between Sydney and
Newcastle. A couple of bores have been put down on
the property ; and on the strength of these it is figured
out that there should be 40,000,000 tons of coal in the
area. The Government would have to sink anything
from 500 ft. to 800 ft. to get it. Another proposal is to
mine under the National Park, south of Sydney. That
would mean deeper sinking- and hauling—something over
1000 ft. probably. But it would probably be better coal.
Great Cobar annual report is as unsatisfactory
with regard to the things it doesn’t tell as it is with
regard to the things it does tell. The grade of the ore
in the big mine is of the utmost importance. Manager
Bellinger doesn’t say what it is. A statement is some-
where made that it is the same as last year—which looks
as though Bellinger isn’t going to risk any figures him-
self. Or possibly Bellinger wasn’t pressed to give any 7
figures. By the way, there is a wide difference between the
directors’figures as to tonnage and Bellinger’s. The mana-
ger, reporting in May, say T s Oobar and Chesnev reserves
amount to 2,383,020 tons. The directors’ interim report,
dated October 1, says the reserves are 2,877,000 tons. No
doubt it is possible that 494,000 tons were added in four
months; but, if so, the manag-er might have been ex-
pected to mention it in his cabled report. Under the
circumstances, and in view of the awful record of theco.,
the matter may be dismissed with still another sniff.
* ■* * *
Bogan River (N.S.W.), already referred to here
as a copper show of much promise, and capable of doing
things when the railway g r ets there, keeps plugging
along. In spite of its 40 miles of road carriage to Trangie,
under the management of George Eason it is gradually
getting towards the dividend stage. With two reverbs,
the mine is turning out something like 30 tons of 98 per
cent, copper per month ; and as the co. is in only 50,000
shares at 2s. 6d., there should be, supposing the present
output continues, a fair distribution of dividends in 1911.
The cost of production, including road carriage, is
appr iximately £39 per ton. Tnere is about 15dwt. gold
ami lOoz. silver in each ton of metal; so the co. gets a
trifle that way too.
* * * *
Kyloe copper mine (N.S.W.) will probably give
the flotation process a trial, and negotiations are going
on with the Minerals Separation Co., which is so success-
ful on lead-zinc tailings at Broken Hill. Kyloe rejoices
in good recoveries by 7 the ordinary process of concentra-
tion ; hut the reports never mention what the tailings
contain. The prill ore is worth about 20 per cent.,
and it is pretty certain, in spite of picking, that
some of the rich lumps pass through the milling process ;
so it is quite possible that the tailings contain over
2 per cent, copper. A great deal of the ore milled has
been worth over 6 per cent., which, reckoning copper at
£5O, is worth £3 per ton. Last week the stopes yielded
392 tons, averaging 9'6 per cent., which is worth ,965. per
ton, with copper at £5O. Kyloe is 30 miles from a rail-
way, and unless the ore is particularly easy to treat the
cost of smelting is very high, as there are heavy charges
for fuel and fluxes.
* •* # *
The resurrected Cosmopolitan, Hillgrove
(N.S.W.), shows a nominal profit of £760 for its first
10i months. The bulk of the expenditure has not,
however, been charged to working account; and £2597
credited to development is reckoned in as an asset.
That is to say, if all mine expenditure had been set
against income, a loss of £1837 would have been disclosed.
Still, as the mill only started late in the year, it wouldn’t
be fair to show things that way. On Sept. 30 the liabili-
ties were £2332 more than the liquid assets ; so there is
still some leeway to make up. And the worst feature of
the case is that the shoot of ore is so short that every 7
100 ft. of expensive sinking gives comparatively 7 little
stone. The co. lives in hopes of finding other shoots.
* -V * *
Queen Bee, near Cobar (N.S.W.), is developing
a make of ore from its western crosscut at a depth of
570 ft. Driving was commenced at 78ft. from the plat,
and the level has been extended 153 ft. to the south, with
fairly good prospects. This make of ore has not yet been
proved to be big; the latest report is that sampling
has been done over a width of 3ft., with indications that
the ore body will get bigger as it is opened to the south.
Values do not seem likely to average over 8 per cent,
copper, and it is as well to recall that the Bee smelted
many 7 thousands of tons of this grade at a nominal profit,
which quickly disappeared when development and de-
preciation were charged. Mine development is the most
important matter for the Queen Bee to push on with ;
it should get its reserves in condition to stand a vigorous
smelting campaign.
* * * *
Now that the metallurgist in charge of the Mt.
Morgan smelters has {vide Warden Dean’s report) called
the fluxing stuff from Many Peaks “an ideal smelting
ore,” that little township is recovering from the fright it
got when it was found that the flux wasn’t geeing too
well. Besides getting itself accustomed to the eccen-
tricities of the Peaks ore, the big co. has been making
sundry improvements to the feeding floor. A Sirocco
fan, capable of introducing 7000 ft. of air per minute, has
been installed. The co. also has ideas in the direction
of automatic feeding. It will get to the other side of a
big obstacle when it manages that. Already it has done
a good deal in the way of labor-saving. The fluxes (from
Marmor and the Peaks), coke, etc., are all sidetracked at
Walterhall Station, about half a mile from the terminus.
A branch line from there, up a ruling grade of one in 40,
through a tunnel, and around the side of the golden
hill, takes the necessaries right on to the top of the
smelters. Gravity does the rest, with the exception of
the actual feeding. The copper works have proved the
toughest job among the big co.’s undertakings, and some
who have sweated amid the fumes of the smelters for a
year or so turn longing eyes on to the new Dawson line,
and wonder whether they won’t try navvying for a rest.
* * * *
Ravenswood (Q.) doesn’t get much limelight;
but it keeps going. Some 16 shows of various sizes feed
four or five mills. The Sunset, the General Grant, and
the Three Sisters Extended (what a name !) are the pick
of the bunch. The Sunset, in October, got rid of 905
tons of reef for 5240 z.; the General G. raked out 130
tons averaging just over the ounce; and 198 oz. came
back from 350 tons at the prolonged Sisters. Golden
Valley 7, Extended supplies richer stuff, but there isn’t
much of it; and most of the rest are little things which
have to be satisfied with 5-ton and 10-ton parcels.
* * * -*
In the last 18 months over £14.000 worth of
gold has been taken out of the Cumberland, at Charters
Towers. The reef from which it has been got is on an
old abandoned line worked in the early 7 days. This has
led to several other derelicts being given a trial. A local
solicitor and a few chums own the show that has caused
the flutter.
* * * *
A syndicate, which has a tribute at the Old St.
George P.C., Charters Towers, while cutting hitches for
legs, discovered a reef 9in. thick, worth on assay £lO per
ton. It appears to be a new thing ; but, from its posi-
tion and dip, it cannot affect anything on the Brilliant
line, except (if it lives) the Brilliant Deeps and Brilliant
Extended. It is only 100 ft. from the surface.
* * * *
In spite of the return of £G 19s. 2d. per ton
realised from the last crushing of East Mexican stone
shares moved very little. There seems to Ibe an impres-
sion that a good deal of care was exercised in the break-
ing of the reef. This idea, coupled with the debacle of
the New Brilliant Freeholds, has evidently made Char-
ters Towers buyers shy ; and the C. T. scripperis, in most
cases, worth following in matters relating to his own
back vard.
* * * *
Mills’ United, Charters Towers, had to pass the
quarterly dividend. The erushings are not very profitable,
and prospecting in search of a deep shoot is expensive.
News comes of a coal find on the Flinders (Q.).
The outcrop was found in the banks of the river, along
with a seam of what is said to be excellent fireclay. The
Blantyre experience, however, has set the signal at
caution, and there is no Bullfinch rush. All the same,
a coal seam in the locality would mean a lot to the
Cloncurry smelters. *
At last an analysis of the Mount Mulligan (Q. )
coal has been published. It appears in a report by
Government Geologist Ball. According to the report the
coal contains 20 per cent, ash, and will neither cake nor
coke ; but, owing to its non-coking qualities, it may suit
suction-gas engines. The report recommends that a
detailed survey be made, in order to select sites for drill
prospecting.
South Glanmire and Monklnnd, Gyrnpie, crushed
800 tons for £‘loso (3170 z. 17dwt.) The Inglewood forma-
tion, which is supplying this stone, is being worked above
the 915 ft. level, and, higher up, at the 721 ft. level.
Prospecting is also going on at the western shaft. Shares
are being nibbled at by people who think that Gympie’s
turn is coming.
* * * *
Wolfram Camp is one of the brighter spots in
N.Q. Well on to 800 men are on the field, and about half
of them are developing their own claims. The star show
just now is the Murphy and Leisner, which is down 90ft.
In a month it has given 5 tons molybdenite, 4J tons
wolfram and lcwt. bismuth. The deepest mines are
the Weate United (400 ft.) and the Tully (443 ft.). The
latter could do with more luck and more ore. A French
buyer dropped in the other day, and made the miners an
offer for their dumps (containing molybdenite) on a per-
centage basis. The miners said “Yes ” with both hands.
* * * *
Douglas Mawson, of South Pole fame, has been
sent by the S. Aus. Government, on camel-back, to ex-
amine a belt of mineral country discovered by the Green-
woods—father and son—in the far-up Lake Frome dis-
trict. He reports great possibilities at Mount Paynter,
one of the highest peaks in the State. Uranium was
found all along a lode for a mile and a half. The district
is at present without wells or even tracks, but as there is
an obvious prospect of establishing a radium industry,
the Government is to send up another party.
* * * *
The Powlett State coal mine has issued its first
report, per manager Broome, and Minister Mcßride is
like a dog with a new tail. Broome whitewashes every-
one that needed a coat, and one can understand his atti-
tude. He has been given a free hand to value his
predecessors’ work. He sees round him men enjoying a
decent home and decent pay. Surroundings of this sort
expand a man’s waistcoat, and make his heart beat a
bit faster for his fellows. Had any other decent-
spirited manager been in Broome’s boots, he
would have seen just as plainly that good wages
mean competition for places in the mine, with
a good output, provided good personal control is
also given. This is where the miners have to back up
Peter Mcßride and Broome. If they don’t belt in lustily
while at work, they will have some qualified fellow
measuring up results with a tape to show that workmen
don’t appreciate good treatment. Broome is hustling
the mine into shipshape for McGowen and Edden to see
that a State claim can do its work well, give cheap coal,
provide the worker with clean, wholesome homes and
sanitary surroundings and yet do justice to the taxpayer.
* » * *
The sort of mining talk that tells is that of ,T.
Williams, manager of the Homebush United (Vie.). He
offers to take up a tenth of an idle block of 10,000 shares,
and pay 3d. calls monthly, if the Board will place the
balance in safe hands. The Bulletin does not begrudge
this advt. when it sees that solid work is being done to
open up a neglected field. The Homebush lead has been
neglected for over a decade. It is not a big gutter, though
a lot of gold once came from it. When it slipped into
the background, it simply passed outof men’s minds until
the Cathcart boom and Jimmy McCrorey revived old memo-
ries of the Working Miner. Stanley Hunter writes that the
Homebush lead “ proved consistently rich throughout.”
So, if the mine manager is throwing in his little bit, work
should be cheap, and there should be a very good chance
of restoring an established district to public favor.
**■ * *
South New Moon, Bendigo, is chasing round in
the upper levels. The mine has always done well out of
the big spurs that make in it. At 440 ft. a bunch of these
has given fair yields both in free gold and concentrates.
There is a good block of this stone available to the south
boundary, and if it pans out to expectations South Moons
ought to keep their place on the list. Should anything
good happen along, then Clarence United should hustle
with its prospecting work.
* * * *
Central Cookman’s, Maldon (Vic.), has got a
battery. Next it wants a fair amount of capital to open
out ore reserves. The tinpot plant in use for so long was
fit only to do sampling, nevertheless it crushed 14,000 tons
for nearly 7000 oz. That would have moved most min-
ing deadbeats to life ; but Central Cookman’s never had a
market in Melbourne nor a move in Maldon. The scheme
now is to make the mine pay for development, and also
for various frills, whereas the right policy, u'hile the
battery was being built, would have been to open up the
mine another lift, and get a decent stock of reserves. It
seems too much to ask this now, but a plea can be put in
that, should profits show on the plates, the directors will
be slow to pay divs. till more progressive work is done.
* * * *
That good battler, A. J. Chappie, formerly of
Occidental, Cobar, hasn’t made a do of the old Wonga, at
Stawell (Vic.). Chappie and a few others put up the
money for a small Moore Vacuum plant, with some alter-
ations, including stationary baskets instead of movable
ones. This modification was probably made to save pre-
liminary expense ; but it proved a failure. The plant
couldn’t work up to more than about half its estimated
capacity. The stuff treated ran to about 2dwt., and the
extraction was good, the tailings going about sgr. ; but
the small quantity handled doomed the affair. Then
before more money was put up, G. H. Blakemore went
over to have a look. His idea seems to be that the
enrichments are in small, irregular patches, and that the
bulk won’t average anything like 2dwt. ; and, apparently,
2dwt. is the minimum at which a profit might be ex-
pected. Suction gas was the motive power and gave
every satisfaction.
* * » *
Tongkah report left the investor cold and un-
moved. The year began with a profit and loss balance of
£4003, which was increased to £21,678, after writing off a
total of £9877. That meant a net profit of £17,675, equal
to a shade under 2s. 6d. a share. But something more
has to be provided in the future: to secure the cancel-
lation of that part of the lease agreement relating
to the construction of a dock and channel, the co.
has to pay £7OOO cash and £3500 every six months for
four years. In addition, the co. has bought its last two
dredges on terms, and has given debentures for £18,830,
payable in 1915. By the way, the directors seem to be
continually straining to put things in the most favorable
light. In this matter of these debentures, for instance,
the balance-sheet, which is no doubt correct, says the
payment is “ due June 24,1915,” while the directors say
payment won’t have to be made till “ the latter half of
1915.” Straws like this are not calculated to inspire
confidence. On September 30 the co. owed £5807 apart
from the debentures and the amount payable to the
Siam Government; and it had £6463 in liquid assets.
£5OOO of which has been put up as a deposit and will no
doubt have to stay there till the contract with the
Government is completed.
The W. A. State Government hastened with its
water-pipe line and railway from Southern Cross to
Bullfinch. But the Commonwealth beat it. The first
day the Bullfinch movement could be regarded as serious
the Deputy Postmaster-General was at the Cross. The
carpenters were at work the night of his arrival; within
a week Southern Cross was talking by ’phone to Perth
and Kalgoorlie, and telephone and telegraph men were
beginning construction work north to Bullfinch and
south to Marvel Loch.
* * * *
Mount Carbine, a couple days’ journey from
Cairns (Q.l, is full of hope. Its population is getting on
now to dUO; 35 men are at work at the Carbine itself,
where it is expected they will have 1500 tons of wolfram
available for treatment as soon as the Irvinebank Co.
completes the 10-head plant. Most of the mines about
are small, two-men shows.
* * * *
Clermont (Q.) is dull; and Blackridge, the
scene of much hard graft and a few decent returns, is
pretty well deserted. Many of the miners have gone to
the neighboring coal-mines at Blair Athol; and when the
old prospector and fossicker takes a job at wages undi. a
boss, you can put things down as very glum. Only 501
tons of “cement” from the deep sinks went through the
battery in October for 2130 z. Clermont has had better
times than that.


, b easons change, Spring, Summer, Autumn,
Winter. Wolfe’s Schnapps at all seasons.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0, Robinson, Proprieror
Ideas. Hurrah ! Christmas comes. You
may want to make some presents. If so, a welcome
gift is an annual subscription (2s. 6d.) to the
Scientific Australian. It’s a most readable
quarterly. Or you may want to give to your own,
your sister’s, brother’s, uncle’s, or aunt’s children.
Nothing so delights youngsters as mechanical
toys. These are all the subject of invention. If
you think of patenting any toy or aught else of a
useful character, you may communicate with
patent agents Phillips Ormonde, the arcade
elevator 266 Flinders Street, Melbourne. Their
services are at your disposal.*
Squatter Sheep Branding Oil
SCOURS OUT OF THE WOOL.
Does not contain Pitch, Tar or other injurious ingredients.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney. [4
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
“Eddyson”: It was sale day, but the
clamor of the auctioneers had ceased, and mobs
of cattle were coming from the yards at regular
intervals, the beasts more or less loony after their
long incarceration in the pens. Humpy Bannon
was having particular trouble with a large red-
and-white beast that had had one eye horned out,
and was looking for trouble with the other. Daddy
Locket came down the ironstone road by the
pound fence towards the danger zone. The
drovers shrieked at him, but the frenzied bullock
saw him first, and was already out after
Daddy. Locket lost his nut in the hour
of need, and, instead of swarming the fence,
turned and fled along it, with streaming
whiskers and projecting eyes. Daddy was no
sprinter ; but he did his utmost on the level for a
hundred yards or so, the bullock after him, and
Humpy Bannon, on the best cattle nag in six
States, after the, bullock. At the last moment
Daddy realised his hopelessness as a runner, and
jumped for the second rail, caught on, and
adroitly fell over the remainder of the fence.
The bullock charged by, and Humpy charged up.
Then he reined in, and addressed Locket with a
burst of profanity that is now classic in droving
circles. Daddy Locket, who had recovered his
natural impudence, pushed his fuzzy head through
the fence. “There, there !” he said, “ don’t bust
an artery. I wouldn’t ’ave hurt yer old cow.”
THE SALTBUSH SCHOTTISCHE.
SHE: Mu objects to me waltzing—she says it’s
too familiar !”
K. Jones”: “Leo Lear” (B.
27/10/T0) is wrong in saying that the ceratodus is
identical with the Burnett River salmon. They
do not in any way resemble one another, the
latter being one of the best edible fish we have,
and the former about the worst. It and the black
cockatoo—which, by the way, isn’t a fish —are
about the only allegedly-edible thing that ever
beat me. Tho local name of the ceratodus is
barramundi. I believe it is scientifically classed
with the salmon family, and its greatest interest
lies in the fact that it is the first true fish known
geologically, and in the living state is found only
in some of the creeks and rivers in Queensland.
HIS SIDE-LINE.
LOCAL PERSON: “I shouldn’t, think that piano-tuning would pay in these parts.”
PIANO-TUNER : “Well, no; but I expect to do pretty well tightening up wire fences.”
“ Yalgun ”: After reading Sorenson’s article
on ’possums in Bulletin (27/10/T0) with great in-
terest, I wish, as one of the great army of “’pos-
summers,” to add that, while the dog is still indis-
pensable to the hunter of the “ queyan,” the moon
no longer has a part in the murder scene. The
acetylene bicycle lamp has supplanted it. The
shooter flashes his light on the tree, and the
diamond-like eyes of the ’possum betray his
whereabouts. The rest is easy ; the hunter can
hold his lamp, sight his gun and fire at the eyes.
The darker the night the better for the game.
The one disadvantage is that it is almost impos-
sible to distinguish opossums from ’ useless
squirrels in the glare of the carbide light.
“ Marinoa ” : I’ll back Grafton against
any other town in N. S. Wales for fogs, dogs, old
identities and letters to the editor. There are in
the town an average of six meetings a night for
six nights a week, and every man who has been 10
years in the district is on 10 committees.
Fourteen reporters and seven editors have
come and gone on the local papers during
the past six months, owing mainly to a pain
in the shorthand department. No single
report of a meeting must occupy less than
(say) seven columns, and the mayor and
aldermen must always be reported ver-
batim. The Dorrigo Shire Council
monthly meeting occupies 10 hours, and
is a thing to be abhorred ; ditto the
local parson who holds prayer-meetings
six hours long. There are three news-
papers, 7000 inhabitants, two town clocks
that don’t keep correct time, a P.M., 24
pubs, and 8760 registered dogs. I like Grafton,
now that I’ve left it. But I miss the 3760 dogs.
“ Montalex ” : It was probably by a mere
fluke that a Sydney constable recently potted a
fleeing man in the dark at 30yds.; but the bullet
went within an ace of slaying the fugitive, who
had only been making an unsuccessful snatch at
somebody's watch. The “foorce” has hitherto
proved itself such a ludicrously bad revolver-shot
that nobody seems to have troubled much about
the fact that any fat or lazy “cop ” has at present
the power of inflicting capital punishment upon a
retreater who may have committed only a trifling
offence, or even none at all, but who may happen
to have the “ heels ”of Law-an’-Order. Reminds
me. Out Waverley way, early one morning, I saw
a man drop from a back-yard wall and scoot like a
motor-car. Half a minute later an obese and ex-
cited citizen rushed out of a door in the same wall
and started after the other chap, firing at him the
while with a small revolver. He perforated
nothing but the air. and presently came back,
puffing like a locomotive. “You didn’t get on to
him.” I said. “ What’s he done ?” “Oh, I found
’im in my yard, and when ’e cleared over the wall
I knew ’e’d been after no good.” “Great Scott! ”
I exclaimed. “Do you suppose you’re entitled to
shoot a man for merely running away?” “Oh,
I’m a J.P.,” he swaggered; “I know what I’m
about all right!” “ 1 know you are a J.P.,” I
returned, “but, all the same, if you had killed
that man and I gave evidence that you had fired
six shots at him, you’d have stood a lively chance
of seven years in quod.” He glared at me for a
moment. “If I ’ad a pleec-eman ’ere,’’ he splut-
tered, “I’d give you in charge!”
“ Kudjins ” on his own irresponsibility:—
I bet drinks all round I wasn’t, drunk, because I had
two quid in my pocket when I got up next morning. And
I didn’t dream it, because I wasn’t in bed. I was just having
a lie-down on the floor. So this is the infernal truth
Behind a large, ordinary-sized bob appeared what it had
paid for in its time, or, rather, some of it, as follows :
Ten bars of soap (common) and 18 gallons of beer with
no cask round it. The liquid stood up unsupported
shoulder to shoulder with one gallon of whisky (also
naked). Beside these, a small lobster (cooked) clutched
84 packets of cigarettes fondly to its bosom, while the
cigarettes chanted, with appropriate cakewalks :
“ Massa’s in the cole, cole ground.” Nick was
there, too, sharpening cigarettes with an axe,
and then hammering them into the top of
my cranium. Nick hit his finger with the axe
and started to sing. I joined in the chorus, where-
upon the beer lost its grip on the atmosphere, and with
a dismal groan fell up to the ceiling, where it shattered
itself into a shower of ashes. Meanwhile the lobster
seized a bar of soap, and hit the whisky in the place
where the cork ought to be, and an awful explosion was
followed by elaborate perfumery in G major. Just then
1 saw Nick aiming a blow at my breath with his axe, and
to avoid it I reached for the vacuum of the explosion and
crawled down it. When I woke I found that I had got
my head jambed into the ewer. Me vote for No License.
Not much ! I’ve suffered too much already.
WILLIAM THE CONQUERED.
JIM: “ Fine-looking woman , your missus , Bill—
she’d strike a man anywhere."
BILL: “ Ye re right , Jim.—she ain't too partikler.”
“ Fugalier ” : Only saw a plague of grass-
hoppers once. That was in 1900, when the Leasts
descended upon the canefields of Isis (Q.). One
morning, at jackass, a cocky rose and discovered
that a mob of ’hoppers had camped on his
cane, and had completely denuded the stalks
of leaves during the night. Rushing to a
neighboring cocky with the information, he
found that the same plague was in opera-
tion for miles around. All sorts of schemes
were resorted to. IVlen, women and children ad-
vanced upon the hordes, armed with every con-
ceivable article capable of creating consternation ;
but the hoppers took it all in good part. Isolated
parties of naif a dozen horsemen rounded up
mobs of the winged animals. It was no in-
frequent sight for a traveller coming along
the road to see ahead of him a cloud of
dust, which, on approach, ‘would dissolve into
a drove of wings, with a perspiring, cursing
drover in charge, en route to the nearest scrub.
The C.S.R. Co. eventually came to the rescue,
and erected drives similar to kangaroo drives,
substituting calico for wire mesh. The calico was
stretched on 14ft. battens. Trenches were dug knee
deep along the insides and at the ends of these
drives, and filled with molasses. Then the mas-
sacre would begin. Five or six acres of cane
would be surrounded, and amid yells, coo-ees,
banging of tins and various other fearful noises
the enemy would be driven into the trenches and
trodden down. Whether this scheme would have
proved finally efficacious is left to conjecture, for
in the midst of the slaughter the hoppers took to
their heels and left as suddenly as they bad come.
“ Horatio B.” : The other night I heard
an able-bodied blowfly buzzing frantically for
help like a stranded steamer. With great
promptitude, I lit a candle and searched until I
located him. He was caught fast in a cornice web,
the proprietor of which was a futile old daddy
Longlegs. Mrs. Longlegs (a comely, attractive
spider) and her daughter (a lanky young thing at
the hair-bows stage) were at one end of the
trapeze-net urging the old gentleman to go in and
win. But Mr. Longlegs was in a state of panic
at having caught a whole brass band when he
only wanted one lonely cornet-playing house-fly.
Every time the family waved him on he would
just wave hack at them, or else climb clumsily
down till he was almost within reach of the cap-
tive. Then the exhausted military band, having
saved its breath duringhis cautiousapproach, would
burst into another deafening selection ; where-
upon the old coward would turn tail and stagger
to the other end of the net like an aged and infirm
acrobat who had lost his nerve. I watched him
advance and retreat four times; then I dis-
gustedly resumed reading the Evening Blood-
stain. Next morning, as I went to gather
the Sydney Morning Socialist while the
dew was on it, I had a look at the web. Mrs.
and Miss Longlegs, looking very hungry, were
sitting at one end of the premises making remarks
about the doddering boss, who was alternately
fumbling round an immense rent in the home and
feeling in his pockets for twine. The band,
after rendering about 35 Wagnerian selec-
tions, had broken loose in the dark hours. I
am going to break up that home with the
Socialistic and revolutionary broom, unless dad
proves himself an efficient fly policeman before
the launch of summer.
“MiDaritchee”: In B. 27/10/10, “Leo
Lear” votes for the Moreton Bay chestnut as the
coolest shade-distributor in Australia. Don’t
agree with him. My favorite is the evil-smelling
gidya of the interior, which casts a dense shadow
impenetrable by sun-ray. It has other advantages,
too. In dry seasons the soil around it crumbles
into a coarse dust, which forms a healthy and com-
fortable doss without unrolling bluey; and it
repels ants.
* * * ■*
“ Leo Lear ” : The nests that white ants
fix on the limbs of trees make famous hatching
apartments for a number of birds. In my
locality—Degilbo (Queensland)
—the most common lodgers are
the rowdy dollar birds, who sit
on a branch outside their nest
and shake their heads at each
other like excitable parsons in a
synod. The beautiful orange
and blue-tinted bee - eater,
although generally found nest-
ing on sandy banks, is another
frequent boarder at the white-
ant mansions. And the little
diamond sparrow sometimes de-
serts the bank of a creek, or the
side of a stump hole, and lays
her eggs up aloft among the
wood-eaters. The brilliant-
colored kingfisher also uses the
ants’ residence with “a view to
the above.” Lately I watched
one of these birds feeding young
ones in three separate ant nests
and thought I had caught the
gay gentleman keeping up more
than one establishment. But
his reputation was saved when
his missus did likewise; they
had evidently moved some of
the family to the seaside, or the
picture show, or dispersed them
among different electorates prior
to an election. The latest
addition to the ant-heap nesting
birds is the kookaburra, whose
dimensions must congest the
termite population somewhat.
There is one fowl that invari-
ably builds in the ant-mounds
on the ground. This is the
beautiful parrakeet, the only
bird of its species that con-
descends to engage the ground
floor as a maternity home. The
most incomprehensible thing
about the business is why the gor-
mandising white ants don’t eat
eggs, young, and the birds themselves. In fact,
I can’t swear that they don’t sometimes ; for the
only birds, etc., I’ve seen are those that haven’t
been eaten. Birds that have been eaten rarely
fly about afterwards, I’m told.
BILL AND THE KING.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The evening meal consisted of sardines and entremet,
cneese, fruit and a rough vin ordinaire, which Queen
could not drink. She asked for water. Manuel
“ common wine without complaint. -London
T Portuyal CCOUnt *** flight of the royal puppets from
I was with Bill the other day,
A sprat was all we had.
I pushed my foaming glass away
And said, “That beer is bad.”
So William seized my pewter, too,
And drank a double fill;
His face became a rosy hue
“ All beer is good,” says Bill.
The kinglet with his mammy fled
And lost his Right Divine ;
The3 r brought, to raise his drooping head,
A flask of common wine.
The Queen Amelia made a face,
Said water was the thing ;
The kinglet promptly took her place—
“ All wine’s good," says the King.
And pondering o’er this story still—
Two men alike in dryness—
-1 thought how Manoel would like Bill,
And Bill would like his Highness.
So if this King of Portuguese
(Since no one wants to shoot him)
Should journey here across the seas
He’ll find a mate to suit him.
VICTORIA.
L.


nburi
The Old BleacT
Wlusky
•inter f«OM oimu.cn*.
AhPAYt the iami, nunt mkm.o
OATH AM MATCH Mb
FOR FORTY YEARS.
Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has been in use
nearly 40 years, which is time to thoroughly test
its qualities, and no case of a cold resulting in
pneumonia when Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy
was taken has ever been reported to the manu-
facturers, which leads us to believe it to be a
certain preventive of that dangerous disease.*
A Marvel in ClocKs.
WE have just opened a large shipment of all kinds of Carriage
Clocks, and among them is one line that we consider the
most marvellous value ever produced.
IT is a Gold Lacquered Case Clock that goes for eight days.
IT is 3fin. high.
IT has unusually large numerals.
IT is sold in a Solid Leather Case.
IT is guaranteed for 15 years, and kept in order for two years
without charge (breakages excepted). There are only half
a gross in the shipment.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
FAIRFAX (SL ROBERTS,
Plain Figures'
Cash.
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
... 23 HUNTER STREET.
Good, Reliable Movement in
Gilt Lacquer Case, and with
a Leather Case, 3fin. high,
21s. 15 Years’ Guarantee.
“ The Pariah ” : I can’ttell “ Gil Gunnia”
(B. 27/10/’10) where the wildfowl of N.S.W. most
do congregate ; but I know a few things about the
feathers of Victoria. For duck and swan Coran-
gamite in February would be hard to beat; but
for wildfowl in bulk and variety I enter the
southern portion of Cape Otway, between the
Johanna River and Appollo Bay. The Ford, on
the east, and the Calder, on the west, both join
the Aire near its mouth through a black ooze
swamp. Occasionally these streams show up as
clear lakes of small size, generally hard of ap-
proach. The Calder Swamp, as it is called,
extends sinuously for some eight miles with
a width varying from 880,yds. to three
miles. If I were to make what I consider
an honest estimate of the number of birds on and
around that swamp, and then divide by 10, and
publish the result, every aboliar would hand me
the rock-cake. Apart from the billions of duck
and swan, there are, in somewhat less number,
coot, crane (white and slate), Cape geese, divers,
dab-chicks, shags, plovers, bronzewings, wongas,
cockatoos (black and white), rosellas, lories, king
parrots, galahs, magpies, mutton-birds, jays, min-
ahs, cat-birds, hawks, and the unclassed ornithor-
hynchus. iThesparrowisnotyetthere, though many
small birds (such as the wren) are. Another im-
ported bird that is missing is the rabbit.
THE PERILS OF THE AIR.
BIPED: “ Hello! Wotcher come down for? ”
BIPLANE: “ Punctured! Ran into a wireless
telegram."
“ Amphib ” : Re “ Werris’s ’* inquiry
(B. 10/11/T0) —“ How far will a turtle travel from
water?” Have seen one 13 miles from the
Lachlan gutter, with no nearer water except in
wells and iron tanks. What is puzzling me is
how long the beasts can last on short —very short
—rations. Near my way-out canvas domicile is a
small horse-trough in which a turtle has lived for
12 months. To all appearances, there is nothing
in the trough except water and that amphibian.
Even if he left his present place of abode he could
not possibly climb back again. And he- has been
at home daily for the last 12 months.
A THOUGHTFUL REMINDER.
SHEPHERD: “ Pause, my young friend —pause and think before you go into that low place."
JOHNNIE: “By Jove! Thanks for reminding me, old chap. I never noticed it was the dashed
threepenny barf' (Retires hurriedly to sixpenny entrance.)
“Kobbi”: Fairlight station, on Hughenden
(Q.), has a “whistling” well. After 80ft. had
been sunk a hiss broke out on one side
and a whistle on the other. Numerous mineis
have poked their noses in and propounded theories,
and left; and the contractor, who has to stay,
doesn't feel any too comfortable —he reckons he
may break through any moment into somethingdis-
agreeable.
“Bromide”: “ Wyndy Ryder’s” yarn
about the colored curse in Kimberley (B. 20/10/’10)
doesn’t show half as had a state of things as is
still to be found in North Queensland. I have
had occasion to visit some of the sugar mills out-
side Mackay. The yard gangs, commonly called
the “ mouse gangs,” are the first you meet. At
Ilomebush, The Palms and Farleigh most of
these gaiigs are Japs, Chows and Hindus. Far-
leigh has Hindus greasing trucks, Hindus
drawing them up to the weighbridge, and
Kanakas on the carrier. Some have Jap
firemen, and Chows in the kitchen. The
PioneerandKalamiamills, outside Ayr,
are manned almost entirely by Asi-
atics. Hambleton mill, on the Mul-
grave, has about 50 per cent,
colored ; Goondi, near the John-
stone River, likewise. Between
Ayr and Townsville there is a
railway station, Ching-do, called
after a boss Chow who owns
most of the land round it. Tt
would give you sore eyes to
look at the crowd who fore-
gather at train time —black,
brown, yellow and brindled,
with a stray white, who looks
sadly out of place in the mob.
In Mackay there is a big Chow-
town, and 50 per cent, of the
pubs employ Japs or Chows as
cooks, etc. In Townsville only
two hotels, as far as I could
learn, employ all-white labor.
Cairns is noted for its mixed
population, and Cooktown is
worse. In the Atherton dis-
trict most of the rich scrub
lands are owned or leased by
Chows. Most of the banana-
growing and market-gardening
is done by Chows. I got a big
surprise at Charters Towers.
Arrived there from Mt. Elliott
at 5 a.m. and went naturally
to the nearest pub. On in-
quiring as to the class of labor
employed, was told a Jap cook
was in the kitchen, so decided
to have no truck with it. I
had to inquire in a good many
places before finding a “white”
house. Was further informed that
very few of the Towers pubs were “ white ” ;
and this in a big mining town ! At Hughenden,
a town frequented by shearers, who skite about
their unionism and their White Australia prin-
ciples, a white baker set up in opposition to two
Chow bakers, and he had a hard struggle to get a
crust. The outside of his shop is decorated with
the sign: “White man baker.” White Aus-
tralia ! Ye gods ! We’ve got to make it white
somehow—and it’s going to be cheaper to starve
them out than chase them with a gun. We’ll
have to do one or the other.
* * * *
Rats of the species that is most addicted
to bubonic plague are becoming more frequent in
Melbourne. A few years ago they were nearly’'
all of the grey sort; but nowadays the black rat is
very numerous in Melbourne’s midst. Probably
the name of the chairman of the Board of Public
Health is attracting them. It is Ham—Dr. Ham.
The vermin must have sniffed it from afar.
“ Billy B.” : The police are still boarding
M.L. pubs and scrambling on to the decks at in-
convenient hours to make prisoners of those
armed with loaded beer-weapons. One of the
most exciting nights in my otherwise dull life
was marked by such a raid at Wellington. With
“the Reverend” I had gone into a pub shortly
before closing-time to top off. The back bar
was crowded, when the landlord suddenly
rushed in and yelled in a whisper: “The
police are at the door. Git!” “Where
to?” said everybody as one man. “Up the
stairs,” says the landlord, “and into the beds.”
By this time the Law was assaulting the front
door furiously ; the bar-keeper was sweeping the
glasses, full or empty, into the wash-tins; and
prominent citizens were white with the fear of
what their wives and bosses would say to
them after the magistrate had expressed his
views. “The Rev.” and myself were well up
in the front when the stampede started,
and “ the Rev.” was carrying something. When
the crowd reached the first landing it scattered
for the bedrooms. I was behind a fat banker
who bounded into a dark room at the head of the
stairs. I was just going to follow him when the
night was fractured by a female’s scream—and I
wheeled to the right. (It cost the banker some-
thing next day.) Rushing down the passage, I
darted through a dark doorway, and precipitated
myself into a white-covered bed. I’ll remember the
next three minutes until the coffin comes. There
was a man in that bed. He didn’t scream or even
curse; he just grabbed me by the hair and bashed
at me with fury and a hard fist. We rolled on the
floor, and upset two or three things in our
struggle. I opened my mouth to explain, and he
filled it; then, by a heaven-sent accident, I stood
on his stomach and his grip slackened. Next
instant I was out of that room, and into
the passage again, fleeing for my liberty.
This time I was taking no risks. In the second
corridor I knocked at a door. No answer, so I
whipped in. As I did so a ray of light fell on a
bed, upon the pillow of which reposed a familar
face. I shut the door quickly, and in the ensuing
darkness a voice said : “ Have you got any soda?”
It was “the Rev.”! “No,” I panted; “have
some sense.” “Oh, well,” he sighed, “I brought
away half a bottle; I suppose we’ll have to drink
it raw—not that it matters much.” And it didn’t.
* * * *
The most sanguinary scrap I.
ever witnessed was between two armies of ants
—black ants and meat ants. Two of us, engaged
in fencing, were camped in a gidgea scrub, and
we had been driven almost mad with the infernal
attention of black ants. Just when we were
going to up-stick, we discovered a meat ants’
colony about 200 yards from the camp. Imme-
diately we drew a trail with burnt mutton between
the headquarters of the two species, and the ensu-
ing proceedings consisted of fight, bite and blas-
phemy. Thousands of ants tore round, perspiring
murder at every pore; reinforcements poured in
all day, and the ground was littered with the
wounded and the stiff. The issue hung in the
balance for long, but slowly the meat ants got the
upper hand (or whatever it was they used), and
towards sundown there wasn’t one black ant left
to chuck the towel in. We remained at that camp
for about a month, but we never saw a black ant
in the vicinity again.
THE CALL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-night, dear heart, I hear the Call,
The Call that never leaves me.
The old Bush lullabies and all
The song that glads, yet grieves me.
In bitter joy, in pleasant woe,
The wanderlust doth find me.
To stay I dare not, still to go—
With all thy charms to bind me.
Last night, beneath the silent stars,
Your voice compelled, enthralled me ;
To-night a Voice across the bars
From seaward places called me.
Low in my ears the Deep Seas croon :
“ Away ! ere Fate defy thee !
The Waters silver with the moon
Shall golden tresses tie thee?
“Shall witching lips and throat of white
For evermore proclaim you
A recreant to old delight,
Of open ways that claim you?”
Dear Love of mine, your breath is sweet
As wild red briar roses —
But, oh ! the sward beneath the feet,
When Night in Bushland closes.
Dear Heart of mine, if it should be
That your fond charms prove stronger,
What will the Voices say to me
As Summer days grow longer?
Were it not best while Love is young
To break the chain enthralling?
For, oh ! the Song the Waters sung 1
And, oh ! my Bushland calling!
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (excevt of a hostile character) will he taken of
cominunications insufficiently stamped. Name anti
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. ivill be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Honest Gobbo : Would earn us honest gaol
E. : Sorry to hear on the word of a friend that “ Mr.
Wolseley was far too sensible to waste politeness on
shearers,” etc. We thought he was a gentleman, any
way 0.H.A.: Well, for one thing you are infernally
long-winded. For another, your fist suggests spiders
suffering from hysterics H.X.: Emmett was hanged,
September 20, 1803....J.M.0. : Quite right; Roderic
Quinn is 41 Doctor : Not quite enough skill H.E.R.:
Drink yarn rather dull and unconvincing ; other patchy.
Left Hand :It misses, but notby a mile W.G.M. :
Your description of the making of a beer-poem is so dull
that we doubt whether you are the holder of a poet’s
license. Suggestions are paid for if accepted....X.
(V.): Take yourself and your herd of gibbering phan-
toms elsewhere.. ..P.G. (ALL.): Had to sink those dere-
licts O.S. (V.): -‘The Fickle One” is just blanky
verse.. ..Bellerive : There is plenty of color and incident
in it:—
THE GAMBLER’S DOOM.
In a gambling saloon a Yankee criminal
Upon an Englishman drew a bowie knife ;
The other gamesters had left the tables,
Upon a thread hung the stranger’s life ;
Fiercely ensued a desperate struggle,
And as they grappled upon the floor,
As if fascinated a Texas Negro
Peered at ’em from behind a door.
Over the Englishman flashed the deadly weapon
When it was wrested by the savage black,
Whom with merciless force did plunge it
Twice into the miscreant’s back ;
Then speedily emerged the dusky slayer
Out into the silent night,
While the Englishman glared with horror
Upon the grim and ghastly sight.
....H.S.T.: Rough, commonplace verse. The repetition
of the bald first line is dreadfully monotonous and irri-
tating-. Later on you may do better—or worse.... The
Other Kid : Your protest needs a lot more hammering
together. By the way, do you own a name, or are you
merely branded with three letters on the off hind-1eg?....
0.T.A.: Sorry can’t use The Parson: Regret both
miss. Have a good look at the accepted veises and try
again. A new writer has to do almost as much burning
off as the average selector Patawalonga: Good idea
indifferently handled... .M.J.S.: All froth this time
....E.P. (N.S.W.): We have seen worse jingles
than that written by the “gardener and useful,’
aged 22. But you had better tell him to keep
on watering your choice marigolds and thistles....
Returned Wanderer: Nobody can “sleep out under the
illimitable star-spangled canopy of heaven ” in this paper.
....G.P. (M.L.): Frenzied poem just to hand about some
terrible crime which has been committed in your midst.
You have omitted to mention what the crime is. We
suspect that it is the poem E.O. (M.L.): Unsuitable.
....W.A.L.: Your middle-aged poem about the chorus
girl conveys no suggestion of vice or gaiety Arthur
Livingstone: Vigneron’s troubles apparently too numerous
to be put into saleable verse. Prune vigorously and use
more skill in bottling....H.P. (Tas.): Pleasantly com-
monplace verses... .Ngoa: The Religious Editor says he
can make his dissiputed typewriting machine produce
the same sort of work by putting a slip of paper
in and pouring a pint of rum over the keys....
Edward K. : No possible use whatever. Bear them
hence... .Loco : Derailed.. .Anthony : No use. ..Culhbert
F. : Ditto... .Wylocrety: Yes, we will print it; but we
hope you’ll reform and try to live it down :
WHY?
I wonder why the girls
Should blu-h beneath their curls
And affect a meek surprise
Or flash fire from their eyes
When a fellow says, “Now, Miss,
I’ve a mind to steal a kiss ! ”
For their heart to him unfurls
(It’s the same with all the girls),
And their opposition dies
If he tries!
....Subscriber: From your statement of the case, the
man who “saved” should get his money....D.P.M. :
Your scheme for frustrating invaders is too drastic; also,
you have jumped another man’s pen-name... .Verax :
Don’t see much wrong with the statement re the bul-
locky and the syndicate’s grab of timber land on the
ground of its inaccessibity. It’s a local row, anyway, and
we haven’t got half a column to spare.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
W.R. : A couple of them will be tried on the artist. ..
Eclex, Arthur 8., Kidnapped: Unsuitable C. Lar:
The poor little pun dropped helpless into the basket
Splurge: Don’t see much hope for you... G.E, : You
want advice. Well, for a start, if you must steal gags,
don’t steal them from such recent papers. Also, if you
steal them from old papers, and offer them for sale,
something horribly unpleasant may happen to you
G. : Sorry unsuitable. Wish you luck, for all that. .
New Chum : Calls for too much explanation to make a
satisfactory picture Cruden : Yes, if you’ve got a
suggestion for a humorous drawing, big or little, current
or otherwise, send it along; and, if it is accepted, it
will be paid for.
“The Battler ” : In most cases vivisectors
of the wild cat would rather trust themselves to
ancient and unreliable ropes than climb 100 ft. of
rungs. After the first 20ft., ladder-climbing is
the most fiendish exertion that I have ever been
introduced to. As one ascends, the smoke-filled
and dust-filled lungs strain and labor with spas-
modic jerks, noises rattle in the ears, the arms are
half numbed with muscle cramp, and the boots
are the weight of a deep-sea diver’s. My own
dead-finish experience in ladder-climbing was at
Bethanga (Vic.)—6ooft. down and 600i't. up again
through the inferno. At the Gwalia (W.A.), all
men working above the sixth level walk to their
toil; but, as the Gwalia shaft is on the underlie,
a gigantic stairway with banister takes the place
of the ranged ladder. Climbing there does not
tax the lungs as vertical ladders do ; but the
muscles of the legs, thighs especially, suffer more.
Writer is at present battling 250 ft. from the grass
roots in a whip shaft. No riding on the bucket
is allowed ; and the ladders, contrary to the
regulations, hug one wall all the way instead of
being inclined. I hope Jacob’s ladder is hung
according to the Acts; I may want to use it any
day.


s «sr«;
"•'jof Scho o \ I
Very little business is listed for the
Church Assembly of the diocese of Bal-
larat on November 29. The most import-
ant item is a motion by the Chancellor,
4* To provide a retiring allow-
ance for the occupant of the
See of Ballarat.” /
, g> I i> H O PS
RETIRING SOO/n
y\*i\c ifvfi
COMPLAINTS AT RICHMOND.
The overcrowded state of the North
Richmond State school was the cause
of a prolonged discussion at the meet-
ing of the Richmond Council on Monday
night.. Councillor Flevill said that Mr.
Binns had only stated the truth. At the
school in question the children were
herded almost on top of each other.
A
p>wr
cv
ii :
The House only puts the business \L
| through as Caucus bas already decided. 7
' This destroyed free debate. Parliament i
' has a right to hear the best individual
judgments from all members, but they
i could not have that while the majority
- have already agreed to what has been
before them in Caucus.p^
) , | M
JohnTo rref--' . Hl5 W.rrgs of
oratory We Wn f lucKed ,
liiS flints of OYltfbry end,
It' wajs no good »« "1<- fa ce °f
iW *bo«r+£e
jeweller «b° JwK • ~.
of Po-^6S lunl 'n^'S'^ Ke f or bccr -
I'-.Vow'ieK-.-:
mo der*r e ! Ihe °f-
-flje Lord w on^ €,r f ftl
SAFE -DEPOSIT
THEFTS OF POULTRY.
Several thefts of poultry have been
reported to the Criminal Investigation
Department. There is a number of
convicted poultry-stealers at large in
Melbourne. Yesterday a market-gar-
dener, of Oakleigh, reported that dur-
ing the night 27 ducks were stolen
from his yard.
The member for Swan had
observed, in reply to an in
terjection from the member for Hume,
that Mr. William Lyne’s present posi-
tion on the Government corner benches
just about represented his political
■capacity. *
forriit:-' D onT<(o -tjaf if l
Une •. 2.‘ Vfiw,youre lo uc\>j
A S'rl - ’
,t. 7
xA Tip for
3t<bni'b2\*>
THE MELBOURNE MENAGERIE.


ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.
—Extracted from recent N.S.W.
censure “ debate.”
Government Supporter : “ Hog 1 ’•
Oppositionist: “ Cur 1 ”
L.8.M.: “If you had left ’er down
there another month, Charlie,
I’d ha’ thought you meant to
drown ’er.”
London, Friday Afternoon.
—A deputation of Dublin
car-drivers has protested
against the introduction of
taxi-cabs and motor-’buses,
which they contend will
ruin the jaunting-car busi-
ness.
OVERHEARD IN A TRAfI.
Miss Blgat: “Why don’t you sit down,
Ethel? There are plenty of seats.’’
Miss Hobbleton: “Because sitting would
make my new skirt bag at the
knees 1 ”
G.H.R. ITEM. ' x
“ It hurts me; but 1 do it.”
LONDON, Sunday Evening.—A male
suffragette attempted to dogwhlp Mr.
Winston Churchill, the Home Secre-
tly. in a restaurant car on the Brad-
ford to. London express.
All the same, the taxi- '
jaunting-car is bound to
come.
A)/» *
V
f o.
Kicked, eh ! Hobble skirts must be
going out in London.
Male suffragette j Must have been tlf§
celebrated Bearded Lady.
HOP PICKINGS.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Before the hot weather comes, and when
it comes, “ Montserrat ” Lime Juice is equally
delicious as a daily drink. But get the genuine
“ Montserrat.”*
An error likely to excite much correspondence
and “language” occurs in Mick Simmons’s arlvt. on page
42 in our last issue. The well-known Winchester repeat-
ing rifle, 1906 model, was advertised at 405., whereas
every “ sport ” knows that it is a special snap at 425. 6d.,
and dirt cheap at the price.*
Make the Liver
Do its Duty
Nine times in ten when the liver is right
the stomach and bowels are right
CARTER’S LITTLE
LIVER PILLS
gently but firmly com-
pel a lazy liver to
do its duty.
Cure Con-
stipation,
Indiges-
tion,
Sick
CARTER’S
ITTLE•
IYER
PILLS.
Headache, and Distress after Eating.
Small Pill, Small Dose, Small Price.
GENUINE must bear Signature
Cooling! Refreshing! Thirst Quenching 1
PERSONAL
ITEMS
REV. T. S. CRAWFORD , new Labor
Member for Marriekville (N.S.W.).
I. Cant is the name of a lady who has lately
joined the roll of Victorian voters.
Red Tape in Portugal had the chance of a
grim joke after the Revolution. A couple of days
after Manoel bad left his country in a hurry, some
Parisian papers arrived addressed to the youth.
The Lisbon Post Office returned the papers to
Paris stamped : “Address Unknown.”
Robert Harper, M.H.R., besides making
starch and oatmeal, is nowadays Australia’s
largest manufacturer of Costs. First, there was
the Ronald case ; then he was twice prosecuted
on a criminal charge that didn’t hurt him ; now
his chauffeur has been twice tried for manslaughter
as the result of a car-collision, and he is still
unconvicted. If Harper were in Westralia he
could easily be floated by the Bar for a quarter of
a million or so.
J. Hammond, who is on his way from
London to Australia with a couple of biplanes,
with which he proposes to make flights in various
centres, is a Maorilander, who has been living in
Britain for some years. He holds a certificate as
pilot-aviator of the Aero Club of France—which
appears to be no slouch in the way of credentials.
French papers recently acclaimed Hammond as
the coming champion of the biplane, and he has
a long list of engagements in various parts of the
world which he proposes to fulfil, bar accidents
and fatal collisions with the solid portions of the
universe.
Died last week in Sydney William Deane,
the oldest Gent. One in N. S. Wales. Over 58
years ago he was licensed to pursue six-and-
eightpence; but latterly, observing about 100
Deanes in the same chase, he slackened off and
grew flowers instead.
During the recent gentlemanly debate on
the censure motion, Henley, the Tory member for
Burwood in the N.S.W. Assembly, who is so
ready with his charges of corruption against
labor-union secretaries, annoyed David Storey by
an interjection. He received the following by way
of thanks :—•
I have never been guilty of going to a telephone and
impersonating another man, and using the information
obtained against him in Parliament under a cloak of
privilege. But I say that the hon. member for Burwood
stood here self-convicted of that action.
Then ’Enley ’it the ’Ouse with a ton of silence.
“ Narranghi Boori W. J. Bruton, who
wrote several really fine pieces of verse which will
be remembered by old Bulletin readers, died
lately up in the northern parts of N. S. Wales.
One piece in particular, “ Currabubula,” reached
England and America as a recitation. Bruton
and I foregathered a good deal with Caleb Porter,
on that actor’s first visit to Australia with “ The
Sign of the Cross” co. Thirteen years later,
Caleb came again, this time with Oscar Asche,
and at a Bohemian reunion he chose “Curra-
bubula ” for the recitation he gave us.
Still another of the 6,785,432 men who
stood shoulder to shoulder with Peter Lalor has
been heard of. The other day a London legal
firm wrote to the Ballarat police asking for infor-
mation of one Brosel, Brozil or Brazel, who, as a
pedlar of mattresses, clothes, etc., was in Ballarat
in 1854. Said the gents one or two :
We understand that Brazel and his fellow-pedlars, one
of whom was Peter Lalor, assisted the miners against
and discharged firearms at the police, and that when the
ringleaders were tried Brazel went up country, and did
not return till the miners were acquitted and forgiven.
Nobody seems to remember Brazel. And, any-
how, he has 56 years’ start on the gents one or
two, so probably he’ll evade them altogether.
James Howlin Graves, the almost forgotten
Victorian politician of the ’Bo’s of last century,
died last week. The old man, who was a reser-
voir of little-known facts, was a native of Ireland,
and acquired most of his education at Trinity
College, Dublin. Coming to Australia in 1864,
he took to pastoral habits in N. S. Wales, and
subsequently tried politics in Victoria. He re-
presented Delatite in the Assembly for some
years, and was Commissioner of Customs under
Bryan O’Loghlen from 1881 to 1883. Graves,
who was 83 years of age, was well read in law and
theology, and was otherwise a man of some
scholastic distinction ; but he never quite suc-
ceeded in living his name down amongst the
ribald politicians of his period.
Lawyer J. L. Purves, of Melbourne, who
died last week, was always complaining of his
ailments, and so hung out pretty well. His de-
fects had even more than usual to do with his
qualities. He would apologise in that way for a
very awkward temper. His bile helped him to
excel in the mordant, sarcastic and sometimes the
brutal. Yet he was far more kind-hearted than
many who are all polish. His father was a
wealthy man of the Squattage and Turf, who
took rather the wrong sort of care in educating
the son. As a boy the latter went with Judge
Box tu Budd’s Church of England Diocesan
Grammar School, a little brick place near St.
Peter’s, Melbourne; but the chief part of his educa-
tion was in Berlin—which didn’t help him much
as a lawyer. The exaggerated saying about
Brougham, that he would know everything if he
knew a little law, was rather more true about
Purves. But his share of common-sense was un-
surpassable, and he shone at Nisi Prius, before a
jury, both in cross-examination and in speeches.
His capacity for taking in details about any busi-
ness-surgery, banking, engineering, or any techni-
cal or commercial branch—was perhaps never quite
equalled at the Melbourne Bar. He had intense
concentration and absorption; he “lived his
cases,” so to speak. Thus he never could have
more than one on his mind, as foolish litigants
who tried to cut him in two or more pieces found
to their sorrow. It was all Purves or none. He
said nearly 40 years ago: “My friend Hartley
Williams will be a .fudge, but I never will.” And
so it was. People have asked thousands of times,
“Why isn’t Purves a Judge? ” The fact was, he
knew he was not up to it, and was also not quali-
fied by temper, so he kept off it.
Purves never gob more attention or shocked
his cronies more than when, as president of the
A.N. A., he got off something like this :
I yield to no man in my allegiance to Queen Victoria.
Yet I hold, as Gladstone and Disraeli did in the last
generation, that the colonies must go, in an English
sense. That is to say, Australia, Canada, South Africa,
even Egypt and India, will ultimately become indepen-
dent nations in a more or less lengthy space of time. The
so-called Imperial idea is false. We can never hope to
weld the scattered elements of British power into one
permanent nation. It is contrary to the course of
Nature and history. Children leave the mother and set
up in business for themselves.
Yet Purves was an utter Tory; but he was a
Tory of the Washington type, not the Deacook.
“Leges ” rakes over the Victorian Bar for
fragments :
Put time back 44 years or so. Purves and Madden
(even then bald) were together as Juniors. Neither of
them gave promise of coming right to the front. Purves
was regarded as a clumsy young bullock, Madden as too
finical and academic. The big business was divided
among such as Fellows, Ireland, Michie, Dawson and
Aspinall, before Judges Stawell, Barry, Williams senior,
and Molesworth senior. Higinbotham was then in
politics. Such able men as G. P. Smith went on ahead of
Purves and Madden, while presently such as Hodges,
Hood, Isaacs and Higgins came up to chal-
lenge them. However, Madden and Purves came
to divide the principal honors. A beautiful, scientific
and artistic contrast. Each had devoted and exclusive
admirers. A fusion of the pair would create a tradi-
tional giant of the Bar. Purves owned the bludgeon ;
Madden the rapier. Purves would gather all his forces
together in a Napoleonic way, while Madden, with a
Moltke-like pertinacity, would neglect nothing. On the
whole, I would rather trust a good case to Madden.
Purves was best uphill. As a very young man he reported
the fight between Sayers and Heenan for the London
Daily Chronicle. His first wife was a daughter of
Grice, the wealthy Melbourne merchant. Of course,
Purves rejoiced when Attorney-General Shiels took
the bold step of advancing Madden from the Bar to the
Chief Justiceship. The billet, by every sort of formal
right, belonged to Hartley Williams, who even rushed
into the Argos, complaining. Shiels was most guided by
the plate-glass window consideration : Who was the man
to put forward when an aeting-Governor was needed ?
Surely a Madden, rather than a Williams or a Holroyd.
So Madden won the day.
The latest Fat Squatter to hit back is
H. H. Dutton, of Anlaby (S. Aus.). To the com-
mittee of the reorganised Kapunda Racing Club
he wrote that he would not be able to subscribe
the Anlaby Stakes, as in the past, owing to the
pressure of Federal taxation. He would, hpw-
ever, send a subscription of —two guineas. Still
The Bulletin isn’t blaming him. If Mr. Duttons
benefactions were bribes to stave off taxation, the
sooner they were stopped the better.
THE NEWEST VIEW OF YASSBERRA.
Rev. Professor Adam incidentally observed that he
had visited Yass-Canberra, and found it a pleasant place,
“a fit home for a poetic soul.” —Melbourne Report.
Jasper Harvey, the wild and whirling
anti-Sosher who opposed Prime Minister Fisher
for Wide Bay (Q.) in 1906, has got the billet of
superintendent of the Anglican Mission Station
on Moa Island (Torres Strait). So politics,
apparently, will know him no more.
“ The Gallery Hand ” : In the N. S. Wales
Assembly the other night J. C. L. Fitzpatrick
said : 41 When I was on the Ministerial benches I
was merely a henchman.” To see if Webster
coincided with my interpretation of the word, I
turned up his new international dictionary, with
this result: “Henchman —a political follower
giving active support; esp. one whose support is
chiefly one of personal advantage.” I’d be the
last to contradict Web.
Another of the descendants of the Ma
State’s third Governor, King, died in Mel-
bourne last week. This one was William Essing-
ton, the son of Phillip Parker, the son of Philip
Gidley. Most Governors come with a chick or
two, whom they clear out of the country as soon
as they can. King left his lot behind him ; and
on the strength of the Governor-ancestor many
of them crept into comfortable' public and semi-
public billets. This one, who was born in Parra-
matta close on 90 years ago, was a gold
commissioner in N.S.W. in the 'so’s ; but he soon
crossed the Murray, and pursued the nimble six-
pence on his own account, and caught it pretty
often. He dropped into Broken Hill in the
fairly-early days, and had a shaft named after
him ; but he missed the best things, and struck a
much richer mine in the Colonial Mutual I ire
Insurance Co.
“ 0.K.” records his disapproval: —
The alleged last words of Tolstoi—“There are millions
of people suffering in the world; why are so many of you
around me?”— proclaimed him a wowserious poseur to
the bitter end. Tolstoi for many years had been talking
about other people’s sufferings, but he hadn’t been always
rushing around to alleviate them. There was, in fact,
much cry and comparatively little wool about Tolstoi’s
life-work. The misery of millions of Russians (most of
whom didn’t know how miserable they were till the
philanthropist told them) is largely due to the system of
government, apart from human selfishness, which is the
root of all trouble. Well, Count Tolstoi might have done
a lot to improve public affairs, by pegging away quietly
in the “ uppah suckles.” His path of duty was the broad
tessilated pavement thatleadeth to the Court and Chan-
cellory ; but seeing that there was darned little limelight
possible for a missionary who preached as an aristocrat
to aristocrats, Tolstoi turned his talents to catch popular
applause, and, in his old age, masqueraded as a peasant.
Had he been a rational reformer he might have influenced
50 acts of legislation, each of them more useful than all
that he ever accomplished by playing the crank.'
Apropos the late William Henry Batten,
of Ballarat (B. 24/11/TO), Mr. S. A. Donnelly
sent this note :
I don’t think you can say that Mr. Batten was the
founder of the Ballarat Mechanics’ Institute. Towards
the close of 1859 a number of miners—of whom I was one
—and other residents of the town, feeling the necessity
for such an institution, consulted together and formed a
provisional committee, of which I was a member. We
had great difficulty in finding aplace to hold our meetings.
At length the Ballarat East fire brigade offered us the use
of its building, provided we made its members honorary
members of our proposed Institute. We accepted the
offer. The provisional committee appointed as hon. sec.
a Mr. Cooper, a gentleman long connected with the Bal-
larat press, who gave every satisfaction. When the In-
stitute was fairly established, the provisional committee
resigned, a permanent committee, largely composed of
persons who previously had taken no interest in the
movement, was chosen, with a paid secretary, to which
office Batten was appointed, vice Cooper, who had done
the earlier bullocking.
And before the mail had brought Mr. Donnelly’s
letter a wire from Newcastle told of his death.
The old gentleman, who represented the Western
Goldfield's in the.N.S.W. Assembly in the ’6o’s,
died very suddenly of heart failure.
J. R. Irwin, who started out with the
Welman airship expedition across the Atlantic as
wireless operator, is a Westralian. He is the
young man who, while at the Siasconset Marconi
station (Mass.), picked up Binns’s famous C.Q.D.
signal from the wrecked liner Republic, and
passed the tidings on to the rescuing vessel.
Irwin is an Australian of the third generation.
Thow, Chief Mechanical Engineer of
N.S.W. Railways, who retires next month from
his thorny £l2OO a year job, is one of
the remarkables. Even at the age of
69 he is physically notable. Standing
over 6ft., he weighs 16 stone, is broad-
shouldered, erect and springy. All his
life he has been a fighter, and if he
couldn’t fight in one way he just had to
fight some other way. When he held
a similar position in South Australia
he was “ laid for ” more than once, and
had to take to his fists. His biggest
battle in the State was, however, de-
partmental ; and there was a political
crisis over it. A rigid disciplinarian,
he has made many enemies; but, curiously
enough, where a young fellow was con-
cerned, he soon softened. So far as the
N.S.W. service is concerned, he will be
chieflv remembered by the “P” class engines,
which haul all the important passenger trains,
and the powerful “T” class goods engines. Both
of these he designed.
After reading the debate on the N.S.W.
Address-in-Reply one feels glad that Gregory
Wade, of Mount Kembla, is a gentleman by Act
of Parliament. It saves useless discussion as to
his possible status.
George Lambert has sold his picture,
“ The Shop,” exhibited at the Vic. Artists’ Exhi-
tion ; price, £lOO. No other of the “Australian
artists abroad ” seem to have done any business-
on the spot, anyway. Considering the wealth of
technical skill shown in the painting, “The
Shop” was a bargain at the price ; but for those
who want a work of art to be artistic in the general
effect as well as clever in craftsmanship, “ The
Shop” has no attraction whatever. It is just
shop.
Hugh Gordon, to whom poet W. H.
Ogilvie dedicated his “Fair Girls and Grey
Horses,” rode away behind the Pale Horseman
last week. Gordon held an expert’s ticket in
station craft, and, among other places, managed
Adavale (Parkes, N.S.W.), and a station in
S’Australia for his brother-in-law, Chief Justice
Way. Lately ho was lessee of property at Wal-
lerawang (N.S.W.), where he died. He married
a daughter of the late Speaker Arnold, of N. S.
Wales.
THE LATE J. L. PURVES, K.C.,
Lawyer and "Sport.”
The Melbourne auctioneering Hains offered
last week the north-west corner of Elizabeth and
Little Collins streets. This was a part of one of
the original half-acres purchased by Robert
Hoddle at the first land sale in 1837. Hoddle
gave £24 for the lot. It came into the possession
of R. H. D. White, who was a grandson of
Hoddle’s, in 1880. Hoddle had possession of the
land, but it came out somehow that he had it only
on trust for his wife, and, after her death, for his
grandchildren. A lawsuit was started, but old-
man Hoddle caved in and compromised by giving
White one of the two half-acres and one-half the
rents. The whole property was estimated to be
worth £300,000. White, who was a bank manager
in Mudgee at the time, was generous with his
wealth ; among other cheques he handed out was
one for £lOOO to a friend who had helped him
with a few pounds when he started his lawsuit.
Later on he was lifted into the N.S.W. Leg.
Council; but a sad illness blotted him out of public
life.
BERT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
As Mr. Wood’s voice grew weaker, and the substance
of his speech more attenuated, his friends behind rallied
the more to his support. They did it noisily. “Shut
up,” he exclaimed, “ I am on a good thing now.”
And so it went on, until at 8.30 o’clock, after the
member for Bega had been talking for five hours and a
half, the Speaker announced that he would leave the
chair until 10.30 a.m.— Daily paper report of the N.S.W.
censure debate.
Shut up, vous blokes! Bert’s on a good thing now 1
Gorstrooth, you are a lot of flamin’ cows 1
Do ’ave a bit o’ common ! Shut yer row !
If you keep squealin’ like a lot o’ Chows,
’Ow can ’e ’it th’ Wankers over there ?
Gorstruth ! you never give a bloke a show!
W’y can’t yer wait? You’ll get your blanky share !
Shut up, yer chumps 1 (Go on, Bert! Let ’er go /)
Yous blokes ain’t fit to be in any ’Ouse
Or sit be’ind a Liberal like Bert!
What blanky right ’ave yous chumps got to rouse
An’ interrupt ’im now ? I call it dirt
To go an’ block a man that’s figlitin’ well
By crowdin’ in on ’im ! You keep your blocks
An’ watch ’im give that there young ’Olman ’ell !
An’, if yer see a chance, pass ’im some rocks!
Get back, yous blokes ! Bert’s on a good thing now !
Leave ’im alone ! ’E knows what ’e’s about!
Stand back an’ let ’im at th’ flamin’ cow !
You’ll get your show if ’e can’t knock ’im out!
Nice crowd o’ cobbers you are, I don’t think
To crool a man that’s got a blanky cert!
Get to ’im, Lab ! . . . You’re on a blanky drink
If you can wooden ’im ! Good on yer, Bert !
N.S.W.
MICKO.


m
s’-Slsj
V_ /, r‘
\,
ft
V,
X.-J
*at>
/ i
\
r s
A\
&ifa
ll
m
Vf
iif fi\
'si ( \ \ . \ \ J /"
tA
y/A
"<r
A
- \,s
,r
I
W.
yy.
\ V
s. / l r
V,
yyy
A,
YA
trOf?
w
■\
sr
\\
?:
S&\
'-\
{?
x\
v
sSg&
' /V l
' J 1/
ip'
a
O
£K
n
A
■\ >
sv
V.i
t-.'X
\
U ~' rj
■\
A/
LI
rn
\ v f
V
V
a h
, X \ \.\%Jfe4
i
,v
-t- "V-ti-
a
■\.v W
5v
vvs
y
On a Good Wicket —Neatly Caught by Sweet and Twenty!
PLAY the game ! Do not let the best girl spend all her thought and ingenuity in dainty dressing and find you in
an ill-fitting' or out-of-shape Suit. You must book your Christmas Suit order now, as we are working at our top,
and we will not be rushed at the last moment into giving you something' which is neither a credit to ourselves
nor a pleasure to you. Now we can g'uarantee you perfect fit, highest finish, a g'ood rang'e of suiting's to select from,
and unequalled quality. We quote 635., 705., 845., 905., and 105 s. Drop in on us during' the week. If you cannot
call, a postcard will bring' you self-measurement form and patterns.
COWING BROS.,
486, 488, 490 George Street; and
7,9, 11, 13, 15 and 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
Open Until lO Friday Evenings.


BALDNESS IN MEN AND WOMEN
Its Cause and Cure.
The alarming increase in the number of bald or
partially bald men seen in our theatres, restaurants
and public places, and the enormous demand for
wigs, switches and artificial hair by women, many
of whom are on the sunny side of 40, has led a
world-famous expert to make a thorough investi-
gation as to the cause and cure of baldness.
As the result of his researches he reports that in
practically every case falling hair and baldness
were due to the dandruff germ, and he therefore
devoted all his energies to the discovery of some
means whereby to destroy the dandruff germ.
After many failures and discouragements he at
last found a preparation which when rubbed into
the scalp often completely cured the dandruff in
from two or three applications; it also, by
strengthening the hair roots, promoted the growth
of the hair, and frequently restored grey hair to
its natural color. Moreover, when used by people
who were completely bald, they were astonished
to find that it actually grew new hair on bald
heads. The formula for this remarkable yet
harmless preparation, which we have pleasure in
publishing at the request of this great specialist,
calls for 3oz. Bay Rum, \ dram Menthol Crystals,
and loz. Lavona de Composee, and can readily be
filled by any chemist. If you desire it perfumed
you may add a teaspoonful of French Fon Fleur
Perfume, which combines perfectly with the other
ingredients, and imparts.a most pleasing odor.
Rub thoroughly into the scalp night and morn-
ing with the finger-tips, being careful not to apply
where hair is not desired.*
CHERRY BLOSSOM will give you
more satisfaction than ant
other BOOT POLISH. It shines
perfectly—and the shine stays.
It softens the leather, and ren-
ders it Moisture-proof. It doubles
the wear of boots and shoes, and
is the choice of particular people.
Cherry Blossom Boot Polish is
sold in 3d. and 6d. tins—Blaek
and Tan. If you have any diffi-
culty in securing it, write direct :
to us, and we will .see that you are supplied immediately.
Managing Agents for Australia:
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
V t
J \
BOWEL COMPLAINTS IN CHILDREN.
The most successful medicine in use for bowel
complaints in children is Chamberlain’s Colic,
Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy. It can always be
depended upon to cure diarrhoea and dysentery.
This preparation has been in constant use for
nearly 40 years and has met with uniform success
everywhere.*
The name “Kaloderma” is a guarantee of
purity and worth. Kaloderma, used tout seul, is the
famous glycerine and honey jelly, which beautifies the
skin in such a remarkable way in so brief a time. It
defends the complexion from the attacks of summer sun,
roughening winds and atmospheric changes, and, put up
in tubes, is easily carried. Kaloderma Soap is a
delightful and economical' adjunct to the bath, while
Kaloderma Face Powder is quite undetectable. Made in
three tints, it can be procured in tiny boxes. Then, last
and greatest, is the celebrated Divinia Perfume, made
solely by the famous F.’Wolff & Sobn. ’All these charm-
ing things are recommended for Christmas boxes.*
Kidney Disease
And all allied complaints have their prompt and
effectual remedy in Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills, which
act in a wonderfully speedy manner. Give them
a trial. Price Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d;*
“A day’s ironing” loses its terrors if the
contract is carried out with the Dalli Box Iron. With
this instrument there is no smoke, no smell, no
noxious fumes. The “ Dalli ” fuel is placed in the iron,
set burning, and in a few seconds the iron is hot and con-
tinues so til! the fuel is burned out. With it ironing can
he done anywhere—in the drawifig-room, or under a tree
on the lawn. Now, in response to the orders of a well-
known autocrat, General Desire, a smaller Dalli, known
as “The Dallinette” has been placed on the market. Id
js designed specially for light work and for use when
Cost of ironing, about one halfpenny per hour.*
When You Are Kept Awake
At night with that troublesome cough, remember
that it can be speedily relieved by Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery. Price Is. 6d. and 3s. per bottle.*
CAUSE AND CURE
OF SCIATICA.
♦
A Seymour Man's Experience
of Various Treatments.
Because sciatica is a disease of the sciatic nerve,
it has been found that the best treatment is one
that tends to put the whole nervous system in a
strong healthy condition. Blisters and injections
are sometimes used to ease the sharp, shooting,
pains in the hips and legs, but this treatment is
not regarded in any sense as a cure. A cure can
only be obtained by looking to the cause of the
complaint and restoring the nerves to their proper
state of tone. In addition to the tonic treatment,
resting the limbs in bed or on a couch as much as
possible helps in a cure.
Mr. William Patterson, of Emily Street, Sey-
mour, Victoria, had a bad attack of sciatica, and
declares that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured
him, and nothing else. This is because they are a
blood builder and nerve tonic, the new blood they
make nourishing the irritated inflamed nerve, thus
completely removing the cause of the complaint
and making a permanent cure.
“ Some time back I was employed fencing at a
place called Glenoura, about 18 miles from Sey-
mour,” said Mr. Patterson to a reporter, “when
I was suddenly attacked by sciatica. It was so
bad I had to get another man to take my place.
In about a w'eek I was unable to walk about. The
pain increased in severity, and used to keep
moving right up to my hip. About three or four
in the morning it used to get very bad. The
sciatic nerve in my left leg got very tender to the
touch. At times I could not move my leg. The
pain in the back of the thigh was fearful. It was
as if red hot needles were being pushed into my
sinews. I consulted the doctor and he said I was
suffering from a very bad attack of sciatica. I
tried liniments, but they did me no good. I was
in a very bad state, unable to walk or work, when
my brother Henry told me of someone that he
knew who had suffered something like myself
being cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. I was
only too glad to try anything that was likely to
give me ease from my sufferings. The first box
didn’t seem to do me much good, but I continued
their use until I had used about six boxes, and
then I was able to go to work again, and have had
no relapse since. My occupation is such that if
the pills had not completely cured me I am sure I
would have had a relapse.”
When you want Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills don’t
be put off with anything else said to be just as
good. If you have trouble in getting them, send
direct to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Aus-
tralasia, Ltd., Sydney, who will send them by
return, post free, 2s. 9d. for one box, six boxes
15s. 3d.*
ĥ
OENYER
You may
rely on
Denyer’s
Special
Elastic
Truss
Its p e r f ect
principle
permits full activity in safety.
Non-irritating', Cool. We fit
you exactly. 17/6 Single ;
Call or write, 22/6 Double.
DENYER BROS.,
Makers of Trusses anti
, , Abdominal Belts,
-281 GEORGE ST. Copp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The hypocritical nature of that petition
which the Melb. Tramway monopolists dragooned
their employees into signing a while back, and
then presented to Parliament as a genuine ex-
pression of feeling, is proved by the fact that, out
of 1000 men who joined the newly-formed Tram-
ways Union in its first 10 days, no less than GOO
were the Melbourne Tramway Co.’s employees.
Fat nearly always builds his narratives in
an untidy and sloppy manner ; and just when one
thinks a yarn is worth considering, it shows
cracks and splits, whereupon a contrary state-
ment is made to prop it up, as it were. When
the Federal land tax was introduced the big land-
owners declared that it would ruin them by
making land so cheap that they wouldn’t be able
to give it away. But when that had nicely soaked
in. Senator Gould told the Senate that the result
of the tax would be that the landowners would
put up rents —in fact, in some cases they had
already done so. Whereupon the House laughed
at the very moment when it was expected to
burst into tears.
Retiring Railway Commissioner Tommy
Tait, of Canada, made a sort of final appearance
in the country where so many passengers have
lately been buried, when he gave evidence to the
effect that Victoria is not yet ripe for electric
railways. Except in the matter of passenger
burial, however, Tait’s office was always a behind-
hand, sort of affair, and it made a habit of not
being ripe. It couldn’t foresee the increase
of suburban traffic, so it built a station that
was out of date before it was half finished.
It has been digging obsolete engines and 40-year-
old carriages off tbe scrap-heap because it didn’t
remember in time to build new ones. And, though
it knew that the Powlett coalfield was starting, it
didn’t provide new coal-trucks to carry the coal
till after the deadlock set in. So it is best not to
take the present testimony too seriously.
For the year which ended on June 30
Tasmania’s railways yielded a return (above
working expenses) of £1 15s. 9d. per cent, on their
cost, and as they were built with money borrowed
at between 3 and 4 per cent, there was a heroic
shortage. The railways of the Commonwealth in
general yielded an average of about £4 4s. 6d. per
cent. ; so the State which has stuck most rigidly
to Tory principles was at the tail of things, as
usual. Poor old Van Deadmen’s Land ! It might
almost as well be called Van Corpse for short.
The blessings of Federation and Protec-
tion continue to be shed upon N. S. Wales. Two
things mentioned within the last few days were
that the Bank of N.S.W. had closed the most
profitable half-year in all its history (the profits
were £201,647), and that the increase of popula-
tion for the September quarter was a record for
many years past. The gain during the three
months by excess of arrivals over departures was
5646, which is a change from the dismal habit of
exporting its inhabitants which the State got into
when George Reid was Premier and Calico Jimmy
was his prophet.
HIS CHOICE.
Rev. Clemens thought that conscription was a blow at
liberty, and he was greatly surprised that a Democratic
Government should have passed such a measure as that
which was lately made law by the Federal Parliament.—
News Item.
Evidently this is the "liberty” the Rev.
Clemens prefers.
S. Aus. had a brief period when “ the
Crown ” had visions of a piebald population. In
the Leg. Council, the other day, John Lewis
recalled the old regulation under which any man
who would marry a lubra got an 80-acre grant
thrown in. Nowadays, though marriage isn’t
prohibited, any white gentleman who canoodles at
a black brother’s camp has gaol in varying
quantities thrown in.
The Westralian Timber Getters’ Union is
in such easy circumstances that it devotes some
of its cash to founding a scholarship for the sons
of its members. It allows £52 a year to a lad
attending an advanced school for three years, or
£llO a year for attendance at a University during
the same period. No doubt if the Timber Getters’
Union were in England, something serious would
happen to it, judging, anyhow, by what happened
to the unions which tried to help themselves by
political action. It is almost a pity it isn’t in
England—the sight of various Fat gentlemen pur-
suing “an ignorant Labor union” for fostering
education would be very stimulating.
Something vaguely suggestive of a de-
mented political ant (though it called itself Fitz-
patrick) leaped off its demented antheap during
the N.S.W. censure debate, and was reported
thus :
The Premier had not yet given his ideas with regard to
the referendums which were to be taken next year. It
was about time he did. THEY SHOULD PREVENT the
Federal Government riding roughshod over the laws of
the State. (Hear, hear.) Nobody contemplated the
length to which the ramifications of the Federal Govern-
ment would go. THERE SHOULD BE AN END to
their wild and frantic attempts to grasp greater powers.
What do the demented ants think they mean by
these crazy proposals for taking the governing
power out of the hands of the people? Next
April the Australian nation will decide by its
free and untrammelled vote whether it wants, or
doesn’t want, certain changes in the Constitution.
And this small, whirling Fitzpatrick circumstance
reckons it is time that he and other small whirling
local circumstances prevented the Australian
nation having a voice in its own affairs.
“T.A.W.” on another virtue of the
graduated land tax :
In a recent S. M. Hkrald Frederick Turner, F.L.S.,
advocates the planting of hedges of salt-bush as a pro-
tection against bush-fires. With all respect to Mr.
Turner, F.L.S., I have very gravedoubtsas to the efficacy
of salt-bush as a fire-break. I was in the Wagga district
some six years ago, when the whole countryside was
swept by one of the most disastrous bush-fires known in
the history of the State. At that time the homestead at
Book Book station, owned by Mr. F. E. Ingram, had on
two sides a thick salt-bush hedge, fully 12ft. high;
and as the fire was approaching from the direction
guarded by this hedge, it was thought there would
be some chance of saving the buildings. But
the flames simply licked them up in their stride, and the
only articles that were saved were the account books. In
the opinion of most of those who have had practical ex-
perience of the bush-fire fiend, the only real protection is
closer settlement, for it is almost invariably on the big,
empty runs that the bush fire is bred. A flame is kindled
by any of a dozen different means on an outlying part,
where the only fighters within call are a boundary rider
and a dog ; and before anyone else can reach the spot the
fire is out of hand, and it is only a n.atter of luck where
it will end. On the other hand, in the more closely
settled districts, the outbreak is noticed sooner, and
there are more people within easy distance to assist in
slaying it before it becomes really dangerous. Wherefore
I am of opinion that Fisher’s graduated land-tax is going
to prove the most efficacious bush-fire fighter ever pro-
posed.
Wilson, Westralia’s Premier rat-catcher, is
in a fix. The proposed Re-distribution of Seats
Bill is the only means in sight to save W.A. from
Labor rule after the fast-approaching election.
But the Constitution provides that any such Bill
must be passed by an absolute majority, and,
though Wilson has a majority of two, that many
are on the sick list. So the Re-distribution of
Seats Bill is in danger—which means that Wilson
is in danger.
Premier Hurry, of Victoria, encountered
a base calumniator the other day. He was a
member of a deputation, and accused Oom Hurry
of breaking political promises. Thereat Hurry, in
a voice of anguish, thundered: “Tell me one
promise that I have wilfully failed to fulfil.”
The accuser paused, fumbled through his memory,
and then weakly gasped : “ I think lam beat. I
withdraw the imputation.” Probably he had
previously been thinking of a Victorian Premier
who promised to fight the Upper House to the
last drop of his gore, and then failed to even
oppose that Chamber at its next election. There
is no need to mention the name of that perfect
devil of a fighter. He is dead now—or if he isn’t
dead he’s sleeping.
One of the sinful follies of the Tariff is its
courtesy to goatskins. The hide of the goat, after
it has been considerably dealt with by our black
brethren, comes from India to the Commonwealth,
and is passed in duty free as “tanners’ raw
material.” Seeing that the tanners themselves
repudiate the term “ raw,” because the leather is
cooked almost sufficiently for use, it would be
interesting to trace the fraudulent description to
its source. Why is the half-finished kid passed
as raw material? Also, why are goatskins im-
ported at all into a country where the breeding
of Angora goats is one of the neglected indus-
tries? Parts of Australia are crying aloud for
goat population. The duty of State Governments
for the past half-century has been to do with
Angoras on the waste lands what the mythical
Ballarat councillor proposed to do with gondolas
on the local lake.
It is casually mentioned that “ some time
ago the Federal Government cabled to the Im-
perial authorities asking if there was any founda-
tion for the statement that the naval base in
Australian waters was to be removed from Sydney
to Auckland.” Considering that Australia is
going in for a fleet of its own, and is severing all
connection with the “squadron ” in these waters,
which will in future be maintained jointly by
Britain and Maoriland, the above seems a fairly
robust sample of cheek.
Either Yassberra or the Wade Govern-
ment’s closer-settlement policy got another beauti-
ful advt. last week. The Wade Government
resumed Hardwicke Estate, near Yass, a while
ago ; and, though there is usually a wild rush for
N.S.W. farms, there were only 17 applicants for
the 31 blocks in this lot. Either land-seekers
looked at the drought and the rabbits, or they con*
sidered the outrageous prices paid to the big land-
lord under the Wade system of closer settlement.
Anyway, they fled ; and the State has 19 out of
31 farms on its hands. Incidentally, the big land-
lord has the purchase money in his pocket.
A MODERN SERMON.
Dr. Radford (Warden of St. Paul’s College, N.S.W.),
referring to the American footballers, said: “We learnt
from them a new philosophy of life, and a very much
richer phraseology.”— News Item.
“ Yes, fellow players! In the game of life get a
hustle on; pack the scrum and keep Satan
back. Cut in and collar the ball before him;
and, with a little side-stepping, you’ll get a
sure try.”
When the report of the Fedei’al Insurance
Commission was presented the other day, Sydney
Telegraph was pleased that it didn’t recommend
any system of Government audit. For financial
institutions, it held, all that was necessary was
publicity—the publication of accounts. Mean-
while, the Charing Cross Bank, London, has just
burst. It published accounts right enough ; the
last ones declared the assets to be £1,608,000
against liabilities of £1,237,000 —surplus £371,000.
In addition to this it had the publicity of a stink
which lasted the best part of 40 years, for among
people who knew things, a concern which offered
7 per cent, interest on 12 months’ deposits was
anathema. Yet the Charing Cross Bank contrived
to rake in so much of the money of the ignorant
that the depositors’ losses are expected to reach
at least £1,000,000. Truly, the publication of
accounts is a great safeguard. Every Australian
institution which went to partial or complete
smash in 1892-3 published accounts (most beauti-
ful accounts) right up to the last moment.
THE MONSTER AND THE MASSACRE.
State Frights sees an awful [?]sion from his
little window.
The big landlord who says that a gradu-
ated land-tax was never contemplated, and that
Fisher is therefore a person of bad faith and a
brigand, has been bumped in b. Aus. ine fact
has been dug out that the S. A. Commissioners,
who laid the “Province’s” foundations over 70
years ago, reported this way :
Another measure which we should be very desirous to
see adopted in the colony is the imposition of a land tax.
It is a species of tax which has always the advantage of
tending to prevent the accumulation in private hands of
large and unprofitable tracts of land.
The Register, which has a great respect for any-
thing 70 years old, is very much annoyed at this
discovery, and explains that, of course, the
advice didn’t apply to “ the penalising of created
large estates.” “ Half a dozen horses have been
stolen,” says the Register in effect; “so what’s
the good of locking the stable door?” It might
be honest enough to add : “ Let it open so that
the same people or their friends may come back
and steal the rest.”
THE SINS OF AUSTRALIA.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Besides, there are not two pockets into which the tax-
payer can dip when he is compelled tocontrihute towards
the Federal and the State Treasuries.—S. M. Herald.
Fat is weeping.sadly,
For his pocket’s health ;
The State is treated badly
By the Commonwealth.
Hughes is out to cheat her—
That is' what we bawl ;
He’s taking cash from Peter
To pay back to Paul.
Big Australia’s greedy,
Grasps what she can get,
When the States were needy
Tried to steal their debt;
If we weren’t watching
She would grab the lump,
We should find her snatching
Of the parish pump.
Nothing would be left us ;
If she had her wish,
She has e’en bereft us
Of our Stinking Fish ;
Quite devoid of feeling,
Deaf to praise or blame,
She has started stealing
All our local shame.
Deep is our dejection,
All the State by stealth
Has become a section
Of the Commonwealth ;
Mark it on the docket,
Name and brand it theft,
She robs our right-hand pocket
To fill up our left.
N.S.W.
MARY MAC COMMONWEALTH.


ħ
JJJU
I | f >[ s%<&&*****<:: «**«<*
r I $' S
£%.
\" .‘v •
%'• '•S*-'' A ~ ...
T ",*• -i;. 'V*V. .•4%** *v i
.*.*.• v *.*• ..%•.* :. • . .-, ~ v., * .vv v%••.*•*•*„•/.* ,o
.•:£■ £ ~..- iS ' ..,4;.V* , : : -:-;-^•-•■•••?'
JS&
via?
91
%
w&
3SF.
m
m
&
y.-:*
K*:#?
i :*
SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
“NEW RIVAL”
In America, the national trap shooting average was won
the last two years with Winchester Shotgun Cartridges.
Last year the average beat all records, being 97.20%
for 8,235 targets. Consider what remarkable shooting
this was —less than three targets dropped out of every
hundred —and it was done on all sorts of grounds, in all
kinds of weather and under varying conditions. This
shows the wonderfully uniform shooting of Winchester
cartridges, because any variation in pressure would
probably have prevented such accurate shooting. “New
Rival” shotgun cartridges will give the best results
in your gun. Ask for them —The Red W Brand.
FOR SALE BY DEALERS EVERYWHERE.
Pears' Christmas Feast for ig to.
PEARS’
ANNUAL
Ready November 21st.
CONTAINS
5 Splendid Tales by
5 Famous Living Authors.
With 19 specially drawn Illustrations in Tints:—
The Handsome Stranger, by Geo. R. Sims, Illustrated by Frank
Dadd, R.I- ; Means of Transport, by W. Pett Ridge, Illustrated
by Bernard Partridge ; Corporal Jim, by Max Pemberton, Illustrated
R. Caton Woodville ; The Dragon*s Tooth, by Dick Donovan,
Illustrated by Gordon Browne, R.I. ; A Model Man, by Barry Pain,
Illustrated by Will Owen.
Together with a Page of Music —The Old English Hunting Song,
“JOHN PEXL,”
Illustrated with a Series of Four incidents in the Song, comprising
Four Full Pages in Colours, Facsimile Reproductions of the
Original Drawings.
THE ANNUAL IS AS USUAL ACCOMPANIED BY
Three Presentation Plates
Each Printed in 12 cr 13 Colours.
1. TEMPTED BUT SHY, by G. G. Kilburne, R.I.
2. OVER THE GARDEN WALL, by Fred Morgan.
3. BUTTERFLIES, by W. S. Coleman.
Sold by all Booksellers. Agents for Australasia—GOßDON & GOTCH.
COOL SUMMER SHIRTS
For Christmas Gifts.
MSBBwKsfc-
jib!
m
m m liWmmm
m
mm
II
$
IflLj
BSKV
jiff Ht @Ju&**S2& ,% 1
IKSW
m
n
lIWWII
MM
ii
,0
'.V>'ll aMI-v*"
4
wmm
WSJBKSIi
I
sia
fm
i§£#
r T''HIS picture faithfully portrays the negligee yet smart appearance of these shirts. They
are in wide and narrow stripes, including the fashionable tri-colors ; in Cambrics and
1 Zephyrs—latest French Novelties. And in two grades, both Farmer’s Special values—
-5/6 each, or 3 for 16/-; 6/6 each, or 3 for 19/-
SPECIAL VALUE TENNIS or GOLP SHIRTS, in Japanese Crepe ; latest novelty
stripes and colors ; double cuffs and collar to match—
-0/0 each, or 3 for 197-
let US SEND YOU OUR MEN’S WEAR CATALOGUE.
CHRISTMAS GIFT CATALOGUE IS ALSO READY. jt
FARMERS SYDNEY
V
ACUUM
fUBRICATING
lav
O,LS0 ,LS
Are treated in stills
from which the air has
been partially exhausted.
This permits "distillation
at a temperature much lower
than the killing heat of
direct fire.
Thus the natural mineral
greases are not burned out of
the petroleum and we get
k tbe oils tbat lubricate must a


i
m
Esteb
1818
°Bl/R
a
£x
JL
Ami late, deah? You’ll forgive
me, won’t you ? 1 feel so fri’fully
tired and seedy. What time did
you get away last night? 1
had to stay at Auntie’s and this
morning when 1 woke up she
was standing over me with a
cup of that wretched tea of
hers —it’s so horribly scenty —1
simply had to drink it, but 1
hav’nt felt well ever since. Why
on earth she gets the awful stuff
1 don’t know. Mother’s tried
time after time to make her use
Robur but she won’t, she says
“ she doesn’t believe in things
that are advettised ” and says,
•‘she doesn’t care whether they
are good or not, she won’t use
them,” so old fashioned, isn’t it?
And she can’t be made to
understand that everything that
is any good is advertised in
these days. Oh! I say! there
are the boys! Come along, deah.
We’ll make them take us down
to afternoon tea. I’m just dying
for a freshly-made cup of Robur.
It’s the only thing that’ll put me
right.
The Block Girl.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1800, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, November 28, 1910.
My Dear Arini, —
A brief type-written letter and a pathetically
small balance-sheet dropped on my desk last
week. The first sentence of the letter will do :
“Dear Madam,—The funds of the Child Study
Association being exhausted, the executive has
been compelled to stop the supply of milk that it
has been giving to its very poor patients.” That
is a disturbing sort of note to get at the end of
the wonderfully prosperous year 1910. A glance
at the miniature balance-sheet shows that the
excellent little charity—it aims at building up
poor, deformed or mentally deficient children by
supplying them with nourishing food or surgical
belts—has carried on since July last with £57
7s. 2d. Unfortunately, the most economically-
run charity cannot make £57 7s. 2d. last inde-
finitely ; in this instance the sum has been made
to last for five long months. The final hoarded
tuppence, I think, vanished about November 21.
(Half of it must have been used to bring this wire-
less call for aid to my desk.) lam confidently
passing on the call to the reader. If you have
anything to spare will you please send it, care of
vour grateful “ Akenehi,” or direct to the
Hon. Sec., Mrs. Izett, 139 Market-street, Sydney.
And I seize this cue to thank a kindly resident of
Werris Creek for a parcel of toys for the C.S.A.
youngsters.
Mrs. McGowen, the Premier’s wife, has a new
joy ahead of her—she has to make acquaintance
with the Mary Ann trouble. She and her two
daughters can’t manage by themselves any longer,
now that they have to “go out.” But she
deserves a rest, anyhow—she and her burly
Premier have six sons and two daughters,
all grown-ups except one boy, who is at school.
Still, the more they leave her at home to mind
the house the more kindly she will take it. She
nearly didn’t get into the opening of Parliament;
there didn’t seem to be room, and she was for
turning back. But one of the girls—they are
musical girls, by the way—was more pushing ; and
then, when she was inside and wanted to take her
quiet back seat, the Chelmsford lady beckoned,
and she had to go right to the front. “ But I
think I’ve found out better what the people
really think by sitting quietly in back seats,”
says this modest, earnest helper of her husband.
The Earl of Harrowby is in our midst, and the
dailies have mentioned insistently that he is a
“distinguished visitor,” though, indeed, he does
not seem to have vastly distinguished himself
abbve the general run of earls during his 46 years,
unless it be by remaining alive and solvent. He
married a Miss Smith, daughter of the affluent
and aggressively moral house of W. H. Smith and
Son. They own every railway-station bookstall
in England, and employ their own Judkins to
peruse and warn off any volumes that may shock
the pure mind of Britain. A youthful Smith was
out here seven years ago as aide to Lord Beau-
champ.
As this letter hurries to press, regiments of
“Liberal” ladies are massing in the Sydney
-Town Hall with diamonds and other oddments
for presentation to Mrs. C. G. Wade. The gift
is, so far as I can gather, a sort of consolation
prize, designed to bring comfort in a moment of
great grief. There are points, it seems to me, in
being a “Liberal” lady. If you happen to be in the
forefront of the movement you are given diamonds,
and the smart sayings of your little boy are re-
ported in the press ; while free food, tea and so
On are at your disposal, during the elections, no
matter what your rank.
A departer by the Orontes on December 14 will
be Baronet Rupert Clarke. He has cabins de
luxe, with all the delicacies in and out of season,
including private fishing, wireless and brass name-
plates. For some months report has been saying
that the au revoir bouquets to be sent aboard will
include orange—oh, bother that telephone bell!
Talking of wireless : Have you seen the pole on
the Australia Hotel? The newly-formed com-
pany, the Australian Wireless, Limited, has made
that hostel one of its stations. Presently our
friends outward bound will send us messages
every day, mentioning the articles they had left
on their dressing-tables and the things they had
forgotten to say on shore. Final instructions will
be wirelessed until the liner is out of wire-shot.
The other day an excited family on a Sydney
train let it be known that the reason of their ex-
citation was a wireless message received from a
relative who was on his way back to Sydney.
Other passengers looked at the family interest-
edly, Since wireless captured Crippen, it has
become a force worth knowing about.
The Willy Kellys leave for England at the
beginning of next year. She is anxious to see her
'people again, and he yearns to buy some new
socks.
j Lord Dick Nevill paid a flying visit to Sydney
Jast week.
l Women’s favorite picture in the Society of
■Artists’, Exhibition, now holding the eyrie in the
Q. V. Markets, is Miss Rodway’s pastel of little
Theo, only child of Dr. Otto Wunderlich. A
'beautiful, fair-haired boy of five or so—quite as
beautiful and innocent-looking as any one of the
(cherubs in Joshua Reynolds’s famous picture,
“ Angels’ Heads.” Only small Theo has a sug-
gestion of humor in his fair, round face, and I
(don’t know that I have ever seen a humorous-
flooking angel. Another admirable Rodway pastel
is a portrait of a little girl, Bertha Lawson.
Miss Charlie Davis’s Italian villa is worth
some attention. This exhibitor has done some
study in Paris, and the pictures signed Joseph
Champcommunal, a French artist, are the pro-
perty of Miss Davis. Julian Ashton’s cloud
shadows are such stuff as dreams are made of.
He is a sympathetic portrayer of atmosphere.
And his ti-tree—Ashton couldn’t get bushed in
ti-tree. The spirit of tonic-scented bush would
come along and lead him as a kindly light. This
artist’s portrait-bust in marble, by Miss M.
Lovett, comes in for much admiration.
An oil presentment of Mr. Hardy Wil-
son, the architect-artist, who was a partner
in the recent Lambert-Wilson exhibition, is the
work of George Henry, A.R. A. It is a dominant
exhibit. Mr. Wilson is a striking figure—might
be a modernised d’Artagnan or a matinee idol.
There is none like him among churchwardens or
taking r >und the collection plate. Gruner’s
“Golden Eve on Middle Harbor” wins favor.
Lionel Lindsay’s “Goat Dance” is my favorite in
the etchings section. But there’s a lot of good
work, and all the exhibitors want now is about
168 buyers. For a few of the 171 pictures are not
for sale.
The new Government has put an extra bright-
ness into its nimbus by purchasing 65 of Mrs.
Ellis Rowan’s flower paintings at about 15
guineas a picture. Nothing in the direction of
this acquisition had been completed when the
last Government went out of office. Representa-
tions were made to Mr. Beeby by Mr. Car-
michael, and, after some sympathetic alarms and
excursions and confabs, the purchase, which should
be highly approved by the public, was effected
to-day.
Mrs. Hugh Dixson, senior, vice-president of the
British Empire League, had a conversazione
thrust upon her by way of “ welcome home ” on
Friday night. This form of cruelty to distin-
guished citizens seems to be on the increase. The
ex-Premier Wades are having one to-night; the
Allen Taylors’ turn comes on Wednesday. Mrs.
Dixson took hers smiling. Archdeacon Boyce
opened the proceedings with a mixture of
honey and chaff. Mrs. Dixson, who has
returned from a long visit to Europe, replied ;
but she was what the press so often calls
the police—reticent. Most of the women would
have liked to hear about her presentation gown,
and what fun, if any, there is in bending the
spine to royalty. But she talked League, and
mentioned that she had walked three miles in a
queue, caterpillar pace, to see the dead King
lying in state. Mrs. Dixson’s loyalty goes 20cwt.
to the ton, pure ore.
The Dixson-Turland wedding obstructed the
traffic in King-street last Wednesday. The bride
was snow-white and diamond-bright as to
raiment. The sensational wedding gown was the
last word in jewels, beads, white velvet lilies,
embroidery and a long cascade of point de gaze.
The going-away enclosure was very like another
bridal gown—an Empire-built one of white satin
and white ninon with insertions of Duchess lace ly-
ing on the ninon. A restaurant frock was of amber
ninon over pale blue, with amber sunflowers deco-
rating favored spots on the skirt and corsage.
On a ferociously southerly-burstered evening
last week a play, written by Mr. Hillhouse Tay-
lor, but idea-ed by Dr. Bohrsmann, was read
in the Manchester Unity Hall by members of the
Muffs Co. and others. “ Trafalgar ”is the name
of the four-decker naval play, which has been
sent to London, where the navy is a burning—not
to say a conflagrating—question. Mr. Taylor’s
play presents in dramatic episodical form the life
of Nelson, starting with tableaux of his
rectory home, and ending with his shade look-
ing at the fleet of to-day. It is full of stir-
ring scenes on the old battleship, the press-
gang, heroic speeches. Lady Hamilton, Nel-
son’s triumphant reception in Italy, flag-talk,
Hardy, and Nelson’s insistence that the country
will get all that’s coming to her if she doesn’t
mind her navy.
“Trafalgar” ought to do as much for the gaiety
of the nation as “ An Englishman’s Home” did.
The reading was good. Mr. “Muff” Cope was
Nelson, Miss “Muff” Boult was Lady H., and
Mr. “ Muff ” Taylor was a bosun.
“Charlie,” a comedy by Mrs. Ray Boult, a
local teacher of elocution and dancing, is to be
produced at a matinee performance at the Palace
on December 15 in aid of the Lewisham Hospital.
Further particulars next letter. Miss Dimond,
of Roslyn Gardens, is hon. sec. of the venture ;
and Mr. Harry Roberts kindly lends the theatre
for the occasion.
Miss Eileen Boyd’s non-appearance, through
sickness, at the Steffani Opera Club’s first concert
on Friday night was a disappointment to the
audience. The girl leaves with Mr. and Mrs.
Steffani for Paris in a few days, and when Sydney
hears her in the, let us hope, sweet by-and-bye, it
will be the finished product that will be trilled out
to us. Mr. W. H. R. Woods directed the con-
cert, which proved a capital one. Miss Gladys
Wahlberg and Miss G. Campbell, pupils of the
studio of Steffani, have made striking progress.
The foolish “Gibbs” song-and-dance exhibit at
Her Majesty’s is on the road to beat every record
in musical comedy in this city. It has beaten
“ Florodora” and “Mother Goose,” and, instead
of being swept off on the 17th Dec., as was in-
tended, it will now play till after Christmas.
Only it will go to the Royal, to make way for
“The Whip” at Her Majesty’s. With every
night still like a first night, M.L. cannot hope to
see the idiotic production yet awhile. But
Florence Young and Tenor Roberts will make
amends by going over with the new comic-opera-
tics, to appear in “The Dollar Princess” and
“ The Merry Widow.”
A correspondent mentions from M.L. that Aus-
tralia’s “Sweet Nell” has embarked upon her
long tour through the byways of Australasia.
The season of much-travel began at Gore, and 40
Dominion towns are to follow. Each night will
see her upon a fresh stage, and even Sundays will
be occupied—in travel.
Miss Rosina Pinliey (Rosina Sydna) is blooming
in Sydney again after seven years’ absence in
Europe. She is a tall, fine-looking girl
with a Northern-Hemisphere complexion and
a Southerner’s enthusiasm for the sunshine.
Miss Pinhey, who studied with Marchesi,
had capital chances in grand opera in Italy,
but a severe climate is hard on a singer’s
throat, especially if the throat was developed in
this sunstruck land and is not of the strongest.
All our Australian singers make moan of how
badly the first one, two or three European winters
use them and their voices. In Miss Pinhey’s
case recurrent attacks of influenza and sore throat
hustled her back here, where she will stay for a
year or two to give consistent sunlight a chance
to work out her vocal salvation. Of the Fitz-
stubbs twins, of whom Sydney had not heard for
some time, Miss Pinhey tells that a younger
sister of theirs is now reckoned the star of the
group. She was in the Viennese production of
“The Waltz Dream,” and her singing, and
especially her dancing, won her great favor.
Mr. and Mrs. Bland Holt, with Miss Lucy
Coppin, are over here for a week, staying at e
Wentworth Hotel, prior to leaving for a trip to
the Continent and England on the Bremen nex
month. By the same liner goes Mr. Alec.
Browne, late of W.A. and the Willoughby Co.
He departs for the purpose of taking Melbas
emphatic advice re the training of his voice. e
is to study in Italy.
The furniture and pictures at Greenoakes, the
Mort’s old home and Archbishop Wrights pros-
pective one, are to be sold ; and, as they are good,
there is not likely to be any particular rush tor
them. Our ancient nobility lacks the old
furniture cult. In England every other
well-to-do housewife is wont to prowl round
insanitary-looking shops, up obscure side-alleys, in
quest of treasures for the adornment of the home.
Australia —possibly because the shops that stock
curios are mostly pawnshops which offer nought
but unredeemed revolvers, ruined billiard balls,
infamous plated goods and the like —buys its draw-
ing-room and other adornments brand-new. Green-
oakes will offer such a collection as one might see
in Wardonr-street, London —or even at Christie s.
Thomas Mort, when he began acquiring articles
of bigotry and virtue, took no chances. He simply
turned up at a sale at Alton Towers, the Shrews-
bury seat, and gave a cheque for every authenti-
cated piece that struck his fancy. Later, he
commissioned auctioneers to buy him more stuff,
and the odds are they treated him well.
By the way, Thomas Mort really started his
career as an auctioneer. He was in the employ of
Gosling, Brown and Co. when that ancient firm
went bankrupt. This impelled him to launch out
on his own account, and from his little auction-
eering concern grew Mort and Co., which subse-
quently became Goldsbrough, Mort and Co.
From the motoring news in the dailies one learns
that Miss Eadith Walker, who owns a herd of four
motor cars, departs for Europe early in the new
year, and that she takes with her her two cousins,
the Walker twins, sons of Senator Walker and
brothers of Mrs. Yerney. The fortunate trio will
be absent seeing fair places in strange lands for a
year or so.
Word comes from London of the marriage there
of Mrs. W. Baumann, widow of the late pro-
prietor of Baumann’s Cafe.
An engagement of interest to the scholar-folk
is that of Miss Meares. the principal of Riviere
College. The fortunate man is a widower with
bookish tastes—and a few children.
A rumor reaches me that a Laurence Hope
Society is to be formed in Sydney. I presume it
is for the study of that full-blooded Anglo-
Indian’s love lyrics, though it may be a mere com-
mercial affair like those which have been estab-
lished in England for the sale of limited editions.
There is a John Payne Society, for instance
(Payne translated Villon and wrote some minor
verse), and there are societies that publish old
plays and things the censor would shiver at if
offered by a modern writer. Laurence Hope was
a sister of Victoria Cross, and, if I remember
aright, she committed suicide. Many of her
poems in “Indian Love Lyrics” and “The
Garden of Karma” are rather undraped. and her
warmth carried her over the bounds of discretion
at times. Yet there is hardly any poetry in
English that utters such a passionate cry of
motherhood. If the Laurence Hope Society is a
kind of literary mothers’ meeting, it will be quite
safe.
Melba’s friend and' biographer, Miss Agnes
Murphy, solemnly takes a “rise’’out of Emily
Soldene. And Miss Soldene as solemnly pre-
tends she doesn’t see it being taken. The. King
has accepted a copy of Miss Murphy’s history of
Melba—the biog. ran in The Lone Hand —and
the writer says to Soldene : “As the reigning
Sovereign makes it a rule not to accept gifts of
any kind from individuals who are not personal
friends, his Majesty’s compliment to me is
exceptional.”
As a fact, the Sovereign will take any decent
book from any writer. If a Sydney Boy Scout
wrote a monograph, say : “ How I Helped Alec
Brown, the Black Tracker,” and sent a copy to
the King, he would get the usual acknowledgment
from the Hon. J. W. Fortescue. Marie Corelli
regularly sent copies of her books to Queen Vic-
toria. One of our minor poets was thanked on
behalf of the King by the Hon. J.W.F. for a set
of verses op the late King Edward. When I
write my great work, “Is Death Necessarily
Fatal?” I’ll send a copy to whatever monarch is
then on the throne of England.
Probably the master-kink in Tolstoi’s charac-
ter was his horror of death. Altpost • every-
body fears death, but with Tolstoi it was an
obsession. It spurred him first to science. In
his “ Confessions ” he wrote :
I searched all the sciences, and not only found nothing,
but became convinced that no one would find anything.
Not only would they find nothing, but they would see
precisely what had driven me lo despair.
And again :
All that we call culture—our science, arts and im-
provements in the amenities of life—are no other than
attempts to deceive the moral cravings of mankind ; all
that we call hygiene and medicine are no other than
attempts to deceive'the physical and natural cravings of
mankind. Has life any object that is not destroyed by
the inevitable death that awaits me?
He decided that it hadn’t, and resolved to kill
himself ; but, instead, fell back on religion, which
brought him no more comfort than science.
What is the good of rearing children who will soon find
themselves in the same difficult position as their parents ?
Why should they live ? Is it that they may come to the
same despair as lam in myself ? As I love them Ido not
wish to hide the truth from them, for eacli step in know-
ledge will lead them nearer to it. But the truth is—
Death.
Tolstoi’s last flight from home was probably due
to the feeling that the enemy was upon him. He
was driven by the instinct of the animal which
yearns to be alone with its misery.
A London weekly which used to beslaver
Queen Alexandra in the days of her power,
weighed in with this acid gibe the other day :
We are told that Queen Alexandra has instructed an
eminent composer to write a new song, “God save
Queen Alexandra,” as asortof secondaiy national anthem.
There is no one to touch a courtier in the gentle
art of kicking people—male or female—when they
are down.
Yours affectionately,
AKENBHI.
Poor old Bigjohn Forrest is no explorer
these days ; the further he wanders the worse he
gets bushed. In the course of one speech in the
Reps., the other day, he cursed the Labor Govern-
ment for only taxing the rich, and poured gall and
wormwood and crocodile’s tears over the same
party for raising £105,000 on “an article consumed
in every poor man’s household.”
British Chancellor of the Exchequer
Lloyd-George put so many frills on his land tax
that great troubles have fallen upon his subor-
dinates. The Act deals with “value,” “site
value,” “original site value,” “increment
“ total value,” “gross value,” “increased value,
“ undeveloped value,” “ agricultural value, etc.,
and it is full of facts like the following (very much
condensed version): —
Reversion Duty is a special form of Increment Duty
payable on the determination of a lease of land. It is a
tax on the increased value of land accruing to the ownei
or lessor b3 T the determination of a lease, and is charged
at the rate of £1 for every £lO of that increased value.
The increased value is the amount (if any) by which the
total value of the land at the determination of the lease
(subject to deductions for permanent works executed by
the lessor and for any compensation payable by him)
exceeds the total value at the time of the original grant.
Where the lessor is not the freeholder the assessment is
to be reduced in proportion to the difference between
the value of his interest and that of the freehold.
Then there are exemptions including :
(4) Cases in which a reversion was purchased before
April 30, 1909, and the lease determined within 40 years
of that date ; but this exemption does not apply where
the lease is determined within 40 years by any agree-
ment not contained in the lease itself.
That airy trifle is one out of some hundreds of
items in the monumental tax scheme. It was re-
cently stated that several thousand tons of
returns had already been received under the
increment tax clauses alone, and it was reckoned it
would be necessary to employ half the clerks in
the three kingdoms to tackle them, else many
would be ancient history before they were even
opened.


' ' -
! ,y,-■ :' ■'///■ ' ■ / ’ - . ■' '■ A
■ ■ 1 - t v "• , 11 - -!4
f
'7#&r7?Z'£i
*£&V4fe
V® s§p
« > *
w@&%«
tiB&MHGK
:^./ J r : "7. £&&&£!
BOSS'S
a* : !
a#.#
s-^'^sr
1-B?
L
u-
i \
i *.
mwm
f s #'’
:;>.•>«••••
Mi
® ; iii
pltfe
: :it
Hr
I®
s>;t ; 4Sp3<*^
ipiiiliipfei i
JBSlliffwiittl,-..
it
,4
l&lMm
mmm
”
i
Will'' 7
M&X/Z
rX^iAftfy^X^t^ r iir z Cr V■\V:/*ys*T S
/
Hts
ili?fTYl>
\ ■:/ i A.. '/
/ > 0/ ~- O' *
WfS*P" :
■ -E V 7~ t 'v
f:r jf^
spSl
m
m
,m.
yKi'i&K
H&T . li ,:
Mjff
! M&IM
f Mslb •'
-
, . c.„..
mom^^ot&s
" i ' . s
K : ;T'r^H
■■'.
COBRA, Ufye Floor Polish, is as
g'ood as COBRA, T5hQ Boot Polish*
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Down the hall goes
Skating too.
Not a scratch
He leaves behind
That a microscope
Could find.
Smiling always—
Thin and tall,
Swiftly up and down
The hall.
Of his skates
He’s very fond,
And the safe old
Polish Pond.


sDid you laugh over the surf-bathing
comedy, “The Minus Quantity,” in the Christmas
Xumber of The Lone Hand?
DUNLOP
GARDEN
OSE’*-
W.
!<a
Cxs
M
MM
uis
THIS HOSE
is the Finest
that you can
obtain.
Its Quality
ensures Long
Wear, and its
Construction
no Kinking or
Bursting.
* »
Stocked by all Store-
keepers, but to get the
best results, specify
“ Dunlop ” Brand.
’« »
Sample Section on Application
* *
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.,
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide,
Brisbane, Perth, and Christ*
church, N.Z.
Once
Use a
Dunlop
Tennis
Ball
and
You
Will
Use
No
Other,
m
A
<K
DUNLOP
TENNIS
BALLS
being freshly made and free
from perish, ensure you satis-
faction that is not obtainable
from the imported article.
Just try a “Dunlop” Ball
and note the difference.
Obtainable all leading Sports Depots
. DUNLOP RUBBER CO., all State* and NZ^
h
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
Medical & Toilet Black & Green Packet. R e £",
GOLD MEDAL FRANCO-BRITISH EXHIBITION.
AN IDEAL TOILET SOAP . . being absolutely Non-Irritating even to trie
A DELIGHTFUL NURSERY SOAP f most delicate skin.
A Perfect BATH SOAP, being most Refreshing in use and at the same time Antiseptic.
AN IDEAL SOAP FOR THE HAIR, as it cleanses the Scalp perfectly, and makes the
hair Soft and Glossy.
A PERFECT SHAVING SOAP, as it Lathers Freely in even the hardest water.
___ F. H. FAsi!fs 8 CO., London, Adelaide, Perth, Sydney. ___
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 28. 1910.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Two prominent men who had been much con-
nected in their political lives, have been ferried
across the river at almost the same moment. Just
before the death of J. L. Purves, J. H. Graves
came to the end of the road. Graves had a curi-
ous hobby that made him a terror to the House of
bis day. He kept an index book in which it was
his custom to note every detail he could fossick
from a member’s dead past or notice in his living
present. Everything he could find about the
member’s father, and his grandfather, along
with the dimensions of the family skeleton,
went down in that truly awful book.
Whenever occasion offered, Graves’s fateful finger
would run down the index in search of hidden
chapters—and he usually had, one or two on
hand. Then nothing could stay the revelations.
One man felt as badly as another. They were all
in it. A member is privileged to say what he
likes in the House ; he may be called upon to
withdraw or apologise, but nothing worse can
befall him. So Graves would get off his personal
shots, even if the House made him apologise
ior them afterwards. Purves was the rescuer.
How he managed it nobody ever found out, but
he got that book from Graves and burnt it. (He
probably looked up P in the index before he lit
the match.) He could scarcely have feared for
himself either ; for he had already decided to quit
politics, and he left the House soon afterwards.
The bereaved author later on began another book,
but it did not have the same snap as the original
work. Nevertheless, once in a rumpus with Wil-
liam Shiels, who came from the same county as
himself, the second work was brought into action,
and brightened up the proceedings considerably.
No one ever had to ask “ Who is Purves ? ” Law-
yer Purves, with the ready bite at the back of his
tongue, turned the gift on to politics from the late
’7o’s to the middle ’Bo’s. He was married twice.
His first wife was Miss Grice ; she died when son
Jim Purves was a baby, and left her share of the
family wealth to the little son. Later on, Purves
senior married Miss Brodribb, also a wealthy
parti. B.odribb was a name to conjure by in
chose days, as was Grice. The wealth of both
families was woolly. In another way, later on,
the famous K.C. was close to very great money.
Twice in his life only a peaky minor stood
between him and Aladdin-like fortunes.
One of the possessions of son Jim is the barrack
of a place next door to Cliveden. The Purves
palace costs too much to be kept up as a town
house; so it is let to someone who uses it as a
swaggah paying guestery. The Jim Purves
quartette (he married pretty Sadie Green, and the
very youthful son and daughter are the prettiest
pair imaginable) live in a snug Tooraketty villa
tilled with ancient black-oak furniture and fascin-
ating antiques. They find it much more satisfy-
ing than running a 40-roomed mountain and com-
mading a regiment of housemaids. Housemaids
are all very well in comic opera, but the species is
a bother off the stage.
The first aviation meeting in Melbourne hap-
pened on Saturday at Altona Bay. It was all
meeting and no aviation. Some say that Cugnet
was keen to fly, but that his confreres would not
have it. He might risk his limbs if he liked ;
but risking the precious Bleriot, the parts of which
cannot at present be duplicated in Australia, was
not to be thought of. Late in the afternoon the
big dragon-fly came trundling out of its tent, with
the pilot aboard and the propellers working for
all the world to see. The police drove the people
back to give Cugnet room ; but the wind had got
up a little by this time, and the conditions were
declared unsafe. So Cugnet sat in his machine
and argued with his committee, while the crowd,
which, apparently reckoned it had waited long
enough, made discontented sounds.
The airman has to learn to bear reproaches.
Cugnet once made all arrangements for a public
flight in Spain. The weather, however, turned
sulky, and the bull-fighting crowd, furious with
disappointment, slashed the planes of his machine
with knives and crippled it badly.
The guinea reserve at Altona held almost every
motor in Melbourne, and many of the men therein
wore the badge of the Aero Club. A pack of Parlia-
mentarians came out in a big car. Acting-Prime
Minister Hughes broke a bottle of champagne
over himself, threw a few drops on the Bleriot,
and christened it “ Australia.” This christening
was almost a new idea so far as air-machines are
concerned. Some of the planes abroad have
names ; but most of them are known by numbers.
Nobody present except one Frenchman could
recollect another air-christening. He excitedly
told the story of how an aeroplane was flown close
to the walls of an ancient castle in Brittany (the
chateau of the Due de Rouen), and how the abbe
came out, christened the scientific wonder, and
gave it his blessing. During the Altona cere-
mony, the “Australia” had a guard of honor,
composed of the boys of the training-ship John
Murray. They appeared to be a brisk-stepping
regiment of very youthful naval cadets.
At afternoon-tea time the motors got into line,
and the motor-folk eagerly discussed the weather.
Major Tarrant, who knows the district well,
having frequently marched and counter-marched
over it, was a conspicuous figure. The Collinses
had their car full; and the horsey Grices seemed
to be as eagey about the atmosphere charger as
about a new huftter. Other people who petrolled
out were the.mining Mcßrydes. in a new blue car,
the Rubber Edwards clan, and the Baillieus.
“ Allan’s” Tart was also amongst the disappointed
watchers. „•
One waiting woman, who has been to many
aviation meets in Europe, tried to cheer the others
by retailing some of her experiences. “ Why,
this is nothing !” she exclaimed. “I have seen
women, dressed exquisitely, chase an aeroplane
across country. I remember one dreadfully \yet
day when the beautiful dresses of hundreds were
splashed with mud knee-high, and shoes and
stockings were utterly ruined. But, bless you,
they intended to see the flying machine, and
they didn’t care how much clothing they
spoiled as long as they got a good view of
everything.” And another: “Good Heavens,
my dear 1 There is often a meeting with seven
or eight machines programmed to go up, and the
people wait till it is pitch dark, and never see one
go off the ground. But sometimes one has luck
and sees a glorious spin.”
It was only necessary to go out to this first meet-
ing to realise the interest that Victoria is taking in
flying. The road to Altona Bay is appalling; it is
full of ruts, and runs past reeking factories that
have been banished to the remote and windy
spaces beyond the suburbs. Over the ruts and
past the smells motored the petrol brigade,
and, like a perspiring ghost, through the dust-fog
whizzed the perspiring cyclist. The most noticeable
of all, though, were the pilgrims on foot; they
swallowed quarts of dust on the road and got
grass-seeds in their socks in the endless paddocks,
just to get a glimpse of that Bleriot. The train
and boat fares ran into several shillings a head ;
so the moneyless multitude found other ways of
getting there. One man evidently expected to
be kept some time, for he carried his tent on his
shoulders. The universal wish was that Cugnet
could find a more convenient spot than Altona.
You can guess what a favorite place it is when I
tell you the rails were coated with rust, the station
building was propped up with old sleepers or
something, and children played see-saw with the
loose planks of the platform.
A noticeable feature of this last race season was
the large contingent of South Australians that
invaded Melbourne. The Sydneysiders, of course,
we have had always with us at Cup time ; but the
South Australians only acquired the Cup habit
in large numbers this year. The reason is not far
to seek. The farmer who reaps and sows about
Adelaide has become wealthy through intense
culture and a succession of splendid seasons; in
some cases he is more heavily gilded than the man
of many acres and innumerable sheep. Many Ade-
laide tillers of the soil are now the owners of
motor-cars, and the homeward ploughman rolls
homeward pneumatically to a dress-suit and the
other inconveniences usually brought on by wealth
complicated by culture. Prosperity lias made an
annual Cup visit one of the necessaries of life to
him ; so Melbourne will look out for him next
November. It was rather surprised to meet him
this time.
Jennie Brenan’s clever children romped through
“The Geisha” at the Princess’s on Thursday.
Quite as many children as grown-ups watched the
play, and they simply squealed with delight at
the acting of the small mummers, some of whom,
’twas said had been in the disbanded Pollard Co.
The midgets had been thoroughly drilled. Every
detail had been packed and hammered into their
memories; and when the time came, they flung
themselves with the joyous confidence of youth at
the large-sized job.
Upstairs, in the Winter Garden, tea flowed in
torrents at every interval, and “beautiful crown-
up ladies ” carried cups about the theatre for the
refreshment of fortunate youngsters. Mrs. Tallis
and Florrie Young both wore black, and Mrs.
Secretary Tait the cutest of green frocks with
soft plumes in her hat. Toby Claude eked out her
small allowance of inches in a trailing blue gown,
and wore a bewitching patch under one blue eye.
Mrs. Sandford, a visiting Englishwoman, who is
a duplicate portrait of our Mrs. Jack Winter
Irving, added to the picture.
The stalls and the boxes came up in force to the
Winter Garden tea party. Mrs. Ryan had one
box and Mrs. Rubber Edwards the other. The
Edwards box was simply packed with very small
children, all shrieking with delight and uncon-
sciously leading the applause. The youngsters’
sense of humor was wonderfully keen, and they
needed no prompting when the point of a joke
appeared above the horizon.
The Christmas break-up is debated just now by
innumerable legs attaching to the juvenile pupils
of Mrs. Green and daughter Florrie. The shivoo
is to happen at the Town Hall next Monday night.
Half a thousand pupils are to figure in fancy dress
in special dances, apart from the numerous “ star
turns” wherein the little mimics will perform
cribs from the comic operas.
The Jackson youth, distinguished among Glac-
iarium skaters for his slick legs and the eccentric
blonde wisp in his dark hair, has been booked by
Clarke and Meynell, on the strength of a recent
performance on the Town Hall platform. He
did, at the Foundling Hospital ball, the “bone-
less” dance that poor Edwardes introduced into
“The Arcadians.” Florrie Green had drilled him
in the imitation, and he was just amazing. So
Clarke and Meynell secured him as an understudy
for Danby, the new comedian from ’Ome, who is
to appear in “The Gay Gordons.”
Ex-Commissioner Tait’s chick was another
Glaciarium luminary who gave a “turn” at that
Hospital Ball. She bared her feet to the plat-
form and perpetrated the “Spring” Dance— d la
Maud Allan —to Mendelssohn’s music. And just
now she has been taking lessons from Florrie
Green in the Salome dance with a view to beguil-
ing the drowsy hours aboardship whilst returning
to America. If she is to Salome on the quarter-
deck the captain will have an anxious time look-
ing for tacks before the trouble begins. Every-
thing that could possibly stick into Miss Tait’s
nude trilbies had to be carefully extracted from
the Town Hall boards when the Spring Dance
was under consideration. Barefooted gambol-
ings are terribly serious undertakings for the
owner of the feet.
“The Dollar Princess” cast, at the Princess’s,
on Saturday, included Florrie Young as Olga
Labinska. Her new gowns are exquisite things.
The first of all is a poem of Mediterranean blue.
Later, for the tennis scene, she ties herself
round the hobble with a blue ribbon.
The lace on the white dress is cham-
pagne color, and so are the silk ankles that
prove the secretary’s undoing when he ties the
shoe-lace. The hat in which Olga is revealed as
a tamer of British beasts shouts like a circus
megaphone. Pink plumes rise up out of a black
chimney pot and yell. Later, in a white even-
ing frock, she gets her head into the newest
bandeau, which is a turban of white tulle and
feathers, with a diamond star at the masthead.
Olive Godwin dropped into the chilly part of
the chief Princess, and dressed it nobly. The
ballets (all that the millionaire’s housemaids ever
did was to dance) were quite new as regards
clothes.
“Grand Theatrical Carnival, in aid of the
Distressed Actors’ Fund,” is shouted on advance
cards, with a giddy sketch by Alf Vincent, drawn
on a lurid red background. The gorgeous thing
is being engineered by Wirths, and is to happen
at their building on Saturday afternoon, Dec. 17.
A committee of Brighton dames is busy with a
garden fete, to be held at Brighton Beach on
Saturday, December 10. It is to aid the Con-
valescent Home of the Children’s Hospital, which
suffered from a burning some months ago. This
charity gives the poor little mortals with shaven
heads and racked nerves time to recover a little
strength before being returned to their own
homes ; and that is a cause which ought to be
good for a big haul of nimble shillings.
A few of the friends of Miss Florrie Finn (to
quote the tickets) recently gave her a concert of
farewell at Hawthorn. Miss Finn is off for a
grand tour. With Miss Edwardson (daughter of
the Brighton mayoral folks) she starts out on the
Orvieto on December 28, and intends to “do”
Egypt and the Pyramids, Palestine, Rome,
Switzerland, Paris and a few other suburbs.
The concert was in St. Columbo Hall, Hawthorn ;
and Ida Osborne, Evelyn Merrin, the versatile
Claude Hall and the Instrumental Quintette
Party shone as the stars in the doings.
Last Saturday afternoon, when most of Mel-
bourne was whirling out to Altona, r red is '
was waving the Victorian Festival Choir and the
Victorian Professional Orchestra through the
mazes of Beethoven’s “ Choral Symphony at tne
Town Hall. The performance of the symphony,
which had not been given in its entirety since
1888—the year of the Centennial Exhibition— is a
large landmark in Melbourne’s musical history.
The Sheffield Choir, which is booked for Australia
next year, has promised Marshall Hall to do
the choral part of the symphony with him.
Meantime, Beard has put the big job through
most successfully with theV.P.O. players and a
local choir, trained by himself.
Commonwealth and State have been in collision
again in Melbourne, and the Commonwealth got
out of the trouble by unhinging the gate that
happened to be the obstacle. Some officers had
been pursuing a course of military duty at the
drill hall in Albert Park. Now, the hall is Com-
monwealth property, whereas the park is one of
those State reserves where loving couples invite
the disapproval of Mr. Judkins after dark. It is
always open to pedestrians, but the carriage ways
are closed at night. When the military men
came puffing from the drill hall in their motor,
the park gates were closed, and the keeper declined
to break the regulations at their command.
So they lifted the obstructive gate off its
hinges and cleared the way for their escape.
The only other thing they might have done was
to help the State menial put it back again ; but
evidently they didn’t think of that. It wasn’t a
large incident; but it suggests what may happen
some day when the Commonwealth is cooped up
in its capital, and has to ask a cantankerous State
for leave to go out to get a drink.
Talking of heiress Eileen Keogh’s approaching
alliance with the Hongkong captain, one is re-
minded that her cousin, Mrs. Cecil Martin,
started matrimony in a colored country. Hubby,
a grandson of wealthy Dr. Martin, has a planta-
tion, or something, in Ceylon, and there they
abided for a while, but nowadays they cut a dash
in London. Lately a consignment of photos, of
baby Martin was received in Melbourne. It must
have been a consignment, for there are so many
copies about. Baby is just two years old in the
portrait; but the “speaking likeness” doesn’t
explain whether she has inherited mummy’s lisp.
The lisp of Mrs. Martin (who used to be Maudie
Tobin) was the quaintest of novelties in that way.
By the way, Eileen Keogh’s engagement is the
indirect result of a shipwreck. She was aboard
the Pericles, hound for England, when the vessel
came to grief off the Westralian coast, and every-
thing was drowned except the passengers and
crew) The heiress lost, among her other belong-
ings, a wondrous motor-car, wherefore her heart
was sad when she came back to Melbourne. Then,
instead of making a further attempt to invade
Britain, she went to Japan, where she met the
army captain from Hongkong, who is now waiting
to be made a bridegroom.
Vale, of Ballarat, now departed, lived for years
of his Parliamentary life on one small joke about
Craves. Members would incite poor Vale to the
telling of his joke, and the slightest prod brought
forth the recital. Vale said to Graves, “What
do your initials, J.H.G., stand for?” Graves
answered, “James Howlin Graves.” Then an-
swered Vale, to his own exquisite delight—
“ You were born Howlin, and you’ve been
howlin’ ever since.”
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide
Their Exes, went to Brighton recently and laid the
foundation-stone of Mindu, the home for weak-minded
babes. J. Pluvius poured cold water on the arrangements
all the morning, but desisted later. Some goodly gifts
were notified. Dr. J. 0. Verco handed over £lOOO to buy
furniture for the place ; the youngsters of the Sunbeam
Society gave £lO2, and there were others.
The vice-regal daughter who has been staying with the
Chelmsfords, of N.S.W., got back here just in time to see
the Residence wrapped up in holland for the summer.
The family is now at Marble Hill, where you have a View
served up with your breakfast chop, and Breezes for
dessert every evening.
The Commonwealth Club stood our Governor Admiral
an ornate lunch on Friday, and he repaid the members
with some humorous sea-talk.
Some 66 Australian-scapes have been decorating the
Victoria Hall all the week, while a youthful-looking,
grev-clad, straw-hatted male circled unobtrusively in the
background. The pictures are by Penleigh Boyd, of
Yarra Glen, in Victoria, and our local experts pronounce
them good. A riot of cherry plum blossom above a gate-
way, a brown hill side, and a dozen misty gum-clad
spaces are the canvases X shall steal when I get an oppor-
tunity. ,
By the way, the Board of Governors of our Art Gallery
has'been pursuing its staple occupation of missing op-
portunities. With two hundred golden guineas to
squander it meandered into the Federal Exhibition, now
open, and came forth with a nice, tame seascape bv
James Ashton, and the least exhilarating of Dattilo
Rubbo’s exhibits. Will Ashton was out of the running
because there are already three of him in the gallery, and
it’s against the rules to encourage an Australian artist
morelhan three times. There is an impression that the
shock would go to his head.
Engagements of the hour are John Downer’s namesake-
son and Miss Hannah Fulton ; also Lisle Johnson, who is
one of the Angas Johnson clan, and pretty little Marjorie
Henderson. , , . , .
Miss Ruby Davey and Miss Alicia Burdon combined in a
students’ concert the other night. To the lay ear the
oases in a desert of Beethoven concertos, by imma-
ture performers, were the bright and lightsome home-
grown melodies of Miss Davey herself. They included
two violin soli, wakened to life by Sylvia Whittington’s
ma gic fingers; and two uncommon little songs, “A
Dirge ” and a lilting “Spring Serenade.”
Our University is becoming too small for the local
supply of culture, and it is likely that the Government
will now rush in where millionaires have hitherto mostly
trod, to provide the coin for its enlargement. A Special
Commission has been sitting on the question, and has
hatched the idea that the said Government shall put
£l2 OOOinto new lecture-rooms and libraries, to be erected
during the coming long vacation. There was some talk of
tearirlg up the University by the roots and planting it
somewhere in more spacious grounds ; but it was found
inadvisable on account of its present nearness to every-
where. Next session the commission will go into other
vital questions in the same connection, and will consider
ways and means of supplying University education to
deserving talent.
Adelaide is darkly contemplating a Henley-on-Torrens.
We have to do something to show the world we have a
river, lest it be mistaken for a rain-gauge or a garden
fountain. . , . .
In view of the approaching Coronation our richest 1 a e
already started to get a move on. Th • shipping offices ard
hanging out the “ House Full sign as far as Math is con-
cernedfbut some impatient voyagers are leaving already.
This week the John Downers take their new infant to see
the new King, and the J. H. A. Lew-military folk-
carry six months' leave of absence to Bn tain very soon.
The J J. Duncans follow early in 1911. Last week Miss
Ao-nes McFarlane, of the squatting monarchy, packed her
frills for Colombo, after her friends had wept their fare-
well tears in concert at a kiosk party in the Botanic
° Yet another aide is deserting us. Captain Wright has
a regiment of dragoons or something waiting for him m
the British speck ; so he will carry his pretty little made-
in-Adelaide wife away to his moated grange in the same
locality.
Sincerely yours.
JOHANNA.


009
• v \ :
* • • ! *•* • • • * i , , . *
• ! '• ' !' . • * * * • Vi . . t *, ’-i* • •* /V
' *,'• • % * * *. *••*•••. f . . 4 • • | • • • • ■ » • *
‘.■ J/f''.- AL- > ■ >• *v**c
•;;V.-'/r.: • • •'.• . jBBFV/kBIF
kU*Ut»k\
UjiiihilllUHllli
S/M
V.*v3B>s&? :
SiSSSP
Asftll
'■.iVJ&’tt
• “ •O-V-'Vi’v ;
‘■‘s
; ! *v/«ac,v ;
.• -
• •• ••
SJBqA A}U9A9S XUB9U
aoj qno Aep ‘ui Aep
‘JOAEJ punoj SBU }Blfl
Aqsiipw e jnocp pooS
X|puoqd99X9 Buiip
-9Uios 9q ]snui 9j9m
‘moux noA ‘ip J9]jy
SWvf-W
gg^."«v
r-'&t. .. ..
&&£:•• V.v
feiM
f&s@s
? r c'w 1 :*•■.'•:•'
sw>'-v *• •
SIC:
I*
3-:
g^&*i
gas*?: ;- : .v v
&S**sr*£
stator
§&&3*fc
P-.'.v
n
?*)'o • *. • ; 1
f
it
£
\\
m
n
I<S
«n»
rv
<i ‘" , llllll||i»^-»»»Mlllll^ tU


A. SAUNDERS’
BEAUTIFUL
PRACTICAL
XMAS GIFTS.
A. SAUNDERS.
SMOKER’S SEU', comprising Highly-polished
Nickel Tobacco Jar, 2 Pipe Racks, Match-
holder, and Crystal Glass Ash Tray. Pipes
not included. 15/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
STRAP PURSE, Morocco Lea-
ther, Pure Silver Mounts
and Leather Handles,
14/6-
PostCmui
A. SAUNDERS.
WRITING FOLIO, Brown or Black Seal Leather,
Leather fitted, every convenience, Pure Silver Corners,
Nickel Lock, 13/6.
WE’VE GOT HUNDREDS OF OTHER PRACTICAL
GIFTS FOR GENTS.
A. SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RINGS, Pure Silver-
plated, A 1 Quality, Hand-engraved,
English Manufacture,
7/6.
A. S.vUNDERS.
“Gem Junior” SAFETY RAZOR,
7 Best Steel Blades, Nickel-
plated Frame, with Extra Handle
for Stropping Purposes, Complete
in Leather Case, 5/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Double EGG STAND AND
SPOONS, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver,
10/6
Embossed Base, 12/6.
//
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold SOVEREIGN
PURSE, £3/15/-
Set Gold, £2/7/6; Solid
Silver, 7/6.
LET’S SEND YOU OUR FREE
CATALOGUE. IT’S FULL OF
INTEREST.
A. SAUADIiRS.
Gent.’s SHAVING CUP,
Coalport China, Solid
Mounted, 5/6-
, White
Silver
A. SAUNDERS.
3-Branch FLOWER STAND, Pure
Silver-plated Frames, Green,
Opal, or Ruby Tinted
Glass Tubes, 776-
Other Styles, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6.
THOUSANDS OF OTHER
IDEAS IN OUR FREE
CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK COMB, Set Parisian
Diamonds, 15/.
A. SAUNJJiiKS.
SIGHT COMPASS, Oxidised Metal Case,
Card or Metal Dial, Jewelled Needle, 2
inches, 12/6 and 15/; 2£ inches, 17/6,
22/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Antique Design, Solid Silver,
Plain Fluted Cabinet PHOTO.
FRAME, Highly Burnished,
10/6.
Other Styles,, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6,
10/6, 151/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Hat or Clothes BRUSH, Solid Silver,
Handsomely Embossed,
6/6-
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6,
10/,' 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
French Briar PIPE, Pure Silver Mounts
and Screw, Straight or Bent Amber Stem,
20/-
Without Bowl Moult, 12/6.
SUCH DELIGHTFUL SUGGESTIONS—SUCH HANDSOME IDEAS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Lady’s Nickel HAIR
BRUSH, Nicely Em-
bossed, Fine White
Bristles,
5/6-
Other Styles, 7/6,
10/6, 12/6, 15/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
CALL BELL, l'-.re
Silver-plated, !” n
or Embossed
Design,
3/6.
i!.. '■ I' i! ;n:.
CT
a '
9^
mq
ii
A. SAUNDERS.
Sterling Silver, Fluted Design, TOILET SET, comprising
2 Full-size Hair Brushes, Real Tortoiseshell Comb,
Complete, in Best Morocco, Silk-lined Case,
£3/-
WRITE US IF YOU DO NOT
SEE EXACTLY WHAT
YOU WANT.
HM|
eg,
lapmiuituiiiimiimumnui
A. SAUNDERS.
Two Hobnail Cut-glass Toilet Bottles, Puff Jar and Vaseline Pot, with Richly-
embossed Solid Silver Stops, in Silk-lined Morocco Case,
£2/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Pierced Solid Silver
TOILET MIRROR,
Plush-mounted,
Heart-shaped,
Bevelled Glass,
A. SAUNDERS.
GLOVE MIRROR,
Solid Silver, Iris or
Cherub Design, 3/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGARETTE CASE, Solid
Silver, Hand-engraved,
Size 3x2, 12/6-
Cigar Design, £2, £2/10/,
£3.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR-PIN BON. Pure
Beautifully Embossed. Size, 5 x
2J inches, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
TEAPOT, Pure Silver-
engraved, Floral Design,
22/G.
Hand-
A Charming
Gift !
w
A. SAUNDERS.
Double Wishbone PIN CUSHION, Pure Silver-plated,
Velvet Top,
7/6.
With a Lifetime’s Wear in Each—Make your Decision Now !
A. SAUNDERS.
Pure Silver-mounted
“Cherub” Design
BIRTHDAY BOOK,
h
Extra Heavy Solid
Silver Presentation
WALKING STICK,
Polished Indian
Congo Stem, Hand-
somely Fluted
Handle, Highly
Burnished, f{<S/-
. COLLAR-STUD UuX,
Pure Silver-plated,
Satin Finish, 5/6-
Other Styles, 6/6, 7/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
CARD RECEIVER, Pure Silver-plated, Handsomely
Engraved and Embossed, Satin Finish,
17/6.
WE
PAY
CARRIAGE
ON
THESE
GOODS.
JEWELLER.
rtltfCH iCIOCKj
k maker/
V. SAUNDERS
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
807. 808.an.813.815 817. (koRGE ST. i Or- .e Railway Sration' SYDNEY, N.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
O OHSULT/« c i


m
mm
S>SSS3
«<e
SsQs
i
■
LJ>
BROWNIE-KODAKS can be loaded and unloaded in daylight. Roll films are
used, and after exposure these can be developed and printed in daylight with
wonderful ease and certainty.
Don't think that the Brownie-Kodaks arc only intended for the use of children.
Many adults use them, and if you wish to get started in the hobby at small
expense, you cannot do better than invest in a Brownie.
Call and inspect these splendid little cameras, or write for a copy of the
Kodak Catalogue. It is free.
The Best Christmas Present
for Any Boy or Girl.
HAVE you ever realised how uninstructive the average toys are which are provided
for the amusement of the children? Make a change this year by presenting your
child with one of the famous Brownie-Kodaks. It will teach your boy or girl to
appreciate all that is best in Nature. It will sharpen his or her faculties of observation.
It will provide elevating pastime all the year round, and introduce your child to a most
fascinating and instructive hobby.
Nothing so acceptable or so unexpected could be thought of as a Christmas offering
than a Brownie-Kodak for the child you love best.
No. 1 BROWNIE - - ss.
Takes pictures x 2£in.,
and has a carrying capacity
of 6 exposures without refill-
ing. Weighs only Boz.
Price 5/- Postage 6d. extra.
No. 2 BROWNIE - -10 s.
Makes rectangular pictures
2£in. x and has a capa-
• city of G exposures without
reloading. Weighs only 13oz.
Price 10/- Postage 9d. extra.
No. 2a BROWNIE, 12s. 6d.
Takes G or 12 pictures
x 4^in. without reloading,
and weighs 21oz.
Price 12/6. Postage I/-extra.
No. 3 BROWNIE -17 s. 6d.
Makes 12 quarter-plates 3Jin.
x without reloading.
Weighs 25oss.
Price 17/6. Postage 1/- extra.
No. 2 FOLDING BROWNIE,
21s.
For pictures x 3£in., and
makes G exposures without
reloading. Weighs IGoz.
Price 21/- Postage 9d. extra.
No. 2a FOLDING BRi# tVNIE,
30s.
For pictures 2£in. x 4|ir.,
and makes 6 or 12 pictures
without reloading.
Price 30/- Postage 1/- extra.
No. 3 FOLDING BROWNIE,
375. 6d.
Makes 12 quarter-plates 3£in.
x 4|in., without reloading.
Weighs 250 z.
Price 37/6. Postage 1/-extra.
No. 3a FOLDING BROWNIE,
425.
The popular postcard size, 3£in.
x s£in., has a capacity for 12 ex-
posures without reloading-.
PRiCE, with Single Lens, 42/-
Rapid Rectilinear Lense, 50/-
Postage 1/3 extra.
No. 2 STEREO BROWNIE,
50s.
For Stereo Pictures, each 31in. x
2Jin., and has a capacity for 10
stereo exposures without reload-
ing l . With a pair of Achromatic
Meniscus Lenses.
Price 50/- Postage 1/3 extra.
AUSTRALIAN KODAK, LTD.,
Incorporating Baker
& Rouse Prop., Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney. “The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
78-80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken
37 Rundle St., Adelaide,
Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
1
WIM
ip^pq
on# Jfc 1
ft
7>
\\y\\
% v
£>■»
««*£-
*i ? •
/r
a
; \-. \
a i
4497
l
%
WEDDING CAKE GOODNESS
THE WEDDING CAKE that confers our added charm to the Wedding Breakfast
is the one made by Sargents'. There is little wonder at this when you con-
sider the superiority of Sargents' Wedding Cakes. The ingredients used are
the very finest and purest obtainable, and are scientifically prepared and baked by
the most modern appliances. Sargents' Wedding Cakes, besides being beautifully
designed and decorated, have reached the point of excellence in both flavor and
quality. Prices, which are quite moderate, on application.
Sargents’ Ltd
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High-Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
•9
(’Phone—Office, 3559;
Cafe, 1876; Catering-, 4250).
(’Phone—City 1344).
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St
flfi
99
A
0
All that Pens should be. All that Gifts should he.
BEST OF ALL FOUNTAIN PENS.
USEFUL TO ANY AND ALL.
ATTRACTIVE, LASTING.
Reasonable Cost for Gifts.
Easy to Send by Post.
Made in solid gold mounted with gems, plain gold,
rolled gold, silver, vulcanite with gold bands,
or simply plain vulcanite. Designs by the
dozen to select from. However, every
“ SWAN ” is of the “ SWAN ”
standard quality and
guaranteed.
m
3@
Sold by all High=Class
Stationers and Jewellers.
Insist on “SWAN!”
MABIE, TODD 8 CO., Mg™ f « c * ur - e S: London 8 Branches.
Australian Representative (Wholesale Only),
J. A. BURKE, 15 Waltham Buildings, B(T1D STREET, SYDNEY.
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.W
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office—or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Castlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
Cheap Edition of “ON THE HOP!’’
Prick O/g Postage— N.S.W., 7d. ; other States, 1/2. ,
' B THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street* Sydney.,


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
■ London.
“A Feast of Festive Things ” —TheChrist-
is Number of The Lone Hand.
THE CORRECTIVE PROPERTIES OF DR.
MORSE’S INDIAN ROOT PILLS.
Manv people have no hesitation in taking a
dozen bottles of medicine in liquid form prescribed
by a doctor, but view with alarm the suggestion
' D*
DIRECTIONS
AWXT3 Tm «oKm.>
CHILDREN AlUt# to*
Wn«u Pill Oissoly*d ,
In swemweoW*Ttß
Take before retiring
INDIAN ROOT
PILLS
to take a course of pills.
This misapprehension is no
doubt due to the impres-
sion that pills are merely
purgatives, which may be
correct in some instances.
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills, however, are not
merely purgatives, acting
upon the bowels only, but
contain more important
properties which correct all
disorders of the blood,
stomach, liver and kidneys,
evidence of which is not
wanting. Thousands of
testimonials sent us volun-
tarily and gratuitously from
all parts of Australia verify
our statements of what Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills
will do, and are doing,
every day. You will find
neighbors, friends and re-
latives everywhere who
have been restored to health, and who can testify
to the marvellous blood-purifying and healing
properties of these pills.*
Missing Friends.
MAEK KEENAN.
IV/TARK KEENAN, former!}' of Ardgaeneen, Drum-
griffin County, Galway, Ireland, will hear of some-
thing to his advantage by communicating with Messrs.
HOSKING & COOK, Solicitors, Dunedin, New Zealand.
\ny information sent to them enabling proof to be made
that the said Mark Keenan is alive or dead, and if alive
which would lead to his discovery, will be appreciated
and recompensed.
Hannah copeland. -miss hannah cope-
land, daughter of the late Robert Copeland, o
Howlong, New South Wales, please communicate with
H
Howlong, JNew aoutn vvaie:?, '-r . , „
us for money to your credit. Anyone having
of Miss Copeland’s address will oblige by commumcat g
with us. EMERSON & TIETYENS, Solicitors,
Aiburv, N.S.W.
Wanted.
WANTED immediately for England
tw o competent, trustworthy
Foremen, experienced Suction Tin
Dredging. Must be conversant saving
fine Tin. ,£5 week ; travelling expenses
paid.
Apply, stating experience with testi-
monials, to
THOMPSON & CO.,
Engineering Works,
Castlemaine, Victoria.
yOUNG AUSTRALIA, and Boys and Girls’ own
■ Newspaper, invites the submission of STORIES
VERSE, suitable PARAGRAPHS and ILLUSTRA-
TIONS. Australian and General. “FARMER AND
SETTLER” OFFICE, 435 Kent Street, Sydney.
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE,
West Australian Agents—RICHARD
NO PRESERVATIVES.
HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE I__ 1 __
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Sydney swimming circles were thrown into a
fever of excitement on Saturday last, when Cecil Healy,
Australia’s top-notch water sprite, streaked through 100
metres (109363yd5.) in lmin. 5 2-ssec. Somebody pro-
claimed it a record-breaker till it was pointed out that
Daniels, the Yankee, had covered the distance in a New
York indoor bath in lmin. 2 4-ssec. Writer doesn’t re-
member the event; but Miller’s “Sporting Pamphlet”
credits Harold Hardwick with having covered the distance
in lmin. 3see., in Sydney Domain Baths, on October 30,
1909. Anyhow, the performance is not up to Cecil’s own
exploit, when he swam 110yds. in lmin. 3 l-ssec.,
on October 37, 1908, at the City Baths, in
Sydney. Saturday’s race saw' a great struggle
between Healy and Hardwick. Healy, however, had the
pace, and beat his great rival by a yard and a half. It is
doubtful if Healy was ever more fit than he is at the pre-
sent time. His’condition is simply superb, and he looks
better able to smash records, or anything else, than at
any other time in his career. Daniels, who holds the
record for the distance, is an enormously long man, being
6ft. lin. in his bare feet. He is a marvellous turner, and
when he met Healy in England Daniels used to gain
about two yards on him at each turn only to find
the Australian level again a little later on. Daniels
thanked his joss loudly for the frequency of the turns,
and just managed to scramble home first. There was
great excitement, and another race was proposed and in
a longer hath. But Daniels was not taking any risks,
and fled hack to Yankeeland next day. Nobody takes
his blessed record seriously, as it bas not been passed by
the governing body. Yankees are horrible fakers and
beastly sports, but even the Yankee governing body
shies at the job of passing that record, put up in a bath
that was only just about long enough for the lanky
Yankee to get up pace in and then turn.
That is not the only record that Daniels has
had trouble about getting passed. In April, this year, at
Chicago, he is alleged to have swum 100yds. in 64 4-ssec. ;
but the deed has not yet received the official imprimatur.
On the speeds that have been passed, Healy is his
master, as Daniels’s recognised time for the 100yds. is
55 2-ssec., w'hile Healy did it in 55sec. neat on November
7, 1908, at Sydney. Healy’s time for the 200yds. is also
4sec. better than Daniels’s.
The N.S.W. League of Swimmers—a sort of
offshoot of the Rugby League, and founded on the same
basis—is booming in Sydney this season with 12 clubs.
Last year it had seven, and the membership all round is
increasing. The cash prize is the lure ; the modern
swimmer preferring filthy lucre to valueless trophies all
the time. After all, it is very natural.
* * * *
Premier Hurry, of Victoria, awoke suddenly
last week and started throwing money about in a most
reckless manner. No less than £250 was oast suddenly
into the hat that is being passed round with a view' to
collecting £lOOO to present the swimmer Beaurepaire, for
“having advertised Victoria.” Probably “Bogey” was
a good ad., but £250 State money seems a little bit over
the odds, doesn’t it?
* * * *
Sydney yachtsman C. Trebeck had a curious
experience on Saturday with the Little Petrel. It was in
the Prince Alfred Club’s race for the Usher trophy.
Quite suddenly Petrel ceased to fly, and settled down for
a quiet crawl. The skipper looked at the gear. It was
perfect ; so was the wind. But the yacht had dropped
to less than half speed, and the other yachts were danc-
ing away in front in a horrible manner. On board the
steamer" everybody was inquiring frantically : “ Wot’s
gone wrong with Petrel? lie must have his kedge out! ”
But he hadn’t, though. Like the chemist who went to
Manly he had something just as good. Petrel had
fouled a piece of heavy floating timber right tinder ber
forefoot, and was pushing it along, and the increased
surface of resistance had done the rest. Getting clear,
Petrel started to make up lost time ; but it was too late
* * * *
The Usher trophy was won by Mr. Marks
with Culwulla 111., which had a fine duel from start to
finish with the graceful Rawhiti, which easily ran into
second place. It was a pleasant, easy sort of race, in
which there was no windward work whatever, the skip-
pers laying a course from start to finish. Yeulba ran
into third position.
The Sydney boat Janet had its first race in
S.A. last week, on the Port Adelaide river. It was the
opening of the S.A. Yacht Squadron’s season, and squalls
played the mischief. Janet carried away a lot of rigging,
and had to drop out. There was a sporting finish the
same day in an under-16ft. race. Wild Sarah acted up to
her name—got mixed up with someone’s bowsprit,
knocked her own steersman overboard, ran into a steam
launch, and backed out with her own bowsprit gone.
The crew hastily rigged up a jury bowsprit with a paddle
and some odd fixings, and —not to spoil a good story —
won the race!
* * * *
Somebody with a taste for analysis has been
going through the motor-car registration lists, and finds
that, in N. S. Wales at least, the British-made car is the
most popular. No less than 870 of the honk vehicles running
in tbeMaSrate have been builtin the step-mother country.
The Talbot holds pride of place with 172; the Star comes
next with 125, and the renowned Humber is third with
108. There are 60 Daimlers, 35 Austins, 35 Swifts, 31
B.S.A.’s, 27 Rovers, 23 Argylls, and 22 Napiers. French
cars come next to British. ‘They number 572, Renaults
leading with 170, De Dions (147)second, and Darracqs(72)
third. Yankees are third with 402, including 100 of the
spidery-looking motor buggies. Italy is represented by
123, of which 70 are Fiats. Belgium makes a good show-
ing with 102. And what hurts this writer most is that
not one Australian-made car shows on the list, whereas
under decent conditions practically the lot should have
been made in this country.
Melbourne motorist O. Camphin, who in 1906
won the 1000-miles Victorian Dunlop Reliability Trial,
has designs on the Melbourne-Svdney record. With a
view to smashing White’s record he has imported a
35-h.p. Itala car, which will be easily the fastest that has
made any attempt on the record. But the fly in the
ointment is that the car has rather a small clearance—a
fault which the awful Seymour-Albury section of the run
is almost certain to find out.
The Austral meeting will open at Melbourne
this coming Saturday, and will be continued on Decem-
ber 10. Good entries have been received for this once
best of the world’s bicycle race meetings, and, provided the
clerk of the weather has been squared, there should be
some interesting racing.
-**■**
That motor-bike reliability test from Melbourne
to Sydney is now definitely fixed for Christmas week.
All the arrangements have been made, and the pro-
moters are waiting patiently for entries. Wherefore it is
up to the chinny tribe to get a move on.
In spite of aeroplane flight and inter-State
cricket, a big crowd watched the finals of the tennis
championships on Saturday at the Albert Ground (Mel-
bourne). In the singles, S. N. Doust (N.S. W.) and A. W.
Dunlop (Vic.) had won through, and a keen match was ex-
pected. First set Doust took easily, by 6 —l ; then Dun-
lop revived and annexed the second and third, by B—6,
6—2. After that, Doust, who has picked up several
points abroad, took risks and rattled Dunlop badly.
Time after time the Waler ran up almost over the net for
the return, and always Dunlop played to him amicably.
A Wilding or Wright would have driven him to the back
lines and taught him to quit taking risks; but appar-
ently Dunlop couldn’t. So Doust won the shield. Spence
and Addison (Vic.) collared the Doubles from Doust and
A. R. Taylor (S.A.), the latter pair making a good stand
in the second set, which they won at 10—8, but losing
the Ist, 3rd and 4th badly—6—3, 6 —l, 6—3. Doust’s
net play again served him to annex the Mixed
Doubles, In partnership with Miss L. Addison,
from Campbell and Miss P. A. Stewart, 6 —3, 6 —3. The
Radies’ tourneys discovered two new “arrivers,” both
Victorians, Misses Stewart and Westmoreland, who took
the Cadies’ Doubles from the previous champions, Misses
Addison and Watson, by 6—3, 6—3. The same Miss
Stewart was within one point of winning the Ladies’
Singles from Miss Addison ; but a fine drive up the line,
in the second set, when the tally was 5—4 and 40—30,
just went outside. After that the champion shook her-
self and won 4—6, 7—5, 6—o. A most promising racket-
wielder in Miss Waxman showed improved form on
last year, and easily gathered in the Ladies’ Schools
Championship.
Dear Bulletin,—“Snaffle,” in last week’s
issue, mentions that popular English colored print, “The
Cracks Rounding Tottenham Corner,” and proposes a
similar work of imagination for Australia. In “The
Cracks ” all the most popular English horses and jockeys,
and the colors of the most popular owners, are repre-
sented, quite regardless of the fact that many of the
jockeys never'met, or that one horse may have been 10
years old before another was born. Therefore the idea
gives scope to the imagination—so why not use the
scope? What in thunder is the good of scope
if you don’t use it! Let us have a great
national Australian racing picture in which there w ill be
seen, coming up the straight at Flemington, Fishhook,
The Barb, Briseis, Chester, Carbine, Poseidon, Comedy
King, Henry Parkes, William Charles Wentworth,
Graham Berry, Bill Anderson, G. V. Brooke, Leichhardt,
Sturt, Julian Ashton, Henry Kendal, Marcus Clarke, the
Broken Hill mine, the Mount Morgan ditto, the public
debt, the Invincible motor-boat, Bill Beach, the first
Labor Government, the reconstructed banks, and many
more of our great institutions. It would be a notable
and most valuable record. Yours, etc., H. H.
*** . *
When the French railway men went on strike
they had made the most elaborate arrangements for
practically paralysing everything. It was fondly hoped
that in about four days Paris would be practically starv-
ing and the Government compelled to surrender. But
the unhappy strikers reckoned without the motor-car,
and the jigger it was that broke the back of the strike.
France is a land of automobiles, and the earth seemed
black with them when the Government called for
assistance. The Post Office quickly organised motor
services ; and the provisions for the city were raced in
under cover of darkness and the early dawn in motor
lorries. So the strikers found themselves at the end of
their resources before Paris showed any signs of being
starved out.
Mike Williams, the Irishman who fights like a
weltering whale, put his fins up to Ranji Burns, of
Sydney, at Sam Grey’s hall, Melbourne, the other night,
arid the expected happened. Ranji toyed with the ex-
charnpiorr of S’Africa and old Hibernia, and smote
him just where he listed, also when Mike listed,
and Mike’s list was very marked towards the end
of the fifth. Williams lias about the poorest style
displayed by any of the fighters who keep going
here, and his only chance with a clever lad is to
use his weight and flounder him. He tried to flounder
Burns, and gave the Sydneysider so bad a flying fall
that the referee stopped the contest, and Burns won
on the common foul in the sixth.
* tt * *
“Tlie Grafter”; The supply of good old
Briddish blood is running pretty low in pugilism. Con-
sider this list of world’s champions, or close-up cham-
pions: Jack Johnson (negro), “Tommy Burns” (Noah
Brusso), Adolph Wolgast, “ Stanley Ketchel ” (Stanislaus
Itiecal), Rudolph Unholz, William Papke, Joe Ganz. A 1
Kauffman, Marcel Moreau, Joe Choynski, “ Tommy
Ryan” (Joe Youngs), Oscar Battling, Mathew Nel-
son, Joe Walcott (negro), Mike Schereck, “Jim
Flynn” (Andrew Chiariglion), Sam McVey (negro),
Hugo Kelly (Ugo Micheli), Joe Jeanette (negro),
“Fighting Dick Hyland” (William Uren), Monte
and Abe Attell (Jews), Johnny Oonlon, “ Frank Mantell ”
(Frank Otto Mintell), “ Dick Nelson ’’ (Rickart Christen-
sen), “Leach Cross” (Dr. Louis'C. Wallach),'“ Young
Otto” (Arthur Susskind), Martin Martinson, Tony
Caponi, “ Torn- Ross ” (Antonio Rossilano), Frank Klaus,
“ Young Britt ” (Henry Treffinger), A 1 Kubiak, “ Young
Fitzgerald” (Herman Ziegler), Henri Piet, “Jimmy
Burns ” (George Memsic), Frank Picato, Charlie Goldman
(Russian-Hebrew), “ Sailor Burke ” (Charles Prasser), .Kid
Prantz, “Young Jack Redmond” (Henri F. Hoppe),
“ Phil Brock ” (Phil Slomowitz).. It is sad to reflect that
our very own Bill Lang, Australia’s hope, is really
William Langfranchi.
' * * *
The wild skite of Thomas Burns, wherein he
offers to put up £4OOO as a guarantee that in 15 rounds
he can wallop the fallen Yankee idol Jeffries is, presum-
ably, a roundabout way of throwing slack at Brudder
Johnson. But it is a method which does not commend
itself to the Australian people, no matter how much ice
it may cut on the Pacific slope. From recent cable mes-
sages,we understood that Burns was out of the game for
ever, and that the match with Langford had to be aban-
doned on account of the game leg the white man had
developed. Now he’s roaring round like a hungry lion
for what is left of the scalp of Jeffries, ye gods ! But it
isn’t the roar of a fighting lion—merely the wheezy howl
of a decayed old prowler who has got down to eating the
old and battered because the young ones are too danger-
ous to tackle.
* * * *
S.A. cricket selection committee is wondering if
it has overlooked a bowler. On a fine but muddy Satur-
dav (Adelaide’s third of that kind within a month), Des-
mazures was put on to bowl for North Adelaide. Reed-
man and Rees do most of the work for that team, but the
new man revelled in the sticky wicket, and went through
Port Adelaide at the rate of eight for 25. As Desmazures
was given a trial for S.A. last season solely for his batting,
he should be a man worth persevering with.
* * * *
South Aus. evidently wants some new bowlers.
The battery brigade is composed of the same units as last
year, but their arms have lost their cunning, and the
bowling has been pasted most unmercifully this season.
Truly the season is young yet; but already the Spring-
boks have banged up 507 against the Adelaide men, and
Victoria 614. The city is in mourning.
* * * *
new kind of cricket record appeared on deck
at Bega (N.S.W.) last week, when a team smacked up 324
with five men out, all of whom retired. The bowlers
failed to take one solitary wicket, and the retiringplayers
abandoned the crease merely to give their clubmates
a show. Which is also another record—in cricket.
Victor Trumper {and his merry men played a
curious caper at North Sydney on Saturday. B> some
means the wicket had been damaged by water, an ,
winning the toss, Trumper (captain of Gordon) sent t le
North Sydney team to the wickets. The result was up-
roarious. Macartney took eight wickets for 29 runs, an
Shortland got two for 45, the whole side vanishing for o. •
Then, to show_that the wicket was just about perfect,
Trumper and Iredale smacked up 101 for the first wicket,
and the day ended with six down for 221.
It was a mixed sort of a day. Nicholls, of
Redfern, scored 156 off Petersham : Cranney, of Central
Cumberland, piled up 154 against Waverley 1 an< j
Collins, of Sydney, slammed 136 on to the board in spite or
all Paddington could do. Three other batsmen made
over SO, four over 60, and one carried his bat for oh.
Macartney was easily first among the bowlers. Next to
him was Wooleott, of Middle Harbor, who took six
Balmain wickets for 30. Folkard, of Balmain, responded
with six Middle Harbor sticks for 49; so Wooleott had the
the best of the duel. Johnson, of North Sydney, took
three Middle Harbor wickets for 29. These were the
best of them ; but there was quite a crowd of other meri-
torious bits of butcherv.
* V * *
“The Players” are not feeling good in Syd-
ney, for the Cricket Association is obviously on the look
out for new cham-
pions. The new blood
left a bright mark on
the African match,
and put fire into the
heart of the juniors,
so at the first call
for recruits to be
drilled by instructor
Bannerman, no less
than 37 responded.
The Cricket Associa-
tion is pushing the
idea along, and even
the morose Cricket
Ground people are
granting the practice
space free of charge.
Wherefore, “the
Players” nod their
heads, pondering
deeply and muttering,
“ What’s wrong with
us ? ”
* *
New blood is the
order of the dav in
N.S.W. The 14players,
from whom the team
to play against South
Australia at Sydney
Cricket Ground to-
morrow were to be
chosen, include four
new men. These
favored wights are
Crannev, Collins. Bar-
bour and Goddard, all
prolific run - getters
this season. Scott has
sufficiently recovered
from his recent indis-
position to be able to
take to bowling again,
and will share with
Cotter the task of send
’em down fast and
straight. It is to be
WARREN BEARDSLEY
Cricketer.
hoped Cotter is bucking up, as his performance in the
African match was far from inspiriting.
“Adelaide” : Just as a matter of correct record.
Sherwell is no “champion tosser,” who “had the luck in
all three matches ” (B. 24/11/10). He has done pretty
well in that wav, but he lost his very first toss, in Ade-
laide. True, the Africans batted first, but the wicket
was so bad that it was Clem Hill who sent them in.
A scheme to supply Melbourne with a
new graving clock is occupying the thoughts ot
the Wearv Government. The idea is to make a
cavern 800 ft. long, 139 ft. wide at the copings, and
97ft. on the floor, with a low-water depth of 32ft.
As designed, it would cost about &nd
would be a beautifully-furnished hospital for the
larger ocean craft. At present, Melbourne has
no proper refuge for damaged mansions of the
deep. Its most sincere apology is a Williams-
town excavation which always risks a prosecution
for overcrowding when it takes anything bigger
than the old ferry-steamer Gem to its bosom.
A week ago Premier Kidston, of Queens-
land, professed himself unable to invest £50,000
of State money in a new central sugar mill on
account of the uncertainty of Federal legislation
and the imminence of Unification. He now pro-
poses, despite that same imminence, to invest
nearly eight millions in a gigantic boom railway
scheme, although the unification of the railway
systems is just as probable as any other kind of
unification. This proposed investment of eight
millions in the future of a country about to be
ruined by Federal machinations is a striking proof
of the genuineness of the fears of the average
State Frighter.
When Premier Murray goes the whole hog
in Melbourne (which, by reason of exhaustion, he
seldom does), it is generally a Cold Tea hog.
Cold Tea is the one thing that can rouse him from
his apathy. That was how he recently came to
take the “Assembly’s breath away with a new
Licensing Bill. It was a staggering measure in
many respects, but wben the House heard of the
clause which said that no license should be granted
to premises situated within five miles of a State
home for inebriates, and remembered that there
was such a home at Royal Park, Melbourne, it
didn’t even trouble about counting heads. It was
so unanimous that there was hardly anybody on
Murray’s side to count except himself.
Three consecutive items from a recent
issue of the Express, published in Freetrade
London: —
A costermonger named John Hill yesterday beg'ged at
the London Sessions not to he sent to prison for stealing
a crate of bananas in Kingsway. “I don’t want to come
here ”he said, with tears streaming down his face, but
one child at home is dying and another keeps crying
«Paddy, I want buppv (bread and butter), I want buppy.
That drove me to it. ’ Don’t send me to prison. It will
kill mv wife if you do. Give me another chance.” A de-
tective stated that Hill had tried to get an honest living.
The home depended mainly on the wife, who was very
thin and emaciated. The family were in yery straitened
circumstances. Mr. Wallace, K.C., bound Hill over.
James Smith, a tea-taster, was remanded at Camber-
well Police Court on a charge of trying to hang himself.
“ I have been out of work for a long time,” he said, when
a policeman saved him. His wife said that he was a
steady man, and was depressed because he could not help
her and the children sufficiently.
Carl Joseph Westerkang, a cabinetmaker, who was out
of work, hanged himself at his lodgings near Regents
Park. He had pawned nearly everything he possessed.
It was in this same cheerful city of London that
80,032 State school children were recently ex-
amined, with the result that 10,774 were found to
be covered with vermin.
The methods of Tait have triumphed at
last The ancient, battered rolling of Die
Victorian Railways has learnt how to hop back on
rails from the sleepers. As laic mcenus
shortly to take a rest from railway work, he might
consider it worth while to go in. for .the circus
business, a lumping turn by a mixed troupe of
educated railway trucks and monkeys would draw
heaps of money.
One of the most grimly-casual of recent
tragedies was the shooting of Constable Edwards
of Moorabbin (Vic.), by his son David, a youth
just reaching manhood. The parents, seem to
have Jived unhappily, and when the eldest son
reached home on the Saturday and found h s
mother in tears, he. got a gun, went to
yard, and blew a hole in his father. When
the Cheltenham police arrived half a,n hour titer,
the youngster was consuming his dinner, while
his father, attended by strangers, was dying in
the yard.
“Floater”: The Melbourne Gallery has
now handed over £3125 for Watteau’s “ Les
Jaloux,” mainly showing two women and two
men in an attitude of vacuous inactivity, the
picture, which also includes a piece of shy, a large
tree and a couple of dimly discernible background
figures, is only 18in. by 13)un., and was finished
when Watteau was only 19 —and looks like it.
The drawing and painting will doubtless interest
the student, the art jargonist and the connoisseur;
but as there is no suggestion of that sensuous
gaiety and charm which give such an air of ex-
uberant unreality to Watteau's pictures, it has
not even the merit of being characteristic of the
artist.
During the N.S.W. Censure debate :
Mr. H. D. Morton (Independent): “In his electorate a
deliberate attempt had been made to disfranchise hun-
dreds of voters. The returning-officer had recommended
that' the second ballot for the Hastings and Maclea.v
should be held on Saturday, October 29, but he le-
ceived an urgent wire instructing him that the election
should be held on Monday, October 31.”
Ex-Ohief Secretary Wood : “ The reason for the altera-
tion was that if the election was held on a Saturday it
would be impossible to get particulars of the polling m
Sydney until Che following Monday.”
Everyone knows that Saturday (which contains a
half-holiday, more or less, everywhere) is likely
to rake in more votes than any other day in the
week, and the anxiety of Wood’s Government to
rake in plenty of votes was immense. Yet the
anxiety of Wood’s Government to rake in votes
wasn’t, it appears, quite so large as its horror lest
Sydney would have to wait a day to learn how
many votes had been raked in. It s a great thing
to be Sydney.


LOOK FOR NAME ON STRAP.
THE
SHOE
UPPER Quality.
firm and flexible.
Tbe leather for Marshall Shoes is cut
from the center of the hide. It is
It wears long and doesn t get shabby.
Leather cut from the edges of the hide might
look all right, hut shoes made of it would
not give service. Therefore such leather
can t go into Marshalls. Most
makers cut the skins all up.
Add to Marshall dura-
bility the comfort result-
ing from true-to-nature
lasts, and the smart,
breezy styles as shown
by the illustration,
and you have in a
nutshell the
reasons for
Marshall
superi-
ority.
,-v;
Half
Sizes.
No. 1504
Glace Kid Bal.
The Bogo Last.
21/.
Send for Stvle Book.
Stocked by Anthony Hordern & Sons,,
Sydney, and most other Good Dealers.
Inquire of yours.
2 4 3
MARSHALL SHOE CO„ Richmond, Vie.
ANOTHER STYLE NEXT WEEK
Come where the Motor business booms—
TbcTarraot ,”M€lbo(iro€.
ĥ
Sixty Cars sold in last two months,
and the record grows and grows.
We have some excellent slightly-used
Cars at a price to fit all pockets
Write and get one while the chance lasts.
TARRANT MOTOR CO.,
108 RUSSELL STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sole Agents for F.N., Ford, Fiat, Mercedes, Commer Waggon,
De Dion, Argyll, Rover, etc.
Dependability is a Great “Triumph” Virtue
ħ
Here is a doctor’s opinion as to the dependability of a “ Triumph,”
and, of all men, surely a doctor has the need of dependability in
its highest form.
“ Please advise me any time you have any second-hand ‘Triumph’ ’O9 or
TO models. lam very often asked to pick a mount for a fellow who cannot
afford the price of a new ‘ Triumph,' and I would sooner see such a fellow buy-
ing’ a good second-hand old ‘ Triumph ’ than a cheaper new machine.”
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Sole Agents for “Triumph” in N.S.W.,
234 Pitt Street and Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Will Andrape
BOOKS
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking :
<1) Plays, Recitations
and Make-Ups.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) French Novels.
(4) Gift Books. ,
(5) Useful & Mechani-
cal Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Cheap Music.
(11) Musical Instru-
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Prank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 124 S
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise,l/- :
JSF" AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
ments. Mention The Bulletin.
Above prices include postage to any address.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
h
t ;
Marvellously Simple 1
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying' and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6.
Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
catalogues
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
For Ventilating
Shearing Sheds
Cool Stores, Mills, Factories, Engine Rooms,
and in all cases where labor is performed
under artificial conditions of atmosphere,
BARNEY COMPOUND FANS
are unrivalled.
They are a distinct type, and have heen
found a great source of economy when used
for drying Wool, Leather, etc. On account
of the construction there can be no back
draught, and they blow either way equally
well. 24m. diameter wheel, £B/10/=.
Prices of larger sizes on application.
Our 256-page Catalogue of Farm and
Workshop Tools is sent for asking.
When writing-, please mention this paper.
Thomas McPherson s Son
Established 50 Years,
582-588 Collins St., Melbourne.
MAKE A NOISE LIKE AN ORDER.
CADILLAC,
25-30 H.P. £,500.
450 in Australasia.
35,000 in the World.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. J
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., Brisbane.
SAUL’S MOTOR CO., Launceston.
SHELL
<s the cheapest in the long run, because
it gives you more fuel mileage than
any other, owing to tts perfect purity.
IJOW TO GET HOMES WITHOUT
* * DEPOSIT, Free of Interest,
in any part, of New South Wales, with 12£ years’ repay-
ments, 25 per cent. less than rent. A home purchased
for £250 would only cost 7/11 per week, and at the end of
12£ years it would be paid off, and absolutely your own.
Send for pamphlet and particulars to
CLARKE & SOLOMONS, Walker & Blue
Streets, North Sydney. Telephone 6 —N.S.
THe “MOTA” (Regd.f.
mm
The “ Mota ” Hat is conceded everywhere to be
the standard in style, quality and workmanship.
It is easily the most comfortable of hats, and
equally suitable for town or country wear, for busi-
ness or holidays, for walking, driving' or riding, for
week days or Sundays, for wet days or fine days,
for warm weather or cold weather.
The “Mota” is the hat that suits every head and
every occasion. Stocked by leading houses through-
out Australia, in all. fashionable colors. Prices,
7/6 to 12/6. If unobtainable in your district,
write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
Make Records
at Home—
The Edison Phonograph—the instru-
ment on which you and your friends and
the different members of your fartfily can
make your own records in your own
home.
The Edison Phonograph—the instru-
ment which gives you the purest, most
life-like rendering of the greatest music
of every kind, and all of it.
Let the Edison dealer nearest you
demonstrate the home-recording feature
of the Phonograph to you to-day, or
write for a free copy of the booklet,
“ How to make Records at Home with an
Edison Phonograph.” ■
The EDISON
Phonograph.
National Phonograph Co. of Australia, Ltd.,
Dept. ~8, Kent Street, Sydney.
The Standard Remedy which has oiltlived the Centuries
SINGLETON S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight *
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road, London, Eng.
THE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
Hand. It’s the Right Hand, and a week
after publication there are none left.
FITZ’S
Genuine
Folding
Panamas,
Perfectly
Bleached,
12|6
Post Free
Anywhere.
lIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIM
FITZGERALD BROS.,
Drapers, Importers, Manufacturers,
ERROL STREET, NORTH MELBOURNE.
WEAR RIGNEY SHOES !
Most every man considers style, character, comfort and
serviceability in purchasing’ his footwear, which explains
why we are winning many new friends every day.
Rigney Shoes for men are high grade in every detail—
they cost a little more by the pair, but less by the year.
The shoe illustrated is a Willow Calf Shoe, Bespoke style—
the very latest perforations. In Black or Tan.
Prices 225. 6d., 255., 275. 6d.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for Booklet, “ The Rigney Shoe for Men.”
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO. (
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,” '
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
ĥ


Shipping:.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
(late I.und’s Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
} C irrying one class of passengers only.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
f Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London hv this Steamer.
BOUND THE WORLD 'TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
SPECIAL ROUND TICKETS for return by P.O. Com-
pany’s Mail Steamers, First-clues both ways, £lll 2s. ;
Second-class, Mail Steamer, £B4 6s.
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.. 7 Bent St.
Mm,no"RNK Aoknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Auklaipk & Frkmanti.k Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE,
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-'jxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Room-, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE. SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
.T. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of (ieorge and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FOUSYTII, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: It. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout, AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of ||eui Z ea ' an| L
SYDN’EV HUANOIi :
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEOKGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £'2.000,000
Uncalled Capital £500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Bairkmir hu«i
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,042.960
PAID-UP £958,172
HEAP OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LON* ON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRI JTOUS— Philip 11. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Ciias.
H. Myles, Esq. y Sir William P. Manning. Kt. ; Hon,
Sir Francis B. Suttor, Kt., M.L.C. ; Rowland H.
Ducker, Esq.; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up 413,368 18 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) .. .. .. 89,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: JAS. MILNE. Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO. Esq. ; Hon. A. J. OALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; P. LORD, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney , Limited.
Capital Paid-up
Reserve Fund
Reserve Capital
'
DIRECTORS:
George J. Cohen, Esq. .. .. Chairman.
Hon. 11. E. Kater, M.L.C. .. ... Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H. Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. James Burns, M.L.C. 'v
Auditors : E. S. Cape, Esq., and F. W. Hixson, Esq.
General Manager : T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector:
11. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Gr ant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: 18 Birchin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; Hon. 11. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
(Hid in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
£1,500,000 0 0
1,380,000 0 0
1,500,000 0 0
£4,380,000 0 0
Shipping;.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
BY
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
w Fitted with “ Wireless ** installation.
* Arriving in London in srood time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR - WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to —
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 <& 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
-THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL, PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £37.500 0 0
Dihkctors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
.Tolm-Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; J. 11.
MaeFarlaod, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ħ
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 cons, to sail about
December 21.
RUNIC, 12.500 tons, to sail about
January 18.
MEDIC, AFRIC and SUEVIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES—Capetown or Durban £.15 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
New fork, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 24 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€~
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
Lon don.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE^
t New Steamer. • Twin Screw.
■w Fitted Wireless Telegraphy.
a One class only.
h Calls Hobart.
FARES- Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & 0. Branch Service.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £SS
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALGETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
THE BULLETIN POST CAKDS—New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
Gd. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
h
HOLIDAY CRUISES <
to Papua and the Pacific Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Dec. 16, Jan. 27 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Dec. 2, Jan. 13 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT. —INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to £25,000 at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.— CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
Full particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
Office. J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH
Paid-up Capital
Rcfeerve Fund -
Reserve Liability or
Proprietors
Established 1817.
dßm
•fv-fc
WALES.
£2,726,880
£1,806,720
£2,726,880
DIRECTORS:
£7,260,480
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C
Senator The Hon. Janies Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bnckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors : Shepheard Edgecliff Laidle.v, Esq. ; Alfred George Jlilson, Esq.
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 317 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealahd, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 159, Victoria 37,
Queensland 46, South Australia 5, West Australia 10, New Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1); and
Ag-ents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the- United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and
the Bast, Africa, Canada, the United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
FURS,
The Larpest Store in Aus-
tralasia. Established 1860.
TOST & ROHU,
Taxidermists, Furriers,
Tanners and Island
Curio Dealers,
10, 12 & 14 MOORE ST.,
Opp. C.P.0., SYDNEY
Central 2196.
And 605 CEORCE ST.,
SYDNEY. City 2374.
ĥ
CURIOS, SHELLS 8 OPALS.
Large Showrooms and Museum, containing thousands of
Australian Souvenirs. Inspection invited.
Returning Boomerangs from 3/6 each. Carved Emu Eggs,
4/6 each. Native Grass Dresses, 4/6. Bow and Six Arrows,
2/6 the set. Spears, Clubs, Idols, Kava and Tood Bowls,
Shields, Masks, Stone Axes, Bark Belts, Tappa and Matting.
Pet Snakes, 20/- Snake Skin Ties and Watch Guards, 2/-each ;
Snake Skin Belts and Braces, 7/6; Slippers, 12/6; Boots,
£l/2/6 per pair. Skins made up into Ladies’ Furs, Mats,
Rugs and Foot Warmers.
Stuffed Birds and Animals in Large Variety.
Alo Purchases Packed Free and Labelled.
Collections of Cenuine Curios from £3.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £519,237 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 161,384 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 75,500 0 0
£756,121 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. =====s
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. MngT.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
A fronts and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood. Esq.; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.); Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L.A. ; E. Owns Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manag-er for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
Insurance.
The Colonial mutual [ife
r . ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
II rat> Offick :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £'3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154 —Assuring: £33.838.510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling-. Liberal Bonuses equitable distributed.
Ciiikf Offick for Kkw South Walks :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The llot.. C. J. Bobf.rts, 0.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Brock. Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRTE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhippincr at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERA LUTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, Dec. 10
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
ing' with Koombana,
leaving Fremantle Dec.
29 forNorth-WestPorts.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oairn*.
. S.S. Allinpra, Dee. 10.
S.S. Grantala, Dec. 17.
Best and Cheapest Houte to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after Oe
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on ai
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD..
Asrents, 6 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via' BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
* Twin-screw Steamer.
All Steamers fitted with Wireless Telegraph.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply— V
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Man Agents, 259 Georire-sireet, Sydney.
F.—H. —Y.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “DORSET,”
11.400 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE about 7th Dec.
„ „ „ SYDNEY .. 20th Dec.
~ „ ~ MELBOURNE „ 27th Dec.
~ ~ ADELAIDE ~ 3rd Jan.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining- room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arrang-ed.
FARES — Saloon. Third Class.
S’ £49 10s - £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To he followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO.. Ltd., Svdnev and Brisbane ;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
Insurance, &c.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
FOR
Ordinary § Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
H. Montgomkuie Hamilton, Esq., Chairman.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.R.0.5.1., L.K.Q.0.P.1.
Claude Manning, Esq.
John F. Urk; Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary:
Freeman J. Eaton.
Consulting Actuary:
W. R. Dat, F.I.A.
Head Office:
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland:
Metropolitan Buildings,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen St.,
Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan” always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
Marine Risks ..
effected on all classes of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other Insurances
of various classes.
Rates Very Low.
THOMAS M. TINLEY, Manager.
“ Australian thinks in Continents,because
lie is the only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent.


Hotels, &c.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel,
VICTORIA STREET,
LONDON, England.
Opposite Westminster
Abbey and the Houses
of Parliament.
A thoroughly comfortable Home-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms from 3/6, and Double Bedrooms
from 5/6 per dav, and NO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet Sent on Request.
GEO. J. BRINTiWORTH, Manager.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
F A MILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Georce
St. Kilda,
HOTEL,
Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Business Announcements.
h
ĥ
ħ
h
There was a young
lady of “ Paree ”
Whom every one
wanted to marry—
The reason for this.
Why, the smart little
miss
Ironed all her clothes
with a DALLI.*
*“ Dalli,” the best, most
simple and most comfortable
way of ironing. Independent
of stove and gas, it can be
used anywhere. Non-inflam-
mable fuel without noxious
fumes. No risk from fire;
healthier and safer than any
other iron.
Of all Storekeepers. Stocked by—
Anthony Hordern & Sons, Sydney.
F. Lassetter & Co., Ltd., Sydney.
Beware of worthless imitations.
DALLI
ĥ
ħ
f The Celebrated
[Schiedmayer
Ml i mu |
THE
BEST PIANO
for the
Australian Climate.
Obtainable from
MAX WURCKER,
99=101, York Street, SYDNEY.
Ana all prominent Piano warehouses in
the whole of Australasia.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles* Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
68J PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.VV.
Branches in all parts of the world.
h
Imagine being able to get a Pen that never sticks nor spurts
And here it is !
A fine ball is formed on the point, and the pen becomes a “glider.
You don’t know what a boon they are until you try the
Ball-Pointed
Ask your Stationer for a 6d. Assorted Box.
very finely-tempered steel, they write like
and last a long time.
Made of
a quill
Buy “Him” a
Gillette for Xmas
</ . ...
The most useful and appropriate gift for any man. Enables him to shave in
comfort without cutting his face or making the skin smart. _ Nothing to
learn. Quickest and easiest to use, and shaves best. British made and
sold everywhere.
GILLETTE SAFETY RAZOR, Ltd., 17 Holborn Viaduct, London, England.
Gillette
NO STROPPING NO HONING
Safety
Razor
AUSTRAL AERATED WATER Machines
X,
m
There are ten times as many Austral Aerated
Water Machines in use to-day as any other make.
The Austral Machine is used by all the leading
Hospitals in both Sydney and Melbourne.
Being manufactured here, duplicate parts can
be obtained without delay.
From 250 to 300 dozen of superior quality
Aerated Waters can be made daily with these
machines.
All machines are fitted with the turnover
syruping rack.
Our latest machine is a distinct advance in con-
struction and usefulness on any other machine on
this market.
Write for illustrated and descriptive catalogue.
& SONS
3 Bond Street
SYDNEY.
UTIES
£
DO
03
■M/-
:
K
Cy
v~?i’; SB * Hi 01
\ .f? /
v.
TttE
TYRE y
BUILT:OI\
/CIEATIFIC
PRinciiw
THE
/ILVERTOY/Pi
RUBBER P
m GEORGE JJ
/YDftEY
A Unique Application of
Electricity.
Apart from theatrical stage effects there isn’t a more
unique application of electricity than this. These are sur=
prising, useful and unique.
M
THE CLOWINC, ELECTRICALLY-LIGHTED BOUQUET OR SCARF
PIN. Shines with a beautiful radiance. Will astonish everybody.
Electric light supplied by the vest pocket. Generator shown in the
next picture. Any of these handsome Pin Designs or the Bouquet
1/9 each, post free.
Write for our comprehensive Catalogue of the World’s
Latest Novelties.
VEST POCKET ELECTRIC GENE-
RATOR, for lighting’ Electric Scarf
Pins or Bouquet; also used as a Search-
light. Very handy, reliable and well
finished. Price 3/6, post free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY CO.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, LTD.
710 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Also at 111 KING STREET and
25-27 OXFORD STREET.
Business Announcements.
Early Spring;
a—a—gaaamJFßin—■B3——^
Suiting's.
WE have'made arrangements with onr
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest productions in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to us,
and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BE AH AM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Xext to Farmer's).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
aBla&sB
MOURISS 1
kiteWiß
CKIABITTBS
for
Made
London
HIGHEST GRADE.
Ks per 100. Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, sydney.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send tor our Trade Lists.
MATURE’S lines are
1 ’ graceful smooth flow-
ing healthy lines like
the Venus Medeci
not broken, injurious and
harsh, as produced by the
ordinary corset.
—Nature intended you to have
graceful, smooth and flowing
lines, the lines our new Corset,
the D & A Directoire gives you.
-—The resultant health you’ll
enjoy by wearing the D & A
Directoire the resultant fine
shapely physique are Nature’s
smiles of approval.
. We looked the fashion centres
of the world over in our quest
for a perfect corset j our designers
studied the styles at the Long-
champs race track Paris, in the
most fashionable tea rooms of
the world, and at the great dress-
makers ot the Rue de la Paix.
—Then our ideas were deve-
loped on the human figure, and
our D & A Directoire is the
result. Don’t buy a corset
before seeing this one.
CANADIAN
CORSET
For sale by all leading drapers. A-3
The Dominion Corset Company, Quebec, Car.ada.


HOTEL DAN I ELL
(Late Imperial), Brisbane, Queensland.
AND ROYAL HOTEL,
Maryborough, Queensland.
A Home for Commercials and Others.
Fremantle was en fete last week, celebra-
ting the arrival of the first two Australian war-
ships. Thus does the wise policy advocated by
the imbibers of jD.p.L. wisdom bear fruit. Every
wise policy must bear fruit when its wisdom is
illuminated by illuminated adherents of D.C.L,,
the Whisky of the Wise.*
All about the man-eating shark in the
Christmas Number of The Lone Hand. Just the
sort of thing to take to the seaside.
The great French- Australian moving-picture
firm, Pathh Frferes, recently decided to make their own
films instead of importing the raw material from trie
United States. So a plant was put down, and while it
was being laid the Patlife chemists set to work to evolve
the non-inflammable film.. This has been done, and after 1
this month all Pathh Frferes films will be on the tion-
combustible celluloid. Which will be a great advantage ;
for the inflammable celluloid is about as easy to ignite as
a wax vesta, and, moreover, it burns with a fury that
passeth all understanding. So great is the risk that
many picture palaces have put in iron chimneys
over the projecting machine, so that in case of fire the
flames will be sucked up this flue instead of spread-
ing round. Now the public can lead hack when
it sees the sign of the rampant rooster, and remark
pleasantly: “ There’ll be no blaze during this piece, any-
how ! ”*
Write to me, love, with CALDWELL’S
INK
No hand of time its mark effaces,
’Twixt loving hearts it forms a link
Useful in breach of promise cases.
Toys for
the Kiddies.
JUST set aside consideration of
Labor’s Policy and the Defence
Scheme, and think of the
Youngsters’ Christmas.
We make up
5/- Parcels
10/- Parcels
20/- Parcels
of toys, and post them free to any
address in Australia.
How many do you want ? What
are the ages and sex of the children?
and where shall we send the parcels ?
FINNEY, ISLES
& Go., Limited,
THE BIG BLOCK,
BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
Clermont (Q.) recently had a horse-
breaking competition. Kemp and Bates, two
well-known breakers, were the parties to the
affair. The conditions were that each should
saddle and ride three unbroken horses in a 24ft.
yard. Bates took 12min. 4 3-ssec. over the job,
and Kemp got through in 20min. The former
put the second colt through in 2min. sGsee., which
even Clermont reckoned pretty smart work. His
method is to lasso both forelegs, throw the ho. se,
then secure one of the hind legs with a rope,
blindfold and saddle the nag while on the ground,
let him up, mount him, and take the bandage off
his eyes. Kemp’s method is to run the horse two
or three times round the yard, then catch hold of
him by the mane, keep hold of him till all the
gear is put on, and then mount.
“M. Magee”: “The Prodigal” says:
"In most hotels in Western Queensland the
Chow is cook.” If he had said “ the under-
paid white woman” he would be nearer the
mark. Pick up any issue of the Queensland
Worker, and in hotel ads. you will notice the
legend, “ White Cook.” Now, this is very mis-
leading, but is intended as a bait to catch the
unwary unionist. In nine cases out of ten, the
‘‘white cook” is a widow, grass or otherwise,
sometimes with a houseful of kids to support.
A male cook of any color—black, white or brindle
—would require more than double the wages! she
receives. Yet Bung, while sweating her, has the
hide to paste an advt. of his virtues on her back.
Chyrleville, Longreach and Cunnamulla liaf'e
each a Women Workers’ Union ; but the body is
not; an unqualified success, for the simple reason
that the members are content to work for about
half the wages paid to men.
“Philo”: Cane-cutting in Queensland,
now that the Kanaka has gone, has attracted a
strange mixture of men. Lately, I spent a night
at the camp of a gang of contract cutters near
Mackay, There were eight of them, and before
they had taken on the professional assassination of
cane they had been bank clerk, lawyer’s clerk,
wharf laborer, editor of a small and unpayable
Vic. country paper, coal lumper, miner and two
professional musicians. The cook had been on
a German sailing vessel. During the evening
we had a sing-song. Music came from a cornet,
violin and flute ; and the ex-editor recited verses
by Lawson, Paterson and Quinn, as well as "a
little thing of his own.” There wasn’t a man of
them but declared he liked the work better than
his previous job. They felt healthier, freer and
happier, and were certainly richer than they used
to be ; and they intended to keep on cutting cane
until they had saved enough to start farms.
“Bromide,” on his struggle to live
White:—
“ Settled” (B. 17/11/’10) wants to know how I get on
for food in Queensland, as I bar hotels employing colored
aliens. That’s an easy proposition. In the bigger
coastal towns a white 1 .bor house can invariably be
found; in any place where there is none I live on fish,
ham and eggs, etc., or I hunt round and find a private
family willing to feed me during my stay. In the smaller
places, where I have to stop only a few hours, I go into
thcjpearest store and get a tin of beef or fish and a loaf
of bread, and enjoy a feed rendered very tasty by the
knowledge thaL none of my gilt has gone to support the
Ohow-employing traitors with whom this State is over-
loaded. As for beds, in one place I camped in a half-
built pub ; in others I’ve rolled myself up in my rug
under a tree and “ slept boshter,” and on two occasions
when it was too wet for outdoor sle ping I went down to
the shed called the railway station and “ bunked ” on the
seat. There’s no hardship in it. Thousands of Austra-
lians are doing it every , year and think nothing of it.
If we doii’t make a stand Dow, thousands more of us
will be out catching a meal when we can and
rolling up in a rug under a tree, wet weather and fine, for
a night’s camp ; but if that time comes, we’ll have a rifle
and ammunition for bedplates, and will be likely to have
our sleep disturbed in order to repel a night attack. The
White Australian wants to get into the back of his head
thelact that it is cheaper to starve out the colored Curse
now than chase hint out with a gun in a few years’ time.
Of course, it is a bit of a trouble to eat and sleep
“ white ” ; but it can be done, and “ white ” lovers want
to get rid of the tired feeling which keeps them from
doing it.
Kidman has sold Warenda station, in the
south Cloncurry district, to Hesketh Williams,
of Maoriland. The huge squattage contains
3,200,000 acres, and has hitherto grown only beef
and hides ; but report says that the Maorilander
intends to make sheep the ruling passion. Mutton
and the fluff around it are beginning to look much
more important in the far-west of North Queens-
land.
Queensland Government has of late pro-
hibited the issue of liquor licenses in the neigh-
borhood of railways in course of construction, and
imagines it has accomplished big things. Home
Secretary Appel, however, got a shock recently
when an M.L. A. assured him that he could take
him along one of these prohibited areas and “get
him whisky every 10 miles.” It is the old story :
No License doesn’t mean No Grog. It only
means Shanty Grog.
“ Broad Arrow ” : It is unlikely that Tom
Welsby and his Moreton Bay yachtsmen will
succeed in their agitation to get the gaol shifted
from St. Helena, so that the picturesque little
island may be turned into a pleasure resort.
Home Secretary Appel has promised to get the
Works Department to prepare plans of a new
prison to be built at or near the old spot, and he
told the House the other day that the job was
going to be pushed on. For many years the Con-
troller of Prisons has been shouting ,“Fire!”
into the official ear; and the owner of the ear
seems at last to have listened. The buildings are
of wood ; and, to make matters worse, each cell
has to be unlocked separately, so that it would
take at least 15 minutes to clear the inflammable
place if anything shuddersome did happen.
A DOUBLE BEREAVEMENT.
ABE: “ We, rat's the madder , Sammy?”
SAM: “ Me poor old forder wos dead—drowned in der river.”
ABE: "Yes, yes; hut we hare to he brave in der face of dose troubles. Com[?]ose yourself,
my frendt.”
SAM: “ Ah, hut you don't
know der [?]rst! Dey
'are refused to yer
me der ten shilin’s
dey find on der
body."
Cloncurry, which used to be “out on the
edge,” is very much to the front of late. Its late
beer strike brought down the long-sleever to six-
pence--a reform that stands a long way ahead of
Magna Charts, according to local authority.
Society happenings also loom large in the Olon-
uurry'ipapers to-day. Thus, Tim See Fop has been
married, with much pomp and circumstance, to
Annie Ah Fat. The laurels of Cairns are evi-
dently wilting.
A small squattage ! in the back of North
Queensland was sold lately for £17,000. Before
all the papers were signed the buyer took £lOOO
on liis bargain. The new buyer sold for £23,000.
Within three months that buyer had passed the
property on for £26,000. Heaven only knows
what will happen to the last man. If he gets a
couple of good seasons, with good prices, he will
be all right. If a bad season hits him straight off
he will probably be in the soup along with the
bank or pastoral co. that financed him. And
about that time frightful things will be heard
about the rapacity of the working classes, who
won’t give a man a chance to earn fair interest on
his money.
Ballads o’ Bedlam.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
sky is black, the clouds are low,
And thick with menace deep and dire,
The Rhizopods in raucous row
Are roasting raspers in the fire ;
The Willy Wump is on the wire,
And glaring through the gloom at me.
The Polyfuss is in the Byre,
The Polywog is in the tree !
The clam’rous Cocci wail their woe,
The Peri sinks upon the pyre,
The Tar is sad on timber toe,
The Poet limps about the lyre ;
The Mud-lark’s mud-lays never tire,
The Coot is caught upon the spree,
The Polyfuss is in the byre.
The Polywog is in the Tree !
The Aspergilli ebb and flow
And leave their traces in the mire ;
The fierce Bacilli fiercer grow
And prey at night on son and sire ;
The Bagpipes wail in deadly ire,
The Haggis wanders fair and free,
The Polyfuss is in the byre—
The Polywog is in the Tree !
Nay—bid me not so far aspire.
But creep where crawling mortals be—
Is not the Polly in the Byre,
The Wollypog upon the Tree?
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane. November 26, 1910.
My Dear Thargominoah,—
Wee Macgregor, along with a heliotrope-
decorated better-half, opened the seventh annual
show of the Society of Artists on Thursday. The
pictures, which decorate the walls of the old
National Gallery room, are a strangely mixed lot,
but there are two really bright, black —aboriginal
—portraits by Oscar Fristrom. The subject,
“ Catchpenny,' 1 an antiquated gin, renowned here-
abouts in former da3'S, is about as perfect a piece
of native ugliness as it would be possible to dis-
cover on the continent; Brunton Stephens’s
Her mouth hath no particular direction,
A flabby, rimmed abyss of imperfection,
fits her to a crease. “Tommy Noggan,” the last
of the Moreton Bay tribe, the second model, is
rather a good-looking old buck, as old bucks go,
and both in the big picture and in the portrait
study the flesh tints are well managed. The pair
of early inhabitants should certainly find a place
upon the walls of the local gallery. There is a
nice bronze of the late John Leahv, by that
admirable but too little known artist. Walls,
whose delightful cast of Telegraph Shaw was the
chief feature of the Queensland Art Societies
exhibition the year before that short-sighted
coterie made things too hot for such good
workmen as Tristrom. Colclough, Watts, F.
Hilton and Elliott. Speaker Tanny’s bronze
likeness is a good one, not only in feature, but as
regards characteristics ; it is burly, roaring, down-
right, quotation-loving John to the life. Other
contributors to the,Society’s annual gallery who
deserve honorable mention are C. A. Saltmarsh
{who shows a splendid" misty sunrise), Oolclough
(a deserted humpy, a couple of high-and-dry
boats, and various dark masses of native foliage
for which lie has a fine eye, but an undesirable
tendency toward too much color), and Charles
Astley (a basket of violets, short of the genuine
article only by the lack of perfume). Cordingley
has on view a big Sydney Harbor picture which
might be an advertisement for the A.U.S.N. Co.,
judging from the size of the firm’s boat in the
centre of the canvas. The harbor, however, has
been painted a lot less attractively in its time.
Finally, there is a group of miniatures lent by Dr.
Woolrabe, the charm of which supplies quite
half an hour’s extra interest.
T. M. King, the Deputy Railway Commis-
sioner and his wife will pack their Sunday clothes
for the Mould Country next year, whither the
D.C. goes to revisit relatives after an absence of
more than a quarter of a century.
Edwyn Mitford Lilley, who was last week
appointed to the list of Iv.C.’s in Queensland, is
very popular with all classes of the community
—particularly with the poor litigant, who turns
to him instinctively, sure of a straight deal and
no unnecessary costs. He is the eldest son of the
late Chas. Lilley, C..T. ; was born in Brisbane in
1859, and was called up and introduced to Costs
in 18S2. As a side-line, he diets himself mostly
on the same strong democratic principles that his
fine old father favored.
Not long ago we couldn’t have put our hands
on a K.C. to save ourselves from a charge of
bigamy, and now we have four—although that
wouldn’t be sufficient for our,needs if all were
known. Charlie Stumm, who has failed consis-
tently and patiently to obtain a job as Assembly-
man at £3OO a'.year under Phidston, is the latest
to wear the silk overcoat that won’t keep the rain
out.
The rapid growth of the suburban railway
traffic is worrying the wits out of the Depart-
ment, and if wholesale boiling and battering of
innocent passeftgers during business hours is to be
avoided, something drastic must be done with
despatch. It is rumored that first- and second-
class cars are to be merged into a uniform class of
car in the near future —and I nearly fainted at
the thought of such revolution, until I remem-
bered that the trams had wiped out class-
distinctions long ago.
Speaking of Chows and other sins, reminds me
of an attractive window card reposing amid
ginger and Pee-Chi-li nuts in a Brisbane West
End Chowery. The card is adorned with a
charming picture of Beatrice. Beneath is writ
large
Shakespeare’s Heroines.
Fruit and Produce.
ALL THESE LOVELY GOODS OBTAINABLE WITHIN.
ONG WONG FAT AND CO.
According to one of the local journals, a local
citizen was “severely kicked in the cemetery one
evening this week, causing him much pain and
discomfort.” Well, that’s better than being
kicked in the pantry.
O. C. J. Beardmore received the last call on
Wednesday, and passed to the place where
“Silence” is printed on the front door. The
deceased pastoralist spent his youth in Saskat-
chewan, Canada, and was a keen breeder of Here-
fords. His fierce controversy with Peberdy, the
shorthorn enthusiast, is still famous ; it lasted until
the newspapers went on strike. The old man (he
must have been over 80) married a second time,
and the widow will collect the bulk of a large
fortune.
A beautiful new picture of the proposed Town
Hall hasappeared in Queen-street, with a motor-car
slipping at a dangerous angle up an invisible hill.
Otherwise the view is impressive. Now, when
are the invitations coming along for the laying of
the foundation stone?
Miss Forsyth, a pretty Sydney girleen, had a
brave gathering of youth and beauty at Lennon’s
Hotel on Friday afternoon, to drink a farewell
tea-toast ere she flits south once more. Uncle
Leo Morgan was the chief chaperon.
About 108 stone of Springbok leapt from the mail
train on Thursday evening, and yesterday after-
noon commenced a leather warfare at the Brisbane
Cricket enclosure. There was much girl onlook-
ing, for the Boles are declared quite right from a
decorative point of view.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
All through the Bible-in-State-schools
agitation the Anglicans and Methodists were
“brothers.” Now the latter want to join with
the Anglicans in a “united thanksgiving” in the
new. gorgeous Anglican Cathedral. But the
Anglicans won’t bite and the Methodies are begin-
ning to remember an old fable about a monkey
that wanted to get some nuts out of the fire.
The day-labor system has now been in
operation for eight years on Queensland railway
works, and has proved, on the whole, a great
success. The Kid-Philp, howeyer, is thirsting to
return to the old contract system of Boodleland,
and it is announced that several sections of the
so-called transcontinental will probably be built
under contract. It isn’t alleged that day-labor
has been a failure ; but certain people in Banana-
land are lusting for the fleshpots and the old
boodle ways, liobb’s great haul out of the Cairns
line has never been forgotten.
Coyne, of Warrego (Queensland), in the
Bananaland Parliament, is still pounding at the
door that keeps the wolf away from James Ken-
niff, For the murder of Dalke and Doyle in 1902,
.Tames and his brother Pat were both sentenced
to death. A full Court of four Judges confirmed
Pat’s sentence, though Justice Peal dissented in
favor of James, who thereby missed the rope.
Coyne struggled hard to persuade the Government
to free James in honor of Queensland’s jubilee,
and now he wants it done in honor of George Y.’s
coronation, though how it would honor either
George Y. or his golden top-piece isn’t explained.
Anyway, it is about time that jubilees and coro-
nations ceased to take the place of Courts of
Appeal. If 10 years is the right punishment for
a man, 40 coronations won’t justify a reduction to
live years. And if the man’s sentence ought to be
reduced to five years,- he ought not to have to de-
pend on an 'uncertain' coronation to get it reduced.


KBOiojuKiiiM—fliiramniK
Tariff
Commission’s
Report (1906)
It is desirable in the interests
of Public Health to have spirits
produced in Australia where
the strictest control can be
exercised over every process,
rather than to depend upon im-
portations from other countries
where the Commonwealth has
no such control over the manu-
facture. . . When properly ma-
il tured in wood Australian whisky
is equal to that produced in any
part of the world.
/ li,
mm
L
/
ms
t $ emm
\p . 0
if '": '-'
■
<j ovEßNnorr aodDdmccpwn 15 ttr
SPECIAL NOTE.
This is the advertisement that
“ Ridley’s Review,” the importers’
journal, condemned in a two=column
leading article as not “ showing true
loyalty to the Mother Country.”
Sold by all
leading Hotels
and Stores.
i
m
V^sV
PIRITS ACT 19Qg
***** N» 0* f*U l IV lZ
ronnONWEALTH 5-r^
OF.®^,
lA BEL BACK or
3g£!i§
$
©
R
u
UST RALIAN STANDARD,
MALT
WH
ISKY
e
ft
m,
MELBOURNE, AUSTRAUA
in the course of his investigations, the Whisky-
ologist came across that Tariff Commission’s report,
he decided to make exhaustive investigations into the
claims of the various distillers.
On the one hand, he met a crowd of between forty and
fifty importers, each decrying the other’s product, and all
shouting from the house-tops, in megaphonic tones that their
whiskies were the best, the choicest, the finest, the grandest,
and goodness knows “ what-else-est.” Where he sought
proofs he met superlatives ; where he probed for facts he
met generalities. “We are the best —the label says so—
and that proves it,” was reiterated with tiring monotony.
On the other hand, there was Joshua’s Whisky —one of
the Australian beverages that has been so systematically
maligned for the purpose of bolstering up imported spirits.
The Whiskyologist quickly noted the Government seal,
and on looking up the Spirits Act, 1906, he found that the
presence of that label on the bottle proves that Joshua’s
Whisky is of the right age, quality and purity —it proves
that the whisky has been thoroughly matured by storage
in wood, and that it fills the Government’s requirements
in every respect.
As the Whiskyologist likes to know what he is buying,
and more particularly what he is drinking —his choice is
JOSHUA’S every time.
=— Age, Quality and Purity =
guaranteed by your own Government.


'gbeatskihcure
Xuticiirtf
srsi?.':
PREPARED
3V
SSZH
n
V*
vu..
C 2
m
JUMP
For every use in preserving,
purifying and beautifying the
skin, scalp, hair and hands of
infants, children and adults,
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura
Ointment have no rivals
worth mentioning. For af-
fections of the skin and scalp
of young and old that tor-
ture, disfigure, itch, burn,
crust and scale, they succeed
when all else fails.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London. 27.
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 10, Rue de la Cliaussee
d’Antin; Australia, R. Towns & Co.. Sydney: India,
B. K. Paul, Calcutta: China, Hong Kong Drug Co.;
Japan, Maruya, Ltd., Toklo; So. Africa, Lennon.
Ltd., Cape Town, etc.; U.S.A., Potter Drug & Chem.
Corp., Sole Props., 131 Columbus Ave., Boston.
®3T32-page Cuticura Booklet, post-free, tells all
about Caro and Treatment of Skin and Scalp.
s
"Mother
• it"
a
m
une
r &,w
"Aft
//// ®
NKC3
LemonSom*
OCQDTtREDTOfIOEnfIDfI LEtIOS
Brooke’s Lemon
Squash is a pure and
satisfying beverage of
the very highest stan-
dard of quality and as
a thirst-quencher it is
unequalled.
1,500,000 lemons
are used annually in
making this popular
beverage.
Made from Lemons
only
To PEARL Fishers, Dealers
in Pearls and Opal,
We have been continuously buying since 1880.
We pay the Highest Prices.
We buy the largest or smallest parcels.
We pay Spot Cash to all.
Send through any Bank for our Inspection.
P. KLEEMO & CO., Ltd.,
Pearl and Diamond Merchants,
3 Wynyard Street, SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Stylish
Summer
Footwear
ħ
PRICE,
16/6
Stylish Shoes (rive any woman a well-bred
and up-to-date appearance.
The Shoe illustrated is one of the finest im-
ported models, and is eminently suited to the
Dresent fashions.
PRICE, 16/6.
Postape in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/- extra.
Cazeka Shoe Paste, in Black and Brown,
large tin, 6d.
Write for our Booklet, “Shoelipht.”
LEMMING’S
BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran;-
1-3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
[2
THE FOLLY OF DRUG
TAKING.
Do not take tonics tor nervous breakdown. They will
spur vour already-exhausted nervous system to further
effort—but as they Rive no compensation for the further
consumption of nerve force, you -must suffer a reaction
which will leave you in a worse condition than before.
There is only one way in which nervous breakdown can
be repaired, and that is by feeding the brain and nerve
centres with Lecithin in an active, organic form. Anti-
neurasthin does this, and actually builds up the nervous
system by administering to it its natural food.
If you suffer from brain fag, inability of concentration
of thought, want of application, dyspepsia, indigestion,
neuralgia, headacties, languor and irritability, send to
the wholesale distributor for Australia and New Zealand,
Eagle Street, Brisbane, Q., enclosing 9d. in stamps, and a
sample of Antineurasthin, with pamphlet dealing with
nervous troubles, will be forwarded to you by return of
post.
Weak Men!
h
ĥ
ħ
h
If you want
to be strong
and vigour-
ous, with
your veins
full of you-
thful fire,
your eyes
clear, your
[muscles
strong and
I active, then
send to-day
for our free
illustrated book, which fully
describes DR. ivicLAUGHL N S
electric belt
and our method of curing
ailments such as Weakness,
Backache, Nervousness, etc.
Send to-day for this Book, it
is full of things that make a
man feel like being a man.
The McLaughlin Co.,
12 LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY
A HARMLESS
REDUCER.
FAT
WHY haven’t you tried to reduce your
fat ? Surely you are not simple enough
to imagine that your condition is an
ordination of Providence, and you’ll
stay fat “because it’s my nature.” It isn’t your
nature. It isn’t a blessing in disguise—it’s a
disease—and a had one. Your life and future are
in as much peril as if you were rubbing shoulders
with many virulent diseases. Every day the
papers tell you of death from obese hearts. Listen
to reason, and don’t calmly await your turn.
“FATCURE”
is a safe, harmless fat reducer that will take off
your excess weight, even by as much as five
pounds in a week. Do us the justice to investi-
gate our claims. Do yourself the justice of
missing no opportunity that assures relief from
possible disaster to your health and happiness.
Given the opportunity, we can convince you
and make a patient of you. Once a patient,
success is certain.
Send a 2d. stamp for Free Trial Sample of
“Fatcure” and free descriptive book on obesity.
Call for Free Advice. [OO6
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
| from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
I Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient ; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use; their beneficial effects are evid-.-nt
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bod-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
The Elite
Eau de Cologne
N3avg
• SHriUS-lUV}* •
NHOS^JdIO fA'A
i nsvinaoui mm
I'.innil !!'■ HI llllllinriiiit
3NOonoo.3anva|
M iil
Triumph of
Modern Science
THIS FREE BOOK TELLS HOW
?IT#
CAN BE CURED,
even after the attacks have lasted for years.
Dr- Niblett’s Remedy Cures
the Disease Permanently.
It is the result of the most exhaustive research
by a London physician, who for 35 years made
epilepsy his special study.
CONFIDENCE may be placed in this remedy,
which for nearly 40 years has been used with the
greatest success! Letters of recommendation from
Doctors, Clergymen and other persons of the
highest standing.
THE ONE REMEDY THAT CURES.
FREE.— Send for very interesting- booklet, giving
particulars of cures, etc., post free. Rockk,
Tompsitt & Co., 292 to 29S Flinders St., Melbourne.
The Inky Way.
“S. Ink”: The average reporter doesn’t know politics
and doesn’t want to. Most of him absolutely detests the
subject; yet it provides the easiest and most certain
ladder for'reaching the top. No other specialty is half,
or a quarter, so helpful. This charge of lack of know-
ledge and interest in politics may astonish most people
who read it. They observe that the dailies flood their
pages with political matter, to the minimisation
(charge you nothing for coining that word) of
general news, and naturally conclude that all
the writers are possessed of political devils. But
in fact, the political work of most of these men is slung
together with one desire only: Get it over! One may
ask : “ What does it matter ! A study of politics is of no
use to them, since they can only write ‘fake’ stuff to suit
the policies of their papers.” But it isn’t easy to write
••fake” stuff that bears a resemblance to sound argu-
ment. Anybody can assert that black is white, but
there are darned few who can persuade even a policeman
that it is grey. That is the Great Opportunity that is
being side-stepped by pressmen, particularly by the men
on the bigger dailies. An average good reporter—and I
am satisfied that the average good Australian reporter is,
at least, equal to the world’s average—is a marked man
directly he shows political qualification ; but there are so
few of him that you want a bull’s-eye telescope to find
him. In fact, if anybody is seriously thinking of making
a search, I’d advise him to take along a Rontgen-ray
lighthouse.
# * * *
A new writer flashes into the literary firmament via
Melbourne Age. Hear him, on the charms of Papua :
“ Butterflies wobble from shrub to shrub or resting to
preen disturbed plumage. . . . How entrancing it seems
to be a bird . . . nob squirm, toddle and droop, as doth
man at various stages. . . . Away to the north the main-
land of Papua bashfully unrobes its nightdress. . . . The
gentle mosquito is heard. These females of the night
have a low pitched voice. The song is rather musical.”
It reads as though the Agf. were recruiting its staff from
a Jap High School.
* * * *
A cable message reached Australia recently that six
German marines had been drowned in the Cameroons
(Equatorial West Africa) by the capsizing of a boat from
the gunboat Panther. The News, Tasmania, reckoned
there was nothing in that to make a song about, so the
message was displayed thus (Saturday evening, Oct. 15):
DROWNED BY PANTHERS.
Fate of Six Germans.
London, October 14.—Six German marines were yester-
day drowned in the Cameroons River, in Western Africa,
Upper Guinea, which enters the Bight of Biafra, by a re-
markable experience.
A number of panthers, one of the most dangerous and
ferocious animals of Africa, attacked their boat and cap-
sized it.
Possibly Saturday is pay-day at the News office.
* * *
Thus a writer in Sydney Watchman (10/11/’lO), Ithe
bizarre sheet which recently collected Is. towards; a
fund to buy out apd destroy the city of Rome “ Aus-
tralians have always been conspicuous for their generosity
in giving in a good cause, and why not in patronising a
good business (and Christian) cause? I here make an
earnest appeal to all sympathisers with the proprietors
of the Watchman (in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ)
to come and assist this Christian paper to further extend
its influence by taking up what shares each one can
afford, to the extent of making it a daily, instead of a
weekly paper.” As a daily, the Watchman, if it butts in
really hard, ought to amass at least 4s. 9d. for the
Christian purpose of wiping Rome off the map.
*.* * *
Irving Berlin, of N’York, is a gentleman who has
turned a fair talent for “jingle” to magnificent bank-
account. During the last two years he has, it is alleged,
netted about 80,000 dollars. And yet he has only an
infinite capacity for being topical and trite. His first
soms treating of the Marathon race between Dorando
and^Haves, was an amiable banality in Dago-English that
only enriched his publishers by 20,000 dollars. Of his fol-
lowing song, “Sadie Salome—Go Home,” which dealt
cheaplv with the Salome dancing craze, 250,000 copies
were sold, and he gathered in 0000 dollars in royalties. His
greatest success, however, was “That Mesmerising Men-
delsshon Tune,” set to an impious adaptation of a Mendel-
ssohn air. To date, 1,500,000 copies have been sold, arid the
royalties have brought in 30,000 dollars. Here, by the way,
is the chorus :
Love me to that ever-lovin’ “Spring Song” melody,
Please me, honey, squeeze me to that Mendelssohn strain,
Kiss me like you would your mother;
One good kiss deserves another.
That’s the only music that was ever meant for me,
That tantalisin’, hypnotisin’, mesmerisin’ Mendelssohn
tune.
Now, who says literature doesn’t pay in America?
* * * *
Melbourne tipsters, past and present: “Nemo” (of
Sydney), Pickering; “Voltigeur,” Levey ; “Orange Blos-
som’’and “Augur,” Chapman ; “Beacon,” Bond ; “ As-
modeus,” McCulloch ; “ToitCela,” Hamilton ; “Peeping
Tom,” Yuille, sen.; “ Playboy,” Yuille, jun. ; “Eclipse,”
I Smith ; “Terlinga,” Cook ; “Goodwood,” Bishop ; “Rag-
j picker,” Simons ; “ Apemantus,” Morris. (And “ Daniel,”
] Judkins).
THE CHRISTMAS “BULLETIN.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Until a few years ago, the newspapers of Iceland were
supposed to be printed Farthest North. But now there
is a publication called the Eskimo Bulletin, published
within the Arctic Circle at Cape Prince of Wales, Alaska.
It is only issued once a year.— News Item.
« The Eskimo, amid the ice,
About this time of year,
Begins to hoard the blessed price
Of coming Christinas cheer !
lie saves w'ith care one special prize—
Some bear’s abstracted skin ;
It is the coin wherewith he buys
His Arctic Bulletin.
Down here, in days of cheerful heat,
Beneath some shady tree,
The Good Australian takes his seat
With beer and bottled glee !
For lo ! within his strong right hand
The valiant corkscrew twirls ;
“Here’s luck !”—and then with feelings bland
He scans the Souter girls !
Up north, where bergs drift large and slow,
And seal and walrus creep,
I see the anxious Eskimo
Towards his newsagent leap !
1 hear him yell in accents clear,
And raise a fearsome din :
“ It’s only printed once a year —
I want my Bulletin ! ”
What odds if Peary found the Pole,
Or whether Cook was mad?
The Eskimo, within his soul,
Feels Christmas-like and glad !
His missus bounds across the ice,
And prowling bears draw near ;
The Arctic cats leave Eski-mice,
And Eski-maidenB leer 1
They drag him home—hi* wife may rage,
Her words unheeded are ;
lie gladly turns each pictured page,
And readeth verse and par 1
His Christmas blubber waits in vain—
Beside the igloo’s lamp,
His new lied liag is turned again
As in the western cump !
In lands of ice and snow, or sun,
About this time of year,
Newsagents' orders swift should run—
Men look for printed cheer 1
The Eskimo and Man Outback
l In this are clearly kin ;
They cuss with fury if they lack
Their Christmas Bulletin 1
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


DILLI/JDDS
Ve
/
M
50 years ago the name of Alcocfc was practically unknown —to-day
it is synonymous with billiards. Why ?
They have always maintained that high standard of excellence,
so scientifically and accurately constructed their tables, cues, etc., that
it is no wonder that the popularity of Alcock Tabies has grown so
much.
Gray, who made his wonderful break of 836 —831 coming off the
red —and other prominent players, are prompt to proclaim these tables
as perfect in every respect.
We make them in all sizes and styles—the ** Bijou ” table is a
special favorite for the home.
Write us for Illustrated Catalogue—we supply every billiard
requisite.
ALCOCK & CO. Pty.Ltd.
397 George St., Sydney. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Llizabeth St., Melbourne. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Murray St., Perth.
For your BOOTS and SHOES.
MELTONIAN
CREAM.
Cannot be 'equalled for
renovating all kinds of
Glace Kid Boots and Shoes.
(Obtainable in White and Black).
“LUTETIAN”
CREAM.
For all kinds of Brown
Leather 'Boots and Shoes.
Has a world - wide reputation.
Made in light and dark colours.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Made by the Manufacturers of the Celebrated [1
65 MELTONIAN ” BOOT POLISHES.
E. BROWN 8 SON ( B,ack^f n f;? a d ct B u 0 f “ t rs Po,ish ) LTD., LONDON and PARIS.
Gold Aedal Paris 1900 « Grand Prize St. Louis 1904
KfllODEBHft mil
IB PREPARATIONS
F.OOLFF & SOHM, Karlsruhe and London
Rnlotfermn Jelly
prepared with glycerine <ss honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; is most
agreeable <3s efficacious for preventing and allaying irritation.
Kaiodermn Soup
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap.the leading soap for softening % improving the s' jn.
KQloderma Rice Powder
most popular and refined
toiletpowder. jc/'
Rnlotlermn Showing Soap
prepared with the renowned
Kaloderma Jelly undispu-
tedly the most emollient shaving soap on the market,
fl refined luxury at a popular price, uc/" Uc/" JcT
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
co&ytEtslct
i/jj
V.
c: --•■
IM,
' Y,
ft
•<3 **/■«»•«
■m
»»■
Good Day Sir,
If you p/ease cou/oyou /er me
Aji/e some of your Fme Wool
For The AustralianKwnwG
. Mills 'pure r/oollen
UnderWesr.
Absolutely PURE
WOOL Underwear
for Australian Men,
Women 8 Children.
GUARANTEED UNSHRINKABLE.
“ MADE IN AUSTRALIA.”
See that our Registered Trade Mark, “ GOLDEN FLEECE," is on every garment.
STOCKED BY ALL REPUTABLE RETAIL HOUSES.
If not obtainable locally, communicate with us direct.
Made in our own Mills, Richmond, Victoria.
Sole Proprietors :—
AUSTRALIAN KNITTING MILLS. LTD.
It is real economy to throw away a safety razor
that continually requires new blades. For if you
stick to it, in a short time the blades will cost
you double or quadruple what the razor cost.
Dull, hard, painful shaving makes you
buy new blades. The man who sells you
a “throw-away-blade” razor knows it.
Your discomfort is the essence of his
profit. Free yourself. Get the razor that
does not grow duller every time you use it
—the razor that automatically gives you a
perfect edge for every shave.
Auto'&trop
k s^ FETY
oR
STROPS ITSELF
This is the Razor used by His Excellency the Governor-General of Australia
25/-, and no further expense.
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., LTD., The Rialto,
Collins Street, MELBOURNE ; 222, Clarence Street, SYDNEV.
m~ FAMOUS FROM EARTH TO MARj.
Dr. Thomas Elouis Phenomenal Invention
THE .. .
The Rapid Disease Destroyer
Can be worn on Any Part of the Body Without Inconvenience.
Cures immediately Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Weak Back, Iodney Trouble, Varicose
Veins and other Diseases of the Nerves and Blood.
Eminent Scientists say that it will bring about a revolution in therapeutic medicine, because it destroys
at once uric acid, albumen and other poisonous matter in the blood.
Read the daily papers what wireless telegraphy is doing. More wonderful still is THE MARCONIDON,
alleviating suffering humanity.
Write for Our Book, “ Victory Over Disease,” which will be sent Free to All.
NO CURE. NO PAY.
THE DR. THOMAS ELOUIS “MARCONIDON” CO., 11 Elizabeth St., Melkwae
CAPELLARINE
THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
%
LOOK A MAN, SIR
If you have no moustache, and cannot grow one, you carry a reproach
around with you that is a severe handicap in life. If you are at
all sensitive it makes ajl your life bitter. You can grow a manly
moustache very quickly if you rub CAPILLARINE on to your upper
lip at night before going to bed. It just makes the hair sprout out
strongly—3o years’ trial has never yet found it fail in any one case.
Price 10/6 Jar
Posted anywhere in
plain package.
Craig: & Ait ken, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
S
J


Publications.
T AUSTRALIA TO-DAY 19 J>
The Australian Annual.
BEAUTIFULLY and PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED and
has FULL PAGE COLORED SUPPLEMENT.
The letterpress includes important articles by Australian
Specialists, among' them being
IRRIGATION IN AUSTRALIA, by Francis Fox.
EDUCATION IN AUSTRALIA, by Frank Tate. M.A.
THE SPORTSMAN IN AUSTRALIA, bv Donald Macdonald.
FROM ALL „ . ' -
NEWSAGENTS. Jrf*lCe I/O.
AUSTRALIA TO-DAY
is the Ideal Australian Annual for posting 1 abroad.
Postage : —Commonwealth and New Zealand, ljd. ;
United Kingdom 2d. ; Elsewhere abroad, 7d.
Wholesale Agents for Australasia—GOßDON & GOTCH.
“ The Waybacks Again.” h s
joy and laughter about the famous family. Is.
NOTICE is hereby given that the Patentees of
Australian Letters Patent No. 5952, dated the 21st
day of May, 1906, for Improvements Relating to
the Treatment of Complex Sulphide Ores, are prepared
to satisfy any demands and all requirements of the public
respecting the said invention. •* Further particulars and
information obtainable from
COLLISON & CO.,
483 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE ; and
Eagle Chambers, King William .Street, Adelaide
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
The Musical Success of our Generation,
OUli MISS GIBBS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of SALVATION NELL.
SATURDAY NEXT, DECEMBER 3,
FOR FOUR NIGHTS and TIIE MATINEE,
KATHERINE GREY, with a Brilliant Company, in
THE THIRD DEGREE.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 8, FOR THREE NIGHTS,
THE LION AND THE MOUSE.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY
Direction of MAGGIE MOORE and H. R. ROBERTS.
TO-NIGHT AND EVERY EVENING.
CONTINUED AND EMPHATIC SUCCESS
of the World-Famed and Highly Sensational Drama,
SHADOWS OF A GREAT CITY.
Brilliant Reception and Welcome Return of ,
MAGGIE MOORE and H. R. ROBERTS,
Australia’s Most Popular Artists.
Box Plan at Elvy’s. Prices —35., 2s. and Is.
THE NEW OLYMPIA THEATRE, SYDNEY,
Located Corner of Elizabeth St. & Wentworth Avenue.
Under Direction of William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
Magnificent Film representing the Adventures of the
FAMOUS KELLY GANG,
in addition to MANY OTHER GEMS OF
CINEMATOGRAPHIC ART.
Popular Prices—6d., Is. and Is. 6d.
Booked Seats at Elvy’s, 6d. extra.
The glaciarium, sydney.
Opposite Railway Station—Where all Id. trams stop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER!
WES T ’ S PICT ÜB,E S,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir'.: T. J. West.
DE GROEN’S VICE REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
THE LYCEUM:.
Levery evening at 6
Matinees -Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30.
CPENCER'SlFeatrekope <?
J PICTURES
#re super, ion ro /ill or hers.
Popular Prices «-»- Plan at Palings.
Tl VO LI THEA T R E, oVJ.M E Y.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards,
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
LAST NIGHTS OF
BARNOLD’S WORLD-FAMED ANIMAL ACTORS.
GODFREY JAMES, Celebrated Welsh Vocalist.
FRED BLUETT, Australia’s Own Comedian.
LES MARBAS, Humorists and Acrobatic Dancers.
CARL HOWARD and LILY FOY, Cbinedy Artists.
WOODS (Leslie) and FRASER (Hilda). Sketch Artists.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites.
PRICES— 3s. and Is. _Plan at Pali hit’s.
Opera house, Melbourne.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE BLESSINGS, Strongest Lady Athlete and her
Partner.
ALEXANDER PRINCE, Kinj>- of Concertina Players.
CAMILLE CORNWALL, Operatic Soprano Voealiste.
VAUDE and VERNE, Patter Comedians.
THE Q.UEALYS, Musical Sketch Artists.
MDME. LYDIA-YEAMANS-TITUS, Mimic Impersonator
Voealiste.
FREDERICK J. TITUS, Composer and Accompanist.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., -Is., Is.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager —William Andhrson.
EVERY EVENING.
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S NEW DRAMATIC
ORGANISATION
-rIN
THE WORST WOMAN IN
LONDON.
Box Plan at Allan s. PRICES—3S7, 2s. and IST
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. M ;L 30 URN E.
,c Lessee and Manager : J. C. Willi amson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr J. C. WILLIAMSON Presents a Grand Revival
—OF—
HARBOR LIGHTS.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., Is.
■pil E ATR E ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A POPULAR REVIVAL.
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S NEW ENGLISH
COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE ARCADIANS.
FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE CONTINENTAL
DANCER, CHISTIE MULNIAH.
Plans at'Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
For a Limited Number of Niyhts, a Brilliant (Revival
—OF— ..
J 11E DOLLA R PR IN C ESS..
Reappearance of MISS FJ.OURIE YOUNG.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Allan's.
Amusements
U/EST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST S PICTL RES, THE best
OF ALL. LIMITED. ' OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT S.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays* All Holidays at 2.30.
* The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise is tiik World
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
“ARCADIA,” ST. KILDA ESPLANADE.
EVERY EVENING AT 5.30.
mmm
CHANGE OF PROGRAMME NIGHTLY.
PRICES—Is. 6d. (Booking 6d. extra), Is. and 6d.
Children half-price. Booking at Glen’s, Haber’s, and by
Telephone, Windsor 105.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
J.&N.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices—2/-, 1/6,
1/-, 6d. Matinees —Wednesday, Saturday, All Holidays.
QPEN
J. & N. TAIT’S
-AIR THEATRE, ST.
EVERY EVENING AT 5.30.
K I L D A.
THE FOLLIES
NEW COSTUME COMEDY CO.
PRICES—I/6, 1/-, 6d.
IRTMS'OLTMPIA
.EVERY EVENING AT 8-
Matinees-Wednesdays.Saturdays and Holidays at 2 JO.
CPENCER'SIHEATRE>COPE <?.
J PICTURES
-a PRE SUPER. lon PO PLL OTHERS. «®
Popular Prices ■»>- Plan as u&ual.
mHE BEST STORIES written in Australia
JL appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price sixpence.
-—V*
MILLERS-?
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/ Length, 12 Inches.
/ “ POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought lor twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
I Mem ion Tiik Bulletin.} [4
I When Mosquitoes annoy you
remember how useful, either for pre-
venting the attack of these and other
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their
■1 bites, so many people have found
: Calvert’s
! 20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard
against infectious diseases.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores,
)Madeby F.C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.
m
"Big G
Borated Golden seal
Compound
, A safe and simple remedy for
1 Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or llnlngß of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise wi th jach bottle
or mailed on request.
The Evus Chemical Co.
Ciadimad, Ohio,
O.S.A.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
mvswm
3vC.U STAR Jf- '''
Bird’s
Custards fruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD’S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
AGGREGATE BALANCE SHEET OF THE
Bank of New South Wales, 30th September, 1910
LIABILITIES. £ s. d. £ s. d.
Notes in Circulation .. 1,281,468 0 0
Deposits, Accrued In-
terest and Rebate .. 31.808,365 10 3
33,089,833 10 3
Bills Payable and other Liabilities (whic h
include Reserves held for Doubtful
Debts and Amounts at Credit of Invest-
ments Fluctuation Account, Officers’
Fidelity Guarantee and Provident Fund
and the Buckland Fund) .. .. 4,061,568 0 5
Paid-up Capital bearing
6 months’ dividend .. 2,621,500 0 0
Paid-up Capital bearing
3 months’dividend .. 105,380 0 0
2,726,880 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,806,720 0 0
Profit and Loss .. .. 251,290 3 5
4,784.890 3 5
£41,936,291 14 1
Contingent Liabilities —
Outstanding Credits, as per Contra .. 774,835 0 6
£42,711,126 14 7
ASSETS
Coin, Bullion and Cash
Balances
Queensland Government
Notes
Notes of other Banks ..
Money at short call in
London.. .. ••
Investments —B rit i sh
and Colonial Govern-
ment Securities ..
Investments —Municipal
and other Securities..
Due by other Banks
Bills Receivable in Lon-
don and Remittances
in transit
Bills Discounted, and Loans and Ad
13,578,215 4 5
/ances to Customers
Bank Premises
. 22,628,076
730,000
9 11
0 0
£41,936,291 14 1
Liabilities of Customers and others on
Letters of Credit as per Contra
774,835 0 6
£42,711,126 14 7
Or.
PROFIT AND LOSS. 30th SEPTEMBER, 1910.
Cr.
£ s. d.
Balance proposed to be dealt with as
follows :
To Dividend at the rate of 10 percent, per
annum .. .. .. • • •• 133,709 10 0
~ Interest at 5 per cent, to 30th Sept.,
1910, on Capital paid in advance on
other than the fixed dates .. .. 6,958 3 0
~ Augmentation of the Reserve Fund.. 43,280 0 0
~ Officers’Provident Fund .. .. 10,000 0 0
~ Balance carried forward .. .. 57,342 10 5
£251,290 3 5
Amount from last Account
Balance of Half-year’s Profits after de-
ducting' Rebate on Current Bills,
Interest on Deposits, paying Note and
Other Taxes, reducing valuation of
Bank Premises, providing for Bad and
Doubtful Debts, and fluctuations in
the value of Investment Securities,
and including Recoveries from Debts
previously written off as bad ..
£ s. d.
49,642 14 6
201,647 9 0
£251,290 3 5
Dr.
RES Eft I /E FUND, 3Qth SEPTEMBER, 1910.
Cr.
To Balance
(Of which £750,000 is invested in British
Government Securities, and £500,0 0
in those of States where we are repre-
sented —in all, £1,250,000. The
balance is employed in the business
of the Bank.)
£ S. (J.
1,850,000 0 0
£1,850,000 0 0
By Balance .. .. • •
~ Premiums on New Stock paid up
~ Amount from Profit and Loss
£ a. d.
.. 1,750,000 0 0
56,720 0 0
43,280 0 0
£1,850,000 0 0
By Balance
. £1,850,000 0 0
j. RUSSELL FRENCH, Gbnkral Manager.
W, E. SOUTHERDEN, Chief Accountant.
S. E. LAIDLEY,
A. G. MIGSOJM,
| Auditors.
*/
i-ru
AS A XMAS ADVERTISEMENT—This 10/6 Watch for 3/11.
’Tisa special Xmas advertisement for our “Corn Cob ” Tobacco— the finest tobacco
you could smoke—and our “ King: of All ” Cigars. We sell this fine Watch, guaranteed
five years, and a repfiil <r Half-Guinea Timepiece, for 3/11, posted bd. extra, Inter-State 9d.,
with the following orders, „ . ....
“King of All” Cigars, four a 1/- posted; Sample Box of 10, 2/6 posted ; 50 for 9/6
posted ; 100 in box, 18/6 posted. “Corn Cob ” Tobacco, cut light or dark, 2oz. lOd. ; Watch,
3/11 (“ Corn Cob ”), posted 6d. ; total, 5/3. Inter-State, 2d. extra. 4oz. plug, light or dark,
1/4 ■ “ Corn Cob ” Watch. 3/11 ; postage 6d. ; total 5/9. Inter-State, 3d. extra.
CRAIG & AIT KEN, 654 George Street / _g^c^y ; __^tablishedJO_years ; _
TOYS FOR BRAINY BOYS!
,n
itjuS
▼ W
m.
*
«
Vi/
turn
Send for our Free Illustrated
Catalogue full descriptions
and prices. Ask us to post it
to you.
Does your boy like studying Machinery ?
Develop him along his bent—make him an
engineer.
Give him a toy that will train his brain—not
merely fill his stomach.
We’ve just imported a fine lot of working
models of machinery—true replicas of actual
machines.
Eledric Trams,
Dreadnoughts,
Cinematographs,
Steam Trains,
Aeroplanes,
Magic Lanterns,
Ctc. f etc.
JERDAN’S,
(Formerly Osborn & Jerdan),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 George Street
(Facing
Royal Hotel),
Sydney
BOVRIL
The Supreme Achievement in Beef Concentration.
INFINITELY SUPERIOR TO MEAT EXTRACT OR BEEF TEA.
BOVRIL is supplied to the British Admiralty and War Office, the India Office,
and is used in over 2,000 Hospitals.
HIS MAJESTY THE KINC
BY APPOINTMENT TO
WATCH AND CHAIN AND RING
For Selling Our High Grade Art Post Cards
GIVEN
STEM
STEM
WIND
SET
Wm
■Mm/
We give absolutely FREE this handsome AMERICAN MADE, STEM WINDAND STEM L Watch, care-
fully tested and fully guaranteed for selling only twenty packages of
ART POST CAROS at 5d a package. Send us your name and address (no money) and we
will send you the twenty packages of Beautiful Post Cards to sell at 5d Per package.
When sold send us the 8 shillings and we will positively send you at once this beaut 1
WATCH and CHAIN and RING. We will refund the money if you are not perfectly
satisfied, Write today for the cards. „ _ '
PEERLESS WATCH COMPANY. 1137 East 63rd Street, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
•v
BUY A “PLUM” —-10/6.
Why use a Razor that drags, that pulls the hair out instead
of cutting with a velvety, soft touch? A “ PLUM” is a per-
fect razor—fine silver-steel blade, tempered to a nicety, and
just glides over the roughest stubble, leaving the skin like
satin. We use “ PLUMS ”in our own saloon, and guarantee
to keep yours in ord e r free for two years.
10/6
Post Free
Anywhere.
Send for our
Illustrated
Catalogue.
PLUM Razor, in Case, 10/6.
Pair in Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6.
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d.
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d.
All the above Post Free.
We Crind and Set Razors, 1/- each.
CRAIG & AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.


MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
®YDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOTRNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
: Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
Li
O
imm
V
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The "Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “AHenburys” Foods for Infant;
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO
ALLEN <& HANBURYS Ltd., 15-17 Marßet Street, Sydney.
What You Get
Not What You Pay
COUNTS.
TRY
THE
EAGLE
ĥ
Brand
Footwear
Built by men who know the
essentials of GOOD WORK.
The PERFECT PRODUCT of
practical experience.
Made from Australian Materials by Australians for Australians.
They meet the demand for STRICTLY RELIABLE and UP-TO-DATE FOOTWEAR.
They Will Satisfy YOU!
Obtainable from Leading MERCHANTS everywhere.
Sole Manufacturers and Proprietors —
The Davey Halliday Company, Limited
Wholesale Only.
BRISBANE.
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
rTIHE Australian Magazine. THE LONE
JL HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
©Ce-
ROOKS
Uneasy rides the J)ike
without a “ 7)roo/(s J '
Your dealer, and every dealer, will tell you of the unrivalled
security of seat, the perfect comfort at all speeds and on varying
road surfaces, which belong to the BROOKS SADDLE.
Your bicycle cannot do its best without a BROOKS.
Of all Dealers.
vv
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, O.S.A.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
FURSKINS ARE BRINGING BIG PRICES!
TO GET THE BEST RESULTS SELL YOUR LOT THROUGH
New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY
Experts Carefully Supervise the Handling of Each Consignment.
[i
S3l
:
y
A little of
Old
ORknev
the Real Liq-ueur Scotch,
is better than a lot of an
inferior whisKy. Our en-
tire output is reserved for
this, our own brand, which
we guarantee for its qua-
lity, age, and flavour.
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London.
Proprietors of Stromness Distillery,
Orkney, Scotland.
Agents :
MELBOURNE—T. R. Jones & Co., 366 Bourke Street.
BRISBANE—EIIiott, Donaldson & Douglas Ltd.,
108-110 Eagle Street.
ADEL AIDE—Lord & Heseltine, 90 Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON—John McKenzie & Co. *•
HOBART —John Ferguson & Co.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is (id.
1
I
NOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Hereare answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young-and old, butabout
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a hright future, and.wishes to enjoy married.life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
1*“ BOOKSELLER TO THE. COMMONWEALTH.-*!
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. yosted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is ; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other. Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. UST" Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SnALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE OOT FROn THIS ADVT.
4
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage Is
posted. New. Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine
Is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East Is
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions t>F thf. Ring
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted"
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Puilosopiiy, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 5 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing' Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted,. Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY


ħ
W. are the LAMEST aad LEADING M#
aft d Retail Distributors of Fishing
Tackle in Australia—- !
We have Just Opened up a Magnificent Range of New Season’s Trout Tackle. We can supply you
Cheaper and Better than any other House. Give
a Trial and be Convinced.
No. 2.—SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, lift, and 12ft., 3 joints, 2 tops,
cork grip, best fittings, lock joints, etc., £4/4/=
THE M.S. SPLIT CANE FLY RODS, 101 ft. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, serrated ferrules, best fittings, £2.
No. 4. —SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, lOJftr. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, best winch fittings and snake rings, bronze mountings, 25/=.
No. B.—SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, 12ft., 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
grip, snake rings, welted ferrules, solid fittings, 22/6.
No. 9.-SPLIT CANE TROUT RODS, 101 ft. and lift., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, bronzed fittings, finely finished rod, 30/-.
No. 10S.-SHORT-JOINTED SPLIT CANE FLY RODS, 101 ft.
5 joints, 2 tops, cork grip, solid reel plate, double-brazed welted
ferrules, 21/-.
No. 18.-GREENHEART TROUT RODS, 12ft., 3 joints, 2 tops, cork
grip, lock joints, graduated winch fittings, 25/=.
THE M.S. GUINEA GREENHEART ROD, 101 ft. and lllft., 3 joints,
2 tops, cork grip, bronzed winch fittings, snake rings, stained olive
green ; splendid value, 21/- ; other rods from 7/6 to £7/10.
M S* PERFECTION TROUT REELS, with tension screws and con-
' traeted drum; the best Trout Reel on the market; 3in., 25/=;
M.s!* VENTILATED EBONITE BACK ROTARY CHECK REELS,
with wire drum for rapid winding; 21in., 13/6; 2|in., 15/6; din.,
17/6- each ; other reels from 2/- each.
M.S. PERFECT COLLAPSIBLE TURNOVER
the very best quality and highly finished,
Landing Nets from 3/6 each.
TROUT NET, all of
17/6; other complete
We are always pleased to receive Reports
from the various Trout Centres.
TROUT LINES.
We carry the finest assortment of Trout Lines to be found anywhere.
“KINGFISHER” PLAITED SILK LINES.
Hiirhly Waterproofed.
Sg&ESSSSS::
42y « d ‘ S pERFECT i ” er WATERPROOF PLAITED SILK LINES.
Splendid level lines, made exclusively for us.
No 40 . •• 25yds., 2/6 50yds., 5/- each.
No 30 .. .. 25yds., 3/- 50yds., 6/- each.
M S. WATERPROOF THREAD LINES.
Made from best Thread, and waterproofed by a new process.
No. 60 .. 50yds., 1/-, No. 40 .. 60yds., 1/3 each.
M . pA| . EY>S CAST BOOKS, with parchment 4/-each.
* ¥
SPINn'iNg'hEAD TROUT FLIES, 1/6 and 2/3 each.
ROUKE TROUT SPINNERS 9d. each
PINGED DEVONS, lin. and ljm., 1/4 , ljm. ana i t m., t/o
RFST OUILL PHANTOMS, ljin., 2jin., 2|in., 2/- each.
FISHING BROGUES, made of Good Quality Leather, with Canvas
iJ’S'S sj,tK Mk, Bw. «* »"0™ <” -*»
variety. - ~n cop
)Ub vyi
STJSSSK 55?5 “> a y»« «—«•<*»-»”
request. -■ ■ « S
MICK SIMMONS LTD.,
‘THE House That Sells the Best Tackle,”
Head Depot—
Hay market, Sydney, is;*,
Schute, Bell & Go.
limited ——
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Prooeeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
Model “T” Touring Car, 4-cyl.,Wh.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment inoluded).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.'
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 155-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
£5
GIVEN AWAY
For Correct Answers.
To ..oh .nd ev.ry p.„on ...din. i» th. C.». ..Solution .f th. (011.-ing P.zzl.« h.,.b, undertake
„a. t POUNDS
subject to the conditions hereunder : rroTURE POST CARDS, we have devised this simple
Encouraged by the enormous demand "Sur name more tfdely known, and to intro duce our
1911^ Wcfeiroeot^y^thiifcoinpetition^rMirains to make such an Impression »n your mind that
you will be compelled to telk about us to your friends, and the extraordinary value of our FINE ART
PICTURE yQyj JQ |S TH|S:
Fill in the missing letters in the following Puzsrte : i c D l A
O R P**T C*R*S A*E T*E B**T V*L*E IN A*S*R*L*A.
®&Ss«iffS r^S'Vh h :. “* "" k ' 1
of the right solution we have but if before the date of the
Due notice of the closing t P answ er 3 have been received, One Hundred Cash Prizes
S» SS.SJ“ p .U*a.. th.« •»*»! “ a “‘ n
have been read by the Manager o e and be corree t according to our conditions, and
not
nlb! I be^accotnp^nied < b™ which forms part of this competition,
and addressed to THE MANAGER OF
FINE ART POST CARD CO.,
HUNTER STREET,
SYDNEY.
My Solution to your Puzzle is as follows:.
T^7AGREE TOABIDE BY THE DECISION OF THE MANAGER OF THE FINE ART POST
CARD CO., which I accept as Anal and legally binding.
Signed
Address....
Date..
.»bo
An “AT”
Thirst Quencher.
‘MONTSERRAT’
LIME JUICE.
Delicious also at lunch or dinner, and
a healthy drink at all times.
Made in two kinds-Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Linujuict'
Sweetened, i.e., Lime Juice Cordial. Sold everywhere.
ZERCHO’S
CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE.
5-^
- s
a
il i i : .
iM
£o=D
WSsD*-
nee
!"'5!. «U!lf III 1 W
■ IMal l* ■* "JH iKI Ml.li
=?2
Efflggg
159 Collins St., Melbourne.
28 Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Currie Chambers, Adelaide.
Utilise your spare time by studying at home some
of the following subjects
Send for Descriptive Pamphlet “S” and state subject
i* which you are interested.
Shorthand
Typewriting
Bookkeeping
Accountancy
English
Penmanship
Arithmetic
Correspondence
Latin
French
Greek
Algebra
Geometry
Trigonometry
Elementary Science
History
Geography
Surveying
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Draftsmanship
> Freehand Drawing
Pen and Ink Drawing
Illustrating and Designing.
Let us coach you for a University, Local Government
(Shire Clerks or Auditors). Public Service. Sanitary
Inspectors’, or any other examination.
h
ĥ
New Visible Loading
Repeating Rifle No. 70.
T#i« Most Accurate .22 Calibre Repeating Rifle Made.
rt fwpntv fivp inches Weight 4£ pounds. Handles fifteeri .22
Barrel rifled with slow twist; one turn init . - » 1 gd : cham ber. Extra double extractors,
short cartridges are & fed R . fle Cartridge ,
- Stevens No. ,0
Ask your Dealer
Insist on
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0.. Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. t 8
See the name JS2S2* °» hosiery and
underwear you buy. They are made from Australian
wool of the highest quality only, finished in the
way, which leaves it beautifully soft and
silky, absorbent and unshrinkable.
•• JaS o„” Stockings. Socks, and Underwear for Men Ladies -
In all prices. Of Men's Out fit ter scrapers, and Stores.
If your dealer does not stock
he Can obtain it from his
wholesale house,
In case of difficulty write for
■ Jason " Booklet ana
name of nearest Agent,
to
Jason Hosiery Co..
Leicester, England.
Aa4
r
. • —i
Etto BULLETIN POSTCARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 60,


9
MAKE ZAM-BUK A DAILY NEED
44 A WOMAN’S work is never
done,” and therefore her
need for the handy pot of Zam-Buk
always exists. Not a meal is prepared
without the risk of a cut, burn or
scald, which demands the pain=soothing,
healing aid of Zam~Buk.
In the daily dusting and cleaning and
on washing-days there is always the
perils of a slip, fall, knock or bruise, which
will open the flesh to disease=breeding germs,
unless the injured spot is protected by a dressing of
Zam=Buk, that wonderful balm which, by reason of the skilful
combination of its pure, healing ingredients, possesses the power to
heal wounds, to prevent and end skin troubles, and to grow sound,
new, healthy skin over injured parts.
Zam=Buk not only provides a quick escape from smarting pain, but
staves off germ attack and prevents festering and blood-poison.
The distinguishing features of Zam-Buk are its scientific composition,
its purity, its effectiveness and its ever=ready character—qualities which
explain its superiority over ordinary cheap ointments and salves, and
make it indispensable to the mother and children at home, and to the
husband at work. Always keep a pot handy !
r
\
it
f*t
>*r
h
EVERY HOME NEEDS ZAM-BUK.
Zam-Buk is a proved cure for Piles,
Eczema, Boils, Sores, Ringworm, etc.
As an embrocation for Strained Muscles
and Tendons, Zam-Buk is unequalled.
As a household balm for Cuts, Bruises,
Pimples, etc., Zam-Buk is
invaluable. From all medi-
cine vendors at 1/6, or 3/6
family size (containing near-
ly four times the quantity),
or from the Zam-Buk Co.,
39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Mrs. Phoebe Moore, of 12 Morney
Street, Adelaide, says :—“We al-
ways keep Zam-Buk in our home
and have great faith in this mar-
vellous balm.
“For burns and cuts of all des-
criptions we have proved Zam-Buk
to be an excellent healer. For
stiffness in the joints and aches and
pains Zam-Buk has never failed us.”
r am
IT INI
Use the
“NUGGET” POLISHES.
WATERPROO
=• TRADE MARK.
regis fIUXm tered
E *** VMi » Leather fao*^* 0^
tor Patent. Olac£ Kid3qx^
\XAU>w> other
Melbourne
DOUBLE THE LIFE ofyour BOOTS
BRONCHITIS
Yields
quickly
TRADE
MARK
In Bronchitis,Freeman’s— the Original—Chlorodyne has proved
its curative, soothing and life-saving properties again and again.
For Asthma, Influenza, Colds and all forms of Chest Trouble there is
nothing better in the world. Price 1/I£, 2/9 and 4/6 per bottle.
Recommended by Doctors for over half-a-century.
See “Elephant ” on every bottle —your safeguard against imitations.
If your chemist
is out of stock,
order
bottle
he can quickly
gelit
FREEMAN'S
CHLORODYNE
ĥ
Contains the Best Stories, Verse and Sketches.
SUPERBLY ILLUSTRATED Ready DECEMBER IS.
p " ce 6d
The Red Rose Song.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A RED rose is singing at the world’s wide-
open door;
The new year. the true year is come
a with Splendor’s store !
A tropic wind is blowing from the warm and dis-
tant seas' .
When the gums are crowned with blossom ’midst
the murmur of the bees !
The bright Land, the right Land—dear shining
days of Spring,
When the world is glad and pagan and the axe-
man is a king !
A wreath of wattle-blossom and a croon of hidden
lore—
When the red rose is singing at the world’s wide-
open d6or !
The red rose is calling—all the flowers on their
stems
Sing when hills are crowned with wattle as with
golden diadems !
The wattle-birds are stirring ’neath the fragrance
of the trees,
And the pagan land is crooning all its secret
symphonies !
When the earth is newly waking from the time
of winter sleep.
Stirs the heart and lifts the spirit, and the pulses
surge and leap !
Life is warm with sap and vigor—sings the planet
at its core
When the red rose is calling at the world’s wide-
open door !
The red rose is crooning to the wattle and the
gum •*
When the world is slowly stirring from its slum-
bers deep and numb;
The trees are softly singing, lifting gladly to the
sky— ~: ■
Lo ! the axe is stained with scarlet when the
forest giants die !
The gums go crashing earthward with a sobbing
requiem,
And a thousand Bushland voices sing a parting
chant for them 1
For the world is marching forward—hear its
songs exultant soar
When the red rose is crooning at the world’s wide-
open door !
The red rose of Passion, with the glamor of her
song,
Galls the silent world to battle aind awakeneth the
strong.
When the gums are throned in blossom, ’mid the
murmur of the bees,
Tropic hearts go blindly faring ’thwart the new,
uncharted seas 1
And the wattles gleaming golden on the sea-
regarding hills
Know the flotsam and the wreckage that the tide
of Sadness spills !
Well I know the Voice that calleth with its
mystic, hidden lore—
’ Tis the red rose of Passion singing warmly at the
door !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
Told at Twelve.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE distant city clocks were just striking
12 when Malone sauntered along to
where I hung over the gate watching the
last guest dashing up the starlit street towards
the tram-line.
“’Tis a sinful waste of shoe-leather an’ enfergy,”
said the big man thoughtfully. “Th’ tram will
not be along for five minutes yet. He J ll be talkin’
to himself when he has to stand an’ wait that
time.”
“As long as he doesn’t miss it, I don’t care.
Will you have a whisky? ”
“Thank ye,” said Malone promptly.
1 qpened the gate, “Come inside and have a
rest ion the verandah. The creeper makes a fine
screen, and the sergeant won’t be able to see you.’
He followed me like a lamb to the comfortable
old garden seat hidden behind the jasmine. When
I brought him the decanter, a syphon and a box
of cigars, he took off his cap and positively purred
with delight: “My word ! this is good of ye 1”
The jingle of the stopper and the prolonged
hiss of the syphon was followed after a delicious
interval by the rattle of a glass put down on a
brass tray and a deep sigh of content. I gave him
a match, and with loving care he lit his cigar, trod
the light underfoot, and sat back—l4st. of muscle
and good humor, at peace with the world.
»j‘jWhat d’ye think of the defeat of our friends,
th* Liberals ? ” asked the Malone, drowsily.
“ What do you ? ” I retorted.
He laughed softly in the shadow, and blew a
cloud of smoke athwart the lamplight. “ I’ve been
20'year in the State an’ I never enjoyed an elec-
tion better in me life. It wasn’t so much politics
as' a parcel of Kilkenny cats tryin’ to prevent
themselves bein’ dragged off a slopin’ roof be their
tails. There was no foothold for th’ poor beasts
but what they made for themselves be throwin’
out promises ; but promises never kept anythin’
goin’ for long. If McGowen had been a bigger an’
a stronger man, he could have got a better grip of
th’ Government’s tail an’ finished it an’ th’
Liberal pack f’r good. However, he’s got it off
th’ roof, an’ that’s th’ main thing.”
“ Did you go to any of the meetings ? ”
“ Meetin’s , is it? Man, I’ve been goin’ to
nothin’ else this last two months ! I had to dry-
nurse them Liberal candidates till I felt that it
wasn’t a helmit or a cap I should be wearin’ at
all, but one of them nurse’s bonnets. Ye have no
idea what a tender thing a Liberal politician is
till ye are set to watch that no free an’ inde-
pendent elector asks him any questions he can’t
answer, or don’t want to answer, or hasn’t suffi-
cient intelligence to answer. Ye have to watch
that no man applauds him too much, or
throws eggs, or squints, or hoots at him in
the presence of whatever fenvdo relations he
may have brought to sit behind him on
the platform an’ listen to his nonsense. These
instructions, you understand, are not posted on
th’ gate of th’ barracks —they’re not even handed
along be word of mouth. You simply notice
what’s wanted be the set of th’ sub-inspector s
back an’ th’ fourteenth sense which ye have in th
back of your head, unless you’re a born fool.
“ One lad we had down from th’ country made
the mistake of thinkin’ this old maids’ tea-party
was just a plain election for grown men, an’ that
therightof Britishfreespeech wasstill good enough
for an interjection or two ; so when he was de-
tailed for duty out Glebe way, he went cheerfully,
hopeful of a pleasant evenin’.
“Th’ meetin’ started, as th’ papers say, ‘most
suspiciously for the candidate,’ Th’ hall was stiff
with us; but there didn’t Seem to be anyone there
with a bomb or a dangerous question about him.
Under th’ circumstances, th’ candidate thought it
good enough to open out and talk plain slops with
the idea of gettin’ three cheers for himself. Just
as he got nicely goin’, a thoughtful-lookin’ young
chap asked him a civil question that was about as
pleasant to him as a right hook. He shivered for
the blink of an eyelash, then waved his hand care-
lessly at the quiet interjector and went on. But
it wouldn’t do ; the young chap came at him again
the first time he stopped to;|take breath. There
was a hush, an’ I expected the man nearest
th’ inquisitive scoundrel to move over an’
stand near him as a hint to shut up. But he
didn’t, f’r some reason or other. I looked at him
again, and saw it was our country lad, and
that he was shakin’ with laughter. When th'
speakerhad started off again I took it on meself
to go over and give that lad some advice. ‘Me
son,’ said I, ‘if that villain (he don’t look like one,
but that’s what he is within the meanin’ of the
Act) —if that villain opens his mouth again, make
some sort of demonstration, or your chance of
ever bein’ Chief Commissioner is as good as gone.’
‘ But he only asked a civil question,’ says the boy.
‘Civil questions is illegal,’ 1 says. ‘Civilquestions
require a sensihle answer of some sort, an’ how
much sense d’ye think the ass on th’ platform has
under his belltopper ? Wimmen’s League tea-
fights is all the man’s fit for. ’Tis a shame,to put
him up before grown men ; but now he’s there,
we have to nurse him through. Stop that boy’s
questionin’, an’ get old Methuselah’s gimlet eyes
off yer back, or that tunic of yours will have two
holes burnt in it before the night’s out.’ Well,
th’ lad did as I told him, an’ there was no more
trouble from that quarter, but I was frightened
the old boy had him black-listed.
“Be the same token, I had somethin’ of an
experience meself. I was standin’ at th’ corner,of
th’ park one mornin’, about half-past five, when
along comes one of these bright and bustlin’ secre-
taries wearin’ morning dress and a look of distrac-
tion. As soon as he sighted me, he skipped
across the grass. ‘ Good mornin’, Constable,’ says
he. -I
“ ‘ Good mornin’,’ says I. . •
“ ‘ Have ye seen th’ Honorable Mister Blanky
anywhere? ’ says he. ‘He left th’ Club about 11
last night on foot, an’ up to now he hasn’t turned
up anywhere.’
“* Do ye suspect foul play ?’says I. i i
‘“We suspect drink,’ says he. ‘ There’s, a
reward waitin’ for th’ person that returns him
alive to his committee be three this afternoon. He
is to address the electors to-night and he must be
found. Now will ye give us a hand to searchjhe
park ? ’
‘“I will,’ I says. ‘ You take that side an’ I’ll
take this. How will I know him ? ’
“ ‘Look for a little grey man in evenin’ dress
an’ a boiled eye, ’ says he as he goes off.
V Th’ second spreadin’ chestnut I explored, I
found th’Vnissin’ Liberal. He was on, his.hands
an’ knees, like as if he was playin’ at bears with a
handful of children.
“ ‘ What is it, sir?’ says I, partin’ th’ branches
an’ lookin’ in at him. ‘ Have ye lost anythin’ ? ’
“ He pointed at his own red face and made dis-
tressful monkey sounds at me.
“ ‘Say it again, sir,’ says I, ‘an’ speak slower.
I didn’t catch it last time.’
“Then he opened his mouth an’ put one finger
in it. It was as bare of teeth as a baby’s. Th’
poor light of his party had lost th’ only things he
could fight th’ Labor gang with !
“‘By what streets did ye come here, do ye
think ? ’ says I. But he only made more monkey
sounds at me.
“ ‘ Here, put it in writin’,’ says I, pullin’ out me
notebook an’ pencil an’ shovin’ them at him. He
sat down on the grass in his soiled evenin’ clothes
an’ did his level best to write ; but the liquor was
still strong in his head, an’ he could no more write
than could a baby. While he was gruntin’ an’
maltin’ scratches, th’ bright young secretary
comes runnin’ up. ‘ls he there?’ says he. ‘ls
he all right?’
“‘He is complete bar his teeth,’ says I. ‘ I’m
tryin’ to get out of him by what route he came
here, but I’m afraid it’s beyond him. If we only
knew where he was when he was overcome with
disgust at th’ methods of th’ Caucus ’
“ ‘Oh, it’s no use tryin’ to get sense out of
him!'^ ays th’ boy. ‘Here’s half a sov. Get a
cab an’ explore a bit like a good chap before th’
traffic commences.’
“ Well, I got th’ cab, an’ I found th’ triumph of
th’dentist’s art in a lane near by. But an early
milk-cart had been there before me. The early
editions of th’ evenin’ papers announced that the
Hon. Mr. Blanky would be unable to address the
electors that evenin’ owin’ to a sudden seizure of
whisky, or somethin’of th’kind. He just man-
aged to win his seat back—one of th’ papers said
be th’ skin of his teeth, but I don’t know if it was
meant or not. Ye can never tell how these
things gets out!. .. .
“ I was tryin’to do me duty an’ look serious
about it in th’ pollin’ booth that Friday when th’
girls in their hobble skirts was failin’in to vote.
Old Jack Dwyer, who has been nagged and bad-
gered by that terrier wife of his for the last 20
years, an’ who has a halo waitin’ for him in
Heaven, was with me. In the middle of th’ fun
a pretty little thing like a sparrow hopped in,
give a puzzled look round an’ made straight for
Jack. ‘O Sergeant,’ says she, ‘is it true th’
Labor party are goin’ to dissolve th’ marriage tie
an’break up th’home?’ ‘l’m afraid not, Miss,’
says Jack, without blinkift’ an eyelid. The pretty
child looked at him hard; then turned and ran
straight for th’ box to vote for th’ nice-lookin’
Liberal candidate an’ th’ Home Intact.
“Oh, but there isn’t th’ same go about th’ elec-
tions now—-they’re too orderly altogether, I
haven’t seen an egg thrown these 10 years.
Talkin’ about throwin’ makes me think of a
strange experience Joe Murphy had over in North
Sydney once. He was standin’ on the corner of a
quiet street, listenin’ to the wailin’ of a hymn in a
dingy little chapel close by, an’ thinkin’ how
cheerless it was, when he heard the sound of
breakin’ glass. The hymn and the harmonium
(Continued on next page.)


DON'T NEGLECT THAT ACHING BACK
Backache is Really
Kidney Ache.
Backache is really kidney ache :
the ache comes from the kidneys,
which lie just beneath the small of
the back. When the back is weak
and lame —when it “ cricks ” if you
turn sharply or stoop—when it
burns with a burning ache, and
keeps you awake half the night—
when you cannot bend without a
stab-like pain taking you—when it
makes hard work of the least task
—give your kidneys help at once in
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills.
Doan’s Pills are a Special Kidney
and Bladder medicine ; they give
strength and tone to the kidneys
themselves, and so cure the cause
of backache, gravel, rheumatic
pains, watery swellings in the
ankles and beneath the eyes, urin-
ary troubles, dizzy spells, pains in
the limbs, spots before the eyes,
sallow complexion, etc.
s=ll 1
1
u Every Picture
Tells a Story/'
“How long the stairs seem
when your back is bad !”
A SYDNEY WOMAN’S
LASTING CURE.
Mrs. W. Benn, 46 Hanover Street, Waterloo,
Sydney, says:—“l am quite convinced that I
owe my life to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills,
for this remedy cured me of Dropsy and other
symptoms of disordered kidneys. My ill-health
started with backache ; then I got urinary
trouble and dropsy. My back was always
aching ; the sharp, shooting pains were so bad
I would have hot flannels put on to try and get
ease. The secretions were thick, and caused
intense pain. I was fit for nothing, feeling tired
out always, and I had bad headaches. My
legs and feet swelled to twice their natural size ;
I could not put my boots on, and I practically
lost the use of my legs. I was really very ill,
and nobody thought that I would ever get well.
I tried every remedy I could hear of, but got
no better. The doctors whom I consulted
could do me no good, and gave up my case
as hopeless. A friend advised me to use Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills, and I procured these
pills. The first few bottles gave me relief,
and 12 bottles completed my cure. lam now
quite free of the dropsy and backache, and the
secretions are regulated. Doan s Backache Kid-
ney Pills have cured me, completely and per-
manently, for I have been quite well foi
years now. I cannot sufficiently Praise Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills ; they saved my life.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills are sold by all
Chemists and Storekeepers at 2s. 9d. per bottle
(six bottles, lSs 3d.), or direct from Foster-
McClellan Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney.
ħ
DOAN’S
Backache
Kidney
PIUS
h
accompaniment left off simultaneous, and the next
minit a little man like one of these hairy terriers
ran out into the street, and after lookin’ round
for a boy to chase, rushed up to Joe.
44 4 Constable,’ says he, ‘some villain just threw
a stone through our church window !’
4 4 4 1 thought I heard somethin’ go,’ says Joe.
“‘This is the third time it has been broken
within a fortnight,’ says the little man. ‘Sister
Squaller was nearly hit on the head be the glass ! ’
“ 4 1 will look into it,’ says Joe. 4 Did you
notice any boys about? I didn’t !’
“ 4 Neither did I,’ says the little man.
“ 4 Leave it to me, sir,’ says Joe, an’ the little
man ran back an’ started the hymn worse than
ever. Joe was standin’ there twistin’ his mous-
tache and turnin’ the thing over in his mind when
there was another crash, followed by another
charge by the little man who was blue with rage.
4 They’ve done it again !’ he yells; 4 they’ve broke
the other window ! ’
4 4 4 1 saw nothing,’ says Joe.
“‘Well, who’s doing it?’ screamed the little
man.
44 4 1 will do me best to find out, sir,’ says Joe ;
and he went across th’ road an’ walked down th’
line of neat villa gardens—th’ little man following
him like a dog.
“ When he got to the one that was opposite
th’ church he found an old white-bearded man in
a smokin’ cap, enjoyin’ his evenin’ pipe amongst
his roses.
“‘I beg your pardon, sir,’ says Joe. ‘The
gentleman in charge of the church opposite has
just informed me that two stones has been thrown
through their windows this evenin’. You might
have heard the noise? ’
“ 4 1 heard somethin’ smash just now,’ says the
old chap.
44 ‘ Have ye noticed any boys about, sir, may I
ask? ’
“‘I have not /’ says the old fellow, pretty
short, and Joe went to move away. Just then
along comes the little man an’ starts addressin’
White Beard as ‘brother.’ Now, Joe wasn’t a
dull lad, an’ he noticed that White Beard wasn’t
too cordial towards the little man. That gave
him an idea. He watched the old gentleman for
three nights runnin’ from th’ branches of a big
fig tree in th’ next garden. On the third night
th’ choir practice opposite was in full swing when
the old boy sneaked out into the garden with
somethin’ in his hand, threw it with all his might
at the church —and missed clean.
44 Joe dropped out of the tree and tip-toed over
to the fence. 1 The old boy was standin’ in the
position a man is left in when the projectile has
been discharged.
4 4 4 That was a damned bad shot ! ’ says Joe.
“ The old boy nearly died of fright on th’ spot.
4 Don’t expose me !’ he howls ; 4 I’m a member of
th’ church, but I hate that squallin’, an’ I used to
nearly die with rage till I blew off the worst of it
by breakin’ their winders now an’ then. Me
yearly subscription is the biggest of the lot an’
would buy all th’ dirty winders they’ll need be-
tween this an’ th’ Judgment. Don’t expose me
to thpm, sir.’
“ ‘ I won’t breathe a word of it to anyone,’ said
Joe. 4 But you must promise me you won’t do it
again.’
“‘Oh, I’ll promise!’ cries old White Beard,
shakin’in his slippers. ‘lt has been a lesson tc
me, an’ I’ll never do it again—never !’
44 ‘Hold on ! ‘ says Joe. 4 If ye feel inclined to
commence again after th’ end of th’ year, ye can,
for I’m bein’ transferred about that time. I’m
not goin’ to interrupt th’ course of poetic justice
more than I can help. Th’ music is fair rotten,
an’ th’ winders look cheap. Give it a rest till I’m
off the beat is all I ask of you. Good-night.’
“ It was after Joe was moved from that district
that he heard someone eryin’ about two in th’
mornin’ amongst the charred ruins of a boardin’-
house that had been burnt down in th’ afternoon
of th’ previous day. He walked round th’ mess
of twisted iron an’ burnt rafters three times before
he located th’ sound among a lot of iron near t'n’
centre of it. It was the devil’s own work to climb
across in the moonlight. When he got there
he found a lad of about 22 or so layin’ on
what had once been a bed. He had a crayfish
under his head and was sobbin’ as if his heart was
broke. Joe shook him and asked him what the
matter was. The boy opened his eyes and said :
4 I’m an orphan now—me boardin’-house is burnt!’
“ 4 Th’ burnin’ of a boardin’-house don’t make
you either an orphan or a widow unless you were
either or both before,’says Joe. ‘Anyway, this
is no place for you. Come away an’ I’ll find a
bed for you somewhere.’
44 Well, he had a great job persuadin’ that lad
to get up, an’ a greater one gettin’ him safely
across the wreckage. He was cryin’ bitterly all
the time an’ callin’ himself an orphan—as if the
burnin’ of th’ boardin’-house was equivalent to the
death of both parents. Joe towed him away from
the place and up the street, till he saw a light in
a hash-house whose people he knew slightly. 4 I’ll
get him put up here for th’ night, anyway,’ says
Joe, and dragged his charge into the garden,
where he left him on a seat while he went to the
door an’ knocked. The woman who kept it—she
had been waitin’ up for someone—came down
right away, heard Joe’s story, an’ after a while
agreed to put the tearful stranger up in th’spare
room. 4 Where is he ? ’ she says, lookin’ round.
‘l’ll bring him in,’ says Joe, an’he goes out an’
drags th’ lad to th’ door. As soon as th’ woman
sets eyes on him she sings out: 4 Why, th’ fool’s
been livin’ here these three years ! What on earth
possessed him to go an’ make a beast of himself
an’ then cry over the ashes of a strange boardin’-
house ? A nice curate lie’ll make ! ’
44 ‘ Is he goin’ to be a curate ? ’ says Joe.
“ 4 That’s what he’s studyin’ for,’ says the land-
lady.
“ 4 Well,’ says Joe, 4 I never knew before that
lobsters an’ holy orders went together. I’d better
take him upstairs out of the way before his bishop
comes round th’ corner with a bag of prawns ?’._..
44 Joe was a very young man in them days, with
a weakness for private theatricals. In one of
them little plays he had taken th’ part of a young
lady with 4 astonishin’ fi-delity to life,’ as th’ sub-
urban paper put it afterwards* That was how he
got th’ job of catchin’ a couple of rough lads who
were annoyin’ women on th’ lonely stretch of road
that leads from the tram-line to Darlin’ Point.
Th’ Sub. had heard of Joe’s experience; and
as neither the uniform or plain-clothes chaps
had managed to get the larrikins, he thought he
would give Joe a chance to drag th’ ruffians into
th’ dock. Joe was as proud as a peacock when he
was told to get into his girl’s rig an’ play th’
frightened young lady hurryin’ home from a late
tram an’ lookin’ for villains in ev’ry shadow.
‘l’m the only one f’r th’ job,’ says he, with his
cap over his eye. 4 You fat swine would look like
drunken washerwomen—or worse. I will look
th’ coy, scared lady an’ loor them to their ruin.
Ho you hear me, boys? I am goin’ to loor them !’
And with that he went home to dress.
“That night, about 11.30, the Sub. was strol-
lin’ along in plain clothes to have a quiet look at
Joe when he ran into old Sir Thomas and Lady
Squatacres. who were returnin’ on foot from the
theatre. They hailed the Sub. and talked about
th’ weather an’ th’ price of wool for a bit. Then
old Sir Thomas says, in a different sort of way :
‘D’ye think this neighborhood is going down,
Mr. Jackson?’
“ * I don’t think so. Sir Thomas,’ says th’ Sub.
‘ Why do you ask ? ’
“ ‘ Then old Lady Squatacres. who seemed to
be even more anxious than her husband, took up
the runnin’. (She had a houseful of growin’ boys
at that time.) ‘Because,’says she, ‘as we were
walkin’ up, we passed th’ most degraded-lookin’
woman I have ever seen in this district. I never
remember to have seen a woman of that class
about here before.’ Th’ Sub. told them he would
see to it at once, and hurried off nearly burstin’
his sides.
“He found Joe loiterin’ about in th’ most
brazen and unlikely fashion. ‘ Has anyone in-
sulted you yet ?’says he.
“‘No, sir,’says Joe, in a low voice under his
lop-sided picture hat.
“‘Haveyou not been spoken to at all?’ says
the Sub., as if he was surprised.
“ ‘No, sir, I haven’t !’
“‘Well, well! You are quite satisfied your
disguise and deportment are right? ’
“ ‘So far as I can see, sir, they are.’
“The Sub. sighed to himself, ‘l’m afraid
there’s somethin’ lackin’, me lad,’ says he. ‘Old
Lady Squatacres just told me she never saw, a
woman of your class about here before. I’m
afraid you’re not coy and shrinkin’ enough.
Whatever it is you want it is vital, and you’ve
been misunderstood. Loorin’ is off for the time
bein’. Wait here an’ I’ll send up a cab from the
rank. If you go down past the shops th’ rents
may fall.’ It took Joe years to get over it.
“When they are really an’ truly bad, ’tis the
women that give ye the worst jobs of all. There
was one real corker years ago on the south side.
She was a decent, clean-livin’ washerwoman be
fits an’ starts, an’ a tornado of beer and bad lan-
guage be starts an’ fits. When ragin’ drunk she
would claim to be a lady of th’ very first water an’
demand to be treated as one—which was mani-
festly impossible. To tell the honest truth, her
manners when she wasn’t drinkin’ were fit for any
drawin’-room. When she was drinkin’, they were
a disgrace to any gaol. She had been arrested be
every man in th’ force, but a dry old stick be th
name of Keegan—Sergeant Keegan. Old Keegan
had had th’ most amazin’ luck in dodgin’ Wall-
Eyed Mary, an’ whenever she saw him when she
was in drink she would say in her impudent way,
‘ Oh, Sergeant, you an’ me have never taken a
walk together. Why is that, Sergeant ? ’
“ One Saturday night th’ inevitable happened,
an’ old Keegan, single-handed, had to storm a
little boot shop that Mary had taken possession
of in one of her wild fits. The owners of t’n’ place
—an old man an’ his middle-aged wife—had been
driven into the street by the human whirlwind an’
were wringin’ their hands in the middle of the
crowd, at which Mary was throwin’ pairs of new
boots from the doorway. ‘ I am a lady, an’ I’ll do
as I like ! ’ she kept shriekin’, as she plucked the
boots from the nails like ripe plums and fired
them at the people.
“‘Give over, you!’ shouted . Keegan as he
shouldered his way through the mob.
“Mary looked at him, an’ laughed like a happy
child. ‘0 Sergeant ! Is it you at last ? ’ says she.
‘ Here’s a pair of boots for ye ! Wear them next
your heart for my sake!’ And with that she
took a pair of heavy bluchers from a nail and fired
them at him. They knocked his cap into the air,
and that maddened him and he closed with her.
It was a full five minutes before reinforcernen-
arrived ; and in that time Mary tore th jacket.off
his back an’ wiped the path an’ gutter wi *
The man who came up only prevented
slaughter —you could not arrest Mary w £
was fairly wound up with only two men. •,
held her there yellin’ an’ kickin’ outrageous,
waited for a third. By-an -bve Joe Murphy
comes runnin’ up laughin . This isn • ’
bovs!’ he says, with a wink. Ye are mis-
handlin’ th’ lady ! I’m surprised at the P« r
ve ! ’ Mary took the bait like a shark. Let me
up.’ she says, ‘ an I’ll go quiet on the arm of that
young man ! He knows a lady when he sees one .
Tell that impertinent cabman to go away “ let
me up. I want to straighten me hat. inev let
h er U p_she was just a bundle of dusty rags an
she put her crushed sailor hat straight on her
bird’s-nest of hair, an’ went off ‘smirkin on the
arm of Joe, while Keegan an’ the other man went
back in the cab. They’re a queer sex the women.
Malone sighed and picked up his ca,p.
“Ah, well ! I suppose it is time I went lookm
for the Sergeant No, thank ye, all the same ;
one is enough for me when I’m an duty. Wood-
night, an’ thank ye kindly.”
“Good-night !” I echoed.
He tiptoed out and shut the door gently. U"
first hour of the new day trembled with exqmsit
distinctness through the clear night air from tin
sleepless citv clocks. I yawned .and dropped m>
dead cigar butt into the bed of sleeping pansies.
KODAK.
My Love is as Bald as an Egg.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MY Love is as bald as an egg,
And red as a beet is his nose ;
For years he has taken his “peg ” ;
Immense bills for whisky he owes.
I sit at home mending his hose
While he is absorbing a keg,
Or plucking the beer where it grows.
My Love is as bald as an egg.
My Love is as bald as an egg.
And into no raptures he goes.
I’d think he was pulling my leg
If he compared me to a rose ;
For Life’s drawing near to its close,
And I for no compliments beg
From relatives, children or foes,
Or Love —who is bald as an egg.
My Love is as bald as an egg,
And gouty are both his big toes.
Some old-fashioned song about “Peg'’
He brays when the bath-water bows.
He is going mad, I suppose.
Horatio Wellington Megg
Has money to cast at the crows;
My Love is as rich as an egg !
When Love is as rich as an egg,
With money to throw to the fishes
And gives me a very free leg.
Love may be as bald as he wishes !
N.s.w.
JANE MEGG.


ĥ
ħ
h
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farrtis and Townships,
The “PE LAITTE”
AIR-CAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted bv the N.S.W. Government and by the Railway Gommissioners of: N-S.W.
and Victoria. Thousands already in use m Country Mouses, Hospitals and Hotels,
'Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Goal br
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 CO., 5 Spring Street, Sydney.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
agents for
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated W aters and Cordials.
DR. J, COLLIS BROWNE'S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices In
England—
-1/I}, 2/9 & 4/6
ĥ
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
GHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the onlyj
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
DINNEFORD'S
omach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
our Eructations, Bilious Affeotic
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
MAGNESIA
/<s^wwvv»
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists ami Stores tliroiinhout Australasia.
Makers : F. C. Calvert & do., Manchester, Bust.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT. RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMSAGO.
NEURALGIA.
ħ
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
, ..euer Fait,
y Always Cure.
h
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at x/x$ ft 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT ft Co., 229. Strand,
London. England
GOUT
During the Progress of our GREAT REMOVAL
SMS we are offering the following
Usual Price. Sale Price
Double - Barrelled, Breed) - loaciiny
Guns, enyi lie-turned rib. left bar-
rel full choke, rijrht modified, re-
boundin':' locks and pistol grip.
Tripl- .. £5 2 6 £3 12 6
Single-Barrel Duck Gun®, large bore,
to kill at 100yds. Trial ..8 5 0 610 0
Single-Barrel, Hanimerless, Breech-
loading Guns,choke bore, excellent
stock. Trial 310 0 1 17 6
Double - Barrelled, Breech - loading
Guns with Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt,' choice bore, walnut
stock, pis ol grip, patent cartridge
ejector. Trial 5 10 0 4 17 6
Special Pigeon Guns, with patent
sid • clips, file cut rib, top lever,
choke bore, specially selected wal-
nut stock, Greener patent wedge
fast cross bolt. Trial .. . . 10 0 0 7 10 0
Mauser Principle Rifles, 22 calibre,
kill at 390yds. Trial .. .. 15 0 13 6
Guns by All Makers in Stock.
Write for Special Sale Catalogue.
All orders for guns and rifles de-
livered CARRIAGE PAID TO ANY ADDRESS
IN AUSTRALASIA.
small Arms Co.
Gunsmiths & Importers
139 ELIZABETH STREET, MELBOURNE
r SKNT4/;
MidX
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
| COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
m
Each Capsule bears the name 1W
PUBLIC OPINION
is generally sane and trustworthy. It is only on realty insignifi-
cant and unimportant matters that the sense of.the community is
ever at fault. The sentiments and opinions of the world are more
likely to be right than those of the isolated critic. This is particr
ularly true of such matters as must be decided by the test of expe-
rience. What the majority have proved in practice to be true
ought to weigh with us as an established fact. Now if there is one
auestion more than another on which public opinion is unanimous
it is that the excellence of BEECHAM’S PILLS as a family medi-
cine is unsurpassed. Their universal popularity has very suitably
been expressed in the world-famed expression
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
ARE WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEBCHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire.
So (I everywhere in boxes, price lII'. (56 pi Is) &2 9 (168 pills).
Sets Bell-Metal Reeds.
LEATHER BOLND-BELLOWS.
Price 21/- Post free.
Complete with instruction book
m
Music, as you like it>,
becomes doubly beautiful when ]
on the
■ ' . ••V' * >
.
Melba
with
liver Tone
The Best Accordeon. Sounds the Best.
Haunting melodies are never so sweet as when
they are played on this instrument. The
Church Organ-Like Tone is Just Perfect!
MELBA now charms many a home —one
would charm Yours —Why not NOW?
The Test Tells The Tale.
Other Models —7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 27'6, 37 6.
Complete colored illustrated Catalogue Free.
SOLE AGENTS ;
ALLAN & CO Prop- Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melbourne. Bendigo and Geelong
c
<sr
i •
T*4H
eo
Is your Liver right ?
It’s one thing to feel well and bright and happy, and
another to have a sluggish liver. A sluggish liver positively
kills enjoyment. You cannot even rest, sleep or eat comfortably.
But you would after a Cockle’s Antibilious Pill, for Cockle s Pills
liven the liver and give it strength to do its work. Used for over 100
years and still prescribed by physicians and preferred by the public
throughout the world.
□
mam
PI LLS.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
1/-EACH POST FREE 1/2
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
STOREKEEPERS fc TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADEUST
XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1910.
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER IS.
It will contain ttje best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave ami gav (mostly gav), contributed
during the year by the foremost Australasian
writers. .
The illustrations by “ Hop,” Alf Vincent, Norman
Lindsay and other leading representative artists,
will he'the finest Black and White work obtainable
in Aust.ratiand will reflect the national humor.
Thk. Buli.ktis Xmas Numher is the annual re-
flection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well ns interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence or
the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition. NO RETURNS will be allowed
for. “ _
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us at once to ensure supply.
Sired" copies post free to any part of the
Com * • wealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ;
_ Koi'< Ign addresses, 9d. f
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Herrons Cough*,
Catarrh. Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT * Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. No id. bv all Chemist*.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePort
Matures Gift.
rwttr:
OK
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don't think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0. for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.


teliabk Cricket Boots
ĥ
If you want the maximum
of comfort, shapeliness, real
service and value in your
Cricket Boots, you will be
wise to buy from us.
The two lines following
are soled with chrome
leather, which is noted for
its toughness and dura-
bility :
Best White Canvas Cricket Boots, with cap and
strap, sewn soles, 10/.
Best White Canvas Cricket Boots, buck fittings,
double soles, 11/6. Postage extra, 1/.
Write for a copy of our Summer Price List.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.
“ The Best House for All Kubber Goods," *
270 GEORGE STREET , SYDNEY.
HOUSE LIGHTING.
Electric Generating: Sets, Steam, Oil
and Petrol; and Storage Batteries,
with all necessary fittings,
Lamps, etc., for complete installations.
Write for particulars to
T. K. Steanes, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney. 1
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADfc.
TA
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a iruard against inferior
imitations, look for,the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
The bulletin post cards-nsw
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
The
Seasons
Change
dteWmapp
Just Whal the Doctor Ordered
At
All
Seasons
“SENTINEL
JUNIOR.”
SIMPLE
ENGINE.
DIRECT
DRIVING
A DYNAMO
FOR
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING
PURPOSES.
E!
SEND FOR CATALOGUES .
SENTINEL
s ' v
I AIR COMPRESSORS
Highest Economy
and Efficiency.
Special Designs to meet all requirements.
HIGH-SPEED ENGINES
Economical in Steam Consumption and Thoroughly Reliable.
HIGH-PRESSURE STEAM TRAPS
The Best High-Pressure Trap now in use.
Feed Water Filter S Oil Separator
Simple and Efficient, with large Filtering Surface.
& SINCLAIR, Ltd
82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Prell’s Buildings,
Melbourne; 8 A.M.P. Buildings, Brisbane.
THE
8K
mi
i a*
1 ‘
Light Portable Economical.
WRITE
FOR INFORMATION
May be stu
Ncr overhead si
ended from any position inside or outside of shed.
standard Wolseley Handpieces used
DAIGETY & COMPANY LTD.,
Sole Agents,
MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
TEL.
5221
MACHINERY
.
'
WARBURTON, FRANKI & CO.
SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE.
162 Clarence Street,
',■ ■ -
SYDNEY
■
'U# " v'f- V;'
ħ
h
Volume Blowers and Ex-
haust Fans, Steel Pressure
Blowers, Planing Mill Exhausters, Black-
smiths’ Drills, Forges, etc. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
a eo „, s! parke & LACY CO. LTD..
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence Street, Sydney.
GE PEEBLES & CO. Ltd.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS, EDINBURGH.
Contractors to Natal Government Railways, Shanghai Municipal Council, Durham Collieries,
Metropolitan Borough, Stepney, etc.
Continuous Current Dynamos and Motors,
Turbo Alternators, Alternating Current Generators.
ĥ
■
Sole
Agents,
263 George St., Sydney;
525 Collins St., Melbourne
