

DEWA
1
All that a perfect Whisky should be.
107 Kent street, Sydney,
, —FOB— t ,
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. ■
ĥ
Sole Agents for
Gardner-Duplex
Steam Pumps.
For Mining and General Service.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
V AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne,
HOBAHT.
V*tZ r
[jadleys Orient fiotel.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ħ
Take it back,
1 must have -
HUTTON’
Fine Apple Brand
h
SEND FOR A COPY OF
CHUBB’S NEW CATALOGUE.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
Han sen’s
ĥ
ħ
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
THE SECRET OF IT’S POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE
Sj
4
s
K
K
<o
Co
o
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SPPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
MANNESMANN SPIGOT & FAUCET TUBES
The light weight of these Tubes makes transport easy .
AGENTS - NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY) LTD., 109 PITT STREET.
GqpqJl
hearing
ines
ROBEY
Steam
Engines.
16 YOUNG STREET
SYDNEY.
WATERPROOF.
mm
•+ •
WEATHERPROOF
PROOF.
A
INEXPENSIVE. EASY TO LAY.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), OHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
hopper waggons.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERS
COMPANY L T ?
h
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY \J°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES.
CREAM COOLERS, BUTTER FACTORY REQUISITES.
c. A. MACDONALD LTD.,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HELIDON SPA WA <
Please choose your “SPA” carefully.
You may be penalised otherwise.
BEWHURST U HALLORAN, Ltd.,
The Bulletin
Yol. 31.—N0. 1588. ]
[Thursday, July 21, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office,. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS
FOR HOME STUDY, Practical and Scientific.
Sena for our Special Select List of Suitable Books on
Architectural Drawing: and Lettering-, Automobiles, Alternating Current Machinery, Boilers, etc., Building Superin.
tendence, Contracts and Specifications, Carpentry, Electricity, Electric Railways, Estimating in Building Trades
Forging, Foundry Work, Gas Engines, Highway Construction, Hydraulic Engineering, Indicators, Machine Shop
Work, Masonry Construction, Pattern Making, Plumbing, Power Stations, Railroad Engineering, Refrigeration
Reinforced Concrete, Sewers and Drains, Sheet Metal Work, Stair Building, Steel Square Steam Engines, Strength of
Materials, Surveying, Telegraphy, Telephony, Valve Gears, Water Supply.
Sena a postcard to
George Robertson & Co. Prop. Ltd., 71 Castiereagh Street, Sydney.
VOICE! THROAT!! LUNGS!!!
udson’s “Eumenthol Jujubes."
ħ
For Coughs, Colds, Sore Throats, Bronchitis,
Influenza, and the Prevention of Consumption.
Containing No Cocaine or other Poisonous Drug.
Suited for Old and Young.
The Lancet says: “ Proved to be effective baetericidaliy
as is creosote.” J
Unlike cough medicines, “EUMENTHOL JUJUBES" do
not interfere with the Digestion ; on the contrary, they
have a beneficial effect, as their antiseptic properties
prevent abnormal fermentation of the food when taken
after meals.
Sold by All Chemists, or
Post Free on Receipt of
1/Q in Stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 york street,
SYDNEY.
The RED PAGE
The French Romantics
The writers in Britain, France and Ger-
many who broke loose from the fetters of
classical authority at the beginning of the
nineteenth century, had one thing in common
—the revival of imagination. Though the
beginnings of the movement were in the
eighteenth century, it did not acquire force
or volume until after the European disturb-
ance of the French Revolution and Napo-
leon. In England it developed quietly
through Scott’s novels and the poetry of the
so-called Lake and Cockney schools. Byron,
a romantic poet, fought against romanticism
over the body of Pope—mainly because he
disliked Wordsworth and the other Lakers
and thought the Rev. Bowles an ass with
whom he could make merry. Otherwise
there was no conflict in England worth men-
tioning ; the old forms and conventions were
swept off’ the field without any fuss. In
France, however, the Romantics had a
bigger undertaking. The subject, form and
vocabulary of verse were more strictly
limited ; the tyranny of convention was more
absolute than in England. They fought, as
Hugo said, for the liberty of art, and they
had sturdy opponents. The movement
sprang suddenly into public notice on the
famous first night of Hugo’s Tlernani , when
Gautier in his red waistcoat led the
“claque.” The Romantics formed them-
selves into a distinct party, with battle cries
and a leader, and were closely associated in
Paris, carrying on a stormy warfare in the
press ; whereas in England there was little
or no coherency amongst the men who were
engaged in a similar task.
But the French differed most widely from
the English Romantics in that they carried
their artistic principles into their lives, and
lived their poems before writing them. For
this reason their biographies have a stronger
human interest than those of most English
writers, and appeal even to readers who
knOw nothing or care little about their
poetry. The lives of some of them were
scandalous, judged by respectable British
standards, but their sins have the virtue of
being open, and even the most pious British
reader has always found that sinful doings
make interesting reading.
Francis Gribble has written for English
readers a series of stories about the love
affairs of the most notable romantic writers
in France. The beginnings of the move-
ment are to be found in Rousseau and
Chateaubriand, but Gribble omits them from
his book— The Passions of the French
Romantics (Dymock’s Book Arcade)—be-
cause he has already told their stories at
length elsewhere.
The history of the movement, he says,
can be presented in a series of love stories as
effectively as in any other shape—because its
dominant note was love. The Romantics
did not discover love for literature.
They were the first, however, who put love, so
to say, on the programme; took it seriously as an
experience and as a pageant; and regarded it as
an integral part of the liberal education of a man
or woman of letters. .. . Woman was to be
exalted as the incarnation of’ the divine; her
affections —and also her infidelities and her
caprices—were to be accepted as the supreme
source of inspiration and the determining factor
in a literary man’s outlook on the world.
.It did not come to that at once ; but we see
the progress towards it from Gribble’s first
subject, Saint-Pierre, to whom love-affairs
came without asking. With a handsome
face and engaging manner as his sole for-
tune, he marched from one triumph to
another, finding favor in the eyes of Cather-
ine of Russia (no great honor) and a Polish
princess, having numerous offers of marriage
thrust upon him, and at the age of 56 marry-
ing his publisher’s daughter, who had fallen
in love with Paul and Virginia. She lived
quietly at his country place while he pursued
fame in Paris, and his letters to her are
mostly concerned with his vegetables and his
underclothing. When she died he married
again—a very romantic girl this time, and
the second wife lived to help her second
husband write a Life of Saint-Pierre, in
which her hero is haloed in romantic glory.
Lamartine was not of the movement, but
he gave it much of its impetus. An amateur
amongst professionals, he, like Byron, struck
the personal note in poetry and lived his
romances before writing them out. Le Lac,
the poem consecrated to the memory of the
lover re-named “ Elvire,” was—
. . . the voice, in verse of the new French
generation clamoring at the door; a voice which
was catholic and pagan at once—pantheistic, if
anyone desires the word—“with all the vague
yearning of modern idealism and all the poignant
melancholy of modern regret.”
The first proclamation of the Romantics
was in the preface to Hugo’s drama, Grom-
well, published in 1827. In the same year
plays of Shakspeare were acted with success
in Paris, and the Romantics took him as
their model and claimed the right to follow
his example.
Of Cromwell itself it has been said that it con-
tains twelve thousand lines, and can only be read
by six thousand men working in relays, and though
this is an exaggeration, certainly the number of
those who have read the whole of it is inconsider-
able. The preface, however, said pretty much
what all the Romantics were thinking, and there-
fore made its mark amongst them. Theophile
Gautier likened its author to Moses descending
from Sinai with the Tables of the Law, and it
served as a trumpet call to the battle which was
to be waged in the Theatre Fran§ais on the first
night of his Hernnni in February, 1830.
Dumas followed up his first success with
Antony, and then came Alfred de Vigny
with his Ghatterton. Vigny would probably
never have written for the theatre but for
his love affair with an actress, whom he ap-
proached with exalted devotion. When the
illusions about this Dulcinea disappeared he
came to earth with the prosaic comment:
When one falls in love with a woman it is just
as well to inquire, before allowing oneself to be-
come entangled : What sort of people does she
live with ? What is the manner of her life? Upon
the answer to these questions all one’s future
happiness depends.
That is very anti-romantic doctrine; but
Vigny was cold and English in character.
Musset is more representative of the French
nature, and his career is typical of the worst
consequences of Romanticism as a rule of
life.
The story of Alfred de Musset and George
Sand has been told many times, and is
here skipped over. More space is given to
Musset’s affairs with the great tragedienne,
Rachel, whom he had “discovered” and
championed in her obscurity, Madame Allan-
Despreaux, an actress who got tired and left
him, and Louise Colet, for whom Maxime
Du Camp suggested an epitaph : “ Here lies
she who compromised Victor Cousin, made
Alfred de Musset ridiculous, calumniated
Gustave Flaubert, and tried to assassinate
Alphonse Karr.” Musset, weakened by ill-
ness and drink, ran away from Louise. She
followed, stormed at him, took him by the
shoulders, and shook him. 1
Almost all the passions of the Romantics ended
in some sort of disappointment or anti-climax.
Not until we come to the great case of Victor
Hugo do we encounter a love affair which we can
describe as a coherent drama of steadily-progress-
ive interest. ... The drama was such that the
leading rdle could only have been adequately
filled by a man whose commanding genius enabled
him to transfigure realities and create a legend,
clothing the sordid in romantic trappings and
insisting triumphantly that the ridiculous was
indeed sublime.
Gribble proceeds to explain how the bubble
of the Hugo legend grew, and then to prick
it. The amours of the magniloquent Hugo
and the ugly Sainte-Beuve make an extra-
ordinary story : those of Dumas are more
sordid. The series closes with Prosper
Merimee, who was not much of a Romantic,
and whose love affairs were as secret and
discreet as the others were public.
Gribble does not attempt any literary
criticism. He is merely a book-maker who
caters for the general appetite for love
stories. These have the additional interest
of being tr.ue, and relate to men and women
whose literary work is so closely interwoven
with their experiences and emotions that
their biographies become a running footnote
to their poems. The romantic literature of
the nineteenth century, unlike that of
earlier periods, was subjective, and in
France more so than anywhere else.
Sainte-Beuve
One of the greatest literary critics of
modern times, and a writer with the French
qualities of wit, grace and clarity in abund-
ance, is not as well known to English
readers as he ought to be. The fact that
Sainte-Beuve wrote principally about French
writers or personages does not detract from
the value of his principal essays to one who
reads them only in another language. He
introduces you to many interesting people,
and explains them and their surroundings.
Like Macaulay, he generally took a book of
the day as a peg upon which *0 hang a dis-
course ; but he never lost sight of the" book.
If the book is worth while, he will induce a
desire to read it; if not, you have a masterly
statement of the subject by the critic. His
insight into feminine character was unusually
penetrating, and many of his essays are
finely-drawn portraits of notable women.
His knowledge of French literature was com-
plete, and he ranged over other literatures
as yell. Sainte-Beuve had experienced the
romantic fervor with Victor Hugoinhisyouth,
was a mystic with Lamennais, and passed
through jacobinism and socialism to imperial-
ism ; but was always a vigorous champion of
freedom of thought. His great mistake as
a critic was his failure to appreciate Balzac.
Nevertheless, his keen, combative criticism
appearing in a chaotic time was of immense
benefit to French literature.
Some years ago, William Sharp edited a
small selection of Sainte-Beuve’s portraits
of famous men and women, from the exten-
sive series of “Monday Chats,” which ap.
peared regularly in the Paris Gonstitutionnel
for many years. In the. original, these
Causeries du Lundi make 15 volumes, and
there are over 20 more volumes of other
critical writings. Dr. E J. Trechmann,
formerly of Sydney University, is turning
into very good English the whole of the
Causeries, and five volumes of his transla-
tion have already appeared in Routledge’s
Is. library. They are dedicated to Professor
MacCallum.
Thomas Hardy, just over 70 and already
granted the unofficial Order of Merit by
intelligent readers of English fiction, has
received the select “0.M.” from King
George. And the novelist, A. T. Quiller-
Couch, has been made a knight. English
literature is getting terribly respectable;
yet some of its practitioners are again clamor-
ing for an Academy ! Not long ago the
Poetry Recital Society gathered together a
motley assemblage- of descendants of Eng-
lish poets and gave them a dinner. This
was done in pursuance of the Society’s pur-
pose of reviving interest in poetry. Now if
it gave dinners to the half-starved poets of
Grub-street it might help to produce poetry.
Patricia Wentworth’s A Marriage Under
the Terror (Geo. Robertson and Co.) is a
vigorously told story with an attractive hero
and. plenty of blood-letting in it. The fall
of Robespierre occurs just in time to pro-
vide a happy ending. Percy J. Brebner’s A
Gentlei■;<: •< Virginia (Macmillan) is set in
the -..vine exciting period. It is better
written than Miss Wentworth’s story ; but
it compromises with the reader by leaving
the Virginians in bliss while the heroic
Frenchman is pictured in the tumbril ad-
vancing to an uncertain doom.
Frank Fox, since his arrival in England,
has been walking in the footsteps of the
Rev. Bleeds Fitchett, and attempting to
out-Csesar the most blatant imperialists. In
Ramparts of Empire, a view of the navy
from an imperial standpoint (A. and C.
Black), he takes it upon himself to speak on
behalf of ‘ ‘ the children of the overseas
Dominions ” in a splurging dedication to
Nelson. Historical sketches of the Navy
have been done before, and Fox does not
acknowledge the sources of his information.
He gives, however, in simple language, an
admirable account of how British warships
are made and worked. The illustra-
trations in color are very good, and for the
reader who wishes to get a survey of the
existing navy in untechnical language the
book will be useful.
There is an exciting scene in The Double
Abduction, by H. K. Bloxham (N.S.W.
Bookstall Co.) when the belles of Wilcannia
—stolen from their respectable homes by
two villains—are rescued by the parson, who
turns down the drink Mend just in time to
play the man.
You, Aloysius Hamilton, with your proud
lineage, your titled mother, your lovely sisters !
are you not ashamed ? I see you are, man.
Think, young man, only think what your mother,
the Lady Alicia—ivhoni I knew in the Old Country
—would say if she could see you now, the cowardly
bully of a couple of innocent girls.
That fetches Aloysius, who turns on the
other bully and thereby weakens the attack.
. . . There was better work in Bloxham’s
previous story— On the Fringe of the Never
Never.
The Squatter’s Bairn, by E. J. Mather
(Dymoclc’s), is an'ordinary sort of tale, well
sprinkled with improving texts and illustra-
tions of South Australian scenery. It con-
cludes with a wedding and a bishop reciting
some poor verse over the happy couple. It
begins with these lines by Hallaui Tennyson;
It seems hut yesterday I saw at dawn
The dim line of the soft Australian shores
As fast we sped, borne o’er the whispering tide
Within the grim heads of St, Vincent’s Gulf.
And all the sea was barr’d with purple and green
And dazzling sunlight, such as Southern climes
Know only j, while afar in distance shone
Through tremulous haze the scanty-scattered
farms
Hoined ip the quiet hollow of the hills—
A land, they said, of golden air, where scents
Cf sweetest flowers float, and where the grapes
In honeyed clusters droop, a paradise ’
Of glowing blue and tranquil loveliness.
Dr. Frederick J, Furnivall, whose death at the
age of 85 was cabled on the 3rd July, was cele-
brated as the founder of literary societies, and in
his early days, as a sculler of great ability. The
Early English Text, the New Shakspeare, the
Wyclif, the Chaucer, the Shelley, the Browning
and the Ballad Societies owed their being and
much of their usefulness to this muscular scholar.
In celebration of his 75th birthday, in 1900, a
volume of literary essays by his friends was pub-
lished in'his honor, and a portrait was presented
to his college, Trinity Hall, Cambridge. There
was a balance remaining of the sum subscribed,
and when the committee asked what he would
like them to buy for him, Furnivall said : “ Give
me a second-hand sculling boat.”
Major Martin Hume, who died on the same
day as Dr. Furnivall, was a prolific writer on
Spanish subjects. His histories give the best
account of modern Spain to be had in English.
Kipling’s labored threnody— The Dead King—
has been published in booklet form by Hodder
and Staughton, at Is. net, in paper covers.
; ♦ -
Dear Me. Editor.—l have very bad news for
you. lam afraid I won’t be able to send you any
more poems with rhymes in them, being in what
is popularly known as “ a poet’s corner,” and a
tight one at that. This is what has happened.
The Muse I employ, a qualified and certificated
member of the Inspiration Society, when called
upon last night to aid and abet me in writing
some obituary verses on a defunct cabman,
literally turned dog on me. I cannot understand
it or offer any explanation. There was no apparent
reason for such an inconvenient metamorphosis
—unless the wave of evolutionary thought
raised by McCabe concentrated with its entire
force, and broke with this unpleasant result
—but I hardly think that is so. As you can
imagine, my predicament is serious. When I
lift my hands to It (meaning the late Muse)
for help. It is as impotent as you or I (nothing
personal, Omar said that); or, in plain words,'all
the brute does now is to bark and scratch. To
make matters worse, the dog-tax collector called
this morning, and mistook It for the ordinary
canine! I apologised for his mistake, and ex-
plained it was really not a dog at all. He said
there was no need to be sensitive about it; that I
should see some of the things people kept, and
anyhow the Department made no reduction for
mongrels, if that was what I meant! !!
There seemed nothing to do now but accept the
inevitable (as prescribed by Kant, in Perpetual
Peace), so I tied it up in the yard to see what
sort of a job it would make as watch-dog; but,
bless you, it had.been so used to poets and literary
men that it would have let Deeming himself pass
if only his hair had been long enough, and taken
simply no notice of him ; but because the butcher
happened to be bald, we had to do with eggs and
potatoes for dinner two nights.
I’ve tried losing it, but it beats the bread
on the waters and all the small prophets
together for quick returns. Poison’s no good,
either; it spurns polluted victuals, with the dis-
crimination of a Government analyst; and a 3 for
shooting, I only flatten the bullets. So I am
leaving the country in the hopes it will fret itself
to death.
If my verse is blank, or otherwise deficient,
dear Mr. Editor, you will understand that it is
not niy fault—it is the Dog’s.—Yours truly
Bamboo.
Post-mortem Poetry
The love of the In Memoriam rhyme and
the epitaph is essentially British. Says
Augustine Birrell :
Epitaphs, if in rhyme, are the real literature of
the masses.... A commonplace hitched into
verse instantly takes rank with Holy Scripture. . .
From the earliest times men' have sought to
squeeze their loves and joys, their sorrows and
hatreds, into distichs and quatrains.
Hyperbolic laudation is the keynote of all
In Memoriam verse. Poets of a high order
are often the worst offenders in this respect.
Take, for instance, Pope’s epitaph on
Newton :
Nature and Nature’s laws lay hid in night;
God said, Let Newton be ! and all was light.
Since the death of Edward VII. we have,
of coarse, had a glut of In Memoriam stuff.
The verses have ranged from Pretty Bad to
Simply Awful, with a few odd ones that can
best be described asUnbbjectiouable. Among
the last must be placed Owen Seaman’s
effort:
At midnight came the Majesty of Death—
Kings of the earth abide this King’s decree—
Sudden, and kindlier so, to seal the breath
And set the spirit free.
And now the peace he held most near his heart*
That Peace to which his country’s steps he led—
So well for us he played his royal part—
Broods o’er him lying.dead.
Thus passes Britain’s crown from King to King,
Yet leaves secure a nation’s deathless loVe,
Dearer than Empire, yea, a precious thing
All earthly crowns above.
The ultra-English Seaman, as editor of the
ultra-English Punch, has cultivated the In
Memoriam habit, and with better success
than 4 many of his contemporaries. What,
for instance, could be more awful than
Austin’s “The Truce of God”? Bet me
supply an answer by naming Rosslyn’s
“In Memoriam,” published in London
Daily Mail. Kipling also came out
with a slapped-up piece of work of
which it can only be said that if the
Jingo balladist at present possessed a repu-
tation thip offence would damage it consider-
ably. Some unsigned verses that appeared
in London Times can be classed as fair ; while
Edmund Fisher’s “ A Recollective Rhyme”
(which does not pretend to be poetry), at
least, lacks the vice of flattering untruthful-
ness, and possesses the virtues of manliness
and sincerity. Anyhow, the deaths of kings
and statesmen do not appear to inspire great
poetry. Gray, when he wrote his In
Memoriam poem “On a Favorite Cat,
Drowned in a Tub of Goldfishes,” did better
than Austin and the motley tribe of Cold
Country tripe-mongers have done over the
decease of the seventh Edward.
HARRISON OWEN.


At
n
Anthony Horderns* for
Economy in Brooches.
No. 240—90 t. Gold Fancy Spray
Brooch, set with 2 Bubies and 4
Pearls, 17s. 6d.
Mlliii -
No. 264 —Oct. N.Z. Greenstone Bar
Brooch, 14s, 6d.
No. 014 Oct. Gold Brooch, 11' sette
and Leaf Centre, 11s.
» a '
►V
No. 15—Oct. Gold Banov Bar Brooch,
Bird in Centre of Htarj;, Bs. 6d.
with Gem sat Star and
Pearl Crescent in centre,
12s. 6d.
880—Oct. Gold Fancy Brooch*
set with 2 Rubies and 1
Pearl, 14s.
No. 894—'jet. Fancy
Brooch, set with 3
Garnets ind 2
Pearls, 17s. 6d.
No. 917 —Oct. Gold Brooch, Fancy
design, 11a.
No. 385—Dot. Crescent
Brooch, with Spray
in centre, Bs. 6d.
No. 919—9 ct. Gold Brooch,
set with Garnet and
Pearls, 14s. Gd.
Anthony Horderns* for
{ •• ...
. •; ... •*• K «\
Artistic Pendants.
No. 2203. —Oct. Gold Photo.
Pendant, Gem Set, Imitation
Sapphires and Rubies, 10s. Gd.,
12s. Gd., lbs.
f
No. 420.—150 t. Gold
Keildiint, set Real
t’earls, 3Gs.
No. 221S.—9ct. Gold Photo.
Pendant, Gem Set, Imitation
Pearls, Sapphires and Rubies,
9s. Gd., 10s. Gd., 12s. Gd. f 15s.
No. 445.—15 et. Gold Pearl
Set Pendant, Amethyst
Centre, £3 10s.
No. 2168.—15 ct. Gold Pearl
Set Pendant, Amethyst
Centre, £2 18s. Gd.
Set Pendant, with A nin-
th vst, Garnet or Greenstone
Centre, £2 17s. Gd., £3 3s.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FOR BANGLES.
No. 707—9 ct. Gold Gem=set Bracelet, Pearl Crescent,
Garnet, Sapphires, or Amethyst Centre, 35/=
S 3
SS
No. 497—9 ct. Gold Gem=set Bracelets, 27/=, 32/6. 45/=
47/6, 50/=
@
No. 865— 9 ct. Gold Band Bangle, Fancy Centre, set
with 2 Diamonds and 3 Sapphires, 48/6.
jpajjisfy;
No. 515 — Gold Bamboo Bracelets. Safety Chain
attached. 9ct.. Children’s size, 17/6. 9ct.,
full size, 23/6, 25/=, 30/=, 35/=, 37/6, 45/=, 48/6.
S3ffit
No. 490—15 ct. Gold Band Bracelet, 67/6.
Anthony Horderns’ for Gold
and Silver Links.
Links, No. 645
9ct. Gold .. .. 14/-
15ct. Gold .. .. 32/6
Silver, Hall-marked 3/6
Links, No. 648
9ct. Gold .. .. 14/”
16ot. Gold .. .. 31/6
Silver, Hall-marked 3/6
Links, No. 653;
Oct. Gold .. .. 13/6
15ct. Gold .. .. 30/-
Silver, Hall-marked .. 3/»
Links, No. 656
9ct. Gold .. .. 14/6
15ct. Gold .. .. 34/-
Siiver, Hall-marked .. 3/=
Links, No. 650
9ct. Gold .. ..13/6
15ct. Gold .. .. 31/6
Silver, Hall-marked.. 3/6
Links, No. 658
9ct. Gold .. . 14/-
15ct. Gold .. .. 31/6
Silver, Hall-marked.. 3/6
Anthony Horderns’ for Gentlemen’s
PATTERN.
Alberts.
Silver Alberts, Single Chain, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6; Double
Chain, 7/6, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/-
Gold Alberts, Double Chain, 9ct., 65/-, 70/-, 75/-. .80/-,
84/=, 90/=, 105/=; 15ct„ 105/=, 125/=, 135/=, 147/-,
160/=, 185/=, 200/-, 250/-, 280/=
The difference in price indicates the difference in weight
of Gold. A large assortment/to select from.
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold-mounted Hair Alberts, with drop piece, 14/
Gent.’s 9ct. Gold-mounted Ribbon Alberts, single, 15/=,
17/6 ; double, 32/6.
Gent.’s 15et. Gold-mounted Ribbon Alberts, single, 25/=,
28/6 ; double, 37/6, 45/-
Silver-mounted Leather Alberts, 3/-
Nickel Mounts, 1/-
Good quality White Metal Alberts. Warranted to wear
white throughout, single, 1/3 ; double, 1/9.
Black Silk Alberts, l/=
PATTERN.
No. 2. No. 3.
Top Quality at
Bottom Price.
No. 508 — 9 ct. Gold Bra.c.et, with Safety Chain,
set Imitation Rubies, 27/6.
No. 711—9 ct. Gold Bracelet, set Imitation Ruby in
centre, with 7- Pearls either side, 27/6.
No. 706— 9 ct. G 0... Milanese Bracelet, set. with Tur-
quoise and Pearls, 50/“, 60/=, 65/-, 72/6.
Ditto, without Stones, 40/=, 45/=, 55/=, 65/-
No. 511— 9ct. Goiu Bracelet, with Safety Cnain, set
with ll Garnets, Topaz, or Amethysts and Pearls, 50/=
No. 489—9 ct. Flat or Half-round Bracelet, engraved,
with Buckle, 29/=, 32/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
4 ' •- : •* V ...
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Anprade
FOR
BOOKS.
Plays,
Comedies,
Farces, etc.
The Largest Stock in
Australasia.
Write for new PLAY
CATALOGUE,
aIBO Supplementary Cata-
logue of FREE-ACTINC
EDITIONS.
SPECIAL AGENT for
Samuel Frenolt, London,
and American Publishers.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. Onk Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. Ho\v Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-.' Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engraving's, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with- Cards,'
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention Tiie Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
h
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing- at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Tiie Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2 6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
, Errors in Diet (Eating 'or Drinking), Biliousness,
1 Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
! Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
, Residents in Tropical Climates.
1 Eno’S *FUUIT SALT’ ,assists the Functions of the Liver, Bowels, Skin, and Kidneys
i by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
i stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness.
i CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S *FRUIT SALT’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION.
1 Prepared only by J. C. ENO. Ltd., ‘ FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London,
l ~ r ~ S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO’S Patent.
I Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
ĥ
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and
- Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELLS
BALSAM
OF
Of All Stores
ahISAMQf
*«ade
and Chemists,
Wholesale Agents for Victoria: DUERQEN & SAINSBURY,
Melbourne.
I
The Universal Remedy for "Acidity of ' the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA]
MAGNESIA
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle. "
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or
City or Suburban Propertied or <12
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the a u «.
tralian States or New Zealand PF" AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaying-
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine?
Directors —The Hon. A. \Y. Meeks,
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns.
Adrian Knox, Esq.. Iv.C. C „
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretarv.
THIS
ħ
h
is one of the distinctive features of the latest
AUSTRALASIAN MODELS of the famous
B.S.A. CYCLE FITTINGS
and has been specially designed as a protection
against the possible substitution of cheap imitation
parts for the GENUINE B.S.A. in your bicycle.
SPECIAL NOTICE. —This Chain Wheel embodies the registered
B.S.A. Trade Mark, which renders the fitting of it to any bicycle
other than a Genuine B.S.A. punishable by law.
This Chain Wheel, like the B.S.A. Transfer, is the mark of
The Most Perfect Bicycle in the World.
For fuller particulars of B.S.A. Fittings, Eadie Coaster Hub, Two-Speeds,
&C., obtain the latest B.S.A. Handbook (Australasian Edition). Post froo from
D. Y. RENNIE (representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
5 Stock Exchange Building, Melbourne.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
COOLS AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
LAIT LAROLA
Invaluable
fork SKIN
in HOT
orCOLD
climafes.
Removes all
IRRITATION
.and TAN.
Lait
Rear,
Sole
Makers
M.BEETHAM &SON,
CHELTENHAM,ENGLAND-
Gives a
Perfect
Complexion
Soft
as
Velvet.
LAIT L-AROLA
VERY SOOTHING AFTER SHAVING
// "hat Nurses Recommend
m
m
m
NURSE HOLLAND.
For tlie sick room, or
patient after long illness,
caused by fever, sun-
stroke, nerve collapse, or
stomach disorders, always
keep this great medi-
cine, as it preventssimple
ailments developing into
deadly fatal disorders,
and again it creates
health. For liver ail-
ments, stomach troubles,
nervousness, loss of sleep
or appetite, indigestion,
constipation, biliousness,
sick headache, neuralgia,
anaemia or bloodlessness,
or general weakness of
the system, it is a rapid
and certain relief.
A MEDICINE FOR OUR HOSPITALS.
Professional opinion received from
Nurse Holland, late aeting-Matron of
the Condobolin Hospital, New South
Wales. Nurse Holland’s letter is worth
reading by all anaemic women and de-
bilitated men.
CLEMENTS TONIC, Lit.
44 1 have always found Clements
Tonic gives rapid relief in cases of In-
digestion, Nervousness, Biliousness and
Sick Headache; and for Anaemia or
Poor Blood in women I consider
it has no equal. Often, in the
country, where I was Acting-Matron, 1
have heard evidence of its wonderful
health - restoring powers in weak,
anaemic and nerve-wrecked women,
who, after using it, have recovered so
much as to surprise their friends. This
rapid nerve recovery is no doubt due to
the healthful, strengthening effect the
medicine has upon the stomach, creating
appetite, enriching the blood, and thereby
giving life and power to the nervous
system. Anaemic women really should
never be without it, for it is their best
medicine. lam certain that there would
be less national ill-health if Clements
Tonic were more largely used.
44 1 am, Sirs, yours faithfully,
44 NURSE B. HOLLAND.”
Men and women all over Australia, as well as members of nursing staffs,
recommend Clements Tonic, because it gives health. All chemists and stores sell
it throughout Australia. Send for it and be wise.


Why be bald headed and old look-
ing before your time? Neglect of
the hair causes dandruff, and dan-
druff is the forerunner of falling
hair and baldness. The remedy is
filer’s
flair Vigor
A gentleman residing at Dunedin,
N.Z., writes under date Jan. 7,1907:
“It is with gratitude I write you that I
have now a splendid head of hair, both thick
and very soft, all owing to my having used
your wonderful Hair Vigor. I was almost
bald headed before I used the Hair Vigor. I
still use it once a day, rubbing it well into the
roots of the hair. I used to wear a skull-cap,
and I am very grateful to Ayer’s Hair Vigor
for the improvement it has made in my looks.”
Be warned in time. Use Ayer’s
Hair Vigor and preserve your youth.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co.. Lowell. Mass.. U.S.A.
ĥ
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
iB allowed on every cycle bought of ua. Your
money in fuh refunded with ut qn< stion
If i.ot perfectly Batiafaetor.i. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten years despatched
direct from the factory to anyoneon approval
at leaa than loweßt manufacturer*' prices.
LATEST
MODEI.S
£3 ulO to £9
Codßter Hnbß, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim brakes, variable gears
and all lates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
In nnv mrt in the wdrld. We Euarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each district.
________ _ Large profltß easily made.
Write at onceTusing sufficient postage, for free apt catalogues
and our * necial ojfer on sample machine. '
MEAD CYCLE COo, Dept. 280 Liverpool.
JAS. J. GILTINAX, Agent,
157 Clarenc" Street. SYDNEY.
WINCHESTER
Always
Reliable !
As is the case with
all ‘ELEY* Goods,
the accuracy of the
Eley - 44 Winchester
Central Fire Car-
tridge is such as
should commend it
to the attention of
critical sportsmen.
* Eley Smokeless *— pop-
ular low-priced cartridge.
•Eley 22 Rim Fire Car -
triage’ - black and smoke-
less powder.
All Eley Cartridges
are made in London
Of Gunmakers
and Dealers
beeiha
name
•Eley
on all
car-
tridges
ħ
Bley
Bros.,
Ltd.,
London
c=
H.Hillier,
161 George St. West,
Sydney, N.S.W.,
Manufacturer, Importer.
Sporting Sulkies, £9 10s. Abbott Buggies, solid
leather "trimmed, £3l 10s. Buggies, from £.ll 10s.
Governess Carts, Phaetons, etc. Send for illustrated
catalogue. Harness, per set. £3 11s. Double Harness,
£5 10s? Stock Saddles, £2 10s. to £4 10s.
h
Grandmother Used
BONNINGTONS !
For over 45 years Bonnington’s Irish Moss
has been the standard cough remedy. 'Grand-
-5 mother used it, your mother used it, and
you probably use it yourself and give it' to
your children.
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS.
|
There is no medicine like it for breaking up coughs and colds, healing inflam-
mation, in the bronchial tubes and preventing serious lung troubles.
REFUSE SUBSTITUTES —get what you ask for, and ask for
Bonnington’s Irish Moss—there is no remedy “just as good.” [3
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
tt gyn JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS ” Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6,
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Fitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide ; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
H
ORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
FOR
At
break- \
fa s t
time or 'v
supper time N.
H orlick’s\
Malted Milk is'K
a delicious substitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa. \
It is prepared in a minute
and requires no cooking.
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, H o r I i c k’s
Malted Milk is an
ideal food-beverage,
easily digested, noyjc*-
ishing, invigorating.
It is indispens-
able.to'Thvalids..
and the aged,
and prov-
ides a full
ALL
TIMES
AND
ALL
CLIMES
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
Sec. r &C. Sample's: 'B2, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co. Slough, Eng.
CURED
For centuries, man—and woman also, unfor-
tunately—have been 'sorely afflicted with
Varicose Veins in the legs, and until the last
few years the only means of affording even
temporary, if painful, relief has been the
surgeon’s knife.
Now all is changed, the old methods give
way to the new, and the Vecsey Method
of Treatment, by external application
only, painlessly and rapidly cures even the
worst cases. The success of this method
has startled the medical world and is being
applauded on every side. >; ‘ ;
SEND 2d. STAMP to pay postage on bur
Free Book, which carefully explains in full detail
all features of this wonderful remedy.
CONSULTATION FREE. Call if possible.
The Vecsey Varix=arium,
104 LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY.
605
/ /
&
r £
&
sfi
WOOD-MILNE
SHOESHINE
is the latest and best thing in
boot polishes. It makes boots
waterproof ; keeps leather soft arid
pliable; prevents cracking, and
gives a brighter and more lasting
shine than any other polish.
WHOLESALE AGENTS—
D. 8 W. MURRAY,
LIMITED,
| ADELAIDE, S. AUS.'
“LINSEED COMPOUND” ■for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm- Allays irritation.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
.by itii’ans of Which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm/this in spite ot
ihe many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRJAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease trom the first day’s use. No
ste 1 bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct) spot.
FnllTiirVculars Posted Free
WJ Tv CLOW CO.,
261 Collins, Street, Melbourne, Vic.
™ “TYPHOID FLY
J DANGEROUS DOMESTIC PEST.
f 9
This is our well-known domestic pest—th‘e|;
common house fly. In addition to being atyphoi i
carrier, the fly may carry nearly all the intestinal
diseases and is the prime agent -in the:spread of
summer dysentery, being in this way unquestion-
ably responsible for thedeath of .many, children
in summer. The fly also possesses importance as
, a disseminator of the bacilli of tuberculosis, the,
danger of human infection from tubercular fly’
specks being by the ingestion of the specks!
on food. ~ p , %
It is a startling thought that a person who
drinks a cup of tea or a glass of milk into which a
fly has fallen may take into his system 1,250,000
bacilli of typhoid, dysentery or tuberculosis. ‘
Summing up the'position, the typhoid or house
fly is a general or common carrier of pathogenic
bacteria. It may carry typhoid fever, Asiatic
cholera, dysentery, cholera morbus" and' other
intestinal diseases. It may carry the bacilli ’
of tuberculosis and certain eye diseases. It
is everywhere present, and it is disposed
of with comparative ease by the use of
INSECTIBANE.
INSECTIBANE is sold everywhere, but it
is necessary to be careful to observe the spelling
of the name, as no other insect pOwder possesses
the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so
peculiarly efficacious.
Sole Proprietors :
| rocke, tompsitt & CO.
«►
%
A WISH i _
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both*
“ Montserrat”
:: n Sauce
the basis of which is
“ MONTSERRAT" LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
JJsk your Storekeeper for it. "
I Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
POLICY for thk COMMONWKAi.nI
Price, 6d. Th« Bum.kttx Office,
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My Democratic Muse.
All day I led my Muse along
The creek, and down the bushland way
I bade her fashion me a song—
A song of dreams and sliprails gray.
I showed her ti-tree, lifting white
Its bonny arms to gums above;
And dared her to forget to write
Of cow-bells pealing for my love.
I said she might throw in a line
On kookaburras laughing far
A-down the ranges, and the fine,
Shrill note of magpies, black as tar.
Then, lo ! when she had almost made
The song into a splendid thing.
My Muse stopped short, the wicked jade.
And brazenly refused to sing.
She only jeered at my command,
And threw her singing lyre away.
My Muse had joined a Union, and
Would only work eight hours a day.
S.A.
ALICE GRANT ROSMAN.
Australia.
’Tain’t the scrubs an’ gum trees, ’tain’t the
Western plains,
’Tain’t the breadth of sunshine, ’tain’t the growin’ ,
rains,
’Tain’t the things I’ve seen an’ felt, ’tain’t the
things I learned ;
But it’s Alice that’s Australia as far as I’m con-
cerned.
That is why I want to graft, that is why I stick.
That is why the crook of things makes me fairly
sick,
That’s why I’d go a-soldierin’ an’ learn to shoot
an’ drill—
’Cause of Alice waitin’ when the foemen come to
kill.
That is why I talk an’ vote for the Labor man—
Want a show to make me ’ome; do the best I
can ;
£hift the rocks that bar the way; shift the
people’s load,
’Cause I fancy Alice a-smilin’ down the road.
Might be other lands as good ; ain’t no good tc
me—
It’s Australian air ah’ sun makes her good to see.
She’s a bit of all there is—bush an’ land an’ sky.
’Struth, I love Australia when Alice happens by !
’Tain’t the parks of Sydney town, ’tain’t the water
front,
’Tain’t the hope of easy graft blokes is out to
hunt,
’Tain’t the miles of ugly bricks, ’tain’t the cheques
learned—
Oh, it’s Alice that’s Australia a? far as I’m con-
cerned !
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
Noon Thoughts.
Out of the sea the broad moon rises clear,
No crescent sickle, harbinger of doom,
But the full orb resplendent. Far and near
The breathless world is silent, and the sea
Set by God’s splendid alchemy abloom—
Sapphire and jacinth drowned in chrysolite—
Draws like tide-callings of her trembling night
The agonising heart of memory.
Down, down, far down that pathway paved with
flame
I wander to the land of lost desire,
And catch the fragrance of old winds that came
Beating against the portals of my days
The roses of dead summers. Higher, higher,
In growing circles round the head of God,
The young lark, trembling from the dewy sod.
Scatters a rain of silver-spangled praise.
The skies are blue with such a blue as glows .
In the still bosom of a mountain pool.
High set amid eternity of snows,
And all the air is mellow with the breath
Of apples and red roses, faint and cool
As that which wakes the Spring’s first violet,
Shy from green dreatnings—ah, the place we met,
Dear heart, dear heart, e’er yet the ways knew
death 1
Death ! Like the clang of a discordant bell
That calls the nun from day-dreams to chill prayer.
The dark word lingers. Clamorous it fell
Across the first man’s pathway, nor since then
Have its cold echoes ceased to beat the air
Of our soul’s breathing. Ah, the long, slow death
That folds our life away, yet leaves us breath
And memory —prize and scourge of dying men.
Oh, this is the damnation of man’s race,
The scorpion scourging of life’s midmost hell,
To touch but once with hot lips the warm face
Of young delight, and through a waste of days
To look in vain for the soft light that fell
From her kind eyes. To stumble towards the
night
To chase blind shadows in a failing light,
And hear death calling down the darkening ways.
Oh, this it is that stays the failing feet,
And holds the phantom of despair at bay,
The memory of days so dewy-sweet
With the world’s elder joy. No bitter thought
Can steal the lingering deligh t away.
Down the long pathway of the shining moon,
Up the steep skies with silver cloud a-swoon,
Follow till somewhere life itself be caught.
Somewhere in mazy nets of cloud or star.
Where worlds are born or silver planets swim,
Beyond Orion’s gleaming corselet bar.
Or where the sun casts all his treasures free,
A gush of gold about the world’s wide rim.
Young life, fair life, sits, eager to cast down
The glimmering circle of joy’s amber crown—
Aye, to the babe that smiles upon your knee.
N.S.W.
DAVID McKEE WRIGHT.


Combination Couch and
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft.
'll-
CLOSED AS COUCH.
-AVA
&asm
v
■SSWiaw
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order ; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. • in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd
SYDNEY,
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland
Climate Health} 7 and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and T« C. TROEDSON,
George Streets, Brisbane. General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
nagflßK
■JO
m
iililile!
HOTEL
METRQPQLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
UNDER VICE-REGAL
-Sajkss-
PATRONAGE.
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hairworkers and Dermatologists,
161KINC ST., SYDNEY,between Elizabeth & Castlereafrh Sts.
Transformations, from £4 4s. Tails, from 7s. 6d. Natural Hair Pads, from 21s. Fringes, from 7s. 6d.
TRY OUR GLORIA HAIR TONIC. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Telephone 2138 Central. Country Orders Promptly Attended To.
w
E
L
S
B
A
C
H
y-J
WELSBACH LAMPS PAY FOR THEIR INSTALLATION IN A QUARTER.
Welsbach Lamps are the PERFECT Metallic Filament Lamp. They
have the strongest metallic Filament, areas immune from breakage as ordinary
Carbon Lamps, and give the maximum candle-power from the minimum
current.
Welsbach Lamps burn in any position,
every Filament is standardised for the volt;
every lamp.
do not blacken, last longer ; and
ige, which is plainly marked on
For STRENGTH, EFFICIENCY and ECONOMY, Welsbach Fila-
ment Lamps are unequalled. But be sure they are Welsbach—the name on
every lamp is yopr safeguard. .
See about installing Welsbach Filament Lamps at once—the subsequent
saving in current more than equals the cost. Welsbach Lamps pay for
themselves in a quarter. Your Electrician can supply you. Our Lamp
Catalogue is free on request.
ELECTRIC LIGHT DEPARTMENT—WELSBACH HOUSE:
302 Pitt St, Sydney, N.S.W.; 380 Lonsdale St., Melbourne, Victoria; 102 Victoria St, Wellington, N.Z
w
E
L
S
B
A
C
H
Stewart Dawsons Co.
Australia Ltd.
Strand Corner,
412 George St., Sydney.
THE SUPERIORITY OF THE WATCHES manu=
factured by Stewart Dawson & Co. is due to
the fact that every modern appliance is used
in their production. The highest possible skill for
perfection of workmanship, using only the best
material and the best mechanism that knowledge
and capital can command in their construction.
EVERYTHING THE BEST, AND NOTHING
BUT THE BEST, IS THE MOTTO OF THE FIRM.
For illustrations and details of our Watches
see Catalogue. It’s free on application.
; IS: {.
ssac-aiJMs
Ml
3SH
* H
Both the QUALITY and VALUE of
Stewart Dawson’s Watches
are famed throughout the
COMMONWEALTH.
'
■
■
mi
ill
i
■til
s-v.-
m
■
■
Our Excelsior Keyless English Lever is un-
surpassed by any Watch. It is a Model
Watch, compact, convenient, reliable and
efficient. The movement is a fine quality
f-plate, full jewelled in Rubies, and Brequet
Hair Sprin- to counteract the effect of violent
exercise, also-a cap to protect it from dust.
Price, £4/4/-
s
i < w/i
/
g?wirogsßaas
“THE QUEEN LEVER.”
This is a high-grade Lady’s Silver
Lever Watch. It is not an ex-
pensive Watch, but it’s one that
've can recommend to you as a
tirst-class timekeeper. It’s a Key-
less, Jewelled, f-Plate Lever, with
nicely engraved Sterling’ Silver
Oases. Hunting Cases, £2/10/-
Open Face, £2/5/-
The Watch as shown here is a f-Plat3 Keyless
English Lever. It has 7 Ruby Jewels, with
a fine quality adjusted Gold Screwed Com-
pensating- Balance. It is fitted with a Special
Hair Spring, the essential advantage of which
is that the coils will not become displaced
nor catch in the regulator pins should the
watch receive a jar. Sterling Silver Cases,
and made extra strong. Special Price, £2/10/-
aass
m
1
i
So!
“THE PRINCESS.”
This shows a really dainty little
Watch, popularly known as “The
Princess.” Although we sell many
of these every year, we seldom
have a complaint reach us, and this
should be a good guarantee that it
is a reliable article. Made in 18ct.
Gold Engraved and Plain Cases.
The movement is Keyless and
properly jewelled. Hunting Cases,
£5/10/- ; Open Face, £4/10/-
TERMS OF SALE. A Written Cuarantee with Every Watch. Every .Vatch sold in perfect confidence, and on a week’s trial;
will be exchanged if desired, or full price return dif the least dissatisfaction. Postage paid on all Mail Orders.
“THE BUSHMAN’S LEVER.”
This is a Watch wt can recommend for
country wear. We are sure it will K ive you
every satisfaction. It is a Keyless Xon-
Masrnetic Lever, Jewelled Movement, "with
dust- and damp-proof Oxydised Steel
Cases. £1 Is.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 31.—N0. 1588.
THURSDAY, JULY 21, 1910.
Prick 6d.
THE DWINDLING ARMY.
THE WADE FORCES MARCH TO BATTLE DESPITE MANY DESERTIONS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkco, Ol
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, lor
Thk Bulletin Newspaper Go., Ltd., at the
Offico o f the Co., 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N'.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES s Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERM? TO SIT BSC JIT BEKS.
(,'n Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... ® ®
Half-yearly ... ... ...
Quarterly ... ... ... 0/0
Bv sending direct to Thk Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have. Thk Bullktin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Thk Bullktin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
•anyone by name. “ The Editor. Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
■sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
■officials, 'l'he person may not be there; the ofhcial
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right, to reproduce or translate any part of
■the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved oy
" 6 J'he Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short l'ales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twe columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential . ,
Thk Bullktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. Bwt no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tint Bulletin original hurnorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for dirkct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture tvhich has to be re-drawn will be
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
.such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Tiik Bullktin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and.
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and lhgby, Ltd., Adclaide-at lt/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tub Bullktin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon ana
Dutch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London. W.C.
South Africa.— The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal ; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, !M Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
USA — lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and A ews Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Thk Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6fin. x 1/tin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can ot
supplied if desired.
TTuT^'alleZx/Ti.
THUIiSDAY, JULY 21, 1910.
THE HOPELESS PORTS.
In the old, old days that lay about half-way
Ibetween the Deluge and Johnson— the days
when the kangaroo had just finished bounding on
Circular Quay, Sydney, and was fleeing m dis-
order to Parramatta —the old settlers of Australia
were busy laying out their coastal towns. When
one seriously considers the results as they appear
to-day, the doings of these early settlers look
fairly awful. Also they seem wholly accidental.
Yet the ancient pioneers did their duty according
to their lights, and it can’t be said that' they did
it much worse than their descendants of to-day.
Tliev built for the hour, just as the present genera-
tion is doing. Australia is a dry country, conse-
quently when a river was found there was a great
tendency to go up that river till fresh drinkable
water was reached, and there plant a town.
Manv of the coastal towns were settled from the
landward side—the alleged seaports were to a
great extent pegged out by pedestrians so the
tendency was to start the infant settlement far up,
where the river was easily forded by men carrying
swags. That, of course, meant planting the settle-
ment beside absurdly shallow water. In this re-
spect Australia had worse luck than England. The
original English were sea-marauders from Ger-
many and their inclination was to construct their
infant cities close to the coast where the deep
water provided a handy means of retreat, if retreat
should be necessary. Also England was a country
■with a big rainfall,- and it wasn t necessary to
put London away up beyond Windsor so that
there might be fresh water to drink; there
tnere f fluitv D f water to drink apart
Zom the Thames Early Australia on the other
hand had the drinkable question before it all the
time and for that reason it stuck closely to As
scanty, shallow, precarious, bar-bound rivers
They opened up fresh green valleys by which it
was possible to penetrate the i nterior. Iheir
banks were good for settlement. In a time when
there were neither roads nor railways they were
handy for floating down produce. And the bar
which blocked every river mouth didn’t matter
much in the infant days of last century. The
obscure little sailing vessels which trotted up and
down the coast when Australia was young could
go over the bars at most times. The early settlers
reckoned they had no reason to believe
that vessels, especially coastal vessels, would
ever be any bigger than they were. It
was a foolish idea, yet in that respect these
grandfathers of the land had just about as much
precision as the people who borrow money to-day
to pay for “permanent” and reproductive rail-
ways of the old type, and fail to see that the
mono-rail is going, in a year or two, to make the
new lines mere scrap-iron; and they knew as
much as the people who float loans to pay f° r
telegraph posts and wires when “ wireless has
already arrived and is shrieking its air-borne news
in the public ear.
* * * *
In the early days the deep-water port which
had no serious obstruction at its entrance was
generally neglected. If any settlement happened
upon it the thing came about by accident. A
really serviceable deep-water port had no big
river running into it to silt it up. Therefore,
it lacked a fresh and abundant drinking
supply. There being no big river, there was no
highway by which small boats could penetrate
into the interior, and no natural track by which
the settler could boat or raft or punt his produce
to the coast. There were no rich river flats for the
settler tooccupy and grow produceon —said produce
to be boated or rafted or punted to the coast. More-
over, the deep-water port was invariably shut in
by hills, and in the days when there were neither
roads nor railways these hills were a huge ob-
stacle. There might be good land behind the
hills; but if hay and corn had to be humped
on the backs of the human populace over
the trackless ranges to the shore, and furniture,
clothes, ironmongery, etc., had to be similarly
humped inland, the good land was of no account.
There might be 30ft. of water in the harbor that
was hemmed in by mountains and had no big
river running into it, and there might be only a
precarious sft. on the bar at the river mouth ; but
as shipping went at the time, the extra 25ft. was
mere frill. So the settler of this country’s yes-
terday provided for things as they were, and the
settler of to-day is doing very much the same.
He hasn’t improved materially upon the ways of
his grandfather.
V** » *
The natural result is that the ports of Australia
are a weird collection. Sydney was a happy
accident; yet Sydney was chosen as site
for settlement more by reason of its Tank
Stream —now covered up and turned into a
drain—than because of its depth of water.
Port Darwin was another happy accident, and
Albany has many good points. Hobart could
hardly be improved upon. The rest are mostly
disasters. Cooktown is a fairly good port,
but that is ftbout all that can be said for it.
Cairns isn’t nearly so good as Port Douglas,
which is almost alongside. Townsville, with its
shallow harbor, became a big centre because Ross
Creek, which runs into it, was a splendid shelter
for the baby vessels of the day ; but Ross Creek
is of hardly any value now, and all the spare cash
in Queensland would hardly pay for dredging
Townsville harbor so as to qualify it to receive
the largest coastal vessels of this year of grace,
1910. The vastly superior harbor of Bowen is
close at hand ; but the extra depth of water at
Bowen looked like mere surplusage and orna-
mentation when the early town-builders were
around. So the great railway strikes out
west from Townsville, and the place has: Vested
Interests, and very moderate-sized vessels get in
with care and difficulty; and, despite a weary,
costly interminable system of dredging, even they
go aground at times. Meanwhile Bowen, which
should have great possibilities, is the saddest spot
on the Queensland coast. It has sundry houses
of accommodation—the Backyard Hotel, the
Old-Age Pension Hotel, the Dry Bath Hotel,
the Dead Finish Hotel and such-like—but
for want of any railway communication with
the West it is a picturesque and impecunious
corpse. Geraldton, where there is occasionally a
drought for two or three hours in the afternoon,
lies away up the Johnstone River. There is
abundant drinking water in the Johnstone, and
rich land all around it, and it was a good enough
river for such shipping as there was when the
town was built; but nowadays even the sixth-rate
steamer goes aground in the effort to reach the
town Mourilyan Harbor, almost alongside, has
deep water, but Mourilyan being shut in by hills,
had no attractions for the pioneers in the days
when roads, railways and tramways were not.
Rockhampton is many miles up a shallow river.
It became a town because it was so high up that
the river could be forded and travellers could put
its waters in the billy and boil them, and make
good tea out of them. Despite heroic dredging,
there are probably fewer vessels going to Rock-
hampton now than there were 25 years ago. Coastal
steamers are growing in size, and the dredges
can’t deepen the river fast enough to keep pace
with them. A heap of money was spent in the
attempt to create a subsidiary port at Broadmount,
further down the Fitzroy, but vessels grew and
grew till they got ahead of the possibilities of
Broadmount. Now another heap of money is
being spent in the effort to create a workable sea-
outlet still further down, at Port Alma ; but
meanwhile the coastal boats mostly discharge
their cargoes into lighters in Keppel Bay Glad-
stone, not many miles away, is a good, deep-
water port right on the ocean ; but the accident
of the ford and the drinking-water supply gave
Rockhampton a long start, and it nas Vested In-
terests, and the great central railway starts from
Rockhampton. So that town leads a precarious
existence, while Gladstone leads no existence at all.
Mackay hardly professes to be a port, as shipping
goes nowadays, and ooes its trade by lighter at
Flat-top Island. Maryborough, away up the
Mary River, has also fewer steamers at its
wharves than it had a quarter of a century ago.
Its original advantages were the same old things
—it was so far up that there was fresh water, and
the river could be forded ; and though there was
mighty little water, the petty sea traffic of those
days could get up and down. Now the increase
in the size of vessels has beaten the dredge, and
Maryborough isn’t feeling well. Brisbane has a
special advantage, because it is the capital city of
Queensland, and can levy tribute on all the btate
to keep its river open. At one time it was pro-
posed to have the capital at Ipswich, much farther
up, because vessels drawing Iyd. or Hyd. of water
could get there; and vessels drawing lyd. or liyd.
of water seemed at one time about the last word m
navigation. Afterwards the capital was fixed at
Brisbanefor thesake of deeper water. Now, because
even the most furious dredging can’t keep the
Brisbane River up to modern requirements, a
desolate sort of port has been created at Pinkenba
some miles farther down ; but even Pinkenba is
not too deeply loved by the commanders of big
modern steamers. Various people, who arrived
on the scene too late and thereby missed the bus,
have suggested that Brisbane should have been
located on the open sea somewhere in the vicinity
of Cleveland, but the Early Fathers didn t look
far enough ahead. And the Late Fathers, who
continue to potter with such harbors as Fort
Alma and Pinkenba, don’t seem to look much
farther ahead.
* * * *
New South Wales has, in addition to Port
Jackson, on which Sydney stands, four great,
natural, deep-water harbors Port btepliens,
Broken Bay, Jervis Bay and Twofold Bay. I hey
have all been killed, partly because the early
settlers were looking in the first place for drink-
ing water and easily fordable rivers, and partly
bv the centralisation policy, which drags every-
thing to Sydney, and regards every good harbor
which isn’t Sydney as a public danger and a
public enemy. The big coastal steamers don t
call at Port Stephens or Broken Bay or Jervis
Bay or Twofold Bay because there is practically
no population, and there is hardly apennorth of
business to be done. The State has also quite a
number of exceedingly bad and dangerous bar-
bound harbors—river mouths, that is to say, with
towns on them—places like the Tweed, Richmond,
Clarence, Bellinger, Nambucea, Macleay, Hast-
ings, Manning, Hunter (Newcastle), Merimbula
and soon. The big inter-Statesteamersdon t call at
any one of them because they don’t feel inclined to
take the risk. The boats of the big companies stop at
ridiculous places in North Queensland like Hunk
Island and Lucinda Point, which have nothing
to recommend them except that they are on
deep open water; but they pass by Newcastle,
the fifth city in the Commonwealth as popula-
tion goes. So far as they are concerned it might
as well be dead.
* * * *
The case of Victoria is a mere repetition of the
previous story. Victoria has a fine harbor at
Western Port and a splendid one at Port-
land. There is practically no population
on the first, and on the second there is
a decaying town which is crushed by |the
differential railway rates levied to boom and
bloat the overgrown metropolis. Also, Victoria
has a very bad apology for a harbor on the Yarra
at Melbourne. There were four reasons why
Melbourne became the great, overwhelming boss
settlement of Victoria : (1) It was so far up the
Yarra that fresh drinkable water could be ob-
tained from the river up above the Falls; (2) it
was so far up that the river was easy to cross ; (3)
the river was good enough to carry the petty
schooner Rebecca, of 30 tons, in which John
Batman, with three white men and seven nig-
gers, came over from Tasmania ; and Batman
didn’t look with prophetic eye into the
future and see that the Rebecca wasn t ex-
actly the same sort of thing as a P. and O.
or Norddeutscher Llovd liner; (4) the grassy flat
beside the Falls struck that very early explorer
as “just the place to build a village.” He wasn t
looking beyond a village. And the case of Vic-
toria is very much that of S. Australia and Wes-
tralia. The Port River at Port Adelaide is little
more than a jest as compared with Port Lincoln.
And no big ships go up to Perth, on the Swan,
while Fremantle, its alleged harbor at the mouth
of the river, is a narrow, stunted, artificial place
in which a marine cat could hardly be swung
with impunity. #
The old pioneers did their best, but they
couldn’t be expected to see into the dim future.
They wrestled with the conditions of the moment,
and those conditions have passed. Australia is
now spending its life in a vain effort to adapt
present day conditions to the old pioneers’ ideas,
and is toiling foolishly at great cost to make good
ports in impossible places which only emerged
from obscurity because the old pioneers found
drinkable water there. In very many instances
it would be cheaper to lay out new towns along-
side harbors which are suited to the needs of the
twentieth century, and to offer gratis to each
landholder in the old impossible adjacent town
an allotment, corresponding, as far as possi-
ble, to the one he now holds. As a rule, he
would profit immensely by the exchange
despite the expense of removal. All round the
Australian coast there are good ports which
the big coastal steamers pass by because there
are no towns on them, and exceedingly
bad ones with towns on them where a
small, sad, precarious trade is done by
lighters and tenders because the big coastal
steamers won’t look at them. The habit of going
boldly out and building a new centre, as a bygone
Maharajah of Jeypore did when he threw his old
capital of Amber to the dogs and built Jeypore
city and as Peter the Great did when he built St.
Petersburg, and as Constantine did when he
created Constantinople, seems to be, unhappily,
unknown in this country. Yet there would be
much remuneration in the idea. If Rockhamp-
ton, for instance, took up its bed and moved
bodilv. railway and all, to Gladstone, it
might become a city of 200,000 or 500,000
people, and city land might be worth £9OO per
foot frontage. Gladstone, given a chance, might
overshadow Brisbane in less than 20 years. And
the man who exchanged a bit of land worth £2O a
foot in Rockhampton for a somewhat similar
allotment at the resurrected city of Gladstone
might find his wealth multiplied 45 times over.
Rockhampton, as things stand, doesn’t seem to
have much of a show up its shallow river. Vet
its prospects are better than those of a multi-
tude of the alleged ports of Australia.
DILL-ROME.
A VAGUE idea has began to hang around of late
that the Sydney Watchman is really owned by
the Jesuits, and that Dr. Diul-Macky is the dis-
guised emissary of the Society of Jesus. The
average individual has no clear idea what Jesuits
are like, but if he goes by the descriptions of them
and their murky devices which are supplied in
the Watchman, then the above theory is wholly
feasible. For the Watchman crowd and the Dilu-
Macky Orange push went mad on July 12, and
performed in a way that was terrible for any in-
telligent Protestant to witness. They told the
old old story about how the Federal Labor party
was “dominated by Rome,” quite regardless of
the fact that the new Federal Labor Ministry
hasn’t a single Roman Catholic in its composi-
tion They declared that the N.S.W. State
Labor party was also “ dominated by Rome,
and that the only thing a good Protestant could
lawfully do was to vote for Wade and his very
remarkable following. No information was sup-
plied as to how “Rome ” dominated the intensely
Protestant Federal Labor party, or how it was
going to dominate the State Labor party
was merely a bald statement to the effect that, in
order to be a good Protestant, it is necessary to
be with the party which supports the big estates
and opposes the progressive land-tax— the
party which advocates huge loans-the awful
crowd which always supports State domination
against the interests of Australia, which
spent hundreds of pounds of public money
in the struggle to deprive MaoHarg of
his pension rights, and hundreds more in
order to get its own railway refreshment-
room keeper fined ss. for selling cigarettes. The
good Protestant must be in favor of the people
who took the risk of creating civil war by the
forcible seizure of goods out of the Federal Cus-
toms House. He is ordered to stand by the gang
which has always represented retrogression. He
is told that if he is worthy of his name and his
religion he must be against a party which is very
largely Methodist, and often the Primitive
variety at that; and for a party which put a
Roman Catholic on the High Court bench, and
which, last April, with the Watchman’s ap-
proval, ran a Roman Catholic Tory against one
of the sturdiest Protestant Democrats in politics.
Also, he must go with the Foreign-trade assem-
blage, which declares it a sin and a folly to give
the mostly-Protestant Australian workman any
preference against the Roman Catholic work-
man of Belgium, France, Spain, Italy, Austria,
Portugal, Bavaria and other Popish places.
Even this is not all. The 12th of July mob
which became so mad last week demands that
every Protestant shall vote with the crowd
which, bv a most disreputable piece of political
engineering, got a clause inserted in the Consti-
tution providing that the Australian capital shall
be fixed in the most Roman Catholic State of the
Commonwealth, so that the Federal Government
shall be as far as possible under Roman Catholic
influences. It calls on every Protestant to
vote for the political herd which demands
that the transcontinental railway, instead of
going straight from north to south through the
most intensely Protestant State in the Common-
wealth, shall be deviated eastward at great extra
distance and expense, so as to go through and
enrich the three most Roman Catholic States—
N S.W., Queensland and Victoria. At the recent
Federal election the Labor candidate who got the
biggest majority was an Orangeman ; and the
Labor party, when its victory was assured, pro-
cee led, as already mentioned, to form a Ministry
which was wholly Protestant, and in which every
member save one was a teetotaler. The old lory
Ministry, in which every member save one took
such liquor as he felt he required, went down,
though it had many Roman Catholics, a number
of publicans, and sundry hard drinkers among its
candidates. Now the N.S.W. State elections are
looming on the political horizon, and theVVADE-
and-WATCHMAN-and-DiLii Macky party is joy-
ously nominating Roman Catholics, publicans,
ex-publicans, and hard drinkers as its candidates
wherever it thinks such people have a fair show.
And while doing this it raises the cry that its
opponents are the party of Rome and Rum.
* * * *
The Roman Catholic Church is mostly regarded
as conservative, like all old churches. It believes in
the Pope because the Bible alleges that Cop was
accustomed to have some visible representative on
earth—patriarch, judge, prophet or apostle—and
it assumes that things don’t change. It elects
the latter-day representative, just as Matthias
was elected to be an apostle when Iscariot re-
signed. It believes in saints, because if Paul
was a saint it can’t see why Joan of Arc, with
an equally good character, shouldn t be one. It
believes in miracles, because it doesn’t see why
Galilee should be feasible and Lourdes ridiculous.
It believes in the curative power of relics, for if the
bones of Elisha could bring a dead man to life,
the bones of someone equally respectable might
possibly do the same. It holds to the Papal in-
fallibility on purely religious matters, just as
Protestants hold that David and Solomon were
infallible when they wrote the Psalms and the
Proverbs, though in other matters their conduct
was often dubious or worse. In fact, it tries to
combine the allegedly amazing Past with the
ordinary brown Present, and Refuses to take
refuge like some other churches, in the tacit
assumption that the Deity is worn out and can
no louger work the old wonders, or that He has
become indifferent, or that He has discovered the
folly of the old method of ruling the world by
signs and marvels, and portents and direct inter-
ference, and has reformed. It does amazing
things in the way of faith (or credulity) where
many other creeds do amazing things in the art
of explaining matters away. A church which
has an endeavor like that on its hands would
be naturally suspected of conservative tendencies.
But the Dill Macky multitude is doing its best
to drive the Roman Catholic Church in Aus-
tralia to stand all the time for progress
and liberty. It tells the underpaid and
half-starved clerk to whom Wade refuses a
Wao-es Board that his only chance is to throw
in his lot with the Catholics who, it says, are
synonymous with the Labor party. It informs
the wharf-lumper, broken up by humping the
4001 b. bag of grain, which the Federal Labor
party (said to stand for Rome) voted to
reduce to a 2001 b. size, that Labor is
a wretched mass of idolatry, and that the
State party (that of Wade and his land),
which, to a great extent, frustrated this humane
effort by permitting the local manufacture and
the carriage by railway of the old, baclt-lireaking
monstrosity, stands for enlightenment, William
111., the Walls of Derry, and religious
It assures the aged civil servant that the folk
who desire to pay him his full pension repre-
sent gross superstition, and that the only pure
religion is that of the Government which fought
old Greville at law till he died, in the
effort to do him out of his dole, or
out of part of it. It sets forth that big estates,
and land monopoly, and the dragging of all
trade to Sydney are another name for the true
faith, and that a system which will give every
agriculturist a fair chance to get a farm and to
send away his exports by the nearest and cheapest
ports is associated with a scarlet woman who is
seated on seven hills and drunken with the gore
of the saints.
All the time, the Watchman and 12th of July
people and the Dill MACKY-ite push keep adver-
tising the Protestants as the party of meanness,
monopoly, low wages, heavy loads and squalid con-
servatism. All the time they advertise the Roman
Catholics as the party of good wages, short hours,
fair treatment and industrial advancement. J-ney
are driving the Roman Catholics into being
almost solidly the People that Move, and they
are disgusting liberal-minded Protestants by try
ing to associate them with State I rights, poor
pay, the gaoling of Peter Bowling, the two years
litigation over a cigarette, tlie wire-netting steal,
the attempt to drag the Federal capital to the
Cardinal’s back door, and all the rest of theCAßßL-
thers-Wade policy. The Roman Catholics have
never yet given a solid vote for the Labor par y,
but if they are flattered much more by 12th of
July fools with the assurance that this country s
democratic legislation is all their work, they
may come to do so. The Protestants have
hitherto been divided, but if. they are in-
sulted much more by Orange maniacs and Herry
cranks, with the intimation that they are tied to
the monstrous wheat-bag, and the big loans, ai


the unsupported story about the Labor member
who called on Wade and urged him to get Peter
Bowling a long term in gaol, quite a lot of them
will begin to wonder if it is worth while being
Protestant at the price. The Orangemen, in
N.S.W. especially, are trying their hardest to
associate Protestantism with everything which the
community, if one can judge by its vote last
April, regards as effete, unclean, antiquated and
despicable. If “ Rome ” was the amazingly wily
institution which Dill Macky describes, and if
“Rome” had hired Dill Macky to do its work
at a large salary. Dill Macky could hardly do
the work of “ Rome ” better than he is doing it.
THE INSECT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Brisbane, Thursday.
Messrs. W. V. Brown and R. Philp, M’s.L.A., delivered
addresses yesterday to the Brisbane Chamber of Com-
merce on the subject of a transcontinental railway. Mr.
Philp advocated a line from Camooweal to Windorah
and from Windorah to Charleville —Press telegram.
From Camooweal to Windy woe, from Windywoe to
Thirstyville,
We'll drag the line around the map, along the
plain, and up the hill,
Across the desert, to the swamp, across the swamp,
and up the rise.
“ Our ” Sacred Rights must be preserved, “ our ”
claims you'll have to recognise.
One night, while others were abed,
With weary eyes and aching head,
I pored for hours and hours upon a map.
Till dots and lines began to swim,
“Suggested routes” grew blurred and dim,
And then, I think, I must have had a nap.
But, with a start, it seemed to me,
I sat bolt upright suddenly,
And gazed, with staring eyes, before me straight;
For there, upon my inkwell’s brim,
With aspect most grotesque and grim,
Methought a large, fat, hairy spider sate.
“Good fellow, you behold in me
An insect of repute,” said he.
“I’m that State Insect, so much talked about.
I’ve frequently been mentioned in
Such papers as The Bulletin ;
So you have heard of me before, no doubt.
“ You’ve recently,” pursued the brute,
“Been pondering upon the route
Of our Transcontinental Railway Line.
I do not know what views you hold ;
But, if it be not deemed too bold,
I’ll just acquaint you with a few of mine.”
Then, suddenly, the creature dropped
Heels over head, and downward flopped
Into the pot, and floundered in the ink.
I calmly thought, “ He’ll drown, no doubt” ;
But presently he struggled out
And sat, once more, all dripping, on the brink.
“Ere I proceed to illustrate
The views of each protesting State ”
Thus did the beast address me from the pot—
“ Please understand I represent
All phases of State discontent;
In me is concentrated all the lot! ”
Then quickly from the pot he crawled,
And, ere I could prevent it, sprawled
Upon the map. I cursed at him in vain.
And as he went, and left behind
Long, inky smears, all crossed and lined,
He chanted this preposterous refrain :
“From Drouth y hurst to Dotty town, from Dotty-
town to Thirstyville,
We'll drag the line around the map, and o'er the
plain, and up the hill;
With here a twist, and there a turn, and over here
a wide detour.
Our claims you have to recognise; our prejudices
must endure.
From Boodle’s run to Foodle’s pub our Sacred
Rights you must preserve —
From Foodle’s pub to Doodle’s dam, the int’rests
of the State to serve ;
Insanely crawling through the map, and in and
out, and to and fro.
If you'd propitiate the States, this is the way the
line will go.”
I seized a pen, in angry haste,
And, with a curse, the creature chased
From off the map, then looked, and cursed some
more.
But ’round the corner of the pot
The spider peered and said, “ What rot!
I don’t see what you’ve got to curse me for !
“I will explain, if you’ll permit,”
It said ; but in an angry fit
I banged the map and yelled ; “ Upon my word !
You’ve crossed and lined it back and forth.
But one straight line from south to north
Does not appear ! Your system is absurd !
“ Suppose,” I said, “ invaders came ;
Here, in the north. How, in the name
Of thunder, could we quickly move our troops?
How could we rush our army forth
Into the unprotected North
With all your crazy twists and turns and loops?”
“Good fellow, I have yet to learn
That it is any State’s concern
To meddle with Defence,” lie made reply.
Ihat is the Commonwealth s lookout;
They’ll get ’em there, I have no doubt;
But, as for us, we’ve.other fish to fry.
“Yet if you really want to know
Which way the troops will have to go,
Once more I shall be happy to explain.”
And, as I planned his sudden death,
The creature drew a long, deep breath
And sang again this maddening refrain ;
“ From Dr outhy hurst to Dotty town, from Dotty-
town to Thirstyville,
We'll drag the army ’round the map, and o'er the
plain, and up the hill;
With over here a wide detour, and here a twist, and
there a turn ;
And if they never meet the foe it isn’t any State’s
concern.
We’ll drag ’em miles and weary miles, from
Foodle’s pub to Boodle’s run;
The while the foeinan gains the North, without the
firing of a gun.
From Boodle’s run to Doodle’s dam, o’er kink
and curl and loop and curve.
Our int’rests you must recognise, our Sacred
Rights you must observe.”
Again, all haste I made to grab
A pen ; this time resolved to stab
The loathly insect in some vital spot;
But, though with murd’rous aim I hit,
’Twas wasting energy, for it
Eluded me and dodged around the pot.
“ Aha ! You’re not the first of men
To try to slay me with a pen,”
It sneered. “ They try in vain ; I still survive.
And now I go to make a league
And weave a web of State intrigue
That will enmesh you all, if I’m alive.”
Then, with another wicked sneer.
The creature seemed to disappear.
I searched in vain ; the thing had vanished quite.
And though I laugh, and talk, and think,
And go to church, and take to drink,
I can’t shake off the horrors of that night.
For still that ruined map I’ve got.
All sullied o’er with smear and blot,
The sight of which calls forth a frenzied scream.
And, since that night, I’ve counsel sought
Of learned men who surely ought
To know, but all declare it was a dream.
Yet, when the views of Philp or Wade,
Within the Tory press displayed,
Assault mine eyes, I seem to see quite plain
That ugly spider, fat and squat,
Perched insolently on the pot;
I seem to hear again the weird refrain :
“ From Drouthyhurst to Dottytown, from Dotty -
town to Thirstyville,
We’ll drag the line around the map, and o’er the
plain, and up the hill;
With here a kink, and there a curve, and here a
needless, wide detour.
Our claims you have to recognise; our sacred
int’rests must endure.
For Boodle has a bit of land, and Foodle has
much influence.
And Doodle’s cattle must be trucked, whatever
happens to Defence.
So down it goes by Snoodle’s road, from Snoodlic’s
road to Noodle’s well.
Aus-tral-i-an defence be blowed 1 Austral-i-a may
go to Hell ! ”
VICTORIA.
DEN.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A False Alarm Martyr.
N.S.W. in general, and the legal section of it in
particular, smiled the tired smile last week at
Sydney Telegraph’s effort to politically boost C.
G. Wade in connection with his alleged “refusal”
of the State Chief-Justiceship. Jimmy Hogue
disclosed what were described as “ the true facts”
of this ancient trouble at Orange (N.S.W.), and
the Telegraph writhed with grief at the thought
of the strictures it had unjustly heaved at its
leader in the past. “ The Government,” it seems,
offered the Chief Justiceship to Wade, but, “on
grounds of political principle, he declined.” In
the first place, under any hut the caucus form of
government, which the Telegraph puts in most
of its time reprobating these days, Wade wouldn’t
have been in a position to “ decline ” any such
offer, for the plain reason that his colleagues
weren’t in a position to make it. The appoint-
ment to the post of N.S.W. Chief Justice is in
the hands of the N.S.W. Premier and no one else.
, The Telegraph proceeded
The offer of such an office comes to very few men, and
when it does come its attractions are such as still fewer
are able to resist. The Chief Justiceship is the Mecca of
the Bar; the highest possible prize in the profession to
which Mr. Wade has devoted his life. But Mr. Wade
took the view that politics should not be made a stepping-
stone to the judicial Bench, and, therefore, felt it his
duty to deny himself the gratification of what everyone
would have acknowledged to be a natural and praise-
worthy ambition. In this he has set a very high pre-
cedent, which will redound not only to his own honor
but to that of the public life of the State.
Wade has in no sense set a precedent by refrain-
ing from the use of his political “ pull ” to acquire
this lucrative legal job. The most estimable thing
he may be said to have done, in this connection, is
to have avoided a shameless fracture of a prece-
dent, sounder than most and one which has
existed as long as the State of N.S.W. Not only
has no N.S.W. Premier ever dared to seize the
State Chief Justiceship, but no subordinate mem-
ber of a N.S.W. Administration has hitherto
allowed himself to be appointed to the billet.
The opportunities have been frequent enough,
too. W. B. Dalley, while Attorney-General,
was offered the position, but didn’t take it.
Jack Want, when Attorney-General, was re-
peatedly urged by Premier Jennings to accept
the Chief Justiceship. He refused consistently,
fearing to scandalise the community by a sugges-
tion of jobbery. See twice tendered the appoint-
ment to B. R. Wise (the then Attorney-General
of N.S.W.), who also declined. And so on.
N.S.W. has had lawyer Premiers before Wade.
So far as the Chief Justiceship is concerned, he is
unique in but one regard—he is the first who has,
been publicly accused by his own party press
of designs upon the post. And, anyhow, the
Telegraph’s attempt to invest Wade with a
halo because he omitted to grab this well-paid
but also trying billet, is absurd. Wade is aware
of his limitations. He is too conventional a type
to be utterly scornful of public opinion. He is no
lawyer, in the larger sense of the term. His prac-
tice, while he was in regular work at the Bar,
was, to put it mildly, meagre. His warmest
admirers have never seriously claimed for him
that he was anything more sensational in the
forensic line than “a fairly sound Crown Prosecu-
tor.” Satisfactory Chief Justices aren’t made out
of that quality of legal stuff, and none knows
it better than the politician who has had sense
enough to keep off a Bench he was not men-
tally equipped to occupy. Of course, various
members of Wade’s party were eager, for one
reason or another, that he should, at any cost to
the country or himself, get out of the political
game and give them a show. Some of them—the
genial David Storey, for example—said so quite
frankly. But the fact that Wade, after hanging
fire for several months, turned down the gro-
tesque proposal doesn’t avail to make him a
martyr. There are some public outrages that the
prospect of the biggest salary won’t tempt a
rational human being to commit.
— ♦
The Spuds That Rot on Monaro.
The interminable tale of the Closed Ports, of the
railways which all lead to Sydney, of the long,
unprofitable haulages, and all the rest, is being
related again. In East Gippsland (Vic.) thou-
sands of bushels of maize are reported to be just
now going to waste. There is no railway, and
the cost of cartage over mountain roads eats up
all the profit. Yet not very far away, on Monaro
(N.S.W.) the cockies are buying maize at 8s. per
bushel, said maize being dragged all the way from
Sydney. As maize doesn’t grow in Sydney, it
was, of course, first dragged to that city, and all
this draggage had to be paid for. At the same
time potatoes are rotting in the ground on
Monaro, because it costs too much at present
rates to send them to Sydney. Everything that
it doesn’t pay to send to Sydney has just got to
rot. If there was a railway extending over
eastern Riverina and Monaro down to Eden, with
a branch running into East Gippsland, there
would be cheap access to a port and cheap
sea-conveyance from that port to Sydney and
Melbourne, and then the abandoned potatoes and
the derelict maize might be turned into cash.
Probably, too, there would be a city on Monaro
and a big seaport town at Eden which would use
up the potatoes and maize, so that it wouldn’t be
necessary to pay for even sea carriage to Sydney.
But then, as it happens, there is no railway,
and no present sign of one, and the
great thriving trade of East Gippsland,
which ought to goto the N.S.W. port of Eden,
doesn’t go there, and besides—thanks to the
centralisation policy—there is no such trade to
go, and there is mighty little of an Eden for it to
go to. This case, and hundreds like it, are
matters which Wade’s railway duplications
won’t help in the slightest. No matter how
many millions are spent on duplications, the rail-
way distance from Monaro to Sydney or from
New England to Sydney will be just as long and
the cost just as absurd, and the farmer will still
be charged for having his goods dragged at huge
expense past the port which would suit him well,
and on for many miles to the one which doesn’t
suit him one whit better. Just now there is
a Commission sitting to consider the advisability
of taking the southern and northern export
trade to places like Twofold Bay, Jervis
Bay and Port Stephens. The Commission is call-
ing many long-winded witnesses and getting
bogged in much testimony. And meanwhile
Premier Wade is rushing through a Loan Bill for
£2,000,000, with which to start at once the laying
of a second track on all the lines leading towards
Sydney, in order that they may be able to carry
to that city the traffic which the Commission is in-
quiring about. If the Closed Ports are to be
opened and an honest effort made to let every-
body do his export and import business from the
nearest good harbor, then these double tracks are
not wanted for a long time yet. They will be a
dead loss unless they are made to pay artificially
by dragging over them goods which ought, in the
name of common-sense and economy, to go else-
where. So apparently the Commission is a clumsy
joke or illusion, and it is intended that the Closed
Ports shall remain closed and that the agricul-
turist’s unsaleable spuds shall still rot on Monaro.
♦
A Ballarat Disturbance.
During the recent Farmers’Conference at Bal-
larat the delegates, to the number of 200, took a
night off, “ for the purpose of discussing the poli-
tical situation.” The Argus headed its report of
the meeting “ Checking the Socialistic Wave”;
but the amount of “ checking ” done, so far as the
report goes, was infinitesimal. The net result of
some three hours’ talking was a decision to form
still another Tory political organisation; yet, so
far as can be discovered, nobody smiled when the
old, useless and worn-out proposal was dragged
out on the platform. Asa matter of fact, Vic-
toria is over-run with wild-eat Tory associations.
At the last Federal elections every second Tory,
in the country districts especially, was an official
of a political association ; and he was a poor and
feckless supporter of the Anti-Sosh brigade
who was not a member of at least four of them.
There were Farmers’ Leagues and Producers’
Associations and Property-owners’ Societies
everywhere; and their united curse was
handed out to the Labor party with great hearti-
ness and unanimity. No electorate had such a
plethora of these high-sounding but weak-kneed
organisations as Corangamite—which holds about
half the squatters in the State. Yet, at the
elections, the voters rose in a body and biffed the
leagues quite severely, giving the Labor candi-
date a majority of nearly 2000 votes. And the
new league will have a similar result. At the
Ballarat disturbance, Mr. John Macdonald, of
Maffra, who moved the fatuous motion, said ; —
Private Enterprise had developed the agricultural and
mining wealth of the country, and if it were destroyed the
community would soon be.brought down to the level of
the savage.
Considering the desperate efforts which the Labor
party is putting forth to create more farmers —bv
means of a progressive land-tax — Macdonald’s
wild statement was monumental in its stupidity.
Also, his claim that mining and farming progress
have been due to Private Enterprise is audacity
multiplied by 10. The farming industry has been
nursed for years by successive Governments ; and
the Ballarat Conference itself shot at Premier
Weary a whole sheaf of requests for Government
assistance, interference and supervision. The
true inwardness of the Conference is, however,
manifest by the attendance of men like H. A.
Currie, of Mount Elephant. H. A. Currie is a
big squatter, and he and his brothers and rela-
tions own a stretch of country near Camperdown
as big as an English county. So vast is their ter-
ritory that even the wind there, which (like the
squatters) is usually very violent, is alleged to
belong to the Curries.” Squatter Currie gave
his blessing to the new association, and urged it
to put money in its purse. And when the new
Farmers’ League, after taking squatter Currie’s
money and advice, and inferentially promising
to help him to keep his big. lonely stations
intact, finds itself mocked and derided by the
electors, it will once again scratch its silly head
and wonder what hit it.
— «
The Curse of the Amateur—Parliamentary
Variety.
G. B. Edwards has given notice in the House of
Representatives of a motion :—
That the electors of the Commonwealth should be con-
sulted by referendum to fix the amount of allowance to
be paid to members of the Senate and House of Repre-
sentatives, and that such referendum should provide for
a vote to be taken by a system of preferential or con-
tingent votinsr, on the amounts, £400, or £500, or £600
or £700, or £SO0 per annum.
Of course, the EDWARD-ian idea is that th
people, scandalised at the recent action of the
Australian Parliament in raisin" members’
salaries £200 per annum, are going to arise in
force and shove the remuneration back to
the old figure. It is a consummation that
is devoutly wished, in all likelihood, by
a few short-sighted persons like Fokrest,
Willy Kelly and so on —useless moneyed Reps,
to whom the prospect of a few extra hundreds per
annum is not half so alluring as that of the forced
retirement from the lists of the more intellectual
sort of Laborite. But it is hardly likely to appeal
to the country. There are, indeed, sound reasons
why the people, if given the chance, should be
inclined to offer their legislators a good deal
more than the existing Parliamentary wage.
Presumably, Australia wants the best intellects
available. In politics, as elsewhere, it is only
possible to get the best by paying it decent
wages. Considering the requirements of the
Parliamentary job, in conjunction with its
trying nature, and, above all, the ghastly
insecurity of tenure that broods over it, it
is doubtful if even £1000 a year is a fair
thing. Unless the Rep. is prepared to grossly
neglect the duties for which he is paid (as
G. Reid, Brock Smith and others have done con-
sistently in the past) it is impossible for him to
engage in outside work. And, anyhow, with the
exception of the Bar, most callings are shut to
him, no matter how willing he may be to sacrifice
what he conceives to be the country’s interests
in the cause of his personal gain. A shop-
keeper, house-agent, cocky farmer, or what-
not can’t enter Parliament and keep his<
business going, no matter how capable he may-
be; and so these folks mostly stifle their yearn-
ings after political fame in favor of a steady job..
As a result, the Australian Parliament is divided!
into a body of more or less affluent amateurs whoi
would be overpaid for the work they do at 8s. a
day, and another body of professionals who, con-
sidering the way they toil, are grossly underpaid.
Which is absurd. In these utilitarian days the
political dilettante —the gentleman who goes into
the game because his wife wants him to, or because
his cash hangs heavy on his hands—is as glaring
an anomaly in a rational House of Reps, as he
would be in the engine-room of a liner. Aus-
tralia has long since reached a stage in its
political development where it not only needs,
but understands that it needs, able, experienced
professionals to run its affairs. It will never get
them cheap. The proposition that Australian
legislators should be paid a figure that will attract
valuable brains is one that even Anti-Socialism has
no cause to greet with the wild howl that bespeaks
the angered Tory. Indeed, it is Anti-Socialism
which is at present suffering most acutely from a
lack of capable representatives. A consideration
of the intellectual calibre of the Fusion should
spur Anti-Labor to vote for the greatest Parlia-
mentary salary increase allowable under any refer-
endum. The Bulletin hereby moves that G. B.
Edwards’s motion go to the country with the
words, “or £1000 per annum” added. And if,
when Australia has cheerfully agreed to the £1000
a year proposal, provision was made that no Rep.
should do outside work, and that any Rep. who
for insufficient reason absented himself overmuch
from Parliamentary toil should be docked a
portion of his screw, it would be all to the good..
+.
An Old Ship.
“ Bobstay ” : The old Pyrmont, which has out-
grown its usefulness as a member of the North.
Coast (N.S.W.) Co.’s fleet, has blossomed out in.
its old age as a full-blown mail steamer. It has-
been purchased by the Burns-Philp company to.
carry out itsFederal mail contract between Queens-
land ports and Papua. The selection of an.
antiquity like the Pyrmont is an eloquent proof
of the difficulty experienced in procuring
moderate-sized tonnage in Australia. Owing to
forest destruction, the importing policy, and
criminal neglect of the iron trade by Foreign-
trade Governments, ship-building in Australia
is very dead. Years ago, vessels built on the
Northern rivers used to trade to China, and race
the clippers home to Australia with the new teas.
Now the building of wooden ships is confined to
a few ketches, and steamers are small and few.
Yet there is no lack of a demand. What with pil-
ing up on the treacherous bars and being “sold
to the islands,” the tonnage of small craft on the
Australian registry gets less each year. But the
making of vessels, nowadays, on the coastal rivers
is almost a lost art. When, 30 years ago, it was
decided to lay down a keel, the shipwright would
go for a stroll in the adjacent forest primeval, cut
down enough timber for six vessels, select the bits
that pleased his fancy best, and leave the restto rot.
To-day timber, properly grown and seasoned and
fit for keels, knees and frames of fair-sized craft,
is ungetatable. Even when found the cost of
getting it to the seaboard intact is almost pro-
hibitive. What is sold in the markets to-day as
“ best hardwood ” moves the ancient mariner who
convoys it to scorn. In his day the cutting of this
alleged “best hardwood” wouldn’t have been
thought worth while. As for softer woods—cedar,
for instance, is brought from North Queensland,
and costs a lot at that. Some of the old homes on.
the N.S.W. northern rivers can show huge tables,,
each made out of a solid piece of cedar, and that;
one slab might have been the only piece of the.
parent trunk that was used. The cruel waste of
forest wealth, aided by the stupid neglect of the-
Australian iron trade, will together present a bill to
posterity that posterity will cuss at. For the
present, the mail steamer Pyrmont is a sufficiently-
startling reminder of the price that even now is
being paid.
»
The Lepers’ Coach.
A matter that requires serious attention on the
part of the public was brought under the notice
of the N.S.W. Government in the Assembly, one
night last week, by the recently-elected member
for Belmore, P. J. Mj,\ahaN. It concerned the
lepers at Little Bay (Sydney). Minahan wanted
to know (1) if it were a fact that the unfortunate
inhabitants of the lazaret were driven through
Randwick and Coogee, on Saturday afternoons, in
a vehicle which was afterwards used to drive the
hospital staff and members of the general public ;
(2) if it were a fact that the vehicle is
driven by one of the staff, who resides with
his family; and (3) would immediate steps
be taken to put an end to this state of affairs ?
To these questions, which, by the way, had been
given due notice of, Chief Secretary Wood
casually replied that it was a fact that these ex-
cursions were made in a vehicle driven by any
member of the.ambulance staff who was available
when wanted, and that he (Wood) proposed to
take no immediate steps to put an end to them.
“The Board of Health,” he said, “which is
charged with the administration of the Leprosy
Act, being satisfied that no danger whatever to
any person is involved, has humanely authorised
the arrangement in the interests and for
the advantage of this unfortunate class of
patients.” Now it is probable that Dr. Ashburton
Thompson, head of the N.B.W. Board of Health,


Adams’ Tattersall’s Hotel
One of Sydney’s Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
ħ
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
Films! Films! Films!|
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. ... the People for
Moving Picture Machines and Fjhns.
RE Jf* RING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney— 3B6 George Street; Melbourne—266 Collins
Rrichane—93-95 Queen Street; Adelaide—
atre^,., l B :; S Piar.e: Perth-TiHys’ Photo. Stores.
By 1913 it seems British superiority m
Dreadnoughts will have vanished. It.is to be
hoped in the meantime the war fiend s fiery teei-
ings may become calmed by soothing waves ot in-
ternational fraternity, or that he may be converted
by the benign spirit of D.C.L. Whisky int ■
enthusiastic member of the P e * c ® it- 1 ? '
Wherever the genial influence of D.C.L.
gets in its fine work, peace and progress prospei.
knows about as much of the little that is known
re leprosy as most of its students. He is a recog-
nised authority on the disease ; but if what Wood
said in the Assembly is correct —and there is no
reason to doubt it— Thompson is apparently al-
lowing the general public to take far more risk
outside the lazaret than he will allow any single
member of the public to take inside that institu-
tion. Very few lay visitors have been inside the
lazaret at Little Bay ; but once there the utmost
precautions are taken to prevent risk of con-
tact, not only with the patients, but with
even wooden rails, etc., in the enclosure.
The visitor before leaving must carefully wash
his hands in water containing disinfectants,
and the fact that he has done so must be certified
to in writing by the accompanying doctor or
attendant. Not even an empty bottie is allowed
to go forth. The opinion that leprosy is con-
tagious is said to be largely discredited ,by the
majority of authorities, but finality of opinion
has not been reached by a considerable distance ;
nor are there wanting cases which, on the face of
them, appear to upset the view of the medical
majority. In any case, some more authoritative
assurance of safety should be given to Sydney
people who unwittingly ride in the lepers’ coach
than the bald statement by W. H. Wood.
♦
The Victorian Railway Horror.
Last Monday a crowded train overtook another
at Richmond station, just outside Melbourne, in
much the same way as, two years ago, one train
overtook another at Sunshine. And it was the
Sunshine accident over again on a slightly re-
duced scale. At time of writing the dead
numbered 10, though the list is likely to be much
increased ; and the injured reached the appalling
total of 109. Victoria has a fairly bad record for
accidents, the specially fatal ones being: Haw-
thorn (1882), Windsor (1887), Sunshine (1908),
and Richmond (1910). The Sunshine affair was
the most appalling railway disaster that ever
happened in Australia, while as far as Victoria
is concerned Sunshine is the first horror and
Richmond the second. Victoria’s two boss
calamities thus came to pass under the present
management. The railway slaughters are not
only growing bigger; they are also coming more
closely together, and the small-to-medium mis-
haps appear to be also growing more numerous.
Yet there is no extra velocity to account for this
state of things ; in fact, it has been declared, on
the evidence of old time-tables, that many of the
trains take longer to do a given journey now than
they did 25 years ago. The conclusion that the
public will most probably arrive at is that the
management is in a state of decay all round. It
seems to be antiquated as well as incompetent.
The muddle about the new railway station,
which cost enormously above the estimated
price, and took much longer than the estimated
time to build, and then proved to be too
small the very day it was opened, brought the
system into contempt. The proposal to build a
new wooden hutch of a station at Princes Bridge;
the helpless patching of the old, unclean ark at
Spencer-street; the opposition to the introduction
of electricity ; the inability to see ahead, which
causes the railways to be so short of rolling stock
that, on the suburban lines, 25 people often try
to get into a compartment built for 10; these,
and many other things, are among Victoria’s
railway afflictions. But the tendency to acci-
dents—accidents, too, that are built on the
lavish Canadian or United States plan—is
the worst feature of the case. Railway
tragedies may be inevitable, but they
should be reasonably far apart. Of course,
in this case, as in others, some subordinate is
responsible, and if the rules had been carefully
observed the accident probably wouldn’t have
happened. But that isn’t sufficient. An urgent
question is whether the staff is kept so small in the
blessed interests of economy that the rules cant be
observed, and trains can only be got away with
some semblance of punctuality by shirking the
regulations. If a train, for instance, is allowed
three minutes at a station, and in that time a
solitary employee has to do things which one man
can’t properly do under six or nine minutes, then
the by-laws exist, not so much for the protection
of the public as to supply whitewash for superior
officers when the inevitable comes along. It
employees are so weary with overwork that they
often forget the rules, or if under-payment has
partly filled the service with an inferior and unin-
telligent class which fails to understand the rules,
then again there is someone responsible besides
the mere human machine in a faded uniform who
happened to be on the spot. If under one man-
agement (like that of Oliver, in N.S. W., for
instance) accidents are almost unknown, while
under another they are hideously common, inquiry
should certainly go beyond the machine in the
faded uniform. Instead of the management in-
vestigating things some independent authority
should investigate the management. One thing
which seems generally admitted is that the cast-
iron rule of safety which prohibits two trains on
the same line being inside the same block, is not
rigidly followed in Victoria nowadays. Where it is
followed religiously there is one kind of accident
which can’t happen—that which arises from one
train overtaking another. And that was the
Sunshine variety of accident, likewise the Rich-
mond variety.
♦-
Australia’s Greedy People.
‘ X.” writes, with more or less justice:—
Treasurer Watt, of Victoria, the small man with the
prize-fighter’s face, who would be a decent democrat if he
kept better company, has been uttering his opinions of
the rich men of Victoria and incidentally of all Australia.
In his struggle with State finances he has to find money
for hospitals and asylums; and it makes his blood boil
when he sees how meanly the plutocrats of his country
subscribe to its charities. . Watt says that they
ought to remember hospitals and Universities,
and similar institutions in their wills. But that
is a cheap sort of generosity; it doesn’t take
one bad half-crown out of the testator’s pocket,
but merely disappoints the Gaping Heir; and, moreover,
it gives too many chances to enthusiastic priests and
parsons, enables Judge Madden to make pointed remarks
about the attitude of Methodist preachers towards the
late Mr. Harbison, and wastes much good money in
lawyers’ costs. The owner of many bags full of sove-
reigns, if he yearns to do good, will find it less Wasteful,
and will probably gain a greater slice of salvation, if he
doesn’t wait to be dead before he is generous. It would
be much better to tax this fellow for his share than beg
it from him; nevertheless Watt has put his rude
finger on a spot which requires a lot of attention.
Nearly all rich Australians are avaricious money-grabbers
towards the persons they employ. The manufacturers
are sweaters (till the law stops them); the squatters are
churlish monopolists, insatiable land-grabbers and rack-
renters without bowels (till the law falls upon them); and
the financiers are sharks(but, of course, financiers are the
same all the world over). In some countries there are
said to be Benevolent Rich (though I have certain doubts),
but you don’t find people like that in Australia —not
once in a brown moon. The usual Australian millionaire
is as sordid, grudging, ignorant, unenlightened a cur-
mudgeon as the cocky farmer who asks 17 hours
labor from his “ hand” and skimps the tucker; and
it is because of his devouring avarice that he is univer-
sally hated, for he has no real friends left, not even in
the Tory press. Search the world through, and you
won’t find a more selfish class than the Australian rich.
They are too mean to curry favor by gifts of money,
though if they had brains they would try.; they are too
avaricious even to bolster themselves up by bribery, like
the money-swallowers in America. A continual com-
plaint of political Tories is that they can’t raise funds ;
when the hat is passed round, Flinders-lane buttons its
pockets, and the Cornstalk squatters sit hard and tight
on their bags of bullion. No scheme for social improve-
ment has ever come from a rich Australian ; he continues
to draw rent from slums, and howls at every mention of
a Tenements Bill; he opposes every Factories Act; if he
owns land, he fences it against settlement, and sits down
to yearn for unearned increment. His own blind greed
has been the cause of the swifter coming of his punish-
ment ; and every honest man, woman and child in the
Commonwealth is glad that he is going to get it.
Bull’s Pauper and Bull’s Pension.
Lagging slowly in the wake of Maoriland, Ger-
many and other States, John Bull of the Fog
Country passed an Old Age Pension Act in
1908, and in 1909 he already had 647,494 pen-
sioners on his list. That excluded aged persons
in receipt of poor relief. But it has been decided
to turn them also into ordinary pensioners, and
the incredible news comes to hand that this
change will raise the number of pensioners to
something over 1,000,000. It takes a heap of
hard thinking to realise even dimly the amount
of Freetrade misery—the world’s record in misery
—which this represents. For the old-age pension
is not given lightly in Freetrade Britain. In the
first place, the applicant must be at least 70 years
of age. (In Australia the age is 65, and it is to
be reduced.) If the pension age were lowered to 60,
as is proposed in Australia, the number of pen-
sioners would probably be at least 3,000,000; that
is the inference to be drawn from a comparison of
the number of people living at various ages.
Then the pensioner must not have a private in-
come exceeding £3l 10s. a year; in Australia the
limit is £52. Aliens and people who have not put
in 20 years’residence in the United Kingdom are
excluded from the benefit of the Act. At the
date of last census there were 161,222 aliens in
London alone. There are no pensions granted on
account of infirmity or disablement; old age
and poverty are the only qualifications
that count. And with all these restric-
tions one person in every 44 is able to
prove a claim to a pension, and in the great
majority of cases to the full pension—the entire
splendid five bob per week. It would be interest-
ing to know exactly how much hunger and squalor
this stands for in the aggregate. A fragment of the
great mass of wretchedness and stone-brokeness
emerges to claim its pension; no one takes
stock of or tabulates the bulk. If there are
1,000,000 people, all British citizens with over
20 years’ residence to their credit, all over 70, and
all beggared or not far short of it, what would
the army be like if all restrictions, save poverty,
were eliminated —if age, nationality, and length
of residence were taken out of the category ?
Probably 15,000,000 or 20,000,000 would be a fair
estimate. The pauper crop seems almost bound-
less in the land of Freetrade.
The Straight Line.
London Times, in its special Empire Day supple-
ment, publishes a weighty article entitled “ Aus-
tralia’s Great Railway Schemes.” The writer
was sent out here as a special correspondent, for
the purpose of going into the whole matter of thp
transcontinental railways. Being a stranger, he
had no prejudices in favor of any particular State,
and he had no axe of his own to grind ; in
which respect he differed from many local press
“ authorities” who are excessively anxious to get
the Northern Territory line as close as possible to
the office back-door. The Times writer, after
stating that “The Bulletin, by its steadfast
advocacy of these two transcontinental lines, has
rendered a great service to the Commonwealth
and to the Empire,” proceeds to project bricks at
the crowd which advocates the circuitous eastern
deviation line that scrawls all over the place like
a disorderly jim-jam, and which urges that the line
between Port Augusta and Oodnadattais a wreck
and a ruin, or words to that effect. Says the
writer :
The absurd allegations about the condition of the line
between Port Augusta and Oodnadatta may be dismissed
in a very few words. I travelled over it with a party of
members of the Federal Parliament, and with Mr.
Moncrieff, Commissioner of Railways in South Australia,
who actually built the line. It was in excellent repair
throughout, and we frequently attained a speed of 40
miles an hour. Probably no 3ft. 6in. railway in India
would give such smooth and easy running.
Also, regarding the impossibility of the country
through which it is proposed that the straight line
should be run, the writer has this to say :
The character of the country traversed was for the
most part unexpectedly good. The plains for the greater
part of the distance were good saltbush country, which
I was assured by experts would furnish admirable grazing
for sheep.
The description of the country is continued at
length in a similar vein, and concludes thus
Finally, there are the magnificent lands near the coast
of the Northern Territory, with their deep rivers, their
noble harbors and their great variety of products. It is
almost ludicrous to have to add that this great territory,
with an area of 500,000 square miles, which might support
millions of people, contains to-day a population of 1100
Europeans and 2000 colored people, exclusive of abori-
gines.
All of which is precisely what one would expect
from an intelligent observer, who has not been
properly educated re the tremendous importance
of Townsville, Sydney and Melbourne, and the
utter unimportance of Australia as a whole.
In the Federal Address-in-Reply debate last week
Joseph Cook took up the parable of the Pro-
gressive Land-Tax once more ; and as Joseph— so
the S. M. Herald said next day—was “in
splendid form,” presumably his remarks were the
best he had about him. Joseph’s remarks
The land-tax could not help the people with small
means on to the land. In Maoriland it had been shown
that there had been a steady increase in the price of land
since the imposition of the, land-tax. The Labor party
was catering for the middle classes, who had money to
buy land when the large estates were burst up. Land
would be more difficult for the poor man to acquire than
if, was at present.
And in the same issue (14/7/’10) in which it
enthused so gleefully over Joseph’s marvellous
performance, the Herald itself expounded about
the same Progressive Land-Tax :
As the President of the Farmers and Settlers’ Con-
ference said in his speech at the opening of the session
—and as most people now agree—one effect of the gradu-
ated land-tax will be to depress land values, not only the
values of the large holder, but the values of the small
selector as well. A continuous pressure of 3d. to 6d. in
the pound upon the margin of excess of all the really
large estates may be relied upon to keep the market very
well supplied with land, and if the State is to put on an
additional screw there will be such a decline in values as
to make the small holder wonder what has become of his
asset.
Three eminent authorities—Deputy-Opposition
leader Cook, Patten, President of N.S.W.
Farmers and Settlers’ Conference, and the
Herald having thus almost simultaneously
spoken, it is now sheer stupidity or hypocrisy for
any man to say he doesn’t understand the effect
of a progressive land-tax. Put briefly, it is plain
that the tax : *
(1) Increases land values so vastly that only the rich
man can afford to buy land.
(2) Reduces land values so extensively that land ceases
to have any value at all.
(3) Does both these things at once.
Probably landowner Fairbairn had other ideas
in his head when he moved for a return showing
how the public lands had been dealt with in
the several States; but he could hardly have
furnished a better argument in favor of a stiff
progressive land-tax, partly to induce popula-
tion—so that the burden of Australian debt per
head may be decreased —partly to make a start at
paying off that debt, and partly to pay for the
defence of the country. The return gives these
figures:—
Area Alienated or
in Process. Area Repurchased.
r~ 1 A ' r "n
Acres. Price received. Acres. Cost.
N.S.W.. 52.001,928 £54,429,567 426,121 £1,478,769
Vic. . 27,964,655 32,321,689 263,660 1,748,154
Q’land .. 21,309,369 8,687,814 456,742 1,208,013
S. A. .. 9,659,1811 lnlS! > nfu f 459,905 1,111,662
N.T. .. 473,809 f 10 ' 183 - 004 \ - -
W. A. .. 16,252,397 4,081,703 215,822 131,373
Tas. .. 5,718,146 3,925,000 22,068 83,219
133,379,485 £113,628,777 = 1,844,318 £5,761,190
The chief outstanding fact of the record of folly
is that the fool States have parted with the best
of their lands at an average of 17s. per acre, and
have had to pay an average of over £3 an acre
for the scraps they have repurchased. Queens-
land is a specially horrible example : it sold at
about Bs. per acre, and then started buying back
at nearly 60s. As for the use made of the
£113,628,777—we11, Victoria built its telegraph
lines out of its share, but that was a very small
item. Otherwise, the money went to create a
firm conviction that ordinary taxation is an out-
rage. and that the Australian is a superior person
who shouldn’t be expected to pay his way like
ordinary mortals.
On July 13 a railway map appeared in the S. M.
Herald purporting to show “lines for the Com-
mission” (*.«., the Royal Commission which is
now taking evidence re the Closed Ports of
N.S.W.) “to consider.” As an example of the
way that eminent WADE-ite paper thinks the
thing should be done, the map was a howling
marvel. It showed a line to the Victorian border
at Bendpck, on Monaro (Bendock is in Victoria,
but the Herald shifted it into N.S.W.), and a
small branch to the deep water harbor of Twofold
Bay. But for want of any line to connect Cooma
with Wagga and Narrandera, Twofold Bay
would only, by this scheme, get the trade
0 f a few square miles of coastal coun-
try Railways were to be built to carry
the trade of the Tumberumba-Adelong district
about 250 needless miles to Sydney, while it was
to be carefully cut off from its natural port—
Twofold Bay. Wagga, Jerilderie and all the dis-
tricts thereabouts are much nearer Twofold Bay
than Sydney ; but, according to the lines set forth
in the Herald, exports from these places would
have to go almost to Sydney and then turn
back again by another line to get to their
natural outlet. The Herald’s scheme in-
cluded new railway connections for almost
every unfortunate little bar harbor on the coast
—places which the big ocean vessels refuse to
enter, consequently their trade is a mere coastal
business done with small vessels which tranship
their goods at Sydney. But there was never a
suggestion of a line to the deep water harbor of
Port, Stephens. And the plan showed hundreds
and hundreds of miles of new line all pointing
towards congested Sydney. The Herald is a
failure at the decentralisation business, and as an
•opener of Closed Ports it is of no account.
“M. 8.”: The South African buyers who recently
came to New South Wales for the special purpose of
taking away with them some of our best stud sheep
included in their little lot the grand champion of
the Show. Since the war this business has been
going strong, and an asinine press has for the
most part been filled with great glee at the high
prices paid to the local squatters. The reverse
side will presently be turned over, and the first
sign of the turn came the other week when
the S. M. Herald’s London wool writer
drew attention to the rapid manner in
which South African wool was improving on
the Big Smoke market. And it is a true bill.
Where it was selling for 4d. or sd. a few years
back, it is now bringing up to 13d. Ihis simply
means that Australia, through the greed of a
section of squatters, is going to lose its fine wool
monopoly, and will have to compete against the
cheap black labor of South Africa in the great
industry. For the sake of a few extra pounds of
immediate cash, the Commonwealth is going to
-Dart with the pure merino strain which has taken
over a century to build up. This is a matter of
mighty big concern to the bush toilers of Aus-
tralia, because the next thing that will happen
and it will not be very long on the road—will be
a hefty endeavor to cut wages, on the
serious competition from South Africa. Ihe
squatters’ patriotism was summed up the other
day by Suttor (president of the Sheepbreeders
Association), when he told the timid Minister for
Agriculture, PERRY, that they would sell to who-
ever paid the most. And they darned well will
unless they are prevented.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Brass Bottle.”
jj O YArj “What Every Woman Knows.”
Criterion “The Arcadians.”
Tjvoi,! Rickards’ Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
Lyceum".’".’.’ Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium I° e Skating.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING, WEEK
Her Majesty’s “ The Girls of Gotten berg.”
Royal “ Passing of the 3rd Floor Back.”
King’s. .’. . .’.’ ’. “ The Chance of a Lifetime.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium - I ce Skating.
“ What Every Woman Knows ” is still
being revealed every evening at Sydney Royal,
to the utter confusion of Man and the delight of
the sex that keeps its hat on with harpoons. Nell
Stewart, as Maggie Wylie, the speech-writing
knitterof socks, is the same witty, winsome Nell she
was of old, and she puts Lady Sibyl Lazenby to rout
as easily as she hunted the Lord Ohief Justice of
England from King Charles Beatty’s palace in
Old Drury. The spectacle of Nell triumphing
over evil is one of which Australia never tires;
and as she does it better than ever in Barrie’s
comedy, this paper expects the Royal to be a
crowded theatre for many weeks.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Sydney), “A Knight
for a Day ” yields on Saturday to “ The Brass
Bottle.” The new show is a farce, and what the
management would term “a galaxy of unparalleled
intellect ” has been imported to do it justice.
** * *
“ The Arcadians ” is due at the Cri-
terion on Saturday night. Enough said. It
is impossible to adjectivally gild a theatrical lily ;
and, anyhow, a good show needs no puff pre-
liminary. The booking to date constitutes a
Sydney record for speed, comprehensiveness,
weight, etc. In fact, the public is booking like
the devil.
** * *
At the Lyceum Spencer is exhibiting
his second series of Sydney views, which are, if
anything, better than the first. Spencer is
blessed with one of the best cinematograph
operators that ever struck this country, and he
nearly lost him on Monday last. Mr. Higgins
was a passenger on the ill-fated train that was
smashed up at Richmond, but escaped with a fright
and the shock of his life. His lighting of
the second series of Sydney films is excellent,
and the pictures have the rare effect of brilliant
sunshine. Nothing is harder to produce, and the
photographic text-books are full of suggestions re
how to do it; but not one photographer in 1000
does it. These new Spencer films have it
absolutely and unmistakably, and are master-
pieces for that reason alone. For a fine
quivery sensational item, the gun-running film
takes the loaf. An English governor in West
Africa receives word that a successful land-
ing has been made by Miguel, the notorious gun-
runner, and reinforcements are urgently required.
Miguel, a man of resource, kidnaps the Governor’s
adolescent daughter and reaches his fortified vil-
lage, where he ties the damsel to a seat, with
her head resting against the muzzle of an
old cannon. Outside, the English naval force
is made to recoil at the siprht of the
English girl’s danger. But the wily “Portu-
gee ” is outwitted by the cunning bulldog, Lieu-
tenant Rose, who seizes the clothes of the negro
woman envoy, blackens his face, and, entering
the stockade, shoots Miguel dead, spikes the gun
and, as the gun-runners swarm out, admits the
naval force, which gets busy with the bayonet.
MISS MAIE SYDNEY.
Prima donna of “ The Arcadians ,” open[?] at
Sydney Criterion on Saturday next.
Photo, by Swiss Studios, Melbour[?]
West’s Pictures are still at the Palace,
and suffering intensely from want of room to
accommodate the crowds. The picture busi-
ness is booming as it never roared before,
and a horse-loving community goes mad
with delight over the gee-gee of ‘Brad-
ford’s Claim.” The usual millionaires daugh-
ter is captured by a party of claim-jumpers,
and lashed to a tree while the jumpers attend to
more important business. Then the faithful steed
takes a hand, or rather a mouth, and unties the
girl, steals a revolver from a jumper s belt, passes
it to the girl, and then waits to be mounted and
ridden off with “the papers” to the recorders
office. So when the jumpers arrive they tina
the claim registered. Other interesting items are
scenes in Indo-China. and games and sports in
Sumatra. The Indo-Chinese business is of the
high-grade and excellent quality popularly de-
scribed as “ all right ” ; and the man who tinted
the films was an artist. The usual French com *
are judiciously sandwiched in between the
horrible and the beautiful, and make a wet even-
ing glide easily away.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire-new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jefdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Whooping Cough and Influenza.
“ My three children had whooping cough and
influenza, and were very bad,” writes Mrs. G.
Gilyard, Gilvard Street, Gienorchy, Tas. “We
could get no sleep at night. A friend recom-
mended Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery, which
soon cured their coughs.” Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
TO THE DEAF.
Simple Home Treatment Revolutionises
Method of Treating Deafness.
Full Description Sent Free.
A marvellous discovery has just been given to the
world which adds one more victory to the many triumphs
of science over disease.
The Deaf can hear ! 1 !
No longer need deaf people go about wearing the
strained, pathetic expression caused by their affliction, a
positive burden to themselves and those around them.
No longer need they incur the expense or suffer the pain
of dangerous surgical operations, useless methods, or
cumbersome apparatus.
Old prejudices and time-worn fallacies have been en-
tirely swept away. This wonderful discovery enables
the patients to cure themselves speedily and surely in
their own homes, without a visit to the doctor or even
the aid of an appliance.
The current number of the Otolouical Gazette con-
tains a full description of this new method of treatment.
A copy of this issue will be sent free of all charge to
every reader who is suffering from Loss of Hearing or
Ear Trouble in any form,
Write to-dav (a postcard will do) and secure a free copy
before the edition is exhausted, addressing The Aural
Remedies Co., 55 Craven House, Kingsway, London,
England.*
Fred Keeton, described by the theatre’s
own advertisement as “one of England’s most
popular comedians,” is the latest addition to
the Tivoli programme. His songs are the sort
that wring the ear-piercing whistle of applause
from the lad who sits up aloft and supplies the
encores ; so his popularity is assured. Other per-
formers who call for notice are Powell and Vesey,
De Lyle and Brunin, the Charlenes, Fanny Powers
and the Dardinis. Frank Travis, ventriloquist, is
also still on the premises. By the way, the need of
a sizeable blue pencil and a firm, business-like
hand to wield it, is becoming more and more
apparent at this theatre—or is it a music-hall?
“ WHAT EVERY WOMAN KNOWS,” AT
THE THEATRE ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Maggie Wylie (Nellie Stewart) and John Shand
(Harcourt Beatty) become “engaged.”
After some years of silence, “ What Hap-
pened to Jones” was heard again at the
Princess’s on Saturday night. This is an especially
active farce, for all the diversion is labelled
“Urgent.” and -Jones himself is marked “Ex-
press.” Indeed, his velocity is very unusual, and
from the moment when he drops into the Goodly
family circle he pushes things along. He em-
braces all the feminine Goodlys, as if collecting
samples to complete a set, and even kisses the
foreign slavey. Altogether, he is a jovful
person, and, in the hands of big George
Willoughby, is a moderately dashing entertain-
ment. Maybe George only sustains a vivacity
commensurate with his weight, but he makes
some points with his quick-lunch habits of con-
versation. David James is quite efficient as
Ebenezer Goodly ; Hugh Buckler acts pleasantly,
if aggressively, as Richard Heatherly ; while
Harry Overton’s portrait of policeman Holder is
thickly painted in a bellicose red. Harry Halley
is the divine who borrows clothes that resent the
advance of his embonpoint. Miss Lena Lang-
ridgeisthe ancient Miss Starlight, and shows a
simper as salvage from the wreck of her youth.
Some of the other ladies are insipid and inoffen-
sive ; but they don’t wreck any of the stage con-
ventions. The piece, which is to appear for this
week only, is preceded by a curtain-raiser-^“ The
Grey Parrot”—which is a featherweight play,
with some fleeting humor in it.
** * *
Oscar Asche, in his popular character of
the Shrew Tamer, will say farewell to Melbourne,
at the Royal, to-morrow (Friday) night. The
success of the Asche season has been great, and
when he and his wife and the co. have bowed
their last, the audience will feel what is commonly
known as “a sense of real loss.” The word
“wife” is meetly mentioned, because the
story goes that a Melbourne matron, who
adores classic drama, refused to visit the Royal
after hearing that Lily Bray ton lived with the
manager.
* * * *
On Saturday “The Third Floor Back”
comes to pass at the Royal. The advt. gives due
warning that Matheson Lang, with Miss Hutin
Britton, are limited to a few weeks in Melbourne,
and that their first visit will be their final one;
and, furthermore, that “The Passing of the
Third Floor Back ” is a play which has fallen like
dew from Heaven on the soul of Sydney, and
done the city a world of good.
#* * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) the revival
of “ The Orchid ” will give place on Saturday to
“ The Girls of Gottenberg,” and when the fami-
liar fact that Berlin is on the Spree has been re-
asserted for six nights, the Royal Comics will
resume their wanderings. J.C. W.’s serious opera
co. will strike the city for the first time on the
30th, and will do it to the music of “Madame
Butterfly.”
* * * *■
An odor of ’orse was wafted across
the orchestra at the King’s (Melb.) on Satur-
day by Nat Gould’s new drama, “The Chance
of a Lifetime.” A play so feeble in plot
and so strong in turfy sentiment had never pre-
viously confronted the Andersonipn public, and,
after three hours’ consideration, they were proba-
bly in some doubt as to whether their entertain-
ment was an intellectual treat or a lamentable
failure. Ordinary rulesof comparison hardly apply
to “The Chance of a Lifetime.” The drama
stands in a class by itself, impregnated with
a foolishness which has all the charm of
simplicity. The dramatist proclaims his text at
the outset and sticks to it. There are no side
issues ; no characters unconnected with the issue
of the blessed race for the Gold Cup. The super-
numeraries are summarised on the programme as
“jockeys, stablemen, bookmakers, racegoers,
guests and others”—the guests being persons
invited to come and drink the bubbly waters of
racing life out of the Gold Cup when the fat-
headed young squire has won that weighty
bauble. Fragile as a spider’s web, and as methodi-
cally interwoven, is the plot. The brainless squire
has won the girlish affections of Miss Duggan,
who is his trainer’s daughter, thus blight-
ing the hopes of his gallant jockey, who
also covets the young woman. The trainer has
a niece—a well-meaning widow with a Past that
admits of misunderstanding. A phenomenal
bookmaker is her devoted friend in need. Though
all the rest of the world misjudge her, the
bookie’s faith remains undefiled. Unfortunately,
she strikes a bargain of mutual silence with
Captain Clinch, the icy villain of the piece, so the
machinations of the cold Captain and his merry
myrmidonsget a comparatively free scope. They
are bent on winning the Cup, by fair means or
foul. The inane squire has bet a level
£lO,OOO that he will capture the Cup
and drink out of it, and the villain’s
aim in life is to thwart these intentions. Firstly,
he tries to buy the invincible mare Trixie when
she is being sold at auction ; but the Squire takes
her upstairs into his bedroom, where the auctioneer
and the Captain can’t find her, and he subse-
quently buys her in with money borrowed from
the bookmaker. Secondly, the Captain tries to
steal the animal, but is baffled by the widow. In-
cidental to this bafflement, the widow and the
Squire are found emerging from the stable after
midnight, and are involved a while in natural
suspicion. Thirdly, the Captain induces the
gallant jockey to promise to “pull” Trixie for
the Cup, and when Jim fatuously withdraws
the promise, instead of “playing the double,”
the Captain engages another jockey to hit
Jim over the head with his whip when they
are coming up the straight. Nevertheless, Trixie
wins the Cup, her jockey being insufficiently
assaulted to ensure his defeat; but in the mean-
time the Captain’s other myrmidon has stolen the
Gold Cup ; therefore he stands to win the little
fancy bet of £lO,OOO anyhow. Then the widow
steals the Cup from the Captain through the
timely intervention of her adoring bookmaker,
and gee-gee Trixie is returned to her owner’s bed-
room, in order that he may amaze the company
by bringing her downstairs ; and the Captain,
having expressed polite astonishment, goes calmly
off without paying the ten thousand. Nobody
suffers anything to speak of save the gallant
jockey, whose head is still bandaged when he
retires with a broken heart.
* * * *
Apart from the spectacle of gee-gee Trixie
walking up and down stairs, the most impressive
feature of this non-Shakspearian performance is
the start for the Gold Cup, in which five horses, a
starter and a barrier are engaged. For the rest,
it is carefully staged in the best Andersonian man-
ner, and the efforts of the stock company are largely
supplemented by the matter-of-fact acting of
Frank Gerald, a new-comer, as the Captain who
gets most of the “fat” and keeps it on ice.
Gerald wears white hair, plus a wicked black
moustache ; whilst Bert Bailey, the bookie, is also
white haired ; an'd Redgrave appears as a trivial
baldhead. The effect of these elderly characters
is rather soothing.
“ THE ORCHID.”
AT HER
MAJESTY’S .
MELBOURNE.
Colin Campbell
as Count
Cassiynat.
Florence Vie as Caroline Vokins.
Appearing in the van of Spencer’s Pic-
tures (Melbourne), this week, is an item entitled
“ Paid In Full.” It is a crude tale of the eternal
trinity, but the deaths of the wife and herdeputy
husband appeal to the popular sense of justice.
Especially interesting is “ Venetian Firemen At
Work,” for it shows that Dago firemen make up
in agility what they may lack in method. “The
Forbidden Novel is a vigorous fragment, and
“The Angel of Dawson’s Claim” is moderately
awful. This is the story of a child in its“ickle
nightie,” reminiscent of Little Eva and Little
Willie; also of the small and noble boy Henry who
shines in some of Mrs. Wood’s novels like a dim
lantern in a muddy land.
** * *
The Kremo Family, together with the
Falcons, the Raymonds, Mendel and others as
before, are supplying the weekly want at the
Opera House. Some of the others were “ turns ”
of distinction when they were more fresh in the
market ; and the bill, as a whole, is fully up to
the average, or a little more so.
The last night of “The Arcadians,” at
Adelaide Royal, saw an unending collection of
souvenirs handed up over the footlights. Crom-
well and Walls both had to make speeches. Maie
Sydney, who had fainted on the stage earlier in
the evening, finished up smiling. The piece ran
for three weeks—a record for Adelaide—and ap-
parently it could have gone on indefinitely.
Much of the success is due to Tom Walls; but
the superb mounting, and the indefinable clean
“ WHAT HAP-
PENED TO
JUNES,”
AT MEL-
BOURNE
PRINCESS'S.
George
Willoughby
as Jones.
and healthy charm of the whole thing must have
chief credit. The brilliantly spectacular panto-
mime now holds the stage—which is ashadesmall
to do it full justice. There is an Australian flavor
about the cast. Marie Eaton makes an attractive
Aladdin, and public favor is divided between the
fire scene, the balloon, the reckless falling about
of Price and Revost, and the quaint foolery of
Phydora. The Tivoli stands where it did ; and the
rest is Pictures, competing fiercely in at least six
places.
(For “Poverty Point ” see page 33.)
“Snell”: Is there a gymnasium or school of calis-
thenics where effective gesture for serio-comics is taught ?
I ask because it seems to me that every new serio who
bursts into view has precisely the same set of gestures,
and uses them with the same diligence. The impression
one gathers from a study of the budding serio is that she
goes to class at a boxing college and learns all the manual
dexterity. Then, knowing the left lead, the jab, the
counter, the hook, rip and uppercut, she ventures upon
the stage, trusting that a voice and the ability to dance
will come to her bv the grace of Heaven. Consider those
gestures—how expressive, how becoming-, how wonderful
—the sweep of the right hand from the lip tfiat draws
out a reluctant top note ; the graceful flutter of fingers
at a plump bodice when the heart is mentioned ; the
passage of a palm over the eye when it is necessary
to demonstrate that the allusion to eyes in the song has
no reference to feet; the dexterous and cunning slap-
ping of the hip should cash be hinted at; the sly but
elegant indicating of the third finger of the left hand
when marriage comes up. One artiste I have just been
examining has a repertoire of half a million gestures.
She has seven gestures for every word in every song, and
some hundreds for nothing in particular, all studied, and
all more or less wearing. Her song is a marvellous feat
of strength.
As the result of last Monday’s railway
horror at Richmond (Vic.) there were 10 deaths
reported by noon on Tuesday, and two of the
dead were Smiths. There were 16 persons seri-
ously injured and one was named Smith, and
among the 93 with less serious injuries the Smiths
numbered three. It was a lamentable day for
the Smith family. And not one Brown received
as much as a scratch.
♦
Socialism is becoming fashionable. The other
day two Victorian public men, who, a while back,
wouldn’t hare been seen at a dog-fight with the
alleged tiger—ex-Rich Landlord WilliamOkr and
James Cameron, Vic. M.L.A. for Gippsland
East—asked Mines MinisterMcßßiDE to takesteps
towards establishing, at Powlett, State smelting
works for the treatment of either local or Tas-
manian ores. There was nothing alarming about
the request; for Powlett, with abundant coal, a
good harbor and a large handy supply of iron ore
and limestone, is an almost ideal site for the
location of blast furnaces. Yet it was strange
that the idea should come from such a quarter. It
was, in reality, a striking tribute to the efficacy of
State enterprise especially as regards Powlett
coal. Starting in the virgin bush less than nine
months ago, the State mine has already fully met
the needs of the Victorian Railway Department,
and is prepared, if the Rich Landlords will let it,
to supply all Melbourne with coal at 14s. a ton—
as good an article as it now pays 255. a ton for.
Of course, the State railways need iron and steel,
for locomotives, rails, etc., quite as much as they
do coal, and there is no earthly reason why the
State should not also mine and manufacture its
own iron. The only thing that stands—or sleeps
—in the way is the tired person who nominally
bosses the politics of the Cabbage Garden.
Naturally the largest row against the new
“toll” telephone rates comes from those who
had such a good thing on under the old “flat”
rate system—the commercial men. Yet. the claim
they now make is sheer bluff and snuffle, as is
proved by the fact that, even to the large user,
the new rates are nearly, if not absolutely, the
cheapest on earth. Postmaster-General Thomas
proposes to charge £4 per annum, plus a half-
penny per call ; thus a Melbourne “ business
man ” can make 2000 calls a year for £8 3s. 4d.
altogether. In London he would be charged for
a similar service, £l3 6s. Bd. ; in the English
provinces, £9 12s. ; in Germany, £9 10s. ;
in New York, £2l 16s. ; in Chicago, £l6
16s. ; in Philadelphia, £24 155., and so on.
The only city with a rate anywhere near
as low as Australia’s is Birmingham, where
a ground rent of £3 3s. is charged, plus a
penny per call; but the subscriber must pay a
minimum of 30s. for calls whether he makes them
or not; so if he uses the ’phone only once a week
he will pay £4 13s. per annum, as against the Aus-
tralian’s £4 2s. 2d.; whereas if he makes 2000
calls, his bill will be £ll 9s. Bd., as against the
Australian’s £8 3s. 4d ; In truth, the Australian
“commercial man” has a good service at a very
cheap rate, besides which he is still getting a
slight advantage at the expense of the casual
’phone user. Though he may groan inwardly, he
will keep his head shut if he is wise.
ALFRED DAMPIER MEMORIAL FUND.
The following subscriptions have been received
to date :
£ s. d.
The Author of “Reaping the Whirl-
wind” .. .. .. .. 25 0 0
Thos. Sinclair 2 2 0
O. H. Daniell 2 2 0
N. Hallani .. .. .. .. .. 110
Kenneth Mac Kay 110
G. L. Goodman 10 6
J. C. Williamson .. .. .. .. 20 0 0
R. W. Richards ..110
Bland Holt 5 10
£57 18 6
News from Southern China makes it clear
that the giant United States dry dock Dewey
(the largest dry dock in the world) did not sink at
the Philippines recently as the result of an
accident. Divers have ascertained that manholes
and valves had been deliberately opened, and the
treachery is put down to Britain’s gallant little
allies, the Japanese. This is not the first attempt
to destroy the Dewey, which is of paramount im-
portance to Uncle’s Sam’s war boats in Asiatic
waters and around the Philippines. Sam’s job
down in that part of the world keeps him sitting
up nights looking both ways at once, fingering a
hair trigger and sniffing the evening breeze for the
smell of Monkey.
“ Hill End ” writes :
Alas, poor Louis Beyers ! I knew him well; also Hol-
termann. Together they made considerably over a
quarter of a million out of their 100 ft. claim. At last
Fortune frowned. Both became members of N.S.W.
Legislature. Each can be faintly remembered by two
public utterances—one made in the House and the other
out of it. The Government had introduced an Act to pro-
tect game, including antelopes. Little Beyers thought
it referred to “ triantelopes,” and rose to the occasion.
“Mr. Speaker, do you mean to say the intention of the
Government to protect dose tings vich climb upon the
vails? I shall vote against the Government if I lose my
seat because I do.” YVhen the House roared Beyers said
“It vas no joke.” Holtermann was addressing the elec-
tors when one of them asked: “ What about the German
sausage?” It took Holtermann’s breath away. When
he recovered it he spoke: “Now, look here, young
mans, if you are going to raise international questions
veil then lam finished mit the election.” He sat down,
and when asked what he was going to do he again rose
and declared : “ You all go home to your vives, and see
vat they are doing mit you.” He lost the election.
“ Galleryite ” writes from his elevation :
There is great hubbub when a Government attempts
to take away private members’ night, but a recent visit
to N.S.W. Assembly on a private members’ night
suggested that these members don’t deserve to have a
night any more than every dog deserves to have his day.
It was on Tuesday, July 12. Several good things were
on the business paper, but the attendance was about the
size of twopence. Arthur Griffith’s Testators Bill was
one of the good things. There are important and far-
reaching elements in the Bill, and it would have been
interesting- to hear some members on the subject, but
Arthur wasn’t there. Little Levy had a Bill on for the
extradition of runaway husbands, but Premier Wade
stalled him off. Had he had a little backing, little
Levy (who lives a little way out of town) might have
made a little progress, but nothing happened. Harry
Levien wanted the Sunday trading question placed on aii
intelligible footing, but there was nobody to support
him, and consequently no discussion. Stuart Robertson
had a motion for equalising women’s pay and men’s when
the work is equal, but he wasn’t there when wanted.
Hardly anybody else being there, things closed with a
crash at 7.25. It was private members’ night.
“ Billy B.”: In spite of the dead certainty
in niv mind that the authorities will take no
notice of this, the 386,211 th warning of the disas-
ter to come—of the frantic and maddened fight
of trapped humans on board one of the big ferries
in Sydney harbor—l plaster it up on the wall
once more. It’ll arrive one of these nights;
arrive as sure as the sea is deep and cold and
darned unwilling to give up its corpse accumula-
tion. There will be the merry, overcrowded ferry-
steamer (and the overcrowding grows more reck-
less daily) suddenly cut down, its lights out,
and only the sound of Hell to mark the
details. Then, when the horror of it all has had
time to lift its freezing hand from the heart of
old General Public, he’ll rise up and demand
to be told why this desperate overcrowding
on privately-owned ferry-boats is allowed—
what in Sheol the police or the Customs
are doing, anyhow ? Well, if he asks me,
I couldn’t tell him. As far as I have
ever seen in several years’ constant travel across
the harbor, the authority who decides the number
of passengers per boat is the generally-undersized
youth who casts the rope in the teeth of the pon-
toon. And I very rarely observe him counting the
crowd. The crowd doesn’t care; it’ll take
any risk in any circumstances. On Monday
evening last, at the height of the record gale in
the harbor, with the news of the terrible railway
smash at Melbourne ringing in their ears, thou-
sands of men, women and children packed them-
selves on to the delayed Milson’s Point craft at
Circular Quay until there was barely room to
stand on lower or upper decks. On the boat I
embarked in shortly before six o’clock—and from
which I landed at the Point 30mins. later—there
was a double cargo of humanity from bow to
stern, and if we had come to grief the only person
saved would have been my friend, who is a very
strong swimmer—and who declined to cross in the
barge. The ferry companies and their passengers
have been lucky so far, but Luck is an activity
with uncertain and untidy habits. His one sound
and sure custom is to turn dog on a pal, and when
the night arrives that he becomes canine on a ferry-
steamer carrying 1000 helpless passengers I hope
I’m 2000 miles away, at the bottom of a shaft,
with cotton wool in my ears and no chance of
getting a newspaper.


By Special
Appointment
ĥ
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS,
MOONEE PONDS,
VICTORIA.
THE CATERER, Tel. No. 2, Ascot.
Wedding Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Bing' up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE S T REET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best plaoe to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
r\
A DAINTY CAMERA
When you can get a CAMERA that takes PERFECT PICTURES,
size 4Jiii. x 3Jin., with the minimum of trouble, and at the extremely
Moderate Price of
375. 6d.
YOU SHOULD INDULGE IN PHOTOGRAPHY.
THE FOLDING ENSIGN, No. 3'/, is Our Latest.
It completely Eclipses ALL RIVALS at this price. It FOLDS
Compactly, has an Ingenious Infinity Catch, which instantly
registers all distances from 3 feet to infinity without trouble. Real
Leather Bellows, Built of Seasoned Wood—NOT Cardboard—ALL
parts smooth working, with Nickel Fittings, and a High-grade
Single Achromatic Lens. This Camera Is Our Latest Triumph in
HARRINGTONS’ CAMERAS.
Make a
Nate of
This.
WE are the Largest Camera Importers in Australasia.
WE only handle Goods from Makers of Highest Reputation.
WE Stock Every Photo. Requisite for Professional or Amateur.
WE Develop and Print Your Negatives and Repair Your Cameras.
HARRINGTONS LTD
386 Ceorge Street, near 0.P.0., SYDNEY ; and at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and ADELAIDE.
Society
A PREHISTORIC NIGHTMARE.
“It must have been the lobster!!”
England, under the “ blessings ” of Free-
trade and cheap food, is pressing the U.S.A.
hard for the wooden-nutmeg championship.
According to the Standard of Empire, a girl
who lately applied to the Poor Law guardians for
relief gave her only occupation as “making wooden
seeds for raspberry jam!” Andtherecent “Faked*
Food” exhibition (everything on view having
been offered for sale in shops) showed that the
girl was no liar, for the jam-seeds were unmis-
takable timber. Also the saveloys had been
“smoked” with suly hate of lime and creosote.
The London papers are yelling for a law on Aus-
tralian lines to compel the manufacturer to name
his ingredients. And both countries might take
a hint from Denmark, which paints on a shop-
front, for so many weeks, the fact that adulterated
food has been sold there.
The sensational parson is probably the
hardest man in the community to get a straight
answer out of, but the Prime Minister dragged
one, last week, out of the Rev. Henry Worrall,
the one-time Shriek of Bendigo:—
The Eev. Henry Worrall said that they desired to pro-
test against the brutality that was manifesting itself in
our civilisation. Two years ago there was one of the
most alarming exhibitions of savagery that had ever been
seen in Australia. That was the contest at Rushcutter
Bay, Sydney. Some time ago the Church introduced
some black missionaries from Fiji, but before they were
allowed to stand in a Christian pulpit to advocate the
policy of foreign missions a sum of £2OO had to be found
and lodged with the Federal authorities in respect to
each, so that they would be deported from the Common-
wealth again. Jack Johnson, however, was received
with open arms.
Mr. Fisher: Do you allege that he was treated
differently. ?
The Rev. Mr. Worrall: lam only putting the two cases.
Mr. Fisher: What has that to do with the question?
The Rev. Mr. Worrall : 1 was going to say
Mr. Fisher (angrily): Do you allege that Johnson was
treated differently from the Fijians?
The Rev. Mr. Worrall: lam simply giving the instance
now, as it touches the matter generally.
Mr. Fisher: Is there any allegation that your mission-
aries were treated differently from Jack Johnson?
The Rev. Mr. Worrall: I am notin a position to say
what was done by the Federal Government.
Mr. Fisher (sharply): Do you allege that there was a dis-
tinction made?
The Rev. Mr. Worrall: No.
If Fisher drops out of politics one day he ought
to take a job either as a dentist, a cross-examining
barrister or a cart-horse, unless he would prefer to
be an artist or a forest devil. The man who
dragged that plain “no” out of Worrall should
be able to drag anything. He might even become
a steam-tug.
* * * *
“ Cantab’s ” memory -
C. S. Rolls, who went the way of most aviators last
week, was regarded as a species of lunalic while at Cam-
bridge University. The son of a peer who was wealthy
enough to provide him with all the money he wanted, he
did every one of those things which, in the late Ws, were
considered unfashionable and “bad form.*’ The bicycling
craze, which for a time had impelled “ smart” folk to
rise early and pedal round Battersea Park, was
dead ; and so Rolls not only hiked persist-
ently, but even engaged in bicycle races. Motor-
ing was looked on in those days as the freakish
pastime of mechanics, inventors and such like weird
cattle. The spectacle of Rolls, hot and oil-hegrimed,
toiling in aged and ruined clothes at the innards of his
small motor-car was one of the commonest Cambridge
street-sights. The capacity for standing still in crowded
thoroughfares possessed by Rolls’s car supplied much
of the local humor of that period. Volunteering
then, as now, was considered in England to be an amuse-
ment for the lower middle classes and none other. Rolls
was a keen Volunteer. Talk of compulsory service pro-
voked either annoyance or derisive laughter. Rolls ad-
vocated it openly, and I believe on one occasion
lectured on the subject. The correct degree for a
man of birth to pursue at Cambridge is law or history or
what not. Rolls labored like any tradesman at engineer-
ing and electricity, so that he was constantly being sum-
moned by festive undergrads, to repair imaginary bells
and lights, and fix up non-existent railway engines. He
joined none of the fashionable clubs, he never rode with
the drag, or went racing, or owed a tradesman a farthing,
or failed in an examination, or imbibed alcohol, or
“ ragged ’’ anyone, or got sent down, or did a single one
of the spirited deeds expected of his class.
1 see the ; papers and those who knew him in after life
speak of his popularity. He certainly wasn’t popular at
the university. Nob that that was anything to his dis-
credit, the mule-headed intolerance of originality or un-
usualness that characterises the undergraduate type
being a world’s axiom.
Rolls was one of the few scions of the nobility to make a
punch in a business sense. The British aristocrat some-
times does well at the Bar, in Parliament and in litera-
ture, but mostly muddles things when he tackles
business—as witness the case of ex-Viceroy Dufferin and
the hosts of the titled who have gone down on London
Stock Exchange. Rolls was, it has always been under-
stood, the commercial brain of the Rolls-Royce Co. ; and
it must have become a very rich co. in the last five years.
* * * *
Can anyone lay his hand on his stummick
and kiss the Book and swear that he has ever
seen a common or honking motor proceeding at
anything beyond a “ moderate
rate of speed ” ? The other
day sub-Excellency Car-
michael’s car, carrying
private sec. Hood, a
friend and the chauffeur,
was ambling down Too-
rak Hill (Melbourne)
when a front spring
snapped and the machine
swerved and cast itself
headlong against a tele-
graph pole. Of course,
it was proceeding at the
usual “moderate pacq,”
and yet it flew to pieces.
The telegraph pole was
killed on the spot. The
passengers were heaved
on to the footpath with
great fury. As for the
car, its tyres were burst
and torn off, wheels bent
all shapes, hood crushed,
carriage ripped open and
engine wrecked. The
thing looked as if it had
been ground in a mill.
The three motorists
weren’t badly damaged, but if they had all been
killed their ghosts would doubtless have arisen to
state that they were “proceeding at a moderate
speed.”
A coincidence : Nearly two months ago a
collision occurred in Boomerang-street, Sydney.
Two ladies were thrown from a taxi-cab and badly
damaged. One of them, just before relapsing into
insensibility, whispered that she had lost her
gold purse. A young woman immediately
careered up and down, asking all and sundry if
they had seen the goods. The chauffeur had the
receptacle and gave it to her. Just then her
memory failed and she left, taking the article
with her. A week later she stepped off the kerb
at the same spot and stopped a motor-car with
her jaw. This little affair led to her identifica-
tion as the girl who had received the missing
gaud, and the detectives found it in her bedroom.
Owing to the fact that her face was still in plaster
of Paris, she was let off with a time-payment fine
of £2.
A LONG SHOT.
“ What is a Sabbath Day's journey, daddy?"
“ Well, I couldn't just say to a foot , but I
should think it was about twice round the
golf links."
A King Edward “ In Memoriam ”
supplement to the London Sporting
and DRAMATicNEWsincludestwoor three
interesting illustrations among a number
of deeply grovelsome ditto. For instance,
a group photo of the Bullingdon Cricket
Eleven presents Albert Edward as the
mildest of youths in flannels, supported
by sundry young toffs who cut notable
figures later on, and two or three profes-
sional cricketers who were early fathers
of the game. On A.E.’s right is Henry
Chaplin, the hero of a historical racing
feud with the Marquis of Hastings, who
bolted with the girl he was about to
marry. Sir Fredk. Johnstone is an-
other foremost member of the group,
and standing at the back of the Prince
is Tom Brassey, remembered in Victoria
as the Governor with a genius for falling
off. Brassey, even in his youth, appears
to have grown whiskers all around his
face, which duly expresses his sense
of the solemnity of the occasion. But
the most ancient of the souvenir photo-
graphs is not so old-fashioned as the
pictures of King Edward’s recent race-
horse sat full gallop. These are droll
illustrations of English conservatism in
the matter of depicting the gee-gee fully
extended. The two forelegs are out-
stretched, whilst the hindlegs are flying
in the opposite direction, as in the pic-
tures that were painted ere ever the
camera had come to tell the truth, or
something very near to the truth, about
a horse’s galloping action. Derby win-
ners in the Sporting and Dramatic
drawings are speeding in a way that
would inevitably bring them to their
bellies. They are about to do the “splits.’’
But this is how racehorses always travelled in the
old prints, and the English public doesn’t want
its ancient beliefs shattered.
It has been demon-
strated that patients
in Melbourne lunatic
asylums can leave at
any moment, if they
have a mind to, and
it is only the ab-
sence of mind that
keeps any of them in
bounds. Every now
and then a patient
with a fragmentary in-
tellect steps out. In
such cases the body
is usually recovered
within 10 days, the
river being easy and
accessible to both of
Melbourne’s wild
asylums. One in-
stance of a variation
of the programme is
vouched for by an
injured official. A
red - w his ker e d
stranger appeared at
Yarra Bend, blend-
ing with the harmless
cranks. The keepers
took him for grant-
ed. He’d been in
the place for a week
before one curious
officer discovered
that he wasn’t on the
books, and had been
wrongfully supplied
with asylum and ac-
coutrements; in fact,
he was illegally
i pent. Inquiry con-
i cerning Whiskers
demonstrated tiiat
nobody knew whose
madman he was, and
none could tell why he was in, or how, or
anvthing concerning him. In this extremity the
uncertified dilly was called before Authority.
Asked who he was, he gave name, age, profession
and religious belief with pleasing cordiality. To
a further question he explained with affability
and intelligence that he had climbed over the
wall and presented himself as a new lodger.
“And why did you do this, sir?” Authority de-
manded. Whiskers laughed. “Because I was
stone-broke and wanted a few days’ board and
lodging,” he said. “I knew I’d get a week’s
square meals before anybody noticed me, and I
thought it would be a joke. My uncle used to be
boss lunatic here, and he told me how the place
was run. If you give me 10s. I won’t tell any-
body.” He didn’t get the 10s., so he proceeded
to tell.
* * * *
“B.Gr.”: Concerning these arduous and
varied jobs of Arthur Bayldon (B. 7/7'/'10) and
man in general (B. for several issues), I rise as a
woman to remark that precious few men ever
attain the versatility of the common back-yard
kind of wife who lives in any old street you like.
She combines the duties of seamstress, tailoress,
laundress, cook, housemaid, barber, nurse, doctor,
surgeon, scullery maid, governess, parson, corn-
pinion, mixer of pick-me-ups managing director,
accountant and flagellator. In her spare time she
buys a new baby.
MAKING USE OF A GOOD THING.
“Come along and hare a game .of quoits. The
other Saints are short of a halo."
THE DICTATOR.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Wade said : “ This posit ion could very easily have
been avoided if Mr. Fisher had been less inclined to keep
the States at arms’length, and had adopted a concili-
atory attitude of making known to the States his financial
proposals at a meeting of Premiers in conference. ... I
may add that this is not the only complaint that the
State has against the Commonwealth Government. Per-
haps more will be heard of it in the course of next week.’’
—Daily paper.
Avaunt! What news is this I hear
. Of portent grim and sinister?
Is be, whose words insult mine ear,
A mere, upstart Prime Minister?
O Ids fish ! These fellows hitherto
Wore no demeanor critical;
But, cap in hand, have sought my view
On all affairs political.
’Sdeath ! Has the caitiff not the sense
To be polite and affable
Like others, whose meek diffidence,
At times, was even laughable?
Aha! I made them sore afraid !
They gave my schemes the preference,
And murmured : “Thank you, Mister Wade,”
With low and seemly deference.
Then, I had but to raise my hand,
And ev’ry Fed’ral min-i-on
Sprang hastily to my command,
And bowed to my opin-i-on.
’Twas I that granted them the site
To build their pesky capital;
For, if approached with mien polite,
I’m not a fearsome chap at all.
’Twas I dictated all their laws
And made State Frights substantially
Their shibboleth ; I marked the flaws,
What time they schemed financially.
I bade them to the Conference ;
They came with meek humility ;
And there I filled them with immense
Respect for my ability.
But now, this upstart Fisher man.
Intent on irritating me,
Has dared to moot a Fed’ral plan
Without conciliating me.
Zounds! I have spoken ! And I speak
With ominous obscurity.
Let him beware, I say! . . . Next week I
’Tis pregnant with—futurity.
Next week ! Be warned ! Here, in my sleeve
Are certain things mysterious.
If they be loosened, by my leave. . . .
Aha ! It will be serious !
O, I have words of weight and stress
To tickle your auriculars.
Enough ! . . . Watch handbills and the press
For further grim particulars.
VICTORIA.
DEN.
MORE SUITABLE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Time was whin little Mrs. Blank
Grew roses in her garden small.
They blossomed gaily, rank on rank,
And climbed the pretty villa wall.
Her husband clipped them without fuss
For purposes nefarious.
The roses small and blooms immense
He gathered with a robber hand ;
And Mrs. Blank, all innocence,
Their absence could not understand.
She prizes took for roses rank,
And, on the quiet, so did Blank 1
But Blank went home one day to see
A ruin where the roses grew.
“ At ballet girls,” said Mrs. 8.,
“ You all my lovely blossoms threw,
Just give me time to work the plough—
For turnips are my hobby now ! ”
VICTORIA.
SILAS SNELL.


Consider Your Health,
The hard labour of ordinary washing
with ordinary Soaps, the steam from the
constant boiling, and the mischief done by
the injurious materials of which some Soaps
are composed, bring on a variety of com-
plaints. Such troubles can be avoided by
using Sunlight Soap which has the Guarantee
of Purity of Sir Charles A. Cameron, M.D.,
one of the most eminent analysts in the
world.
By the use of Sunlight Soap the exhausting
strain on the muscles of the back and arms,
and friction to the skin of the hands are
reduced to a minimum, for Sunlight Soap
works of itself. It washes silently, secretly,
thoroughly
Mary, Mary, quite contrary,
With boots so thinly soled,
In the garden, with garments airy,
S mntered and caught a cold.
Well for her, her mother wary
Didn’t bring doctors to her.
She saved pounds—and also Mary,
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
./
Those Who Ride Long and Often
will find the greatest comfort in these Riding Breeches
and Leggings.
Every rider knows that it requires well-made Breeches,
with the right amount of room where needed—to get the
maximum degree of comfort, and this is what you get in
these garments.
They are made and sewn in such a way that they will
give long and satisfactory wear.
MEN’S RIDING BREECHES.
Postage 1/-; Inter-S ate, 1/6.
PEAPES 8 CO. LTD.
“Men’s Outfitters,’’
309-311 Gzorge St., Sydney.
The hysterical building programme of the
oversea shipping companies which trade to Aus
tralia threatens to make trouble. For some years
past the companies have agreed upon a uniform
scale of passenger fares, although there has been
nothing tangible in the Way of a signed under-
taking. The P. and O. and the Orient lines have
vastly improved their services of late, and vessels
like the Marmora and the Asturias are far
superior in some respects to the foreign liners
that come this way. The N.D.L. Co. has now
intimated a heavy “cut” in passenger rates, on
the plea that its steamers are not up to the
highest class of boats used by the British com-
panies. Any rash statement to this effect, hitherto,
would have provoked the German co. to libel
proceedings, for outwardly its ocean giants,
the Bremen find the Grosser Kurfurst, of 13,000
tons, are equal to anything that berths at
Circular Quay, Sydney ; but now the co. throws
dust on its own head, and says that it is unworthy
of the old rate of payment. As the British com-
p inies charge the same fares for the new sea-
palace at- the' top of the fleet and for the old
marine slug at the tail of it, the situation is com-
plicated. Either the practice, common enough
elsewhere, of varying fares according to the mag-
nificence of the boat must be adopted all round,
or else there is likely to be a rate war. And if
that comes about, the big, costly vessel won’t earn
its oats in the trough of the sea, so to speak, and
the old, cheap written-down ship will pay its way
and not much more.
“Bloggs” : Why should the Judder only
elect to Jud publicly concerning the moral sub-
versiveness of stoush where the disturbance is
of the piebald variety ? Prior to the Burns-
Johnson trouble hardly a word of protest
against the prize ring arose from the godly.
And yet in a thousand resorts throughout
the Commonwealth, from the insanitary
old Gaiety Hall upwards, Australian
males had been biffing one another
into unconsciousness for years in the
presence of packed houses. It isn’t
as if the Burns-Johnson scrap was
the first big thing of its kind that
had occurred here. The Burns-
Squires affair aroused even more
local interest. To the writer’s
personal knowledge, many of the
righteous ones whoafterwards filled
the newspapers with high-minded
moaiis anent the Burns-Johnson
uproar were among the most edified
spectators of that occasioned by
Burns and Squires. The Burns-
Lang riot caused Juddism
no pain, so far as could be
seen or heard ; neither did
the Lang-Fitzsim mons med -
ley. Yet, the same old holy
crowd which never raised an
audible yelp of protest against
the spectacle of real blood being
scattered over the landscape, are
now simmering with anxiety to hinder
the faint simulation of these things being thrown
on a flicker screen. Can it be that the Judders
laid .the odds against the nigger both times, and
that this is their way of squealing? It seems
the kindliest explanation of their weird illogic-
ality.
* * * *
“Lumper”: On one of the Sydney
wharves last week I came across a man paying
duty on several pairs of second-hand gloves. He
was trying to get them through free, as they were
a re-importation. He had sent them to England
to he cleaned.
SECOND QUARREL.
SHE: “ You’re mad! You ought to be straight-jacketed!”
HE: “So I ought—after marrying a padded cell!”
Old friend In-Clement Wragge, in a letter
of scornful comment on the work of Australia’s
meteorological departments now that they haven't
the blessing of his services, predicts a di ought
time coming for this country between now and
1915. Moreover, he says that the indications are
dead easy to read for anyone who is on familiar
terms with the weather —anyone like Wragge,
that is. But after all, when the gentleman with
the tattered name was
in meteorological
harness, he wasn’t
such an absolute
raging snorter
as a drought
prophet.
THE FIXED WEEPER.
KIND LADY: “ Tell me, my little man, why do
you stand there and cry? ”
THE LITTLE MAN: “’Cos yesterdec when I stood
are en [?]wicd a lady yuv me an orange.”
Gustave Meyer, “Counsellor of the Na-
tion,’’ sent the following to the American papers
• before the Johnson-Jeffries scrap :
As an American astrologer, I wish to state that I have
obtained the data of birth of Mr. Janies J. Jeffries, whom
I find was born at Carroll, 0., Thursday, April 15, 1875,
and that of Mr. Jack Johnson, who was born at Galves-
ton, Tex., Sunday, March 31, 1878, and after making a
careful comparison of these nativities I finally came to
the conclusion that in the great battle Mr. James J.
Jeffries will retain the heavyweight championship of the
world, owing to the fact that “ the stars in their
courses” are more with him than with his opponent.
The wretched astrologer didn’t even know that
Jeffries couldn’t “retain” the championship,
because he hadn’t got it.
Sydney Telegraph is as blind as a bat to
the Commonweal when its own interests obstruct
its line of vision. Recently, it started a mild sort
of campaign against the Commonwealth monopoly
of wireless telegraphy, on the ground that Aus-
tralian experimenters will be thereby discouraged
and hampeied. It still maintains this attitude,
and fails to understand why private firms should
not be allowed to make their own installations.
Presumably, the Telegraph is feeling sore about
the bullion. Some time ago it was proposed that
the Sydney dailies should instal “ wireless,” and
thus save a lot of the cash at present spent with
the Commonwealth Telegraph Department for
the telegraphing of news between their own city
and Melbourne. It was calculated that the two
stations would cost £BOO apiece, to he divided
among four offices, or £4OO each. After
that there would be only the wages of the
operators and the cost of upkeep. At the
present time the papers have their own wires and
instruments in their own offices, worked by
Government operators. For these instruments
and wires they have to pay toll, and they have
also to pay the salaries of the operators. This
represents a large sum per annum. Then, in
addition, day messages come over the ordinary
wires through the Government offices at ordinary
press rates. By a private installation 6f wireless
all this expense would be cutout. And now a
brutal Government has put both feet through the
proposal and blown it right out.
But the papers needn’t weep over it. Their
private installations would have been of service
only as long as they were alone in the atmo-
sphere. Other concerns—banks, insurance offices,
wool firms and the like—with branch houses
in both cities would have set up sending and re-
ceiving stations, and the air would have been full
of great electric waves, which, crosscutting and
meeting one another, would have set up a
“jobble” which would have made it impossible
for anyone to read any messages. There’s only
room for two sending stations in Sydney at
most, although the number of receivers may be
unlimited. In the chaotic United States, where
every Tom, Dick and Harry has, so far, had un-
limited right to as many installations as he liked
to put up, chaos has supervened, and regular work
is impossible. So now the individualistic Yanks
have requested the Government to collar the
whole business, and restore something like order
in the atmosphere.
A whole lot of people would like to know
what harm George V., who seems a pleasant and
respectable gentleman, has done to Dill Macky
and Robinson Snowball and the rest of the
Orange push of Australia, that they should call
him a liar by implication and a scoundrel by in-
nuendo. On the 12th of this month Orangeism
ran wild in Sydney re the proposed change in the
form of the Coronation Oath. This is how the
oath runs:—
I do solemnly and sincerely, in the presence of_ God,
profess, testify, and declare that I do believe that in the
Sacrament of the Lord’s Supper there is not any transub-
stantiation of the elements of bread and wine into the
body and blood of Christ at or after the consecration
thereof by any person whatsoever ; and that the invoca-
tion or adoration of the Virgin Mary or any other saint,
and the sacrifice of the Mass, as they are now used in the
Church of Rome, are superstitious and idolatrous ; and I
do solemnly, in the presence of God, Profess, testify and
declare that I do make this declaration, and each and
every part thereof, in the plain and ordinary sense of the
words read unto me as they are commonly understood
by English Protestants, without any evasion, equivoca-
tion, or mental reservation whatsoever, AND WITHOUT
ANY DISPENSATION ALREADY GRANTED ME FOR
THIS PURPOSE BY THE POPE or any other authority
or person whatsoever, and without any hope of such dis-
pensation from any person or authority whatsoever, or
without thinking that I am or can be acquitted before
God or man, or absolved of this declaration or any part
thereof, although the Pope or any other person or persons
or power whatsoever should dispense with or annul the
same, or declare that it was null and void from the
beginning.
The British people have pinned their faith to that
oath for more than 200 years, yet it is so obviously
incomplete that its futility should be visible to
the naked eye. It wants, in the first place, this
other clause :
And I swear that I have not about me any dispensa-
tion from the Pope to relieve me from the guilt of falsely
swearing, as mentioned above, that I have no dispensa-
tion from the Pope.
And then, on logical principles, the King should
go on swearing till at last he came to this: —
And, this being my 799th swear, I solemnly declare
that I have not about me the 800th dispensation of the
Pope to release me from this swear and from my previous
798 swears. And I swear that I will continue swearing
that I have no Papal dispensation from my previous
swears till the Pope gets so tired that he can’t sign any
more dispensations. If this is a long-distance race be-
tween my swears and the Pope’s dispensations, I under-
take to keep ahead of the Pope or bust. And if Ibu t
you may search my remains to make sure that I have no
Papal dispensation to absolve me from the sin of busting.
The Coronation Oath, with its suggestion that
the King is a liar, and has in his pocket a Papal
document authorising him to be a liar, is such a
foolish business that it is now proposed that the
King should simply swear that he is a Protestant
without swearing in addition that he is telling the
truth in saying he is a Protestant. But the 12th of
July multitude wailed at great length that George
V. couldn’t be relied upon if he simply declared
he was a Protestant. He must also declare that
he hadn’t about him the Pope’s pardon for
falsely attesting his own Protestantism. And it
never once struck the fact that if George V.
was a liar he might have two Papal dispensations
—one to excuse him for falsely swearing that he
was a Protestant, and the other to excuse him for
falsely swearing that he had no Papal dispensa-
tion for falsely swearing that he was a Protestant.
In fact, he might have a pint of dispensations
about him and two or three gallons of them at
home, and he might have buried two bushels of
dispensations in the garden.
* * * *
It was mentioned at the 12th of July pro-
ceedings, in Sydney, that “Dr. Robertson held the
proof thattheyear i9ll-12had actually been fixed by
the Pope and the Kaiser for the invasion ” [of Eng-
land], It is a staggering item of news, but one
would like to know who is Dr. Robertson, and
what is the alleged “proof”? Also, what kind
of year is “1911-12”? Then the speaker, Dill
Macky, expounded thus :
It was hard to realise the humiliation the Romish
Church had suffered. In Italy no priest, bishop, car-
dinal or pope could marry a couple. Not only had their
monasteries been done away with in Italy, bub their
magnificent houses had been seized by the State, and
what were formerly homes of vice and idleness were
now hospitals, barracks, museums and schools.
(Cheers.) In Italy the Roman Catholic Church could
not own a brick of a house nor one square inch of land.
She could neither build nor buy a house, and if property
were left to her she had to speedily convert it into money,
or it would be confiscated by the State. The Pope did
not own the Vatican nor St. Peter’s ; they belonged to
the Italian Government, as did all the art and library
treasures stored in those places. In Italy the priests
could play no more death-bed tricks—they must go to
Ireland to do that. (Laughter.) It was illegal there to
leave money to pay for masses for the dead., (Cheers.)
A church in these circumstances seems hardly the
sort of ally that a full-grown Kaiser would trouble
about; but one never knows. Almost anything
may happen in the year 1911-12.
It 1c it
A Sydney photographic firm is planning a
notable work of art to be handed down to future
generations—a huge contraption with the portrait
of George Y. in the middle, and around it a multi-
tude of portraits of New South Wales J’s.P. It
is difficult to imagine anything more touching
than a king surrounded by J’s.P. The spectacle
would move any art-lover to emotion. The only
thing that would be likely to get ahead of it would
be an emperor in ar. environment of sausages.
ANARCHY GETS BUSY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Now that the Speaker of the House of Representatives
and the President of the Senate have declared war on
wigs and gowns, it is proposed to call a meeting of the
Standing Orders Committee to consider whether an
assault shall not be made on the mace in the House of
Representatives and the sword worn on special occasions
by the Sergeant-at-Arms. It is al3o proposed to exter-
minate the rosette on the back of the sergeant. The
white tie worn by the clerks is likewise promised early
annihilation. As the committee contains a majority of
Labor members the work of destruction is likely to be
undertaken with eager and relentless ferocity.— Sydney
Telegraph (14 /7/’10).
In the sound, sane, old Tory days of yore,
When Labor lurked upon the outer mat,
Hopeless of office, seemingly, folk swore
(That is the Anti-Sosh contingent) that
A Labor triumph would mean floods of gore,
And theft and rapine and the death of Fat.
The thirteenth burst on an astounded land,
And, shortly after, Labor took the reins ;
The daily-paper student shuddered and
Grew deadly chill. Dread fairly froze his veins
When Labor raised a predatory hand
And grabbed the Tiling that shields the Speaker'
brains.
A period of quietude ensued.
The Classes strove to still their wild alarms ;
Alas ! just as they’d got their minds imbued
With something of that peace which soothes and
charms,
Labor’s anarchic antics were renewed
It filched the Weapon of the Bloke-at-Arms.
Already, wild subversive talk is rife
Concerning the time-hallowed black rosette
Which decks the sergeant’s marrow-bone. Its life
Is sought. A while, and then—the oubliette ;
After which outrage will come oaths and strife
And other things that make Right Thinkers fret.
Clerks’ ties are menaced by the Hand of Doom,
Even the Mace itself may have to go,
Nor do the Wreckers offer in the room
Of these fair things some substitute, or show
The slightest grief. . . . Dost wonder at my gloom,
Or at my moanings of “ I told yer so ’’ ?
N.S.W.
HENRI SINGKMOINE.


OUTSTAYING THEIR WELCOME.
MISS VICTORIA: “ I wish these people would go. Since they took the fatman into partnership they have become insufferable. And I
have nobody to turn them out!”


What’s the time ? Just the time for a
glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets. Chemists
refund money if it fails to cure. E. W: GROVE’S signa-
ture is on each box. 1/IJ. [1
GOLDEN YELLOW AXLE GREASE.
A Pure Oil Lubricant for
all Axles and Bearings.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney
• [2
DIAMONDS REDUCED ENORMOUSLY.
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Rings and Pendants,
and Jewellery generally at prices never before attempted
in Australia.
WHY?
Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that
calls for an enormous output, and we have to
live up to it; and so, to increase our already large output,
we are offering all diamond goods at merely a commission
on the actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisements and the increase of
customers.
JQ
SSS
&
Diamonds and Rubies,
£3O.
Plain Figures
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“ Coll” writes without shame :
Re hungry tracks and Outback hospitality (B.
26/5/’10). I take it that“J. Pannikin,” who writes en-
thusiastically of the warm welcome he received from
squatters everywhere in N.S. W. is either an unabashed
liar or one who humps Matilda in a wheeled vehicle.
During my 10 or 11 years on the rivers I swagged it up
and down the 'Bidgee from Gundagai to Hay. I have
travelled the plains round Jerilderie, Murray Hut and
Tocumwal across to the Lachlan, with Forbes and Con-
dobolin as centres, from Ramsay’s Bush to Nocoleehe,
Urosino, Tinapagee and Elsinora, on the Paroo, up the
Barwon and Namoi to Tamworth, and on to Tenterfield,
Glen Innes and Armidale, and have called at all stations
en route. And out of the depths of my experience I say,
that, to give a normal stomach even half-time at work,
one needs to be a confidence man with something new
I have seen many a smartdodge exploited by hungry men
of brains ; withal I can name 50 stations at least where
even they would have to admit defeat. A free-food re-
verse brought about my retirement from Outback bat-
tling. I used to carry a letter (bearing the imprint of a
well-known Costs firm in Sydney), couched in pathetic
terms, to “ Please come home and claim your inheritance
and putaside your independence,” etc. etc., and on arrival
at the homestead would make a beeline for the boss’s
quarters, and after telling that worthy a tale fit to shift
an Egyptian sphinx, would contrive to drop the letter.
It came off in a lot of cases, till I got the set-back at Lila
Springs. ’Twas there I was catechised on the folly of
cadging round the country when I had means at my dis-
posal. I was told to get. I got. In any case, the letter
was getting worn out, and I had no official paper on
which to write another one.
* * * *
“ Yigilans ” : Be young aboriginal children
being married to old men in the Northern Terri-
tory. This horrible custom is not confined to the
old blacks. When the northern Chow becomes
aged he also takes unto himself a child wife. This
is the most shocking scandal of the Territory.. It
is the custom of Chowland for an old man to
marry a child as his fifth or sixth wife. I have
seen in Canton a girl of 11 who was the sixth'
spouse of a Mandarin. The blackfellow of the
Territory does the same thing. It is quite com-
mon to see a very old man with two child wives,
aged eight or nine years. Young aboriginal men
have Buckley’s chance of getting a young wife
unless they steal one from the old bucks, which is
a rare occurrence. They have to put up with
the old cast-off wives of the patriarchs, to
carry the swag and the dilly-bag. But the old
fellow barters the children with the heathens for
tobacco, square gin or tucker. It is a common
practice in the Territory for these men to go
round the Chinese camps trading in human flesh
and blood. I have seen mere infants of eight and
nine years of age sold to old, hideous-looking
heathens. At Horseshoe Creek tinfield a Chow
and two Malays lived with children bought from
the old . blacks for tobacco, etc. Some of these
children become terribly diseased, and soon die.
As the missionary person said : “ Certainly suck
events should call for much prayer for these poor
little pirls.” I never saw anyone pray for them,
however.
“The Scapegoat”: Be the prickly pear
and its lack of virtues (“Caber” in B. 30/6/’10).
My own experience enables me to contradict the
statement with fury. During a big drought I
kept a small herd of milkers alive mainly per
medium of the vegetable hedgehog. And we had
milk and butter all through. Just here, I want
to anticipate the storm of denial that will pour
from country Abos. I know there are numerous
instances of cattle dying wholesale while being
fed on pear—they died up where I was ; but in
every instance that came under my notice, the
pearTeaves had been fed whole. I was present
at several post-mortems on the victims, and every
time found undigested fibre tangled into a hard
mass. Thereby I learned my lesson. I chaffed
the leaves—allowing 561 b. per day for each cow—
boiled the mash, and added thereto one pint of
bran and half a pint of molasses—these latter in-
gredients to counteract the astringent properties
of the acid in the leaves. There was not a vestige
of grass in the paddocks, and certainly the small
quantity of bran and molasses was insufficient to
sustain life, so there must be some food value in
the pear.
* * * *
The house had been burned down, and
the owner offered Tangatamangere, the Maori,
30s. to pull down the chimney, scrape the bricks,
and stack them. Tangatamangere was thirsty,
and leaped at the job with both feet. He under-
mined the front of the chimney, and then pushed
it from the rear with a big pole. The work of
scraping and stacking the few remaining whole
bricks only occupied about two hours, and then a
happy brown individual presented himself at the
pakeha’s temporary residence to demand his
“ tirty shillin’.” The pakeha was incredulous.
He had expected that the work would occupy the
Maori four or five days ; so he went found to in-
vestigate. His language, on beholding the wreck-
age, nearly took the curl out of Tangatamangere’s
hair. Tangatamangere thought that his cup of
bitterness was full to the brim when the pakeha
scornfully refused to pay out the “tirty shillin’.’’
But it overflowed about a fortnight later when an
unsympathetic J.P. awarded 30s. damages and costs
against him. Now, when Tangatamangere has
occasion to express his opinion of pakehas in
general, or his ex-employer in particular, a cloud
of smoke rushes from his mouth and his hair takes
fire.
# * # *
“Dux”: Far away in the backblox,
beyond the eye of the country policeman, the Law
generally looks after itself ; but in the way-back
Maori pahs the almighty Maori Council deals out
justice with great solemnity. The Council has a
scale of penalties entirely its own. The man who
runs away,with his neighbor’s wife is generally
fined £l. The drunk always parts up £5, for the
man who is lucky enough to capture a superfluity
of alcohol in those parts has to fight against a
certain amount of envy and jealousy on the part
of the dispensers of “te law.” The other day the
Council came upon a pah where a tangi waS in
full blast, and barrels of beer and bottles of
whisky blotted'out the landscape. The chairman
of the Council looked solemn for a spell, and then
he inquired: “Who bringem te waipiro and te
peer here?” “Napere,” answered the tribe;
“Well,” said the chairman, “Napere, he fined
£5. Let te spree
go on J” Justice
was satisfied,
and the august
Council joined
in “te spree,”
and drank in a
fiendish manner
until the liquor
was exhausted.
HANNIBAL AND THE HEN.
TKACHER (to new pupil): “ Why did Hannibal
cross the Alps, my little man?”
MY LITTLE MAN: “Fer the same reason as the
'en crossed th' road. Yer don't catch me
with no puzzles.”
“ Melow ” : Will “Little John” (B.
23/6/’10) disclose the whereabouts of his equine,
palace where stable boys receive 10s. per week.
Was once head lad of one of the largest racing
stables in South Aus. where seven “ bound” boys
and a few probationers took, turns about to wear a
blue serge slop suit, the property of the stable.
He whose turn it was could either dress the part
of the Horsey Culturcrat or gamble his suit-right
for a mess of cigarette ends. This I’ll swear—the
whole boiling was not entitled to 10s. per month,
and the Lord, alone knows what they got. One
lad, who has since climbed the saddle-tree, apace,
received the magnificent fee of 2s. 6d. per mount
for winning a double at a race meeting held not
a billion leagues from Adelaide. The afore-
mentioned blue suit was missed suddenly on the
night of a metropolitan meeting. Tears and
gnashings awaited the wearer, but he didn’t come
home.
NOT PLAYING THE GAME.
MURPHY (in protest): “Go aisy , Hogan , go aisy, or Oi won't fight wid yer.”
“Agricola”: In the Upper Murray
country grows a tree known to the local denizen
as the honeysuckle. This vegetable conceals
about its person large white grubs, something
similar to those used by Black Brother for dinner
and extracted by him from the wattle. The
honeysuckle is now a very infrequent vegetable,
though years ago the river banks were thickly
lined with it. Its timber is of little use either for
building or fencing, and it owes its present scar-
city to its permanent boarder, the grub. To the
Murray cod this grub is an irresistible tempta-
tion, so the equipment of the angler in Upper
Murray waters is not complete unless he, takes
his trusty axe along. If fish are biting freely
grasshoppers and mussels are good enough bait;
but if they are shy the axe is used on the nearest
honeysuckle. It may take 100 years to grow one
tree, and then that tree may be cut down in order
to get one grub with which to catch one fish.
And even then the fish may not be eaten.
* * * , *
Papua got a bad attack of flag-waving
when it was starting on the rocky road to civilisa-
tion. The Union Jack was hoisted
three times within 19 months ; each
time a proclamation was read; each
time the great white Queen was an-
nounced to the natives as their future
Sovereign ; and each time the usual
hurly-burly of cheering and speech-
making took place. Police-Magistrate
Chester, at Premier Mcllwraith’s bid-
ding, perpetrated the first fiasco.
The entire proceeding was cancelled
by the British Government, Hugh
Hastings Romilly perpetrated the
next jest. He received a letter from
the Colonial office directing him to go
to Papua. It was known that the
British Government had by this time
discovered that Mcllwraith was right,
and Romilly read into the letter a
direction that he was to annex some
90,000 miles of the territory. Accord-
ingly the natives were again rounded
dp, the available whites were mustered,
and the Union Jack was duly hoisted. The
great white Queen was once more setup as the
emblem of authority. But a little later Commo-
dore Erskine arrived in a cruiser with the authentic
proclamation in his pocket. “We must do it all
over again,” said the Commodore. So for the
third time the riot was celebrated, and Papua
settled down as a province of the great white
Queen. By the way, the Papuans took the great
white Queen to be Mrs. Lawes, wife of the local
missionary of the time.
* * * *
“ Geofrecl ” ; What is the record distance
an ordinary river turtle will travel back to his
residence ? Caught one once in the Barcoo (Q.)
on the borders of Wakefield, out Isisford way.
Took him up to the pub, but no sooner did. I turn
my back than he started off home. All that day
and well into the night that turtle galloped till
he got back to the Barcoo, a distance of about
three-quarters of a mile. I caught up on him just
as he was standing at his front door wringing the
perspiration out of his overcoat.
“ Ossian’s ” hints on first-aid :
Apropos of the Australian aboriginal’s toughness, Miss
C. Petrie, in “Tom Petrie’s Reminiscences of Early
Queensland, dating from 1837,” states : “My father has
been present at numbers of aboriginal fights, and he
says ‘it takes a lot to kill a blackfellow.’ One thing
surprised him greatly. During a big fight at Dumben
(now called Pinkenba), a blackfellow, in stooping down
to pick up a weapon, got struck with a spear which
went in just above the collar-bone, and, after going right
down through the body, came to light again. It seemed
impossible that the man should live. And yet he did
recover, although he fell away to a mere skeleton first.”
Again, in describing a tribal fight, she says: “They
fought very fiercely, these men ; some of the gashes were
terrible. ... To heal the wounds,, they used charcoal
powder, and sometimes just wood ashes pounded down.
The aborigines never laid up with their wounds... . Deep
cuts on the head were treated in the same way as those
on the body—just charcoal put in them.... It would
without doubt kill a white man to be treated in the same
way.”
Dr. Roth, lately Protector of Aborigines (Queensland),
spent some years in the Boulia district, and much time in-
vestigating aboriginal methods, etc. In his “ Ethnologi-
cal Studies ” he just about settles Lister’s notion of anti-
septic dressing by the following : “Iguana, snake or any
Other kind of fat or grease, mixed more or less with mud
or dirt, is used as a dressing for cuts or wounds Of all
description, the latter never being allowed to heal by
first intention. This custom of greasing is common
everywhere.”
I have heard of a Fraser Island nigger who yvas disem-
bowelled by a boomerang being nursed back to health
and’possum. His pals stretched him at full length on
the beach, restored his entrails, and buried his abdomen
in sand. When he had lain there six days, they scraped him
out and found him comparatively frisky. At any rate, he
got neither septicaemia nor peritonitis out of the busi-
ness, and is believed to have lived for many years after-
wards. . As I say, I only heard of this.
THE CAPITAL SITE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
" I hear them speak of a Fed’ral site
Where shall arise a city bright—
Mother, where is this bonzer spot?
Shall we not seek it and build our cot?
Is it in some mild and temp’rate zone
Where the name of drought is never known ?.”
“ Not theah, not theah, me che-ild.”
“ Is it where the mighty ranges rise
And point their white tops to the skies ;
Where mountain torrents hurry down
Past thriving farm and peaceful town ;
Where our great city may he planned,
A credit to our native land?”
“ Not on yer life, me che-ild.”
“ Is it where the noble rivers flow,
And fruit and corn abundant grow ;
Where wide and verdant grasslands sweep,
And pleasant orchards, fruited deep,
Reach out for miles across the plains,
Smiling to sun and grateful rains ?”
“ You bet it ain’t, me che-ild.”
“ Is it far away, in the Empty North,
Where the camel trains go back and forth ;
Some unprotected, distant spot
Where the populace congesteth not;
Fair to our foeman’s envious eye,
Which ’twould be wise to occupy ? ”
“Right off the track, me che-ild.”
“ Is it in that land where grows the spud,
And the patient dairy cow her cud
Doth ruminate, while high green maize,
And oats, and rape delight her days ;
Where pumpkins, large as great barn doors,
Astonish country edi-tors?”
“ That ain’t the place, me che-ild.”
“ Is it where the squatters squat their sheep,
And large and easy incomes reap ;
That fertile land, unpeopled still,
Where none may delve, or grow, or till;
Those large, unoccupied estates
Where sheep-lords reign and dodge their rates? ”
“Glean out of it, me che-ild.”
“ Then, mother, where the devil is
This splendid city to be riz?
Is it where the giant forest trees
Sway in the soft and balmy breeze ;
Where laughing brooklets twist and turn
Through gullies decked with tender fern ?”
“ Aw, give it up, me che-ild.
“ Where the cocky prays, me gentle lad,
In vain for rain, and the seasons bad
Gome regularly once a year,
And the outlook’s permanently drear ;
Where the Cotter cots—but mostly not;
Right in the coastland’s driest spot;
It is theah, it is theah, me che-ild.”
VICTORIA.
DKN.
CORN BEEF AND GIN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I watch the supper parties pass from playhouse to hotel,
Or restaurant all brilliantly aglow ;
I hear the laugh of women lift as swinging silver bell,
Their shoulders gleam like freshly-moulded snow.
But envy enters not to me to sit where Fashion feeds ;
I pass without regret the joys therein ;
Contentedly I pad for home and satisfy my needs
On a square blow-out of corn beef and gin.
I want no spotless linen there, no cutlery or glass;
No burnished bowls, no delf of rarity ;
No bright electric light I need, no candlesticks of brass—
Just anything is good enough for me. 1
’Twould never do if all of us had tastes exact the same
In liquor brands, and women’s looks and sin ;
But if I’m asked to sum up Life and give the best a name,
I’m nominating corn beef and gin.
An upturned candle-box will do to hold my -supper
spread ;
My old tobacco blade for knife and fork ;
A smoky swinging lamp will light the room from
overhead
Carve up the meat, remove the gin-flask cork .
And there you are! A meal to tempt the gods to rise
and say, j
“ Pass out the nectar there, and order in •,
From butcher and from publican, in heavenly array, ,
A solid gorge of corn beef and gin 1 ” .
N.S.W.
THE SNAKE.


The chemist fumbled at the shelf,
His thoughts were very much of self.
“ This substitute will brin*r more pelf,
I’ll offer this brand to her.”
The lady smiled and shook her head,
“ No other brand will do instead,
Excuse me, Sir ! I plainly said
The Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”*
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F, ()♦ Robinson, Proprietor
D
FOR
9
rJ
ilesPc
on.
VACUUM MOBIL OIL
Saves One-Third of Your Running Cost.
h
THERE is absolutely NO
RISK when CASTRATING
with
DONALD ROSS
EMASCULATOR
Price, £.3 3s.
Money Back ip not Satisfied.
DONALD ROSS S CO., LTD.,
Angel Place, Sydney,
THE VETERINARY SUPPLY STORE
“ L.L.” : Periodically some writer gets on
his haunches to proclaim the ad vantages of bush
life, and the attraction, joys and pleasure of Out-
back. I don’t want to contradict him, I believe
it all myself; but still at times doubt of these
advantages rises like a bubble in a soda-water
bottle. When men of the calibre of Prof. David,
Foster Fraser and McCabe are lecturing in the
bloated capitals, the bushman feels the disadvan-
tages of his life. He may read it all in books or
papers, but that is like getting Monday’s bread on
the following Saturday. In fact, if he waits to
see the lectures of evolutionary expert McCabe
printed in the daily sheet, his knowledge on the
A FACT.
Evidence given at the inquest on a traveller found
dead on the bank of the Maranoa R[?] er (Queensland):
WITNESS: “I passed the camp in the morning going to
work. I noticed the bottle of whisky was full. I
thought the man was asleep. When I returned in the
evening, and the bottle of whisky was still full, I knew
the man was dead.”
subject will be about as attenuated as the Aurora
Australis. Consequently the city bloque should
be miles ahead in the matter of up-to-date science
and travel. But this is a mighty debatable point.
Ihe country reader’s book-shelf, even if it is
made of undressed pine or kerosene boxes, often
contains the latest in natural history, astronomj r ,
travel and biology, as well as high-class maga-
zines. Certainly in general knowledge of his
own continent, its resources and topography
the normal country dweller is a universe ahead o"f
the ’oofball barracker of Melbourne or Sydney
Those gentry may give you a list of the guano
patches of Peru or the bogs of Ireland ; but ask
them the chief rivers of the Northern Territorv
and their amazement that the blighted Territory
should possess any chief rivers exceeds the amaze-
ment of the Fuse after the Federal elections. If
the man in the scrub has not been to the Gulf or
to N.‘"W. of Westralia, he has at one time or other
camped with a mate who has, and from him ab-
sorbed all available information. This is un-
doubtedly an advantage to the rural cove. But
in the matter of lectures, debates, seances and
prize fights, the direct information from the in-
former bangs all book work.
NO PLAGE FOR PIER.
COMMISSIONAIRE (at door of theatre): “ This way for the stalls , ma'am."
STOUT MRS. HAYSEED: Now , that's insultin' , if yer like , [?]. I ain't a ' orse .”
“ Kodak ” supplies some heated remarks
about a vagrant dog :
It was after tea, and I was reading a paragraph
headed “Rusty Nail in his Hand—Carpenter Dies
from Lockjaw," when my wife remarked that she wished
I would try and mend the eateh of the back gate as it
wouldn’t keep shut, and a mangy-looking white dog had
got into the habit of sneaking into the yard. I finished
reading about the lockjaw victim—he was an amateur
carpenter—then sought out a candle, and, gathering
together my accumulation of rusty carpentering imple-
ments, started on the job. As I approached some-
thing white scrambled madly over the fence. Forty
minutes later I went indoors and sourly reported that I
had fixed the gate up as well as I could. Then I washed
my hands, got a magazine and an arm-chair and settled
down by the fire. Shortly afterwards heavy rain
began to fall. I had just put down the maga. to
ask if the landlord had yet mended the roof,
when I heard the frantic whining of a dog
in the garden below the .window. I dashed
to the front door, opened it and recoiled.
The night was pitch black, and the rain was
falling in torrents. By the light of the street
lamp, I dimly discerned the white vagrant
dog disappearing under the ornamental front
gate. Seething with rage, I put on my
coat and hat and lit a candle. Then I
remembered that the rain would cer-
tainly put the candle out unless I kept
it sheltered. I seized my umbrella, put
it up, grabbed the candle in the same
hand and plunged into the storm. From
the path, I gathered three large stones,
putting the candle down on the path
whilst I did so. Then I selected a stone,
stood on tiptoe by the fence, and, holding
the candle and umbrella aloft in my left
hand, let drive wildly at a white patch
hovering near the gate. A dismal yelp
of agony followed, and the white patch
started to scoot up the side. Shouting in
triumph, I leaped up on the front steps
and hurled the second stone after the flying
enemy. Another yelp ! I thirsted to hit him
just once more—to land the last and heaviest
of the stones on his ribs with a satisfying 1
thud and drink in his howl of pain. Splen-
did ! He was standing stock still on
a little eminence full in the glare of
the lane lamp. I braced myself, took care-
ful aim, and launched my last projectile at
him. But it flew wide and hit a puddle of
water a full yard to the right of the living target.
Nevertheless, the degraded animal let off the same old
yelp and faded rapidly into the night. A horrible doubt
assailed me. Had any of the stones hit him ? I peered
into the gloom, wondering. As I peered, my neighbor-
hood was suddenly lit up by an unaccountable glare.
“ Fire ! ” I yelled, and looking up found that I was hold-
ing on high an umbrella and a roaring mass of flame. I
pushed the conflagration over the fence, dashed the'
candle against the wall and went raving into the house.
Now, every night that dog of sorrow scrambles in
through the gate and whines miserably underneath the
window. Its pleading bears a fearful resemblance to the
sounds made by a Domain dosser when he is hunting
silver. In reality the dog is begging ;he is begging me
to get out of my comfortable bed and throw stones at
him, so he can yelp and pretend he is hurt. But,
although I am sorely tempted to do so, I fight desperately
against the useless impulse. Not if I can help it, am I
going to again gratify the morbid yearnings of that
pariah. Why should I? He is nothing to me.
“ Leo Lear ” : The Federal Government’s
sympathy with the movement for protecting
beautifully-dressed specimens of the bird tribe
from the ravages of woman’s vanity deserves the
commendation of Australians. Although many
of the native birds and animals are protected
already, the State laws seem inadequate. When
Bananaland passed a statute for the protection of
the fast disappearing bear and platypus, there
was a howl from the pelt-hunters about the ruin
that would ensue in the fur trade ; but I haven’t
seen any increase of the bankruptcy rate, so far.
There was money in the game ; the only trouble
was to get a dog that would find the /
trees whereon Norman Lindsay’s pals
camped. In those days a bear-dog
was a mighty valuable asset,
and was sometimes swapped
for a horse, and not a bad
crock at that. Now Billy
Bluegum and the ornithor-
hynehus can rest in com-
parative safety, but there
are still dealers who
traffic in the skins of
these animals. At the
rate at which ’possums
are being slaughtered
this year, it will not be
long before the furry
individual is extinct.
The six months’ pro-
tection that ’possum en-
joys will have to be
lengthened to Ilf months
if Australians want to
save his life. It might,
of course, be saved by ap-
pealing to Australianesses riot
to wear the skin torn off
’possum’s small body; also it
might be saved by shooting all the
Australianesses who wear it. The latter is the
more certain way.
* * * *
‘Philo : I was recently invited by a
cocky in the western district of N.S. W. to spend
Sunday with him. As I drove along the road
towards the house I noticed a man in one of the
paddocks hard at work putting up some fencing.
When I arrived at the house I remarked to cocky
that he must be in a devilish hurry to get the
fencing done to keep his men working at it on
Sunday. “ I didn’t ask him to do it,” he said. “In
fact, I didn’t know he was working. But he can
please himself. You can’t interfere with a man’s
amusements.” Passing the farm-hands’hut shortly
after dinner, we found two of them in a state of
extreme hilarity. When thev partial! v recovered
the joke .was explained. “Old Jim’s just come
up for his dinner,” we were told, between out-
bursts of laughter. “He’s been graftin’all the
mornin’. He nearly threw a fit when we told him
it was Sunday. He didn’t know.” Then we all
laughed.
The tale of “ Starfish ” :
“All aboard, cast loose, trim y’ cargo when .
afloat y’ lubbers.” Thus spake Captain Atkins of the
Darling River freight steamer William Randal as she w
tethered to the bank off Menindie (N.S W ) ’ Sne •'
A deckhand slowly hauled up the plank ~an°-wav
which had been connecting the steamboat to the bank
and a loafing bagman untied the half-hitc-h of the rone
from a tree root. Then with much wheezing and steam
ing the little 100-ton river argosy commenced to sidle' on"
toward midstream, what time the men on the bar-m were
stowing away bale after bale of sheepskins in shin-shane
order, and making everything snug for the 300 miles’ ran
to Wentworth. A few minutes later and we were in
mid-stream, puffing down river under 90 pounds of
steam at eight knots an hour. 1 ul
At four bells in the middle of the dog watch a Chinese
fisherman slowly came into view round a bend and foiled
painfully but placidly up stream. ’ tollea
“ Port helm 1 Fix bowline starboard stanchion i Give
Yellow Peril wide berth. Wash might sink his flat
bottomed contraption.” The steamboat swung in toward
the left-hand bank, but the barge, towin<>- 50vd*
astern, could not manoeuvre so rapidly. ' She swung' out
sideways and threatened to swamp' the Chinese"fli er
then as the steamer eased down the bowline slackened
and sagged out towards the heathen, who was losing his
head. ' h
“ Look out ! Keep well starboard side ! Row v’
devil, row 1 ” The Chinaman attempted to respond. ’He
caught a crab; then arose and expostulated with much
gesticulation.
Again the hawser sagged in against him, hooked itself
beneath his waving arms, then tightened suddenly as the
barge began to lose way, and held him dancimr a i, oMt
yellfully in mid air.
‘Half-speed ahead! Slacken away bowline! Give
Yellow Peril a chance.” The hawser'sagged, suung up.
wards, then flung the screeching Ah Pooh into the river
He swam ashore, and when last seen was tearing alow’
the bank in violent pursuit of his only means of exist"
enee, cursing feeblv and panting like a million furies.
That night I shared a (ift. cabin with a lubber, and in
the morning washed, put on my socks, pants and shirt
and began to fi-h under the bunk for mv boots. “ jjap ’
iap ! tap ! Bump ! bump ! ” came from the next cabin.' I
paused, with a boot in my hand, and inquired of the
lubber if there was a carpenter working on the ship.
“ No,” said he. “ That’s old Mac, the engineer. He’s
shakin’ the spiders and things out of his boots. We all
does it ’ere.”
I gave the receptacle in my hand a clout on the floor
and emptied out three old-man spiders, one young one
and a centipede. Went outside. It was just a few
minutes before daylight, and the comet was showing
like a faint pencil of light, with a bright dot at the end
on our starboard beam. The barge looming astern, the
fading stars, arid the moon just giving place to the’sun
made a picture enchanting enough to put the balm of
Gilead in the soul of any man.
We passed Port Pooncarrie at noon, and the entire
town (75 men, 10 or 12 women, 200 dogs, goats,
gohannas, etc.) turned out and gazed as we panted past,
A little lowerdown the skipper decided to “stand in ’’for
wood at an adjacent wood pile.
“ All hands aft! Let go tow-line ! Drop barge down
starboard side! Port helm ! Prepare take in fuel!”
And with much puffing and straining and reversing of
steam the little steamer manoeuvred into position, a'd
three tons of wood were placed aboard handy to the
boiler.
“ How much ton ? Five bob ? ” queried the skipper.
“ Nar ! Six,” drawled the axeman.
“ Worth five-and-six. Come up ! Get cl eque 1 ”
“Right. Thanks.”
“ All aboard ! Cast loose ! Trim y’ cargo when y’ "-el
afloat, y’ lubbers 1 ”
INFERENTIAL.
COCKY : “ I can offer y’ eight bob a weck to do
the general work and clean out the pigs."
UNEMPLOYED : “ Yus, boss. Do I start with you
first ?”
“Dick”: I was present at the first at-
tempt to float a balloon in one of the country
towns of N. S. Wales. Many citizens attended,
including the local pietist. He was concealed
behind a fence. The balloon engineer worked
like a Trojan nigger. He was black with smoke
and soot—it was a hot-air contraption—and singed
in 28 different places; but the balloon didn’t
float worth a parsnip. It just sank back and
wallowed in its grime. It was then the pietist
appeared. He rose above the top of the fence
with a cry like that of a suffering hyena : “ Aha-a,
friends; try how yew will. Ma-an cannot defy
the elements or thwart the will of the Orlmighty!”
It was the last straw that broke the back of the
balloon bloke’s regard for consequences. With a
blistering imprecation he seized a piece of burn-
ing wood and shoved the hot end fair in the
middle of the holy gent.’s monkey shave. The
agonised yell that followed haunts me still.
THE JUD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In the Berlin Zoo is a baboon with a bright blue and
purple face, bright red nose, and greyish-white beard and
whiskers.— English paper.
In the Berlin Zoo
There’s a substance blue,
With a tail dark green and dismal;
’Tis the fearsome Jud—
You can hear it thud,
Like a boiled cyclone or an earthquake cataclysmal!
There’s a bright red nose
That it waves and shows,
As a dreadful sign or symbol ;
And it bounds through space,
With its purple face,
Like a fiend fresh “ fired ” or a fantod brisk and nimble !
Sabbath afternoons
When the old baboons
In a drab conclave are seated,
You can hear the Jud
Flinging heaps of mud
Like a drunken dredge with its boilers overheated,
When its whiskers wave
You can hear it rave
Till the welkin’s hurst asunder;
’Gainst the girls who wink
And the folks who drink,
Ln, the Jud voleanes with a roar like Judgment
Thunder!
And the world agrees
That affairs like these
Look best in a cage on Sundays ;
“ Have a peanut, Jud ”
Let the small kids thud
To the place where the strange beasts show on Mondays !
When it roars and moans
In its graveyard tones,
And bounds in a rage terrific ;
When it acts just so,
Let the children know
That it’s kept and caged fora reason scientific !
In the Berlin Zoo
(And we’ve got one, too)
There’s a sample shown to babies ;
’Tis the dreadful Jud,
And it howls for blood
Like a Stone Age wolf oppressed with a kind of rabies!
Through its bright red nose
It narrates its woes—
Its bark is a loud and mad one ;
On the German side
They have bulged with pride
Since the Kaiser cried :
‘■'Let the ivorld beware ! ’’—for we knew not that they
had one!
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVKT.


S'/ICR F D To T\rit M.T Ry o
/A R ATq a H
TAf British
iMStKjED Hij lS>viNc* v fuß.v'i -
/A/ 5 .
S'een in As£|E
Py fcj'cjp s UMPfksTup-
Py fum was HeVe’Rjprf )
i
CtoMf/LE \
i! i j r>vf?itp\
Jsfft/'
\
/%> > '■&>
1 < /" '•
■S. -f o> ■>
v j; h.
P'
ĥ
i . d-
C 7 %
> 4 * /W
V O
/<- N> " « 'O s
Kr
N L '
—' ~<rr-~Trs
U V vV /
c y
__, *=C
J?
r N>\
ill'' £ '
iHr ig- \
■t |j
& rp
% %
»>
rv> 9- N (^
4
V
i%
V
/Qc
_ <^ S>
it
_ ’
(V-
%
' p %
i 3
1 P s&
5= 4 x
o'
l£> N
I
/'
£,*>% 'A
47
CORONATION AND DISPENSATION.
We want him to swear without mental reservation and any equivocation that he has no dispensation from the Pope in his pocket. (Loud applause.) What is to prevent King George V. taking the
proposed oath and swearing that he is a Protestant and belongs to the Protestant faith, and having a dispensation from the Pope in his pocket acquitting him from his perjury.— Orange orator
on July 12 (holding forth, about the proposed alteration of the Coronation oath.)
REV. DILL: “We’ve searched His Majesty carefully, and apparently he hasn’t got such a thing as a Papal dispensation about him. Now, can it
be hidden under the porous plaster?”


GAELIC
WHISKY
(Tho Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Have a dash of
(Trade Mark i
Exrracfof ’
FruifsiHerba.
I
Moderate Drinkers take O.T.
■with Whisky, Gin £nd other
Spirits, to moderate the effects
of the Alcohol. Try O.T. with
Schnapps or Gin.
r For Bronchitis
“I have suffered for
forty-six years.”
26 Rankin’s Road, Kensington, Vic.
1 6ar Slrs ’ * have suffered from bronchitis for forty-six years, and during
the last ten years the attacks have been both frequent and severe. About a
year ago I was recommended by Rev. F. J. Watsford, Methodist Minister, to
try A n g ier s Eniul sio n. I procured a bottle and found that it j.ave me greater
relief than anything I had ever tried. Since then I always keep the Emulsion
in the house, and if I get a cold I take “ Angier’s” night and morning and that
stops it going to the bronchial tubes. In my experience there is nothing to
equal it for coughs and bronchitis. (Signed) A. BARTRAM
ANGIER’S EMULSION
(PETROLEUM WITH HYPOPHOSPHITES.)
There is positively nothing equal to Angier’s Emulsion for colds, coughs,
influenza, bronchitis, consumption and all lung affections. Soothing and
healing to throat, lungs, stomach and intestines, it not only relieves and cures
the most obstinate cough, but it keeps the digestive organs healthy and builds
up strength. Angier’s Emulsion is pleasant to take and agrees perfectly with
delicate stomachs. Of Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
A FREE SAMPLE
on receipt of 4d. postage. Mention this paper.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., Ltd., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney, *
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Apparently suicide is hereditary. A few
years ago W.M. Larn ich, a well-known Maori-
land politician, committed suicide with a revolver
in Parliament House, Wellington. Now his son,
a Dunedin solicitor, has done likewise, using the
same sort of weapon.
W. L. Beare, one of six surviving settlers
who reached S. Australia prior to the proclama-
tion of the Province in 1836, died on Saturday
night at Adelaide, aged 85 years. He was the
last of the emigrants who arrived per Duke of
York, which vessel comprised S.A.’s First Fleet
all on its own. In those days Kangaroo Island 1
was S.A. to all intents and purposes, and the
search for a capital hadn’t commenced.
“ Galleryite ” speaks from his perch :
When country journalist McCourt first took his seat
in the N.S. VV. Speaker’s chair the prevailing idea, even
among those who ran him for the position, was that he
would about fill the gap for one Parliament. Opponents
\ooked upon him as a calamity. The special abilities the
office was assumed to demand were inconspicuous in
his case. He was not a front rank man as politician,
debater or thinker. Still, McCourt has succeeded in
beating all previous N.S. W. Speakers in the length of his
tenure. He is now in his eleventh year of office. Abbott
clung to the chair even in bad health for the express pur-
pose, so he said, of making a record ; but, though he
beat all predecessors, he had to quit after nine years and
eight months. Arnold reigned nine years and four
months, and VVigram Allen eight years and eight months.
Of the Speakers from Daniel Cooper to McCourt, old Par-
liamentarians give the palm for ability to Arnold. He
had made a close study of Parliamentary forms and the
rights and privileges of members, and was able to apply
bis knowledge immediately. When trouble arises in
debate, hesitanoy-on the part of a Speaker is the beginning
of tumult. Arnold would have reig'ned longer by the
will of the House, but he was drowned in the flood waters
of the Patter-on. River. Old John Hay was a gentlemanly
t-peaker, but rather mild ; and Allen understood the busi-
ness pretty well, but had a fussy, testy manner that got
on members’ nerves; so young footballer and cricketer
ltdmund Barton pushed him out of the chair.
LANHSUN LIANG , ESQUIRE , Melbourne's
Chow Consul-General , and Georye Reid's
undersoldy.
Though no man is absolutely irreplaceable,
the late Harrison Ord, Victoria’s Chief Inspector
of Factories, leaves a gap that will be hard to
fill. Ord died in harness at the age of 48 ; he
was at work on the Saturday, and on Sunday
morning he was thrown by a cantankerous mare
and died before the day closed. He was rare
among public servants in that he abhorred red
tape and eschewed the departmental rut. The
success of the Minimum Wage legislation was
due to his sympathetic and intelligent adminis-
tration more than to any other cause.
The autobiography of Miss C. H. Spence,
S. A.’s grand old spinster, who died lately at the
age of 81, is running in Adelaide Register. She
was at all times a prolific writer, and all her offers
of marriage and other feminine adventures go into
the miscellany. The latest instalment owns up to
the authorship of “An Agnostic’s Progress,”
privately printed in London long ago, and well
reviewed, though the public wouldn’t look at it.
It is also revealed that she tried for the Sydney
Mail’s £lOO prize with her novel “ Handfasted”;
but the paper (or its judges) thought the dear old
soul’s work was “calculated to loosen the marriage
tie—it was too Socialistic, and consequently
dangerous.”
“ Arts ” in a disrespectful vein :
Sydney University is plotting- how best to get rid of its in-
cubus, Norman Mac-Laurin,M.D.,Chancellor. Thedoctor
has been disliked by generations of undergraduate*, and
now these are growing up and attaining influence in the
’Varsity, and their dislike, inherited from unregenerate
undergrad, days, is being felt. The Senate itself is
getting restive with M icLaurin. The ’Varsity is at the
parting of the ways. To keep up it must launch out into
new paths, some of them expensive. The Chancellor is
a dour and canny person who objects on principle to every-
thing new. Also he fights every new expenditure pro-
posal, and drives everyone wild with his attempts to save
money in every direction. The only way he can be got
rid of is by resignation, the Chancellorship being a life
job. He doesn’t look like resigning. He doesn’t even
look sick, though age isn’t improving him in other
respects. Suggestions will be thankfully received.
Chadband ” : This is not the first time
King O’Malley has struggled with the Federal
capital question. When he climbed to the top of
the poll for the State seat of Encounter Bay
(S. A.), Federation was in the air, and K. O’M.
fixed on Goolwa in his own electorate as the site
for the Federal capital. Said he in a pamphlet
Goolwa, built by you, men, at the mouth of the noble
Murray—Goolwa was designed by Heaven from times
immemorial (and the geographical position of Goolwa
vindicates t. e wisdom of Providence in the matter) to
be the first city of the Australian Commonwealth.
Further, Goolwa was to be the granite city,
modelled on the latest American plans, and the
highest exponents of Art, Commerce and Politi-
cal Economy were to sit down to feed in happy
fellowship within its environments. A Common-
wealth Parliament sitting in Goolwa would pro-
claim the complete emancipation of womenkind,
and Goolwa washerwomen would, as an every-
day occurrence, launder the shirts of Prime
Ministers; for no man could well represent a
place like Goolwa without becoming Prime
Minister. That time of glory was in 1890. In
1899 Encounter Bay threw its King out on the
royal ear.
“ 0.K.” sums up the departed:—■
As a study in human nature, moral and physical, the
late L. L. Smith was Melbourne’s most remarkable
citizen. A man of brains, full of health and vivacity,
who had figured in politics for 30 or 40 years, and was a
noted “character” for a full half-century, he gloried all
his life in a reputation for “ disrespectability.” At 80
L. L. Smith died as he had always lived, a “ bad boy,”
not a bad man; save in the wowser sense of the term.
Nobody had a sincere dislike or a profound contempt for
the outrageous little sensualist. To those whom he
loved he was lovable. He was too honest a cynic to do
aught that deserves hatred ; but for the respect
of his fellow-men he made no bid at all. We
never raise our mental hat to an inveterately
bad boy. It was not “L. L.’s” particular kind
of medical practice that told against him in social
life. The advertising doctor was no “quack,” nor was
he more unscrupulous than many a consulting medical
specialist in what are called the higher grades of the pro-
fession. His shrewdness was admitted by his colleagues,
and in unorthodox language he could sum up a case very
luminously. But for the gamin kink in his brain L.L.
might have been a brilliant physician, a distinguished
politician, or a great power in Australian industrial pro-
gress.
In his political days he concerned himself mainly in the
encouragement of the Victorian wine industry, and
was a pioneer producer of local champagne. Thirty
years ago the Murray viticulturists presented him with
a miniature wine bottle in gold, embellished with a dia-
mond for a cork. His fancy for diamonds and fur-
collared raiment was then proverbial. Inj Parliament he
was a rowdy Liberal rather than a sturdy Democrat; and
in social life he was a natural antagonist to good manners
and a scoffer at moral precepts.
Some 20 years ago, or less, Brown-Sequard, the Paris
nerve-doctor, professed to have discovered an elixir of
life, which he put into the form of pills. L. L. Smith
went,to Paris to study the Brown-Sequard treatment, or
acquired the elixir through the post. Anyway, he
talked of it and believed in it more or less ; and carried in
his vest,pocket pilules, which he occasionally popped into
his mouth as evidence of good faith. An older
habit which he maintained to the end was the
taking of flour of sulphur—as much as would lie on a
threepenny bit—every morning before breakfast ; but in
conversation with the present writer he laid no parti-
cular stress on the saving grace of the 'skin-purifier.
L. L. Smith died of a chill, but he didn’t catch it through
sulphur. As to whether the sulphur habit and the
pilules helped to keep him going for four-score
years, under conditions which made his longevity
marvellous, is an interesting question ; but who shail
say that he wasn’t born with a wonderful capacity for
doing with impunity the things that bring stronger-
looking sinners to a much earlier grave ? On the Satur-
day before his death he was strolling around at Fleming-
ton with the same old cigar in his hard, clean-cut face.
On the Sunday, when he caught cold, he had been having
a convivial time. All his time was convivial. As com-
pared with an ordinary bon-vivant, L. L. Smith may be
said to have crowded 120 years into his four-score. 'The
old Bohemian never suffered for his fleshly sins. Because
he was the son of the once notorious E. T. Smith, pro-
prietor of the disreputable Cremorne Gardens, London,
and theatrical entrepreneur, he was thqught to have
grown-up in an odor of unsanctity. Yet, as a matter of
fact, “ L.L.” had no remembrance of his father, who had
separated from his mother when the boy was an infant.
She—the mother—was a prim, pious lady, and she had
endeavored to train up young L.L. to be 'shocked at his
awful dad and his manner of iife. Perhaps she overdid
her-maternal teaching-, or, more probably, the father’s
characteristics were ingrained in her pupil. He started
to “ shake things up” when he was a medical student in
Paris in 1848 (only a few people remember nowadays that
Smith was a revolutionist in the Louis Phillippe days),
and he remained festive to the end of his strictly
improper chapter." He was one of the boys 1 ” should be
his epitaph.
Every now andagain, Maoriland is reminded
that it is still a young country. A few weeks
ago the first couple married in the province of
Canterbury, Mr. and Mrs. C. S. Farr, had a
diamond wedding. It was at Akaroa, away back
in 1800, that the pair decided to go through life
m double harness; but they experienced great
difficulty in finding an official or a parson to per-
form the ceremony. After a wait of several days
a magistrate happened along in a casual sort 'of
way, and on being approached stated that he
thought he could perform marriage ceremonies.
So in a hut on the hillside Canterbury’s first
wedding was celebrated, the only music at the
ceremony being a furious blast from a battered
bugle that was bugled on by a very indifferent
bugler.
THE MOST EXTRAORDINARY SHOW
ON EARTH.
A send-off to our respected cannibal
brother:—
Old man Patara te Tuhi, the Maori chief, who passed
on to the Golden Pah, recently, from Manakau (M.L.),
was a direct descendant of the skipper of the canoe Tai-
nui, one of the six which set out from Hawaiki to the
land of Aotearoa. The son of a fighting father with
fighting blood bequeathed from a.line of biff savage men
that reached back to mythology, Patara naturally' swung
his axe and carried his gun to help Death get through
with his job. His finest opportunity in this direction
was during the Waikato war. At’ the close of hos-
tilities, Patara, in 1864, went into exile with his
people to the King Country'. There he lived beyond
the hum of settlement, and out of sight of the
white man’s trail until the 'eighties, when he figured as
the leading counsellor and secretary'of King Tawhiao,
and in 1884 set off for London with “ te Boss” and a num-
ber of other chiefs. Tawhiao’s purpose was to interview
Victoria concerning his eternal grievances—although the
popular belief in the kaingas was that he was going to
marry the lady, and preparations were even made to
welcome her with a special supply of dried shark and
raw dance ; but when he reached London they told him
the Queen had gone to Tierra del Fuego or somewhere for
the winter. Anyhow, Tawhiao didn’t see her, and the
disappointed party returned to M.L. After that, old
Patara (he was 86 when he died) took life easily’ on his
little farm on the shores of the Manakau, ibakiiig occa-
sional excursions to Auckland, where his striking figure
and tattooed face were well known. Para was the man
who once said of human flesh that it “ tasted like pork,
but sweeter.”
Apropos of nothing in particular except a
craving for remuneration, “Cove” sends along
this scrap of old biography
Another generation arises which knows not Joseph, or
even Joe Thompson. Old portraits have to lie brushed over.
The most distinguished of Australian political convicts
sent to Botany Bay wasThomasMuir. Born in 1765,in Glas-
gow, and became a barrister. In 1792 he joined a British
league called “the Friends of the People,” to advance
the principles of the French Revolution. He was
arreried for sedition, but allowed out on bail. Went to
Paris, on behalf of the London branch of the above
society, to protest against the execution of LouisXVl.,
but arrived the day after it. Outlawed by the British
Government and struck off the roll of advocates or bar-
risters. Nevertheless, he returned to Scotland, where
he was arrested and tried for sedition. One of
the crimes alleged was that he recommended
Paine’s writings. Sentenced to 14 years’ transportation,
and went to Botany' Bay, with other political convicts.
In Sydney, he acquired property at Hunter’s Hill, now a
populous suburb. There was much sympathy for him in
America, and he was rescued by an American vessel, in
1796. This ship only reached home to get wrecked.
Muir lived with the Indians forsome time, and afterwards
with the Mexicans. Proceeding to Cuba, he was im-
prisoned at Havana. They sent him in a Spanish frigate
bound for Cadiz. Arriving close to that port, she was
attacked by two English frigates. Desperate combat.
Muir fought for the Spaniards. They were defeated, and
their ship was captured. Muir, badly wounded and in-
sensible, was recognised as being English by his Bible.
Yet he was sent into Cadiz with the Spaniards who sur-
vived. The Spanish Government detained him as a
prisoner, so that he was not right either wav. The French
Directory, hearing about him, obtained his release, and
he went to Bordeaux, where he was fated. Next went to
Paris, where he was also honorably received ; but he died
at Chantilly in 1798 from his wounds. There is a
memorial to him on Calton Hill, Edinburgh.
S" *«*
When Broken Hill was about to burlt on an
astonished world, several finnno, ^o ° n a U
and shrugged their shoulders* but young* Sx
who had previously grown tired of kb„i, i , . »
was thankful to get the business. Whatsit'
him has been v.sible for years. Though aWe
ptifhng, obese man in his middle age, Knox X
youth, was a cracic sprinter. Manv f„„i?i u *
been found with Knox, but in his hst WH T
d,d ptookj «hi,».
Things likely to happen, but he kept to the o at
form; then the day after the election, a blood-
clot came into his brain and decided u .
retire fro,,, the political £to pf.vedt
badly vet so courageously. piajea so
Ex-Senator Tom Playford, though over 73
years old, feels politics a-calling. At his age he
a. plainly ouc of the game', hut
he haunts the gallery of the
btate Assembly, and watches
other men play it and thinks
ot his bygone greatness.
Playford was a numerous
man m his day and
generation. He was
about 40 years in poli-
ties, and was three
times Premier, four
times Minister for
Lands, once Min-
ister for Works,
v three times Trea-
surer, once
Federal De-
fence Minis-
ter, and once
Vice-Presi-
dent of the
Federal Ex-
ecutive Coun-
cil. Also he
was Agent-Gen-
eral, member of
the old Federal
Council, and mem-
ber of the Federal
(Jon venfcion. He often held two jobs at once,
else he could never have got through in the time. ’
When George Reid writes to the press,
these days he signs himself “Constant Feeder.”
The late L. L. Smith was a comparatively
young doctor in Melbourne (in 1859) when a
rumor was invented by one of his professional
rivals and echoed by a number of others, to the
effect that he had performed an unlawful opera-
tion on Ellen Mortyn—a favorite actress who-
was lying at the point of death. The police were
set to watch her place of sickness, arid imme-
diately after her death they arrested the body.
A post-mortem examination and inquest cleared
L.L. of the suspicion which had threatened to
bring him to grief. The handsome young actress
—she was only 25—had died of pulmonary con-
sumption, and on a wave of popular indigna-
tion against the other doctors who had tried
to down him, L.L. floated into Parliament. This
was his only appearance as a blessed martyr, and
he made the most of it.
A rather scrappy and breathless corre-
spondent sends this item with many capital
letters in it:—
Stead, with his usual exuberance, interviews Selfridgo
as London’s boss Draper. I am amused bv the cunning
advertisement of this Yank. With a lordly wave of his
hand, he expresses a fear that he will degenerate in
London for lack of competition. That knocks out such
rivals as Gillow, Waring and Shoolbred in one act. Self-
ridge is not so comprehensive as Whiteley, but equally
remarkable. His hobby is for magnificently-bound books.
This was also the hobby of Draper, the Melbourne Com-
mercial Bank swindling Accountant, son of Rev. D. J.
Draper, drowned in the steamship London with G. V.
Brooke. The Bank was a pure and holy “ Wesleen ” con-
cern, like the Daily Tklkgrapii under Fitchett. How-
ever, to Selfridge. Born in Jackson, Michigan. Father an
Army officer, who left his widow no money. Selfridge
grafted as local draper’s assistant. Rose to £240 a year.
Abandoned it to take £lOO a year from Marshall Field,
Chicago, then the biggest draper, perhaps, in the U.S.,
or second only to Stewart, of New York. Selfridge
rapidly developed. Tiptop Commercial traveller. Tram-
ferred to the Retail, with immense success. Ad-
vanced to £lOOO a year, with 10,000 men and
women under him, Field altogether employing
14,000. Field sent him round to New York,
Boston and Philadelphia to pick up ideas. Tin sc
answered so well that Field despatched him to
London and Paris. The only establishment that taught
him anything was the Bon Marchfe, Paris, wherehe learnt
a lot. On his return he told Field he would go into busi-
ness for himself. “I’ll advance the capital,” says Field.
“But, hold on. How much will you take to stop with
me?” “£4OOO a year,” replied Selfridge. “Done,” says
Field. Selfridge got it, and was astounded at his own
audacity. Nevertheless he was not satisfied till Field
admitted him as Junior Partner. Field died, leaving
Forty Million sterling. Selfridge was rich too. Decided
to retire and do nothing. Easier said than done. He
was tempted to buy a business, which he sold for £50,000
profit. Then he advanced to conquer London. He
formed a company. They bought land in Oxford-street,
pulled down all houses. Built their now well-known vast
premises. Land and building cost £400,000. Founda-
tions 70ft. deep, 27ft. thick at base in London clay. The
idea was to run up to the sky, and out-Babel Babel; but
the authorities stopped the bold design. The Firm esti-
mated its first year’s turnover at £BOO,OOO, but it tnt<-"d
over One Million. Well, it is satisfactory to find that th ■
Germans don’t do quite everything in England.
A DESCRIPTIVE POEM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The N.S.W. elections take place shortly*— Original
remark heard in the street.
Hater of the people’s right,
Small of heart, and short of sight,
Blind of purpose, weak of aim,
Dead to pity, dull to shame ;
Such a man the gods have made.
And his cherished name is—John Smith.
Tool of Trusts and tout of knaves,
Fit to rule a land of slaves ;
He whose blighting curse prevails
In the State of New South Wales ;
When shall all her debt be paid,
Paid in full to Mr. Donald Mackintosh?
Soon a people’s gathered curse
Spreads the pall and decks the hearse ;
Soon a State's united toe
Kicks with might, and bids him go ;
Soon the shame-won laurels fade
On the brow of traitor—Paddy Mulholland.
Fill the glass with vintage red,
Let us toast him “ Better dead ” !
Round his bier no eye is wet,
None his going will regret—
For the game that you have played
God have pity on you—Abraham Moses.
N.S. W.
W.


3
T
ft
vs
<s
X
X
v
CL
a
A
N
ft
(a»
mJTV'
<i£.
w*
N
\
Z
/
r
A
r
j*.
%
bC
as
/
£
y
is
6x
1
#
“ There s no sweeter Tobacco comes from Virginia , and no better brand
than the Three Castles .”
THACKERA Y. “ 77TE VIRGINIANS: 1
The “Three Castles” Cigarettes
(HEAVY WEIGHTS).
P.S.—W. D. &H. O. Wills draw particular attention to the above Cigarettes, which,
in response to repeated requests from Smokers, are made of especially heavy weight
and increased size, but are packed without paper mouthpieces.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
(made in Eng-land.)
beat all comers at the
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in Eng-land. and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
by
Arthur Lepiastrier & CO., Circular Quay East, Sydney,
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
jg~ “NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE.”
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Australian revenue returns for the year
which ended June 30, 1910, were made complete when
Westralia lagged in a day or two ago. There will doubt-
less be some small adjustments later on, for somehow the
final figures are seldom quite the same as those which
originally appeared. But barring these small possible
discrepancies, this is how things stand :
Revenues for Year to 30/6/1910 and Previous Year.
190 S-9. 1909-10. Increase.
New South Wales .. £13,625,071 £14,540,055 £914,984
S. Australia .. 3,551,189 3,986,637 435,448
Westralia .. .. 3,267,014 3,650,765 383,751
Queensland .. .. 4,766,244 5,119,253 353,009
Victoria .. .. 8,195,403 8,503,167 307,764
Tasmania .. .. 934,432 1,008,755 74,323
It is a curious circumstance that in not one case does the
State revenue for 1908-9, as supplied by the State Gov-
ernments for purposes of comparison, agree exactly
with the figures furnished by the Federal Statis-
tician on page 810 of his latest volume. The
Bulletin accepts the State figures on the assump-
tion that the accounts have been re-adjusted since
the original amounts were supplied to Statistician Knibbs.
The position is distinctly good. In every case except
that of Tasmania the revenue is the biggest on record —
this despite the fact that the Commonwealth has relieved
the States of naval, military, postal, telegraph, telephone
and old-age pension expenditure and some sundries.
Even in Tasmania the revenue is only about £45,000
behind the maximum, and that maximum was away back
in the days when the State had to struggle with all the
bills above mentioned. And Tasmania, as a decayed
Tory State where the increase of population is almost
imperceptible and where the last census showed even
the capital to be in a declining condition, can’t hope for
much till the Federal progressive land-tax comes along.
The rest of the information is scrappy ;
New South Walks : The State spent £13,080,590 on
ordinary revenue account ; it paid £465,312 to the Closer
Settlement Fund ; and it paid £919,200 to the Public
VVorks Fund. This made a total of £14,465,102 of expen-
diture to be set against £14,540,055 of revenue ; apparent
surplus £74,953. But the N.S.W. accounts have been,
since Carruthers’s day, the great, prize, boss muddle
ancj fake of the Commonwealth. Rand is sold and
the proceeds are put into revenue, and then a
small portion of the revenue is put into the Closer
Settlement Fund for the purpose of re-purchasing
land- A whole heap of ordinary expenditure
is not charged against revenue, and that makes
a surplus. Part of the surplus is put into the Public
Works Fund, and some loan money is also put into the
Public Works Fund. Then the Public Works Fund is
debited with a multitude of small jobs, oddments and
repairs, which qught, most clearly, to be put into ordi-
nary expenditure. Also it is charged with some new
works, Further, there is a Loan Fund, fed entirely with
borrowed money, and against this are charged a lot of
pew works, said to be “ permanent and reproductive”
(such as railways, which the mono-rail will presently turn
into scrapriron, and the dredging- of bar harbors, which
will sqon silt up again), and a few other things that don’t
even profess to be permanent. It is all a muddle and a
juggle ; but these facts stand out conspicuously
Total expenditure (on Revenue Account,
Closer Settlement Account, Public Works
Account, and Loan Account) .. .. £17,853,827
Total revenue , 14,540,055
Shortage .. .. .. ~ 3,313,772
And thpre is also this other fact
Loan Ex-
Loan Ex- penditure
Mean Popu- penditure. per Head,
lation. £ £ s. d.
1903- .. 1,431,800 2,486,440 1 14 9
1904- .. 1.462,000 1,983,687 172
1905- .. 1,496,250 1,500,6*9 1 0 1
1906- .. 1,532,120 1,346,97.5 017 7 .
1907- ... 1,568,542 2,258,401 1 810
1908- . . '3 1,604,010 3,108,883 1 18 9
1909- 1,655,830 3,388,656 2 1 0
ft is a striking record, seeing that the parti’ »ow in
power arrived at its giddy elevation on the assurance
of J. Carruthers that it would either wholly abolish the
loan curse, or at least reduce the curse to about
£1,000,000 a year.
Queensland is the most punctual of all the
States with its figures. It sets forth the case in this
way:
Revenue .. .. £5,119,253
Expenditure .. .. 5,113,578
Surplus .. £5,675
It is a miserable surplus, especially when these figures
are taken into account:
QUEENSLAND LOAN EXPENDITURE.
1901- .. .. .. £1,161.689
1902- .. .. .. 1,022,4 )5
1903- .. .. .. 603,805
1904- .. .. .. 225,466
1905- .. .. .. 297,624
1906- .. .. .. 683,570
1907- .. .. .. 1,033,676
1908- .. .. .. 1,247,821
1909- .: .. 1,486,216
a borrower Queensland has, in proportion to popula-
tion, contrived to get even a little ahead of N.S. W., and
in Wade s time that is something of a feat.
Westralia announces a very fine surplus of
£209,939. This reduces the old accumulated shortage to
£102.702. ijo information about loan expenditure is yet
Available.
South Australia has so far supplied no information
except as regards its rpvenug.
Victoria is in the same situation.
In Tasmania Premier Lewis anticipates a surplus of
about £lO,OOO, and the news stops there.
The Maoiulano State Fire Insurance Office,
which began regular business early in January, 1905 (the
dgficit up to then represents preliminary expenses):—
Ex- Added to De-
I)ec., Revenue. Claims. penses. Reserves. licit.
1904 .. £1,026 ' £1,026
Reserves.
1905 .. £13,136 £2,418 6,738 £3980 2,954
1906 .. 20,991 10,312 7,215 3464 6,418
1907 .. 23,302 12,701 8,355 2246 8,664
1908 .. 26,909 18,904 10,146 6,523
1909 .. 34,038 18,535 10,155 5348 11,871
The reserve is made up in this wise :
Reserve for Unearned Premiums .. £13,312
fjess Loss on Business .. .. 1,441
£11,871
It doesn’t look any too well when it is put that
way ; but the situation is really much better than might
be supposed. In the first place, the reserve against un-
expired risks is very liberal. Many offices, in fact, keep
no reserve under this heading. Then the concern has
wiped off inside five years the bill for preliminary ex-
penses (£1026). It has grot over the great original
straggle with the private companies, which, naturally
enough, cut rates furiously in the attempt to drive out
this new competitor. It has got over the big Christchurch
fire disaster, which struck it in its fourth year (Maori-
land towns are mostly built of wood, and burn in glorious
style), and many a fire insurance concern has died
through being struck by the conflagration fiend in its
infancy. The premiums for the year just closed are the
largest on the department's record; the expenses in
proportion to income are the lowest ; the amount
carried to reserves is the biggest. The office
started with £2OOO and the national credit behind
that, and it has now £16,304 in cash and Government
securities, and nearly £2400 in other assets (furniture,
accrued interest, etc.). So affairs are not going too
badly. The one thing which Thf, Bulletin regrets to see
is that the Department goes in for the practice of re-
insuring a portion of its heavy risks, after the
manner of private offices. There is no need whatever for
anything of the kind. This is the only fire insurance
office on earth in which the capital exceeds the whole
amount at risk many times over. The said capital is
nominally £lOO,OOO (£2OOO paid up and the balance un-
called) but it really consists of the £69,000,000 of public
property in the Dominion, and all the private property to
boot. Therefore, the Department might as well keep all
its risks and chance the consequences. It would lead a
strenuous life under these conditions. There would be
years of stupendous profit and years of great loss. But
at least the general manager would enjoy all the excite-
ment of a gambler’s career.
* * * *
A recent contributor to the Federal noteissuedis-
cussion which has raged in the S. M. Herald signed
himself “ Thomas Willmot, councillor, Blacktown Coun-
cil’’—apparently a sort of bush alderman. He was a
trifle out of the ordinary run, for he knew the exact extent
to which the proposed paper currency would depreciate.
If the Federal Treasury held ss. in gold and 15s. in
Government securities against each £1 note, the purchas-
ing power of the note would be exactly ss. The only way
to make a £1 note worth 20s. is, it seems, to hold 20s.
worth of gold against it. Under the circum-
stances, one naturally wonders how the blessed
Bank of England note keeps up. The Bank
of England is divided into a banking department
and a note-issue department. The two businesses aren’t
muddled together as in the Australian banks, but kept
separate, as they will be in Australia when the Treasury
attends to the note business while the banks do
the banking. And the law provides that, so long
as the Bank of England hasn’t more than £18,450,000
worth of notes out, it need not keep a single sovereign of
gold reserve against them. Up to that point the whole
reserve may consist of Government securities. That fact
may looH fairly staggering to a number of bumptious
and ignorant folk who have been giving Fisher good ad-,
vice in the papers. But it is incontrovertible. There are
curious intricacies about finance that even sonie bush
aldermen aren’t fully acquainted with. For instance,
quite a number of them, and of similar financial authorb
ties, would be really astonished to know that Britain
runs a Government Life Insurance Office, and has done
so for about 45 years,
The Commercial Bank of Australia, which
had a revaluation of assets In 1901, and transferred
£143,000 of forfeited capital to reserves in 1902:
Dividends
Profits (3 p.c.)
(less loss on Writ- Added
on Assets Pref. ten to He- Re-
Trust.) Shares. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., ’02.. £39,194 £31,759 £7,435 £184,730
Capital forfeited .. 3,000 187,730
June,’o3.. 37,442 31,759 5,683 193,413
Capital forfeited .. 2,600 195,913
Dec., ’03., 40,638 31,759 8,879 204,792
Capital forfeited .. 1,500 206,292
June,’o4.. 38,746 31,759 £15,521 197,758
Dec., ’04.. 41,461 31,760 9,701 207,459
June,’os. . 39,470 31,760 5,000 2,710 210,169
Dec., ’05.. 42,530 31,760 10,770 220,939
June,’o6.. 41,055 31,760 5,000 4,295 225,234
Dec., ’06.. 44,351 31,760 12,591 237,825
June,’o7.. 46,423 31,760 5,000 9,663 247,488
Dec., ’07.. 51,678 31,760 19,918 267,406
June,’oB.. 52,015 31,760 5,000 15,255 282,661
Dec., ’OB.. 55,217 31,760 23,457 306,118
Written off, £295,000 .. 11,118
June,’o9.. 53,573 31,760 25,000 7 931
Dec., ’09.. 56,302 31,760 25,000 7 473
June, TO,. 55,002 31,760 25,000 |
£2OOO voted to Officers’ Provident Fund / o,ilo
It is a complicated situation, and no one tajile of figures
can fully explain it. In the old days the most important,
looking banking man in Australia ran the Commercial,
and it was said with bated breath that he was the
greatest banking authority south of the equator. When
the troubles of 1893 came along it was found that the
institution had lost enough money for three banks
even as losses went in those wild, bottomless days. It
has done stupendous things since then in the way of
writing off old capital and finding new, but there is still
g.n estimated shortage of £1,004,833 to be provided for
out of earnings. This debit doesn’t nominally belong to
the bank, but to its Special Assets Trust Co., so the
above figures represent the bank alone. Out of the
£25,000 written off £20,000 went to reduce the shortage
of the Assets Trust Co. The other £5OOO was written off
bank premises.
But, though the accounts of the Special Assets
Trust are separate, still the bank guarantees the Trust,
so the two concerns are really one. The joint accounts
stand as follows :
Pref. Writ- To
Dividend ten Reduce
Profit. 3 p.c. off. Deficit. Deficit.
Dec., 1908., £1,080,391
June, 1909.. £58,301 £31,760 £5OOO £21,541 1,058,850
DeG., 1909.. 66,711 31,760 5000 29,951 1,028 899
June, 1910.. 62,826 31,760 5000 28,0661 - 00 „
Less £2OOO to Provident Fund .. / 1 >004,833
The other £20,000 which the bank writes off goes to the
Trust, so of course it doesn’t appear in the joint accounts.
The table shows that the Special Assets Trust, after pay-
ing interest on its £1,760,000 or so of deposits and meeting
its working expenses has a little net income of its own, and
the said income is distinct ly larger than it was a year ago.
But as the entire assets of the Trust were valued roughly
at £BOO,OOO in June, 1909, £725,000 at I)ecember, 1909,
and £640,000 at June, 1910, it seems evident that this
little net income must soon stop, because there will pre-
sently be no Trust left to earn any money. It will sell
its last asset and windup, leaving what’remains of its
deficit on the bank’s hands. The figures of the Trust, by
the way, are not so intelligible as they might be. For the
last four half-years they have appeared as follows
Trust Trust Apparent
Liabilities. Assets. Deficit.
June, 1909 ..£2,141,280 £BOO,OOO £1,341,280
Dec., 1909 .. 1,956,413 725,000 1,231,413
June, 1910 .. 1,760,170 640,000 1,120,170
These figures show the shortage in the Trust’s accounts
to be a good deal bigger than the “ estimated deficiency’’
shou’n in the bank’s capital account, but at the same
time they show it to be decreasing faster. Why this dis-
crepancy should be it is very hard to say. No explana-
tion is offered.
Of course the bank, despite all these complica-
tions, is in a very strong position so far as its customers
are concerned. This is how it stands
Preference capital .. .. £2 117 350
Ordinary „ .. .. ’ 95 ; e19
£2,212,969
Dess Net Deficit .. .. 1,004,833
£1,208,136
A bank with all that money intact is by no means
weak. And as the £1,760,170 of assets’ trust liabilities
which cause the deficit rank after the new deposits and
all the other new liabilities, there is really something ap-
proaching £3,000,000 of security between the new de-
positors and any risk of loss. The preference share-
holders, by the way, are in this position. They must
receive at least 3 per cent., and they can’t at any
time receive more than 4. At present they get 3 per cent.
It seems as if it would be a wise thing to write off half
the preference capital and double the fixed rate of divi-
dend on the other half. Then the deficit would vanish,
and there would be £50,000 to start a reserve fund with.
Presumably, the objection is that the preference share-
holders would, in these circumstances, be able to claim
their full 4 per cent dividend (it would then be 8 per
cent.). But this half-year, if there had been
no ghost on the premises, the full dividend could
have been paid, and there would still have
remained £22,000 for reserves. And it would be worth
while to do something to get the ghost off the premises.
Some day, too, it would be worth while to try to devise
some equitable way of putting all the shares on one
footing. At present £2,117,350 of preference capital is
strongly entrenched behind £95,619 of ordinary capital
(or would be but for the deficit), which is too much like
an elephant hiding behind a mosquito. It is the £95,619
of ordinary capital which solemnly guarantees the pay-
ment of a minimum dividend of 3 per cent, on the
£2,117,350 of preference capital, which is also humorous.
The cash position of the Commercial of Aus-
tralia is exceedingly strong. It has £2,948,383 of coin
and liquid assets against about £6,000,000 of liabilities to
the public, or £7,800,000 of the long-dated deposits of the
Assets Trust are (quite needlessly) included. But it isn’t
easy to see how the institution is likely to become a large
profit earner for very many years to come. It has
£5,092,034 of advances, which is about the same as the
Bank of Victoria ; and in a general way, the two institu-
tions are much of a size. But the Victoria, which is a
very fair type of bank, has 85 branches and agencies to
maintain, while the Commercial has 246. The latter
concern scrapes together its bit of business from six
States, the Northern Territory and London. It is
disastrously wide-spread, and its business is in too many
fragments. During the last half of 1909 the Commercial
earned about £6OOO more than the Victoria, but its ex-
penses were £71,023 against the Victoria’s £45,011. That
meant that the Victoria, with its condensed business, had,
in that single half.yenr, £20,000 more net profit than the
sprawling Commercial with which to pay dividends on
one-half the Commercial’s capital, and it was still in a
position to pay' better salaries. And the Commercial is
still spreading. It had 232 offices at December, 1909 ; it
had 246 at June, 1910—14 more offices and £l3OO less
profit. This excessive spreading habit has been a tra-
dition with it all its life.
* * * *
The Bank of North Queensland: —
Writ- Added
Dividends and ten to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves,
Dec., 1902.. £2687 2Jp.c.=£1313 £1374 £15,182
June, 1903.. 2153 2£ ~ ~ 1313 840 16,022
Dee., 1903.. 2408 2£ ~ ~ 1313 1095 17,117
June, 1904.. 2251 2J ~ ~ 1313 938 18,055
Dec., 1904.. 2421 2| „,, 1313 1108 19,163
June, 1905.. 2262 2£ „ ~ 1325 937 20,100
Dec., 1905.. 2310 2£ „ ~ 1326 984 21,084
June, 1906.. 2461 2* ~ „ 1330 1131 22,215
Dee., 1906.. 2644 ~ ~ 1335 1309 23,524
June, 1907.. 3018 4 „ ~ 2113 905 24,429
Dec., 1907.. 3371 4 ~ ~ 2122 14000 21,678
June, 1908.. 3677 4 „ „ 2129 1548 23,226
Dec., 1908.. 4070 5 ~ „ 2652 4500 20,144
June, 1909.. 4314 5 ~ ~ 2658 1656 21,800
Dec., 1909.. 4641 5 „ ~, 2666 1975 23,775
June, 1910.. 4717 5 „ „ 2668 5000 20,824
The £5OOO above mentioned isn’t described as a writing-
off ; it is mentioned as a sum transferred to contingency
account. But as on previous occasions of the sort no
contingency account ever appeared in the ensuing
balance-sheet, it is assumed that this is also a clean
writing-off. Three transfers of this sort have made a
bad hole in the visible reserves, which are now
£3605 less than they were three years ago. All the
same, the position may be much stronger than it was in
June, 1907. The business continues to grow with fair
rapidity. Here are some recent figures :
Liabilities.
June, June, June,
1908. 1909. 1910.
Deposits .. £509,505 £586,440 £641,672
Bills, etc.. 74,777 57,920 59,160
Assets.
Liquid assets .. 183,708 213,701 231,044
Advances.. .. 494,803 515,195 558,243
Premises .. .. 31,127 39,922 40,038
Calculated on capital and reserves, the recent profits
have been as follows:
Dec., 1905 .. £3 16 11 p.c. June, 1908 .. £6 010 p.c.
June, 1906 .. 4 1 4 „ Dec., 1908 .. 612 1 ~
Dec., 1906 ..4 6 7,, June, 1909 .. 7 3 7 „
June, 1907 .. 417 9 „ Dec., 1909.. 712 5 „
Dec., 1907 .. 5 8 4 „ | June, 1910 .. 712 5 ~
Next half-year, if the earnings continue to improve at
the present rate, the percentage of prolit to capital and
vi.sibl reserves will be a good deal larger, for the latest
writing-off has considerably reduced the apparent
reserves.
* * * *
Senator Walker lias in hand a very commendable
Bill, the object of which is to provide that any bank may
accumulate a special reserve for the purpose of paying the
shareholders’ calls for them in time of stress. The money
is not to be taken from any existing reserve, and it isn’t
to be mixed up in the business of the bank. It is to be
invested in Government securities only’, and is to be held
by an elective board of trustees (not more than five or
less than three), of whom only one may be a director of
the bank. The fund, once started, is to accumulate at
compound interest until it not only equals, but exceeds
by 10 per cent., the total amount for which
shareholders are liable. The proposal would make
the banks’ customers feel safer, for uncalled capital
is often a hard thing to collect wdien it is most wanted ;
and it would reduce the tendency to nightmare on the
part of shareholders. But there seems a rather serious
doubt on one point. Supposing a bank has £200,000
of uncalled capital, and it starts the proposed variety of
fund, and the fund accumulates till it reaches the
specified £220,000 ; would it then be competent for the
directors to call up the unpaid capital, pay the call by
taking over the fund, and thus make the shares fully
paid up? Jn that case the bank might, if if was
tbp sort of banlt that Australia knew so well
jn 1893, jose the new fund in the further propping
up some w>ld-cgt advances, and then suspend.
If such a pervprsiop of Senator Walker’s most commend-
able idea were possible, the creditors W’ould be worse off
than if there had npver been any fund ; they would have
lost their chance to drag £200,000 opt 6f tV> e share-
holders, and yet the £200,000 would be gone. Again, if
seems fhat the systepi should apply to all companies—
pot merely to banks. Trustee companies want it even
mqre than banks do. Further, the establishment of any’
such system should be concurrent with the establish-
ment of a Public Trust Office to hold the money and sup-
ply a public guarantee that it won’t be run away with.
Mr. Walker’s Bill proposes that private trustees shall hold
the money, but it says nothing about who will hold the
private trustees —and sometimes they’ are as slippery as
Frank Gotch when he oiled fiipiself for his wrestling
match with Hackenschmidt.
* * * *
The Queensland National Bank:—
Repaid
Repaid Private Nomi-
Gross Written Govern-Deposi- nal Re-
Profits. off. ment. tors, serves.
Dec., 1903 .. £21,777 £9,777 £3OOO £6,000 £36,000
June, 1904 .. 21,822 9,822 3000 6,000 39,000
Dec., 1904.. 21,823 9,823 9,000 42,000
June, 1905 .. 22,009 10,009 9,000 45,000
Dec., 1905 .. 22,307 10,307 9,000 48,000
June, 1906 .. 23,421 11,421 9,000 51,000
Dec., 1906.. 30,420 14,420 12,000 55,000
June, 1907 . 34,783 18,783 12,000 59,000
Dec., 1907 .. 43,606 23,606 15,000 64,000
June, 1908.. 43,482 23,482 15,000 69,000
Dec., 1908 .. 43,737 18,737 20,000 74,000
June, 1909.. 44,158 19,158 20,000 79,000
Dec., 1909 .. 44,432 19,432 20,000 84,000
June, 1910.. 45,626 20,626 20,000 89,000
It has been a good half-year, and the profits are the best
since the Great Reconstruction. Under the Q. N. Bank’s
arrangement with its old creditors, and some after modi-
fications made in the arrangement, one-fourth of the
antediluvian private deposits—those previous to the
deluge of ’93—were written off on paper to make the
figures look better ; but the amount thus written off was
to be gradually repaid out of profits, so that it wasn’t
really written off. That is where the item “ Repaid Private
Depositors ” comes in. (The rest of the old deposits
were turned into Interminable Stock.) The Government
at first made a somewhat similar compromise as to the
huge deposit of loan money which it had in the bank,
but variations were afterwards introduced. A lot of the
Government money has been repaid, and the bank now
owes the State only £430,488 10s., which is repayable by
five instalments in 1917-18-19-20 and ’2l. Then, even
after all these arrangements, there was a stupendous
amount of dubious old debts (described as “Debts in
Suspense”) to be provided for, and this is where the
writings-off come in. The wiping out of these old debts
has progressed of late in this fashion :
1897. 1909. 1910.
Old debt to Government £1,833,327 £774,879 £430,488
Stock (fixed debt to old
depositors) .. .. 3,116,621 3,091,669 3,091,669
Debt to old depositors
payable out of profits 1,035,974 810,974 810,974
Old dubious book assets
awaiting realisation .. 742,835 171,582 156,467
The shortage, assuming that the remnant of the
old dubious assets is wholly bad, may thus be set down
as follows :
Debt to depositors payable out of profits .. £810,974
Old book assets .. .. 156,467
£967,441
Dess Reserve Fund .. .. £59,000
Depositors’Repayment Fund .. 53,525 142,525
Apparent net deficit .. .. £824,916
This might look pretty serious if the business was decay-
ing or even stationary ; but it isn't. The recovery, in
fact, has been marvellous, and the growth of the business
is surprising. The bank is now wiping out the old deficit
at the rate of over £90,000 a year, and it may soon be
wiping it out at the rate of £lOO,OOO a year or more.
With good seasons and a continuance of careful manage-
ment, another seven years might see the institution on
an even keel again. When it gets there it should be a
highly profitable concern. It is showing well over 20 per
cent, profit on its very moderate capital of £413,369 ; so
when the bad debts are cleared off it should be able to
build up very strong reserves —unless the boom disease
or the big dividend disease strikes it again.
The cash position is decidedly strong. There
are £5,083,097 owing by the bank to depositors and
others (this doesn’t include the £3,091,669 of interminable
stock which is fixed for ever and a day, nor the £430,888
due to the Government which doesn’t begin to fall due
for another seven years). Against this liability of
£5,083,097 the bank holds £3,289,078 of coin and liquid
securities, which is somewhere about 64 per cent. This
is a very different kind of management from that of the
drunken old days when the financial ship went ashore
and required such a dreadful amount of tugging before it
got Off again.
* * * *
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria
since its last reconstruction :
Profit on
Profit on Property Total Re-
Business. Sales. Profit. serves.
Dec., 1907 .. £661 £O6l £89,662
June, 1908 .. 1118 £1899 3017 38.579
Dec., 1908 .. 1386 1050 2436 86,015
Loss.
June, 1909 1897 698 1199 37,214
Profit.
Dec., 1909 .. 1700 1044 2744 89,968
June, 1910 .. 1934 1328 3262 43,220
After 17 years of bitter struggle in the wilderness this
sorely-tried company begins to see Canaan ahead—riot a
very brilliant variety of Canaan, it may lie, but Canaan
none the less. In 1893 it had a nominal capital of
£1,250,000 (£250,000 paid up and £1,000,000 call-
able), and it owed £994,764 to debenture holders. It
was 29 years old then (it was founded in 1864), and had
been doing well and paying dividends that ranged froin
8 to per cent. Then came the great slump in pro-
perty values, and the company’s assets depreciated at
such a rate that its £250,000 of paid-up capital wasn’t
anything like equal to the case. Heavy calls were made,
and such of the shareholders as coplcf pay did so, The
rest forfeited their shares, when they were squeezed dry.
The best terms possible were made with the debenture-
holders ; but they weren’t a very amenable lot, and had a
great tendency to demand as much as possible of their
pound of flesh. It was a grievous disaster ; but the Land
Mortgage Bank pulled through in a sense.
The progress in recent years is shown here-
under :
Liabilities.
Dec., June, Dec., June,
1900. 1909. 1909. 1910.
Capital .. £322,610 £126,687 £131,742 £135,324
Debentures .. 711,725 222,690 .121,888 Nil
Other debts.. 1,844 2,305 1,981 24,055
Assets.
Advances .. 504,795 246,826 211,802 138,542
Properties .. 317,432 74,248 67,388 52,896
Cash, etc. .. 29,392 66,684 16,379 11,162
Evidently there has been a great selling of properties to
raise the money to pay off the last of the debenture-
holders, and the properties have realised a good deal
more than their written-down book-values. The
profits on the sale of properties are understood
to be carried to Contingency Account, and that
account has increased during the past six mouthy by
£1328, which is something above the average. But
though the profits of thp busipess (£1934) are the largest
that have been realised for a long time, they only repre-
sent about £2 17s. 2d. per cent, per annum on the paid-
up capital. It is a lamentably small return, and holds
out very little prospect to the shareholders. Certainly
fhe prospect is improving, but it will require fo improve
a lot more before it is much o,f a prospect. It doesn’t
necessarily follow that the assets are over-valqed ;
indeed the profits shown o,n sales suggest that they are
under-valued. But such a small scrap of a ban}? has
emerged from the long series of disasters that the job of
keeping an office and a management and a staff is a very
severe tax on its resources, Unless there is a very
material improvement, the best thing the Land Mortgage
Bank can do is to amalgamate with some other institu-
tion, and thus saye some of its office expenses.
*** * ‘
E.8.T.: We regard it as a gamble, the same as
backing a horse. It isn’t a dead horse or a cab-horse or
a hopelessly slow horse. Still, it is just a horse. W*
haven’t put any of our own sparse cash into it.
* * * *
Yictorian Butter Factories Co-operative
po., Ltd. (Melbourne), which began with a deficit repre,
senting preliminary expenses :
Dividend Bonus to Written
April, profits. (10p.e.). Clients, Off. Deficit.
1900 £163
Reserves.
1901 .. £914 £149 602
1902 .. 1603 164 £lOO6 1035
1903 .. 2513 191 1612 1745
1904 .. 3072 201 2593 £7O 2003
1905 .. 2882 205 2483 20 2177
1906 .. 4278 212 1947 571 3725
(5 p.c.).
1907 .. 3006 133 2372 748 3478
Reserves transferred to Capital (£592) 2886
1908 .. 997 161 784 ' 2938
Loss.
1909 ~ 1595 1343
Profit.
1910 .. 1443 2786
Cow did none too well in Victoria last year, though things
were better than during the two previous periods. This
co. has a reserve fund of £2750, but at the end of last


THE BUTTERS
VACUUM FILTER.
Write for particulars to
FRASER * CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
Blair Athol Coal Co., near Clermont (Queens-
land), held its second half-yearly meeting at Rockhamp-
ton, and decided to purchase the freehold and mining
leases from the Peak Downs Copper Co. In order to do
this, 7400 shares of 30s. each are to be issued. Blair
Athol coal can be obtained in very large quantities. The
seam is a big one and lies near the surface. The coal is
well spoken of for steam purposes, and Blair Athol has
secured a contract to supply the Mount Morgan co. with
20,000 tons. The Bluff Colliery, 150 miles nearer the
coast, is a competitor with Blair Athol for Rockhampton
orders. For June the Bluff mine sent away 1040 tons.
* * * *
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturAlly for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
“Ferrodor” Paint. — Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cvanogen gases. Used on Mort’s
Dock and Mt. Lvell buildings; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges ; P. & O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
THE GREAT INCREASE IN WORKING
PRESSURE of steam boilers has enhanced the necessity
of thoroughly reliable boiler mountings and stop valves,
steam-tight piston glands and steam joints, as well as
perfect insulation of exposed steam heated surfaces to
prevent radiation and ensure transmission of heat. Bell’s
Asbestos packed water gauges, blow-off cocks, stop and
check valves, Bell’s Dagger packing and Bellite jointing,
Bell’s Asbestos flexible pipe lagging and non-conducting
composition will ensure economy and safety to steam
users. BELL’S ASBESTOS Australian Agency, Ltd.,
(A. J. Borchert, General Manager), 315 KENT STREET,
SYDNEY.*
* * * *
The works of the Austral Otis Engineering
Company at South Melbourne are at present busily en-
gaged in connection with the copper industry, and
among the works in hand are a complete converter plant
for the Great Fitzroy Mines, consisting of two blowing
stands with steam power turning gear, and six steel con-
verters each 10ft. 6in. by 7ft. 6in. diameter, two pneumati-
cally operated telescopic blowing hoods and main flue
connections, concentrate briquetting machines and water
jackets for the blast furnaces; several very large water
jackets for the Great Cobar Copper Mines ; steel framed
converter housing, two pneumatically operated telescopic
blowing hoods and main flue connections for the converter
plant, and hydro-pneumatic tamping cranes for converter
lining, for Wallaroo and Moonta Copper Mines, South Aus-
tralia ; steel water jackets and crushing rolls for the Phillips
River Copper Company, West Australia ; and a complete
100-ton water-jacketed blast furnace and steel main
chimney, sft. diam. and 150 ft. high, for the Hampden
Cloneurry Mines, Queensland. The Company have also in
hand the construction of the extensive coal screens, con-
veyors, automatic tipplers and coal hoppers required
for the State Coal Mines at Powlett River.*
*****
The original “Balata’ Belting, patented by
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its high standard
of excellence, and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand on every few feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* G
The Insurance Observer, London, of 4/9/’OB,
referring to The Colonial Mutual Life Assurance Society
Limited, writes:—“One can rest assured that the popu-
larity of this famous Melbourne office is still growing, and
one may reasonably hope that the current period will
yield even grander results.”*
* * * *
WOOD PIPE is specially adapted for Aus-
tralian conditions where the soil often contains alkali and
mineral which would soon eat away metal pipes. In
Wood Pipe there is no exposed metal. Catalogue from
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd., Balmain, Sydney.*
* * * *
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so,
write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney; and
9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [2
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
Nobels (Hamburg) Explosives.—Messrs. Wm.
Adams & Co. Ltd., of 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, have
now taken over the sole agency in N.S. W. for the above
high-grade explosives. Large stocks on hand. Please
note these are the genuine Nobels.*
Mine managers when requiring air compressors
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not fail
to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they will be
impressed by its simplicity, compactness and portability.
Owing to the working parts being entirely enclosed it can
be placed to work on any part of the mine, either on the
surface or underground. The number of repeat orders
which Messrs. Reavell have received from the mining
community proves how greatly their compressor is
appreciated. The representatives for Australia are
Messrs. Babcock and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
* * * * ,
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may*
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Comason <fe Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Sh.ber.bkro and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 206
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan's crucibles;
chemicals; etc.* >
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard Of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
vear it was a very nominal reserve fund, for there was
against it a debit of £1407. The debit has now been
cleared off, and the reserve fund is intact, also there is a
profit balance of £36. That is to say, these funds
are intact except for any depreciation which may
not have been provided for, and as th « . co *
been making paper economies under this head
for the last two years the chances are that there is some
depreciation which hasn’t been provided for, and which
has to be set against the alleged reserves. The co.
appears to be toiling along with wholly insufficient
capital. The said capital is £3230, which looks insig-
nificant alongside the overdraft of £10,216 and the
other debts. The freezing works alone represent
£lB 721 which is more than five tinies as much as the
narrow’grudging, parsimonious shareholders put up in
cash Still, in 1908, the overdraft stood at £13,579, so
things are improving. Plant account has increased by
about £lOOO. This is owing to the fact that the co. has
wisely decided to get clear of the butter-box combine
bv making its own boxes, and has installed the necessary
apparatus. It has the sole rights, so far as Victoria is
concerned, to make a special kind of box for holding
cow-fruit, and profit may ensue through sub-letting the
butter overcoat, so to speak.
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co.
(Melbourne);- To Re . Re .
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec. 1902 .. £3168 5 p.c. = £2250 £9lB £10,495
June’, 1903 .. 3699 7 „ „ 3150 549 11,044
Dec., 1903 .. 3226 5 ~ ~ 2250 976 12,020
June 1904 .. 5352 6 „ ~ 2250 3102 15,122
Dec. 1904 .. 3332 5 „ ~ 2250 1082 16,204
June, 1905 .. 3768 5 ~ ~ 2250 1518 17,/22
Dec 1905 .. 5577 6 ~ ~ 2700 2877 20,599
June, 1906 .. 5466 6 „ „ 2700 2766 23,365
Dec 1906 . 7061 8 „ „ 3600 3461 26,826
June, 1907 .. 4432 6 „ „ 2700 1732 28,558
Dec 1907 . 4271 6 ~ ~ 2700 1571 30,129
June, 1908 .. 4892 8 „ „ 3600 1292 31,421
Dec 1908 .. 4657 6 ~ ~ 2700 1957 33,378
June, 1909 .. 5965 6 „ „ 2700 3265 36,643
Dec., 1909 .. 4523 8 ~ ~ 3600 923 37,566
June, 1910 .. 4994 7 „ „ 3150 1844 39,410
The profits are good, and if the rate of dividend isn’t very
large, that is partly accounted for by the fact that the
paid-up capital (£90,000) over which the dividend has to
be spread is bigger than that of any other trustee co. in
Australasia. Next to it comes the Union (Melbourne),
with £73,822 paid up; the National (Melbourne),
£30,000 ; and the Perpetual (Melbourne), £30,000.
At the other end of the scale are three con-
cerns located respectively at Hobart, Launceston and
Perth, with £lO,OOO paid-up apiece. Whether there is
anything to be gained by having a large paid-up capital
it is difficult to say, but as an investment the shares of-
the Trustees, Executors and Agency are above the aver-
age of trustee companies, for they don’t carry quite such
a staggering liability as many. There is, for instance,
one trustee co. in Australia in which the shares are £lO
each, of which ss. is paid up. It is a rather breathless
sort of thing to incur £9 15s. of liability for the joy
of getting a pretty decent dividend on ss. To
hold 1000 shares in that concern, even if the
div. were 20 per cent., would be a case of
paying £250 and risking £9750 for the sake of £5O per
annum. The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. is
making good progress these times. It has on hand
estates valued at £9,013,807, against £8,734,373 six
months ago ; and though the addition made to the re-
serves is not up to that of June, 1909, it is at least
respectable.
* * * *
The Raymond Terrace Co-operative Dairy
and Produce Co. (Raymond Terrace, N.S.W.); —
Sup- Writ-
pliers’ ten Re-
Profits. Dividends. Bonus. Off. serves.
Apl., 1905.. £714
Oct., 1905.. £406 £204 916
Apl., 1906.. 409 10 p.c. =£l2l 238 966
Oct., 1906.. 402 236 1132
Apl., 1907.. 1274 10 p.c. =£l22 £472 258 1554
Oct., 1907.. 971 393 209 1923
An1.,1908.. 1566 10 p.c. =£lsl 682 201 2455
Oct., 1908.. 816 552 199 2520
Apl., 1909.. 1018 10 p.c. =£l7l 363 357 2647
Oct., 1909.. 412 342 2717
Apl., 1910.. 1544 10 p.c. =£l73 850 329 2909
The gloom which fell upon the accounts for the half-year
to October, 1909, was partly owing to the butter-box
combine. The butter-box factories of N.S.W. formed a
sort of trust, and shoved the price up about 50 per cent.
Also they shoved it higher to those butter-dealers who
wouldn’t make a contract to take only the trust’s inflated
butter-box for a term of years. Now a large number of
dairy factories, the Raymond Terrace concern included,
have combined to make their own boxes, and it is expected
that the proprietors of the old box factories will regretfully
take to tram-conducting as the reward of their attempt
at high finance. Apart from the box question, the Ray-
mond Terrace 00-operative Co. is feeling good. It owes
nothing on debentures or overdraft or mortgage, and it
has a balance at its current account and £6OO on fixed
deposit.
* * * *
Thanks to the lode at the 1070 ft. level, the
Broken Hill South directors have laid the hungry ghost
that was beginning to rattle its chains in the recesses of
that much-boomed mine. It was perhaps a good thing
for Broken Hill that they did. The ravens were croaking
very loudly, and nobody seemed very cheerful over future
prospects except the Broken Hill Water Supply Company.
Now that the South has got the lode in the crosscut from
No. 3 shaft, there can no longer be any doubt about the
main body of ore existing further north in the level. No.
3 shaft is westward of the main hauling shaft, and there-
fore closer to the footwall, which accounts for the ore
being cut there so much sooner than in the main cross-
cut. Then the South has another kite on its string. The
fine eastern body cut in the adjoining Central mine at
the 1100 ft. level is pitching right into the South mine ;
and, so far as is known, that body has not been tapped
by the South people yet. Maybe they are not deep
enough for it.
* * * *
People are asked to believe that the Murex
magnetic process is a roaring success, but beyond the
mysteriously-arrived-at results achieved at the testing
works in London, there are no activities to show, save
the results of a small plant at Cordoba, in Spain,
and the spasmodic efforts of the company’s
one stray unit on the Block 14 mine at Broken
Hill. The latter plant is merely in the position
of a boarder on the Block 14 premises, and it is still in the
experimental stage. As to results, nothing has yet been
made known beyond the bald statement that they are
“ satisfactory.” It would be more satisfactory to share-
holders, at any rate, if the Murex Company would pub-
lish some figures showing assay returns and costs per ton
for treatment.
Cosmopolitan (Hillgrove, N.S.W.) has 20 tons
of promising ore. The reef at the bottom of the shaft is
reported to be looking well, and No. 2 level will shortly
be opened on this make of stone. The south-east drive
on No. 1 reef does not appear to show any improvement
at 158 ft,, and the parallel formation known as the big
reef is not mentioned.
Long Tunnel Extended, Walhalla (Vic.), has
won a shade over 1300 oz. for six months’ vvork. So hath
the mighty fallen. Instead of monthly divs. of ss. or so,
only just enough cash is got to carry on with.
When yields were good, the warning was given
by The Bulletin to Finlayson and his colleagues
that Nemesis was at their heels. But besides
pasting - the warning in the office Bible they went on
consuming 1 the ore and running into dead ends. Now
the North Long Tunnel is being unwatered on the off-
chance that the £lOO.OOO already spent there may
not have been wasted. Work is to be concen-
trated at first on the 1700 ft. and 1900 ft. levels.
The idea exists that the old miners left payable
dirt there. For the sake of the big body of shar< holders
who, believing in the Extended, may hold their shares, the
warning must be given not to count chickens too early.
The Board is right to try the ground, because mining is
full of surprises.
* * * *
Little Bradbury fired the gun that brought,
down the Mt. Maroomba birds in Melbourne. Others
made the bullets for him, and it is no secret to say, that
the casting was done in the Urapunga homestead. R.
W. Powell reached the field last, but his wire got to the
market first, balancing everything. Seeing that Andrew
Wilson’s wire to the Mt. Maroomba crowd was chasing
Powell level, the Urapunga office was smart to
beat it on the market. Never was a sharper
break in scrip. Only one broker was potted at £lOO.
From £5O down, dealing was panicky ; one man tumbling
over another to get out. Reflection led to buying at
last, and to the subsequent recovery ; but the hope that
Mt. Maroomba is to provide a second Broken Hill
is gone. The parallel to the Maroomba boom is
the Balfour, save that there was no Stichttogive the field
an introductory nod. Everyone went nap, thinking it
time that a new mining find should turn up. Because
the cards didn’t run ace downwards in proper sequence,
the game has been,almost stopped. Some of the syndi-
cates are spending the few pounds put up to justify the
reports of the prospectors ; but with the bubble pricked,
more than flamboyant reports will be wanted. Only
hard, solid mining will now tell. Anyway, Andrew
Wilson is the hero of the moment.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance (W.A.) is getting ready
to resume ore treatment; but as the remodelled plant
will probably absorb nearly a third of the first month’s
proceeds, it will be the end of September before the co.
has any surplus gold to stack on edge. Speak, of Hooper
and Speak, managers and consulting engineers, is now
paying a second visit to the mine, partly for the purpose
of looking into things and partly to instal Varden in
place of Williams, who goes to S. Africa as the firm’s
representative.
Lake View and Star (W.A.), which form the
backbone of the holdings of the newly amalgamated co.
of that name, have just stumbled across something new
in the shape of developments. In the former lease an
apparently cross reef worth a bit over Joz. has been
struck and worked for some distance in the north end of
No. 19 level, while prospecting at No. 3 level in virgin
ground at Hannan’s Star has unearthed ore west of
James shaft, which averages between 30s. and 50s. per
ton- Something similar has also been met with at 500 fr.
in the same locality. On present prospects the Lake
View and Star is probably the best among the “ has
beens” on the Kalgoorlie field, and carefully nursed may
pay an occasional dividend during the next decade.
Golden Horseshoe has been getting much re-
proach in the London daily press over the recent drop in
the output. One critic, who dates his letter from Paris,
puts the case for complainant shareholders as follows :
“(1) That the mine has now been worked for over 16
years; (2) that there are opened up four lodes and 16
levels ; (3) that there ought to be over 50 sloping faces ;
(4) that the manager used to have a bullion reserve to
equalise returnsin case of emergency ; (5) that an increase
of the plant and of the output has been contemplated
for over nine months past; (6) that the ore reserves
were estimated on June I to be 1,071,630 tons, averaging
ll'oBdwt. per ton ; (7) that out of this quantity only
12,469 tons were put down as low as 7's6dwt. Yet the
remarkable fact remains that during January the
manager was unable to get more than s£dwt. per ton.
In other words, while the manager or surveyor is sup-
posed to have measured up a number of blocks contain-
ing over a million tons of ore, worth 465. per ton, not so
much as 22,000 tons of 255. stuff were accessible to the
miner’s pick, and the grade of subsequent monthly re-
turns hasn’t been much better. Having heaved this
boulder at the co.’s head, the critic asks whether the
official explanation that the decrease was due to unavoid-
able causes and is of a temporary character does not cast
a serious doubt on the correctness of the ore reserves or
else on the foresight of the underground management.
All the satisfaction he has got so far is a retort from a
paper representing the other side that he is an unfeeling
bear who is trying to scare genuine holders out of their
shares ; but if the lame excuse put forward by the Board
for the heavy falling-off in returns didn’t establish a scare,
nothing that this critic has done or is likely co do will
shake the faith of shareholders.
Ida H.’s position, set out in tabloid form by
chairman Burch at the annual meeting “We have suc-
ceeded in sinking our incline shaft from the 500 ft. to the
900 ft. level, and that has given us a very large addition
to our ore reserves. A pay-shoot has been opened up to
the south, and it is a very favorable feature, because the
workings have hitherto gone persistently away from the
main shaft, involving ever-increasing expenditure in fol-
lowing the ore. When the manager made his report in
January last he estimated the reserves at 15,000 tons, but
these have since been largely increased, and we consider
the ore now in sight to be greater than at any previous
period in the co.’s history.” Prospects have certainly
brightened a good deal during the past year, but they
will have to be furbished up a bit more before share-
holders can hope to get any further dividends out of the
min". M an time the co. is laying out the remnants of its
working capital, which now amounts to about £lO,OOO, to
the best advantage.
•#•***
Chaffer’s accounts for 1909 show that on
December 31 the available cash resource amounted to
£29,548. Altogether £13,645 was received from invest-
ments, royalty, bullion and sundry specs, and after
wiping off expenditure a credit balance of £8765 remains.
Since the end of the financial year the purchase of the
derelict Boulder Main Reef mine and plant has been
added to the list of the co.’s rickety possessions, and in
spite of indications to the contrary, the Board repeats
its assurance that the new addition will prove of great
value.
Karangahake (W.A.) is to be tested 100 ft. or so
lower down. This mine promised well in a small way at
the beginning, but so far it has shaped rather poorly in
depth. Sydney capital gave it a start, and is sticking to
it* still.
* * * *
It’s an ill-wind that blows nowhere. Having
earned more than tucker by rooting around Deeming’s
old humpy at Southern Cross, a local dry-blower put the
whole of the alluvial from beneath the historic cement
floor through his shaker, and left off £74 richer than
when he started. The sinking of a shaft to test the
“property” at depth is now contemplated—at least a
local report says so. If Deeming, when he lifted the
hearthstone of his domicile, had looked for gold instead
of burying his wife, he might have been rich instead of
being hanged.
* * *
London Australian and General Exploration,
Ltd., has issued another cheerful circular about its gold,
zinc, rubber and other worldly possessions. From this
it appears that “ exceptionally pure oil in great abun-
dance ” has been tapped all over the place on the co.’s
Maikop plots, and that the pipe-line concessions at the
same place also promise to earn lots of money before
long. The rubber, cocoa and tea interests in Ceylon are
reported to be flourishing, while the co.’s preferential
holding in “Sink’s” is modestly described in the same
breath as a very valuable investment. Something is also
added about the improved gold outlook at the Lancefield
and Northern mines (W. A.), and the want of encouraging
developments is the reason given for the recent throwing
up of Fraser’s option at Southern Cross. Altogether, the
co. seems to be overwhelmed with delight at the attract-
iveness of its prospects.
* * * *
From “A.G.”: The official figures re the Tas-
manian mineral industry for the first quarter of the year
show a total yield for the State of £344,766, a decrease of
£47,298 on the previous quarter. The shrinkage is due
to dry weather, which diminished the tin output, and to
the suspension of the Zeehan smelters, which'are still at
loggerheads with the Rosebery and Mount Read
suppliers of zinc-lead sulphide. Dividends for the
quarter were £26,359 ; number of men employed
5542, including 87 Chows. Tasmania is becoming
the laboratory of the Commonwealth in matters
metallurgical. Mount Lyell and Zeehan smelters
have already Reached success in their experimental
processes, Four companies ate tackling complex
ore problems. The Hercules is preparing the Hor-
wood flotation process for its zinc lead ; and the Tas-
manian Copper, five miles north, is preparing' aplantthat
is said to closely approach perpetual motion. Its ex-
ploiters claim to be able to save the zinc, lead,
silver, gold and copper, make a by-product which
is to pretty well pay all costs, and finally to recover and
use again nearly all the chemical re-agents. Then there
are two other concerns with parliamentary concessions
for harnessing high-level water supplies and treating,
chemically and electrically, all or most of the complex
ores invented to worry metallurgists. If Broken Hill
Block 10 finds its Comstock mine, near Zeehan, at lower
levels, what the shallow workings indicate it will prob-
ably have a go at the complex problem with its own fancy
method. The quarterly report also mentions a little
mine in the north-west wilds (Middlesex district) which
has been consistently pegging away at an ore which com-
bines tin, wolfram and bismuth ; and, by means of a
magnetic process, has turned out tin worth £BOO, wolfram
worth £540, and bismuth valued at £465, topping up with
a £lOOO div. for the quarter.
* * * *
Wallaroo and Moonta (S. Australia) has been
excavating a plat at the 2430 ft. level from Taylor’s shaft
—which is the deepest copper n ine in this country.
That the old Wallaroo should work at twice the depth
attained by Mount Morgan, North Mount Lyell or Great
Cobar is an indie tion that most of our mines are
still at comparatively shallow levels. Wallaroo and
Moonta is still a large producer of copper, at un-
fortunately, a high cost. For the fortnight the Wallaroo
mine sent 1613 tons (averaging about 9 per cent.) and
the Moonta mine 292 tons (averaging 15 per cent.) to
the smelters. These two consignments contained 186
tons of copper.
« •* * *
Because the blister copper from Mount Morgan
(Queensland) contains high gold values, sometimes rising
up to £7O per ton, there are people who imagine that the
leviathan could go on paying its usual quarterly divi-
dends with copper at half its present price. It couldn’t.
The gross value of the 7062 tons of copper produced for
the year ending May 31, 1910, was £353,100. Taking
copper at £5O per ton, this tallies closely with the profit
(£358,182). The production of gold from all sources was
178,867 fine oz., which is nearly equal to the total
expenses (£721,722). Far from being independent of
copper values, dividends absolutely depend on the red
metal, for under present conditions the whole of the _
gold-value is eaten up in expenses. Copper would have'
to drop £5O 14s. 4d. before profits would disappear; but
the quarterly dividend (£50,000) would he none too
secure if copper fell to half its present price. There are
1,000,000 shares, so with the gold going to pay expenses
Mount Morgan has to make a clear profit of over £2B per
ton on its present production of copper to screw out a
bare £200,000 profit per annum. The mine that can work
at such a heavy cost and produce copper at such a big
profit is a wonder.
Mount Morgan’s western works, which have
been treating rather low-grade oxidised ore, have been
closed down. For the 12 months to May 31 these works
treated 52,917 tons of ore for 12,2870 z. gold, which shows
an extraction of about 19s. per ton, and it was
because of the exhaustion of the supplies of this grade of
oxidised ore that the works were shut. These works
have paid exceedingly well. They have treated a total
of 1,503,903 tons of Ore, averaging 7'3ldwt. gold per ton.
The average profit has been 15s. per ton, and the total
profit amounts to date is considerably over £1,000,000.
In the early days there were enormous open cut work-
ings, and the 7dwt. stuff was sent over the tip as .waste
material. Since then enormous quantities of 3dwt. and
4dwt. stuff have been treated.
41 * * *
New Einasleigh (N. Queensland) is obtaining
fairly good results from development work at No. 3 and
No. 4 levels. Crosscutting is in progress from the main
drives, and at both levels a good make of ore has been
passed through. A large quantity of ore isbeingstoped,
and the picked stuff sent to the Ohillagoe smelters. A
big heap of seconds is accumulating for treatment at the
concentrator, which will probably be the first copper
plant to put the flotation process to a practical test. It
is understood that the Great Fitzroy (Queensland)is con-
sidering the flotation process. For the fortnight, 735
tons of Einasleigh ore, worth 7J per cent, copper, were
sent to Chillagoe. No official statement has been made
about mining costs and smelters’ returning charges, but
it seems tolerably certain that the shipments of picked
ore are only being made to reduce the cost of develop-
ment and management. Mungana is another copper
concern that has been producing heavily for years past,
but the small profits have been completely swallow ed up
by the cost of driving, sinking, pumping and boring, and
the general effort to battle with the creep and the fire.
* * * *
Chillagoe (Queensland) is prospecting numerous
mining leases. The weekly report mentions no less than
eight, including gold mines in the vicinity of Charleston
and Perc.vville, copper mines at Zillmatiton and Koor-
hoora, and silver-lead at Mount Turner. The Havelock
has recently struck a make of stone from 3ft. to 4ft. wide,
assaying from 15dwt. to loz. in the bottom level. Fairly
good copper ore has been struck at Zillmanton, hut there
is an exceptionally-heavv flow of water at the contact of
the limestone with the granite. The last monthly re-
turn shows that the lead furnace smelted 963 tons for
bullion, containing 114 tons of lead and 90530 z. of silver.
The copper furnace treated 3720 tons, including 2139
tons of purchased ore, 546 tons from Mungana, and 956
tons of low-grade ore from the Chillagoe mines. The
3720 tons gave 227 tons of copper, 15,8160 z. of silver, and
17060 z. of gold. The gold is mainly obtained from con-
centrates and milling products purchased by the Chil-
lagoe co.
* * * *
Great Eitzroy (Queensland), according to W. J.
Boring, who represents Bewick, Moreing and Co., has
654,833 tons of reserves—estimated to contain an average
of 2 - 98 per cent, of copper and 2‘s7dwt. of gold, and
valued (on a £6O per-ton of copper basis) at £2 6s. Bd. per
ton. The reserves have been reduced half a million tons,
and the previous untrustworthy estimate is excused be-
cause this immense dyke formation has developed some
unexpected intrusions of mullock. Loring reckons that
the furnace will extract 90 per cent, of the £2 6s. Bd.
which he supposes the ore to contain ; so the actual re-
turn whittles down to 425. per ton with copper at £6O,
and to 365. per ton with copper at £5O. The latter
estimate is the most likely of realisation, and even it im-
plies exceptionally high recoveries from a concentrating
and smelting process. Dyke formations and intrusions
of mullock are the excuses held out to Great Fitzroy
shareholders for the reduced estimate placed on reserves
(the estimate has come down from over 1,000,000 tons to
654,833 tons). Even the latter estimate is an enormous
tonnage for a mine developed to only 300 ft.
* * * ■*
East Mexican (Charters Towers) has 2ft. of
light mineral stone of poor quality in the face of No. 5
East level. About 100 tons of stone are ready for crush-
ing. The patchy nature of the reef and the limited re-
serves make East Mexican the same capricious, elusive
stock that it has hitherto proved. Brilliant P.O. is sink-
ing a winze at the extreme eastern end of the Day
Dawn formation, but present prospects are not up
to much. Brilliant Blocks takes an interest in this
winze, for it is coming down at rather a steep angle
towards the B. B. boundary. The heavy flow of water is
delaying the sinking of the shaft. Probably Brilliant
Blocks.finds the most encouragement in the development
work that the Brilliant Deep is doing above the 2413 ft.
level near the Blocks’boundary. The last crushing from
the B. Deep was worth over £6 per ton, and the best
stone appears to have been got in the rise approaching
the Boundary. This development is, however, very
erratic and unreliable.
Brilliant Extended (Charters Towers) has de-
clared a 6d. dividend (£6250), which was also the amount
paid for the first half of this year. For the correspond-
ing six months of 1909 shareholders received £18,750.
Charters Towers is subject to these sudden changes. For
instance, the Bonnie Dundee, which was handing out
dividends a year back, is now making calls, and the New-
Brilliant Freehold, which (rave nothing: to shareholders
for the first half of 1909, has paid 122,500 for the first six
months of 1910, The field as a whole has produced
£341,449 for the first half of 1910, and the calls amounted
to £26,435. Brilliant Extended, as a pioneer of the deeps,
has its No. 3 underlie shaft down 70ft. below No. 19, or
nearly 2900 ft. vertical. The stone showing in the bottom is
lightly mineralised. No. 19 level at the eastern and
western ends show's 3ft. of good stone, with a length of
500 ft. dividing the two faces. The last crushing was
4740 tons for £7454, and 3800 tons of tailings were
cyanided for £2037, or 10s. Bd. per ton. The profit was
only £lO6B, which is not much from a return that totals
£9491. The Extended is continuing one of its levels on
behalf of its neighbor, the Bonnie Dundee, and the latter
is also doing considerable prospecting on its own account.


CHAMPAGNE.
Charles Heidsieck
VINTAGE 1904.
ne plus ultra.
Those who suffer from any trouble of the hair
or scalp will be interested in the Hygeia Individual
Treatment, which absolutely cures permanently where
those advertised remedies fail.
A patient writes:—“l am pleased to tell you that
my hair seems ever so much better, even though I have
only used the treatment three weeks. My hair was in
such a terrible state when I wrote you that I was in
despair about it, and I feel certain somehow that, if you
could have seen the awful state of it yourself, you too
would have despaired of ever fretting- it right. Consider-
ing the short time, I think your treatment has done
marvels, and I will certainly persevere with it.”
After only two months’treatment she writes My
hair is ever so much improved, it is beautifully soft apd
as glossy as can be, all the dandruff has quite gone,
the hair does not fall out as much, and I am indeed more
than grateful to you.—l.J., Whangarie, New Zealand.”
The President may be consulted, free of charge, any day
but Saturday, between 2.15 and 4.45, and on Wednesday
between 6 and 7. Those who cannot call, may write
enclosing 3d. stamps for booklet and many more testil
monials, to the President, Dept. B, Hygeia Limited
Ocean House, Moore Street, Sydney,* ’ *
D
0 0
D
w
i
<B>
A chemist has to listen to
other people’s troubles all day
Jong, and sometimes half the
night, too —it’s pretty trying,
and one gets very weary of it, 1
can tell you—and sometimes 1 get
so run down that 1 go right off
my food, and the only thing l
can touch is a cup of tea.
Now, provided tea is pure, and
not overdrawn jn the making, it
is about as good a thing as you
can take when you feel very tired,
and there’s certainly nothing that
you can drink with your meals
that’s nicer or better for you—
tea’s much better even than fresh
water, because to make tea the
water must be boiled, which kills
all the germs in it —• whereas,
when you drink plain water you
swallow the germs alive. Robur
is the purest tea that can be got,
and 1 can recommend the No. 1
Grade —it really is wonderfully
nice tea.
The Chemist.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydnky, July 19, 1910.
My Dear Arini,—
The French National festivity had a birthday
last Saturday, at Clifton Gardens, when over 500
Frenchmen and Australians kept up the entente
eordiale and rejoiced in a light-hearted fashion.
The light-hearted ness began at the luncheon,
whereat Frenchmen with strips of red ribbon in
their button-holes toasted Britain, including Aus-
tralia, in champagne and glowing accents, and
the joy wound up at the Quay in the gloaming
to the tunes of the “Marseillaise” and “Auld
Lang Syne,” punctuated with cheers from
the departing guests. After lunch and speeches
by Consul Frandin and Treasurer Waddell,
the chilly wind kept everybody indoors,
and everybody danced, from little girls dressed
like French dolls to quite elderly Darbies and
Joans, who stepped out as briskly as the youngsters.
French shoes and lacy underskirts were much in
evidence. Paris being stamped on every flirty
frill. Afternoon tea was served amid much
laughter. Some of the Kersaint tars drank
bumper cups in an experimental kind of way, and
the waitresses smiled when they asked for more. A
party of wool-buyers from Maoriland broke into
fearful and wonderful war-whoops; but, apart from
these patriots, everybody tried to look as French as
possible. The gentlemen with the largest hows
of tricolor generally turned out to be Scotch.
The guests had a splendid time, and went home
feeling personally grateful to those riotous persons
whose gaol-smashing act of long ago had that day
been celebrated.
The State Governor and Lady Chelmsford went
to Kensington Grounds on Saturday to see the
final game of the polo tournament for the Countess
of Dudley’s Challenge Cup. It was a fine day, and
society motored out in its hundreds. Captain
Rome is considered the beauty man of the
Sydney polo team, and when he got Sydney’s
first goal the event was hailed as a feat by his
admiring friends. The polo dress suits the
smart A.D.C. He looks “so English, you know,”
although he is really an Australian. Narromine
team is the country crack which won the cham-
pionship of the carnival. The appearance on the
ground of the Federal Government House in-
mates, including both Exes, and all the suite, was
a healthy sign that the official mourning is slowly
dropping off the shoulders of the highly-placed.
“ The mourning’’ causes current festivities to be
shorn of much pomp and splendor, and official
pleasures are still taken sadly. This polo carnival
has set the game on its feet, as a high-toned and
expensive recreation. Kensington outrivalled
Randwick, on Saturday, as a resort of fashion.
Miss Parbury, the golf champion, was cheered
on her victorious way on Wednesday by a friendly
cup of tea tendered by Misses Trevor Jones, Clift
and Wray at the Club House on the Rose Bay
links. These three had in hand the arrange-
ments for the tournament which fluttered the
homes of enthusiasts with excitement last week.
The win of Miss Parbury was very popular, and
her friends, who are innumerable, told her so.
She is a hard hitter, and her style with the
“cleeks”or the “mushies ” is considered to show
true golfing form. Unlike most male golf cham-
pions, she never uses “ language ” when her ball
refuses to budge for any number of strokes.
The fence of the new Home for Lost Dogs will
be started this week. King Edward’s name will
give a tone to the establishment, and after the
fence is up a tree-planting bee will be held. It
will supply an excuse to ask for more subscrip-
tions towards the building, which will be started
last of all. Each kennel will be named
after the person who endowed it, same as
a bed in a hospital. Admiral Poore and
his popular wife have been interested in
this canine hotel from the start, and the com-
mittee hope that the dogs will be all comfortably
housed by next February. In that stunted month
the Poores are to leave the Australian station for
good and all. At the recent entertainment, held
at St. James’s Hall for the purpose of getting
enough to buy some nails for the fence, Professor
David and some dogs were the big bow-wows.
The new C.M.G. hugged a woolly white Shackle-
ton dog which was collecting pennies in a box tied
round the beast’s neck. “ Among those present”
was the noble, pedigreed Borzois Nicolas, owned
by Miss Allen. The President spoke feelingly
about the probability of meeting dogs and cats in
Heaven. Animal lovers don’t expect to see the
notice, “ Dogs Not Admitted,” stuck up outside
the pearly gates.
Large pasteboards, issued by the President and
Board and Committee of the Sydney Home for
Babies, were the means of drawing a crowd
to that institution, which is in Nelson Bay-road,
Waverley. Mrs. Justice Simpson was the biggest
fish netted by the inviters, and she declared
the home to be well and truly inspected by the
guests. At this institution the Norland nurses do
the work of baby-training on most scientific
lines. It is a charity run in connection
with the Norland Institute, which is meant to
house the children of the destitute rich. The
trainees try their ’prentice hand on the Home
babies. Mrs. Greig-Smith and Mrs. Rutter work
for the prosperity of the Home, and it does good
in saving infant life which would probably be
wasted otherwise. A Home (with a capital) is
better than no home, but the management is
usually more complicated. In an ordinary home
for babies (with no capitals) the President and
Board and Committee consist of one mother.
The Girls’ Realm Guild will dance on
masquerade principles in aid of the above good
cause, under distinguished patronage, in St.
James’s Hall, on Friday night. The Countess of
Dudley firmly believes in the Norland nursing
system ; and, though her Ex. will not be at the
hall herself, she and the Governor-General have
allowed their august names to be printed on the
cards of admission.
11l luck dogs our Mayoress’s footsteps when she
announces an At Home, Twice has her day for
shaking hands with all comers been postponed,
and when, at last, Monday was decided upon for
keeps, the rain deluged the Town Hall and all its
approaches. Mrs. Allen Taylor, with the muni-
cipal Wallington, alias W. G. Layton, supporting
her, stood nobly by her doorpost and welcomed
various guests, some of whom looked as if they
should have been promptly taken away to the hot
steam room and pegged out to dry.
On the second floor back of this palatial build-
ing a great transformation was effected on Satur-
day evening when “Hop” was “at home” to
some chosen spirits. The said spirits were in-
vited to meet the musieianly persons who com-
pose the Austral String Quartette. (The best
way to remember their names is to hum them to
the tune of the introduction song in “ The Dollar
Princess” —Cyril and Janssen and Tchaikov
and Gladstone. “Hop” is, to make a clean
breast of it, a kind of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde ;
he has his Bulletin aspect and the aspect which
he shows to musical Mosman. Asa musical
enthusiast he entertained his guests delightfully
in his studio, transformed into a music room,
wherein Haydn and Bach and Schubert were
scraped or warbled as occasion demanded. The
vocalist, Mr. Illingworth, also played the piano-
forte accompaniment to a little thing of his own,
fiddled very sweetly by Cyril Monk. The Misses
Hopkins were hostesses. The A. H. Normans,
Mrs. Gladstone Bell, Mr. Lachlan Beaton and
other enthusiastic worshippers of “Music,
heavenly maid,” were there. And the coffee was
handed round by a liveried menial.
Mr. S. Vost Janssen gave a matinee musicale at
the Y.M.C. A. Hall on Saturday afternoon, and his
violin pupils performed with more or less skill and
dexterity. Mrs. Camille Cornwell sang, and Miss
E. Douglas Leathart recited, by way of variety.
The career of one of the pupil performers, Beryl
Murray, is being watched over by a committee
of Newtown friends, who are making themselves
responsible for her tuition bills while her talent
for large discourse upon the violin is trained.
On the programmes appeared the notice, “No
Encores,” in bold, black type.
“Holloway Prison fyr a Month” was the title
of Muriel Matters’ discourse last Friday before a
very good house in the King’s Hall, Phillip-
street. At half-time the lecturess changed (be-
hind the scenes, of course) from a very frivolous
oyster satin and lace get-up into the fashionable
garb of the Holloway “Smart Set”—being the
togs in which Muriel had “done time. “Jo-
hanna,” from Melbourne, described the outfit a
week or two back. The uniform of dark blue suited
the lecturess admirably ; but a spiteful person in
the audience murmured: “Why doesn’t she plaster
her hair down ? There are no pads in Holloway.”
The lecture was interesting to listen to, but most
of the listeners felt, with a thankful shudder, that
they shouldn’t much care to take on the job of
being a fighting suffragist. There were no pic-
tures. If the suffragettes could have smuggled a
camera into gaol there would have been a for-
tune in the pictures of the forcible feeding and the
hosing. But Judkins wouldn’t have let us see
them, anyhow; so what’s the use of saying “If ” ?
“ What Every Woman Knows ” is a catchy but
misleading title for a gem of a play which is now
running at the Royal. If every woman knew
what Maggie Shand knew, there would be no
divorce court, no maintenance cases, no deserted
wives, no cat-and-dog yapping across any dinner
tables. In fact, peace and harmony would fill the
scene round every domestic hearth, and how dull
that would be! Maggie, played by Nellie
Stewart, with an
nobody-shall-stop-me manner, knew that the
good husband is made, not born. She
made her man into a passable imitation
of a good husband, just as she made
his screeds into passable imitations of real
speeches. But—in passing—what ghastly con-
coctions the Shand speeches must have been !
Heavy, dull, loggy orations, with obviously-
dragged-in jokes supplied by another hand.
Maggie is well and truly portrayed by our Nell,
except that Nellie is at times inclined to make
Maggie grovelsome to John. No Scotswoman
would adopt the position of “less than the dust
beneath thy chariot wheels.” Reticence is
Maggie’s keynote. Maggie is a Great Person.
All the same, she’s not entirely original as a
conception of character. She’s a little like Becky
Sharp, a good bit like Jeanie Deans, with a touch
of Lady Cecilia Waynflete in “Captain Brass-
bound’s Conversion.” Becky’s brain added to
Jeanie’s heart make a good mixture.
Maggie’s quality is shown by her attitude
towards the Suffragettes. She ticks off each one
with a click of her knitting needles to the
Countess.- She “doesn’t understand the woman
question,” she won’t so much as walk into the
next room and join the catmittee meeting. All she
does is to put the ideas into John’s somewhat
wooden head and forge the bolts which he shoots
so well that he is chosen as the Suffragettes’
representative in the House. Is there anybody
else on earth quite so preternaturally wise as a
canny Scotswoman ?
In St. James’s Hall Miss Annie Roberts blos-
somed forth on Friday night as a first-appearance
recitress and play-actress. Miss Annie scored
well, too. She is very much alive, and looks as if
she could be trained into the paths of histrionic
success. Her hair was badly done, and her make-
up disastrous ; but these things can be improved,
and she’s so good that it’s worth a scrape of the
pen to tell her of her faults. Wilton Power aided
in the dramatic scenes, and there was some music
besides. The hall was crammed with an invited
audience.
For the reason that she is a very clever little
mimic, Lorna Pounds’s friends are banding to-
gether to get her up a benefit performance next
month. Lorna is getting a big girl now, but as
children she and her sister Toots used to give
smart little stunts in the imitation line. Lorna
has just returned from Maoriland as a member of
the “Peter Pan” co. The Wallers will take her
to England with them in a month or so, if suffi-
cient wind can be raised this side to blow her
across. Hence the benefit. Lorna’s best imita-
tions are those of Nellie Stewart, Harcourt
Beatty, Mervale, Brune, and some of the Tivoli
people.
Dolores, who has been faithful to white gowns
during all her season here, was robed in that
spotless hue on Saturday. Her admirers rolled
up in greater force than ever for the matinee and
the added concert. Some beautiful diamonds were
sported by the singer, but she doesn’t put her
clothes forward as an advertisement.
Miss Bruce and Miss Alcock are two strenuous
Englishwomen with a conviction that an able-
bodied and persevering white woman can go on
the land profitably. They have given a six-months’
trial to the experiment in the Glen Lines dis-
trict. They are going to the Cold Country for a
visit, but will be back soon again to their farm,
which is doing very nicely. Miss Bruce,
the senior partner, has been working really
hard, and has put up a barbed-wire fence
with her own hands, much to the amusement
of the inhabitants of Glen Innes and those parts.
“What a Chinaman can do, a white woman can
do,” is this Englishwoman’s motto, and her soul
hankers after cabbage-growing. When they
reach their native land, the two ladies mean to
sing the praises of Australia, which, of course,
will be all to the good.
Gasps of astonishment greeted the cabled news
that Mrs. Chief Justice Stout, of Maoriland, had
been holding forth in the London press about the
improved birth-rate resulting from the granting
of women suffrage in Australasia. That birth-
rate has been getting itself talked about every-
where of late ; but to tack it on to a political
struggle is a quaint example of the “ after this,
therefore, because of this ” argument. Besides,
the birth-rate hasn’t increased —at least, not
much. Last published statistics for Sydney
showed that the Australian baby is still very shy
on the wing, and refuses to be readily bagged for
statistical purposes.
Hundreds of city folk will be grieved to
hear of the death of Miss Rowan, the bright-faced
manageress of the Burlington Cafe. For years
past Miss Rowan’s pleasant smile has been a
daily sight of thousands of lunchers, for the lady
was formerly well known at the A.B.C. Gastritis
was the cause of death, which came very suddenly.
Dr. Graham Bell with his wife and daughter
and Mr. and Mrs. Baldwin are in Sydney. As
the inventor of the telephone, Graham Bell is a
lioni So the lion hunters of Sydney decided that
he should be received at the University by the
Royal Society, the Electrical Association and the
Aerial League. Son-in-law Baldwin was the first
man to fly in America.
Darling Point was intensely interested on
Wednesday in the wedding of Miss Cicely
Lingen, who took unto herself an Englishman,
Mr. Anthony Chase, for husband. St. Mark’s
was the scene of the bridal ceremony. Rev. Wil-
loughby Flower tied the knot. Miss Lingen. as a
society belle, kept well up to her part as an effec-
tive bride in white satin and ninon and many
diamonds. The bridegroom gave her her
earrings. There were three bridesmaids—Miss
Marjorie Thompson, Miss Gummow, and
Miss Craee, the bride’s niece. Mr. Leonard
Stephen saw the bridegroom through his trouble,
and the joyous pair went off per motor to Port
Hacking for a honeymoon at the Ernest Noyes’s
place. Simpsons, Goulds, Fairfaxes, Suttors,
Andersons and Knoxes were among those bidden
to put on the wedding garment and help consume
the feast.
Girls should look like their names. But nowa-
days the nurseries abound with Gladys and
Yera and Ruby and Pearl, and the little
urchins who run around the Rocks are Guy
and Keith and Claude and Bert. A census
of names was recently taken at a United
States college, and Helen was found to be the com-
monest appellation. Next came Mary, then Mar-
garet, Ruth, Florence and Elizabeth in that order.
Old-fashioned terms, all of these, and they
were just about as popular in Australia
as in the U.S. some years ago. Ruth is an
exception, being decidedly out-of-the-ordinary
with us. The above are all sensible names ; but
eight or 1.0 years hence, when Margaret has left
school and married, and Gladys and co. have
reached the academic age, there may be a change.
On the other hand, Jane, Dorothy and such-like
designations are in fashion. That is to say, Mar-
garet is aged about 15: Dorothy is aged six
months, and Gladys, in between, represents the
intervening spasm of London JouRNAL-ese. The
task of living up to a lofty name is too trying for
most girls, and they are content to rub along
under a just ordinary monniker, unless they are
blessed with an ingenious parent, like the man
who christened his three daughters Jemima,
Keziah and Karenhappuch.
The Dean of Newcastle and the latest report
of the N.S.W. Department of Labor are
agreed in throwing coke, slag and other
hard substances at child labor. This young
and prosperous country possesses parents mean
enough to let their boys and girls earn
money before they even get into their teens.
According to the report, the powers that be are
going to enforce strictly the regulation that no
girl under 14 shall be allowed to work in a factory.
It would be still wiser to establish an age of in-
dustrial consent for factory girls, making it 17.
Yet it isn’t the factory child that the real
trouble is about—in N.S.W., anyhow. His or
her lot is just Heaven compared to that of the
cocky-farmer’s infant, who, at the age of seven
years or so, has often to go milking or rabbit-
trapping in the early morning before school and
in the late evening—even, in the rabbit case, far
into the night—after school is over. And there
isn’t even a law or any promise of a law to put an
end td this iniquity. Why the unfortunate agri-
cultural and pastoral infant can, at the age of
seven, be legally worked for a quantity of hours
per diem that would be regarded as shocking in
the case of the city hobbledehoy of i 5 I have
never been able to learn.
Then there is the infant prodigy, who badly
requires a Factories Act. Some parents, set to
work to boom a clever child almost from birth.
They shove the offspring into social prominence
and shine on her reflected light. The most over-
loaded small girl—it is generally a girl—in the
community is the one that has to carry two large
stout parents into society on her back. And
generally she grows up to be a colossal failure, so
that the only dividend she ever pays is the one
her parents annex when she is young.
That Lithgow cleric’s fierce denunciation of
dancing as it is whirled at Lithgow led a party
of giddy young men and maidens, one recent
night, to a dancing hall in one of the Sydney
suburbs. They wanted to see how ‘‘the lower
ordahs ” really disport themselves. The society
explorers found the hall and paid the price of ad-
mission : “Gents, one shilling, ladies free.” The
M.C. was in possession of the floor, and the
couples were gyrating slowly with their foreheads
touching. The “ Rocks” waltz consists in trying
to get as many steps as possible into as little space
as possible, keeping up the tee-to-tum movement
all the time. The scene was exactly like a
Norman Lindsay picture of “ push society,” and
the explorers felt quite disappointed at the tame-
ness of the adventure. They expected something
much more lurid.
Yours, as of old,
CLEO.
“ S.S.” : One night, quite recently, a dis-
tracted little man in a large hat and disordered
clothes, attracted considerable public attention by
tearing along an exclusive street in a Brisbane
suburb. His manner suggested delirium, and the
impression of passers-by was that he was chased
by wild fantods. He dashed into the grounds of
a well-to-do resident, and swung on the bell
ppll. Two minutes later the master of the
house was enjoying his society. “I want
you to come at once and remove your wife,’
gasped the little man in the large hat. “ Indeed ! ”
replied the householder, with bland calmness.
“Yes, indeed, sir,” roared the intruder. “She
walked boldly into my house, climbed my stairs,
and, having disrobed in our best bedroom, went to
bed in our bed, sir. She’s there now. She won’t
get up. lam told she is your wife. I demand
that you come and remove her instantly.” “ Did
she throw her clothing out of the window?’
asked the host with gentle interest. “ She did.”
gasped the agitated stranger. “ Her disreputable
garments were strewn over my front garden.”
“Ah, then, it is my wife!” murmured the fat
inhabitant, almost sweetly. “Of course it’s your
wife,” the little man replied. “What the devil
are you going to do ? ” The corpulent citizen of
high repute pursed his lips, and raised his brows.
“We find, my dear friend,” he said in mellow,
even tones, “that in such cases it is invariably
best to let her sleep it .S.”


HARDY
BROTHERS
LIMITED
BY APPOINTMENT
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
WATCHMAKERS
silversmith:
DIAMOND AND GEM-SET BRACELETS.
NEW DESIGNS JUST TO HAND.
Ths Largest and most U.j-to-date Selection in the Commonwealth.
Site
t'ri
o
m
ww
Q)
isMSi
as lie
FINE COLD FLEXIBLE BRACELET, SET WITH FIVE BLUE AQUAMARINES
AND FIVE DIAMONDS, IN CASE,
£lO 10s.
IMEW LARGE ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
JUST ISSUED.
Sent Po3t Free to any Address on application.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
500,000 Copies already sold of the Popular
Bookstall Series of Australian Novels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
THE DOUBLE ABDUCTION,
by H. K. BLOXHAM
(Author of “ On the Fringe of the Never-Never”).
With Four Full-Pag'e Illustrations by Ben Jordan.
Illustrated Paper Cover. Price 1/- ; postage 3d.
THE
L
Mr. Bloxhani has
again succeeded in
weaving- a web of
romance around the
belies of Wilcannia
which is likely to
prove as great a
f ivorite as his former
effort.
Tne plot is too
intricate and the in-
cidents too numer-
ous to mention in a
short p iragraph, but
readers may be sure
of plenty of excite-
ment, told in this
author’s thrilling
81 y 1 e. The very
daring of the abduction of the two girls, although
committed by two seemingly simple young men, is
worthy of the best bushranging traditions of Aus-
tralia.
LOVE AND THE AEROPLANE,
A Tale of To-Morrow. By JOHN SANDES.
With Six Full-Page Illustrations by Lionel Lindsay
Illustrated Paper Cover. Price 1/- ; postage 3d.
For many years
the name of John
Sandes lias been one
to conjure with so
far as smart articles,
humorous sketches
and literary criticism
in the leading Aus-
tralian newspapers
were concerned, and
now this talented
author has turned
his ability into the
“Novel” channel
with marked success.
The story is de-
lightful in its many-
sided interests—
love, jealousy, hate
and their consequent
tragedies—as influenced by the coming: of the airship,
toe-ether with the quaint characters and quainter
philosophy to be met with in the bush environments
so ably fevured in this story. The human interest is
all-absorbing- ami is splendidly handled. This tale
of to-ni irroiv will be enjoyed wherever read.
A.ND THE
AEROPLANE
“ f , A TALI Ol
m r
1 JO/liN S/X/NDFS
Books by that Prince of Australian Writers,
STEELE RUDD.
“BOOKSTALL SERIES.”
THE POOR PARSON.
SANDY’S SELECTION.
FROM SELECTION TO CITY.
DAD IN POLITICS.
OUR NEW SELECTION.
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM.
A LAUGH IN EVERY PAGE.
Price 1/- each ; Post Free 1/3.
DUNCAN McCLURE.
BACK AT OUR SELECTION.
FOR LIFE.
ON OUR SELECTION.
STOCKING OUR SELECTION.
BUSH RANGING BOOKS.
John Vane, Bushranger, by Charles White.
Short-Lived Bushrangers, by Charles White.
Three Years with Thunderbolt, by Ambrose Pratt,
Übique.The Scientific Bushranger, by Clarence Martin
LISTS SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL COMPANY, 476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches and
Booksellers.
ĥ
THis is +ke
PERFECTION
OIL
HEATER.
Smokeless, Odorless and Economical.
That 50,000 Perfection Heaters are in use in Australia
is Proof of their MERIT.
PRICES— From I7s. 6d. to 375. 6d.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd.
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Adelaide, Fremantle, Hobart,
Launceston, Auckland, Wellington,
Christchurch, Dunedin, Suva (Fiji).


TO GROW HAIR OR A BALD HEAD.
By A Specialist.
Thousands of people suffer from baldness and
falling hair who, having tried nearly every adver-
tised hair tonic and hair grower without results,
have resigned themselves to baldness and its
attendant discomforts. Yet their case is not
hopeless; the following simple home prescription
has made hair grow after years of baldness, and is
also unequalled for restoring grey hair to its
original color, stopping hair from falling out, and
for destroying the dandruff germ. It will not
make the hair greasy, and can be put up by any
chemistßay Rum 30z., Lavona de Composee
loz., Menthol Crystal £dram. If you wish it per-
fumed add half to one teaspoonful of French Fleur
Perfume, which unites perfectly with the other
ingredients. This preparation is highly recom-
mended by physicians and specialists, and is
absolutely harmless, as it contains none of the
poisonous wood alcohol so frequently found in hair
tonics. Do not apply to face or where hair is not
desired .*
ħ
‘Women
Who
Win!”
Are the women who,
by the power of their
personality, get the
second 100k —and per-
sonality in a large
measure depends upon
attractiveness in dress —a graceful figure
and a dignity in poise and carriage.
Without the correct style of Corset
not one woman in ten could attain these
characteristics —but every woman will
find them skilfully and scientifically
embodied in the beautiful models of
the famous French
Royal
P.D.
Rustless Corsets
—the Corsets that have won the un-
stinted admiration of every woman
who has once worn them. Try a pair
yourself!
“ALL DRAPERS AND STOREKEEPERS
RECOMMEND THEM!”
TRADE
h
MARK
SQV&RE TREAD
6
8
— -m
»£#»*«*
»:»»***!»«
IS i i
\
'Sn-
« **»*»!§««
smssissssmt
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, July 18, 1910.
My Dear Yarrie, —
Same old fog; same old Brighton train; same old
neglect of the simple rule of one section, one train,
atjunction lines, and the whole city is throwninto
mourning. Every big shop in the city seems to
have a gap by reason of injured assistants or girls
hysterically knocked out by shock. Just the
early-morning, “business” crowd—one train after
another tumbling in over the same path.
Sassiety— suppressed under the mauve-and-
wtnte period of half mourning—bursts out in dis-
creet spots like an undecided volcano or the
quaky country around Rotorua. They must frivol
—these people whose whole business in life is
entertaining” and “being entertained.” The
h orrest dame, who is fond of marshalling a re-
sponsive frivol, has kept her imported nieces
going by small discreet parties at her flat at the
Drand. Nothing formal, don’t you know; but,
all the same, the telephone can ring as many
people up as can the regulation card.
Mrs. Justice Isaacs also blossomed in the home-
shelter of her Grand rooms, and spread into the
supper room with a monster Bridge party one
afternoon last week. They’ll play Bridge or die.
Mrs. Willie Kelly is wandering about
Alelbourne in an Adapted Hat. Some women
wear the Fashion, some are dowds, and others
make the Fashion fag for them. Mrs. Kelly’s hat
is a poem on the-subject of fashionable Adaptation.
Now that the Women’s Hospital is pacified for
a time—so far, that is, as any charity hospital can
be pacified the Foundlings’ howl is having an
innings. Nowadays, a bazaar is not merely a
bazaar—it is five hundred small pre-bursts of
charitable shows for the furnishing of the indi-
vidual stalls. Mrs. Ledingharn, who is running
round with raffles, gave a Bridge party at her
house to help her confectionery stall; and, though
the show is not till October, that lady has the
coachhouse filled with toys and the spare-room
full of sweets, like a squirrel’s hoard laid up
against the prospective winter.
Mrs. Surgeon O’Hara engineered a monster
party for her shop in the October bazaar. The
tea-party was in Her Majesty’s foyer—the theatre
and attendance given by the generous J.C. All
the principals who are revolving round “The
Orchid” from Peru-eu-eu helped in the bun-fight.
The scramble was appalling—more like a footbali
crowd than anything else. Florrie Young slipped
down some trapdoor or other and rooted out
someone to open up the auditorium, and so let
the heaped-up avalanche spread. It was a great
game. Several Athertons and other frivolous girls
sifted round to the darkness of the Farthest
South box, and devoted johnnies conveved
ices and tea to their camp. Fan Dango
was cast for a violet stall, but couldn’t
reach it in the football scrum. She cast off her
squirrel coat and let loose her squirrel scarf and
muff, and tried to swim for it in a bluey-blue
dress ; but some of the numerous tribe of O’Hara
took up her unreachable posies and pelted them at
Willy boys, who in return threw half-crowns to
the exchequer.
Florrie Young dealt in autographs. She clothed
herself in two yards of Paisley silk. It was an
adorable gown, and the Paisley had blues and
greens and mole colors in its make up.
The men of “The Orchid” hothouse dressed
as waiters and worked as waiters. Their clothes
were the stereotype stage white linen togs. The
coat is cut Eton fashion. Bantock’s coat was not
quite Eton—it was discreet. Kirby refused to
lend his beauteous figure to the clothes masquer-
ade. He handed tea with an air, and wore a
braided Beaufort in the way of a coat. That
party must have made money. There were not
many men there, but those that did arrive paid
well for the sweets and flowers of the Foundlings
Lhe women paid to get in, and raked out a re-
luctant but numerous shillin’for their tea where
there was no man to contribute.
The Billsons gave a bad. The Billsons are the
mayoral big guns of St. Kilda. The gaud mayoral
circumstances conveyed their importance and
presence to the suburban ’op. There were wimmen,
wimmen—wimmtn; so very many women and so
few men. The florist who decorated the hall had
a cynical joke at the expense of the battalions of
feminines spread forth in all their dtcnllett glory
to catch the anxious dance. A spider’s web-
mammoth and red—spread from centre ceiling to
the far balconied corner, and even the luscious,
heavily-scented carnations which the flowers were
pretending to be, were made of soft, scentless
paper.
The Old Xavierans send impressive-looking
cards for a ball on Tuesday, August 23. St
Kilda Town Hall is the whirlpool.
Short and swift is the reign of the very young
beauty girl in society circles. She may still be
beautiful, but there is a quick succession al-
ways to the throne of Queen of the May. They
mostly fag out —lose their complexions and get
gaunt about the eyes with too much racketing.
One agonised, ambitious mother is trying to
hang on to the remnants of her darlings’ fleet-
ing looks by putting them to bed all day
before a big dance. These delectable misses, who
live for the Block and the cafe supper after the
theatre and the partly-dressed dance, spend their
lives in the preparation. In bed till 2 p.m.,
and mostly out of it at 2 a.m., they have
luncheon served by an expostulating Marianne in
their shaded bedrooms. Mamma, instead of coming
round with a fillip, or a spanking rod, or a whiff of
breezy, healthy air, encourages the dawdle.
A miss who is gently blooming into the fore-
ground as a favorite (quite a healthy type) is the
Conservator]'um Prof. Petersons’ Peterkin—a
daughter with two thick Danish plaits, one on each
side of her glowing face, and her dresses just
reaching the discreet length of ankle (which
hardy matrons are showing at high tide) and
her age at the skating-tennis point of enthusiasm.
She has a voice, and is “arriving” in private
theatricals. To the casual, outside eye she ap-
pears now with a troop of adoring coilege boys,
who hang at the outer circle when mamma is not
in complete charge.
Charity matinees still descend like hailstorms.
Ihe matinee has become a particularly clinging
habit. It is shrieked for if any old funds are to be
raised. One feels sympathy with the actor-men
and women, ihe owner or manager who gives
the theatre is generous—he lets good money slide
into the bottomless abyss of charity-boxes; but is
at no personal inconvenience. The society pro-
moters work hard, but it is a species of enjoyment.
They rush into it quite gladly, and the “ expenses”
come off the charity total almost to a sou. But the
mummers they are asked and they charitably can-
not refuse. If one stood out the brand of bounder
would be the least objectionable stone cast at him.
The work is their daily toil—the work that grinds
the mill tnat is to them bed and hash and clothes
money, it is dead monotonous work, in spite of
enthusiastic spurts. They put in an extra per-
formance gratis and end ure the fag. An occasional
matinee of this sort is not to be cavilled at—
but this avalanche! Two this week! Two
charity matinees beyond the common or gar-
den every-week occurrence. A theatrical tea
last week, with the mummers drawn into the
cast. It is hard on the toiling Thespian.
As far as managerial expense goes—£so is the
bedrock cost of a matinee production ; that is
down to the ground in theatrical prices for every-
thing. lew of the society matrons and misses
dig into their own pockets in the matter. They
beg the sweets—they beg everything—and an
obliging printer prints (for charity) an extra
sheet of programme, “thanking ”30 or 50 kind
people who have “ lent ” or given assistance.
Will there be a divorce case ? It is the question
which everybody who knows anything, and would
like to know a little more, puts to anyone who is
considered likely to have heard something. But
if the inquirer is answered with the blank ex-
pression that denotes utter ignorance of the
appalling rumor, the subject is usually dropped
with a significant “ O-well-if-you-don’t-know ”
Then the person who knows nothing gets a
raging thirst for knowledge, and goes around
popping the newly-acquired question at random
until it strikes a source of information. And so
the news goes round, though the question remains
unanswered. “Will there be a divorce case?”
Strange to say, Rumor is so vague at present that
the possible petitioner is mislocated, so to speak,
more often than not, consequently the wrong re-
spondent gets named. But the identity of the
co-re. is always the same, anyhow. There’s no
mistake about Lothario. Rumor has got him
lassooed, and Scandal is hoping for the worst.
There is a new ball dress; quite an interesting
style of garb. It is a very short, skimpy skirt of
crepe or silk, clinging to above the ankles. A
tunic of flimsy prettiness hangs over this, and is
weighted with woven metal edging. It is a classic
garbing, and was exploited quite a lot at the St.
Kilda frivol. It reminds one of delicate water-
color paintings of early century Parisian beauties
—the short dress showing quite an ell of stocking.
The new garb improves on the early-time French
frocks by clinging to the hips instead of being
hunched up, in fisher-wife style, just below the
middle distance.
The Glaciarium will carnival like billy-oh just
after this screed goes to press. ’Tis fancy dress,
and the present fever of preparation is about
105°.
Since the Chantecler Carnival at the Wirth
rink a certain medico’s wife lias been weeping
tears of rage, nor will she be pacified. Her chook
took no prize. Yet her medical husband caught
one of their own beautiful leggy roosters, chloro-
formed him, slew him in cold blood, skinned him
and sat him on wifey’s head. There is always
jealousy over prizes.
A pretty little lady, who is said to be
engaged to a divorced person of wealth,
seems to get some fun out of the horror her
pretentions cause in the best-regulated local
families. The best-regulated etceteras don’t
mind being rude—that’s all in the game. Miss
Titian Hair, in the most demure of grey frocks,
had just dined in a Collins-street cafe. As she
and the rich man departed, Mrs. Best Regulated
put up her lorgnette and stared. Miss Titian
Hair, unabashed, nodded a bright “Good even-
ing ! ” and fluffed past. The other Mrs. Bests
Regulateds turned in horror to the starer—routed
and almost apoplectic with rage. “ The hussy !
to pretend she knew Me ! ”
A conspicuous Block-ite—shopping, morning
tea-ing and generally wandering—is a bride of
yesterday. ,Always alone except for half an ounce
of dog, she haunts the Promenade at all hours.
She was a spoiled society pet before her much-
bridesmaided marriage, and the old haunts call
when the new husband palls. Or is there a
mutual weariness?
Mrs. Hepner, who was one of the McCathies of
Sydneyside, has been splashing round pelf in this
city for a week. She is trotting along to more
Intense Shops in London and Paris. A sister
McCathie goes in the opposite direction, and
makes north for the land of Monkey and Rising
Sun.
The newest device of the male-catching woman
is motor racing. Rather it is the chase of a motor
racer. You take a motor maniac (one with a
streak-of-lightning vehicle preferred) and care-
fully select an invitation to drive. The recipe
has just been tried by a clinging maiden,
and the result has been a satisfactory
alliance. You see, when the man gets
out on to quiet country roads he can’t
resist the temptation to race, and a racing
motor is a tricky thing round curves. The girl
was small and slight, and the man (intent on the
motor) yelled “Hold on to me” as the contrap-
tion danced on one wheel. The girl couldn’t hold
his arm that would have impeded his mechanical
work. His waist was out of the question—cir-
cumference plus motor-coat tells. So she clutched
his neck. He naturally invited her again. In
every drive after that a curve meant the clinging
of two soft, warm arms, and he began to feel that
he couldn’t do without them. The sound of wed-
ding-bells can now be heard quite close at hand.
In this corner of the world, where the cold
occurs or is supposed to occur—in mere snaps,
merchants do not waste the best of their furs for
a woman’s wrapping. The interval between de-
mands is too great. Women who have brought
special furry things from wanderings up north al-
ways walk with an extra swagger like a colored lady
who has attached five more strings of scarlet-
beads. Rosie Musgrove, now Mrs. Colombo
Somebody, annexed a wonderful fur-coat when
she toured North Japan and China. She
arrived in Australia in the summer. Perth
was the landing place, and the mercury was
climbing like a mad monkey out of the top of the
thermometer, but Miss Rosie intended - to pay no
duty on her worn apparel, so she wore the coat to
land in. A half-suffocated mummeress was put
into a cab in a Perth street and rushed to the
hotel. Away went the coat into moth-balls.
Maoriland was the next journeying ; but the coat
was too good to use (so she thought) knocking in
and out of tiny towns. Still the garment rested
in moth-balls. She had an Australian tour after
with an exceptional period of warm weather.
Now she writes from Colombo that the beastly tog
is still in moth-balls and has no immediate pros-
pect of wear. But, like a small dog in the
manger, she declares she will keep that coat.
“I may go to England some day,” she writes,
and until then—moth-balls.
It is up to the Royal to put a lick of new
paint on its staircase and a fresh carpet on its
stairs, to background the dainty throng that
swarms up those steps now-a-night. All their
recent “runs” have been successful, and the
Asche’s Shakspeare just put the gilt edge on the
audience that was formerly bellowdramatic. But
the staircase is the same old carpet—worn till it
is patternless and dingy, and the side-step paint
has a peeled look of fatigue, A big charity
matinee in the daylight glare made it very obvious
—especially with a house whose motors stretched
pearly to the post office, and whose clothes
matched the glory of the cars.
The Besses evidently have a love for Melbourne
—they have not really blown out yet. On Sun-
day they blew (quite sacredly) in the Wirth rink-
ing hali. It was an improvement on a theatre
blow. There is some virtue in their blasts if the
blare has a chance to spread—but Besses and
brasses, caged in a small space, go one better than
even tinned bagpipes.
Wirth has two dandy men along for roller-
rinking. What they can’t do is scarcely worth
talking about. They ballet-dance and two-step on
skates with only two wheels—they whirl and cor-
uscate and glide and do a Mercury act on their
winged toes. They haye postponed their return
to the land of their United States accent for a
week. One (Mr. Irving) cut his knee open, and
is being repaired. The other on Saturday
night said, “I’ll do what I can— some but
they usually run in duet. The “some” on Satur-
day included a weird dance. Lights were lowered,
and half a dozen imp-like boys set numerous
lighted candles on the gleaming field. Bordroydt
skated in and out of this zig-zag as though the
•paces were a palm-spread. Roller-rinking is at
the height of its revival. It is where it never
reached even in the earlier rage. Everything is
improved. The skates now are ball-bearing, a
thing not known in days of old. Any sort of
floor did then—any boarded floor even. Now
only a glassy perfection of surface will satisfy the
gliders. In Outback towns they still skate in
empty shops, town halls and old, left-off
creameries.
A small leading-mummeress keeps quietly in
the background when off duty. She trundles to
the theatre and back to her imposing tavern flat
in humbleness and the tram-car. But the lady is
suspected of matrimonial intentions. The alleged
accessory cannot remain modestly hidden for
long—he is so big and dark and noticeable, and
he is suspected of owning vast sheep-haunted
wildernesses in Central Australia.
Hugh Buckler, the bright and beauteous heavy
man of the Willoughby co., has a couple of quaint
old portrait engravings of bygone females with
whom he claims relationship. They were his
great-great aunts, or something nearly as re-
mote, and the specialty of each was male im-
personation. One portrait is of a party
in top-boots, described as “Miss Grahn, alias
Theodore de Verdion, known as Dr. de Verdion.”
She lived (and in 1802 she died) as a professor of
languages in England. The other suggests a
link between mummer Buckler and the Talbottle
who reigned in Melbourne of yore, for her name is
Mary Anne Talbot, and a newspaper cutting,
pasted at the back of the picture, states
that she was the youngest of 16 natural
children of Lord William Talbot. Mary Anne’s
career was less natural than her birth. She served
as a she-male boy in the army and navy, and died
at the early age of 30—probably from the shock
of having her sex revealed to fame. The portrait
.shows her as an amazonian young woman, draped
in a sheet and wearing a'disreputable hat. Of
these two old prints Mr. Buckler is naturally
proud. It isn’t given to many men to be the
double-barrelled great nephew of two ladies who
forswore their sex 100 years ago, when suffra-
gettes were unknown.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide:—
Our University now has an Oval. As a matter of fact,
it has had one for some time, but a more or less shamed
silence was kept in regard to it, because it hadn’t been
officially pushed open. His Ex. put this matter right on
Monday afternoon. The newly-opened demesne is just
beyond the great waters of the Torrens, and between
King William and Frome roads, with a splendid approach
on both sides. A million or so trees conceal its inward
charms from the rude gaze of the passer-by, and from
the brand new pavilion there is a view of green grasses
and silver river and other alluring details.
Thirteen citizens gave £lOO apiece to this oval, and are
rewarded by having their names blazoned forth to the
world on a brass tablet-. Another tiew possession of the
lucky undergrads is a beauteous new boat shed near by,
given to them by good Mr. Barr Smith.
Our godmothers and godfathers brought some weird
relics from the Cold Parental Country in the days when
South Oss was a bright new Province, inhabited by two
tents and a dog. Over at Wangary, by Port Lincoln, is
an ancient coach, alleged to have belonged to the port
Byron. It wears the Byron coat of arms, is aggressively
ancient-looking, sleeps in the backyard of the local pub
and bears other evidences of authenticity.
The dance to be given by Adelaide’s medicos-in-
embryo, next month, is to be sternly confined to the pro-
fession. The hosts may only invite nurses, or the sisters
or daughters of doctors, and any damsel found intruding
without these qualifications will be ejected into the
night.
The H. R. Holders (the musical and not the late Speaker’s
family) have caught the general ball-rolling epidemic,
and are asking the young and blithesome to whirl at
Bricknell’s on August 18.
H.M.S. Psyche is at present leaning against Port
Adelaide, so we are secure against hostile invasion for
the moment. Now and then society wakes up the
mariners concealed thereon and asks them to tea, and
once in a while it provides them with_ a free dinner.
Otherwise there is peace abaft the main binnacle and
complete restfulness during the dog-watch.
Mayor Cohen has asked his council and corporation
employees to dinner. The revel will occur in the ban-
queting hall next week. Mr. Cohen is a considerate
municipal parent who personally- sees that the corpora-
tion men knock off work if the weather has passed the
bounds of polite description, and he is much liked in
consequence.
Dr. Walter Geoffry Duffield, son of the Duffields of
Glenelg, has been appointed Professor of Physics at
University College, Reading, Britain. He came here last
year to try to found an Australian Observatory for re-
garding the earth’s solar plexus, but only succeeded in
getting married.
Pretty little Maie Sydney had a fainting fir. in the
middle of one of her solos the last night of “The
Arcadians ” packed-to-the-rafters season. However, the
chorus took up the running, and in a little while the
maiden returned convalescent. Such a floriculture 1
night the Theatre Royal hasn’t seen for a century or less.
Quite 40 bouquets, of sundry shapes and sizes, were
thrust at the players. Tom Walls scored a large hamper,
and Cromwell a woolly dog and the skin of a walrus or a
carpenter or some other strange beast. After a three-
weeks’season without a vacant seat, the gay Arcadians
have been turned out of house and theatre bv Aladdin
and his minions.
Port Augusta recently burst into its annual week.
For this occasion the North comes down en manse, and
the surrounding towns come in in bunches. A string of
races, balls, picnics, concerts and meetings of the Ver-
min Board turns every hen-roost and hay-stack into
superior board and lodging. The attendant riot can be
heard quite distinctly at Port Darwin.
Miss Hughes has spent the week telling Petersburg,
Port Pirie and other country centres about the Dudley
nursing scheme. On Thursday the energetic lady ran
back to town to talk to the trained nurses at Government
House.
St. Peter’s College has been having its annual celebra-
tion of the glad fact that it has existed since the dark
and early days when our grandparents were learning the
alphabet and spelling “ dog ” incorrectly. A Foundation
Day, an old scholars’ dinner with speeches 40 miles long,
and a football conflict with the rival Prince Alfred were
among the excitements offered. The Old Scholars’ Asso-
ciation, by the way, is beginning to flourish like the
green bay tree ; over 1400 old boys and over £2200 belong
to it.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


STEINWAY QUALITY
IS
ENDURING QUALITY
One of the potent reasons for the acknowledged
leadership of the
STEINWAY
PIANO
is its unique, unapproachable record of enduring
musical excellence. It is a piano built to last
and to give complete, absolute satisfaction
through decades and generations. Throughout
its life it is always the highest expression of
artistic piano manufacture.
TERMS.
We sell any instrument, if desired, on terms of
extended payment, to suit the purchaser, whose
wishes we meet in every possible way.
OLD INSTRUMENTS TAKEN IN PART PAYMENT.
SOLE AGENTS:—
NICHOLSON 8 CO. LIMITED
342 George Street, Sydney; and at Newcastle.
£4 Buys You an Edison
“GEM” Combination Phonograph
and Ten Records, Complete, jz? jz?
The EDISON “GEM” COMBINATION PHONOGRAPH plays
both Amberol (4-minute) and Standard (2-minute) Records perfectly. It
will give you, in your own home, the best efforts of the world’s greatest
artists, and is just as good at rendering the latest popular song or a lively
waltz as it is in giving grand opera.
Complete with Six Amberol (4-minute) Records,And Four Standard
.(2-minute) Records it costs only and any Edison dealer can supply
you. You can make your own choice of Records frofn the many thousands
included in our lists.
If you do not know the address of a Store handling Edison Phono-
graphs and Records, write us direct, and we will mail you complete
Catalogues and the latest Lists of Records.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH GO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, Kent Street, Sydney.
All Athletes
Use
S.OXSISO9
H:
Ofi
<
<
A 8
EUCALYPTUS OIL.
V
.. m
Bosisto's “ Parrot Brand ” Eucalyptus Oil,
the Famed Remedy for Rheumatism, Sprains,
Bruises,“Wounds, Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis
m#!
mm*
tfOJ
wcisinwt[
3HJL
A COD LIVER OIL EMULSION as prescribed for the Patients in the Melbourne Women’s
and Children’s Hospitals and Consumptive Sanatoria at Echuca and Macedon.
HYPOL is a scientifically-prepared Emulsion, containing 50 per cent, of COD LIVER OIL. It is highly
recommended for all pulmonary affections, loss of weight, weakness following on Influenza, and
wasting diseases generally. Children especially are very fond of this delicately-flavored preparation.
HYPOL will be found a strengthening and weight-producing food, and it is particularly valuable in the
Winter months in counteracting the
ill-effects of cold and damp weather.
To be obtained of Leading Chemists.


The doctor looked sad as he pazed at the 1 id,
His manner was trrave and uneasy.
His one only chance was a winter in France,
Or a sea trip as far as Brindisi.
The youth with a wink replied, “ Yes, T don’t think ! ”
He had heard of a cheaper medicament.
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure was the thine-, to he sure
And it pulled him quite through his predicament.*
n burgh.
The Old Blend.
Whisky
OIWCCT FROM OIITILLCRR. * r
Severe Cold.
“I had a very bar! cold in the head, with pains
in the chest, and I was quite deaf.” writes Mrs.
Kate Murray, 631 Main Street, Kangraroo Pt.,
Q’land. “ I used Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery,
which wonderful remedy cured me in a very short
time.” Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
ħ
SPRING, Summer, Autumn or Win ■
ter, wet days or fine, you wil l
find no variation in the excel"
lenne of Cherry Blossom Boot Polish
Cherry Blossom not only polishes
well, but it resists the damp, and
adds life to the leather.
Cherry Blossom is sold in large
tins at 3d. and 6d. each, Black or
Tan. If you cannot obtain it locally,
write direct to us, and we will see
that you are supplied immediately.
Managing Agents for Australia:
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
THE TROUBLES of DIGESTION, pain, flatulence,
acidity, and so on, are happily in most cases-simply the
expression of some fleeting disturbance of function. The
best way to restore tone and regularity to the intestinal
tract is by taking a wineglassful of “ Huntadi Janos”
natural aperient water the first thing in the morning
every second or third day. *
Attention is drawn to Mr. W. S. Keast’s (Stock
and Station Agent, 610 Collins Street, Melbourne) special
advertisement notifying the private subdivision of large
estates in New South Wales and Victoria. The proper-
ties are all well situated and can be sold on long terms,
some of them up to ten years.*
A HINT TO THE WISE.
A man is seldom sick when his bowels are
regular, and never well when they are irregular.
Bear this in mind, and take Chamberlain’s Tablets
as occasion may require. There is nothing better.
They are mild and gentle in their action and are
pleasant to take. Try them, and you will never
wish to take another dose of pills.*
RHEUMATISM
NIGHT AND DAY.
Liniments and Embrocations of no
Avail.
This Man got no Relief until he
Drove the Rheumatic Poison
from his Blood.
To cure Rheumatism you must get the acid in
the blood that causes Rheumatism out of the sys-
tem. There’s no other cure known to medical
science. Rubbing and liniments may ease the
pain for the moment; but what chance have they
of reaching the trouble in the blood ? A South
Australian man, Mr. A. W. Taylor, of Railway
Parade, Petersburg, was unfortunate enough to
go through a long siege of Rheumatism, and he
knows all about the hopelessness of the rubbing
treatment. He rubbed until the skin was nearly
off; but he didn’t get relief. He did get relief
and was finally cured, however, when he started
with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. As Rheumatism
is acid in the blood, the principle of the treatment
with Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills is to build up and
renew the blood supply and the various bodily
functions until the poisonous acid is thrown off.
Scores of Australians have been cured in this way.
“ About 18 months ago I began to have Rheu-
matism in my back and down my legs,” said Mr.
Taylor. “It started with a dull, aching pain
that kept on night and day. I could not get any
ease at all. Sometimes I had it so badly that I
had to use a stick to walk with. I had to leave
off work. When I went to bed at night I could
not sleep well because the pain kept me awake.
I could not get any rest, no matter in which
position I laid. All nisht long I had the dull,
gnawing, aching in my back and legs, and often
when walking along they would come on and I
had to stop until they eased up a little. I got very
weak and thin and pale on it, and I thought I
would never get better, and I used all sorts of
embrocations and nearly rubbed the skin off; but
they did no good at all. Then chancing one day
to pick up a little book about Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills I made up my mind to try them, and I’m
glad that I did. The second box made me feel
much better, as the pains had eased up a lot, so I
kept on and six boxes quite cured me, and for
some months now I have not had a rheumatic
twinge.”
Remember, only the genuine Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills cure. Don’t be gulled into taking something
said to be just as good. Of all dealers at 2s. 9d.
per box, 6 boxes 15s. 3d., or from the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australia Ltd., Sydney.*
FOR TH: RUPTURED
Denyers’ Safe Trusses.
c:nyer
Perfect safety
and comfort
for the rup-
tured is en-
suretl by
wearing' the
Den y e r
Special Elas-
tic Truss. It gives all the
pressure of the ordinary steel
truss, without the chafing and
irritation. Being Truss
Specialists, we will fit you perfectly. Call or write
for particulars. ELASTIC TRUSS, No Springs—
Single 17/6 ; Double, 22/6.
DENYER BROS.,
Truss and Surgrlcal Inct.-u-
-ment Maker 3,
- A3 NCI AS ‘( 'IS JBUIHH ddo) is 30*1030 182
POLITICAL
POINTS
TIDINGS OF GREAT JOY.
The Victorian Parliament was opened to-day. The
Governor’s Speech referred to the prosperity of the State
and the soundness and progressiveness of the producing
interests.
PREMIRR MURRAY: “ The country will be awfully
pleased when it hears that.”
The Fisher Government; managed to
shorten the debate on the blessed Address-in-
Reply as it has seldom been shortened before.
Bigjohn Forrest must needs fire off some peppery
and egotistical remarks, and Webster couldn't let
the occasion pass, and alligator-sitter Johnson
said things in a bitterly disappointed tone; and
Cook—but then Cook has a right to be angry.
He waited 3J years for his party to get a turn in
office. When the time came bis expected billet
in the Reid-McLean Ministry was given to
Pumpkin Smith. Five years more waiting fol-
lowed, with the heavy work of leading a can-
tankerous Opposition much of the time, and then
10 months of a secondary job, followed by a burst-
up which had nothing secondary about it. To
return to the original subject, there are three
reforms in view : 1911, no debate on the Address-
iti-Reply; 1912, no Address-in-Reply : 1913, no
Address.
At Edward Vll.’s f lineral the new
monarch was accompanied by eight kings 29
pnnces, one archduke and 14 roval o mnd
dukes. And not a bomb was thrown ! g
! le , State Labor party is putting
Tainworth L the * ' vell ‘ known local farmer, for
S,C‘ S’ *”■ R - H-
** “» wi’niave to hunt
Srti
Sn undeb 1 ° n the Clyde at ss ‘ 6d - P er
nmnufactnrer a UOt sh P' nes ’ arid th e steel-plate
figure of Ruin SHJ I a ley See tlle lar S e t,lack
davs wLn 1 % Sea ed / ,n the doorstep. Nowa-
offipp at Shenl , reetrade B nton goes to the box
>tnc.e at Sheol, he only asks one favor : “ Put me
where I can hear Cobden frizzle.”
Thus “Brother” Cullam, at the 12th of
July demonstration in Sydney :
bets tn rJa nkS ° f ora "" emen > to-day, are many
Roman Un, ° ns ’ who are the catspaws of the
Great Scott! Are there no “ blacklegs ” barring
] lotestants ? Also, are all Protestants
In reply to a question on the telephone
regulation known as 7a, Postmaster-General
1 nomas the other day spake lucidly as follows:
hS a ,H° n l A - ha u neV6r CeaSed t 0 be in fOrCe > though
blit reumKHnn 7 -* 6 cea ?. ed to a PP'.V in certain cases ;
and from rh. °- n,y a P plles until fiat appointed day,
; ~ , e appointed day, by virtue of regulation 7u,
-n? 1 re g |l,a tion 7n, the rates fixed by
re B ulation 7a will be generally applicable.
A really business-like Bill of two clauses
has been introduced into the House of Reps, by
Prime Minister Fisher
B E ,‘t e ' la, 'ted by the King’s Most Excellent Majesty,
Smate, and the House of Representatives of the
Commonwealth of Australia, as follows :
Act 1910 * ACt may be cited as the Naval Loan Repeal
2. The Naval Loan Act 1909 is repealed.
Put what a saving of ink and worry would come
about if the 23 words of the preamble were cut
down to Be it enacted ! ”
T hat mighty ‘ ‘ Decentralisation League ”
in Victoria is now floundering among subjects
winch show the greatness of the Leagued mind.
J t was going to usher in a new Era of National
1 obey. Now it lias decided to ask the Railway
Commissioners to forego the threepenny bit
charged for admission to railway platforms. The
expected agitation about the lamp outside the
«Jepant post office has not yet been begun.
Aptarnion, a suburb on the North Shore
(JN.b. VV.) line—in Premier Wade’s electorate—is
at present badgering the said Wade to give it a
grant for the building of a tennis court. The land
—part of a park—is being leased from the council
at a trifling figure. The park, of course, was in
the first place a Governmentgrant; so apparently
Artarmon, in Wade’s electorate, wants the State
to provide everything except the tennis balls and
the drinks. Why on earth this suburb, occupied
by people in good, steady billets, should expect
the State to make its tennis court is beyond any
explanation ; but, as already hinted at, the place
is in Wade s electorate.
The Greater Melbourne movement doesn’t
progress. South Melbourne and Port have both
turned the matter down. The trouble is that the
city wants an absurd share of the representation
on the combined council. Its population is de-
clining, asisthecase with most progressive cities •
for people keep moving out to the suburbs to make’
way for shops, warehouses and offices. In time,
there will be hardly any city population save
c iretakers. office-cleaners, policemen and hotel-
d wellers. But Melbourne City Council demands
that the representation on a joint council shall
go, not by population, hut by the valuation of
property. And the suburbs, where the live
people are, refuse to be ruled bv the tomb-like
warehouses of Flinders-lane.
In 1897 the late Frederick Holder, of S.A.
(then treasurer in Kingston’s Ministry and
Acting-Premier during Kingston’s absence)
offered to build the line from Port Augusta to
ttie Westralian border, if Westralia would con-
tinued from the border to Perth. Bigjohn For-
rest, then State Premier of Westralia flatlv
refused, and that is why Westralia didn’t get its
transcontinental finished long ago. Now Newton
Moore, of Westralia, advances the same proposi-
tion ; but Verran, of S.A., is saving up his money
for the northern railway, and hesitates to commit
himself.
Joe Cook fell in rather more heavily than
usual during the debate on the Address-in-Reply.
Acidly did he jeer at the Prime Minister, first, for
kowtowing ’ to the desoised bankers after posing
on the hustings as the foe of Capital ; and,
secondly, for his craven dread of disclosing what
took place at the ‘‘secret meeting” with these
financiers. When various other Opposition mem-
bers had followed, in the same strain, Fisher
curtly mentioned that it was the Sydney banking
officials who had asked for the conference, and the
same folks who had requested that the proceed-
ings be not divulged. Then another busted myth
took a back seat.
“ Groper ” : Re the left hook you landed
on the Fiji correspondent (P. 23/6/TO) regarding
Republicanism in England. I would like to point
out that, in the early ’seventies. Republicanism
had as leaders such men as Charles Dilke, Jesse
Ceilings, John Morley and others who made no
bones about their creed. It ivas an open secret
that Gladstone dared not appoint Dilke to his
Cabinet, owing to the fact that Victoria had made
it plain that she would not hand him the seals of
office. Republicanism was a very live subject in
tiiose days, and, amongst others, Bradlaugh was
whooping it up for all he was worth. Though
only a lad of 16, I heard more about Republican-
ism in England in the ’seventies than ever I have
heard since.
Some of them fall and some are pushed.
Collins, “Liberal”M.L.A. forNarrabri (N.S.W.),
announces that he won’t contest the seat again.
Briner, of Raleigh, will stand, but not as a
Wade-ite. Barton, reckoned the most probable
man to hold Macquarie in the Deform interest,
has somehow been jostled out of the nomination.
Altogether eight of Wade’s present followers
won’t carry his banner any more.
The Vic. Parliament lately listened to an
exchange of compliments between Treasurer Watt
and Laborite Hannah. Spake Watt to Hannah :
“I merely said that you were a loafer.” Ob-
served Hannah to Watt: “I have never loafed
on the community as you have. Everything I
ever got I had to work hard for. The hon. member
has been able to get a living out of certain in-
dividuals by putting crook chaff upon the market
in a way that does not reflect credit on him.”
THE MAN THET DREAMS AND THE
MAN THAT DOES THINGS.
THE “REAL” LIBERAL: “I can't understand
Fisher going to work in that way. It's so
crude, you know."
With an air of great seriousness the
Sydney Telegraph spoke tins little piece
last week:—
Notwithstanding’ the serious charges that have been
made against the Labor party by certain Protestants,
the Labor Parliamentarians observe a silence which is so
concerted that it is evident the Caucus has issued its
instructions. A number of Labor members were asked
lust night if there was any truth in the statement that
the Labor party was under the domination of Romish
authority. They all absolutely refused to discuss the
question.
What is there for them to discuss? The Dill
Mucky crowd alleges that Labor receives its
orders from “Rome.” It doesn’t say whether
the orders come by letter, postcard, telegram,
telephone, or word of mouth. It produces no
intercepted communication by way of evidence.
It fails to explain how the alleged domination
came about. There is not the slightest hope of
extracting details from the vain cleric with the
gaiters, and, in the absence of details, there is
very little to be said.
An item from the Bombala (N.S.W.)
paper:— '
The Labor party are going to fight hard for the Beo-a
seat at the next election. The following speakers are
expected to assist the chosen of the leagues: Messrs.
Holman, Griffith, Fisher, McGowen, Rvan, li’Arcy Riley
and Condon. On the side of the “Liberals ” will be the
lion. W. H. Wood, Mr. W. H. Wood, William Herbert
Wood, Herbert Wood and Wood.
And even all the eloquence of all this Timber will
hardly make these South Coast folk forget that
Hon. W. H. Wood belongs to a Government
winch fought like a great cloud of devils till it
got the Federal capital shifted out of their dis-
trict, on the plea that the place was bleak,
barren and wholly horrible; also, that his Gov-
ernment is hurrying on the duplication of the
railways around Sydney in order to evade the
demand for the opening, by new railways, of the
big northern and southern ports for ocean traffic.
Premier Yerran (S.A.) is in some danger of
becoming known as a “wowser.” Within 24 hours
of taking office he was standing on a platform
with Judkins and Worrall, arguing for the aboli-
tion of the totalisator—which is the sole legal
method of making a bet in the State at
present. And last week he met, more than
half-way, a deputation asking for the pro-
hibition of the Johnson-Jeffries fight pic-
tures. “Nothing more than honest men and
women had a right to expect,” said this
astonishing Cornishman. He thought the matter
could safely be left to the Prime Minister. (As a
matter of fact, Andrew Fisher was at that very
moment flatly refusing to interfere.) But, failing
that, Verran would “endeavor to bring in a short
Bill to prohibit the pictures from coming into this
State.” (Cheers.) S.A. is going to be an amaz-
ingly holy place very soon.
The refusal of Wade to grant the Public
Service of N.S.W. an independent Appeal Court
which would be superior to the Public Service
Board has about settled the last chance he had
of getting a solid vote from the army of the
departments. For years a Public Service Appeal
B ll has been dangled before the aggregate nose
of the service, and the other day it seemed as if it
was really about to eventuate. Then it transpired
that Wade prooosed to make the “independent”
tribunal of appeal subservient to the Board. The
appeal was not to be from Festus to Ctesar, but
from Festus to Festus’s office-boy. So now the
Civil Service is busily engaged sharpening the
edge of its vote on the heel of its boot. Says the
Public Service Journal for July
What we ask for, and we know we have the great
majority of the Service behind us, is the common justice
of an independent tribunal such as every ottier British
subject is entiiled to by the very fact, thai'he is a Briton.
We have offered the Government a definite scheme, and
when the Government has something definite we shall be
pleased to compare the two schemes and let the public
compare them ; but we shall never rest satisfied until we
can obtain untramelled and unprejudiced justice from an
absolutely independent Court of Appeal.
A humorous deputation connected with
the N.S.W. butter trade waited on Perry,
Minister of Agriculture, last week, and spoke of
the crying need for refrigerating cars on the rail-
ways—cars suitable for the conveyance of butter
for export. The trade, said the deputation, was
languishing for this much-needed boon, and the
State was losing millions per week because
country dairy farmers had to send butter to Syd-
ney in the locomotive or put it on the cow-catcher
or tie the produce to the rear buffer and let it
drag behind. Then, in a weary tone of voice,
Perry broke the news that a string of these cars
had been built nine months ago, and had never
been applied for. Whereupon, the deputation
blinked in silent amazement three several times,
and faded into the street.
“ Whaffor”: The Victorian railway bosses
evidently think anything is good enough for race-
goers. The trains running on Saturdays
to Moonee Valley, Aspendale, Caulfield
and the Park, are a disgrace to civilisation.
These conveyances are old, antediluvian,
dirty boxes. They are kept expressly for
races. r J’he platform—No. 10 at Flinders-
street —is a gem. It is one of the filthiest,
most uninviting platforms in Australia.
Things are not much better at Spencer-
street. Last Saturday, I went to Williams-
town. The trip took 40 minutes for eight
miles. The old horse-box train was in a
dilapidated condition, with cushions covered
with dust. The train on both journeys crept
along at a snail’s pace. And for all this jog
we paid 2s. 6d. first-class. Where are the
fine, handsome corridor carriages that take
racegoers to Rosehill, Moorefield or Canter-
bury (N.S.W.)? In the far distance, I
hear a voice saying “Blank !”
“ 0.K.” : One gets woefully weary of
the Conservative “gag” about the secrecy of
the Labor caucus and its purpose of deciding
political questions ere they are publicly dis-
cussed. As though Parliament, apart from
the Labor party, were a place where politics
are shaped in public. The only difference
between the methods of Laborites and
Fusionists is that the former arrange their
plans behind “locked doors.’’ and the latter
ready things among themselves with equal
secretiveness in the lobbies and elsewhere.
The caucus is candidly caucnsian—the lobby
tactics are not. As for what happens in “de-
bate,” it is like unto wind whistling through the
press, bearing cut and dried matter to the four
corners of the Commonwealth.
THE COMING DELUGE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
•ettlers'in VWr°r “"d' is , offered a million Jews as
eecueis in Westralia. —Press Hem.
Sound the song and ban? the tabor,
Newton Moore !
He has been alert and nimble
On his tour ;
He can get a million Noses,
T >ns and tons ot Ikey Moses
Who will deck his land with ros \s
Newton Moore 1
They will leave the dingy Ghettos,
Newton Moore ;
They will flock aboard the vessels
At his lure.
Ikey throws old Europe over,
Sails the ocean as a rover,
Comes to plant our land with clover—
Newton Moore 1
They will bless him all in Yiddish—
Newton Moore ;
They will make the desert blossom
At. his door ;
Ev rv bearded, bent, ole clo’ man
Will display the virtues Roman,
And become a burl}' yeoman,
And a boor 1
And when Newton wants a million,
To be sure,
He will tell his Groper Cohens,
Quite secure :
“ You’ll admit there’s something due me,
So you’ll lend your moneys to me,
If I fail you—you can sue me—
Newton Moore 1 ”
And whene’er the t’other-sider
Wants a loan,
He will wire to proud Fremantle
With a groan
“ 0 ! Ye Yids of sandy Sharon,
Bull has got an awful scare on :
So we beg you, Sons of Aaron,
Hear our moan!”
And the Banner of Westralia,
It shall be
With the pawnshop symbol painted
Fair and free ;
And the craven borrowing nations,
With their hungry generations,
Shall bow down in meek obeisance
At her knee !
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.


LIPP PIANOS.
1
MODEL 53—Cased in beautifully figured Burr Walnut. Eminently suited
to a large drawing-room or small hall.
BUILT on the experience gained during
70 years of continuous manufacturing,
ILipp Pianos are guaranteed to stand
true as a rock in any climate.
■
World famous for their pure tone
quality, delicacy of tone and great
durability, they have been extensively
copied, and for this reason we caution
all buyers to beware of imitations.
Paling’s are Sole Agents for the
Genuine Rich Lipp and Sohn Pianos.
Catalogues and prices are post free
on application.
We sell on easy terms, if desired.
W. H. PALING (SL CO. LTD.,
338 George Street, Sydney.
And at . . .
BRISBANE, and NEWCASTLE.
38/
6
Ready-To-Wear
Suits
IN FLANNELS.
Mems-Wear Catalog
On Applicant.
Wf
Supply
Every-
TfllNC
EOR
Mem
Of
m.
7/.
/
\
\ri
MELBOU^iB, S.E.
Dining' at Sargents*
is
Pleasurable and Satisfying.
-7
r c \
> i
J
’Off-
% -
%
Mr
tM
A
m
423 S
SARGENTS’ SUPERIOR SERVICE is everything comprehended In
the term “well managed.’’ It is thoughtful of comfort and wishes—attentive,
equable, suave and sincere.
THE MENU is excellent, and on quite an elaborate scale. Every dish, being
wholesome and appetising in itself, is a representative of the choicest edibles
the season affords. . . i j '
Perfection in every detail makes dining at Sargents’ pleasurable and satisfying.
Moderate Tariff. x
•f
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High-Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St
(’Phone—Office, 3559;
Cafe, 1876; Catering:, 4250).
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St. (,phone - cityi344 >


KALYDOR
FOB «SIIB
Produces soft, fair, delicate skin, heals all
cutaneous eruptions, and insures a'lovely
delicate complexion to all who use it.
2/3, 4/6, of Stores and Chemists.
PILES CURED IN 6 to 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding Piles in 6 to li
days, or money refunded. 2/3.
Cured of Biliousness.
“No one, I feel sure, can speak more gratefully
of Laxo-Tonic Pills than I can,” writes Mrs.
Corbett, 116 Fitzroy Street, Surry Hills, N.S.W.
“They cured me of settled biliousness, which
seemed as though it would never leave me. I
took Laxo-Tonic Pills, and they proved a perfect
remedy.” Price lOjd. and Is. 6d.*
h
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
ĥ
TO
H.WT. THE !<!KG»
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
ħ
RESCH’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & OQ-, PERTH, KALCOOBLIE and COOLCABPIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
Football last Saturday, in Sydney, was somewhat
quiet. The blare and pomp of international contest had
died away, and the more intimate if subdued excitement
of district struggles resumed the interrupted tenor of its
way. Only one inter-State struggle—or rather the echoes
of it, as it was happening in far-away Brisbane—disturbed
the serenity. The Yankee University team, on its way
home, rashly ventured ashore at Wellington (Maonland),
and was immediately attacked bythe local cannibals and,
figuratively speaking, boiled and eaten to the tune of 20
to nil. It was a cruel butchery of harmless wayfarers,
and shows the folly of going ashore at strange islands.
The English team arrived safely in Maoriland, but at time
of writing had not taken the field.
* * * *
The last of the big Rugby Union fixtures for
this season was worked off at Brisbane on Saturday,
where Ma State ended up on top by 21 points to eight.
The attendance was disgraceful for a big sporting fixture,
and the 1500 or thereabouts, who turned Up, were
nearly all Agricultural Association stiffs—as Exhibition
ticket-holders are known—and their wives. The man
who knew those in the joke anticipated a win for Banana-
land ; but it turned out that the Northerners hadn’t a look
in from the whistle. This doesn’t necessarily mean that
there was a good exposition of the game and that the
match w'as won by anything in the way of clever tactics
or ordinary brilliancy, for it was quite the reverse. It
was simply one big mixture of man, ground, boot and
ball, with scarcely a glimpse of the last-mentioned on
account of the bigness of the other items in
comparison. Queensland missed about a dozen
chances of scoring through faulty handling and
ill-timed passing, and Wales lost fully 20 tries in the
same way. One bit of bright play would have given
some satisfaction, but neither side could supply it, and it
was a slow, monotonous series of ruck work and line-outs.
Right at the death Griffen, in diving at a chance try, hit
the sward with his shoulder, and while Queensland saved,
the doctor was trying to put the break in splints, for
the ground won. At half-time there was rare fun through
the officials allowing all the collective small boy that was
outside to come in on the nod. Some hundreds of vary-
ing ages and sizes at once took charge of the ball, and a
real game of Gaelic ensued, the solitary limb of authority
who was present being tackled himself in trying to put
an end to the joke. That display was worth the bob.
There is some stir in the ranks of the Rugby
Union. Recently Mr. Lewis G. Abrams proposed that
the M.R.U. should amend its rules to provide for the
payment of all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by
players outside their own districts. Briefly, this meant
that a man who had to forfeit pay while playing should
have his wages made up to him, with ss. per day pocket
money over and above his cost of living. It doesn’t
strike one as a wildly alluring'proposal, or one that is
likely to turn our youthful ’bailers into muddied
oafs who make a fat living at the game. But
all the same, Brother Abrams could find only one other
member of the Union delegates to support him, and was
overwhelmingly defeated. Convinced that he could
“ not turn delegates from the folly of their way,” Father
Abrams resigned his vice-presidentship of the 1 M.R.U.,
and brought his 27 years’ connection with that body to a
sudden end. He has been a hard-working member right
through, and has held the position of treasurer as
well as that of vice-president, and the business
is a sad one. However, Abrams isn’t knocked
out, and now proposes to form a new Union,
playing under Northern Union rules, in which body
players will be remunerated as proposed in his re-
cent motion to the M.R.U. If this should go ahead it
will kill the present Union game stone dead ; but as it
proposes to play under the Union flag if the M.R.U. will
let it, it really means that the M.R.U. will have to chose
between it and sudden death. It is a roundabout way
of working a revolution, but it is an unusually cute one.
If the Union will not take the new body under its
banner, the folds of the League flag are wide enough to
cover it, and Abrams’s revolution is a distinctly promising
movement.
* * * *
“ Alteration of the Rules” is the order of the
day, and on top of the struggle in the Union comes word
of a threatened move for the “improvement” of the
Australian game. It is said that at present there is too
much ruck work, and the way the ball is thrown in after
being kicked out of bounds has a tendency to facilitate
rough play. The basis of the Australian game is good
clean kicking ; and the throwing in of the ball leads to
scrimmaging, not kicking. It is proposed that kick-
ing out of bounds shall be penalised by a free kick to the
other side. But as this reform will make other altera-
tions necessary, there is going to be a big discussion on
the subject. Fortunately, in this matter, the Australian
players have the remedy in their own hands, and are not,
like the Union Rugbyites, riveted to a hide-bound mass
of English conservatism.
* *“ * * *
When the League competitions were suspended
owing to the arrival of the Anglo-Welsh team, the New-
town crowd was on top, with South Sydney second on
the list, followed by Eastern Suburbs and Balmain.
Saturday’s play did not change the position, and New-
town was still on top with with 12 points, South Sydney
second with 10, and Eastern Suburbs, Balmain and Glebe
together in the rear with eight points each. The only sur-
prise of the day was the downfall of North Sydney, which
on paper was invincible, at the hoofs of Western Suburbs.
The weakling team of the crowd smashed up the
glorious paper team at Burwood by 18 points to eight.
Newtown and Balmain played an uninteresting game,
and, as everybody expected, Newtown won by eight points
to six. The only surprise was the closeness of the game,
Newtown playing anything but up to form, and Balmain
showing a trickiness hitherto unsuspected. Glebe’s win
over Eastern Suburbs was by a narrow margin of four
points, the scores being 14 to 10. Annandale, the baby
club, was up against the toughest proposition of its
career, South Sydney, and did well to score eight points
to the Sandpipers’ 34.
* * * *
When the Union competition was suspended
by the arrival of the internationals, Newtown was in
front, with Glebe, Eastern Suburbs, South Sydney,
Manly and University close behind. The result of Satur-
day’s upheaval was to place Newtown right in front with
12 points, and bring Glebe, University and South Sydney
into line with 10 points each. Eastern Suburbs remained
alone at eight. St. George and Western Suburbs put up
an unusually fast and willing scrap at the Sports
Ground, in which the Saints came out on top with six
points to three. A fearsome struggle between
Eastern Suburbs and South Sydney, at the Cricket
Ground, moved the handful of spectators to wild
enthusiasm. Eastern Suburbs, penned up on its
goal line, with the score six to five against, made a gal-
lant stand, and tried frantically to break through and
score one field goal to turn disaster into victory. But
the men from the dusty South were too strong, yet not
powerful enough to break the ring; and the game
ended with South on top by six to five. The Newtown
team fell on North Sydney at Hampden Oval, and
crushed it by 15 points to seven. Glebe—minus the
cream of its players, who were away in Brisbane—jour-
neyed to Manly, and then, finding itself one man short,
picked up a stranger and went for the Village. The
Village returned the compliment, and actually rubbed
Glebe in the mud ; but a mistake on the part of the
umpire gave Glebe the decision by six to five.
* * * *
Soccer football is booming, with no less than
three first-grade competitions : the Gardiner Cup, the
Association Cup and the Rawson Mug. In the Gardiner
Cup business Ultimo smashed up Wallsend Royals by
three goals to nil, and the great war-raft Powerful
downed Adamstown by three goals to two, after a clumsy
but strenuous game. In the Association Cup, Ultimo,
Prometheus and Western Suburbs are together with 13
points each. The Rawson Cup looks a good thing for
Rozelle (12 points). Balmain is runner-up with 11.
* * * *
The commotion in the Australian Rules section
saw Y.M.C.A. defeat East Sydney by 49 points to 35.
Paddington won on the post from North Shore by five
lengths—43 points to 38. Sydney saw the man at the
board put up 71 to the Training College’s 14. The game
of the day was that between Newtown and Redfern.
Newtown was on its best behavior, played a clean game,
and won handsomely by 72 points to 35.
Saturday in Melbourne wasn’t a day—it was a
hog ; and several promising football encounters were
spoilt thereby. Nevertheless, a packed “house”
crammed itself into the E. Melbourne ground to view the
collision of the ’Dons and Skinner’s hirelings. Said col-
lision was a momentous scuffle, accompanied by much
“ blime ” and similar Scriptural quotations. For some
reason the ’bailers were less rampant than usual, and a
seemly and strenuous game ensued, as the small scoims
proved—3l points all just before lemon-time. In tne
final term the hirelings labored with great unction, and,
though missing goals, managed to notch three behinds,
whereby the uproarious wearers of red-and-white
were much soothed and made ready to
roilr their heads off. But though both teams were
obviously dead-tired, the ’Dons had an extra
foot-pound of energy left, and two determined sallies,
with exact passing and correct kicking, gave them goals
and victory—4s points to South’s 34. The latter has im-
proved vastly in the last few weeks; but it has still a
good way to go to reach premiership form. Of the other
episodes, that on the Carlton ground was most pleasing
by reason of its humorous aspect. Here the Old Blues
were “ receiving ” the deceased or moribund Melbourne
18, or, at least, as many as could be skirmished up, that
organisation having some present difficulty in raising a
decent team. The comic nature of the proceedings
was stretched a trifle when a Carltonian dodged
with the ball right through the Melbourne backs,
trotted easily up to the goal, and carefully kicked
the ball against a post.- But, of course, nobody ex-
pected football, and nobody bothered about the scores.
The official made them ; Carlton, 100 points ; Melb., 35
points ; and doubtless he was correct. Down at St. Kilda
the once redoubtable Collingwood Magpies saved the
remnants of their reputation by squeezing home winners
by a narrow margin of 10 points—s 4 to 44—the sole ques-
tion of moment being whether they would sustain the
awful disgrace of defeat by the hopeless Saints. Geelong
put ’Roy through its facings and further raised its stock
by acquiring 72 points to ’Roy’s 33 points; while the
hefty youths from the Seat of Learning, otherwise the
Shop, explained to Richmond that the team that cap-
tures 67 points—themselves—is better and stronger and
generally superior to the one that gains only 41 points—
Richmond, to wit.
Of the Ass. scuffles the uprising of Northcote
proved most exciting. Possibly it was only accidental,
or it may have been duC to the mud or an overdose of
previous disaster ; anyhow, ’Cote collided with a sup-
posedly strong team from Brighton, including several
ex-Leaguers, and by putting up a determined finish
carried the day by a single point—s 3 to Brighton’s 52
and went home quite pleased with itself and determined
to continue the good work. ’Scray encountered the vic-
torious North, and had to step down the ladder a pace in
consequence, being able to score but 29 points to North’s
61 ; while P’ran gained a similar experience at
the feet of Brunswick—32 points to ’Wick’s 43
being the statement. Remembering the disqualification
of its ground that followed the corresponding
game with Essendon two years ago, the Port barrackers
restrained their exuberant manners somewhat, and
nothing untoward happened beyond the customary com-
pliments to the umpire. Essendon did most of the
work; but, through disastrous kicking, failed to get
level until a few minutes before the close, when a lucky
goal gave it a four-point win—2 goals 14 behinds to
Port’s 3 goals 4 behinds. ’Town, already near the
bottom of the list, stepped over to Preston Park and
totted up the outrageous score of 123 points to 48.
Preston’s nominal position is, of course, last; but its
real place seems to be somewhere about 50yds. behind
the donkey’s tail, or thereabouts.
it * * *
Leo Fanning, sound writer and rattling good
fellow, has broken out in a fresh place with a book,
“ Players and Slayers.” This volume is quite unique in
the sporting library. Hitherto, the man qualified to write
on the game was as dull as ditchwater, and modelled
his yarn on the ponderous lines of a S. M. Herald
leader. Leo does not. He writes freshly, like a bright
man talking. Fanning’s book is on football, and it is
good—so good that it should be read and inwardly
digested by players, referees and barrackers—especially
barrackers. He devotes a chapter to barrackers —good
and bad. He heads it with the very appropriate pro-
verb : “If you find an opening in a game, don’t look
round for the owner, and don’t, advi rtise it.” Barrackers
are summed up briefly and accurately. Fanning spent
most of his adult life on Saturdays within earshot of them.
Some proverbs from his book :
“Pay strict attention to details in a match. A man
once put his leg out of joint through missing a shin by a
hairsbreadth.”
“The man who is always knocking on should be
knocked off. There is no other cure.”
“ Football is a sort of human auction business. Men
are ‘ put up ’ and knocked down, and the Rugby Unions
get the proceeds.”
“‘The critics say: “ Play with your head,” remarked
a warrior. ‘ I’ve always found it more pleasant to play
with other fellows’ heads.’”
* * * *
About time Premier Wade got the law to
work on papers that give scorching motorists warning
of where to look out for the police. On Friday last, the
following appeared in the Evening News early edition :
A POLICE TRAP
For Scorchiks Motorists.
A Legal Point Raised.
“ Motorists who are in the habit of exceeding the speed
limit of six miles an hour along the country road leading
from North Sydney to Chatswood would do well to be on
the look out for the police, because they have suddenly
become active. A trap has been set at the intersection
of Mowbray and Gordon Roads, Chatswood.”
These scorchers are just as much law-breakers as burglars,
and much more dangerous to the lives of children and old
people. At the worst, the burglar only kills when one
tries to stop him getting away. The scorching motorist
kills if one fails to getaway. Yet, what would be thought
of a paper which broke loose like this?—
“ Burglars operating in the vicinity of Challis Avenue
would do well to be on the look out for the police, because
they have suddenly become active. A trap has been set
at the intersection of Challis Avenue and Maeleay-street.”
* * * *
It is proposed to hold a motor cycle reliability
race between Sydney and Melbourne next Christmas
holidays. Some years.ago there was such a race, when
the wiry, weather-beaten Harry James lugged off the
honors after five consecutive days of riding. His actual
riding time was 27 hours. The modern motor-bike has
been so improved that it is believed the journey can now
be done comfortably in three sections: Sydney to Yass,
185 miles; Yass to Albury, 186 miles ; and Albury to
Melbourne, 201 miles. It should be an interesting affair.
* * * *
The Beverley-Perth road-race of 116 miles, by
which Westralia chooses its representative in the
VVarrnambool plug, will this year eventuate on Sep-
tember 3 ; and about the same time Tasmania will runoff
its annual Hobart to Launceston test race.
* * * *
Little A. J. Clark, the ex-Australian cyclist,
has been smashing more records since he returned to
’Murka from Europe. In a competition handicap from
scratch he ran the mile in lmin. 45sec., and cut out a
four miles’scratch in Bmin. 16sec. Clark is threatening
to be known as the “ Flying Australian.”
* * ’ * *
Cycling is booming in S’Africa just now, and
the trade people in Capetown are seeking for particulars
of the Warrnambool to Melbourne road race with the idea
of starting a similar contest in the “ home of the floods
and thunder.” The result of the inquiries was the invita-
tion of the Dunlop Co. to the Africans to send a repre-
sentative to the next Warrnambool, and thus give it a
wider interest.
* * * *
Westinghouse, the inventor of the brake that
bears his name, has broken out again in his old age with
an air-spring for motor-cars which, if all he says is true,
will enable carmen to fit their vehicles with solid tyres.
The appliance is said to consist of two brass tubes which
work one into the other like a piston. Four sets are
used, the upper tubes being attached to the chassis and
the under ones to the axle. The upper tube contains
the air, which is held in compression by a leather pack-
ing and a quantity of oil to prevent any escape. The
tubes permit of a play of seven inches. The idea was
tried on a 46001 b. motor-car, fitted with solid tyres, and
declared just it. May be all right, but at first glance it
reads very Amurkan.
The Lacrosse “carnival” in Adelaide had a
curious finish. Victoria and S. A. played each other on
the opening day, and drew, with five goals each. Then
all the week they slaughtered the other teams, and 60
finished level on points. There was no time for them to
play off, and goal averages had to settle it. Victoria had
thrown 36 goals to 11 lost, and was adjudged winner
from S.A.. with 36 to 14. Queensland was third best,
Westralia came next, while N.S.W. beat everybody for
last place. (Tasmania was unrepresented.) The Sydney
men had an awful week of it: four matches played, all
lost; goals for, 14; goals against, 53. In fact,
it was a 17 to two win against the Ma State
that inflated Victoria’s goal-average so profitably.
As a sort of side-line, Adelaide ’Varsity took on
Melbourne ditto. The students have long been the
backbone of the game in Adelaide, and their 12 included
several inter-State men, so they won easily. The match
was made the occasion for the opening of the new Oval
(every recreation-ground in S.A. is an “oval”) leased
from the City Corporation. (This is where Adelaide’s
extensive park lands come in.) Thirteen men gave
£lOO each to build the pavilion, and the boathouse
was put up at the sole cost of the veteran philanthropist
Barr Smith. y '
* * * *
The game of hockey is spreading, and one
result of the recent gathering of lady hockeyists is the
formation of an “ All-Australia Women’s Ho'ckey Asso-
ciation,” which will run an inter-State Hockey week
annually. Tasmania, S. Australia, Victoria and the Ma
State will have the meeting in rotation. In the big
seminaries of England the game is said to be compulsory,
and the new Association will struggle to make it uni-
versal in the girls’ schools of Australia.
**' * *
Next Saturday will see the opening of an inter-
state hockey carnival at Rushcutters Bay Oval (Sydney).
The curtain-raiser will be a meeting of the N.S.W. second
team and the combined Pilgrims and Corona clubs. At
3 p.m. the inter-State teams will commence. The Vic-
torian team is said to have had considerable practice
together, whereas theN.S.W. crowd was not picked till
last Saturday night, and goes into battle with the benefit
of only one match, played on the previous Wednesday
against a scratch team picked for the purpose of polish-
ing up its combination. So, take it all round, the Ma
State’s prospects are fairly blue.
* * * -X
Mordecai Sherwin, the old Nottingham (Eng-
land) wicket-keeper who died the other day, is remem-
bered in Australia as the bulkiest member of a Shaw-
Shrewsbury Eleven which carried a large aggregate of
beef. The back view of Sherwin, in his pads and gloves,
was very impressive. It seemed impossible for a ball to
get past him, and, as a matter of fact, the ball rarely
did pass him. His batting also was of the stout and
sturdy order. Sherwin put up a vigorous defence by
banging at the ball, and he usually banged a fourer if he
wasn’t caught in the long field.
* -* * *
If the V.A.T.C. handicapper is better informed
than the A.J.C. handicapper, the Maoriland gee Broad-
sword is uncommonly well treated in the Metropolitan
Stakes. Broadsword’s weight for the Sydney event is
only 31b. above the minimum, whereas he is asked to
hump the respectable burden of 7st. Illb. in the Caul-
field Cup. In the cases of Artillerie and Glue, it is the
Caulfield authority who holds them comparatively
cheap; but, among a number of other notable dis-
crepancies between the estimates of the two handi-
cappers, the Metropolitan figures are the lower.
Melbourne is losing its two Burns jockeys.
Walter has left for Ceylon to ride Knox and other
horses, and the triumphant Fred Burn has accepted an
Austrian engagement.
* * * *
Ed Williams, who got the better of Joe Costa
in their recent disagreement, is now' in his fourth cham-
pionship. He has been champion lightweight, welter
and middle, and is now boss heavy. The only laurel left,
for him to gain is that of Oldest Inhabitant.
When Henley told N.S.W. Parliament
that Union secretaries had been “squared ” with
the cheques of employers guilty of breaches of the
Industrial Disputes Act, the Premier was
appalled. He thought there were visions about.
He said that the scandal must be stopped, forth-
with, by amending legislation. Yet, theotherday,
a Government Department embodied this in a
report on the working of industrial legislation
The most marked effect of the Minimum Wage Act had
been the reduction in overtime. The additional cost of
6d. tea-money had induced employers to put a stop to
overtime to a large extent, and to limit it to the elder
and more competent hands—an effect which was fully
anticipated by the Department. The enforcement of the
payment of tea-money, in addition to time and a half,
had not been always very willingly complied with, and
in some cases the obligation had been either not known
or not understood. Although attention was drawn to all
the provisions of the Act in the public press, many em-
ployers, after the lapse of months, averred that they were
ignorant of them , with the result that they were obliged
to make payment of back money to some considerable
amount. In one case an employer, becoming suddenly
aware of his lapse, voluntarily drew and paid out £lO on
this account alone, and showed the inspector receipts for
payment, and sums of money still waiting to he paid to
employees who had left the factory, and whose addresses
were not known.
In fact, Wade’s own inspectors have been doing
practically the same thing as the Union secre-
taries, and there has been never a howl from
Henley, nor a solitary word of reprobation from
Wade.
FOOTBALL, IRONMONGERY, SUDDEN DEATH.
ETC.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There’s an armor-plated bloke on a steel-surrounded
moke,
And I hear him gasp and choke ’neath his load;
’Tis the Umpire on his way to the blessed place of play—
Hear the barrackers hooray
On the road!
Armed with cannons and with guns, thus he fronts the
savage Huns,
As they heave the rocks in tons at his head ;
When the Umpire sadly umps, frantic Percy leaps and
jumps.
And his missile jars and bumps,
Sounding dread !
Tis the haberdasher’s clerk howling vengeance for a
“ mark ”
Hear the roaring drapers ! Hark ! Someone’s dead ;
“Ow ! you blanky, awful cow ! Push his face in ! ” hear
the vow,
’Tis the place to pray, and bow
Every head !
Here the shrill fanatics come from the boarding-house
and slum,
Whilst aristocratic scum also floats;
Yea, the wealthy lower class joins the shrill plebeian mass,
And each welkin-bursting ass
Also votes!
Proud indeed the land should be!—here may keen
observers see
How our young democracy cogitates ;
Here the voice of wisdom speaks, and the fount of glory
leaks
As the armored Umpire streaks 1
Through the gates !
And the Commonwealth, indeed, beams approval on the
creed
Of the narrow-shouldered breed that pursues ;
See ! each mouth is open wide, and the earnest clods are
shied:
You behold Australia’s Pride—
Or Refuse !
Thus it is the Land.prepares for the foe that unawares
Bangs his hoofs upon the stairs of this folk ;
And its plain—too plain—to me that our Young
Democracy
Isn’t thinking worth a D.
Life’s a Joke !
victoria.
G. H.
JEFFSON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The maddest man Eve started out;
I ever saw Was gone all day
Was Tim McCann, Whilst Tim in doubt
Of Thompson’s Bore, Made little hay;
That gloomy day Young Eve rode back
The news went round At set of sun
That Johnson J. Upon Tim’s hack :
Had Jeffries downed. “ Dad,Jeffson won ! ”
Tim couldn’t leave The maddest Dad
His work, and so I ever saw
His daughter Eve Then twelve fits had
He told to go Upon the straw ;.
To town like mad He got next morn
(A four hours’ trip), The truth in bits.
And see which had (That night of scorn
The championship. He just had fits.)
N.S.W.
THE SECOND.


THE "MOTA” (Regd.).
The man who studies style and comfort in hats
ha * "lore than a DESIRE for the “Mota”—he has
a iNi EED for one. For the “ Mota ”at a small price
is the most comfortable and most distinctively
stylish soft felt of the day.
The material is good—it will wear well; the brim
and crown is easily adapted—it will suit your style.
1 rices 7/6 to 12/6, in all fashionable colors, at
leading stores throughout Australia.
The name “Mota” is registered, and the design
also. Beware of infringements.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
Th » Austral Hat Mills, Ltd.,
Abbotsford, Melbourne.
At the TARRANT,
MELBOURNE.
h
ĥ
’TIS STOCKTAKING TIME
AT THE TARRANT,
when everything must be
cleared to make room for
further stock. We're making
a general all-round reduction
on all accessories for this month.
Call while the chance lasts.
Order now, and order well—
'tis a good opportunity.
A line from you will bring to
you, post free from us, com-
plete catalogues.
Tarrant Motor Co.,
108 Russell St., Melbourne.
Sole Agents for
Flats, F.N’s, Fords, De Dions, Commer
Commercial Cars, etc.
MAKE A NOISE LIKE AN ORDER.
CADILLAC,
25-30 H P £5OO.
450 in Australasia.
35,000 in the World.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., Brisbane.
Shell Motor Spirit.
“ MORE MILES on * SHELL’
THAN ANY OTHER.”
Public Notices.
KYLOE COPPER MINES, NO LIABILITY.
NOTICE is hereby given that an Interim Dividend
(the third; of 6d. per share has been made payable
on the PREFERENCE and ORDINARY SHARFS
fi ,k « *" f ; he ab °Y T e r Company, payable on SATURDAY,
the 30th day of JULY, 1910.
Transfer Books close from WEDNESDAY, the 27th dav
of JULY, to 2nd AUGUST next, both days inclusive. y
By order of the Board,
„ ~ . _ „ j*. »■ HARTWELL, Secretary.
Castlereag’h House, Sydney, 24th June, 1910.
Comfort and Style
In the Shoe illustrated you get both style
and comfort.
It is a well-made, splendidly-finished Shoe
high-grade in every detail.
It’s a Black Phoenix Calf Derby—
-19/6, 21/-, 22/6.
Also in Tan— 23/6 and 25/-
Ditto in Boots. Postage 9d. extra.
Write for our Booklet, “ The Rigney Shoe for Men.”
Send for a tin of Rigney Shoe Dressing, price 6d.
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,” '
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
ħ
Don’t do Yourself an Injustice
h
when considering that new cycle you intend buying.
First send for our Catalogue, which tells about our
MODEL 3 CYCLE
fully. We fit it with any first-class tyres, and guarantee
it a year for .£ll.
Mention The Bulletin when writing.
BENNETT & BARK ELL.
Specialists in Modern
Cycle Building,
234 Pitt Street, and
Castiereagrh Street,
Sydney.
A. M. L. 8 F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stock and Station Agents.
CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300,000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral Pro-
perties and Stock, and on the Growing Clip and Crop.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in Australia, being all
recently constructed.
Australian Mortgage, Land 8 Finance Co.
LIMITED,
William Street, MELBOURNE;
Blig'H Street, SYDNEY;
Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
“0.K.,” on the unimportance of the law :
The majesty of the law in Victoria seems to have suf-
fered a very striking- insult down at Shepparton a while
ago, and thusfar nothing is heard of the law’s intentions
re the outrage. Miss Helena Baillie, a nurse, was charged
before the Court of General Sessions with having- set lire
to her dwelling-house at Tatura in May last. Witnesses
testified that the prisoner had admitted the arson whilst
protesting that she was incited to the indiscretion bv a
local clerk named Hobday; but Hobday, whilst ad-
mitting his intimacy with the nurse, who had insured her
furniture and effects in the office he represented,
swore that he had nothing to do with the conflagration.
Also he produced an alibi in proof of his innocence.
Nurse Helena Baillie gave evidence for herself on oath.
She swore that Hobday came to her house at 2 a.m., and
insisted on setting it ablaze in two places with the aid of
kerosene, and that after this she told the police she was
the culprit in order to shield the clerk whom she
later proceeded to give-away. Judge Eagleson summed
up the case adversely to the prisoner, and then the Eagle-
hawk jury, in full view of the fact that the young
woman was a reckless liar on her own admission,
found her nob guilty. Whereupon the audience
raised a storm of applause, and the Judge said that the
applause was a disgraceful ending to a disgraceful case.
Which was the same thing as charging Shepparton (Vic.)
in general with an all-round conspiracy to roll the Law in
the mud. A disgraceful jury had given a disgraceful
verdict in favor of a disgracefully unfortunate young
woman, and the local public had gloried in their dis-
grace. All things considered, it seems advisable for the
law- to assert its majesty in Shepparton by setting fire to
the local court of General Sessions, and raising pigs on
the site.
“ San Remo ” objects to other novelists :
When the British Jingo magazine writer gets to work
Dead wood Dick has to get under the house. Pearson’s
has been publishing a series of stories built on J. Bull’s
recent naval scare. In one of them, “The Uncounted
Factor,” the writer makes the teak-lined decks of a
Dreadnought blaze furiously. Now everybody knows
that a Dreadnought’s decks aren’t built of wood, or cellu-
loid, or even flannelette. Again, British aeroplanes are
dogging the German fleet trying to drop explosives down
the funnels of the warships, and at last a huge bomb
goes plunk-cuss-wallop into the boilers of an ironclad,
and blows them into asteroids or thereabouts. Asa matter
of fact, a warship’s funnels are heavily crossed-barred.
Perhaps a spy removed the red-hot bars by hand when
he saw this particular bomb coming. Then, Alan
Burgo.vne, in “The Way of the Navy,” sools a British
torpedo destroyer on to a German Dreadnought at 36
k, ' ots - It’s a wonder he didn’t make it 360 leagues.
After being- hit three times with llin. shells and once by
a 6v shell, the torpedo boat rams and sinks the battle-
ship. Really, there isn’t in the flimsy construction of a
destroyer a bit of metal strong enough to hold up against
a 67 ; and an llin. shell would burst her up like an egg
struck by the Day of Judgment and then kicked by the
Devil and rushed into the cellar of perdition. I don’t
know what J. Bull is worrying about. Britannia will
continue to rule the waves if the navy is anything like
the thing the Pearson experts describe. In fact no 10
navies could stop it, and the gates of Hell would not
prevail against it.
m
1
Dunlop
elt
BALATA
the
QUALITY
OP-
Dunlop
ENGINEERING
RUBBER GOODS
Ensures You iatbfaction-
Lonfl Wear and Economy.
ĥ
SAMPLES AND PRICES
ON APPLICATION.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO.
106 Flinders St., Melb.
255 Clarence St ,
Sydney.
92 Pirie St., Adelaide
268-270 Adelaide St .
Brisbane
67 King St., Perth.
Worcester Street,
Christchurch
“Vic.”: While the finances of St. James’s,
Sydney, are on the carpet, glance at those of St.
James’s, Melbourne. This is the oldest Melbourne
church. In the year One it obtained the grant of
an enormous block of land, bounded on the east
by William-street, south by Collins-street and north
by Bourke-street. Now, without a doubt some
official asked : “What do you want all that for? Is
it your game to alienate it when it becomes more
valuable ? ” Thereupon ’ands would be ’eld up in
’Oly ’Orror : “How can you think so meanly of
us! The whole will be consecrated for Divine
purposes.” Mark the upshot. All has been
leased away, except just so much as had to be
decently left for St. James’s Church. Oscar Asche
gazed from Menzies’ upper windows for the St.
James’s School he attended, but it is utterly
gone. Shifted half a mile away ! Nothing but
good revenue-bearing warehouses, not completely
innocent of alcohol. The income is £5OOO a year.
Of this, £lOOO is given to the Dean of Melbourne,
with a not over-generous stipend for somebody
else in white raiment. The rest has, of late, gone
largely towards propping up the Bendigo diocese,
and other weak spots in the framework of the
tabernacle. Anyhow, the whole thing danger-
ously trenched on simony. If the Holy of Holies
did not need the land, why was it not resumed
by the Government? St. James’s, miserably
attended, would be abolished but for fear of
scandal.
The “ Religious Editor ” complains
bitterly
Whenever I think I’ve stumbled on a new sensation or
horrible tragedy, it goes and fizzles out in a 10-line para-
graph or plain dead silence. Was waiting on the wharf
at Circular Quay one Saturday when the 3.44 boat from
Mosman arrived with most of the passengers clustered
round the ladies’ cabin, through the windows of which a
nurse in grey and a number of women could be seen
ministering fussily to someone prone on a seat. As
soon as the boat touched the wharf, a man bounded
ashore and fled through the gate. He returned a few
minutes later with a water policeman, a fii st-aid man in
grey uniform, and a covered hand-ambulance—the sort
that Kipling took Brugglesmith home in. The stretcher
and canvas hood of the contrivance were hurriedly re-
moved by the sea cop and the first-aid man ' and
carried aboard the boat. Shortly afterwards they carried
it ashore again very carefully, clamped it on to the lio-ht
pair of wheels, and pushed off hurriedly for the hospital
I climbed to the top deck and sat down. A deck-hand was
replacing a lifebuoy outside the rail, and reluctantly
supplying an explanation to a curious pair: “Woman
went overboard off Cremorne. Passenger jumped in and
got her.” Close by a woman with her parasol clutched
tightly in one hand was talking excitedly about an
attempted suicide and a wild, picturesque leap from
the top deck. “Ah-h!” I gloated; “ this time I
have got in ahead of the Evening Bloodstain
This will be a star item 1 ” But it wasn’t ;
It got three paragraphs in three papers ; and one of them
merely mentioned that a girl had fallen overboard been
rescued, and thoroughly dried. It was a bitter disap-
pointment as a sensation. Again, one evening during
the stay in port of the two Japanese cruisers, I saw from
a homeward-bound Mosman ferry a strange sort of boat
hastening in the direction of Farm Cove where the war-
ships were then lying. It had come from the Japanese
collier anchored off Musgrave-street, and was propelled
by two seamen, each of whom worked with a sculling
motion a crooked sort of oar placed on either side of the
stern. In the middle of the strange craft, a Jap midship-
man was kneeling and supporting the head of one whose
white shirt was splashed liberally with red. “ A tragedy
at first hand!” I exclaimed, and scared gloatingly after
the boat as it toiled citywards over the cold <>-rey sea
Next morning I searched the papers diligently, but
found absolutely nothing. There may have been
a two-line par. stowed away somewhere to the
effect that the collier’s cook had spilt cochineal
over his vest whilst drunk, and stunned himself
by falling over the ship’s eat; but, if so, I didn’t see it.
My existence is a plain one without color, and I will
probably go on catching the same tram at the same time
until I die quietly of some commonplace complaint;
therefore, I am hungry to find a highly-colored incident
to brighten up the general drabness of things. Yet when
I stumble over a promising item, it always turns out to
be a hollow mockery ending tamely in large policemen
and small paragraphs. Have I any legal remedy ?


JL SAUNDERS’ NEW TOILET REQUISITES
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver,
Finest Quality Silver, Drawn
Bristles,
20/.
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/, 12/6.
16/, 20/, 25/, upwards.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S SOLID SILVER
OARD-OASE, Handsomely Hand-engraved,
15/6-
Without Lid, 12/6.
OUR BEAUTIFUL ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver,
Richly Embossed, Long White Bristles,
10/6.
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
GLOVE BOX, Pure Silver-plated Mounts, Best
Velvet Finish,
5/«-
A. SAUNDERS.
SHAVING CUP, White Coalport
China, Solid Silver-mounted,
5/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
REAL MOTHER-o’-PEARL SHELL TRIN-
KET STAND or ASH TRAY, Ebony Base,
Solid Silver Mounted,
4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
REAL COPPER PHOTO. FRAME,
Oxidised Finish, Handsomely Em-
bossed, Size 6J x 5 inches, 4/6*
Other Styles, S/6, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
HEAD SALTS BOTTLE,
Pure Silver Screw-top,
Hobnail Cut-glass,
4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BACK COMB, set with Parisian
Diamonds,
10/
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/,
17/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAND MIRROR, Pure Silver-
plated, Handsomely Embossed, full
size,
7/6.
Other Styles, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
PURE SILVER-MOUNTED COMB,
Embossed Design, Full Size
5/6-
Other Styles, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6,
A. SAUNDERS.
NURSERY RHYME CUP,
Solid Silver - mounted,
White Enamelled China,
5/6.
Other Styles, 5/6, 7/6, 10/,
15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS. '
TOBACCO BOX, Solid Silver, Richly Hand-engraved,
Gilt-lined, Self-acting Spring Lid,
25/-
Other Styles, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/.
%
A. SAUNDERS.
PINCUSHION and TRINKET-BOX, Velvet
Finish, Pure Silver Mounts,
S/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
WAIST-BELT BUCKLE, Floral Design, Finest English
Enamel, Richly Pierced, Solid Metal Back,
Gilt Finished, 2/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET. Cherub Design, Solid Silver-
mounted, Handsomely Embossed, in Silk-lined
Case, 32/6-
Other Styles.
Other Styles, 10/6, 15/6, '2O/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
'NKSTAND, Pure Silver-
plated, Pierced and Em-
bossed, Cut Crystal Glass
Bottle, size 5x5,
20/“
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/6, 20/.
ILLUS-
TRATED
CATA-
LOGUES
FREE.
8 M
HHU>MlllUHIUIIHIIIHllHIIUmilllLlldHm!»>l!
A. SAUNDERS.
Two Hobnail Cut-glass TOILET PUFF JAR and POMADE POT, with Richly
Embossed Solid Silver Tops, in Silklined Case.
£2/51-. :
Other Styles, 30/, 40/, 50/ upwards.
WE PAY POSTAGE ON
ALL THESE GOODS.
HAT or CLOTHES,
Solid Silver Back,
Finest Quality
Bristles,
7/6.
Other Styles, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
MOROCCO PEGGY BAG, Buckle
Handles, Extra Division, Strongly Made,
Well Finished,
7/6-
Larger Size, 9/6. Other Styles,
5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SOLID SILVER BOOK-MARKER, 3£in long,
3/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
HANDSOMELY-EMBOSSED HANDKERCHIEF BOX,
Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, Silk or Gold
lined, Size Bx 7 inches,
£3
With Glove Box to Match, £5/10/ the pair.
A. SAUNDERS.
SCENT PUMP, Solid Silver,
Fancy Cut-glass,
15/6-
Nickel, 4/6, 6/6, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
HATPIN STAND,
Solid Silver, 6in
High, 7 /6-
Other Styles, 3/6,
5/6, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
MOROCCO PEGGY BAG, Leather
Handles, Chamois-lined, Extra Divi-
sion, Well Finished,
157-
Other Styles, from 4/ up.
A. SAUNDERS. .
GENT.’S COLLAR-STUD BOX,
Pure Silver-plated,
5/6-
Other Styles, 4/6, 6/6, . /6, 10/6,
12/6.
WjUiJIMU I.I.I.i!JUU.IH
52
ILLUS-
TRATED
CATA-
LOGUES
FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGARETTE CASE, Solid Silver, Hand
Engraved, Size 3in x 2in,
12/6
Other Styles, 17/6, 25/, 30/.
h
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, Handsomely Pierced and Em-
bossed, Pure Silver-plated, Silk-lined, A 1 Quality,
17/6-
Other Styles, 15/6, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET SET, Fluted Design, Sterling Silver, 2
Full-size Brushes and Tortoiseshell Comb, in Silk-
lined Case, £3-
Other Styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
JEWELLER,
&CIOC/C
k MAKER A
V*s
SjP
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.811.815.815.817. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY. N.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
C OHSULT/tf c


©
The Great Winter Pleasure
...
Trip to Sunny Queensland.
SMOOTH WATER—SPRING-LIKE CLIMATE.
Up-to-date and Comfortable Steamships*
m
m
: ;
■ #8 l
BARRON FALLS IN FLOOD—7OOft.
ĥ
*Nots. Second Single Fares apply to all steamers engaged in Queensland trade.
By the Magnificent Steamships of
Howard Smith Co. ltd.
The Adelaide Steamship Co. Ltd.
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
ħ
VIEW OF CAIRNS.
MR. DONALD McDONALD (the well-known writer)
describes the trip as follows: —
“y~*OR the greater part of the journey on the Queensland coast the steamer runs
r“* between the Great Barrier Reef and the mainland, making it one of the smoothest
of the sea trips of Australasia. The route is dotted with picturesque islands,
covered with foliage strange to southern eyes, and the boat is ever rounding headlands,
steaming into fine bays and estuaries. The famous Whitsunday Passage, between Mackay
and Bowen, is extremely picturesque.
“ In a short railway ride of 20 miles from Cairns one may travel through some of the
finest scenery in Australasia, culminating in the magnificent Barron Falls—the king of
cataracts. The trains run most of the way along the Barron Gorge, in scenery wild and
majestic, and the trip is one which no tourist going northwards should miss. I have ridden
on the box seat of a coach through the famous Buller and Otira Gorges of New Zealand, and
looked practically down into eternity, with only a solid foot of roadway intervening; but it
is not more thrilling than this railway run through the Barron Gorge, where there is always
a comforting feeling that your lease of life is not terminable by a false step on the part of
one of the leading horses. The trains stops at the Falls, of which there is a superb view.
There is no necessity to rhapsodise—go and see it.”
CAIRNS
i
is picturesquely situated, has a healthy climate, and the temperature in
winter seldom falls below 50°. First-class hotel accommodation at Cairns
and Kuranda (Barron Falls) can be obtained at a reasonable tariff, and
the fishing at Cairns is excellent* A trip to the Barron Falls and gorgeous
scenery about that part of North Queensland should not be missed.
.... *- '
ML iT
HA ■
3)
in
■«
»f|V
was
nil
sm
~,,
* i
I
m
m
*
m
wffiii*
“Wpw? 85
* l ***«(t#<
1
m
r\
AUSTRALIAN __
ftprttiii
W «


Coughs and
Colds can be cured
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Coughs and colds, acute or
chronic, are cured by taking
Scott’s Emulsion. Scott’s
Emulsion permanently cures
coughs and colds in all their
forms. This statement is
made because hundreds of
people have written to say
they were cured of cough or
cold by Scott’s Emulsion.
For example, Mrs. J. Sainty
wrote, 30th September, 1908,
from 31, Church Street, St.
Peter’s, Newtown, N.S.W.:
“ Troubled with a cough for a very long
time, and feeling completely run down, 1
h
decided io try Scott’s Emul-
sion. The results were be-
yond expectation. In a few
weeks Scott’s had quite
cured the cough, and I felt
bright and well. lam now
thoroughly restored to health.
This trademark was on the
emulsion I bought.”
If you wish to get rid of your
cough or cold, and decide to
buv Scott’s Emulsion,decide
also to GET SCOTT’S
EMULSION. You may be
asked to buy another emul-
sion and told it is “just as
good as Scott’s.” Substitute
emulsions can only be sold
on the reputation of Scott’s
Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion cures the disease-
no matter the age of the patient—and
will be approved by your Doctor for
Coughs and Colds if you ask him.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
“MAN TO MAN”
is the title of a Valuable BOOKLET explaining
the Causes and Cure of
NERVOUSNESS and ALLIED TROUBLES,
which embitter life, and cause premature decay.
A copy of this Booklet will be sent FREE
(sealed) to anyone interested.
London Specialities Agency,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Seasonable FOOTWEAR
PRICE,
©
for
MEN.
r This Stylish Bal. Boot
can he had in five shapes,
either Tan or Black—is
the very latest style for
Winter Wear.
PRICE, 18/6.
Send for our Booklet, “ Shoeli>rht.”
Post free on application.
LEEMING’S,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne;
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran;
1&3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
THROW DOWN THE BOTTLE.
Cease being- a curse in your home and a nuisance to
vour friends. The Devil of Drink can be banished
for ever by DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered
bv the Govts. Vic. and N.S.W.). A harmless remedy
can be given secretly or taken voluntarily. Advice
Free. Write or call. DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISH-
MENTS : 5i Russell Street, Melbourne ; 1161 Hay
Street, Perth, W.A. [3
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Believes Asthma and difficult breathing.
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE 1
California Syrup of Figs restores strength to
the weakened bowels, cleanses the blood of
impurities, gives tone to the nervous system, and
stimulates the action of the Liver and Kidneys
when the inactivity of those organs indicates a
constipated condition. The valuable tonic action
of California Syrup of Figs gradually over-
comes the tendency to Habitual Constipation.
is a simple, safe, and reliable laxative, pleasant to
the taste, pleasant in action, pleasant in results.
The most agreeable family remedy for con-
stipation, sluggish liver, biliousness, indigestion,
depression, feverishness, loss of appetite,
headache, and all kindred complaints;
speedily restoring health, appetite, energy, and
good spirits. Of Chemists, in two sizes.
AGREEABLE. MILD AND SURE'
i
For Winter Comfort-buy a Hot Water Bottle
ĥ
Prices from
419
each.
There is nothing that so adds to one’s
comfort on a cold Winter’s night as a Hot
Water Bottle. We can supply you with
the best at a reasonable price, for, not-
withstanding the recent great rise in
rubber, we, having bought largely before
the rise, are able to supply at prices
20 per cent, less than are being asked
elsewhere.
We also stock covers in all sizes.
We send to all parts of the Common-
wealth.
Write for Catalogue “ B.” It illustrates
and describes rubber goods stocked by us.
Novelty Rubber Co.,
250 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
A GENEROUS OFFER.
To Prove that
Harlene Hair Drill grows hair.
A MILLION FREE OUTFITS to b> DISTRIBUTED.
If yon would like to make your hair grow in healthy and beautiful
r profusion, yon cun receive free for the mere asking a complete " Harlene
Hair Drill ” outfit.
Let any woman conjure up the vision of how much youuger and how much
more attractive she would be if her hair was as it was, say, five to ten or fifteen
years back.
Let any man similarly summon before his mind’s eye the picture of the differ-
ence that his nair as it was five to fifteen years previous would make to him to-day
And it is this great difference that it is possible to restore. No woman’s—or man’s—
hair is to-day what it might— what it can—be, unless it has had the natural and
physiological cultivating and beautifying benefit of “ Harlene Hair Drill ”
p romt S e? r using “ Harleue ” y° n will be surprised—agreeably surprised. Mind, this we
Your hair will stop falling out by the end of the week.
The jscalp will feel “alive” instead of dead, hot, hard, scurfy, greasy, sticky,
Note.—All the accessories required will be sent you without a penny cost. Tt costs
threepence to send you the package, and it is suggested that you do Messrs. Edwards
the courtesy or sending threepence for postage or carriage mentioned on the following
Coupon (of which you can send a copy if you would rather not cut it from vour paper).
„ of‘‘Darlene” wherewith to continue the practice and benefits
-“ a “® ne -“ air Drill may be obtained of all chemists and stores throughout
the world at Is., 2s. 6d., and 4s. 6d. per bottle, or sent .direct and post paid on
receipt of postal order.
COUPON for Free Trial Outfit.
To Messrs. EDWARDS’ HARLENE CO.,
95 and 96, High Holborn, London, England.
Sirs,—l wish to try “Harlene Hair Drill” for one week in accordance
with your offer to readers of this paper, and shall be glad if
you will send me the “Harlene Hair-Drill” Outfit, with in-
structions, free of charge.
I enclose 3d. stamps for postage to any part of the world.
Name
Address
106
THE KEEN EDGE OF THE PLUM RAZOR.
remains long: after you expected to send it to the razor
doctor. The PLUM has an extra hollow-ground, keen-
edged blade—guaranteed and kept in order for at least
two years. That’s the reason you can rely on your
morning shave being thoroughly comfortable with the
PRICE
10/6
Post
Free
Anywhere.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
PLUM. Try it.
Single Razor in Strong Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
Send for our Free Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG 8 AITREN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
7e
Y*7
Business, Robbery, etc.
“Vulcan”: Re the passing of the horse (B.
23/6/’10). Though not yet generally recognised, the
moke’s most deadty bump is received in the financial
region, and it’s the cold calculation of fhe chequebook
which will ultimately relegate him to the oblivion of the
moa, the mastodon and the snark. A case in point (a
sample of many others): A Sydney firm recently pur-
chased a two-ton motor lorry as an experiment, and
found that it could do comfortably in two days what,
heretofore, it had taken three two-horse lorries and a
one-horse van six days to do. Result: four vehicles,
seven horses (at least), and four drivers summarily cast
into joblessness. It’s a tough relic which can withstand
many such bumps!
* * * *
“F.C.”: I observed that the Anglican Social
Questions Committee of Melbourne lately bogged into
the question of the long hours and short wages of carriers
and carters, and“ urgently besought all Christian people
to realise the evil wrought by want of thought in late
shopping,” etc. Just so! And, of course, that will
settle the question. But I happen to know a little of this
parcels delivery business. My brother-in-law started
only 10years back with one light waggon and a galloway.
Now he walks around without doing a tap, and employs
four men, each driving a similar turn out. Also he has
a large stake in the country. My next-door neighbor
once removed is placed much the same way; his two
sons and two employees work “all hours,” and he himself
is buying up property nearly as fast as I can look
at it. As to why and how. The other day I left a
message at a city parcels office —a sort of clearing house
where all the carriers call—desiring someone to cart a
ladder out to my place. This was in the morning, but I
said I was in no hurry. To-morrow or the next day
would do. At 10 that night a weary youth knocked at
the side gate and asked me to receive and sign for the
goods. It was a rotten night, and I told him a cup of
tea wouldn’t hurt him; but he laughed: “Thanks,
mister ; but I’ve half a night’s work to do yet.” I in-
spected the van ; it was nearly full of all sorts of goods.
“Surely you aren’t going to deliver all those to-night?”
“Got to. It’s six in the morning till 10 arid 11 at
night; but if I left these over I’d never get
through to-morrow’s work. Last Monday I had an easy
day ; done at five. Then word comes that some stuff
was expected at Spencer-street. Would I meet the
train? It’s my bread and butter; so I turned to and
got it to Northcote by midnight. It was two when I got
to bed—and up again at six. ... Eh ? What’s the bread
and butter worth ? Some of us get 20s. a week and part
tucker ; some more ; few over 355. a week. . . Yes, there
are slack times occasionally; but some night I’ll fall asleep
on my seat and drop under a tram, and the coroner will
say something about careless drivers. . . • Well, thanks,
• old man ; so long 1 ” Passing resolutions about that sort
of thing is equivalent to hitting an earthquake with a
feather.
* * * *
“ San Remo: New South Wales wants a new
Government; Victoria, a land policy to keep its settlers
in the State ; South Australia, a railway to Port Darwin ;
Westralia, its long-looked-for Kalgoorlie-Port Auirusta
line ; Tasmania, an alarm clock ; but Queensland wants
Boys. Almost every third emporium in Brisbane and
the smaller towns has a demand in its window for a boy.
Walking round Brisbane the other day I counted
no less than 131 shops crying aloud for this com-
modity. The range was wide enough to embrace
any kind of boy that was on the horizon. The
wan teds included'“a boy,” “a strong boy,’.’ “a willing
boy,” “an active boy,” “an intelligent boy,” “a smart
boy,’” “ a big boy ” ; “ wanted, a small boy ” ; “ wanted,
a useful boy,” “a bright boy,” and so on. A large number
wanted an honest boy, but most of the applicants ap-
parently didn’t care a cuss so long as they got plain,
ordinary two-legged boy. If I were the father of a couple
of hundred boys I’d never have to work again. One hun-
dred and ninety-nine would bring their wages home and
one would bring me home after closing time.
* * * *
Dear Sir, —I am the Offis Boy and wen you say
that It cant be denied that the Jew is a good citizen you
are wrong cos I denie It and if good citizen means not
meen to the Guvment and kind to little boys I denie it
more cos I recolect wen Mister Wade what barracks for
the Fat Fellers Team sed e didnt want any more Stamps
on Checks the boss ad 2 and he sent Me to get the
tuppence as soon ase erd about It but when I went the
bloke sed e wanted a brown for comishun and that the
boss would ave ter wate Three Weeks for the other
brown and the boss thought I was dishonest wen
I told im about the Comishun but I didnt care
cos It was true but e sent me every day for the
other Brown and the refund Bloke got shirty and told
a Newspaper Bloke about me calling every day for 1
Brown and next day I seen in the Paper Well known
Solicitor applies for a Refund of 1 peny and calls every
day for It and I showed It to the Chief Clerk and he lafed
and showed It to the boss for a lark but e didnt laf and
sed Dam ! that dam boys fault and the boss says he is a
gentleman by Act of Parlement but I dont think so do
you if so Parlement can do a lot but the boss knows how
to write a letter cos e says the length of yer legal Trainin
is shown by the length of yer sentences so I shows mine
Yers trooly Willy.
THE CLAIM OF MARY ANN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
My experience has been that where men have been
faithful and good helps they get what they want. . . .
The average country wage for a good man is £1 a week
and keep, 125., making 325., and that man may save £l4O
in four years, and dress well at that wage.— Writer on
rural economics in the Melbourne Argus.
Bill draws a pound per week so long as he works like a
human hoss,
And the judge of his labor’s worth is none but the pound-
providing boss ;
For the boss— he knows what a pound per week should
show from a Bill or Jim,
And it isn’t what Bill or Jim should get—it’s what they
are worth to him !
Bill draws his hard-earned pound per week, which is
fiftj 7 -two pounds per an.,
And he banks full thirty-five pounds per year, this clock-
work, careful man,
And seventeen pounds, as his kind boss bids,
He keeps for his smokes and Saturday beer, for his
clobber and boots and toiling-gear, for Tiib Bulletin
—and (excuse this tear !) the bounteous balance, it
would appear.
He spends on his wife and kids !
When Bill toils hard on the dear old farm for a quid per
week, and found,
Free pumpkins, sinkers and post-and-rail on the groan-
ing board abound ;
Aye, the groaning board of the farmer’s stocked with a
mountain of good plain fare,
To go with the fine large wage he pays—if the toiler will
do his share.
Bill earns a pound, and he banks a lot, and he pays for
his glass and smoke ;
He takes his pleasures, a simple few—he’s a plain, hard-
working bloke ;
And he spends the rest, as a good man ought—
The rest of the seventeen golden quid—on the homely
comforts he dwells amid. He dared to marry't Of
course he did—and the heavenly twins and his latest
kid
And his wife are his constant thought!
Bill draws, in the course of his toiling life—why, pounds
and pounds and pounds,
And every aid to farming ease his daily toil surrounds ;
Two hosses pull his plough, kind cows yield skim-milk
for his use ;
The labors of the boss to Bill’s continual good conduce ;
He lives his life in a lordly way, and he snatches a splen-
did screw,
But he spends full seventeen pounds a year, as a generous
soul should do,
For toiling Bill is a kindly man ;
In family matters he takes some pride—his heart is large
and his soul is wide ; and certainly, though he has
always tried to save his wages, he must provide
A trifle for Mary Ann !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


PIANO BUYERS
We invite you to see and examine the
Pianos
before you make your final decision in the matter of a purchase. No matter what grade you
choose you will get a first-class musical instrument. They have no superior. A Jury of five
European musical experts awarded them
THE GRAND PRIX
for TONAL QUALITY and GENERAL EXCELLENCE. Tone quality is the first essential
in a piano, and by this award you are assured that the BEALE PIANOS possess it. The chief
features of BEALE PIANOS are the brilliancy of the treble, the rich round singing quality of
the middle octaves, and the magnificent bass. Besides the award of the Grand Prix, others were
made, totalling a greater number than ever before received by one manufacturer. There was a
“DIPLOMA OF HONOR”
.from
(next to the Grand Prix) for the METAL FRAME with our PATENT TUNING SYSTEM,
the only positive and scientific tuning system yet invented. The union of the-latter with the iron
frame makes the BEALE PIANO absolutely the most durably-constructed instrument turned out by
any manufacturer. It is destructible only by violence.
A GOLD MEDAL
was granted for PERFECTION OF CABINET WORK and workmanship generally, and a further
GOLD iIEDAL for inventions and organisation. These awards were made at the Franco-British
Exhibition, London, 1908, and to-day there are close upon 14,000 BEALE PIANOS in use through-
out Australia and the Islands, and even in France and England. We trust that after reading this you will
favor us with a caff..* If you have an old piano you want to dispose of, we shall allow you a fair
valuation for it, and accept it as part payment. We have a very large range of designs to choose
from, placing-the BEALE PIANOS within reach of all buyers.
BEALE <& CO. Ltd
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
378 George Street, Sydney
(3 Doors from
G.P.0.)
107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 QllCCn Street, Brisbane (next G. P.O. —our Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
■ •• ■ • ti:■ ?; . : r . * v
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Goulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
"2 Mackay and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
A Q n- ■.:% ' ... A- ’ c ..... ’•
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. Write for Catalogue, or for Representative to call.
Head Offices & Factories: Trafalgar Street, Annandaie, Sydney.
Cash or Easy Terms. 25 Years’ Guarantee. Repairs and Tuning.
Old Pianos Allowed For. Direct from Factory to Family.
Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


Model “T” Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“ FORDS ” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials:—
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weiarht.
3. Plenty of Power (20-li.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
S. SMITH & SON’S
(LTD.)
3O 35
25 40S
S.SMfTH &.SON
S. STRAND 45
mm
A
wm
From 3 Guineas.
Perfect
SPEED
INDICATORS
' ARE FITTED TO
Oyer 20,000 Cars
AND HAVE COVERED
200,000,000 Miles.
IN USE ALL OVER THE WORLD
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF
SPEED INDICATORS, MOTOR WATCHES, MILOMETERS,
PETROL-METERS and MOTOR ACCESSORIES.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue. Special Terms to Shippers.
9 Strand, London.
WORLDS RECORD BREAK
** 99
836
t
am
NO more positive proof of the worthiness of an “Alcock” billiard table could
be, given than by the splendid performance of George Gray, the young
Queensland player, in his recent match with Fred Lindrum, jun.
A Standard “Alcock” Billiard Table was used, and certified to by the
Amateur Billiard Association of Victoria (which is affiliated with the Billiard
Association of Great Britain and Ireland).
Gray, who. made 836—831 coming off the red, and thus making two world’s
records—used Crystallite balls, and the marvellous accuracy with which they came
off the cushions, the ease with which the most difficult shots were accomplished,
speaks for itself of the merit and superiority of “ Alcock ” Billiard Tables.
Write for illustrated catalogue—it’s full of information.
ALCOCK & Co.
h
397 George St., Sydney. 7 Ring William St., Adelaide. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Murray St., Perth. [3.
y
\i!l \!
> 'i
THE
RUNTIP ~
Forest Devil.
Pulls Trees and
Stumps Out by
the Roots.
This is the latest device for pulling- out trees and stumps. It is
small, compact, quickly adjusted and easily worked. The ropes
withstand a terrific strain —the tree or stump must come out.
Illustrated Catalogue free.
This is the very latest and only fully patented “ Forest Devil” in
the Commonwealth. Ask for illustrated Booklet.
Anyone infringing any of our Patent Bights (No. 6875) in regard to
the ** BUNYIP” FOREBT DEVIL, which cover 1,2, 3 or more circular
rack wheels, either maker, seller or user, will be prosecuted.
JOHN COOPER & SONS,
287-9 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
3
c?
£
PRIZES Jaiue £2250
8-HOUR ART union
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 29,1910.
Ist Prize, value £5OO. 2nd Prize, value £250.
3rd Prize, value £lOO. And 297 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs, J. Sawdy, Warner
Avenue, North Bondi, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 3.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from JOHN TRAVERS, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
OUIS
5
VELVETEEN
Of all Drapers throughout the World. Manufacturers 57, Newton St., Manchester, Eng.
DISTINCTION IN DRESS
No dress looks so rich and feels so soft and silky as one of Louis
Velveteen or Chiffon Vel-Duvet. Its lines are graceful and
flowing, and for Pile, Lustre, and
Brilliancy, it is unsurpassed. It is famed
for its exquisite Colours and won’t crush
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
The Grandest Remedy in the World for
COUGHS & COLDS
ONE DOSE IS GENERALLY SUFFICIENT.
THOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at
its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, Difficulty
of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience
delightful and rapid relief; and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a
complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irrita-
tion in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice,
and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is
not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appear-
SMALL
SIZE:
2/6
ance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without
it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or
two is generally sufficient, and a com-
plete cure is certain.
LARGE
SIZE:
4/6
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE VENDORS, and
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
N S.'W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney.


COLDS.
How often we hear the remark, “ It is only a
cold !”and a few days later the man is on his hack
with pneumonia. This is such a common occur-
rence that a cold, however slight, should not be
neglected. Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy has
gained its great popularity and immense sales by
its prompt cures of this most common ailment. It
always cures and is pleasant to take. It counter-
acts any tendency of a cold to result in pneumonia.*
Missing Friends.
JOHN A. OSBORNE.—If this should meet the
eye of the above, or anyone knowing his
whereabouts, please communicate with Jas.
Osborne, senr., c/o E. Osborne, Singer Manu-
facturing Co., Rockhampton, Queensland.
For Sale.
This Is a Good Investment.
ONE OF NEW ZEALAND’S BEST
Livery Stables For Sale.
Owing to the death-of owner, we are offering for sale
by tender an up-to-date'Livery and Bait Stables in the
heart of Parnell, Auckland. Established 25 years, and
with unrivalled connection in rich neighborhood.
Government Mail Contract, worth nearly £llOO per year,
has 2J years to run.
Plant consists of 120 horses, 15 cabs, 2 hansoms, 1
hearse, 4 waggonettes, 4 brakes, 1 ’bus. 12 gigs, 6, dog-
carts, 3 buggies, 1 flat top lorry and 2, delivery vans,
with harness and every accessory for same in first-class
condition. Good 10-roomed house near stable, also
cottage. , , .
Purchaser has option of purchasing freehold site for
£3ooo—£soo cash, £5OO on January 1, 1912, balance at
5 per cent, for 5 years.
Tenders close August 15 with undersigned, from whom
further particulars may be obtained.
Parnell, Auckland.
C. M. BROWN, \
K. FOSTER, /
Executors.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager : J. O. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF
,7. C. WILLIAMSON’S
NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Bright Musical Comedy of Solid Laughter,
A KNIGHT FOR A DAY.
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT, at 8 o’clock,
THE BRASS BOTTLE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
rItERI ON THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE & CLYDE MEYNELL SEASON.
Commencing NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT,
THE AKCADIAKS.
The Fantastic Musical Play tliat has put a Girdle Round
the Earth.
And First Appearance in Sydnev of Clarke and Meynell’s
NEW ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
H E AT R E ROY A L, SYDNEY.
Lessee & Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8,
NELLIE STEWART, Australia’s Idol,
in J. M. Barrie’s Famous Play, ,
WHAT EVERY WOMAN KNOWS.
NELLIE STEWART as MAGGIE WYLIE.
Prices as usual. Plan at Paling’s,
Amusements.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
A WEST’S PICTURES ENTERPRISE.
Altogether Unique in the History of the World.
SYDNEY DAY BY DAY.
“ What the Papers give you for Breakfast West’s Pic-
tures will illustraie for your amusement Supper.”
The Entertainment must commend itself to all classes
of the community, and will be styled
WEST’S PICTURES
JOURNAL OF DAILY EVENTS.
FIRST PICTORIAL PUBLICATION AT AN EARLY
DATE.
JHE LYCEUM, SYDNEY.
TWO PERFORMANCES DAILY.
MATINEE at 2.30. EVENINGS AT 8.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
PICTURES.
SPENCER IS SYNONOMOUS WITH SUPREMACY.
Prices as usual. Plan at Paling’s, 2/6.
NEW PROGRAMME EVERY THURSDAY’S MATINEE.
■yOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
Direction of .. .. J. and N. TAIT.
SEASON OF NINE NIGHTS
AND
SPECIAL MATINEES,
Commencing THURSDAY EVENING, JULY 28,
THE ROYAL
BESSES O’ TH’ BARN BAND
(Finest in the World).
PRICES —ss. (reserved), 35., 25., Is.
Plans Open Paling’s, Saturday Morning.
SYDJNEY GLACIARIU JVL
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAILY
10 to 12 Noon ; 3 to 5 p.m. ; 8 to 10.30 p.iu.
ADMISSION, 2s. ; SKATE HIRE, SIXPENCE.
CHlLDREN—Admission Morning and Afternoon Only, Is.
Saturday Morning Only, Sixpence.
Particulars of Season Tickets will be sent on Application.
’Phone, 492 Glebe. . , DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
| VO L I THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
FRED KEETON, England’s Popular Comedian.
LIANE DE LYLE and M. BRUNIN in their original
scena, “In a Billiard Room.”
PIP POWELL and KATE VESEY,
presenting a Musical Dialogue—“A Perfect Woman.”
LIEUT. FRANK TRAVIS, the Tramp Ventriloquist.
CHARLENE and CHARLENE.
THE DARDINIS, American Comedy Jugglers.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling's.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
MENDEL, Blind Pianist.
LES WARTON. IRVING SAYLES.
KREMO FAMILY, World’s Greatest Risley Performers.
THE FALCONS, COMEDY Acrobats.
« RAYMOND TRIO.
VAUDE and VERNE, Comedians.
Plan at Allan’s. PRIOES-3s, 2s, Is.
Hl-T KINO’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager-—William Anderson.
AN ENTHUSIASTIC SUCCESS,
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic 00. in
Nat Gould’s Great Racing Drama,
THE CHANCE OE A LI EE
TIME.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES-3s, 2s, and Is.
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO: in
THE GIRLS OF GOTTENBERG.
A WONDERFUL LAUGHTER-MAKER.
Cast includes Florence Young, Fanny Dango; Andrew
Higginson, Bertie Wright, Langford Kirby, Florence Vie.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
■y HEAT RE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
SATURDAY, JULY 23,
.First Appearance in Melbourne of
MATHESON LANG and HUTIN BRITTON in Jerome
K. Jerome’s
THE PASSING OF THE THTRD
FLOOR BACK.
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
iaiEST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE-
the best WEST’S PICTURES, XHK best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices 6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
|y| ELBO U R N E GLACIA R l U M,
ICE-SKATING
EVERY AFTERNOON
AND
EVENING.
WIRTHS OLYMPIA
YY FVF.RY evening AT 8
Matinees -Wednesdays, Saturdays and Holidays at zou.
V
ICTORIAN
PROFESSIONAL
ORCHESTRA.
FIRST CONCERT OF NEW SERIES
OF FOUR CONCERTS,
SATURDAY AFTERNOON, JULY 30
Assisted by MR. OSWALD RIPPON.
Conductor .. PROFESSOR FREDERIC BEARD.
Programme :
“ Pathetique ” Symphony .. .. .• Tsehaikowsky.
“ Carnaval Romairi ” Overture .. .. Berlioz.
“ Nut Cracker ” Suite ■. • • Tsehaikowsky.
Spring Song from Die Walkure—Wagner,
MR. OSWALD RIPPON.
“ Meistersinger ” Overture .. .. Wagner.
45., 35., 25., and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
Concession to Students by Application to 197 Russell
Street, Melbourne. H- A. Cot, Hon Sec.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ J.”: Nowadays you may gauge the value of a show
by its advertisements. F’rinstance :
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY.
ANTONIA DOLORES,
SATURDAY NIGHT.
Antonia is emphatically worth the admission-fee her
management charges. On the other hand, consider
this: —
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE.
LAUGH! HOW WE LAUGHED 1
A KNIGHT FOR A DAY.
IT’S A SIDE-ACHER !
HOLDS THE LAUGH AND ENCORE RECORD ! !
SIMPLY A GAY WHIRL!!
THE ELOPEMENT SCENE’S A BREAK-UP!
WHILE “ ENTERTAINMENTS ” IS A RIOT!!
And so on. Of all the many fatuous, boresome shows
imported to these climes in the last few years “A
Knight for a Day ”is about the limit and dead finish. I
see by my faithful daily paper that one Joe Charles is
tnanagerially acclaimed as “ the Uncontrollable Come-
dian,” and “the Man who gets up Steam”: Bonita,
“Child of the Plains,” is “The World’s Greatest Rifle
Shot.” The Dardinis are “splendidly received at every
performance,” and “ nightly provide America's Greatest
Comedy Juggling Act.” I shall go to the new Clarke-
Meynefl show in a hopeful mood. All it says of itself
is:—
CRITERION THEATRE.
SATURDAY, JULY 23.
THE ARCADIANS.
. “ Harrison O.” : I have been waiting for a long time for
somebody to hurl a dense cloud of bricks at those literary
flunkeys who are for ever indulging in pretentious flap-
doodle anent the high educational character of plays by
J. Galsworthy and others of his species, and am over-
joyed that “0.K.” (B. 30/6/10) should have done it.
Pedantic and wildly impracticable persons are always
howling in the press (in Melbourne their howls have been
particularly loud of late) for a higher “ literary ” drama,
and they generally name Shaw, Barker and Galsworthy
as the men who are able to supply it. Now, as a matter
of hard fact, these three are all more or less brilliant
sermonisers, but there is not one Who is a first-class
dramatist; this being the first point on which they differ
from Ibsen, with whom their wildly irrational admirers
insist upon comparing them. While all intelligent patrons
of the drama are justified in demanding better fare than
that with which we are often provided, it is, nevertheless,
sheer nonsense to abuse managers for not staging the
works of the Shaw-cum-Galsworthy-cum-Barker school.
At the best, these appeal only to a small coterie. Of all
the Court Theatre pieces, Shaw’s “ Man and Superman ”
enjoyed the longest run, and it lasted for only ten weeks.
Altogether, 176 performances of the play have been given
at the Court, spread over a period of two years ; and as
the theatre has seating capacity for only 635 persons
(which is less than half the capacity of Melbourne Bijou),
it will be seen that a large number of “ literary ” persons
in the Fogtown population must have held on
to something to prevent their craving for Shaw
drama carrying them away. Shaw has written some
brilliant things, but even the average “literary”
person, if he has any love for the drama that is dramatic,
would rather sit through a performance of (say) “The
Second Mrs. Tanqiierav” than one of the Shawian
“ episodes ” or “debates.”
Periodical rumors of Bland Holt’s intention to return
to the melodrama business are contradicted by Bland
himself, who appears to be tickled to death by the new
sensation of freedom. As a looker-on at the game the
old battler finds his health wonderfully improved.
Glowing accounts of Leila Doubleday’s prowess with
the fiddle and the bow are given in support of the appeal
for money enough to keep her in Vienna for another
year. Prof. Ros 6 has offered to continue his tuition of
the Melbourne girleen free, gratis and for nodings, so the
cost of maintenance is the only difficulty in the way. A
juvenile performance in aid of the fund was brought off
at the St. Kilda home of the Hallensteins the other week,
and, if the friends of the cause can hammer the facts well
into the public head, Leila Doubleday should be spared
the possibility of getting stranded in Vienna. Justice
Cussen spoke of her as the makings of “ a great musician
and a great woman.” In her latest portraits she looks
the character. The girl is all soul and sensitiveness, and,
on the word of those who have heard, she already plays
like an angel.
“ Melb.” : The late L. L. Smith used to own the site of
the Salvation Army Temple in Bourke-street, Melbourne.
Here was his little theatre, variously known as the Poly-
technic, Comique, Hudson’s, the Nugget and Cottier’s.
At one time, the little doctor (title now transferred to
Maloney) had his. museum there with the Anatomical
Venus,and uncanny things like that. “Birch’s Holiday
Trip through Europe ” (panorama and lecture) was very
successful at the Polytechnic. Willie Edouin accom-
panied Birch to China, etc., and had hard lines before lie
dropped on his pins in San Francisco. Count Morton de
Chapelle managed the Polytechnic when it was the
Theatre Comique. Afterwards, he mysteriously became
secretary to Napoleon 111., then in his English exile.
Long memories may recall at the Polytechnic Theatre
J. P. West in “Jack Sheppard,” G. W. Collier in some
leading parts, Nat Douglas as Belphegor, Emmett (not
Fritz)in “ The Marble Hearts,” and Sam Emery. Lambert
and Charley Young gave an entertainment of “Scenes
from Dickens.” The Sisters Navaro appeared in French
comediettas, and Howard Vernon tried an opera season.
Also, that curious fragment of humanity, Tom Thumb,
appeared in Smith’s theatre.
The Royal Besses o’ th’ Barn Band returns to Sydney
next week, opening at the Town Hall, under direction of
J. and N. Tait, on Thursday evening, 28th instant. The
season is limited to nine nights and special matinees.
The box plans open at Paling’s, Saturday morning next.
. ■ has been to Andrew Fisher
ssrspz Hsas «rt
E”» p“S?Uoo t h the CO— it, ft*
ably Macknockme has never weight ortl*
Mur. Why' doesn’t
he should change his name, and so have more time to
think of other things.
“ N ” : One Speaight comes here as the World s Dicker). -
ian Monologise. Attending his first ’thir/ anri
Pickwick on the board Speaight 's tall, thin and
Pickwick or Tupman with the skill of Irving’s paradoxes,
Such as C Na P oleo P n and Robespierre .No make-up, but the
cleverness of Mansfield changing himself from Jekyll to
Hvde before voureves. As may be imagined, Speaight
is’best in Sam Weller, or something slim, but the other
impersonations are more than a little wondrous. Yet I
was never so sensible of the grey hairs on poor Pickwick.
Indeed, that book will hardly last. What dreadfully
puerile things were transfigured by the superlative
genius of Dickens. I think Speaight picked out some of
the worst. •
A particularly lovely cable item was the announcement
that “ the syndicate formed for the exploitation of the
Jeffries-Johnson fight pictures declare that they will not
attempt t o force the pictures on communities legislating
agiinst them, and promise permanently to shelve the
pictures if popular sentiment is adverse to their exhibi-
tion.’' Which assurance, when you walk carefully
around it and inspect it from all sides amounts to thisi t-
n\ The syndicate won’t exhibit in places where it can t
exhibit; (2) it won’t exhibit at all, if public opinion is so
hostile that the show would be a dead loss.
“M. Safran ”: Harry Irving, whom the Williamson
management is said to be importing next year, is of the
new order of mummer. He was at an English public
school, and is a B.A. and M. A. of Oxford. Also, he is a
writer of some repute, belongs to half a dozen West End
clubs and lives in Bloomsbury, which is respectable or
nothing. Heredity worked powerfully in his ease. I re-
member him at Oxford, where his father had sent him in
the hope that he would follow any other calling than the
stage. A sallow, unshorn and unkempt youth he
looked as he strode moodily about the town, his brow
sicklied o’er with the pale cast of thought or self-
consciousness or something. He always seemed to be
acting the rdle of actor, and doing it pretty well. I saw
what was, I believe, his first appearance on any stage ; it
occurred in a pastoral play in the beautiful gardens of
Worcester College. He was damned heartily by the
local critics as a stilted imitation of his sire, an
inevitable experience in the circumstance. Dorothea
Baird, who afterwards became his wife, was one of the co.
She was the belle of Oxford at the time. My first recol-
lections of that ancient town circle round the vision of
“Dolly” Baird streaking along the “Corn” on a bike.
Harry'lrving is half Jew, half Irishman, a useful combi-
nation mentally speaking. In appearance he overwhelm-
ingly favors the Jew side of his escutcheon—not, be it
understood, the curved, well-oiled and glittering Yid of
commerce ; but the ascetic, intellectual Hebrew of whom
Rufus Isaacs, K. 0., and our own Justice Isaacs are types.
“ Early Door ” : Some of the average vaudeville turns
that delight the crowd and occasionally amuse the carp-
ing critic are models of economy in talent when you come
to analyse them. A woman can play the violin and look
nice in evening dress. Her husband is a nimble young
man who sings rather well and possesses the knack of
falling humorouslv over furniture. They make up an
act, and start out as the Two Ohortlers. There is a little
dialogue to link the act together, and gags (old and
middle-aged) are dragged in by the ears to fill up the
brief pauses between fiddle and falls. The turn is
timed to last, say, 12 minutes. It isn’t at all wonderful ;
but it is tuneful and funny, and it scores heavily when it
happens to be placed after some horribly difficult and
dangerous performance like that of the Bluephunk
Brothers, the elder of whom nightly endangers the life of
the younger by getting him to climb up and stand on his
head on the top end of a long bamboo fire-escape which he
(the elder) supports on his lower jaw whilst blindfolded
and handcuffed. After people have shuddered and sighed
over an act of that description, they are eager to be made
laugh ; and the Ohortler brand of turn is the right goods.
Taking it on the whole, the variety business, nowadays, is
overstocked with acrobats, animal trainers, mystery men,
jugglers, eoon singers and people who rattle their feet.
These people present various turns which are marvellous,
dangerous, baffling, dazzling, irritating or deafening ;
but they are seldom amusing. The Ohortlers rattle
through a performance that you can listen to and watch
with pleasure and a certain amount of amusement.
Therefore I say, “Long live the Ohortlers!”
“Snell”: I have been watching the theatrical experi-
ments of Pillionaire Beecham with some interest, because
of his declared determination to extend operations to
Australia. Beecham, son and heir of the man who was
worth a guinea a box, has taken over His Majesty’s
Theatre in London, and doesn’t care what he loses. He
is doing light opera on a grand scale and dropping much
gold, although his theatre is popular. He announces
that he expects to be £lO,OOO to the bad as a result of
the present London summer seashn. When the mil-
lionaire manager descends upon Australia, it will be with
no intention of “ exploiting art.” Beecham insists that
he is not after pillage, hut people think his scheme is
only another huge advt. for the family globule.
Melbourne is to have a proper concert hall within the
next year, or less, so the old absurdity of charging fancy
prices for cane chairs in the Gaud Mayor's draughty
barn (where the acoustics are bad and the pictures on the
wall are a nightmare) will shortly cease to be. Mel-
bourne Town Hall is the worst possible place for a great
singer or instrumentalist to perform in. Sections of the
audience are bound to be disappointed as the result of
the eccentric acoustics. The Melba, who sounds so well
worth a guinea from some points of hearing, is not worth
more than 3s. llfd. from other points. Orchestral effects
are less variable, but the only musical things which really
suit the building are the neglected organ recitals, and
these will presumably attract move attention when the
Town Hall is no longer engaged for expensive concerts.
The site of the forthcoming hall and the time
of its opening are not yet announced, but the “long-felt
want” will certainly be supplied anon. Then, if the
Taits and others are wise in their generation, the annual
musical season will not be centred in mid-winter in
accordance with the cast-iron law of custom. The con-
cert hall should have a sliding roof as well as comfortable
furnishings, and a season ranging from September to
May. When football comes in it is time for music to go
into recess—in Melbourne. The climate is inhospitable
to singers and repellent to audiences. Savage breasts
want to 'be warmed rather than charmed these cold
times, when nothing is more out of place than a long
sonata which requires its auditors to sit spellbound for
half an hour at a stretch, and forbids them even to bang
their hands to promote the circulation.
“Snell”: Nance O’Neil’s success in “The Lily,” a
Belasco adaptation from the French, is the triumph of
her life, and {rives her what she has long battled for, an
acknowledged position with the three foremost actresses
of the United States. She is now something of an idol
in New York, the city that turned her down again and
again. The Herald critic, who often slated Nance, says
“her success in ‘The Lily’ is overwhelming. She
towers. She is a wonderful figure of majesty and force.”
Australia’s old friend, Charles Cartwright, is associated
with the O’Neil in her triumph, but portly McKee Rankin,
the fattest Macbeth on record, is nowhere visible on the
horizon.
“ U.S.” : Dolly Nicholson is the star of the biographs.
She is employed by the American Biograph Co., of New
York. Everyone will have noticed her —a piquant little
blonde with crimped, wavy hair. What a beautiful
actress! Yet she is not of the stage. Biograph acting
is different, a kind of cross between the old style of act-
ing and the delicate touches in painting. Dolly Nichol-
son performs before many millions every night in the
United States, Canada, South America, Britain, Europe,
Australasia, India, and pretty well all over the planet.
She ought to be a millionairess, with her peculiar gifts.
“ The Oldest Inhabitant ” : Apropos Melbourne Wax-
works. Bulletin par. (7/7/’10) might lead to the impres-
sion that Kreitmeyer was the first exhibitor in Melbourne.
Such is not the fact. In the ’fifties, Mrs. Williams, a
little squat woman, had the show in a long room up-
stairs in Kyte’s Buildings, in Bourke-street, opposite the
Eastern Markets. Mrs. Williams did the wax and dress-
ng, and John Campbell, now a resident of Burwood,
niear Sydney, did the hairwork. Campbell was then
managing man for Bennett, who had a hairdressing
establishment adjoining the Theatre Royal vestibule.
Subsequently, Campbell opened a show in Pitt-street,
fiydney, in the early ’seventies. Mrs. Williams married.
Professor Sohier, a phrenologist, and the business be-
came “Sohier’s Waxworks.” Then (I think) Kreitmeyer
made anatomical wax figures for Dr. L. L. Smith (just
deceased) —the Sleeping Venus, etc., which were shown
in the Polytechnic Hall, built by L. L. Smith, in Bourke-
street East, opposite his old apothecary’s shop. L. L.
Smith closed up, and Kreitmeyer bought out Mrs.
Sohier, and the show became Kreitmeyer’s.
“ A.W.H.”: The Adelphi Theatre (Sydney), which is to
be built on the site of the old Belmore Markets, will have
a coffee palace as part of the premises. The explanation
is that it is difficult to get a hotel license under Wade’s
1905 Liquor Act. The Adelphi will be about the only
playhouse on earth to be run in conjunction with a soft
drunk warehouse.
“An Australian in London ”: Any doubts as to
Melba’s position at Covent Garden were removed when
she made a triumphal reappearance as Mimi in “La
Bohfeme.” There had not been wanting critics in Aus-
tralia to affirm that the great singer was a waning power,
and that her tour through the Commonwealth was but a
prelude to retirement. On her return to England, it was
Melba’s intention to make her reappearance at a con-
cert, but King Edward’s death made a postponement
necessary ; so it was on the stage of the big opera house
that she faced the English public after a two years’
absence. Despite the fact of mourning being worn, the
scene was a brilliant one. Boxes that had remained
empty, while Tetrazzini was singing nightly, filled up for
the occasion : and the show of diamonds was a notable
incident in itself. Stalls, balconies and galleries were
packed, and the critics didn’t hint at a flaw in the voice
property. It is unlikely that Melba will sing as often
this year as has been her custom ; but when she does
appear, the signs are that the management will have to
dust up every available “ house-full ’’ notice.
“Parisian”: Path 6 Frferes have just been showing in
Ausi ralia a fine biograph of the arrest of the Duchess de
Berri, in 1832. Everybody admires it, but few under-
stand it. When Charles X. was deposed, by the revolu-
tion of 1830, Louis Philippe was elected, first as Lieu-
tenant-General for the people, afterwards as King.
Charles X. desired that the throne should pass to the
Duke of Bordeaux, aged 10, son of the widowed Duchess
de Berri. She aroused a rebellion in LaVend6e. Louis
Philippe’s troops put it down, and sent pursuers hot foot
after her. She took refuge in the mansion of De
Guigny, where she was hid, when necessary, in a secret
chamber behind a fireplace. Deutz, one of her fol-
lowers, was bribed to betray her. She was smoked
out of the fireplace. Louis Philippe handed Deutz
his blood-money in notes at the end of a stick.
Then the King-with-the-cotton-umbrella and Premier
Thiers wondered what on earth to do with their
captive. She was a romantic figure, and the number of
things that they dared not do with her for fear of arous-
ing the people to upset the shaky throne was tremen-
dous. They had smoked her out and would fain have
smoked her in again. Just here, they made the glorious
discovery that the widowed Duchess de Berri was en-
ceinte. She was kept in luxurious confinement, purely
for the g od of her health, till her child was born, and by
that time many things had blown over. It proved that
she was secretly married to a poor Italian.
A NEGLECTED SHOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There were some people who lauded such thing's as
prize-fights, and claimed that they called out the manly
qualities in a man. There were some who exalted assault
and batterv, as though that was the only thing calculated
to display some of the finest qualities of humanity. The
fight to win moral excellence was a far grander sight.
( Applause. )—Judkins.
Why should the spectacle of black
Or brown assaulting white
Attract vast surging crowds, who scorn
To come and see me fight
Against the Devil, in the cause
Of Purity and Eight ?
For thrippence, aye, or even less,
The world may view my scraps ;
No five or ten-pound chairs are set
Where I deal knock-out raps
To Satan, and instruct my flock
How to avoid his traps.
No large policeman interferes
Before my mills are done ;
I’m a hot fav’rite every time
Once the affray’s begun
In every single fight I’ve fought
The favorite has ivon.
Each Sabbath I hand Beelzebub
Enough to bring, a groan
Out of the stoutest Sheolite.
Alas! Beel’s anguished moan
Goes quite unheard ; I mostly knock
Him out upon my own.
No cheering multitude attends
To watch my lusty deeds ;
(A circumstance at which my heart
With bitter sorrow bleeds).
None spurs me on but old, old men
And dames in widows’ weeds.
And yet I’m game to lay a quid
Unto a collar stud.
Patrons of stoush would get more fun
And hair and teeth and blood
■ Than at ten fights, did they but throng
To church and watch me Jud.
N.S.W. '
10-2-4.
THE RIVALS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Arms and the Man ”
Are ’neath the ban
Of despots sadly human ;
This rivalree—
It should not be,
But still the facts will loom in 1
The judges sit
In stalls and pit—
I hear them breathe, the gloom in :
“ Gee ! she’s just it—
A scrumptious bit,”
They mumble with ac-it-men ;
“ Blow Bernard Shaw —
Gosh ! she’s a draw !
Give us Legs and the Woman ! ”
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


Stopping.
v- I *i’.'—.wm.i aw. 'tw»Mw wiwHm<*iHß>'»r-
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund's Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
♦ Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
f Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by this Steamer.
BOUND THE WORLD TICKETS trom £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Melrournb Agents : JOHN SANDERSON & CO M
111 William-street.
ADELAIDE & FREMANTLE AGENTS .’ GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA- ENGLAND.
ORVIETO .. Twin-Screw
OSTERLEV
OTRANTO.. „
OTvVAY ..
CRSOVA ..
ORONTES ..
OMR AII ..
OPHIP.
ORMUZ ..
.. 12,130 Tons.
.. 12,129 „
.. 12,124 „
.. 12,077 „
.. 12,036 ~
.. 9,023 „
.. 8,282 „
.. 6,814 „
6,405 ~
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, A DEI, AIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
1
Banking-, Public Companies, &c.
fhe Colonial Mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116,154—Assuring £33,888,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hor., C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Bank of |)oui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEOKGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
I
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for 1
fixed periods, and ,
transacts all other usual Banking- business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £513,632 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,449 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 74,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. ■ -
Gen. M-njrr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.); Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L.A. ; E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
* AND
AGENCY COMPAN t LIMITED,
412 Collina-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND(lnvestedin Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £36.000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; J. H.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M‘Cracken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
Business Announcements.
ĥ
QIVEN AWAY.
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
. the Bunch
' post free.
2/6
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Feather Shop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [6
gg
i(b2\
B X
lenseal X
d \
remedy for \ I
’i. Hav Fever
Big G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
r A safe and simple remedy for 1
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever '
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
i Treatise with each bottlo
or liilled on request.
L Tba Enni Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio,
U.S.A.
Shipping.
ord Deutscher I-^loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
Strseiltes ' E G^r a °l? ked T t ° s?yp5 ?ypt ’ Naples - Genoa, Algiers,
ilaiseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Twin Screw Steamers. Tons Commander, i Sydney.
ZIETEN ..
GNEISENAU "
(Reduced Fares-)
SCHARNHORbT
ROON
w BREMEN
SEYDLITZ
GNEISENAU
w BARBAROSSA
*wGr. KURFURST
8043
8081
8131
8022
11570
8000
8081
10915
. w Fitted with “ \nreiess " installation.
* Arriving i,n London in good time for the Coronation.
f r l TT t l , B r ! i,^ r ,l?, UlarS app,v t 0 the Agents.
F O u R-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANILA
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA ’
Tel fiOS LOHMANN & CO.,
, • bJK 7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
The
Bank of Dorth Queensland
limited.
Authorised Capital £7OO 0 00
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - . BRISBANE,
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J. P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGEKTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
TH€ uM.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
* Twin Screw, a One class only, f Omits Capetown.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17b.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 lOs.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, <fcc., on application.
LUGGAGE received only on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
ħ
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
August 3.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
August 31.
. «
MEDIC, AFRIC and SUEVIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation*
FaßKS—Capetown or Durban at 15 15 0 to £‘24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New York, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne 1 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
OALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
h
WINTERTOURSC
to Papua and the Pacifio Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns £2O
Aug - . 12, Sept. 23 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands £2O
July 29, Sept. 9 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) ... £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.—INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT. —CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
Pull particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
Qffice - J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Proprietors
ĥ
£2,500,000
£1,750,000
£2,500,000
£6,750,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
Tlie Hon. Sir Normand MneLaurin, lit., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Janies Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors : William Harrington Palmer, Esq. ; Shepheard Edgeeliff Laidlet' Esq
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office-64 Old Broad St., EC
With 305 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua ; and Agents and Correspondents
throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada the
Lmted States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies. ’
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
«L RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager
We Supply Every Cinematograph Want.
We are specialists in Cinematography, and stock everything in that line
from the simplest accessory to complete Machines and Films, including
The Famous PATHE FILMS at 4d. per foot.
0 ®
©©.
Our supply of Film is the largest in
Australasia. We have
OVER HALF A MILLION
FEET OF THEM,
all popular subjects, fresh and new, for
sale or hire.
WE GIVE ENTERTAINMENTS,
employ competent operators for emer-
gencies, and make SPECIAL FILMS
TO ORDER.
Send for our NEW LIST OF
SPECIALLY-PRICED FILMS,
or call on us and see what we can do
for you.
Our Catalogue is free for the asking.
JERDAN’S
(Formerly OSBORN 8 JERDAN),
“ MY OPTICIANS,”
The Leading Cinematograph Specialists,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
Shipping.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Quaansland Ports,
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (VV.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, July 23.
S.S. Koombana, from Syd-
ney, August 9, calling
at all N.-\Vest Ports to
Wyndham.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oiirns.
S.S. Innamincka, July 23.
' S.S. Grantala, July 30.
S.S. Yongala, August 6.
Best and Cheapest Route to Go/dfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on u
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertainei.
on application at the Company’s Office.
G. S. YUILL Sc CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
T o VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to anv part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER.
t Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* New Steamer.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F. H. A.
Federal-H oulder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “ SOMERSET,”
11,300 Tons. B. G. Hayward, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE about 23rd Au<>-
SYDNEY „ 30th Aug.
.. .. „ MELBOURNE „ 6th Sept.
.. „ ADELAIDE ~ 13th Sept.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES—• Saloon. Third Class.
[ 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane :
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne:
ELDER. SMITH & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
Hotels, &c.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St. f London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
Fi Fashionable and Healthy Locality,
QEORGE HOTEL,
St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
O. ft Q
Zaw Points
i2* /ni/Qntors
BY LETTER. Reliable informa-
tion and advice on all matters con-
i cerning the obtaining of Patents,
. , ar >d the best means of keeping the
titles thereof inviolate during the term of grant.
If you have an invention and wish to patent it, forward
an accurate description of it, and you will receive an
answer by return of post as to whether it is patentable,
. w^la t' will be the cost of completely protecting it (in-
cluding drawings, etc.). No charge made for such report,
and all communications treated strictly confidentially.
A. J. CALLINAIM, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.


BACKACHE
A SAFE REMEDY FOR //-
A STARTLING INCIDENT.
MIRACULOUS ESCAPE AND SALVATION
A RAILWAY GUARD.
TTJ
HJ
accident life was a prolonged misery,
days, my backache being unendurable.
“ Trelawney,”
Erskineville,
May 6, 1909.
Messrs. Fisher and Co.
Dear Sirs,—Anxious to do good to iny feUow-men, I
most readily testify to the virtue and efficacy of your
wonderful Phospherine. During Decern he., 1907, when
performing my duties in the Penrith Station Yard, I was
knocked down by a mail train and received fnghtfui
injuries to my back. I was covered with bruises and fear-
fully shaken. My nervous system seemed shattered.
For eight weeks I could not work nor barely move
about, and was relieved from duty, but when back to duty
mv sufferings were most acute and distressing, ihe giec
trouble was I could not sleep or enjoy any food. Ihe
pains in my back and kidneys were terrible to endure
Water was scalding and of a brick-red color, and caused
fearful pains. This went on for over twelve months.
I must state that before the accident my kidneys and
bladder were very much diseased. For a year after the
Whenever becoming wet or cold I could not possibly work for
I tried doctors and drugs without avail.
&
ml
Q. R. bcWLhY. TO-DAY.
DISCOVERY.—I discovered Fisher’s Phospherine
was good for sick kidneys, inflamed bladder and head-
ache, in the following curious manner : Last March, IJUJ,
when suffering from influenza, a friend recommended me
to try Fisher’s Phospherine, which I did, with the very
best results. It cured me. I also noticed that my kidneys
and backache were much improved, and continued the
treatment until I had taken four bottles of Fisher s
Phospherine, and to-day I stand sound and healthy,
without any pains or inconvenience whatever backache
entirely gone, and everything working in perfect order.
I sleep soundly and my appetite is splendid. I have also
gained one stone in weight.
I would like to also add that my sister was cured of
Influenza by Fisher’s Phospherine in one week. I can
have nothing but unstinted praise for your great medicine,
and you can use my name and testimonial freely for the
crood of my fellow-men who may suffer from kidney com-
plaint and backache.
I absolutely refuse any monetary consideration, my
joy is so great when making my case known to the public.
Gratefully yours, etc.,
Subscribed and declared on oatli, at Sydney, this 11th day of May, 1909. Itefore me
RICHARD liliiLiLi, J.l.
Five to ten drops of “FISHER'S PHOSPHERINE” in water after meals is the greatest aid
to digestion known. „
The after-effects of over-eating and excess drinking are removed hv this famous I°™-
In the morning, half an hour before breakfast, take in water ten drops of FIbHLRb
PHOSPHERINE ” to remove a sour taste from the mouth, and make the breath sweet and pleasant.
Ladies suffer very much from Backache, Sleeplessness and Nervousness, but find
FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE
an invaluable remedy and Tonic. It should have a place in every lady’s room.
SCIENTIFIC EVIDENCE!
What Sydney’s Leading Analyst says about
Fisher’s Phospherme.
A SAFE REMEDY FOR 1/-
“Nothing Better than ‘FISHER’S’ Phospherine.”
F. H. MOLESWORTH, F.C.S., F.G.S., Public Analyst, late Lecturer in
Chemistry to the S.A. Government and Technical College, Sydney, reports to
Messrs. Fisher and Co., as follows :
Dear Sirs,
I have made an analytical examination of
a sample of “ FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE,” taken
from stock, and beg to report as follows
It is composed of pure chemicals carefully
combined, which are calculated to produce the
effects claimed by you.
“ FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE ” is a powerful
Tonic, and will be specially valuable in curing
cases (chronic or otherwise) of neuralgia, rheumatism
and kindred nervous disorders. It will have a
beneficial action on the kidneys, and will be a
good anti=dyspeptic—aid to digestion.
It contains no injurious compounds, nor
anything contravening the “ Pure Food Act,” or
the regulations under that Act.
It is generally recognised that “ FISHER’S
PHOSPHERINE ” is the best nerve and brain
tonic that can be employed to repair the ravages
made upon them in the strenuous battle of life.
Five drops in water after meals is the greatest
aid to digestion known.
$
AS
KIDNEY DISEASE.
A SAFE REMEDY FOR //-
AN ELOQUENT TRIBUTE.
(PURELY VOLUNTARY.)
MarKed Private and Confidential.
FIRST LETTER.
Kogarah, February 21, 1910.
Gentlemen, —Taking into consideration the wonderful good your Phospherine has done me, I
feel it my duty to write you expressing my heartfelt thanks, and wishing it a wider range of,
popularity. Suffering humanity are exposed to so many puffed quackeries that a genuine article
should have its merits acknowledged. lam an engineer, and was for many years in the employment
of Messrs. Farleigh, Nettheim and Go. While in their service I had the typhoid fever, and had four
months in the Sydney Hospital. After leaving the institution I was in a very low state, suffering
from Backache, Kidney Complaint, Bad Sight and other troubles. I tried a number of so-called
remedies, and received no benefit. I then took some bottles of your Phospherine, and was surprised
at the wonderful beneficial results; my sight improved, my kidneys got right, and my general good
health and energy returned. I now feel as strong and fit as I did 20 years ago. I will not trouble
you with any further details of my case. Again thanking you, I have waited some time before
writing, to be quite convinced that my CUBE WAS PERMANENT.
PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL.
I am, Sir, yours truly,
ALBERT A. HAWKINS.
SECOND LETTER.
Kogarah, May 13, 1910.
Dear Sirs,—ln reply to your letter of March 1, requesting my consent to your publishing a
testimonial sent to you by trie, setting forth the wonderful merits of your ELIXIR OF LIFE,
known as “Fisher’s Phospherine,” I now, after some further evidence of its virtue, willingly concede
to your request.
J H ALBERT A. HAWKINS,
Engineer and Machinist.
If You Pay £5 per Bottle You Cannot Get a Better Tonic for
NERVOUSNESS,
INDIGESTION,
HEADACHE,
NEURALGIA,
RHEUMATISM,
KIDNEY AILMENTS,
u
and BACKACHE, than
Fisher’s” Phospherine
All Chemists, 1/- per Bottle; Four Times the Quantity, 2/6.
MUSCULAR RHEUMATISM.
A SAFE REMEDY FOR 1/-
The Great Nerve Tonic for Neuralgic and Rheumatic Pains.
“Fisher’s ” Phospherine.
h
ĥ
ħ
REMARKABLE TESTIMONY.
Mr. John Shepherd, of Randwick, writes: I wag
suffering from acute neuralgia down the veins of the
neck and over the whole head and face. My mouth was
much swollen. I am subject to these attacks, and was
six weeks under a doctor.
After commencing to take “FISHER’S” Phos-
pherine I had immediate relief, and in one day was
cured ; there only remained a slight weakness from the
excessive pain I had endured.
Whatever is the matter with me in the future I will
always use “FISHER’S ” Phospherine. for it is a most
wonderful MEDICINE and NERVE TONIC.
BE SURE YOU GET
“FISHER’S”
All Chemists, 1/- per Bottle; Four Times the Quantity, 2/6.
Tt takes away a sour taste in the mouth, and makes the breath sweet and pleasant when TAKEN
HALF AN HOUR BEFORE BREAKFAST.
FISHER & CO., Dispensing Chemists,
337 GEORGE STREET, Opp. General Post Office, SYDNEY.
SPEED/EST CURE FOR THE AFTER EFFECTS OF
INFLUENZA.
1 • ■' . - : : ' •
“FISHER’S” PHOSPHERINE is sold outside of New
South Wales under the name of “FISHER’S GREAT
NERVE TONIC,” therefore always ask for “FISHER’S
GREAT NERVE TONIC” at all Chemists through-
out the Commonwealth.


FASHION AND
FAME.
OLD habits are often better than new ones, but not always.
For instance, the old-fashioned method of cleaning the
teeth and mouth with tooth-pow'ders and tooth-pastes is a
great mistake, presuming the object in view is to possess sound
teeth, which is of course the real aim of all treatment of the teeth.
All who wish to keep their teeth sound and w'hole should clearly
understand that it is necessary they should accustom themselves to
cleansing the mouth and teeth with an antiseptic liquid.
Brushing the teeth with tooth-powders and tooth-pastes can
never safeguard them from tooth-destroying microbes, for the
simple reason that the parts which are most liable to attack, the
backs of the molars and the fissures and interstices of the teeth—
the very parts where the microbes live and thrive—are not purified,
because they cannot be reached by such things as powders and
pastes. Consequently the mischief being once sent up strengthens
its hold without interruption. But a liquid dentifrice can penetrate
everywhere, and when it is antiseptic it sweeps away every trace
of microbes. Odol is such a dentifrice, and has such a practical,
antiseptic effect that it arrests all bacterial inroads and fermenta-
tion processes.
The complete disinfection of the mouth and teeth resulting from
the use of Odol is due to a remarkable property which this and no
other preparation possesses, which being absorbed by the surface of
the mucous membrane, and forcing itself into the hollows of the
teeth, deposits a store of antiseptic matter whose purifying
action continues for some hours. By a regular cleansing
with Odol, healthy teeth are kept absolutely intact, while
It should be borne in mind by ptn-chasers that the full-
size jlask is moi-e advantageous to them than the hat f-size
Jlask, as it will last TWICE as long.
teeth already
impaired are
preserved from
further de-
cay. For this
reason Odol
must certainly
be acknow-
ledged to be
the best of all
known prepara-
tions for cleans-
ing the mouth
and teeth.
The taste of
Odol is most
delicious and
refreshing.
Odol is sup-
plied to the
public in two
distinct flavors
“ Sweet
Rose” and
“ Standard
Flavor.” The
former is de-
lightfully mild, and in special favor with ladies, while, generally,
“ Standard Flavor” is preferred on account of its more expressed
taste and refreshing and invigorating effect.
I
/
/
/
1181
.
j||
k
iwm
i ..
in
i
umm
m
m
k : •'
IN BA NANA LAND
“The Prodigal”: North and Central
Queensland are two subjects of special interest,
these days. In the North, the topic of the hour is
a j'oung parson (he is only six months married),
who has been ordered by a police court to pay up
10s. from his stipend each week, and, meanwhile,
to hand over the maternity expenses. His diffi-
culty became more difficult when the Bishop
suspended him, as that action cut the
ground of solvency from under the feet
of the contribution. Of course, the police
magistrate may have been wrong; and the
Supreme Court is to be appealed to on the ground
that he was. The Central Queensland sensation
centres round a typhoid carrier—an obstinate
lady in a bush town of about 100 inhabitants, who
iias been diagnosed by the Government bacteri-
ologist as a typhoid microbe-tank. Three of the
inmates of her house have recently recovered
from the disease, and the general public, having
looked up the records and learned that during the
past few years there have been 40 deaths in their
neighborhood from typhoid, are hurriedly pack-
ing up and scooting from the line of fire. The
local shire council has practically offered a bonus
to the lady typhoidist if she will submit herself to
medical treatment; but she has leaned her back
against the bulwarks, and declined to do anything.
And as there is no law to shift her, the only way
out of the difficulty seems to be to let her keep
the town while the inhabitants go away and build
a new one, and afterwards, give her notice that
if she is seen approaching the new town a heavy
vehicle will be driven over her and the occur-
rence sworn to as an accident. Other alternatives
are to get her gaoled for life on false evidence, or
to hire eight or ten persons to kidnap her and
take her secretly per camel to the Northern
Territory. Her abductors could leave her in a
lonesome humpy beside a river with two tons of
provisions, and burn or otherwise execute her
boots to prevent her walking back.
J. E. Robinson, the new chief draftsman
of the Queensland Railway Department, assisted
in preparing the working drawings of the first
locally-built locomotive. That was almost 25
years ago, and a good many engines have been
made in Bananaland since. Walker’s, of Mary-
borough, have constructed over 100.
“ Quan ” : The last remaining portions of
the old railway workshops at Ipswich, in which
was put together the first rolling stock imported
from Fog Land for Queensland’s pioneer railway
(Ipswich to Grandohester), are being pulled down.
The new ’shops, which were commenced in 18S5
at a spot about a mile away from the old position,
are the finest and most up-to-date in the Common-
wealth, and are willing to challenge Britain,
America or Germany to an engine and carriage
making competition—all in.
Queensland has laid in two new Judges.
There has long been a vacancy on the Top bench,
and the hesitation
of the Kidston
Ministry about fill-
ing it made many
people imagine
that it was being
saved up for one
of the legal mem-
bersof the Cabinet.
Now the Supreme
Court billet at
Rockhampton has
gone to barrister
Rionel Oscar Lu kin,
a Queensland na-
tive, born at Con-
damine 42 years
ago. He has been
. only 20 years at
the Bar, so his
luck has come to
him early. And
the seat on the
District Court
Bench, left vacant
by the recent
death of Judge
Miller, is to be
occupied by the
bulky figure of
Charles Jameson,
a Scot, aged 58.
He has been 27
years a barrister,
and has been
many things—
Crown Prosecutor,
law officer under
the Patents Act,
acting-judge and
sundries, especial-
ly sundries.
Robert Philp, ad-
dressing Brisbane Chamber
of Commerce : “So far as the line
(the transcontinental) paying was
concerned, he felt sure that if the Queens-
land (government built the line it would pay
interest and redemption after the first few
years. If it does, it will do more than the rest of
i c ■ railways ever did. There is an accumu-
lated deficit on the system of over £5,000,000, and
as for redemption the thing has never even been
thought of. Queensland railways for the past 20
years have not paid the cost of their interest-bill
and general up-keep— not by a long chalk; and
-rhilp, an old ireasurer, ought to know it.
Minister Barnes is about to introduce into
Queensland State Schools a series of temperance
lessons, which will prove, no doubt conclusively,
that the children of drinkers and drunkards are
degenerates, and liable to all sorts of calamities.
But the explorations of Miss Ethel Elderton,
Galton Research Scholar of London University’
and Professor Karl Pearson. F.R.S., who investi-
gated the home life, parentage and health of more
than 3000 children attending the schools of Man-
chester and Edinburgh, give temperance theories
a startling set-back. The report runs :
Nearly half of the number are the offspring of drunken
parents ; yet the investigators are forced to the conclu-
sion that these children are in no way inferior to those of
parents who are moderate drinkers or total abstainers
Indeed, curiously, children of the latter class suffer in
some respects through the comparison. The general
health of the children of alcoholic parents appears on
the whole, slightly better than that of children of sober
parents. The mean height and weight of the children of
alcoholic parents are slightly greater than that of chil-
dren of the sober class. There are fewer delicate children
and, in a most marked wav, cases of tuberculosis and epil
lepsy are less frequent than among children of sober
parents.
Minister Barnes can hardly start to teach that in
the schools, yet it is a mighty awkward pro-
nouncement to have about the premises. The
drink Question is a thing that won’t keep still,
and it is always bursting out in new places. Two
things that strike the public hard are (1) the ex-
ceeding unpleasantness of the average drinker
when he is drunk, and (2) the exceeding unrelia-
bility, poor mental calibre and deficient- chest
measurement of theaverage teetotal fanatic when
he is sober. But two facts don’t make a cbherent
theory, and the time is not ripe for the endow-
ment of a Chair of Beer at any University.
Mendax Semper!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Amusing to notice how the old Tory prophets of evil
are now coming forward to testify that there’s nothing
to be afraid of in this new Labor Government.
—Press item.
Whene’er we said that Labor rule
Would drive the country to the De’il ;
Whene’er we shouted “ Knave ” or “ Fool,”
At men who would not come to heel;
Whene’er on platform or in press
We raved of Socialistic crime,
To-day we frankly do confess
\Ve were but lying all the time.
Whene’er we cried—“ The Familee
These wicked coves would undermine ;
They’d like to plant a Upas tree
Where now we raise our fig and vine ; ”
Whene’er we said that deep distress
Would dog each Labor-governed clime—
’Twas all a hoax—we do confess
We were but lying all the time !
Whene’er we said, with tearful eye
“ Lo, Capital will scoot away,
And woe betide the Marriage Tie
As soon as Labor wins the day ;
The Farmers too will rue, we guess.
The hour these sons of Toil and Grime,
Get into power 1 ” We must confess
We were but lying all the time !
Whene’er we said our Labor foes
Were damned as dunces all in grain ;
Whene’er we painted black as crows
Each wight of Socialistic vein ;
Whene’er we cried, “ An awful Mess
Will ruin all this land sublime
If They succeed ” —we must confess
We were but lying all the time !
Envoi.
We feel the world’s a bit unkind—
We’re somewhat groggy on our pins;
And folks might be a little blind,
And say no more about our sins;
But, lo—to-day we get our pay—
We don’t amount to half a dime,
For people say, “ It’s just their way—
You know they’re lying all the time ! ”
QUEENSLAND.
PHILANDER F.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, July 16, 1910.
My Dear Tharoomindah,—
There was the usual show of frills at the open-
ing of Parliament on Tuesday, and our medical
Excellency had another outbreak of extravagance
in the matter of clothes. Really, the dressiness
of the clan is all on one side. Mistress Mac and
the Vision wore unrelieved black, and the Mac-
kellar maid from your own city struck a modest
note in grey. Most of the official ladies were in
sombre hues, and only the outsiders were arrayed
like Solomon in all his tailorings. One lady
wore crimson and the wrong shade of tint upon
her cheeks !
There was the customary fanfare as his Ex.
HIS PROPER PUNISHMENT.
MRS. BRPWNER (after a curtain lecture two hours
long): “ Georye! George! There’s a man
under the bed.”
GEORGE (drowsily): “Serve the beggar right!”
arrived, but the absence of Speaker Bell (who had
acquired appendicitis the previous day) and, of
course, his decorative wife, robbed the occasion
of some brilliance. An operation was performed,
and the patient is reported to be cheerful. Every-
one sympathised with Mrs. Bell, whose determi-
nation to be on the spot at the critical moment
led to a long and uncomfortable all-night trip in
a goods train, bhe had been spelling at Jimbour.
r P , • c ... , . .
baking of politics, the shout of parsonic
triumph which was raised when the result of the
Bible referendum was announced is now silent,
and the Biblical stock has fallen to zero,
For it is announced that the Bill to be introduced
upon the subject will be a sort of illegitimate off-
spring of the Government—a non-party measure
to be farmed out in an unsuitable nursing-home
and done early to death.
„,,,,, , ~ , .
Galve showed us what she could do in a musical
way on Monday, when, with a hastily repaired
throat not altogether up to the mark, she brought
to its knees one of the largest and certainly the
highest-priced audience ever packed into His
Majesty s. I suspect that she is ii sorceress, and
I know she is a minx, and she can charm
the heart out of a wooden wheelbarrow. Upon
the second night (Wednesday) when she and
the whole company excelled themselves, there
was an exhibition of that rotten taste
for which local audiences are becoming known
to the professional world. Three encores having
failed to satisfy the greedy demand for more,
Calve came forward in her cloak and explained in
dumb show that she must dress for the costume
item ; but this notwithstanding, they howled on
and on with a manner suggestive of the common
or garden hog. They also refused to hear Pintel,
who, affcer waiting several minutes upon the piano
stool, shrugged his shoulders and walked off.
Finally, the curtain had to be lowered to quell the
din, which was a silly piece of hoodlumism worthy
of one of the Woolloongabba pushes. The ill-
treated Pintel strikes me as a better artist than
Gasparri, with all the latter’s soulful looks and
locks.
Orange blossoms will be at a premium next
month, when pretty Pauline Taylor, Minnie
Lightoller, the Lennon maiden ” and Eileen
O’Reilly each takes upon herself the responsibility
of matronship. Miss Taylor weds the eldest
son of the Bells, of Coochin. Carl Palmer will
form the raison d’etre of the Lightoller gathering.
Miss O’Reilly’s fate is a nephew of the late Mrs.
Macdonald Paterson.
On the night of Wednesday there was another
assembly ball, rather badly manned. The male
waltzers are said to be building themselves up
against show week, when dances will take place
three a night, and each night will last till morning.
Sandwiched in between the concerts and the
balls that followed, sundry amateurs repeated
what bits of “Jane” they could remember at His
Majesty’s on Thursday. There was a charity
audience fit for the first nightofa William Ander-
son show. The General Hospital and theLadies’
Rowing Club will jointly reap what shekels
haven’t been already collected by the florists, for
there was about an acre of vegetation on hand.
After much consideration, the JO9 applications
for the position of Registrar at our local Univer-
sity have been reduced to two or three, which
fortunate ones are put aside for a final sifting on
August 5. The list stretches from a distant
cousin of your Cornstalk Excellency to a person
by the name of Jones—one of the Joneses of
Australia, I believe.
Last Saturday afternoon there was an unusual
stir at the handsome Club of the commercial tra-
vellers, and several gross (they talk in large
amounts there) of decorative dames went to tea.
It’s a goodly hiding-place for the miguided hus-
band who stays out o’nights. There he may play
billiards in a comfortable green room, or attack
the fleshpots in a crimson ditto. He may also
cool his temper in some delightful baths or in the
air upon the roof garden. On Saturday Mr.
Horton, assisted by his daughter (Mrs. H. is still
en route from Maoriland, and telegraphed her
welcome), did the honors, the lady wearing a
sonsie grey frock and a black hat of generous
dimensions. There was a gramophone pouring
out Melba, but Melba, on tnis particular instru-
ment, is nothing to write home to mother about.
After all, the choice of a Supreme Court Judge
has fallen upon Lionel Lukin, whose loud and
insistent affirmation last week, that he had no idea
whatever as to who was to be elevated, seems, in the
light of the things that are, to have been a little—
well, uncalled-for. If the new Judge subdues his
large and blusterous ways, things may go moder-
ately well; if he doesn’t, he will blow the door
open with his summing-up, and blow it shutagain
when he passes sentence. Jameson, who is to fill
the District Court chair, is, however, a good
fellow who has grafted long and faithfully for his
extra horsehair, and has not done any advertising
on his own account.
The disappointed O’Sullivan, whose chagrin
was a visible quantity, has, perhaps, still an eye
upon the vacancy which the retirement of Real
will shortly supply. It is said that the O’Sullivan’s
hopeful is to Associate for the man who got in
ahead of his pa.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
Kidston’s proposed Redistribution of Seats
t,-,, • , c a r e ..u i
B,H P roVldeS for a ™ duc^° n of the meraber-
ship of the Assembly. The present number
is 72 ; there will be about 60, should the Bill be-
come law. The quota for each seat will be 3500
electors . but , as a concesB i on to the country
, t , .
electorates, a difference of 20 per cent, above the
. . .’ , , ' , ,
<l uota ln Clty ’ and of 20 P er cent - below ln countr y
constituencies, is to be allowed. The Bill will
close up the Separation movement—for a while.
„
qjuan : A shmdykit has a notion of
raising goats for their skins in Southern Queens-
j an d. It is trying to get from the Lands Depart-
, nriA , , , , ,
ment 15,000 acres of poor land handy to a railway
,• , • •, . ,
and issa.d to have its eye upon a piece on
Ipswich-road, near Brisbane. This bit is so
pbor that, though it is very little more than a
stone’s pelt from Queen-street, it has never been
selected. Goat ranches are quite common in
~T , , ~, ,
■^ or * ib Queensland, especially about Charters
Towers and Ravenswood. The flocks on them
have sprung from goats kept by woodcutters who
used to hew fuel for the mines. On one ranch,
five miles f rom the Towers, there are 3000 goats,
, , . ~ ’ . . 6 , ’
and waen entire attar of goat rises on the
breeze the weirdest sounds of the bush become
subdued and insignificant. One young farmeress
lately made £6O or £7O but of goatskins in a single
a-n „„ „ • ,
SpeC ' al ’ ° r
* rl “ ec * & c J a^s > but just .the casual kind that has
been eating coke in the back yard since Cain’s
time.


REGULARITY of the BOW
THE FIRST LINE OF DEFENCE AGAINST ILL-HEALTH.
ONLY about one man o; woman in a hundred is perfectly healthy. The other 99 have
some digestive trouble, and perhaps more than 50 cent, of these could tiace their
trouble to that most prevalent evil —constipation. Its a simple thing of itself, but,
like many simple things, it may grow and become complicated. Constipation is the loot of.
nine-tenths of the sickness of man, and a large proportion of the sickness of women. Nature
often requires a little assistance, and if this assistance is given at 111111 1 1,1
the first indication much distress and suffering may be averted.
To maintain a healthy system the bowels should operate
at least once every 24 hours. 1 his is one of Natures wise
provisions which is too often ignored, and the result is untold
suffering. Women and children are the greatest offenders,
but why such should be the case is a problem to be solved.
Dr. M orse’s Indian Root Pills are a remedy which,
taken at the first indication, assist Nature to restore the
system to health and strength, and avert the development of
disease. Every ailment is the effort of Nature to get rid of
some impurity in the system, and the object of medical treat-
ment is to assist Nature in doing so. Dr. Morses Indian
Root Pills do this surely and thoroughly.
To overcome constipation take from one to four Pills
regularly until the Bowels move daily and are restored to
healthy action.
1
j.
“ Take an old lady's advice , and try
Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills."
Women in every sphere of life praise
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.
“Once I Was Always Ailing.”
“About three years ago,” writes Mrs, Leah Woods, 37 Humphrey
Street South, Ballarat, V., “ I was seized with most violent pains in the
back, severe headaches and dizziness, which came on periodically, and
then became quite frequent ; indeed, I was always ailing. Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills were recommended to me by a friend who had great
faith in them; so I decided to gi ve them a trial. They gave me almost
immediate relief, and in a short time I recovered my health and
strength. I still take a pill once or twice a week, with the very best
results, for I now feel in perfect health. I have frequently recom-
mended Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and they have always had the
most beneficial results. You are at liberty to publish this, and I shall
be pleased to give my personal experience to anyone calling on me.”
“My Case Seemed Hopeless.”
“For aver twelve months,” writes Mrs. H. Kerr, of Talbragar
Street, Dubbo, “I suffered greatly from Constipation and Biliousness,
and while the Bilious attacks lasted I was utterly prostrated. I tried
doctors’ advice and medicines, but they did not benefit me in the least.
At last, when my case seemed hopeless, I was advised b3' a friend to
try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and I can truly say that I found them
a wonderful medicine. That is over two years ago, and since com-
mencing theiruse I have been in excellent health. I always give my
children Indian Root Pills when they are unwell, and I can safely
recommend any sufferer like myself to try the virtue of these pills
My husband will endorse what I say about this medicine.”
Restored to a Regular Condition.
“ I was a sufferer from Constipation and its train of evils, dizziness,
languor, headaches and general uneasiness for some time,” writes Mrs.
Julia Bateman, 391 Pyrmont Street, Ultimo, “ and found much trouble
in overcoming the ailment. Having used purgative medicines without
any lasting benefit, I was persuaded to try Dr. Morse’s Indian .Root
Pills, and after one dose I was wonderfully relieved. I continued their
use, taking them on alternate nights, and my bowels were restored to
a normal and regular condition ; and, in consequence, I lost all those
dreadful sensations of dizziness and depression. I always keep the
pills in the home, and can recommend them as an invaluable medicine
for women.”
“Absolute Freedom from Constipation.”
“I was a great sufferer from Constipation and Indigestion and the
consequent headaches and other complicated ailments for some years,
states Mrs. Emily Khan, Frederick Street, off Sturt Street, Adelaide.
“ I saw by one of the pamphlets delivered at my house a similar case
to mine, and decided to gave Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills a trial; and
to my sincere gratification my ailments were at once relieved, and by
taking a course,of your remedy I have obtained absolute freedom from
my old maladies. I recommend your remedy to, all my friends and
neighbors, and you can use this as you may desire.”
Change of Life.
Mrs. Margaret Banfield, Thomas Street, Mount Morgan, says’
“ During that period which occurs to all women when arriving at a
certain age in which the organism undergoes a change, I became very
ill and suffered in a most distressing manner, and was incapacitated
from work for a considerable time. I tried all kinds of tnedicines witb-
out results, and the doctor did not seem to be doing me any Sf o °u. At
length I was persuaded to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and l am
pleased to state that me a wonderful lot of good after the first
few doses. These bad turns suddenly became less frequent after using
Indian Root Pills, and now whenever I feel the hot flushes a dose of
your wonderful remedy wards off the attack. My daughter, who is just 21
years of age, has had much sickness in the past, now takes Dr. Morse s
Indian Root Pills, which overcame her weakness ; and an occasional
dose keeps her in perfect health. We always keep them in the house,
and we would not be without them.”
A Grand Family Medicine.
“ I can specially recommend Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills, writes
Mrs A Bryans, Ross Street, Newstead, Breakfast Creek, Brisbane,
“as"a grand family medicine. When I was suffering from rheumatism
and sciatica I found them invaluable, and a pill or two occasionally
now keeps me in splendid health. These pills are our household
remedy, and are used by each member of the,family., Our experience
has been that for headaches, biliousness and constipation they are
most effectual, mild in their action, and a permanent cure. We
always keep a bottle in the house and recommend them-to everybody.
“ They Improved My Health.”
"I have been greatly troubled,” says Mrs. Rosina Currell, 116
Argvle Street, Hobart, “ with Indigestion and all its kindred ailments
arising from a Sluggish Liver, which seems to throw all the system
out of gear. I was induced by a friend to take Dr. Morse’s Indian
Root Pills, and I am pleased to say that they have had a very bene-
ficial effect, and improved my health wonderfully. Whenever I feel ■
at all out of sorts I always resort to Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills,
with the very best results. I have recommended them to dozens of
people, who now have great faith in your popular remedy.”
“Habitual Constipation Overcome.”
“A relative of mine induced me to give Dr. Morse’s Indian Root
Pills a trial to overcome Constipation, which was the bane of my exist-
ence,” writes Mrs. Selina Maher, Tower Street, Leaderville, Perth. “I
had been a sufferer all my life from this complaint, and I tried many
medicines, but all to no purpose. I can conscientiously recommend
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills as a splendid remedy for Constipation,
and I would not be without them in my home. You have my consent
to use this testimonial in hopes that it may induce others so afflicted
to try Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills.”
“ Suitable for Old and Young.”
“ I am very pleased,” writes Mrs. P. Woods, 417 Chapel Street,
South Yarra, Melbourne, “ to be able to testify to the splendid quali-
ties of Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills as a Family Medicine, and can
safely say that they have no equal for family use, as they are suitable
for persons of all ages. My husband, children and self all use Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills, and no other medicine is required, as a dose
nowand again keeps us all in splendid health. For all common ail-
ments Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills are a valuable corrective. No
household should be without a bottle.”
Most Efficacious Remedy.
Mrs. Stanton, 36 Wynyard Street, Auckland, says: “It is my
desire to add my testimony to the valuable properties of your famous
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills. I have ever found them a most effica-
cious remedy for Headaches, and to overcome the common ailments
of life. All my family, wfflich are grown up, use them, and find them
highly beneficial. We all agree they are a splendid family medicine.”
DR.
Indian
MORSE’S
Root Pills
Do not weaken.
Do not sicken.
Do not gripe.


CRUEL CASE OF
WEEPING ECZEMA
Suffered So Terribly She Could
Neither Work nor Sleep —Her
Poor Hands were Perfectly Raw-
Baby had Skin Trouble, Too.
MOTHER AND CHILD
CURED BY CUTiCURA
“I was for eight months the victim of
terrible suffering from eczema. My
h
ĥ
hands were like raw beef
and I was told that my
complaint was weeping
eczema. I had it moro
or less all over my body
as well as on my face and
it gave me so much suf-
fering that I could
neither work nor sleep.
The chemist gave me a
prepared powder and
told me to bathe my
hands in water and dust
them with the powder.
But this did me no good. It seemed
rather to chap my hands more, so I
went to see a doctor. He gave me somo
medicine and told me that I might not
be rid of the disease for two years. I
became fairly downhearted. The dis-
ease gradually grew worse and eventu-
ally I was unable to attend to any of
my domestic duties.
“ After a lapse of several months I
happened to go to the house of a neigh-
bour’s sister, whose little boy had had
ringworm and was cured, I was told, by
Cuticura. I was recommended to try it
myself and when I got home I persuaded
my husband to send for a set or the Cuti-
cura Remedies. Their use had immediate
effect, my skin peeled, and new flesh
formed within a week. It is glorious to
be once more able to get about and attend
to my domestic duties. lam quite cured
and it is Cuticura alone that has cured
me. I also found Cuticura a positive
remedy for another form of skin trouble,
known commonly as ‘heat bumps,’
from which my infant child was then
suffering. I applied the Cuticura Oint-
ment and in the course of a few days
the ‘ bumps ’ entirely disappeared. Mrs.
A. Holton, The Grove, nr. Wantage,
Berks., England, Aug. 30, 1909.”
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
Cuticura Is the most economical treatment known
tor affection* of the skin and scalp. A tablet of Cuti-
cura Soap and a box of Cuticura Ointment are often
sufficient to cure. Sold throughout the world. Depots:
London. 27, Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 10, Rue de la
Chaussee d’Antin; Australia, R. Town* & Co., Syd-
ney: U. S. A., Potter Drue & Chem. Corp., Sole
Props., Boston. 4®* Post-free, 32-page Cuticura
Book on the Care and Treatment of the Skin.
how ‘ ‘ ANTINEU RAST HIN ”
REMEDIES NERVOUS BREAKDOWN.
It if, in the first place, essentially a food—not a mere
drug stimulant. It is a food that feeds the whole of the
nervous system with those elements the lack of which in
the structural tissues constitutes the neurasthenic con-
dition. It is so easily assimilated that in one hour it is
fully assimilated, thus creating quickly a renewed mental
and physical vigor. This is not mere stimulation ; but is
really the sensation produced by the actual assimilation
and storage of those refined elements necessary to nerve
comfort and vigor. This uplifting is not—as in the case
of tonics and stimulants —a mere transient whipping up,
but an actual addition to the nerve-structure and nerve-
strength of the individual. Readers of Thk Bulletin are
invited to test “ Antineurasthin,” as also to read the
wo helpfully-informing pamphlets enclosed with the trial
supply of “ Antineurasthin,” which can be obtained by
sending your name and address (together with stamps or
postal notes for Is.) to the Wholesale Distributor for Aus
traliaand New Zealand, H. A. GODDARD, Eagle Street
Brisbane.
WHY
STAY
FAT?
613
3
When science of-
fers a complete,
positive, safe, lasting and effective cure for
Obesity! It seems a crime nearly, that any
fat woman or man should continue their life
a burden to themselves, and a laughing-
stock for their acquaintances.
“FAT CURE”
will reduce your weight by as much as 5
lbs. a week and, at the same time, it is ben-
eficial to your general health. No drastic
dieting or killing exercise is required when
this method is used. It is most beneficial
in all cases of weak heart, especially if
fatty degeneration is suspected. A few doses
improves your breathing. Send 2d. stamp
for FREE TRIAL Sample and particulars
Watworth Co., Suite Jj
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
CHANGE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR ME.
LAXATINE The Peerless Aperient.
LAXATINE The Gentle Regulator.
LAXATINE The Lollie-like Laxative.
LAXATINE Ihe Cure for Constipation.
LAXATINE So cl by AH Chemists.
LAXATINE Equally Griodfor Children and
LAXATINE Adults.
LAXATINE ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
LITTLE
Ailments
SUCH AS
LOSS OF APPETITE, WIND.
HEADACHES, WEARINESS, ARE
SIGNS OF
INDIGESTION
To neglect them is dangerous.
They weaken your system,
because undigested food
poisons your blood instead of
giving you nourishment and
strength, and may lead to
serious illness.
Take Mother
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
Mrs. N. Durand, 26, Botany
Road, Alexandria, N.S W.,
suffered a long time from in-
digestion and biliousness,
but she says: “ Mother
Seigel’s Syrup thoroughly
cured me of both complaints. 1 '
THE IDEAL
DIGESTIVE TONIC
ismonth
uarameed
231 Clarence Street, Sydney ;
13 Perkins Street, Newcastle.
AND ALL STATES.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” —Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coug'hs and Colds.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“ PERNIX ” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
FREE SAMPLE OF CUTICURA CURED SKIN
HUMOR.
That Cuticura is the most successful treatment for tor-
turing-, disfiguring affections of the skin and scalp could
receive no more striking proof than the remarkable
statement made by William Whyle, 325 Tudor Eoad,
Leicester, England.
“ A sample of Cuticura Ointment cured ray baby’s face.
She had the measles when one year old, and it left her
with a very scurfy forehead and face. It was very irrita-
ting and would bleed when she scratched herself. I took
her to the doctor and he gave her some ointment. I
tried it, and it did no good. One night I said to my wife,
‘ How would it be to send for a sample of Cuticura
Ointment?’ I did so, used it, and l'ny baby’s face grew
better. She has now a lovely skin, and I can safely say
that Cuticura cured her.”
Those wishing to try for themselves the efficacy of
Cuticura Ointment in the treatment of eczemas, rashes,
itchings, burnings, scalings and crustings from infancy
to age, should send at once to Messrs. K. Towns & Co,,
16 Loftus Street, Sydney, N.S.W., for a liberal trial
package and 32-page Cuticura Book, an authority on. the
cure of skin and scalp affections.
*£g u.s.paJ
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
■ ■
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GENASCO
READY ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter centiify, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing in
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface Ifi Several weights.
Ask us for samples and fuff information.
Briscoe 8 Company Ltd.
383-5 Kent Str<!df ( SYDNEY.
Th*
“ECHOPHONE”
Mouth Organ Attachment
AdJ eatable Mouthpiece-
All the Popular Makes Pit It..
ħ
Bftttrftomely Enamelled in
Dark Green and Gold'.
(Patented In Commonwealth and New Zealand.)!
A new invention which increases the volume of sound from
any Mouth Organ 6 to 8 times, bringing out each note clear,
sharp and loud. It suits all the popular Mouth Organs, beiny
adjustable to size, in reality turning a small Mouth Organ into
a large band instrument. The Mouth Organ by itself is really
a weak instrument, and the music in the utien air is lost. Even
in the music hall or the home its sweet musical tones are
far from satisfactory on this account, but by attaching the
Echophone every note is reproduced in a wonderfully clear and
loud tone, which can only be obtained by the Echophone at-
tachment. All Mouth Orj*ar. players should have one. For
concert players especially it is an innovation, as all sound is
directed toward? the audience.
£rice 7/6, post free
to anv address in Australia, Tasmania or New Zealand. Size,
about 17 inches long, 9-inch bell, handsome y enamelled in
dark green and gold. A small size also made, 10 inches long.
6-inch bell, for 5/-, but does not, of course, give anything like
the same results as the larger size.
If you mention this paper and order within 30 days froir.
date of this issue, we will' send you a good Mouth Organ free.
Extra Mouth Organs, all makes, 1/3, 1/9, 2/3,2 9, 3 4'-, post
free. Send postal notes to
STAt» NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisoiious matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperidnts have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident,
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical 4,
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. 'J£hey act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite.' '
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co.. Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” of 40 years’ proven,
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No nntice < exee vt of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Fame and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Emu: Football poem doesn’t score W.G.B •
it is almost a parody of “ Annabel Lee.”.... J. Tubbs: Yarn
has some humor in it, but is very crude H.R.: Too
horrible. J.S. (M.L.): “Episode” too long: and in-
volved ... Joseph X.: One wild blast from “ The Storm ” :
What! Must thou fade and die !
Ah ! say not so !
Thou heav’st a gentle sigh
The wild winds madly blow
The pearly tear falls from thy bluest eve.
Why should I go ?
M hj r , indeed ! Kalinin: Verses have some graceful
touches, but are marred by a few clumsy lines.... A.C.E
(V.): Breezy, commonplace rhymes... H.K.: Regret to
say both quite hopeless... .Leb.: Poem very young and
green K.A.H. (V.): Unsuitable... .Basil'T.: You are
coo young to help in that way.... The Parson: Hebrew
P f °f, n !,,P oor stuff ...1.M.C.: Two trifles of no value.
M.S.W.: Love verses below p ir... .F. 8.: It might do for
a fruitgrowers- journal... .M.S. (Melb.): Sorry, opium
verses not up. Unfortunately, the pen-name you have
selected is the surname of an unsuccessful contributor
who seems to require a lot of discouragement..
G. Eden: You write :
I am mad or I am musing,
I was inad when I was born
Or a victim of illusing ;
I can give the world but scorn.
These facts, if true, strike us as sound reasons why you
should drop poetizing.... M. J.D. (Q.) : You will get all
the information you require in W. G. Spence’s book,
Australia s Awakening.” Inko: You remark that the
I"),, Po? r f l°t tn M.L. is not so bright as it might be.
Well, it isn t much brighter in this country; and it will
h ev ® r be as bright as it might be anywhere.... Phil Tar :
A Doomed Ship” contained about 75 bad puns to the
00 , 11 ' We accordingly sunk it in deepwater..
A.H.C. : Haven't seen much of it lately. Possibly that’s
the reason it didn’t appear; possibly it is because you
write in Spanish or something. It took three men 15
minutes to decipher your signature Bellerlve :Of the
four mournful poems forwarded, we have selected “ The
Slaughter-Yard ” :
The slaughtermen from above the pits
Drive spears through the oxen’s brain,
They topple over with a heavy thud,
And piteously bellow in pain
As they plunge and writhe in the throes of Death.
The slayers, with glittering knives,
Descend into pits
And end the poor brutes lives.
They’ve wives and children to support
By their grim work rough and hard
And many an honest, kindly man
Toils in a slaughter-yard/
The Cat :Itis a feeble mee-yow E.W. (M.L.):
xhe description of the lady seems to contradict itself at
various points... ,Z.C. (Lewisham): Can’t travel that
road with you—it is too rocky... .L.S.W. : Verse unsuit-
able. No stamps enclosed for return... .The Flapper:
You are cheerful and sensible enough, but the
feet of the poem are badly arranged
Jim McC. : A dull story..... Erlovv: Too slight’.!!"
• u u and a ,lalf Pages about a stout lady straighten-
ing her bat and climbing aboard a tram cast into exterior
darkness E.B. (S.A.): Too gruesome and not skilfully
enough handled... .O.S. (Q.): Slightly clumsy .. .Garry :
Ihe idea is good, but the verses need some alteration.
Have reserved them for a second reading ... A.R.M. :It
didn’t “ find favor,” nor did it crawl into the paper
Ossian: Sentiment sound, complaint old M.W.a!-
Joke-suggestion pointless ; poem one of the archaically!
erotic breed—a sort for which we have no use
G.L. : Story of the philosophical husband and
the impassioned wife stoked the office thermometer
up 20deg. Even the Religious Editor cast his vote—
although reluctantly—against publication H.F.D.(V.):
Leave the stars alone for the future Alice F. : There
seems to have been an epidemic of mild, grief-stricken
verse this week. Is it the weather?....Bruiser Bill:
Fight verses seem to have mislaid their punch on the
way over G.D.C. : Send in some more quickly:
the office stove needs replenishing.... Ted M. : It
is too gloomy to print. .. A.J.C. (V.): Gentle,
hazy verses about the moon and a saint and
a youth who wept when the saint rebuked him for
not having seen the moon rise the previous night
G.R.H. (Q.): Not sufficient interest O.A.G. a
bit below print level... .J.W.S. : “The Bushranger” has
been shot, and interred in the basket Agatha H. :It
is a dreary, aimless poem, and it fetches up nowhere
half-swamped with grief. One verse :
Sleep well ! Perchance it is as well that I should go,
And ’mid sad scenes in deepest anguish wander,
Returning after years to sadly ponder
Upon thy grave beneath the gidyah yonder.
But, after all, who knows?
F.C.H. (London): Unsuitable Ploughboy : Neither
of them arrives . . .M. Rail—also Bloodstone: No good.
Chadband : It is all a weariness; so the divergence
in the construction of the last stanza doesn’t matter
W.M. (S.A.): Verses very wild and awful O.S. • Both
hopeless.. ..W.V.W. : Thirty thousand blue pencils
couldn’t make it acceptable.. ~R. Me. (Sydney) : Foot-
ball sketch doesn’t score J. Rex : You haven’t a hope
of earning your daily beer with it.... Roy Rede:
Basketed Plevna: We also hate crows. The bird-
shop across the street had one for sale for a whole
summer. Since then, all the crow-cursing needed bv
this paper has been done in the office. Your curse is
fearfully weak....J.O. (Bega): Slight, not to say
shadowy....Bendemer: Dull, harmless verse Cala-
fanc : Sheep poem promising, but it doesn’t butt hard
enough.... S.vlva YV. : Unsuitable... .E.S. :It is too dull a
tragedy Piffier: Gertie may be winsome, but the
verse isn’t.... Daddy : The theme is ancient, and the
poem totters on its feet W.V.W. :“A Lament” is
commonplace. We could say worse things about it than
that, but won’t. Your grief protects you . ..C.N. : You
break away successfully from the ordinary rhyming
furrow when you ask :
Why should I make for myself a living hell
By raising a family whose wants I cannot quell?
Thyra: Poem rather out of our line.. J.F.: Dying
Swagman poem declined with the utmost cheerfulness..
F. S. Mackin: Reserved for second reading... 5.6." :
Thanks , the local poet is at his best when he remarks of
the local breeze that “ there is rapture in every blast ”
E.V.W. : Unskilful verse....H.: It is a disjointed
sort of lament. Consider the first verse :
Oh, Heaven recall the happy morn
Hold Labors had truly vanished
Yes, I espy the perfumed myrtle
How sad I am so old !
G. Eden : “The Path of Liberty” is very rockv and
doesn t seem to lead anywhere Ikey(M.L)- Marine
verse has too heavy a list.... A.P.E. (Northcote): Fight
poem is now taking the count... E.S.R.: Sorry both
unsuitable... Bobs: It is no use trying to rhyme “de-
clining” with “climbing,”, and “lesson” with “con-
cession.” The thing can’t be done Sweat-Ra"- • Storv
lacks point .. Merrigal : (1) “ Best authorities that sup-
port Republicanism ” are scattered over the literature of
3000 years. Some of them are dead, some lost, but those
that remain would fill a church. Get thee to a Refer-
ence Library. (2) Apply at Bulletin office, 369 Collins-
street, Melbourne.
\
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
X.B.L. : We have answered that question before. It all
depends on the sort of work you wish to do. If repro-
duction is the object, nothing is better than Bristol
board. But any drawing paper in capable hands yields
good results. The best of paper handled with inefficiency
is not worth a hang....Heathcote: They,didn’t overtake
the public vehicle F.N. : Too man Johnson pictures.
There is no truth in the report that a
general reorganisation of public affairs is to occur
in Victoria, and that the State Ministry the
Melbourne City Council, the Board of Shirks and
the Harbor Trust are to be superseded bv the
Canadian Railway Expert. That gentleman is
merely to advise these bodies as to the course to
be taken in sundry public matters, and they are
to follow his advice.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
‘•THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
UtORRWS
recWftditt*
cwMnn*
erffiri
HIGHEST GRADE.
6s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
h
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/t J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229, Strand,
London. England
l*X*l*h d
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING Si MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
The Milk Foods closely approximate In composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant.
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk* and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods.
The Milk Foods- can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. _ For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLIRYS Ltd., LONDON. « Bridge# Loftus Sts., Sydney
HH
m
9K
Work ers! Wear
RUTHSTEI N’S
STEEL BOOTS
„ __li_
Patent
applied
for.
Send for free booklet,
“ The Sole of Steel
or better still, order a
pair of Ruthstein’*
Steel Boots to-day.
These wonderful working boots with soles
of steel, last 3 to 6 times as long
as best all leather boots—cost less,
need no repairs, give greater
protection and comfort.
The soles and an inch all round are pressed out
of one piece of light, thin, rust-resisting special
process steel. No seams or ridges to hold mud or
moisture like ordinary boots.
Soles are studded with adjustable steel rivets
which take all wear, give firm, sure footing on
slippery surfaces, are easily renewed when worn
down —50 extra rivets, costing 1/3, will keep boots
good as new for at least two years. Lined with
soft, springy, comfortable hair cushion inner
soles, which rest feet, prevent chafing, soreness,
bunions, etc.
My Steel Bootsy'protect feet agamst gravel,
jagged rocks, protruding nails, molten metal,
acid, etc. My Steel Boots are best working boots
for farmers, bilsbrnen, station-hands, miners,
navvies, foundrymen, chemical workers and
factory workers—in fact, for every man whose
feet are exposed to Wet, to hard usage, or damage
from stones, etc.
Uppers are finest pliable waterproof leather
riveted to steel soles. My Steel Boots never
lose their shape, bec'ause the steel sole prevents
uppers cracking, twisting, or warping. Leather
never becomes hard.
No wet or moisture can penetrate my Steel
Boots. Wearer is protected against colds, rheu-
matism, neuralgia, and all other ailments caused
by cold and wet feet. Outdoor workers who
wear my Steel Boots lose no time in wet weather,
and avoid many a visit to doctor.
My Steel Boots are strongest, most
durable, most comfortable, best looking,
cheapest working boots in the world. They have
done more for the working man's feet than any
other invention of the last hundred years. They
never require soleing or heeling.
M Steel Boots are worn hy farmers and
working men in all parts of the United Kingdom,
Canada, and the U.S.A, <
Order a pair of my Steel Boots to-day. Try
them in your own home. If you don’t see at
once that my Steel Boots are easier, lighter,
warmer, drier, better for your money and better
for your feet than any working boots you have
ever had in your life —if you don't want my
Steel Boots more than you want your monev,
return them instantly, and every p»nny of your
money will be returned to vou a' once.
For information as to m • reliability and stan-
ding I refer you to the punlisher of this paper.
6
6
9
My Steel Boots are made in all sizes from 5 to 12-
inches high f
inches high, high quality leather, very durable
inches high, specially recommended for those who work i
water or in mines -■
Give size of Boots you now wear.
10/6
•s 12/6
:: i4/6
Postage (Australia. 2/-; New Zealand. 1/6) should be added to vour
remittance. I strongly recommend every purchaser to buy 50 extra rivets,
costing 1/3. These will keep my Steel Boots in repair for two vear=.
N. M. RUTHSTEIN,
D "” “d""'"'
Bankers—London, City and Midland Bank, Ltd., Northampton.
The British & Colonial Aeroplane
Company, Limited.
Directors.
SIR GFORGE WHITE. BART.
SAMUEL WHITE, ] P.
G STANLEY WHITE.
Bankers —THE BANK OF ENGLAND.
Builders of the British
Zodiac Aeroplanes
r X&w!)
D
“Zodiac” Biplanes
50/60 h.p. - - Price £l,OOO.
“Zodiac” Monoplanes
25/30 h.p. - - Price £5OO.
t r UR ERS
Terms—One-third with order, balance before delivery.
Delivered F.O B. any port in Great Britain in one month from receipt of order.
Write for Catalogue and full particulars.
Offices and Works - - BRISTOL, ENG.
Flying Ground - SALISBURY PLAIN (W.D.)
Telegrams: “Aviation. Bristol.” Codes—A i, A.8.C., and MOREING.
Other Models from 7/6 to 40 -
Catalogues Sent Free.
MELBA
the ACCORD EON with
The Mellow Tone.
• s just perfection for song accompaniments,
Danes and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tons of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
3 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 32/6, postfrea.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bell Metal Feeds, price I •»' -» post free*
ALLAN & CO., 27G Collins St., Melb.
*
You
cannot
strop it
wrongly
Insert the
strop in the Auto Strop
Safety Razor —move the
Razor to and fro —the
blade reverses automatically
at the end of each stroke,
thus stropping itself
instant you have a keen edge*'
That is why the
an
Aulo&ti'op
ktToK
ttlway
smooth and luxurious shave. And the Auto Strop user avoids
continual outlay for new blades —required by any ordinary safety razor.^
There' is nothing to take apart to strop or clean,
and cheaper than a no-stropping razor.
The Standard Outfit consists of quadruple silver-
plated, self-stropping razor ; one dozen specially
tested lancet - steel blades ; one horsehide
strop ; the whole contained in handsome
leather case, size 2 in. by 31 in. The
price complete is
Far quicker, handier
25/
and no
further
expense.
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO.,LTD
The Rialto, Collins St., Melbourne; and'*
222, Clarence St„ Sydney.
ĥ
A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.
Post Free 6d. from ‘‘th*
Bulletin ” Office


AUCTIONEER’S SPECIAL ADVERTISEMENT.
FOR PRIVATE SALE.
W. S. KEA.ST,
Stock and Station Agent,
610 Collins Street, Melbourne.
STATION PROPERTIES
In Victoria and New South Wales
For Sale.
8000 ACRES, SUBDIVIDED INTO BLOCKS from 1000
acres upwards, within 50 miles Melbourne, pood grazing
and part agriculture. Price £5 10s. per acre ; long terms.
2500 ACRES, within 40 miles Melbourne, SUBDIVIDED
INTO BLOCKS of 600 acres; £6 10s. per acre ; long terms
of ten years.
IN ONE OF THE CHIEF IRRIGATION DISTRICTS
OF VICTORIA.
6000 ACRES, channels nearly all made, main irrigation
channel running through the paddock, no irrigation
charges, about 200 acres of lucerne, large pumping
plant. This is a most beautiful property, suitable for the
growing of any kind of root crops and lucerne ; splendid
dairying and fattening country for sheep ; £6 10s. per
acre, long terms.
SEVERAL VERY NICE PROPERTIES IN THE
RIVERINA DISTRICT OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
26,000 ACRES, beautiful sheep property, about 20,000
acres suitable for the growing of wheat, now carrying
20,000 sheep, good homestead, woolshed ; well watered,
well fenced and subdivided; all wire netted ; price £3 ss.
per acre.
21,000 ACRES, rich agricultural and grazing land, right
on the railway station, in one of the main lines in N.S.W.,
admirably suited for subdivision, fair homestead, good
woolshed, all timbered country, mostly picked up ; price
£4 10s. per acre, reasonable terms.
A BEAUTIFUL STATION PROPERTY.
10,000 ACRES, with a lovely brick homestead and RiS.
on the property, now running 12,000 sheep and about 700
head of cattle ; 5000 acres of this is absolute rolling
downs country, a big river frontage with some fine
lucerne flats. The whole property could be bought at
£4 10s. per acre, and terms will be given.
m
Uli
Your
Feet
Happy
Why s w f i*h r Corns P
THEMACIC CORN
RUBBER
One Shilling, Posted.
Painlessly removes any corn. Gives
instant ease. No paring or cutting. Just
rub it gently and all soreness is taken
away. No pain, no danger, no stuff to
put on for a week, 'ibis antiseptic
Rubber removes the corn in less than one
minute. Will s*rve a whole family for
years. Posted to any address for ONK
SHILLING Postal Note or Stamps of
any State. Try one and tell your friends.
Failure is impossible.
OBTAINABLE ONLY FROM
TIT 15 UNION CO.,
299 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne.
u
THE TRUTH ABOUT
McGEE’S CELEBRATED HAIR STAIN.-
It is a matchless preparation for restoring grey and faded hair to a
natural brown or black color—is perfectly. harmless—easily applied—
and will neither wash, rub, nor brush off—and does not discolor linen.
PRICE 4/6 and 8/6 a Bottle, posted 6d. extra.
A. McGEE, GENTLEMEN’S HAIRDRESSER,
5 a«\d 7 Castlereag'h Street, corner Hunter Street, Sydney
PALMER TYRE,
SHOWING SQUARE
TREAD WITH
CIRCUMFERENTIAL
GROOVES.
Palmer Cord Tyres ■
It is what OTHERS say that is
popularising Palmer Cord Tyres.
“The Daily News” Office, London.
I have just returned from following the Scottish trials. In
all, I have driven close on 1000 miles. My car has a pair
of CANVAS Tyres of a well-known make on the front
wheels and two PALMER CORDS on the drivers. The
front tyres are cut and scarred all over ; the tyres which
have done the harder work— THE PALMER CORDS —
appear to have been scarcely used at all.—“ KUKLOSS ”
“IT’i ALL IN THE CORDS.” PRICE CATALOGUE FREE.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY,
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
ħ
THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCE
\
!=s,
A MOUSTACHE FOR A CERTAINTY
FOR THE MAN WHO WANTS ONE.
No pomade that has appeared on the market for the last 30 years has
the results CAPILLARINE can show. In every case it has done
what we claim for it—produced a strong, handsome, permanent mous-
tache on the face of the man who before could not'grow one. Start
using it now, and you will have the same results in a few months* time.
10/6, Post Free* Sent to anv address in plain packet.
Craig 1 & Ait ken, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
y
I
:i a v
■
, H
..
a
I -! ■' "
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Ad J 0 P t . ed J 7 t Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and Victoria, thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
(Jidinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
15he BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN 6d.
.. | >|
POLKEY MOTOR CAR LAMPS
ALL BRITISH.
ACETYLENE AND ELECTRIC.
Also POLKEY ELECTRIC DYNAMOS for Car and Motor Boat Lighting.
First on the Australian Market.
All Lamps and Accumulators supplied from stock.
Call or write for particulars. Catalogue free.
SCHEELE 8 GIBBES,
Sole Agents for Australasia,
HUNTER ST., SYDNEY.
TEL. 864
City.
9 Brifisb-flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
Price 6d
POST FREE, £1 per
in advance, all over the
year,
world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDS
Custard
4
Bird’s
Custard With Sruii
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
Free for the Asking.
,<6>
U4J
The completest illus-
trated Catalogue and
Price List of Acety-
lene Burners ever
published in the
States. Shall we mail
it?
Sample Dozen
Assorted Burners,
Post Free, 10/-
Robert C. Swan 8 Co. Ltd.
304 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
Q
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing: One
Dozen Aseorted Large Bottle*, 25/-.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Building, George Street, Sydney.
For your everyday use,
and your everyday
comfort, buy . . .
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Toilet Soap,
For you want a soap that is pure
and cleansing, you like a soap that
is pleasant and refreshing, and an
antiseptic soap like this, containing
10% pure Carbolic—an ample
proportion— protects you against risk of
contagion. Sold at Local Stores and
Chemists, in three-tablet boxes.
Makers, F. C. CALVERT & Co..
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
The late Judge Granville George
Miller, of Queensland, was the youngest son
of Serjeant RoViert Miller, a well-known mem-
ber of the English and Irish Bars. In olden
days a Serjeant-at-Law was a person who
roosted on the very highest twig of the barris-
terial tree. He had to be 16 years at the Bar
before he could attain his stupendous dignity;
he had, for a long time, exclusive audience in the
Courtof Common Pleas; he wore specially gorgeous
togs, and he was a member of Serjeants’ Inn, and
kept apart from the common barristerial herd.
The practice of creating Serjeants dropped
in the late ’7o’s of last century, and
Serjeants’ Inn closed up; but one or two
of the old brigade are still suspected of being
alive. Miller, junior, climbed on to the Dis-
trict Court Bench in 1882. As a Judge, his
law was good, his addresses to the jury were
confused and purposeless (this writer reported
many of them and each one was worse than the
last), and his habit of mislaying his documents was
incurable. Also he was liked by everybody who
knew him.
“ 0.K.” writes
Personally I’m delighted to find that the noble art
of stoushing has been finally branded as a Black
Man’s Game, and that all the bunkum talked about
white-racial superiority in a test of “pluck, skill and
endurance ” whilst bluffer Tahmmy Burns was blowing his
bubble, has now' become a standing reproach to the
hollow oracles who uttered it. Stoushing is man’s poor
imitation of the “sport” in which the four-footed
animals excel ; therefore the nigger, being a bit nearer to
the dumb brutes than his white brudder, is the superior,
not the inferior, stousher. Jack Johnson and his colored
co-champions at the game are but poor punchers as coth-
pared with a lion or tiger, to be sure. In the art of de-
livering a front-paw blow, with lightning celerity and the
whole weight of his body behind it, Johnson
has a lot to learn from the lords of the jungle ; neverthe-
less he “ literally sprang at Jeffries ” more cleverly than
Jeff could ever have sprung at him. And don’t let us
forget it. The proportion of front-rank men among
colored professional stoushers has ever been greater than
the whites gould boast. The black Molyneaux in Eng-
land was a rarity when he won the championship from
Tom Gribb, and was swindled out of his victory. There
were many more whites than blacks stoushing in this
country when we exulted over champion Peter Jackson,
claiming that dusky battler as our own. The negroes in
America to day are about a seventh of the whole popula-
tion of the States, but they have champions in every class
of the precious Noble Art. In knocking out the whitemen
the nigs have knocked all the humbug out of the old catch
phrase. Stoushing is neither a noble art nor a manly
exercise, judged by the mental quality of its most de-
voted patrons and barrackers. Of this, any thinking
man, if not persuaded by scanning the crow'd assembled
at a fight (not. to mention the blackguards hanging
around the building), should be persuaded by studying
the faces of the spectators whilst the stoush is proceed-
ing. Why should not a nigger be the “world’s cham-
pion ’’ prize-fighter? A very low order of brain should be
equal to the acquisition of all the “ science ” possible in a
boxing bout; a very limited supply of moral and physical
courage is needed to carry a trained man through
an encounter in which a knock-out blow leaves
him capable of rapid recovery and the spoils of
the vanquished tot up—as in Jeff’s case—to the colossal
sum of £20,000. The other requirements are physical
strength and activity. The question as to the superiority
of the nigger stousher being now disposed of, it only re-
mains for white men to cease the “ promotion ” of a de-
grading gate-money “ sport.” The verj' limit of absur-
dity seems to have been reached in the working-up of
excitement—for the benefit of the showman—in this
Johnson-Jeffri£s affair. The bloated importance of the
fight, and the false humiliation for their race which it
entailed, was brought about by white men. If it has
any bad results white men are to blame. My hope is
that the result will be a death-blow to Stoush as a
matter for national discussion, and that Johnson will go
down to posterity as the buck nigger who killed the
goose that laid the rotten golden eggs.


The Waybacks Again.”
Another
staek of
. joy and laughter about the famous family. Is.
“LINSEED COMPOUND.” —The “ Stockport
Reifaedy ” for Cousrhs & Colds. Of 40 years* proven efficacy.
#
3
FOOD
is soothing and satisfying. It contains all the elements
of a natural food in a condition suitable for immediate
absorption.
When milk alone is heavy and unsatisfying, Benger’s Food
made with milk, is appetising and nutritive.
Benger’s Food should be used for healthy development in
infancy, for rebuilding strength in weakened systems, and for the
preservation of old age in usefulness and vigour.
For INFANTS, INVALIDS, AND THE AGED .
The British Medical Journal says Benger's Food has, by its excellence , established a reputation of its own."
BENGER'S FOOD, LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, Eng.
Pnnd is sold in tins bv Drug-gists, etc., everywhere. 832
ZSZIU a
h
The Bad Writer's Pen.|
No. 539, BALL-POINTED. Sixpence Per Box.
To'se - fiad of all Stationers, or ORMrSTTTN & GLASS, 28, NEWGATE St., LON DO
A POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
‘ COAGrULINE, ’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘ TENASITINE ’
■Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE US. A. SOUI T PISTOL.
will stop the most
vicious dog (or man)
without permanent-
jnjury. Invaluable
for cyclists, unpro-
tected ladies, night-
w ate h men, and
others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids, and will
carry a distance of 25 feet. It creates great
amusement for both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one pf the
most 'useful, durable, reliable and economical
novelties, ever produced. Price 2/9, or post free
,anyvvhere for 3/-
The TOUCH-ME-NOT SUR-
PRISE MATCH BOX. Can be
“carried in the vest pocket, and
never fails to give the match-
cadger a shock. When your
friend asks for a match, just
hand him the box, and im-
mediately he attempts to open
same lie receives a very sudden
shock. Nicely made of nickel,
and finished in leather. Price,
post free anywhere for 1/2.
ĥ
IH£ SEBAOKROSCOPE, or Detective’s Assistant.
WONDER
Bfor THE /•
Xo. 73.
Attach to the
e.ve in the same
manner as the
common mag-
nifying: lens in
use by watch
repairers,being:
Oireful to turn
the small open-
ing- in square
tube to the
outside, that
is, away from
the nose. When
placed to the eye you can see what is taking- place
behind and in front of you at the same time. No
need to wish for eyes in the back of your head as
with thi3 article you can observe all that occurs in
that direction without even turning- your head. You
will find lots of fun in owning- a Sebackroscope.
Made of hard rubber, and finished in an excellent
manner. Price, securely packed and posted to any
address free on receipt of 1/-
“ PICKITOUT.” A perfect Puzzler
10 the uninitiated. JUST OUT.
The Effect—Th ree cards are shown
—the; ace, deuce and three of
hearts. Someone is requested to
pick out the ace when the cards
are placed on the Cable. But it is
absolutely impossible to pick it
out. Price complete, with full in-
structions, 7d. post free any where.
ħ
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Hay market, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch i 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices : 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow , etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
1
po, s
3
jwlUtueurWw^
xcmSf
A little of
Old
ORKNEV
the Real Liqueur Scotch,
is better tban a lot of an
inferior wbisKy. Our en-
tire output is reserved for
this, our own brand,wbicb
we guarantee for its qua-
lity, age, and flavour.
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London.
Proprietors of Stromness Distillery,
Orkney, Scotland.
HERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, ‘2s Od posted. Merrib
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend,. Is (id. . Ned, Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engraving's, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle., Is, Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made East, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter,.lrish. Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted* Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is (id.
Joys of Life, Is (id. Nigger Stump Speeches. Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
WorkshopHandybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Hook.
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d, All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is (id. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Lief.,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ G uidf. (simple tests for minerals i’
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, Ss 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, os. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is (id.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1,3*
'How to-Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. ’jUKw
..Tricks, with/ Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
'Papering, Is 2d. Prof. .Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, ls6d.’
h
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
< f.U , SY FORTUNE TELLING . CAROS—LOVE,
I! US IN ESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win' at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is .id
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, i-
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle's
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s (id.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d Rosted. Letter Writer Up-
To-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang op
Bushrangers', illustrations and portraits, is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMT? RACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. 'FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE 1’ ROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of voungand old, but about
which .they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning* mar-
riage, which inakes it a superior g*uide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SA riS PAC I lON GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
croth-covered edition of this great work. ft will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : EvbrY Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Hanrybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, ‘2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s (id. How MoDolgall Topped the Score,
Other Verses, 1 s 3d. The (4 ay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, lleptameron, and manv
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, is 3d. Women's Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, is posted. The VVaybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid,
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established So Yearn.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROn THIS A DVT.
<► .
Write for my
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IX STAMPS, MOXEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ui>, Illustrated Guide to the Sta«-e Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, geifuirie
is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d oust. Ur. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s (id.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Uancing Made Easy, is!
Practical Palmistry, is. Champions of the King',
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key 'to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s AdYice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. \Vonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest scrips, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted!
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar!
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, Ins post paid (whv pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing” Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pagesj cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.’
The S.A. Government has just published
its official summing-up of the last wheat harvest,
which, as late as the end of November, was fore-
casted at 20,000,000 bushels (the average for each
of the last five years), but actually reached
25,133,851 —easily a record. Average per acre,
13£ bushels. Rainfall, various—about 20in. ; the
whole State was under 18in., but that includes the
dry upper north,” which doesn’t try to grow
wheat. S.A. grew a good deal of barley, too (and
drank most of it). The Central State points out
with pride that its wheat crop (including hay) has
been worth 12 guineas to each man, woman
and child in the State for each of the
last five years. As a side-line, there are
59 implement factories (of four hands or
more), employing 1350 men and boys. As
to the sales of pianos, phonographs and
motor-cars among farmers. Government says
nothing; but Adelaide tradesmen could tell a
tale. Perhaps the oddest sign of rural prosperity
is the cruel price of firewood in the city. In bad
times, farmers are constantly cutting and cartin"
the same from some neighboring hillside to the
railway. With a good harvest, they won’t ■
bother; and the city clerk—who hasn't had a
harvest—has to grin and pay up for his domestic
fuel.


OUR SPECIAL SNAPS
v>r.
or e v
EA/ S
Stevens’ “FAVORITE,”
09WRF or 22 Calibre Rim Fire, half-octagon 22in. barrel,
case-hardened frame, solid breech block take down action open front and rear sights, «/
wpiffht 4Mb Postage— l/9 N.S.W., 3/2 Inter-State.
We can supply the above Rifles fitted with Beach Combination Front Sight and Vernier Rear, 37/6.
25 or 32 Rim Fire Calibres, same description as above, 2/6 each
extra.
it
The ContinentalS.B.B.L. Bicycle Collector dun,
410 bore, finest Sieinen’s steel barrel, side lever action, solid or skeleton, walnut stock, case
hardened locks, 24in. barrel, length over all 38£in., weight about 41b. A splendid
gun for use in Orchards. Postage —Is. 9d. N.S.W., 3s. 2d. Inter-State.
35Si
MICK SIMMONS,
ĥ
Winchester Repeating Rifle , 1906 Model,
16 shot, 20in. round barrel, plain trigger, straight grip, slide action,
for 22 short, long or long rifle cartridges. O
Postage—2s. 3d. N.S.W. ; 4s. 2d. Inter-State.
!54?
Send for our Illustrated Sports,
Fishing and Tobacco Lists, FREE.
g, The Continental” D.8.8.L. EJECTOR Gun,
12- or 16-gauge, top lever, 30-inch Siemen’s steel barrels, both choke,
Greener cross bolt, rebounding bar locks, extension rib, pistol walnut
stock, snap fore-end, weight 12-gauge, about 71b., 16-gauge, about 6slb
Delivered, £3/15/
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N. S. W.
Branches—Hunter Street, Newcastle ; 273 Darling Street, Balmain / 197 Oxford
Street, Sydney; Church Street, Parramatta f 311 King Street, Newtown. [2
WOOL,
Grain, Hides, Furskins,
Fat Stock or Store Stock
WILL BRING GOOD PRICES ALWAYS
WHEN THE SALE IS ENTRUSTED TO
New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY
Small Lots and Large Lots receive the same careful attention.
[2
POSTAL INSTRUCTION.
Are You Ambitious ?
ħ
LET US PREPARE YOU BY POST
For any of the Following Positions.
Electrical Engineer
Mechanical Engineer
Sanitary Inspector
Architect
Mechanical Draughtsman
Surveyor
Mine Manager
Mine Engineer
Mine Electrician
Incorporated Accountant
Hospital Nurse
Shire or Municipal Clerk
Shire or Municipal Auditor
Public School Teacher
Commonwealth Official
State Official
Bank Official
Chemist
Engine Driver
Forest Guard
Station Bookkeeper
Let us know what subject you wish to learn, and
we will give you Instruction by Correspondence.
SEND TO-DAY FOR DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET. “S."
STOTT & HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE,
Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
STEVENS
FAVORITE RIFLE NO. 19
UNERRINGLY ACCURATE.
The Ideal Rifle for Miniature Rifle Clubs.
Same Specifications as Favorite No. 17, except fitted with Lyman Front,
Stevens Leaf and Lyman Rear Peep Sights.
Insist on
STEVENS
when ordering
from your Dealer.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire*
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues.
[5
The Association of Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
Fine Gem Ring, Real
Pearl, Sapphire,Ruby,
and Six Diamonds,
£6 15s.
Single Stone Brilliant,
£l7 15s.
First quality Diamonds,
£45. Other sizes
from £5 ss.
Fine Amethyst and
Diamond Ring, £& Bs.
Cable Address: RUSPOLI, LONDON,
Rubies or Sapphires
and Diamonds, £8 Bs.
All Double Cut bril-
liants, £l9 12 I.
YOU CAN BUY FROM ENGLAND.
Pay your Duty and purchase
Cheaper and Better than you
are now doing. Write for
Catalogue containing 6,000
Illustrations, Post Free to
any part of the world.
4 Brilliants, with 3
Rubies or Sapphires,
£3 ISs.
Fine Amethyst Ring,
£2 15s.
2 Sapphires, 1 Ruby and
Diamonds ; 2 Emeralds
and Diamonds ; 3 Pearls
and Diamonds ; 2 Emer-
alds and Diamonds; 2
Sapphires, 1 Ruby and
Diamonds, £5 ss.
Ruby and Sapphire, sur-
rounded by Brilliants,
£lO 10s.
18-carat Ring, Rubies or
Sapphires & Diamonds,
£8 15s
6, Grand Hotel Buildings, London, W.C.
f.
S~ JACOBS
OIL —■
Cures
RHEUMATISM
and Bodily Aches and Pains.
Of all Chemists and Stores
Send in your Application
NOW, and we will send
one. to your Address
Absolutely FREE
MP IO N
c
A FREE PHONOGRAPH
FOR — YOU !
Owing to the enormously increased demand for our Records
as the result of our last Distribution of Free Phono*
graphs we have decided to GIVE AWAY a further
ONE THOUSAND PHONOGRAPHS FREE.
You may choose the machine you prefer from our various
styles, including our latest and best,
“ The Champion Senior,”
exactly as illustrated, which is listed at £ 6/io/- and Guaran-
teed for 5 years.
How can we afford to give away these expensive
machines without charge ? The explanation is a
simple one. We hold and control enormous
stocks of Phonograph Records. Records are
of course useless to anyone without a Phonograph. Picture yourself with plenty of ammunition, but
no GUN* We propose to give you the GUN to make you feel the need of our ammumtion-m
other words we eive you.a Phonograph to create an increased demand for our Records. Do
vou see our Teason /ow? We will send you one of our “ Champion Senior Phono*
graphs” Free of any charge whatever if you promise to give a practical demon-
stration of its wonderful merits in your own home circle and among your friends,
using our new and popular Records and distributing our circulars ana Piice Lists,
which are sent free for this purpose with each machine. Write at once to
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING COMPANY.
Opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY, New South Wales.
(Drawn, from Photo)
“The
Champion
Senior,”
Phonograph
List Price,
£6/10/-
and mail to the
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN
IMPORTING CO, SYDNEY
I hereby make application for a
FREE I honograph as advertised by
your Company.
Name
Street
Town
State


minTTTiiimii imTiiifTTiinminmif iitiiuuti! iirniiJJinil I
mm
llllllllllllKlllllllHlTiinTlTTiiiiiiirviriiiiiri in
iimmuuu
Influenza is the outcome of a very severe cold, and is dangerous
if not properly controlled as it is likely to develop into
Br T C , hl n S - d , an S ers of theae completions
need not be feared if Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery be given in
teaspoonful doses every two or three hours, as this powerful
remedy will at once relieve and soon cure the worst cases.
A MOTHER’S LETTER.
I must tell you that myself and the children have had
Influenza very badly, but thanks to Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
we have quite recovered. I would recommend it to
anyone suffering from colds.
Mrs. HARGREAVES, 1
Wharparilla Hotel, via Echuca, Victoria.
r
OUGHS i/e 3 J-
OLDS AND & 5 f-
ONSUMPTION
Hf lD ol
JKI 4VJt
I Couchs
Colds
Cp o u p
Consumption
AND ALL
Bronchial
AND
Pulmonary
Affections
of THE
Throat,Lungs
and Chest.
If you want the very best
Flannelette
the Old Country Produces
bu y HORROCKSES'
GRAND PRIZE
FRANCO-BRITISH
EXHIBITION
1908
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON
SELVEDGES and decline all substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
h
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case; extra
larjre bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Or<ran Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d. ;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/=
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical > ■
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE '
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and. J>.v_ alj the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.— Richardson Ball-Bearing:
Skate Co.. 311 Michigan Street, Chicago. U.B.A. Sole Distributing Agfents
for Great Britain and Ireland—Messrs,, J. feßliiiipton & Co., Liverpool.
RICHARDSON
.
CHICAGO
f
APPLY ,
Wherever there is Pain.
Pains in the Chest
Coughs, Colds, Weak Lungs.
Allcock’s Plasters are a preventive
as well as a curative.
&
tzt
Rheumatism in the Shoulder
Pains, Stiffness or Soreness in the
joints or muscles. Relieved by
the use of Allcock’s Plasters.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, Indigestion, etc. Purely Vegetable.
Established 1762.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., BIRKENHEAD, ENCI
McNab’s Ark.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The antiquity of the Celtic race was apparent, and it
was claimed that the clan of McNab was of such ancient
stock, and of such importance that, at the time of the
flood it had a boat of its own.— Extract from a
Bums’ Club Lecture.
Flood was almost at its height;
Only one lonely mountain peak
Of all the world remained in sight;
The day was bleak.
Upon the sodden mountain top
One solitary sinner sat,
Hoping ’gainst hope the rain would stop.
His battered hat
Was melting o’er his failing brain ;
His arms were clasped about his knees;
He shivered in the pelting rain
And gave a sneeze.
At intervals, he sniffed and wrung
The water from his whiskers long,
And muttered in an ancient tongue
Words that were strong.
The Deluge crept up inch by inch
To clasp and drown its roosting prey ;
The wretch defiant did not flinch
Or look away.
He did not once in prayer engage
(His gods lay drowned upon some plain);
But once he howled, in sudden rage,
“Oh ! d n the rain !”
That instant o’er the wat’ry waste
There stole a wild and anguished note ;
The poor marooned leapt up in haste
And saw Mac’s boat.
It was a covered craft and slow,
And filled with screams of rage and blood;
The Last Man cried, “At last I know
What caused the Flood ! ”
He shook his blue and dripping fist;
He almost lost his equipoise
Whilst shrieking : “ Hey ! Chuck it! Desist!
Stop that d—n noise ! ”
The last soprano demon howled,
Then died ; and peace once more upon
The waters sat. A deep voice growled,
(In Scotch) “Eh, mon?”
A Tam-o’-Shanter came in line
Within a deck-house like a cab ;
Upon the stern there stared a sign—
“ The John McNab.”
“ What ails ye ?” cried the Voice within ;
“ Dinna ye ken the pipes at a’
Nae doot ye are a man o’ sin.
Just gang awa’! ”
The sinner yelled : “ I want to book
A berth if you have one to spare !”
The captain gave him one keen look :
“ Hae ye the fare ? ”
The hungry lapping of the tide
About the sinking mountain-top
Went on ; a bankrupt sinner cried,
“Goon! Don’t stop!”
;“oh, verra weel!” And on its trip,
Like some absurd and lonely crab,
Proceeded that staunch Celtic ship—
The John McNab.
But words flew back : “ You on the hill!
Before I leave ye, now confess !
Ye’re thinkin’ that old Noah will
Talc’ ye for less ! ”
The sinner noticed not the wit
From the receding quarter-deck ;
He clearly saw he was in it
Up to the neck.
Some minutes later that rash man
Went down for aye beneath the tide.
You’ll lind the old ship-building clan
Upon the Clyde.
N.s.w.
E. O’F.
The Madness of Mr. Maunder.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
AS the immense canvas booth that
screened from the vision of the impe-
cunious vulgar Weldon’s Wonderful
Circusand Menagerie 1 slowly disgorged its perspir-
ing audience, Mr. Sharp turned to Mr. Maunder
and said : “ Well, Jerry, ain’t I as good as a fond
father to you, spendin’ me ’ard-earned money
talcin’ you to see a performance wot ’as enraptured
the ’arts o’ royal suff’rins, crown-’eads, dead-’eads
and fat-’eads orl over Europe, Asia an’ America—
to say nothink of Orstralia? Wot did yer think
of it, ole pal ? ”
Mr. Maunder chuckled.
“It weren’t ’arf bad, Sam, ’specially th’ clown
—’im with th’ red-’ot nose an’ poker— meantersay
th’ red nose an’ ’ot poker, wot th’ pant—panter—
wot’s ’is name ?—set down on. The young ’ooman
as rode th’ pie-bored pony wos a bit o’ orlright,
too, on’y she’adn’t got no clo’s on ter speak of
waist up, as fur as I could see.”
“That’s wot they call’er disable, Jerry,” cor-
rected the cultured Mr. Sharp. “ It’s the proper
thin’ fur ladies as is real ladies ter wear in public.
If you ’ad on’y see’d ’arf as much o’ the world as
me, mate, you’d ha’ know’d that a woman may alius
show as much of ’er buzzum as she pleases, so long
as she don’t show no ’eart. But wot I liked best
wos them performin’ tigers, an’ th’ other wild
beasteses in cages. Blime, Jerry ! there was one
ole man monkey—chimpansy, I think they says ’e
wos—’im with the white whiskers an’ injer-rubber
face—as like you as two peas; you might well
’ave bin brothers. Blest if I couldn’t ’ardly tell
the ! diffdrince wen I sor you standin’ so close
together. P’raps ’e wos a leetle bit more ’and-
some'r. though wen ’e sjniled.” (Mr. Maunder
sniffed contemptuously.) “If you could 1 on’y ha’
see’d yerself as I see you, Jerry,” continued Mr.
Sharp, meditatively, “as you stood there a-eatin’
of that ’a’porth o’ war-nuts an’ spittin’ out th’
shells, you’d ha’ arsted yerself th’ question : ‘ Am
I really ’uman, or ought I be rights to be settin’
in the branches of me native forests crackin’
cokernuts? ’”
“Ho!” observed Mr. Maunder, icily. “You
nefedn’t be so funny, Sam, or maybe you’ll git yer
own cokernut cracked. Besides, you bin up a
tree yerself afore to-day .pretty frequent.”
“ I knows I ’ave. matey,” admitted the candid
Mr. Sharp, “ an’ that no later than a hour ago,
wonnerin’ ’ow tli’ ’ell I wos ever goin’ ter git
down ter wot the Dagoes call ‘tear-a-firm ’ agin ;
but that’s awright now —look ’ere.” \
With a precautionary glance round him, he
drew Mr. Maunder up a deserted side-street, and
thrusting his hand into his coat pocket, produced
a heavy gold watch and chain.
“Lor’ lumme, Sam!” gasped the awe-struck
Jerry. “ ’Ooever did yer pinch it from ? ”
“I’m surprised at yer, Jerry,” said the pained
Mr. Sharp. “Pinched, indeed! I borrered it,
matey, off of the ice-cream bloke with the cork-
screw curls, wen ’e wos showin’ orf that ’ere
monkey, an’ makin’ ’im do orl manner o’ them
tricks wot reminded me so much o’ you. I couldn’t
resist the temptation wen I see it danglin’ under
me very nose.”
“You’ll get five year ’ard if yer copped, Sam,”
prophesied Mr. Maunder, with a face of gloomy
joy.
“But yer see I don’t mean ter git copped,”
put in Mr. Sharp, briskly. “ To-morrer mornin’
I’m goin’ to lend that luverly watch an’ chain to
Ikey Moss, an’ ’e’ll turn ’em inter golden suv’rins
fur me. Wonnerful clever man, ikey.’’
“ ’E’s too clever, an’ so are you, as you’ll find
out one o’ these fine days,” said the pessimistic
Mr. Maunder. “ Where’re yer goin’ ter plant it
fur th’ night, Sam ? ”
“That’s jest wot I wanter tork to you about,
Jerry,” explained his companion. “Now I’ve
gotter little business with Bill Smithers as’ell
keep me outer me bed till daybreak—so ’ard do I
work —an’ wot I want you to do is to ’urap the
ticker ’ome an’ ’ide it in some easy found place
w’ere nobody ain’t likely ter look if th’ worse
come to th’ worse. In that ’ere tin pannikin on
the mankel-shelf fur choice. Kin I trust you,
Jerry ? ”
Mr. Maunder nodded resignedly.
“’And it over, Sam,” he replied. “I’m too
good-natured be ’arf. I’ll be gittin’ meself inter
trouble ’long o’ you if lain’t more carefuller.”
“ Well, none o’ yer funny games,” cautioned
Sam, as he relinquished his ill-gotten gains.
“Go straight’ome, an’ don’t git drinkin’in any
o’ them low public-’ouses you’re so fond of.”
Mr. Maunder disdained retort. Pocketing the
spoils of the evening, he slowly retraced his steps
to the back attic of No. 15 Silver-street, which he
shared with his devoted friend and co-partner in
multifarious wickednesses.
The sun had risen an hour or more when Sam,
after bidding farewell to the business-like Mr.
Smithers, slipped unobtrusively out of the bar of
the Horns public-house, and made his way to-
wards his humble abode. But as he turned into
Silver-street he stopped abruptly. For a moment
his heart hammered painfully at his ribs, and his
gaze grew blurred and dim; for there, just out-
side the door of Mrs. Pullet’s select boarding-
house, where single, gentlemen could always be
accommodated by the day or by the week, was
assembled a small and eager crowd. For a
moment Sam wavered ; prudence counselled
flight, but the absence of officialdom habited in
the familiar and hated garb of the “cop” or
“ bobby ” decided him to face the affair. As he
approached the pushing, excited group, his land-
lady ciuight sight of him, and hailed him with
enthusiasm.
“Ho, ’ere’s Mr. Sharp,” she shrilled with
evident relief. “Mr. Sharp, I never weren’t
more pleased to see nobody in me life afore.
That pore Mr. Maunder ”
“Eh, wot’s wrong with ’im?” interposed Sam,
hurriedly, all his suspicions re-awakening.
“’E’s gorn clean, stark, starin’ mad,” protested
Mrs. Pullet, vainly striving to dissemble a fearful
joy. “His door’s locked, an’ ’e’s up on th’ roof
dancin’ about an’ goin’ roun’an’ roun’ like a—like
a teetotaler, without no trousis, an’ on’y ’is coat
an’’at on. See ’im ?—there’e is!”
A shiver of intense appreciation shook the
entire assemblage, and looking up, Sam saw the
dirty-white whiskers and hideous apparition of
his old friend’s face, crowned with a familiar and
battered wideawake, peering furtively from be-
hind a crazy chimney-pot. The next instant the
gruesome object skipped full into view for a
brief second, thereby revealing a pair of hirsute,
bandy shanks, half-hidden by a frock-coat in the
last stage of senile decay. Then again it plunged
out of sight behind the stack of tottering
chimneys.
“My oath!” ejaculated Sam, impressively.
“It’s ole Jerry, right enuff; that were’is ugly
mug. S’welp me, ’e’s gorn looney! ’E’s gotter
bit o’ rope with ’im, too; I seed it ’angin’ roun’
’is waist.”
“ P’raps’e’s goin’ter make away wiv ’isself,”
suggested a stout, elderly matron, not without
hope. “ Pore deer, maybe ’is sorrers ’ave drove
’im to it.”
“ I never see a face with a more’eartbrokener
look on it afore,” chimed in a dingy gentleman in
shirt-sleeves, who was smoking a short clay pipe
with an air of great gusto. “ The very sight of
’im made me blood run cold.”
“Then I do beg an’pray of ’im ’e won’t tie
’isself up ter one o’ my chimbley-pots,” said Mrs.
Pullet, with some asperity. “’Eaven knows
they're ramshackly enuff a’ready, an’ the leastest
thin’ ’ill bring ’em down. Orl repairs comes out
o’ me own pocket—a pore, lone widder woman
with ’er livin’ ter make, an’ bitter ’ard work it is
these times ; me landlord bein’ a man-7-if ’e dare
call ’isself one—without no bowels, all’ even if’e
’as any they ain’t w’ere they oughter be.”
“ Ah, that’s true,” assented the elderly matron,
with a shake of her tousled head. “The thin’s
us women’as ter put up wiv!—an’small thanks
we git fur it. Ho, yes,” with a commiserative
shudder.
“Well.” said Sam, decisively, “wjiile we’re
orl jawin”ere ’e’ll be a-sooicidin’ ’isself. lain’t
afraid o’ ole Jerry, mad or in’s seventy census, if
you brave people are—so ’ere goes.” He vanished
within doors, leaving the audience squabbling for
the places which promised to command the best
view of the death of Mr. Maunder.
Sam ran hastily up the rickety flight of stairs
to the room he shared with his venerable col-
league, and, putting his shoulder against the
door, exerted all his strength and burst it open.
To his utter astonishment the first object his eyes
encountered was Jerry lightly attired in a. tat-
tered blanket,-seated upon the"side of a tumbled
bed. Mr. Sharp paused tentatively on the
threshold. (
“Why, Jerry,” he,said, reprovingly, “ wotever
are you dreamin’ of 1 Runnin’ about the roof in
broad daylight without no trousis on ; playin’
80-Peep be’ind the chimbley-pots. an’ fright’uin’
orl them pore peoples down there inter the
highsterics? I’m ashamed of yer, mate.”
Mr. Maunder cast a lack-lustre glance at an
open skylight, situated in the sloping roof imme-
diately above Mr. Sharp’s undisturbed couch.
Then his gaze wandered back to Sam’s justly m-
dignant face.
“I wos woked up, I s’pose a hour ago,” he
(Continued on next page.)


h
ORKERS’ ACCIDENTS
KEEP ZAM-BUK ALWAYS HANDY FCR BRUISES,
CUTS, OPEN, FESTERING & POISONED WOUNDS, etc.
CARPENTERS, bricklayers, mechanics, miners, gar=
deners, painters, laborers—in fact, all classes of
workers —stand in daily need of Zam=Buk’s sooth=
ing and healing aid. A cut, bruise, knock or ninch
may not seem of much account when the first pain
has passed away, but unless the injured place is
dressed with Zam=Buk there remains the great
danger that dirt and disease germs will get into the
wound and set up inflammation, festering, bloods
poison or skin disease, that may mean
months of suffering and compulsory idle=
ness. The germ of the dreaded lockjaw
harbors in dirt, and thus the simplest
injury often has fatal results. If, how=
ever, Zam=Buk is at once smeared over a
cut or bruise, the balm’s pure herbal
juices soothe the pain, fortify the injury
against germ attacks, and ensure rapid
and perfect healing. As an insurance
against festering and poisoned wounds,
eczema and ulcers, Zam=Buk is the
workers’ best friend. A pot of this
powerful germicide and healer should
always be kept handy in cupboard, tool=
bag or pocket.
X
SCALDS AND BURNS.
“ As I am a cook by profession,” says
Mr. 8. Balcoinbe, of Holloway Hoad,
Mitcheltown, Wellington, N.Z., ‘"and
constantly engaged over a fire, I am
very liable to receive burns and scalds.
A few days ago I had the misfortune to
have my hand and wrist scalded with
boiling fat. Having Zatn-Buk by me I
at once applied the balm. The heat and
inflammation were at once banished, and
the wounds were soothed. Before night
nearly all traces of the scalds had dis-
appeared. I have always used Zam-Buk
for cuts and sores, and have no hesitation
in pronouncing it a first-class prepara-
tion, which I, for one, will never be
without.”
A COACHBUILDER’S INJURIES.
“While following: my occupation,”
says Mr. T. Mansell, a coachbuilder, of
Keig Street, Newtown, Sydney, “lam
constantly knocking the skin off my
hands and cutting my fingers. These
wounds fester and take some consider-
able time to heal, although all sorts of
household remedies haye been tried.
Seeing Zarn-Buk advertised, I procured
a pot. and am pleased to say that in
Zam-Bulc I found just the balm I
required. Its healing action was prompt,
and where it was applied no festering
followed. I strongly recommend Zam-
Bulc as an invaluable healing and anti-
septic balm.”
HE.AUH6 • SOOTN<N6 • ANTISEPti
THE
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
have YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on tbe other band
tbat is, on botb bands, and on tbe
face, and on tbe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
bappy, for you will bave done tbe
best tbat possibly can be done tor
tbe skin’s bealtb and beauty. There
can be no question about tbat.
PEARS has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
vouchsafed, dreamily, “be ’earin’ somebody
a-patterin’ about th’ room. I unclosed me eyes,
an’lo an’be’old ! there vvos a awful lookin’ thin’
standm’ in front o’ th’ shavin’-glass, grimacin’ at
itself an’ scratchin’ somethinli shockin’. First I
thought it wos you come ’ome, Sam ; then I sor
it weren’t you at orl, though not unlike, but a
’orrid great black monkey with white whiskers,
same as we see’d larst night. It ’ad put on my
coat an’ ’at an’ weskit, an’ ’ad my trousis ’angin’
over its arm. an’ afore I got time ter do nothink
itturnroun’ an'see me; bust out a-larfin’ as nat’ral
as nat’ral, an’ made one tremenjus ’op onter your
bed an’ up through the winder onter th’ roof. I
couldn’t ha’ spoke—no, not if you’d ha’ offered
me a ’undered suv’rins down. I ’eard th’ ole fowl
knockin’ at th’ door an’ cacklin’, but answer ’er
back I could not. I jest laid ’ere kind o’ dazed
an’ insenseless-like.”
The incredulous smile upon Mr. Sharp’s coun-
tenance slowly broadened to a wide grin. He
seated himself on an inverted pickle-box and
shook with silent mirth.
“ That wos a nice way ter treat one o’ yer
fambly, Jerry,” he spluttered as soon as his merri-
ment would allow him speech. “ Not even ter
say, ‘set down, you’re kindly welcome.’ An’ then
ter begrudge ’im th’ loan o’ yer togs ! W’v didn’t
yer ’elp ’im dress ’isself, matey, instead o’ chasin’
’im up onter th’ roof afore ’e ’ad time ter get ’is
trousis on, lookin’ that indelicate that ole mother
Pullet nearly took a purpleptic fit? If you’d on’y
ha’ spoke pretty to ’im ”
“ But that ain’t the worst o’ wot I’m goin’ ter
tell you, Sam,” interrupted'Mr. Maunder. “It’s
got that ’ere watch an’ chain —it took ’em from
underneath me old ’at, fur I see ’em danglin’ out
of its big, ’airy ’and as it went outer the winder.”
Mr. Sharp recovered his lost gravity in record
time, and leapt to his feet, overturning the pickle-
box with a clatter.
“Wot!” he cried hoarsely, the blood rushing
from his cheeks and leaving them deathly pale.
“ D’ye mean ter tell me that you sor ’im take ’em
an’ didn’t offer ter stop ’im ? You mangy, bald-
’eaded, blue-bottle-nose shark you ! You’ve upset
the ’ole bloomin’ show. We’ll git jugged over
this, sure as eggs.”
Conflicting emotions choked him, and at that
instant a loud cheer, succeeded by a roar of
boisterous laughter, rose from the street below.
The half-frenzied Mr. Sharp darted from the room
into the narrow passage and thrust his body at a
dangerous angle out of a small casement which
commanded a limited view of the external world.
Distinctly resembling a dissolute savage chieftain
clad only in his blanket, Mr. Maunder hovered in
the wake of his confederate.
“They’ve got ’im,” groaned Sam; “’e come
down th’ waste-pipe of ’is own accord. I kin see
that’ere Dago bloke from th’ circus an’a John
’Op: they’re talcin’somethin’from’im. Oh Lord,
Jerry, we’re done fur —fair euchred ! ” He swung
round upon his agitated comrade. “Git back ter
bed,’’he said, peremptorily, “an’ don’t stir till
yer see me agin. I’ll try if I carn’t fix thin’s up
a bit.”
He ran swiftly downstairs, and pushed his way
through a convulsed crowd, in the midst of which
a bulky police-constable and a gesticulatory and
much-bejewelled gentleman were engaged in
stripping the borrowed plumes from an incensed
anthropoid.
“ Ah, ’ere’s Mr. Sharp,” exclaimed Mrs. Pullet,
as Sam elbowed to the front. “ Ain’t them Mr.
Maunder’s clo’s, Mr. Sharp?”
Sam nodded, and addressed himself point blank
to the legal custodian c» the nefarious chimpanzee.
“They belongs to a pore ole man wot I takes
care on,” he said, with feeling ; “ very weak in ’is
’ealth ’e is, an’ I ain’t sure as ’ow ’e’ll ever git
over th’ shock that ’ere ’orrible creetur o’ yers
give ? im w’en ’e see it come inter ’is room this
tnornin’, shave itself with ’is own razor, mind yer,
rig itself out in’is own togs,-an’stan’ be ’is bed-
side ’oldin’ out its ’orrid ’and fur ’is pulse, tickin’
it orf same as a doctor ’ud do.”
“Ah,” broke in the proud proprietor of the
animal in question, caressing his hideous charge.
“ Ah, ’e is a ver’ clevaire monkey is my own
leddle Beter. I myself drain ’im. Zumtime for
zee enderdaitiment before zee bublics I ’is dricks
make ’im berform —dress ’im in goat, drowser an’
top silk ’igh ’at, an’ len’ ’im my cold woz an’ jane;
zen anozzer leddle monkey call Zally, she bretend
she ver’ sick, an’ ’e zee doctaire to visit ’er gome,
an’ ’er bulse to feel. Of’en, ah of’en e’ take an’
bde my cold woz an’ jane vere I it cannot dis-
covaire, nor vill’e its concealed blace diverge;
but alwiz ’e bring it to me back in zee vat you
call long-ran. My goot fren’, zis clevaire Beter
to your fren’ zee doctaire a visit ’isself make to
’im. Zo.”
The mentally obfuscated Mr. Sharp glanced
appealingly at his hereditary foe, the constable ;
the latter twisted his moustache and regarded the
now quiescent ape with benignant concern.
“Well, guv’nor,” said Sam at length, “I’m
sure my friend don’t wanter be ’arsh ; but wot
with th’ shock an’ ’im ’avin’ lent th’ loan of ’is
best go-ter-meetin’ clo’s.to that good-lookin’ son
an’ hair o’ yers, I don’t think as ’ow it’s too much
to expeek a triflin’ con-sid’ration.”
A diverted crowd murmured approval of Sam’s
sentiment. The police-constable vainly strove to
hide a broad grin of intelligent delight.
“ Halphonser,” as a ribald populace had seen
fit to re-christen the gentleman whose hobby was
anthropoids, scratched his nose meditatively with
the nail of a bediamoned finger.
“Ah, zo !” he said, and fumbled in his breast-
pocket.
“’Ere is dickids for you an’ your fren’ to zee
zee berformance to-night.”
Mr. Sharp rejected the proffered orders with
dignity.
“ No, boss,” he said, decisively ; “ they ain’t no
use to us. My pore pal don’t ever wanter see
another monkey agin as long as ’e lives ; an’ as
fur me, I kin see plen’y of ’em without goin’ ter
no circuses.”
Halphonser plunged his hand into his pocket
again.
“Ah. you beebles, you are nevair not sadis-
fied quite. Weldon wonnerful zircus, too!” he
cried, despairingly. “Take zis, zen, saire.
Ah, zank ’eaven ! ’ere come zee four veeler.
My goot fren’s, one an’ all I gif to you my best
zanks.”
Sam accepted the sovereign with alacrity, and
Halphonser and his recalcitrant protege tumbled
together into the cab amid the vociferous plaudits
of the onlookers. Picking up Jerry’s private
and personal property, Sam eluded the inquisi-
tive of both sexes, who crowded about him with
pressing inquiries concerning the true state of
Mr. Maunder’s health, and returned to the sanc-
tuary of Mrs. Pullet’s back attic.
“There, Jerry,” he said, as he threw the gar-
ments upon his confrere’s disordered couch;
“I’ve done th’ trick, an’ no narsty questions
arst. Ole Ice-cream give me a thick-un fur
settm’ on your pal the monkey’s ’ead while ’e
pulled your coat an’ weskit off of ’im. .Now, put
yer clo’s on ; but fur Gaw’s sake don’t go outside
vet, matey, or else some o’ them good- ? earted
people 'll be thinkin’ there’s two of you, an’ once
in a cage there won’t be no ’ope left fur yer free-
dom, becos yer best friend, wot’s me, couldn’t tell
tb’ difference. I’d ’ave a look through the things,
though, afore I got inter’em, if I wos you. The
monkey might have left a cokernut in the
pocket. Anythin’ he lefbthere you kin keep. I
don’t like cokernu'ts.”
Mr. Maunder grinned sourly.
“Anythin’! find I kin keep, eh, Sam ?” he in-
quired, so soon as he stood up clothed and appar-
ently in his right mind. Mr. Sharp nodded.
“Them was my words, Jerry,” he said, firmly.
Mr. Maunder chuckled rapturously, and thrust-
ing his hand into his trousers-pocket, drew forth a
massive gold watch and chain.
“ Thanlcy, Sam,” he said, simply ; “ I think I’ll
jest step roun’ now an’ see Ikey Moss. I shan’t
be long.”
“ Well, I’m damned ! ’’ gasped Mr. Sharp.
LAWRENCE B. SUPP
Portland (Victoria).
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Good God said : “ Here a city grand
shall be—
Here the strength of men shall clamor in
the, shipyards by the sea,
Here the sound of blessed labor like a psalm shall
rise to Me,
As it rose from Tyre and Carthage in the roaring
Long Ago” ;
But the Rulers, who were wiser than the all-
creatirig God,
They were angry with their Maker, so they
riiuttered ‘‘Not a hod
Shall they lift, nor build a vessel—•-we are bearers
of the Rod ”
So the Old Town Did Not Grow !
The Good God said: “ Here’s a rich and glowing
Land,
Where the harvest shall be gathered by the
farmer’s powerful hand —
Here the ships shall come for burden, from this
glad and noble strand
Shall they bear the heavy cargoes to the lands
of pain and woe ” ;
But the Masters of the People sneered a large,
emphatic sneer,
And they said : “ No blessed farmers are required
to labor here —
Keep the shipyards up in Heaven, whence the
precious angels steer ”
So the Old Town Did Not Grow !
The Good God said: “Here the Nation shall
arise,
Here the People shall be fearless, scorning tawdri-
ness and lies—
Here the Commonwealth shall flourish and have
legislators wise,
So they shall not fear the coming of a devasta-
ting foe”;
But the persons who were foremost in the councils
of the State,
They were full of wrath and anger, they were
cursing in their hate.
And they said in tones of malice : “Let the great
Almighty wait”—
So the Old Town Did Not Grow !
The Good God said : “ Here the Rulers shall be
true— 1
Here the Leaders of the People shall avoid the
distant Jew,
All the Land shall be productive, with a mighty
revenue : — '
So they shall not need to borrow from the far-off
IkeyMo’’;,
But the Leaders of the People, they were com-
monplace and cheap,
And they borrowed piles of. money, and a pier Was
fashioned steep ;
But they fixed the railway traffic so it took a dif-
ferent leap—
And the Old Town Did Not Grow !
The Good God said : “This is where the people
could
Build Me temples in mine honor made of stone
and brick and wood,
For I give them full and plenty, as a God most
truly should.
Tis a shining Land of Glory I have fashioned here
below ” ;
But the Rulers having managed that the blessed
place should rot,
Only persons old and weary bided in that
pleasant spot—
So the temples to the Maker, they were raised and
builded not,
And the Old Town Did Not Grow !
The Good God said : “ I have done what I could
do—
I have given them a Country that is great and fair
and new ;
Here the dwellers shall be counted by the million,
not the few —
For the Land -is ribbed with iron, and its fur-
naces'should glow ” ;
But the Coves who ran the Country had a preju-
dice indeed
’Gainst Australian manufactures—’twas the key-
stone of their creed,
Arid they traded with the Stranger on the lines
laid down by Reid,
So the Old Town Did Not Grow !
The Good God said: “This is surely My
command —
Let the soil be cultivated, put the People on the
land.
Let the Country toil and prosper, let it flourish
and expaud.
So that all who dwell within it shall obtain an
equal show” ;
But the Rulers chose to differ, and they jammed
the citizens /
By the hapless hundred thousand into cheap
suburban dens—
Yea, they earned their bread and raiment pushing
clerks’ despairing pens,
So the Old Town Did Not Grow !
The Good God said “I have other things to do—
-1 11 return and note the progress in a century
or two,
I am off to look at Saturn and the planet-persons
who
Would rejoice to own this country where the winds
of gladness blow ” ;
But the rulers, they are when the Lord
Almighty comes,
He may hear the roaring menace of the Brown
Invader’s drums—
There’s a curse upon the Country, and the people
in the slums—
They are strangled'by the sweater whilst paralysis
benumbs,
And the Old Town Does Not Grow !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
Born 1820.
Still going
strong
It’s a fallacy to
say you can’t
buy AGE and
EXPERIENCE
you CAN in
Boni 1820.
Still going
strong
v.-.
MSal
W; #^;
>.V.V
o
p
SSfihS
- - ■"-■
- •jw.yrri
KijitvSyi
The Whisky with the
Little Label
and the
Big Reputation,
Safeguarded by a constant maturing reserve
stock of over 3£ million gallons.
ĥ
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ! ’ best drawings. Full Bulletin size
21s.
EVERY MAN AND WOMAN
no matter how good their general health and constitution may be,
must honestly admit that occasionally, at any rate, they feel rather
run down, and in need of something to correct wrong conditions and
bring them up to the mark. In such cases there is nothing better
than BEECHAM’S PILLS. A single dose will often be found
sufficient to remove the trouble and restore health and buoyancy of
spirits. Compounded with the utmost care from the purest in-
gredients, these pills are specially prepared for the relief and cure of
those stomachic ailments which, when neglected, may become serious.
BEECHAM’S PILLS are the finest tonic aperients in the world,
and epjoy the greatest popularity amongst men and women in all
ranks of society. Under the stress and strain of modern life everyone
SOMETIMES NEEDS
... ' : A
a little medicine. If you keep a box of BEECPIAM’S PILLS
by you, in the home or in your travelling bag, you have at
hand a convenient, well-tried remedy which will quickly relieve
any derangement of the digestive organs. Disorders arising from
errors of diet, impure state of the blood, sluggish liver and kidneys,
sedentary occupation, and so forth, are easily remedied by the use of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Many people find a periodical dose of this medicine of the utmost value
in keeping them “Fit,” clear-headed, alert and bright for the business
and pleasure of life. It is no exaggeration to say that everyone
would be the better for an occasional dose of BEECHAM’S PILLS.
THE WORLD’S FAMILY MEDICINE.
Sold in boxes labelled, price (36 pills), Is. (56 pills)
and 2s. 9d. (68 pills).
ħ
h
ĥ
Owing to its cleansing
action on tHe Kidneys
and other organs it is
a real health tonic.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids
V.A.V.BudgerreePort
Nature's Gift .
05*%.
fVAV?
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with oth«r brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a /p. 0.0. for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 P.TT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
r<
a M
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. AVrite to me
fully about your case
and I will advise you
honestly and without charge.
S.H. HEN5HALL,
Repd. Chemist,
bv.Rxa.mination
246 Clarendon Street,
DR. J. COLLIS
The Original and Or
BROWNE
y Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLO BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/14, 2/9 & 4/6
ħ
Checks and
arrests Fever
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
D/ARRHGzA, and is the
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed.
Penal
Seven
Prize Medals
Works : Birmingham, England
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention s also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Samole Box.
:
m
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
Q.’b« Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centunee
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1006.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for itfl history—the hook is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Road. Lbhdon, Eng.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
I/- EACH POST FREE 1/2
l Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
ICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
Storekeepers* tobacconists
SHOULD SEND TOR OUR TRADE UST
ASTHMA CURE
lAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration, Asthma,NerronßConKhi,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved bv 0 KIM AULT Sc Co's INDIAN CIQAB-
ETTF.S: fiot'rt bv all Chewifb.
Critchley Parker’s
Publicatiofis.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibadlt. pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d,
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nutt.
i
1
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
4*B hours.
Each Capsule bears the name
m
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Goughs and
Golds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.


Perdriau Leggings.
h
All Perdriau Leggings and Putties are
made to conform to the shape of the
leg. They fit comfortably, wear well,
and are perfectly waterproof. The
prices, carriage paid, are
Waterproof Tweed Leggings— warm
and durable, assorted shades, 4/6 per
pair.
Waterproof Brown Canvas Putties—
without straps, splendid for driving,
5/6 per pair.
o B i S ~~ nit;el '* ma(l . e a,l< l long: wearing.
°i. d Ca ' lco * S 1 n trle thfckness, 4/- per pair:
double thickness, 4/6 per pair.
R]fjT P r'^ tl Lea^ er , P u «‘es-for Motorists. Made of
ceiled hifeild 61 ’ bl ° cked ,n on e piece, spring front, con-
fret Strap V 12 / 6 P er Pair. Come in and
get a pair to-day, or order by mail.
fun a det!is rite for a ■ ree copy of our Price List > e ivin e
PERDR/AU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“ The House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
HOUSE LIGHTING.
BATTERY SETS
always in stock.
For particulars and prices apply:
T. K. Steanes, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney
Fibro-Cement
WHAT IS IT? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with. Asbestos. It has the strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made In Slates for roofing, Red, Grey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2AIn. x 4ft. for Wails, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; abo for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “ B ’’''to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY ; and
581-583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
THE - BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, fid ;
Packet of Ten, fid.
“ Clayton 8 Shuttleworth’
Portable STEAM ENGINE
Where firewood is plentiful these Engines can’t
be beaten. They are wonderfully economical
and reliable. Send for Illustrated Lists.
STATION OWNERS
W
would do well to instal only
THE
MACHINES.
They mean More Money and No Lost Time.
“TANGYE
WSm
PORTABLE OIL ENGINE.
The Ideal Engine for the Sheepowner and
Farmer. Handy for driving Sheep Shearing
Machines, Chaffcutters, Saws, etc.
DALGETY CO. LTD.,
SOLE
AGENTS,
Miller's Point
m i
Iflff
w -*-
i .•> 'wr--:^
r--:^
' UiT-
;.: v-^- /
■>.*)
The Handwheel of Starter Operates in Correct Succession :
Stator Winding Switch, Rotor Starter, Short Circuiting and
Brush Lifting Device, Both for Starting and Stopping.
STAERKER & FISCHER,
40 Clarence St., Sydney; 172 William St., Melbourne.
Complete A.E.G. Electric Equipments
FOR
Timber Mills, Textile Mills,
Paper Mills, Iron and Steel Works,
Shipbuilding Yards, Collieries, etc.
NOYES BROS.
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
155-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers,
St, George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
7 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
Country House and Station
Electric Lighting
Plants.
Dd
♦
Engineers and
aebinery merchants
60
Clarence st.
Sydney
N.
LTD.,
263 George Street, Sydney; I
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
ORE TREATMENT.
INSPECTION
INVITED.
Having erected a Crushing and Concentrating Plant, we are prepared to treat trial parcels
of ore at a small cost, which will enable you to prove the value of any mining proposition .
