

DEWAR’S -All that a perfect Whisky should be.
10*7 Kent street, Sydney,
" ' —FOB—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
SMikiw, .SxjiWx &• S&
Sole Agents for
Gardner=Duplex
Steam Pumps.
For Mining and General Service.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbou
rne.
HOBART.
—aUK -
fiadley’s Orient (jote!.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING *V.
Guarantkkd.
d. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
V
*
" Take it back.
I must have -
HUTTON S
Pine-Apple Brand
HAMS ©
BACON.
CHUBB’S SAFES
for JEWELLERS.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
HANSEN’S
dfg
sdfsd
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prixe Medals .
14
A
THE SECRET OF IT’S POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
%
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
MANNESMANN WELDLESS STEEL PIPES
Now taking the place of Cast-iron Pipes everywhere.
AGENTS - NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY) LTD., 109 PITT STREET.
FAIRBANKS-MORSE
OIL ENGINES
16 YOUNG STREET, SYDNEY.
MALTHOID is the strongest ready-made roofing procurable. It is
manufactured in four thicknesses, so as to suit every requirement. It
is light and easy to handle and lay, and we supply printed directions
vrith each roll, also nails, cement, etc., necessary to make a perfect roof.
MALTHOID is absolutely the best roofing for every kind of building.
m
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L TI?
CLYDE WORKS
k GRANVILLE A
Ims'mC
THE* CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
Steam and Power Pumps,
Cream Attemperators and Blenders,
c. a. Macdonald, ltd.,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
*The Hercules” Refrigerating Machine.
HELIDON SPA WATER
The Helidon Spa Water Co«, in its extensive distribution, has
placed 44 the rational water cure” within reach of all.
DEWHURST 8 HALLORAN, Ltd.,
Agents.
The Bulletin
Yol.3l— No. 1586.]
[Thursday, July 7, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,


dsfsdf
ON ANY SUBJECT.
Write us for any Books you Require.
We Welcome Inquiries.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP. Ltd.
71 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and tho
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says “ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote. ”
CO
A, The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY,
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
Agencies in all
THE RED PAGE
The Drama
The last decade has witnessed a decline in
British poetry and a revival of interest in
the drama. There has been a wider recog-
nition of the true function of the drama,
and, at the same time, a number of new
plays of high quality have been produced.
Ibsen’s influence has been very great. He
helped to give the modern drama backbone
and make it reflect something more than* the
surface of the time. After the first appear-
ance of his plays in England (1887 or there-
abouts) Pinero was affected, and abandoned
farcical comedy for serious drama. Bernard
Shaw came along with his brilliantly con-
structed “ destroyers” to smite rotten social
conventions and shoddy romanticism. His
theatrical criticism, and, more particularly,
that of William Archer, were valuable aids.
Synge, Yeats and Lady Gregory began a
new dramatic movement in Ireland, which
has been productive of much good work,
mainly in comedy. Galsworthy, Granville
Barker, Masefield and others are now giving
us modern English tragedies of great merit.
America, after a long infancy, has made a
beginning in a dramatic literature of her
own. Australia—well, Australia is getting
ready to make a beginning. Stage societies
exist in most of our cities. They have no
one to help them as the wealthy Miss Horni-
man helped the Irish Literary Theatre ; but
they have enthusiasm which will move moun-
tains. Here, as elsewhere, the drama is re-
ceiving a more general study. Modern
dramatic literature is being read, certainly
not so much as other kinds of fiction, but
still to a degree which is strengthening the
demand for better class plays at the regular
theatres. -
For such students Brander -Matthews,
professor of dramatic literature at Columbia
University, U.S.A., has written a valuable
handbook. A Study of the Drama (Long-
mans, Green and Cos.) is intended for those
who wish to know how plays are written. It
gives a view of the technique of the ancient,
mediaeval and moderi( dramas. It shows
what influences have affected the dramatist,
explains the structure of typical plays, and
discusses incidentally the philosophy or
poetry contained in the framework.
W
The foundation of the drama was probably
in primitive mimicry, just as the earliest
writing was by picture alphabet. The pre-
historic teller of snake-stories had to
“play a part” in order to convey the
full meaning of his narrative. The skele-
ton of a good play is still a panto-
mime. Words are not essential. In
America the success of the biograph-plays is
threatening the stability of the lower class
theatres’. The literary quality is something
that may be added to a drama, but is not in-
dispensable. Joseph Jefferson said : “ You
may have all the good literature you wish in
a play—if it does not interfere with the
play’s action.” Action is the first considera-
tion. Brander Matthews points out that it
is necessary to understand this dependence
of the play upon plot, upon action and not
upon literature at the beginning of your
study of the drama. The play must, how-
ever, be readable as well as actable in
order to live beyond its day.
Heywood was'the most adroit and prolific play-
wright of his time, hut for the most part his work
is journeyman and journalistic; it was actable
then, but it is well nigh unreadable now. Yet Hey-
wood’s plays were written for the same audience
as Shakspeare’s, and they conform to the same
theatrical conditions.
Then it must be remembered that the drama-
tist has had to consider (1) his actors, (2) his
theatre, and (3) his audience. The chief
parts in Marlowe’s Jew of Malta and Tambur-
laine were written for Alleyne, a most
robustious actor, who was nearly 7ft. in
height. Moliere suited his plays to his own
company ; Sardou kept Sara Bernhardt in
view when writing many of his plays, and
Rostand’s Cyrano was written specially for
Ooquelin. And there are many other cases.
The theatre has varied in shape and charac-
ter in different ages, and has influenced the
author as to what he could put in his play
and what he had to leave out. Modern
theatres are much alike in structure, and
plays written for one can be acted in any
other.
This standardising of the playhouse is anew
thing in the history of the drama. There may
have been a general resemblance between the con-
ditions under which Shakspeare worked and those
under which Lope de Vega worked, but these
early English and Spanish conditions were wholly
unlike those of the Greek theatre, the Roman
theatre, of the French theatre of Moliere’s time,
and of the English theatre of Sheridan’s day,
which all varied widely from one another.
The method of presentation depends upon
the kind of theatre, but the story to be told
depends upon the audience.
Of all the arts the drama is essentially the most
democratic, for it cannot exist without the multi-
tude. has been called “a function of the
crowd. It cannot hope for success when it seeks
to attract only a caste, a coterie, a clique ; it must
oe the art of the people as a whole, with all their
divergences of cultivation. ... The dramatis
hasever to find the greatest common denomina
tor of the public as a whole; whereas the lyri
poets and the novelists can, if they choose, narrow
their appeal to a single class.
ihe law of the drama itself was firs
clearly enunciated by Brunetiere. It is, in
otte. word, conflict. Every good play,
ancient or modern, is concerned with the
clash of. contending desires. The interes
centres in the principal figure’s fight agains
destiny, the laws of nature, or his fellow
man. The human will up against a tough
proposition of any kind makes the action o;
the play.
Brunetiere found a confirmation of his theory
in the fact that the drama has most amph
nourished when the national will has stiffened
itself for a magnificent effort. . . . And the Orien-
tals have no vital drama because they are
fatalistjs, because they do not believe in that free
will without which the drama cannot exist.
Matthews considers that this statement of
the law is the most important contribution
to dramatic theory made for many years, as
it enables us to classify the drama, to dis-
tinguish true dramatic conflict from the
grosser forms of combat, and to gauge the
real dramatic value of a play.
The conventions, permanent and tem-
porary, and the traditions of the drama are
clearly explained by Matthews. His chapter
on characterisation shows the difficulty of
the dramatists’ art as compared with the
work of the novelist, who can not only give
the whole history and a detailed description
of each character, but also explain what
each one thinks and what the author thinks
of him. To make his characters act and talk
like human beings of the quality implied in
his play requires the greatest gift of the
artist. “ In default of creative imagination
the mere playwright is forced to rely on his
plot rather than on his characters.” And
the dramatic artist must be a craftsman who
has learned his trade. The novelist has
often succeeded by virtue of sheer imagina-
tion without knowing much of the art of
construction.
Two of the most salient differences between
a play and a novel are due to two of the actual
facts of performance ; first, that in the theatre
every minute is counted, whereby the playwright
can waste time only at the risk of boring and be-
wildering the spectators; and, second, that the
spectators most seize the thread of the story as it
is unrolled before them, being denied the privilege
of turning back to the first chapter to pick up any
hints they may have missed inadvertently.
The loose form of the novel is much easier
than the drama. For this reason we get
hundreds of good novels to one good play.
In Shakespeare’s theatre the “groundlings ”
had to stand during a performance. What
a change would come over the novel if
readers had to stand whilst reading ?
A Study of the Drama does not profess to
be more than a student’s manual. But it is
an excellent one, and will prove of .great ser-
vice to students of the dramatic literature of
any period.
The Works of Bayldon
In his time Arthur Bayldon has played
many parts. He began as an author in
England. The spirit of adventure sent him
out to Australia at an early age, and at the
very outset he struck a Queensland flood
which turned away his' fortune. Undis-
mayed, he began to work at one thing and
then another; and after 18 years of “ the
bludgeonings of Chance,” his head is
“bloody, but unbowed.” He has told the
story of his career several times, and the list
of his occupations increases at every telling.
In the latest account (Sydney Worker) he
says :
To enumerate the various parts I have placed
would take a column. A few of marked contrast
will give an inkling of my many experiences. I
have been a private secretary and a swagman ; a
rouseabout and a phrenologist; a fancy-swimmer
and editor and a canvasser of a comic monthly •
teacher of English composition and clothiers’ 5
ag enE .am'ong kanakas; platform lecturer on
Buddhism and Irish subjects, and a tea-traveller •
book-canvasser and motto-writeV; insurance-
agent and picture-dealer—and hundreds of other
things.
He has not sought experience for the sake
of copy, nor has h§ travelled in search of
local color; but this varied knowledge of life
has filtered into certain poems a°ul tales
which have appeared from time to time in
The Bulletin and other papers. Then he
became his own publisher, canvasser, col-
lector and book-porter. (If he could have
been his own printer, like Andrews, the
gentle Anarchist, Bayldon would have
touched the limit.) He deserves credit'for
his enterprise. Not many poets can success-
fully play a lone hand against the tribe of
Barabbas.
Ihe first volume of his collected works,
published in 1907, under the title of The
Western Track and Other Verses, was worth
more than the 7s. 6d. charged for it. The
®® co ” d volume, just issued to subscribers—
lhe lragedy Behind the Ourtain and Other
stories though of similar size and in full
morocco, is not worth 7s. 6d., so honors are
easy. The printing is inferior, and the
author has been careless in matters of punc-
tuation, spelling and ordinary grammatical
construction. The principal fault in style,
however, is an excess of emphasis. The
reader is dazzled with so many glaring epi-
thets.. The use of ornate phrases which
sometimes cast a rich glow of color over his
verse has been carried to extremes, and
blurs whole pages of his prose. The stories
are not all tragic; but *BayIdon has no
humor. Some of his sketches resemble the
minor works of Poe, who was also destitute
of humor, and also liable, in straining after a
strong effect, to achieve only hysteria.
So much for the debit. On the other side
we have some strong stories, with passages
of imaginative description, which are un-
commonly good. The interest of most of the
. contents is psychological. TIis analysis of
motives and description of states of soul is
better than his landscape painting, though
occasionally there is a picture in modest
tones like this from a story of N. Queensland
pearl-divers :
there was the calm, blue sea on a voluptuous
heave beautifully soft and satin-like, studded
with lazy jelly fish of the bluest blue; there was
the sky of cerulean depth kindling beneath an
imperious sun ; there was Point on the star-
board side, mellow and mild in its green garni-
ture with a tangled string of white long-beaked
birds just sailing across it. And there was a
colored crew softly moving about the halliards
and the freshly-scrubbed deck. . . .
And there are passages touched with poetic
sentiment appropriate in their place, such as
this on in the diary of a lover’s emotions :
I had paused on the post-office steps to admire
the blooms of the flower-vendors: innocent
radiances, touches of materialised poetry creating
a little Eden all to themselves in the sordid
centre of trade. Methought the faded faces of the
passers-by turned towards them caught reflections
from their own memory of beautiful far off
scenes connected with blossoms and sweet odor.
In one item, “Dr. Graham's Great Experi-
ments,” Bayldon has independently worked
on the same theory as Algernon Blackwood
in John Silence —the extraction of psychic
forces from a haunted house by a “sensitive.”
Most of the stories are located in Australia,
and there are some strong “situations” in
them.
A few copies of the book may still be had
on application to the author, c/o Townsend
and Co., 282 Pitt Street,-Sydney.
The 0’Flynn, by Justin H. McCarthy
(Sydney Book Club), is a novel written round
a play lately acted in London with great
success by Beerbohm Tree’s company. On
the boards it had a sub-title which accurately
described it: “ An original play derived from
many sources.” Flynn O’Flynn, the big
soldier of fortune, who returns to his ances-
tral home to find it a ruin in the hands of
bailiffs, is a good specimen of the stage Irish-
man. He makes love and improvises verse,
like Cyrano ; turns his bailiffs into servants,
like the hero of Goldsmith's Good-natured,
Man ; is as gallant as Beaucaire, and fights
with the humor of D’Artagnan. Every
feature is old; but all are woven into a
rollicking story.
Harry Graham’s Bolster Booli is intended
to help the sufferer from insomnia. Graham
is a professional funny man, whose Verse
and Worse and other little books have caused
many broad grins. The Bolster Book is
prose of the lightest and most frolicsome
description, which might be read with safety
on the most virtuous bolster. An extract
from the account of that master-mind, Frank
Richardson, will illustrate its style :
If I were to take my readers to the Carlton
Restaurant and point out a rotund, bald hectio
individual, sitting at a table near the band, they
would never believe that this, could be Frank
Richardson. They would be right; it is not.
Let me describe the man as I often see him
hurrying down the Strand with a bundle of price-
less manuscripts under his arm, on his way to the
pulp mill. That tall Gibson figure, svelte and
well-groomed (as the lady novelist would say),
that martial bearing, that vigilant eye (or rather
those two vigilant eyes), that strenuous chin, that
nose (for the moment I cannot think of a suitable
epithet), those long, nervous, taper feet, all the
prominent national characteristics which combine
to make us Englishmen what we are (a poor
excuse, however) are here embodied in the single
person of one unique individual.
The more extravagant the humor the more
popular it is likely to be ; for which reason
Miss Rineheart’s When a Man Marries
(Dymock) is the best seller of the month in
America. The humor is entirely that of
situation, for it is a comedy of errors written
down to the level of the cheapest farce.
' ’ —■ ♦ :
n , ’GhR-’ : Ae Marjorie Bowen (“Red Eage “
2/b, 10). Her real name is Gabrielle Campbell.
Ihe damsel was originally designed for an
artistic career, and in the Latin quarter was a
fellow student of two talented Adelaide girls—
Rose Macpherson and Bessie Davidson. Her
mother is the author of numerous novels, and the
girl relinquished painting in favor of fiction. Her
first novel, “ The Viper of Milan,” was published
wnen was twenty-one, and won her instant
success.
CLOTH OF GOLD.
Some spin in the light and the splendor,
borne Weave in the dark and the cold ;
But the least with a touch that is tender
Makes cloth of his fancies of gold,
he twines the wide Earth and her glories,
Warm love, and the passions of men
Into poems and pictures and stories
. By toil of the brush and the pen.
They have taken the mountain and meadow,
I he wind and the river and rain,
The star and the sunlight and shadow
_ fhe deep and the drift of the main ;
With their hearts they have broidered and bound
them,
With their hopes they have folded and sped,
With the love of their lives they have crowned
them,
And twisted their faith in the thread.
My hand to you, weavers a-weaving !
My heart to you, spinners that spin
With your threads .'of love-laughter and grieving,
mu ° U £ ’’Meads °f soul-beauty and sin !
1 hough the world greet your labor with scorning,
in your toil your reward shall ye meet,
.bor no song of the stars of the morning
As the hum of your wheel is so sweet 1
THE BRUMBIES.
There we steeds upon many a Western plain
I hat have never bowed to a bit or rein,
lhat have never tightened a girth or chain.
They feed in the blue-grass, fearless, free
As the curbless wind on the bit-less sea,
And the life they lead is a song to me.
For I know there are those in the world to-day
Who are just such rebels at heart as they,
Running uncurbed in the brumby way.
Men that have never been bridle-bound,
Bitted or girthed to the servile round.
Men of the wide world s stamping ground,
Who have wheeled to the Dawn ; have kept lone
guard
When the soft Bush nights crept golden-starred :
Rebels that never the world shall yard.
There is room on this earth for the toilers, too,
Arid some must draw where their grandsires drew,
And some must lope on the trails anew.
But as long as the girth and the harness scar,
As long as there’s land nnfenced and far,
The wild mob foods under moon and sta'r.
Will Qoilvie (from The Land we Lore).
NEW YEAR’S EVE.
“I have finished another year,” said God,
“ In grey, green, white and brown;
I have strewn the leaf upon the sod.
Sealed up the worm within the clod,
And let the last sun down.”
“And what’s the good of it ?” I said.
“ What reasons made you call
From formless void this earth we tread,
When nine-and-ninety can be read
What nought should be at all ?
® lre ’ shaped you us, ‘who in
This tabernacle jrroan ’—
If ever a joy be found herein.
Such joy no man had wished to win
If he had never known ! ”
Then he : “ My labors—logicless—
You may explain; not I;
Sense-sealed I have wrought, without a guess
lhat I evolved a Consciousness
To ask for reason why.
Strange that ephemeral creatures who^
By my own ordering are,
Should see the shortness of my view,
Use ethic tests I never knew,
Or made provision for ! ”
He .sank to raptness as of yore,
' And opening New Year’s Dav
Wove it by rote as theretofore
And went on working evermore
In his unweeting way.
THOMAS HARDT.
Love and the Aeroplane, by John Sande's
(N.S.W. Bookstall Co.), is a stirring tale of
to-morrow in Australia. Aeroplanes are used
to carry the mails out-back, where the
brumbies have become a pest and are hunted
for their scalps. Though everyone uses
motor-cars, and John Hop does his beat in
an aeroplane, the beer is still behind the
times in Waratah Valley. However, the
mono-rail may alter that. The line is laid,
and ’the first train, travelling at 150 miles an
hour, whizzed into Waratah during the pro-
gress of the story. All these advanced con-
veyances have their effect upon the central
drama. A handsome wife, finding her good
husband rather dull and life slow, hankers
for thrills and is vaguely unhappy. Aus-
tralia is a country of magnificent distances ;
but the biggest distances, as somebody says,
are within ourselves—suph as those between
husband and wife. The wife gets excite-
ment with complications, owing to the
proximity of the villain at inopportune
moments. But the villain is duly spiflieated,
and the curtain falls on distance annihilated
and virtue triumphant. It-is better than a
bob’sworth of Bland Holt.


a
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
Canton Guard Lever Harrows
m
KM
Ik*
J
3
J
J
J
4
J
1057
Similar in construction to the ordinary U-Bar Lever Harrow, with the addition of the
Guards that protect the ends of the tooth bars. , ,
This Harrow is superior to all others for use in orchards, vinevards or tra-oy ground.
The ends of the tooth bars being protected prevents injury from colliding with trees or shrubs,
and avoids the accumulation of trash that would foul the ordinary Harrow. •
By throwing the levers forward the teeth are thrown back for transporting, or to clear the
Harrow of trash. 0 . , , ,
Made in two Sections of 25 or 30 teeth to the Section. The teeth are 8 inches long by
2 Sections of 25 teeth each with bars as shown, weight 2031 b., width Bft., complete, 75/-
2 Sections of 30 teeth each with bars as shown, weight 2311 b., width 10ft., complete, 8“*/-
No. 587.
Double-Furrow IVE&rvel Floufifli, to work with one horse, all Iron, with two Steel
Shares (No. 587), 88s.
Double Furrow
Marvel Plough.
Wiard Patented Steel Beam Plough.
No. 100, Wiard’s Patented Steel Beam Plough, 2-horse. Ploughs Gin. to 9in. deep, lOin.
to 14in. wide. Fitted with ordinary Colonial Coulter Weight, 1061 b. Can be had
with Iron Handles if required. This Plough is one of the easiest of draught of the
whole Wiard series. Price £3 15s. Extra Shares, Is. 9d. each.
■n:
No. 590
No. o—One Horse
Iron Plough,
with one extra share and Spanner ; weight, 1161 b.
(No. 590) 70s.
The Little
Beauty
Iron Pony
Plough,
weight, 821 b., 50s.
We are now stocking disc ploughs, which are made exclusively for certain selections,
but for general use everywhere, in hard, soft, dry, wet, old or new soil, No. 4 is better
adapted than any other make or style.
The discs are 24 inches in diameter, and the single disc will turn furrows from 3 to 12
inches, and the gang ploughs have adjustments of equal dimensions between each disc. The
discs are all ball bearing, have dust-proof boxes, and are set at the proper angle to revolve
freely when in contact with the soil. The soil is turned completely over and is thoroughly
pulverised. Can be adjusted to cut 10 or 12 inches.
Attachment to make 2-Furrow into a 3-Furrow plough, or 3-Furrow to 4-Furrow, 60/-
The Canton Disc Plough has been universally successful. Weight, 7801 b. .£l6/5/-
3-Furrow ditto, ditto. Weight, 9001 b. £2l.
Canton No. 4 Disc Plough.
The hopper is made with two apartments, one for the
seed and the other for the fertilizer. By an ingenious
arrangement the fertilizer drops at the same instant in the
rear separately and to the right and left, and mixes with
the soil, thus avoiding all danger of injury to the seed i
Price £5 9s. 6d.
Star Billings Planter and
Fertilizer.
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LISTS
POST FREE
ON
APPLICATION.
For fine work among 1 small plants where it isdesired simply toloosen and pulverise the soil, this
style of cultivator is unsurpassed. Adjustable and reversible steel teeth, diamond shaped, may
be used either end up, and may be set either straight, or slanting backward or forward. One
end of each tooth is cut plain, while the other end is curved and forged as illustrated. We
recommend this implement as the strongest and best Harrow Cultivator made. Price 31s. 6d.
THE MATTHEWS
NEW UNIVERSAL
EXCEL HARROW
CULTIVATOR.
Weight 631 b.
Wiard
Patent
Steel-beam
Swivel Ploughs.
With Straight Coulter.
dfsdfsdh dsfsfs
These are the first practical Steel-beam Side-Hill Ploughs ever produced.
The beams are of highest grade forged steel, and are stronger than any other beam
made. They are so adjusted that the Plough works perfectly when reversed either
wav, and all the parts are attached in the simplest but strongest manner. The Coulter
is the ordinary Colonial pattern, not as shown. ' ' . .
No. 120-Steel beam, Sin. to Bin. deep, Bin. to 12in. wide; weight, with
clevis, 1181 b. 78/6. . . , , , . .
No. 21—Wiard One-horse Hillside Plough, with wood,beam, ploughs 4in. to
Tin. deep, Gin. to lOin. wide ; weight, 781 b. 42/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Kent Brewery, Sydney
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS.
ANDRADE'S
MINSTREL SHOW,
or Burnt Cork
Comicalities.
A Splendid Collec-
tion of Comic Songs,
Jokes, Conundrums,
Stump Speeches,
Monologues, Dia-
logues, Farces, Inter-
ludes and After-
pieces for Minstrel
Entertainments.
1/-
Post Free
1/2. •
Ivklly Gang, True Stor}%
1/-. Book op Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotcb, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, ]/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pajres, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
&~AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
dfsdfsdf
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying' and Van-
ishing Billiard Bails,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d.; post
free, Bd.
Tin? Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. wir.h Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
All Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’S ‘FECIT Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver Bowels Skin nnH
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken hi
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness. *
CAUTION. Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked EEO'S ' FIZTTTT V 4 7 r r '
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery—IMITATION. ’
Prepared only by J.C. ENO Ltd., ‘FRUIT SALT’ WORKS, London
S.E., Eng., by J. C. ENO S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
The Association of Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
When ordering from Agents please insist
upon every article of plate being stamped: —
§©@@sj
Ml!
King’s, Queen’s, Piddle,
Rat-Tail, Old English, Albany,
Gadroon and Fancy Patterns.
fsdfsdfs
Crests and
Monograms
Engraved,
4s. per dozen.
iiarai
'C* <i
We have the
finest
selection of
CANTEENS
in
LONDON,
prices from
£4 4s. Od.
£lOO.
Please write lor
SPECIAL
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET.
TOU CAN BUY FROM ENGLAND. Pay your Duty and purchase cheaper
and better than you are now doing. Write for our Illustrated Cata-
logue. 6,000 Illustrations Post Free to any part of the world.
6, Grand Hotel Buildings, London, W.C.
sfsdfd
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
DINNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA,
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
sddsfsf
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures. Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgasre Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaving
up to 20 per cent, of the loan durinsr any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Dirp.ctors —The Hon. A. VY. 3leeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputv-Chairman : Benjamin
short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. ft. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E' Winchcombe. M.L.C.:
. A '* r ' f,n Knox, Esq.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A.. F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
S. SMITH & SON’S (Ltd.)
WORLD-RENO WNED WA TORES.
Ladies’ Lever Watches,
in Solid Silver Cases,
£1 10 0
In Iron Clad Cases, £l.
%
/
m
Ladies’ Lever Watches,
in fine Gold Cases,
£3 IS 0
In Half-Hunting 18ct. Gold
Cases, £5 5 0
By Appointment to
H.M. The King.
Write for
New
Illustrated
Catalogues.
Watches, Clocks,
Jewellery,
Speed Indicators,
separate volumes.
Special Terms
to Shippers.
The “ Charing X, ” All-English Lever,
fully Jewelled, in Silver Case, £2.
/
N
S.SMITH ft SONS
"THE CHU RING*
The “Trafalgar All-English Lever,
in Iron Clad Case, £l.
THE “STRAND” ALL-ENGLISH GENTS’ LEYER, in massive 18ct. Gold Cases,
best quality obtainable. Crystal, £l3 15s. Full or Half Hunters, £l6 16s.
Watchmakers to the Admiralty, 9 STRAND, LONDON,
COUGHS
' Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and "
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELL’S
BALSAM
OP
ANISEED
Of All Stores
and Chemists ,
*«ADE MAR* 1 *
1
m
mm
m
m
Mr. GEORGE TITHERADGE.
THOSE WHO
SEEK HEALTH
should read this letter from that popular actor,
Mr. George S. Tltheradge, who speaks elo-
quently of the good derived from the standard
Australian nerve remedy,
CLEMENTS
TONIC.
People who take an interest in the theatre
will remember that the popular actor, Mr.
hreorge b. Tltheradge, was not at all well when
he arrived from England. This culminated in
a severe attack of appendicitis with compli-
cations. On reaching convalescence, he was
with great difficulty, induced to try Clements
Tonic, with the gratifying result that he was
often taken for his own son. The following
letter speaks for itself:—
Dear Sirs,
I promised to let you know what good (if any)
Clements Tonic did me. This is the result:— *
Two or three times recently I have had occasion in
the course ot business, to mention my name to people
who were unacquainted with me off the stage.
In each case the query has been put to me: “Dow’s
your father’s health ? ” Verb. sap.
Yours faithfully,
GEORGE S. TITHERADGE.
There is no equal to this remarkable medicine for the relief r • „
(caused through excessive study or business cares), Imperfect Digestion Poo^A
Nerve Breakdown. It has also a healthful toning effect uDorfthe, t’- Appetite, or
All Stores and Chemists sell it throughout the Commonwealth. It savesAife *Sendn'T’


fsdfsdsdfsd
Poor little fellow! He coughs
so hard he cannot sleep. That
makes him weak and sickly all the
next day. - His brother thinks this
coughing is terrible. So do we, for
we know that just a few doses of
'Cheri'n Sectoral
will stop the cough. For sixty years
it has been the standard remedy
with men, women, and children for
colds, coughs, and all throat and
lung diseases. It contains no nar-
cotic or poison of any kind. Be sure
that you get Ayer’s Cherry Pec-
toral. Accept no cheap and worth-
less substitute.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co. ( Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
fsd
TEH DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
lg allowed on every cycle bought of us. Your
money in full refunded with utquißtion
if i.ot perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Go'weffstF’y Gy&ties,
warranted five to ten year-, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
LATEST
MODE:S
£3alo to &9
Coaster Hubß, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Bim Brakes, variable gears
and all lates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to any port in the world. We guarantee Bafe delivery.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each district.
Large profits easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and ' VLv t oecial offer on sample machine. '
MEAD CYCLE CO a, Dept. 280 Liverpool-
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Agent.
157 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
f
UNIVERSAL
The name < Eley >
on any cartridge is
recognised by all
spor.smen the world
over as a hall-mark of
excellence and reliability
The ‘ Universal ’ i z- Bore Cartridge
is one of the most popular of all
‘Eley Smokeless’— the popular low-
price cartridge
‘Eley 22 Rim Cartridge’— accurate
and clean
Obtainable thiuuzh ynur Gunmakev o » Dealer
See the
name
s
car-
tridges
> >
a
b
Ltd.,
London
hdfsf
H.Hillier,
161 George St. West,
Sydney, N.S.W.,
Manufacturer, Importer.
Sporting. Sulkies, £9 10s. Abbott Buggies, solid
leather trimmed, £3l 10s. Buggies, from £ll 10s.
Governess Carts, Phaetons, etc. Send lor illustrated
catalogue. Harness, per set. £3 11s. Double Harness,
£5 10s. Stock Saddles, £2 10s. to £4 10s.
sdfsdf
BE- SURE YOU GET
BONNINGTOIM’S
IRISH MOSS.
Most chemists and retailers will giv& you
Bonnington’s Irish Moss directly you ask ior it.
Here and there, however, you will find one who
does not maintain the dignity of the profession,
and who will try to sell you a substitute, on
which he makes a larger profit. You know the
insidious argument, “Yes, I stock Bonnington’s; but have you tried my own
mixture ? It is ‘just as good.’”
Allow no one to deceive you. There is no remedy so good as Bonnington’s
Irish Moss.
FOR THE CHEST, THROAT AND LUNGS.
Try it the next time you have a cold, and you will be satisfied.
[1
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“ OUR. JACK’* Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS” Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR 1/6 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Fitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
THE IDEAL FOOD
fop children from birth is
HoMick’s Malted Milk
It contains all the necessary constituents
in their proper proportions.
It contains no Starch and, is therefore
suitable for infants from birth.
It forms bone, nerve and muscle.
It is all food and no waste.
It is pure and free from bacteria.
It is easily and thoroughly assimilated.
Beware of Infants’ Food®
containing Starch.
dsf
HORLICK’S MALTED MILK
has been Analysed by the Board of Health and admitted
free of duty. Chemists, etc., are therefore safe in
selling Honlick’s Malted Milk, and parents are
guaranteed a suitable food for children from birth,
which contains No Starch.
No confusion arises when you order Horlick’s, as only one kind is
manufactured, and only one is needed to feed your child.,No Milk is re-
quired in the preparation of Ho flick’s as in other foods—water only.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores, etc.
Samples : 82. Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W:
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co., Slough, Bucks, Eng.
VARICOSE
VEINS
WHY Stiffer from this
Dread Affliction ?
A FEW years ago, unless you underwent
a surgical operation, you had no hope
of obtaining relief if you suffered from
Varicose Veins in the legs.
To-day, owing to the great strides in science,
not only may you obtain painless relief, but
you can obtain an absolute cure for your trouble
without any inconvenience or interruption to
your daily pursuits.
THE VECSEY METHOD OP
TREATMENT is a perfectly painless, ex-
ternal treatment that at once alleviates the pain
caused by Varicose Veins, and then rapidly
reduces and ultimately entirely restores the vein
to a normal state.
SEND 2d. STAMP and let us post you
our Free Book giving full particulars.
CONSULTATION FREE. Call if possible.
Vecsey Varix arium,
104 Linden Court, Sydney. 604
RUPTURE
I Do -you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you frown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ol
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirelv new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease lrom the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full'Particulars Tosteil Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
sd
Zaw Paints
/ni/entorj
BY LETTER. Reliable informa-
tion and advice on all matters con-
cerning- the obtaining of Patents,
and the best means of keeping the
titles thereof inviolate during the term of grant.
If you have an invention and wish to patent it, forward
an accurate description of it, and you will receive an
answer by return of post as to whether it is patentable,
and what will be the cost of completely protecting it (in.
eluding drawings, etc.). No charge made for such report
and all communications treated strictly confidential.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
v \
•V..
✓
S
£
SS
t*
WOOD-MILNE
SHOESHINE
is the latest and best thing in
boot polishes. It makes boots
waterproof ; keeps leather soft and
pliable; prevents cracking, and
gives a brighter and more lasting
shine than any other polish.
WHOLESALE AGENTS—
D. 8 W. MURRAY,
LIMITED,
ADELAIDE, S. AUS.
the “TYPHOID FLY”
DANGEROUS DOMESTIC PEST.
This is our well-known domestic pest—the
common house fly. In addition to being a typhoid
carrier, the fly may carry nearly all the intestinal
diseases and is the prime agent in the spread of
summer dysentery, being in this way unquestion-
ably responsible for the death of many children
in summer. The fly also possesses importance as
a disseminator of the bacilli of tuberculosis, the
danger of human infection from tubercular fly
specks being by the ingestion of the specks
on food.
It is a startling thought that a person who
drinks a cup of tea or a glass of milk into which a
fly has fallen may take into his system 1,250,000
bacilli of typhoid, dysentery or tuberculosis.
Summing up the position, the typhoid or house
fly is a general or common carrier of pathogenic
bacteria. It may carry typhoid fever, Asiatic
cholera, dysentery, cholera morbus and other
intestinal diseases. It may carry the bacilli
of tuberculosis and certain eye diseases. Jt
is everywhere present, and it is disposed
of with comparative ease by the use of
INSECTIBANE.
INSECTIBANE is sold everywhere, but it
is necessary to be careful to observe the spelling
of the name, as no other insect powder possesses
the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so
peculiarly efficacious.
Sole Proprietors :
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & COl
“LINSEED COMPOUND ” for Coughs and
Colds. Loosens phlegm. Allays irritation.
a POIiICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price. 6'd. The Bulletin Office.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Trouble.
I’m due at the office at five to nine,
But I never get there till ten.
Though to catch my usual boat I try.
The trouble comes in when I say “ Good-bye ” ;
It takes such a time ; but then —
I've got a little kid at home;
He's the quaintest little elf !
He ivaves his hand—but you understand :
You've got a little kid yourself!
At the office I used to work with zest;
Now I do my job bv rote,
And I never hurried home—did you ?
I had always time for a drink or two;
Now I scoot for the five o’clock boat.
For I've got a little kid at home ;
He's the cutest little elf!
He's on the go ; but, of course, you know —
You've got a little kid yourself ?
I’ll lose my job if I don’t look out,
For my thoughts—l can’t help them —
Keep wandering back to him in bed,
And wondering whether he really said
“Mum-mum” at 4 a.m.
For I’ve got a little kid at home ;
He's the brightest little elf !
He plays with his toys — oh, you’ve got boys !
You know all about it yourself!
And though the rent is harder to pay,
And I need a nice new hat,
He had to have his pram, of course ;
„ And soon he’ll be up to a rocking horse ;
But what do I carr about that !
For I've got that little kid at home ;
He's the fattest little elf 1
Do you knov> what he weighs ? Oh, you've
■passed that phase :
You've got a whole mob yourself!
So when on the boat I see a smile
Come round a mouth that’s grim,
And eyes, that were dulled in the office glow,
I smile, and he smiles back ; I know
The complaint that is troubling him !
He's got a little kid at home !
And he talks to me of the elf;
And I talk of mine — oh, the ivorld's a-shine
When you've got a little kid yourself!
N.S.W.
ARTHUR H. ADAMS.
Amid the Hills.
The wooded ways and the paths where we tarrifed
The mountain eagles kne«\ '*•*' "
The mountain breezes our songs have carried
Singing the she-oaks through ;
Far down below us the widespread meadows
Smiled in their gofd and green, .
Flecked with the dark of the cool cloud-shadows,
The sunlit sward between,
Gome you again to the grey old ranges
And the river reaches cool—
The wildwood ways that have known no changes
By hollow or dreaming pool;
Back to the groves where the fern fronds curling
Hide half the velvet moss
Under the shade of leaf banners furling
The long green aisles across.
May we not find where the gums grow straightly
Freedom from all our pain?
May we not dream ’mid the blaekwood stately
Some of the old dreams again !
Cool our thirst where the streamlet wrangles
Down from the hills above?
Find ’mid the heat-flower’s crimson tangles
The golden, lost thread of Love ?
To-night the mists rise white on the river,
The stars gem the old lagoon,
And the Autumn breezes rustle and shiver
The reed beds under the moon.
And the mopoke calls in the forest fastness,
And the peaks stand black to the sky,
To the silence, the splendor, the freedom, the
vastness,
Have we said for aye good-bye ?
There’s a road to the West that lies open ever,
A white road under the sky,
Leading away to the range and river,
Where the faint cloud-shadows fly ;
From all the burthens of care that crush you
From all of the olden pain
The great Bush holds out her arms to hush you
Back to her heart again.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN WALKER.
Heaven’s Gate.
It seemed that I was dead, and toiled
Up spacious stairs of beaten gold,
Where in a starry vortex boiled
A million flaming worlds of old,
And came at length to Heaven’s gate.
There many pious warders sate.
For each was set a turnstile fine
Of silver sheen, and over it
In one impressive, burning line
The title of a sect was writ.
A warder sat for every creed,
And Heaven’s gate was wide indeed !
I looked in vain for some small place
Where, creedless, one might enter through ;
But none was there, so turned my face.
I’d come to Heaven cashless too,
And by those stiles the pastors wait
To take the money at the gate.
VICTORIA.
EDYSON.


Combination Couch and Bed.
, CKANCihI) INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
mm
CLOSED AS COUCH.
aaa aaanoa sv N3do
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the, thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ♦ i n
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. ♦ in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY,
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and.
George Streets, Brisk
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTON.
8 I
E
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful l inks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.— Richardson Ball-Bearing 1
Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S. A. Sole Distributing Agents
_fo£_Gj£ggtitain and Ireland—Messrs. J. C. Plimpton & Co., Liverpool.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
JZ9‘
*
Vl-Uili
Always buy Mantles bearing: the WELSBACH
trade mark.
MANTLES
Welsbach Mantles always give a pure,
steady, white light, just like daylight.
Welsbach Mantles mean an improved light,
and more—a considerable saving in the
gas bill every month.
fsd
WELSBACH
MANTLES
Welsbach Mantles not only excel in light-
ing properties, but last longer, because of
their wonderful strength.
Welsbach Mantles are Australian made, and
far superior to imported mantles. “Cheap ”
mantles are dear at any price.
WELSBACH
MANTLES
32V4
A
%
Your gasfitter or storekeeper can supply
you with WELSBACH Mantles.
The Public Supplied Direct from the Manufacturers.
to «wITh anttfi S UtCr s imP °; te :f and p S \ Buyers of Hi^h - Class Watches, Clocks, Solid Silver and Silverplated Goods in the Commonwealth, we are in a better
Direct with th M * iC *** 6 ter Va ° £ an an y ot^er stofe m our line of business. We are determined to give our customers the benefit of our Cash System and Dealing
w whT thev r an U ?4% W h me T S a r SaVm f ° f 10 t 0 20 F ° f We d ° not deal in sfaa “ Even our lowest-priced articles are of sound and genuine quality-
y epresented to be in material, make and finish. Write to-day for our new Art Catalogue, 112 pages, beautifully illustrated, in fine art cover. We post it free.
No. H92s9—Pearl, Garnet and Tourmaline
set 9ct. Gold Brooch, £l/12/6.
No. Dl424—Fine Tourmaline and 15ct.
Gold Brooch, £l/17/6.
No. J74B—Fine Pearl and Amethyst
set 9ct. Gold Brooch, £l/10/-
No. D 4719— Fine Pink or Blue To
maline set 15ct. Gold Brooch,
£2/5/=
No. J29lo—9ct. Gold Brooch, set Pearls
and Green Peridot, 21/-
No. Jl9lB—Fine Pearl and
Turquoise set 9ct. Gold
Pendant, 32/6.
No. J2636—Fine Pearl and
Peridot set Gold Brooch,
£2/17/6.
No. F7766—Fine Pearl set
15ct. Gold Pendant Brooch,
with Diamond Centre, £l5
No. 04574—15 ct. Gold Necklet, set with Pine White Pearls
Pink Tourmalines and Aquamarine, £lO.
Fine Diamond, Ruby and Sapphire " Dragon
Fly ” Brooch, £lO/10/=
No. J 2909 Oct. Gold
Pendant, set Pearl, Pink
and Green Tourmalines,
21/.
No. C442B—Fine Amethyst and
Pearl-set 15ct. Gold Brooch,
£5/10/.
X
No. C 4840 —Fine Pearl and
Amethyst-set 9ct. Gold
Pendant, £l/17/6.
No. J2s37—Finest quality Aquamarine and
Pearl set 15ct. Gold Brooch, £3/5/-
No. .1749—Fine Pearl and Amethyst set
9ct. Gold Brooch, £l/1 5/-
No. J73o—Fine Pearl and Peridot .-et
9ct. Gold Brooch, 18/6.
No. FB2Bo—lsct. Gold Brooch, set with fine
White Pearls, £3/15/-
N'u. ,1492—10 ct. Gold Brooch, Daisy and
Crescent Design, set with Ruby
Centre, £l/5/-
STEWART D AWSON (&CO. (Australia, Ltd.),
Strand Corner, 412 George Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 31.—N0. 1580.
THURSDAY, JULY 7, 1910.
Prick 6d.
Shifting the monkeys of
Sydney Zoo to their new
home.
Passing of ait Apparition.
The Federal Speaker has
abandoned his wig.
George Reid
has been elected
an extraordinary
member of Lon-
don Athenamm
Club.
Nightmare of a Fight Follower:
Chained up ; and when he shoots
Johnson the bullets rebound off his head.
CURRENT EVENTS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by Wtlltam Maclkod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper. Co.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384- Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance. Onlv)
Per Annum ... ... ... £l6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... q i$ g
Quarterly ” 0 7 0
■ sni, H n P Mrect to Tim Bulletin Office Tiventy-Six
o/n (lings sterling you can have Tint Rum.ktin posted
regularly to you every iveek for a year.
Cheques , Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
ahe addressed to William M act,non, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Corresvondents to Tim Rum.ktin would oblige the vaner
(and. to an extent, themselves) by taking some, care as to
methods o f address.
Business letters (with retiard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case he addressed to the Editor,
out to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a pood thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Rum.ktin,” is the, proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not he there; the oilicial
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to he refused.
~T^ e c, “itents of this paper are cogyriuht by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any vart of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submil'ed, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length , or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Betters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tim Rum.ktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it ivill be understood that the copy is to he
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tim Bulletin
desires, farther, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Rum.ktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or irash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for mu kct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted fo~ direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forivarded direct to agents on account
of. Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at hid per doz. nett.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Liulyate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Tlolbnrn, London. W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S. A. —lsserlis A. , Seattle, Washington; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong.— Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and, Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates.size 6'gin. x lhin.,
will be forivarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JULY 7, 1910.
A PROFIT OR A PAUPER.
The Yassberra proposed Federal capital site has
been visited bv Minister O’Malley, and Minister
O’Malley praised it without any mad or whirling
enthusiasm. He didn’t throw his large hat at
the stars when he saw the place, nor did he drink
the adjacent town of Queanbeyan dry in the
blaze of his admiration. “It’s a very fair site,
but —well, you know, it’s not the Snowy,” was
one statement that the Sydney Telegraph ex-
tracted from him. The S. M. Herald dressed
up his remarks in somewhat similar strain, and
said that: “There is water enough, not merely
to ‘ drovyn a man ’ —a matter previously of anxious
doubt in Melbourne — but enough for a bigger
CITY THAN EVER THE CAPITAL IS LIKELY TO BE.”
That is but faint praise, for the party which the
Herald represents frankly states its belief that
an Australian capital at Yassberra will never be
anything more than a very small city or a fair-
.sized country town. Anyhow, Minister O’Malley
promises to build a real capital at Yassberra—no
mean or jerry structure, but one which, even if it
isn’t large, will be solid and enduring. And the
Sydney Evening News, despite its Yassberra-ite
tendencies, almost weeps at the probable cost of
building this little city which is to be durable and
not either jerry or hessian or galvanised iron, and
asks in an anxious frame of mind where the
anoney is to come from.
* ■» * *
The question of where the money'is to come
from is likely to arise a great many times before
the O’Malley capital is really constructed.
When a community goes forth in a deliberate
fashion to Create a city, that city may pay big
•dividends or it may be a dead loss. It may be a
•source of revenue, or it may be a constant drain
on the exchequer and a burial-place for public
money. It may be a profit or it may be a
pauper. It may be a chronic loafer and a sort of
remittance city, or it may be a hard-working in-
stitution, which not only earns its own living,
but has a surplus to send home to the old man to
reduce the mortgage with. Everything depends
on whether it is merely a capital, or whether it is
not only that, but a prosperous industrial and
commercial centre to boot. For merely being a
capital isn’t an occupation that pays divi-
dends, any more than does the job of being a
collector of old china. The profits come from the
side-lines of industry. If a new metropolis has
attached to it a really good port, and it happens
to be located in a district where a port is very
badly wanted—if it has behind it a large area of
fairly good and almost virgin country which is
crying out for cheap and short-distance communi-
cation with the outer world, and if railways are
built to carry the produce of that country through
the capital to the port, then the capital and its
attached port are likely to become great commer-
cial centres and to fill a real want. And if the
capital has either a large, convenient coal supply
(which neither Yassberra nor Monaro is known
to possess), or abundant water power (which
Monaro possesses but Yassberra doesn’t),
then the capital is likely to become a large
industrial centre, and again it will fill a real
want by manufacturing for the population which
grows up around it. That kind of capital is
certain to be a profit instead of a pauper. The
community will have to face the expense of put-
ting up a Parliament House, Government
House, public offices, a hall or two for pub-
lic purposes, a hospital, and some of the
other frills of civilisation. Further, it will have
to build a certain amount of railway and to equ p
the seaport, and all these things will cost
a lot of money. But if it almost imme-
diately begins to obtain revenue from the
ground rents of factory, workshop, office,
warehouse, store, and theatre sites, and to
let out residential sites for the use of people
who are not mere officials (i.e., people who
support themselves instead of being supported by
the Commonwealth), and if it proceeds to lease
the wharves at its port to shipping companies,
and to do things of that sort, it will also receive a
lot of money. If the Federal capital area is
reasonably extensive, the Commonwealth will
have a further income from farm rents ; and if
its railway serves a district which has no
railway at present, and is in grievous need of one,
the line to the Federal port will be a paying in-
vestment. In such a case the Government’s share
of the cost of constructing the capital will be nil,
or even less than nil. The city will pay for itself,
and there will be a surplus to go towards supply-
ing more liberal old-age and invalidity pensions,
or something of the sort.
* * * *
That is one side of the case, but there is
another side. The capital may be a pauper, a
mere dead loss, a post-leaning city, a perpetual
loafer on the old man at home. If it is placed
where there is neither coal nor an abundance of
water power —where sluggish streams meander
gently over an almost level country —it isn’t in
the least likely to become an important industrial
city. If it is situated on a bye-line, in an o.d
settled district which is already catered for by
existing State railways and a conveniently
adjacent State port, it isn’t likely to become a
great commercial centre. It is still less likely to
become a great commercial centre if its “port”
is separated from it by about 100 miles of
State territory, and if the “ port” is a mere scrap
of coast which is, in reality, no port at all because
it stops short at high-water mark. And if the
Federal city’s railway serves no new or virgin
country, and supplies no long-felt want, the
chances are worse than ever. In that case, the
Australian metropolis will be a mere haunt of
non-productive officials. It will return no
revenue at all commensurate with its cost. It and
its unprofitable railway and its unfortunate port
will have to be supported by the community in
order to save them from being “ lumbered ” under
the Act which talks of a lack of “ visible.” They
will be nensioners, and distinctly high-priced
ones at that.
* * * *
The S. M. Herald’s statement that there is
water at Yassberra to supply more people than
are ever likely to be there is a dubious reflection
on the number of people who are likely to be
there. The Yassberra-ites all look forward to a
small unsuccessful city or a sleepy country town,
something after the style of the old cathedral
towns of England. The sort of place that they
promise will be one with little gaiety and few ex-
citements. The big theatrical managers won't
send their companies there, though there will
probably be a hall and a picture show. The
Governor-General, unless he has a taste for col-
lecting dried insects, will keep away. The
Government House ball will be a small, per-
functory entertainment, attended by the daughter
of thelocal house-agent. The local race meeting will
be a cheap pony scramble. The museum and art
ga'lery, being paid for with public money, may be
worthy of the capital of a continent; but they will
have a lone and tenantless aspect. In fact, the
Yassberra metropolis, as foreshadowed by its
warmest supporters, will be this country’s
hanger-on or poor relation. It will be
an Hospital Saturday city. When Minister
O’Malley talked of 10 or 15 years hence
being time enough for the removal of .the
Parliament and the appurtenances of Govern-
ment to their new location, he possibly had
the Hospital Saturday feeling. In the case of a
city which could be reasonably expected to yield
the Government 20 percent, on its outlay to begin
with, and more afterwards, there would naturally
be a desire to get the place built in haste
and to go into occupation at tjje earliest
possible moment. In the other case—that of a
city which isn’t expected to yield any profit at all,
but at most to pay for its upkeep—an impecu-
nious Treasurer would rather be anxious to
spread the work of construction over as long a time
as possible. The money he is expending isn’t ex-
pected to come back in any shape or form, and
the only satisfaction he can get will be in
spreading the bill over the largest possible number
of years, so as to lessen the drag on each year’s
finances. King O.’Malley has already com-
menced the spreading process.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The Bulged Railway.
It is intended by the Government to propose the
western transcontinental railway. The taking over of
the Northern Territory will involve the construction of a
railway there, though at first the line will probably be
extended from Pine Creek to the Queensland border, so
as to connect thence with the Queensland railway
system. —Sydney Telegrami.
The fact that a railway (or more than one) must
be built across Australia from west to east is so
fully recognised that most people have ceased to
argue against it. The fact that a railway must
be built across Australia from south to north, and
that the upper terminus must be at Port Darwin,
the great port of the north coast, is also admitted.
As the object of a railway is to find the shortest
possible line of communication from one
place to another, the natural proceeding
would be to build this south-to-north line as
nearly as possible the way the crow flies,
and then to extend the lines from the east and
west coast to meet it. That would open up the
.territory as far as one pair of rails could possibly
do it, and would give it the shortest possible line
of communication with Perth, Adelaide, Mel-
bourne, Hobart and Launceston. Also, it would
give it very nearly the shortest possible line of
communication with Sydney. But for some.
inscrutable reason an impression has been created
that it is the duty of the transcontinental railway
to bulge out into Queensland —that, starting from
the north, it should first run south-east for 600 or
700 or 800 miles, and then run south, and then run
south-west, and then run south again, and so arrive
by a circuitous, crab-track at its destination.
Why it should bulge eastward through the dry
plains of far-western Queensland —a district that
isn’t even seriously suspected of possessing any
great mineral or other wealth—merely in order
that it may link together, at the cost of all Aus-
tralia, the purely State railways of that country
and save it the trouble of extending them fuither
out or linking them up itself, has never been
clearly explained.’ The proposed bulge into
Western Queensland would 1 a of not the slightest
advantage to N.S.W., and, so far as concerned
Victoria, Tasmania, S.A. and Westralia, it would
have the serious drawback of making their
practicable distance from Port Darwin several
hundreds of miles longer than it need be. It
would bring the North a little nearer to some little
towns at the top of Queensland —little towns
which could spare it no assistance of any value
in time of trouble—and it would put the North
farther from the big cities on tiie south coast
which could give it material assistance. In some
fashion, which is not too easy to explain, Queens-
land seems to have established a sort of claim to
have the transcontinental railway taken round in
a great costly semi-circle through the worst part
of its territory. Great stress is laid on the fact
that, by bringing it round in this vast, expensive
whirl, Queensland's railways will be “linked
up, ’ though why the Commonwealth should pay
for “linking up’’ the State railways of Queens-
land any more than those of N.S. W. or Victoria,
and why it should build a line for the express
purpose of improving the land values of Queens-
land for the exclusive benefit of the Treasury at
Brisbane, are matters that have never been ex-
plained. It isn't Queensland which has
the Territory for sale, and that State
only represents about one-eighth of the
purchasing power of the prospective buyers of
the Territory. Possibly it is the northern State’s
magnificent bluff which has impressed its neigh-
bors with a vague idea that it has some special
claim on them, and that they are bound to do
something extra for it at their own cost. For
instance, the writer has before him the Queens-
land railway time-table for February and ensuing
months. And on page XMti., near the front of
that publication, is a diagram which shows
a railway line from the Northern Territory
straight to Brisbane, and the “transconti-
nental mail ” train running into KmsTON’s
city. The diagram reveals no connections
with Townsville, Rockhampton, Sydney, Mel-
bourne or Adelaide; this official publication
simply shows Brisbane as having annexed the
whole outfit. Yet Brisbane is farther from Port
Darwin than Adelaide or Perth, and a line from
Port Darwin to Brisbane would be far less trans-
continental in any true sense than a line to
Adelaide or Perth—in fact, it would be little more
than a coastal road across a corner of this conti-
nent. If there is any valid reason why the trans-
continental railway should be bulged eastward, at
great expense in construction and great expense
and delay in working, in order that it may pass
through the only part of Queensland that is too
dry and desolate to call for serious consideration,
that reason ought to be explained. It is said that
Moses and the Israelites ambled round and round
for 40 years in a very small wilderness, but a rail-
way isn’t Moses. Its business is to take the
shortest possible cut through the wilderness. The
Israelites had no return ticket. If they had their
journey might have lasted 80 years.
♦
The Opening of Parliament.
Last Friday the Australian Parliament opened
the front door for business, with a Labor Ministry
in command and a Labor majority—the first oil
the Federal record—behind that Ministry. The
long-postponed horror—the one which George
Reid fought to the ultimate ditch in his Anti-Sosh
campaign, the one which staggered Bruce Smith
and Grace Watson and Mrs Molyneux Parkks
and E. Pulspord and Millen and St. Ledger,
and almost all the press of Australia, and all the
Upper Houses, and most of the churches, and the
fat man at the back of the tram-car—had really
arrived. The Devil had broken loose, and the
Goths were at the gates of Rome, and Bel-
shazzar saw the script upon the wall,
and the Deluge had started without any
ark. And yet, somehow, nothing special
happened. The day was fine. Everybody, even
Fat, looked as cheerful as usual. The banks
opened at the usual hour, and there was no rush
of terrified depositors. No one saw capital hurry-
ing out of the country. The trains weren’t
crowded with people fleeing to the mountains,
nor the outgoing boats with rich men getting
away from the evil to come. There is in sight a
Federal progressive land-tax, extending as high
as 6d. in the £, yet the land agency firms were
doing a good business, and prices had no down-
ward tendency. The share-lists mentioned that
most bank stocks, were firm. Nobody carried a gun
to keep off the Socialistic tiger if it happened to
rush down the street with its mouth full of raw
and blanky meat. Merchants entered into con-
tracts with the same old confidence, and financiers
didn't ask any larger margin of security than
usual because the general slump ip values was
just about due. If you remarked to a business
man that day that you sup Dosed he was winding
up his affairs and closing his office, he concluded
you had been drinking. If you mentioned to a
bank manager that you presumed he was calling
in advances and shipping his gold to Europe, he
couldn’t understand what you meant, and had to
be reminded that it was the day of the beginning
of Labor domination. And even then he didn’t
understand what you meant, and regarded it
as a very poor jest. It was a cold day for
any Socialistic humorist who tried to condole with
the Fatman whom he met at lunch, for theFat-
nmn had so absolutely forgotten all his prophecies
and affected terrors that he always failed to see
the point. The writer has seen several Days of
Horror which were equally disappointing. There
was that memorable one in Melbourne when the
first of Premier Turner’s Wages Board awards
came into operation. A stout, little city solicitor
had deliberately set himself up in opposition to
Political Economy, to the cast-iron Law of
Wages, to the blessed and immutable Principle
of Demand and Supply, and had biffed cen-
turies of Theory on the ear. While all Europe
and America were understood to be stand-
ing paralysed before the problems of poverty
and sweating, he had tackled it by the simple
process of starting to shove up the wages of the
underpaid per medium of an Act of Parliament.
It was understood, of course, that the thing was
impossible, and that the trades affected would
simply close up; but the sun rose as usual, and the
businesses affected didn’t close up, and Georgk
Turner was left sitting in peace on the mangled
remains of the Law of Wages and the blessed
Principle of Demand and Supply. There was
another day of ill omen in Sydney when Federa-
tion came along, and it was known to all free and
enlightened bagmen that,N.S.W. would in future
be ground beneath the iron heel of the tyranny of
the sister States. And there was a third when
the new tariff came along, and the old rdtten
Foreign-trade fetich of the Sydney morning
papers was kicked into the" gutter, while
all Calico JiMMY-dom wept bitterly and re-
fused to be comforted—and then went out and
started factories and made heaps of money. Both
of these were understood to be days of gloom and
the beginning of the end ; but men went on eat-
ing and drinking, and marrying and giving in
marriage, and nothing special transpired, save
that N.S.W.. ad vanced more, in an industrial
and commercial sense, in nine years of Federa-
tion and Protection than in 50 years of the
old fiscal superstition of the wretched Cobden.
So it was not to be wondered at that the Fatman
was fairly cheerful and buoyant last Friday. He
has been proved a fraud so often that he almost
begins to realise that he is a fraud.
The Hole That’s Left Behind.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Bendieo’s two pioneer deep-sinking: companies, the
New Clitmi Railway and the Victoria Quartz—the latter
of which has atiained a depth of 4614 ft. —have suspended
operations. Nearly all the mines on the line of lode have
done the same. The cessation is owing to a great influx
of water. At the depth it is almost impossible to deal
with such difficulties. The position is little short of
desperate.— Daily paper.
Thk Roaring Days are over and the companies
done with sinking,
The stamps stand stiff and ominous along the
line of lode ;
The brokers in the Beehive sit like solemn idols
thinking,
And the job-less working miner tramps reflec-
tive on the road !
The poppet-legs like pulpits seem to rear their
heights to Heaven,
And I seem to hear a Preacher tell a people
deaf and blind :
“ Ye have gouged unto the limit—made your for-
tunes six or seven,
But the profits now have vanished—it’s the
Hole That’s Left Behind !”
There is grief within the bosom of the contempla-
tive Patman —
He who revelled at the Shamrock in the wine-
red long ago;
But the sack pursues the shift-boss and the
apprehensive platnian,
And the shades of gloom are stalking through
the streets of Bendigo !
The dividends are leaping down the Night’s
despairing chasm,
And the Preacher on the poppets moaneth
sadly on the wind :
“ Done the days of gold and glitter—ye have seen
the final spasm,
Vain the weeping and the wishing—-’tis the
Hole That’s Left Behind !”
The mullock-heaps lie useless round the faded
Golden City,
Whence the Lansells and the Watsons tore
the dividends sublime;
On the poppet-heads the Preacher smiles a smile
of silent pity,
And the mullock-heaps are tombstones to the
sprees of olden'time !
Bendigo ! —her name is mingled with the State’s
strong-armed beginnings,
There’s a wreath of fair remembrance for her
pioneers well-twined ;
They have passed—the Fortune-makers —and their
sons have spent their winnings—
And the Preacher points in silence to the Hole
That’s Left Behind !
Hear the water in the workings, talking softly as
it bubbles —
Speaking words of vital meaning as it floods
each stupe and winze ;
All the pumping’s given over, for the deluge swift
redoubles,
And the engines lift no fodder for the ore-con-
suming bins !
Hear the water, hear it murmur—heed the lesson
it is teaching,
’Tis an echo to the Preacher and the fruit of
Wisdom’s mind ;
“ When the glory hath departed, vain is all of
man’s beseeching,
Vain the moaning in the market—’tis the Hole
That’s Left Behind ! ”
Come the days of work-suspension, when the
shaft may yield no longer—
Sunk at last the final fathom, and no engine-
whistles blow;
Comes the time for giving over, when a Foeman
sterner, stronger.
Makes an end of golden glories, Ballarat and
Bendigo!
Ararat and sleepy Stawell, Buninyong and old
Dumpily—
Castlemaine, and all the townships where the
shafts have ceased to wind ;
These are warnings for the statesman, signs of
old and endless folly—
What’s the good of shafts and mining when a
Hole Remains Behind?
When the Roaring Days afs oyefc,'and the com-
panies leave off sinking— Jl
When the stamps stand dead and rusty all
along the line of lode ;
When the brokers and the jobbers sit like
anxious idols thinking,
Hear the Wiser Nations pounding on the old
Industrial Road !
When the poppet-heads like pulpits rear their
useless gear to Heaven,
Seems to me I hear a preacher drive a text
home well-designed :
“ For the mill and forge and dockyard was this
Land of Splendor given —
Ye who have to build this Nation, ’ware the Hole
That’s Le { t Behind !”
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVKT.


The Horrible Howls of Henley.
That eminent N. S. Wales legislator, Henley,
M.L.A., cuts a very poor figure these days, and,
, despite his howls of defiance, he is apparently in
full retreat. When he rose in the House a week
or two ago to charge trades union secretaries with
blackmail he plainly implied that they were
accustomed to threaten employers with prosecu-
tions under the Industrial laws unless the said
employers paid them (the secretaries) certain sums
of money. His words left three distinct im-
pressions on the public mind: (1) That this was
done whether the employers were guilty or
not; (2) that the employers paid because
it was cheaper to pay than to incur the enmity of
the unions; (3) that the blackmail was the secre-
tary’s perquisite and was clear profit. Later
on it appeared that there was no known
case of a union secretary having demanded money
as the price of silence. The unions started pro-
ceedings in the ordinary way against defaulting
employers. In certain cases (three are mentioned)
the employers went to the union, owned up to the
charge, and suggested that the ease should be
withdrawn on their paying the union’s expenses
and promising to observe the conditions of the
award in future. Not having Premier Wade s
frantic desire for litigation at any price, but
merely seeking to have the law observed, some
cases were withdrawn. So these questions
remain : (1) Is it a monstrous crime and
one calling for the scorn of that most
honorable man, Thomas Henley, to cease from
litigation when the ends of justice have been
attained ? (2) Is it the duty of every citizen
to hire expensive legal assistance and pile
up Costs on every opportunity ? Plainly Justice
Heydon doesn’t think so, for his advice to the
unions was: “ You must try and settle matters with
employers, and not push them to the point of vin-
dictiveness.” This remark, curiously enough,
was quoted in a press letter by Henley himself—
the same Henley who boiled over so amazingly be-
cause some of the unions settled matters as ad vised.
Wade’s enthusiastic and fussy supporter, Fitz-
patrick, M.L. A., of course rushed into the dis-
cussion, and in his frenzy he put on the notice-
paper of the Assembly the names of three firms
which are alleged to have made private settle-
ments; consequently three employers and their
families are probably much less enthusiastic than
they used to be about voting for the Government
candidate. This need less showing up by a Govern-
ment supporter isn’t calculated to make them
feel good. Fitzpatrick, in his haste to make a
lot more employers feel disgusted with the party
to which he belongs, also demands that all future
settlements should be registered with the Court.
Probably they should, though employers probably
haven’t all of Fizpatriok’s craving for publicity.
Also, when the Court fines an employer and the
Premier secretly remits or reduces the fine, that
matter should also be registered with the Court.
It seems to really clamor for registration.
The Two Voices.
Mostly the Sydney morning papers agree to mis-
represent Labor with one voice. Occasionally
there is a misunderstanding, and then the public
is enabled to get a line as to the sincerity of Tory
fulminations. On Saturday the Herald and
Telegraph discussed the proposals foreshadowed
in the Governor-General’s speech. The Herald
weighed in with a cry of dread. It found its
worst fears realised. Some spasms :
The programmeof thisparty we have now before us. .. It
is an immediate programme which may have large possi-
bilities of disturbance. ... It is clear that the party
is intent upon such alterations of the Constitution
as will permit of a wider application of Socialistic
notions and an approach to the unification ideal
The proposals for alteration of the Constitution to enable
the Federal Parliament to “ legislate effectively with
regard to corporations, commercial trusts, combinations
and monopolies in relation to trade, manufactures or pro-
duction, industrial matters and navigation,” are serious.
...We wish to draw attention to the disposition
of the Labor party to lightly tamper with the Con-
stitution.... The Federal Constitution is not something
to be altered at the whim of party majorities ;.. we
protest against the apparent readine-s of the party to
propose alterations in the Constitution directly the Con-
stitution is found to run counter to Labor designs.
And the paper wound up with the mournful
words: “But protest is probably unavailing.”
The Telegraph, .on the other hand, discerned
nothing menacing about the Government’s propo-
sitions. It did not visualise “disturbance,” or
Unification or Constitution-bursting anywhere.
On the contrary, it took the view that Prime
Minister Fisher’s plans for the corning session
amounted to a fraudulent betrayal of the demo-
cracy. The Government was represented as will-
ing, for the sake of continuance in office, to
jettison the measures the people had put it in
power to carry out. In the circumstances the
Telegraph reckoned it could afford to be jocose,
and it was, in this fashion :
The skeleton programme presented to the Federal Par-
liament yesterday by the new Labor Government con-
tained nothing for which the people had not been
prepared, and not very much for which they had been
prepared. The striking thing about it is that it gives no
indication of the Government having discovered any
necessity for revolutionising the political universe. . . .
One might conclude that, on entering into the place of
power, Mr. Fisher would have found that his first duty
was to pull down the whole legislative structure that the
oppressors of the people had put up. But, instead of
razing it to the ground, so as to be able to start
on a new foundation, the Government appears to
think that it will do very well as it stands, and
only proposes to make certain additions to it. . . .
All the political evil wrought during all the centuries
prior to the redemption, which Labor-in-office cl dnis to
herald, is now under the Caucus's thumb. Yet, instead
of immediately setting about clearing the whole of it
away, the Government simply proposes to commence
building where the others have been compelled to leave
off. . . Nobody is much wiser since the publication of
the Caucus programme than before. Even the progres-
sive tax will not cause the cutting up of big estates into
blocks of less value than £5900.
It is an interesting object-lesson in the ancient
attitude of Anti-Sosh, which never considers
democratic.measures on their merits, but only on
their source. Thus, a while back Labor proposed
an Australian navy. Anti-Labor damned the
scheme as insanity—not, it afterwards transpired,
because it thought the scheme insane (in fact, it
went so far as to adopt the scheme itself
without over-much delay), but because it
had emanated from the Labor camp. Here,
too, Anti-Sosh spoke with wildly conflicting
voices; one voice moaning that Australians were
too scarce, unintelligent and degenerate to
create and man a navy that would be of
any practical use; the other howling that
an Australian navy should be opposed by
all patriotic Britons, since the Labor aim was
to employ it, and the capable and sturdy
men who ran it, to blow the Imperial fleet off the
face of the wate s. Happenings like the above,
which grow increasingly frequent, suggest the
need for anti-Labor enthusiasts to confer before
they put their contentions before the populace.
As things are, one set of arguments cancels the
other set, and much ink, time, labor, newspaper
and public patience run to waste.
The Strange Silence of Wade.
Premier Wade continues warily silent re the
name or names of the Newcastle Labor member
(or members) who, according to J. O. L. Fitz-
patrick, urged him to gaol P. Bowling. And
he lies low in the face of loud requests from all
the Laborites in the N.S.W. Assembly to reveal
what he knows. Aleauwhile, the following, which
is from a recent issue of the Bathurst (N.S.W.)
“Liberal” organ, is typical of what Anti-Labor
is saying everywhere on the subject :
And whilst all this talk is going on, whilst ever} 7 Labor
platform is ringing with the cry of coercion, it is an open
secret in the lobbies of Parliament that, during the
strike, several Labor members actually went to the
Premier and asked for the passage of the so-called
Coercion Act. The matter has already been mentioned
in the House, and only the reticence of the Premier pre-
vents the publication of the names. Doubtless they will
soon become common property.
Ordinarily, when a decent citizen is accused,
publicly, by a friend of having said something to
the detriment of another, he is either in a position
to substantiate his words or to deny that he used
them. If the report is said to be based on infor-
mation acquired under a pledge of secrecy, he is
always in a position (assuming that he really is a
decent citizen) to deny the charge. He does well
in that case (since decent citizens don’t break
pledges of secrecy) to be very angry with
his misguided friend who, with the object
of injuring another, has not only accused
him (the decent citizen) of slander, but
of breaking his word to boot. The amenities of
parliamentary life don't or shouldn’t differ mate-
rially from those of the outside world. Certainly
the libel law doesn’t run in Parliament. J. C. L.
Fitzpatrick could safely say, there, if so dis-
posed, that Wade had told him that McGowen
habitually drank, committed forgery and kicked
his wife, just as he has said Wade told him things
to the discredit of Laborite Ghahame or Estell
or both. And Wade could, by the inference of
silence, support his adoring henchman or jackal
in that libel and not fear the reproving
paw of justice. But such a consideration
shouldn’t appeal to a cold self-righteous
Premier. In fact, it is doubtful if it would appeal
to the hottest of unregenerate bookmakers. In
regard to this Parliament-protected slander of
Fitzpatrick’s, Wade’s course (whether as decent
citizen or cold Premier) is clear. E tlier he told the
yarn which Fitzpatrick says hedid, or he didn’t
tell it. If he told it, he shouldn’t cry wildly, as
hedid during the recent censure debate, “ I don’t
want to be dragged into this business.” He is-
already in it, up to the neck. In that event, he
should immediately come out with the name or
names of the Labor member or members impli-
cated, all the possible suspects having given him
the fullest release of the secrecy-pledges he was
alleged to be under—pledges which, anyhow,
unless Fitzpatrick lies, he has not scrupled to
break already. If, on the other hand, he didn’t
say what Fitzpatrick alleges, then it is up to
Wade to give Fitzpatrick and those who are
using his story for anti-Labor purposes the lie
direct—and that regardless of any political pre-
dilection or regard for his faithful little henchman
from Orange. At Killara last week Wade com-
plained that he —
had been assailed on every hand with slanders and dis-
torted facts. It was for this reason that lie asked the
Liberals to come out, and, by their vote in October next,
show their emphatic protest against such treatment.
It can’t lie too strongly insisted that, so long as
Wade keeps silent anent the Fitzpatrick slander,
complaints of the above sort are weirdly out of
place.
4.
Turning Dog on the Joss.
When Royal Commissioners Ranking and Car-
son returned from an investigation of the Maori-
land no-license districts, and reported a few
months ago to toe Queensland and Westralian
Governments respectively that the principal
pastime of the inhabitants was chasing fantods
in secluded places, the Put In The Peg party
bulged the welkin with its unanimous yell of in-
dignation. But one of the Peg advocates whose
feelings were most lacerated was “Tommy”
Taylor, member of the M.L. House of
Representatives, who happened to be on
a visit to Sydney shortly after Ranking’s
description of the fantods was published. In a
public speech, Thomas assured his audience in
effect that, if Ranking had seen any fantods in his
travels, they must have been animals, reptiles or
game attached to the Royal Commissioners’
retinue. Since then the M.L. man has returned
home, and presumably tracked the fantods to
their lair, because he announced last week at
Wellington that sly-grog selling is rampant in the
Ashburton district. Taylor’s denunciation of the
evil will come with as great a shock to the people
of the ostrich habit as the denunciation of Rev.
J. A. Homan, M.A.,aUnited States parson, whose
furious attack on prohibition recently reached
Australia. Said Homan :
The illicit traffic begins as soon as steps are taken to
enforce the prohibitory law, and it grows apace, particu-
larly in those communities where popular sentiment is
unfriendly to its enforcement. The “boot-legger,”
“pocket-peddler,” “ blind tiger,” “speak-easy,” “blind
pig,”and contrivances of th it description, selling intoxi-
cating drink under cover, soon spring up like
mushrooms and do a flourishing business. In order
to avoid arrests, officials are generously bribed, and the
illicit traffic keeps on increasing. . . . It is well known
that in the State of Maine [the pet child of the water
waggoners) a regular system of blackmail was encouraged,
and a scale of prices ranging from £4O a month down,
according to the amount of business, was fixed for the
immunity of those engaged in the illieir. traffic. . . Besides
the protected bars in prohibition States, including so-
called eating houses where liquors are sold clandestinely,
there are “kitchen” bars and hotel bars, generously
patronised with the connivance of the police. . . .
Prohibition is not much more than a half-century
old, purely an American product, and it is already
acknowledged a failure save by its adherents, whose
prejudices have blinded them to the truth. Testimony,
past and present; stubborn facts, gathered by men with-
out bias in rhe interests of psychological and sociological
science; official statistics that defy contradiction ; the
very admissions of prohibitionists, reluctantly made, all
go to prove that prohibition is notan effective method of
dealing with and restricting the evils of alcoholic abuse.
In his recent speech at Wellington, Taylor (who
is looked upon as the political leader of the M.L.
temperance army) declared himself a convert to
the no-license-no-grog proposal made by Skddon
in 1904—in other words, total prohibition where
the local option vote closes the public bars; but
if Parson Homan is giving a truthful version of
things as they are in Maine, U.S., then prohibi-
tion is the parent of even more fantods than no-
license. And if many more of those beasts are
introduced into the 110-license districts of M.L.
the only way the local resident will escape them
will be to flee into a license district and lock him-
self in a brewery.
The “Educated Class”: Which Is It?
Last week Melbourne Argus devoted a column
to the alleged Horror of “ Labor doniinat on.”
The “educated classes,” it noted hopelessly, were
being “ elbowed out of politics.” Vulgar working
men held the fort in the Australian Parliament.
South Australia was under the heel of social
“rankers.” N.S.W. was threatened; Victoria
was not safe. The only comfort the Argus took
from the grim situation was the certainty that
Providence would-not permit it to last—it being
against nature. And finally :
Government by sansculottes never has endured and
never will endure ; with two brains of equal power, the
one which has been trained and polished gives the nation
the better service in the long run.
I hat the Argus reads for “sansculottes ” Labor-
ites, and for people with “ trained and polished
brains ” the Fusionists, goes vvithout saying. A
little earlier Fusionist John Brown, of the New-
castle (N.B. W.) coal vend—a man who inherited
part of his vast wealth; who, in consequence,
got the educational advantages that accompany
affluence; and whose business acumen has placed
him among the “ merchant princes” of Australia
—was addressing the Liberal and Reform Associa-
tion of his native town. This is Sydney Tele-
graph’s report of his oration :
Mr. John Brown said that Newcastle should not listen
to the dictates of Sydney. “ We want,” he s.-id, “ a man
who will vote for Newcastle. Never mind the Govern-
ment or anyone else.” He went on to refer to the fact
that the greater part of the recent South Australian loan
had to he taken up by the underwriters, and added:
“ When you come to borrow money (and here you must
have money) you will find that the English people will
not subscribe if Labor is going to govern our institutions.
(Applause.) Art- you going to put people without any
business experience into office to run this country?”
A hostile iuterjector: Yes. (Interruption.)
Mr. Brown : “ I say' that no man can go to the head of
a business and run it unless he is a bu-iness man. Are
you going to put into power in this State iimi such as
Mr. Watkins *nd so forth to run the country? (Laughter
and applause.) We don’t want lawyers or professional
men. 1 would say r have nothing but mercantile men.
Do away with all your Parliaments, and pay 12 men
£■sooo a year each to run the business of the country.
You don’t want 100 men drawing blood out of you.”
A voice: You draw it pretty well, anyhow.
Mr. Brown: “I know from pr.cticai experience what
you want. I have conducted a business, and conducted
it successfully.” (Applause.)
The pathetic illiteracy of Brown may be passed
over as too usual, in citizens of his class, for
comment. It is when Brown’s deplorably-
phrased sentiments are analysed that it becomes
plain how impossible his sort are to administer
anything bigger than a business. He .s hid-
eously frank as to the fact that he doesn’t care a
darn for the State. Newcastle, where most of
his investments hangout, is all he is concerned
about. Between a parliamentary representative
who is prepared to do his best for the country,
and another who is pledged to get Newcastle a
grant, Brown apparently wouldn’t hesitate for a
second. The country could go to blazes. He
doesn’t want to be represented in Parlia-
ment by a statesman; an adroit local
cadger is good enough for him. The idea
of running the State by means of a Coun-
cil of Twelve business men (presumably like
Brown), at a salary of £5OOO a year each, is
worthy of the type of political economist who
says blandly, “Nevermind the Government or
anyone else.” And it is the Browns of the com-
munity whose ejection from political power is
deplored by the Argus and by Toryism in
general! As a matter of hard fact, one of the
things that did a lot to damn the Fusion’s chances
in the recent election was the widespread feeling
that the party was largely composed of foolish,
illiterate hacks. Several of its brighter
spirits having retired or got jobs, it was
left with the brilliant though spineless Dkakin,
JosiAH SYMON (as unsympathetic a follower
as a Tory leader ever had), the able but dull
Glynn, and the still duller Bruce Smith, as its
only men of even moderately cultivated men-
tality. In the balance with these the electors
placed the host of able and carefully schooled
Labor men who were offering, and the Fusion
was found wanting. Though the Argus would
doubtless reel at the suggestion, the Labor party
in Australia is largely the educated party.
The time-worn idea about the wage-earners be ng
ignorant, unlettered folk is vanishing before Aus-
tralia’s Socialistic education system. To-day the
person who is after “cultivated brains” for poli-
tical use does not pursue his search amid the
ranks of Conservatism. If he does tie is too
liable to find someone like Brown or the late
Tummas Bent.
♦
Select Committee.
There is something amazing about the durability
of a private member’s “ notice of motion” on the
business paper of the N.S.W. Assembly. As a
rule, the thing is put on the paper at the begin-
ning of the session and stays there to the end.
The odds are several hundreds to one that it is
never reached, or that nothing comes of it when
it is reached. Now and then, however, by amazing
good luck some member gets the Select Committee
he is asking for—it is generally a Select Com-
mittee that he is asking for—and the matter—
whatever matter it may be—is inquired into, and
the committee reports advising that this or that
be done. Then the Government, as a rule, simply
takes no notice—not a scrap. Thereupon the
member puts another notice on the paper, either
asking for another Select Committee, or request-
ing the Government to kindly take some notice of
the committee that has happened already, and
the years proceed to roll on with the same old
roll. Here, for instance, are two typical notices
that have loafed on the paper with more than the
immemorial patience of Khaled the djinn, who
stood for 10 months and some odd days trying to
catch the angel’s eye :
Mr. Hollis to move —
(1) That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire
into and report upon the grievances of Henry Harding,
William Stephen Stead and others, arising from alleged
negligence and error on the part of the Registrar-General
in connection with Certificate of Title, volume 61, folio
224, dat ed February 4, 1868.
(2) That such committee consist of Mr. Wade, Mr.
Holman, Mr. Brinkr, Mr. Gilbert, Mr. Broughton, Mr.
Arthur Griffith, Mr. Nobbs, and the mover.
(3) That the reports from the Select Committees of the
Second Session of 1904, and of Session 19U6, together witli
the proceedings of the committees, minutes of evidence
and appendices, be referred to such committee.
Mr. Carmichael to move—
(1) That a Select Committee be appointed to inquire
into and report upon the case of ex-Mounted Sergeant
William Stafford,—(l) Wheiher the evidence and papers
adduced before the Select Committees of 1890 and 1893
disclosed the facts th it Stafford was wrongfully dis-
missed from the police service contrary to statutory
agreement and contrary to the legal course provided for
such cases ; (2) whether the reports made subsequent to
the report of the Select Committee are valid reasons for
not giving effect to the findings and recommendations of
the Select Committee adopted by Parliament: (3)
whether he is entitled to.aijy tof-the benefits accruing
from the Police Superannuation Fund, to which he con-
tributed for 18 years.
(2) Thai, such committee consist of Mr. Wood, Mr.
Dacey, Mr. W. Millard, Mr. Page, Mr. Edden, Mr. John
Storey, Mr. Estell, Mr. Levy, Mr. McFarlanb, and the
mover.
(3) That the reports, minutes of proceedings, and
evidence of ihe Select Committee of 1890 and 1893,
respectively, be referred to such committee.
It is 42 years since the first grievance arose, and
it has roosted on the Parliamentary document like
a crow or a curse for so long that the writer
can’t remember a time when it wasn’t there. As
for the case ot ex-Mounted Sergeant Stafford.
who must be a fairly old man now, it is 20
years since his matter was inquired into the first
time, and 17 years since it was inquired
into for the second time. The old Select Com-
mittees evidently made certain recommendations,
and the Government paid as much attention as it
might have done if the committees had been
an aboriginal. Parliament accepted the com-
mittees’ reports ; but the Government just went
on talcing no notice, which was the same substance
that it took before. Now, after 20 years of agita-
tion, during which time his case has probably
been mentioned on the notice paper about 2000
times, ex-Mounted Sergeant Stafford is so little
further forward that Parliament is being asked to
appoint a Select Committee to find out if there
is any reason why nothing came of the previous
Select Committees. Apparently there has been 17
years of vain struggle to get the Select Com-
mittee which is to inquire what became of the
other Select Committees. It is such a waste of
ink and paper and time —such a dreary futility
and such a depressing circumstance all round—
that The Bulletin is moved to put a motion on
the paper upon its own account: —
Mr. Henry Horsecollar to move:
(1) That a Selaqt Committee be appointed to find out
why it takes su<>» a devil of a time to get a Select
Committee.
(2) And to find out why a Select Committee is no good
when you have got it.
(3) Further, to find out why, when a Select Committee
has reported, and Parliament has accepted its decision,
and the Government has taken no more notice than it
might do if the thing was a select crow, the only thing
a member can do is to apply for a second Select Com-
mittee to find out why the first one didn’t amount to
anything.
(4) Also, to find out why the second Select Committee
is of no more use than the first one, and the third is as
unimportant as the second, and the fourth isn’t worth a
row of pins.
(5) Lastly, to inquire (a) What is the longest time any
member has had to wait before getting a Select Com-
mittee ; (b) what is the longest time a member lias had
to wait after getting a Select Committee before anything
happened ; (c) what is the largest number of Select Com-
mittees that any one Premier has taken no notice of;
(d) which Premier was it.
And after that Select Committee has reported,
and its report has been ignored, the N.S.W.
Legislature should give up having Select Com-
mittees.
•- -
The Blowfly Party.
Dear Bulletin, —The land monopoly curse comes
home to roost in many ways, and one develop-
ment ot the last year or two is especially repul-
sive. The blowfly pest means big trouble to the
sheep-men of western N.S.W., and it is going to
mean still bigger trouble. The sheep are con-
tinually “blown,” which means great suffering
to the animals and most distasteful work to the
station hands, also very heavy monetary loss.
The wool is badly affected, and much of it is lost
owing to the weakness of the sheep. The lamb-
ing percentage is reduced—a loss of 10 per cent, is
estimated thisyearupbyNyngan(N.S.W.). There
is little doubt that the I lowfly trouble is due to the
millions of dead rabbits that fill the burrows in a
great part of N.S.W. The wholesale poisoning
of bunny has meant the wholesale poisoning
of native birds, the natural destroyers of the flies.
So the flies are fed on dead rabbits and are not
killed by dead birds, and they flourish on the
debris of the rabbit slaughter. The need for the
poison cart, which kills the birds that ought to
kill the flies, arises out of the existence of huge
estates. In closely settled country the rabbit is
easily kept down without poison—by trapping
and fumigation. Farms must be large in the
West, but they needn’t be nearly as large as they
are. Closer settlement would mean less rabbits,
more birds and fewer blowflies. The dreary
sickening buzz of the children of Beelzebub is a
perpetual commentary upon the evils of land
monopoly. The time will yet come when the
party which opposes the progressive land-tax will
be known as the Blowfly Party.—Yours, etc.,
Bill Horror.
♦ :
Roosevelt.
“H. Singemoine,” his protest: —
The Roosevelt boom is a curious business. Consider
this from a recent issue of Sydney Telegraph :
“It would have been hard to credit a prediction that
a public man from America would pervade Europe and
Great Britain advising, criticising, reproving, preaching
peace, generally playing the self-chosen r6le of lecturer
to the modern nations, and that people everywhere
would hang upon his words and—except in Egypt, where
any expression of opinion was bound to antagonise one
side or the other—accept as a master of morals in old,
old lands this aggressive, physically inexhaustible
dominie from the young country across the seas. The
American mind aspires admirably if it is representatively
voiced by such a noisily insistent, unblenching, rampant
apostle of good living in all things.”
Which is fairly typical of what other papers are saying
in other parts. Myself I ascribe the queer world-wave
of enthusiasm for the ex-President with the numerous
teeth, not to any particular worthiness on his part, but
to his unique gift of blatant Yankee self-advertisement.
In addition to being naturally the greatest political
showman of the day, he has struck an invaluable pose or
posture—that of the Earth’s Muscular Christian,, the
biggest thing in the Sportsman-Saint line that has yet
materialised.
What cause, for example, have British people to
acclaim Roosevelt? He has done them few good and
many bad turns. Take the Alaskan Boundary trouble.
He pledged himself to select “ three independent jurists
of repute” to handle that matter. He promptly ap-
pointed as two of the three, Elihu Root and Lodge,
both of whom had publicly stated their determination
never to let a foot of the disputed territory go to Eng-
land. They kept their words, and the U.K. went down
badly.
As player of what the Telegraph calls “ the self-chosen
rdleof lecturer to the modern nations” Roosevelt is out
of place. A first concern of one who wants to star in a
role of that sort should be to avoid condoning fraudu-
lency. Roosevelt was President of America for eight
years. In all that time he made no effort to get the
States which have repudiated their liabilities to pay back
one cent to their unhappy foreign creditors.
What has Roosevelt done to scotch the Yankee Trusts
except hurl a volume of windy abuse in their direction?
True, he caused one of the most scandalous of them to
be fined ; but it isquestioned now w'hether much the same
thing didn’t happen in the case of the Standard Oil fine
as happened recently in N.S.W. in the case of baker
McKye. The significant fact remains that the U.S. Con-
servatives (who are the Trust people) are all for Roose-
velt to-day, while the Progressive people oppose him
and his nominee Taft most bitterly.
Despite the alleged purity of his family life, Roosevelt
doesn't appeal to one as a desirable social mentor. He is
as vulgarly quarrelsome as local horrors of the Herbert
Wood and J. G. Fitzpatrick type. At the end of his
last Presidential term he was at open war with both, the
Senate and the House of Representatives ; and, in addi-
tion, he had embittered personal feuds'with individual
members of both Houses. His frequent rows with Till-
man—as violent and undignified a fighter as himself—
were as discreditable as any local Legislative Assembly
scraps.
It is hard to find a prominent public man in the
States who hasn’t, at one time or another, been called a
liar by Roosevelt. Ambassadors, public servants, law
officers and politicians have all had to swallow' thi6
epiihet thrown at them by the chief citizen of
the Republic. Latterly, it became a national joke,
and the newspapers took to interviewing politicians
whose only claim to prominence was that they hadn’t been
publicly accused of lying by the President. That Roose-
velt doesn’t, so far as is known, get drunk, beat his wife,
keep a separate establishment, or cheat at cards is all to
his credit. But it seems to me that the wonderfulness of
it is a bit overdone. There are others who are equally-


Adams’ Tattersalfs Hotel,
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
fsd
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
Hfr Moving Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney—3B6 George St.; Melbourne—266 Collins St.
Brisbane—93-95 Queen St. ; Adelaide—Gawler Place:
The Federal Parliament got off the mark
last week. And the Government is talking of
such drastic reforms as nationalising monopolies,
a policy which will require the fine wisdom of a
Solon to handle ; and a Solon inspired to his
most judicial attitude by judicious consultations
with that spirit of wisdom, D.C.L. Whisky. It
is always the wisest progress which receives an
encouraging twinkle from the amber eye of
D.C.L. wisdom.*
Teodor* ,a ° k the u man y offensive qualities of
HkTpian'pA h J t eby v.?J oV ? hat ’ as a Moral Example in
High Places he be shifted down a peg or two. For mv
between Wn d^ P ß°n Stif 1 SaW hin) Pushed right down
* v “ n WlIj "? R E. Chapman and Barnum Powell—that
being, in my view, the position where he rightly belongs.
--•»■
When is Australia going to make a serious ex-
periment with Brennan’s mono-rail? That
invention has got so far beyond the region of
mere theory that lines are being built in Germany
and several other European countries, and a oon-
traot has been let for 110 miles of the single-rail in
Alaska. It is claimed that the Brennan railway
is cheaper to build than the two-rail concern ;
that it can tackle gradients and curves that the
old line won’t even look at; and that the train
can scuttle along three times as fast as the old
familiar express, which makes it an ideal sj’stem
tor long-distance roads like the Australian trans-
continental. And the mono-rail would assuredly
settle in one act all the troubles about break of
gauge, for with it there is only one possible
gauge. According to all the evidence it would
seem that many engineers, in countries where
engineering isn’t by any means of the aboriginal
variety, reckon that the mono-rail is not simply
coming, but has actually come. If that is so,
then we are within measurable distance of the
date when every railway in Australia will have to
be reconstructed, unless this country is to be a
back number and the tail-end of the procession.
Yet hundreds of miles of new double-track line
are being constructed at the cost of millions of
loan money, and apparently no one takes the
trouble to find out if a very large part
of the work on these lines won’t have to be
scrapped the day they are finished. George
Feed, K.C.M.G., this country’s valued High
Commissioner, might also be expected to make
some investigation, considering the importance
■of the matter, but all we ever hear about G.
Feeo. K.C.M.G., is that he has attended another
banquet.
Dead laziness seems likely to be the ruin of Vic-
toria’s weary Premier. He had until lately a good
majority in the Assembly—one large enough to
ensure his salary till next elections at least. But
the House of Landlords threw out his Land Tax
Bill with needless bounce and contumely, and
John Murray really had to announce then that the
lory Councillors who went up for re-election in
•Tune would be opposed. But presently he found
it was too much trouble to oppose, and he gave up
the idea. The Labor party did some good work
at the Council elections ; hut Premier John didn’t
signify his disapproval of the men who had killed
his Government’s policy by putting up a single
hostile candidate. Instead, he came to some
kind of friendly understanding with them.
The exact nature of the understanding isn’t
known to the public ; but as the Argus
cordially approved of it there can be no doubt
that it is Murray and not the House of Landlords
which has surrendered. This arrangement saved
John the trouble of hunting up candidates and
going about the country delivering speeches, and
enabled him to get to bed. Now, as a natural
result, an ominous thing has happened. About a
dozen Liberal members have formed a party of
their own, and intimated that their future support
will depend entirely on Murray’s conduct. They
are no longer bound to him in any way. They
absolutely repudiate bis alliance with the Upper
House Tories, and reserve the right to shove him
out at any moment. John is required to buy
their support with democratic measures, or else do
without it; but, unfortunately, John, having been
too exhausted to help to shove a few democrats
into the Council, can’t pass democratic measures.
It is a gloomy outlook for Premier Murray, who
has really carried his tiredness too far.
The S. M. Herald (30/6/T0), continuing its carp
against Prime Minister Fisher’s Commonwealth
note proposals, last week applied the predatory
scissors to the Melbourne Argus, and seemed im-
mensely pleased with what it clipped from its
fellow-Torv journal:—
Mr. Fisher’s scheme . . . adopts for Australia an ex-
pedient which has brought ruinous consequences upon
every country which has tried it.
In its issue of the previous day, the Herald—on
the same subject—asked its readers to have a look
at Argentina:—
If paper having the whole resources of the State behind
it was really as good as gold, then the Government notes
of the Argentine Republic would be worth 20s. in the
pound. As a matter of fact these are at a discount.
Thus, according to the Herald, Argentina has a
Government note issue, and, according to its re-
actionary pal, the Argus, a Government note
issue “has brought ruinous consequences upon
every country which has tried it.” Reasoning
from the premises of these two eminent authori-
ties, the conclusion that Argentina is in a state of
ruin follows as a matter of cold logic. The Herald
(29/6/TO) depicts some of the “ ruin ” :
It is interesting to learn how our chief competitor in
South America is progressing. Evidence of the prosperity
of Argentina is furnished in the striking statisiics cited
in the President’s message to Congress. The extraordinary
expansion in the internal commerce of the country is in-
dicated by the statements of the banks, whose deposits,
discounts and cash holdings all show a striking increase
even in the course of the past three years, while the
statistics of imports and exports testify to the marvellous
growth of the Republic’s foreign trade. On the other
hand, the funded dehtsof thecountry have not increased,
while the national revenue has shmvn steady expansion.
The result has been that the service of the public debt
now absorbs only 22 per cent, of the national income, as
against 43 per cent, in 1900. The success of the conver-
sion fund is very remarkable.
And so on. It is a dreadful picture of havoc and
desolation. The Herald and the Argus both
stick like glue to their policy of ignoring the fact
that Government notes have been a success over
about two-thirds of the British Empire, and are
used by about nine-tenths of its population ; and
even when they fish for awful examples in the
troubled waters of Latin America their luck is
none too good.
-♦
The revelations in the bankruptcy case of lawyer
Parry, of Sydney, make the question of dealing
with Gent One in his position as trustee an urgent
affair. Parry, who is serving a long sentence in
Goulburn Gaol, admits to the misappropriation
of at least £lO,OOO, and his downfall has involved
someofhisunsuspectingclients. Hisprncticeseerns
to have been to run one banking account, into which
he paid all amounts, trust funds included, and out
of which he paid his private and business expenses
and also repayments due to clients. Latterly his
methods would seem to have been to induce one
ohent to advance money for investment, and with
it repay another who had become unpleasantly
pressing. Whenever Gentleman One toes the
mark before the Full Court an admission that he
has not been in the habit of keeping a trust
account apart from his private banking account is
enough to suspend him. But, on the other hand,
the Court takes it for granted that every Gentle-
man One keeps a trust account till it discovers
that be doesn’t. Which makes the Court look a
very confiding animal indeed.
♦
“Bobstay’s” yarn :
Another grievance. Recently the Kilburn, a Chmv-
inanned British steamer, was wrecked near Fiii. The
Union S.S. Co.’s Tofua brought a lot of the Chows to
bydney, while four were brought bv the A.U.S.N. Co.’s
•Miva. Earth company was informed that it would be
held responsible for taking the Chinese away from Aus-
traua, and as the Tofua let one An Sin escape, the master
will have to pay £lOO. The shipping cos. have stated in
the papers that this isbarefaced inhumanity. The British
Merchant Shipping Act provides that British steamers
lniHt succor British seamen when shipwrecked, and must
land them in civilised parts when found. And, sav the
shipping people bitterly, the Act does not discriminate
between brown, yellow, black or white seamen. A
•' ellow Britisher is equally entitled to succor as awhile
one. All this is painfully true, but the aggrieved ship
owners omit a few details. This section of the Act
applies to vessels which actually rescue seam n. In this
case, the crew of the Kilhurn were not in nnv
danger when the Tofua arrived at Fiji. They were living*
comfortably on land and their wreck was ancient, history.
1 here is no legal enactment that could have made the
iortia bring the men to Australia. The company took
them for a consideration. They could have refused
to allow the Chinese a passage without incurring
any penalty. Equally, of course, thev are entitled
to bring them along, but subject to the laws of
the country to which they chose to bring them. There
are dozens of British seamen in Sydney who, if asked,
would enthusiastically claim to be distressed. But the
British steamship owners are not going to be fined for not
giving them a free trip to London.
According to Victorian law, no shire can
exist in that State unless it contains property of
such value that a Is. rate will yield at least £l5OO
a year revenue. The other day Melbourne Age
got angry about something, and pointed out that
there shires—Howqtia, Templestowe, Don-
caster, Epping, Glenlyon, Keilor, Lanceheld,
Merriang, , Mount Alexander, Mount Franklin
and Springfield—which don’t fill the bill in this
respect. They are dog-poor places, without
money enough to repair a hole in the road, and
one of them has only 167 ratepayers all told.
As the existence of these shires is quite illegal,
some interesting questions might arise over this
matter —for instance : (1) How much of a fine is
each councillor liable to for holding an illegal
office? (2) When a local official threatens to sue
a ratepayer for failure to pay rates levied in the
name of a shire which has no legal existence, is it
an attempt to unlawfully extort money by threats
—an act punishable by imprisonment? (3) When
the official gets the money without resort to
threats, has he obtained it by false pretences, the
pretence being that there is really and legally
a shire when there isn’t? (4) Are the clerk, sur-
veyor, and other people who pretend, for cash
remuneration, to be in the service of a shire
which, according to the law, doesn’t and can’t
exist, engaged in conspiracy, the other parties to
it including the shire council and the Govern-
ment, which also help to pretend that the blessed
place exists? (5) Couldn’t the councillors be
forced to refund out of their own pockets all the
rates they have collected? If any cantankerous
person refused to pay his rates and raised these
questions in the courts, he might make even John
Weary leap up as if he had sat on a tack, and
start reforming Victoria’s local government
system in haste—or what would be haste for him.
For years past the cookies and squatters of
the Tolmie district, in the Upper Murray
Valley (Vie.), have been agitating for a
railway to connect with the North-Eastern
line. The landowners, especially the big ones,
sliroke in season and out of season, saying:
“This magnificent country has had its pro-
gress retarded through lack of railway com-
munication.” They said, if there was only a line
through the country, there would be thousands,
if nut millions, of acres of first-class land avail-
able for the settlement of crowds, it not mobs, of
people. So the Vic. Railways Standing Com-
mittee went up and asked to be shown the land.
“Oh!” said the stout parties who owned it, “if
there was a railway laid down we would soon
cut up our estates, and settlement would flourish
as the green bay rum,” or something like that.
The committee, however, thought it heard a wink
in the Landlords’ voice, and advised Premier
Murray to send the Closer Settlement Board
along to make sure. The Board came and dis-
covered that there would be great difficulty in
getting enough land at a reasonable price to make
a family graveyard. “You see,” remarked the
Portly Proprietors when the Board objected to
the strenuous prices asked, “ the Government’s
going to put a line through, which will make the
price of land twice its present value, and, of
course, we couldn’t give the land away.” They
gave away the job, though, and Murray’s Cabinet
took the proposal and burnt it alive in the grate.
♦
Victoria is about to make another attempt to
put on its legs the beet sugar industry, and on the
carefully worked out figures placed before Minis-
ters the big factory at Mnffra, where £lOO,OOO
worth of building and machinery are lying idle,
should pay all right. But the trouble is not with
the working of. the factory or the making or sell-
ing of the sugar ; it is the same old difficulty that
lpt the concern 10 years ago—that of persuading
the North Gippsland farmers to grow the beets.
The man on the land in that part of the State
mostly owns from 500 to 1000 acres of first-class
soil, and so long as he can make a living by fat-
tening stock he doesn’t feel inclined to bog into
the tedious job of raising sugar beets. The Agri-
cultural Department is said to have got guaran-
tees for the production of enough beet to keep
the concern going for one season, but there is no
certainty as to the seasons after, unless the
growers reap abnormal profits. Of late years
part of North Gippsland has gone a-worshipping
the god Cow, and where Cow is, beet-growing
gives double profits; so there is a chance that the
industry will become permanent. As to whether,
the State will ultimately sell its sugar to whole-
sale buyers or pass it on to the big monopoly,
there is no certainty at present, though there will
have to be a good deal of certainty if the under-
taking isn’t to fall into the mud once more.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty k “A Knight for a Day.”
r , tnAl ' “What Every Woman Knows.”
Criterion “ Passing G f the 3rd Floor Back.”
£ ,v,,li Rickards' Co.
“alace West’s Pictures.
ijTCKum Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating-.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Orchid.”
Princess s “Mr. Precdy and t.he Countess.”
jr 1 ' A > l, “ Merry Wives of Windsor.”
KiNO s “ The Sailor’s Wedding-.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Atiienasum Hall Tail’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
West s Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium.... Ice Skating.
The opening of the Dolores season at
the Town Hall on Saturday was marked with all
the enthusiasm which this sweet singer invari-
ably invokes on the part of her faithful admirers.
Ihe enthusiasm indeed slopped over into many
wearisome encores, tiring alike to the more
fastidious among the hearers and to the singer
herself. She was hilled for 12 items as it was, and
yet was constrained by multitudes of hands to add
five more. Dolores, who was in good voice and
looked as fresh as a daisy, chose quiet, reposeful
ballads for the most part. Her first little lot of
airs consisted of old songs. One was most
interesting; it was the original “Willow” song,
moaned by the first Desdemona when “Othello”
was put up for the first time on any stage. As
the original Desdemona was a boy, the song must
liave been a throaty croak, and nothing like the
melodious warble of Antonia. As a change from
old to very - new, a melody of Duhussy’s was given
as an encore. Dolores is always generous,
and her concerts are of value to the earnest seeker
after the true gospel of song, besides being
pleasant to listen to. She knows how to breathe,
which, although it is an action which we all keep
on doing from the cradle to the grave, very
few of us perform correctly, and fewer still
do it correctly when we sing. Then the
tone quality of her voice is beautiful —right in
the middle of the note every time. A haunting
fear arose, when “Caro Nome” was sung, that
the gramophone is putting too many tins of that
aria on the market. There will be a slump in
“Caro Nome” presently, it is almost certain.
Tinned songs spoil the taste for the fresh brand.
Cowen’s “Swallows,” and joyously
sung, made the audience ask for more,
and, at the end of a long recital. “Gin a
Body” was given to the clappers. John
Prowse brought out his manly baritone in good
order and condition, and perhaps the best of all
his contributions to the evening’s music was
Tschaikowsky’s “ Pilgrims’ Song.” He also met
with much applause and was up against encores.
The two accompanists, J. E. Sykes and G. 0. 0.
Hellemann, were kept quite busy trotting up and
down the passage to the platform to keep pace
with the encores. The third of the Dolores
recitals is announced for to-night (Thursday).
■# * * *
The Russian singers gave the fourth and
last concert of their brief Sydney season in the
Y.M.C. A. Hall on Friday night last to,an audi-
ence that expressed its delight by making the
talented co. give two and three numbers for
every one programmed. Baritone Ossipoff’s
songs included “ Eri Tu ” from “Un Ballo,”
“Don Juan’s Serenade,” and “Dio Passente”
from “Faust.” The haunting “Le Sais ”of
Olagnier was one of Mrs. Dolinsky’s best num-
bers. Violinist Du Boulay played, amongst other
pieces, an exquisite serenade ; and Miss
Renee Lees accompanied with her usual skill.
The first-class co. is to descend on Goulburn in
about a week’s time; after that it will wend its
way to Bananaland, via Maitland, Grafton, Armi-
dale and other towns, returning to Sydney
towards the end of the ve-ir.
** * *
Gilbert's “ Pygmalion and Galatea” was
staged at Sydney Royal last Monday afternoon.
The; play was new to most Sydneyites (barring a
short run some four years ago, it has not been
seen here for a very long while); it was presented
by an all-star cast, and it was in aid of Lady Dud-
ley’s Bush Nursing scheme. So there was a packed
house. Gilbert treats the story of the animated
statue as a farce with an underlying note of
tragedy. After a long course of Shaw one is
impressed with the artlessness of the great libret-
tist. “Pygmalion and Galatea” suggests that
Gilbert never was a genuine cynic after all. His
characters have the obvious weaknesses—his old
men are sometimes foolish, his wives unduly
jealous, his husbands a thought frail—but their
defects go no deeper than is necessary to make
them mildly diverting. They are all good at
heart. Galatea, the statue which miraculously
comes to life, supplies the supernatural element
around which Gilbert loves to build his whimsi-
calities. She steps off her pedestal, an
ideal figure, who knows neither untruth nor
hypocrisy, into a typical British middle-
class household. (The people are called
Leucippe, Chrysos, Daphne and so on, and
are supposed to be contemporaries of Aristo-
phanes; but they live in Balham, all the same.)
Imagine the trouble that ensues! In all inno-
cence the> newcomer causes an estrangement
between the faithful artist-husband and bis loving
little wife. A worthy Territorial is by her nearly
alienated from his young lady, the artist’s sister.
A rich city man and Royal Academy patron is
betrayed, into treating her as if she were one of
his typewriters, and is caught in the act by his
lawful spouse. The entire suburb is thrown into
a stitte of chaos. Providentially, Galatea returns
to her pedestal, and all is forgiven and forgotten.
The sensation of the afternoon was the
return to the stage of Miss Maud Jeffries. TheJ.C.
Williamson firm never imported another artist
who made so wide an appeal in emotional rdles.
The years have wrought no change in her art.
Her sweet and sympathetic voice, perfect diction
and gracious personality rendered Galatea adeligh t-
ful figure. Julius Knight provided a fine sketch
of the badgered husband of all time, and he looked
more impressive than the normal male in his posi-
tion. Mrs. T. H. Kelly, disguised and otherwise
handicapped by a bright yellow wig, proved,
nevertheless, a bright and winsome Mvrine.
Miss Ethel Warwick scored as Cynisca, and un-
impeachable work was done by Miss Susie
Vaughan, Reynolds Denniston and Victor Prince.
“A Knight for a Day,” which the Wil-
liamson management frankly owns is screamingly
amusing, highly elevating, also deeply educa-
tional, is due at Her Majesty’s (Sydney) next
Saturday night, rice “The Dollar Princess,” who
s in articulo mortis.
#* # *
At Sydney Criterion “The Passing of
the Third Floor Back” still occurs to bloated
houses. In the dim future it will make way for
“ The Arcadians,” but the time, as the immemorial
Torv hath it, is not yet ripe.
** * *
“Henry of Navarre” will have lett
Sydney Royal by the time this sees print. On
Saturday Nellie Stewart materialises at the Castle-
reagh-street playhouse in “What Every Woman
Knows.”
** * *
At Spencer’s Theatrescope, at Sydney
Lyceum, the King’s Funeral pageant holds pride
of place among the moving films, together with
notable incidents in the career of the late
monarch. Then, just to cheer up the audience,
Spencer switches on a fine series showing life
on the German navy that is understood
to be in process of bloating for the express
purpose of smashing up the Empire. They are
fine pictures, and reveal that the Sons of the Bull-
dog Breed are not the only men who can handle
ships. “ The Toreador ” appeals to the dramatic
section of the audience. It is a gay and gorgeous
affair wherein the film-maker has taken on the
r6le of the Creator and produced some weird
creatures in his own image. “The Girl Spy” is
one of the excellent films illustrating the Yankee
war of consolidation, of which so many have been
produced by Spencer. The girl carries despatches,
and apart from the romance the scenery itself is
well worth going a special trip to see.
#* * *
At Sydney Palace, West’s Pictures are also
screening the King’s obsequies. The increased
popular demand to see how King Ned went to his
long home will keep the pictures there for at least
another week, when the funereal films will presum-
ably give way to something of lighter tone. Abso-
lutely the best item on the programme is one of the
those exquisite Bathe Frhies of the mioro-eine-
matographic series. This film deals with the
progress of the microbes of recurrent fever
when let loose in the blood of a monkey ; and
when they float across the screen one loses the
sense of individuality, and feels himself a
universe instead of an individual or personality.
It is a triumph of cinematography and science.
“ The Girl Spy ” also flits across the screen at the
Palace, and “ The Taming of a Gandmother ” is a
series every young person should see. It in-
sinuates valuable hints in the management of the
aged and cantankerous, which is always a useful
thing to know.
* # * *■
The Dardinis, comedy jugglers, are the
latest people to cheer up Sydney Tivoli by throw-
ing things about, catching them again, and smash-
ing crockery. Crockery is one of the bugbears of
civilisation and washing-up is one of its horrors.
The nervous, home-bred human shudders in-
stinctively beneath his expensive roof-tree at the
death-crash of a plate costing fourpence-ha’penny,
and the most stoical man will remove his one-
and-sixpenny cigar from his lips to fiercely damn
the dropper’s carelessness. That, apparently, is
why the premeditated smashing of crockery on
the stage is such a successful applause-raiser.
Frank Travis (ventriloquist), the Charlenes, Lillie
Langtry and Fanny Powers are the other up-
holders of the bill. Mendel, the blind pianist, is
announced to depart this (Thursday) evening ;
but the name of Billy Williams—who has been
lingering for about six weeks —still remains on the
programme. The management should offer him
a permanent chair in the “Magnificent, Original
First Part.”
* * *
Produced in a small theatre, at a comfort-
able time o’ year “Mr. Preedy and the Countess”
would be a bigger “ go ” than it is likely to prove
at Melbourne Princess’s. To fully appreciate the
character and humor of these polite-society
comedies the public must regard them at close
quarters and breathe the atmosphere of the scene
in lazy content. The spacious Elizabethan
comedy of “The Merry Wives ” imparts a glow
of satisfaction, though the stage ground is covered
with snow ; but a large house is not easily warmed
by a bright little farcical play that happens in the
dining-room in Hamilton Preedy’s London flat.
“Preedy” is excellent comedy of its frivolously
literary kind. The “ souls ” who groan aloud at
melodrama and weep at comic opera ought to be
glad to get it. Also, it has a popular style of joke
as well as a polished manner of art. But Mel-
bourne provides no suitable accommodation for
such entertainment.
Preedy is the small subjective partner of
Bounsall in a vast emporium business, and Boun-
sall is a handsome, educated, thick-skinned com-
mercial bounder who has pushed his way into the
company of high-toned wasters. Bounsall is
arrogantly and expensively “ respectable ” and
pretentious. Preedy is as meek and modest
as a capable “emporium” manager can b .
Too intelligent to revere Bounsall, he is too
honest to pretend that he isn’t a worm in his
presence. Bounsall treads on Preedy many
times before the amiable little bachelor dreams of
turning. He never plucks up spirit in defence of
his own self-conceit; but when his best feelings
are aroused Preedy will fight valiantly if required.
In short, he is a small, clean gentleman in farcical
comedy circumstances. The Countess is a hair-
brained ornament of the Smart Set who happens
to have Bounsall at her elbow what time her
awful lawful Honorable “Bob” (“Bob” being
her second husband) goes astray with a ballet
girl. Bounsall persuades her to put herself under
his guardianship until the Divorce Court has set
her free. The idea of marrying a Bounsall
appeals at the moment to the unorthodox lady,
so she elopes with her dominative friend. He
arranges for their elopement to be equally moral
and secretive, and brings her to London with the
idea of leaving her at Preedy’s flat for the night
ere putting her in hiding with a decrepit aunt in
the country. So they descend suddenly upon
Preedy just as he has become,engaged to a nice
girl who pleads guilty to having previously
flirted with a persistent dentist. Then comes the
cause of all the trouble. Bounsall is called by
telegram to a dying godfather, with property to


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jordan's, 293 George Street, Sydney,
Quickly Cures a Cold.
“ We have used Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery,
and find it a good cure for colds.” writes Mr.
Jonas Hawkes, Warren Road, Mordialloc, Vic.
“When we get a cold we take Dr. Sheldon s New
Discovery at night, and are all right next morn-
ing.” Drice Is. 6d, and 3s,*
EXPERIENCED TRAVELLERS.
Among commercial men and experienced travel
lera it has become a habit to carry a bottle ot
Chamberlain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea
Remedy in their travelling bags, for they know
that change of water and food often brings on
colic and diarrhoea, which gives a great deal ot
pain and suffering. These ailments are of no con-
sequence when this remedy is at hand, but very
often result in serious disorders when it is not It
is always better to buy a bottle of Chamberlain s
Colic Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy before leav-
ing home, for it cannot be obtained on board tram
or steamer,*
u tii TTt* can’t resist the call of property,
bequeath, tie can „ r i v next day to re-
but he promises to r h(j oea ret urn—a few
move the Counts v . j witll t h e news that
h^half'toiiiarry 1 god fathers niece at godfather’s
S'lLvl her »ta" «.Td uriaeeoiinuble, in the
‘,: ® f p’edv In the meantime, of course,
the (3o un tess’s n oh 1 e and worthless relatives have
Sacked her to her temporary abode; also, the
dentist aforesaid has lighted on the apparent
“scandal.” Freedy is the object of much suspicion.
In the clearance of the nnsum erstam the
PciHiitess makes things pleasant toi rieeciy anti
unpleasant for Bounsall, whilst winning a trifle
of Empathy for herself. The dialogue through-
out is cute, and much of the acting is worthy o
Carton’s clever play.
* *
Miss Mab Paul, as the tall, tremendous
Countess, gives an interesting performance
marred by certain tricks and mannerisms whici
belong to the demi-moiidaine character she
played in “The Night of the Party.” David
James is a sufficiently small and apologetic
Preedy, but insufficiently narrow and incisive.
Willoughby is a quite beauteous edition of Ins
loud, masterful se f, as Bounsall; the brilliantly
funny character of the Countess s shocking Bob
’a only a little overdone by Harold Parkes ; and
Harry Halley has a congenial part as Preedy s
man-servant. More in the background Hugh
Buckler shines as a small-minded earl ; Miss
Paget and Miss Willard are valuable considera-
tions ; and Arthur Cornell is convincing as the
jilted dentist whom Preedy twice expels from the
meeting. Melbourne rarely gets a comedy so
adequately played. For curtain-raiser there is a
brief “ burglar episode” —a farcical melodrama m
15 minutes, where Buckler and Miss Violet Paget
do the scoring and Overton is dismissed for a
“duck,” scowling luridly the while.
** * *
Next week is the last but one of Oscar
Asehe and Co. at Melbourne Royal, and “The
Merry Wives” looks quite capable of crowding
the house to the end of the chapter. Falstatf, in
converse with Mrs. Quickly, or the Wives, or
flinging his chicken bone contemptuously at
Pistol, is a very real old knight—not jolly, but
genuine. Asche attempts nothing that he cannot
do naturally, in one way or other, and he adapts
Falstaff to his ways. Slender’s catch phrase—
“o, Sweet Anne Page !” promises to become the
popular cry of the local youth who loafs at
street corners to comment on the passing gal.
The “duel ” in the snow is the happiest scene the
co. has ever perpetrated in the absence of both
the manager and Miss Brayton, and for the rest
it is a goodly show.
* * * -M
“The Orchid,” which was new to Mel-
bourne in 1904 and had a revival a year later,
broke its long silence on Saturday night. Few
of the musical pieces staged at Her Majesty’s in
the meantime were as snappy and festive as “The
Orchid.” The story has some individual parts
and a full allowance of chorus in it. The plot is
never absent for long at a stretch, and when it
isn’t there the girls are always prepared to rush
in and supply the deficiency. The first revival
had several points of difference from the original
production ; the present one restores Florence
Young to her old part, but brings more changes
in sundry places. Lauri is sadly missed, in-
asmuch as the hard, dry fooling of JBertie
Wright is not what was expected of Meakin.
the gardener. He wants good humor and
“grease.” In this respect Miss Florence Vie is
nn acceptable successor to Miss Olifton, and
Langford Kirby is satisfactory as the budding
diplomatist who objects to sitting up all night
with a flower-pot. Fanny Dango gets the ballad
of “ Little Mary,” which has not yet outlived its
usefulness. Higginson is another cheerful new-
comer, and the old reputation of the cast is upheld
by Florence Young, Nellie Wilson, Fred Leslie,
Connie Milne, Ban took and Hunter, whilst Colin
Campbell explodes in the French Comte part
where Percy vented his excitement of yore. The
season is running to a close, and “The Orchid’
seemingly will run with it.
** * *
At Melbourne King’s this is the third
week of “The Sailors Wedding,” and yet
another week is threatened. The bloated popu-
larity of the mariner’s nuptials is perhaps due in
part to Bert Bailey’s frock-coat, for the appari-
tion of Albert in the long garment of seriousness
amounts to a startling event. The discomfiture
of the villainess by Redgrave (of the Evil Eye) is
another brilliant surprise. Just as she is revelling
in the fact that George Cross, being blind at the
time, had married her in mistake for another
gii l, and at the very moment when Cross is curs-
ing his thoughtlessness, Redgrave proclaims the
lady a bigamist. Whereupon she retires to her
boudoir and complains of giddiness.
** * *
“ Her First Appearance ” is one of the
best pictures The Bulletin has beheld at Mel-
bourne Olympia for some time past. The tale is
one of a sordid and obvious love, but there is a
certain pathos about the lady of the story. “The
Life History of a Silkworm ” is another good pic-
ture, in which natural development is shown as
some stylish sensation; while the further film of
Edward VII. s funeral is supportable for its inti-
mate glimpses of foreign royalties. As regards
“Shackleton’s Dash for the South Pole,” it is a
very bleak item, especially the incident of the
four black figures tramping the wastes towards
the Pole. Still, the scene fills one with a certain
pride and rapture, for here surely is Hamlet’s
soliloquy on Man expressed in black and white.
** * *
“0.K.,” on certain amateur perform-
ances :
Melbourne University Dramatic Club, in a recent out-
break at the Princess’s, did better with Gal-worthy’s
gloomy comedy, “The Silver Box,” than with W. S.
Gilbert’s “Rosencrantz and Guildenstern a mock-
serious travesty of the “play-scene” episodes in
“ Hamlet.” The Gilbertian skit is a very light piece of
irony, anyhotv, and the amateurs who had to act their
lines as well as speak them were, with one exception,
much too crude for the whimsical work. Miss Unie
Russell, as Ophelia, was satisfactory enough, hut, then,
she is an ex-professional who played for two years in a
Julius Knight eo. Of the others, Sol Bloom, as King
Claudius, was required only to sit around and talk im-
pressively, and he did it very well.
Oast for the part of Barthvvick, M.P., in the three-act
cornedv, Sol bloomed again, but not so freely. Barth-
wick, M.P., is the least easy to play of the commonplace
characiers in “ The Silver’Box.” He is of the stage world
the familiar, self-deceiving moralist who talks eternally
of his “principles,” though he has none to speak of. He
even babbles “ principles ” at feeding times, when his in-
sipid wife and callous young waster of a son are his only
auditors. Also he has to behave unnaturally in order to
provide plot for the meagre play. Having discovered
that his precious boy had been drunk and disreputable
over night, and having paid £8 to a loose young woman
whose reticule had been snatched by his offspring in
inebriated cussedness, Barthwick would naturally be
anxious to drop a veil of silence over the incident of the
silver cigarette-box, which a visiting charwoman is sup-
posed to have stolen from the room where his offspring
was sleeping off his whisky. Nevertheless Barthwick,
M.P. (who seems to be not a bad sort as dull platitudi-
narians go) sends a policeman to arrest the charwoman
after she has returned to her wretched domicile,
instead of having her arrested before she left
his premises. The silver box is bound to be
on Barthwick's premises if poor Mrs. Jones “ nicked ” it.
She hasn’t left the house since she entered the room
where the missed property was last seen. In permitting
her to go away before he sools the police on to her,
Barthwick, M.P., is a true creature of melodrama. The
scene of Mrs. Jones’s lodging, with her drunken and
luridly democratic husband lying abed in his pants and
railing at the injustice of S"cial anangemi nts, was wanted
by the dr matist. So Barthwick puts the supposed de-
linquency of Mrs. Jones in the hands of a detective, and
the ’tec arrests —not Mrs. Jones, but her husband, be-
cause he shows fight. Melodrama again.
Apart from Barthwick, M P., and the detective all the
people in “ The Silver Box” act quite naturally in their
human little ways. Also they talk convincingly as a
rule. The falsest notes in the dialogue are sounded by
the hoozy Jones, who professes to “shake” the silver box
merely to show his “spite ” against the wealthy classes,
whilst forgetting to explain his motive for stealing a
demi-mondaine’s cash. The characters are true to their
types, and their mission in their play is to state the ob-
vious. As an etnphasiserof old-established factsin human
nature and social practice, dramatist Galsworthy is rat her
callow and decidedly dull, but his play is cleverly con-
structed. It tells nothing new to thinking persons —the un-
thinkingare not to be attracted by such a play. If they were
—well, it would shock them no more than it shocks their
intellectual betters. This is a hollow world where all
people are selfish, and wealthy folk get larger opportuni-
ties and temptations to display their ingrained vice than
needy folk, and where many poor working women are
simple worms, like Mrs. Jones, the charlady.
The monotonous sadness and slowness of Mrs. J. were
adequately expressed by Miss Hilda Bull. Miss Lilian
Prichard gave a bright, amateurish suggestion of the loose
girl. Frank Russell was fairly successful as the callous
cub of Barthwick, and S. E. Ilolroyd played a police
magistrate quite admirably. The minqtely detailed
police-court scene was, in fact, the most realistic part of
a performance which explained the author’s meaning
quite as clearly, though not so dramatically, as though it
had been presented by a professional co.
“ THE MERRY
WIVES OF
WINDSOR ” A T
MELBOURNE
ROYAL.
H. Tripp Edgar
as a Welsh
Parson.
A clever turn is that of the Kremo Family,
which has just arrived at Melbourne Opera House.
Its business is full of bright and memorable things,
for the Kremos build themselves into towers of
two or three floors as easily as they become rolling
hoops or strange figures of motion. Good as the
tumbling and balancing are, however, they are
not so good as the act of three of the party who lie
on their backs to toss the other Kremos from toe
to toe. In this portion of their turn they juggle
their relatives from one to another with original
variations, and arrive at a striking climax when
one Kremo catches two hurtling bodies on the
soles of his fragile shoon.
# ft * *
“ The Arcadians,” at Adelaide Royal, is
entering merrily on the second week, which, in
that city, spells Success. Miss Maie Sydney
keeps up the Australian tradition of pocket-
edition heroines. The hard work is done—and
done effectively—by Cromwell. The mounting
is a dream. The Literary Theatre is busy re-
hearsing a fresh set of the plays that might not
be a commercial success on the professional stage ;
and the Appendreena Society has played “John
Glayde’s Honor ” to a friendly house. The cast was
hardly as well-balanced all round as some times
in the past, but the leading player of each sex
was, at least, something above the amateur
standard. The Besses have put in a strenuous
week at the Town Hall, and the Tivoli still relies
on Carter’s illusions, backed by Brunin s odd bil-
liards, the Gray and Graham comedietta, and
Fred Bluett (with poy Scouts). The picture
business is getting overdone. Olympia (formerly
a skating-rink) had nearly a monopoly for some
time ; then the Empire (formerly a variety house)
cut in ; and now the Town Hall is a home for
Prince’s films, while Arcadia, a new place, joins
in the rush. And there are others.
“R.E.L.” (London): Saw in Oxford-street yesterday
an erstwhile popular actress, who us d to be leadingladv
in a Brou<'h and Boucieault company, reading the bill of
fare outside a restaurant where the whole meal conies to
Is 6d Then she wearily trudged a few yards further on,
and entered one of Lyons and Co.’s tea-rooms and ordered
the same as I did—a scone and a glass of hot milk for
twopence.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ M.P.”: Kreitmeyer’s deceased Waxworks, in Mel-
bourne, were of special interest to the cocky
farmer and other way hacks since 3855. For many
years Doubleday took the casts of all the people
who occupied the condemned cell in Melbourne
gaol. When Doubleday passed out Jim Douglas
handled the wax, and it is said that Douglas is the best
all-round man at the game in the world. In London,
Paris and elsewhere wax figures are compiled by
specialist piece-workers, but James can do the w hole tob,
even to adjusting a pink tie on a dreadful criminal, to
make him look merry and bright. Amongst others who
earned a crust at the Waxworks, old Woodruffe, the glass-
blower who died some nine years ago, left a monumen t in
the shape of a glass engine that worked a set of tinkling
wheels. The Chamber of Horrors occupied an upstairs
room at the back of the main hall, and win n the Wayback
wasn’t disturbing the awful silence with Ins boots or
hoof-cases, the old grey rats played hide-and-seek about
the dreadful Deeming and his victim, or scampered up
the figure of Dan Kelly and perched on his top piece.
The newlv-painted sign over the door proclaims the place
the “ Alexandra Hall.” It is trading seven nights a week,
and on the seventh night a collection-plate is in evidence
at the front of the house.
There was one glorious touch in the recent London
trial of Pansy Mon ague Milo. She was asked if she had
taken certain jew ellery to a pawnshop. “ A pawnshop I
said Pansy, with the startled, uncomprehending gaze of
a spring gazelle meeting its first lion. What, what is
a pawnshop?"
“Demo”: Australians have been interested in the
view of Westminster Hall in the King Edward biogiaph.
The most interesting thing in its 500 years of history is
about Cromwell. After the Restoration, Cromwell s head
was fixed up on a pike, with an oaken siaff, over West-
minster Hall. It remained there 25 years. Oromwell s
whole body and head had been embalmed. In a storm
the head was blown down, worms having eaten through
the staff. A sentry seized the head or skull and stuck
to it. All inquiries were vain. The skull was sold
to one Russell, whose family exhibited it. lor
a while it was in Cox’s museum mentioned in
Sheridan’s “ Rivals.” Next, it w’as sold for £.250, and
exhibited in London at 2s. 6d. per head. The first three
men who owned it all ended unluckily. It was sort of
blue diamond. The three nieces of the last man
were nervous, and they sol.t or gave the skull to one Dr.
Wilkinson. Distinguished people were in the habit of
going to look at it. It was understood to be in the pos-
session of his family as late as 1874 However, there is
another storv. When the body of the dead lion, Crom-
well, was kicked out of Westminster Abbey, it was sup-
posed to b • buried at Tyburn, minus the head. The
allegation made is that another heail was substituted for
theVike-staff. Against this is the difficulty of getTmiT
another embalmed one, for the Westminster H dl head
was undoubtedly embalmed, else it would never have
lasted as it did.
“ 0.K.” : The story of Melbourne Waxworks (deceased)
goes back to the very early history of the city. Kre't-
mever is said to have started Ins collection of effigies
some 55 years ago, when the reputation of Tussaud s in
London was still in its prime and an occasional visit to
the Waxworks was a rule with resident townsmen as well
as hayseeds from the country. In ns old legitimate
character, Kreitmeyer’s quieo little place of call having
been well pitched in Bourke-street—flourished without
extra attractions for about 30 years. His Chamber of
Horrors was fed in its youth by sensational murders,
now almost forgotten. Ben Halls gang of hush-
rangers was an early exhibit. The murder of Puce
(X of Colonel Tom Price) by some convicts
at Williamstown— a richly-deserved ending—provided a
“group” that brought many shillings to the pay-box,
and, later on, the Kelly Gang gave a fillip to Kre.tmeyer s
Income. The Price Tragedy and the Kelly Gang remained
prime attractions for years. The last murderer who
drew a steady stream of patronage to the show was
Deeming. He figured there in the act of bu ring his
Melbourne victim tinder the hearthstone, even before lie
was han "ed. At that time, and for some while earlier
and later Phil Stuart had the management and
the Waxworks, and added human novelties to its
*atr»f*k of lav figures. The Tattooed Man, Felix
Tanner (the' Fasting Man), and Jo-Jo (the Hairy
Russian) had their vogue under Stuart s enterprising
regime, and his advt. sheets were works of popular
fiction. Nowadays, he runs a pub nearly opposite
to the scene of his old exploits. Before him there
had been a showman—Friedman-~who converted the
Waxworks into a home of horrible abnormalities. There
sit the hydrocephalus man, burdened with a head
measuring 2ft or more in diameter; and the “monkey,
boys ” incapable of speech and far less intelligent than
the chimpanzee they roosted with. The Victorian
Government of the day had to provide for the reship,
ment of all those awful freaks to India, or somewhere.
Within the past 16 years or so the MacMahons intro-
duced specimens of cinematograph films to Mel-
bourne notice at the Waxworks, and during their
brief innings the Haunted Swing was a popular illusion
It was here that Peacock-Peacock of the Laugh and the
subseauent knighthood—displayed Ins obstinate foolish-
ness in looking for trouble. The McMahon in charge of
the Swing had cautioned him and his mares to sit tight
to their seat what time they saw the ceiling changing
places with the floor. But Peacock who could
neither grasp the situation nor take a hint,
stepped down from the seat whilst the room
was revolving, and was beginning to be flung
violently from end to end of it when Mac ga\ e the
signal to stop the machinery in the basement below.
Otherwise, Peacock would have gone to his burial in a
battered state. All these tilings happened long ago. Of
late the Waxwork has had no very remunerative mur-
derers among its Horrors and but few special attractions.
The lamentable foreigner who professed to live in a glass
case nourished only by cigarettes and soda water, was
the last notable absurdity at the ancient lnstitutiom
Nowit has gone into the Picture business and changed
its name, as though ashamed of as interesting past.
George Edw irdes, most successful of musical-comedy
producers, gives London Strand some points on the
came He reckons it absolutely the biggest gamble he
knows (and he has owned some pretty good racehorses.)
He lost, steadily over “Dorothy’ for six months , then
he sold it, and it straightway turned into a gold-mine.
“ The Oino-alee,” after about the most enthusiastic fust-
night within memory, was a financial failure. On the
other hand, “ San Toy ” and “ The Country Gnl tvv °
his greatest successes, were coldly received at fust, lhe
Gaietv is the only London theatre that seems able to
produce a sequence of musical comedies at a The
others fluctuate. “ The Girl from Kay s lost him £2OOO
in a year. Initial expenses are enormous. The Lady
Dandi 's” cost £lO,OOO before the curtain first rose on it,
and £l6OO a week afterwards. According to Edwardes,
to wet one’s money back on the - vear or so of a London
season is hardly to be hoped for ; hut with success
conies a rush for “provincial, American and all-over-
the-Empire rights of production.
“ Stargazer ”: I see that Nat Gould, the maker o £
polite literature for jockeys, is at the Federal Govern-
ment to subsidise “a typical Australian drama of Ins
building to the extent of a paltry £l2 000 for the pur-
pose of familiarising the provincial English with Aus-
tralian people, manners and customs. Gerald, Gould s
co-conspirator, who has a firm grasp of Fisher s lefLear,
contends that this is a whale of an idea, and should in-
duce Australia to sound the loud timbrel of patriotic
gratification. There is nothing in the scheme but the
idea and a pvran.idal cheek. The idea is mine, the cheek
is Gould’s. The suggestion will he found propounded in
Australian theatrical notes in The Lone Hand for May,
1908.
“ 0.K.” : Henry Neville, the English actor, who died
latelv, was probably a record-breaker in one particular.
He married when he was 16, it was said, iind w hen he
was said to be not more than 36, and might h 1
for younger, he was a grandfather. Presumably he as >
great grandfather ere he ceased to play das ' KJ
hero parts in picturesque drama. Neville had
a handsome face and good figure to recommend hin as a
stage hero. His voice was absolui ely peanuful, alow-toned
sibilant voice capable of subtle musical inflect • *
imitators were monoionous. Neville was magn ■
had the tones for telling tales of love. His v\ i 1
the stage moonlight thrilled the very soul of the gads at
the extreme back of the pit and gallery, hut •■
the slave of his gallant aspect and lady-killing
All his life he was a capable chracter actor, « »
he had turned 30 he got high praise for his performance
of a rough old miner with a game leg and a-harsh d alect.
Also, he was a go'd citizen, wtio seemed. uncommonlj
fond of his partner in a highly imprudent marriage. In
fact, Neville was an argument in favor of boy and | girl
unions, seeing that he “ wore” well and died at
spectable age of 73. Probably he was older
figures given are derived from his own statement, in
middle age, when a beauty actor is allowed a margin tot
misrepresentation.
“ Prahran Pictures”: There seems to be a good deal of
mystery re tlie people who are behind the big new theatie
project for Melbourne’s rich suburb of Prahran. Neces-
sity’compelled me to he lately in a certain part of mj
club where walls have beers. There I heard things. The
names mentioned were those of Monty Cohen, Rupert
Clarke and Johnnie Wren. The visible agent-a harmless
person named been named
prominently as the sole mover. That is a prawn narra-
tive. The land is about the most valuable available
block on wealthy Chapel-street, and is on the s P oCv ' hel '®
the new municipal electric trams intersect at the busiest
corner of the city. Eleven suburbs meet there or there-
abouts, and it is understand hie that three large capi-
talists would not want the seller to see them coming.
Tlie local land agents speak of a curate-like impossibility
who spoke of erecting a factory for gentlewomen s: under-
clothing or something, but whether tins was the pui-
chaseror not. I cannot, say. Anyhow, the locality was
haunted by the clerical-looking little man, and lie isn
there now.
Jewellery robberies and the paragraphs appertaining
thereto are not confined to the professional ranks of
music and tlie drama. The amateurs also suffer from
sensational felonies. Last week Claude Hall, a Mel-
bourne identity, whose business is manufacturing cnem-
istry, and whose pastime is singing and acting, reported
a loss of £lBO worth of jewellery and things: A;'." 0001 "'
plished burglar broke into his house at East St. Hilda and
got away with a bagful of y’aluables, including go
medals which Claude had acquired in various musical and
elocutionary competitions. Those 25 medals represented
an immense amount of trouble in the earning of i hem. *or
their sake, the winner had braved the scorn and dissatis-
faction of about 4312 unsuccessful competitors scattered
all over the country. And now 25 lots of sarcastic rivals
are revelling in the hope that Claude Hall’s emblems of
victory have been melted down to make a bu glar s
picnic.
“Vulcan”: London police authorities have struck a
heavy blow at tlie she-nunnmer's hoary lost-jewels advt.
Beauty actress Gal. ielle.Ray recently mislaid her fabu-
lously-priced gauds in a London t axi ; hut., before the loud
advt. could even get off scratch, a breathless jehu rushed
the wealth into the nearest police station, demanded a
receipt, and departed joyfully. The lady was subse-
quently informed that her forget tery would cost her £lOO
—percentage reward, under the new regulations, on the
value of property found.
“E.”: To my thinking, the chief joy in “The Merry
Wives of Windsor,” as dished up by Oscar Hash, is in the
minor features of the play. A lot of the small stuff is
delightfully done. Rugby, for instance, Cams s serving-
man, a lout who merely stands round, is a monument of
silent comedy, a delicious gargoyle. His impersonation
of a frozen, blue-nosed hoodlum in one snow scene is the
happiest kind of pantomime. Nvm, who has little to say
and is not particularly articulate with wdiat he does say,
is yet uncommonly droll by reason of some suggestion of
a consumptive pushiie that he lias incorporated into the
poor rogue. Ans«n’s Simple is too like earlier Anson
efforts ; but supplies trenchant points for all that—ditto
the crapulous Bardolph. The care bestowed upon details
of dressing, acting and accessories is astonishing. Ann
Asehe’s Falstaff—a good, generous effort, but distinctly
an effort. The Asche does not glow. Of course, Lalsfaff
of “The Wives” is not the real Falstaff —but, a base
counterfeit that will not ring true to tlie gay old batman
of the two King Henry plays, act him as you will.
“Silas”: There should always bean explanatory note
in the programmes, giving the true inwardness of
Pistol, when a Shakspearian play containing that raffish
humbug crops up. As it is, Pistol is not comprehended
by one in a hundred of those who watch the progress of
“Tlie Merrv Wives.” Pistol is a broad and liberal cari-
cature of Kit Marlowe’s thunderous characters, and the
hero s of other tremendous dramatists preceding and
contemporaneous with Shakspeare. His gorgeous diction
burlesques the stilted and ornate phraseology fashionable
in the pompous tragedies of the time. Mitch of th fun
of Pistol passed with the plays he ridiculed ; but a know -
ledge of his office makes him at least a comprehensive
object.
“Water Dog”: I wandered into one of the flicker
palaces in Melbourne last week to see the Johnson.
Ketchell picture. Before-this was thrown on the screen 1
had to wait while some thousands of feet of film were
drearily passed through, and, of these, the one that,
struck me hardest was “ The Life of Moses, sth series.
Oh ve people, think of it—Moses by flicker. I saw
Mo'ses descend from the Mount and go baresark upon
finding the tribe worshipping a small cow. Imagine
a Victorian country preacher going into hysterics be-
cause his flock worshipped a cow! But Moses was
made of sterner stuff than the grass country preach, r,
and smote the calf a backhand swipe which toppled it
off its pedestal. He further showed his rage by breaking
the two tables of stone that he had lugged from the
summit of Sinai. They were pretty things with an
assortment of hieroglyphics similar to my laundryman s
sign While the fit lastid, Aaron and company heaver!
deep sighs and clasped theii hands heavenwards. Then
the company floated, and Aaron, after much persuasn n,
beguiled M”ses to get two more tiles, so he wem up the
mount again, this time to slow music (selections from
“The Waltz Dream”), pausing every fifth step for
limelight effects, and finally disappearing into a mist.
Finally, the last sad scene of all was displaced. Moses
dvine- in sight of the Promised Land.” There, on the
too of the hill, he laid down and perished gradually,
while two angels, one with a dislocated right wing,
materialised beside him. Across the river I could see
several mud huts, and could almost hear the cows lowing
and the bees humming. Then all was blank, and I saw a
shape rise up before me with a trumpet in its right
dook and methought instantly it was Gabriel going to
sound the last dread trump ; but I heard it proclaim,
“The great fight picture of Johnson and Ketchell, pro-
cured at enormous expense, will now be shown.” So I
sat up and woke my cobber.
“Meg”: Travelling companies strike it rich some-
times. When the Taits brought Amy C .sties to our Vic-
torian town, two enterprising deadbeats planted them-
selves at a gate leading to the back yard of the hall
where Amv was to warble. People who. were sneaking
around in the gloaming for an unpaid audience were
bailed up for a shilling, on behalf of the management.
Shame made most of them pay, till an indignant individual
came along and told the worthy pair that they were not
authorised by tlie management, and made them passover
their ill-gotten gains. He then raised the price of
admission to Is. 6d. and took, I think, about £3 more.
The last gatekeeper told me that “it was the best skin
game he ever tried.” You see, he hadn’t been authorised
by the management either. The management didn t
know there was any backyard.
THE FIDDLER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
There plays a fiddler on this earth,
And those who venture near him
They say he’s not of mortal birth,
And deeply do they fear him.
Beneath the moon, so spectre white,
You hear his fiddle wailing ;
And such a sadness fills the night
As comes when life is failing.
He plays and plays the whole night through
His notes of saddest blending ;
He sings the song of human woe,
And cannot find an ending !
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.


By Special
Appointment
sdf
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS,
MOONEE PONDS.
VICTORIA.
THE CATERER, Tel. No. 2, Ascot.
Wedding- Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Bing up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give ail details,
“ Votes for Women ” people cry,
Perhaps they’ll fret 'em by and bye.
‘ Down with beer ” the boards are billed.
I can’t down any more, I’m filled.
“ Preferential Tariffs ” say you !
Always vote for those that pay you.
These and coughs and colds don’t try me—
I’ve Woods’Great Peppermint Cure close by me.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydnev.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
k:
A DAINTY CAMERA.
When you can get a CAMERA that takes PERFECT PICTURES
Mode t the ,uinimum of trouble, and at the extremely
375. ©d.
YOU SHOULD INDULGE IN PHOTOGRAPHY.
THE FOLDING ENSIGN, No. 3%, is Our Latest.
It completely Eclipses ALL RIVALS at this price. It FOLDS
Compactly, has an Ingenious Infinity Catch, which instance
registers all distances from 3 feet to infinity without trouble. Real
Leather Bellows, Built of Seasoned Wood—NOT Cardboard—At T
parts smooth working, with Nickel Fittings, Ind a High-grade
Single Achromatic Lens. This Camera Is Our Latest Triumph in
HARRINGTONS’ CAMERAS.
Make a
Note of
This.
wU ar ? t u e 1^® st 9 amera Importers in Australasia.
® ol° d , 8 'r Makers of Highest Reputation.
YVF V6r J photo. ] Requisite for Professional or Amateur.
VVR Develop and Print Your Negatives and Repair Your Cameras.
HARRINGTONS
386 Qeorge Street, near C.P.0., SYDNEY ; and at MELBOURNE, BRIS
LTD.
INE and ADELAIDE.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
William Archer, writing in the Fort-
nightly of American indifference to criticism,
makes a remark which would be almost equally
true in the ease of a notorious Australian person.
Says Archer :
An American will often simply shruer his shoulders at
an accusation which in England would blast a man’s
whole career. He knows that whatever may be the
opinion of the “muck-rakers” (as he calls them), the
people among- and upon whom he lives do not expect him
to be anything else than the ruffian he is proved to be.
In fact, the tendency nowadays among short-
sighted admirers of successful corruption is to
resent any public reference to it. The platform
speaker tries to back up his argument with some
statements of scandalous truth re his opponents,
and the working men at the back of the hall shout
“ That’s dirt !” They see “dirt” in the state-
ment of the fact, and nothing dirty in the fact
itself.
A CASE OF SWELLED HAT.
"Oh, Lor'! Ain't she puttin' on dorg since 'er
kid joined the Boy Scouts? ”
O.K. : There is “ a movement afoot ’
in Melbourne to secure from the present owner of
Carbine the skeleton of that famous steed—after
its demise, of course. The idea is to place the
bony structure of Australia’s expatriated hero in
some local museum or public garden for the in-
struction of students. But why not develop the.
idea so that it may include famous performers of
the human species ? Why not bespeak the skele-
ton of, say, John Murray, or Willy Watt? Mel-
bourne Parliament House, which will again be
the State House, when the Federal capital comes
to pass, is sadly in need of political skeleton em-
bellishments. As moral, rather than anatomical,
lessons, the frameworks of famous men should be
bequeathed to the electors. We talk a lot about
“ backbones,” but we never see them. No studies
in spinal columns are set up for emulatory pur-
poses or critical comparison. Let the physical
mainstays of unflinching purpose, so to speak, be
preserved as evidences and explanations of sturdy
political achievement, and photographed for pub-
lication in book form. The art of physical cub
ture may work wonders even with backbones.
Given the necessary material for study, an inven-
tive professor might build up a system whereby
the Yes-No of a George Reid could be changed
into a consistent line of policy.
There is an interesting coincidence in the
fact that one Abe Benson and his supposed wife
were arrested at Perth (W. A.) last week on the
charge of obtaining £lOO by false betting pre-
tences from an elderly Austrian countess. A
German countess, or baroness, was the suffering
heroine of the sensational “Turf Frauds” case
of 40 years ago, which led to the conviction of
certain London detectives on a charge of having
“stood in” with the clever spielers whom they
were deputed to trap. The names of those spielers
whose ingenuity extended to the publication of a
g ot £lO rt'nn a Sp /k' tm * new *P ; W (whereby they
got £lO.OOO from their principal dupe), were Kerr
fiS Bf T son ~Harry Benson, but a .Tew, neverthe-
less Harry Benson was a gifted person and a
most versatile swindler. When tfm gaud mayor
of London was distributing a relief fund among
y T; y - of tl 'o French provinces impoverished
by the Franco-German war, the alert Benson
passed himself in as a French mayor, and got
away with a special grant of £lOOO to meet the
uigent necessities of his alleged constituency. In
prison at different times he attempted suicide—
once by setting fire to his straw mattress and
himself h A n t horrlbly ' Fina]ly ’ he did kill
himself. Abe Benson, arrested at Perth, is a re-
minder of the long-departed genius.
Sydney detectives wax wrothy over the
contemptuous words of Inspector-General Garvin
re the elusive old man who goes about pass-
mg £S notes of the long defunct Provincial
and Suburban Bank. One of them told the news-
papers the other day that there are about a
hundred old men answering the offender’s descrip-
tmn to be seen daily in Hyde Park. But Garvin
holds that it is a tec’s business to find out the
right cdd man. Garvin is the only reason-
ably live boss that Sydney’tecs have had in the
lifetime of the oldest policeman. Fosberv, his pre-
decessor, was a clerk, a routine keeper of accounts
and writer of memos. He sat in his chair all week
and conned reports, but possessed little first-hand
knowledge. McLerie, who was before Fos-
bery, was an old soldier, and knew nothing of
police duties. If Garvin proposes to reform
rnis ’ orc ? he has probably a fair amount of scope
lhis writer had a look at its methods some years
ago. At a Sydney hotel where he was staying
there was a daylight robbery of a large sum of
money. Suspicion fell on the generally useful
boy. Ihe detectives were called in. and they
came in droves. No one officer seemed to have
the case in hand ; half the force just called from
time to time, and was asked if it had a mouth on
it. It was told about the generally useless boy,
j ur £? e d to shadow him when he went
off duty. Straightway two or three robust
officers called him into the landlady’s
office and revealed their identity to him, and
thundered large interrogations. The generally
useless boy denied everything. Shortly afterwards
he was seen making his exit from the pub. The
landlady urged that he should be followed, and
the force went slowly to the door saying that it
wonldn tdo to follow him too closely else his sus-
picions would be aroused. The indignant land-
lady said they were aroused already. By the
time the force reached the door the generally use-
less hoy had vanished. He is still vanished so far
as this writer is aware. All the same, there is this
to be said for the Sydney detectives—that their
speed would have to be much greater than their
pay if they hoped to overtake even a cripple, let
alone a boy with a bag of stolen money about him
and wings on his heels.
There is now on exhibition in London a
sort of suicide bureau, which contains—in place
°f P°j s °ns and guns and precipices—samples of
the foods consumed by the poverty-stricken
Freetrade wage-slaves of Hingland. Among
them are specimens of tea, composed mostly
of vegetation from oaks, elms and mother
trees ; and nearby are raspberry and cur-
rant jams made of turnips, mangel-
wurzels, seaweed, sawdust and refuse—
brightly tinted with red and yellow
ochres. Fancy poisons masquerade as
lollies, and include liquorice sticks
colored with lamp-black and partly
built of chalk. In confectionery the
flavor of pineapple is obtained by
the use of nitrate of ethyl, apple by a
drop or two of valerianate of amyl ;
and pear by submitting decomposed
cheese to the action of sulphuric acid
and bichromate of potash. Other
varieties of death are concealed in
some popular lines of jujubes, the
basis of the sweets being coarse
French glue. The death-rate is
pretty high in England ; but one
would expect it, in such circum-
stances, to be a lot higher—about as
tall as Hainan’s gallows, reared on
the top of Aconcagua.
The cable quotes this pearl of wisdom by
George Reid, uttered at the usual banquet :
Britain must be prepared to defend herself upon the
instant. If the flag of England once goes down updh
the seas we will never see it again.
And The Bulletin asks old Platitudinous George
to state why. The flag went down many cen-
turies ago when the original fleet which Alfred
built came to naught. It was down and
drowned in the time of Richard 11., when the
French harried the English coasts and burnt sea-
port towns. It had gone to the dogs when
De Ruyter blockaded London, and Britain
ha,d to buy a humiliating peace. It Was
failure to hold the sea against the French which
killed Britain’s last hope in the American War of
Independence. But the blessed flag' always rose
again. Therefore, why should despairing fat men
stand up amid the debris of banquets, and state
that the ancient country has onlj' one kick left
and that next time it is defeated it will throw in
the permanent and reproductive towel?
SEEMED UNNECESSARY.
ALGERNON: “My word, if we only had a pipe laid on from the brewery down ter here with a
tap on it we'd be all right, eh!”
PERCIVAL : “ Wot would yer want a tap on it fer?”
Genius is supposed to be shown by a
minute attention to detail, but it is possible to
overdo the business. That
was the fault of a flighty
young Merely Mary Ann, of
Armadale (Vic.), who re-
cently told her employer,
and subsequently the detec-
tives, that when she was
alone in the house that after-
noon a “large man, 27 years
of age, and weighing 16st.,
with a false beard and mous-
tache,” entered the premises
and casually bestowed the
household silverware in his
Gladstone bag. On her see-
ing him, she promptly
ordered him off the pre-
mises, whereupon he emptied
out his bag, removed his dis-
guise, heaved a silver teapot
at her head, and departed
per bike. It was such an
obviously-concocted narrative
that O’Oallaghan’s employees
had little difficulty in bowling
it out, and the damsel was ad-
vised to build a more specious I
and less lop-sided yarn next time
she felt that way. And that is where the
blunder was made, for the fictionist will probably
take that advice, and the sleuths won’t be equal
to upsetting the tale; and then some innocent
person will get into trouble.
* * * *
A Melbourne paper publishes some further
information concerning Salv’army sweating. For
instance, two operators in the Blood-and-Fire
bioscope department are reported to be paid £1
ss. and £1 2s. 6d. respectively per week : and a
lassie, who toiled with hysterica] enthusiasm for
six or seven months and demolished the debt on
her little corps, received less than £1 for the full
period of graft and sin-shifting. Colonel Fisher
an Army dignitary, remarks that such cases of
practically gratuitous labor are infinitely to the
credit of the laborers. After that, no more need
be said, except to add that the Lord is getting a
reputation as a sweater through the operations of
Ins hook-nosed apostle, Booth.
Judge Edwards, of M.L., has laid it down
that the welshing bookmaker is no worse, legally
speaking, than (say) a bank which, finding busi-
ness hasn’t panned out as it was expected to,
closes its doors. Referring to the case of one
Barns, who welshed a herd of backers at
Wanganui races the other day and was arrested
for theft, Edwards remarked :
When a depositor’s money went into a book-
maker’s possession, it really became the bookmaker’s
property. The depositor risked the bookmaker’s sol-
vency, not necessarily his respectability.
M.L. is the only country the writer wots of where
bookmaking is a regularly-legalised profession.
And so the public may be fleeced with im-
punity. Is it strange that the maddened punter
of Ward’s islands yearns for the dear, dead days
when a cronk penciller was heaved, defalcations
and all, into a deep pond, while John Hop waved
his helmet for joy.
“N.”: Prayers were said in the Aus-
tralian churches for William IV. three months
after his death. Melbourne city was laid out
and named before the news came of Victoria’s
accession. So she got no main street named after
her in the original lot; otherwise either Collins
or Bourke streets would have been called Victoria.
The order of streets from west to east is King,
AT REHEARSAL.
STAGE MANAGER: “ When Baby Bess defies you,
you seize her in your arms and carry her off
lift, while Bad Bob and Gory George stand
right scowling villainously.”
THE NEW HEAVY (?) (after a silent guess at Baby
Bess's weight): “ Er, wouldn't it be better if
Bob and George carried her off and 1 scowled
villainously?”
William, Queen and Elizabeth. The last was to
have been named Adelaide-street. It was made
Elizabeth, not out of compliment to Queen Bess,
but to Governor Boutke’s wife. Williamstowt'i
was named after the King because it was thought
more important than Melbourne, named after a
mere Premier. And then, in the course of
events, it got left.
THE LEADING FEATURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Jewish beard is disappearing as prosperity in-
creases.— Jrwish World.
Evolution evoluting, still producing something new,
Gets a grip on Cohen’s whiskers, and evolves a beardless
Jew.
Yes,the sacred chin-mat fadeth from the son of Jacob’s
line,
Where in exile he forsaketh kosher meat for salted swine.
Lo, the humble, crowded ghetto knows his shuffle
nevermore.
There s a valet in his chamber, there’s a carriage at his
door. s
He MONISH LENT 1 * 6 paWnship and the si » n of
And repent in cindered sackcloth for his sins of shent
per shent;
He may even leave the racecourse and forget to call the
odds,
Like his fathers in the desert chasing after other gods ;
He may change his name to Howard, or to anything he
likes, * *
Call his children George and Alfred, and forsake his Sols
and Ikes ;
But, in spite of all disguises, by one feature we should
know
He’s the same old Isaac Cohen on whom whiskers used to
grow ;
We should surely recognise him ; yes, we’d pick him
every time,
Once we gazed upon the features ’neath his plug hat all
sublime.
Even mighty Evolution, evoluting all she knows,
May work overtime for ages at uncurling Jacob's nose.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.
THE UNDERTAKER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A deputation of undertakers complained: "A case
was known where an undertaker had offered the driver
of an ambulance 20 per cent, of the receipts if the
funeral were put in his way ."—Victorian dailies (30/6/’10).
When grim old Death has hooked his skinny claw
Around your throat tor all the world to see,
Another face, with hollow lantern jaw,
Looks round your gate and says with greedy maw,
Remember me 1 ”
The Undertaker ! Trader in cold clay,
Merchant of graves ! With black übiquity,
Where’er the Reaper hurries forth to slay
The Necro-pirate yammers in his way,
“ Remember me ! ”
When pallid lips breathe out the last faint moan,
Bringing an end to toil and love and glee,
And wives sit dumbly as if turned to. stone—
Dreaming the miseries of life alone—
Kite, vulture, crow and undertaker groan,
“Remember me ! ”
VICTORIA.
P.


Women’s Labour Union.
One hoar of an Australian woman’s time
should be and is worth more than the
value of a bar of soap. If a woman can
buy a tablet of soap that will save her
one hour alone of labour per day she has
he soap for nothing. Sunlight Soap, used
in the Sunlight way, will save much more
than an hour in the day. Try one Tablet
and note directions on the Wrapper. You
will be pleased with the remits, and you
will surely join the Women's Sunligni
Labour Ur'or'.
You hear a lot of people snip,
“ Plant me among the girls,’
And talk as though each maiden fair
Had curly, curly curls. .
1 don’t mind planting: with the girls,
No 1 that I could endure ;
But cure their colds, for goodness sake.
With Woods' Great Peppermint Cure.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 Kirig Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets!.*
Owing to an Error.
Owing to an error in oar advertise-
ment a week or two ago, in which
the wrong illustration was used, we
now reproduce our New Vest
Sweater with correct description.
It buttons down the front —has two
pockets, and is in Navy,
Heather Brown and Grey.
PRICE, 10/6 Each.
Posted 9d. extra; Inter-State 1/2.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.,
“ MEN’S OUTFITTERS,”
309=311 George Street, Sydney.
>
“ Deader ” writes :
The statement made last week by the president of the
Victorian Master Undertakers’ Association, that a funeral
contractor had offered an ambulance van driver 20 per
cent on all the funeral business he could get him,
shocked Treasurer Watt so much that he promised to
look into the sarcophagus and see if a change were desir-
able About one glauoe should do. The struggle for the
corpse has been getting more and more indecent of late
years • yet all sorts of institutions where people occasion-
ally die have gone on calmly letting burial contracts at
2d per deceased, or nothing per deceased, and assuming
that Spade & Go. were doing the last duties in a kindly
reverent manner for the sake of the scrap of black-edged
advertising it brought them. Last week several of the boss
buriers assured Treasurer Watt that the contract ghouls
having once obtained possession of the remains, levied
extortionate charges on the relatives and friends, and
carried on generally like graveyard wolves. This allega-
tion, if it ban be supported, kills stone dead and inters
the comforting idea that Spade and Co. are Samaritans
disguised in rusty black garments and second-hand bell-
toppers, and that their only earthly demand is for a
little publicity. That touching belief has been the only
excuse in the past for giving the dead into their care ;
and although it was a thin excuse, it served pretty well
in quieting the people who wanted to know how Spade and
Go could do it. The most reverent undertaker needs food
and drink, although he can get on with very 1 i ttle en tertai n-
ment and extraordinarily few second-hand clothes. Then,
too the strongest hearse wears out in time, and the spade
gets broken, and the thin, black horse insists on being
occasionally placed opposite a feedbox full of nourish-
ment • otherwise he gets the huff and falls down dead.
Spade and Go. can’t feed the horse with advertisements,
and no one save a lunatic ever thought they could. The
horse-feed, coffin-wood, second-hand belltoppers and
shovels have all to be paid for somehow.
* * * *
Parson Spurr, of Melbourne, bowled, on a
distinctly bad wicket when, in speaking of the
enormous sales of the cheap reprints of Haeckel,
Huxley and others issued by
the Rational Press Associa-
tion, he charged the “ chief
book store” of the city with
pushing these works while
keeping the replies to them
in the background. The
charge could only refer to
Arcadian Cole, and Cole and
his managers are, first and
last, booksellers. They are
not in the business for the
good of their health. Manager
Pyke quoted figures that
heaped mud on the Rev.
Spurr. Of the R.P. A. books
over 50,000 have been sold in
the Arcade, and over 1000 of
Samuel Laing’s “ Modern
Scieticeand Modern Thought,”
a three and sixpenny work ;
while, alongside the table
where these are shown, is one
loaded with sermons and other
orthodox works, published at
3s. 6d. each, but now vainly
offered at Is. Haeckel’s
“Riddle” is far from being a
lucid or simply-phrased work,
yet no rec >nt piece of reli-
gious literature can come near
its circul tion. Doubtless if
Cole or his manager noticed
any demand for these “ good ”
books he would speedily rush
to supply it; the point that
Spurr has missed is that there
isn’t any demand. The
modern reader and thinker
have long since wearied of
the vapid platitudes and illo-
gical assumptions of churchy
speakers and writers. These
catch their victims young ;
they have the Sunday-school and the pulpit
to help them —and still they fail to hold. The
R.P.A. comes along after the parson has had
his say, puts forward the truth, or as much of it
as it knows —a plain statement of the facts in the
case, with logical deductions therefrom—and the
thinker promptly passes the parson out and asks
for more of the new gospel. If Spurr will take a
half-hour off and think the matter over he will
perceive he has condemned himself.
»* * * *
The small girl with the glaringly-false
accusation against a man has had a revival in
Melbourne, and has been twice bowled out within
a few days. And she hasn't been arrested for
perjury. No one has even heard a slap and a
howl to suggest that she was being spanked.
The Pagan
Chow is often a
good deal less
ingenious than
he is painted, or
at least one of
him is, seeing
that he placidly
offered a £5O
bribe to two
Melbourne Cus-
toms officers to
connive at the
escape of one of
the s.s. Em-
pire’s rejected
immigrants, and
handed over the
cash before re-
ceiving the
“goods.” Even
when ’tec Chris-
tie flopped into
the proceedings
John coolly pro-
duced another
£3O, and tried to
make things
pleasant. It was
no go; but the
episode engen-
ders a haunting
suspicion that
some Customs
officers might
find their prin-
ciplesweakening
when handling
50 golden sove-
reigns. An y-
liow, the maxi-
mum penalty
provided for
this offence —
£5O fine or three
months’ “hard”
—seems ludi-
crously inade-
quate. This was
the rejected
Chow’s second
attempt to enter Australia, and if it was worth
all that lost time and passage money and £BO to
him to get in, it should be worth a good deal more
to Australia to keep him out. The summary de-
portation of an alien’s aiders and abettors in such
cases might have a deterrent effect.
The fuss about a King Edward memorial
in Melbourne has almost sunk into silence. There
are no lists in the papers of “subscriptions
acknowledged,” and it looks as though the late
monarch’s spirit-at-peace would have to be satis-
fied with having a street or an avenue named
after it. Three classes of persons are still writing
occasional letters to the press: (1) The amiable
cranks who burble in print on all subjects; (2)
alleged artists who want some share in the job of
designing statues, horse-troughs, etc.; and (3)
persons who sell marble or bricks, and ask for
“something massive in masonry,” Otherwise
King Edward rests very quietly indeed.
THE CAUSE OF HIS GOODNESS.
THE TEETOTAL CRANK : “ You say your husband
doesn't drink, nor smoke, nor go out at
night. Why, madam, he must be a model
husband."
THE RELICT: “ Yes, poor dear, them's the words
they carved on the headstone."
Somebody with a lot of superfluous energy
is rushing the hat round Melbourne to start a
Home for Lost Dogs. Certainly ! Why not ?
There is the gay dog, the sad dog, the dog with a
bad name, the dog that has had his day, and the
dog that is better than a dead lion; and most of
them seem to want homes, or, if they have them,
appear to be uncertain of their location, bull,
when you come to think it over has the dog
superior claims to the baby? Melbourne is per-
petually falling over lost babies behind hoardings,
on vacant allotments and elsewhere—infants that
were in the way or that nobody wanted. Cer-
tainly they are mostly dead ; but if there were a
Home where they would be taken in and looked
after, the chances are they wouldn t be so dead as
they are. Anyhow, most dogs can forage toi a
living, and most babies can t.
THE SUBTERFUGE OF SMIFF.
MRS. SMIFF : “ You —you dissolute wretch! Jane
complains that you have been kissing her."
MR. SMIFF: “I I— eh—really, I mistook her
for you, my dear."
MRS. SMIFF: “Mistook her for me in broad
daylight ?”
MR. SMIFF (clutching at a straw): “ M-m-my
dear, you forget the eclipse I !”
Yic. Police Chief O’Callaghan’s minions
have lately arrested several small boys, who con-
fessed to quite a number of burglaries, house-
breakings, etc., and now various thoughtless per-
sons are blaming the Children’s Courts and the
leniency shown to young reprobates for the out-
break. But it isn’t certain that the aforesaid
leniency is responsible. The infants are proved
to have indulged a predilection, not for lollies,
cigarettes or cash, but for such goods as hats,
caps, ties, bags, pots, pans, etc. Now, no small
boy in his right mind will hump a quan-
tity of hats, bags or pans around unless
he knows where he can take them to be
con verted into'coin ; but although the
hopeless ’tecs of the Murray State
have captured the actual thieves,
they seem to have made no effort
to “jug” those who in such cases
are a thousand times worse than
the thieves—the receivers. These are
beyond any doubt cases where, if there
were no receivers, there would be no
thieves; for even such “ truck as
jewellerv and bank notes are mere im-
pedimenta to a small boy unless he knows
where to sell them. Things have got to such
a pass in Melbourne, nowadays, that a good
many people suspect that if there weren’t any re-
ceivers there wouldn’t be any police—which is a
statement that will stand pondering, and will
appear clearer the deeper you look into it.
* * * *
“ Oby ” : The salary drawn by the rector
of St. James’s, Sydney, is out of all proportion to
the row raised about the haberdashery accoutre-
ments of the person who fills the position. A
trifle under £3 a week is supposed to satisfy the
rector, while £1 a week is the tariff for a curate.
The church authorities do not gather up a heavy
plate. Oarr-Smith used to hang out a humiliating
sheet on the rails of King-street, stating the
amount of Sunday’s offertory ; but the pious people
never took the hint. Yet the authorities rake in
£l5OO a year from rents of land, a free gift of
the Government in early days. They are build-
ing a new rectory in Phillip-street, but to make a
start they borrowed £l6OO, the interest on which,
will, of course, be a drain on the bony and atten-
uated plate. Considering that Dr. Wright, the
Archbishop, makes a couple of thousand a year at
St. Andrew’s, and hasn’t the fine taste m lace and
decorations which is cultivated at St. James s, a
union of the congregations and a fair division ot
the spoil would seem an up-to-date idea.
“10-2-4” on Old English Public School
boys:— _ .
I see that an Old English Public School Boys Gluo
looms in Sydney. It is to be on the lines of the Aus-
tralian Pioneers'Club, which was recently inaugurated
here, and its stated objects are “ to promote intercourse
among and render assistance to old English Pub ic
School boys in N.S.W.” As in the case of the Pioneers,
its more affluent members will, I fear, find themse \es up
against some hot propositions. The vast majority o
English Public School hoys in these parts are—according
to Mulhall, George Reid or some other statistician-
shearers’ cooks. Taking them by and large, they are not
good cooks. As a result, they are often out of work, and
in dire need of the financial assistance that signifies beer.
The English Public School boy who is »°t a >nearers
cook is, as a general tiling, a person of - >
looker-on at the strenuous game of graft, a passenger
in the in, us rial ship. He rarely has any inone,.where-
with to p.ay the idler's rdle gracefully. If he had, he is
at pains to inform those who interest themselves in, his
case, he would be at Home, and not in an
place like Australia. His native hauteur d oesui- pre-
clude him from accepting monetary aid. In fact, he
demands it, when thirsty, with a good deal of tranK
insistence. I foresee that he will keep those inenibers of
the new Club who aspire to live up to its published
ideals, arid are solvent, busy—not to say I l^ s l P he J ll ® us ;
I have in mind several dozen old English Public School
boys whom I propose to pass on, or donate, to a carefully
selected batch of members the moment the new Club is
° n The immigrant English Public School boy follows an
almost invariable line of conduct w hen l.e flist st ikes
these parts. He goes to the Hotel Australia, accom-
panied by much luggage and many fair clothes. At this
stage he is often welcomed by Society or m sooth he
is iiigrati •tin£ and possessed, of the chaim
that is the birthright of the utterly irresponsible. Now
and then, more especially if he has some i 'O'pect
of a title, he snares an indigenous heiress, and uesteps
work for life. But not often. Comes the inevitable hour
when he tries to borrow money from Society, and is ini
mediately dropped with a large grey thud. H
He leaves the Australia for any one of a dozen sound
reasons—an unpleasantness over a “ stumer cheque, a
dispute in connection wiih an overdue bill, a bar-imt,
or what not—and so, by easy gradations, to the Domain.
Sometimes he rises above the sinking-stones of his dead
credit to the afore-mentioned profession of shearers co k ,
but even then he is no plutocrat. Like Kipling s warrior,
he is forgetful. He forgets debts, laundresses, bar-
acquaintances, affiliation-order payments, and a host of
other details which burn themselves into the brains of
mere commoners. Withal, there remains one thug
which he never forgets—the fact, namely, that he is an
old English Public School hoy.
A human ruin stopped me the other night with a
jauntv request for sixpence. I demurred.
X should divest rr.vself of this sum at the behest of a total
stranger. He changed his tactics. Grasping- my unwill-
ing right hand he gazed at me with enthusiasm and
cried: “An Old English Public School hoy, by gad .
No 1 don’t deny it. I know it.” He went on to tell me
that he also was one of the clan, having been in the same
form at Oxford with Lord Chelmsford and, in fact bav-
in,, repeated!v rowed point to that nobleman s full-back
in” the school 15. Also, he mentioned lha they subse-
quently went up to Eton together, and passed as M.A. s
in Greek, shorth md and several other subjects. I
bought him off with 3d. Since Federation, threepence is
the minimum payment Old English Public School bojs
accept to cease their reminiscences.
* * *
“J.K.”: The “Oldest Inhabitant” was
right when he said the first Vic. Government
House was in Joliruont. It is next to Beag-
good's boot-factory, and is mostly in a dilapi-
dated condition these days. Cats and Norman
Lindsay small boys are its most frequent callers.
WELL INFORMED.
CLERICAL GENT : “ Brother, the man who putteth
his money on the swift horse is a fool."
THE SPOT : “ Right, old sport. He's owned by
a crook crowd.”
Dear Bulletin,— Did you miss this item ?
It is from the S. M. Herald’s royal funeral re-
port (15/6/TO): —
Since the time of Edward IV. to this day of Edward
VTI manv of England's kings have been buried at
Windsor, 'it is the treasure house of sacred memories.
H nrv VI., Henrv VIII., Jane Seymour, Charles 1.,
Charles Til. and Charles 1 V., the Georges and William
IV. are all buried here.
Yet, with all its care, the Herald quite over-
looked those two well-known English sovereigns,
Sarah 11. and Samuel Vll.— Yours, etc., Plan-
tagenet.
SPECS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Spectacles are repelling to mem J« p “ K They
of assistance to >ou 1 ve q{ Signified severity that
£& moralist in ike
course of a “ for women only address.
Here’s comfort for the Kiris at length,
For simple, unprotected lasses.
In hitherto undreamed of strength
And savins property of classes.
The moralist has frankly stated
A girl in specs is armor-plated.
She walks along the busy street,
And no man offers conversation.
If her glazed eye his eye should meet
His falls at once in trepidation.
To strengthen virtue is the mission
Of every qualified optician.
The girl with specs, upon her nose
Upon her fame has. none to mention ;
In cold serenity she goes,
Secure from rakish intervention.
Love laughs at locksmiths ; but, poor Cupid,
The glazier makes him sliy and stupid !
A lense that is of skyey hue
More speedily the rake abases ;
And yet, in truth, we’ve known a few
In specs, whose interesting cases
Would prove the lecturer’s conclusion
To be an optical illusion !
VICTORIA.
EDYSON.


A WHOLLY UNEXPECTED CONVERT.
Premier Ward, of Maoriland, declares that he is going to start a real sinking fund—one which will pay off the entire debt in 75 years. He is busy floating new loans.
NEW CONVERT: “I’m saved! I’m financially saved!”
CAPTAIN (to the devil, who has found grace): “Brother, you’re a prize convert, cf course, hut you’ve forgotten to take the old
ticket off your tail, and it’s giving the show away,”


What’s the time? Just the time for a
glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY
Take LAXATIVE BROMO Quinine Tablets. Chemists
refund money if it fails to cure. E. W. GROVE’S signa-
ture is on each box. 1/I£. C 1
Squatter Sheep Branding Oil
SCOURS OUT OF THE WOOL.
Does not contain Pitch, Tar or other injurious ingredients.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney.
DIAMONDS REDUCED ENORMOUSLY.
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Rings and Pendants,
and Jewellery generally at prices never before attempted
in Australia.
WHY?
Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that
calls for an enormous output, and we have to
live up to it; and so, to increase our already large output,
we are offering all diamond goods at merely a commission
on the actual cost.
It will pay us, because of the advertisements and the increase of
customers.
Plain Figures'
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
Diamonds and Rubies,
23 Hunter Street.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“ Moorabinda ” : Apropos “Portsea’s”
par. (B. 2/6/TO) regarding the height of the tallest
trees in Australasia :
The southern slopes and valleys of the Dividing Range
to the north-east of Melbourne are clothed with magnifi-
cent forests, and it is here that trees have been found
surpassing in height the famous giants of California.
Among the Various tributaries of the Watts River (a
northern branch of the Yarra) several species of euca-
lyptus attain gigantic dimensions. There are tracts'
near the sources of the Watts where the trees average
from 250 ft. to 300 ft. high, mostly straight as an arrow,
and with very few branches. Many fallen trees measure
350 ft. in length, and one huge specimen, which lay pros-
trate across a stream, was found by actual measurement
with a tape to be 435 ft. from its roots to where its trunk
had been broken off by the fall. This broken end was
3ft. in diameter, so at the lowest estimate the
entire tree must have been over 500 ft. high. At sft.
from the ground it measured 18ft. in diameter. The
tree had been much burnt, and the broken top entirely
destroyed. This tree was a eucalyptus, probably of the
species named E. obliqua or E. amygdalina. The tallest of
the Wellingtonias of California do not exceed 325 ft., hut
i,hey are usually thicker at the base. Some of the Vic-
torian trees are said to exceed 20ft. in diameter, but
these are rarely more than 300 ft. high. It is therefore
probable that not only in height, but also in the quantity
of timber in a single tree, these Victorian eucalypti sur-
pass all other trees in the world. Keeping within a
hundred-mile radius of Sydney, some splendid specimens
of the blue gum are to be found at the side of the road
leading up the steep mountain (the “ One-in-Four ”) from
the Burragorang Valley (Cox River) to Wentworth Falls
(via the King’s Tableland). While on a walking tour
through the valley last Easter, I saw hundreds of these.
I could not find a single fallen tree. All had survived the
bushman and the lightning.
* * * *
“ Snell ” : The patience and long-suffering
of the Australian walking-man had touching ex-
pression in rhyme in the “ Abo.” column lately.
Let me instance Peter. He was 70 at least, tall
and lean and hard. He had drifted into Mill-
brook and taken a job at something below ruling
rates. The job was digging post-holes, one of the
most back-breaking billets on the land. Peter
was pounding away with the sinking-bar when
the angry moilers fell upon him and explained
the immorality of his conduct with gross super-
latives. Peter mopped his brow, and his old spine
crackled as he straightened his back. “Well,”
he said, “t’ tell yell the truth, boys, I’d been
hoofin’ it for near a month, ’n’ I was glad t’ take
this job on for a rest!”
A STAGGERER.
BILL: “Strike me pink — it's marvellous! Fancy
a bloke makin' a livin' at a game like that.”
POSSIBLY WELL-MEANT.
THE FAIB ARTIST: “I can tell , just by looking at a person, what his occupation is.”
OLD BARBWIRE: “ That's easy. Anyone lookin' at your face can sec you paint.”
“Cict”: Ruminating on “ Munyip’s ”
bevy of magpies, which were wont to shicker
at the pub drain where yester-night’s beer-
slops had been pelted, I recalled certain
feathered honey-swipers whom I encountered
aforetime on the N.S.W. South Coast. They
were wont to attain a state of glorious inebriety,
not on the offscourings of any hotel, but on their
own native brew—lapped gratis and for the asking
from the grass-tree, alias spear-grass, which
flourishes thereabouts. Only while the shrubs
were blossoming, and subsequent to a shower of
rain, was a booze possible for these birds. In
those circumstances the sun causes the honey
in the flowers to ferment. Sorry and des-
pairing figures the fowl cut as they wobble
home after the last flower is a dead marine and
their next drink as far off as it was the spring
before. And in that state they fall easy prey to
the wagsome school kids eager to score a record
bag of arrests.
* * * *
Writing to the Brisbane Courier recently,
William Soutter, of Bowen Park, suggested that
the wild cochineal insect should be given a
chance to destroy the Prickly Swear in
Bananaland. In support of the suggestion
he alleges an article from The Garden
(23/4/TO). In the Punjab (India), before
the British annexation (about 1849), the
Prickly Swear was a pest, and covered
many miles of country. Runjeet Singh is
said to have sent out some of his regi-
ments to cut it down, but that did no
good. Unless it was burned, every bit of
it took root and produced more plants.
About 1855, however, the wild cochineal
insect was introduced (by mistake, it is
supposed, for the cultivated or domestic
or backyard insect), and it spread all
over the province and destroyed the
Prickly Damn, which has never given any
trouble since or cursed worth a ha’porth of
small change.
“Snakebite”: After knocking round
some, I have come to the conclusion that the
ordinary Australian bloque is absolutely the
biggest (and the best) gambler in the world.
He’ll bet on anything, from the number on a tram-
ticket to the sex of an unborn child. Was work-
ing on a big construction job lately, where the
Railway Department sent along a string of empty
trucks daily. The men used to have a bob in and
each pick a truck—first, second, third, and so on
before the empties reached the yard—and the
man whose truck number contained the best crib
hand took the pool. This was an every-day affair.
Was one of a crowd, too, that wasn’t satisfied
with sending for several Tatt.’s tickets every
week, but always had side bets as to who would
get the highest number. At the tucker joint
where several of us try to live we have a pool on
what brand of pudding will be served up. This is
a very unsatisfactory gamble, owing to the fact
that nine times out of eight no decision can be
arrived at.
“Wang”: One of the queerest old pros-
pectors I ever met was up in the Steglitz Forest
(Vic.). His only companion was a cat, and lie
had taught the animal to play draughts. Every
night the old cove sat on one side of the table and
the cat on the other, and they played till bedtime.
The Thomas kitten couldn’t move the pieces, so
the old man moved them for him, pretending each
move that he was acting under his pal’s in-
structions, and speaking to the beast as if it were
a human being and capable of understanding the
finest points of the game. As often as not the cat
won, and the old bloke would light his pipe and
talk over the play while Tom cocked his ear and
listened. After all, draughts are only fit for cats
and other cranks.
A FATAL AILMENT.
HOOLIGAN: “ The stone , about fire tons, fell from
the third storey right on to Dooley, crushing
every rib of him.”
FLANNIGAN : “Poor Mick! He did be always
complaining of a weak chest.”
“ Spinifex ” : Queerest sound I’ve ever
heard in the Hush was on the Central Queensland
ranges. It was a long, low, mournful note like
the tragic whisper of a demented trombone. Al-
ways fancied it was produced by some kind of
owl, but have heard old bush men aver that
the row is created by a bachelor gohanna when he
desires to ascertain if there are any lady gohannas
in the neighborhood yearning to meet a dark
gentleman with “a view to the above.”
THE RING OF DEATH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where the Bourke comes down to the level plains and
junctions with the Wills,
By the overflow at the King’s Creek branch which the
wide, warm torrent fills
Ere the floods go creeping down to the tracts where the
huge Georgina flows,
You still may see the rough-heaped ring where the old
tribe fought its foes.
Hard by the Boulia track it lies, on a rising dune of sand,
The ring of mounds, in a desert place, in a lonely level
land ;
Here did the Coorabulka fight their last grim fight of all,
In the rain and dark, with unseen foes, as the waters
sapped their wall.
The drought had dried up the waterholes, and the very
dogs were thin,
And out of its ancient fastnesses the tribe was gathered
in ;
The game was gone, and the fish were gone, and the
mickeries were dry ;
Even the carnies had disappeared, and the food had all
gone by.
Karu-Karu, the old grey man, had gone at the dusk
alone,
Even thrice, to the waterhole, and taken the sacred
stone —
The magic stone that commands the rain, wonderful,
secret, white,
That only the chosen one may use, and that in the gloom
of night.
For this is the priceless n’appa stone that came to the
tribe of old,
That never a gin may see and live, and never a child
behold ;
He had plung d it into the shallow pond to work the
magic of rain ;
He had ground its fine dust into his palm and blown it
about in vain.
The old men, sitting about the fire, spoke now of some
thing of fenr—
A black man’s gbost bad whistled by night, and the
whistle was low and near ;
They felt that a curse was on the land, and few were the
words they said ;
But they knew that some ill-doer afar had pointed the
bone of dread!
So northward over the stricken land U'as the walk-about
begun,
Bearing east by the river-beds long parched by a fervent
sun ;
Still and hot was the wide expanse, with never a tree or
blade ;
Eternal flatness that touched the skies, and offered no
pleasant shade.
All day long on the burning earth, lean with the drought,
and bare.
Night and hunger and glowing stars ; dawn and a new
day’s glare !
Gins with their burdens toiling on, men with their spears
and shields,
And the mocking mirage across the downs with phantom
Elysian fields.
From out of the hot north-western haze came trailers of
misty shrouds,
High overhead in a breathless sky rolled the deep banks
of clouds;
Then rain, continuous rain, came down from the flood-
gates of the sky;
Unwonted waters were on the earth, and the long-dry
creeks ran high.
By ancient lore of an ancient land began the desperate
race
For the sole high dune at the Overflow and the old-time
camping place ;
For the Ooorabulka knew of old how the creeping
waters spread,
In a great, relentless moving sea, from the winding river-
bed.
As the waters rose, and the night came on, to the camp-
ing place they came ;
The setting sun, through a mist of rain, went down like a;
languid flame ;
And still the yellow waters rose through the thin
lapunyah trees ; •
Up and over the coolibahs came surging the tepid teas.
The men who had warred with drought so long pre-
pared the flood to fight;
They heaped a rampart out ,of the sand by aid of the
waning light
Yet ever the hungry sea encroached, and ever the sand-
mounds grew
On the tiny island amid the tide that out of the darkness
drew.
Then a gin screamed out in a sudden fear, and rolled on
the ground, and died ;
And the rain swept down, and the torrents seethed, and
aloud the children cried.
A man at the earthworks reeled and fell with a snake
clenched in his fist,
And another lui-ched on the wall and groaned as the
small fangs seared his Wrist.
Green were the snakes, with beady eyes, and they came
on the warm flood’s breast
Searching them out a harbor safe, and seeking a place of
rest;
White snakes, adders and lean black snakes and they of
the carpet-skin ;
Mulga snakes with the scarlet scales, and sand-snakes
brown and thin.
Driven out of their ancient haunts where long they had
grown and bred
In gidyea scrub and the river grass by the droughty river
bed ;
Borne away by the rising floods that over the whole
world ran,
They came, the snakes, to the harborage to fight for a
place with man.
The gins had built up a fitful flare to drive back the
shrouding night;
They piled the last of the goondi-sticks to help the feeble
light;
And still as the walls were heaped apace the merciless
waters rose,
And over the rampart glided in the legions of venomed
foes.
Red and dull in the turmoil’s midst flickered and failed
the fire,
As children flung to the earth and shrieked, and shrieking
died in the mire.
And splashing, desperate at their work, with fear in their
sobbing breath,
Men went beating at unseen foes that writhed as they
dealt out death.
And still as the ghastly night wore on and the countless
reptiles came,
Squirming among the heaps of dead that ringed round
the dying flame,
The camp grew still in its last long sleep, save for a
hardy few;
And at length when the grey wet dawn came up its light
was beheld by two.
Two, that had taken flight of fear, and swum to a ragged
tree
That reared its head from the seething waste and
stemmed the rolling sea.
Huddled up on the quaking limbs, with fear in their
eyes, they lay ;
And ever as snakes came down the flood they struck and
beat them away.
Slowly the mighty floods went down, and the roaring
spates decreased ;
Slowly the waste of waters sank, and the torrents ebbed
and ceased ;
A man and a boy, lean, weak and worn, came down to
the earth, to stand
The last of the Cooralmlkas, they, to walk in a lonely
land.
They stood and stared at the Ring of Death, where all
of their tribe lay still,
Circled round with the mounds of sand on the crest of
the little hill ;
They turned and went from the smitten place where all
of their world was stark—
The tribe that had warred with unseen foes in hunger
and rain and dark.
Where the Bourke comes down to the level plains with
floods from the distant bills ;
By the overflow of the King’s Creek branch, and joins
with the roaring Wills,
You may see the mounds by the Boulia track that served
for the rampart wall
When the ancient Cooralmlkas fought their last great
fight of all.
VICTORIA.
C. G. A. COLLES.


Hotel
A net ml in
TARIFF :
From 13- per Day
AND UPWARDS.
The Hotel is finely situated,
with abundance of air and
light. It is the most cen-
tral, largest, most modern,
most comfortable, and best
appointed Hotel in Sydney.
SUMPTUOUS DINING HALL; Guest Night
every Thursday ; excellent band engaged.
HANDSOME DRAWING-ROOM.
COSY CORNER and LOUNGE BAR.
WINTER GARDEN for Afternoon Tea, with
Inst rumenta! and Vocal Concert every
Tuesday afternoon, 4 to 5.30.
HOT AND COLD WATER in all rooms day
and night.
LIFTS running day and night.
NIGHT STAFF regularly patrols the building.
EVERY ATTENTION is given, and no pains
are spared to ensure the comfort of guests.
J. I RE SMITH, Manager,
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
sd
THERE is absolutely NO
RISK when CASTRATING
with
DONALD ROSS
EMASCULATOR
Price, &3 3s.
Mosey Back if not Satisfied.
DONALD ROSS 8 CO., LTD.,
Angel Place, Sydney,
THE VETERINARY SUPPLY STORE
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . •
Lilt and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0* Robinson, Proprietor
FOR
55*1
MK
[(MLEhattAc
VACUUM MOBIL OIL
Saves One-Third of Your Running Cost.
“A. William-Cann” : Re bush hospitality.
I am in entire accord with “ J. Pannikin.” In the
courseofmy manifold divagationsl have journeyed
from Sydney through Milparinka and over the
Grey Ranges to Bawley’s Plains; I have per-
vaded the Murchison district—with my head-
quarters at a farmlet I wot of outside
Bingara—and thence have permeated to Port
Fairy via Yababunga and the Old Man
Plain. I have also trekked from Port
Macquarie to Wentworth and back twice,
and have covered the long stretch between
Cape Howe and Caryapundy swamp. In no
single instance have I put up at hotel, pub, hash
tower, lodging house, cave, tank or barrel. My
invariable lurk has been to drop in at the nearest
and largest station homestead on the approach of
nightfall, with a courteous yet firm demand for
dinner and a sleeping apartment. In no single
instance have I been repulsed. Nay, au contraire
(as our Teuton cousin hath it), I have been wel-
comed invariably with enthusiasm, accompanied
by loud cheers. As to the class of hospitality
offered, I have few complaints to make.
At an Osborne station, out Gunning way,
the ’93 Krug was, on one occasion, corked.
On my representing the state of things to
my host, the matter was rectified, with
profuse apologies. At Widgiewa, the serving-
maid who attended to my room forgot to leave my
hot-water can before the evening meal; also she
omitted to put out my pyjamas. I didn’t even
trouble to complain, and I doubt if Horsfall
knows of his menial’s lapse to this day. With a
few trifling exceptions like these, my path, as a
free bed und board s eeker, has been one of
roses. I attribute the warmth of my wel-
come at the homes of our squatter kings to a
naturally alluring personality and handsome per-
son, combined with a vast brain. The whole of
this bush hospitality problem can be resolved in a
few words. If the hospitality-chaser is, like
“ Pannikin ” and the writer, a man of astounding
charm, bizarre and ready wit, immense ability and
unique conversational powers, sheep-owners both
Outback and Near-In will, metaphorically speak-
ing, rushhim. Assuming, however, thatheisamere
dullard—a common, unsensational person of the
type of “Gilrooney,” “Claypan,'’ and so on —the
cake of his welcome is liable —in fact, sure—to be
dough. The household dog is unleashed at him.
The family gun is reached down as he ambles in-
gratiatingly up the drive. In many ways and by
divers devices, he is made to feel that he is an
“ Unwanted Stranger.” Someday “Pannikin”
and I will set forth, not separately but together,
bound for Further In, with occasional divagations
North o’ Sunset, and periodical movements West
and Sou’-Sou’-East, calling at all stations en route.
Not till the story or epic of that pilgrimage is
published will Australia appreciate the heights to
which the hospitality of bush-dwellers can rise
under favorable conditions.
* * * *
“ Cross Nibs ” and the ill-used derelict: —
“ Spare me .years !” croaked tlie abandoned, inveterate
conveyer of dream drapery (to wit, the swag), as he
finished fermenting his noise department and reverently
adjusted the pewter upon the stout barrier. Scratching
his cheek stubble reflectively, what time he noted the
barman placing a hurried gloss upon glass, he continued :
“I’ve tossed up goin’ b’ what they ex’ibits in penny
papers. I wuz scourin’ th’ suburbs at th’ time uv
tumblin’ shrewd. Short stages, ’n’ suspicious screwin’
b’ sour females, topped off b’ scraps wuz th’ daily rooteen.
Feelin’ bad in the wind tubes, I got dead desirous f’r th’
lie-up remedy. Me uninterrupted—yes, thet’s just th’
word—shufHin’s led me out ter Tintown, ’n’ I met Bunger
Bagges, ’n’ ole toorist mate uv mine who fingered many
a feed with me in th’ times when diet wuz bagged at
ev’ry ’um. I p iused at ’is ’abitation f’r a dozen days
’n’ picked up like a noo magnet. Bunger wuz a great
bloke f’r readin’. Useter soak it up per lamp ’n’
stutter it crost at me. As a cheap an’ cheerful guest
I ’noo ’ow to listen. Ennj’how, wot got married t’ me
memory wuz wot he read to me one Sundee night. It wuz
a gag that if a Ohow saved yer from drownin’ he wuz
bound be honor —I'm not meanin’ ’is ’Onah—to support
yo’fer life. Blime me, I couldn’t get snorin’that night
fer thinkin’uv it. Be special request he masticated th’
parraygraf three times agin nex’ mornin’. I wuz simply
ignorin’ th’ clock. Shortly after dinner I bid adoo to
Bunger ’n’ ’is tin ’n’ bag chatoo, an’ paced joyfully forth
to seek a fittin’ opperchewnity. An’ it came to pass tfiut
on th’ afternoon uv th’ second day I lifted up me beamin’
lamps’n’beheld a flourishin’plantation on th’banks uv
th’ Cook River. With th’ feeness uv a ioyal tram tout I
reached a well in th’ garden ’n’ lay low. Th’ sun
wuz divin’ down t’ th’ dust-line when I ob-
served Wung Ung Yum joggin’ my way jigglin’
two cans. I timed his tread fer the shelter uv
a cabbage bed. ’E wuz on’y a couple of yards from th’
fluid ez I jumped in. What followed after gives me th’
rage germ when I thinks uv it. Th’ saffron cow drops a
barrel uv ironmong’ry on th’ summit uv me recollecshun
’n’slammed his sandals fer th’place ’e calls.’ome. I
cracked hardy an’waited fer help. In the distance I
could ’ear a musket’ry uv foreign chatter, ’n’ reckoned
first-aid wuz donnin’ its speed garment. No charrice !
You c’n leave me dead drunk if they didn’t slip er Jon-
hop inter th’romance,’n’me pastry turned out putty.
Sodden ’n’ sorry ’n’ boomin’ in th’ turret I wuz bounced
to the booby hatch. Th verdict wuz a jumble uv feloni-
ously boggin’ inter private property ’n ’ fello de sea. I’ve
bin wonderin’ ever since if these law blokes don’t get
mesmerised with their trade slang-. I knoo too bloomin’
well I wuz on me lonesome, but I’ll be blue-
metalled if I made a splash in anything else but
a Pat’s puddle ’ole. The worst of it wuz that Banger
Bagges’ kerosene-tin mansion wuz broken into th’
night before, ’n’ ’is tools uv trade ’n’ a bottle uv
cheer abstracted. What’s thet ? —’e wuz a humbrella
mender. They found ’is tin-opener in my pocket. A
little thing like that put a second storey on me sentence.
After thet yewman nachure ’as made me giddy. You’ll
finish th’ call f’r another ? Very well, Bluey, swing y’r
pot to ’appy days ’n’ a fair go et th’ finish ! ”
HOPELESS.
HENHOUSE DAN : "I’ ope per pot enough coin fer a drink, Fowlhouse."
FOWLBOUSE MICK: “I 'ope you ’are.”
HENHOUSE HAN (disgusted): "If per only got as much ’ope as I ’are there ain’t no ’ope fer
either of us."
From a Brandy Creek (Q.) correspondent
with definite views about things, and an original
line in spelling :
A Bishop Blok at Newcastle said the curch would be
with the labour movment in the future.
Hereabouts, the language becomes too terrible,
and a column about bishops is struck out. The
writer passes genially to horticulture -
In the Botanical gardens Sydney is a patch of that
darned vegitable night mare, the prickley pear it is
carfuly cultivated like the rest of the garden, from that
patch it will spread all over N.S.W it shoud be dug up
and carefuly burned, alongjwith the clown who is respon-
sible for it being there, the man who woud ornament a
garden with that horror, would take the paunch out of a
5 day's dead bullock and put it on his wifes dresing room
table as an ornament and perhaps she would like it, as
they have taken to wearing dead ducks, thurkys and
PREHISTORIC ANGLING. —THE LUCK OF
THE GAME!!
ernues on top of their heads, to balence tophevines, the
want a whales or peackoks tail out behind, and an eli-
phents lug on either side.
A political item :
The Fisher blok is going the wav of fat, banquets
speches presentations, he is too darned afaliable to the
ccfuntrys enemys, the fusion push, he Says hes no quarel
with deakin, that may be, but we the electors have, and
put Fisher where he is to put his No 9 ines down on the
fusion push, also we electors gave Fisher no authority to
pay 25 bob to wade or any state vermine, we don’t want the
money wasted on those treachorus vermine but to more
useful purposes.
G. H. Reid next happens along :
Its up to Fisber to deal with G Reed a treacborous
hound like him should not have a fat bilit at the expence
of the people he injured, if the billits is necery the 6
other agent generals are unessar.v the Comonwelth Gov
wasint formed to heap up usles expence on this country
Reed has lied to emigrants advised the introduction of
nigers to Australia since he got the bilit thats enough
without his past to condem him.
And, finally, an encouraging after-word :
if this should lead to libel action, send them to me ive
nothing.
“Pick”: The screaming frogs in the
Malloon and Nadjidgomar swamps (N.S.W.) are
well in the running for the weird bush-noises
stakes. Their incessant nightly shrieking in the
boglands mentioned recalls the hellish din which
surges over the rim of Tophet when the stokers
are busy below. In the northern rivers, by the
way, there is a frog or toad which calls out
“Frank” with a doleful drawl on the middle of
the word. A mate of mine with that name,
awaiting the return to camp of a companion from
the pub over the river, spent much of one wet
night following the cry along the banks with a
lantern and a boat-hook.
•* * * *
“ Janor: ” : A rare variety of bull-puncher
wielded the ungainly whip on the old goldfields’
roads of Victoria’s roar-
mg days. The bulk
of his years had
been spent be-
fore the mast,
wherefore the
names of his
bullocks were
those of ships
he had slaved
and starved in.
Nor did he voice
his commands
in the “Gee-
up ! Whoa-off !
Come-e-1 he-
wayl” lingo of
ordinary oxen-
shifters. In a
fog-horn voice
he bellowed
nautical orders,
such as “Port,”
“ S tarboard”
“ S tarn-a 11,”
“Hard over,”
etc. No one but
himself could
drive bis team. There are still eccentric bul-
lockies on the track. Riding along a lonely
mountain road on a recent night, _ was surprised
to hear a feminine voice quavering an operatic
air. Tracked the melody into a cosy bend, and
discovered a teamster camped. He was squat-
ting before the fire listening intently to the squeak
of a gramophone balanced on the camp oven
near-by.
* * * *
“ Spinifex ” : How about emu ? I tackled
it—once. It was in Westralia, after a prolonged
diet of canned canine. The emu was quite
youthful—in the flapper period, so to speak.
Having boiled it for 24 hours, or thereabouts, in
three lots of condensed water at fid. per gallon,
and skimmed three casks of oil off the water, we
endeavored to eat the poultry. The first mouth-
ful combined the flavors of a South African vul-
ture and a Rarringun billygoat. Can’t say what
the second was like. There wasn’t any second.
That was 15 years ago, and I’m still tasting the
first.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (exceot of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
F. (Vic.): It is indeed a clumsy poem. One
sample :
Is aught in Life so fair
To compensate
When thou hast Love’s cold corpse
Bier’d at thy gate.
ft suggests that Love has come home smelling of alcohol,
and has collapsed in the garden... W.H. : Afraid you’re
an imitation Irishman. Your brogue has holes in it.
Anyway, there is too much of Norah G.C.: A poor
parody.. ..C.W.L. : What did you roast that old chest-
nut into verse for? C.E.D.: One verse of “Fancy’s
Gifts” hereby entered for the Bad Verse Competition
(Foggy Class):
Carolling star-timed music
Fancy untramelled free,
Shows haloed hills of dreamland,
Gladdening the heart of me
Leaving my world-worn body
Unlettered of cares that be.
Wm. Scraggs (or words to that effect) : You ask, “ Should
a gentleman meet a lady with whom he is personly
aqquainted with According to the rules of Etequette
would it be the Ladys place or the gentlemans place to
speak first.” It seems to us to depend entirely on circum-
stances. Thus, in cases where the lady has appeared
successfully (or otherwise) against the gent, in a divorce,
affiliation or assault case, it. is usually correct for the
parties to pass by in cold silence. Assume, however,
that there has been no unpleasantness, and that one
party detects the other in the act (say) of snatching his
or her purse. Surely he or she is within his or her social
rights in saying “ Desist,” or “ Chuck it.” These
opinions are advanced with diffidence in the absence of
The Bulletin's Deportment Editor, who was sacked 2i
years ago for drunkenness and tearing his uniform.
Marigold: It is a very mournful and inexperienced
little chirp on a threadbare theme... H.P. : Don't care
foranvof them J.D.G. (Brunswick, V.): Don’t make
any more attempts forlOyears. Stuff quite worthless
F.F. : Its main fault is the monotony of the refrain ; but
there are others.. ..O’Lympus : Discharged withacaution
Corney: The variety of poem that merely wonders if
the island palm trees still rustle when the wind blows, or
if the home milk jug is still put out on the back doorstep at
11 p.m. is a tiresome thing if not cleverly done.. Ajax :
Fairly ingenious, but right out of our line .. J.T. :
Sincere work, but far too rough.. ..E.D.8.: Try the
Children’s Page of one of the weeklies— Wye : Tedious.
Giddap: Your argument is a striking one: “If a
man can carry a 401 b. swag he surely should be able to
write a poem.” Have inspected the poem and find it
isn’t up to print 1eve1.... Apex : Don’t tell us that you
stopped whatever agricultural implement you were
steering to write that harrowing poem A.L. :
(S.A.): Why endeavor to be satirical with an axe?....
R.G.D. : Both unsuitable 1.D.P.: “ Awake Australia ”
is an inferior poem. Anyway, Australia awoke on April 13,
and signalised the fact by killing the Fuse stone-dead ..
Languid Lou: Poems insufficiently boiled S.S. : Sea
song rather commonplace.. ..Stansfield S. (M.L.): Jingle
has a little humor, but not enough Bert E. (M.L.):
Out of Tiie B.’s line... .E.L.S.M.: Dull.. ..A. W. (Auburn,
N.S.W.): Send in your Halley’s comet verses again about
1985. You are too late for this lap E.H. (M.L.): No
use asking us to “ fill up our glasses.” The only tumbler
available is powdered with dust, and the water-bottle is
filled with stale water. Verses extra dry Roy R. :
Guess you did it with your little hatchet J.P.S. :It
ripples along in a rather enticing manner ; but, after all,
it is only a thin little brooklet... .A.N.X. : “The Drifting
Mine” bumped the basket and blew up....R. Herriot:
It is a mysterious mixture composed of sirens’ voices, tor-
tuous doubts, flowers, lovers’ feet, and a bubble which is
chased but falls, and bursts—apparently out of pure spite.
What does it all mean?.. . .Enarc : Both below par
Boswell: Seeing that recipe for crow-catching is so old
that it figures in one of Kipling’s far-back stories, it is
rather rough to send it along as a nice, fresh idea
Slot: You qnd a heap of other learned contributors
seem to take that frivolous yarn of “Henry Horse-
collar’s ” very seriously. About two tons of heavy and
erudite philology have already been heaped on Henry’s
jest Marvellous: An insanitary story, and it would
cost'us some thousands by way of libel damages and costs
if we published it J.T. : One sentence from your
lengthy screed goes: “The local magnate or police
magistrate here is a great Snob and boasting with a sense
of his own importance and is generally disliked.” It is
true of so many places besides the hamlet where you re-
side .... J.A.D.: Oan’tsuggest a name to meet the case ; but
the best vocabulary of aboriginal words is in J. Mathew’s
“Eaglehawk and Crow,” which you can obtain from
Angus and Robertson (10s. 6d.) Orion: Seven impas-
sioned slips on the advisability of repainting the N.S.W.
Parliament House 1 Your trouble is lack of compression.
.... J.F. (Geelong, V.): Unsuitable Maisie (W.A.) :
Two verses of “ Fools ” are worth preserving. Others are
merely dull:
The look of a dreamer,
Of one who’s a “ seemer,”
Apart from this practical world ;
Whose mind is the leaven
Which makes its own heaven
From secrets which are not yet uncurled.
Of such are the prophets,
Musicians and Poets,
And likewise the angels, I ween ;
From concretes abstracted,
By facts quite distracted.
Live in future, or that which has been.
... .Phlox : There is too much moonshine in it; in fact,
it is nearly all moonshine. The lady, apparently, ob-
jected to the way the gentleman looked at her ; so she
rushed away and immured herself in a convent, where
she lay in a hammock in the moonlight and enjoyed her-
self thinking things over O.S.A. : The prize bull poem
is dull, and the other item is stupid E.A.S. (Kensing-
ton) : Our opinion of “ The Imaginery Spirit ” is that it is
underproof and a worthless imitation... .Tomahawk :
Quite worthless. Oan’t see any hope for you on the Inky
Way.. ..J.T.S.: Cow verses deficient in butter-fat....
Emu: They are crude and uneven. Count the syllables
in each line, pencil the result on the margin of your
MS., and compare one verse with another Wiroma:
Sorry, not up E.S. (Charlton): The verses have fresh-
ness and grace, but are a trifle uneven... M.H. : They
miss by a narrow margin H.T. (M.L.): End is rather
humorous; but the rest of it raises only a wan smile
Etta A. : Sorry you should have taken our jest in such a
laborious spirit George O. R. (Vic.): Thanks for letter.
J.D.G. : Poem too young and green for anything but
a children’s page D.G.M.: Bicycle-stealing story about
15 years too late. Better wait a few more .years and re-
write it as “The Stolen Bi-plane.”.. ..W.J.S.R.: You
rhyme wildly and lack humor; also the poem is a bit
unsteady on its numerous feet, like an intoxicated centi-
pede.. .. A.A.S. : Inferior work.


'Youno^' cC you Ict'asW'e of itfdj " fowleit
'for pr
Wi Hie wacff - * " n°t wouland
rvjitre owner*/i
Archbishop Clarke thinks that
bourne is “ not quite so sceptical or
irreligious as it used to be.*’
U Tpe Holy OjjtTnjist -
I t^e.
ifUh ifv#AS Or
more "to it"
Of'diin - Come o,wicK%
boolTrT
Ter •
The results of the
monthly examination
y. of candidates for ad-
mission to the police
force were made known yesterday
The comment of the Chief Commis-
sioner was, “Physically, they were
a fine-looking lot of men, but the
standard of education was very poor
indeed." Mr. O’Callaghan instanced
the defectiveness in spelling.
DCirgJ&r Tommy s(oW ttfkn Jrowsers
i*s yerqo 1 Tbe
Shalf jk life trendy is under Tlfe
Coun'Ter 'And don'-t' y«r easin'' a,*y
of- -fie
folic?*!** My pool' rti\guided
Vh&'f" y O <A is A rbugl i oneducdfeA
Greatness has been thrust upon Miss
Vida Goldstein by at least one Miss
Flapper attending a suburban ladies’
college. At a recent examination the
young hopeful of 14, daughter of an im-
portant Commonwealth official, was
asked to name 10 of the most distin-
guished women in ancient and modern
times. The first four names in her
selection were Florence Nightingale,
Joan of Arc, Vida Goldstein and Eve.
The departmental report to the Minis-
ter recommends that the Department of
Agriculture should give every assistance
towards the formation of egg circles in
suitable centres.
s / v \ r K°<>s'ter —” Well Wonders
will never I see
<V2. Uymp 'em m
Undressed dolls are admitted free of
duty ; those that are clothed come in
under a 25 per cent. duty. The Cus-
toms rule that a doll with a ribbon
in its hair is dressed. Also, once a
doll has any fabric upon it it is
clothed, from a tariff standpoint,
Holding firmly to the view that /
“ undressed ” means “ undressed,” / /
the Minister stated that before /
the articles could be admitted free ",
of duty they must be absolutely in
a naked state.
T 1 Kid: ls your dolly v
'boy,or 2k I? ‘
2" 4 Kid-’—" I dtanno, \Y ajnl' SoF"
■€nny on .*
%
CM
Very
f>ec»p le
I If *
joaoi At'c
V/l>y
} 3k Vi<i2k
Vic I
MELBOURNE HAPPENINGS.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
HAVE A DASH OF
(IradeHark)
ExTracf of ‘
fruifs iHerbi.
f
A Tonic and a Treat.-
O.T. has a.distinctive, rich, rare flavour,
and an invigorating:, warming, comfort-
ing effect that satisfies and delights.
It is a grand remedy for Indigestion,
Colds, and Colic.
Beware of Low-pricad Bi/b»tltutaa,
A Dry Cough.
“My little boy, 18 months old, suffered from a
dry cough for some time, and we feared it would
settle on his lungs,” writes Mrs. Jessie Wood, 89
Darragh Street, Kangaroo Point, Brisbane, Q.
“We tried cough remedies, but he received no
benefit till we used Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery,
which cured him.” Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
From the policeman who assists a drunk to the
lockup, to Teddy Roosevelt who holds a nation up b.v the
collar and shakes it when it isn’t good, everyone requires
motive power. As regards the latter feat of strength,
the power is, of course, strictly of the moral order.
Whereas, for producing electric-lights, driving motor-
boats, lifting water or asserting any sort of mechanical
force, the “ Ferro ” Engine supplies the best power at the
smallest cost. Like the ex-President afore-mentioned,
the Ferro is a most remarkable American production.
Also, like him, it is celebrated for its efficiency and ver-
satility. But in the matter of cheapness it has the big-
game hunter rattled from the start.*
A SIMPLE PRESCRIPTION.
Said to Cure Rheumatism, Kidney Trouble and
Bladder Troubles.
We know that the readers of this paper appre-
ciate good advice, and we are glad, therefore, to
be able to publish the following from a prominent
physician.
It is astonishing to know the prevalence of
kidney trouble and other diseases, such as rheu-
matism, bladder and liver troubles, which are
almost invariably caused by weak kidneys. It is
said on good authority that fully one-third of the
people in Australia who have reached the age of
maturity are more or less afflicted with kidney
trouble in some form. The most dangerous feature
of this disease is the fact that many people have it
without their knowledge, and consequently neglect
it until it has reached a dangerous stage.
The least symptom of kidney trouble, such as
backache, must be given prompt attention, and a
good reliable treatment should be taken, until
every trace of the disease has been eliminated.
We are glad to be able to give our readers a pre-
scription which we have seldom known to fail in
any case. It contains no harmful ingredients, is
pleasant to take, not expensive, and can be sup-
plied by any good chemist. It is as follows :
Tincture Gentian Compound, one ounce; Syrup
Rhubarb, one ounce ; Liquid Barkola Compound,
one ounce; Syrup of Ginger, five ounces.
Take a teaspoonful after each meal, and one at
bed-time.
We are glad to publish this prescription, as we
know it will help our afflicted readers who give it
a fair trial. If taken continuously for a few
weeks it will be found to be an almost absolutely
certain cure for Rheumatism, Kidney and Bladder
trouble. Backache and all allied complaints.
Note. —Other papers are privilegd to copy the
above. —Advt.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
W. F. MASSEY, LEADER OF M.L.
OPPOSITION.
“K.”: Henry Wrixon, President of the
Victorian House of Property, retires on
the ground of an insecure heart. He has
had three long spells in the Victorian Parlia-
ment—two in the Assembly from ’6B to ’77, and
from ’B9 to ’92; one in the Council from’96 to
the present time —and has clutched two legal
portfolios under McCulloch and Gillies-Deakin.
In his spare time he cultivated the seed of
literature, and the results are known to librarians
as somewhat decorous blooms. The three best
known are “ Jacob Shumate,” “Socialism,” and
“The Pattern Nation,” and show a grave and
anxious constancy to the rules of English
grammar.
41 The most finished rhetorician and the
feeblest statesman of the age.” No, this is not a
quotation from any clever description of Alfred
Deakin or Barton or Shiels. It is the English
b vTUiiDAY Review on Lord Rosebery. Yet, how
politicians run in types !
A man who was probably the oldest con-
tinuous teetotaler in Australia, James McGrath,
died at Burrovva (N.S. \V.) last week, aged 97 years.
He was born in Tipperary (Ireland), and took the
pledge from Father Mathew, and kept it all his
long life. Father Mathew’s anti-drink crusade
dates back to 1838. So very few of his converts
survive.
A marvellous escape was that of George
Dedman, a shunter on the B.A. railways, who
was lately run over by a truck at Wolseley with-
out having even one bone broken. But people
with names like Dedman, Angel, Death, Coffin.
Graves, Tomb and the like should keep clear of
the shunting business. To go in for it is a tempt-
ing of Providence. They should stick to some-
thing safe, like drapery.
Austin Cornsack Chapman, M.H.R.,
looked a sick man when he took the oath at the
opening of the Session. He took his seat along-
side another invalid, old Bill Lyne, on the
Ministerial side of the House. After the debacle
on April 13, Chapman’s name was used to bolster
up the political credit of the fallen party, which
put him down as a Fusee, although he had never
accepted the Fusion platform. So the number of
Oookites who misrepresent N.S.W. in the Reps,
is now down to six.
It is pleasing to know that the Maoriland
Agent-General, now that he has attained the
dizzy elevation of being called Sir Bill Jones,
won’t be absolutely lonesome on his pinnacle.
There are two knights to keep him company—
Alfred Jones and Howard Jones. Also there is a
sort of half-bred Jones knight who calls himself
.Tohnes. And there are 13 knights yclept Smith.
Which indirectly raises the question : “ How to be
Happy though Smith?”
Very interesting should be the future of two
lads who were lately dragged before Justice Hood
in Melbourne. The first, John Williams, aged
16, has been convicted for larceny in Launceston,
and has recorded against him four charges of
breaking and entering in Christchurch (M.L.).
The second, John Woods, aged 15, has a more
variegated record, and has been in trouble in
Invercargill (M.L.) on three charges of arson, one
of false pretences, and two of theft and breaking
iind entering. The pair at present occupy a large
Victorian stone building on a charge of irregularly
entering a house at Brunswick.
F. E. Maclean, selected Laborite for
Granville, who is after Government Whip John
Nobbs’ hair at the next State election, is a con-
vert to the cause. He used to sit as a Freetrader
for Marrickville, and was a Reidite in the first
Federal Parliament, being predecessor to the
lamentable Johnson for Lang electorate. Another
convert, Dowell O’Reilly, will stand for the
neighboring electorate of Parramatta, provided
he obtains the Labor selection. O’Reilly was a
Parkesite in the ’nineties, a young and forcible
speaker, and a political future was mapped out
for him. But he faded out somehow —in fact,
Ferris beat him by four votes in ’9B. Now he re-
vives under the genial warmth of the reception
given to the Labor cause.
Henry Wrixon, President of the Victorian
House of Landlords, is retiring from office. He
is 71 years of age, and an Irish barrister of 50
years’ standing. His father was a county
court Judge in Victoria. As a junior he
assisted Dawson (at the first trial) and Aspinall
(at the second) when Dr. “ Diamond ” Beaney was
accused of the murder of a St. Kilda barmaid,
named Mary Lewis, at a house in Collingwood in
the ’sixties. He was a member of the Assembly
for some years, and was Solicitor-General on two
occasions. His wife is the well-dowered daughter
of “Money” Miller, Wrixon has held his job
for nine years. His predecessor, Zeal, is still
above ground. Zeal retired that he might go to
the Australian Senate and be its President. He
got to the Senate, but did not become
President. N.S.W. has no retired Presi-
dent of the Upper House. The N.S.W.
official is nominated by the Government, and has
a life billet. He generally either dies in harness
or dies immediately after he has dropped the
harness. “Calves” Suttor, now at the head of
affairs, has steered the House of Sleep since 1903.
Melbourne dealers in small gossip were
somewhat paralysed last week by the statement
of a witness at the inquest on Gwendoline Van de
Leur, an odd-looking young woman whose name
was much associated with that of the well-known
Albert Buckley (alias Professor Hermann). The
girl was commonly spoken of, and was often
referred to in print, as a romantic crank of Irish
parentage. She had, it was said, imagined her
“Van de Leur” connections and dreamed that
she was related to the late Napoleon Bonaparte.
Her mother once figured in a case as “Mrs.
Walsh,” and her spinster name was alleged to
have been Murphy, or Mullins, or something in
that way. But when the coroner questioned her
last week on the point she stated that she really
was a twice-told Van de Leur. Her maiden
name was Van de Leur, and she married her
cousin Henri Van de Leur, gentleman. An
astonished section of the community is now wait-
ing for further evidence re the connection between
the Van de Leers and the Bonapartes. It is
essentially a very small matter for curiosity, but
the late Gwendoline and her Buckley had been so
often spoken of that the matter assumed swollen
■uoportions.
AN UNKNOWN CHAMPION.
MICKO: “Oo's this ’ere back they’re a-orackin' up, Billo?”
BILLO: “ Dunno. Anyway, I don’t suppose 'e'li pass better'n Messenger.”
Atlee Arthur Hunt, who has been handed
out a C.M.G.-ship, is one of what a disgruntled
Anti-Billite once called “ the creatures of Federa-
tion.” As Secretary of the N.S.W. Federal
Association, he came in contact with the Federal
leaders in the great campaigns of 1899 and there-
abouts. When Barton became Prime Minister
he made Hunt Permanent Under-Secretary for
External Affairs. As such he got a free trip to
London at the Imperial Conference of 1907, as
Dealtin’s assistant. But it was in the pre-
F'ederal days that Atlee got his first grip on the
public wool. He was junior counsel for the Ma
State in the McSharry arbitration case in the
early ’9o’s, and the Bar speaks reverently of the
Costs until this day. Hunt was born at some
little place on the Fitzroy River, near Rock-
hampton (Q.), and as he is only 46 there is still
time for him to hitch his aeroplane to a star.
Sam Cook, of the S. M. Herald, died on
Saturday, cetat. 80. He came to Australia in 1854
as a comp., under engagement to old John Fair-
fax, and continued in the service of the Fair-
faxes till 1908 when he retired into private
life. For 20 years previous he managed
the Herald, to the great financial profit of
the firm. Samuel was one of the first, if not the
first, journalist in Australia to use Pitman’s short-
hand for reporting purposes. It is said that he
accompanied Parkes when the latter interviewed
O’Farrell, the lunatic who shot at the Duke of
Edinburgh. The interview took place in gaol,
Parkes firing questions at O’Farrell while Cook
lurked behind a door and noted the replies in
shorthand. Deceased was one of the founders of
the Athenaeum Club, an institution which from
being a resort of mere literary men and artists,
has risen so that it now houses auctioneers,
house-agents and David Storey. Sam Cook was
twice married, and leaves five sons, four daughters
and several grandchildren.
“Ricardo ” reminisces in a series of short,
breathless barks, with a capital letter at each
bark :
Extraordinary Melbourne Property Auction this week.
Ddbris of Bendigo Watson, the Reefer, Murdoch’s fat her-
in-law. The boss lot was the so-called Leviathan corner,
Bourke and Swanston. Only a quarter of an acre
Fetched £59,000, or £9OO per Swanston-street foot. Yet
the land is more valuable down towards the Flindeis-
street Railway Station, which claims to have the biggest
passenger t raffic of any one station in the world. No-
where do half a million people so rush one spot. I don’t
know how it will compare with the New York-Pennsyl-
vanian, which cost, including land, 24 Million sterling, in
the hottest centre of N.Y. city. Reverting to the Melb.
Leviathan.' Half an acre, at this corner, only brought £3O
in the First Land Sale, 1837. That, is to s >y, the lot. which
now brings £59,0000n1.v brought £l5. Yet it wasappraised
very much higher than now, in the Boom-timeof t he latter
’Eighties. Then the half acre was valued at £300,000, or
£150,000 for the present £59,000 lot. The Boom valua-
tion was at the atrocious figure of about £2700 a foot!
This was the time when an offer of £BOO,OOO was made
for the Melb. St. Paul’s Cathedral, to pull it down and
build otherwise. I have seen it in print that this was
only refused by one vote in Bishop Goe’s Council. At
the original Land Auction of 1837 the most valuable lot
was taken to be half an acre on the Collins and William
streets corner. Fetched £95, or three times the Leviathan
bit. Position reversed now. It is p euliar that. Hender-
son (Agent), the first bidder for the Leviathan, the other
day, said “ 30,” meaning thousands. Sol Green, Book-
maker, raced hard for it, but Henderson won.
“ Lex The late C. B. Stephen, K.C.,
was curiously true to the Stephen type. His mind
e»«y.hi„ g ,t was aal.ed to do. w„h t!,»
methodical precision of a well-oiled engine. From
early boyhood to within a few years of his death
he w6 nt placidly through life winning prizes—
kooks at school, scholai ships at the University,
fees at the Bar. His practice was almost ex-
-oi tjs i Vely in Chambers. He shunned court work.
f,eirig by temperament a hater of limelight or
publicity of any sort. That was why, though
amon g the best of N.S.W.’s lawyers, he was uu-
r,,c}w!, by sight to the person in the street. His
rtJt jring habits also kept him off the State bench.
w hieh he would have strengthened, and on to
w hich three unavailing efforts were made to push
him. He died young (for a Stephen), being but
70 years of age when the camel called.
Chasuble on bygone bishops .
The cable reports the death of Goo, Melbourne’s third
bishop-a worthy hurdy-gurydist. The first was Perry.
He arrived in 184. c, per ship Stag, and put up at the
Southern Cross Hotel — which yet remains. An able man,
Rut dry. He went to England about the same time as
Coppin. Perry returned with two iron churches, whic h
were erected at Sandridge and Williamstown ; Coppin
returned with an iron theatre. Catholic Bishop Goold
came overland from Sydney with a carriage and four
horses m x 847. the same year as Perry s arrival. Moor-
houge succeeded Perry is 77. Things hummed. He
insisted on having St. Paul’s Cathedral in the thick of
traffic. Perry’s ideal had been to place it in aristocratic
East Melbourne — where Trinity Church, since burnt,
wts built as part of it. Moorhouse ruled till 1887.
Fielrt F !? wers 6oe succeeded. When he went to the
University, as a young man, for his “Little Go,”
Whately said “ What a name! He’s sure to be
plucked.” Goe was Low and slow. He had to super-
vise all the present large bishoprics of Melbourne, Ben-
digo, Gippsland and Wangaratta— everything except
Ballarat. The division is entirely due to Archdeacon
Hindley. After Goe came Clarke, with only a quarter of
the apparent work, and a good deal more pay. Atpresent
£4O a week is the salary. Commissioner Hay, Salvationist
boss, gets £3 10s., and he has to supervise not only
piety, but tea, lodging-houses, restaurants, boots and
shoes, dry goods, pianos, fliekergraphs, etc. etc. He
j s an Archbishop Clarke and an Anthony Hordern rolled
intoone
TO A GREAT WRITER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Miss Corelli has been turned out for a spell.— Sporting
item.
I’m wondering if it’s you, Marie,
And if it’s really true ;
Who was it turned you out, Marie?
And was there much to-do?
I somehow cannot think, Marie
You went without a word ;
Oil, Satan’s grief on him, Marie,
Who wrought this thing absurd,
I’ve often thought of you, Marie,
Beside the Avon’s stream,
In old Bill Shakspeare’s tracks, Marie,
I see you where you dream ;
I’ve tried to read your books, Marie,
Your fancy’s wondrous flight,
And wished that you were here, Mario
To teach me how to write.
The eager public throng, Marie,
To buy what you produce ;
The cash is hard and good, Marie,
You rake in like the deuce.
The envious critics scowl, Marie,
At laurels you have won ;
But all is well that pays, Marie
Ah, show me how it’s done.
Your wooden fancies hit, Marie,
Tlie idiot public’s taste ;
And not a single page, Marie,
Can really go to waste.
It swells the bank account, Marie
And that’s the main concern
Oh, tell me how it’s done, Marie,
I’m keen to know and learn.
I’ve done my very best, Marie,
To write the self-same stuff ;
But somehow never yet, Marie,
Could get it bad enough ;
A little worse would do, Marie—
More wild and weird and dull;
I often sadly wish, Marie,
For your peculiar skull.
You’ll understand at once, Marie,
’Tis not for praise I ask.
Ah, no, ’tis sterner stuff, Marie,
Would make me face the task ;
I want the ready cash, Marie,
The thing of joy and worth,
For which you give the crowd, Marie,
The saddest tripe on earth.
N.S.W.
D. M. W.


rockers
cS^of
5
c/
Free Gi/Ts
TO&4CCO
The Manufacturers of “VENUS” TOBACCO will give FREE in return for the
RED PAPER SEALS from the 2oz. Tins, or the TIN (38Z) TAGS
from the Plugs, as under?
NICKEL KEYLESS
WATCH.
For
75 Venus (2oz. tin) Seals
or
75 Venus (plug) Tags.
LADY’S MOROCCO LEATHER BAG,
■■H-C
For 75 Venus (2oz. tins) Seals or
75 Venus (plug) Tags.
SELF-FILLING FOUNTAIN PEN.
LEATHER PUZZLE
PURSE.
-
For
25 Venus (2oz tin) Seals
or
25 Venus (plug) Tags.
For 10 Venus
(2oz. tin) Seals.
For 15 Venus
(2oz. tin) Seals.
FIRST QUALITY TWO BLADES POCKET KNIFE.
Or 10 Venus
(plug) Tags.
Or 15 Venus
(plug) Tags.
DIRECTIONS.
Send 01 post the Seals or Tags to KRONHEIMER LTD., Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, or Perth, and write your name
and address distinctly on the outside of the package.
Post at the same time a letter stating the number of Seals or Tags in the package, and the gift you desire.
Ihe Gifts can be obtained on personal application, or will be posted free of charge to anyone complying with
the foregoing directions.
4 This offer will absolutely close on 30th JUNE, 1911.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
(made in England.)
beat all comers at the
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
“NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
by
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
IT “NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE.”
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
J. B. Trivett, the N.S.W. Government Statis-
tician, in his recently issued “ Statistical View of the
Progress of the State,” sets out the land revenue year hy
year since 1856. In that period no less than £78,000,000
lias been raked into the Treasury. Unfortunately, he
does not show what proportion was derived from sales
and what from rents ; but in the Official Ykar Book,
also published recently, he does show that, during the
past 10 years alone, no less than £11,910,794 has been de-
rived from alienations and treated as revenue. None of
this was really revenue; allot it was drawn from the
sale of assets which can’t he sold twice. Under even
moderately honest administration these proceeds, instead
of being used for the payment of the casual policeman’s
wages and such like, would have been applied either to the
reduction of the existing debt or to paying for reproductive
works. It is very doubtful whether even the money
drawn from the leasing of the lands ought to have been
treated and used as ordinary revenue. Allowing, how-
ever, that that might have been done, it would have
amounted to an endowment fund which no other modern
country in the world has possessed. But past Govern-
ments have not been content to only draw revenue from
this exceptional source ; in their struggle to avoid taxa-
tion, and thus show what fine administrators they vvere,
they have gradually parted also with the source of
this revenue. In the last 10 years alone, ns shown above,
they have in this way passed nearly twelve millions of
land-sales money into the till. The position is exactly
the same as if the manager of a business, in order to
show his bosses what a capable man he was, and how'
much superior to his predecessors, paid about a quarter
of the wages and salaries by the surreptitious sale of
stock ; just the same as if the manager of a farm showed
his bosses how well he was doing by selling off a section
of the farm now and then, and lumping the proceeds in
with the wheat and wool sales. In the end, of course,
there would be a smash, for there would finally be nothing
left either to cultivate or to sell.
At the present time N.S.W. has got so nearly
to the end of its tether that, taking the revenue
from the unsold lands, and capitalising the total at
3£ per cent., and adding the unpaid balances on alien-
ated lands, the aggregate value of the public estate is
only £18,000,000, or less than has been realised in the
past 20 years. In other words, if land-sales were to go
on for the next 20 years as they have done in the past 20
years, there would not, on the foregoing basis, be any
land left either to lease or to sell. What this will mean can
be judged from the fact that for the past 34£ years the
receipts from these two sources have amounted to
£68,000,000, an average of just under £2,000,000 a year.
How rapidly the stream is drying up, in spite of the
recent boom in land sales, may be judged by these
figures;—
1900 £2,116,076
1909 1,778,002
Only one conclusion can be arrived at—the past
financial management of the country has been appalling.
More than enough has been derived from the sale of lands
to pay for the whole of the N.S.W. railways ; but not a
penny of the proceeds has been put into such assets. On
the contrary, to the end of 1909, £7,856,418 had been
borrowed for such things as roads and bridges, water
conservation and harbor and river dredging, while an-
other £4,463,601 has been borrowed for such utterly un-
productive things as public buildings, etc. For the
£78,000,000 drawn from lands since 1856, there is nothing
whatever to show'; and there are actually only unpro-
ductive roads, culverts, public buildings, and such like
things to show for over £12,000,000 of loan money.
Obviously the future must be very different
from the past. The tax-dodging can’t go on without
end. The farm-manager can’t continue for ever tocut off
slices of his employer’s land and sell it either to a friend
or to the highest bidder. The situation must be faced—
N. S. Wales is now so bereft of public lands that it is re-
purchasing scraps here and there for settlers. The ex-
penditure of the State must be brought dow n to more
reasonable proportions. Since 1900 it has been bounding
upwards as follows :
1900 .. £9,045,760 1906 .. £11,386,864
1901 .. 9,991,983 1907 .. 11,881,746
1902 .. 11,008,173 1908 .. 12,095,593
1903 .. 11,467,234 1909 .. 12,882,607
1904 .. 11,319,888 1910 .. 13,080,590
1905 .. 11,195,075
In 1904 Carruthers and the “ Reformers” arrived on the
scene, and implored the country to stop itself from rush-
ing to destruction. The “ Reformers ” arrived, and in
their first year reduced the ruinous expenditure by
£124,813. And then the “Reform” went overboard.
Last year the expenditure was £1,415,373 more than it had
been in the year to which the Reformers used to point
as the Awful Example. Moreover, even within cooee of
a general election, the “ Reformers ” don’t propose to re-
form the finances. They are promising almost every-
thing, but they are not game to promise reduced expen-
diture or increased taxation, though one or other of
those things is inevitable—or, more probable still, both
of them.
■* * * *
The issue of Federal paper money will place at
the disposal of the Commonwealth sundry millions of
money, and so far there has been no very great supply of
information as to the use which is to be made of it. News
has not exactly flowed in like a rushing- river, so to speak.
The money is, to all intents and purposes, borrowed
money—borrowed on notes instead of on debentures—
and the Government is a non-borrowing Government, and
when these two facts are put together it seems that there
is only one thing that the Fisher Cabinet can do w'ithout
sacrificing its principles—namely, make the coin re-
ceived in exchange for notes the foundation of a
sinking fund for the ultimate extinction of the
State debts. So far as is known, no member
of the Cabinet has suggested anything of the sort,
yet it.seems inevitable—it certainly ought to be. To use
the money as an aid towarJs tiie construction of a
Federal capital would be a mere reversion to the old idea
of borrowing for more or less reproductive works. To
use it for railway building or for the development of the
Northern Territory would be the same thing. Things
might perhaps look a shade better if it were applied to
paying off the Territory’s debt when the Commonwealth
takes that property over, so that the new Possession
could start fair ; but if the money is simply applied to
extinguish so much debt and the matter ends there, it
w'ill be merely a ease, after all, of using this big
loan fund to pay for sundry half-worn-out public
works and a heap of old deficits. It is calculated
that the fund can be invested—exact manner of invest-
ment not stated—to yield £lOO,OOO per annum.
Assuming that the Government proposes to regard that
money as ordinary revenue and spend it as such, it
doesn’t make much difference whether the £3,000,000 or
so are invested in the building of a new railway or in the
repurchase of State securities issued for the building of
sundry old railways. If in any way the proceeds of a
loan are used for revenue purposes, then the Govern-
ment has fallen into the old borrowing rut, which it has
so long tried to avoid.
The only fashion in which it can keep on the
chalk-line of principle is to let neither the original loan
nor the subsequent proceeds of it go into the
Treasury at all. When 25 per cent, of the
cash which is received in exchange for notes has been set
aside as a reserve, the balance should be wholly invested
in the purchase of State securities, and the revenue re-
ceived as ini erest on these securities—barring the amount
required for the maintenance of the note issue—should
be similarly invested, and so on from year to year until
there are no more State securities to be repurchased. It
doesn’t matter a copper that the State debts haven’t yet
been taken over; they will be some day, and even if
there was never any formal taking over, this process
would amount to the same thing. It isn’t necessary to
wait to decide whether the States or the Common-
wealth shall control future borrowings, or to settle
details about the future management of the debt
or to worry about how the liabilities of a State which
owes £7B per head can be justly lumped with those of a
State which only owes £42; these are abstract points
which can be tackled any time. It makes not the
slightest difference what State’s securities are bought
first; the policy would simply he to buy what was g'oing
cheapest. If this idea is adopted, then the Australian
Government will be able to say with pride that its paper
money is the safest in the world—that it began with 20s. of
cash and marketable securities behind each £1 note, and
that the reserve has been growing stronger every day since
then. Of course, a day would come when the sinking fund
principlecould no longer be adhered to because, in time all
Australia’s debts would be bought up. Then there would
be nothing left to do save burn all the securities, release
the people from payment of interest, and declare the job
finished. So in the end—l he dim remote end—the money
borrowed on the security of the F deral notes would go
to pay for public works, and the principle which The
Bulletin is here advocating would be infringed after all.
But that particular infringement is a century or so
away, and this generation, at least, won’t be called upon
to split any hai.s about the ethics of the case.
e * * *
The Haymarkkt Permanent Land, Building
and Investment Co. (Sydney):—
Written To Be- Re-
Nov., Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves.
1899 .. £l4Ol ljp.c. =£lo9o £3ll £4O 922
1900.. 2344 3 „ „ 2201 143 41 065
1901.. 2369 3 ~ „ 2271 98 41,163
1902.. 2922 3 „ „ 2308 614 41 777
1903.. 2590 3 „ „ 2477 - 113 41’,590
1904 .. 3044 3 ~ ~ 2584 460 42,350
1905 .. 3017 3 ~ ~ 2595 422 42 772
1906.. 3349 3i ~ ~ 3061 288 43 060
1907 .. 3872 4 „ „ 3534 £lO,OOO 33,398
1908.. 4858 4 ~ ~ 3587 1,000 271 3;1’667
1909.. 4142 4 „ „ 3599 543 34/210
May,
1910.. 4544 5 ~ „ 2253 2591 36,801
The earnings for the half-year show’ a very remarkable
improvement, though as to how it comes about the
report maintains a bland silence. It doesn’t say whether
the rise is due to a casual windfall, or a general improve-
ment in business, or whether part of the earnings have
hitherto gone to fill up a hole in the assets, and, the hole
being now filled, the situaiion has taken on a new’ aspect.
In the circumstances it is difficult to guess whether the
increase has come to stay or otherwise. On the day of
writing, the Sydney share report stati d that the
latest sale of Hay market shares (£2 paid up) was at
£1 6s. The market, therefore, valued the whole concern
that day at about £55,553, which was a scornful thing
for the market to do seeing that the balance-shee't
alleged that the capital and reserves, before payment of
the dividend, were £129,181. In other words, the
market plainly expressed the opinion that the assets
W’ere very much overvalued and that a considerable
writing-down* was called for. Whether it will now alter
its opinion to any great extent remains to be seen.
Some other figures of the Haymarkefc concern
are as follows :
Liabilities.
■Nov., Nov., Nov., May
1900. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Capital .. .. £75,176 £89,862 £90,113. £90,127
Deposits.. .. 50,689 41,966 42,019 41,269
Overdraft .. 3,097 6,239 8,738 12,699
Other Debts .. 42,462 40,817 55,541 53,802
Assets.
Advances, etc. .. 42,003 63,651 70,410 74,045
City Properties 57.503 36,359 36,359 36,359
Olher Properties 106,314 113,708 124,542 125,546
Cash .. .. 7,209 390 880 773
A fixed determination to make every coin work for its
living is characteristic of the Haymarket Permanent
Land, Building and Investment Co.’ As a hard driver of
an exhausted sixpence in single harness it occupies a
front place. Ten years ago the deposits, overdraft
and sundry debts amounted to £96,248, and in
case of emergency the co. held £7209 of cash
—or about Is. 6d. in the £. Now the liabili-
ties are equal to £107,770, and the cash on hand is
£773, which represents about lfd. in the £. And yet
there is nothing interminable about the deposits—last
half-year £28,081 of them were called for, while on the
other hand £26,712 of new deposits arrived. Under the
circumstances, the cash reserve looks absurdly—not to
say insanely—low. Unless the co. has found tlie kind of
bank that sticketh closer than a brother, it seems a
dangerous situation.
The Co-operative Box Co. of New South Wales
has been successfully carried to the point where its joy-
ful cry for tenders for the erection of its factory, at Bal-
main (Sydney), rises above the anguished remarks of the
combined box companies that broke a full set of grinders
over too big a bite. It is just eight months since the
companies offered the co-operative butler factories a
choice of two evils—(l) a box-making contract for three
years at Is. ojd. and Is. 6Jd. per box in shooks and made
up respectively ; (2) a rise in prices. The first evil being
passed out, the second duly took its place, and prices
slithered up in December to Is. 7d. and Is. Bd. It was
then that the butter factories rooted out their last vestige
ofaffection for the box-makers, and decided to make their
own wooden wrappers for the cow-fruit. Arrangements
have now been completed for the purchase of a site, the
erection of buildings, supply of timber, and the very-
latest box-producing machinery. What will happen to
the old combine isn’t clear, but the chances are that a
portion of it will go suddenly 7 and permanently dead.
Sixty-six co-operative butter factories are shareholders
in the new venture, which represents 80 per cent, of the
co-operative butter output of New South Wales, and will
require about 700,000 boxes a year. This means a loss of
75 per cent, of the trade of the former box-suppliers—a
fact calculated to make them go slow next time. That
is, of course, provided there is a next time.
* * * *
The Coastal Farmers’ Co-operative Society,
Ltd. (Sydney):—
Net Bonus to To Re- Re-
Mar., Profits. Dividends. Consignors, serves, serves.
1901.. £3Ol 6 p.c. = £45 £256 £256
1902.. 1,528 6 „ ~ 104 £1,262 162 418
1903.. 2,957 6 „ „ 253 2,583 121 539
1904.. 2,778 6 ~ ~ 320 2,147 311 850
1905.. 4,958 6 „ ~ 368 4 188 402 1252
1906.. 4,206 6 ~ ~ 432 4,126 900
1907.. 4,352 6 „ „ 479 3,873 900
1908.. 8,010 6 ~ ~ 535 7,285 190 1090
1909.. 9,924 6 ~ ~ 704 9,186 34 1124
Deficit.
1910.. 10,123 6 „ „ 864 10,404 21
To some extent these figures are only approximate. There
is no profit and loss account for the year, but there are two
accounts covering six months each, and by combining
them certain figures can be arrived at. The accounts say
that 10 per cent, is written off for depreciation of certain
assets; but they don’t state the amount, so the
thing is figured out on the assumption that there
is a whole year’s depreciation to be charged all round,
and on that basis the net profits are arrived at. ' In any
case, the amount involved in the depreciation account is
trivial—only about £156. The directors’report doesn’t
say what the dividend amounts to, and as the capital has'
been increased during the year, and some of the new
capital may be entitled to two months’ dividends and
some to 10, that makes for confusion. Also the report
doesn’t state what the bonus to suppliers comes to. The
figures given above are taken from a printed slip, not
signed by any director or auditor, which accompanies
the balance-sheet. The directors don’t state how they
reckon the co.’s finances will stand when the dividend
and bonus are paid, but they make these remarks :
“ During the year your Directors expended a consider-
able sum” (amount not even hinted at) “in firmly
establishing the system of Direct Export of butter by
Factories, and also sacrificed a large proportion of the
Society’s earnings in so doing. Considering the substan-
tial permanent benefit to the industry by this work the
Directors do not think its cost” (no details about cost)
“ should be borne by any one year, and have therefore
utilised the Reserve Fund of £1090.”
That is about as hazy as anything well can be.
It doesn’t clearly explain the nature of the work done in
establishing the “system of Direct Export,” or the
reason of it, or the cost of it, or the amount of
the Society's earnings that were “sacrificed,” or why
they were “sacrificed,” or where the future benefit is to
come in. The profit and loss account shows no special
item of expenditure caused by the Direct Export busi-
ness. And though the report says that, the reserve fund
of -fciOOO has been utilised to meet this ext ra expenditure,
there is no entry to show that it has been transferred to
profit and loss ; in fact, it stands in its old placeandcalls
itself the same old, scanty, attenuated reserve fund. As
a disgracefully untidy system of book-keeping, thisouglit
to take a prize.
The financial position looked very sound at the
date of the balance-sheet, though the payment of the
dividend and bonus would doubtless make some altera-
tion. The co. had no overdraft, though it owed con-
signors £45,196 and was liable for £14,775 on account of
unpresented cheques—total, £59,971. On the other side
were amounts due to the society, £48,590; advances,
£BOO ; cash in bank, £35,682 ; and cash in hand, £1997
total. £87,069. Tne position looks a great deal better
than the method of presenting the accounts.
* * * *
Tkrang and District Co-opkrative Society,
Limited (Terang, Victoria), a new concern
Deficit
(Pri lint-
Car- inary Ex-
ried pertses)
Writ- to £216
ten Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. off. serves, serves
Sept., 1909.. £682 Nil £46 £636 £420
Mysterious Vanishment of £7 413
Mar., 1910.. 632 5 p.e. =£l2s 44 463 876
The society calls its undivided profit rather more than
that, but it still treats i 140 of preliminary expenses as
an asset, and The Bulletin prefers to ignore paper items
of that sort. It is a question whether another item—
“ trade marks at cost, £5 7s. 6d.”—should not also be
written off. The first balance-sheet ended with £592
carried forward, and the next one began with £585
brought forward, and out of this slovenly discrepancy
arises the mysterious disappearance of £7 above-men-
tioned. The society, like most of its kind, started with
insufficient capital. This is how it has travelled so far :
Liabilities.
Sept., ’O9. March, ’lO.
Capital ... .. £4,710 .. £6,003
Overdraft .. .. 11,665 .. 11,651
Mortgages .. .. 10,064 .. 9,582
Sundry debts .. 2,278 .. 4,006
Assets.
Cash £49 .. 156
Owing to society .. 4,707 .. 6,012
Stock 10.676 .. 12,206
Land and buildings 12,816 .. 12,816
The total liabilities have increased by over £lOOO, despite
the additional capital that has been got in and the
accumulation of reserves. Even if all the shares are
issued and all the capital called up, the whole lotamounts
to no more than £lO,OOO. That is to say, it is less than
one-third the money invested in stock, property and
book debts. So, unless the society accumulates reserves
at a great rate, it will presumably have to totter along
all its days with £20,000 of debt. The amount of “ tick ”
given seems dangerously large. The sales for the second
term were less than for the first, and the profits were
less, but the habit of getting goods on credit was a lot
more.
Some properties in the estate of “Bendigo”
Watson were auctioned in Melbourne last week. The
S.-W. corner of Bourke and Swanston streets, occupied
by the Leviathan Clothing Company, sold for £59,000,
the co. being the buyer. This amounts to £9OO a foot for
the Swanston-street frontage. At the first land sale the
half-acre on the corner was sold to Melbourne’s first
medico, Dr. Barry Cottar, for £3O. For 60 years there
has been a clothing store on that corner. In the “ roar-
ing ’fifties” Sanders and Levi were there, with little Ikey
Lyons next door.
The Perth Gas Co. (Westralia): —
Dividends. Written Re-
Profits. Paid. Contrib. Off. serves,.
N0v.,1903..£11,81 2 2 £2500} £1953 £19 > 163
May, 1904.. 10,450 j [ 2077 17,526
Nov., 1904.. 14,190 50 2090 19,626
£5OOO share premiums added to reserves 24,626
May, 1905.. 14,894 { 25 3750} 2797 25,473
Nov., 1905.. 17,247 j 28^'J^ j 3291 26,929
May, 1906.. 16,918 { 2O 25 } 3370 27,977
Nov., 1906.. 21,036 ( 2 ° \ 3380 33,1 33
On All Shares.
May, 1907.. 17,234 20 p.e. = £12,500 3690 .34,177
Nov., 1907.. 19,168 20 „ „ 12,500 2498 38,347
May, 1908.. 16,309 20 „ „ 12,500 2510 39,646
Nov., 1905.. 19,201 20 „ „ 12,500 2547 43,800
May, 1909.. 16,714 20 ~ ~ 12.500 2582 45,432
Nov., 1909.. 19,579 20 ~ ~ 12,500 2855 49,656
May, 1910.. 16,452 20 „ ~ 12,500 2856 50,752
This co. is at present doing great battle with Costs.
Under its Act the Perth City Council now' has power to
take possession; but when the council said it was
ready to pay for the plant and other assets that are
visible or that would be visible if they were dug
up, the directors smiled sweetly and said that
they wanted to be paid for goodwill too; and the
fool of an Act was so vague that even the arbi-
trators (with a K.C. for chairman), after worrying
the matter for 11 weeks, said they didn’t, know. They
have therefore stated a ease, and asked the Supreme
Court if it would mind saying what it thought about the
matter. The Supreme Court decided that the co. had no
claim to be paid for goodwill ; goodwill was simply
the value of the right to make profits out of the
community in the future, and seeing that the City
Council has the power to buy now , the co. has no right
to make profits out of the citizens in the future and can’t
demand payment for such a right. The case seems as
simple as it can be; but the maddened co., instead of
accepting the obvious situation, is rushing, at great cost,
to the Privy Council.
The profits are a trifle smaller than usual—
partly' owing to the coal difficulty’. About five-sevenths
of them are made out of the electric-lighting business,
which quite eclipses the gas end of the concern these
days.
* * * *
Loser : It is a gamble, pure and simple, and the
shares are likely to fall still further. Think you had
better sell Lady Subscriber : That, particular biand of
soci t.v is very numerous, and the rules seem to vary’.
You don’t mention the name of the one you are in
Paradox ; Letter received : making inquiries.
* * * *
The obscure little Murex magnetic plant in-
stalled at Block 14. Broken Hill, is taking a long time to
get over its teething troubles. Construction work was
completed w'eeks ago, and the constructing engineer is
on his way back to London. Another engineer, who was
sent out to take his place, has arrived, and after giving
the sausage machines a bit of a flutter, has decided that
the time is not yet ripe for an organised attack on tin
Block 14 nest-egg. Experimental work has been resumed,
and is being carried on with the solemn earnestness of an
alchemist seeking to accomplish the transmutation or
metals. It is said that the process has achieved good,
results, and that the trial run was satisfactory. But as
outsiders are still shooed off the premises, and nobod\
but interested parties llowed to look on when the little
plant is having one of its spasms, the statement has to be
taken with an expressive wink.
The South Blocks people are shinning round
after an old zinc lode, which before long they will pro-
bably wish they had never seen. For Week's past this
lode, which is on the No. 6 level of what is known
as Block 5 shaft,' on the southern end of the
lease, has been tumbling about amongst the sur-
rounding country in a way that fully qualifies it
to be ranked with other zinciferous lodes on the Barrier.
They are a bad lot, and show no signs of reform. There
was a hope—and it still finds a harbor in the ample 8.,
M. and Co. breast—that this zinc lode wuld at depth
join forces with the main lead lode, which is being’ex-
ploited in the main workings. Seeing the way in which
the zinc lode keeps losing itself behind intrusions of
country, it is hardly safe to put much weight on that
hope.
* * * *
Baker’s Creek (Hillgrove, N.S.W.) has crushed
a number of small lots for tributors. Thirteen tons for
115 z. from No. 19 level is the only return of much
interest to shareholders, because the rich little shoot may
possibly be followed downwards.
* * * *
Cosmopolitan (Hillgrove, N.S.W.) is prospect-
ing two parallel reefs, but neither of them amounts to
more than a few inches of foz. stone in the end of the
levels. The concern is also sinking a shaft which at 75ft.
seems to have struck 2ft. of good-looking stone in No. 1
reef.
* * * *
Grafton copper mine (Cangai, N.S.W.) pays a
threepenny dividend. For a run of eight weeks the mine
raised 2321 tons of ore, and the four reverberatory
furnaces treated 1855 tons for 421 tons and 13ewt. of
matte. Shareholders have to guess the average assay of
the ore treated and the value of the matte produced.
“ Matte,” it should be understood, is a very comprehen-
sive term, and doesn’t in itself give any idea of the metal
contents. The report goes on to say that 579 tons
of matte, with six tons of carbonate ore, were reduced
to 327 tons, assaying 65 per cent, copper. From
these figures it seems probable that the extraction
from 1855 tons of ore was about 8 per cent,
copper. G. H. Blakemore has reported on the mine in
generally favorable terms, and he comments on the regu-
larity of the furnace return. Ue says: “A test of the
ore in D level in the central body showed it varied from
7"2 to 10-4 per cent, over widths ranging from 3ft. 7iu. to
17ft. But “ore in sight” only figures at 20,089 tons,
containing 1636 tons of copper, which is not a large
quantity with which to maintain an output of over 1000
tons a month. Obviously the Grafton mine is an 8 per
cent, proposition. A three months’ run on ore worth
11-89 per cent, was better than the average bv a long
chalk.
* * * *
“Fossicker”: Re the Holterman nugget and
the late Louis Beyers (B. 23/6/T0). From old hands and
records at Hill End I worked the details of the find as
follows: Weight, 6301 b.; height, 4ft. 2in. ; average
width, 4in. It was found on the night of October 18,
1872. Holterman offered the other shareholders in
the claim (there being subsidiary partners besides
Holterman and Beyers) £lO,OOO for the specimen directly
it was raised, and subsequently £13,000 was offered with
a view to taking it abroad for exhibition purposes. It
was generally estimated to contain about half its weight
in gold, or about. 45000 z., but was made up to a ton with
other specimens found in its vicinity, and the lot
crushed for 8600 oz. Other recorded crusbings were:
Jeffree and party, discoverers of the gold on Hawkins’
Hill, 8530 z. from one ton (the first crushing from the
Hill, their second being six tons forl300oz.); Johnson,
12 tons for 12h0oz. ; Beyers and Holterman, 16,0000 z. ;
Krohman, 15,000< z. ; Hurley and Moore, 11 tons for
2020 z. Never heard of the 10 tons for five tons of gold
story on Hill End, but our escort left with two tons odd
of gold. The Hill yielded about 23 tons of gold re-
corded, besides what was stolen, and even when I
was there people still searched for old “pan-
ning-off holes” in the gullies, where enterpris-
ing diggers used to dolly and dish their hard-
stolen earnings at night. The gold was won from nine
or 10 narrow parallel veins, rarely more than a few inches
thick. Intrusions of quartz porphry tilted the beds of
veins into an acute arch, the apex running north and
south, and the richest gold was found on the eastern dip,
said dip being about 55deg. Where a rich shoot was
found in one vein a corresponding enrichment was
found in all the others, and a feature of the rich portions
was that the veins were associated with a bedding of very
black slate. When the black slate cut out so did most of
the gold, and where the richest gold was found
almost all the quartz was missing, and its place
taken by a silvery white mica. About 700 ft. was the
deepest working. Government Geologist Pittman’s
opinion was that, if ever the black slate came in again, the
gold would do so also, and there was no geological reason
why it shouldn’t recur at a depth. Writer’s tip to specu-
lators is to get down in the valley, alongside of the hill,
and perforate it with a few diamond-drill holes. There
are plenty worse specs lying around. If Hill End were
in Victoria, its early history and records would ensure at
least one decent, well-financed effort to prove the ground
at a respectable depth, which so far it has never had.
The rich arsenical pyrites cross reef in the Emmett and
Hughes’ claim, which flummuxed the old-time owners as
to profitably treating it directly they got below water-
level, should in these days be worth a more scientific
trial.
* * * *
“H.H.” : There are signs, and not a few of them,
that, so far as Private Enterprise is concerned, the great
Bendigo goldfield approaches its end. It has been fading
for a long time. Away back in the’7o’s of last century,
and on other occasions before and since, Bendigo was re-
garded as “done,” and yet it revived. But, like a sink-
ing ship, it got down a little lower each time it was sup-
posed to be “ done,” and it rose with a greater effort,
and each rise was a trifle feebler than the one before it.
A time came when it was not wholly uncommon for the
year’s calls to be greater than the dividends, and on these
occasions Bendigo shares were mere gambling counters.
Now deep sinking has brought about something that looks
very like the dead finish. The great New Ohum line of
reef was always the backbone of Bendigo. All the great,
rich, enduring mines were on the New Ohum line. Grad-
ually the shallow deposits became worked out, and at
last, after more than half a century of glory, the New
Chum line became rather a memory than anything else.
But the companies kept hoping and sinking. The two
deep-sinkers that led the way were the New Ohum Rail-
way and the Victoria Quartz. They have had no huge
luck at the great depths, for one of them paid its last
dividend 10 years ago and the other 11 years ago, still
they have toiled and sank and hoped and collected calls.
At last they almost ceased to be gold-mining pro-
positions, and threatened to develop into theological
problems. One or two centuries ago a British scientist
started an address to the Royal Society with the words :
“ We all know that Hell is situated in the interior of the
earth.” A belief began to arise that the New Chum Rail-
way 00. and the Victoria Quartz were looking for Hell
rather than for gold. If this had been the Middle Ages,
Bendigo, because of these and one or two other mines,
would have become the religious centre of the world, and
the Pope and the Archbishop of Canterbury and the
Greek Patriarch would have taken rooms at the Shamrock
Hotel to await results.
The companies didn’t strike Hell; they struck
water, in magnificent quantities. The water is rising
slowly and swamping mine after mine. The New Chum
line of reef has been so riddled with shafts, drives and
stopes that it is little more than a sieve from end to
end, and the water joyously soaks through and
keeps on rising. The profits nowadays can hardly
stand any extra bilk for pumping, so the tendency


The Pacific Cable Board
(Of which the Commonwealth of Australia is
the largest part owner).
The direct route to UNITED KINGDOM, CANADA,
U.S.A., GERMANY, PACIFIC ISLANDS and
NEW ZEALAND.
RATES:-1/.K., 3/-; Canada and U.S.A.,
from 2/4; GERMANY, 3/-: FIJI, Bd. per word.
“VIA PACIFIC” (Signalled free of charge).
In Sydney the Board has its own offices
at 40 Hunter Street, for dealing direct with the
Public for all INTERNATIONAL Cablegrams;
with special wire to Cable Terminus at Southport.
At this office all Standard Code-Books may be
consulted. At all other places in Commonwealth,
messages marked “VIA PACIFIC ’’are accepted
at Post and Telegraph office. New Zealand cable-
grams, 4Jd. per word, “ VIA PACIFIC,” accepted
at all Telegraph Offices.
Cablegram Forms, Maps, Pamphlets, and all
information on application to :
THE PACIFIC CABLE BOARD,
40 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Imperial Buildings, 408 Collins Street,
Melbourne; or Southport, Queensland.
SAMPLE GRINDERS
FOR REDUCING SAMPLES TO
POWDER FOR ASSAYING. *
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building:, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* * « *
“ Ferrodor ” Paint. —Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by 7
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort’s
Dock and Mt. Lyell buildings; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. &O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
COAL IS SAVED in the generation of steam
by absolutely reliable boiler mountings and stop valves,
Steam tight piston glands and steam joints, also perfect
insulation of boilers and pipes to prevent radiation and
ensure transmission of heat. Bell’s Asbestos-Packed
Water Gauges, Blow-off Cocks and “Belfry” Patent
Steam Valves, Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing and
“ BelliLe” Jointing and Bell’s Asbestos Non-Conduct-
ing Composition will ensure economy and safety
to steam users,—BELL’S ASBESTOS AUSTRALIAN
AGENCY LTD., 315 Kent Street, Sydney. Also agents
for THE FARNLEY IRON CO., LTD., and FRASER &
CHALMERS, LTD., Mining Machinery.*
The works of the Austral Otis Engineering
Company at South Melbourne are at present busily en-
gaged in connection with the copper industry, and
among the works in hand are a complete converter plant
for the Great Fitzroy Mines, consisting of two blowing
stands with steam power turning gear, and six steel con-
verters each 10ft. 6in. by 7ft. 6in. diameter, two pneumati-
cally operated telescopic blowing hoods and main flue
connections, concentrate briquetting machines and water
jackets for the blast furnaces; several very large water
jackets for the Great Cobar Copper Mines ; steel framed
converter housing, two pneumatically operated telescopic
blowing hoods and main flue connections for the converter
plant, and hydro-pneumatic tamping cranes for converter
lining, for Wallaroo and Moonta Copper Mines, South Aus-
tralia ; steel water jackets and crushing rolls for the Phillips
River Copper Company, West Australia ; and a complete
100-ton water-jacketed blast furnace and steel main
chimney, sft. diam. and 150 ft. high, for the Hampden
Cloncurry Mines, Queensland. The Company have also in
hand the construction of the extensive coal screens, con-
veyors, automatic tipplers and coal hoppers required
for the State Coal Mines at Powlett River.*
* * * *
Dick’s Patent Balata Belting, invented and
made by R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, is the only genuine,
reliable Balata Belting. To ensure getting real article
branded with makers’name, obtain from Sole Importers,
James Hardie & Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney, who
carry large stocks, guaranteeing quality.* [2
« * * »
The Joint Stock Companies’ Journal, London,
of 23/9/’OB, Writes regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited :—“ There is this good reason
why those who contemplate assurance should consider
the advantages of this powerful colonial office, viz., that
its policy forms are fully as liberal and comprehensive as
those of’other such institutions, as witness the ‘ Twelve
Option ’ contract lately placed on the market.”*
* * * *
WOOD PIPE is specially adapted for Aus-
tralian conditions where the soil often contains alkali and
mineral which would soon eat away metal pipes. In
Wood Pipe there is no exposed metal. Catalogue from
The Australian Wood Pipe Co. Ltd., Balmain, Sydney.*
* * * *
Patents.— Have you an idea worth patenting ?
If so, write to Grifffith and Hassell, registered Patent
Attorneys for information. Address, 163 King Street,
Sydney, and 9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [1
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuekett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Nobels (Hamburg) Explosives.— Messrs. Wm.
Adams & Co. Ltd., of 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, have
now taken over the sole agency in N.S. W. for the above
high-grade explosives. Large stocks on hand. Please
note these are the genuine Nobels.*
-*•*■*■»
Mine managers when requiring air compressors
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not fail
to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they will be
impressed by its simplicity, compactness and portability.
Owing to the working parts being entirely enclosed it can
be placed to work on any part of the mine, either on the
surface or underground. The number of repeat orders
which Messrs. Reavell have received from the mining
community proves how greatly their compressor is
appreciated. The representatives for Australia are
Messrs. Babcock and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
r * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria,*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Collison & 00., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
** . *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Pkospkctors
write to H. B. Silberbrrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgans crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
is to abandon the mines and let things slide. It
won’t mean much loss of actual money, but it
will mean a grievous loss of employment, for any n . un ’ be *
of practically dead and gone holes have retained a
manager anda few men, and have kept on sinking and
driving and making little calls, in order to keep the
shares on the market as gambling counters. Even the
deadest old mine on the New Chum line'vouM'make a
stir on the Stock Exchange and vield a c °m
missions to the sharebroking brotherhood if it
was announced that it had . st *| uck t . a ®in. reef at
4000 ft and that there were indications. The New
Chum ’line, in fact, has been living of late mostly on its
past. And now there are signs that the gamble is near
its end. The best hope is that the Victorian Legislature
may create a Department of Theological Engineering,
and vote a good sum of money, and take over the deepest
mine on the New Chum line and pump it out, and then
sink for all the Government is worth. If it sets out to go
it nvn to 50,000 ft., it may either find Hell and release
manv of the deceased land-bankers of 1893 from a very
unpleasant situation, or it may find enough water to
irrigate all the dry parts of Victoria twice over,
or it may find tons of gold. In any case Premier
Murray may save his billet, which is now looking
very shaky. The Victorians are a religious people, and a
Department of Theological Engineering would appeal to
them. They are a speculative people, and the idea ot
sinking 50,000 ft. would appeal to them. They are rather
a dry people, and the chance of unlimited water w-ould
aup>al to them. And down in these depths—down
10 000 ft. or any other old distance—the Department of
Theological Engineering might strike great deposits of
quartz going 10,000 oz. gold to the ton, and thereby make
Victoria the world’s financial centre. To leave all
I'sting out of the question, the writer respect-
fully submits that no one has the faintest idea what
Uiere may be 10,000 ft. or 30,000 ft. or 50,000 ft. down,
and no better use could he made of the prospecting vote
than to go right down and investigate. No one has been
there yet. So far all the mining enterprises have merely
scratched the surface like a hen scratching in the dirt on
the off-chance of finding worms. There is a chance here
fora new Columbus, and the question arises: “Is John
Murray qualified to be that Columbus?” If he is he had
better acquire the New Chum Railway mine, undertaking
to give the present shareholders 5 per cent, on the pro-
fits, if any, and sink.
* * * *
Bendigo comes out with a bad half-year, as will
be seen from the following totals ;
Gold. Divs. Calls.
June, 1907 .. 92,1330 z. £50,505 £119,894
Dec., 1907 .. 104,811 ~ 71,512 88,885
June, 1908 .. 92,921,, 67,046 80,624
Dec., 1908 .. 100,332,, 59,222 55,299
June, 1909 .. 103,101 ~ 83,690 61,989
Dec., 1909 .. 110,580,, 76,175 48,773
June, 1910 .. 86,912,, 43,300 58,394
It is necessary to go back 10 years to see figures
like those for the past six months. Most folk would look
at the div. list. But the right column is the calls. To
see the total down to £58,000 means that the gentle
public isn’t supporting Bendigo as of yore. Good gold
yields in 1905 and 1906 brought in calls galore, but the
fading div. list frightened the outsider call-payer until
Bendigo has now to rely on its own strength for cash to
run its mines. The div. list shows how little is coming in.
The biggest disbursement was from Catherine Reef with
£7742. Virginia has fallen from £26,000 to £2700; but as
there are only about a dozen big shareholders in it, the
public has not been badly hit in that direction.
Still those ’holders are mostly the heavy guns at
Bendigo, and if they get tired of call-paying the
outsider is less likely to pay up than ever. Too much
attention is devoted to the deep mines. Capital ought
to be tucked into the side-lines, so jealously shepherded
by a lot of has-been companies. Bendigo has, as a fact,
got rid of its halo, and must settle down to widening its
work in order to look up again. As it has plenty of side-
lines, things are riot so bad as some of the croakers
suggest.
p * * >i * *
The year of the comet will be for ever memor-
able in Stawell (Vic.) mining history, as heralding the ad-
vent of the vacuum filter process to the field. The
lately-erected filter plant at the Wonga, at present hung
up pending the introduction of an electric hoist to pay-
ably handle the ore, is to be followed by the installation
of a large Butters plant to treat the accumulated slimes
at the Magdala-cum-Moonlight. These slimes,'of wl.ich
there are estimated to be somewhere between 100,600
and 200,000 tons, are understood to be dis-
po ed of to a Westralian crowd which contem-
plates the erection Of a complete vacuum filter plant,
driven by a large suction gas-engine. As the local con-
ditions are very favorable for economical working, and
the ore gives a payable extraction after exhaustive tests,
this introduction of modern methods to a miserable gold-
field appears likely to be a profitable one, and if suc-
cessful it will almost certainly lead to the further appli-
cation of the process to Victorian slum heaps. So far as
Stawell is concerned, the venture will have the salutary
effect of converting a lot of useless mud into useful cash,
a commodity which will be hailed with much enthusiasm
by the Stawell *
At the first sign of an increased importation of
silver India raised the duty on the metal to four annas
per oz. The exchange between gold and silver only re-
mains stable so long as the supply of silver money is kept
within reasonable limits. The vast accumulation of the
white metal that has been going on for many years is in
Itself a danger to the silver market. The new Chinese
dollar is to weigh 460'8 grains ; so it will be about the
same size as the old English crown.
* *
Be par. in recent Bulletin saying that Charters
Towers hadn’t yet discovered how to mine cheaply. It
is not the only mining centre in Queensland which suffers
from that complaint. Take the Cecil mine at Kings-
borough (N.Q.), which Miles and Co., of Charters Towers,
have in hand at present. The Cecil, under previous
ownership, produced about £120,000 worth of gold from
a depth not exceeding 500 ft., and never even screwed out
one div., and 22,000 tons of tailings produced £lB,OOO by
the cyanide process without anybody being apparently
enriched to any appreciable extent. Since then 18,000
tons more stone have been crushed and cyanided for
£52,000 worth of gold, and things seem to be only in the
hopeful (or hopeless) stage. Miles and Co. have just sent
along manager E. J. Wren, one time of Mount Usher mine,
Crocodile (C.Q.), to attempt to straighten matters out a
bit; but nothing very startling in the matter of scientific
handling may be expected. The present crowd doesn’t
seem anxious to spend anything in repairs, and as the
Hornsby 100-h.p. water-tube boiler wants about 46 new
tubes, the present ones being in the habit of blow-
ing out at the rate of, say, two a shift, strict economy in
the repair department does not augur well for < ffective
working. Great things are expected to eventuate from
the visit of expert Bowler lately on behalf of a Victorian
push which is meditating the taking on of some other
promising claims in the vicinity ; and it is hoped that the
•South will be able to show the North a few wrinkles as to
mine management. Somehow or other, even allowing
for cost of carriage, etc., there seems to be an awful dis-
crepancy between payable ore in Victoria and in North
Queensland. A 6dwt. amalgamation show, with l£dwt.
extractable by cyanide from the tailings in addition, is
looked on as unworthy of notice at Kingsborough, and
under existing circumstances appear to be, like dirt,
simply matter in the wrong place.
* * * *
Victory (Charters Towers) has a few men work-
ing at the 4‘23ft. formation from No. 4 shaft. There is a
small reef of good quality showing. Market support has
been given to this stock because the Brilliant-St. George
crosscut at the 1870 ft. level is approaching the Victory
boundary. If the Brilliant-St. George cuts a reef in this
crosscut it will also affect the prospects of Kelly’s Queen
Block, which is crosscutting for a formation on the
Brilliant-St. George boundary. Brilliant-St. George is
making calls, but these only bring in a small sum, for in
more palmy days a good many of the contributing were
converted into paid shares.
* * * *
Including the half-yearly clean up of battery
plates, the New Brilliant Freehold at Charters Towers
obtained £8958 from 1249 tons of stone. The fourth
dividend of Is. per share has been declared, which will
make a totai of £30,000 received by shareholders from
the Day Dawn reef. To get these dividends considerably
over 20,000 tons of stone have been crushed. Develop-
ment work is being pushed forward, and it is hoped that
No. 3 and No. 4 levels, when they are driven 1000 ft., will
provide a good reserve of payable stone.
East Mexican, next door, crushed 100 tons for
£1386. This stock is always spoken of locally as a gamble.
The co. is under heavy expense, for it has to haul its
stone from Mills’ United’s shaft. The ore-body from
which this crushing was taken is striking longitudinally
along the New Brilliant Freehold’s bound ry, and the
stone showing in the faces is from lft. to 2ft. thick of
good quality. At No. 5 level 16ft. of driving was done
for the fortnight. At last report there were 2ft. of good
stone on the hanging wall and lft. of poor white stone on
the footwall.
* * * *
Scottish Gympie (Gympie, Q.) pays a dividend
of ljd. per share on its mob of 660,000 shares, so it costs
£4125. This mine maintains the largest, output of quartz
in Queensland, and it is more than a coincidence that it
has managed to head the list of dividend-payers from
batter}’’ returns. The Scottish has been treating 7800
tons a month, and the last lot give £BO4O. The reef
never showed an outcrop on the surface, so in that re-
spect it resembles the famous Brilliant reef at Charters
Towers. Scottish Gympie is supposed to have the Ingle-
wood formation below 2300 ft. vertical.
Gympie is backing a prospecting venture known
as the Amalgamated Monkland and Glanmire Deep. The
co. intends to sink the North Glanmire shaft to the third
bed of slate. The Queensland Government gives a mode-
rate subsidy.
* * * *
A dull share market cannot be considered a
good index of Gympie’s future prospects, because some of
the best returns and dividends are coming from
No. 4 North Phmnix and the Scottish Gympie,
whose shares seldom come into the market. No.
4 North Phoenix crushed 563 tons for 851 oz. of
gold. Columbia Extended have been traded in to a
small extent. This co. has paid several threepenny
dividends, worth £1062 10s. each, during the year. The
last return was 309 for 5630 z., and the previous lot 358
tons for £1498. East Oriental came along with 4530 z. of
gold from 788 tons of stone. Though the Columbia line
has heavy water to contend with, the telegraphed report
that No. 3 North Columbia has struck a make of plum-
bago at the 1660 ft. level is a favorable sign. A develop-
ment of this kind at Gympie is always worth watching.
At Mount Elliott (Queensland) matters are fast
approaching a point when production may be resumed.
The railway is now within a couple of miles of the mine
and should be completed by August, and smelting opera-
tions will be commenced immediately this is ready for
haulage. With regard to the new plant: Considering
that it did noi start to arrive until the end of February,
that the bulk of the machinery had to be hauled
close on 50 miles per teams, and that over 1000 tons
of material was carted, it speaks well for the manage-
ment that construction should be so far advanced.
Some thousands of tons of earth had to be shifted in the
formations, and all bases of furnaces, crane columns and
engine beds are laid down in concrete. In addition to
the work of erecting new boilers, there was the job of
shifting the compressor from the furnaces and its re-
erection on a site at the mine. Although the plant is
not an expensiveone and exceedingly plain in appearance,
everything in connection with it- speaks of solidity and
looks as if meant for work. Three new brick stacks
have been built, and throughout the works there is ample
room and plenty of ventilation, so that even on the
hottest day there should be no trouble front fumes.
Electrical power has been installed throughout, so that
there will be very little laborious work for the employees.
While the erection of the plant has been going on, much
work has been done underground. At the No. 3 level
the hotly of ore which is in places 120 ft. wide, and was
formerly a bit of a nightmare, has been timbered.
Thousands of feet of timber in the shape of huge logs
have been put in, and the body of the ore divided up into
sections wii h these logs and laced again at right angles,
the spaces being filled with mullock, so that No. 3 is now
safe. The mine is looking well and there is a large re-
serve of high-grade ore. Looking at the ore in the No. 4
level, a large body of good ore should be met with at the
No. 5 level. The No. 5 is 150 ft. below the No. 4. The
drive at No. 5 will have to be extended some distance
before it gets under the shoot.
* * * *
“Melilia”: Changes are promised at O.K.
Copper (North Queensland). A meeting is being called
to receive the resignation of the directors and to appoint
a new Board. Apparently the “dumb-driven share-
holders ” have turned at last., and the smelting of unpay-
able ore in the wilderness will be stopped. There is room
for a lot of changes both at Cairns and at 0.K., and the
sooner they are made the better for both mine and share-
holders. In the whole of North Queensland the only
copper show with any vigorous life is the Einasleigh,
which has located some bigbodies of ore. The erection of
a concentrating plant is going on, and prospecting and
developing are being pushed ahead. Mount Molloy is
apparently a has-been. The little but much-boomed
Anniversary mine at Herberton, one of Molloy’s bulwarks,
has managed, after over a year’s work, to stack some 600
tons of 11 per cent, ore !
* * * *
Mungana (Queensland) has recently cut 9ft. of
lead-sulphide ore assaying 16 per cent, lead, I'4 per cent,
copper, and 12'60z. of silver in a horizontal bore-hole
from the 610 ft. level. Some time since the drill located
an ore-body assaying 22 per cent, lead, 1 per cent, copper
and 7oz. of silver south of the Girofla shaft. One of the
dailies absent-mindedly reported the assay as 22 per cent,
copper for a width of 37ft., but unfortunately it is lead
and not copper. Harvey Paterson, who is chairman of
the Mungana co., looking back at the result of 10 years’
work at the mine, expresses regret that the Lady Jane
cannot be turned into copper-silver, and the Girofla into
silver-lead. Mixed copper lead ore has not proved easy
to treat.
* * * *
Chillagoe (Queensland) shares have been sup-
ported mainly on the strength of good developments in
some of the old gold mines the co. has an option over.
Both the Queenslander and Havelock are reported to be
showing improved faces of mineralised stone, and rich
assays come from the Union mine at Percyville. But it
should be understood that these improved prospects
have shown themselves in mines that are notoriously
patchy and erratic. Very little sinking is going on, the
Chillagoe co. being- content, for the present, to open up
the old levels. At the smelter, 4683 tons of ore produced
233 tons of copper, 24,8690 z. silver and 17060 z. of gold.
The improvement in gold values is mainly due to the
purchase of milling by-products and concentrates which
have been accumulating in the Etheridge district. A
yield of more than £9OOO worth of silver and gold for'the
month, together with £11,550 for copper (at £5O per ton),
has evidently strengthened the idea that.Chillagoes are a
good gamble..
.** * *
North Mount Lyell (Tas.) is raising some rich
ore again from No. 36 stope, at the 1100 ft. level, where
the ground floor exposes an extensive ore-body. The
North Lyell has been considered such an erratic mine
that it must come as a surprise to find that a continuous
ore-body can be traced vertically from the surface down
to a depth of nearly 1000 ft. A deep shoot like that
seems to imply that at some remote period the copper-
bearing solutions forced their way upwards. Lyell
Blocks next door continues to make pn parations to sink
its shaft, so whichever way the ore-body dips, there is
considerable faith in its continuing to a greater depth.
At the Mount Lyell mine 7000 tons a month are being
raised from the underground workings. An inclined shaft
facilitates underground mining operations. Mi unt Lyell
is thoroughly up to date, and water is now flowing to
the works by gravitation from the Queen River, where
there is an immense reservoir. Wooden pipes, formed
something like the staves of a eask and bound tightly to-
gether, carrv the water for half a mile.
* * * *
Gwalia Consolidated (W.A.) has been accom-
modated in 8., M. & Oo.’s stable, and the bosses of the
firm are now furbishing up their brains prior to con-
sidering the best ways and means of converting this
appallingly muddled show into an easy-working and
profit-earning venture. To date tons of money have
been wasted on plant and management, and if the new
controllers are to be given a fair trial, more capital will
have to be got from somewhere before long. Then there
is the sulphide problem in all its hideousness looming
ahead, so that altogether the shareholders’cup of trouble
is still slopping over, and even if the best happens it is
likely to slop for some time to come.
* * * *
The old Hesperus Dawn at Magnet (W.A.) has
been placed on the forfeited list. This mine was
formerly noted for two things: (1) The richness of its
ore and (2) the mania which its owners had for going to
law against one another. Only the lawyers, however,
benefited by the strife, and they did uncommonly well for
a time. Then the gold began to give out, and the owners’
desire for litigation correspondingly cooled off until it
reached vanishing point.
Meekatharra (W.A.) is proving a rich prize
packet to a few, and would do better still if some of the
privately-owned shows were not worked regardless of
expense and intelligence. One or two cos. represented
by F. B. Trude have, however, got a footing in the dis-
trict, and some of 8., M. and Oo.’s concerns are tipped to
follow suit, so that the matter of costs and modern
mining now' stands a chance of receiving attention. The
field is not noted so far for big mines, but it has the
makings of several fair to middling-sized good ones.
* * * *
After 15 years’ perseverance, Victory United
(W.A.) has abandoned its show at Cuddingwarrn, and
acquired the Pericles at Gullewa. The terms of purchase
are 20,000 paid-up shares in a co. of B n ,ooo shares, and
£4OOO by instalments. The new property has an area of
72 acres, and is equipped with a 10-head mill. It has been
prospected to 300 ft., and is said to have several thousand
tons of developed ore in sight.
* * it *
Great Fingall (W.A.) for 1.909 produced a
revenue of £178,620 and left, a surplus of £18,749. De-
preciation mopped up £9182, and profit tuxes absorbed
£9240, leaving with £24.33B—the cash overflow' from the
previous year—a credit balance of £24,665. Dividends
accounted for £21,875, leaving £2790 to carryforward.
The standing ore in the mine, irrespective of pillars, is
estimated by the general managers (8., M. & Co.)at 49,460
tons of 235. 9d. ore. They state it is impossible to enter
the stopes and measure the broken ore contents, and re-
gret their inability to put the tape round the reserves
left in the pillars until the remaining stopes have been
cleared of the broken stone and mullocked up. They
declare, however, that there is still a lot of broken
stuff available which can be treated at a profit.
When the year closed the co. had £99,251 cash,
£4918 bullion, and several minor liquid assets, including
£16,000 stores, which overlapped by £5OOO or £6OOO the
amount due to sundry creditors. From this surplus,
however, has to be deducted 14000 paid for a share in
the Tarquah Central mines (West Africa). The state-
ment made by The Bui.lf.tin a week or two ago, that the
co. is hopeful of the old-time high-grade values making
again in the bottom of the mine, is borne out in the
directors’ report ; but, for ihe present, shareholders had
better not build too much on this prospect.
» * * *
Gold Estates of Australia, Ltd., which fell in
badly over mining speculation in the West, and which
still owns some real estate in and around Pert h, is havit g
a flutter in West Africa. Some time ago the co. floated
the Fura gold-dredging concession, and now shnreholdtrs
have got. the “ office ” tha' it has palmed an opt ion on a
similar possession in the same fever-stricken country off
to an independent syndicate. For years past the co.
has been going to permanently put scrip-holders beyond
the need of want, but somehow it has never yet been able
to get beyond the promise stage, and probably never w ill.
An elderly gent named Liveing has been sent
out by the respective Boards to report on the Associ-
ated and Associated Northern (W.A.). After looking
these derelicts up and down, and giving an opinion
about both, Liveing goes.on to Fiji to inspect some
interests which the Associated Northern has acquired on
appro, from Archibald, Bellinghan and others.
* * * *
According to a London paper, the mystery sur-
rounding the whereabouts of the two “rich mines”
worked by Hudson’s Consol dated in the West, has been
cleared up by the secretary’s announcement that (1) the
titles are respectively held by “one of the most repu-
table firms of solicitors in Perth and by an equally repu-
table Australian bank”; and (2) that the attorney is a
J.P. Neither the names, numbers or exact situation of
the properties are given, however ; so that, despite the
proof of existence put forward by the secretary, the
matter still lends itself to suspicion.
* * * *
Mount Maroomba floats are as frequent as
cherries in spring in Melbourne just now. Then there is
a beautiful haze about w'ho’s who at the field. Itwas felt
that Brown and Bradstreet, the pioneers, were dead certs.
Now, one is nof-clear whether Brown and Bradstreet’s
leases are in the Early Bird group or the Early
Bird’s in Brown and Bradstreet’s ; or whether the
Maroomba Venture, with its nine applications,
overlaps and absorbs both the Maroomba and
the Early Bird. Teddy Francis, whose sudden
flight from the Stock Exchange caused all sorts of sur-
mising, turns up at Katherine Waters, having slipped off
on behalf of the John Goodall’s to Maroomba. Last, but
not least, Andrew Wilson and Powell have reached their
haven on the Roper, after having paced the decks of a
Dutch lugger for a fortnight while the craft was beating
about in the Gulf. Pow'ell w'ails that the delay
W'as “ disastrous,” for a fence of pegs is up against
late-comers. Melbourne dailies played for “ the bulls ”
over Francis’s wire, as they let it get into print nearly a
week later—of course, after the buying had been done,
Colvin, of West Coast experience, is another old hand
that is trekking north. He and Wilson are about the two
best-equipped men that have got under way, and the
spec seller waits to hear their whistle.
A correspondent writes: “Malaya Tin is
likely to form an increasing feature in the market.
The Tongkah Compound and North Tambun people
are getting a move on, and other chances are talked
about. Some good men have been through those
parts recently, and all agree that big business
is available for Australians. The best chances seem
to be ‘ waiting in the settled parts of the peninsula
in and around the well-known fields such as Ipoh, Kuala
Lumpur and Goeping, which among them produce about
half the tin of the world—say about £8,000,000 worth
per annum. The essence of the business is that the
Chinaman's costs are in the neighborhood of Is. 6d. per
yard. Ninepence and less on suction-dredge ground
seems not too much to expect at the hands of Aus-
tralians with well-understood machinery and methods.
Tne Chinaman mostly works with a hoe and basket.
His idea of power-plant is a water-wheel or tread-
mill. H. S. Henry, who accompanied the Baillieu-
Robinson experts to Tongkah, and who is as well up in
dredging as most men, is spoken of for the Tongkah
Compound, which has been taken on by Horton and
Freeman, of the Harden mine (N.S.W.). He talks costs
of 4d. per yard for that property (bucket dredeing), and
considers C. H. James’ estimates of 9d. for the North
Timbun (suction dredging) well on the conservative side.
Both costs are well above Australian practice. As there
are over 2,000,000yd5. of proved ground in each property,
with chances of more, lower costs spell money. Taking
costs at 9d. and tin at £125, James forecasts a profit of
about £160,000 in the North Tantbun. With less costs
and tin at £l5O, as at present, a good story should be told
when the concern gets to work. The Tattloek, another
tiling near Ipoh, also Australian-owned and a similar pro-
position to the North Tamhun, will soon be producing,
and will he followed by Tamhun, and later bv the Com-
pound. Results will be watched closely. This sort of
mining does not leave the usual room for miscalculations.”


Charles Heidsieck
EEIIS
EXTRA DRY
/fS%
%y
FINEST EXTRA Q?
The hair grows dry and harsh. The Hygeia
Individual Treatment always cures this trouble and
restores healthy growth.
A Victorian lady, who was very much troubled with
dandruff, also continual falling of the hair—which was
very dry and thin—writes after using treatment for two
months : “There is now no dandruff left at all, the hair
is beautifully bright and glossy, and is no longer dry
and harsh ; also there is quite a growth of new hair all
over, and none of it is falling very much. Of course, you
said it would not stop falling all at once, and I am very
pleased indeed with it so far.”
At the end of the next month’s treatment she writes :
“My hair is still improving, and the new growth is
quite an inch and a half long ; also I notice a lot more
new hair growing all over, and it is hardly falling at all.
There has been no sign of dandruff since the second week’s
treatment.—Yours sincerely, 8.5., Armadale, Victoria.”
The President may be consulted, free of charge, any day
but Saturday, between 2.15 and 4.45, and on Wednesday
between 6 and 7. Those who cannot call may write to
the President, Dept. 8., Hygeia Limited, Ocean House,
Moore Street, Sydney, enclosing 3d. stamps to cover
postage, and they will receive booklet atid testimonials
without delay.*
When tea was first introduced
into Europe, about a couple of
hundred years ago anyhow,
long before ray time it was
sold in chemist’s shops, and was
thought to be a cure for every-
thing from a broken leg to a
pimple on one’s nose—of course,
they didn’t know much about
tea then —to-day, however, it is
thoroughly well known as the
nicest and the most wholesome
of all beverages —it stimulates
and brightens one up without
causing the slightest after ill-
effect, and 1 know of nothing in
my shop that 1 can say the same
thing of.
Chemists are great tea drinkers
—1 suppose it’s because we’ve
always got to have our wits about
us, and because we know there’s
nothing nicer or better that we
can drink. In my own home we
always use the Robur No. J
Grade, and very nice tea it
is—it has a delightful flavour,
and gives us great satisfaction.
The Chemist.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A
WOMAN’S
LETTER
Sydney, July 5, 1910.
My Dear Artni,—
A platform full of notables, some good speeches
(one was very good), and about a half-measure
audience made up the great meeting on behalf of
the Bush Nursing scheme in the Town Hall last
Tuesday evening. All the official people are
keen on her Ex.’s idea, and work hard in all
branches to pump up public enthusiasm. The
ladies of both Government Houses do all they can,
from attending meetings to dressing multitudes
of dolls, in order to further the cause. The best
thing in the orations was the State Governor’s re-
mark : “ If you want to get a woman to do any-
thing, tell her it’s impossible.” The platform
feminines wore a thoughtful expression as if the
statement called up many memories. Her Ex.
looked as demure as a schoolgirl while the
talkers expounded her plan. Lady Dudley
presses the button and her aiders do the rest in
connection with this Bush Nursing idea. The
astute Joseph Carruthers has given the best
opinion and laid down the best roueh draft of a
workable nursing scheme to date. His ideas were
set forth at length in the Herald some days ago.
Among the household gods disposed of by
G. H. Reid when he left Sydney on the Bullward
track were some more or less damaged busts of
himself perpetrated by various admiring artists.
As a job lot they went extremely cheap. One
was afterwards purchased by a ham-and-beef
shopkeeper and gilded. As a window ornament
that gilded bust of George now smiles on passers-
by, bearing a legend leaning against its chest:
“Roast rabbits, 9d. each.”
The marriageof the widow White, so well known
a figure in Potts Point and all fashionable parts,
also of “ Havilah,” with Swedish Consul Morner,
a Count in his native kingdom, has supplied a
pleasant topic for gossips to chatter about over
their tea cups. The Count is a well-set-up
personage and a dabbler in manv cults, that of
beauty being one of them. His aesthetic taste
caused quite a flutter when he set the Swedish
flag flying over a water frontage villa at Lavender
Bay a year or two back. All his sticks and house-
hold gear were the nine-days’ wonder of the
inhabitants, and discreet little tea parties of
leading matrons and properly-chaperoned misses
used to be invited to examine his curios. Rare
editions, quaint oaken furniture and uncommon
prints were in his collection. The household staff
at his consulate were all men, except for a pretty
typewriter girl, who tripped from ferry-boat to
consulate and back daily. The fascinating Count
was the pet of the Women’s Liberal Club in those
not very far back days, and sometimes gladdened
the eyes of those political persons with a sight of
his glossy collars and exquisitely tailored clothes,
while he held forth in cultured English on his
travels in far lands. Picturesque personalities
like Morner’s do much to give a zest to the taste-
less fare of humdrum everyday life.
Miss Muriel Matters and Mias Tillard, suffra-
gettes, also Mrs. Cross, a non-combatant, glided
into the city last week per express from Mel-
bourne. They are surprised that not quite every
woman in Australia approves of militant methods
of attracting John Bull’s attention to the fact
that women want votes. “ Why. you don’t know
how well off you are ! ” exclaimed Muriel to a small
bunch of pen ladies on Saturday morning. “You
don t seem to take much interest in Dolitics.
I met a woman in South Australia who wasn’t sure
whether she was a voter or not.” Miss M. is
very unlike anybody’s shrieking sister. She
has a determined nose, a pair of wide
open, clear-gazing grey eyes, and soft, shiny
brown hair. Her friend, Miss Tillard, is tall and
fair ; and they are a bright, chatty pair. There
must be points in being a suffragette, to hear
these two talk. They seem so wide-awake and
thoroughly in the movement. They are live girls.
The London policemen and Forbes Robertson, the
actor, are their chief heroes ; and Sir Albert
de Rutzeri, the tottering, aged Westminster
“ beak,” is their bad man. “ London policemen?”
enthused Miss Matters. “Oh, they’re simply
delightful. They arrest us, certainly; but
they are quite friendly with us, and explain
that ‘lt is my duty, you know, Miss.’ ‘Ob-
structing the police in the execution of
their duty ’ is the regulation charge made
against us. Oh, no, I wasn’t arrested when
I chained myself to the grille. You can’t be
arrested in the House of Commons. Four atten-
dants removed that panel of the grille to which I
had attached my chain, and marched me and the
ironmongery to a committee room.” “She looked
so funny,” interjected Miss Tillard. “ Then after-
wards I was charged and so forth, but everything
was done in proper form. You never saw such a
scene of confusion as there was when I began,
after waiting for Big Ben to strike eight: ‘Mr.
Speaker and members of this Illiberal Govern-
ment.’ Why did Ido it? As a protest, of course ;
and the symbol of woman’s political non-existence
—the hateful, insulting old grille—had to be taken
down. One result was that the refreshment room
takings felt off £5O weekly for all the time after-
wards that the galleries of the House were
closed to strangers. We don’t do these sensational
things for the sake of ad vertisement and notoriety.
There is a reason for every one of them. Every-
thing we do is a protest and a token of revolt.”
A very forceful way of putting things has Miss
Muriel. The celebrated grille does seem to be
an insult to women as she describes it. Fancy
only being allowed to gaze on Mr. Speaker and
the hon. members from behind an iron lattice
work in a top gallery—the sort of thing that
you push the peanut through at the Zoo when
you want to be affable to your ancestor the Miss-
ing Link !
Another object of hatred to this militant
person is the British middle class. “They’re
neither one thing nor another. They’re
always trying to be what they’re not, despising
those beneath them, and striving to get in among
those above them. They’re thoroughly artificial,
and haven’t a spark of originality.” Good old
bourgeoisie! Being “agin the Government,”
suffragettes meet many interesting wan-
derers. Miss M. knows several patriotic
Finns and Russians. Baroness Armberg, a mem-
ber of the I innish Diet before the Russians shut
down on that local Parliament, has a hard-luck
story. There is a price on her head, and she can’t go
home toFinland and her Baron and three bairns, nor
can her family go to her. So she lurks unhappily
in London, waiting for the clouds to roll by. The
brainiest of all the women in the Suffrage move-
ment, according to Muriel M., is Teresa Billing-
ton. But since she became Mrs. Fred Greig she
has lived in and not done so much for
the cause. She is a handsome young woman and
her husband adores her. But all suffragettes, it
is claimed, make good wives. When the suffra-
gettes were in gaol the husbands of the married
ones used to go day after day to see
their incarcerated better halves and cheer
them up with sympathy and loving counsel. It
is quite worth listening to Miss Matters when she
begins talking. She talks about such big
things, and besides, it is not every day that one
can catch a real, live suffragette, fresh from the
grille, and hear her comments. The Prime Min-
ister, the Attorney-General and others of our Aus-
tralian Government have listened to the two
ladies with great interest at Melbourne
luncheons, and have passed them on with letters
to Messrs. McGowen and Holman, Labor leaders
in the Ma Parliament. “The vote? Oh, it’s
coming quite soon,” says hopeful Muriel.
Mrs. , Alex - Gordon has just gone off on a few
weeks’ jaunt. When she returns, she is going to
engineer a big charity concert, being assisted
therein by Mrs. Ewan Fraser. The two matrons
bore well-known musical names before marriage
robbed them of their maiden cognomens, and the
coming event is going to be a big thing.
Many housekeepers started on Friday (an un-
lucky day !) with a nice new set of clean house-
keeping books provided by the Government
Statistician. These they have promised and
vowed to keep diligently for one year, with the
object of aiding the man who wrestles with
figuresin hisattemptsto settle that “cost of living”
bogey. There is always a see-saw to keep
the house books nicely balanced, when meat
goes down on one side of the scale and on the other
up flies fish until that edible vanishes out of the
sight of an underpursed family. As for vege-
tables, John is becoming quite flinty-hearted of
late. His “no takee tleepen,” is becoming more
than monotonous. Nothing less than sixpence is
legal tender for the green-stuff-vendor with the
bland smile. A tanner for a “ welly ni cab-
bagee” is about the average. “Collies” and
“gleen pea” are unattainable luxuries. Mr.
Knibbs won’t become very well informed on the
price of vegetables in Sydney during July, 1910,
because only the bloatedly opulent can afford
those dainties.
Of course, it is only perfectly respectable house-
holds that can afford to submit their accounts to
the statistician in this fashion. In those families
where the conspicuous entries are “ Drink, 30s. ;
policeman (to square assault case), £1; bail, 10s. ;
repurchase of incriminating letter, £5,” and so on,
books are not kept. They are wild, untidy
households, without thesaving grace of arithmetic.
The hockey girl is all over the place. There is
no mistaking her, and she carries her own chaperon
with her in the shape of her precious implement.
That fearsome weapon is quite enough to beat off
the baddest man that ever dogged a timid maiden’s
footsteps. The hockey stick is a better guard
than even Gibbon’s “Decline and Fall,” which a
typewriter girl carried about for years in the
trams to keep off the male creature ready “ to do
a bear up.” (It was only the cover of Gibbon ; in-
side was a frivolous novel.) The hockey players
go about in twos and threes, and are a living
proof that athletics are good for girls. They
swing along in a breezy style, distinguished by
their colors, their well set-on heads, and, of
course, their gigantic implements. Hockey gives
a good and graceful head poise. The need of quick
turning contributes to alertness. Then players
can’t very well wear stiff neckbands and collars.
Hence their throats are full and round. A nicely
rounded neck is not the possession of the girl
with the fence of whalebone or stiff linen band to
keep her chin up and her muscles on the stretch.
But doesn’t it make your shins ache to watch the
knocks hockey girls give and take without a
flinch ?
A man who was there tells some ancient
scandal concerning that raid on a London club,
chronicled by Sir Robert Anderson, and com-
mented upon by “ Whitehall ” in last week’s issue
of this veracious publication. He says :
The episode referred to happened in the season of 1887.
This particular club was not in Park Place, St. James;
but in Park Place, out of Park Lane, within a stone’s
throw of Hamilton Place and the Bachelors’ Club, and also
within a peashooter’s strike of the premises of Madame
Aldine, a confectioner of millinery and virtue, patronised
by the young and lively of either persuasion—l7th
Lancers especially. The raid—with the deplored excep-
tions—was eminently successful, and netted leading lumi-
naries of the social world, from dukes downwards. The
most notable were Lord Francis Pelham Clinton Hope
(who was one of May Yohe’s experiments in matri-
mony), Ernest Shleisinger Benzon, Better known as the
Jubilee Juggins, and William Humble (!) Ward—now a
most important personality in things Australian. The
Juggins wrote about it all in his book, “ How I Spent
£200,000 in two years,” and the lamented James Fawn
made a song of it, which he sang nightly, to great ap-
plause, at the London “ Pav."
The Religious Editress writes:—From the
Church the Stage might borrow many hints of
pleasing pageantry. Saw such a pretty ceremony
—it wasn’t a wedding, so you’ve guessed wrong—
at St. John’s, Balmain, on Sunday. A pair of
new gates were to be formally opened, and the
occasion made quite a local stir. The gates have
real brick posts, so there’s no wonder at the
church people’s gratitude, with bricks at present
prices. Just before opening, the clergy and
choir, all robed in clean white pinnies, sang
within the gates, which were tied with
blue and gold ribbons. The Sobraon boys,
who had marched from the landing, were
lined up in the street outside. The stage
management was perfect. For a back cloth there
was beautiful Long Cove, with the Sobraon lying
in the middle distance; Hunter’s Hill filled
the background, and there were blue sky
and bright sunshine ad lib. At 11 o’clock
the ribbons on the gates were untied by a
lady, Mrs. Loveridge by name; and then the
sailor boys marched into church, the white sur-
plices forming an avenue. Next, the congregation
filed in. Kodaks sometimes miss good picture
stuff. There wasn’t a camera within eye-shot.
But no photograph could give the color.
If the fierce light that beats upon this letter
could reveal what future fashions will be like, it
would be extremely useful. With this object
your Cleo turned the light full on Lionel Lind-
say’s pictures in “Love and the Aeroplane,” by
J. Sandes. As it is “a tale of to-morrow,” there
should be something new in styles. But L.
Lindsay, not having the gift of prophecy, has
side-stepped the difficulty neatly by dressing the
fetching Alice Hardy in simple white. Also, the
love-making in the days of aeroplanes is evidently
going to be at mono-rail speed. By dipping into
the book you can learn how to elope from your
lawful-married partner per sky-machine, and
then be forgiven in the good old-fashioned way.
The love is still of the same old brand, though
the machinery for upsetting everybody’s peace of
mind is new and complicated.
Mrs. Leckie, chief of the duchesses of F. Las-
setter and Co.’s showroom, has said good-bye to
her spher eof action. The heads of departments
farewelled Mrs. Leckie at a theatre party and
supper recently. She will retire from business
and this continent by way of Melbourne.
Ruby Winckler, that clever brushworker, has
painted some teacups and saucers, not forgetting
plates, for the show opened by the art students in
the Queen Victoria Markets on Monday.
Lively tea-room scenes run around the
cups, and jokelets adorn the plates, all in
the tea-roomy vein. It was a distinctly happy
notion on the part of Miss Ruby, who is a damsel
with ideas. The china painting is a feature of
the show. Charcoal sketches and oil sketches
adorn the walls, which are not unduly crowded
with art work. Mildred Lovett shows a bronze
edition of her bust of Syd Long, which in its
plasticine form has already won applause. The
sculptress is now doing one of Julian Ashton.
Dolores flitted into our city last week, which
fact was emphasised by a welcome at the Town
Hall on Thursday afternoon. Stage-managed by
H. N. Southwell, the event was warm and genial
with a touch of naturalness that matched the
guest. The Garcia girls sang at the sweet-faced
little lady, and Lilian Frost boomed the organ in
melodious welcome. Then musical magnates—to
wit. Manning, Meeks and Judge Backhouse—
talked the feeling of the meeting to Dolores, who
was led up on the platform to hear them better.
The singer, for the greater part of the afternoon,
sat on a raised platform in the centre of the hall,
and in the middle of a row of somebodies. Ad-
mirers were planted in parallel lines facing each
other and end on to the dais, also all over the
place. The scent of violets was everywhere.
Nearly everybody humped the modest flowers.
On the dais, black was, of course, the ruling
wear, and the purple flowers lit up the
sombre hues of Mrs. Wade’s gown. Mrs.
Alexander Gordon (Margaret Thomas), glancing
cosily out of the midst of her lovely white
furs, looked like the white cat’s youngest and
prettiest kitten. Dolores, who was accompanied
by her ever faithful Miss Vandour, doesn’t seem
a day older than when last here. When she
turned up her long gloves and played her own
accompaniment to “ Home, Sweet Home,” facing
the hall and smiling in the most melting way as
she sang, she fetched the audience. It liked the
graceful compliment far better than any speech.
Dolores hates clothes, though she wears them.
“Men don’t realise the large amount of a woman’s
life that is spent in dressing,” she declared on
Friday. She was keeping several impatient mas-
culines waiting while she clambered into her best
frock for Mrs. Gordon’s party. That’s why she
won’t wear hairpads and doesn’t lace tightly. Of
course, that little Frenchwoman is piquante
enough to do without such extraneous aids. Mrs.
Gordon had an afternoon tea at which the singer
and her satellites attended. Dolores has a vestal
entourage—just Miss Vandour. Baritone Prowse
acts big brother to the two demoiselles, while
Manager Southwell yards in his principal like the
quiet, unfussy collie dog at the Sheep Show. A
quiet chat with Dolores over a cup of tea, beside a
cosy fire at twilight, brings out the singer at her
social best and makes a delightful memory. She
thinks highly of Mrs. Gordon’s voice. “Welsh?”
she queried. “Ah, that accounts for it. The
Welsh are the best natural singers in the world,
and after them the Tahitians.” Having just
seen that beautiful island, both ladies were
in raptures over the Tahitian choir. “They
sing in harmony,” Dolores explained. “They
serenaded us. Oh, it was delightful. They were
never taught, and they produce their voices in-
stinctively in a perfect way—a way which we Euro-
peans can only attain after much study. Their
breathing is unnoticeable. They have always sung
beautifully.” In illustration, Dolores went to the
piano and played over some of the songs she had
heard at Tahiti. They were sweet and plaintive,
with whole tones —no quarter tones, as the
Samoans and Maoris have. The two latter
peoples have much rougher voices. It was a
charming episode, this call uponDolore’s chez elle,
and far away from the regulation “interview.”
From contralto Kate Rooney, “on tour” in
Victorian Kelly country :
To pass Glenrowan in the train is as bad as passing the
Gap, near Sydney Heads. Just as there are always on a
boat people to bore one with “That’s the Gap, where the
Dunbar was wrecked 1” so, too, at Glenrowan nearly all
the passengers inform one another : “It was here the
Kelly Gang were captured.” In fact, commercials
have bets on as to the number of people who will
give them information about the Kelly Gang
and Glenrowan. At Benalla, where Dan and Ned
Kelly went to school it is hardly safe to mention
the bushranging episode and the hanging, as most of
the people are relatives or sympathisers of the Kellys. If
one does happen to refer to them, a kind of silence seems
to drop down on the company. It is more diplomatic
and tactful, in these parts, not to refer to the Kelly gang
at all, unless to speak with respect of the late Mr. Edward
Kelly and the late Mr. Daniel Kelly. The cause of their
lateness is not to be hinted at.
A hatless house greeted the matinee actors in
“ Pygmalion and Galatea,” at the Royal, on
Monday. Her Ex. set a splendidly sensible
example by letting it be known “per medium of
the press ” that she and all the ladies of
her party would be minus their chapeaux,
and “ would every other lady kindly
oblige?” Every other lady did, and the result
goes to show how much pleasure can be given
by an apparently trifling deed. Not a hat in the
house (except in the boxes). Behold a comfort-
able theatre. All the Government House people
—who were shown in by Galatea’s best boy—sat
in the front dress-circle seats. The Countess (in
black, of course) had some rows of pearls to
enliven her sombre garb. Mrs. Justice Simpson
chatted to Admiral Poore, and the State Governor
did the amiable to Mrs. Haw-Rivven. The
theatre was crowded, and when Julius posed
upon the leopard skin in Pygmalion’s studio, the
movement caused something of the thrill of
the olden days when the legs of Julius
were of vast importance as a beauty asset. They
are still shapely, and how Julius K. does revel in
tights and golden boots ! Galatea was very
charming, and Cynisca looked just as beautiful as
the statue ; so Pyg. hadn’t anything to complain
of even when the cold marble once more took his
loved one.
Among the helpers who gave things were Mrs.
Arthur Allan, Miss Eadith Walker, Mrs. Ewan
Frazer, Mrs. Yerney, Mrs. Arthur Macarthur,
and Miss Brady. The vice-regal party, between
the acts, fondled a teddy bear, dressed as
a trained nurse, just to show what the ma-
tinee was for. Several other dolls were on sale.
Dolls, you know, are the latest toys of fashion.
Teddy bears are right at the back of the store now
in the place where fads are on sale. Mrs. Bert
Gilbert, Olive Godwin, Grace Edmond, Mrs.
Goodman, and other theatrical ladies sold things.
Other folk did good deeds, for which they
were duly thanked on the programme. The
Governor-General’s second daughter carried
around a flower basket, and she was watched
with interest by her parents from the front row.
Lady Morvyth is growing a dainty slip of a girl,
and her first theatrical appearance was a decided
success. She and Mrs. Verney, who still looks a
chit, were the belles of the selling girls. Motors
blocked Castlereagh-street, for nearly everybody
went per car, and a stalwart bobby at the front
door asked each person to show a ticket. From
all this you may conclude that the audience was
brilliant and fashionable. Forjthe comparatively
cheap parts of the house, a queue was waiting quite
early in the forenoon. As a successful charity
matinee, “Pygmalion and Galatea” probably
holds the Sydney record.
Yours, as of old, CLEO.


HARDY
BROTHERS
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
LIMITED
(BY appointment
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
GEM ORNAMENTS.
OLD JEWELLERY
REMODELLED
AND
REMOUNTED.
.
ft
DESIGNS AND
ESTIMATES
SUBMITTED
FREE.
IN THE LATEST LONDON AND CONTINENTAL DEBIGNB.
NEW ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE ON APPLICATION.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
500,000 Copies already sold of the Popular
Bookstall Series of Australian Novels.
Written, Illustrated and Printed in Australia.
THE DOUBLE ABDUCTION,
by H. K. BLOXHAM
(Author of “ On the Fringe of the Never-Never ”).
With Four Full-Page Illustrations by Ben Jordan.
Illustrated Paper Cover. Price 1/- ; postage 3d.
THE
Mr. Bloxhant has
again succeeded in
weaving a web of
romance around the
belles of Wilcannia
which is likely to
prove as great a
favorite as his former
effort.
Tne plot is too
intricate and the in-
cidents too numer-
ous to mention in a
short p iragraph, but
readers may be sure
of plenty of excite-
ment, told in this
author’s thrilling
sty 1 e. The very
daring of the abduction of the two girls, although
committed by two seemingly simple young men, is
worthy of the best bushranging traditions of Aus-
tralia.
LOVE AND THE AEROPLANE,
A Tale of To-Morrow. By JOHN SANDES.
With Six Full-Page Illustrations by Lionel Lindsay
Illustrated Paper Cover. Price 1/- ; postage 3d.
For many years
the name of John
Sandes lias b' en one
to conjure with so
far as smart articles,
humorous sketches
and literary criticism
in the leading Aus-
tralian newspapers
were concerned, and
now this talented
author has turned
his ability into the
“ Novel ” chan ne 1
with marked success.
The story is de-
lightful in its many-
sided interests —
love, jealousy, hate
and their consequent _ .
tragedies—as influenced by the coming of the airship,
together with the quaint characters and quainter
philosophy to be met with in the bush environments
so ably featured in this story. The human interest is
all-absorbing and is splendidly handled. This tale
| of to-morrow will be enjoyed wherever read.
10VE
ANQ THE:
Aeroplane
" J A TAI_L Ol
Books by that Prince of Australian Writers,
STEELE RUDD.
“BOOKSTALL SERIES.”
THE POOR PARSON.
SANDY’S SELECTION.
FROM SELECTION TO CITY.
DAD IN POLITICS.
OUR NEW SELECTION.
ON AN AUSTRALIAN FARM.
A LAUGH IN EVERY PAGE.
Price l/= each ; Post Free 1/3.
DUNCAN McCLURE.
BACK AT OUR SELECTION.
FOR LIFE.
ON OUR SELECTION.
STOCKING OUR SELECTION.
BUSH RANGING BOOKS.
John Vane, Bushranger, by Charles White.
Short-Lived Bushrangers, by Charles White.
Three Years with Thunderbolt, by Ambrose Pratt,
Übique,The Scientific Bushranger, byClarenceMartin
LISTS SENT POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
N.S.W. BOOKSTALL COMPANY, 476 Georgs Street, Sydney.
All Branches and
Booksellers.
EC
THE
AUSTRALIAN
LOVE OF
MUSIC.
sd
THE
AUSTRALIAN
LOVE OF
MUSIC.
IT is little short of wonderful in a young, new country like Australia, to
find the arts in such a flourishing condition. Be it due to the climate,
to the country, or the conditions of life, the fact remains that the
average Australian has a peculiar, inherent love of the beautiful. Take
Music as an example. Consider how largely Australia figures in the musical
world of to-day. Think how many great performers she has given to the
concert platform of the world.
Now, it follows that, in Australia here, there are many who find it
difficult to satisfy their love of music. They do not play or sing. 1 hey
perhaps have few opportunities of attending the concert-halls of the city.
To such people the STECK PIANOLA PIANO must come as a real
boon. With it in their possession all music’s doors are open wide.
If unable to call, write and ask for Catalogue “ C.”
THE STECK PIANOLA PIANO is a combination of the ordinary
upright piano and the Pianola. It is, in fact, an upright piano of the
highest grade, which, in addition, contains within its case a complete
Themodist and Metrostyle Pianola—the only Piano-playing device endorsed
by the greatest living musicians. Thus it can be played by the fingers on
the keyboard in the usual way, by means of the Pianola action in its case.
This Pianola action permits a player—who knows not a single note —to
render music with the same artistry as a Paderewski.
There is nothing to move up in front of the keyboard. To change from
hand-playing to Pianola-playing it is only necessary to slide back a panel in
front of the case, and insert a perforated roll of music.
Now if this instrument interests you, we would like to send you free a
dainty little booklet which will give you the fullest particulars.
The Pianola Company Pty. Ltd.,
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide and Brisbane. 357 George Street, Sydney


fs
‘Women
Who
Win!”
Are the women who,
by the power of their
personality, get the
second 100k —and per-
sonality in a large
measure depends upon
attractiveness in dress —-a graceful figure
and a dignity in poise and carriage.
Without the correct style of Corset
not one woman in ten could attain these
characteristics —but every woman will
find them skilfully and scientifically
embodied in the beautiful models of
the famous French —— ————
Royal
P.D.
Rustless Corsets
—the Corsets that have won the un-
stinted admiration of every woman
who has once worn them. Try a pair
yourself 1
“ALL DRAPERS AND STOREKEEPERS
RECOMMEND THEM!”
TRADE
SI
&
P.D.
MARK
SQVIRRE -TREAD
<r
sin
/A
SS'J
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
„ Melbourne, July 4, 1910.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Federal Parliament met last Wednesday.
vrovernor-General Dudley came over from Syd-
ney on the train, and bolted back next day. He
.lust gave himself time enough to force the session
open with a flourish of gold braid and pomp. The
little Countess did not brave the rush. Lady Car-
micnael came alongearly to the seatsof themighty,
with the Maoriland Plunket dawdling along
as escort. His arms drooped and his eyeglass was
poised with risky abandon, and his wide bags had
the Bond-street bend—so that this important
piece of vice-royalty had the dejected look of a
bandicoot. The Carmichael Lady was shorn of
all A.D.C. escort—all the glory of gold and
scarlet trailed after Governor Dudley. The pro-
cession criss-crossed Queen’s Hall several times
in its peregrinations, Rome and Stanley and
the other attached pomps clanking’ like pokers
after the devil-may-caije swagger of Dmdley.
Dudley turns his limp into a dashing, character-
istic walk, and his uniforms fit with the precision
of a well-gowned woman’s Princess frock.
The ladies’ galleries are always squashed, but
this time the same bungling in invitation-cards
caused a species of panic. Women were speeding
from one door to another and invading all manner
of holy places with the terrified puzzled look of
a scattered herd of cows. Head and horns up,
they challenged important officials waving
colored pasteboards under their supercilious noses.
Some of them even waylaid the business-like
procession of Representatives as it marched
across to the Council Chamber; they picked
out familiar faces, then rushed them. Worried
clerks sealed up the doors of the galleries already
bulging with femininity, and a horror-stricken
creature in silk stockings and buckled shoes gave
a shouting whisper, “ Clear the hall for the
Governor-General!” and the procession got
through with dignity. Mrs. Carmichael with
Mrs. Talbot and a couple of dumpy young
nieces were herded with the crowd, but were
spirited through a secret door. They all
wore black clothes that looked as if they had been
bundled holus-bolus to the dyer when the Court
mourning mandate issued. The Mayoress had
her tall Colonel husband to make a pathway for
her. and she was discreetly pushed into place by
officials through the wild' rabble., Mrs. Artist
Hugh Patterson was perched, like a very pretty
statue, in a niche on high. Mrs. Agar Wynne,
muffled in squirrel, and Mrs. Howard Smith!
with a twin set of furs, gave up the battle
and invaded the more business-like House of
Reps, to wait for the sitting. The retreating
Governor had his column of naval guard to make
a passage way back to the carriage, and the
postilions cracked a dashing way round the
curve of Bourke-street, and someone got a special
carriage ready to convey the potentate back to
Sydney.
President Wrixon has given it best. He broke
up so badly with his last bout of illness that the
doctor demanded a complete abandonment of
work and worry. The Premier was roused out
for discussion, and the following morning Wrixon’s
resignation reached the Governor. He has always
been troubled with his heart, and felt the cold of
long sittings keenly. “Pm too long,” he said ;
“the blood never reaches my feet.” In the House
he always sat with his legs huddled in rugs.
With the illness and resignation of Upper
House President Wrixon, his wife cancelled
her Parliamentary Opening party. Hot on the
heels of the cancelling came party cards from the
Government of Victoria, with the Carmichael
dame judiciously inserted in the invitation—
not exactly as hostess, but as a discreet com-
promise to pacify the exigencies of Court
mourning. By the way, a curious little stodgy
bulletin announced last week that full mourning
had changed to the modified half or '5 mourning.
The bulletin fell on the ears of people who had
almost forgotten that there was a King Edward,
except as a date, now that the man with a paint
pot has finished splashing in “G.R.”in bright
new paint over the dingy places where “E.R.”
used to reign on post-boxes and the like.
Mrs. Geoffrey Syme was At Home at Banool last
Thursday, and pretty well Everybody went to see
her; so it was an afternoon party of some size and
importance. Mrs. Deakin came across country
in the blackest of black gowns. You can’t get any-
thing too black nowadays for the blackness of
Fashion. Mrs. Syme was a dainty white-clad
vision, and sister Greta Garnett smiled a duet in
the receptioning. Banool has a large square hall,
with a staircase in its middle ; this was turned
into a lounge as well as the drawing-room.
De Gilio and his Dago minions played from the
corridor-gallery above, and the house was turned
into a forest with vegetation of gorgeous color.
Re Wallington—“ Better Not” Wallington—
and his appointment as private secretary to
Queen Mary. When Hopetoun left here “Wally”
was out of a job, and had no prospect of any par-
ticular thing to do. Another Governor took this
useful man on. He was the man to manage the
Herd—the scrambling, climbing herd—for a new-
chum Governor, who was stranded here without a
“ Who’s Who ” book to keep him out of difficul-
ties. Hopetoun thought big things of Wallington.
It was partly his enthusiasm and influence that
helped the secretary in London. Wallington was
Groom of the Chamber to King Edward. Possibly
he had to count the laundry and match the socks.
Now he is saying “Better Not” in a higher
sphere than ever. What a different business
history would have been if every king and
emperor and sultan had hired a “Better Not ” of
Wallington’s discretion, and listened to him at
least occasionally.
A gorgeously dignified dame of our high places
has stalked over to Sydney for a spell. Mrs.
Edward Miller and her son have departed to stay
with Mrs. Sister Orr in the Macleay-street
mansion.
The Wilbur Soul-hunter Chapman’s approach-
ing matrimonial scheme is not a new experiment.
As poor George Lauri used to say in “Ma Mie
Rosette,” when he found his artless village
maiden to be a widow of wide experience : “ Not
No. 1, or No. 2, or No. 3—but, d n it! No. 4.”
A lecture (with lantern illustrations), entitled
“Fiji and its Fire Walkers,” was given on June
30 by Governor Allardyce, of the Falkland
Islands, at the Arts and Crafts rooms. Many
persons of social tonnage turned up to be mentally-
improved. It seems the Fiji dandy scores over
his white brother in one respect. When on matri-
mony bent, he sports an immense “lovelock” over
the shoulder, so that eligible gentlemen can be
seen about a mile off ! This custom saves the
Fijian buck, who is “off” matrimony, from needless
worry, and gives a clear, unhampered run to his
friend who is seeking to range himself respect-
ably. Why the fire-walkers stroll over red-hot
stones was not made clear—possibly on something
the same principle as impels our reckless youths
to play football.
The races had a tug-of-war with a new club for
political women that was being wrenched open in
the Block. It is the' W.P. A.—Women’s Political
Association. Society found it hard to give up the
Grand National, but, I believe, quite iOO women
and one solitary male met at the Chicago for the
inevitable tea, then went aloft in a lift to the new
club rooms, all dainty in blue upholsterings— not
the blue expected of blue stockings, but delicate
pastel shades of blue linen. The One. Man was
the Yida Goldstein brother-in-law, Champion.
Arrangements were made to carry Muriel Matters
on the club’s shoulders for two more lectures.
Flemington on Saturday—and Furs. Practi-
cally the Grand National took a back seat in the
feminine mind with all those gorgeous furs in the
ascendant. The furs began with a crashing chord
in alt. The personality underneath could only be
surmised from her proximity to a gay knight
Lothario—the she was buried and hidden in her
coverings. A hat, swamped with feathers of a
tint no ostrich would own to, covered all but the
tip of her chin. The fur coat was baby seal,
and reached the short ankle smartness; it was
lined with ermine, and its hem was a foot
wide of real silver fox —the kind hunters
risk their lives for in the northern coldnesses.
Round this prize poem in fur coats envious and
most creditable shes circled, flaunting their bor-
rowed pelts. Mrs. Thomas was top-heavy with
her fox-shoulderings, and her black-velvet skirt
left her ankles shivering. Mrs. Railway Tait got
a second girlhood out of wrappings of petite gris.
She blushed about the lawn like a younger sister
of demure daughter Winnie. Daughter Winnie
wears grandmother corkscrew curls nowadays—
they are easily fixed. Mrs. McEvoy turned
every masculine head as she skirt was
so short and tight. You wear your tailor-mades
as short as Dickens-day men wore their trousers ;
the effect—with a threequarter coat —is much the
same. Spats to the boots fill up the blank where
ankles are too slender. The .petticoat—that
feminine luxury—is No More. The short
skirts are happy inspirations—in reason—but
alas, some shes are unreasonable. One positively
tottered —she stumbled along helplessly toward the
paddock in the wake of her tan-colored gallant.
The Tan He was so intent on getting long odds
that he cast no backward glance at the monstro-
sity he escorted, and she was forced to get along
by the methods of an eighteen-months-old infant.
Lily Brayton looked exactly like the Big Sister in
George Ade’s Slim Princess. She was mummied
and swathed in cloak wrappings, and her veil hung
round her face like a Turkish screen—leaving only
eyes showing. Shakspearian Oscar led his bat-
talion of mummer women about with the same
pomp as Papa Rooster does advance his favorite
chooks. Wherever he went (in top hat and cut-
away coat, with truly turfy checks to his bags)
there followed : item, Lily Brayton ; item, Con-
stance Robertson ; item, little Elfrida Clement
in an adoring line behind. There was a woman who
stood out like a stage herald. She was clad in
royal blue plush, made into a skirt and a cut-away.
It was built by a swaggah shop. A small sheepy
maiden had had the family ’possum rug made
into a cloak. Mrs. Leslie Macdonald, who ex-
ploited the first short, tight skirt at last races,
nearly burst in her efforts to go one better in a
new grey rig-out. Mrs. Reggie Power, bleating
about her burglar bout, wore red Indian feathers
—bright scarlet—standing up in a scared way in
her tan hat.
When the feminine mind got unwrapped from
Furs it discovered that most of the races were
being won by an “O.” The Cummings’ Obi took
the Steeplechase from the Adelaide horse Yudna-
pinna. Obelisk won another event, and Oesa—
the Miller’s horse —made a third successive “O.”
Poor Bill Anderson, of King’s, had hard luck.
First, his Hermes went lame ; then Lord Des-
mond, who was a hot favorite for Saturday, was
injured, and had to be scratched. Mrs. Bill Ander-
son did not put in an appearance.
The Foundling Hospital is calling for more
room, and the Sassiety beaters-up of charity
funds (they are becoming quite professional) have
the fiery gleam in their eyes which spells
“Matinee.” The want of room is a true bill.
Mrs. Committee-woman Ledingham, for instance,
is showing practical help; she has given one
girl-mother shelter in her own house because of
the cramped needs of public places. In her
enthusiasm Mrs. Ledingham has started a raffle
on her own. The Government “sanctions”
charity raffles. This is a lure for the jewel-loving
woman ; for one shilling she is to get a chance of
winning a pearl and diamond necklace worth 100
guineas. Mrs. Ledingham is resolved to get a
couple of hundred pounds’ worth of shillings be-
fore she leaves off.
The University Dramatic Club splashed into
its first production at the Princess’s last Monday.
The production was proclaimed as being under
the patronage of the Governor Carmichaels, the
Chancellor Maddens, and the Literature Society
of Melbourne. The Governor and Chancellor
people were out of it by reason of the Court
mourning, and they left a gap; but the Literature
Society, not being bound by Court mandates, came
along in a magnificent whole, with bulging fore-
heads and intellectual wives. Intellectual wives in
great quantities “ frock ” a house in a weird way.
The minority wrap themselves in exquisite cover-
ings—they are gowned and shod to perfection,
and breathe a faint fragrance of lavender. The
others wear “good” things—obviously “good,”
but ill assorted. An invaluable piece of Chantilly
lace in the skirt frou-frous over “ sensible ” boots
—the kind that are excellent in the golf links, but
don’t make a lacy frocking effect. In fact, they
clump, and nosmart woman should clump. Weird
cloaks come .to light with alarming decorations;
they have made careful entrances to and exits from
tissue-papered chests for years without looking a
new fashion in the face. Nevertheless the owners
will indulge in the latest hair decoration, and the
hair cries out at the cloak and the cloak retorts
at the hair, and a breach of the peace seems immi-
nent.
Monday’s house bulged with brains, and there
was a good smattering of looks. Deakin made! an
all-night appearance—a most unusual thing for
him to do. Mrs. Deakin, in beautiful black
garbing, brought her youngest daughter—a bud-
ding beauty with her hair at the turned-up-plait
stage. The Holroyds and the Stirlings and the
Macdonalds were other literature society lights,
and some of the P. D. Phillips clan. Professor-
dom and wife came in full force, with hawty
critical voice. Mrs. Authoress Dearden had a
party of Freedom Leagueites in the south box,
and a frivolous frocky crowd of Taits filled the
manager’s compartment.
Melbourne is keeping up its reputation as
a Shakspeare-loving city, and there is a warm
house these cold nights at the Roval. The
Merry Wives are so genuinely merry. They
seem filled with the sheer joy of living; the
merriment is exuberant mischief—as exuberant
and harmless as the gamhols of kittens. There is
nothing catty about these wives. Lily Brayton
has only once to use her dolorous brand of voice
—the contrast makes her lightsomeness stand out
in effect. Everything, heretofore, that the lady
has played has induced a rich grumble in
her speaking that seemed chronic. Mistress
.Drayton Ford slumps into the speech once
—-to her jealous husband—but for ever after
8 , as bright and light as her cherry-
colored gown. It is a divine thing—that
gown built up of films of silky crepe till it
reaches the necessary thickness for covering. The
cap-hood-hat is a wonder. It is the same color,
criss-crossed with more color and tucked over a
snowy lawn face frame. Two big lace tuckered
sides look like asses’ ears—but idealised into orna-
ments for this merry body. The cloak in which
she masquerades in the midnight forest scene
covers the cherry color like a grey cloud. Con-
stance Robertson— Mistress Page—exudes beam-
in« health and happiness from within a green
garb—with a scarlet mantle when she takes to
plotting. Elfrida Clement is Sweet Ann Page,
and no one need wonder at the sighs. Bessie
Major gets some cunning color into her Mistress
(Quickly gowning. Shakspeare himself probably
thought of those mischievous Merry Wives just as
these mortals show them.
West has for some time been running pictures
pieced up from incidents in King Edward’s
career clear pictures, with that jovial monarch
smiling and bowing his way through London. One
shows a vigorous old man chuckling to a group of
lmportants (the other people all take themselves
so much more seriously than the King) as he
shovels earth round an oak at a planting. It
made the look like a live human—not a
puppet. These pictures constitute a valuable
record of potentates who are here to-day and
gone to-morrow. Sometimes they don’t even
wait till to-morrow; they are here at lunch and
buried before afternoon tea.
In the West’s pictures Roosevelt strides about
Paris. He rides to a review with a French
General. The General is worth recording
pictorially because of his riding. His easy, free
seat in the saddle, and the square, easy droop of
ms shoulders look like the Australian style.
He is a contrast to Roosevelt (who cannot escape
from the truth of these pictures). Roosevelt is
spoken of as a great rider. He is magazine-
portraited taking alarming fences and rush-
ing over all manner of country. My
faith in Roosevelt as a great rider was firm
until 1 saw those pictures. He and the
Frenchman are not in haste—merely mooch-
ing round. But Roosevelt sits as if he were a
sausage on a rocking horse. Possibly his extra
weight is playing up ; but he has no ease or grace
as he moves on his uneasy steed. I’m going again
to West’s—just to see that French soldier’s square
shoulders swinging gracefully through the re-
view.
From “Rosna,” in Adelaide:—
Me in Adelaide are always very kind to conferences.
That is why we get so many of them. They average one
a month and two and a half extra on Sundays. A school-
teachers’conference-has been raging here. The school-
teachers are a very down-trodden race—the most down-
trodden on earth except journalists, cab-horses and boots.
The fact was divulged that they are hard' r worked,
better-trained and worse paid than they were 30 years ago,
and the Government is kindly but firmly asked to rectify
matters. While these plots and plans were in course of
construction, we did what we could to brighten the dark
lot of the pedagogues. On Monday afternoon, when
Jupiter Pump-handle was doing his best to wash Adelaide
off the face of the map, the Langdon Bonythons took
some tea and buns and celebrities into the Brookman
Hall, and asked the Conference to come and be shaken
hands with. His seafaring Ex. swam to this function in
his oilskins, and there were also a string band, a Premier,
a portion of the Ministry and 200 of the down-trodden.
Another eve the University Chancellor was kind to
them, He secured them in the Elder Hall, and turned
on some of the best melody that could be found on the
premises. This was supplied by Marv Roach, Irene Mack,
Hansie Homburg, Alexander Cooper, Lionel Clark and
a hundred others. Mr. Clark sang “ The Sundowner,” a
new ditty by Winsloe Hall, which suggests that the latter
has already captured his Australian atmosphere. He has
only been in the ’Roo country three or four months, and
he already knows a sundowner when fie meets him in a
song. The Conference was also carried to the Outer
Harbor. We can’t allow anyone to forget we have a
harbor.
The St. Peter’s Branch of the District Trained Nursing
Society is now a hale and healthy infant, a year old.
Last week its hon. secretary, Mrs. Cruickshank, and the
committee that has helped her feed and clothe the infant,
asked the world to its birthday party in the local Town
Hall. Seventy-nine miles of asparagus fern (which grows
on every verandah-post in S. A.) and scarlet blooms roped off
the atmosphere. Palm trees sprang up among thecrchestra
on the platform ; and flower-laden tea-tables played hide
and seek among the guests, who came by the furlong and
the mile. It was a mighty well-managed party, with the
best of songstresses and fiddlers ; and with speeches cut
into nice, small slices. The report divulged the fact that,
in her one year, the St. Peter’s nurse had paid over 2400
visits to the sick, though some wise people had imagined
there was no work for a nurse to do in that district. The
infant society had gathered in no less than £177 in its
little life, and had paid the parent society £4O more than
that astounded body had expected from so young an off-
spring. Dr. Ramsay Smith, who is officially responsible
for the health of S. A., tore away from a Board meeting to
give the guests a sketch of the nursing scheme since
ancient Greece onwards. He mentioned that the very
first known doctors were women.
We have been lectured a good deal of late. Professor
David began it; then Professor Henderson insisted on
telling us in three sections something about the private
history of Saint Francis d’Assisi. Professor Robertson,
home on a holiday, told us how a famous chum of his was
making artificial live sea-urchins. As though the
ordinary land variety was not enough for any com-
munity ! Now Professor Darnley Naylor has the floor,
and hes is mostly concerned—also in three sections—
with some wise Greek gentlemen whose names look like
the alphabet in a fit.
It was a mostly fern-clad Elder Hall that the young
University athletes enticed the world to dance in last
week. Long trails of fern climbed artistically round the
walls and over the door frames and the platform, and
only in the window spaces a flower or two burst into
scarlet and fragrant bloom. But there were no less than
36 human buds blossoming that evening, so the other
variety was superfluous. Here and there gmorig the
green lurked crossed oars and other trophies of the
chase. The disappearance from the calendar of most
other balls of social tonnage made it a packed-to-the-
rafters function. The official set was dispensed with and
the 36 buds and their hosts had the only special set of the
evening. The Alec Buchanan’s one daughter, Mary, in
. white satin and silver, a Shannon girl, a Cherry niaiden,
a Lewis damsel and a Butler olive branch were among the
three dozen. Other charming circumstances among a
million were the John Roach’s flower-like youngest
daughter, clad in golden chiffon over satin, and a tall,
beauteous, black-clad Walleck damsel from Melbourne,
who is visiting the G. A. Wallmans. After the theatre a
party of happy “ Arcadians ” wandered in for a waltz or
two. The hard-worked secretaries for the year were
Stuart Ronald and Guy Fisher.
Several charity ball committees are out in the high-
ways and by-ways seeking whom they may despoil. “The
Home for Incurables’’and the “Home for Weak-minded
Children,” both institutions that achieve a deal of good
work in a quietsome way, will benefit by a revel apiece,
as usual, this year.
They are still agitating and deputating to have the
Glenelg train, which crawls up and down the hither end
of King William-street, removed forcibly off the face of
the city. The Government is asking Parliament to wake
up for a minute to consider the matter, but the Tourist
Bureau really ought to interfere. That railway amuses
visitors to the Slowly City by the hour together.
That tall medico boy, Rex Plummer, who is now house
surgeon at Westminster Hospital, helped to mend the
fainting and hysterical who went to view the dead King,
tying in state at Westminster Abbey. All day one of the
hospital surgeons and two nurses stood on a platform
five yards from the catafalque, ready for emergen-
cies, and the South Australian had a mighty good view
of the impressive ceremonials of guard-changing and of
the celebrities who came there. Latter included King
George and Kaiser Willie, Roberts and Kitchener. The
queue of people was always from six to seven miles long.
No wonder an occasional faint was reported.
While Jupiter Water-butt was having a carnival, and
the heir-apparent a birthday, Gawler, whose Sunday
name is Modern Athens, had a race meeting, and the
sporting fraternity put on its lifebelt and went along.
Gawler is a pretty hamlet, with the river Para (which is
quite half a yard wide) ambling through it. The race-
course wears a green grass frock and a belt of trees. A
large portion of the city-stocracy risked its millinery and
put its bit of coin in the tote.
Long years ago, the governors of St. Peter’s College,
Adelaide—a land boom being in progress at the time
—had a big area of the ground surveyed with the idea of
selling it in allotments. But the boarders rose in the
dead waste and middle of the night, pulled up the pegs
and burnt them. The governors took the hint and the
playing field was saved. “ Old Boys ” are now suggest-
ing that the adult residents of Adelaide should repeat
the enterprise of their younger days, by invading Vic-
toria Square and demolishing the hideous brick building
which the City Council is erecting in the middle of that
beautiful plantation.
Sincerely yours, JOHANNA.


9u
PATHE FRERES (Australia),
9u
oi*
73 York Street,
SYDNEY.
Films, Moving Pictures,
Pathe Freres’ New
Projector Mechanism
This Machine is the Model now being used
all over the Continent. It has found great
favor everywhere, and for durability cannot
be beaten. This Machine meets every possible
requirement, and can be adapted with large or
small lamphouses and arcs to suit either
permanent or travelling Shows.
CALL AND INSPECT THIS
NEW MECHANISM.
Manufactured only by Pathe Freres, the Inventors
and Patentees.
PATHE FRERES make and stock EVERY
POSSIBLE ACCESSORY required for
Cinematograph Exhibitions.
I
r
M d£*3
Indeed there are no
bigger Makers of
Cinematographs and
Accessories in the
World.
STUDIOS and
FACTORIES
in all European
Countries, and others
in course of erection
in AMERICA.
L
50 Queen Street,
HELBOURNE.
Cinematographs, Pathephones
FILMS FOR HIRE
OR SALE.
Over 500,000 feet of assorted and picked subjects to choosa _rom.
Nowhere will you find the variety so novel and extensive.
NEW SUBJECTS ARRIVING EVERY WEEK.
LOOK FOR THE
PATHE TRADE MARK
(The Crowing Cock)
on all PATHE FILMS, MOVING PICTURES, CINE-
MATOGRAPHS and ACCESSORIES. Goods offered as
Pathe Freres' without this brand are spurious imitations.
AN IMPORTANT ADVAN=
TAGE.— Please note that in dealing
with Pathe Freres, they do not
stipulate A FULL PATHE PRO-
GRAMME —on the contrary they
encourage a MIXED PRO-
GRAMME. In other words, the
entire choice of the London Market,
which embraces Films by all the best
Manufacturers in the World, is at
your disposal. This is an advantage
which no other Firm in Australasia
can offer.
?</
0#
tH e
ATHEPHONE
The Supreme Achievement in Disc Machines.
The Machine with the Human Voice.
PATHE FRERES ARE THE INVENTORS
OF THE PATHEPHONE, and the High Standard of Excellence they have achieved in this
instrument is only equalled by their pronounced success in CINEMATOGRAPHY.
THE PATHEPHONE is the
Cheapestof any Disc Machines
of value on the market—
Cheapest because it is
BEST.
fsd
V\/HEN you hear the Pathephone. you hear
the VOICE ITSELF —absolutely true, with
no loss in tone quality or tempo* The most
delicate vocal inflection is faithfully reproduced,
and the singer's individuality is immediately
recognised by the listener.
THE PATHEPHONE is more than a
machine it is a musical instrument, unanimously
acclaimed in England and on the Continent by
all sound scientists and lovers of musical art.
Ada Crossley,
Ben Davies,
Harry Lauder,
Kirkby Lunn,
Constantio,
H.M. Scots Guards’ Band,
and many other world=famed artists sing and
play for the PATHEPHONF..
f
PATHEPHONE requires no needles
like other Disc Machines. A ball-pointed
Sapphire is used instead, which neither wears out
itself nor injures the Records. Users of the Pathe-
phone appreciate this great advantage. There is no
scratch or scrape, and greater clearness and charm
are gained in the reproduction of the voice.
THE PATHE SOUNDBOX fits any Disc
Machine, enabling owners to play Pathe Records
even if they are not fortunate enough to possess
a Pathe Machine.
THE PATHE RECORDS are all Double-sided
—one selection on the front and another on the
back, thus giving two selections where only one is
given elsewhere. Particular artists like Ada
Crossley, Ben Davies and others declare the Pathe
Records to be faultless.
If you want to hear Good Music as you have never
heard it before, make it your business to hear the
PATHEPHONE. Its supremacy is acknowledged
by the Leading Artists of the Musical World.
SOLE AGENTS FOR THE PATHEPHONE IN AUSTRALASIA
W. Cornell 8 Son, 95 Grenfell St., Adelaide
(For
Australia)
Findlays’ Pty. Ltd., Launceston
(For
Tasmania)
A. Macrow 8 Sons, 274 Little Collins St., Melbourne
(For
Victoria)
King 8 King, 77-81 Queen St., Brisbane
(For
Queensland)
Max Wvircker, 99 8 101 York Street, Sydney
G. & G.
(For
N.S. Wales)
The Optical 8 Photo. Supplies Co., Perth
(For W.
Australia)


Said Thomson’s wife, “ Insure your life
And the policy {five to me.”
We are insured, bar accidents
VVe can’t foresee,” said he.
I’ve Woods’Great Peppermint Cure for colds
And cougfhs, here at my hand.”
Said she, “ It’s clear we needn’t fear,
Your faith I understand."*
The Old Blend
Whisky
1 DISTILLERS. *
vw
DIRECT FROM OIATILLEH
ALWAYS THE SAME. PORE MELLOW,
matures scotch malt.
bu
raiana
HEADACHE and MIQRjM, two curses of modem
civilised life, are in ninety-nine cases qut of a hundred
closely connected with functional disturbance of the
bowels. The simplest and best of all remedies for the
latter trouble is a wineplassful of “ Hukyadi Janos”
natural aperient water taken before breakfast every
second or third inorninjr.*
CHERRY BLOSSOM is the b st
boot polish ever offered. It
will make your footwear soft
and pliable, and will give a
superior shine with less labor
and greater satisfaction than any
other hoor polish you can buy.
You'll find that after continued
use the paste need only be
applied now and then. So that
CHERRY BLOSSOM is also eco-
nominal. You can get a tin for
3d. or6d. Black or Tan—the largest tin at the price,
and the best at any price. Managing Agents for Australia
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney. ’
sd
fsd
Severe Headaches.
“ For some time I was troubled with my liver
and kidneys, which caused severe headaches,”
writes Mr. Ed. Reck, of Marini Terrace, Gerald-
ton, W. A. “I took doctor’s medicineand several
kinds of pills, but nothing seemed to do me any
good until I took Laxo-Tonic Pills. After a few
doses I felt splendid. They gave me great
relief.” Price is. Gd. and 3s.*
We are now publishing in our columns some
significant advertising, pioneering a new industry
—the manufacture of aeroplanes on a commercial
basis by the British and Colonial Aeroplane Co.,
Ltd., at Bristol, England. Sir George White,
Bart., so well known in England for his large in-
terest in tramways and other comparatively old-
fashioned forms of locomotion, is personally asso-
ciated with the new company. A number of new
machines are on the stocks at the company’s
works, and a garage has been built on Salisbury
Plain, one of England’s best flying grounds.
Monsieur Duray. one of the foremost aviators,
will use the company’s Zodiac aeroplanes exclus-
ively during the various summer meetings in
England and on the continent of Europe.*
ABOUT RHEUMATISM
Treating the Complaint in a
Common-sense W ay.
There’s nothing like a little common-sense in
treating rheumatism. This is the way to look at
it, There is something that causes rheumatism.
The pains, aches and swollen joints are only
symptoms of the cause. The complaint cannot
he cured until the cause is driven' out of the
system. The pains and aches and swellings dis-
appear when there is nothing to cause them.
Many medical authorities agree that rheumatism
is in the blood in the form of acid, and this is why
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have been so successful
in curing the complaint. They are a blood medi-
cine, actually making new blood and toning the
system to a point that enables it to throw off the
•rheumatic poison through the channels of the
body. There’s another great point in their favor.
Nature always makes a big tight to drive out any
complaint. The better the health the bigger
effort Nature makes. As a general tonic there is
nothing better than Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills to
put the body in a sound, healthy condition. This
is how Mrs. Sarah Nichols, 278 Charles Street,
Launceston, cured her rheumatism, and her experi-
ence should be of interest to other sufferers.
“I was only 32 when I was struck down with
rheumatism,” said Mrs. Nichols. “It attacked
me in all my joints. The pains were something
dreadful, and I suffered the greatest agony. I
could not bear the bed-clothes to touch me. 1 got
very little sleep, and lost the use of my left arm
from the elbow to the shoulder. I called in one
of the leading medical men. He gave me stuff to
rub in, and also medicine ; but neither did me any
good, only easing me for a time. I suffered the
greatest agony for about 12 months. My left arm
was paralysed ; I could not moveit from my side.
Having read in the daily papers of the wonderful
cures effected by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills, I made
up my mind to give them a trial, but had very
little hope. I got a box, and after taking half I
felt my arm better. When I had taken a box I
could move my arm from my side. I improved
every day, and when I had taken three boxes I
was completely cured, and was able to work as
well as ever. In fact, it was wonderful what Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills did for me in such a short
time.”
When you want Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills don’t
be put off with anything else said to be just as
good. If you have trouble in getting them send
direct to the Dr. Williams Medicine Co. of Aus-
tralasia, Ltd., Sydney, who will send them by
return, post free, 2s. 9d. for one box, six boxes
15s. 3d.*
VETERINARY INSTRUMENTS.
wA
l
"to*
VERY LATEST
Mouth Gags,
Cutters,
Emasculators,
Drenching Bits,
Rasps,
B:.li Guns, &c.
Write for List.
DENYER BROTHERS
231 George St.
(opp. Hunter St.)
| Also at Melbourne
SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
Westralia declares itself weary of waiting
for its transcontinental line, and is anxious to
extend the Perth-Kalgoorlie railway to the
S.A. border at its own expense, if S.A.
will build the section from the border to
Port Augusta. But S.A. digs its hoofs in
the ground and lies back in the harness.
Tt still suspicions that it may have to build the
Port Darwin line itself, and it is saving up the
penny it used to pint in the plate against that
emergency.
A South African Senator named Burkman
is at present in Australia on sheep business.
S. Africa is buying stud sheep largely in the
Commonwealth with a view to improving its
flocks, so that it may, as far as possible, knock
out Australia in the European markets. Mean-
while, any Australian who wants to buy ostriches
or Angora goats in S. Africa in order to improve
the bird and goat industries here, finds that there
is a rigid law against exportation, and any
attempt to smuggle such stock out of the country
means heavy fine and large gaol. How about
putting Senator Burkman in gaol ?
Perry, N.S.W, Minister for Lands,
appealed to the big pastoralists of the State at the
annual Sheep Show not to sell their champion
animals to the South African buyers who have
come across on purpose to get them. Suttor, in
reply, bluntly remarked, in effect, that the sheep-
breeders were out for high prices, and the highest
bidder would get thesheep, whether he came from
South Africa, Australia or Hades. So the un-
patriotic sheepist continues to saw at his own
throat. He makes a little money by the export
business in the present, and he is raising up com-
petitors who will take a mighty lot of money
from him in the future.
The future of the Melbourne tramways is
a subject on which Victoria’s capital is not wildly
unanimous. Originally it was thought that the
system should be converted into a municipal
enterprise, but the prospects of periodical fight
and everlasting recrimination between the multi-
tude of councils have led to two new demands:
(1) That the trams should be run by the State;
(2) that when the Tram Co.’s lease expires, it
should be renewed. The betting is in favor of
another victory for Socialism, but it is not safe to
prophesy with certainty. Many things may hap-
pen in Melbourne and its vicinity. Bent used to
happen there.
One notably Conservative piece of legis-
lation stands to the name of Henry Wrixon, ex-
President of the Vic. Leg. Council. Twenty
years ago, when he was Attorney-General, the
awful threat of a Sunday newspaper was hurled
at Melbourne by Bailey (was it?), of Sydney.
Bailey talked too loudly of his intended enter-
prise before starting on the job, and Wrixon,
rightly assuming that a Sunday weekly would be
democratic, rushed a Bill through tiie Vie. Par-
liament. declaring the Sabbath to be too holy for
newspaper issue. An active and intelligent
Labor party would long ago have achieved the
repeal of Wrixon's anti-democratic measure, in-
stead of which the party has committed itself
more than ever to the suppression of Sunday labor
and the perpetuation of Sabbatarian dulness.
Premier Verran, of S.A., has announced
his intention of shutting down on the everlasting
“influential deputations” that wait on him. As
he justly remarks, if they come to voice some
pressing public want, well and good; but mostly
they represent just one side of a question, and a
few days later an equally influential lot tackles
him and contradicts everything the first lot said.
Then Verran, being a practical as well as a busy
man, reckons he has wasted his time. The
present quarrels are mostly over railways. There
is no line running out of Adelaide southward,
down ihe coast. There should have been onb long
ago ; and there would have been, only that the
district fights fiercely among itself as to whose
front door the rails should call at first. Another
section wants to electrify the whole Glenelg rail-
way, and take up the line that finishes along
King William-street. It is certainly an odd place
for trains ; but as Adelaide has just, at great ex-
pense, filled all its streets with much swifter
trains (only it calls them electric trams) the out-
cry seems inconsistent. Also King William-street
is dead straight and two chains wide, and not —at
that end—a great artery of traffic ; so the locomo-
tives and carriages crawl up to their Stopping-
place at Victoria-square without, on an average,
one accident in a year.
Victoria's Board of Public Health is a
fairly swift dog at rounding up adulterating milk-
vendors and when it finds a case of typhoid it
chases the germ to its lair; but it unaccountably
overlooks the most obvious delinquents—the lazy
municipal councils which are supposed to assist it
in carrying out the law. The other day someone
“drew the Board’s attention” to the fact that
the City Council and that of Richmond run a sort
of combined tip in Yarra Park, and that a flock
of milkers perennially irraze thereon, tearing nour-
ishment out of old straw beds, deceased rabbits
and other horrors. That is worse than merely adul-
terating the milk; it is a case of adulterating the
entire cow. The Board requested the councils to
mend their ways ; but, so far. nobody has explained
why these bodies weren’t handed a term of im-
prisonment for allowing such a murderous practice,
or why they are allowed to indulge in tips at all.
The modern garbage destructor does away with
all such possibility of infection, and is a profitable
undertaking to boot.
RESISTING.
Is it in accordance with British fair play that police in
search of convictions should tempt people to break the
law? —A philanthropist writing to the papers.
Faust and Mephistopheles to date!
It is whispered that Knox, of the Hat,
thinks of resigning his seat in the House of Reps,
owing to ill-health. No official announcement of
his intentions has been made, but Sammy Manger
and ex-Senator Best have each tied a worm to the
end of a bit of string and dropped the animal
into the political waters. Best, by reason of his
title, has. of course, the most hope of a bite. Also he
is eminently Respectable ; but then so is Mauger.
In fact, nobody could be much more Respectable
than Mauger.
There are six teetotalers in the Aus-
tralian Labor Ministry. In the Fused Govern-
ment which preceded it there was only one.
Considering the appallingly “dry” habits of
Labor members there is something amusing about
the Tory lie concerning their alleged alliance
with the publicans. Why should the publicans
rush frantically to the support of a party that
doesn’t drink ?
HIS MAIN ATTRIBUTE.
Lord Islington, the new Governor of Maoriland, has
arrived in Australia. He is a soldier, a statesman, a
traveller, a civic reformer, and, above all, an Imperialist.
—Tory Paper.
MAORILAND: “I suppose he'll forget all about me
down here!"
The North Coast (N.S.W.) cocky seems
determined to side-step the Chapman grain sack,
and a Sydney factory is doing a thriving business
in making corn bags of a capacity up to 2801 b., to
be used in carrying maize from the northern rivers
to Sussex-street. The Commonwealth is power-
less, but the State Government could stop the
iniquity if it cared to. And considering the very
blue outlook for the coining election, it isa wonder
it doesn’t care, Things that weighed a great deal
less than 2801 b. have turned the scale at an elec-
tion before now.
Private Enterprise is so naturally crooked
that it cannot keep the straight track that leads to
business and large profits. Customs M inisterTudor
was lately handed a letter received by a Melbourne
firm of butter exporters from their London buyers,
in which they were told that “this settles busi-
ness on your side as far as we are concerned.”
the “this” being the consignment to Fog-
town, per Naming, of sundry lots of cow fat,
containing 17, 18 and 19‘5 percent, of water.
“Stich water-logging,” the letter went on,
“Is intentional, without the least doubt,
and there is only one remedy for it, and
that is to imprison the offenders.” So,
while the State, by reducing the allowance
of water to 14 per cent., is trying to
help the export trade and raise Aiistra-
y lin s reputation in the butter business,
1 the exponents of Private Enterprise
are doing their best to kill it for the
sake of a little temporary gain. Yes, im-
prisonment seems to be the only remedy.
“ The taking over of the Northern Terri-
tory should not be burdened with any railway
conditions,” howled Sydney Telegraph (27/6/MO).
And the selection of a Federal capital site
shouldn’t be burdened with any conditions either,
only the Telegraph can’t see that. But there is
a difference. S.A. says : “If you build this rail-
way. I will give you 500,000 square miles of land.”
And N.S.W. said : “If you give me the capital,
I won’t give you anything ; but, if you don’t give
it to nie, I’ll burst up the Commonwealth.”
Premier Wade of N.S.W. has brought in
still another Bill to amend his Industrial Dis-
putes Act. This makes the fourth or fifth patch.
It seems to have been a very ramshackle Act.
“Office Stamp”: History finds some
stalwart bricks for idle hands to fling. Reading
the story of Gordon’s exit at Khartoum, I note
that one of his native supporters, who fused
with the Mahdi and arranged the opening
of the gates from within, rejoiced in the name of
Wade Jer-kook. His after-fate is not recorded.
Possibly he lost his seat at next election.
Labor Premier Verran adds another to
the list of Johns who have filled the office of
Premier in S. A. They include (since 1857):
John Baker, John Hart, John Colton, John Bray.
John Downer, John Cockburn, John Jenkins and
John Verran. There have been only two S.A.
Cabinets during' the last 29 years which had no
John in them, and one of those two had a Johnson.
President Henry Turley, of the Senate, is
essentially a toiler, for he has furled tops’ls on a
wind-jammer and handled cargo on the wharves.
He first entered the Kidston Parliament for Bris-
bane South in 1893, and with one short interval
held the seat up to the beginning of Federation.
He was Home Secretary in Dawson’s six-day
Cabinet of 1899. In 1901 he tried hard for the
Oxley (Q.) seat in the House of Reps., but was
defeated by the violent nonent ty, R. Edwards.
In 1903 he headed the Queensland poll for the
Senate, and has been a Senator of importance
ever since. Incidentally, he is an Englishman by
birth, and was born at Gloucester (England) in
1859.
“The Undersigned ” :
A familiar figure in Melbourne streets is a perambulat-
ing gospel-reader. He is not an out-door exhorter ; he
reads to himself and, seemingly, does nothing else.
Walking the streets with eyes fixed upon the page, he is
an embarrassment to the traffic. But in- is very patient,
and apologises when lie bumps anyone, which happens
every few yards. His speed is about seven miles a week,
and as he wears boots that, would be heavy for a diver, lie
clumps rather much. He takes his street-crossings at
the usual rate and without, ceasing' to read, and is in this
connection, to all intents and purposes, a blind man. He
is well known to the man in the street, and at any time
that loud shoutings from drivers and ot hers are heard on
any crossing, most people in the vicinity know that it is
even money the obi chap is reading the Scripture on the
tram-line. For he makes frequent stoppages in the
course of his pilgrimage, perhaps to specially enjoy some
passage, and the middle of the street., between two tram
tracks, is just as good a halting phiee for him as any
other. He does noi put tlte volume aside with the pass-
ing of daylight; night, finds him still on foot and still
lost in his book ; lint after dark he keeps mostly to
the central blocks, with their unbroken line of light.
The other night, however, he must have been becalmed
somewhere on his journey, for I came across him reading
by the lig-iit from the door of a puli in Spring-street..
Cusi Omers were numerous, and after he had been jostled
two or three times he moved off to the light of a window
further along. Presently the blind was drawn, and with
the loss of the light he seemed to become panic-stricken.
It would seem i hat lie m y not go back on his tracks ; lie
must go straight on “and the next light was fully 60yds,
away. He sprinted for it. I never saw him put on such
a hurst of speed. He must have covered the distmc ir
under two minutes. Then he wired in to make up the
deficit. Later in the evening I saw hint take nearly half
an hour to do the Swariston-street block between Collins
and Flinders streets. Certainly, tie is on the slow side.
He is an odd sort of cove—a short, reddish man, about
the size of a very small commercial traveller, with heavy
feet and an ultra-humble demeanor.
PREVENTS PNEUMONIA.
A great many people have learned that pneu-
monia may be prevented by taking Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy whenever they haven cold. Among
the tens of thousands who have used this remedy
for colds and influenza during the epidemics of
the past few years, we have yet to learn of a single
one who had pneumonia, which should certainly
convince the most sceptical of the value of Cham-
berlain’s Cough Remedy.*
AN APOSTLE OF “REFORM.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lam referred to as a slow Minister. Why, during- my
term of ntfice, r have’expended thirteen millions. During
the next two years we will expend double the amount of
money that we have done in the past.— N.S. W. Works
Minister Lee.
Mr. Lee, we beg your pardon—you’re the true, un-
bleached Apostle.
Let the eheap-and-nasty rivals cease to agitate and
jostle—
It’s as plain as ancient whiskers on the features of a
fossil—
You’re the man for Roads and Bridges, though the
pace is growing warm.
Barrow-loads of borrowed money you’re industriously
throwin’—
Yea, the I O U’s like rubbish in the wind are wildly
Mowin',
And we hear you’ve worn a pathway to the distant door
of Cohen
Hail the State’s most blessed saviour—our Apostle of
“ Reform ”!
It is sad that, Lee should suffer from reproaches and
revilement,
Very sad and very sinful—let us flee from all defilement,
Let us tell our true apostle what these persons base and
vile meant—
From the fountains of their envy did their bitter
language flow ;
Tis a falsehood drab and dismal—’tis a lie bevond
believing;
-Tis a slander on the hero who in solitude is grieving—
Can’t you hear the sounds of sorrow? —see his injured
bosom heaving—
Let us vindicate our leader—our apostle is not slow !
Let us sing a loud hosannah—let us gladly praise and
hail hint ;
Lo ! our song shall be a comfort when the common coves
assail him,
He shall know that we are faithful—that the people shall
not fail him
When the Judgment Day conies roaring like a world-
destroying storm ;
Silent now the bitter language and the hard, unfeeling
scoff is—
Closed the mouths of shameful envy, ceased the wicked
cynic’s cough is :
Lee has scattered Thirteen Millions in his splendid term
of office—
There’s the proof that he’s our saviour, our apostle of
“ Rr form ” !
Shall this great man be defeated—shall our Lee be taken
from us ?
See his scurvy foes approaching—loaded now the Labor
bomb is—
Shall our blest apostle perish ?—recollect his sacred pro-
mise—
Twice as much he means to borrow from accommodat-
ing Jews !
Brethren, pause and think it over—twenty-six fresh-
promised millions!—
Our financier is leaping towards the distant Jew-pavi-
lions, , ,
See his barrow piled with shekels, heaped with Cohen’s
borrowed billions—
See likewise his monster waggon loaded down with
IO U’s !
There is just this little matter—there’s the question of
repayment;
Whoshall settle up with Cohen—with the frenzied, hook-
nosed claimant?
When the Lender needs his shekels—when he tears his
anguished raiment,
When he shrieks for cash instanter, will our saviour
calm the storm ?
Mr. Lee, our hearts are broken, and our souls are filled
with sorrow' —
When the glad P.N. is floated, what about the pregnant
morrow ?
If you borrow Twenty Millions, wf. must pay for what
you borrow,
So we’ll sell you cheap for sixpence—our apostle of
“ Reform ” !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


f
Perhaps you are
not aware that at
Paling’s you can
purchase a TalKing
Machine on Easy
Terms.
For a small deposit
we can arrange to
let you have one of
these wonderful
entertainers, the
balance can be paid
by monthly instal-
ments.
Catalogues free on
application.
PALING’S,
338 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
103
Uhe CLAVIOLA
1
S6e 72 Note Piano Player.
When listening to a famous
pianist Have you not many a
time sincerely wished you
could play as well ?
* *
We are sure you have.
*
Then why not gratify that
[wish ? The CLAVIOLA will
enable you to play any piece
of music even if you cannot
read a note of music.
V? * *
Write to us and we will send
you full particulars (Si booK-
let by return post.
W. H. Paling'Co. Uj?
338 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
And at BRISBANE <& NEWCASTLE
95
ACCORDIONS
ALL PRICES FROM 7/G
IMPERIAL BRAND from ... 10/-
CHROMATIC ACCORDIONS
from 25/-
CONCERTINAS
GERMAN CONCERTINAS.
Single-toned from 3/G
Organ-toned from 91-
ANGLO-GERMAN CONCERTINAS.
From 25/-
Steel Reeds from 31/6
ENGLISH CONCERTINAS.
From 70/- to £2l
CATALOGUES FREE.
WRITE FOR ONE,
PALING’S
338 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
107
Brand)
iSesd for
Patterns.
[l]
e©©i k
Obtainable
Only from
0
’U
MELB9QPE/ &.Z.
pm&
BE# Jl xl
<Bollm»iiii[iiatl!|ll|bqgnHnniiflgD>
m
zzs+
J SARGENTS’ MEAT PIES, FRUIT PIES, PASTRY and FANCY CAKES are the
of Sargents’ own bakeries. The systematic preparation of ingredients, the
special methods of mixing, and the modern appliances for baking, account for
the goodness and daintiness of these baked goods.
THE MEAT PIES, so famous throughout the whole of the Commonwealth, are
acknowledged to be unequalled in flavor.
THE FRUIT PIES have also gained a wide reputation—you will find them excellent.
THE ant * FANCY CAKES have a lightness and delicacy that is unsurpassed.
Their freshness and quality are assured.
SARGENTS’ CATER FOR PRIVATE FUNCTIONS, BALLS, BANQUETS, etc., giving
that complete service it has been their ambition to create.
Sargents’ Ltd.,
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High-Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
(’Phone—Office, 3559;
Cafe, 1876; Catering:, 4250).
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St. (’Phone, Olty 1344),


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
PILES CURED IN 6 to 14 DAYS.
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding Piles in 6 to 14
days, or money refunded. 2/3.
’S
ALE & LAGER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RiCHAßP HOLMES * CO., PERTH. KALCOORLIE and COCLCAROIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
i hank Heaven, it is over and Johnson having
! won will cease t,o slay Jeffries with liis mouth in his
cl 'honair, high-born fashion. The amount of chin-wagging
that g-oes to one brief scrap in the U.S.A. is fearful. Hums
in his hook, “ How I Should Have Scrapped With John-'
son but Didn’t,” or something- like that, lav- it down
as indispensable to get your opponent wild ; arid, judging
by the way they talk-d over there, the whole U.S.A.
must have got as wild as the Devil in Holy Week. Trill v,
the promoters of the Jeffries-Johnson mill had something
to be genuinely woolly about. Having secured a permit,
they got busy on their stadium, and at a cost of £4000
turned a million feet of limber into a vast octagonal
structure capable of seating 40,000 people. It seems to
have been like most things that die young—of surpassing
excellence. Each section was to seat 5000 people, who
would file in by aisles leading to their own section and no
pther. The actual site was on a racecourse nt Emery-
ville, a few miles out of Oaklands, served by two lines
that brought it within 15 minutes of ’Frisco. ’ And when
all this money and brain-fag had been expended the
Governor of California suddenly roasted the show as a
fake, and then butted in with a prohibition which he was
prepared to enforce with the militi i. So Gleason and
Rickard had to shift to Reno in Nevada and erect another
Stadium in a hurry. Under these circumstances the
promoters may be excused if they felt ruffled.
Jeffries’s final training was beautiful in itssweet
simplicity. His camp iti the Sant i Cruz mourn ains,
according to the flowery stoush-reporters, was “a rose-
covered cottage in a shaded glen of greenest verdure.”
T le great man rose at 6.30 for a cold bath and rub down.
He chewed a morsel, and then had a four-mile walk.
B eakfast at eight was followed by an hour of rest. Light
gymnastics followed for an hour, and then handball,
after which came an eigbt-or ten-mile hill climb. Lunch
at one, and rest for an hour. Boxing, wrestling, bag
punching, rope-skipping and another spin on the roads
filled in the afternoon. B-ith and rub down at 5 p.m.,
tea at six, cards and “light conversation” till bed-
time-nine sharp. Next day the same thing all
over again. Pity it should all have been in vain.
The difference between Jeffries in 1903, when he was at
bis zenith, and in 1910 is that in 1903 he was bigger from the
hips upward and tapered away gracefully to his elegant
feet. Now it was the other way about, according to the
Yankee sporting papers. So he must have looked rather a
queer fish. But in those days he had the weight where be
required it most, and to-day, or rather last month, he had
it where he required it least. According to Choynslsi,
w ho knows what he talks of when bruising is the
subject, at the beginning of May he was just
parting with his paunch, and had plenty of
time to round off nicely. Choynski estimated
that by the day of the fight Jeffries would have reached
the highest degree of physical excellence his 1910 frame
was capable of. This prognostication was borne out by
the medical examination made about, 48 hours before the
fi-iht. But a dumper was thrown on the report by
the declaration of Corbett that, notwithstanding his
splendid physical condition, Jeffries was in need
of more boxing practice, and Corbett proved right.
Little or nothing seems to be known of Johnson’s train-
ing. As most people know, Johnson is very secretive.
What made Jeffries’s training so interesting was
the fact that he had been out of the ring six years,
and there was more than a doubt as to whether he’
could get back into condition to go at top speed
for 45 rounds, which meant two and a quarter hours of
actual fighting. That Johnson is a clever defensive
fighter was freely admitted, and, generally, the idea was
that every round after 10 or so would improve the negro’s
chances. Johnson has an ugly habit of promising
what he will do and keeping his word, and he
promised his public he would worry Jeffries for
15 rounds and then knock him out. And he did
it. Jeffries was perfectly frank, too, and promised
that he would play bis usual game, and rough
and hustle Johnson from the jump—rush him and get to
work on the negro’s flanks with the terrible rib-smashing
wallop that has won all his fights. Dr. Porter, Jeffries’s
own physician, examined both men, and declared that
Johnson was not the physical equal of Jeffries. He had,
the doctor reported, weaker lungs and heart. Between
his hips and lower ribs there was a stretch
of waist quite unprotected by either bone or
muscle. Jeffries, on the other hand, was said to
be absolutely armored. A huge bony casing guarded
1 'is lungs and heart, and his waist was covered
by a thick shield of armored muscle. In fact, Johnson
was a cruiser of the Powerful 'type with weak defensive
armor amidships; and Jeffries was a Dreadnought in
triple armor all over and heavily gunned. It was the
first, time Johnson had met. a burner man than himself
and given away weight. Jeffries is 6ft. 1 jin. tall, atrainst
Johnson’s 6ft. OJin. Jeffries, weighed 48 hours before
the fight, was 161 b. heavier, had 7in. more normal chest
9m. more expanded chest, and Jin. more biceps. Johnson’s
one advantage was in the circumference of the forearm
where he had 14in. to Jeffries’ 13Jin. Jeffries was never a
boxer. Fitzommons, Corbett and Ruhlin all 'out-boxed
him; Firz. fairly chopping- him to pieces. But not
one of them ever knocked him off his feet ; his capacity
to take punishment was simply appalling ; and he grimlv
covered his point, and bored in till he got his rib-smash-
ing blow home. On the other hand, Johnson is concerted
to be the biggest man of his class that Jeffries has ever
rnet. So there was mighty little on which to base esti-
mates. The only guide the fight-followers had was the
way Jeffries and Johnson had smashed up the same men
In 1898 Jeffries walloped Pete Everett in three rounds'
and in 1902 Johnson took 20 rounds to do it. In 1901
Jeffries smashed Hank Griffin in four rounds, and in 19‘ 2
Johnson drew twice with the same man in 20 and 15
rounds. Jeffries knocked out Joe Kennedy in two
rounds in 1901, and the following year Johnson knocked
him out twice in eight days, taking four rounds on each
occasion. In 1904 Jeffries beat J. Munroe in two rounds.
Johnson and Munroe fought six rounds in Philadelphia
(where no decisions are given by referees), but failed to
knock him out. But Johnson, apparently, never
allow-ed Jeff to get near that unarmored waist.
.Toe Choynslci, the Polish .Tew, is the only
fighter credited with having put Johnson to sleep in the
ring. Johnson denies he was slumbering. But he was
down in the third round, and before he could he counted
out the police stopped the fight on the ground that
Johnson’s case was hopeless. That was at Galveston in
F -hruarv 1901. His only other disasters were a defeat in 20
rounds by Marvin Hart, at ’Frisco in 1905, and his loss on a
foul to Joe Jeannette, at Philadelphia, in the second
round. December, 1905. Jeffries, on the other hand, had an
unbroken succession of vie- ories, 20in all. Ruhlin. Sharkey
and Corbett were defe ted in 20 rounds. Fitzsimmons was
beaten twice, in 11 and eight rounds; Goddard in four,
Peter Jackson in three, Armstrong and Corb t.t. in 10. A
very grisly record. Naturally the meeting of two such
giants raised some dust.
During his training Jeffries paid much attention
to wrestling to fit, him for in-fighting with the negro.
Johnson’s method of in-fighting is deadly, as Tahmmv
Burns found to his disgust. Johnson is strong in he
grip and in clinches he grabs his opponent’s biceps, slides
his right hand downrhe other’s left arm without loosen-
ing the grip, and then uses t he imprisoned limb ns a lever
to swing his victim round off his balance. Then suddenly
letting go, he viciously uppercuts wi h-the right before
the other recovers his balance. Jeffries would have been
a difficult subject for that manoeuvre, anyhow : hut he
took no chanees, and trained speciallv to meet the trick
of his colored brother, ft was for that Frank Gotch was
specially engaged, and Farmer Burns also devoted much
tune and sweat to the same matter.
As far as could lift ascertained, the general
feeling in Sydney was that Johnson would win. hut the
people who made the prophecy did so in a lone of regret.
In England, Johnson appeared to be favorite ; but in the
United States the odds were 1 .id on Jeffries. J. heson i«
said to have investe I nearly £IO9O on his own pevfnrm-
aiu-e. Except in thp States, where the racial prejudice
is pist now at. boiling point, athletes all the world over >e-
fused to believe that Jeffries could comp hack after six
years’absence from the ring, and quoted Young Corbett,
Jim Corbett, Terry McGovern, Boh Fitzsimmons and La-
vigne as instances of the impossibility. On the other
hand, as S. C. Austin pointed nut, these men were beaten
before they first retired. • Jeffries left when at his zenith,
and he has trained hard for nearly 18 months. Which
made his return totally different from that of any of the
others.
* * * *
Oh, talk of death and threats to pulverise !
One thing at least is certain—old Time flies ;
One i hing is certain and the rest is lies ;
The pug that once retires for ever dies.
* * * *
The above verse sums it all up. Jeffries had
not, got back to the old form. The one time in-
vincible man made but little better showing than
the much-derided Tahmmv. In every department
he was worsted. In in-fighting he found Johnson
stronger than himself, and able to administer his
uppercuts when and how he liked. The alleged
“waist” was hanged and hashed to further orders,
and the champion was apparently nor, even dis-
tressed. Of course, he didn’t love the blows, but they
failed to stop him. J- dries was nolongera rib-smasher;
and Johnson found time between cutting him to
pieces to talk :o the crowd and poke sarcasm at
Corbett. As the fight went on Jeffries’s star sank, and
almost, every round ended in favor of Johnson on points.
And, on top of all. Jeffries’s strength slowly ebbed out. He
tried all he knew, changed his methods, varied his blows,
gave up trying to rush and hustle and played wary
strategy, and in every branch the grinning, golden-
mouthed Ethiopian was his master. Right through the
wildest, rallies Johnson never lost his head. Only
once did he forget his caution, and he received
a nasty belly-rip for his pains. Jeffries not only
failed to knock him down, hut to even appa-
rently rattle him. At, the beginning of the 15th
and last, round Johnson hounded round the ring with the
easy grace of a fresh panther. For the last ihree rounds
he chivvied Jeffries round the ring, smashing him when
and how he liked, and talking to the crowd all the time.
Then he reminded Jeffries of his promise, -measured his
distance and sent him reeling. Jeffries tried to clinch,
but Johnson threw him off, and with a tremendous right
uppercut laid him out insensible.
As this issue went to press, the whole negro
population of the States was understood to he going
rapidly mid. And with good reason. Had not. the
prayers from a hundred thousand negro M< thod.v Bethels
proved mightier than the enthusiasm of Corbett, the
skill of Choynski, the wisdom of Farmer Burns, and the
force of the hitherto invincible Jeffries ? The wrestling
that Frank Gotch taught him had proved useless to the
white man ; and all the boasts about chicken eating, all
the slurs and indignities heaped on the colored race
by the aggressive, tyrannical white man had been paid
for in blond and bruises. It was vicarious sacrifice,
Jeffries the victim, and the ring at Reno the altar.
* * * *
Another Australian heavyweight champion
came gently into being at Melbourne Cyclorama the
other evening, when J‘>e Costa, of Sydney, drifted into
the shoes vacate and by Bill Lang and Tommy Burns when
the pair stepped off Australia’s shore. Seizing- the op-
portunity created by the absence of Burns, the Ind' or
Sports’ Club pitted Costa against Bill YValsh for the resi-
dent championship. There is no visible or comprehen-
sible excuse for the arrangement, as Walsh had not ihe
small st. claim upon ,'he title, and Costa was not within
considerable dis'anee of championship size and quality.
However, champions have to start somewhere, and it. re-
mains for the next man to step up and demolish Costa’s
pretensions if he has it iq his elbow. The fight,
Costa v. Walsh, was as furious as a battle between
a mouse and a sheep, mainly because Walsh was not up
to the mark, and Costa was disinclined to wallow in the
gore of a youth whom he could out-point in his sleep.
Costa won all the wav and all the time. At any stage it
seemed that he might have w-aded in and mopped up the
Victori in ; hut he declined to wade, being content to
waddle the whole distance and win on poiiits. This lie
did, and the referee gave him the verdict in a Christian
spirit, also honorable mention for righteousness and
humanitarian principles.
* * *■ *
The Tndoor Sports 01uD (Molb.) is likely to be
puted from the butt end of a big brick chimney in which
it holds its kid glove revels, the surrounding churches
having risen in fearful protest against “ these shocking
exhibitions,” and prevailed upon the Council to decline
to register the Cyclorama as a place in which the pug
may smite within lhe meaning, of the Act. As demon-
strating the disgraceful lawlessness of boxing entertain-
ntents, it is pointed out that at the conclusion of one
recent bout the losing' boxer threw his gloves at the
referee. Awful ! The referee is not expected to live
more than a hundred years. On the football field th y
throw the grand-stand and the refreshment-rooms at the
umpire ; but the churches are offering no fervent expos-
tulations.
* * * *
Negro Joe Gans, popularly known in the
U.S. A. as the “old master,’’ is a consumptive vvreck, and
has gone to Arizona to sleep in the open dry air, in the
hope of getting rid of the trouble. It is beyond doubt
that the first ravages of the disease led to his downfall in
the ring, and when he was finally slugged out he was but
the shadow of the wiry man he bad once been. His end
is likely to be pathetic. The maker of many thousands
of dollars, the owner of a caf6 or saloon or something of
that sort, the n an's inveterate gambling habits have
blown all his easily-acquired wealth away. And now he
enters on the final stage with an almost empty pocket.
“ Spectator Ever notice the abundance of
the letter J in the names (either Christian names or sur-
names) of the world’s champion heavyweight boxers of
the modern school ? Take this list Jem Mace, Jem
Smith, Joe McAuliffe, Jake Kilrain, John L. Sullivan,
Peter Jackson, James J. Corbett. James J. Jeffries, Jack
O'Brien, and Jack Johnson. Fitzsimmons and Burns are
the only notable gaps in the line. I.esser lights include
a host of Joes—Choynski, Goddard, Walcott and Jean-
ette among t others; also Jack Dempsey, Jack Burke
and Jim Hall. It is worthy of note that, the present
champion has two J’s to his name, and that his lately-
biffed challenger goes one better with three.
* * . #
At Brisbane a crowd representing over £7OO in
cash, and aggregating between 17,000 and 20,000, wit-
nessed the British bulldog settling any vagrant preten-
sions that, Australia possessed in the direction of annexing
the tlibber. The match was a magnificent spectacle,
brimful of dash and bristling with incident, Australia
notched up 17 points to the Britons’22 ; lm’t the score
doesn’t indicate the monopoly Bull established. The
wond rfulmechanism was irresistible, and only for Bull’s
endless pointing and persistent loquacity the score
would probably have read 22 to 11. It was marvellous
how Bull kept his breath at all the way he opened
his face. In the first quarter of an hour
the local team had a credit, balance of 11
to nil, for which the Wallaby-Kangaroo sextette were
more or less responsible. In the secc nit half, when
Thomas began to penetrate the Australian defmee, the
red and white three-quarter line mowed down all oppo-
sition, notwithstanding the deadly tackling, which was a
feature by itself. Just here the inevitable unpleasant in-
cident insinuated itself into the proceedings, and Rod-
dick, who was spotted in the act of handing out, (t couple
of punches to Hickey, joined the spectators. The prompt
and firm action of the referee nipped in the hud what
would have been a repetition of the Sydney fracas. The
man was reluctant, to leave, and tin re were threats of
the team quitting the field, but the knight of the whistle
stuck out, his chin. From that onwards there was
a perceptible slump in British jaw. As in every instance
hitherto the old bulldog backed up considerably nnd
got, busier with the otlds against him. Two tries were
scored within three minutes, the game being all the
Britons’. About five minutes before the call of time,
Australia looked dangerous, but, it was a forlorn hope by
men fagged tptd out-classed. Bull was in fine fettle, and
two forwards, Winstaneley and Jukes, practically kicked
the way to victory by pulverising the local hacks, and
then letting theimwn rent gun id t. kea hand. Messenger
was errai ieully brilliant, at and McKivut was the only other
man from Wade’s parish who played up to an alleged
sample. It. was palpable to any old-timer that the
N.S. W. contingent was stale, and Hickey and Farnsworth
should be rested in the Australasian match.
* * * *
The hideous, infernal reversal of form of the
Union Rugby Australian XV in the final match with the
All Blacks at Sydney Oncket Ground on Saturday was
the worst seen in Sydney for many a year. The score-
-28 points to Miioriland and 13 to Australia—indicates a
fairly crushing defeat at the Union game; but, it. does
nor, measure up the awful incapacity of the Australian
XV. It, wasn’t a defeat—it, was u rout. The Australian
team hd no cohesion—in fact,, it wasn’t a team. It was
a mob, each man of which played his own game, and
played it darned badly. Fortunately for Australia's
reputation, the visiting backs were apparently asleep—
or something akin to it—or the soor would have been
about 40 to nil. It was merely sudden flashes of brilliant
individualism and great luck that gave Australia the score
it got. At half-time Maoriland led by IS) points to 13.
With the change of ends the butchery began. The
Maoriland forwards took charge and worried the Austra-
lians. Dw ver was swamped and the team generally was
run over, till in mercy the gods sent, night and drew a
veil over the awful scene where the Cow-Spankers raged.
The Yankee footballers in Sydney were again
overwhelmed on Saturday last, the choppers this time
being the Sydney University tram. Still, it wasn’t such
a big walloping this time, Sydney getting away with 13
points to eight. The Yankees are inexperienced. In the
fast, furious work on the line their team is simply not in
it. Line work is strenuous, there's no time to think, and
the man who has the leather has to act, on impulse. And
the t rouble is that, the Yanks have not yet got their im-
pulses properly drilled.
» * * *
The First Grade League Rugby competition
resumed again in Sydney on Saturday, and chaos inter-
vened. The last came first, and the first was nowhere,
while the middle became the ends. North Sydney was
overwhelmed, first by baby club Annandale to the tune of
21 to 10, and then by surprise. Newtown upset Glebe’s
apple-cart, with a three to nil score. South Sydney’s
walk over Western Suburbs was not unexpected; lint
Balmain’s crushing of Eastern Suburbs by 10 to nil was
an absolute shock to the system. Of course, the explana-
tion is that the cream of the players were away in
Brisbane.
* * * *
Up to last Saturday Sydney had managed to
keep the football barraeker from doing anv thing worse
than make a hideous disarrangement of sounds with his
mouth. And, as usual, when the explosion did take
plac it was in connection with church teams. Four
church teams were playing off at Booralee Park, Botany,
where the odors are. The barrackers swarmed on to the
field and kicked one of the players, a hoy of 18. When
the teams were leaving a shower of stories and bottles
descended on one of the dr gs and injured nearly every-
one on it, two so severely that they hud to go to'hospital
to be sewn up. The kicked youth'did not regain sensi-
bility for some time afterwards, and all the injuries were
fairly severe. After the volley the crowd prepared to
the drag, but. the police batons had more potency
than the parson’s brolly, and the gang of cowardly
ruffians slunk off into the gathering night.
* * * *
Skinner’s hirelings will no doubt be pleased to
learn that an amateur footballer who does naught, else
during seven days a week hut hog in for his side for a
couide of hours in the presence of 15,000 maniacs, in-
cluding ladies who dig hatpins into the umpire and
smite the opposing players as they pass, has been held
to he a “workman" within the meaning of the British
Workmen’s Compensation Act of 1906, and therefore
entitled to compensation should he meet with disable-
ment during the performance of his duties. The case
was one of Bill Walker against the Crystal Palace Footy
Club, which had by written agreement engaged him for
12 months at a s lary of £3 10s. per week. The agree-
ment was a strong one. Bill being required t o train every
afternoon front three to five, abstain from any professional
sport, and to keep himself sober at all times. Further,
Willie couldn’t become a publican or live in a pub.
If he missed a night at the training ground he forfeited a
fiver (nearly two weeks’ lemon money) as liquidated
damages. By the numerous mention of “liquid and
pubs” throughout, the agreement it must have been
drawn up by a Judkinsite. As after events proved, the
strength of the agreement helped Billy in his fight in the
Court. The first day Billy “bogged in” he met his
Botany, and emerged from the fray with a broken ankle
and concussion. When Billy refrained consciousness, in
about a fortnight, In- found to his dismay that the Club
didn’t want any sick Willies on its list, and had dis-
charged him. Willie hurtled in a writ against his old
love for compensation. The County Court judged Bill
worthy of £3 10s. per week for 12 months from the date
of his accident. The Club emulated the Ma State
Premier and appealed to the House of Lords, which up-
held the County Court’s judgment, and the Club had to
part up.
The North Adelaide footballers, who did so
well in Sydney, have only won a single District match
at home this season, and when they returned from
Sydney they lost two matches with great suddenness. In
the second they put up something like a record for bad
shooting, scoring only two goals to 13 beliinds. True,
the srround was almost under water, but West Adelaide,
the opponent, didn’t seem to find this a drawback, and,
with fewer chances, kicked four goals and five behinds,
winning by four points. The top of the League table has
been gained for the moment by Sturt, which is quite
unused to that giddy eminence; and the West Adelaide
men, last year’s premiers, are absolutely bottom, or
cellar.
* * * *
After carefully pumping cold water on its bead
N.S. W. Rugby League, which has a holy terror of its hat-
band growing too small, has decided to send a team to
Britain for the next season, and is negotiating for a
regular interchange of teams between the countries. It
is only about a couple of years since some spacious in-
dividual dreamed of a Rugby premiership, to be battled
for by all the English-speaking countries of the earth.
But the kingdom of Rugby has been rent in twain, and
the rebels are gaining ground, so the dream of the
World’s “Union ” Rugby Championship fades. In fact,
Union Rugby itself grows thin and attenuated.
***■*•
Saturday’s Vic. League football paraded itself
as a sloppy and untidy thing, a mere series of scuffles for
the most, part. A dense “house” watched the collision
between Carlton and ’Wood until it became evident, that
the latter had got the pip or the ntegritns, and had
become a mere chopping block, if one may express it
thusly. What system there was belonged to the “Old
Blues,” and whenever the ball was handled or kicked in-
tentionally it was they who did it. The Magpies were
weakened by the absence of some of their best regular men;
but as they weren’t, all away through illness or accident,
it is up to ’Wood’s committee to heave some remarks
about in a loud, assertive tone of voice. The final scores
—Carlton 51 points, ’Wood 22, on the latter’s ground—
simply prove that, many of the Magpies weren’t playing.
The Essendon-’Roy disturbance would have been exciting
if ’Roy had anything to lose, but as its chances have long
since gone the way of all things perishable, the episode
held hut a temporary joy for the spectators. ’Roy led,
but by less than a handful of points, till within 10 minutes
of the close; then the 'Dons put forth the customary
spurt and drew the game from the cinders;
Essen don 89 points, ’Roy 71. In like manner Rich-
mond kept its tally just beyond the reach of “Skinner’s
hirelings” till the crowd began to look at its collective
watch, then the Southerners hogged iri with sufficient
vim to give them a four-point win—7l to Richmond’s
67. The depressing circumstance about the collision was
the knowledge that if Richmond had won by a porcu-
pineful of points it would he no better off, though
South’s chances would have been somewhat and niaged.
Down at Geelong the locals accommodated the team U at,
is always poinii to do something—Melbourne, to wit
with a “ dirty doing,” to the time of 100 points to 51;
while the Students had no difficulty in pouring nirre
nmd on the Saints, with a score of 54 points to 45,
This walloping might have been more considerable but
for the lamentable fact, that, during the third quarter,
when the Saints, aided by the wind, were slowly making
up lost ground, one of their men was damaged during a
bit of close play, whereupon the crowd rushed the
ground and “ got to ” the Students with fierce valor, two
of them being assaulted with such vim that the ambu-
lance had to he sent for. It was quite a while before the
too-snarce Johns cleared the ground, and as they have
promised to take further proceedings, it is to he" hoped
something sudden and boiling will happen to the
offenders.
The best ’ball of the day and the most exciting
scuffle was in the Ass. gam , North v. Essendon. Though
the former's Carlton purchases have kept it from defeat
so far this season, there is little to choose hetween the
teams, and, there being no old grudges to pay off,
a fast,, open and strenuous game “gave pleasure
to all.” By straighter kicking—which really meant, passing
to the right man and taking less chances—Essendon kept
always a few points ahead till thelast quarter ; then North
swept, down and raged and fumed and plugged away atthe
goal. It didn’t get what it. wanted, hut it, managed to
scrape together enough behinds to make a draw—4l
points all. Footscray inflicted an unexpected thrashing
on Ports, by 55 to 40; Brunswick humped Brighton
along t he rocky road that leads to disaster, with 97 bumps
to Brighton’s 38 ; P’ran improved its average by putting
ICO points on the hoard to Preston’s 27—the writer isn’t
sure which of these two sides was trying to achieve a
reeord ; and ’Town disposed of ’Cote’s pretentions to
equality by running up 92 points to the latter’s 37.
’Town’s committee had emphasised its disapproval of the
team’s previous play hv bumping four men into outer
darkness during the week, and the effect seems to have
been considerable.
* * * *
On St. Kilda ground some alleged Maoris, call-
ing themselves Rogers, Ryland, Martin, .Cunningham,
Piki, Hialiia and tire like, collided with a team of Vic-
torian Rugby ’haliers, concerning which it may be truth-
fully remarked that the latter looked really sweet, in their
new uniforms, and that their manners were elegant and
their methods recherche ! The board slated that the
Maoris scored 32 points, the Victorians five ; hut the in-
formation is hardly worth publishing.
* * * *
Sport has its lunatics as well as other phases o!
life. Ttiere is being arranged a motor-boat race across
the Atlantic from New York to the mouth of the Seine
and up that classic river to Paris. The boats are tote
specially built for the trip, and they had need to be.
(Continued on page 33.)
THE TWO HUNDRED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fully 20° reporters have jrone to Reno (Nevada) to
attend the Johnson-Jefflies fight.—Cablegram.
Two Hundred reporters,
And most of ’em snorters !
Oh dear !
My fancy flies
With hliss to Reno :
Gee, what a beano !
And what d d lies
You’ll hear 1
Lord, what a clan of ’em !
And, every man of ’em
(Confessed)
Lying’ like sin !
Telling his snake-yarns,
Scoop-yarns, fake-yarns,
How all the rest
Fell in 1
Think ! Two hundred !
Has some one blundered?
Some liar?
When they have watched,
Drunk, eaten (cursed, too,
When things are botched),
Who’ll he the first to
Get with a burst to
The wire?
VICTORIA.
P.
WORMS.
SOME SRIKING SYMPTOMS.
A child who is afflicted with worms will often
be in an indifferent state of health. It becomes
peevish and irritable, and will have a strong ten-
sdf
dency to pick the nose, and there will
be severe itching of the lower bowel.
Grinding the teeth and suddenly
starting up in the sleep will also be
noticed. The bowels are irregular,
sometimes constipated, and at other
times relaxed, with bloody dis-
charges as in dysentery ; and not in-
frequently the discharges will be in
flakes and shreds, which might be
taken for partly-digested food. The
best proof of worms is worms, and if
their presence is suspected, immedi-
ate steps should be taken to posi-
tively establish the fact, and once
established, Comstock’s “Dead Shot” Worm
Pellets should be administered according' to
directions. Worms require a specific medicine,
and there is no remedy so effective as these
Pellets. They kill the worms, destroy their eggs,
and dislodge their nests. For sale by all chemists,
price Is. fid. ; or will be forwarded on receipt of
price by The W. H. Comstock Co. Ltd., 58 Pitt
Street, 8yd ney. *


IN EVERY RIGNEY SHOE
there is a distinctively high-grade appearance smart shape
and splendid finish, which gives to it the character of a
TheThoe^Uustrated a Willow Calf Derby Shoe, fine-stitched
welts, in Black or Tan. Also in boots.
PRICE, 21s.
Postage
9a. extra.
Try our famous Shoe Polish, 6d. per tin.
Write for Booklet.
THE RICNEY SHOE 00.,
“The Exclusive Men’s High-grade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
*
m
m
w*.
...
U L
U U
P
A CHEAP CYCLE
is a poor instrument. The constant repairs irritate a man and make
him feel revengeful towards the builder.
THE B. and B. MODEL 3 CYCLES
are built of best imported parts, fitted
with first-class tyres, and
guaranteed a year for
fill.
A HIGH-QUALITY MACHINE AT A LOW PRICE.
WRITE FOR OUR CATALOGUE, MENTIONING “THE BULLETIN.”
OUR PITT STREET DEPOT IS OPEN EVERY FRIDAY TILL 9 P.M.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Specialists in Modern
Cvcle Buildin
234 Pitt Street, and
Castlereagti Street,
Sydney.
GREAT SOLAR TELESCOPE
AND MICROSCOPE COMBINED
sd
Sun Spots.
Nearly Four Feet Long. About Six Inches Around.
Price, only S/0, including Delivery Anywhere
GUARANTEED SCIENTIFICALLY PERFECT BY THE MAKERS.
-—» Valuable Booklet on Telescopy with Eaoh Instrument —*
THE New Excelsior Telescope is large and powerful and wonderfully cheap. With the
Adjustable Solar Fye-Piece you can observe Eclipses of the Sun and look for the mysterious
Sun Spots. A Telescope with a Solar Eye-Piece has never before been sold for less than a couple
of guineas. There are five sections, or draws, measuring when fully extended nearly Four Feet
and closing to about one loot It is 6tted with four lenses and a focussing diaphragm, accurately
adjusted, and a metallic cap protects the object glass and excludes dust when the instrument is not in
use. The Eye Piece sect'on can be withdrawn and used independently as a powerful Magnifier or Micro-
scope. An interesting book of hints,and instructions on the use of the Telescope for Solar, Lunar and
Astronomical Observations ar.d for ordinary purposes is given with each instrument. Tourists, residents at
the seaside, and others able to enjoy wide and extended views should have this wonderfully cheap Tele-
scope. Mr. John Orcsn. Cympie, Queensland wrote —“ lam much pleased with the Solar Telescope. It is
all that it is represented, and would lie cheap at twice the price." Mr W. H Moss, Euroa Vic. “Am very
pleased with the Telescope." Mr A. Gcupu, Pcggabilla, N.SW. :-"Your Telescope'is simply perfect. Send
me another. Don't send any other sort." There are scores of similar opinions. If you wish, we will send you
names ami addresses in youi own State.
SPECIAL OFFER.
_Witb each order received within two months from the date ol
this paper we wiil ««..» without charge an excellent Magnify-
«ng Mirror and Pocket Telescope, tbt.t folds up And can be carried in the vest pocket. Useful as
» Reading Glass. Magnifier, Burning Glass, Opera Glass, Complexion Mirror, &c You must mention this
paper. Remember, The Solar Telescope and Microscope Combined, with adjustable Solar Eye-Piece, the Book
of Jnstptctions, the Magnifying Mirror and Pocket Telescope, all complete packed in a box and delivered
bt any address, for ONLY 8/6. Postal Notes of any State. Send at once or you may be disappointed.
THE UNION COMPANY* 299 Elizabeth Street* Melbourne.
The British & Colonial Aeroplane
Company, Limited.
Directors
SIR GEORGE WHITE. BART.
SAMUEL WHITE, J P.
G, STANLEY WHITE.
Bankers— THE BANK OF ENGLAND.
Builders of the British
Zodiac Aeroplanes
fsd
fsd
“Zodiac” Biplanes
50/60 h.p. - - Price £l,OOO.
“Zodiac” Monoplanes
25/30 h.p. - - Price £5OO.
EUTVo
Terms— One-third with order, balance before delivery.
Delivered F.O B any port in Great Britain in one month from receipt of order.
Write for Catalogue and full particulars.
Offices and Works - - BRISTOL, ENG.
Flying Ground - SALISBURY PLAIN (W.D.)
Telegrams: "Aviation. Bristol.” Codes-A i, A.8.C., and MOREING.
"A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.''
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin** Office
A. M. L. mo. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stock and Station Agents.
CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300.000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral Pro-
perties and Stock, and on the Growing Wool Clip and Wheat Crop.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in Australia, being all
recently constructed.
Australian Mortgage, Land 8 Finance Co.
LIMITED,
William Street, MELBOURNE;
BligK Street, SYDNEY;
Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
THE “MOTA” (Regd.).
) ■
The man who studies style and comfort in hats
has more than a DESIRE for the “ Mota”—he has
a NEED for one. For the “ Mota” at a small price
is the most comfortable and most distinctively
stylish soft felt of the day.
The material is good—it will wear well; the brim
and crown is easily adapted—it will suit your style.
Prices 7/6 to 12/6, in all fashionable colors, at
leading stores throughout Australia.
The name “Mota” is registered, and the design
also. Beware of infringements.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
The Austral Hat Mills, Ltd.,
Abbotsford, Melbourne.
Shell Motor Spirit.
“ MORE MILES on « SHELL’
-—THAN ANY OTHER.”
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
QUIT DISCOMFORT!
The sum of 6/9 will procure you a Rubber
DUNLOP HOT YMIER BAG
that will ensure you "warm feet at night-time for two or three Winters. Surely
this small sum is well spent in securing such comfort. Let us post you one of
these high-grade Bags. Their quality is guaranteed, neither do they leak or split.
Bags mailed at the following 10x6 in., 6/9 ea. 12x8 in., 7/9 ea.
price* inchuive of 6d. pelage: 10x8 in ,7 - „ 12x10, 8/4 „
MONEY MAY .BE REMITTED BY POSTAL NOTES OR STAMPS.
iif .:
mm
OUNLOP RUBBER CO. or aust. ltd
108 FUNDERS ST MELBOURNE; 2SS CLARICE ST.. SYDNEY; 92 PIRIE ST.. ADELAIDE.
87 KINC ST PER TH ■ 288-270 ADELAIDE ST BRISBANE; WORCESTER ST„ CHRISTCHURCH
“M.P.” sends an item that is part sport
and part Ancient Greece :—•
The Marathon lunatic is again abroad in the land,
and already several races are fixed for the coming
months. The East Melbourne Harriers have listed
a 26-miler, to occur in Melbourne after the 10 miles
cross-country championship of Victoria in Sept ember. A
reeen Bullktin par. referring to Marathon racing in and
around Sydney, says :—“ The medical examinations must
be made more critical or the thing . . . will degenerate
into a heart-wrecking business, and leave scores of con-
firmed invalids in its wake." Let me say “ Hear hear ! ” 1
was at one time an enthusiastic Marathoner, and toiled
in the interests of representatives of ’Eooland who
I went overseas to try their staying powers against the
woild’s best. I also padded mile after mile on the hard,
dusty toad, and filled my mouth with water out of horse-
troughs, caught up to the tired ped. and sprayed him
pug. fashion. On one occasion, when I set out on the
bike loaded with emergency stuff, to attend a cele-
brated ped., the boys of our athletic team said I
“was the hope of the side.” (I want to establish
my right to pass an opinion on the subject.) The
general idea about Marathon races is that we
are emulating the ancient Greeks; but, according
to Alex, Leeper, the Greek scholar at Trinity College
(Melb.), such is not the case. He says, “ I can find no re-
ference to a Marathon race in the Greek authors. I
believe it to be a purely modern fancy. Pheidippides’
famous run was from Athens to Sparta, and he covered
150 miles in 48 hours. He did his event just before the
battle of Marathon—that is his only connection with the
battle. The whole idea of his racing from Marathon
with news of victory must, I think, have been derived
from Browning’s poem. The Greeks did not, as far as 1
know, favor very long races. The longest, never
exceeded, I believe, 29 times round the Stadium,
which measured 210yds. or thereabouts, and I think it
very rarely was as much as this—total, 6090yds., which is
less than miles.” The 26-mile races are, apparently,
modern freak events founded on a myth. It is a cruel
experience to attend a fine sample of an athlete and see
his face gradually become drawn and pinched like a
death’s-head and his stride shorten down to an amble,
while on the roadside others are down with cramp in the
legs and innards, or with their ankles a ndkntes given out.
Is it sport when a contest is pursued by red-cross men in
a rubber tyred vehicle? It struck me as more like war.
Sime, the Sydney runner, has proved himself an athlete
in a t housand ; he would have been a Pheidippides had he
dwelt in ancient Athens. However, he hasyet ample time
to develop the usual ill-effects. When Aitken, the 10-miles’
cross-country champion of Victoria, ran his first, trial
before journeying to London I predicted his failure at 20
miles. In the Windsor to London event Aitken went to
sleep at 20 miles from sheer exhaustion, and if he h d
not received attention it is quite likely he would have
passed quietly out. George Blake—an athlete with a
heart as big as a dinner disli—has won some mighty
races, and lias a record extending over a period of 11
years. He described his race at Athens in 1906 as awful.
He staggered and almost crawled on all fours to com-
plete the distance after hading by a mile at the 17th
milestone. George says he didn’t r cover from the effects
of that battle for months after. If these Marathon races
have such had effects on champions, how about the
mediocre runner? Some years ago the V.A.A.A. ap-
pointed a sub-committee to select a representative for
the 26 miles at the Olympic Games. That committee of
enthusiasts (A. O. Barrett, H. I). Smith and M. P. Adams)
entered into its task heart and soul. To-day the three
are of one mind : “ Marathon races are only fit for mules.”
“ J.Gr.” enters a true bill:—
It’s about time that somebody rose up and urged that
lawyers should be paid by results. That is, if Mr. Legal
Authority advises a client that his case will knock th e
opposing litigant into a cocked belltopper, and on being
brought into court (on Authority’s advice) it not only
does not knock worth a copper, but is biffed out with a
herd of Costs at its heels, Authority should receive no
pay and be forced to placate the Costs. Similarly, if the
case, on being tested in court, proves to be the solid
structure alleged by Gent One, then he should re-
ceive full union rates and a bonus. If this
were done it would do away with more than
half the number of law cases in one act. Then some
Judges could be dispensed with, and all the awful J. Pees
could stop home and mind the bar or help milk the
cows. There is nothing unreasonable about the sugges-
tion. If a builder undertakes to produce a good house,
and merely produces a jerry-built contraption that falls
down the lirst time the owner leans against it, he starts
by getting no money and finishes by having to pay com-
pensation. But when a lawyer declares that a case is the
clearest he has come across for some time, and that
it cannot be defeated, what happens to him when
it falls in untidy ruins on the floor? Nothing
at all. The Judge, beak, or cove on top merely
asks how such a mass of wreckage happened along, and
the wrecker walks out to blow the cheque handed over
by the unfortunate devil who was lured into the venture
or robbery. It may be true that there are some Gents
One who would not advise a client to go on with a case
unless they honestly believed it was sound ; but for every
one of that brand there are a hundred who would assure
the seeker of advice that black was white for the sake of
a few pounds. And the worst of it is that generally
those who can least afford it suffer the most.


UNSURPASSED VALU
A SAUNDERS.
Calf Crocodile Strap
PURSE, with leather handle,
calf lined, sterling silver
mounts and lock,
18/6.
Other styles, 13/6, 14/6, 16/6,
17/6 up.
SAVE TIME AND MONEY. SHOP BY MAIL. ’TIS
AS EASY AND SATISFACTORY AS OVER THE
COUNTER.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ BACK COMB, 9ct gold, fancy scroll mount
very neat and attractive,
25/-
Other styles, 8/6, 10/, 12/6, 16/, 20/ up.
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver-mounted Oak CLOCK, reli-
able movement, guaranteed free re-
pairs for 12 months,
15/- '
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 25/.
MAKE A NOTE OF IT—WE PAY CARRIAGE ON
ALL GOODS EXCEPTING CLOCKS AND CHINA-
WARE—ALSO MAIL OUR CATALOGUE POST
FREE TO ANY ADDRESS.
A. SAUNDERS.
Xylonite MANICURE SET, comprising 2 pairs
of scissors, nail file, nail polisher, nail brush,
and 2 powder pots, complete in nicely finished
case,
6/6.
Other styles. 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Student’s MICRO-
SCOPE, very power-
ful, in highly polish-
ed cedar case,
5/6.
Other styles, 8/6,
10/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
lATELAINE CASE, solid silver, velvet lined, hand-
somely embossed,
27/6.
Heavier, 30/, 35/.
A. SAUNDERS,
Ladies’ HAIR BRUSH, real
ebony, sterling silver mounts,
fine white bristles,
207-
Other styles, 7/6, 10/, 12/6
15/, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Buckskin TOBACCO PO.CH,
rubber lined, sterling silver
shield,
' 4/6. '
Other styles 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s COLLAR STUD BOX, pure sil-
ver plated, nicely finished,
5/0.
Other styles, 4/6, 5/6, 9/6. 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Calf crocodile PEGGY BAG, chamois
leather lined, with extra division, best
nickel frame, extra strong handles right
round body of bag,
20/-
Other styles from 4/6 to 55/.
IS§
A. SAUNDERS*
FAMOUS “SAFETY
RAZOR ENSURES
A QUICK, CLEAN
SHAVE 365 DAYS
IN THE YEAR.
INVEST IN ONE
OF THESE “TIME
AND TEMPER
SAVERS”—FOR
3/6.
YOUTL FE.SrLAD.
“SAFETY” RAZOR.
A. SAUNDERS.
SAFETY RAZOR, finest English steel, with best
Sheffield blades, also holder for stropping purposes,
complete, with full instructions, in leatherette case,
3/6
Ordinary razors, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6, 5/, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6,
8/6, 10/6 up to 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
POCKET KNIFE, 2 superior Sheffield steel blades,
buff handle, with toothpick and tweezers
2/6.
Other styles, 1/. 1/6, 2/, 2/6, 3/6, 4/, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6,
7/6, 10/6.
f
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s BRUSH SET, containing brush,
long white bristles, mirror, and comb,
in Morocco leather case,
10/6.
With Silver Shield on Case, 12/6.
A SAUNDERS
FIELD or OPERA GLASSES, pocket
size, Morocco covered body, perfectly ad-
justed enamel finished frame, achromatic
lenses, in solid leather case,
25/-
Other powers, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
30/, ioi up.
A. SAUNDERS.
Self-registering
maximum and
minimum THER-
MOMETER, metal
ease and scale,
8/6, 10/6.
Wooden case,
3/6, 5/; ordinary-
styles, 1/, 1/6,
1/9, 2/, 2/6,
3/6, 4/6.
SAUNDERS.
Cent’s HAIR
BRUSH, nickel
mounted, nicely em-
bossed,
4/6.
Higher grade, fine
quality bristles, 8/6.
■: WADE
T*
A. SAUNDERS.
CARVING KNIFE and FORK, finest Sheffield steel, pure silver-plated ferrules, finest quality stag handles, well made throughout,
8/6 per pair. Steels to match, 3/. Other styles, 5/, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6. 12/6, 15/.
A. SAKKUJ'JIiS.
Morocco PEGGY BAG, leather lined, rivet-
ted frame, with small inset purse, strong
handles,
9/6.
Other styles, S/6, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6,
9/6, 10/6, 11/6, 15/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SMOKER’S SET, comprising highly polished nickel
tobacco jar, 2 pipe racks, match holder, and crystal
glass ash tray (pipes not included),
15/6.
Other styles, 15/, 20/, 25/, 30/.
mwhp
<?y
ilm
mmM
%
A. SAUNDERS.
INKSTAND, polished nickel mounts, crystal glass
bottle and base,
9/6.
Ditto, with wooden base, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Nickel SHAVING-STAND, highly polished, com-
prising opal-lined bowl, shaving brush, and hot
water mug,
157-
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
JEWELLER,
*CUJck
k MAKER A
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809,811.815,816.817. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Station) SYDNEY.N.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
t OHSULT/%
.OPTICIAN


c
The Great Winter Pleasure
Trip to Sonny Queensland.
SMOOTH WATER—SPRING-LIKE CLIMATE.
Up-to-date and Comfortable Steamships,
I
BARRON FALLS IN FLOOD-700ft.
*Note. —Second Single Pares apply to all steamers engaged in (Queensland trade.
By the Magnificent Steamships of
Howard Smith Co. Ltd.
The Adelaide Steamship Co. Ltd.
Australasian United Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.
sdf
VIEW OF CAIRNS.
MR. DONALD McDONALD (the well-known writer)
describes the trip as follows: —
the greater part of the journey on the Queensland coast the steamer runs
between the Great Barrier Reef and the mainland, making it one of the smoothest
A of the sea trips of Australasia. The route is dotted with picturesque islands,
covered with foliage strange to southern eyes, and the boat is ever rounding headlands,
steaming into fine bays and estuaries. The famous Whitsunday Passage, between Mackay
and Bowen, is extremely picturesque.
“ In a short railway ride of 20 milts from Cairns one may travel through some of the
finest scenery in Australasia, culminating in the magnificent Barron Falls—the king of
cataracts. The trains run most of the way along the Barron Gorge, in scenery wild and
majestic, and the trip is one which no tourist going northwards should miss. I have ridden
on the box seat of a coach through the famous Buller and Otira Gorges of New Zealand, and
looked practically down into eternity, with only a solid foot of roadway intervening; but it
is not more thrilling than this railway run through the Barron Gorge, where there is always
a comforting feeling that your lease of life is not terminable by a false step on the part of
one of the leading horses. The trains stops at the Falls, of which there is a superb view.
There is no necessity to rhapsodise—go and see it.”
CAIRNS
is picturesquely situated, has a healthy climate, and the temperature in
winter seldom falls below 50°. First-class hotel accommodation at Cairns
and Kuranda (Barron Falls) can be obtained at a reasonable tariff, and
the fishing at Cairns is excellent. A trip to the Barron Falls and gorgeous
scenery about that part of North Queensland should not be missed.
wximsßii
111
si
mSBm
REGULAR &
FREQUENT SAILINGS BETWEEN
WEST AUSTRAUaJbOOIH AUSTRALIA,
VICTORIA, NEW SOUTH WALES, QUEENSLAND
and alt ports
AUSTRALIAN STATE gg
tijßbiJ
ADELAIDE S. C? LX° A.U.S.N.C? LIMITED
HOWARD SMITH C?L T 0 HUDDART PARKER&C9PTTL!?
v M?ILWRAITH, HPEACHAftN & C? PTT L ro


Bronchitis
can be cured
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Bronchitis, acute or chronic,
is cured by taking Scott’s
Emulsion. Scott’s Emul-
sion permanently cures
bronchitis in all its forms.
This statement is made with
confidence because hun-
dreds of people have written
to say they were cured of
bronchitis by Scott’s Emul-
sion. For example, Mr. H.
G. Morton wrote, August
6th, 1909, from 25, Gould
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.:
“My daughter Maud, aged three years,
contracted bronchitis, and although
various preparations were
tried, she became so ill that
we were afraid we should lose
her. Then I tried Scott’s
Emulsion, and she im-
mediately obtained great
relief. She is now quite cured
and looks well and rosy. This
trademark was on the emul-
sion I bought.”
If you wish to get rid of your
bronchitis, and decide to buy
Scott’s Emulsion, decide
also to GET SCOTT’S
EMULSION. You may be
asked to buy another emul-
sion and told it is “just as
good as Scott’s.” Substitute
emulsions can only be sold
on the reputation of Scott’s
Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion cures the disease —
no matter the age of the patient—and
will be approved by your Doctor for
Bronchitis if you ask him.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
dsf
7
THE STRONG
and Vigorous Man will always succeed
where the weak, nervous and debilitated
man must fail. We restore health,
strength and vitality with Nature’s
remedies. Our advice is free to all.
HERBAL DISPENSARY,
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
Established 27 Years.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
pn the Liver. A constipated habit of
jbody will be completely cured if the
; patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
I sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
.independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
; Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
FREE
R E E—F REE
HINTS to SHOOTERS by Donald Mackintosh
(of Shooting: fame) also Price List of Guns, Rifles
Revolvers, etc., handsomely illustrated 'lt con-
tains valuable information. Send name and
address and it will be sent FREE by return post.
Donald Mackintosh. 400 Bourke St. Melbourne
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Golds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
ds
Health
is the
Best Wealth
Happy are the homes where California Syrup of Figs is
always kept handy as a safeguard against sick headaches,
feverish colds, bilious attacks, indigestion, sluggish liver, and, most
important of all, constipation, with its serious tendency to become
habitual if not properly counteracted. California Syrup of Figs
has just the required influence on the organs which ensures their
being cleansed promptly and thoroughly, without that violent
action of purgatives which weakens the system and tends to make
constipation habitual.
“NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.”
Its equal suitability for the delicate or robust of all ages
makes California Syrup of Figs an ideal corrective
which no family can afford to be without.
Please at c i rcu l ar Trade
Mark shown herewith
Notice and the full name
of California Fig
Syrup Co. are on the package.
Of Chemists,
la two sizes.
fsd
fsd
f
EEEMING’S
PRICE,
14/6
FOR. . .
Ladies’ Footwear.
This High-Class Model is one of the smartest and most
popular of Ladies’ Shoes. It is fitted with neat Patent
Leather Caps and Facings, and can he had with either Pump
or Welted Sole.
Price - - 14/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/- extra.
SEND FOR OUR BOOKLET, “ SHOELIGHT.”
it are shown all the newest and most fashionable styles
in footwear.
LE-E-MING’S,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 257=259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran; I=3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
saioo
is
TRADE
MARK
Colds and chills
require prompt treatment.
WW' Freeman’s the Original Chlorodyne, taken at the first
W symptom, quickly cures, and prevents more serious complications
* Freeman’sis also excellent in Asthma, Bronchitis,Neuralgia.andDysentry
Fry. \
Highly recommended and used by Doctors for sixty-five years.
mi See ‘ ELEPHANT ' on every bottle, your safeguard against imitations
If your Chemist
i is out of stock,
I order a bottle
I he can quickly
g et it
FREEMAN’S
CHLORODYME
Allcock’s
sdf
sdsd
f
Plasters
APPLY
Wherever there is Pain.
sdfsdfsdfsd
Pains in the Back
Allcock's Plasters have no equal.
Strengthen Weak Backs
as nothing else can.
Pains in the Side
Allcock's Plasters relieve promptly
and at the same time
strengthen side and restore energy.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier and Tonic,
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, Indigestion, etc. Purely Vegetable,
Established 1753.
0?
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO., BIRKENHEAD, ENG.
Business, Robbery, etc.
“ Baro ” : Despite all the unkind things which
have been said about him, the “ free ” photo, enlarge-
ment fiend continues to flourish in city and country.
The dodge is always the same—a life-sized likeness of
Dad or Mum for nothing, “to advertise the firm,” and
“just sign this ticket as a matter of form." But
when the reincarnation of pa arrives, the housewife is
asked to shell out 255. or 305., as the case may be, for the
frame and frills. In the hurried argument which follows the
lady’s assurance to the agent that she “didn’t want the
rotten frame,” is answered by the production of a signed
order for that identical article. Generally the threat, “ I’ll
pull yer,” induces the female to pay. She falls in through
her insane desire to get “something for nothing.” The
average descendant of Eve is a fair terror for articles on
the nod, and mostly the nod brings as much trouble as
the original wink that was thrown at the blind horse.
* * * *
“ Itan Talking about combines, let me say a
piece about the builders’ combine. There are about
twelve firms in the city which manage the large
contracts amongst themselves, and this is how the job is
worked. These big contracts are not advertised, but
cards are sent to the dozen, giving' the dates on which
the plans and specifications can be obtained. Smithkin-
son (say) puts in a price, and forwards a copy of his
quotation to the other eleven apostles. They im-
mediately quote for the work at a higher figure.
Then Smithkinson gets the job. Next time it
is Brow'njohnson’s turn, or Jeremiahson’s, and
the old game moves on cheerfully to the accompanying
boom of building. The other day, however, something
went wrong with the machinery. Abel Hodcarrier,
whose turn it was to work the oracle, miscalculated, and
then declined to sign the contract. So it was offered to
the next man, and the next, until 11 of the gang had
been communicated with. But every man of them was
out, or not well, or too busy; for on Abel Hodcarrier’s
miscalculation each had based his price. The twelfth
man, however, who had put in a chance price so high
that there was a certain profit in it despite the error,
began to consider that something was doing for him, and
when the job was spun in his direction he seized it with
both hands. So out of evil cometh good business, for
if Abel Hodcarrier lost the job it at least remained in the
family on profitable terms.
* * * *
Private Enterprise is on the snuffle once more.
A while back it asserted it would be wholly and com-
pletely ruined if the 2001 b. wheat bag was made compul-
sory. Now it is all broken up because the Commonwealth
authorities insist on the compulsory grading of butter
and the reduction of the maximum percentage of
moisture from 16 to 14 per cent. As usual, Private
Enterprise asserts the thing can’t be done —at the very 7
time that it is doing it. Even while the Brisbane Con-
ference of butter-factory managers was affirming the
impossibility of constructing the grease with less than 15
per cent, of moisture the Melbourne Board of Health was
getting local samples analysed and finding them well
ahead of the standard demanded—of 16 samples only one
contained over 15 per cent, and some as little as 9 per
cent. Does Private Enterprise know anything of its
business at all; or does it merely speak as the wind blows
its tongue about?
* * * *
“The Hack”: Re Australia’s tinned-fish supply
(B. 2/6/TO). There is no longer any reason why Australians
should worry over the arrival or non-arrival of foreign
wind-jammers, bearing doubtful sea-denizens packed
under doubtful conditions. I have just made a meal of
Australian tinned fish, packed under Government super-
vision by the Victorian Preserving Co.; and a better meal
of its kind I have never tasted. Australian fish lend
themselves perfectly to packing, their flesh retaining its
natural flavor and presenting an attractive appearance.
The local article costs just about half the price of the im-
ported, while, being packed under Government super-
vision, it is more reliable. Despite these advantages, the
Australian public so far has turned up its nasal limb at
the safe and cheap local article in favor of the suspicious
and expensive importation. If the fool public knew some
of the foreign methods of packing and preserving its
opinions would change more sudden than immediately,
but if I explained them probably everybody would swear
off fish for life.
A DESIRABLE JOB.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
W ANTED, a Man, inside brewery work, toping up,
’ etc., must be used same, refs. Marshall’s,
Oxf.-st.—S. M. Herald.
The papers are crowded with beautiful ads.
Positions are vacant for “ young girls ” and “ lads ” ;
Men are “wanted on works”;'
There are billets for clerks ;
And all the professions are calling for grads.
Ho, grocers, fall in ! For “ a good all-round hand ”
There are urgent requests from all parts of the land ;
If you’re up in the trade,
Why, your fortune is made—
You can earn thirty bob shifting sugar—and sand 1
Here's a chance for a man who thinks little of pomp :
“ Required for the Wowser a good jobbing comp.”
And here: “ Wanted maid,
Energetic and staid ”...
(Not a flighty young thing who might possibly romp !)
Shorthand-writers and typists are asked for in scores
At the same rate of pay as the man who sweeps floors ;
’Tis a ladylike craft.
Though there’s plenty of graft,
And it also necessitates sticking indoors.
Married couples (no children) have only to look—
And behold ! wealth at last: “ Man as groom, wife as
cook.”
While a hundred ads. yelp
For the sweet “ lady help ”
To fill the gap left since our girl slung her hook 1
To the hordes of “sales-ladies,” “ respectable boys,”
“ Improvers,” “ machinists” the draper employs,
Whose burning ambition
Is some “ nice” position
In some “nice ” department at Anthony Foy’s 1
Stonebreakers, shirtmakers— all strictly T. T.
Bricklayers’ improvers, and such-like we see
In every column ;
Now, here we get solemn—
It seems there is nothing to suit you or me.
What’s this ? Holy Mammon, you’ve granted our prayer !
Joy! Joy! We are raised from the depths of despair !
Look ! “ Wanted for brewery,
A Man. ...” Run like fury
Away in a taxi—and stick up the fare !
The ad. says "Inside.... Toping-up.” Fates be
thanked !
Full many’s the pint of good swanky we’ve swanked
In the past—but, look here,
This means oceans of beer.
’Tis a permanent job, toping-up—getting tanked.
No bobble-de-hoy or sales-lady can rob
Us Third Degree Topers of this splendid job !
A head’s needed here,
And long practice in Beer —
Not the poor little thirsts that are slaked on a bob.
Good luck comes at last—we were getting full up
Of long disappointment at Life’s empty cup ;
But this js a billet.
We feel we can fill it. . . .
Address us : The Brewery ; the Man toping-up.
N.S.W.
O. C. CABOT.


BEALE GRAND PRIX PIANOS.
! h. •W ■ - ->h '• -j ' '' ‘ ' V ' i ,'.: ■
i 1
Unsurpassable Quality.
In tone, in touch, in tune, in design, in woodwork, metalwork, frame, tuning-system,
carvings, action, felt, glue, castors, sconces, strings, polish —in every detail of material,
of workmanship, and of system of manufacture, in every attribute, the BEALE
AUSTRALIAN PIANOS are of unsurpassable quality. They are built through-
out on the most up-to-date, scientific principles, by thoroughly competent workmen,
guided by experienced management. They contain features which cannot be obtained
in any other pianos—patented steel tuning-system, patented cross-plied woodwork,
patented hexagonal bass-strings, patented cast-in hitch pins. The system of manu-
facture in many respects is far ahead of the practice of the piano-makers of Great
Britain, Europe and America, and in every other respect it is equal. The quality of
the materials is the best that money can buy. Then how CAN there be any better
pianos ? The demonstrable fact is that there are NO pianos—German, English,
French, American, or any other —even EQUAL to the Beale Australian Pianos.
We do not assert that there are no other high-grade pianos, but we do most
emphatically claim that the Beale Pianos, BY REASON OF OUR PATENTED
INVENTIONS AND OUR IMPROVED SYSTEMS OF MANUFAC-
T U RE, are superior to all others, good as some of those others undoubtedly are.
We made this claim some years ago, and since then our pianos have been
exhibited alongside those of some of the best piano-makers of the world at the Franco-
British Exhibition, London, and four Juries and a Grand Jury awarded us the
GRAND PRIX for TONAL QUALITY and GENERAL EXCELLENCE,
a Diploma of Honor, and Two Gold Medals for other high qualities of manufacture
and inventions.
** ’ ■ • ?rn>h e\ p.. * ' EV ; : • : y“; " : •’ •• ''.. ;
. ' IA r * #
Come and see them for yourself. Write for catalogue and circulars. Compare
them with all the other pianos you know of —see which is the superior—and you will
decide to buy a BEALE.
BEALE CO. Ltd
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
378 George Street, Sydney
(3 Doors from
G.P.0.)
107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 Queen Street, Brisbane (next G. P.O. —our Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Bundle Street, Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
'’ • i
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Goulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Mackay and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. Write for Catalogue, or for Representative to call.
Head Offices & Factories : Trafalgar Street, Annandale, Sydney,
Cash or Easy Terms. 25 Years ’ Guarantee. Repairs and Tuning.
Old Pianos Allowed For. Direct from Factory to Family.
Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


AND
35?
ft
CC
All
1
w
W
W
N^Tcc/*
JOCKEY (to corpulent horse-owner) : €<s THat’s no use to US, Guv nor


Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager ; J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
LAST NIGHTS of THE DOLLAR PRINCESS.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 9,
,J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
NEW COMIC OPERA COMPANY
in the Bright Musical Comedy of Solid Laughter,
A KNIGHT. POE A DAY.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE & CLYDE MEYNELL SEASON.
EVERY EVENING.
THE PASSING OE THE THIRD
FLOOR back: '
MATHESON LANG as THE STRANGER.
HUTIN BRITTON as THE SLAVEY.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
SATURDAY NEXT, JULY 9,
NELLIE STEWART, Australia’s Idol,
in the Play of the Century,
WHAT EVERY WOMAN KNOWS,
NELLIE STEWART a* MAGGIE WYLIE.
Prices as usual. Plan at Paling’s.
Amusements.
DAL ACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
THE WINTER HOME of the Popular and Unrivalled
WEST’S PICTURES,
Managing Director: T. J. West.
WESTS PIC Stand Alone Superior to
All Others, and are “The Window of the World.”
6d. to 2/- People’s Popular Prices 6d. to 2/-
Owing to Limited Capacity, Seats should he secured
at Nicholson’s.
H E
LYCEUM,
SYDNEY.
TWO PERFORMANCES DAILY.
MATINEE at 2.30. EVENINGS AT 8.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
PICTURES.
SPENCER IS SYNONO.MOUS WITH SUPREMACY.
Prices as usual. Plan at Paling’s, 2/6.
NEW PROGRAMME EVERY THURSDAY’S MATINEE.
GLAOIA IiIUM.
ICE SKATING.
SYDNEY
REAL
THREE SESSIONS DAILY
10 to 12 Noon ; 3 to 5 p.m. ; 8 to 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION, 2s. ; SKATE HIRE, SIXPENCE.
CHlLDREN—Admission Morningand Afternoon Only, Is.
Saturday Morning Only, Sixpence.
Particulars of Season Tickets will be sent on Application.
’Phone, 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Proprietor & Manager— Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
THE DARDINIS. American Comedy Jugglers.
LIEUT. PRANK TRAVIS, the Tramp Ventriloquist.
MARJORIE DEAN, Burlesque Actress and Danseuse.
CHARLENE and CHARLENE, Comedy Juggler and
Lady Xylophone Expert.
LILLIE LANGTRY, Comedienne.
BILLY WILLIAMS, Laughter-Making Comedian.
GODFREY JAMES, Welsh Vocalist.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
O PERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
KREMO FAMILY, World’s Greatest Risley Performers.
THE FALCONS, COMEDY Acrobats.
RAYMOND TRIO.
VAUDE and VERNE, Comedians.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s. Is.
THE KING'S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
1 Sole Lessee and Manager— William Anderson.
EVERY EVENING.
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co. in
THE SAILOR’S WEDDING.
The action of the play takes place in the lovely
district surrounding Naples, and each of the
scenes will be of exceptional beauty.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s, and Is.
LIEU MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
B * Lessee and Manager: J. C. Williamson.
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE ORCHID,
A QUEEN AMONG GAIETY SUCCESSES.
Cast includes Florence Young, Fanny Dango, Andrew
Higginson, Bertie Wright, Langford Kirby, Florence Vie.
Plan at Allan’s.
PRICES —ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
-J-HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
THE LAST THREE WEEKS IN AUSTRALIA.
OSCAR ASCHE—LILY BRAYTON
CO.
IN SHAKSPEARE’S COMEDY,
THE MERRY WIVES of WINDSOR.
BRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Lessees : Rupert Clarke and Clyde Mevnell.
In Season for TWO MORE WEEKS ONLY,
PHENOMENAL SUCCESS of R, C. Carton’s Great Farce
MR. PREEDY AND THE COUNTESS.
as played by GEORGE WILLOUGHBY’S
ENGLISH FARCICAL COMEDY CO.,
introduced by Rupert, Clarke and Clyde Meynell.
ALL MELBOURNE LAUGHING.
“ PREEDY ” preceded by the Curtain-raiser, “ Slippery
Jim.” Prices—R.S. & D. 0., 5/-; Stalls, 3/-; Gall ry, 1/-
| J. B. Mqntrie, Business Manager.
ATHENAEUM HALL, MELBOURNE.
Lessees .. J. & N. TAIT.
J.&N.TAIT’S
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holidays. !
Popular Prices. -First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan's, j
\Rt E S T’S PALACE, MELBO UR N E.
THE BEST WEST’S PICTURES, THE IJESX 1
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL. 1
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to he seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —(id. to 2s. Box Plan at, Gleu's,
| CE SKATING.
Melbourne GLACIAIIIUM
i
EVERY
AFTERNOON AND EVENING.
Amusements
WIRTHS'OLYMPIA.
EVERY EVENING AT ft
M atlnees -Wednesdays . Saturoays and Holidays at 2 30
C PENCERSIHEATREJCOPE <s>
rfRE SUPER. lon ro PLL OTHERS .,
Popular Prices Plan as I
CARBIDE.
For FirsPclass Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
DRUNKENNESS CURED.
It is now generally admitted that Drunkenness is
not a vice, but a disease—happily one that is curable.
DR. SHAW'S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered b.v the
Govts. Vic. and N.S. VV.) is a certain cure—is harmless
and can be given secretly or taken voluntarily.
Advice Free. Write or Call.
DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISHMENTS : 51 Russell Street,
Melbourne; 1101 Hay Street. Perth,W.A, fi
X
Leads you into danger!
The" why not use
WIISON’S “COMMON
SENSE" EAR DRUMS?
They relieve Deaf-
ness and Head Noises,
and are invisible and
comfortable in use.
Particulars free, or
order at once, send-
ing £1 for outfit, and
full directions post-
paid, by return mail
Sole Agents:
STAR NOVELTY CO.,
229 Collins Street. Meib-uroe.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA, LUMBAGO.
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy (or Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/ij& 2/9 per box
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand.
London. England
fdhfryrt
# w ■
*
For Winter Comfort-buy a Hot Water Bottle
.
*
No-
Prices from
419
each.
There is nothing that so adds to one’s
comfort on a cold Winter’s night as a Hot
Water Bottle. We can supply you with
the best at a reasonable price, for, not-
withstanding the recent great rise in
rubber, we, having bought largely before
the rise, are able to supply at prices
20 per cent, less than are being asked
elsewhere.
We also stock covers in all sizes.
We send to all parts of the Common-
wealth.
Write for Catalogue “ B.” It illustrates
and describes rubber goods stocked by us.
Novelty Rubber Co.,
250 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
It was a Bendigo civic councillor who lately
spoke of football matches as “ heartrending 1 ” on account
of “ the swearing that goes on.” He had sat among the
barrackers, and when they “ blasphemed and cursed and
look no more notice of it than tilling their pipes his
heart suffered, as aforesaid. The local football associa-
tion could only plead that there had been an improve-
ment among the players. They don’t curse and blas-
pheme as willingly as of old ; but as to the “ barrackeis ”
—well, the association couldn’t control their langwidge.
“ Policemen had always been engaged.” Football in
Victoria has always provided a feast of foul language at
Bendigo. A quarter of a century ago the principal
speaker at the Saturday afternoon gatherings was a
prominent citizeness. whose eloquence, in the words of
harsh critics, was “dashed orfui.” She had petchampions
of the game whom she urged to furious endeavor by dis-
respectful allusions to their opponents’ innards. Her
voice rang out above the din like a peal of bells in a
drunken cathedral. She was the inobled queen of
barrackers, and the corridors of football history still re-
sound with echoes of her words of praise, blame and
ready suggestion. Also, she was favorably known to the
police who were engaged to keep disorder.
•» * * *
The Australian Rules footballers are out earth-
hunting. Another £4OOO is said to have been raised, or is
about subscribed, or something. Anyhow a League
Trust has been formed to acquire and manage another
area in a Sydney suburb, so that the Australian Rules
League will have two grounds of its very own by the
beginning of next season. Hitherto the only football
body which has acquired grounds of its own in
i his fashion was the Sydnev Metropolitan Rugby
Union, which fell in over the Epping purchase. That
has proved somewhat of a pale elephant unless
Rumor is an absolutely untruthful jade. But thecircum-
stances are different. The only hope the Australian
game has of making its way in Sydney is to secure places
to which it can charge for admission. It is because of
the lack of such grounds that the League is in a back-
ward state to-day. The acquirement of Erskineville
Ground has practically put the League upon its fe t.
Another such purchase will give it something of a pocket,
and by the time it has acquired about four grounds
scattered around the city, the Australian Rules League
will walk about with its chest stuck out as far as any of
them.
The Yankee team in Sydney made an exceed-
ingly bad start, and fell in for a rough time. Bi aten at
football bv Australians and Maoris, downed at baseball
by' a N.S. W. team by eight to three, and walloped in the
inter-Varsity sports meeting by 48 points to 28, its luck
was out indeed. “Is there an.v other game\ou fellows
can play?” inquired a rash Australian. “ Yes, dump-
ing!” laughed the Yankee. The Australian didn’t know
what dumping meant, and inquired how the game was
played. But the Yankee did not enlighten him.
* * * *
The stampede from Sydney Metropolitan Union
to the League continues, and another large batch crossed
over on Saturday last. The hope that the Union may
cease to be a training ground for the League is based oh
the fact that the League clubs are becoming choked.
They have more players than they can pro\ide games for,
and the body general is feeling sated.
* * * *
South Tasmania is in high glee. Recently the
Norwood (S.A.) football team crossed over to the Fly-
speck—after an absence of 19 years—and went down
badly by 78 points to 57. The unexpected is always
interesting 1 , and anything more unexpected than
Tasmania’s success at football is hard to imagine.
Apparently the place is waking up.
* * * *
The way of the Maoriland Rugby tough grows
hard indeed. Recently the Wellington (M.L.) Rugby
Union dealt out four weeks suspension to a player for
assaulting an opponent. Then the Law took a hand and
the beak murmured “£1 and costs,” otherwise jug.
This roused the M.L. Rugby Union, and it reviewed the
case; said four weeks was ridiculous, and stretched the
term to two years. Then the injured man’s sister’s best
boy came along and demanded satisfaction, and by the
time he was satisfied there was not much left of the
offender.
* * * *
N.S.W. Football League (Australian Rules)
has selected M. Grace, a mighty barraeker before the
gods in Victoria for 20 years, to lick the Cornstalk team
into shape to meet the onslaughts to come. Teams from
Melbourne, Fitzroy, Queensland, North Broken Hill and
Riverina will all swoop down on that team in August,
and the League has chosen 30 players to uphold the
Metropolitan tail.
The first day of the inter-State lacrosse up-
heaval at Adelaide (S.A.), on Saturday, was a sorry time
for the Ma State, which went down before Westralia by 11
goals to five. Victoria and South Australia provided a
slashing game, which ended in a draw—five goals each.
Monday, the second day, was even more disastrous to
Ma. Victoria won by 17 goals to two, Clark accounting
for no less i han 12 of them. The other match between
Queensland and Westralia saw the erstwhile vanquishers
of the Ma State overthrown by II goals to two.
* * * *
The billiard match between Lindrum and John
Roberts—lß,ooo up—now being played at Alcock’s Rooms,
Melbourne, is the prettiest exhibition game that the
local billiardists have seen. At time of writing it looks
as though the original expert opinion, that Roberts’ con-
cession of 3000 in 18,000 to the Australia was more than
the veteran could afford, would be justified. The feature
of the game was the marvellous sprint by the young 'un.
At the beginning of the game Roberts had apparently
the best of it, and wiped off 1000 of the handicap before
the young man got going. When Lindrum had scored
only 3978 (plus the 3000 handicap) the old man
had made 5251 ; but in the evening the young man
ran up 1023 whilst Roberts made only 323. Lindrum
did nothing remarkable, for him, except a 268 break.
But he kept on doing it, and the regularity of it told
heavily. He made four other breaks of over 100 and one
of 98, whereas Roberts, out of “form” and luck, never
uent higher than 65 in an innings. In the manner of his
play Roberts is still the easy master, but in the capacity'
for sustaining a series of efforts young Lindrum is—well,
40 y'ears the younger man. Asa compiler of the occa-
sional big break and an exponent of fine individual shots,
Roberts is “ all the points ” ahead of the youth.
* * * *
The recent fining of the Hon. F. Lascelles, son
of the Earl of Harewood, for using “ obscene ” language,
proves that England has its fool-magistrates as well as
Australia. The Honorable was biking, and was run into
by Mrs. Langworthy’s carriage while the lady was in it.
When he was fished out from under the vehicle, with his
collar-bone broken and many other damages, Mrs. Lang-
worthy asked him if he would like to see the doctor, her
husband, who was at home. “No damn fear,” said the
Honorable, “I’ve had enough of the Langworthy family.’
The lady was so shocked that she laid an information for
using “obscene” language, and the Honorable was
charged £1 and costs.
* * * *
“ Adelaide” : Now that it is all over and Wild-
ing has won (so that it cannot seem as if a losing side
was growling)—is not modern lawn tennis too much a
test of stamina rather than skill ? If a man wins the
first two sets, he is apparently the better player ; if he
loses the next three straight off, his opponent is cew.
tainly better trained. It is not at all likely that the bal-
ance of skill has suddenly shifted round. The fact is
that lawn tennis was at first mistakenly derided, by those
who didn’t play it, as a game for girls and curates ; and
those who ruled it, anxious to show that stamina was
needed, have gone too far. If there is any other sport
that tries the player so hard, so continuously, and so
long, it is apt to be a matter of blind endurance—club-
swinging for a record or a Marathon race. But tennis is
a game of skill, and skill cannot be kept at its best
through two hours of unceasing athletic effort.
*. * * *
One Francis Duguis. of Kew (Vic.), is accused of
having perfected an aerial craft in advance of “ anything
yet achieved by British or foreign air-men,” and though
the accusation is made by what is vaguely described
as “ expert opinion," it is quite possible that he has
accomplished something interesting. His vehicle, inthe
model, resembles a furniture-van fitted with three
pairs of wings, which work horizontally beneath
an upper pair of planes. These wings are so con-
trolled that one pair is always beating- against the
air, thus causing, it is claimed, the perpendicular
ascension of the machine. Vertical upliftment, however,
is further aided by vertical screws fore and aft, which can
be “ raised or lowe ed from or to the horizontal.” The pro-
gress of the vessel is secured by the usual propeller. The
invention, although ignored by the dead Fus on Govern-
ment, has been taken over by a private company that
sees a prospect of oof in the exploitation of Duguis’ ideas.
Its great asset is that it can rise straight up, and that,
properly handled, it can hover a few inches from the
ground, or remain stationary in the air—theoretically.
How the inventor proposes to get over the “slip” with
his vertical screws is not stated, but unless tie has got
over it his troubles are only beginning.
Weights for the spring handicaps, both in
Sydney and Melbourne, tell the usual tale of much-of-a-
muehness among the bulk of the entries. In the Melbourne
Cup there are 60 horses on the limit (6st. 71b.) line
out of a total of 206, arid 120 (as also in the Caulfi Id Cup) j
weighted below seven stone. Only 36 of the Melbourne [
Cup entrants are rated higher than 7st. 71b. ; so the J
chanceof a good one turning'up in the“ ragged ” division
—something capable of beating Alawa and Prince Foote !
at a difference of two stone or more—is considerably
greater than the probability of the proved performers
having the race to themselves. Nevertheless, the early
fancies are for the old, familiar names mostly'. Even the
handsome, disappointing Monobel is talked of again on
the strength of his having been let in at 7st. lib. Hut of
all the middle-class veterans with an occasional “ bit of
form ” to recommend them, the best-treated one, in this
scribe’s opinion, is Eric at 7st.. lllb. This son of Sir
William is a gelding, and if he isn’t overtrained, as geld'
ings usually are, the two-mile raceshould suit him. With
Bst. 21b. up he ran a good race last year.
* * * *
Because be stands at only 9st. lib. in the
weights, Prince Foote is declared to have a great chance
for the Caulfield Cup. Vet, on all previous showing, the
little champion is unlikely to battle his way to the front
through a big field of triers in a 12-furlong race. Wake-
ful, with 9st. up, made all the running in a Caulfield
Cup, and was beaten by only a head on the post, but
Prince Foote has been proved incapable of dashing away
in front when the harrier rises. He is the sort that gets
blocked in a Caulfield Cup crowd, whereas two other
heavyweights—Parsee and Maltine—strike one as being
everyway fitted to take care of themselves.
* * * *
“0.K.”: Last week’s “Sporting Notions”
committed a slight mistake in a comparison of Prince
Foote’s handicap for the Melb. Cup with that of Carbine
at the same age. Any mistake in “Carbine” figures is
as blasphemous as a misquotation from the Bible. Hence
this correction. The p>ragraph said that “ Carbine ran
second in the Cup with lOst. 41b.” Verily, it was not so.
At four years old Carbine ran second with lOst. up. At
five years old he won with lOst. 51b. up. Prince Foote is
rated by the handicapper to be within 71b. of Australia’s
patron saint, and, being a smaller horse, he seems over-
rated.
The Ox. N. Hurdle race at Fleniington, last
Saturday, must have struck the public as a strictly
gratuitous injury. They were put off Obi by what now
seems to have been a carefully organised chorus of praise
regarding his stable companion, Volta. Everybody—
except the most intimate friends of the stable—had been
persuaded that Volta’s chance lay in his being much
better at the weights than Obi, who had recently run
well enough to earn a 71b. penalty for the race.
Yet, as a matter of fact, the boasted Volta was
not fancied by his trainer at the finish. The
gee had a sore mouth or something, which kept him back
in his preparation ; and when the test came he was the
first to retire from the front to the extreme rear. Obi’s
win, under the circumstances, was satisfactory only in
the fact that he had frankly and openly displayed' his
speed after the weights were published. Perhaps it was
lucky for him that the grey Grenfell, with 211 b. more to
carry, made so much running, and that The Reckoning
lost a lot of ground—which he recovered with undue
haste in the third mile. The heavy going gave the light-
weights a great advantage. It was not until the better
horses were tiring that Rogue’s March (9st. 71b.) got near
enough to finish in third place.
Obi carried 9at. 12ib., but was originally handi-
capped at 9st. ,51b. The average weight of Grand National
winners for the past 11 years comes out at 9st. 91b.; so
there must be something rotten in a system of handicap-
ping which practically denies a chanceof victory to the
best of the proved performers.
Judged by his good performance in the Hurdle
Race, where he ran with Grenfell in the lead for fully a
mile and a half, Harvest should go very near winning
the Steeplechase, provided that he is none the worse for
having barked one of his shins last Saturday. Asa
’chaser, he has proved his merits over the course. So
likewise has old Seymour, who is said to be. now going
better than ever before. Obelisk is another animal with
a great chance on paper, seeing that he won the
Maiden Steeple in faster time than Grafnax registered
last year. Workmaster, from Adelaide, has recent form
in his favor. Before the day, one or other of the light-
weights (besides Obelisk) may jump into notice, but at
time of writing the most likely candidates are Grafnax,
Harvest and Seymour, and the latter has the recom-
mendation of a longer price against him than the other
two.
Melbourne had a horror last week. One
Carton, a widower, engaged his cousin, Margaret
Matilda Carton, to look after the house and
children. Margaret wound up a long course of
horrible ill-treatment by beating one of the girls
to death. Then she took poison and thus side-
stepped the gallows. The children had never
complained to their father, so much were they
terrorised by their appalling aunt, and the father
“ never noticed anything wrong.” Why did he
never notice anything wrong? Perhaps because
he was a policeman. Melbourne policemen never
notice anything at all.
“Jack Plane”: Will some strategist ad-
vise me re the routing of a bull-ant camp? One
such has been in occupation of my back yard for
some time, and by persistent foraging and skirm-
ishing the inhabitants have become a nuisance.
I have tried hot lime, digging out. kerosene and
tar without avail. Finally, on the advice of a
budding Kitchener, I tried to burn them out by
lighting the father of all bonfires on top of them,
but this only caused them slight temporary em-
barrassment. I could kill them one by one with
an axe, but it would take too long.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Galling 1 at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by this Steamer.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Agents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
Mklroornk Agrnts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adki.aidk & Fremantle Agents : OF.O. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking;, Public Companies, &c-
-fhe (Jolonial (flutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. ±3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154 —Assuring; £33.888.510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4.727.264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Oiiik.f Offics. for Nf,w South Walks:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hot., C. J. Roberts, 0.M.G.. M.L.0., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
Bank of |)orth Queensland
limited.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700.000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves . 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
j; MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp&Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £1,500,000 0 0
Reserve Fund ... ... 1,340,000 0 0
Reserve Capital .. ... 1,500,000 0 0
£4,340,000 0 0
DIRECTORS:
Georgf. J. Cohen. Esq. .. -■ Chairman.
Hon H E. Kater, M.L.C. .. ... Deputy-Chairman.
Hon. H- Moses, M.L.C. A. J. Onslow Thompson, Esq.
Hon. jAMKS Burns, M.L.C.
Auditors : W. L. Docker, Esq., and E. S. Cape, Esq.
General Manager: T. A. Dibbs.
Assistant General Manager and Chief Inspector :
H. H. Massie.
Head Office: George Street, SYDNEY.
Manager : A. J. Soutar.
Accountant: W. R. Sayers.
Secretary: M. S. Grant.
Branch Accountant: J. Clayton.
Inspectors:
W. C. B. Tiley, W. H. Pinhey.
London Office: IS Birclxin - Lane.
Directors : F. H. Dangar, Esq. ; lion. H. S. Littleton ;
N. D. Cohen, Esq.
Manager, F. A. Scrivener.
Branches throughout the State of New South Wales
and in Queensland. Agencies throughout the world.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors —Sydney :J. Campbell Wood Esq.; W. O.
Watt Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Eld.) ; Hon. YV
H Wood, M.L. A. ; E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE
CO. Limited.
HEAD OFFICE :
GEORGE & HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY,
CAPITAL - £500,000.
Fire Insurances
effected on all class;-' of
Buildings, Stocks, Furni-
ture, &c. Rents also assured.
Marine Risks . ■
on Wool, Merchandise,
Hulls of Vessels, Freights,
Passage Money, etc.
Accident and Other insurances
J 11 C>£_various classes.
Rates Very Low. THOMAS M xiNLEY, Manager.
COMPOUND” of 40 years’ proven
iffica'Cy, for Coughs, Colda, Bronchitis, etc.
Shipping;.
Nord D
eutscher
'loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples. Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagoing Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnage, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cui-ine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents.
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANILA,
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA.
LOHMANN & CO.,
7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Tel. 698.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY HHANCII :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000,000
Uncalled Capital £500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £513,632 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,449 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 74,500 0 0
£750,581 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. -
Gen. Mnjrr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
TN€ AB€RD€€N LIN€.
Durban , Capetown* Plymouth, ami
Lomion.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
• Twin Screw, a One class only, t Omits Capetown.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Oape or Durban .. From £3l 108.. £l3 138 to £l7 1/8.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the hisrhest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH anti LONDON.
fdgdfg
Twin-screw Steamers.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
August 3.
RUNIC, 12,500 tons, to sail about
August 31.
MEDIC, AFRIC and SUEVIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FA RES —Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 Co £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 Co 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne 1 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
.
WINTER TOURSC
to Papua and the Pac.fio Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns £2O
June 24, Aug. 12 (ft ve weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands £2O
July 29, Sept. 9 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) ... £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated deseripti ve pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PH/LP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.— INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.— CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 3* YEARS.
Full particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
Office. J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
BANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
fgfdg
fdgfdg
df
£2,500,000
£1,750,000
£2,500,000
£6,750,000
DIRECTORS:
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.0., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MaeLaurin, Kt., A1.L.0.
Senator The Hon. .Janies Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Bmkland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, Esq. ; Shepheatd Edpreeliff Laidley, E«q.
Head Office— George St., Sydney. Lonc'on Office-64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 305 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua ; and Ayent.s and Correspondents
throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the
United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELI. FRENCH. General Manager
Hotels, &c.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., Lrndon, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Wealthy Locality.
{-* EORG£ HOTEL,
vJ St. Kilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Business Announcements.
m
MILLER'S
V
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5j _ Leril2 Inches.
/ ~ POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SNOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.! [4
S T JACOBS
OIL
Cures
RHEUMATISM
and Bodily Aches and Pains.
I Of all Chemists and Stores
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP 00.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Quaansiand Ports.
FOB MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
POUT PIEIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GEII AT.DTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, July £3.
'S.S. Bullarra (from Fre-
mantle), July 27, calling
at all N.-West Ports to
Derby.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Porta North to Oairna.
is S. Yonsrala, July 9.
[ S.S. Marloo, July 10.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of cail with other inter-State Companies on ai
services suliject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Office.
Q. S. YUILL 8c CO., LTD.,
Airents, 6 131UDUE SITtEET, SYDNEY.
GANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-IiED ROUTE.
T o VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER,
t Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* New Steamer.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Manatfinii Agents, 259 Georue-sLreel, Sydney.
F.— H. 5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “DORSET,**
11 400 Tons. W. L. Prentice, Commander
Will be despatched from SYDNEY about 13th July
„ MELBOURNE „ 16th July
” „ „ ADELAIDE „ 19th July
THie saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
JfNDONand I £49 10s . £13135 . £ is 15s. £17175.
LIV ERPOOL.. 1
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
%'W
MORRIS'S I
hree Witches
b CI*ARITT*B,
it a
10
for
Made
London
HIGHEST GRADE.
6s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
'THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
X AND
AGENCY COMPAN* LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £36,000 0 0
Dibkctors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; J. H.
MacFarland, Esu., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
“LINSEED COMPOUND’ ’—Trade Mark of Kay's
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.


TELEPHONE 3429.
HER EXCELLENCY
THE COUNTESS OF DUDLEY
TELEPHONE 3429.
The
Newest
Coiffure
showing one
of our
Featherweight
Transfor-
mations
made of
Finest Natural
Wavy Hair.
X
=-rSSSS ;
n
‘/A
/ , « \
Plaits,
Coils and
Twists
of Long
Hair.
Best Quality
and
First-Class
Workmanship
Turban Frames
covered with
Natural Wavy Hair.
Uncovered Frames
also obtainable.
*&
SAME FRAME, also
covered in
Natural Curly Hair,
to form a Smart
Cluster of Curls.
gTEIDLE ®. LUX.
“THE. BLOCK,**
294 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF THE
Commodore Gold Mining Company, No Liability
(MEEKATHARRA, WESTERN AUSTRALIA).
To be Registered in South Australia under “ The Companies Act, 1892.’
CAPITAL —£35,000 in 70,000 Shares of 10s. each,
Of which
36,000 Shares are offered for subscription at 10s. per Share, payable 4s. on application, and balance
in calls (if required).
24,000 Shares, to be issued PAID UP TO ss. PER SHARE, are to be issued to the Vendor or his
nominee in part payment for the Vendor’s Rights unuer the options of purchase hereinafter
mentioned.
10,000 Shares are to be held in reserve for future issue (if required).
70,000
Of the cash subscribed, £9OO will be paid to the Vendor in part payment for the said rights under such ontions
(in respect of certain of which he has already paid the sum of £500), and £l3OO will be paid, under the terms of the
three Agreements of Option hereinafter mentioned, to certain of the persons named therein, respectively ™
The balance of the cash subscribed, less brokerage of 3d. per share and the expenses incidental to the flotation
and registration of the Company, will be placed to the credit of the Company. P C the flotation
DIRECTORS.
To be elected at the Meeting hereinafter mentioned.
SOLICITORS.
Messrs. MURRAY, HAYWARD AND MAGAREY, Pirie Street, Adelaide.
SECRETARY (pro tern.).
JOHN S. SCOTT, Universal Buildings, Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
BROKERS.
Messrs. CLARKE & CO., Adelaide, Melbourne and Kalgoorlie.
Company is being formed for the purpose of, inter alia , acquiring from the Vendor, Alfred Rutter Ciarke
the options of purchase contained in and granted by the three Agreements of Option, dated the 11th October vino’
the 16th December, 1909, and the 27th December, 1909, respectively, hereinafter mentioned in corn
working thfta S .ne N °' 597N ’ COUiprising 18 aores or hereabouts, situated at Meekatharra, Western Australia, S
The property comprised in the Lease has been reported upon by Mr. George Dagleish, General Manager of the
Cumberland Mine (Norseman), and a copy of his report is appended. It will be noted, according to such renort
that apart from some early cruslungs which have not been recorded, the Commodore mine has since 1901 P p?oi
duced 1895 tons for a yield of 32900 z. of gold, valued at £4 Is. per oz., the sands averaging 7dwt. per ton * *
Mr. Dagleish m such report states: —“One of my chief reasons for recommending this property for further
development is that it is situated on the same line of lode and 50 chains north of the Fenian and the
Ingliston Consols mines, which are now opening up splendid bodies of ore in the sulphide zone I examined thi
oxidised zone in these mines and I found the same class of ore there as I found in the Commodore mi ““nd I him
6 V \ reason to that if tihft (TnminnHnrp minp wnc o>d«u:j.. .. i ~ ’
* „ , « o«'***'- yji Vic uucie aa i luunu ill cue UOmmoaore mine and T h ivp
every reason to believe that if the Commodore mine was developed into the sulphide zone that equally -’ood results
I. lam also very favorably impressed with the prospects of the district generally ”
nblOlied liv t nanip in hhp Knirl R.pnn»4. bouo .j?*. .
WOU L d ü be “Stained. —.v lavuittuy mipi esseu wan tne prospects or me district generally ”
returns^:—- ame *** Said ® ,e P ol *' have > according to Western Australian official records, pro-
Tenian Mine 21,958 tons for 35,8960 z. fine gold.
Marmont Mine 26,136 tons for 21,6560 z. fine gold.’
Ingliston Consols Extended Mine 11,400 tons for 14,8840 z. fine gold.
The Agreements of Option above referred to are three Agreements resoectivelv ttd nrh Apt-pt..... mm
the 16th December 1909 and the 27th December, 1909, by
for Joseph Cordner), and by John Ethell and Thomas Kitchin, and by Daniel James Colga„!^respectively pS
under offer of purchase, for the respective considerations and upon the terms mentioned in agreement
th?rmn‘ V to y FI! 1 d e erickß7rdTrude: tS, t,tles and in ™s in the said Gold Mining Lease, and the plant and material
Adelaide, June 17, 1910.
OVERSUBSCRIBED PUBL,SHED FOR PUBLIC INFORMATION. THE SHARES HAVING BEEN
w
A HALF-GUINEA WATCH BELOW WHOLESALE PRICES. Guaranteed 5 Years.
This is the famous 10/6 CORN COB WATCH that we are presenting for 3/11 to any smoker
who will try Corn Cob now. VVe have just received another consignment of these Keyless
Watches, with Open Railway Dial, and fully jewelled movement. The Watch is Gun Metal
without advertisement and tobacco, post free 10/6. You can buy the two like this -J.
?°f- Corn Cob, packet cut, light or dark, lOd. ; the Watch, 3/11, postage 6d. ; total 5/3
H te . r ;® a e ? X . tra V, 4 ? z ‘ 9? m oob P li f' rht or dark, 1/4 ; the Watch. 3/11; postage
6d. total.6/9. Inter-State, 3d. extra. Per lib. plug, light or dark, 6/-, post free.lnter-
-s tirit>« 1 b- boxes > 6 /- 1 2oz. packets, 6/6 ; Inter-state, 3d. extra.
George Street, Sydney. Kstablished 30 years
’'
?she “Banßer”
1910
MODEL,
Aerated Water Machine.
A GREAT SUCCESS. With Turnover Syrup Rack and latest improvements.
The ONLY MACHINE in use by Sydney Hotelkeepers
because it is ALWAYS RELIABLE.
MAKES PERFECT SODA WATER. SIMPLE TO WORK.
40 Dozen of First-Class Waters can be syruped and filled by
a Boy or Girl in One Hour —at a cost of 3d. per Dozen.
It does away with Tedious Rocking of the Cylinder and Perishable Rubber Hose.
GUARANTEED FIVE YEARS. SOLD ON EASY TERMS.
We supply Pure Carbonic Gas, Bottles, Cases and all Requirements at Lowest Prices.
SODA FOUNTAINS. For Large and Small Trades.
Pump Carbonators, Draft Arms and Accessories. Write for Full Particulars.
Nelson Carbonating Co. L‘^
107 George Street, Sydney.
as
An Edison “Gem”
Combination Phonograph
and Ten Records,
complete, for
£4.
The Edison Phonograph is recognised the world over as the best sou-reproducing
machine ever devised. It is the ideal entertainer for any and every occasion—bringing
the best efforts of the world’s leading artists direct to your home—amusing your family
and your guests, and it will furnish dance music, marches and other things played by the
best orchestras and brass bands.
One of the most popular models is the Edison “Gem ” Combination Phonograph
(plays both Two- and Four-Minute Records), and you can purchase one complete, with
six Amberol (Four-Minute) Records and four Standard (Two-Minute) Records, for the
small sum of £4. Just imagine what pleasure the possession of such an instrument
would give in your house. Any Edison dealer will supply you, and you can have your
choice of Records from the thousands included in our lists.
If you do not know the address of a store handling Edison Phonographs and Records>
write us direct, and we will mail you complete Catalogues and the latest Lists of Records.
Get One of these Sets To-day!
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
DEPT. B, KENT STREET, SYDNEY.


gfd
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
VS;
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB &. CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubto & Co. on each Bottle.
g
For Colds
and Influenza
The soothing and healing properties of Angier’s Emulsion, combined
with its s rengthening and nerve-tonic properties, make it of exceptional
value for colds, coughs and influenza. It not only stops the most obstinate
cough and prevents serious lung mischief, but it promotes appetite, keeps
the digestive organs in a healthy condition, and exerts a wondeifully
invigorating influence upon the general health. Angier s Emulsion is the
very best tonic and restorative after influenza, pneumonia, pleurisy, bron-
chitis or any illness affecting the lungs. It is pleasant to take and agrees
perfectly with delicate stomachs. Of all Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
perfectly witn delicate stomacus. v* an - •<
ANGIER’S EMULSION
■ (PETROLEUM WITH HYPOPHOSPHITES.U
Testimonial from a Doctor.
Dear Sirs —I have used Angier’s Emulsion in a number of chest cases, notably in
cough ToUowing Influenza! and in the later stages of Bronchitis and have never known
it to fail. In one case of advanced phthisis it gave a good deal of relief. After trial n
a multitude of chest cases I consider it far superior to all I.RX.S.
A FREE SAMPLE
on receipt of 4d. postage. Mention this paper.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., Ltd., 7 Barrack Street. Sydney.
IN BANANA LAND
“ Henry Horsecollar ” : Cairns is the gem
town of North Queensland, though Townsville
lives pretty well up to its title of “the Jewel of
the North.” Everything is green and fresh
around Cairns. It is a place of high colors—red-
dish soil, blue sea and green foliage. (The beer is
the usual hue—brown.) And it has an advantage
which few other towns up that way possess, for the
mountains there crawl down closer than usual to
the sea, and the train shins up these mountains,
bustling through some 16 tunnels on the way, and
hanging, fly-fashion, to the mountain side as it
goes. If the vehicle cared to hurry, which it
doesn’t, it could deliver its passengers in an hour
at the mountain-top township of Kuranda, where
there is a big river and a waterfall, and much
foliage and a few aboriginals, and where the
nights are always fairly cool and the mos-
quito gets discouraged. But for the railway
agony the average Cairns business man would
build a cottage at Kuranda, and scoot up
at night and down in the morning all through
the worst part of the year. As it is, he
gets up rarely and doesn’t have a chance
to encourage the drink trade at high alti-
tudes. A local legend has it that a potentate
of great tonnage owns much property at Cairns
and doesn’t want people to get into the habit
of living on the mountain top, where he has no
houses to let, and it is said that his influence lies
like a nightmare on the chest of Kuranda. Any-
how, the local time-table is a marvel. The mixed
train leaves Cairns at 7 a.m., and the pas-
senger at 2.20 p.m., thereby making sure
that the business man who bangs his office
door at 5 p.m. won’t have a chance of
going up, and to make things extra sure, the
passenger train is made to take 30 minutes longer
on the road than the mixed—yet, the mixed is tio
antelope. In the morning there is nothing but the
dreadful mixed caravan to go down in. So there
is no boom yet at Kuranda beside the Barron
river; but its time will come, and when it does
come it will lie a mighty bier time. ...Nobody who
goes to Kuranda and considers its pleasant green-
ish river wants to move away again.
The German settlers who have lately
arrived in Queensland have nearly all been
brought out under the auspices of the Rev. Nie-
meyer, a clerical gun of some tonnage, who bosses
the Q. branch of the so-called Apostolic Church.
All settlers under the Nieuieyer regime are ex-
pected to give one-tenth of their produce to that
gentleman s tabernacle. Hitherto this has been
done by all true believers. Now the inevitable
heretic comes forward, refuses to pay the tithe,
and declines to conform to the Apostolic rule,
which demands that it) default he must surrender
his holding. The recalcitrant is backed up by the
regular Lutheran clergy, who hate the Apostolic
potentate with a deep and truly clerical hatred.
The matter is to be referred to Minister for Lands
Denham, who will handle it in very delicate
fashion, for the Rev. Niemeyer holds two Govern-
ment seats in the hollow of his hand, while the
hostile Lutheran clergy influence hundreds of
votes in the German districts of tiouthern Queens-
land.
A FAIR QUESTION.
TOMMY: "I say, Miss, was that there dog’s tail cut off or driv in?"
Charlie McDonald, the new Speaker of
t h e House of Reps., is just about 49 years of age.
jj e was horn in Melbourne; but he has spent the
greater portion of h:slifein the Ma State and
js ;inana ] anc L He was once a watchmaker, but he
dropped the partially-repaired Waterbury to
become an industrial organiser, and he was a
genius at the work. He organised the miners of
Charters Towers, and was their representative at
the hist general council of the Australian Labor
Fwleration . Aa a Parliamentarian, he was
nlHm l, er f or Flinders in the Phidston Assembly
f ro , n 1893 to 1901, and has shouted for Kennedy in
t [ le |^ e p S f roll) I<JOl to the present time. Per-
son,l]]y) he is an archangel in probity as he is a
terr er j n debate, and has a. passion for irnpar-
t;a|jty that almost amounts to a bias,
That verbose person, Senator St. Ledger
/Q lieenB | ant ]) has been writing for the press a
s*”®* of two-cohmm articles on immigration.
They are remarkable for the fact that no ordinary
newspaper could have printed them before the
invention of the linotype. lhe long-winded St.
Ledger is unspeakably fond of the first person
singular in his lit’ry efforts, and in the old days
no composing-room would have contained enough
capital ”Ts ’ to put him into print. The lino,
has made it possible. But the comp, wm/ set the
matter has got a blister on the top of his “I
finger.
The All-Australian Restaurant.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Wallabies, jugged and curried, are two new dishes
which have been introduced here, and frozen wallaby is
being retailed at from 4d. to 6d. per lb., taking the wal-
laby, skin and all. Out of a single wallaby, Mr. Dowling,
the caterer of l.eadenhall Market, said he had obtained
ten dishes ; for each dish he made a retail charge of lOd.
He placed ‘jugged wallaby” on his menu, and it was
speedily consumed by his customers, who were agreeably
sin prised with the delicacy of the new dish.— London
produce report.
W ITHIN a Dago’s shop, last week,
Some good beef Steak I went to seek.
The place was full of such as I ;
Strange-colored perfumes floated high.
And, as they smote tny nose, I swore
I never saw such smells before.
A fellow sitting near me said :
“I’ll try some padymelon’s head.”
Another, with expectant whoop.
Demanded loudly, “Mopoke soup.”
Not sure that I was quite awake,
I murmured meekly, “ Fillet Steak ! ”
The Dago stopped, and said, “By Gar !
You do not know, sare, where you ate.
“Da beef and mutton notta sell;
You get heem at da bush hotel.
“We have no oyst; but if you wish,
We got da barramundi fish.
“ You try-a lizard eggs on toast,
Or else da piece of bilby roast.”
He turned to go, and so I cried :
“ A tender piece of wombat, fried.”
A host of noisy voices then
Called: “ Ibis!” “’Possum !” “Malleehen!”
“Frill lizard, underdone, for two ! ’’
“ No capers on my wallaroo ! ”
“One crow,” “Twosnakes,” “Oneemu egg!”
“ Two kangaroo ! ” “ One brolga leg ! ”
And one man, with an oily smile,
Prepared to browse on crocodile.
My glance then wandered down to where
Two girls-discussed some native bear.
And then, my tasty dinner o’er,
I saw, writ large above the door.
Beneath the Dago’s heathen name :
“ Purveyor of Australian Game.”
QUEENSLAND.
S. C. O. JESSOP.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP
Brisbane. July 2, 1910.
My Dicar Tharoomindah,—
The clan Macgregor is upon its homeward way,
and has announced its intent to lend the glory
of its countenance to the Caledonian Society con-
cert on the 13th. William of Falkirk and his
wife are to be there also.
Mrs. J. A. Robertson and her pretty daughter
are the latest excuses for excessive tea consump-
tion. They sail by the next Yankee boat for
Canada, where the son and heir will attend col-
lege.
There is yet another engagement on foot be-
tween a merry girleen in town (who boasts so
absurd a name that it is no wonder she wants to
change it) and a tooth carpenter who belongs to
a flourishing inland town.
The glorious game of football attracted a record
crowd at the Exuibition Oval on Saturday, when
the Englishmen met, and made a mere snack of,
the local players. The average football enthusiast
of the male persuasion is sufficiently trying ; but
the wretched female who goes out in her largest
hat and does nothing but fidget and make
absurd remarks ought to be prohibited by law.
She was there in thousands on Saturday.
There has been quite an outbreak of small
junketings during the week. The musically-
minded Pioneers filled their room on Saturday
evening and unrolled a programme of interest.
Among the sea of femininity 1 distinguished a
sprinkl ng of men, who looked like the currants
in bakers’ buns ; but they were of the hardy.type
and didn’t turn a hair. The room was a yellow
scheme of wattle, which showed up to advantage
against the green walls. Miss Burstall lifted a
pretty voice in a cultivated way, and Mesdames
Moran, Steele and Walker, and Misses King and
Burrell provided the chamber music. There was
also a good male singer by the name of Clarke,
and supper of sorts. On the same night the
Parker girls filled the Albert Hall without any
paper, and lifted up their voices with success.
Vera, the contralto sister, especially shows an
ever-growing improvement.
Someone by the name of Macartney had a re-
ception at the Queensland Club on Wednesday
afternoon last, and so deep was the secrecy
observed lest the reporters should get the news
that a number of the guests forgot about it alto-
gether. The wind blew the table-cloths about the
legs of the tables in an unseemly manner, and
most of those who attended are now expending
their spare cash in cold cures.
A double event has happened in the hitherto
happy home of one of the professional elect, and
created chaos. It was the old tale of the trusting
Mary Ann with an eye to business, and the
untrustworthy man with an eye to Mary Ann.
Tile regulation court case is to follow.
Mrs. Philp and her sister, who sail to-day for
Asia, have been having a series of adieus to the
accompaniment of early strawberries and late
cream. There was one of the renowned gather-
ings of the clans at the Eschenhagen Cafe on
Thursday, and the Campbells, Donaldsons and
Munros were like the sands of the sea for
innumerableness.
At l ist the much-abused Police Magistrate who
happened along uninvited to the Yarrabah
Mission has given tongue, and answered the
tirade which his report brought forth. As he
neatly puts it, “ his sight isn’t weak at all, ’ and
the shortness of his visit was, in his opinion, a
blessing for the missionaries concerned, If he
had stayed longer he might have found out more.
Also he points out that, in spite of the scorn with
which his suggestions were received, several of
them have been since acted upon. One way and
another, he holds up his end of the clamor in fine
fashion.
On Thursday last the Government party was
whipped in and shipped on board the Otter. As
the wind blew like a herd of fiends, the junk
did not go outside the river, but lay-to while
the programme for the coming session at the
Talking Shop was discussed. On his return
the Premier hastened to inform the public of the
complete unanimity of the party. It seems that
when the party is unanimous nothing can equal
its unanimity. Yet the vaunted Bill for the redis-
tribution of seats doesn’t, it seems, run to any
reduction in numbers, although this is what quite
a number of Kidston’s followers have been crying
out for. How it is possible for all to agree in
these circumstances I don’t know. Perhaps it
was unanimously decided not to be unanimous.
The main effort of the Bill will, I suspect, be to
oust some of the big Laborites, like the Maranoa
member. By the way, a lady scribe, who has
arrived to write us up, asserts that she has it on
official authority that the date of Kidston’s depar-
ture for the marble halls of England is almost
fixed. What do you think ?
Thargomindah, my dear, do you ever go
“skyting?” It’s all the go here, and has been
for some time. Only, these days, they do it on
rollerskates, and the favorite play ground is the
(Hideaway, presided over by a small person with
a decided American twang. His name is Oar-
roll. He has the real 'Murriean methods, too,
and the sessions go with a tone. I happened along
one evening recently, and found quite a sprinkling
of the Very Best People on the slippery foothold.
Among them were two people from Toowoomba,
apparently having the time of their lives. Per-
haps this wouldn’t have struck me so forcibly had
I not overheard one of them telling a pal that she
w is returning in a day or so to the Highlands,
and would be so glad to get out of “ this damn
place.” She seemed to be bearing up under
the damnation with fortitude, pretty raiment and
some grace; but she used the language, all the
same. Another she, who looks as refreshing as a
sea breeze, is Mrs. Cadell Garrick, to whom
waltz ng and turning intricate figures are
matters of such small moment that she almost
; forgets that she is doing them.
Yours affectionately, MARIO.
It is now definitely announced in the
Government press that those Cabinet vacancies
will not be filled for some time yet. The Kid-
Philp calculates astutely that a portfolio dangling
may keep waverers loyal in glad expectancy,
whereas a portfolio awarded means one man
happy and 20 using actionable language.
Geraldton (N.Q.) is kicking like ten
foolish mules against a sensible proposal to change
its name. There is a Westralian town with the
same designation, and the alteration is meant
to save confusion. There has been con-
fusion in the past; it is even on record that a
sailing vessel, under orders to proceed to Gerald-
ton in W.A., got to Geraldton. N.Q. Now that
a start has been made with Geraldton, the reform
should lie extended to many other places. There
is an alarming multitude of duplications. Some-
times the same name transpires five times.


CASHMORE
GUNS,
OF SPECIAL
VALUE,
PRICE £6 6s.
Post free to any part of Australia,
New Zealand and Thursday Island.
Catalogues Free.
fdg
Top lever, treble bolted action, bar rebounding locks,
solid striker, good Walnut stock, half-pistol grip,
Deeley edge fore-end, steel barrels— modified and full
choke, extended rib, Greener cross bolt. A good,
sound gun by a well-known maker, with all the
money put into sterling quality.
ALCOCK U PIERCE, 318 LITTLE COLLINS ST.. MELBOURNE, VIC.
UNDER VICE-REGAL
fdg
PATRONAGE.
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hairworkers and Dermatologists,
161 KING ST., SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagb Sts.
Transformations, from £4 4s. Tails, from 7s. 6d. Natural Hair Pads, from 21s. Fringes, from 7s. 6d.
TRY OUR. GLORIA. HAIR TONIC. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Telephone 2138 Central. Country Orders Promptly Attended To.
fd
gfd
MAKE HIM A PRESENT OF THE
PLUM RAZOR!
If you do so, your gentleman friend will have far
happier moments when he is shaving-. The PLUM
has a magnificent hlade of pure silver steel. In
addition we will guarantee and keep it in shaving
order tw'o years free of charge for the gentleman you
make the PLUM present to.
PRICE
10/6
Post Free
to any
Addri ss.
We Crind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Strong Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21 /-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoieo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All tlie above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITREN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 3b Years.
hi
1 £
22?-
S' ;
PRIZES Jaiue £2250
8-HOUR
ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oct. 29,1910.
Ist Prize, value £5OO. 2nd Prize, value £250.
3rd Prize, value £lOO. And 297 other valuable Prizes.
The First Prize last year was won by Mrs. J. Sawd.v, Warner
Avenue, North Bondi, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing- will be advertised in this paper on November 3.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Agents in all
towns, or direct from JOHN TRAVERS, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
STs
The Car of —
Splendid Silence.
10/M h.p. and 14/18 h.p.
The most silent and reliable
Car of all. Has excited the
keenest admiration of
Australians by its wonder-
ful quality and design.
Cost of up-keep of 10/14 h.p.
F.N. has been proved at under
£4O per year.
TARRANT
MOTOR CO.
106 RUSSELL5 T .MELBOURNE.
Sole /Agelnts tor Fiats. De Dion's. Pte
Argylls, Rovers. Fords.
_ TELLS. 2942-3030 . J
" AVVL- 1 UU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWE.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Rags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Snoes ; Sews
2s. Posted.
(Awl, 2 needles,
x reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
g
Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
lis the “ Aw)-you.w»mt.” Threaa from die
reel (which maybe kept in one's pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing Carpets,? Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc;
Need es are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, t straight— 1 reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post tree. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d„
post free; 2 for yd., set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
Stab NOVELTY GO., 229 Collin* Street, Melbourne.
CORD
*
m
iU ov
rou m
U— 3
2
C=D °
U — J
2;
•nt-
•mmTown-wwR-c?
• 279-GtOK-5 T 'SYPII[Y'
STEVENS
FAVORITE RIFLE NO. 17
fdg
SSK
“THE BULL’S-EYE KIND.”
Pioneer Small Bore Arm of Efficiency. For .22 Long Rifle, .22-7-45 Winchester
R. F., .25 Stevens and .32 Long rim-fire cartridges.
All Progressive
Dealers handle
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire:
arm, Telescope and
Stevens*Pope Cata l -
-
[2
G. P. M. Murray, senior police-magistrate
of Queensland, died on Sunday in Brisbane, aged
73 years. In 1857 he joined the N. S. Wales
native police, and did good service with that
body. When northern N. S. Wales was con-
verted into Queensland in 1859 —that time when
Governor Bowen said that he found in the
Treasury—Mr. Murray hitched his waggon to the
rising star of the new State.
Les Atvtvat.es, a Parisian weekly, notes a
peculiarity in which Ed. VII. differed from most
of his immediate predecessors. He did not die
on a Saturday. William lIT., Anne, George 1.,
George 11., George 111. and George IV. all soared
on Saturday. As a fact, Ed. Vfl. only missed
following the family tradition by minutes. He
passed over on a Friday at 11.45 p.m.
W. Barclay appears for the defence :
Re the abounding' roar of “ Harrison O,” in Tiik Bulletin
(23 6/’10) anent Geelong. To his remarks that Ballarat
and Bendigo have left Geelong far behind, I ejaculate,
“ Rats ! ” Ballarat mining has been dead for years, and
hundreds of houses and shops are empty ; also, hundreds
of Ballarat natives are earning their living in Geelong, in
which place new houses are springing up as plentifully
as “Harrison’s” inaccuracies. Also, will “Harrison"
tell me on what occasion any wheat was shipped from
Geelong to Melbourne by lighter? A lot of wool certainly
is, after having been sold and paid for in Geelong.
Further, there are more factories, representing more
value, in Geelong than in Ballarat and Bendigo put
together.
A peculiar probate case was decided by
Justice Street in Sydney last week. In 1901,
one Thompson, then aged 18, volunteered for the
Boer scrum. Before he left he made a will leav-
ing his belongings—a few personal articles—to
his young nieces. He returned from the war,
amassed £3OOO, and was accidentally drowned at
Louth a few ago. The only will
found was the one made in barracks before
leaving for the war, and under it the £3OOO
goes to the nieces. Under the Wills Act
a minor cannot make a legal will, but
a youthful soldier on actual service is exempt.
N ivels have hung on this point—the youth on the
battlefield making his last testament in favor of
the girl at the English rectory, and using his
blood for ink, or some such tripe. Thompson’s
family argued that a will made in the Oxford-
street Barracks was quite different from this, and
also that the war being long since over, the will
laps id. Street, however, held (1) that Oxford-
stre ‘t was a scene of carnage within the meaning
of se tion 10 of the Probate Act, and the will a
soldier’s will; (2) that if the testator had wished to
revoke his will after the war he had had lots of
time to do it. Therefore, the document stands.
Some stories never die. Years and years
ago, almost as far back as the days when Queen
Anne first began to feel not very well, there was a
tale about a small, dirty boy who went to school and
covered himself with unpopularity. At last the
teacher could stand him no longer, and, holding
her nose with one hand, she wrote to his mother
with the other. The reply she got was something
to this effect: “Johnny ain’t no violet. I send
him to school to be taught—-not smelled.” The
story was never worth much when it was new,
and it became an unsavory horror when it grew
old. At last a time came when Wm. goats used to
come across it while exploring in the garbage tip,
and fled with horror marked on their beards.
The Bulletin has received the anecdote hun-
dreds of times from sluggish contributors who j
hadn’t yet heard of the deluge, and so. doubtless, j
have any number of other papers. At last, how- |
ever, it began to grow rare, and there were hopes
that it was dead. Then Governor Chelmsford
resurrected the deadly old thing at the recent
sheep-show luncheon in Sydney, only changing
the flower to a geranium. The violet is evidently
worn out, but tlje old yarn puts a new blossom in
its grimy button-hole and starts afresh. It is
going to travel round the vegetable calendar.
Probably 1000 years hence, when all the flowers
are used up, that mother will be writing to the
teacher : “ I know my Johnny ain’t no gum-tree.”
At various times pars, have
appeared in The Bulletin concerning Albert
E lward Bird, the long-distance runner of the
’sixties. Some years ago I dragged old Bird off
his boot-box in Bourke-street, Melbourne, and
took him along to my den in a certain sporting
newspaper office, where the old ped. opened out
and told me things which don’t altogether agree
with some of The Bulletin’s yarns. Bird was
at that time a little wizened old man, all tied up
with rheumatics, but he managed to eke out an
existence by cleaning boots by day and toil-
ing at the market in the early morning. The old
fellow rolled out his yarn something like this :
“Jist the ole story—’azzards, booze and the like. It
wis easy come and easy go in them days, and I thought,
like the rest on ’em, it would last fer ever ; but yer see it
didn’t. I’ve only meself ter blame. Yer wouldn’t think
ter look at me now, all tied up with rheumatics, that I
wis the champean of ’em all. The Horstralasian uster
say I wis the prettiest runner what ever put a shoe on.
When that young feller—Shrubb I think ’is name wis—
come ’ere to the Melbourne Ground one of me old fri( nds
took me ter ’ini run. He wis a fine runner that
young feller Shrubb, but me old friend says: ‘ Albert,
that Shrubb is a great runner, but he don’t run as pretty
as von did, nor as fast.’ The most excitin’ time I ever
’ad runnin’wis at the Back Creek ground, Bendigo. I
was matched ter run two men five miles; one wis Brad-
shaw o’ Ballarat, and the other wis Foster o’ Maoriland.
Bradshaw ’ad ter run two and a half miles, and then
Foster come on fresh and run the second two and a half
miles. There wis a lot of bettin’ in them days. Alf
Joseph and the Geordies w'rote me in Melbourne ter lose,
and they’d give me C2OO. I agreed ter lose, pervided
they give me the money aforehand. Joe Thompson and
the Melbourne division offered me £4OO to win. I got the
Geordies’ money before the race. There wis a lot of
bettin’ in them days, and a man could win a lump of
money. I beat Bradshaw' over the first ’alf of the dis-
tance, and then took on Foster, who came out fresh agin’
me, for the second ’alf. We wis together most o’ the
way, but nearin’ ’ome I let ’im getaway a bit. A ’undred
yards from the finish Foster wis lookin’ a winner, when I
come out with a burst an’ beat ’im. I ran on, jumped a
low fence and bolted for a little w'icket gate in the big
outer fence, where a feller wis waitin’ fer me. I got
through the wicket, the feller shmtin’it after me, and
with a howlin’ mob of Geordies with sticks and
stones behind. I run down the road to where a cab wis
all ready and into the cab I jumps, and the driver whips
’is ’orse into a gallop, and with them mad Geordies
chasin’ us we made for the lockup, w'here I wis locked up
fer safety. Them Geordies wis the maddest men I ever
seen, and they come around the lockup lookin’ f r me
blood. ’Aving changed me clothes, the Melbourne divi-
sion come along and got me away ter Kangeroo Flat on
the quiet, w'here a carriage wis around, and all of us—
there wis Joe Thompson, Bill Branch, Ned Gough and
Joe Harper—drove ter Castlemaine and got there at
three o’clock on the Sunday morning. I got the £2OO
and £4OO from the Melbourne division and some other
money from bettin’. But it all went., everv stiver—
mostly in’azzards. Yer wouldn’t think, ter look hat me
now, I wis once champean o’ the world, would yer? But I
beat ’em all. The Horstralasian uster sav I was the
prettiest runner they ever seen. But them Geordies wis
fair mad.”
Apart from this yarn Albert Edward Bird, the
greatest distance runner of bis time, told me be
was born at Sheffield (Eng.) on 15th August, 1846.
He first raced in ’65, and in’69 was brought to
Australia along with Hewitt and Topley by the
late George Coppin. To-day he is an inmate of
a Melbourne asylum for the insane. ■
Ex-Senate President Chaffey Baker, of S. A.,
is now quite a back number. He is seldom seep in
public, and when he does come out he can just
drift feebly along the street. He is another
strong man prostrated by the strenuousness of
Federal politics. True, Baker is 68 years of age,
but he used to look like a certain starter for the
centenarian stakes.
James Birss, an alleged centenarian of
Riddell (Victoria) is enough to make the Angel
of Death hand in his gun in disgust and acknow-
ledge himself a hopelessly bad shot. As a boy of
11, so he says, he ran away to sea, and during a
half-century’s service on the ocean, he claims to
have been shipwrecked nine times. James also
declares that various members of his family,
battled round for over 100 years, and that one
hung out to the age of 115. It is wonderful how
old some of these centenarians are. Many of them
are over 90.
About an old pressman :
Died the other day in St. Vincent’s Hospital (Mel-
bourne). aired 55, J. A. Trainor, a journalist who has left
tracks over the most of Victoria. Trainor began to dabble
with the ink-bottle in the Kilmore Free Press office, and
later migrated to Melbourne, where he helped Mor-
timer Franklin to bring out the Federal Australian and
the Victorian Review. When thes publications perished
in the wilderness of iinpecuniositv (like a lot more Mel-
bourne weeklies and monthlies before and since), Trainor
packed up and went to (Jippsland, where he blossomed
into a cocky. The spell of the ink, however, was too
great, so he sacked his farm and became editor and pro
prietor of a Goulburu Valley paper, the Nagambie Times.
A few years later he heard the sounds of another paper
moving in the vicinity, and pursued it across the
Western District to the office of the Hamilton Tribune.
He rested there until the Tribune was mopped up by the
bigger Hamilton Spectator, when he bore down on
Ballarat and put his swag under the table of the Even-
ing Echo for a while. Finally he made for Melbourne
and joined the Catholic Advocate, and it was there that
Death upset his ink-pot.
Ex-Bishop G-oe, of Melbourne, who died
the other day, was a surpassingly ugly man.
There was nothing interesting about Goe’s un-
prepossessing countenance; it ran simply to
orthodox plainness of the Noncomformist brand.
He was narrow in intellect and broad only in his
appetite for tucker. He was the sort of Bishop
who consents to be served twice to everything
that’s going at a parishioner’s dinner-table. The
writer has a distinct recollection of sitting next
to him at dinner and passing him the mustard
twice. Apart from his reverend requests for
cruets, the good man said-little and ate a terrible
lot. If he was half as good as his appetite he
deserved his bishopric.
“Galleryite ” speaks :
Henry Wrixon, the retiring President of the Vic. House
of Landlords, represented Portland for many years. He
was a conspicuou-ly useless figure-head in that capacity.
Wrixon, seemingly, never did a brain’s turn in the
interests of the town which the Hent.ys of old spotted as
the best possible port for Victoria. Its name stands as a
reproach to all the legislative boasters of Melbourne who
have actively or passively assisted to deprive it of its com-
mercial rights. And Wrixon, who married one of M l-
bourne “Money” Miller’s daughters, can be included
among the boasters. Properly represented in Parliament
the Portland district couldn’t have remained so long out
in the cold. The ruins of a commodious gaol tell its
political history. The deep sea washing its jetty
murmurs of Pori land’s wrongs. The neighboring whales
spout, them to the winds. The sleeping townsfolk dream
of them.


ITCHING OF SCULP
INTOLERABLE
Nearly Wild with Painful, Burning
Eruption—Half Her Hair Fell Out
and Combing It Was Torture-
Feared She Would be Bald,
IN DESPAIR UNTIL
CURED BY CUTICURA
“ Just about two years ago, some form
of humor appeared on my scalp. The
beginning was a slight itching but it
grew steadily worse until, when I combed
my hair, the scalp became raw and the
ends of the como-teeth would be web
with blood. Most cf the time there was
an intolerable itching, in a painful,
burning way, very much as a bad, raw
burn, if deep, will itch and smart when
first beginning to heal. Combing my
hair was positive torture. My hair was
long and tangled terribly because of the
blood and scabs. This continued grow-
ing worse and over half my hair fell
out. I was in despair, really afraid of
becoming totally bald.
“Sometimes the pain was so great
that, when partially awalce, I would
scratch the worst places so that my fin-
ger-tips would bo bloody. I could not
6leep well and, after being asleep a short
time, that awful stinging pain would
commence and then I would wake up
nearly wild with tho torture. A neighbor
said it must be salt rheum. Having
used Cuticura Soap merely as a toilet
soap before, I now decided to order a
set of the Cuticura Remedies—Cuticura
Soap, Ointment and Pills. I used them
according to directions for perhaps six
weeks, then left eff, as the diseaso seemed
to be eradicated. But toward spring,
eighteen months ago, there was a slight
return of the scalp humor. I com-
menced tho Cuticura treatment at once,
so had very little trouble. On my scalp
I used about ono half a cake cf Cuticura
Soap and half a box cf Cuticura Oint-
ment in all. The first time I took six
or seven bottles cf Cuticura Pills and
the last time threo bottles—neither an
expensive or tedious treatment. Since
then I have had no scalp trouble of any
kind. Standing up, with my hair un-
bound, it comes to my knees and had
It not been for Cuticura I should doubt-
less be wholly bald.
“ This is a voluntary, unsolicited testi-
monial and I take pleasure in writing
it, hoping my experience may help some-
one else. Miss Lillian Brown, R. F D. 1,
Liberty, Me., U. S. A., Oct. 29 1909.”
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
4S“Post-free, Latest Cuticura Book on the Skin.
how “ANTINEURASTHIN”
REMEDIES NERVOUS BREAKDOWN.
It is, in the first place, essentially a food—not a mere
drug stimulant. It is a food that feeds the whole of the
nervous system with those elements the lack of which in
the structural tissues constitutes the neurasthenic con-
dition. It is so easily assimilated that in one hour it is
fully assimilated, thus creating quickly a renewed mental
and physical vigor. This is not mere stimulation ; but is
really the sensati in produced by the actual assimilation
and storage of those refined elements necessary to nerve
comfort and vigor. This uplifting is not—as in the case
of tonics and stimulants—a mere transient whipping up,
but an actual addition to the nerve-structure and nerve-
strength of the individual. Readers of Tub Bulletin are
invited to test “ Antineurasthin,” as also to read the
wo helpfully-informing pamphlets enclosed with the trial
supply of “ Antineurasthin,” which can be obtained by
sending your name and address (together with stamps or
postal notes for Is.) to the Wholesale Distributor for Aus
tralia and New Zealand, H. A. GODDARD, Eagle Street
Brisbane.
FAT
PEOPLE
Let us cure you of
Obesity and re-
move your excess
fat. We have cured many thausands of
obesity sufferers. We have the only harm-
less and non-poisonous remedy ever known.
“FATCURE”
acts mildly, gradually and effectively. No
matter whether the fat has attacked your
hips, stomach or bust, “Fatcure” will re-
move it. In many cases five pounds a week
has been removed, with perfect health fol-
lowing the reduction. . . . Our remedy is
certain, and no successful imitation has ever
been created. . . Send 2d.stamp for FREE
SAMPLE and Descriptive Booklet, or, if
convenient, call. Hours: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
WRITE or CALL without any delay.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Court, Casllereagh St., Sydney.
Oil
••-irtSVJ
am
vs*
CHANGE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR ME.
LAXATINE The Peerless Aperient.
LAXATINE The Gentle Regulator.
LAXATINE The Lollie-like Laxative.
LAXATINE The Cure for Constipation.
LAXATINE Sold by All Chemists.
LAXA TINE Equally Good for Children and
LAXA TINE Adults.
LAXA TINE ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
*¥*
k
GOOD DIGESTION
QUICKLY RETURNS
—and good health follows naturally
when you restore your digestive
organs to healthful working order.
Mother Seigel’s Syrup, the world-
famed tonic—made of roots, barks
and leaves—tones up and strengthens
the stomach and other organs of
digestion. Thus it gives relish for
food and the power to digest it.
Further, it makes food nounsh you,
WHEN YOU TAKE
THE DIGESTIVE TONIC
and clears away the poisonous pro-
ducts of indigestion—the fruitful
cause of pains after eating, head-
aches, brain-fag biliousness, consti-
pation. “As a reliable, safe and
effective family remedy for indi-
gestion, there is nothing in all
Australia to equal Mother Seigel’s
Syrup."—W. Cregan, Morse Street,
The Valley, Brisbane, Queensland.
January 28, 1910.
SEiICS
SYRUP
mmm
ft Q
DO
DO
9do
oo
nO
qO
QjD
GOLF BALLS
As a result of a recent visit to
England of our Works’ Managing
Director, very considerable i mprove-
ments have been made in our
FLUE (Red Dot) GOLF BALL,
and recent tests have proved that
it compares favorably with the best
imported brands.
Try one for yourself.
Barnet Glass Rubber Co., Ltd.,
231 Clarence Street, Sydney.
And all States.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDI
C.USTARD
5
Bird’s
Custard with Jruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,When Stewed, form an exquisite
Dish With BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
cither hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike. 1
U.S.PAf
Trinidad lake Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GENASCO
READY ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing in
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe & Company Ltd.
383-5 Kent Street. SYDNEY.
£JS Brilisb=flusfralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d
POST PREE, £1
in advance, all over
per year,
the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where tiles
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied I>y the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.C.
CANT
BEAT
>
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
ML 1/ EACH POST FREE V*
Bn Quality Not Better
■ in a
H Guinea Pipe
■WICK SIMMONS
W SYDNEY.
Y TOREKEEPERS & TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEED FOR OUR TRADE US T
EATON GRANT’S
Famous
“BUKKULLA”
...WINES...
are noted for their Purity and
Excellence.
CHAMPION PRIZE
WINES.
Claret, Port, Hock, Sherry, Muscat, etc.
A Trial Sample Case, containing One
Dozen Assorted Large Bottles, 25j-.
WRITE FOR PRICE LIST.
Equitable Buildlag, George Street, Sydaey.
" GRO - A - MO" forces growth of moustache and
whiskers. Bottles, zs„ post free.
American Toilet Agency, Box 466 G.P.O. Melbourne
‘ COAGULINE,’ ‘ KLINX,’ ‘ TENASITINE 1
—Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
Tait's Railways.
‘ ‘ The Undersigned,” from John Weart’s city
All Melbourne residents who use Tait’s railways are
now worked up to a high pitch of indignation at the
practical breakdown of the suburban system. ‘‘Break-
down ” is a sweeping- word, but it is the onlv one that
describes the position ; for, by reason of the outrageously
overcrowded state of the trains and their unpunctuality,
travellers are put to a maximum of inconvenience in
their ordinary journeys, and to frequent downright loss
because of the incapacity of the officials to run the traffic
to time-table. On several of the lines the second-class
section has the further grievance of having to travel
in old, short “dog-box” cars of a type that was in
vogue about the middle of last century. Asa fact, there
are cars running novv that were in use by the old Hob-
son’s Baj' Company in the ’sixties. These inconveniences
of travel are cumulative upon the abominable slowness
that has always characterised the service. Indeed, to
get to outer suburbs now takes longer than it did 30
years ago, because new intervening stations have been
built from time to time. Electrification is the only
remedy ; but the present managers are against it or,
where they profess to personally favor that method of
traction, they plead that mechanical and financial dis-
abilities render conversion at present impracticable. The
great collective leg of the public is being daily pulled by
the railway people by means of delusive statements re
what is being done and promises of what will be done to
improve the service. These promises are, for the
most part, transparently insincere. The lines are
congested with trains which are crowded and
overcrowded with passengers for at least 10
out. of the 19 hours during which they run.
Obviously, if any railway svstem in the world pays, this
Melbourne suburban service must; and indeed it gives a
splendid return. There is no suggestion that it is a
losing business, and that consequently the accommoda-
tion offered is as good as the fare justifies. The super,
cilious attitude of Tait and co. is that the service is the
best they can think of, and their customers can take it
or leave it. A while ago it was stated that, as soon as
certain platforms were extended and sufficient engines
of a certain type built, the trains would be lengthened
and the speed accelerated. Some platforms have been
added to and a few trains have been lengthened, with the
result that these trains are a little more behind time
than the shorter ones. But the insincerity of the Com-
missioners is shown up completely when the talk about
new engines is looked into. There are nearly 100 trains
in regular use in the suburban traffic, but the building
of the new type of engine has stopped with the number
at 25. So nearly three-fourths of these long and heavy
trains will continue to be drawn by comparatively weak
engines. The ordinary mind fails to grasp how an accel-
erated time-table is to be observed by the continuance in
use of the small stock engines side by side with the
limited number of more powerful ones that have been
provided, as alleged, to give a faster service all round.
When the electrician Merz was inspecting the lines
and going into the figures, preparatory to making his re-
port, the Commissioners were manifestly cold on the
subject of electrification ; and when the report was sent
in, and had been examined by them, no one was surprised
to find that they differed from the conclusions of the
electric expert. They were steam men, and did not want
any change. True, they declared their enthusiasm for
the newer kind of traction, but they professed to pick a
hole in almost every item of Merz’s statement. The
main point, of course, was the relation of increased
revenue to the cost of conversion, which hinged upon
the estimates of increase of passengers. Merz figured it
out that an annual increase of 5 per cent., taken in con-
junction with the decreased cost of carrying each
passenger, would more than meet the case. The Com-
missioners said “ Rubbish,” or something like that.
Moreover, they could not look for such increase in the
future as a regular thing. It was plain that the traffic
was now almost at its maximum (Why ?), and that in the
future Melbourne would not continue to expand at the
rate of the previous few years (Again, why ?). The actu-
ality is that, since Mkrz’s report came in, some of the
lines have increased their traffic up to 40 and 50 per cent,
and all of them have increased far beyond the expert’s
estimates. There is absolutely no ground for any
assumption that the rate of increase will be materially
checked in future. All M ibourne wants is electrification,
and residents will fill up the empty spaces about the
city limits, to the gain of the Department. The Com-
missioners now state that there certainly has been an
increase, but t his has come about while steam is still the
power, so why should they spend money on the
other thing? That is the attitude exactly. So
long as they can show a profit with the obso-
lete outfit, their patrons can go hang. In the old days,
when the deficit was £IOOO a day, there might have
been a certain amount of reason in a disinclination
to go in for a change involving, at the outset, some con-
siderable cost. But now daily and weekly we are regaled
with the story of revenues going up by big leaps (profits
at present are £I2OO a day), and the‘metropolitan lines
are more than doing their share to make up for such
country services as show a loss.
Melbourne now has a large, new central station. It is,
on the whole, a fine station, and creditable enough to its
builders ; but here again the people have been misled
from start to finish. Let it be admitted that the project
was launched before the advent of the present Commis-
sioners. But right up to the time it was completed it
was represented by them that the station would suffice
for all the suburban traffic for many years ahead, and
Princes Bridge station, across Swanston-street, was to be
closed to general business. It was to be used only for
race trains, excursion specials, and the very occasional
funeral trains. Regular travellers who knew anything
about the matter regarded the statement with derision. It
was manifest that when some of the Princes Bridge traffic
came into Flinders-street the place would be dangerously
overcrowded. There were those who declared that, as
soon as the last brick was laid at Flinders-street it would
be necessary to build another station on the other side of
the Bridge almost or just as big as the Central. And
without doubt it is a true bill, electrification or no
electrification. Here once more the Commissioners
show themselves as shuffling with their responsi-
bilities. Just before Flinders-street was finished it
was announced that, after all, it was impossible that
the 1 irge Collirigwood and Heidelberg traffic could be
accommodated at the Central station, and it must remain
on the Princes Bridge side. So the old place is being
tinkered up, and plans are out for a ramshackle wooden
structure (where do the railway officials get their power
to disregard the city building regulations?) to do duty
as a sort of assistant central station, and to be added to
when necessity requires. Well, necessity will require a
lot of expansion right away, if anything' like comfort is
to prevail for the traveller. It would seem that the
railway people know this, as all the old lines are being
dropped to the level of Flinders-street, and things are to
be made shipshape, some day, for necessary increases.
Meantime, the aforesaid wooden sheds are to be erected
at Melbourne’s front door, just where the citizens are
contemplating the erection of a majestic arch in memory
of the late King. All this is consistent with the extra-
ordinary policy of the Commissioners in “ breaking it
gently.” They don’t seem able to give out their real in-
tentions in any one announcement. That was the course
pursued while the central station was being built. The cost
was at first to be £95,000. Then the figure was increased
by easy stages until the final hill came in, and the station
stands to-day in the books at something over £400,000.
F.C.: Seemingly, the converted Foreign-traders
in the Federal Labor party have some means of
stifling or dragooning the Protectionist majority,
for it is now announced that the rectification of
tariff anomalies must stand over this session, and
that a general revision of the tariff w;ll be entered
upon in 1911. That may satisfy a few, hut it will
not meet the needs of the public By a.long way.
It cannot be too soon recognised that'a wholesale
revision of the tariff is an almost hopeless task for
such a conglomerate body as the Federal Parlia-
ment. Moreover, it takes time, and there is much
other work to be done. Furthermore, it cannot be
done in one act. The building and revision of a
scientifically Protective tariff is a permanant and
continuous job; and if the present Ministry hopes
to give the country satisfaction in that regard the
only possible way is to hand the Business over to a
small, expert committee. Then when the 1911
session opens, Parliament may confirm its pro-
posals, and get on with other business. The re-
opening of the whole tariff question next year
only means further confusion and no more satis-
faction. Also, the country can’t afford to keep 111
men arguing and compromising and bungling
over a task that six expert men can perform satis-
factorily in a tenth of the time.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
** THE. CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
For your everyday use,
and your everyday
comfort, buy . • .
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Toilet Soap,
For you want a soap that is pure
and cleansing, you like a soap that
is pleasant and refreshing, and an
antiseptic soap like this, containing
10% pure Carbolic—an ample
proportion—protects you against risk of
contagion Sold at Local Stores and
Chemists, in three-tablet boxes.
Makers. F. C. CALVERT & Co..
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
ffiUetraS
ttr.d'e& Loftus Sts., Sydney
$
% g
'Ho WotYver s\\ou\d Vt
\ seut * OT\ recast.
/!propress/ve c//etery acfdp tec/ to cte promt? cZ/pest/Vepowers
Milk Food N?l
from 6/rt/t to 3 me. 7ffis
Milk Food N 92
from 3 to 6 mo/rMs
Malted Food N°3
from 6mo fit As op words.
fi
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
the N.R.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and Victoria. Thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
BRANDT DE LUXE.
THE LATEST ACETYLENE BURNER,
THE BRANDT PE LUXE
Gives the most light and the least trouble. No metal
arms to warp, only the best lava used in the manufac-
ture. Solid hexagon base, will not crush when screwed
on with pliers.
Send us 10/- and we will forward SAMPLE
PARCEL OF ASSORTED BURNERS.
Booklets on Air Cas and Acetylene Gratis.
BRANDT BROS.’ LAMP HOUSE,
197-199 Elizabeth St., Melbourne; and 236 Pitt St., Sydney.
X
&
<o*-
r>
Cf
®c
<1
«®o
V
*
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN & CO.. P ly. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
Model “T” Touring’ Car, 4-cyi., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials :
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity..
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£310 complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
m
;
ST
fndanr.
2L.
yf^i
! '-W'r v i i '» 4
I?
«'.,D
'‘‘’ll;
kiVV
<<*
it
«PW
rs^ra
The FALKINER-BOLL
PATENT ELECTRIC SHEARING MACHINE C?
• • •
Our
Electric
Shearing' Machines
INCLUDING THE LATEST INVENTION, the
Four and Six Stand Portable Shearing and Crutchmg Plant,
ARE NOW BEING SHOWN UNDER WORKING CONDITIONS at
OUR AGENTS’ PREMISES AS FOLLOW
South Australia—H. C. Richards, 6& 8 Blyth St., Adelaide. Queensland—Ruthning Electrical Installation Co. Ltd.
Tasmania—A. E. Evershed, George St., Launceston. New Zealand—R. P. M. Manning, Hereford St., Christchurch.
West Australia—J. H. Noble, St. George’s Terrace, Perth. w
Representative in Sydney—G. W. Hellicar, Lombard Chambers, 107 Pitt Street, Sydney.
HEAD OFFICE MELBOURNE, 103 and 105 WILLIAM STREET.


THe
<2T
ROYAL MERCEDES
THE ROYAL MERCEDES.
(The Exclusive Car)
Owned by every Crowned
Head in Europe, and the
Nobility of the World.
The MERCEDES Car is
known by everyone to stand
by itself, and is without
doubt the finest car money
can buy. Year in and year
out it sets the fashion to the
motoring' world. If you want
the best car that money can
buy, well there is only one
car for you, and remember
that although the Mercedes
is by far the most expensive
car in the world, we sell them
for less than other ears of the
same power on the market
here. Why ? because we are
satisfied with a fair profit.
B.S.A. CARS (Birmingham Small Arms Co.)
Undoubtedly the very best English car manufactured. The firm who manufacture these cars have a world-
famous reputation for workmanship and quality of material used in the manufacture of their products.
S. C. A.. T. (Societa Ceirano Automobili Torino)
The Italian car that is designed and manufactured by that motor genius Ceirano, and the only car in
the world that has a reliable pneumatic self-starter and tyre inflater. See the new 15-h.p. S.O.A.T.
before deciding on a car.
THE “COMMER” COMMERCIAL CAR..
British-made, the most substantial, powerful and economical motor lorry made, owned by most of the
leading firms in England ; and all firms that have bought these cars have given repeat orders. We can
prove to intending purchasers that the COMMER is doing work without the slightest hitch that many
other Commercial cars have broken down at. Call and see us and have the COMMER shown you.
The Reliable DAYTON MOTOR BUGGY.
A Motor Car on buggy wheels, 20-h.p. 2-cylinder water-cooled engine, dual ignition, Bosh magneto.
We only ask you to see and try the DAYTON before deciding. If you will do this, we have your order.
Motor Body Building Department
We would like the trade, and everyone interested in this
class of work, to inspect our up-to-date plantof machinery
and factory. We are in a position to turn out the best
work at the lowest cost, and in the shortest time. Give
us your orders for this class of work ; we guarantee to
give you satisfaction.
motoriesTimited,
280 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Tel. 4902 Central. Body Building Dept., 470 Paddington.
See the CHALLENGE REINFORCED INNER TUBE. It prevents blow-outs, and allows of old blown-out
and discarded covers to be used. By using 1 them you will reduce your tyre bill by more than half.
COMMERCIAL CARS,
LTD.,
AT*
m
fd
A Perfectly Harmless Preparation ! ■*»
You can restore that premature grey hair to a natural,
permanent brown or black by using:
McGEE’S CELEBRATED HAIR STAIN
It is a dependable, pleasant nnd lasting preparation,
and will not wash nor rub off.
Price 4/6 and 8/6 a bottle; posted 6d. extra.
ANDREW McGEE,
Gentlemen's
Hairdresser,
5 -nd 7 Castlpreaoh Street, corner Hunter Street, Sydney.
DILLI/IDDS
V?
m,
/
V ■>
■
m
'
::
*•
M
m
50 years ago the name of Alcock was practically unknown—to-day
it is synonymous with billiards. Why ?
They have always maintained that high standard of excellence,
so scientifically and accurately constructed their tables, cues, etc., that
it is no wonder that the popularity of Alcock T ables has grown so
much.
Gray, who made his record break of 836 —831 coming off the red
—and other champion players, are prompt to proclaim these tables as
perfect in every respect.
We make them in all sizes and styles—the “ Bijou ” table is a
special favorite for the home.
Write us for Illustrated Catalogue—we supply every billiard
requisite. _____________________
ALCOCK & GO. Ply. Ltd.
397 George St., Sydney. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Murray St., Perth.
CAPILLARINE
THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
\
©
A MOUSTACHELESS MAN IS AT A DISADVANTAGE.
Your too-vouthful appearance has lost, many a rise in position and
salary. You can alter that NOW. CAPILLARIISE will produce for
a certainty a strong, permanent moustache, where at present you
can show only a little “down.” Send for a jar to-day—it is un-
detectable in use. A little rubbed in each night is all that is required.
10s. 6d. per Jar. Posted in plain packet to any address in the world.
Craig: & Ait ken, 654 George St., Sydney.
F.srnlilisherl 30 \onr*.
TB®
r
J
JERDANS
“HOME”
BATTERY
Is Recommended
to Every Family.
You N-EVER know during the hot
summer months when Headaches,
Heat or Nervous Collapses—attacks
of Insomnia—are likely to occur.
In ALL these cases Jerdan’s
“Home” Battery will give instant
relief, and in the end a speedy cure.
The working is extremely simple—
and it can be suited to the wants of
both adults and children.
Price 35s
POST
FREE.
LET US SEND YOU OUR
FREE BATTERY BOOKLET.
§§911111!
s.Nvanaf
(formerly oSi>wui« 8 JERDAN),
“ MY OPTICIANS,”
Opticians and Electricians .
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
irELV
Of all Drapers throughout the World. Manufacturers 57, Newton St., Manchester, Bag.
DISTINCTION IN DRESS
No dress looks so rich and feels so soft and silky as one of Louis
Velveteen or Chiffon Vel-Duvet. Its, lines are graceful and
flowing, and for Pile, Lustre, and
Brilliancy, it is unsurpassed. It is famed
for its exquisite Colours and won’t crush
Bronchitis Cure
The Grandest Remedy in the World for
COUGHS & COLDS
ONE DOSE IS GENERALLY SUFFICIENT.
THOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at
its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, Difficulty
of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience
delightful and rapid relief; and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a
complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irrita-
tion in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice,
and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is
not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appear-
SMALL
SIZE:
ance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without
it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or
two is generally sufficient, and a com-
plete cure is certain.
LARGE
SIZE:
4/6
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE VENDORS, and
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
N S.W. Branch Office: 5252 George Street, Sydney.


“ The Waybacks Again.”
Another
stack of
joy and laughter about the famous family. Is.
“LINSEED COMPOUND.”— The “ Stockport
Remedy’’for Coughs & Colds. Of 40 years’proven efficacy.
4
A FOOD OF GREAT
NUTRITIVE VALUE
which can be made suitable for any
degree of digestive power by the simple
process of letting it stand for a longer or
shorter period at one stage of its preparation.
For INFANTS , INVALIDS and the AGED.
It is used mixed with fresh new milk, and forms a
delicate and nutritive cream, which is enjoyed and
assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely free from rough
and indigestible particles which produce irritation in delicate stomachs.
The Lancet describes it as “ Mr. Benger's admirable preparation."
The British Medical Journal says: “ Benger’s Food has, by its excellence , established a reputation of its own,’'
BENGER'S FOOD, LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, Eng.
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere.
®33
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
gfd
We don’t believe any Accordeon comes
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerfu.1 tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
larjre bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
_£>-§
" ■lw V? cXn/ I «
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE U.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL .
will stop the most
vicious dog (or man)
without permanent
injury. Invaluable
for cyclists, unpro-
tected ladies, night-
wate h men, and
others. Can be
charged with water or other liquids, and will
carry a distance of 25 feet. It creates great
amusement for both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical
novelties ever produced. Price 2/9, or post free
anywhere for 3/-
The TOUCH-ME-NOT SUR-
PRISE MATCH BOX. Can be
carried in the vest pocket, and
never fails to give the match-
cadger a shock. When your
friend asks for a match, just
hand him the box, arid im-
mediately he attempts to open
same he receives a very sudden
shock. Nicely made of nickel,
and finished in leather. Price,
post free anywhere for 1/2.
g
THE SEBACKROSCOPE, or Detective’s Assistant.
OF THE.
No. 73.
Attach to the
eye in the same
manner as the
common mag-
nifying- lens in
use by watch
repairers,being
careful to turn
the small open-
ing in square
tube to the
outside, that
is, away from
the nose. When
placed to the eye you can what is taking place
behincl and in front of you at the same time. No
need to wish for eyes in the back of your head, as
with this article you can observe all that occurs in
that direction without even turning- your head. You
will find lots of fun in owning a Sebackroscope.
Made of hard rubber, and finished in an excellent
manner. Price, securely packed and posted to any
address free on receipt of 1/-
“ PICKITOUT.” A perfect Puzzler
to the uninitiated. JUST OUT.
The Effect—Three cards are shown
—the ace, deuce and three of
hearts. Someone is requested to
pick out the ace when the cards
are placed on the table. But it is
absolutely impossible to pick it
out. Price complete, with full in-
structions, 7d. post free anywhere.
fdg
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
No.
H. L. HUTCHINSON. Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
. No- 1 Branch : 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
Schute, Bell & Go.
— limited.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices : 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
bat only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow f etc,, and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Eauh head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
///£'
IIUUf)
M 4« H?i»i
i 00
The Merit of a
Whisky is not
dependent on its
name, but on its
Is a IVeal Liqueur Scotch,
from a century-old distillery,
reserving its whole output
for this one brand.
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London.
Proprietors of STROMNESS DISTILLERY, Orkney, Scotland.
BOOKS YOU CAN’T GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrif,
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. ° Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, 'ls 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is fid. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, 3 s 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., 3s. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life
30s (id. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s fid. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Dr-;:,
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is fid. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 13 s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blateh-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d
•God and My Neighbor, fid. Britain for the
British, fid. How to Read Packs, is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught 1/3
How to Make, Sweets; Jams and Syrups, Is 2d ’new
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is fid.
fd
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen,
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy’River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor .Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements ok Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
t Other. Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d, French
Self Taught, is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
* All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be 'fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. i«r- Established S 5 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR.
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How TO Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stao-e 1*
posted. New Tricks with Cards, is. Sappho, genuine
Is. Odd Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Hr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s Gd.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy Is!
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. V est Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s Gd post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s Gd posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted!
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pav 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s Gd posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is Gd posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
“ Billem,” concerning a Council that is
under consideration: —
Premier Wade promises to reduce and define the powers
of the N.S.W. Legislative Council. Labor-Leader
McGowen harshly proposes abolition. The somnolent
Chamber, as at present composed, is unworthy of praise
or blame. The idea of reforming it is absurd. It is
better left alone, if it is not to be knocked on its bald
head. The Constitution at first provided for quinquen-
nial appointments, and 70 more or less conspicuous
gentlemen took their seats. They resigned in a body
(May 10,1861—three days before the expiration of their
term) as a 72 hours’ protest against the appointment of
22 new members by Premier Cowper. Then followed the
life appointments (from June 24, 1861), which have
totalled 240 to date. The membership now stands
at 55, seven Councillors having passed out,
during the past 18 months —Richard Jones, Captain
Charles, A. Ryrie, Dr. Renwick, J. N. Brunker (by death),
W. P. Cullen, R. Patten (by resignation). Thirteen
lawyers legislate with amazing indifference to Costs—
Ashton, Carruthers, Dangar, Dick, FitzGerald, Gannon,
Garland, Heydon, J. Hughes, T. Hughes, O'Conor,
Pilcher and Trickett; but three of them have billets.
Six are doctors, eight merchants, and 20 are interested
in sheep. There is but one journalist (Henry Gullet),
but he has a poet for company (Colonel Mackay).
“Fathers of the Council” are John McIntosh and
George Lee (appointed December 29, 1881).


MICK SIMMONS
Haymarket, Sydney, and
Hunter Street, Newcastle.
THE LEADING HOUSE FOR
CANT
b *"m
BEAT
Sporting Goods,
■< * •
Fishing Tackle and Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS—FREE.
WE PAY .FREIGHT to all parts ol Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
WOOL,
Crain, Hides, Furskins,
Fat Stock or Store Stock
WILL BRING GOOD PRICES ALWAYS
WHEN THE SALE IS ENTRUSTED TO
New Zealand Loan $ Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY
Small Lots and Large Lots receive the same careful attention.
[2
POSTAL INSTRUCTION.
Are You Ambitious?
g
LET US PREPARE YOU BY POST
Ac ; ' 1
For any of the Following Positions.
Electrical Engineer
Mechanical Engineer
Sanitary Inspector
Architect
Mechanical Draughtsman
Surveyor
Mine Manager
Mine Engineer
Mine Electrician
Incorporated Accountant
Hospital Nurse
Shire or Municipal Clerk
Shire or Municipal Auditor
Public School Teacher
Commonwealth Official
State Official
Bank Official
Chemist'
Engine Driver
Forest Guard
Station Bookkeeper
I.et us know what subject you wish to learn, and
we will give you Instruction by Correspondence.
SEND TO-DAY FOR DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET, "S.”
STOTT & HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE,
Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
National Rifle Association
Meeting', 1910.
£lOO Special Prize
given by Mick Simmons to the Winner of the
RING’S PRIZE,
on the condition that he purchases and uses a
Mick Simmons* Special Quality Steel
or Nickel Steel Barrel
throughout the King’s Match.
Barrels manufactured by Westley Richards, 8.5. A., and other makers.
A4g»l*VtH4<4 /t<^»
fdg
The Bad Writer’s Pen.®
No. 539, BALL-POINTED. Sixpence Per Box.
-csn or ORMISTCTN & GLASS, 28. NEWGATE St., LONDON'.
m
&
GROWING HAIR BY THE
CALENDAR.
ALL THE MATERIAL AND INSTRUCTIONS NECESSAR
FOR CARRYING OUT THIS VALUABLE TOILET
TEST SENT FREE BY REQUEST.
r A week’s trial of “ Harlene Hair-Drill’ con-
vinces everyone of the almost magical effect of
the new method in growing new hair upon bald
or thin patches, in restoring the lustre and
colour to grey or faded hair, in removing scurf,
in increasing the lustre and, glossy luxuriance of
"Woman’s crowning glory.”
In one week “Harlene Hair-Drill” grows
beautiful hair.
Practise the rules for " Harlene Hair-Drill, as
drawn up by Mr. Edwards, the eminent Royal
and Court Hair Specialist, and discoverer of
“Harlene-for-the-Hair,” and you can literally
watch your hair growing thicker and longer and
more beautiful. You can grow hair by the
calendar—a calendar only seven days long.
A SEVEN DAYS’ FREE TEST.
Hundreds of men and women are doing this at
the present moment. Troubled with Thin or Pall-
in v Hair, or attacked by Scurf or Premature Grey-
ness (and all greyness is premature, seeing that
Hair-Drill enables the hair to rotainits colour up
to old age), they have obtained one of the free
“Harlene Seven Days’ Hair-Drill Trial Outfits
(you can obtain one of these outfits yoursel
free of all charge, by means of the coupon atth
foot of this article), and at the end ef aweek
their friends have congratulated them upon tne
marvellous improvement in their appearanc .
You can do the same yourself. Get one
Trial Outfits-it will cost you nothmgand
practise “Harlem. Hair-Drill- for a couple of
minutes every morning. You begin dire y
you receive your outfit (full H vou
sent with each), and all the rest ofthe dayy
will be conscious of a healthy and P leaaal "
influence at work on your scalp and at the root
of your hair. _ ...
Harlene Hair-Drill only takes a couple of
minutes of the day, but its e ® i. r ; a i
your appearance. And as after the wee
you will desire to continue this successful
method of Hair-Culture and Preservation, you
may like to know that further supplies of
“Harlene” may be obtained from ordinary-
enterprising chemists or stores all over the world,
dr it will be sent direct on receipt ° f P°®™l
order (to include postage) from the Edwards
Harlene Co., 95-6, High Holborn. London,
W.C., in Is., 2s. 6d., and 4s. 6d. bottles. A
FREE TRIAL COUPON.
To the EDWARDS' HARLENE CO.,
95-96, High Holborn, London, England.
Dear Sirs,—Having read your article on “ Growing Hair by the
Calendar,” I should like to accept your offer to send me the week s
Trial Outfit for “Harlene Hair-Drill ” free of charge. I enclose 3d. in
stamps for postage (to any part of the world).
NAME .....
ADDRESS,
106
fdg
%
V
A. WISH:
Let good Digestion I
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both*
“ Montserrat”
II 111 111 —lllll nminnmr.
:: Sauce
wmammammanaa
the basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT" LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Jlsk your Storekeeper for it.
Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
Send in your Application
NOW, and we will send
one to your Address
Absolutely FREE
N
MPI
(Drawn from Photo)
“The
Champion
Senior,”
Phonograph
List Price,
£6/10/-
A FREE PHONOGRAPH
FOR —Y©U!
Owing to the enormously increased demand for our Records
as the result of our last Distribution of Free Phono*
oraphs we have decided to GIVE HWHY a further
ONE THOUSAND PHONOGRAPHS FREE.
You may choose the machine you prefer from our various
styles, including our latest and best,
“ The Champion Senior,”
exactly as illustrated, which is listed at £6/10/- and Guaran-
teed for 5 years.
How can we afford to give away these expensive
machines without charge ? The explanation is a
simple one. 'We hold and control enormous
stocks of Phonograph Records. Records are
of course useless to anyone without a Phonograph. Picture yourself with plenty of ammunition. but
no GUN.’ Wepro?ose y to make you feel the need of our ammunition-in
other words we give you a Phonograph to create an increased demand for our Records. Do
vou see our 7eason Now? We will send you one of our “ Champion Senior Phono*
oraphs” Free of any charge whatever if you promise to give a practical demon-
stration of its wonderful merits in your own home circle and among your friends,
using our ne wand popular Records and distributing our Circulars and Price Lists,
which are sent free for this purpose with each machine. Write at once to
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN IMPORTING COMPANY,
Opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY, New South Wales.
CUT. THIS OUT
and mail to the
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN
IMfORTING CO, SYDNEY
I hereby make application for a
FREE 1 homograph as advertised by
your Company.
Name.
Street
Town.
.btate Hi


m
(TSHELOd
DIGESTIVE
TABULES
DIGEST WHAT
YOU EAT
PSHftWB
i
m
FOR
COUG HS
&
COLDS.
ALL PAIN
SL
Yes! Miss
DB SHELDON’S
NEW DISCOVERY
for COUGHS i. COLDS
is the most effective Remedy
on the market. And it's pleasant to take.
If you want the very best
Flannelette
the Old Country Produces
buy HORROCKSES’
GRAND PRIZE
FRANCO - BRITISH
EXHIBITION
1908
SEE HORROCKSES’ NAME ON
SELVEDGES and decline all substitutes
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
COOLS AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
LAIT LAROLA
Invaluable
forfheSKlN
in HOT
orCOLD
climafes.
Removes all
IRRITATION
andTAN.
LAIT
a/ro
Peg?,
Sole
Makers
M.BEETHAM &SON,
CHELTENHAM,ENGLAND.
Gives a
Perfect
Complexion
Soft
as
Velvet.
wjnw;r.m
VERY SOOTHING AFTER SHAVING
W ’ Jvsg
&y
P
11111
'■/-■: ■ ■ ' ■’
. ;;/■'" 1
k Mf\ ‘j
A
; •
>'•%
M
Mttidi
THESE WIEN KNOW.
MR. A. E. WILES, the first man to ride 60 miles in an ho"r ns a ovcie. and world’s record
holder, says of his B.S.A. BICYCLE : “IT IS ABSOLUTELY PERFECT.”
MR. J. SALVANA. who has twice broken the Svdnev-Melboumo record on a B.S.A.
BICYCLE fitted with an EADIE TWO-SPEED HUB, says : “ I would not attempt
such a strenuous ride on anything but 8.5. A.”
MR. FRANCIS BIRTLES, the famous overlander enlist, after his last 3,000 miles taunt
from Perth to Sydney, says of his B.S.A. BICYCLE and EADIE COASTER : “ They
never gave me a moment’s trouble.” A simple statement In itself, but Mr. Birtles
knew that his very life depended upon his bicvcle during these rides.
MR. I. R. MUNRO, who broke world’s records In the last Warrnambool-Meibourne Road
Race, and holds the 1909 Australian Chamnlonship, says : “ I have ridden the same
B.S.A. BICYCLE during the last three years.”
It is probable that any of these famous cyclists could have their choice of the world’s
bicycles for the asking, yet they prefer to nay for and ride their own—a B.S.A.
Think this over, then sit down and write for one of the latest B.S.A. Handbooks
(Australasian Edition) and don’t waste time thinking about inferior stuff.
Write to D. Y. RENNIE (Representing B.S.A. Co. Ltd.), 5 Stock Exchange Building, Melb
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two=speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern O. sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
The Woman You’ve Treated
Fairly.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Inspired by Grant Hervey’s verses about “ The Woman
You’ve Treated Badly.”
rpiHERE’S a woman you’ve treated fairly a
I woman you think of yet;
-L There’s a woman who loved you rarely,
but took all she could get !
Lo! her face smirks there in the gloaming and
worries you down the years ;
Each morn as your locks you are combing you
think of her small, cheap sneers !
For you \yere incessantly calling—aye, calling to
gaze on her ;
And over her relatives falling, but not on her
bosom of myrrh !
She’s the woman you’ve treated fairly, but who
kept you upon the rack —
[f she follows you, tell her squarely you’re now on
another tack !
You may leave your job behind you —you may
travel till all is blue.
But her mushy note will find you in the middle of
Timbuctoo.
She’ll pester you over the ocean and unto the
farthest shore ;
And you’ll wonder what idle notion made her
write to you once more ;
You will say to yourself : “ How rotten \ she
sticks like a Bathurst burr ! ”
And note she hasn’t forgotten what a fatuous
ass you were;
That’s the woman you’ve treated fairly—you can-
not escape her ink;
But her notes are answered rarely—they are
dropped down the handy sink !
There is frequently something stirring deep down
underneath your vest;
if you think it’s your heart you’re erring—it is
something you can’t digest !
And there may be a Someone yearning far back
in the red-lipped past ;
But don’t you be backward turning—just go for-
ward and travel fast!
Never “sit by yourself and ponder in the still,
dead hours of night” ;
Or think of the old girl yonder and her ice-chest
soft and white.
The woman you’ve treated fairly (if she hasn’t
changed her name)
Has some poor ass gloating o’er it, and that beast
is her latest flame.
Stand back and shut up about it—never breathe
of your wasted love ;
And the stars will keep your secret as they look
to their job above 1
Stand back and she’ll do the suing, while you
growl, “ Oh, give it a rest ! ”
And savagely stow the letter in the pocket that’s
- next your breast !
Don’t answer the idle scribble—take a tram to
your work straight back ;
Let thoughts of the time you wasted speed you
swift on the forward track !
From the woman you’ve treated too fairly stand
back like one made sane ;
Let her see that you’ve quite decided to come in
out of the rain !
N.S.W.
GRANT O. LORD.
State Kids.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IN a corridor is gathered a multitude of
women and children, and every tongue wags
that can find a listener.
It is the day on which that fairy god-mother,
“The State,” pays for its children’s support—
the day for the “ boarded-outs.”
Anxious eyes of State parents question the
clock, which relentlessly works round to the after-
noon’s third hour. If so be “ the ladies ” (other-
wise the Committee) are late in paying, the bank
will be closed before the State cheque can be
cashed. In that case, the hungry rent-collector
in his office and the gaping market-basket in the
hand will remain unsatisfied.
Women who come under the A B and C list
crowd close to the Committee-room door. They
are first on the roll, and must be wary. The
others of the alphabet, knowing they have small
chance of getting to the bank in time, cast off all
responsibility, and settle down to enjoy the occa-
sion.
The hot air, vitiated with many breaths, be-
comes more dense. The hum of voices grows
louder. Confidences here resemble a serial running
through the papers. It is carried on at monthly
intervals between women, who never meet mean-
time, and the story may be cut short at any
moment by a call to the Committee-room, with
its subsequent bolt to the bank. This only adds
piquancy to the commonplace narrative. Lost
co-day, caught and relished next pay-day, the
serial is an ever-green.
There is variety among the narrators—very
young mothers, mothers who are losing youth
without a protest, mothers frankly old and seem-
ing mouldy withal. Mostly they wear black,
stuffy, hard fabrics. Rusty mourning adorns their
bonnets.
The “ A’s” having been desultorily paid, “ the
ladies” put on a spurt with the “B’s” and
“ C’s.”
See these hurry into the office at the voice of
command. Emerging each with a pink slip of
paper, they trample ruthlessly on the wilted
boots of the “ D’s,” now yarded up and waiting
submissively their summons.
The devastating “B’s” glare convulsively at
the clock, grab their young charges, and regard-
less alike of the wind, the glare of the sun or the
plaints of some child whose arm threatens to leave
its socket, they stride as with seven-league boots
to the portal of the bank. Already closed ! No
matter. Long practice in dodging obstacles
stands to the “ B s ” now.
They stay by and subdue their throbbing
bosoms. Presently the door opens. A couple
of “A’s ” slip out; the wily “B’s” slip in, and,
presto, the thing is done. Meanwhile the crowd
in the corridor has been supplemented by the
remainder of the alphabet down to “ Y.” There
is no “Z.” Who would trust a “Z” with a
State kid?
Babies, goaded bv heat, whimper incessantly.
Bigger children scuffle on the forms. Sometimes
there is a crash and a concussion, and great terror
arises. No risible damage having been done, the
child is shaken by its parent —a person of shat-
tered nerves and temper. Threats of ‘ wolves,
“black men,” and “the ladies” themselves tail-
ing to shut off its screaming, the mother tights
her way with it through the late letters to the
open. . .
The serials are still running strong —jealousy
and envy the motive of most. Widows with but a
child or two and a small cheque to draw complain
bitterly of others with a whole family “on the
State,’’ because their cheques will be correspond-
ingly large. Also there are speculations, sur-
mises and sneers at other widows, who, by Hercu-
lean effort or pure luck, contrive to personally
provide for their children, and thus defy State,
ladies and inspector.
“Why,” asks a dismal little woman of her
vis-a-vis, brandishing a large door key, “why,
should she [an absent bone of contention] have
three on the State when I can get only one o’
mine on? ’Tain’t fair. I’m goin’to ther ladies
about it. She can dress her girl in silk—silk,
mind you, and buy her baby a four-and-eleven
teddy-bear. She don’t need State ’elp.”
She again brandishes the key, and again and
again asks with emphasis: “Why should she
have three on an’ me only one ? Keep my children
’spectable, don’t I—an’ my ’ouse clean? The In-
spector ’e caught me on the ’op larst week. Did ’e
find my ’ouse dirty ? No, he did not ! Wot’s
that?”
The gnarled female to whom she speaks is
understood to say she doesn’t doubt it.
“No,” answers the angry one, “no one dare
doubt it. I’m a ’spectable person I am, an’ what
I want to know is why-should-she-have-three-on-
th’-State-when-I”
An adjacent wrangle rises and swamps her.
“No,” snaps a parent to the child boarded out
to her, “you can’t go to the concert. I can’t
afford it. There’s ” (and she marks off on her
fingers) “ the rent, your boots, baby’s flannels.
There’ll be nothing left for concerts.”
“ Well,” clamors the impudent sprig of State
control, “ where’d you be if it wasn’t for my
pound a month coming in ? I’ll tell the ladies if
you don’t let me go to the concert, see. I’m
supposed to have clothes and recravshon out o’
my board money.”
“Silence, yon bad girl, the ladies give me osi a
week for your clothes and keep, and little enough
the way you hack your things out. If you’re so
impident I’ll complain to the ladies, and you’ll be
sent back to the home, me lady.”
“Yes, indeed,” interjects a sharp-nosed mother
alongside ; “ that’s the way. Send’em back if they
cheek you. Five shillings is cheap enough with-
out swallowing their sauce put in. See ’er
She breaks off suddenly to indicate a young
woman entering.
“She’s got two on the State and ” —the rest of
the scaialal is whispered behind a knotty hand
and their heads bunched together. “’Twouldn’t
do if the ladies got to know about it. She’d have
them two took off ’er, an’ good enough. No, I
won’t lay no information, seein’ as me an’ her’s
neighbors like. But, mind you, if the ladies ’■’—
again like a magnet the scandal draws the heads
together. Several eyes scan the maligned One
blissfully unaware of the proximity of Damocles’
sword.
Through the buzz of voices comes a reprimand-
ing one—that of a lady standing at the door of
the Holy of Holies—the pay-office.
It is her turn to call the names of the indigent.
She has arrived at the “ T’s,” and she is a-weary
of the task.
“Mrs. Tomkins !” she calls, with a kind of aris-
tocratic patience.
“ Mrs. Tomkins ! ” A bobbing of heads among
the adjacent T’s.
“ Tomkins ! ” The name is bandied from lip to
lip, but there is no immediate appearance. Secure
that her name is far down the list, Mrs. Tomkins I
has evidently thought arrival at a late hour safe,
and has tarried—to finish the washing perhaps.
How is she to know “the ladies’’are rushing
tilings to-day ? But no excuse will avail later
when she does come, nor will it avert one jot of
her reprimand.
“Mrs. Tomkins ! ” again the cry. Among the
hubbub the name miscarries marvellously—be-
comes Thomson, Tomlet, Tomcat, anything. A
Mrs. Tomlinson, deep in one of the verbal serials,
and caught napping as she thinks, starts up
urgently :
“ Min’ me barskit! ” she mutters to her clique,
and, dropping the capacious carry-all, steps into
it, then on to Mrs. Turner’s corns, and drives her
hat into Mrs. Tilley’s eye. What matter?
Trifles these, received as a matter of course,
quickly forgotten by the injured. Is nut the
injurer called by “the ladies”? The reason is
surely sufficient for the crime.
Mrs. Tomlinson bustles through and stumbles
into the Presence, flushed and nervous.
“Tomkins?” asks the elegant creature who
superintends the signing of the indigent’s name
as she raises an official and glacial eye.
“N-no, Tomlinson, M-mum !” answers that
individual.
“No, no,” says the elegant official, irritably ;
“Tomkins is the name wanted. Stand back a
moment, if you please, Mrs. Tomlinson ; you’re
not called yet. Tomkins ! ”
Discomfiture of the previous Tomlinson, who
backs into the mayor’s portrait, avoids the ana-
lytical stare of the remaining committee ladies,
and wishes herself dead.
“ Tomkins ! ” again the challenge is thrown out,
and this time the missing link is unearthed. She
hurries forward abjectly, and is put through her
faeings. Explanation and apology are attempted
and swept aside with scorn and a curt “Sign
here ! ” A laboriously written signature, a col-
lective glare of disapproval, receipt of her magic
cheque, and Mrs. Tomkins flees the awe-inspiring
atmosphere of the committee room for another
month.
“Mrs. Tomlinson, Mrs. Tattle, Mrs. Tolop,
this way ! ”
Coming forward these worthies are regarded
conveniently. “Any more ‘T’s?’ This way,
please. Form into a group to be able to answer
quickly.” Thus the door lady.
Round the office table are “the ladies” —
strangely enough, merely human. One would
suppose them at least half-supernatural, so great
the nerve strain they inspire among the mothers.
Coldly correct, frigid in spite of the climatic con-
ditions, they remind one of a row of frozen jellies
on a sideboard. One with an exceptionally glazed
exterior is questioning a parent whose child has
“ wagged it ” from school. The glazed lady has
threatened to withdraw the pay.
The culprit is abject. Could she advance on
all fours, her dress buttons scraping the lino-
leum, she would do so. And is there not reason
for her demeanor? She is plainly under the
impression (shared by many of her contem-
poraries) that the lady pays the dole from her
own pocket—a natural mistake, considering the
lady’s tremendous attitude.
The approach of a very humble “P” i s the
signal for the committee to confer in clipped
sentences. Then their chief speaks:
(Continued on next page.)


iiiiMiiiiiiiirr
llm,
Smarting, Soreness and Painful
Cracks, Soothed and Healed.
What irritation arises from raw,
chapped hands ! If the skin is at all
sensitive, some people suffer more
or less in this way all the year
round; but with the damp, cold and
frost of winter, the hands and wrists
become a positive torture. First, the
skin loses its pleasant softness, then there is
a disagreeable roughness and redness, fol-
lowed by cracking and bleeding, particularly
in the region of the knuckles and wrists.
This distressing condition is made worse by
drying the hands or face carelessly after washing
on a raw, cold day. Neglecting chaps or any cold-
sores may lead to painful swelling and Inflam-
matlon. There is a danger of grit and dirt getting
Into the cracks of the skin, and setting up positive
torture.
The trouble is utterly beyond the reach of toilet
creams and cheap salves, which possess no medicinal
value whatever, and which are not of the least use
when the tissues are thus affected. Zam-Buk Is
the scientific Balm which, in addition to allaying
the Inflammation and pain, and healing chaps, cold-sores and roughness, also imparts a new
and remarkable healthiness to the skin itself. Smear Zam-Buk on at night, and wear an old
pair of gloves till morning. The effect of the application of Zam-Buk is delightfully soothing.
Its pure essences, which have set it on a pinnacle apart from ordinary ointments and lotions
polluted by animal fats and minerals, instantly soak into and thoroughly permeate the tissues
of the skin, softening and healing in a perfectly natural way—the unique Zam-Buk way. Keep
a pot of Zam-Buk handy then, for your skin is sure to need its soothing and healing aid these
raw. cold davs.
n
Zam-Buk
is
Soothing,
Healing
and
Antiseptic.
SOOTHING—SMOOTHING—HEALING.
CHILBLAINS BANISHED.
Mr. William Bacon, of Verner Street,
Goulburn, N.S.W., says :—“ Dunne: the winter we
experience very cold, frosty weather, and nurse
the fire very closely. The inevitable result is
chilblains. I suffer considerably in this respect,
having- had chilblains on the feet, hands and ears.
I tried many ointments and salves, but with scant
success. I applied Zam-Buk, and the first appli-
cation drove out the irritation and soothed the
chilblains.”
CHAPS AND SORE UPS HEALED.
Mrs. M. Boyd, 147 Toorak Road, South
Yarra, Melbourne, Vic., has suffered from chapped
hands and lips, and writes “ I alwayskeep a pot
of Zam-Buk by me, as I consider it invaluable for
the hands during' the cold winter weather. I
suffered from chapped hands and lips, but a few
applications of the balm soothed and healed the
smarting chaps very quickly.”
6
Nature’s Own Healer
Zam-Buk is invaluable for
eczema, piles, raw places,
blood-poison, chapped hands,
cold-sores, bad legs, and
heals cuts, burns, scalds
and bruises. Of all chemists
and stores at Is. 6d. and
3s. 6d. per pot.
THE
QUESTION of the DAY
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS* SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on tHe otHer Hand
—tHat is, on botH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally—you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEAR
Matchless for the Complexion.
“We are sending a per-sohn, ah, to you, for
the child William, Mrs. Potter, Porker, ah!”
(referring to the pay-sheet) “Ishould say Parker.
He is to be transferred, as you already know.
Have him ready not later than— Oh, you must
not take it this way, Mrs. Parker —eh—Porker,”
as that very humble person dissolves into tears.
“Of course, we will give you another baby.”
“Yes, in mum, but I’m very fond o’ William,
m’mnm. I’ve reared him as you might say.
I’ve”—and she dissolves again, scouring her
features with a coarse handkerchief.
“Yes, yes, very creditable of you, Mrs. Packer,
to show so much feeling.”
“Always clean I’ve kep’ that child, mum.
Couldn’ he stay with me, mum. I’m sure,
mum”
The ladies confer in undertone hurriedly. One
looks at her watch. It is nearly time for after-
noon-tea. Really too inconsiderate of this person
to create a scene like this. Then the chief
delivers the verdict.
“No, Mrs. Porker. The order has been passed.
The child must be transferred.”
Loud sobbings from the about-to-be-bereft one.
Lady resuming:
“ Of course, if it rested with US, the committee
might re-consider the matter; but there are
others who decide. Now, if you please, Mrs.
Packer, do not make a scene”
“But if you only knew, ma’am!” cries Mrs.
Packer, now shrieking dismally.
With an exquisitely gloved and upraised hand
the chief lady checks the suppliant:
“That is enough,” she says. “No, we cannot
give an explanation. You 'may find the reason
by inquiring at headquarters. And, anyhow, you
may have another baby.”
Exit of Parker and clicking of costly teeth
among the frozen jellies.
“So hysterical, hardly fit to have control of any
child,” say 3 the chief lady. “And she has been
warned, you know. Well, let us get on. I’m
feelin quite faint, d’you know. This work is
rah-ly very ha—exhausting. One needs a rest
from it now and then. Palmer, Potter, Porrit! ”
There is an interruption. A loud vulgar woman
is clattering in the corridor. She is blazing a
track through the rest of the human alphabet
there.
She bursts into the Holy of Holies. Her hat,
bobbing off, bobs on to the head of one of its priest-
esses. The hat is shudderingly shaken off. A chair
is upset. Riot. “ WHAT IS THE MEANING
OF THIS?” demand the ladies with one voice.
“V’ bin called?” states the devastator, with a
broad grin. “ I’ve bin workin’. I’m a bit late.
I’m in the B’s. Bucket’s me name ! ” She looks
as if her name was Beer.
Folding her arms, she terrorises the frozen
ladies. Several gather up gloves and satchels and
say their prayers.
“The woman has been drinking,” says one.
Only the chief lady keeps her head, ’turning
back the pages hastily she finds “ B.”
“Sign, ’she says, sternly; “and never come
here in this state again.”
A blurred and wobbling signature is affixed,
and Bucket receives her dole :
“ Full as a barrel, I am,” she says cheerfully.
Sensation among the benefactresses.
“ Drunk,” she adds, as if infurther elucidation.
“ Don’matter. Free country. I’m off. S’long.”
“Disgraceful! Outrageous! She shall be re-
ported at once. Give me a form, Miss Fitzgor-
gon, my dear. Let me report the creature AT
ONCE, ” says the chief.
‘ ‘ A Blot on the System ! ” says the lady with the
smallest waist.
“Shocking episode!” says the lady with the
biggest hat. “ A strong woman like that! The
makings of a good domestic ! And servants so
badly wanted ! ”
By degrees they simmer down sufficiently to
dispose of the last of the alphabet; put away
their paraphernalia and depart.
Just in time. The office is wanted. Two men
wearing the council’s badge take possession.
Husky voices are echoing in the corridor. Clank-
ing of iron-toed boots on the stone floor. Tapping
of a wooden leg. Clink, clink, the ferrules of
walking-sticks and a band of weather-beaten
veterans, whose one luxury is whiskers, shuffle
into view.
The municipal stone-breakers have come to
collect their hard-earned dues.
PENGUIN.
Bermagui-in a Strange
Sunset.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BERMAGUI, where the mystery was.
Sunset, and a sad, old mysterious bright-
gold-to-dull-eopper one. Red flag with
broad white cross; gloomy and half-fearful, half-
threatening in sunset glare.
Sort of crumpled curve of bay-sand, and rotten
rock and beach scrub and tussock. As if it were
meant to be a clean curve with white sand. But
juttings out of rotting earth and sand and bastard
rock—that were not “ points,” nor anything else
—were left, mixed up with scraggy bush and
scrub and eoarse tufts that Nature forgot, or
hadn’t time to shove away and tidy up. Scene
started in a hurry, left half finished and for-
gotten. Blue hill or bastard mountain to the
west, running down to pigmy peak at the end of
it. Mount Dromedary—and looks like it. Tired,
sulky, obstinate old Dromedary in the dusk, shut-
ting out daylight. Point made of same rotten
clay or rock tipped with a fringe of bastard,
scraggy, dead trees. Stacks of sleepers, sleepers,
sleepers and sawn timber along the darkening
clay road. Jumble of sand and mongrel scrub
and tussock, and the Beach Hotel. Jumble of
weatherboard shanties. All seem to face the
sunset with guilty, glazed and gleaming eyes
turned towards where, far out at the end of the
mountain, Lamont Young’s party were lost—or
not lost—nearly 30 years ago. One house, back
behind clumps of decent trees to the left, with
only one guilty, glassy, brassy eye visible from
deck. Showing well above the jumble of houses
on hill at the back, one small, oblong, weather-
board, bare, verandah-less “cottage,” with two
eyes more glazy, more glaring, more blazing and
guiltier than all the rest, against the sunset.
Darkness falls. Flares glaring on wharf and
deck. Long, sawn timber swung aboard and
below with amazing clumsiness and carelessness.
Hurry, hurry, hurry. Snatching hatfuls of cargo
from every little port. Too lightly laden.
Chancing it and runningacross from Maorilandand
Tasmania over perhaps the most dangerous seas
in the world, in little more than ballast. I know
it, and have known it for many years. Way back
in Dana’s time, Clark Russell speaks of it. Rotten
ships started off round the world too deeply laden.
Down here, in Lawson’s time, coffin ships from
Newcastle and Sydney have fallen into a trough
and through the bottom, like a kettle filled with
bullets. And men drowned like rats in that same
kettle with the lid cramped on. Now it is all haste
—razor-edged competition and greed. I’ve been
round the Cape, from Durban to Sydney, where
the Waratah was lost, and I know.
I d rather be in one of our little Mallacoota or
Cunningham cutters, with a comfortable bellyful
of cargo, off Gabo, in a sea, than in some of our
long, high, narrow, top-heavy, too-lightly laden,
speed-greedy liners, in the long, greasy, devilish
beam roll. The little cutter sits upright anyway,
and climbs like a cat. Think of the liner turned
turtle. Hundreds—men, women, children, lads
and lasses—trapped, helpless; the most horrible
death you could imagine at sea. When she
swamps, there’s light at least to the last, and a
ohance for it.
But we are sketching Bermagui. Chaff goes
ashore. (Point and trees dark and dreary.) More
cheese comes on board—cheese, butter, eggs, sawn
timber, calves, pigs and sleepers, and, in the
season, wool! We can’t get away from wool.
Pigs and calves are slung aboard anyhow.
But let us get out of this.
Light on Montague Island like star in the east.
Moonlight.
Passed Ulladulla in my sleep; but it sounds like
cheese, butter, eggs, calves, pigs, pumpkins and,
in the season, wool. Same as Cunnamulla, in
Queensland, always suggests mashed pumpkin or
pumpkin pies to me.
Hatches left off, with chain round, to give air to
stock. Roaring of young bulls, blowing of calves,
grunting and squealing of pigs in cattle hold —and
ditto in saloon smoking-room, for they’re drink-
ing a bit. If we only had a donkey, and a sheep
or two, and a goat we’d be complete forward.
Sailor says there’s queer cattle in the saloon some-
times.
Roused by strange noise just as I was dozing
off. It was the fore-cabin steward with the jim-
jams in his sleep. Most uncanny sounds I ever
heard.
Morning bright and glorious. Off Port Hack-
ing. Rockdale over beyond showing the cliffs.
Cutter between the Heads. Sails of fishing boats
—dark brown, clay colored, light brown with
touch of yellow, yellowish grey, plain grey, tawny
and almost black. The Heads at nine o’clock.
That is Australia. No meadows and fields
showing fair down to the sea, nor aught, as in
other lands, to hint of the great wealth of riches
within her. Shelving rock coast, capped with
hopeless and forbidding dry coastal scrub—you’d
never dream of what was behind and within.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Army of the Dead.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
DULL of spirit, slack of eye,
See an Array slouching' by—
See the dead men crawling torabward in habili-
ments of gloom ;
Bright the sun shines overhead.
But the Army of the Dead
Still with strengthless steps and dreary, falters
slowly to its doom.
Gladly shine the deathless stars,
Beat the seas upon their bars—
Sings the world with strength exultant, and the
winds are full of glee,
But the cohorts of the grave
They no banners lift or wave—
They are blind and drab and dreary and a sad
calamity !
’Tis the Army of the Dead-
Strength is gone and hope has fled,
’Tis the passing of the peoples who are cheap and
out of date;
As the seasons come and go,
Pious sextons calmly throw
Heavy clods upon their coffins, cleaning Time’s
immortal slate!
Time, the cheerful, wipes them out—
Hear the glad years sing and shout,
Hear the music of creation as the strong arms
clasp and bind ;
But the Army of the Dead
Hails the gladsome tomb instead—
Whilst the strong men hustle onward it is wailing
hymns behind !
Work is calling, hear its call,
Hear the hammers beat and fall—
’Tis the Workman at his labor, hear him whistle
as he goes;
Climbing life’s far-sloping stair,
Lifting cities proud and fair,
Striking hard and never grieving over fool-
invented woes!
’Tis the Army of the Strong—
How they raise their battle-song,
How they face the years reliant, caring not for
death nor doom ;
Whilst the legions of the Dead
Falter on with cheerless tread,
They are raising Newer Nations in the Lands of
Elbow-Room !
Armed with broad-axe, saw and wrench,
Grafting long at forge and bench—
Rolling forth the mighty engines and the whirring
dynamo;
Building city, wharf and town,
Tearing dead things swiftly down—
Melting old worlds into new ones in the eager
furnace glow !
Puny pessimistic fools,
Human weeds and barren mules —
These may crawl athwart the landscape with their
solemn rags of gloom ;
But the workman, stout and strong,
Joineth not their morbid song—
He is toiling for Australia ; blow the sodden, use-
less tomb !
Fighting bravely round the world—
Hear his challenge skyward hurled,
Bursting up the mountain bulwarks, see the
White Man swiftly go;
Building railway, bridge and pier.
Building onward year by year—
Hail the work-consuming Titans ; damn the bards
and priests of woe !
Let the Army of the Dead
Wag its melancholy head,
Let it mumble useless prayers as it fronts
Eternity;
But the Strong Men, gripping hard,
Fight the mountains granite-barred—
They are here to toil and conquer and to make
this planet gee !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
" - -- ;■
AGENTS FOR
Murray's English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King's Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated "Waters and Cordials.
' I
a
o
:‘v4.
iw
' 7.
KWVWv.v
Unfortunately all
whiskies look alike
■—that’s the trouble.
Johnnie Walker
tastes different—
That’s the remedy!
Its the Purity and
Maturity that tells.
Johnnie Walker is obtainable
wherever good whisky is sold.
John Walker & Sons, Scotch Whisky
Distillers, Kilmarnock.
P
? r . '' ,■ ‘ T
Born 1820.
'Still going
strong.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “Hop’s ’’ best drawings. Full Bollktin size
Price, 21s.
/
V
m
/¥ W
h
/jee they all take
tiel\
The Remedy in everjj Room
df
Owing to its cleansing
action on tHe Kidneys
and otHer organs it is
a real health tonic.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePort
Nature's Gift.
IMI
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0. for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC
© s*
(4mm
*Q
honestly and without charge.
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have k practice ex-
tending; all over Aus-'
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your case
and I will advise you
S.H HENSHALL,
R p <rri. Chemist,
by Examination
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
gfd
ecks a
arrests Fever
Croup, Ague
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
O/ARRHCEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
p. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Lid.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seuen
IPi'iase Medals.
Works
'Sirrs - ®
These series of'
Pens neither scratcii
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Bos.
' W
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
V** Btandard Remedy wliich ha« the Centuries
S iHBLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
Tn nee Bince 1596.
CURBS '
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the hook is free—or write
S. GREEN. ilO. Lambeth RoaU. Lonuon, Eng.
THE BALLET GIRL
g
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Post Froo, 1»-
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Froe, Is.
Stnd Stamp for riluinr, tied Lists or Books and Novelties
IV! ad ame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
fdg
ERiMAULT'S INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty n expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs.
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAULT It Co's INDI AN CIGAR.
I I S. S'- d hy bn Chfiwi***.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. §d,
Thibaclt. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Saryaas. 2s„ 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals, 2s,
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s, 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices New.
fd
Superior to
k INJECTIONS
| CUBEBS and
I COPAIBA*
f Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
m hours.
gfd
Each Capsule hears the name WE
“LINSEED
Golds. Of proven
MPOUND” for Goughs and
for chest complaints.


Yott Can Depend on
Perdriau’s Driving Rugs.
gfd
Jm’oiii our splendid range of 30
different, styles we select the
Plain Sealette as a really good
Hue' tor everyday use. It, may he
had m either Black, Green,
Brown or Dark Magenta. Meas-
*’ r ' ll " t'Oin. x 4Sili., proofed with
Oil-proofed Calico, fitted with
i-tiiiy and Mount,, and lined as
above, the price is 11/3. Postage
extra, 1/6. The same Rug, meas-
uring 72in. x 48in., is priced at
T , • . ~ '3/8. Postage extra, 1/9.
remiire von sho?ilH knt -e U ‘l’ but if not exactl y what vou
Pej s ? n 1 V Vr n for a „ free CO P- V of otlr Winter
i-anglng'frontS/e foToT'"* *" ° Ur Kl,ifB - at P rices
PERDR/AU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
PETROL electric lighting set
FOR
g
SOLE AGENT,
T. K. STEANES,
39 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY.
' Fibro-Cement
WHAT 13 IT? Portlnnd Cement, rein-
forced with Asbestos. It has the .strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong-,
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made in Slates for roofing, Red, Grey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 24in. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illusrrai eri Catalogue “ 1! ” to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, Sydney
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
“ Clayton 8 Shuttlevorth”
Portable STEAM ENGINE.
Where firewood is plentiful these Engines can’t
be beaten. They are wonderfully economical
and reliable. Send for Illustrated Lists.
STATION OWNERS
would do well to instal only
THE
MACHINES.
They mean More Money and No Lost Time.
“TAIMGYE”
PORTABLE OIL ENGINE.
The Ideat Engine for the Sheepowner and
Farmer. Handy for driving Sheep Shearing
Machines, Chaffcutters, Saws, etc.
DALGETY (& CO. LTD.,
SOLE
AGENTS,
Miller's Point, SYDNEY
fflm. mmt.
A. E.G. High-Speed 3-Phase Motor,
900 H.P. 3000 R.P.M., fitted with
Special Ventilation Arrangements and
Water-Cooled Bearings. ’■
A.E.G.
Electric MOTORS and GENERATORS
Are you interested in Polyphase Induction Motors ? Write for Pamphlet EJ. 179.
POWER PLANTS OUR SPECIALTY.
STAERKER & FISCHER,
40 Clarence Street, Sydney.
172 William Street, Melbourne.
NOYES BROS
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153--7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers, nrnmn
St. Qeorge’s A Terrace, JrJCrK 1 tl.
7 Pirie Street
1C
KING-LOC ”
N° Ties, Wedges, or Staples. Won’t Bum„
m
♦
fdg
60
Clarence $t
Sydney
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD.
263 Georgle St., Sydney;
525 Collins St., Mlbourne.
BATTERY
FORGED STEEL SHOES
DIES.
Wwt« Wire and Punched Steel Battery Screw. faHMit, Sitm Ekctro Anhaailikf Plato.
D
?on
CAM
BRAND.
