

DEWAR’S -All that a perfect Whisky should be
R. €Sr. WATKINS «S& €30.,
, 107 Kent Street, Sydney,
-4Port
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY.
NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
2r S£sr
McLaren
Traction Engines.
IMPROVED DESIGN.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
128 William Street,
A.RX,
Hadley’ s Orient Bote!
PIONEEfJ
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
ĥ
Take it back,
1 must have -
HUTTON’S
Pine-Apple Brand
ħ
CHUBB’S BIAGONAL BOLTS
FIT PERFECTLY.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
L
U
HANSENS
h
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
oM,
ĥ
ħ
h
OF IT’S POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLI
*
.0
A*
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
BENSDORPS
AL
Xfl
mm
is the Queen oM Cocoas
fO K
Aroma,Strength^Purity:
WHITE MALTHOID is a new departure and
one that will be welcomed in this climate. We
have succeeded in obtaining a very soft and
substantial white, which, while reducing
the temperature very considerably, is both
soothing and restful to look upon.
a,
n
m
£
After a quarter of a century’s practical
roof-making experience, we have no hesi-
tation in saying it is “the last word” in
roofing, since it combines all the merits of
Malthoid as well. Write us for full par- .
ticulars and illustrated booklet, post free.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), CHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
THE PLANT ADOPTED
by THE BRITISH
ADMIRALTY.
SUCTION GAS ENGINES
AND
GAS GENERATING PLANTS
The Plant that secured
the GOLD MEDAL at
PLYMOUTH, 1906,
against all makers.
C. A. MacDONALD, LTD., 03 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ĥ
ħ
h
FOR ALL SERVICES KEPT
IN STOCK.
Send for Catalogues.
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 52 8 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
THORNE’S
WHISKY.
MARTELL’S
BRANDY.
HEi
HELIDON SPA is the only Australian Mineral
W7 •jioi* m ifh r.flfininQ AemAtlV PfnnAfttAC
DEWHURST § HALLORAN, Ltd.,
The Bulletin
V01.31.—N0. 1575.]
[Thursday, April 21, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NtWBOOKS.
GEORC
ROBERTSON AND CO. PROP., LTD.
CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Newte : Calico Jack, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Ensor, R. C.: Modern Socialism, Is 3d, posted Is 6d.>
MacCallum’s Shakespeare’s Roman Plays, 12s, posted 13s.
Designs for Woodearving, Bd, posted 10d.
Hill C. : Concrete Inspection, 5s 6d, posted 5s lOd.
Longhead : Vehicles of the Air, 15s, posted 16s. _
Warren, Prof. W. H.: Engineering Construction in Steel
and Timber, new edition, 21s, posted 22s 6d.
White, W. H.: A Certain Rich Man, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Murray, J. Alan: Soils and Manures, 7s, posted 7s Bd.
Thornton’s Leaves from an Afghan Scrap Book, 7s 6d,
posted 8s 3d.
Sang, A.: Gorrosi.on of Iron and Steel, 5s 6d, p. 5s lOd.
Weingreen, J.: Electric Power Plant Engineering, 255,
posted 265.
Chesterton, G. K.: Ball and the Cross, 6s, posted 6s 6d.
Ditchfield, P.: Manor Houses of England, 9s, p. 9s 9d.
Engineering Wonders of the World, 3 vols., 245, posted 28s.
Boyles, K. and V'.: The Homesteaders, 3s 6d, posted 4s.
Loiig, H. C.: Common Weeds of the Farm, 7s, p. 7s Bd.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says:—
“ These Jujubes
should be of
special service
toLecturers,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
pro longed
periods."
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe,
ħ
O. The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt o f
stamps from HUDSON’S EUMENTHIH. CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
A REGENT MARRIAGE.
Satyr roaming Helicon
(Or was it a Thracian suceubus?)
Surprised a dreaming nymph thereon
(Or was it a god who lingered thus?)
Superb are the Satyrs—in Satyr-land !
(And the witches’ curves—to the fauns of
Thrace!)
But a flower will wilt in a Satyr hand
(And a white Greek god in a trull’s embrace !)
Though the Satyr returned to his hills again
(Or the galloping witch to her Thracian sod ?)
On the white Greek nymph is a spiit-foot stain
(And a wild mare bite on the flank of the god !)
»A Faun op Thrace.
The RED PAGE
O. Henry
That finest and hardiest annual in the
garden of short stories—known to the world
as “O. Henry” and privately as Sidney
Porter—has pi-oduced a better crop of
blossoms than usual in Options (Dymock’s).
As with flowers of any kind, there is a strong
family resemblance between this andthepro-
O. HENRY.
vious collections ; but that does not make the
color and fragrance any the less delightful.
The reader should take a few at a time to
get the full benefit of their individual charm,
though all exhale the odor of Romance/ 0.
Henry disclaims any merit in the result:
If I could have a thousand y t ears—just one
little thousand years—more of life, I might, in
that time, draw near enough to true Romance to
touch the hem of her robe. Up from ships men
come, and from waste places and forest and road
and garret and cellar, to maunder to me in
strangely distributed words of things they have
seen and considered. The recording of their tales
is no more than a matter of ears and fingers.
There are only-two fates I dread—deafness and
writer’s cramp.
Of course, the effects which distinguish these
stories are due to the stock—descended from
Scheherazade, and' to patient culture. The
manipulation of the American language, the
pleasant “ disarrangement of epitaphs,” and
the tricky endings meant a great deal of
pains. The result—in cash and appreciation
—shows that they were worth while.
Biographical Novels .
Everybody is interested in the men of
action who have filled star parts on the
world’s stage. Certain personages and their
times have been so thoroughly exploited in
literature that one might think there were
no pickings left; yet behold the prosperous
crew who simply steal from the exploiters !
The wretchedest rant and piffle, sprinkled
with stock oaths, will often sell furiously if
the phantoms supposed to utter it are
labelled with well-known names. Favorite
periods are those of Henry, who thought
Paris was worth a mass; and Chai’les, who
bequeathed to all kings a crick in the neck.
The convention is that knighthood was then
in flower ; every hero killed his man before
breakfast, an.d kissed every pretty wench he
met. “Cape and sword” novels, with
kings and duchesses as plentiful as poli-
ticians in Australia, are manufactured by
the gross ; for nothing can kill the intei-est of
the multitude in the flourishing ,period of
melodrama. Nor can Time wither or rotters
stale the charm of the great criminals of
history. The deeds of Nero, the Borgias,
Napoleon and others of the same kidney are
material for endless histories and historical
novels.
The best of our views of the distant or the
past are taken through the pei-sonality of the
recorder. If every man of action were his
own Boswell, as little Pepys was, history
would knock out any other kind of literature.
Caesar, Marcus Aurelius and some others
were writers in their leisure, and we know
them better than, say, Henry VIII., whom
we must view through the distorting medium
of Froude, Lingard or any other of his bio-
graphers. The best we can hope for is that
the painter is an artist.
The most readable histories are those
which contain a large pei-centage of fiction.
The formal historians pile up “ facts ” (which
are generally upset by later pick and shovel
men), and they fail to picture a man as he
lived. Only a small proportion of readers
have sufficient imagination to do that for
themselves. The ordinary historical novelist
does make his figures work and convey some
notion of the original ; he writes on a level
with the intelligence of the large public, and
he is read. Most ideas the public has of life
are derived from fiction— i.e., novels and
newspapers.
The writing of a good historical novel
requires a combination of gifts which,
separately, are not very common Few
novelists have been able to revive a
long-past time or make dry bones live
again. Flaubert exhausted himself in
the effort to make ISalambo accurate in
detail. It is, perhaps, as good a picture of
Carthage in the time of Hanno as you can
get, but it is a dull novel. (It will be inter-
esting to see what Stephen Phillips has made
of Dido, Queen of Garthage , in his poetical
drama just announced.) George Eliot said
that she was a young woman When she began
Romola, and finished it an old woman ;
yet her Savonarola is a lay figure, and the
story is not to be compared with its prede-
cessors, which cost her less pains. Alfred
Austin, in The Bridling of Pegasus, mentions
that Disraeli said to him one day: “See
what my Gracious Sovereign sent me as a
present at Christmas.” It was a copy of
Romola; with an inscription from “his
grateful and affectionate friend—Victoria. ”
“But,” he added, “I cannot read it.”
George Eliot’s hand was too heavy, except
when working on the memories of her youth.
Scott is the shining example of success in
historical fiction. He did not allow facts
to fetter him any more than Shakespeare
did : the story was the first consideration.
\!/
Of recent publications, Gertrude Ather-
ton’s The Conqueror is a fine specimen of the
biographical novel. As a picture of Alex-
ander Hamilton, it is accurate, in the artistic
sense, and alive. Justin Huntly McCarthy,
with Jess than Gertrude’s ability, made a
bigger splash with If I Were King, a novel
founded on Francois Villon. The drama-
tisation scored too, and that helped the novel
and its successor, Needles and Pins. Then
he had a go at the Borgias, and now he has
tackled the grim Italian who made a Hell of
his own, and peopled it with his enemies,
fitted up Purgatory, and put his best girl on
a front seat ip Paradise.
In The God of Love (Hurst and Blackett),
McCarthy treats the late Mr. Dante of
Italy with considerable freedom, yet manages
to interest the reader in his love affair with-
out doing great violence to the facts.
Beatrice Portinari, whose acquaintance with
Dante is supposed to have been very slight,
here appears in various tender passages with
him. IS he is forced into a marriage with
Simone dei Bardi, but rescued at the church
door by Dante. Though Bardi is slaughtered
immediately afterwards, he has provided for
the poisoning of Beatrice to prevent Dante
from getting her; and the “God of Love”
leads the stricken poet to the bedside of the
dead Beatrice, as pictured by Rossetti in
“ Dante’s Dream.”
Just as Milton unconsciously made Satan
the hero of Paradise Lost, so McCarthy fails
to make Dante and Beatrice nearly so life-
like and interesting as Vittoria, a lady of
easy virtue, who probably has no wax-rant in
history. Simone, when drinking at Vit-
toria’s house, heard praise of Beatrice, and
swore that he would marry her.
“I will marry this lily within a year, and if I
do not, why I will wed you, you ,” and he
called Vittoria by such lewd names as your wit
can picture. But she, turning no hair, called for
pen arid parchment and had it fairly engrossed,
and Simone’s sprawling signature duly witnessed
before ever the company departed.
Upon this episode the story depends, and
the history of Florence in Dante’s time is
fitted into it very ingeniously.
\l>
H. C. Chatfield-Taylor, author of a bio-
graphy of Moliere, supplements it with a
romance covering the early life of the actor-
dramatist. Fame’s Pathway (Chatto and
Windus) presents the Moliere who “left the
benches of the Sorbonne to follow Madeleine
Bejart ” as a tender-hearted, amorous man,
with the soul of an artist. He has a burn-
ing ambition to shine in tragedy, and joins
Madeleine’s company of poor players, and
with them foots it into the provinces. He
meets the great Corneille and pays tribute
to “The Cid.”
“Your praise is very gratifying,” said Corneillft
“Yet Richelieu proclaimed ‘The Cid ’ imnxpral,
and at his bidding the academicians condemned
it. It was, they said, the apotheosis of passionate
love at the expense of imperious duties. Alas !
I am not sure but that they were right.”
“ Right in condemning a masterpiece,” expos-
tulated Moliere, every nerve quivering with emo-
tion.
“Yes, right,” answered the poet . . . Our
drama should be truly national. Patriotism
should inspire every worthy play. . • Love should
be second in rank to the capital passions if the
dignity of the stage is to be upheld. . . . Through
tragedy alone may this object be, upheld, for
comedy is trivial and farce is vulgar.”
Confirmed by such an authority, Moliere
drags the company through failure after
failure in tragedy. Madeleine, who loves him,
convinces him eventually that he is a born
comedian, and the scory ends as the pathway
opens on to Fame at last. Madeleine is
finely drawn, a brave, capable and true
woman ; and Moliere in the making- is well
realised. The novel gives an excellent view
of the life led by actors of the time,
vl/
William Devereux reached the great heart
of the British public last year with a play in
which Walter Raleigh and the good Queen
Bess frustrate the knavish tricks of Popish
conspirators, and tweak the Spaniard’s
nose. Devereux and Stephen Lowell have
written a novel round the d*ama —Sir
Walter Raleigh (Sydney Book Club), which
goes with a rattle and a bang that should
make it popular. Eliza’s bad temper, the
cloak act, the introduction of tobacco- and
potatoes, and other familiar properties, give
it that air of historical accuracy which is
sufficient for stage purposes. It is as good
an Elizabeth as Kipling’s resurrection on
Pook’s Hill in Nash’s Magazine for March.
King Edward Intervenes, by Arabella
Kenealy (Dymock’s), is not a biographical
novel. His Gracious Majesty does come in
(per motor-car) ; but there is nothing in the
story which can be construed into lese
majeste. The wildly-improbable plot is not
even handled decently, and the money-
catching title is the only clever thing about
the book.
A Lunatic Mixture
G. K. Chesterton is in the arena once
more on behalf of his religion. The Ball
and the Gross (Wells, Gardner and Co.) is
something more than a tract and a good deal
less than a novel. It resembles Napoleon of
Notting Hill in its wildly fantastic form.
The characters of the story are not human,
they are merely symbols. The title repre-
sents, literally, the ball and cross on the dome
of St. Paul’s Cathedral; and, figuratively, the
World and Christianity.
Professor Lucifer, with the cloven chin,
takes an exceptionally holy monk for a trip
in an airship, gets angry in a dispute over the
merits of the ball and the cross as symbols,
and drops the monk on top of St. Paul’s..
“What are you going to do now?” he
jeeringly asked ; and the monk, pointing
downward at the street, said : “ I am going
to climb up into a star.” Whereupon Ches-
terton remarks that Paradox is regarded by
the superficial as something which belongs
to jesting and light journalism ; but those
who see more deeply know that it be-
longs to all religions and to all vivid
and violent crises of human living. The
monk is gifted with this super-wisdom :
“if he were foolhardy he might escape;
if he were wise he would stop where
he was till he dropt like a stone.” He is
foolhardfy, and escapes to earth-—“ the
happiest man there.” He is misunderstood
and confined in an asylum.
Two other symbols are then introduced —
a Highlander named Mclan, who takes the
Stuart cause and the Christian religion very
seriously ; and Turnbull, a Lowlander, who
with equal seriousness runs an Atheist news-
paper. An article referring to the .Virgin so
offended the Highlander that he smashed the
window of the Atheist newspaper office and
offered to fight the proprietor. The Celtic
mystic is fined £lO ; but before leaving the
court he undertakes to fight a duel with the
Freethinker to settle the question of the
existence of God.. They take possession of
a curiosity shop kept by a nasty Jew :
Though there are no hard tests for separating
the tares and wheat of any people, one rude hut
efficient guide is that the nice Jew is called Moses
Solomon, and the nasty Jew is called Thornton
Percy.
The duel begun in the Jew’s back-yard is
interrupted and continued in a dreary, farci-
cal fashion for some hundreds of pages. The
British Isles are aroused, and a horde of
police chase the only two people who take
religion seriously. They escape from one
pursuit by climbing over a high 'wall into a
garden, where they meet an elderly man who
says he is the owner.
“So you really want to fight" with drawn
swords, in my garden, about whether there is
really a ”
“Why not?” said Mclan, with his simple
monstrosity of speech. “ All man’s worship
began when the Garden of Eden was founded.”
“Yes, by said Turnbull, “and ended
when the Zoological Gardens were founded.”
The stranger went stamping up and down the
garden, making it echo with his unintelligible
laughter. Then he came back to them more com-
posed, and wiping his eyes. “Why, how small the
world is?” he cried, “I can settle the whole
matter. Why, lam God ! ”
They were, in fact, in the grounds of a
lunatic asylum. Lucifer was in charge, and
all the rest of the characters meet there for
a grand finale which raises Caine and goes
several Corellis better.
The undercurrent of seriousness in The
Ball and the Gross spoils it as a farce, and
it is too silly to be regarded seriously.
You read on, despite the absurdity, and
are rewarded with a purple riot of Chester-
bonian buffoonery and occasionally With a
comparatively quiet sentence like this :
The pure lemon of the sky faded into purer
white as the great sunset silently collapsed.
But at the end you feel that you have been
cheated. The Ball and the Gross is no book ;
it is a fake. Chesterton as a preacher in
motley is a failure.
A Modern Tragedy
John Galsworthy, novelist and dramatist,
takes the world more seriously than Chester-
ton, but treats its problems in a more artistic
fashion. Chesterton is dissatisfied with the
Present because it is not more like the Past;
Galsworthy sees the Golden Age in the
Future. Though he measures the real
against an ideal standard, he sets it forth,
just as it is, relying on his audience to see
the discrepancy without the prompting of
any gross emphasis.
In the Nation newspaper some months ago
Galsworthy made a powerful attack upon the
system of solitary confinement in English
prisons. In his latest play— Justice, a
tragedy, in four acts (Duckworth) —he has
followed it up with a subtler and more
effective attack.
Falder, junior clerk to a firm of lawyers,
pities and then loves a woman, Ruth Honey-
well/whose husband brutally ill-treats her.
One day, when things had been worse than,
usual for Ruth, Falder is given the firm’s
cheque for £9 to cash. In a reckless, hys-
terical moment he changes the “ 9 ” to “ 90,”
and arranges to take Ruth away with the
difference. On the day they are to leave he
is found out and arrested. Act 11. is devoted
to the trial, which, fr6m the legal point of
view, is very well done. Counsel for the
defence makes the best of a bad case ; the
Judge is against him on account of the “ not
guilty ” plea, and Falder is sentenced to
three years’ imprisonment.
After two years Falder is released on
ticket-of-leave, meets Ruth again, and
applies to his old firm for work. The man-
aging clerk is a good-natured old chap who
has acted well all through. Falder tells him
of the struggle to get a place without a refer-
ence, and mentions that he has applied for
help to his brother-in-law, who offered him
£l5 to clear out to Canada.
Falder: ... “I see,” I said—“good rid-
dance ! No thanks. Keep your fifteen pounds.”
Friendship’s a queer thing when you've been
where I have.
Cokeson : I understand. Will you take the
£l5 from me? (Flustered , as Falder regards him
with a queer smile.) Quite without prejudice, I
meant it kindly.
Falder : I am not allowed to leave the country.
Cokeson: Oh, ye. . . es—ticket-of-leave? You
aren’t looking the thing.
Falder: I’ve slept in the park three nights
this week. The dawns aren’t all poetry there.
But meeting her—l feel a different man this
morning. I’ve often thought the being fond of
her’s the best thing about me; it’s sacred some-
how—and yet it did for me. That’s queer, isn’t
it? • .
Cokeson : I’m sure we’re all very sorry for you.
Falder : That’s what I’ve found, Mr. Cokeson.
Awtullv sorry for m e (with quiet bitterness). But
it doesn’t do to associate with criminals.
Cokeson: Come, come; it’s no use calling
yourself names. That never did a man any good.
Put a face on it.
Falder : It’s easy enough to put a face on it
sir, when you’re independent. Try it when you’re
down like me. They talk about giving you your
deserts. Well, I think I’ve had just a bit over.
Cokeson [eyeing him askance over his spectacles):
I hope they haven’t made a Socialist of you.
The sympathetic Cokeson almost succeeds
in getting a job for the ticket-of leave man ;
but the police are after him about a forged
reference, and Falder escapes by throwing
himself downstairs and breaking his neck.
There is nothing heroic about any of these
characters, nor anything melodramatic about
their doings. They are faithful studies from
life, and are all creatures or victims of the
civilization machine. The dramatist is
gibbeting the System. One scene shows
Falder in his cell, in a nervous tumult, beat-
ing his hands on the door. Not a word is
said throughout the scene. On the stage
this should have more effect as an indictment
of solitary confinement than anything that
could be said.
Neurasthenia is a disease of the age, and
Falder is a specimen victim. “If it were
not for drink and women,” the chaplain said,
“ this prison might be closed.” The woman
was the sacredest element in Falder’s life,
yet from the moment of her entrance he was
hurried along to misery and a tragic end.
Justice is Jdone according to the Law, and
Galsworthy shows once more what an ass the
Law is.


w acre
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ for AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS
Canton Guard Lever Harrows
m
M
■i
J
J
J
J
1057
Similar in construction to the ordinary U-Bar Lever Harrow, with the addition of the
Guards that protect the ends of the tooth bars.
This Harrow is superior to all others for use in orchards, vineyards or trashy ground.
The ends of the tooth bars being protected prevents injury from colliding with trees or shrubs,
and avoids the accumulation of trash that would foul the ordinary Harrow.
By throwing the levers forward the teeth are thrown back for transporting, or to clear the
Harrow of trash.
Made in two Sections of 25 or 30 teeth to the Section. The teeth are 8 inches long by
4 inch square.
2 Sections of 25 teeth each with bars as shown, weight 203ib., width Bft., complete, 75/-
2 Sections of 30 teeth each with bars as shown, weight 2311 b., width 10ft., complete, 84/-
i Hi
~«i
We are now stocking disc ploughs, which are made exclusively for certain selections,
but for general use everywhere, in hard, soft, dry, wet, old or new soil. No. 4 is better
adapted than any other make or style.
The discs are 24 inches in diameter, and the single disc will turn furrows from 3 to 12
inches, and the gang ploughs have adjustments of equal dimensions between each disc. The
discs are all ball bearing, have dust-proof boxes, and are set at the proper angle to' revolve
freely when in contact with the soil. The soil is turned completely over and is thoroughly
pulverised. Can be adjusted to cut 10 or 12 inches.
Attachment to make 2-Furrow into a 3-Furrow plough, or 3-Furrow to 4-Furrow, 60/-
The Canton Disc Plough has been universally successful. Weight, 7801 b. £l6/5/-
3-Furrow ditto, ditto. Weight, 9001 b. £2l.
Canton No. 4 Disc Plough.
JO.»
No. 587.
Double-Furrow Marvel Plough, to work with one horse, all Iron, with two Steel
Shares (No. 587), 88s.
Double Furrow
Marvel Plough.
The hopper is made with two apartments, one for the
seed and the other for the fertilizer. By an ingenious
arrangement the fertilizer drops at the same instant in the
rear separately and to the right and left, and mixes with
the soil, thus avoiding all danger of injury to the seed
Price .£5 9s. 6d.
Star Billings Planter and
Fertilizer.
Wiard Patented Steel Beam Plough.
No. 100, Wiard’s Patented Steel Beam Plough, 2-horse. Ploughs Gin. to 9in. deep, lOin.
to 14in. wide. Fitted with ordinary Colonial Coulter Weight, 1061 b. Can be had
with Iron Handles if required. This Plough is one of the easiest of draught of the
whole Wiard series. Price £ 3 15s. Extra Shares, Is. 9d. each.
h
ĥ
No. o—One Horse
Iron Plough,
with one extra share and Spanner ; weight, 1161 b.
(No. 590) 70s.
No. 590.
The Little
Beauty
Iron Pony
Plough,
weight, 821 b., 50s.
ILLUSTRATED
PRICE LISTS
POST FREE
ON
APPLICATION.
1
in! 5, m mm
THE MATTHEWS
NEW UNIVERSAL
EXCEL HARROW
CULTIVATOR.
Weight 631 b.
For fine work among small plants where it is desired simply to loosen and pulverise the soil, this
style of cultivator is unsurpassed, Adjustable and reversible steel teeth, diamond shaped, may
be used either end up, and may be set either straight, or slanting backward or forward. One
end of each tooth is cut plain, while the other end is curved and forged as illustrated. We
recommend this implement as the strongest and best Harrow Cultivator made. Price 31s. 6d.
Wiard
Patent
Steel-beam
Swivel Ploughs.
With Straight Coulter.
ħ
These are the first practical Steel-beam Side-Hill Ploughs ever produced.
The beams are of highest grade forged steel, and are stronger than any other beam
made. They are so adjusted that the Plough works perfectly when reversed either
wav, and all the parts are attached in the simplest but strongest manner. The Coulter
is the ordinary Colonial pattern, not as shown.
No. 120—Steel beam, sin. to Sin. deep, Sin. to 12in. wide; weight, with
clevis, 1181 b. 78/6.
No. 21 — Wiai’d One-horse Hillside Plough, with wood beam, ploughs 4in. to
Tin. deep, Gin. to 10in. wide ; weight, 781 b. 42/6.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
BricKfield Hill*
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Anprape ™ BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking-:
U) Plays, Recitations
and Make-Ups.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) French Novels.
(4) Gift Books.
(5) Useful & Mechani-
cal Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Cheap Music.
(11) Musical Instru-
ments.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Kook of Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mosh Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, ]/-.
Letter Writer, ]/.. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
pedia, latest edition, 1248
pajres, 400 colored plates
and en<rravin{rs, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 36, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
tar~/i/VD ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
m
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying- and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Tiie Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
h
make yourself uncomfort-
able with an old-fashioned
corset when you can have the latest:
phys'que effect and be comfortable
with our New Directoire Corset.
n A pudding bag with a string around it. n An
old-time description which applies to many
figures today —thanks to the ordinary corset.
This "pudding
string" effed is
bad both for
health and for
style.
The corset to
wear is one
which gives that
smooth flowing
physique that
CANADIAN
CORSET
holds one together comfortably—healthfully
On these lines Madam the new D & A Directoire Corset will be a
revelation to you, as to style, comfort, health,—it will give you a physique no
other corset can give.
We spent thousands of dollars perfecting this corset. Our designer studied
correct styles where they are created —Rue de la Paix; where they are
worn —the tea rooms Rue de Rivoli, the race-track at Longchamps, the
promenades where the leaders of the fashionable world congregate —and
finally, moulded on the human form, we evolved the D& A Directoire. Ask
your draper to show it.
THE DOMINION CORSET COMPANY, QUEBEC, CANADA. A-s
ĥ
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour : Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS!
MAGNESIA
ħ
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security ot Freehold or Leaseholi
City or Suburban Properties, or on
of GoVJr mbined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
trahan StTt« w T re ?’ ln J scr| beQI Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand D«F“ AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
unto on c , ontai !? s a con ditibn allowin-r Borrowers the privilege of repaying
Dirfctorwu! hV° w m th u IT l u " n " any year ’ withouc - notice or payment of any fine.
Shorr” Fsn • Meek |’ M-L-C-, Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Idrian Knox Fsn K P ames Burns ' M ‘ L -= The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The F. E Winchcombe, M.L.C. ;
HEAD OFFICERS? PHT STREET, SYDNEY. ““ ACm = Richard TeeCe ’ F - LA *> F - KA - ***•
h
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
„ r Partieulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Chmate -Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Bettor Terms than
elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane.
Mr. J. M. CAMPBELL,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: ARCHIBALD MESTON (since Dec. Ist).
n
\
r Cooling—Satisfying >
Montserrat’
Lime Juice
A healthy drink for hot days and all days.
Good for the youngsters.
It communicates its own delightful purity and coolness to
the blood, and it quenches thirst better than stimulants.
Its delicious flavour appeals to everyone.
. Mads in two kinds— .
Unsweetened, i.e., Plain Lime Juice. Sweetened, i.e., Lime Juice Cordial.
Facts That Hit Hard
What that Great Medicine, Clements Tonic, can do.
Life that is one long torture, enhanced by useless medical
treatment, is strikingly expressed in Mrs. Parkinson’s letter,
published below—the sincerest, truest letter ever written from
a cured woman to those to-day suffering ill-health. It
carries hope to every anaemic, melancholic, nerve-weakened
woman in Australia, telling them what a certain remedy this
famous tonic unquestionably is. Mrs. Parkinson, at her hotel,
near Trangie, is a living monument to its health-restoring powers.
The medicine that saves human life is this—lt has done so in
countless instances. Mrs. Parkinson writes
“CLEMENTS TONIC LTD.
“A few lines concerning your Clements Tonic. It is my duty
to inform you of the benefits derived from it. I suffered very
much from indigestion. No medicine prescribed did me good, but
I took a course of your tonic, altogether eight bottles, and 1 am
now cured. Two months ago I was very much run down, could
not eat or sleep, with pains all over ; in fact, I did not care if I
lived or died. So my husband £ent to the local store for
Clements Tonic. Before that I could not sit behind a horse
for nervous fears. Now I can drive a trap and pair. We are now
keeping an hotel, and my customers remark what a DIFFERENT
WOMAN I AM, and I tell them all I have to thank Clements
Tonic for the good it has done me, as 1 feel completely cured.
(Signed) FRANCIS N. PARKINSON.”
Make a Note of this.
This is mankind’s best medicine, and is specially beneficial to the man or woman in country
parts where doctors are few. It is really a silent home doctor. It corrects the stomach,
strengthens the nerves, heart and brain, gives good rest and sleep, keeps the liver active, the
bowels regular, and the blood pure. In fact, like a good doctor, it gives a clean bill of
health after a reasonable use. Send for it; it lengthens life. All Chemists and Stores sell it.


ECONOMY.
Cerebos Salt, although so
good is not at all expensive
—three or four tins are
quite sufficient for all the
meals of an average family
for 12 months.
Cerebos
Saif
Agents—Harrison &■ A ttwood, Sydney.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
r
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to anyone, on ten days’ approval, oux
highest grade MEAD
Co 1 /en try Flyers
at leas than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
LATEST
MODELS
£3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
AOTllfr A prUTO wanted in each dia-
flU llf t AutNlo trlct. Large i iroflti
easily made. Write u, once, using sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Special Offer
en sample machine. „
MEAD CYCLE GO., De Pt .2Bo LIVERPOOL.
JAS. J. GILTINAIV, Agent,
157 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
NTS
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
H
ORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
FOR
TIMES
AND v
ALL \
CLIMES
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, Horlic k’s
Malted Milkisan
ideal food-beverage,
easily digested, nour-
ishing, invigorating.
It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and prov-
ides a full
diet in
sick-
ness
X *
A t
break-
fa s t
time or
supper time
Hoplick’s.
Malted Milk is
a delicious substitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute
and requires no cooking.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c.„ &c. Samples : 82T, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’a Malted Milk Co. Slough, Eng.
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite of
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new—is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease irom the first day’s use. No
Bteel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Pull Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
ĥ
Zaw Points
iSr fni/entors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest wav to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to
write to me describing; your invention, enclosing; a small
sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing; is not essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cordially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a cajeful consideration of their plans, an hones opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
BONNINCTON’S WILL ANSWER YES
$
5
rtoso
IRISH
Sold Everywhere.
1/6 (El 2/6.
to the question—is it the best ? Yes it is undoubtedly the
best Cough Remedy that skill and purest ingredients can
produce. This preparation has been curing Coughs
and Colds for upwards of 45 years, and although numer-
ous imitations have appeared from time to time none
have stood against “Bonnington’s’' of 40 years fame.
Bonninciws
Irish Moss.
The ideal family medicine is equally
beneficial for Adults or Children.
Mothers can give it to the little ones
with every confidence as it is entirely
free from- harmful narcotics.
Do not take imitations —just ask for “BONNINGTON’S” and
see that you get it.
<9
BOHN'
HOSS
I RISH
II
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“OUR JACK*
Brand.
Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere.
100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St„ Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide ; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
VARICOSE
VEINS
Can be successfully
CURED without the
aid of the surgeon’s
Knife.
IF YOU suffer from Varicose Veins in the
legs you should send at once for full par-
ticulars of the wonderful VECSEY
METHOD OF TREATMENT. The
discovery of this splendid method of curing
Varicose Veins ranks amongst the scientific
achievements of the past ten years, and its
wonderful properties have given reliesf and a
cure to hundreds of sufferers who had des-
paired of getting even permanent relief. The
method is simple, efficacious and reliable, and
is essentially a home treatment.
SEND 2d. STAMP for our Free Book,
which gives full particulars of this wonderful
treatment, and also contains much useful
information about bandaging. Sent free to
any address.
The Vecsey Varixarium,
104 LINDEN COURT,
603
SYDNEY,
A LIGHT TREAD
When you wear Wood-Milne
Rubber Heels your foot comes
down softly—your step is light and ,
springy—hard pavements or stony
paths lose their terrors.
It’s good for you to avoid the
nerve-racking jar of hard leather
heels; it’s also good for your purse,
because Wood-Milne heels wear
four times as long.
WOODMILNE
[RUBBER HEELS
are made in Britain, from new,
resilient rubber: they enable you
to walk without fatigue, and give,
'a surprising feeling of buoyancy
and vigour.
Look for the name Wood-Milne on
every heel, and refuse all imitations.
*843.
BY APPOINTMENT TO
ħ
HIS MAJESTY THE KING.
BOVRIL
FOR the: weak.
It stimulates, nourishes and sustains without digestive efforts.
MADE IN A MINUTE.
CONGO
NEVER
EE/7K
ROOFING
TDLIABLE, durable, easily laid, and of such water-j
A proof qualities that it equals rubber itself in keening
out water—that’s Congo.
Storms do not affect it, neither does heat nor cold.
Congo doesn’t dry out or rot out.
Every roll runs uniform throughout, with smooth,
even edges.
Nails, caps and cement free in center of each roll.
Congo gives maximum service with minimum care.
It’s worth while writing for a free sample.
0. C. DELMAR, Box 1740, C.P.0., Sydney, N.S.W.,
Australasian Representative for “ Congo.”
NOYES BROS. (Sydney) LTD., 109 Pitt Street, SYDNEY.
Congo Damp Court© for protecting foundation wails against damp.
Sample free.
h
ZERCHO’S
\ CORRESPONDENCE
college.
Let us teach you
Shorthand,
Typewriting,
Bookkeeping,
Accountancy,
Electrical & Steam
Engineering,
Surveying,
Mechanical
Drawing,
Building
Construction.
ĥ
Brings all the ad=
vantages of a city
College to your door
Thousands of our Country Students
testify to the excellence of our
instruction.
Let us coach you
for any exam.
University,
Commonwealth &
State Entrance.
Pharmacy,
Bankers’ Institute.
Etc., etc.
Write for free copy
of Schedule of Fees
157 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Fall In, My Men! Fall In!
Full in, my men, fall in ! Walt Whitman.
The short hour’s halt is ended,
The red gone from the west;
The broken wheel is mended.
The dead man laid to rest.
Three days have we retreated.
With shattered ranks and thin—•
Outnumbered and defeated—
Fall in, my men, fall in !
Poor, weary, hungry sinners,
Past caring and past fear !
The camp-fires of the winners
Are gleaming in the rear.
E ich day their front advances,
Each day the same old din ;
But freedom holds the chances—
Fall in, my men, fall in !
Despair each cold heart searches ;
The sky is black ahead.
We leave in barns and church#*
Our wounded and our dead.
In cold and rain and darkness
And mire that clogs like sin,
In Failure in its starkness—
Fall in, my men, fall in!
We go and know not whither,
Nor see the tracks we go—
A horseman gaunt shall tell us,
A rain-veiled light shall show.
By wood and swstnp and-muUntain
The dark, wet hours begin—
But, ere our fresh wounds stiffen,
Fall in, my men, fall in !
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.
The Nandewah Hills.
The tall hills, the clejir hills, the far hills of
Nandewah ;
Behind them, in the dawning, the gold cloud-
banners stream
The length of the pale sky that waits for the sun
to rise
And turn the hills of Nandewah to fairy Hills
of Dream.
The stark hills, the swart hills, the wild hills of
Nandewah,
I saw them in the morning—they seemed a
world away ;
But now in the noontide they loom close, too
close to us.
Their grim cleft sides show sinister, fit homes
for beasts of prey.
The fair hills, the high hills, the gold hills of
Nandewah,
On them the shadows lengthen, yet still they
keep their hue,
Then turn they to amber and rose-pink and
amethyst;
The last sad gleam of sunset shrouds them once
again in blue.
The blue hills, the old hills, the strange hills of
Nandewah,
Below them in the moonlight the fleecy mists
rift by ;
But clear blue as icebergs they show to the stars
above,
Most lovely and mysterious against the silver
sky.
N.s.w.
DOROTHEA MACKELLAR.
Kava Papaiagi.
Kava papalagi, home-connecting link ;
Diverse-colored liquors that the white men
drink;
That the brown ones covet, while they sum them
up—
Kara papalagi —“ Our Forbidden Cup.”
Kava papalagi, Prohibition’s ban
Only bars your fervors from the native man.
Verily, I’m grateful, pausing here, to think
How the luck of color frees my choice in drink.
Kara papalagi, sovereign champagne;
Tuscany’s chianti, sherry’s glow of Spain;
Welcome, still or sparkling, burgundy, moselle;
Marsala, canary, chablis, muscatel.
Kava papalagi, liqueurs that bestow
Nectar on mere mortals; kummel and noyau,
Curasao, chartreuse —yellow, green and white ;
Benedictine, absinthe—headaches and delight.
Kava papalagi, spirits strong and keen ;
Essence of Jamaica —rum, of course, I mean :
Aromatic brandy, gin—Old England’s “dry”;
Schnapps, and Celtic whiskies, Yankee juice of
rye.
Kara papalagi, frothy, amber beer.
Thirst’s most tempting quencher (rather costly
here).
Beer, a bob a bottle ; German beer, alas !
Ere I was an exile, fourpence bought me Bass.
Kava papalagi, concord-spreading brew !
Cordially “ Prosit!” blends with “Here’s to
you !”
When we bow to Bacchus, at the “ Beach Hotel,”
(“ Pub,” the local wording, doesn’t sound so well).
Kara papalagi, stimulation-rife;
Even in,“ the Islands,” where there’s drink there’s
life.
Pour out, then, the Rhine wine, circle the Bor-
deaux,
Pass the Kirk o’ Scotland, finest church I know.
Kava papalagi, hop and malt and vine,
Glamor and remembrance, friend of Auld Lang
Syne;
Here’s a toast to close with —let the glasses
clink—
“ Kava papalagi,” what the white men drink !
TONGA.
TALAFRKAU.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
*1 i i
«• 1\
' * » v v V -c.-v * ,
/ *■ * * 4 » v>
■Hi
i
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s; ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 15s. • in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY;
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ... ... Gd
Packet of Ten ... 5^
If You Want a
Good Vehicle,
read this sr
At the late Royal Agricultural Show
W. Dwyer’s Buggies and Sulkies
WERE AWARDED
10 FIRST PRIZES, 2 SPECIAL PRIZES, 2 GOLD
MEDALS, 1 SECOND PRIZE.
This is sure proof of their excellent, qualities.
actories - - - ■ WOLLONGONG and SYDNEY
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 70 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices on application.
Standard Cigarettes
HAND MADE BY AUSTRALIAN GIRLS.
CORK TIPS.
ħ
THE WATCHWORD IN THE OMEGA
FACTORY is “accuracy”— accuracy in mak-
ing the various parts —accuracy in assembl-
ing them —and, above all, accuracy in testing
the completed time-pieces. The result is
that OMEGA Watches are the most uni-
formly accurate time-keepers in the world.
h
The Watch of
Matchless Merit
In GOLD, SILVER, NICKEL and GUNMETAL CASES.
Stocked by Jewellers throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
ĥ
CIGARETTES.
TURKISH, EGYPTIAN, VIRGINIAN.
DALGETY & CO. LTD., Wholesale Agents for Australia.
If You are a
Lover of
Dainty Silver-
ware, these
Qualities will
Appeal to You.
m
u
o.
m
•Z
u
w
(AUSTRALIA) LIMITED
1
ħ
STRAND CORNER, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
If You are a
Keen Judge
of Values,
these Prices
will
Appeal to You.
R
EMEMBER, when selecting Jewellery and Silverware, that quality (whether good or poor) remains long after the price is forgotten • therefore he
™ e ’" ,ec f.y“ r J2 " £ " e ( ry a,,J Si,verw! "' e Treasure House where purchases may be made with theAssuranceCat you are„bta£
ing goods of reliable quality from the world’s best manufacturers at the lowest possible prices. Fully Illustrated Catalogue Free on request.
J247—Silver-plated and Plain Glass-Pickle
Frame, with Forks, £l/2/6.
C42oS—Silver-plated
Sugar Bowl, extra quality,
with Sifter, £ l .
All Goods ordered by
Post are Carefully
Packed and sent Post
Paid to any address
in the Commonwealth
C42o2—Silver-plated Sugar Scuttle
and Scoop, £l/7/6.
ITS9SO Silver-plated Rose Bowl.
6.n. diameter, Tin. high, £2/7/6.
JU22—Silver-plate on Hard White Metal
Muffin Dish, «£ l/10 /-
» V "’J
*?T •
&Qf9g»S£
g&a*
mm
C42O6—S lver-plated “ Shell ” Cake or Fruit Dish,
Best Quality, £2/7/6.
■■
C 4205 -Silver-plated Bread Blatter,
best quality, £2/2/-
? '.
'
Jl7o3—Solid Silver Table Bell, 12/6
GlllB/I—Silver-plated lee Pail,
with Tong's, £ l/17/6 .
IBSSRIBIS
J6ss—Cut-Glass Silver-plated Butter
Dish, £l.
nut
pnEb,
jjcTzXc:
zszxcu:
r-toCrfr
r frfrfri
-Solid Silver Ink Stand, size Sin. x 4Jin.
extra heavy, £5/10/-
JBGl—Silver-plated 4-bottle Dinner
Cruet, £l/5/-
m
J 794 —Silver-plated Sauce
Boat, 9,6.
Money Back if Goods
do not open tip to
your Approval.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 31.—N0. 1575.
THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 1910.
Pkice 6d.
GULLIVER ESCAPES FROM THE PIGMIES.
When the workmen .... cut all the strings that bound me I rose up. . . . But the noise and astonishment of the people at seeing me rise
and walk are not to be expressed.—“ Gulliver's Travels.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper.
“Australia for the White Man.”
I’rinted and Published by William Maclkod, of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
Thk Bullktin Newspaper 00.. Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES: Business, 1384- Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
i’cr Annum ... ... ... £i g q
Half-pearly ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
Ky f uiliny direct- to Tiir Bullktin O/lice Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling r you can have Tint Bullktin posted
regularly to you every ire el: for a year.
Cheques , Drafts, etc., and all Business Commonications
ohe addressed to Wii.ijah Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
('<>iirsvmidents to Tiik Bullktin would oblige the vaoer
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with reyard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Mailayer. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good tinny to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor. Bullktin," is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
ufinals. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
Ihe contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby exvressly reserved by
the publishers.
■I he Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
tivi columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bullktin will return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is fonvarded ivithout stamus
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bullktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tint Bullktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for dirkct revroduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture; con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-draion—will be void
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Tiik Bullktin is forwarded direct-,to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
Mew Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at 4 16 -per dot nett.
Copies of Tiik Bullktin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gtilcli, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Holborn, London, IV. C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Cavetown;
Dawson and Son, Cavetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouvkr. —Thomson Stationery Co.. Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S. A. —lsserlis A., Seattle, Washington ; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., llong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Thk Bullktin metal advertising plates, size 6'iSi/i, x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desirefi.
THURSDAY, APRIL 21, 1910.
THE FALL OF THE FUSION.
Between them, L ibor and Australia last week
won the most brilliant victory that has been re-
corded since first the flag of the Commonwealth
waved over a united people. The enemy com-
mitted what somebody has said is at such times
and in such circumstances worse than a crime ; it
made a blunder. It thought it was the Fusion.
It did not realise that there might be another
and a still more powerful union; and its blind-
ness wrecked whatever chances it had. If
Deakin and Cook had come together on some
platforms they might possibly have won. Had
they declared merely their enmity to the Labor
party they might conceivably have escaped with
the skin of their teeth. But they stupidly threw
the Australian Nationalists and the Labor party
into one army. Those Australian Nationalists
were mostly the advance guard of the two parties
led formerly by Deakin and Cook. They were
men who, often because they did not care to break
away from an old allegiance, had voted hitherto
either for someone of the Deakin following
or for someone' of the Cook following. When
the Fusion arrived, and there were two leaders
where there used to be but one, and when each
of those leaders was the very man whom the other
had told his own followers to distrust above all
men, the old allegiance was at an end. It was as
though a man who went into a paint shop to ask
for yellow, and another who went in to ask for
blue, were both expected to take green because,
to suit some purpose of his own, the man who ran
the paint shop had mixed the two lots. There
might be some customers who would take the green
and say that they had got half of their old color,
anyhow ; but there would certainly be others
who if they could not have the yellow or the blue,
and if the old shop insisted upon supplying them
with nothing but green, would see no particular
reason why they should not go somewhere else.
And if, elsewhere, they could not get yellow or
blue, they would feel quite free to take red. It is
exactly what happened in this case. The Fusion
thought that it was a great idea to mix the yellow
and the blue. Its misfortune was that, once the
mixing was done, it wasn’t yellow and blue any
longer—it was something else altogether.
Whereupon tens of thousands found themselves
making an entirely new choice. And then Aus-
tralia called.
Had Australia stood behind the Fusion and
called its sons that way, the result would have
been different. But, just at the very moment
when tens of thousands of Australians were un-
attached, Dkakin and Cook sold themselves
to the Little Australians —the old, resurrected
anti-Federal crowd which, having been un-
able to prevent the Commonwealth from
arriving, conspired to starve it now that it
had arrived. No deadlier blow was ever
aimed at a young nation than that which
Dkakin,- with the concurrence of Cook,
arranged with the State Premiers to deliver.
And there was very real danger that the blow
would get home, too. It is not yet easy to rouse
the public on a matter of finance. There has
been so much mumbo-jumbo business in con-
nection with the national Treasury that many
men who know perfectly well what housekeeping
is, shy off directly the subject is mentioned.
They have been fooled into believing that
this is a matter which only the expert can
understand, whereas exactly the same prin-
ciples apply to national housekeeping as
to cottage housekeeping. Fortunately, in this
case the old “Finance” bogey was not in working
order. Tho Australian Nationalists—the older
man who had battled for Federation 12 or 15
years ago, and the younger man who had begun to
be proud of being an Australian—saw what was
behind the conspiracy. Happily, the Federal
Labor party saw it too.
* * *
It is Australia’s tremendous good fortune that in
its Constitution it possesses one of the most effec-
tive instruments of democratic government in the
world. There is no House of Propputy. The
Senate is no more the House of the Rich
man than the other Chamber is. There is no
privileged body of voters. If a man is a citizen, no
matter whether he be poor or rich, both Houses
are equally open to him. And if the citizen is a
woman, the doors are equally open to her too.
On the other hand, the States, with their older
and less Democratic Constitutions, provide in
every case for a Propputy veto. The people may
say yes, but it is the privilege of Propputy to after-
wards say no. In N. S. Wales and Queensland,
certainly, it rests not with the privileged class, but
with the Government to appoint the members of
the House of Fat. But while this gives the people
the shadow of power, it does not give them the
substance, because in these States the appoint-
ments are for life and the members are unpaid. In
the first place, then, even in these two most-favored
States, the poor man is almost forbidden to accept
nomination, and in the second place, no matter
how far he may drift behind advancing public
sentiment, there is no way by which the M.L.C.
may be replaced by a real representative. Demo-
cratic government does not, therefore, exist in the
States. Thus the Labor party had the choice of
two tools todothe work which it has set itself to do.
One is designed to allow the people to work out
their own salvation; the other is designed expressly
to prevent the people from doing anything of the
kind. The agreement between Deacook and the
State Premiers had one simple object. It was to
limit the use of the effective machine, and com-
pel Labor to go on breaking its back and wearing
out its life with the other one. The Federal
Labor party had nodifficulty in deciding in a matter
of that sort. The amazing thing is that some of
the purblind members of the State Labor party-
in N. S. Wales especially—did not agree with
their brethren of the other Parliament. Last
week’s elections ought to be a pretty loud hint to
them to reconsider the subject. It is absurd
to suppose that the self-same people who
last week voted in N. S. Wales for Labor and
the National idea will within the next six months
vote for Labor and the Parish idea. The Labor
party has its chance now to be the National party
for all time. But it cannot be that if it appeals
to-day as the Big Australian party and to-morrow
declares itself the devoted slave of the Parish
Pump.
* • * m
The Fusion of course wails, “What is to
become of the States?”' The reply is that-it very
largely depends on the States themselves. The
people said last week that they will not allow tile
work of government to be done by a grossly
imperfect machine when they can get it done by one
that is at least far nearer perfection. If the people
believe in governing themselves, instead of slllow-
ing a privileged few to govern them, they could
not reasonably have been expected to give any
other answer. And so long as they believe in
governing themselves, and so long as the State
Constitutions are designed to prevent them doing
it, they will, of course, seize every chance to take
power away from the States and give it to the
Commonwealth. There is only one way to check
that—by making every State Constitution at
least as perfect a machine as the Commonwealth
Constitution is. That means abolishing abso-
lutely all the legislative privileges that Propputy
now possesses ; it means opening the Legislative
Councils to the poor man as well as to the rich by
paying all members ; it means sending Council-
lors and Assembly members alike to the, whole
people. If that is done it will matter very , little
to the people whether their business is done by
the Commonwealth or the State. Certainly it
will be very ridiculous for six State Parliaments,
all elected by the people, to do what one
National Parliament, elected by precisely the
same people, could do just as well, and
with more expedition and at less expense. But
that is another matter. What the State Frighters
will have to realise for a start is that the people
have found out that they have the choice of being
governed by themselves or by somebody else, the
somebody else being thesix Houses of Fat Landlords
—and they naturally decide to pass the Houses of
Fat Landlords and do their own governing. The
State Frighters can keep their Houses of Fat
Landlords- if they like ; but if they do they will
presently find that the Houses of Fat Landlords
have driven away practically all the power that
the States ever possessed.
N.S.W.’S DEAD-END TRAGEDY AND
MR. JOHNSON.
The following N.S.W. railway items have been
taken out of a batch which came to The Bulletin
from a reliable, though enraged, source last week:
1. A consignment of chaff left Mudgee on Feb. 5 for
Cullen Bullen (75 miles distant). (On this line there are
only two trains a day, one up and one down.) Tire con-
signment arrived on Feb. 25.
2. A consignment of flour left Mudgee on March 5 for
Ben Bullen (70 miles distant). Up to March 19 the stuff
hadn’t arrived at its destination, and the authorities
didn’t know where it was.
3. A truck-load of skins was despatched from Gulgong
to Sydney on March 6. Subsequently, Lite scented goods
were reported missing ; and by March 16 the Department
couldn’t estimate, within 50 miles, where they might be
on the 200-mile stretch between Gulgong and t.ie metro-
polis.
It is the same chronic old railway trouble which
is bound to afflict the country d.stricts of N.S.W.
as long as the State continues to import people
to deal with local conditions, and continues to
allow the Sydney press, and Sydney interests
generally, to dictate to the imported people how
the railways, which belong to Sydney and Back-
blocks alike, shall be administered.
For part of the N.S. YV. railway scandal John-
son is in no sense to blame. The first principle
of traffic-handling forbids the running of goods
into a dead end. But it is to Sydney s interest
that all the produce of N.S.W. and as much as
possible of the produce of Victoria and Queens-
land shall be run into that dead-end which brings
up in the neighborhood of the Harbor’s back-
entrance, there to be battened on by Sydney
agents, brokers and middlemen, and there to
assist in the process of further bloating the city.
There is no doubt that Johnson, or any other
Commissioner who wanted to avoid living
m a state of chaos and oaths, would de-
clare vehemently, if he could, for a railway
policy designed to open up the great ports of
N.S. \V. to commerce, and, inc.dentally, burst up
Sydney’s present trade monopoly and enable out-
back producers to ship their goods off before the
same died of old age by the permanent-wayside.
However, Johnson can’t. He is the creature of
an administration which is the creature of a press
that has never been able to see a foot beyond what
will benefit the parish in which it lives and makes
its dividends. It doesn’t occur to the Boost-
Sydney-at-any-price party that the selfish scheme
of attracting every available atom of merchandise
to one little blind alley on the city’s outskirts
must be disastrous all round in the long run. In
their greedy anxiety to grab all the N.S. W. trade
that is going they ignore the fact that they are
really manoeuvring to kill the very thing they
love. The railway muddle in and immediately
around Sydney has now arrived at sucli a pass,
owing to the vast masses of produce that are
trying to butt in to the metropolitan dead-
end, and the vast numbers of "empties” that
are struggling to butt out again, that there
actually are no trucks available for Further Back,
nor any adequate number of officials to handle the
trucks if, by chance, they come to hand. Amid
the uproar and blasphemy and confusion and riot
that pervades Sydney and environs, the mere
outback producers’ stuff is suffered to lie un-
heeded and rotting for months. Thus in Parkes
railway station there is, at the present time, a
quantity of wheat which Johnson himself admits
has no chance of being shifted to Sydney much
before next wheat season. And when the out-
back producers’ hard-won stuff does get a move
on, it is liable to proceed to its destination—as in
one of the intances noted—-at an average pace of
about one mile in five hours.
* # * *
That part of the railway trouble which isn’t
the result of a demented aspiration to pass
all of the merchandise and produce of an entire
State through one small bottle-neck is mostly
Johnson. Johnson —he who was brought with
much pomp from England to demonstrate to
Australians that local men of the Olivnk stamp
are amateurs at the big business of railway-
management ; he who was so lauded by the
dailies before they got to know him—has proved
a well-meaning but dreary failure. He is none
the less exasperating in this rble for the fact that
he has no suspicion of his disabilities. Admitting
that he is handicapped by the truculent city
crowd which yells at him incessantly to so
adjust freights and fares, and otherwise arrange
matters, that Sydney shall boom even if the rest
of the country bursts, there remains the circum-
stance that Johnson does an infinity of damage
on his own account. He apparently regards the
Backblocks resident as a born malcontent, a
disloyalist and a malevolent anti-Johnsonian-
one to be verbally lashed whenever encountered.
And on top of all is his Want of tact. Oti the
Thursday before last, Easter week, at a time when
every foot of railway space arid, every fragment
of railway energy were needed, and when
the Backblocks were yelling about their lost or
mislaid hides, the Commissioners’ heavy No. 9
car was hooked on to an afternoon train that went
out of Bed fern. Eddy, Odivkr and the rest were
content to reserve ordinary compartments for
short runs, even when there was no congestion-
scandal exciting the public mind. It is hard to
say anything in favor of the change.
* * * *
There are indications that; at next State
elections, the man on the land is to be appealed
to with special fervor to support Deform and
save himself from ruin. The agriculturist has
nothing tangible to fear from Labor. On the
other hand, it is Deform which has fastened Mr.
Johnson on his shoulders ; and it is Deform—im-
pelled by the Sydney papers that own it—which
is perpetuating a hopeless railway policy that
must ultimately bankrupt large numbers of back-
blockers. The N.S. W. farmers’ main interest is
with some party which is prepared to burst up the
Sydney dead-end idiocy, and reorganise the
policy of railway construction and management.
And that party certainly isn’t the Deform party.
THE TADPOLE DISEASE IN VICTORIA.
Victoria is suffering dreadfully from the bloated-
capital or tadpole disease, and a movement, in the
shape of a Decentralisation League, has been
started to cure it. At present practically every-
thing has to be dragged to Melbourne. There are
the makings of first-rate ports east and west,
especially westyet not only has nothing been
done to develop them, but everything possible
has been done to starve them. Differential
railway rates have been applied to suck
the traffic towards the one big mouth of
the Yarra. A disastrous state of railway
muddle and congestion follows every time
the country happens to have a respectable season.
This being one of those times, scarcely a day
passes but the cry of the harassed country pro-
ducer is raised in the press. Farmers in the
Maliee see their stacks of wheat untouched for
month after month. In some cases the rain has
got into the stacks, and they have had to be taken
down, dried and built again ; and the same thing
may happen once or twice more yet. Potato-
growers (Argus, April 14) “complain bitterly
of their inability to obtain sufficient trucks.
. . . Sometimes days elapse before they can
be forwarded to market. . . . Farmers com-
plain that they have suffered a loss of ss. per ton
through the delay.” On the same rjay there .was
a complaint from Rush worth sawmillers. 'One
firm said : “ We require at least six empties every
day, and our average supply for the past three
months has been slightly over one truck per day.
. . . We have been compelled to lease a block
of ground on which to store wood as the carters
bring it in. To re-load and cart this wood will
incur a further expense of 7s. 6d. per truck.”
* * * *
That 7s. 6d., besides many other seven-and-six-
pences, will be paid chiefly by the city population,
bor the idea that the city population is benefited
by the tadpole disease is ridiculous. One small
section of it may be—the landlords. But nobody
else can be benefited by the waste involved in
humping goods unnecessary distances. If the
population of Melbourne were cut up among half
a dozen towns, they would save hundreds of
thousands of pounds a year, and hundreds of
thousands more would be available for division
among the present country population. Sup-
pose, for instance, that Melliourne and
Brisbane had not been founded; suppose that
those places had been treated just as Portland
Harbor and Twofold Bay have been. Suppose
that an attempt had been made to drag all the
trade of Victoria to Sydney, and all the trade of
Southern Queensland to the same place. No
doubt if that mad policy had been adopted Sydney
would have been a still larger city than it is
to-day. A great many of the people who now
live in Melbourne and Brisbane would, in-
stead, be tearing their food beside Port Jack-
son. But they certainly would have been no
better off for the centralisation. On the contrary,
they would have been vastly worse off ; for some
of the cost of dragging the food, etc., the unneces-
sary distances would have come out of their
pockets. The balance would have come out of the
pockets of the growers, the sawmillers, etc. If it
would have been absurd not to have established
Melbourne and Bi isbane, it is absurd also not to
establish ports east and west of Melbourne. If
the city dwellers are better off for the establish-
ment of three port-cit es instead of one on the
south-east coast of Australia, they would be
better off for the establishment of three
instead of one on the coast of Victoria.
And if the country producers of Victoria and
southern Queensland are better off for not having
to send their produce to Sydney, the original
port, the country producers of Victoria would be
similarly benefited by bbing able to send their
produce to some handy port or consuming centre,
instead of having to get it somehow to Mel-
bourne, whether Melbourne is handy or not.
The bloating of a single port or city does
nobody any good, with the possible excep-
tion of a few land-grabbers. And, even
for land-grabbers in general, it would be
very good business to decentralise population
and establish half a dozeu centres instead of
one. This is certain : if people had to go to the
G.P.O. to post their letters not one quarter as
many letters would be posted. In the same way,
if a whole country has to rely on one port,
if the whole trade of a whole country has
to be dragged through the eye of one
needle, then the trade of that one port will
not be as large as the aggregate of the trade
of half a dozen, supposing half a dozen were estab-
lished. Had there been no Brisbane and no Mel-
bourne the original Sydney land-grabbers might
have seen land values a trifle higher to-day ; but
the difference between what they might then
have been and what they actually are would be
very small compared with tlie entirely new values
that have been created in Melbourne and Bris-
bane. Even from the land-grabber’s point of
view, then, decentralisation is better than
centralisation. In fact, there is nobody
that this brand of centralisation really
benefits. It is a curse. It means waste to
the producer . and to the consumer alike. In
a good season it is a burden to the country pro-
ducer because it means congestion, delay and
loss; in the bad season it is a burden to him
because it means unnecessary miles of haulage at
a time when every mile of haulage is one mouth-
ful less for himself and his family. If he knows
the side on which his bread is buttered he will
give the decentralisation movement all the shove-
on he can ; and if the city workers know on which
side their bread is buttered they will lend their
country cousin a hand.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
“And Immediately the Cock Crew.”
The N.S.W. State Government has a general
election looming in the middle distance; where-
fore, no sooner had Wade observed the awful
slaughter of the Fusionists and the great victory
of the Laborites, than lie proceeded to deny, like
Petek, that he ever knew these fellows. In the
words of his already-wobbling friend, the Sydney
Telegraph
The State Government did not identify itself with the
Commonwealth Government during the election. I am
satisfied that not one Minister who spoke during the cam-
paign ever discussed the Federal platform. They went
out for the purpose of advocating the adoption of the
financial agreement. I expressly stated at most of my
meetings that I was not there to support the cause of the
Fusion candidate.
It has become a habit with The Bulletin to
verify Mr. Wade’s statements, and this is the
evidence that turns up in this case :
April 4, Muswellbrook.—The Premier spoke in the
School of Arts last night. Mr. Waller, the selected
Liberal candidate for the Upper Hunter seat, was
on the platform. .. . He (the Premier) warned
the electors that a progressive land-tax was the
thin end of the wedge. . . . Senator Stewart, the candid
friend of the farmer, told them that the Labor policy was
going to embrace them all. Under the Labor policy all
freehold land would be annexed, and the former owners
would be paid in greenbacks, which would take eight
hours to make, eight hours to distribute and eight hours
to cash. (Laughter.) Labor intended to nationalise the
land, and a crushing land-tax would force the holders
drop it like a hot potato. The Labor Government then
would come along and purchase it at a nominal figure.
Tnat is what the people would find. Let them take that
to heart. An endeavor was being made to set class
against class, and the farmer who voted for a progressive
land-tax was placing a halter round his neck.—Daily
Telegraph.
April 4, Katoomba. —Mr. Waddell, State Treasurer,
addressed a crowded meeting in the School of Arts hall
in support of Mr. L. K. Bowden's candidature last night.
He said the men who formed the Labor party' in the
Federal and State Parliaments were not independent
or free men. They w'ere simply the tools of Socialistic
agitators.—S. M. Herald.
April 5, Sydney.—Mi. Wade (in reply to W. M. Hughes):
“ The public at large is eniit.led to know definitely
whether Senator Stewart correctly speaks the views of
Labor or is to be repudiated, and, until the question is
answered, any land-owner who votes for a progressive
land-tax, wh .tever the size of his propeit.v may be, is
puttinga halter around hisown neck.”—Daily Telegraph.
April 5, Burrowa. —Mr. T. Waddell, Slate Treasurer,
delivered a vigorous and impres i>e address in the
Mechanics’ Institute, on Wednesday night, in favor of
Col. Rykie’s candidature. —Daily Telegraph.
April 6, Cootainuudra. —Mr. Waddell addressed a meet-
ing in the Town Hall in the interests of Col. Ryklz.—
Daily Telegraph.
April 6.—Mr. 0. W. Oakes, Honorary Minister, re-
turned to tow'ii (Sydney) yesterday, after visiting Parkes
and Forbes for the purpose of delivering addresses on
behalf of Mr. Piggott, the Liberal candidate for Calare.
—Daily Telegraph.
April 7, Goulburn. — Mr. Wade, who was received with
cheers, said his object was to advocate the cause of Col.
Kyrie. He referred first to the financial agreement, in-


volved in which were considerations which went to the
whole root of the differences between the Liberal and
Labor policies.—Daily Telegraph.
April 8, Sydney—“To the Electors of N. S. Wales.
You will be asked on the 13th instant to vote upon the
clear-cut issues of Liberalism against Socialism —freedom
of thought and speech against the tyranny of the caucus ;
progressive government on reasonable lines rather than
wild experiments. ... and by opposing the Labor party
at the present election you are strengthening the State
Government. —C. G. Wade.
And this is the Government which “did not
identify itself with the Commonwealth,” and did
not “discuss the Federal platform” ; and this is
the Premier who “expressly stated” that he
“was not there to support the Fusion candidate!”
After the cock crew, Peter went out and wept
bitterly ; and, on precedent, it is up to Mr. C. G.
Wade to get out his handkerchief. It is much
more likely, however, that he is looking for a
Judge’s wig to drop his tears into. But even if
he thus escapes, there will still be his colleagues
to deal with ; and the electors have made a very
good start by dropping overboard every single
“Liberal” at the four by-elections.
Concerning Certain “ Monasteries.”
When the Australian correspondent of the London
Times told his journal, last month, that there was
no room on outback Australian stations for
workers with families, the papers which get fat
on “ no encumbrance ” advts. howled bitterly in
protest. Melbourne Argus (31/3/’10) declined to
“attach much importance to the charges.” Any-
how, it asked heatedly :
Are settlers out back” to be forced to “ mend their
ways” and employ people whom they do not consider
suitable?
The Sydney Telegraph deplored the disclosures:
By making intending English emigrants believe that
some special embargo of this kind exists here the very
class we want may be deterred from coming.
The Herald termed them slanders, and charged
the “no encumbrance” menace with being a
“ bogey.” In which connection the views of the
Herald before the agitation started are of in-
terest. Said that sheet on October 29 last
But it is beyond.denying there is one great drawback
in the sheep stations as far as the good of the country is
concerned. They employ more men than is generally
thought, and they turn them out in a magnificent type.
But as far as producing future citizens for Australia goes,
they might as well be monasteries. They want few
wives on the outside runs, and no children. In the West
they allow hardly any of the hands to marry, because it
means that the station has to allow rations to a man’s
wife and children without getting more-work out of him.
For that reason the big sheep station does very little
towards populating Australia, except by providing most
of the work and wealth on which families live in the
towns-
Speaking generally, the attitude of Toryism
towards the Times’ strictures was that they were
lies, and that, in any case, they never should have
been levelled, since thereby a profitable confi-
dence game on prospective British immigrants
wns exposed, and an invaluable stream of dirt-
cheap agricultural labor was dried up at its source.
There is neither patriotism nor sense in denying
the Times’ accusations —accusations which are
supported by the Tory papers themselves in their
nou-controversial moments. Australia is a splen-
did country, with enough arable land to carry many
times its present, population. But most of the land
anvwhere within cooee of civilisation is under
sheep. Here and there futile State Premiers
potter about, resuming private properties at ex-
orbitant prices, and raffling them in blocks to land-
starved citizens. Yet, for every earthr-hungry
would-be farmer who manages, by the luck of the
ballot, to grab a fragment of soil, there are a score
who are unsatisfied and likely to remain so till
decrepitude supervenes. Meanwhile well-mean-
mg cranks continue to pour English immigrants
into Australia, and the immigrants continue to
find, to their amazement, that they haven't
come 12,000 miles to be their own pro-
prietors, but to be the same ill-paid hinds
they were in the United Kingdom, with the
further disadvantage that they have to be celibate
hinds. The Argus wail about the ‘‘outrageous-
ness of dictating to squatters in regard to whom
they shall employ,” is quite beside the point.
No one wants to control the domestic arrange-
ments of squatters. Certainly the community is
revolted, and has said so loudly and often, at the
fact that it is these very squatters, and the
newspapers which print their disgraceful advts.,
that cant loudest concerning the alleged designs
of Labor upon the Australian home and any
increase in the local population. But that
is a mere side-issue. The real trouble that
agitates the Commonwealth is land mon-
opoly, the fount and origin of the “no en-
cumbrance ” scandal, and of a host of other
evils. It is a scandalous truth that innumerable
and huge outback areas are what the Herald
calls “ monasteries” ; and they are going to stay
so till, a Graduated Land Tax comes along and
reforms them out of existence.
The S. Aus. Labor Party’s Dilemma.
Fkom a seasoned South Australian
The Labor men in ’S.A. are in a quandary. They are
bound to get office directly Parliament meets, lor they
have a majority of two votes, and by a “ sudden death
motion ’’—which is the accepted method of getting rid of
obnoxious Cabinets in this State —they can toss the Peaks
Cabinet on the scrap heap. A motion for adjournment
under the Standing Orders cannot be debated, and tlie
practice, initiated by Kingston and Holder in 1893 when
the Downer Government was dismissed, is to take the
business out of the hands, of the ostensible leader by
moving “ That the House do now adjourn.” That is car-
ried and the Ministry necessarily resigns, although in 1905
Butler had to be twice humiliated in that fashion before
he would yield to the inevitable and Tom Prick. He has
been grumbling about it ever since. However, Peake,
although until Parliament meets he will defy the Labor
majority, will skip out of the way when pressure can consti-
tutionally be brought to bear upon him. The trouble of the
Labor party is this. It has only 22 supporters out of 42
members of the Assembly. To puss any amendment of
the Constitution all those 22 members must vote, for an
absolute majority is needed. The other side is trying to
dish the party by refusing to supply a Speaker. If JEn-
kin Coles declines to stand and the Labor party
has to put one of its own number in the chair,
it will have but 21 members on the floor of
the House. Then it will not be able to put
through the Assembly its Bill providing for adult suffrage
for the Council, and will thus be baulked in the endeavor
to raise a popular cry against the Upper House. If the
Assembly does not send the Adult Suffrage Bill to the
Council, that Chamber cannot rejO'ct it. The Labor party
stands pledged to push the measure through or to appeal
to the electorates once more, and its cry will lose most of
its force if it is against the Assembly instead of against
the Council. The position is very interesting, and tlje
denouement is being awaited with eagerness. The
general idea seems to be that Jknkin Coles, although a
fierce foe of the broadened Council franchise, will not feel
inclined to sacrifice the Speakership, which he has held
for 20 years consecutively, to enable his side to win a
strategical advantage. Some people are speculating as
to the solution of the problem if both the Labor party
and its opponents decline to provide a Speaker. Can
Parliament meet under such circumstances ? If it cannot,
Peake will retain office, for he has made up his mind not
to give way to the Labor majority unless as the result of
an adverse vote in Parliament. It would suit him all to
pieces to have another election, for next time he might
win, and he does not aspire to do anything heroic. He
would be content to sit on the Treasury benches and
draw his screw.
♦—
A Business Talk with Mr. Johnson.
Now that the coal strike is well over and the
wheels are going round as usual, it is time for Mr.
Johnson and the N.S. W. Government to consider
how they stand in relation to any future trouble
that may occur. For it is not enough to assume
that no more trouble will occur. As a matter of
fact, the Railways have already decided that they
cannot safely assume any such thing; wherefore
they have begun to accumulate coal supplies, and
it is understood to be part of their policy to make
the accumulations larger than ever they were
before. But, apart from the fact that accumula-
tions are liable to be mysteriously short just when
they ought to be' unusually large, this plan of keep-
ing big stocks of purchased coal is wasteful in the
extreme. It means capital locked up and lying
idle; it means deterioration of the coal from
exposure; and it means loss and expense from
unnecessary handling. There is only one way to
get over the difficulty, and that is to run a couple
of coal mines as a branch of the railways. That
involves no question of party politics; it is merely
a piece of ordinary business prudence. So far
as Mr. Johnson is concerned, all he has to do is
to consider what course would be taken if the rail-
ways were owned by a company. To him the
railways are or ought to be a business proposition,
modified by the fact that, when there are profits
to divide, the division is made in the shape of
extra facilities to the owners, who are the
people. And/regarding the railways then as a
business proposition, it can only be assumed
that Mr. Johnson will act precisely as the other
biggest coal-users act. There is the precedent,
first of all, of the Victorian Railways. Nobody
suspects Premier Murray and Commissioner Tait
of being violent Socialists ; yet, a coalfield having
been unearthed in Gippsland, the Government
promptly appropriated a part of the area ; and
even the Victorian House of Fat Landlords,
without a Labor member among them, endorsed
the Government’s policy of opening up the mine
for railway purposes. Both South Aus. and
Maoriland have taken the same course: the S.
Aus. Parliament even agreed to spend a
large sum in buying a mine in another
State. But if Mr. Johnson and the N. S. Wales
Government want other precedents, they can find
hundreds of them in commercial life around them.
There isn’t a more strenuous Anti-Sosh concern in
Australia than the Hoskins ironworks people}
and, as various little actions in the Arbitration
Court and elsewhere have emphasised, the
Hoskins people, being large consumers of coal,
have taken good care to own and work their own
colliery. The Great Cobar Co. is in the same
position ;it also has its own colliery. There isn’t
one single inter-State shipping co. in Australia
which isn’t interested as either owner or part-
owner in one or more mines. Yet there isn’t one
of them that requires so much coal as the rail-
ways, and there isn’t one of them to which coal?
is more indispensable. Exactly the same prin-
ciple is, of course, applied to a thousand other
things besides coal. The big smelting
cos. of Australia, the biggest consumers of coke,
used to buy that cotnbuscible just in the same
way as Mr. Johnson buys his coal. But they
don’t do it now. The Mt. Lyell, the Broken
Hill Prop, and the Great Cobar all have their
own coke furnaces. They didn’t get .them for fun.
They didn’t do it because they wanted to give
Private Enterprise a Socialistic slap in the divi-
dends. The directors did it because they were
expected to give the best possible return to the
owners—just, by the way, as Mr. JOHNSON is ex-
pected to give the best possible return to the
owners whose property he manages.
A Close View of Colored Labor.
“Khodo” writes from the northern innards of
India :
“ Old Soldier ” (B. 13/1/10) tries to prove by a few dis-
connected remarks that low-priced black labor is not
cheap. I think I can knock him out with a few actual
experiences.
Dealing with his final argument that the earthwork
done by Indian coolies is low-priced on a wage per man
per day basis, but is, nevertheless, not cheap, I
would ask him to chew over the following facts.
I am in charge of railway . construction work.
The earthwork is done exactly as described in
the quotation from Colonel Moncrieff’s book given
by “ Old Soldier.” The railway runs across a portion of
the great plain of the Ganges, and the earth for the em-
bankment is dug from pits on each side of the centre line.
For digging this earth, which is a fairly hard yellow clay,
carrying it about 100 ft., placing it on the bank and rough-,
dressing the top and slopes of the bank when finished, I
pay the native contractor, for any bank up to Aft. high,
two rupees per 1000 cubic feet of earth, the measurement
being made of the pits from which the earth is taken.
This is equivalent to o'§7d. per cubic yard. I challenge
“Old Soldier” to do earthwork of a similar character
with white labor for four times that money. I think the
minimum rate in Australia would be about lOd. per cubic
yard.
“Old Soldier’s” argument about cotton growing is
irrelevant, as cotton is a plant which will only grow to
perfection in certain soils and climates, and he has failed
to mention climate, soil or heavy freights ; all of which,
and not labor costs, enable the American product to
undersell the Indian.
For similar woik, under similar conditions, Indian
labor, if under proper control, is always cheaper than
white labor ; and the reason is not far to seek. It is alto-
gether a question of the cost of the necessities of life to
the laborer. The native of India can walk out 10 miles,
do a hard day’s work and return to his home in the even-
ing, and keep fit on a few handfuls of grain, costing not
more than twopence. He could, if necessity arose, easily
carry, in addition to arms and ammunition, sufficient
food' to keep him for a week or more in ordinary health
and strength while working hard.
It is for this reason that, when the time comes for the
black or yellow' man to fight the white man, the former,
if he wins, will win on his stomach, and on his stomach
only; and it is for this reason, quite apart from the
social and moral standpoint, that the white man should
exclude from his country people who, unless they change
their diet, will always turn out cheaper work than he can
possibly do.
I have working under me a Hindu suo-overseer who
speaks and writes English, Urdu and Hindi, can use a
level and theodolite accurately, understands and can
draw plans, knows the six books of Euclid and a little
trigonometry and algebra, and understands woodwork
and masonry; and his pay, which is considered good, is
40 rupees per month, equal to 13s. a week.
He is not sweated or starving as a white man would be,
hut'lives well, dresses well and sends money home to his
family every month.
Can “Old Soldier” produce any white man on earth
whose work is cheaper than this man’s?
O ■
“ J.R.” : Has any political leader ever taken de-
feat worse than Alfred Deakin did last week ?
Life was “ not worth living,” he said ; things were
“hopeless”; he would leave politics for ever.
One could almost hear the tears dripping on
to the reporter’s copy-paper as the Fuse’s
mouthpiece voiced his great grief. The out-
ybuffsfc ;fas indicative of many things and
prophetic of more. Big men don’t meet
reverses that way. It suggests what Victorian
pressmen have always averred viz., that
Deakin’s career died with Syme. The combina-
tion of Deakin’s brains and Symk’s masterfulness
and horse-sense was a powerful one. Lacking
Syme, Deakin shows forth as a weak, nervous,
futile sort of person. Had Syme lived, Deakin
would never have been suffered to Fuse: if by
some mischance he had blundered into that
suicidal mesalliance, Syme, when the rout came,
would certainly have prevented him from publicly
“ dropping his bundle ” and blubbering over the
mishap. Deakin’s case reminds one of some of
the old legends of lost souls led astray by evil
spirits. The strayed ones were simply weak
creatures who had neither minds nor wills of
their own, but only showy talents for the service
of stronger spirits.
- o-
A FEATURE of the late struggle was the deathly
silence of die Yellow Pup in almost every part of
Australia. It was the first election since Federa-
tion that was not heralded by a published batch
of candidates who had had bestowed on them,
whether they wanted it or not, the nomination of
Derry. Of course, the official organ of the
“sturdy Prodistant” section in Sydney went
bald-headed for “ Liberalism,” and besought its
mostly working-men readers to vote against
Labor, and thereby exasperate the Pope ; but
even it didn’t provide a list of accredited Pope-
worriers. There were no vague, horrible dis-
closures made to the “Liberal” dailies concerning
the pro-Labor strivings of certain unspecified
“Papal minions’’ in certain unnamed electorates.
Candidates and their supporters sheered otf the re-
ligious issue as though it had lately escaped from
the Otway without being disinfected. Wilks, who
has been snaring Labor votes for the past nine
years, by pretending that he would use his posi-
tion in the Australian Parliament to do an un-
pleasantness to the Vatican, has been shot out
into unsalaried darkness. And, speaking gene-
rally, wherever the electors discerned a sectarian
expert they smote him and left him politically
dead. It is a cheering development and a tribute
to the sound work done for the intelligences of
the new generation of Australian voters by
State education.
♦
The victory of Australian Labor should be felt in
Maoriland. Time was when the people of the
Dominion made the proud boast that in advanced
legislation they led the world. The contention is
hollow to-day. There are Liberals in the ranks
of those who follow Ward —men like Hogg,
LaURKNHon and Ell —but to fasten the designation
of Liberal to the party as a whole is as misleading
as it was to apply the name to the defeated Aus-
tralian Fusion. In the earlier days of the Bal-
LANCE and Skddon administrations laws were
placed on the statute book of which Maoriland is
still proud—laws which, in spite of bad seasons
and low prices, raised the country to a pitch
of prosperity such as it had • “ v 'er. known
before. But to-day there is scarcely any
line of demarcation between the views of
average Government supporters and those ’ of
the men who sit with Massey on the Opposition
benches. At times there have been vaguestirrings
in the left wing of the Liberal camp, but nothing
has come of them. Dread of a three-pitrty sys-
tem has restrained the most ardent from any
definite break with their leader. The victory of
Australian Labor should, however, put new heart
into the cause of reform in Maoriland, and even if
a three-party system should give Massey a brief
moment of office, it is better than that the curse
of spurious Liberalism should continue to block
progress and reform.
♦ ,
0.K.” considers the one woman candidate :
Vida Goldstein, talking to a crowd of women at Mel-
bourne Town Hall, struck me as having weakened since
I heard her advocate the suffrage for her sex some
10 years or more ago. Then she was aggressively posi-
tive but quite logical. As a, candidate ior Parliament
she descends to piffle. For instance, she said the other
night:
“I met a woman who had to get her perambulator
altered so that she could see her child. If men cannot
make perambulators properly, how can they attend to
the interests of children in Parliament?”
A combative old lady in the audience said : “If all the
women were like you there would he no perambulators
wanted’’—and Vida G. deserved, the gibe, I thought.
Why, the unfitness of women for designing their precious
prams is exemplified in the popularity of the preposterous
little go-cart, or wheelbarrow, which mothers have
adopted in place of the old miniature “ barouche ’’—since
their social and political “emancipation” set in. The
youngsters used to sleep and grow fat in their comfort-
able carriages, but in the go-cart which a modern
matron orders her husband to push the wretched infant
contracts spinal complaint whilst trying to keep itself
from falling out. As for the clap-trap allegation that
men can’t make perambulators properly, was there ever
a time when man didn’t excel woman in every kind of
what is called “woman’s work”—except, perhaps, fine
needlework and holding up a sunshade ? He scrubs and
cleans better, cooks the food and waits at table better,
“ lays ” a table better and decorates a saloon better, cuts
and makes up woman’s clothes better than she can do it
herself, pushes her aside when first-class garments
for men have to be built, and sews a button on a shirt a
darned sight more logically than ever a woman did ; and
when, in God’s good time, his outraged sex shall call
upon him to take the degraded art of millinery oua of
woman’s finicking hand, he will supply her with truly
ornamental hats at a fifth, or tenth, of the cost of the
puerile inventions she now sticks on her head. And, talk-
ing of her head of hair or coiffure, to whom does she go to
be hair-dressed when she is looking for victims of her
charms ? To women ? Bah ! The sex that isn’t supreme
in even the art of displaying its own hair or designing its
own frocks has no business in Parliament. It is entitl'ed
to the franchise, of course, and to as many babies as it
can manage. But the proudest of its rights is the one
that the she-sex nowadays is least disposed to exercise.
♦
The Provincial and Suburban Bank of Victoria
has been dead some 20 years now, and the moss
grows green on its tombstone ; but there are still
a number of its creased and valueless notes at
large, and every now and then one is palmed off
on some small shopkeeper who doesn’t pretend
to know all the banks of the continent. A week
or so ago an unfortunate Dago fruiterer sobbed
on the bosom of the police, and told how he had
given a lot of good, unspecked fruit and £4 odd of
silver in exchange for one of the ancient and
worthless notes of the busted institution. Of
course, the police could not do anything for him ex-
cept write down the color of the swindler’s eyes,
the style of his whiskers, and his height—or the
wretched shopkeeper’s hurried estimate of it.
The good silver and the unspecked fruit are lost,
anyway, whether the thief is caught or not. The
CommonwealthGovernmentcannotrefund him the
amount stolen from him because it hasn’t got any
fund for that purpose. Besides, the P. and S.
exploded and left the country Strewn with the
raw material for many frauds long before the
Commonwealth was born, so the Federal authori-
ties have a sort of retort ready should anyone
blame them for not protecting the public by sys-
tematically gathering up the dangerous rubbish.
In the present instance, the N.S.W. Government
also might reasonably plead “Not Guilty” to a
possible charge of neglect, for the long-dead con-
cern to which the notes originally belonged is the
corpse of a neighboring State. On the other
hand, the Commonwealth is now 10 years old, so
it hasn’t a sufficient excuse for not having notes
of its own in circulation by this time. If it
issued Treasury notes, as the State Government
in Queensland does, then, when a small shop-
keeper was handed some other sort of note, he
would be justified in holding on to his unspecked
fruit, even if he didn’t also call for a policeman.
You don’t find tradesmen .being taken down with
bogus notes in the Northern State, and the same
remedy—Commonwealth Treasury notes—is just
as applicable to all Australia.
The Faithful Newspaper Student Learns
the News.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Fourteenth dawned ; I ventured out,
Though Horror weighed mo down,
And, pallid, joined the busy rout
That bustled into town.
The people round me in the train
Seemed strangely confident ;
Apparently, nor fear nor pain
Disturbed their calm content.
And yet each held within his hand
Undoubted proof that all
Was lost; each saw his bleeding land
’Neath “ Socialism’s ” thrall.
A traveler spoke about his “ home.”
I said, “Sir, know the worst —
’Ere sunset you will houseless roam,
Your mansion will have Burst.”
Almost, I thought, he looked at me
In mirth. I glimpsed a wink
Suggestive of hilarity;
And someone inuttered, “ Drink 1”
In town I got a sharp surprise.
I did not find the rank
And file concerned to socialise
The contents of my bank.
No lawless Labor-voters tried
To grab its assets —none !
The populace remained outside,
Nor took aught but the sun.
I own to being staggered when
I noted that the kirk
Wherein I worship, now and then,
Was still in steady work.
“ How of the tie ? Is’t Bust, or what?
Speak ! I can bear the blow.”
The cleric answered : “ What’s this rot ?
Emphatically No 1 ”
For days I’ve Scoured streets, pubs and parks
In quest of fractured laws;
I’ve hunted ev’rywhere for marks
Of Socialism’s claws
In vain.... A thing I’ve realised
The wider I have ranged
Is that the State, though socialised,
Is mostly quite unchanged.
And so I sit, fatigued yet glad,
My daily on my knee,
And what I ask is : “ Was it mad,
Or did it lie to me ? ”
N.s.w.
10-2-4.
The Silent Toast.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr. Murray facetiously protested against the practice
of toasting Parliament at every public function. ... .
“I would like all societies to think,” said the Premier,
“ whether it would not be better always to have this
toast drunk like that of his Majesty, or in silence,
solemnly and with melancholy, like that of a memory."—
Daily paper.
With melancholy mien, stand up !
With sad eyes downward bent,
All solemnly come drink with me
Unto “Our Parliament.”
Not to the present crowd I ween,
But to “ A House that Might Have Been.”
In silence charge your glasses all,
Your brows o’ercast with gloom ;
I bid you toast a vanished host
Now mould’ring in the tomb.
I pledge a mournful memory—
“ The patriots who used to be.”
I give you “Murray, Democrat” —
A memory. Stand up !
Strict silence keep ; drink long and deep,
And drain the bitter cup.
I give Jack Murray, staunch and game,
Who lived before John Weary came.
I pledge “The Men who used to be ”
Ere Coalition came;
Before they turned and meekly learned
To play the Fusion game :
The game, with all its wiles and tricks,
Of grab-all party politics.
I give you Deakin. ... Bow your heads!
I give you him that led
And held wide sway but yesterday,
Yet now is Fused and dead :
The man whose patriotic views
Are scarcely cold —slain by a Fuse.
The Kidston of pre-Fusion days—
I pledge in silence deep
That pioneer of yester-year;
Now he lies fast asleep
Within a Tory-fashioned tomb,
For Fusion marked hiui out for doom.
All solemnly I rise again
And toast “ The Other Peake” ;
That democrat who’d shudder at
An act so poor and weak
As Fusing with his one-time foes
For office. Calm be his repose !
In silence drink; your glasses clink.
I pledge a memory ;
I give the toast of that lost host,
The Men who used to be.
All mournfully your glasses raise :
“ To Liberals of oilier days.”
VICTORIA.
DEN.


Franz Josef Lager Beer
SPARKLING, REFRESHING, EXHILARATING AND PURE.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality and character, being sharp, clean, and of light gravity.
Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD.
are the People for
Moving Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney—3B6 George St.; Melbourne—266 Collins St.
Brisbane—93-95 Queen St. ; Adelaide—Gawler Place
Adams’ Tattersali’s Hotel,
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business. Comfort or Pleasure.
ĥ
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
William McMillan, of N. S. Wales, supplied
the most unconvincing of all the post-election
moans. Said he (14/4/’10)
Under the broadest system of democracy, after an
earnest appeal to the people, after a political education
going on for months, minority rule will again misrepre-
sent the opinions and the intelligence of Australia,
iheie is no doubt that Labor polled almost every man and
l ot those who did not go to the poll, out
of the 900,000 electors, nine-tenths, if any superhuman
influence could have got them there, would have voted
for the Fusion part}'. The whole thing is a ludicrous
satire on what we call democratic rule.
As to “ minority rule,” at the 1906 election, when
d Rs own and there were no sobs from
McMillan, a little over 51 per cent, of Common-
wealth electors voted ; last week, when Toryism
was massacred, close on 60 per cent, went to the
polls. To particularise, in Lang (N.S.W.) there
was an unprecedented poll—one that would have
done credit to England, where a vote is shadowed
tor days that it may go the right way—and yet it
was Lang which altered Johnson’s 6000 majority
to a doubtful one of a few hundreds. In Ballarat
(Vic.) the poll, in 1906, amounted to 18,636. and
JJKakin s majority was 6000 odd : last week 20,000
vo *' an d Dkakin’s majority came down
to 443. And so on. McMillan’s suggestion is that
all who were too ignorant or unpatriotic to exer-
cise the franchise were “Liberals”; and, though
that would be gratifying enough to Laborites, it
must be owned that the figures give it the lie.
Ihe fact is that in any given constituency the
more electors that went to the polls the worse it
was for “Liberalism.”
1 kessman ’ ventures on some prophecy :
Litlier Premier Wade is trying to test his strength, so
as to decide whether he will face the cry of “ White
feather that will be raised should he decide to dive for
the shelter of the Supreme Court, or he has got a hint
*7?? th , e . Liberal party would be glad to see the back
of him before it faces the country at the coming elections.
More than one inspired paragraph has appeared in the
daily press, hinting that he will take the vacant Supreme
Court job ; but whether it is another instance of Wade’s
* tte,n P ts afc leg-pulling or a straight tip it is im-
possible to say. The certainty is that a section of his own
followers believe he will resign, and, believing so, have
come to the opinion that Jimmy Graham, M.L.A., is the
man for the leadership. The further certainty is that
there is hardly a follower but has urged, or would
, w t 0 fad ,? out of Politics. My personal belief
l Bthat ) Vadr ' V ’H not fade out. He has a lot of faults,
but he has not got cold feet. If he has, he has never
let me get a glimpse of them. All the same, it would
be worth while being in the vicinity if he did resign,
hairL f '^°,u VV ° Uld shoes - The most strenuous
battle for them would be put up by Wood ; but, proba-
blj, there would have to be political murder and incen-
diarism before he could get his sign up. Not that it
matters much whether Wade, Wood, Graham, Lee
Twaddell or Irving Sayles leads. That party’s cake is
Destitute young mothers have lately deposited
an infant or two within the chancels of various
suburban churches, whereupon vigilant Roberts
have been set on the tracks of the offending women.
Ihe idea that abandonment is in itself proof of a
cruel disposition is a crude notion. On the con-
trary, it looks to many a distraught mother as the
surest way to her child’s health and welfare. She
has heard there are homes of a kind, but they are
mostly hidden away ; moreover, their operations
are mysterious, and the prying multiplicity of
unessential questions appalling, and the mother
wot siire that they will take her infant after
all. But most churches have places of the sort
attached to them, and her nearest and most cer-
tain way to get her child in is to leave it on
the premises. What more should churches with
such homes want? Instead, however, of taking
the child and thanking Heaven for a life saved,
they rush off to the police and commission them
to track and persecute the giver of the offering
they call it “exposing a child,” in law ; but in-
fants are “exposed” similarly at the official
foundling homes in France and elsewhere. It
would seem the runners of such homes regard
themselves as being defrauded of the satisfaction
of listening to a tale of sin and misery, and are so
mad in consequence that a call for police is the
first thing that occurs to them.
Hugh Stone writes :
L havß striven long for an Australian party—one
pledged to Australian sentiment in all things Now
Andrew Fisher asserts that the long-looked-for is here—
that the Federal Labor party is the Australian party. It
may be so. It can be so. The all-important question is
will it be so ? If its bent is that way, it is unfortunate
in being hampered just where it should have been entirely
free. It cannot control education. The greatest lever a
strong party in the Federal Parliament might have is
denied it. It cannot train the young idea. That is left to
each separate State. The pity of it! Six different
Ministers of Education have it in their power to so direct
the drawiny-out of the future men and women of Aus-
tralia as to turn their minds in six different directions.
The farce of it! So Andrew Fisher starts with a handi-
cap. Yet it is with some men as with some horses—thev
can wm in spite of their handicaps. *
But they are a good deal more likely to win with-
out handicaps. Wherefore, the sensible thing is
to unify—to make Australian education an Aus-
tralian matter. In fact, there are so many things
that cry for the same treatment that the simplest
way is to put the whole boiling into the pot and
make an entire rearrangement of Federal and
local functions.
Will the N.S.W. Labor party please listen to
the complaint of a man who says he is prepared
to swear to it all:
th* Wh?wl n &? n “ Gore ™“«>!> contract in
«ii sth5 th ( N - s -W-), and got struck in the face by a charge
of blasting powder. My pick struck a charge that had
misfired, and exploded it. I was not warned that it was
there. After the accident I learned that it had been there
a fortnight. A ganger ordered me to be conveyed to the
hospital. The doctor at the township to which I was
taken, after fixing me up, told me there was no hospital
there, so I had to go to a pub. The firm never offered to
send me my wages due, nor to pay my board at the pub
nor to assist me in any shape or form. When I was halfl
repaired I went out to the camp and got my wages due-
short by 6d. per day—for the three and a" half weeks I
had worked By taking me to the township where there
was no hospital instead of to one where there is a hos-
pffal the firm saved a bib; probably that’s what they did
it for. But what,l want chief! y to say is this i
I got a solicitor to write to the firm about com-
pensation. No results. The solicitor told me I
would have to sue, and it would take from £2O to £3O to
make a start; also I would have to wait three or four
months-for ttle cou . rt - this is the much-boasted
Workers Compensation Act it is simplv spitting in the
face of the injured worker. In an accident on railway
work evidence wants to be taken at once, for the men on
that sort of job are always coming and going. I couldn’t
get one witness of my accident at the present time The
ganger himself may be gone. Summed up in plain Aus-
tralian, the Workers’ Compensation Act is a fraud And
incidentally, I’ve got my own opinion about the con!
tractors ; but that is a personal matter.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Aladdin."
Royal “Laßoheme.”
Palace “ In London Town.”
Criterion “ Count Hannibal."
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Prince Alfred Park.. Wirths’ Circus.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty's “The Dollar Princess.’’
Princess’s 44 When Knighthood Was in
Flower.”
Royal “The Arcadians.”
Kino’s 44 From Shop Girl to Duchess.”
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
West's Palace. West’s Pictures.
Olympia.... Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarivm. Tait’s Pictures.
Town Hall Mme. Calv 6 (21st, 23rd)
4
“ Count Hannibal,” which was played for
the first time in Sydney at the Criterion by the
Asche-Brayton Co. on Saturday night, is that
unusual stage article, a melodrama of psychology.
It fairly drips with blood ; at the same time it is
of tender sentimentality all compounded. Each
of its innumerable short scenes has its thrill; each
contains its sure appeal to the public Heart.
There is a duel wherein the hero, comfortably
assured of victory, gibes at his pathetically-inferior
antagonist, after the fashion so fiercely reprobated
here yester-year in the case of Jack John-
son. There is stirring business with an empty
sluice, which is flooded by the resourceful Hanni-
bal after his foes have crawled along it with the
object of undoing him. Most of the action pro-
ceeds in an exhilarating riot of shots, crashes,
screams, oaths and death-rattles, suggestive of a
local importer’s conception of a State where
Socialism has burgeoned into full flower. As the
delirium is admirably stage-managed and con-
ducted with masterly briskness through a series
of charming and convincing stage-settings, it goes
well and gives general satisfaction. Seldom has
the Criterion seen so much shudder and emotion-
alism compressed into two and a half hours
* * ■* *
Hannibal is one of those calm, astute,
reckless and overwhelmingly forceful medieval-
ists whom Oscar Asche best loves to portray. He
is a Roman Catholic about the troublous Court of
Charles IX., and he loves, with characteristic
tempestuousness, the Huguenot, Clotilde of
Vrillac. She, ignorant of his capacity as a
fighter, spurns him in favor of her co-religion-
ist, Tignonville. The dramatist is concerned
to show (1) the unworthiness of Tignonville,
mainly due to the fact that he is rather
less insanely courageous than his Catholic rival;
and (2) the gradual change of heart that
comes over Clotilde as she learns that, plucky as
Tignonville unquestionably is, Hannibal, in the
matter of audacity of the utterly demented.order,
is his master. The play makes no pretence at
cohesion. It amounts, frankly, to a mass of oppor-
tunities for Hannibal to display his unique quali-
ties as a dominator of human beings and a dare-
devil flaunter of constituted authority. In Act I.
the massacre of St. Bartholomew starts. Hannibal
arrives at the house of Clotilde, and, regard-
less of his duty to his Sovereign, saves her, her
servants and her admirer, Tignonville, from the
mob. At intervals he leans out of windows and
places and howls defiantly at the mob, which is
absorbed in doing its duty by its King ; and the
mob, getting annoyed, howls back at him. Withal
he remains unafraid. Tignonville would murder
him. He outwits the enemy and forces him at
the point of the sword to produce a Protestant
minister. Being married to the unwilling
Clotilde, he thrashes her—an infallible stage-
recipe for making a girl adore one—and sets out
for Angers. The journey is one long triumph.
He dominates and defies people all along
the route. Arrived at Aiigers he thrashes
a pestilent priest ahd burns the King’s
writ ordering the extirpation of the Hugue-
nots of the neighborhood. Clotilde begins
to thaw. She surrenders definitely to her Han-
nibal in Act IV., scene 11. ; he being by this
time well-nigh incapacitated mentally and pbvsi-
cally, as a result of the strain of the previous few
weeks.
*' • * *
The part of Hannibal is an ideal one for
Asche. If he disappoints anywhere it is in the
unchanging, almost monotonous way in which
he thunders out his heroics. There are no vocal
nuances about this actor. Miss Lily Brayton has
the same defect. Her wonderfully expressive eyes
denote disgust, horror, love, or whatnot; but
her clear, tuneful voice alters hardly at all.
Gerald Souper (Tignonville) does well in a trying
r6le. Caleb Porter makes Father Pezelay a suffi-
ciently revolting and blood-lustful fanatic. Her-
bert Grimwood’s Charles IX. is an interesting
little character-sketch. And Charles Horan is a
somewhat colorless La Tribe.
** * *
“ Mrs. Butterfly ” will assault the heart-
strings of local melomaniacs on but two more
occasions, dating from this paper’s morning of
publication. To-night (Thursday) she will cause
delicious anguish in the hands 'of Amy Castles ;
to-morrow she will disseminate exquisite misery
per medium of Bel Sorel. On Saturday at Bp. m.
a revival of “La Boheme ” is billed to occur.
Maria Pampari will make her Australian debut
as Mimi.
** * *
“ Aladdin is still rushing along at Her
Majesty’s (Sydney), y,nd making time fly three
times as fast inside the theatre as it does outside.
Thus far, no one has arisen to doubt this miracle ;
and, even should such a heretic arise, his voice
would probably be drowned by the shuffling of the
crowds that keep surging towards the theatre.
* * *
If Miss Elsa Fischer shed any tears of joy
(such foolishness is not uncommon in young
singers) over the success of her farewell concert
last week, one of the pearly drops must have had
also a little bitterness in it because the Y.M.C. A.
was not a more extensive hall. Her audience
overflowed the boundaries; but her brilliant
soprano reached the outsiders, and their applause
came back to her. Misss Fischer leaves for
London in May, and study under her aunt (Mrs.
Minna Fischer) will follow ; but, before the final
quittance, she gives a concert in Adelaide Town
Hall.
Early last week Sydney Tivoli changed its
mind about letting the Wille Bros, go; so those
artists are still performing the perilous ladder
trick which makes the nervous stallite shy and
wish he had booked for the circle. The sturdy,
dark brother, who supports the wooden arrange-
ment on the upturned soles of his feet, has a
happier time than the slim, blonde brother who
climbs gingerly to the top and stands on his
head; but the nervous person in the seats below
writhes in anticipation of a possible mistake, and
has the worst time of all. Houdini, who is the
main draw, provides a thrill of another kind with
the sealed-can trick. On Saturday night last,
before performing the escape, he squeezed him-
self into the filled can and folded himself under
water for the space of Hmin. by the watch. The
impromptu committee advanced to the edge of
the receptacle and stared curiously in at the sub-
merged man, who, when the oil-skinned “Gov.-
General” hit the tin twice with his open hand as a
sign that time was up, bobbed up breathless but
alive. After a brief rest he went through the
sealed-can trick without requiring the "Gov.-
General ’’ to use his plated hatchet either on the
tin or the committee. The light amusement of
the bill is provided by the Two Bells, Lily
Langtry, Allan Shaw, Brown and Robinson and
Fred Bluett.
* *• * *
Calve, the dramatic singer whose reputa-
tion has “Carmen” stamped on every link,
opened an Australian season at Melbourne Town
Hall last Saturday, with the advantage and dis-
advantage of profuse preliminary announcement.
The advance notices had promised that she would
give vocal recitations “in costume,” such as the
sudden and mysterious Blanche Arral gave of
yore; therefore the appearance of the French
lady under ordinary concert-platform conditions,
with a plain piano accompaniment and other
soloists to support her, was a disappointment. It
was Calve out of her natural element, asserting her
personality in the wrong place—a full-blown rose
blooming against a brick wall. Still, the disap-
pointment must be accepted as unavoidable ; and,
judged by what actually was on Saturday, rather
than by what had been hoped for, the Calve con-
certs should prove attractive. The “star’s” sup-
porters are a singer and a pianist. Galileo Gas-
parri is a typical Italian tenor, and
young. He hasn’t quite the brilliant voice of a
Dam, nor can he warble like a Newbury in all his
glory; but his voice is sweet, and the notes come fair
and square— i.e., fair and round—from his chest,
with never a suggestion of effort in the production.
A more cultured singer than Dani, he suffered by
comparison when he gave the giddy duke’s bal-
cony ditty from “Rigoletto,” which his prede-
cessor used to treat in a more roughly effective
way. Audiences, hereabouts, expect that familiar
song to be “chucked ”at them. Jacques Pintel,
the Russian pianist, is as young and unassuming
as the tenor from the wariper clime. He is neither
a severe pedant nor a furious blatherskite, but
his temperament inclines to a Bach fugue rather
than a Lizst rhapsody. His is the playing that
wins the approval of other experts without
arousing their jealousy.
“ THE DOLLAR PRINCESS,”
AT HER MAJESTY’S,
MELBOURNE.
Herbert Clay-
ton as Freddy
Fairfax (a
young Eglishman).
Bert Gilbert as Harry
Q. Gonder (a multi-
millionaire).
Calve, let it be understood, has neither a
supremely fine voice nor a marvellous vocalisation:
a soprano with a contralto timbre-—very sympa-
thetic and apparently not past its prime. In a
quaint old Provencal song the artiste displays a
certain distinction of tone ; in Gounod’s Serenade
she is more tender and less fluent than the
best of her contemporaries; in a “saucy”
French song she lacks a little of Arral’s
pungency. The “ Habana,” from “Carmen,”
followed by the duet with Don Jose, were
her pieces dc resistance on Saturday. For these
she put a light wrap about her head, and sported
some red blooms in her hair, and acted the part.
Then the reason for her reputation as the Carmen
was made clear. Her facial expression is remark-
able for its eye-play. She “makes eyes” like a
sorceress. Her manner of beguiling Gasparri
(who looked unhappy in his dress-suit, and
glanced over the pianist’s shoulder at the music
when he should have been suffering conflicts
of emotions) was Carmenic and convincing in
every particular. Yet the art of the actress,
unassisted by the glamor of stage accessories and
the strains of an orchestra, failed to work the
illusion. The cold truth obtruded itself. On a
concert platform a woman is as old as she looks,
not as young as the character she is assuming,
charm she never so wisely. One saw the en-
chantress grown middle-aged, the passion-flower
running to seed. Calve was fascinating ; but the
situation was false. D oubtless these dramatic
items will be better managed in the remaining
concerts announced for to-night (21st), Saturdaj
(-:3rd), Tuesday (26th), and a matinee on Thurp
day next.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s the pretty music ana
polite lunacy of “The Dollar Princess’’ seem to
have got a good grip on public approval; and on
the second Saturday the house was crowded. The
strange social relations of the gilded heroine and
her private secretary had, by that time, been some-
what bevelled at the edges, and their long, linger-
ing duet of mutual inspection was almost as
charming a novelty as it could be made. For the
sake of its lyrical items, and apart from the
dialogue and plot, “The Dollar Princess” is worth
more than one hearing. The German music talks
poetry, whilst the characters mostly talk dollars,
ihe music seems to have the best of the argument
when Clayton stretches himself to his highest
and declines to be purchased like a pound of tea
by the haughty daughter of the multi-millionaire.
Money doesn’t have everything its own way in
this strange story, although it finally supplies the
boss plutocrat with the affections of a Lion Queen
from a. circus. In the first act the unlucky
capitalist is nearly struck dead by a bad cigar; and
he has another narrow escape from a green cock-
tail, which he tastes with trepidation before
ordering it to be put back in the lamp. If his
other creature comforts are equally deadly, the
hunted expression of Bert Gilbert Conder is fully
accounted for.
** * *
“ From-Shop Girl to Duchess,” which was
mentioned at Melbourne King’s on Saturday,
seemed, at first, a propaganda play. Some early
references to female labor hinted that it was to
be an ethical drama; but this promise is not
realised, and we are soon beholding the usual
story. Sylvia Grey, who wears her virtue like a
nigger wears his first white collar, is employed
with others in the shop of Gilbert Spate,
who deals in drapery and maidens’ reputations.
Gilbert has already made one of his Misses
an impromptu ma ; but when he asks Sylvia to
share a life of sheyme, she declines with scorn
and a pair of scissors. Hurt by the scissors and
angered by the scorn, Gilbert attempts a dreary
vengeance. He fakes a charge of theft against
the girl, and is about to order an immediate
policeman, when his other Victim dies in a London
street. The deceased, it appears, has a family
tree; and, when Sylvia learns of the importance
of the dead’s relations, she annexes the other
girl’s name and her future advantages. There-
upon the scene changes to Park Lane, where
most of the footmen are positively blinding. Here
Sylvia is mothered by the Dowager Duchess of
ot. Bavnum; meets a number of the Dowagers
dowdy friends; and marries her illustrious son,
the Duke. Subsequently, his Grace is informed of
his wife’s imposture, whereon there ensues a noisy
scene, in which he banishes her from the sacred
presence. At length the riot produces reconcilia-
tion ; and all ends in kisses and slobber, over
which The Bulletin draws a comprehensive
tarpaulin.
• • * *
As usual, the acting lacks both finish and
conscientiousness. Max Clifton certainly sup-
plies a caricature of a noble youth, probably be-
gotten of a little thought and study ; but most of
the others need to reduce their crudities with a
spokeshave. George Cross is a merely conven-
tional picture of a Duke, who surpasses Debrett
for blood and Bradshaw for prosiness; and Bert
Bailey and Miss Erris give portraits from their
gallery of two imitations. Rutland Beckett’s
study of the demon draper is wanting in power and
understanding; while Ned Duggan’s notion of a
baronet has a formality that will pass more for a
virtue than a dereliction. One or two of the ladies,
including Miss Olive Wilton, are commended more
for their frocks than for their art; while Miss
Duggan s methods seem more incomparable than
usual. For the long and dreary speeches with
which her character is laden she is not blamable ;
but the fact that they sound like half a ton of
coke is mostly due to her handling of the stuff.
** * *
The braw Scawtch career of “ What
Every Woman Knows” is about to close at the
Princess’s, and on Saturday the bill will be
“When Knighthood is in Flower.” The novel
rrom which Paul Kester’s drama was adapted, or
which was borrowed from the play, is available at
the book stores ; and anyone who wants to know
what kind of Princess Mary to expect when
Nellie Stewart undertakes the part can read up
the subject for sixpence. Enough to mention
hero that Nellie will appear as a lady of the days
of Henry VIII., prior to that full-blooded
monarch’s first divorce.
** # *
This is the fourth week of “The Arca-
dians ’ at the Royal, and the success of that
rather different musical Comedy remains as un-
abated as ever.
** * *
A new arrival at the Opera House is
Carter the Great, a conjurer and illusionist who
was seen in Sydney, under other management,
some time ago. Carter is a loquacious magi-
cian, and his most ingenious “ psychic marvel ’’
is a dummy hand which rests on a
sheet of glass and raps out replies to anxious in-
quiries. The Howard Brothers are still appealing
to the curiosity of the thinking members of a
Rickards audience; also the Martines, Billy
Williams, Alexandra and Bertie, and Vasco are
seasoned features in the programme. . Vasco, to
tell the truth, grows very wearisome. His long
turn is exactly the same as of old. If he were to
play only half as many instruments with twice
as much skill, he would be a less maddening
musician.
The third and final picture of Jean Val-
jean, from Hugo’s “Les Mioerables,” is running
its last race at West’s Building (Melbourne).
The film is attractive enough, but folk who are
unfamiliar with the book or the preceding series
will require a guide. “ The Woman from
Mellon’s” is a strikingly natural comedy item;
“ Scenes in Japan ” give some enjoyable snap-
shotsof Japanese domestic customs ; and “Falling
Arrows” will hit the juvenile population where
it lives. It is a tale of a naughty abduction and
a faithful Indian, and, from the standpoint of the
tyrant of the age of 10, is nothing less than a
perfect bonza.


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for
subjects constantly arriving,
parts, and accessories stocked,
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street,
hire —new
Machines,
Write.
Sydney.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Kates Charged.
’Phone No. 236 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
At Melbourne Glaciarium the Taits try to
exalt us with a volcanic tale of Christian martyrs.
The yarn belongs to the Mercia-Marcus Super-
cilious school, and one drops a courtesy tear when
the heroine becomes the piece de resistance of the
lions’ breakfast. Macbeth, somewhat after Shak-
speare, can be applauded for its technical beauty.
“ Scientist’s Nightmare ” is amusing through the
sheer cleverness of its faking; and “Port
Arthur, Ontario,” is the most instructive picture
of the batch. There is a sermon contained in this
picture, for the benefit of a certain State Weary,
who is leaving a port without proper docking
facilities.
*# * *
“The Third Degree,” by Charles Klein,
produced for the first time in Australia at
Adelaide Royal, has had a timely advertisement
in recent cables from America ; for it is a sermon on
the bullying methods of the detective police there.
Young Howard Jeffries, tipsy, comes to the rooms
of Underwood just when the latter is desperate.
While Jeff, lies asleep on the sofa Underwood de-
parts per revolver, and the youth’s guilt seems
clear. It is the Silver King idea. But Howard
does not think himself guilty. He is not able to
think anything, in fact, when he is seen after
seven hours of “ You did it! You know you did it!
Own up!” Now, do the Yankee police use physical
force or do they not ? If not, what is the matter
with saying “ I didn’t do it. Go to the Devil 1 ”
Klein would have made a stronger play if he had
shown stronger methods, and a stronger man
beaten by them. Howard has no backbone at any
time, and is admittedly hypnotised by gazing at a
shining revolver when at last he repeats the con-
fession dictated to him. The rest of the play
shows the desperate efforts of his wife to get him
cleared. She fights like a plucky but toothless
terrier, simply hanging on to Brewster, the great
lawyer, till she gets him to take up the case. This
ho does in defiance of his best client, Howard’s own
father, who won’t be associated with it; for the wife
is a waitress, and Howard’s marriage with her has
damaged his chances with his family, while the con-
fession has finished them. The one invaluable wit-
ness is lying low, misled by that same confession.
Howard’s stepmother had an old friendship for
Underwood, holds his letter threatening suicide,
and had been in his rooms to expostulate five
minutes before the shot was fired. When she
realises that the confession may not be proof she
produces the letter, 1 but shies at the “disgrace ;”
whereupon Mrs. Jeffries, junior, by a rather stagey
device takes both letter and disgrace as her pro-
perty. So Howard is free, with his wife the joke
of the Yellow press. All Brewster can manage is
a compromise on “Flag Lieutenant” lines: the
people most concerned shall know the truth, but
the public can continue to have its leg pulled.
Klein is not good at fourth acts, and has simply
reproduced the tame, happy ending of “The
Lion and the Mouse.”
* * * *
The acting of all this is good. The Ameri-
can working-girl—seriously treated—is not often
seen on the stage, and Katharine Grey is It.
George Bryant is the police “ civptain,” and when
he and Miss Grey hold the scene, all Yankeedom
is rampant. Cyril Mackay simply is the lovable
youth with no spine. Julius Knight, not seen
till the second act, runs the show thereafter, just
as he does in “The Lion.” In the long scene,
which ends in his dropping international law to
take up a murder case, he is at his best; he is
proof against flattery, and tears move him not at
all, but a judicious insult does the trick. There
is a moment, later, when he is within an inch of
letting the invertebrate one get the divorce the
family wants, and marrying the girl himself. But
the moment passes; probably the lawyer that
Klein imagined was an older man than Knight
makes him. The senior Jeffries pair offer the only
ground for a doubt. Ethel Warwick'(superbly
gowned) and Winter Hall have a right to their
own reading of the characters ; but each might be
more convincing if a shade less statuesque. “ The
Third Degree” is going to be a success in
Australia.
#* # *
The other chief feature of a particularly
strenuous week in Adelaide amusements is the
first appearance in Australia of Alburtus and
Millar, at the Tivoli. The lady is a top-nOtcher
with the cornet. Alburtus is understood to be an
expert baseball pitcher, but the 10ft. range he
works at gives no great opportunity. One sample
of his methods may serve for the lot. A doll
appears above a row of plates. He throws at it (“ I
don’? think,” as his conn try putsit)and breaksallthe
plates but one. That one gets scared, and runs up
and down its shelf ; so he takes to in-fighting, and
gives it the knock-out with a hammer. It is ex-
cellent fooling, and in between the pair sandwich
about the best club-juggling seen in Australia
since the days of Derenda (drowned and deceased)
and Breen. The Empire has been open a year
now, and the proprietors—Lennon, Hyman and
Lennon—celebrated the birthday by doffing their
managerial dress-suits and giving a lightning
acrobatic turn. Any other Australian managers
care to compete ?
** * *
Dr. Charles Harriss, the overpowering
Canadian who flashed through the Commonwealth
last December, is back in London, reporting “all
well ” in Australasia so far as music is concerned,
and working iat his big project—the Sheffield
choir’s visit for next year. He has appointed
Mr. H. N. Southwell manager in Australia; and
the coming of the 200-odd Yorkshire warblers will
become fashionable as a topic what time the
spring lambs gambol.
After all, the press is powerful. For
months prior to polling day the big dailies
warned the public against the Socialists, and now
that the numbers are up it is found that the old
bulldog grip of the great journals is still on the
people ; for, of about 4,000,000 Senate votes, the
Socialists polled only 29,107, while the whole of
the Socialists (Harry Holland) in the House of
Reps, fight scored but 620 votes.
" One of the splendid things of the elections
is. little Tasmania’s uprising. With three Labor
Representatives out of five, and the practical cer-
tainty of three Labor Senators, the Sleepy Isle
seems at last to have awakened. Much of the
credit lies with the new democratic daily.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Johanna”: How cruel of “0.K.” and “Edyson” to
undeceive women so ruthlessly ! Why break up the faith
in thisrevolutionary manner? According to them and Mr.
Madden, blarney has been the mainstay of men since
Adam. The male bird is godlike in his subtleness. He is
tactfully and purposefully undiscerning. Well, why give
the show away? Logically, from the above, man Barrie
is chuckling in his sleeve and making bawbees out of his
touch of blarney, and here are faithless fellow-men
queering his pitch (and their own) just because Barrie
blarneys out loud. It’s a great big shynie.
“S.”: For “The Arcadians” Clarke and Meynell
brought from London four girls who have nothing to do
but wear lovely dresses and stand round in bewitching
attitudes. They are nice girls, divinely tall, and show a
decided talent for wearing astonishing frocks. But Mel-
bourne was already full of girls who can wear lovely
frocks with excellent effect. The importation seems to
be an insinuation that Australian girls don’t wear well,
whereas they wear the best possible—if they can only get
iC.
Harold Ashton, who is J. C. Williamson’s right hand,
or left hand, or full hand, or something equally valuable,
had hardly got his. portmanteaq unpacked in Sydney
after his trip to America when be got orders to pack it
again and label it for Britain, the Continent and the
United States. In Company with J.C. W., the peregrinat-
ing Harold will leave for furrin’ parts this month on the
hunt for show material.
A droll baby story is told re the coming production of
“ Pete,” by Matbeson Lang, at Sydney Criterion. Some
time ago a man waited on the Clarke-Meynell firm to
book the order for the baby that is required in “ Pete,”
and was asked to submit the goods for approval. He
was the first; applicant, and if his baby looked equal to
the part it would get the engagement, he Was told. The
man asked for time, because the little stranger wasn’t at
the moment actually available. So he got the order con-
ditionally—and weeks passed without any further com-
munications between the parties. At last 0. and M. got
news that baby had arrived and was a boy, and could be
trusted to fill the bill. Whereupon the management
wrote back suggesting that the youngest member of the
company be named Pete, and the parents registered the
nipper accordingly.
“H.C.": “East Lynne,” like the smash-up-the-
marriage-tie-and-feed-the-swine-on-the-children scare, has
just paid our township a yisit. It was billed.as “The
New East Lynne,” and the placard starred this weird
invitation : “ Mothers, bring your children to see Little
Willie die, and taken to Heaven by colored lights,” It
reminds me of the missus who came to me for consolation
after she’d had the third little illegitimate in the family.
“ I can’t make my girls out,” she said. “It ain’t 'as if’ I
hadn’t brought them up right and showed ’em what’s
what. There ain’t been a month that I haven’t sent ’em
to see one of Blandolt’s or Anderson’s pieces.”
Gaston Mervale, one of the best-informed and best-
known mummers in Australia, is making a complete re-
cover} 7 from a serious operation for some internal trouble.
“D.”: From a Sydney daily anent a Lyceum picture
show :-r“ ‘ For the Honor of his Family ’ is a drama
cleverly woven around an incident in the career of a
coward, whereby the honor of a family is preserved stain-
less through a father’s forethought.” If that film repre-
sents any rational picture show’s idea Of preserving the
honor of any sane person’s family, I pass as a judge in such
matters. The North v. South trouble in America is de-
picted. The son of the house appears in battle array, and
goes forth to fight. The aged parent summons his niggers,
and joyfully bids them supply him with drink wherewith
to wet the event. The next-scene shows the son bolting
from the fray in a state of panic. It is a thing many a
good soldier has done under the stress of a first engage-
ment. Frederick the Great fled madly from Molwitz, his
first battlefield, while the aged Field-Marshal Schwerin
hung on, with two bullets in him, and saved the day.
William of Orange, who developed into a sturdy scrapper
later on, vanished from his first battle, and brought up
in a state of shuddering hbfror miles from the disturb-
ance. And so on. To get back to the Lyceum.
The wretched son bursts in on his sire, who is just empty-
ing the dregs of the bottle. Anything like the goings-on
of the old man when he learns what has occurred I have
never seen outside a Zoo. He fairly gibbers. Presently,
as his offspring grovels on the floor, the father, steals to a
cupboard. From it he takes a species of hand-Gatling.
Concealing the immense weapon behind his back, he
advances oleaginously. When within about a foot of his
progeny he whips out his cannon and shoots. Then he
and his niggers take the corpse to the field of battle. As
aforesaid, it all appeals to me as the weirdest way of
“ preserving ” a family’s “ honor ” on record.
Says Ben Fuller(John Fuller and Sons): “ I see there is
a paragraph in Poverty Point (B. 24/3/10) intimating that
the picture show business is on the decline in M.L.
Well, listen. Of the six theatres and halls in which
public entertainments were given in Wellington (M.L.)
last night four were used exclusively for the display of
kinematograph films—King’s Theatre, His Majesty’s,
Town Hall and St. Thomas’ Hall—and in each house there
was squeezing room only. We (J. F. and Sons) had ten
shows going in M.L. last night, of which seven were
picture shows; further, we are supplying films to ten
smaller circuits in the provinces, and we’are building a new
picture-show place at Auckland to seat about 2000 people.
It is my honest opinion, guided partly by prophetical
visions, added to what I saw in America and England last
year, that the ground of the picture business has only
been scratched, and that as improvements are made the
business will go on increasing until thebio. show becomes
as necessary to people’s daily lives as the newspaper.”
Maud Hildyard, the highly-unusual artist who starred
hereabouts in “The Headless Housemaid,” or some such
freezer, and who was won’t to lash out the word “ damn ”
and other bathetic phrases what time a rapt gallery was
well-nigh swooning with nervous excitement at her
doings, has just thrown up her part in “The Woman in
the Case” under unprecedented circumstances. Her
grievance was that the cigarettes which a parsimonious
British touring managemen t supplied for her consumption
in the part of Claire Forster were few in number and of
a low class. “On Monday night,” she wrote exas-
peratedly to the local papers, “ there cauld not have been
more than three or four in thebqx. . .. I find that a hun-
dred good cigarettes are allowed weekly, so I naturally
resent having to smoke the nauseous things supplied in
their place.” And so Maud is resting.
“0.K.”: The migration of popular artists to and fro
between the theatre and the music hall is a long time
comingr into vo<rue in Australia. A few Rickards iden-
tities—the late Harry Shine was the most conspicuous-
get into Williamsonian panto, or musical comedy, and
stay there, as a rule, if they can ; but a transfer of
theatre stars to the vaudeville stage and back again is
rare. The late George Lauri was the only notable excep-
tion that occurs to mind. He went from Williamson to
Rickards many years ago, and then back to J.C.W., with
whom he remained. Wallace Brownlow left J.C.W., and
finished his Australian days at Rickards’. Likewise
little Francie Adler —the Madame Alda of now. Her
reappearance in opera was made abroad. Graham and
his wife, Nellie Dent, have apparently left the dramatic
stage to devote themselves to the vaudeville sketch busi-
ness. But the time for popular actors and actresses to vary
their popularity between leading parts in big productions
and “ stars turns ”on the vaudeville stage is not yet. It
is, however, pretty near at hand. In Britain the fact is
now generally recognised that an actor strengthens his
position as an orthodox mummer by proving that he can
hit a vaudeville audience with any sort of monologue
performance, or knock them with a dramatic sketch. He
widens his circle of notoriety, even as Phil Newbury
spread his power of attraction in the concert world by
having previously put in a lucrative engagement with
Rickards.
“BEAUTIFUL VENICE” AT THE
SYDNEY “NASH.”
Elenora Dorodi Fabris, who catue to Australia 35 years
ago, at the height of her fame, died on the 14th inst.,
and was buried at Waverley (Sydney). She began her
musical career under the training of her father, a cele-
brated baritone—Canillo Dorodi. At 13 she took part in
grand opera at La Scala, Milan. Later, she spent seven
years at operatic work in Spain under Franco Faccio.
She came to Australia with Lyster’s Grand Opera Co. as
contralto ; and 16 years ago, on the death of her hus-
band, she retired from the stage, and took up work as a
teacher of singing. She was 70 years of age.
“Jean Sibi”: Bellowdrama, seemingly, flourishes
because of its impossibilities, and not in spite of them.
For instance, in Bilanderson’splay, “A Thief in the Night,”
a female is ordered 10 years’gaol for murdering a’tec,
when two independent witnesses could testify that she
was in their company some distance away during
the assassination. But the funniest incongruities
are supplied by the management. Thus Miss Dug-
gan characteristically comes out of “ quod ” in a
brown Directoire confection and a black hat that
needs the stage to itself. Also, “ a street in Kingsmere,”
a tiny English village, possesses an edifice that could
pass for the capitol at Washington. Andersonian audi-
ences accept these absurdities with the stolid glare of
uncomprehension. Imbecilities, violences and improba-
bilities never stun them, or shatter their self-respect.
They would not feel slighted if Cleopatra’s needle was
used to fasten a rent in the pants of the comic relief.
“Snell”: It’s pitiful to see a good idea cut to waste.
In “The Dollar Princess ” the author —or authors —had a
right smart notion in H. Q. Conder, the Yank multi-
millionaire who prides himself on being waited on hand
and foot by British aristocrats, and employs a seedy earl
as groom, picks a Scotch baronet off the rocks
to be his footman, has a bankrupt marquis in
his stables, and unfinancial peers all over the
shop, cleaning the boots, . buttling and polishing
the fenders. Conder insists on addressing each
by his full title ; but hereabout the possibilities of a big
thing are abandoned, the ingenuity of some four-score
joint authors having pegged out from exhaustion or suc-
cumbed to nervous prostration. Everybody is suggest-
ing thatW. S. Gilbert would have extracted gallons of fun
from such a situation. But W. S. Gilbert was permitted
to have a whole raft of comedians in his operas, whereas
it is considered undesirable to have two of a kind in the
comic opera of our time, owing to the strain of keeping
the animals from fighting and biting.
“ J.”: The more I consider Williamson’s musical shows
he more am I staggered at the whereforeness of most of
his importations. Last week I found a local product—
Rupert Darrell —playing AbanaZar in the pantomime at
Her Majesty’s, Sydney, instead of the aforetime
Yank. The local product acted the part. The other
man jested with it. Darrell, when he returns after
stating that it is his intention to disguise himself as a
Chow, and thereby impose on the widow, is really and
effectively disguised. His predecessor’s “ disguise ” took
the form of a pig-tail. For the rest he wouldn’t have
deceived an infant. The Yank, when solemnly banished
to the desert by the Egyptian person, skips to his doom
with a lightsome frivolity that is most disillusionizing and
utterly out of the picture. Darrell wilts and crawls un-
willingly to his fate—which is obviously the better,
saner and generally more satisfactory reading of the
incident. The Yank, when tricked and finally undone,
towards the end of the show, treats the happening in
the broadest low-comedy spirit; Darrell, in the same
circumstances, is appropriately sombre. To sum up,
Darrell makes a character-study of the r6le, and is inter-
esting ; the other mime distorts it into a comedy pari and
is futile and tiresome. Furthermore, in the important
matters of voice and ability to “ make up,” the Australian
outclasses the artist he understudies. No ; for the life of
me,-1 can’t grasp why Williamson prefers importations.
On the evening of the “Liberal” slaughter the cable
muttered that Madge Mclntosh, lately in- these parts,
had obtained a divorce. Australia had trustfully
accepted Madge’s label of “ Miss ” at face value, so it felt
a gentle thrill of astonishment that a husband had ever
been. Anyhow, he is now a disjointed person matri-
monially, and so counts for just as little as if he hadn’t
been.
La Milo’s troubles at a London police court, lately
mentioned in the cables, brought some compensations to
the lady, it appears. The Pavilion music hall advertised
an “Exclusive Re-engagement” of her, and London
Referee, of February 27, said —“ La Milo returned to the
Pavilion on Monday with a series of new and old ‘classical
studies,’ and was cordially received. Variety was again
given to the entertainment by the lightning caricatures
of Mr. Cruikshank.”
“Maitai”: It was the picture shows that gave the
Pollards the final knock-out, and. aaa consequence, they
disband at Timaru (M.L.) this month. In a husky voice,
Fred Duval attributes the death of his show to “in-
creased railway fares, increased rents of theatres and the
heavy .opposition of picture-shows at cheap prices in
almost ever} 7 town in both islands.”
In another column will be found the
abridged prospectus of the Semiling Rubber
Estates! Limited, Kedah, Malaya. The company
is being formed, with a capital of £40,000, to
acquire about 611 acres and develop them as a
rubber plantation. The secretary is Mr. Edward
H. Shackell, and the registered office 375 Collins
Street, Melbourne.*
“The Patron”: Houdini’s gruesome can trick is ad-
mirably stage-managed ; but it seems to me to be handi-
capped by just a leetle too much nickel-plating. It is all
right plating the tubs that hold the tepid water and the
buckets used by the two attendants for filling the can ;
but why did they plate the “Governor-General’s” toma-
hawk ? When the canned Houdini has been hidden from
view by the movable Peter Pan house, the “ Gov.-
General,” with a stop-watch in one hand and the plated
hatchet in the other, listens intently at one corner. The
shuddering audience, of course, reckons he is there to cut
Houdini out of his metal tomb, in case he should find the
escape beyond his powers. Presumably, that is the exact
effect intended by the “ escapologist.” For me, however,
the plating on the hatchet quite spoiled the thrilling
tableau ; it gave me the idea that the axe wasn't intended
for use any more than the plated lance of the tinsmith's
sham knight in the trades procession is intended for
human slaughter.
Probably the large unexcited section of
Fusionist voters in Victoria would have liked best
to see MeCay get into the Senate. He was the
late-corner who took the place of poor old Skene
(deceased), and was crippled at the outset by the
particular blessing of the Argus. Yet he shook
things up as Skene never could have done. He
made some rousing speeches which, though they
didn’t hurt the Labor party or affect the umpire’s
decision, are nevertheless remembered with some
satisfaction, like Lang’s futile assaults on Tahmmy
Burns.
A result of the election will be to make
Wade and his colleagues eagerly amenable to
argument when the question of a Clerks’ Wages
Board comes next under their notice. But yester-
day Wade openly spurned the idea. In his view
the clerk was too humble and snobbish and
chronically Tory to be dangerous. He regarded
the slave of the pen as a citizen who—well satis-
fied with half the stipend of a
proceeded to the polls on election day with
an Empire badge in his buttonhole and the
strains of “Gor’ Save” in his heart, and voted
hard for his employer—a truckler who kissed the
hand that sweated him. The old-time clerk was
like that; his successor is not. It is sure that
this section polled heavily for Labor last week.
Wade is likely to seek to placate pen-drivers with
the soft promise that diverts political opposition ;
but the odds are his dash will come too late.
A show piece in the Tragedy of the Thir-
teenth was the Labor victory in Corangamite
(Vic.). This is the electorate of the cream of
Victorian squatterdom—the Manifolds, Blacks,
Mackinnons, Shaws, Dennises, Austins, Army-
tages, Macarthurs, Curries, Bussells and a score
of others. It is full of large estates and big
homesteads and expensive motor-cars. Natu-
rally, squatterdom just loved the late member.
Dr. Wilson, who was superiah and a Tory of the
deepest dye. They never dreamt that he would
be beaten by a plain, ordinary Labor man. Still,
they worked to make sure ; and their bill for tyres
alone will more than equal the Labor party’s
whole expenditure. Yet, after all, Labor won by
nearly 2000; and now the member for Manifold
and Armytage is James Henry Scullin, of Bal-
larat, grocer ; and the big estates are trembling in
their shoes.
An Australian abroad writes that the
transhipment of George Reid at Marseilles was
a fearful and wonderful spectacle. George had
to be hoisted into a boat alongside with block and
tackle, and as there was a high sea running at the
time, and because of the enormous disproportions
of the High Com., the job was fraught with
danger and difficulty. Twelve men and a gang
boss were employed on the task, and it took
exactly 27 minutes to get the distinguished anti-
podean into the receptacle. Sixteen shots at the
boat scored wides, and the boss swore, and the
team yelled, and there was as much racket and
excitement as if the steamer were taking a new
boiler aboard. At length thq, freight was landed
fairly and squarely on its broad back in the boat, .
and the cheer that went Up from the anxious
2000 on the Steamer gave Marseilles quite a jolt.
An ingenious little stellar chart is pub-
lished by Cole, of the Book Arcades, under the
title of the “Austral Bush Pilot and Sky Clock.”
A solar chart is attached, but the larger diagram,
based on the various phases of the Southern Cross,
is the thing that most invites consideration. It
is published at 6d., and anyone who wants to
learn a Way of telling the time at night, without a
watch, will find the chart an interesting invest-
ment. It was constructed by Frank Garner, a
studious Melbourne citizen, who has leanings
towards literature and art.
The smashing victory of Progress at the
Federal elections is another testimony to the
sunny influence of D.C.L. in smoothing the cor-
rugations from the brow of class prejudice. And
while the counsels of D.C.L. wisdom preside over
legislative deliberations, the sweet spirit of moder-
ation must Drevail. Tickle the throat of Intelli-
gence with D.C.L., the whisky of the wise, and
the fruitful smile of peaceful enterprise beams
forth in all its brightness.*
HE GAVE THEM OTHER MEAT INSTEAD!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
All by himself in some big cages at the side of the ring
dark-skinned Mr. Marco challenged several lions, tigers
and bears to eat him. They accepted the challenge, and
many times prepared to spring, but always changed their
minds, so Mr. Marco gave them bits of other meat in-
stead.—S. M. Herald’s notice of Wirths’ Circus.
He gave them other meat instead ;
They did not want to eat him, still
He kindly saw that they were fed.
The Lion shook his noble head ;
He had a vacuum to fill.
He gave them other meat instead.
They did not want his blood so red ;
Of course he wasn’t on the bill.
He kindly saw that they were fed.
As through their massive tricks they sped,
He fed them with artistic skill.
He gave them other meat instead.
The tigers yawned and yearned for bed ;
They looked extremely bored until
He kindly saw that they were fed.
They did not want to claw his head
Or bite his ear or whiskers. Still
He kindly saw that they were fed ;
He gave them other meat instead !
N.S.W.
KODAK.
THE COMEDIAN ARRIVES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Our special correspondent in London notes with satis-
faction the arrival and reception of Mr. George Reid. On
all sides the Australian High Commissioner is accepted
as a brilliant representative of his country, and, as we
have suffered from a rather drab and commercial regime,
the change is much appreciated, amongst others by the
Australian colony in the old country.—
Daily paper item.
No longer the Anglo-Australian
Sits drearily down in the fog,
And tries to be cheered by an alien
Performer, with song, quip and clog—
For the Lion Comique has transpired,
with his dog.
The Absentee shrieks with enjoyment,
Who erstwhile was bored and repulsed ;
His heart with bliss, lacking alloy, pent ;
His miseries soothed and emulsed.
Great Britain forgets unemployment
As it looks at its visitor, and 1S con-
vulsed.
No drab, sordid duties official
Absorb this most festive of bloques ;
His aims and ambitions, initial,
Revolve round big dinners or soaks,
Shivoos and such things superficial
Where the chances are endless for side-
splitting jokes.
The newspapers voice their approval ;
They hold themselves specially blest
By the stout jester’s timely removal
From home, at his country’s behest.
All spill on that skull, bald and oval,
Praise —and only the Music Hall stars are
depressed.
N.S.W.
J. D.


'
" : '•• 'Vv | . - ' ■ ’/
"; v>
si i
i»
B ' S,
MODELS—
-7 H.P. 1 CYLINDER
... to ...
70 H.P. 6 Cylinders
Illustrated Catalogues
posted on application.
Enquiries should state
approximate horse-
power and style of car
required.
The Very Best Motor Cars for AUSTRALIAN USE
are those Imported by Dalgety § Company Limited.
The above statement is a real fact, for Dalgety’s Car Agencies were specially selected on account
of the advantages they offer to the Colonial buyer. Apart from this, all models for Australian
use are specially equipped to
stand our rough conditions.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle.
By Special
Appointment
h
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS,
THE CATERER, Tel. No. 2, Ascot.
Wedding: Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Ring up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
MOONEE PONDS,
VICTORIA.
Paris
+ in the
Heart of
SYDNEY,
The Latest
Gloves at
the French
Glove House.
2- French Kid Cloves, machine points in
Amethyst, Copenhagen, Aeroplane Blue, Peacock
Royal, Navy, Cardinal, Wine, Emerald, Moss and
Myrtle Green. We can match any costume. Price
3/11 per pair.
3- French Kid Cloves, new fancy points,
in Saxe Blue, Aeroplane Blue, Peacock Royal,
Navy, Wine, Cardinal, Moss, Reseda, Emerald,
Myrtle Green, Amethyst, Prunella, Mole, Drab,
Black and White. Price 4/11J per pair.
3-Button White French Kid Cloves, with colored
fancy points and stitching. The colors of the
stitching are : Mauve, Eau de Nil, Tangerine, Rose,
Sky, Cinnamon, Emerald and Saxe Blue. Price
4/11J per pair.
We pay postage on all Glove orders.
Write for our Glove List.
AXTENS & CO
(La Maison
Parisienne),
24-30 THE STRAND, SYDNEY.
Society
The champion bad memory has been dis-
covered in Brisbane, where it has been causing the
.Police Department a lot of unnecessary worry.
The owner of it reported the theft of a number of
bottles of beer ; but when the police got to work
they found ou t thatthe man liadswaliovved the beer,
sold the bottles,' and forgotten all about it. Still
he might have done worse ; he might have for-
gotten to chew the beer before he sold the bottles.
Amid all the vulgar turmoil and scuffle
and strife of the elections in Victoria—the bit-
terest the btate lias seen since Grraham Berrv’s
days—nine citizens plodded placidly along the
even tenor of their way. Nothing disturbed their
calm or upset their contemplative habit. They
were satisfied. They declined resolutely to be-
come filled with that “divine discontent” which
spurs people on to wild deeds at election times.
The nine were the legal gents engaged in the
Harper conspiracy case. Their leisurely, restful
•demeanor was a whole-hearted tribute to tbe
•emollient effects of Costs. Amid the turmoil
‘Costs turned them into the Nine Muses.
* * * *
Thusfar the Melbourne papers have not
’reported any prosecution of them who commit
imoral lapses on the premises of the Y.M.C.A. in
IFlinders-street. It is a sad reflection on Early
IPiety that thefts.of cash and other portable pro-
perty are frequently occurring at an institution
founded by saints for the encouragement of
sanctimoniousness. If a Christian young man
drops into his little meeting-house for an hour or
two, he fears to leave his goloshes in an ante-
room, or lose sight of his brolly. He feels rather
like the certain man of yore who went down from
Jerusalem to Jericho. In the midst of purity he
has to beware of pinchers; for there are goats
among the lambs. A rarefied air of faith ought to
pervade such places as the Y.M.C.A. rendezvous;
but, nowadays, the young men breathe an atmo-
sphere of suspicion, and the prayer of the righteous
is “ O Lord, keep Thy all-seeing eye on my over-
coat which hangeth on a peg in the passage.”
In Victoria, one day not long ago, during
the burial service over the bodies of two boys
who had been drowned in the Yarra, the offi-
ciating' parson gave out the hymn: “Shall we
Gather at the River ?” It takes a colossal fool to
be a bigger fool than a foolish parson.
* * * *
Ballarat has just discovered a disciple of
the Gospel of Thrift—a man who could buy a
title to sit in its House of Fat—and it doesn’t
quite know what to do with him. He was dis-
covered on the floor of an empty house, in the
last stages of exhaustion from starvation. He
declined to go to a hospital, and scoffed at the
idea of entering a home or asylum of any sort,
so the police had to run him in as a vagrant.
When they overhauled his dilapidated clothing
certain packets disclosed themselves, and these
contained no less than £2444 in bank deposits,
notes, gold, etc. The man with the stake in the
country is now being fed.up and nursed, but he
exhibits a keen desire to get back to his old life
of doing odd jobs for farmers, so that he may
put by “a few bob” ever} 7 week for his old age.
(He is now 70.) He has been GO years accumu-
lating his “wad,” and is one of those beloved
of certain squatters—a man without “encum-
brance.”
* « * m
It was a sad morning that broke on April
14 in King-street, Sydney, in the locality of the
Daily Telegraph office. No sound of revelry
and clinking glass came from within ; no success-
ful Fat candidates, with genial countenance,
drove up in cabs or motor-cars; no sign of life at
all was there,“except where, across the road, a
small group of curious people gazed at the front
of the building as if it had<been the scene of a
ghastly midnight murder and the crosses on the
big election board were the footprints of the mur-
derer. The board might have been stricken with
plague or small-pox. None touched it from with-
in. At the other city newspaper offices the boards
were brought up to date by the figures that had
accumulated after midnight, but the Telegraph
had given up the ghost. A spider spun his web
in the darkened doorway, and a long string of
trams slipped quietly down the hill like a pro-
cession of hearses hurrying on the heels of Sudden
Death.
* * * •
“Boswell” : “Lex” complains (B. 7/4/TO),
and very properly, that a short-sighted bank
manager has been hustled into the witness
box as a “ handwriting expert.” But even that
is a mild instance of the shocking manner in which
such “ expert” evidence usually clamors for the
accused’s conviction. In a recent case in the
north of N.S. W. the bank messenger, a boy of 19,
was entrusted with the meritorious job. I
watched him compare the several writings sub-
mitted, and then hesitatingly say that he noticed
a “resemblance in the formation of some of the
letters.” Thereupon the.fudge, with his prompt
book, suggested that perhaps the “general
characteristics were the same,” and the. 19-year-
old “expert” acquiesced. The accused subse-
quently pointed out to the jury that the boy’s
evidence should not weigh because he had pro-
duced no credentials in support of his alleged
expertness, which drew down the wrath of the
Judge, and the withering sarcasm that the view
of the honorable boy in the bank should be
accepted before that of the supposed villain in
the dock. The verdict was guilty and the
sentence unmerciful.
THE BOY’S MISTAKE.
“ Say, mum, where's his motor? ”
THE FALLEN FAVORITES.
PRIVATE ATKINS (to his pal): “ Smithy , me boy, we're a back number.”
Up in the north of 10 U-land a Maori has
been turning the police service inside out and
leaving it on the fence for the passer-by to throw
contumely and other vegetables at. The native is
“wanted” on a charge of theft, and at a recent race
meeting at Oparau he was pointed out to a handy
policeman. The latter had hardly introduced
himself when the Maori leaped on a horse that
somebody had thoughtfully left in the vicinity
with saddle and bridle complete, and bolted with
the dilatory law and 20 other persons in breath-
less pursuit. Having a good start, the quarry
subsequently left the horse on the road and took
to the scrub without saying when he would be
back. With the true instinct of chivalry, how-
ever, he gave the Law another chance. Thateven-
ing he rode past a
party of police and
civilians who had
joined in thechase,
and gave them the
glad whoop in ex-
change for a flying
start. He was go-
ing strong for the
setting sun when
his horse fell with
him. So close were
the pursuers that
the first leaped his
horse over the fal-
len animal ; but
before he could
turn or the others
pull up, the Maori
had wiped the dust
out of his eyes and
faded into cover-
ing swamp coun-
try. Since then he
has been resting;
but as pulling the
hind limb of the
police seems, to he
his hobby, news
concerning him is
expected hourly.
A few years ago,
when he was simi-
larly on the black
list, the police
located him on an
island in a river.
They rowed across,
and, as they tore
into the under-
scrub, the darkie
dropped from an
over-hanging
branch into the
official boat, and rowed leisurely to the main-
land. On another occasion he was collared on
the river by a solitary policeman, who dumped
him into a canoe and started down stream. By-
and-bye the Law reckoned it was up to the
Maori to do the graft, and handed him the
paddle. Whereupon the native hopped over-
board, taking the paddle with him, and swam
ashore, leaving J. Dunn raving in the stern-
sheets.
* * * *
Some of the people who had promised to
lend their motah-cahs in the cause of “ law and
order ” came to grief in Victoria. The law that
orders them to get registered and number their
cars came into force last month, but some of them
haven’t yet troubled to comply; wherefore the
police not only took the names of the defaulting
owners, but compelled them to quit the roads, and
let law-and-order pull through somehow on foot.
“The Blot”: More white Australia! A
friend of mine at Melbourne was invited by a
Chinese parson attached to the Presbyterian con-
viction to attend a concert given by his Chow
mission. Said the proposed guest, “Will the
audience be solely Chinese?” “Oh no,’'replied
the Ching; “ plenty of them will bring their
wives ! ”
* • * *
‘ ‘ The Lone Fisher ” remembers a village by
the sea:—
Portsea, the sleepy hamlet where the Otway’s Vic-
torian passengers are doing their term of isolation, is a
place of utter and complete rest, with the waters of Port
Phillip rippling at the moss-grown front door and the
ocean pounding at the back. Some miles away is the
more fashionable Sorrento ; but the summer gaieties
thereof don’t break very far into Portsea’s dreams, and
most of its time it sits with folded hands and looks at the
big boats passing up and down the South Channel.
When I knew it, it Had, besides the big quarantine
station, one fort and two hotels. It was a dull
season ; hotel guests were conspicuous by their
scarcity, the quarantine station was empty, and the
fort had not fired at anything for weeks. A portion
of the garrison, however, was trying to be a drum
and fife band, and every day or so the blue and green
peace of the place was ripped into many pieces by the
thin, raw, metallic beginnings of music. In any spotless
peaceful and open than Portsea it would undoubtedly
have provoked manslaughter ; but the handful of lime-
burners and visitors that comprised the population used
to brighten up visibly whenever it broke out. It at least
served to break the frozen-over monotony of the place.
; One of the chief events of the day was the morning visit
of the military launch from Queenseliff with the food
supplies for the men behind the idle guns of the hill fort.
That and the bay steamer's arrival and departure were
the only occurrences that ever interrupted our futile pier
fishing, which rarely yielded anything but leather-jackets
and cuttle-fish—unpleasant, flabby things that discharge a
quart of ink at you when they are annoyed. A captured
cuttle-fish provided the only bit of excitement that tran-
spired during my stay. A chronically-tired lad who was
convalescing had just landed one of the useless things.
It had discharged all its blackness in the water, and was
gasping in an indignant but harmless manner on the sun
warmed pier when the Superior English Visitor, who was
the only annoyance for many peaceful miles, happened
along garbed in spotless white from head to foot. As
usual, he bore down on the convalescent to pester him
with fool-questions about the beasts he was dragging out
of the sea. The tired j T outh answered his string of
questions reluctantly, and then turned back to the
one amusement that kept him alive. The Superior
Person said “ Haw ! ” in a deeply reflective manner, then
turned and, raising his silver-mounted cane, deliberately
prodded the dying cuttle-fish in the stomach. The un-
fortunate animal was quite empty ; but the sudden pres-
sure of the cane forced the air in "its stomach out through
its baggy mouth with an unpleasant, spluttering sound.
The fool thought that his prod had roused the savage
instincts of the dormant fish, and that it was going to
attack him. He leaped backward with a cry of terror,
tripped on the edge, and disappeared in 16ft. of sparkling
water. When the incurably-solemn convalescent care-
fully assisted him out with a long pier hook, kept for such
occasions, he spluttered something to the effect that the
“blawsted kawlines were full of demmed disgusting
things,” and dripped back to the hotel to pack his trunks
for London.
IS OLD ANTI-SOSH WOODENED OUT?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Am I drunk ? Do I dream ?
Is it fact or a doubt ?
Are things what they seem?
Or is visions about ?
Is “Liberalism ” a failure?
And is old Anti-Sosh woodened out?
Which expressions are strong ;
Yet they do not explain
What has happened along
On the 13th. It’s plain
What was worked off on Deakin and partner,
The same being suddenly slain
At the Commonwealth polls
On that date, as I say,
IJy the sharps on the rolls
In a most painful way.
If you ask of me, “ Truthful, how goes it ?”
I reply, “ It is far, far from gay.
“For Australia’s gone wild
On these Sociali-t games ;
And has got me quite riled
When I think of the names
Which have gone on the list of the deadbeats.
Said Fuse, “ What’s the total list, James?”
I replied, “Twenty-two
More or less has been canned”;
When he started and drew
Out a list which he scanned ;
Then he reached for the rope on the fire-bell
With language I cannot command.
Then I said, “ Deakook Fuse,
You will listen to me
While I mention my views
On this here tragedy.
Australia,” I says, “ has arisen
From the toils of such sharps as you be.
“ And the State Frights they’ve fled
From the face of the land,
And the Fuse.it is spread
Like the drowned on the strand,
With a stinkitlg-fijh dead on its features,
And the picture of Wade in its hand.”
Is it dreams or a scoop !
Is it fact or a doubt ?
Has the world looped the loop?
Or is visions about?
Has the Heraldgrai>h turned out a failure?
Or is old Anti-Sosh woodened out?
H.S.W.
GIDEOS.


Women’s Labour Union.
One hour of an Australian woman’s time
should be and is worth more that! the
value of a bar of soap. If a woman can
buy a tablet of soap that will save her
one hour alone of labour per day she has
he soap for nothing. Sunlight Soap, used
in the Sunlight way, will save much more
than an hour in the day. Try one Tablet
and note directions on the Wrapper. You
will be pleased with the remits, and you
will surely join the Woman's Sunlight
labour Ui 'of ,
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
FOR COOLER DAYS
I
A PARTICULARLY SMART
HAT, most suitable for the
cool dry days of winter. It
has the new narrow brims, and is of a
very striking shape.
The brim can be turned up or down
front or back or at side.
The crown can be dented or
creased.
In Mid Grey with same color or
black ribbon.
In Beaver shades with sage green
ribbon.
In Grey Green ’tween tones—
something distinctly new.
Price 12/6
Add 9d. for Postage.
1/3 Interstate Postage.
PEAPES & CO. Ltd.,
“Men’s Outfitters,”
309=311 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
From a report of the health officer to Bl'ay-
brook (Vic.) council: —
The buildings are of great age, have very low ceilihgs,
and are devoid of ventilation. The rear rooms are quite
unfit for human habitation ; the rain water flows urider
the rooms, and there are gaping rents in the walls. The
closets are in an abominable state, and a filthy drain at
the rear gives off sewer gas freely.
Eight of the 12 houses were occupied ; one tenant
had been paying rent for 11 years. And the
owners weren’t Chinese, but the Scawtehbytqmn
Church, the same Church that sends missionaries
to teach the heathen (no doubt) that the Lord
loveth an easy-going tenant.
4 * • <* -
The problem of how to pluck the Sunday
beer without feeling the nettle of the Liriensirig
Act is still giving plenty of exercise to the iritel-
lect of the Australian beer-lover.
At Forbes (N.S.W.j, the other
day, two admirers of fer-
mented joy were discovered
by the local Sergeant of
police on the footpath
within a few inches of a
pub. Each of the absorb-
ers held a glass of liquid
which he was steadily
hiding behind his face.
When the policeman
came round the corn-
er the drinkers took
t h e refreshment
from their lips,
looked him square-
ly in the eye, and.
after a second’s
deliberation, put
the half-emptied
glasses down on
the pub doorstep.
The sergeant
considered the
tableau, and
reckoned that it
was good enough
to prosecute.
When the case
came on, the
Bench listened at
tentive.ly to hisar-
gument that the
act of setting the
glasses down on
thedoorstep brought
the holders into ac-
tual contact with the
premises, and that, there-
fore, they were “on ” them.
But, apparently, the point looked
too strained, for the case was dismissed. Had the
police won, some earnest teetotaller who had
grazed a pub whilst skimming round a corner on
his way to a Sabbath Cold-Tea gathering might
later on have been dragged up on a charge of
being “ on ” the accursed premises during the for-
bidden 24 hours.
■* * * #
Dear Bulletin, —How these authors err
when they touch scientific subjects ! Lillias Gor-
don, in “ The Unauthorised Sentence” (B. 7/4/TO),
makes a man suicide by “covering his face with a
chloroform-soaked handkerchief.” If the gifted
Lillias will try this method of suicide she’ll have
the time of her life ; but she won’t peg. She’ll
hug somebody instead. In my student days I
used to suicide frequently by Lillias’ method. On
one occasion, when the mists had cleared I dis-
covered that I’d been tenderly caressing an
embalmed dog used for dissections. If Lillias is
hard pressed for a really scientific method, let her
drown her next victim in a chalice of rose petals.
—Yours, Scalpel.
- The truly good people of Kensington, an
Adelaide 'suburb, have been disturbed by the
action of a local Church, which proclaimed in
large letters on its front lawn that the principal
feature of a coming festival would be “ A Shilling
Sweepstake.” This, being utterly contrary to
S.A. law, caused much inquiry, which disclosed
(in smaller letters) the fact that it was only a ser-
vice of song called “ A Shilling Sweepstake ” that
was meant. The Church, in fact, pleaded plain-
tively that it did not dream of breaking the law,
but was merely trying to get a little gate-money
by false pretences.
■« * * *
Adelaide is getting ready for its third
hanging within three months, and reporters are
thankful that the present law does not allow their
attendance. The most recent execution was that
of an Afghan, arid the usual demand for a re-
prieve was hardly heard. One reason for this
was the fact that the patient did not seem to
mind the operation. It was shown that, after
doing the shooting, he went home and, remark-
ing “ I think I hang,” gave orders that a par-
ticular white garment from his own country
should be got ready for the occasion. So nobody
cared to disappoint him.
* * « »
It would appear that the Royal Edward is
no spendthrift where his employees are concerned.
In a recAt Poor Law case, heard at Windsor
(Eng. h an old woman, applying for relief, deposed
that her son had been a laborer on the Royal
farm.at Shaw for 12 years, and was now in receipt
of 10s. a week. He began as a half-timer at Is. Od.
a week, and had been given a rise of one shilling
a week each year since devoting his whole time to
the service of his King. The relieving officer said
the son was a smart laborer, and the guardians
decided to give his mother temporary relief, and
to approach his Most Gracious Majesty, through
the land steward, with a humble, respectful and
entirely loyal insinuation that possibly if his
Most Gracious Majesty would think the matter
over he might arrive at the conclusion that a full-
grown, healthy, hard-working man is worth more
than 10s. a week, even if he is an Englishman.
* * * *
An epoch-making event occurred quite
unobtrusively in Sydney, last week. The
British Empire League fused with the Women’s
ditto ditto. A Mrs. Rutter read a report which
recorded the,year’s triumphs of the former body:—
At the Empire Day celebrations the speech of Sir
Richard Pbote and the unfurling of Lord Roberts’ flag
were the chief items in the programme. Mr. J. S. Larke’s
address at the Empire Banquet was heartily appreciated.
Lady Jersey had presented the white ensign to H.M.S.
Commonwealth on behalf of the League, while Lady
Northchte proriiised to read the annual report at the
meeting of the Victoria League in London. While in
Sydnpy Lord Kitchener presented a flag, the gift of Miss
Philips, to the veterans on behalf of the League.
It is an inspiring record. Under the new regime
it is expected that more colored soft goods will be
exchanged/ unfurled, “dipped,” wagged, and
otherwise tnan-handled than ever; that more
British women of title will be available than here-
tofore for the purpose of reading annual reports
in London ; and that, generally, the Hetnpire will
be’more effectively checked from bursting. All of
which is intensely gratifying.
HER LEGACY.
“ Why. Clare, I didn't expect to see you in mourn-
ing. I thought you just hated your mother-
in-law."
“So I did. But black suits me better than any-
thing, and John never would let me wear it.
It was so good of the old lady to die and
leave me a chance."
A sounding of 20,700ffc (nearly four miles)
was made by the German surveying ship Planet
on its recent cruise off the coast of German New
Guinea. It recalls a remark made by one of the
passengers of the wrecked Moresby after getting
safely ashore thereabouts. In his boat there
happened to be two holy men of different per-
suasions, and the passenger told with chastened
joy how, instead of arguing fiercely about the
Scriptures, as he seems to have expected them to,
they pulled steadily on the same oar just as if
their religious convictions exactly coincided. The
moral hanging to the yarn seems to be that the
gulf that yawns between can go to the Devil
when there is a devil of a gulf that yawns beneath.
A DEVOTEE.
“ Wot! After I've swep’ the kitchen you want
me to scrub the floor! Not me! I ain't
goin’ to spoil me knees for surf-bathing fer
no one! ”
“ Edyson ” : The young Japs from the
visiting warships take notes with marvellous
assiduity, and by this time the two cruisers should
be fairly stuffed with original literature giving
minute details concerning Australians, what they
do and how they do it. More consuming still is
their passion for maps. In Melbourne, they
would give peanuts or postcards for any old map
that boys cared to trade over, and for days they
were scattered about the city, brushing up their
topography with the aid of diagrams, and jotting
down the sites of important buildings. Their
particular interest in banks may have been acci-
dental. It is not likely that, in the event of a
successful invasion, middies would be sent round
with handcarts to collect coin ; nevertheless, fat
gentlemen put a wrinkle or two into their fore-
heads as they noted the obvious predilection.
■* * * *
The absent-mindedness of a great Austra-
lian surgeon is beginning to make his friends feel
nervous: not for their own sake, but because
they are afraid he may wake up one day and look
upon himself as a person who regards conven-
tionalities somewhat unconventionally. “Excuse
me, Mrs. Blank,” he said the other day to a
hostess. “ Oh, don’t mention it, professor.” She
thought he was going to apologise for appearing
in a sac suit at a dinner got up in his honor.
“ Oh, all right,” he said ; “then I may put this
into the waste-paper basket ” ; and he emptied out
of his coat-pocket into a priceless vase a red mass
that looked like sheep’s innards. “I meant,” he
went on “to chuck it away as I came across after
th e post-mortem, but I forgotall about it,” And the
angel who has the fixing-np of things for the
Resurrection Morn was obliged to take note that
part of the person of the late John Smith was de-
posited in Mrs. Blank’s Japanese vase. “I
couldn’t well take you down to dinner with that
mess in my pocket,” said the punctilious professor.
“Could I, now?”
* * * *
“Harrison O.” : The Japanese letters,of
Lafcadio Hearn, referred to on the “Red Page”’
(3/3/TO), make interesting reading. In one of the
letters, published in the February number of thg
Atlantic Monthly, I came across this (the italics
are not mine): —
The finale of my long correspondence with you bn
Japanese character is frankly this. ... I hate and detest
the Japanese. ... I wish to make no more Japanese
acquaintances. ... I simply abominate the Japanese.
I should not like now to trust myself to say what I think
of the Japanese in their relation to us. I fear the mis-
sionaries are right who declare them without honor,
without gratitude, without brains.
This is from a man who lived the best years of his
life among the Japanese, who was master in a
Jap Government school, who married a Jap
woman, and was probably more intimately ac-
quainted with the Jap, his habits and his mode of
living, than any other person born and educated in
the Occident; and it all suggests that the yellow
midget is not the desirable person his friends
would have us believe.
Here is a lovely
thing for Dill
Moran and - Pat-
rick F. Macky to
row over—parti-
cularly lovely be-
cause nobody can
settle it; where-
fore the row can
goon for ever and
ever. Who held
the first religious
service in Aus-
tralia—Dill’s men
or Pat’s men ? If,
as some say, De
Quiros touched
Australia in the
seventeenth cen-
tury, it is almost
certain that, as he
and his crew were
commissioned by
Philip 111. of
Spain, the R.C.’s
win. But if De
Quiros didn’t
land, then Dill
Macky gets a push
up. For Tasman,
the Dutch navi-
gator who dis-
covered Tasmania
in 1642, was a
Presbyterian. He-
was, in fact, am
ordained Presby-
terian elder, arid,
carried with hiim
on his voyage a.
commission to-
conduct services-
wherever he land-
ed. He visited
the west coast of
Tasmania and
gave the names
of his vessels—the
Heenrskirk and
the Zeehan —to two mountains, and the names
still stick. That was nearly a century and a
half before Botany-Bay ; so the Anglicans seem
clean out of it, anyway.
What with the Waratah missing, the
Pericles sunk, and the Otway held up with small-
pox, the way of the tripper is hard and pre-
carious, and unless guarantees are forthcoming
that these unpleasantnesses will be avoided in
future the Grand Tour will become unpopular.
In the rush to out-build each other the steamship
cos. go high above the water-line and topple over,
or dive down deep below it, and bark their
vessels’ shins on unsuspected rocks and shoals. If
the steamers are lengthened they won’t be able to
get round the corners, and if widened they will
get jam bed in passing through the Heads. So
that future travel seems like depending on the
airship. Nothing can happen to an airship,
unless it pitches a few thousand feet head first, or
catches fire through being struck by lightning, or
gets stuck on a church steeple, or bursts by reason
of a lunatic passenger sticking his fork mto the
gas-holder at tea-time. Apart from those trifling
difficulties the airship seems perfectly safe.
* -V *• *
The following has reached The Bulletin.
It bears all the marks of unauthenticity :
Mister Bullbteen, —Quite a glume was cast over this
office ever sinse last Wensday riite. The eddyter he is
speschal glumed and things is not to good owin the
illeksons and tryemf of Labur. I don’t no wot we shal
doo and the edvtter not fit to see on niateers of pollisee.
He have reefuse—i better say deklyne as illusons to.fuses
is not popler here. He have declyne to be intervued on
them. One bloke cum here fr.vdy morning and ask
to see the eddyter, and wen i says hoo from
he ripplyd BulliVjten. I took his name in and
the eddyter skowld and then says sho him in. He
was a small bloke and quik, lukky for him, for the old
man looked unfrenl.v and i sor things cummin his way if
he enrioyd him wich he did for the dore opened quik and
the eddvter’s vviskers flashed thrue only 2 inch beyind
the littel bloke, but he got downstares first quite eesy
being small and quik as i sed. Wen the old man asks me-
i sed i did not belief he was Bijllketen. Wy did you
bring his name then ? he sed and i ripplyd becose i,
thought all eddyters was trends and gladd to mete..
And now i lurn he was a nimpostor. These poltiks
are no good . for eddyters and only spoil their
tempters as our news eddyter hoo is realijus inklyne is
quit diffrunt to and uses words i newer herd him use
befor. The leder-riters are the only peepel in the office
at all chheered and full. Mister Gummpin told me wy
he sed this Labur tryemf wood give them a rest from
many invenshons and wen I asked wot he means he sed
ask Kipperling and larf. Sum of the ripporters seem
tyred and the cowriter start is pritt.v ixawsted
trying to add up fused , votes wich dont come in. So
it isn’t all beer and lemonaid for the starf our fineshell
(?financial) eddytertold the nitesub. thatcappytal would
leave the country by the next boat and the sub. ripplyd
with heat that it coud dash well leave, as he was tyrd
worken 18 hour a day to keep it here. The old man fear
the sub-eddyters were going soshalist, but the old man
tells him not be allarmed unless things altar our jurnal
might turn Labur itself before the othere rag thought of
it. If so i leave for i don’t belief in no marriage tie on 25
bob a week wot the poor fuse opposed things is not to
good. PS you must excuse speling and gramor it is our
weekness our strong is pollytiks. Yours ffly Horis, Ofis
Boy.
THE COMING COMET.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The earth will come into collision with a portion of
Halley’s famous comet on May 19-20 next. According
to H. C. McKay, in April Lone Hand, strange and fear,
some results may follow. Halley’s comet, like Comet
Morehouse, may be composed of cyanogen, which is the
source of prussic acid.
I am waiting for the Comet
Thatls never known to fail,
With a turban streaming from it,
And a sword-shaped shining tail.
It has ever brought destruction
On its blazing wonder-way.
And, maybe, we’ll have a ruction
On the twentieth of May.
So I’m praying that the Comet
Will arrive, in massive scale.
With its Turk’s cap streaming from it
And a scimitar for tail.
For we need some devastation
Of a new kind, strong and deep,
To arouse this lonely nation
From its slothful, fevered sleep.
We have statesmen still debating
Things long dead. I hear them pipe
Of things Great and Urgant, stating
That the time is not yet ripe.
We have punters vainly backing
Weary ponies ; we have still
Pale, decadent youth "tiek-tacking > *
“ Information ” from the hill.
Arid the saandal-spreading lady
Still doth sttiirk behind her fan ;
Still we dread the 11 broker " shady,
And the callous bailiff-man.
These are needless folk, all shoddy.
But the Comet, in a blaze
Of red wrath, may smite this body,
And thus end their useless days.
So I’m praying that the Comet
That is never known to fail,
With electrons streaming from it
Comes with pojsoh in its tail.
iS.S. w.
GANESHA.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENGINE and PLANT
(made in England.)
beat all coiners at the
Royal
Agricultural Society’s trials in Enjrland. and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL
"NATIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
»*,
Arthur Leplastrier & Co., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
The Bank of Australasia :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
Oct., 1902.. 136,943 11 p.c.= 88,000 14,000 1,084,648
Apl., 1903..167.705 12 „ „ 96,000 30,000 1,116,353
Oct., 1903..151,598 12 ~ ~ 96,000 25,000 1,146,951
Apl., 1904..150,934 12 ~ ~ 96,000 25,000 1,176,885
Oct., 1904. .140,066 12 ~ ~ 96,000 14,000 1,206,951
Apl., 1905. .136,153 12 „ ~ 96,000 10,000 1,237.104
Oct., 1905..137,451 12 ~ „ 96,000 11,000 1,267,556
Apl., 1996. .137,795 12 ~ ~ 96,000 12,000 1,297,350
Oct., 1906. .153,512 14 ~ ~ 112,000 12,000 1,326,862
Apl., 1907..227,463 14 ~ ~ 112,000 15,000 1,427,325
Oct., 1907..188,750 14 ~ ~ 112,000 18,000 1,486,075
Apl., 1908..212,029 14 ~ ~112,000 20,000 1,566,104
Oct., 1908..187,691 14 „ ~ 112,000 15,000 1,626,795
Apl.; 1909..174,111 14 „ ~ 112,000 12,000 1,676,906
Oct., 1909..177,565 14 ~ ~ 112,000 15,000 1,727,472
This bank has its own troubles, no doubt. For one
thing, it really must find it hard work to fret rid of its
money., The visible reserves are in excess of die capital;
and the capital is the very handy sum of £1,600,000. And
it must have large reserves which it doesn’t show. Ten
years ago its premises account stood at £446,654 ; now,
though large additions have since then been made, in-
cluding the big central premises in Sydney, and though
many of those additions are of a direct revenue-producing
character, the account has been written down to £168,083.
There is probably a good half-million of sound assets
stuffed away there alone. In banking nothing succeeds
like success. ■ The more deposits a bank gets the more it
can get—which is very foolish, unless the bank puts up
more money of its own. Moreover, the more fashionable
a bank, the more likely it is to have the first offer of the
best business. The little concern, which can less afford
risks and knocks, has very often to put up with what
the other one turns away. The ’Asia pulled through
the early ’nineties exceptionally well-; and the start it
got then it has made'the most of.
The principal figures in the accounts just to
hand compare with those of 12 months previously this
way:—
Oct., ’OB. Oct., ’O9.
Notes .. .. £510,547 £488,309 Dec. £22,238
Hills, etc 2,458,769 2,287,380 Dec. 171,389
Deposits .. .. 15,205,568 16,214,618 Inc. 1,009,050
Liquid assets .. 5,822,370 7,455,132 Inc. 1,632,762
Advances.. ..16,496,183 14,806,564 Dec. 689,619
Premises .. .. 195,127 168,083 Dec. 27,044
Thus over a million has been added to the deposits in 12
months; and, as the bank’s customers have been so
beastly affluent that they haven’t wanted the usual
amount of help, or as the bank reckoned that it was safer
to put the money in the strong-room than to lend it out
on the present basis of Australian values, the liquid assets
have increased by no less than £1,632,762. Not, of course,
that all this money lies in the vaults. J. Hull has been
rather short lately, and has been paying high prices
again for short-notice money, so on October 31 the ’Asia
had lent him £2,078,000. Twelve months before that date
the amount was only £250,000. It is a pretty rotten state of
affairs, though. This country wants a tremendous lot of
developing yet ; there is room here for a great many
more manufacturing industries ; and still one Australian
bank lends over £2,000,000 on call or short notice to
wealthy J. Bull. There is something wrong.
The ’Asia owes altogether £18,990,307 ; it has
the use of that much of the public’s money. That is
£5 14s. for every £1 of its own capital and reserves—not
at all an excessive proportion. And if the hidden re-
serves were included, the proportion would be less. Of
liquid assets the holding is 39 per cent, of the total
amount owing to the public; and that is well within
what is generally regarded the limits of safety too. The
earnings on the basis of capital and reserves were for the
half-j'ear at the rate of £lO 16s. 9d. per cent, per annum.
This compares with recent results as follows :
Apt, 1906 .. £9 12 3 p.e. | Apl., 1908 .. £l3 4 10 p.c.
Oct., 1906 .;. 10 11 11 „ Oct., 1908 .. 11 16 9
Apl., 1907 .. 15 10 10 „ Apl., 1909 .. 10 15 10
Oct., 1907 .. 12 9 5 „ | Ocr., 1909.. 10 16 9 „
* * * *
The Royal Bank of Australia (Melbourne): —
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves
Mar., 1903 £7,380 5 p.c. = £3,750 £3,630 £32,095
Sept., 19.03.:. 6,819 6 „ ~ 4,500 2,319 34,414
Mar., 1904.. 7,556 6 ~ „ 4,500 3,056 37,470
Sept., 1904.4 7,333 6 „ „ 4,500 2,833 40,303
Mar., 1905.. 8,335 6 ~ „ 4,500 3,835 44 138
Sept., 1905.. 8,238 6 ~ ~ 4,500 3,738 47,876
Mar., 1906.. 10,072 7 ~ ~ 5,250 4,822 52,698
Sept., 1906.. 10,179 7 ~ ~ 5,250 4,929 57,627
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 70,127
Mar., 1907.. 12,882 7 p.c. = 5,687 7,195 77,3‘>2
Sept., 1907.. 14,619 7 „ „ 7,000 7,619 54.941
Mar., 1908.. 13,517 7 „ ~ 7,000 6,517 91,458
Sept., 1908.. 14,697 7 ~ ~ 7,000 7,697 99,155
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 111 655
Mar., 1909.. 18,003 7 p.c. = 10,062 7,941 119,596
Sept., 1909.. 17,974 7 „ ~ 10,500 7,474 127 070
Mar., 1910.. 15, 549 7 „ „ 10,500 8,049 135,119
This bank has made rapid progress. It is the newest of
the banks with Melbourne head offices ; having only been
hatched in 1888, which wasn’t a good time to bring out
financial chickens. Older banks, though they might
then have had a great deal of boom stuff 'on
their books, had also, at any rate, more or less
of the old sort. The Royal had nothing but the
new ; and it naturally suffered pretty severely, having to
write off half its capital and pass dividends for some
years. Ten years ago it was still paying only 4 per cent. ;
and still its reserves amounted to no more than £13,258.’
It may really have made more undivided profit than
that; but as the years went on most banks came to the
conclusion that they hadn’t written off enough, and
whatever profits thej'could squeeze out in excess of the
dividend was thrown into the hole that ought to have
been filled up at the outset.
The turn came soon after 1900. Not onl&did
current profits increase, but no doubt in many %ases
assets brought more than they had been written down to.
That not only did away with the necessity for filling up
the hole with undisclosed profits, but there were probably
profits from sales to add to the ordinary business profits.
The time therefore came when the Royal was showing
over 10J per cent, profit on capital and reserves combined.
Here is the recent record in that respect
Sept., 1906.. £lO 3 7 p.c. Sept., 1908.. £lO 1 Bp.c.
Mar., 1907.. 10 010 ~ Mar., 1909.. 9 311 „
Sept., 1907.. 10 10 10 ~ Sept., 1909.. 811 4
Mar., 1908.. 9 9 9,, Mar., 1910.. 813 9 „ ’
There hqs thus been a drop lately. But the aggregate
profits haven’t dropped (see the first table). What has
happened has been that the capital has been gradually
increased; having now been brought up to £300,000
again; and the new capital naturally hasn’t been
able to earn 10J per cent. In fact,’ if the bank
put the money into something that did earn
10J per cent, right off, it would be a fair
thing to suspect that the security wasn’t as good as it
might be. Of diMirse, a bank’s capital and reserves don’t
have to work “ on their own.” The public’s money helps.
But even so, aiwf though the deposits have also increased
rapidly, a temporary fall in interest earnings calculated
oncapitalandreserves,can alivavsbe lookedfor when more
capital is got in. Probably because of the difficulty of
finding- safe borrowers at present, the bank’s cash position
is now very strong. It has no less than 19 per cent, of all
its liabilities in liquid assets, and just upon half of that is
in cash, coin and bullion. Further, though deposits
have increased rapidly, the bank even now owes only
£3 16s. to the public for every £1 of its own. This shows
things in more detail: —
Mar., ’O9. Mar., ’lO.
Notes in circulation .. £14,121 £15,877 Inc. £1,756
Bills in circulation, etc. ,36,305 96,333 Inc. 60,028
Deposits at interest .. 813,524 1,007,571 Inc. 194,047
Free deposits .. .. 469,214 536,320 Inc. 67,106
Liquid assets .. ... T>66,378 804,729 Inc. 238,351
Advances .. .. 1,130,257 1,232,904 Inc. 102,647
Premises, etc 66,289 64.08 S Dec. 2,201
The bank thus owes £1,656,101, and has £804,729 in liquid
assets, leaving £851,372 of debt not represented bv liquid
assets ; and against that it has no less than £1,296,992 of
advances, etc.—a very solid position indeed. The bank,
which has hitherto confined itself to Melbourne, Bendigo
and Ballarat, in Victoria, has lately passed across the
border into Sydney.
* * * >
The City and Suburban Building Society
(Brisbane): —
Writ- Added
Dividends and ten to Be- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1898.. £4681 3jp.e.=£3125 £lO2 £1454 £10,329
Feb., 1960.. 5914 4 ~ „ 4007 211 1696 12,025
Feb., 1901.. 4937 4 ~ „ 3221 556 1160 13,185
Feb., 1902.. 477 S 4 „,, 3221 1,417 140 13,325
Feb., 1903.. 4502 4 „ „ 3219 1,192 91 13 416
Feb., 1904.. 4547 4 „ „ 3159 1,353 35 13 451
Feb., 1905.. 4381 4 f , ~ 3185 10,380 4,267
Feb., 1906.. 4142 4 „ „ 3190 403 489 4 756
Feb., 1907.. 4201 4 „ ~ 3196 594 411 6 167
Feb., 1908.. 4388 4 „ „ 3184 718 486 5,653
Feb., 1909.. 4552 4 „ „ 3173 421 958 6,611
Feb., 1910.. 5069 4J „ „ 3376 56 1637 8,248
Of the amount put to reserves for the past year £1225 is
a transfer to a cdtitingeney account, and that might no
doubt just as well be written off at once. Twelve months
ago the balance-sheet showed—“ Fixed deposits and
interest, £13,802.” A large part of this was known
to be A.J.S. Bank deposits. During the past year
the A.J.S. Bank has had its long-deferred cleaning-
up, and 2s. 6d. in the £ has been written off; of
the other 17s. 6d. this society and other depositors vet
ss. in shares and 12s. 6d. in deposits. The asset is worth
more now than it was 12 months ago ; but the 2s. 6d.
having been .formally wiped out, the society provides for
the loss that it might very reasonably have provided for
long ago. The capital is now £72,857 in fullv paid shares
and £2355 in subscribing ditto; total £75,212. The de-
posits and other liabilities amount to £73,876. The
Queensland law limits deposits to three times the
amount of the paid-up capital; but the society
is miles inside that boundary fence or danger mark.
Further, owing to the nursing of properties and
the improvement that has taken place in the feelings
of Brisbane concerning itself, the earnings on the average
of the whole assets amount to about £6 4s. per cent, per
annum ; and, as this includes the old A.J.S. Bank
deposits previously mentioned, it is pretty clear that the
securities cannot on the whole be much over-valued.
Anyway, they could be worth less than half of what they
are represented to be worth, and the public’s money would
still be there. The management has gone along slowly in
the matter of dividends, but it lifted the distribution
from 4 to 4£ per cent, for the second half of the year •
and in doipg so it can scarcely be accused of rushing to
extremes or of having no idea of moderation.
* 9 * *
The Queensland Farmers’ Co-operative Co.
(Ipswich):—
Written Re-
Dee., Profit. Dividends, etc. Off. serves
1905 .. £398 Nil £272 £2298
Loss.
1906 " 0 4 ! 3 , » 354 1501
Profit.
1907 .. 1283 „ 602 2182
1908 .. 3484 „ 881 4785
1909 .. 5058 . „ 935 8908
This co. has four factories in the Ipswich district and
during the year it paid just under £lOO,OOO to
cream suppliers. It exports largely; and for that
reason, as the butter market is liable to large and
sudden movements, the directors are doing a very
wise thing in getting together a strong-reserve. Like
most of these cos., this one began with veri'little capi-
tal ; and as the business is growing very fast, safety
demands one of two things—more capital subscribed
directly by shareholders, or more capital indirectly sub-
scribed by them by foregoing dividends. The ‘latter
course is being adopted ; and the co. needs to pursue it
some distance further yet, because, apart from ordinary
trade debts, it still owes £2433. The capital is £7507.
* * * *
Bega Co-operative Creamery Co. (N.S. W.) : —
Divs. Suppliers’ Written Re-
Profits. (5 p.c.). Bonus. Off. serves
June, 1903.. £934 £177 £319 £302 £BB6
June, 1904.. 1381 179 290 1798
June, 1905.. 383 179 694 267 1041
June, 1906.. 803 179 277 “>4-7
Dec., 1906... 732 112 1766
June, 1907.. 805 179 _ 217 2175
Loss.
Dec., 1907.. 160 635 108 1272
Profit.
June, 1908.. 486 179 H 95 384
Dec., 1908.. 150 jyo og 4
June, 1909.. 863 179 297 170 581
Dec., 1909.. 46 - i 7O 457
This co., in order to clear up accounts, paid market price
for all butter on hand on June 30 ; and then the market
slumped, and the loss spoiled the look of this past term’s
figures. , A 00. with a poor little reserve fund like this
shouldn’t speculate to that extent. As a matter of fact
though, it is always speculating, because it is in the
butter-export.trade. It needs to strengthen its reserves •
up to now it has really been more generous to its sup-
pliers than it can afford to be, consistent with safety
Its liabilities are £2242, which are fully covered by
stocks, book debts and cash. J
* • * *
Coraki Co-operative Butter Co., Coraki
(N.S.W.)
Bonus Writ-
,. Dividends, to Sup-, ten Re-
Profits, per Annum, pliers. Off. serves.
Jan., 1905 .. £349 5 p.c. =£s2 £246 £233
July, 1905 .. 417 5 „ „ 54 £260 119 217
Jan., 1906 .. 218 Nil 89 346
July, 1906 .. 53 Nil 195 204
Jan., 1907 .. 991 5 p.c. =B2 257 856
July, 1907 .. 865 5 „ „ 83 224 254 1160
Jan., 1908 .. 334 5,, ~ 83 362 247 802
July, 1908 .. 615 5,, ~ 83 240 1094
Jan., 1909 .. 112 5 „ „ 87 - 311 808
July, 1909.. 918 5 „ „ 87 297 134‘?
Jan., 1910 .. 889 5„ „ 89 284 1858
There is a small discrepancy somewhere in. the latest
report; either the total of the dividend is more than the
directors say or the carry-forward is more. The co. does
an export business, and good reserves are therefore im-
perative. The fixed investment (plant, etc.) is large com-
pared with the capital, and that means debt; which is
another reason why the co. should go on increasing its
reserves. The position, nevertheless, seems all right at
present, presuming that the book debts are as good as
they ought to be.
' * * *
For tricks it s hard to beat the life-insurance
trade these times. Here is one, practised by a few
highly respectable offices. During January—tlie books
close on December 31—canvassers travel largely on the
promise that if the canvassee likes to come in now he can
his policy dated back a month or so, and thus share
in the bonus to be distributed as at December 31. The
bai£ is often swallowed, and the matter is thus fixed up.
But instead of gaining anything the person who takes a
policy on those terms is a considerable loser, because he
pays a premium for a month or so for which he hasn’t
been covered ; and in return for perhaps £1 of premium
all he gets is 2s. of bonus.
A meek advt. among the Sydney auction-sale
notices shows how “permanent” the works are into
which Australia puts the money that it borrows from
Cohen. The advt. announces the disposal of the cable
power-house in North Sydney. When cable trams first
arrived, N.S.W. spent large wads of loan money On this
building, on the cable itself, and on the rolling stock.
The cable and the cars are gone ; now the costly power-
house machinery and chimney are to be “scrapped,”
and everything tangible will then have disappeared but
the Debt. It illustrates over again that every loan should
have its substantial sinking fund attached firmly to it.
* • * •
Australian insurance offices will not be heavily
hit by the Pericles disaster. Nearly all that take marine
business have something at risk ; but the deep-sea rates
have been cut so very fine lately that practically all the
Australian offices have not thought the game worth the
candle. They have, therefore, kept no more than was
necessary to retain a footing, so as to be available in the
event of rates improving.
* • • *
The Land Mortgage Bank of Victoria, having
done much better lately in regard to thesaleof its assets,
is now able to bid good-bye to the last of its old deben-
ture debt. It had the right until the end of next year to
buy up this debt at par ; after that the interest was to
go up from 4 per cent, to 4J percent., and the redemption
price from par to 105. The co., which had £900,000 of
this debt when the trouble happened in 1893, has some
cash in hand ; and its Australian bankers «vi)l see it
through for the balance. The total to be got rid of is
£120,000.
* * * #
From Randolph Bedford : The State Frighters
of the Senate who rejected the Commonwealth agree-
ment for the acquisition of the Territory may yet be the
means of committing Australia to either a chartered co.
or a dispute with the British Government. G. H. Reid,
in London, the other day, said that the Territory wasn’t
a European’s country, and then one Alves proposed a co.
to prospect the Territory. After that the same Alves
presented poor old Australia with his little picture, and
secured a fat advt. by so doing. Now John Darling, in
South Aus., says S. Aus. should hold the Territory and
call the deal with the Commonwealth definitely off.
And John Darling is the brother of Charles A. Darling,
and Charles A. Darling is the Australian manager of the
British New Guinea Development Co., which was pro-
moted by Alves—the same old Alves who gives his little
picture to the Commonwealth and desires a British
Chartered Co. for the Northern Territorj'. It may be
all meaningless coincidence; but it looks quite the other
thing.
* * * m
The public is being invited to take over some
of the business from which H. D. Mclntosh and probably
others have in 19 months made a profit of £25,018.
The business is that of the Scientific Boxing and Self
Defence, Ltd. ; the principal asset is the Sydney
Stadium, and the value set on the possessions is £6500,
A profit and loss account of the business, audited
by a reputable firm of accountants, is pub-
lished; so there is apparently ho doubt about
the extraordinary profits. The capital is £75,000 ;
but £26,000 of this is reserved for future issue. The
vendors take 25,000 shares paid to 16s. and £15,000 cash.
It is a good deal of money, considering the assets ; but if
the profits can be kept to anything like their past
dimensions, the new co. will be on a very good wicket,
The vendors apparently have no doubt about it, for they
put up 12,500 shares as a guarantee of a dividend
averaging 10 per cent, for the first five years. The co.—
the bulk of the shares in which have been underwritten
will take over the business as from April 9, so that the
profits from the Burns-Lang meeting go to the co. as a
nest-egg. Arrangements have been made to extend the
business to Melbourne.
* ♦ * *
The Public Trust Office in England, though
only two years old, has already been appointed executor
of estates of the value of no less than £38,000,000. The
office, having so big a sum to handle, is in a position to
command the very best expert administration, and it is
already accumulating a great amount of data, especially
with regard to investments. This branch of the trustee’s
functions, the Public Trustee thinks, has in general been
poorly attended to; the tendency has been to sacrifice
interest rather than break new ground. Mr. Stewart
(the Public Trustee) is paying a deal of attention to the
geographical distribution of risks—a branch of the sub-
ject which has been much discussed in Europe during
the last couple of years. It is no new idea, of course ;it
is merely extending to investment one of the cardinal
principles of fire and marine insurance.
* # * *
The butchers’ bill in the N.S.W. coal-mining
industry last year was one of the least gruesome on
record. Yet even then one life was lost for every
504,900 tons of coal raised; the average for the past
20 years is one life for, approximately, 240,000 tons. The
British bill is worse; the average there is one life
for every 200,127 tons. The N.S.W. output is about
750,000 tons a month; and, taking the average
death-rate, every month’s output on that scale
means three men killed. There are few more cruel
industries; for, besides the fatal accidents, there are
dozens of eases of permanent disablement, and scores of
cases of fatal lung complaints directly traceable to the
occupation. The coal-miner may be a rough lot. He
may not be addicted to kid-glove methods. But let
those who howl at him bn that account remember that if
he was the kid-glove sort of man he couldn’t be a coal-
miner ; and so it is mighty lucky for the world that he
isn’t kid-gloved. It is all very well for Premier Wade and
other lawyers and city men to say that Peter Bowling
and his like must be “put down." But if Peter Bowling
and his like were put down, then coal-mining would be
put down too; for certainly Premier Wade and the other
lawyers and city men wouldn’t take on a job which
means inevitable death for one in every 575 within 12
months, and injury through accident for one in every
120. That sort of job produces its own sort of men ;
and when the lawyer and the other city man try to
measure them in their own city man’s measure, they are
pretty certain to do a gross injustice. For which reason,
among others, it is to be hoped that the position of
the imprisoned Newcastle miners will be reconsidered
without any waste of time. Probably the first step
should be to remit the matter to Judge Heydon—the
lawyer who tried most of the men, and who acknowledged
that he would be quite willing to shake hands with them,
so good a character did they bear. To keep him locked
up seems a poor use to put a citizen with a good
character.
* * * ■*
In 1892 the total coke output of ovens in N. S.
Wales was 7899 tons, and the average value at the works
was £l2?. sd. per ton. Then the local manufacture of the
fuel wasencouraged, and the output gradually crept up
to 283,873 tons. Last year, owing to labor troubles, it
was less (204,274 tons). The average value is now 13s. sd.
per ton. As the industry has become more firmly estab-
lished the works have been improved, and as the output
increased the cost price was reduced, to the enormous
advantage of the metal-mining and other industries. In
fact, it has now become possible to profitably export
coke; and last year 21,067 tons were shipped from
Sydney to ports outside Australia, mainly in the United
States. So far very little has been done towards recover-
ing the valuable by-products; but an advance is now
being made in that respect.
* • « * 9
Concerning Broken Hill, its mines and its water
supply, one of the front-rank managers said to The
Bulletin: “ Thf. Bulletin figured it out the other day
on data prepared by the Broken Hill Mine Managers’
Association, that there were 19,955,000 tons of zincv
residues, slimes and ore reserves to be treated. That in-
cluded 13 million odd tons of ore reserves underground
But that means more than 19,985,000 tons to go through
the works, because most of the 13 million tons of ore
will have to go through twice. The figures were—
Zincy residues .. .. £6,000,000 tons
Slimes 900,000 ~
Ore reserves 13,085,000 „
Total .. 19,985,000 tons
The ore will first go through the lead mill; then the bulk
of it will be added to the zincy residues. By the time
the 13 million tons of ore are treated the quantity of zincy
residues available for treatment by the zinc processes will,
be, say, 15,000,000 tons altogether, including the present
dumps. At the present time we can thus see over
25,000,000 tons of work for the two sets of plants—the
lead and the zinc. Both these call for a verv great deal
of water. And all the water we have is in one poor dam
at Stephens’ Creek. Reallj', it is preposterous to hang
the industry upon such a thread. It must break.
We can see 10 years’ work in the mines. That
is to say, the proved ore reserves give us 10 years’ work.
But have you seen that model of the Broken Hill lode
which the Mines Department recently had made? It is
very good. Everybody who is interested in mining
should try to see it. It shows what the possibilities are
north and south. Only lately an English co. at the far
southern end, on past the South Blocks, has got on to
lode matter at nearly 1000 ft. The lode pitches that way,
and they are apparently on the cap of it. But even in
the older mines, at the north and south ends, there is ore
probably for hundreds of feet below the present bottom
workings. There is every reason to expect it; there is
no reason at all to suspect that it is not there. Poorer
certainly ; but 7oz. silver, 7 per cent, lead, and 12 per
cent, zinc will pay expenses, even at present prices,
taking costs at £1 per ton. We should call that a very
poor ore ; but even that can be worked. Supposing the
ore is as poor as that underneath. (And all the ore
underneath is in excess of the 13 million tons we were
talking about.) Well, it might not be worth putting up
new plant to treat it. But when the plant is there it will
be treated. And we are not standing still ; great im-
provements have been made in ore-treatment in the last
few' years, and there is room for more yet. So that we
shall no doubt be able to treat still poorer ore than I
spoke of.
“ But we must have more water. It is by far the
most important matter that we have to deal with. The
present co. can’t give it to us. The co. has only
eight years to run ; then it has to get out. Naturally, it
will not now spend large sums on new works. But no
matter what it might do it could not give the necessary
supply. There must be another reservoir fed from
another catchment. We believe the Works Committee
is entirely favorable. But we dread delays. At the
very best we can’t rely upon getting water from the new
scheme in less than three or four years. Itain enough
to make the creeks flow falls but rarely out there. The
present dam was dry for a year or two after it
was made. As for security for the money, the
Government is most amply protected. The committee
has asked us ‘Are you willing to be rated?’
All of us except the Proprietary have said ‘Yes.’
I don’t know of another mining field in the world which
has 10 years’ ore developed. It is really a most extra-
ordinary position for a mining field ; some of the
world’s biggest mines think they look very far into the
future when they see four or five years ahead. We
can see 10 years, and there is no reason whatever to
expect that the life should not run to 30 years. Long
before then the State will have got its money back ; for
we are prepared to provide a sinking fund —it is a most
proper thing to do.”
* * * #
The Broken Hill J unction, which had a rush of
dividends in 1896-7, and hasn’t been guilty of any since
then, thinks it sees daylight ahead. This, by the way,
isn’t the first time it has had that idea. During the past
six months, with a new Board, if has been remodelling its
mill plant, and is now ready to do some work. The ore
supplies are, however, the trouble now as they have been
for many a year past. The manager, in the half-
yearly report just issued, says he has 428,000 tons
in reserve, including 43,000 tons of “probable” ore and
5000 tons either at surface or broken underground. The
question is : Can the bulk of this Stuff be got at cheaply
enough? There is still a grave doubt about it. On
January 31 the co. had only £l3l in hand and £3839
owing by various people, and it owed on various accounts
(mainly overdraft) £4296. The financial position is,
therefore, none too good. But there is £50,000 of un-
called capital; and with the present prospects there will
be no trouble in getting in some more calls. The Junction
thus remains what it always has been—a gamble.
• * * *
The Commonwealth Oil Corporation had its
fourth annual meeting—an adjourned function—in Lon-
don on March 14, when two directors made extensive
remarks of the usual vague nature, chiefly relating to
their visit to N. 8. Wales. A shareholder who showed
signs of tiring asked the chairman, “ When will a divi.
dend be paid?” This was bringing things down to a
brutally sordid level. “ I think you will agree with me,”
he replied, “ that it would be foolish for me, or for any-
one, to name a date. . . . None of us who have
more or less direct oversight of the company’s
operations see ariy reason to doubt that you will
begin to earn substantial profits on completion
of the Wolgan works, and with these profits earned the
question of when they will be divided will be one in
which you, the shareholders, will have most to say.”
There was “applause” at that—these shareholders are
easily placated. Still there was one shareholder who had
the bad form to be dissatisfied. “They had been invited
to believe,” he said, “ that with the expenditure of about
half the subscribed Capital dividends would accrue; but
the whole of the subscribed capital had been spent, and
they had loaded themselves with 5 and 6 per ceht. de-
bentures, and still thC day of dividends was as far off as
ever.” Whereupon the chairman entered “ the mildest
of protests,” and the meeting closed in a mist of vague
promises.
* * » *
Theßedbank is the most consistent producer of
the Araluen dredging group, and in its last 12 months it
paid 10 divs., totalling £4OOO. The crop was 27280 z., so
that Bs. ih the £ was distributed as profit; and something
besides was put by. The Araluen group includes 10
dredges, eight of them of the bucket type ; and there is
still a big area to treat. The Redbank Co. reckons it will
take 20 years to get through its lot. If it can be reason-
ably sure that the 20 years’ ground is payable, it might
very well put on another dredge. Gold is earning nothing
for its owners while it lies in the dirt; so the sooner it is
taken out the better for them. And even if another
machine were put on now, both of them would be about
done for by the time the claim was worked out.
* * * .
Vegetable Creek (N.S.W.) got a set back last
week. The lead was followed up to the basalt, and the
co.’s shaft is half a mile from the last workings. It was
rashly assumed that the 3ft. of wash ran the full length
of this half-mile. Tin leads are, however, erratic pro-
positions ; for ancient creeks scoured, and formed holes,
and had bends, just like modern ones; and it was at
least highly probable that, if 3ft. of wash was got in one
place on the Vegetable Creek lead, either moreor less would
be got somewhere else. Last week the men got into
something else—the wash, according to one account, cut
out altogether, while, according to another, it merely
twisted and pinched. The latter seems to be the fact.
• * * *
The most humorous mining show about Broken
Hill is the Silver City and South Range Blocks. To find
anything comparable to the hilarious statements which
have from time to time been made by interested persons
regarding this little prospecting show on the White Leads
Flat, one needs to hark back to the old wild-cat davs of
Broken Hill. After a couple of years’ laborious work, a
shaft has been sunk to a depth of about 115 ft., and the
sinking of that hole has been attended by more flummery
and trumpet blare than the progress of a circus pro-
cession through the main street of a Backblocks town.
A crosscut was put in for a few feet at ihe 115 ft. mark,
and some poor-looking zinc.v lode material was cut. Then
a corroboree was held, and it was announced that the
share list had been closed. After that someone said that
someone else had told him that Block 10 was gasping for
an option over the wonderful show. But Block 10 didn’t
happen to be biting ; so a report was circulated that
the directors had sternly set their faces against giving
any company an option.
* • * *
Kangiara (N.S.W.) has altered the concentrator
to amalgamate gossan ore over copper plates ; so possibly
there may be better returns. Recently 108 tons of con-
centrates gave, in round numbers, 3dwt. 15gr. gold,
15|oz. silver, 51 per cent, copper, 21 per cent, lead, and
15 per cent, zinc—which is a horrible mixture. Decimals
are off, because the S. M. Herald innocently printed 92
per cent, copper instead of 0‘92 per cent., and 46per cent,
for 0.46 per cent. During the last week 710 tons were
raised, and 181 tons were sent away to be smelted.
Assays for the 181 tons do not accompany the report,
though it is one of the bits of information that v|buld be
most interesting to shareholders. Apparently theJbottom
isn’t too enticing ; so it is intended to open-cut the old
shallow workings and send the gossan and carbonate ore
to the mill. A winze has been started below the deepest
level, 50ft. north of the main shaft; this will help to prove
the deep ground. If the 0‘46 per cent, be
trusted, this winze has made a poor start. Still, a rich
patch of ore may be discovered to enliven the dull sur-
roundings, though the punter who depends on rich
copper assavs finds life full of disappointment.
For a week’s run Kyloe (N.S.W.) produced 80
tons of prill ore, and 78 tons of concentrates averaging
about 20 per cent, copper. The mill treated 336 tons of
crudes, assaying 6'6 per cent. ; if copper is taken at £5O,
this ore is worth 665., and ore of this grade, even at
Chillagoe, in N. Queensland, is good enough to send long


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
2, 4 and 6 Spring Street,
Sydney,
ads as
Trustees, E-xecutors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power Ag'ents, etc.
Trtist Funds to Lend
: from 4 per cent.
Write for Booklet with full information.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager,
GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building;, Melbourne;
Macdonald street, Kalgoorlie.
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobcl
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety, Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
distances to the smelter. Kyloe recovers 72 per cent, of
the copper in making a 20 per cent, concentrate ; never-
theless, for every ton, or £5O worth, of copper it produces,
Kyloe makes a milling loss of £l4 worth of metal. Still
it is probable that, as the mine is 30 miles from a rail-
way, this waste of metal is more than counterbalanced by
a saving in costs. That, anyhow, is the theory upon
which concentration justifies itself. But the waste is
none the less real. Kyloe has had to mill from 4 tons to
6 tons of crude ore to produce a ton of concentrates ; so
for every ton of blister copper produced, this system re-
quires from 20 tons to 30 tons of crude ore—and that
means money where milling as well as mining is done.
The co. is extremely fortunate to be able to pick a weekly
80 tons of 20 per cent, prill ore out of the heap before the
remainder is sent to the mill. When that is impossible
the outlook will change very much.
* * * *
Mount David (N.S.W.) crushed 451 tons for
2320 z., and cyanided 367 tons for 122£0z. gold. Hanging
wall crosscuts are the feature of development work. The
crosscut from No. 3 (winch winze) is in porphyry, which
is sometimes associated with a good make of stone at
Mount David. No. 4 will also test this formation.
Stoping over this level, which is the deepest in the mine,
is providing some payable stone from lft. to 2ft. thick.
Bad air and heavy water are impeding the progress of the
alluvial shaft.
* * * »
Bourlce’s Hill (N.S.W.) is giving its Melbourne
owners back a little of their own. The half-year’s income
from the two plants has been £8479, of which £2884 was
profit. Of this profit £2250 has been paid in di vs., and £2Bl
has been written off. The co. at the end of February
owed on various accounts £1164; on the other side it
had liquid assets (cash and ore) worth £2901. Like
other wise New England dredging and sluicing cos., the
Bourke’s Hill has been paying more attention to water
itorage. There is no certainty about the future ; for un-
expected snags have a habit of getting in the fairway.
But, with the tin market good, this co. has no visible
reason to take a gloomy view of things.
* * * »
Westralia’sgold production for March amounted
to 351,6260 z., or 30,7690 z. less than the figures for the
corresponding term in 1909. As usual, more than half
the output was contributed by the handful of Kalgoorlie
mines ; and when these props give way—some of them
have already done so—the fall will be heavy and sicken-
ing. New mines are badly wanted to check the rapid
decline in the yield, but somehow they can’t be found.
■» H Hr *
Ominous excerpt from the president’s address
at the annual meeting of the Westralian Chamber of
Mines : “ For the future it will be the duty of the mining
employers to take advantage of every reasonable and
legitimate means to endeayorto bring down the rate of
wages and cost of living to a standard more commen-
surate with the existing state of the industry.” In other
words, the Chamber, as the official mouthpiece for the
mostly-foreign mine-owners, challenges the goldfields
worker to “ pdt them up.” Nothing, however, was said
about the Chamber deVoting.some of its idle moments to
showing up a few of the rooks and rogues who lately
engineered certain amalgamations, or filling in a bit Of its
spare time clipping the wings of London extravagance in
the matter of fees, office expenses and pickings.
■* * * »
Ivanhoe’s little lot of gold now totals 42 tons
3cwt. lqr. avoirdupois. There may be a few lb. and oz.,
but things like lb. and oz. are neither here nor therewith
the Kalgoorlie top-notcher.
* . *. # *
Hainault (W.A.) has started to pick up, as a
result of improved prospects at 500 ft. The new body of
lOdwt. ore recently cut at this level, out east, is main-
taining its grade in the drive, and the possibility of the
crosscut at the No. 6 level picking up the same run of
values is producing a little market backing'. Like most
of the smaller Kalgoorlie producing mines, however, the
Hainault'is only Worthy of the attention of the bold and
hardened speculator, as an apparently unbridgeable gap
still separates it from th’e few investment properties on
that field.
* < * •
Gwalia South (W.A.) held its half-yearly meet-
ing the other day, when chairman Yeo spoke of the im-
portant results obtained from recent development and
the high state of treatment efficiency which had followed
the reorganisation of the mill. The past six months’
work had increased the ore reserves by over 43,000 tons,
and the money spent in plant improvement had added to
the crushing capacity of the stamps. Yeo also men tioned,
as a sort of cheerful extra, that the money derived from
the sale of 10,000 new £1 shares to Lionel Robinson and
Co. had placed the co. on a good financial footing and
given it a chance to make the mine sufficiently attractive
for the same buyers to exercise their option on 20,000
more at the same price, and they have the right to take
an additional 10,000 at 255. apiece until October 22 next.
There being no other business to transact, and the day
being hot, the proceedings terminated in the usual
goldfields manner.
* * * *
Alluring extract from one of the several glow-
ing reports recently sent to London from the Tower Hill,
alias Gwalia Proprietary (W.A.): —“Have never mined
richer ore in my life. . , . Yesterday I spent rposft of
day in breaking out specimens on the dump, and in
places the quartz was literally held together with gold,
and seams of gold. ... In ore of this kind it is impos-
sible to estimate values. . . . This shoot has widened to
12ft.” Knowing something about this proposition, The
Bulletin wonders how that wonderful stone got on to
that dump. Latterly some Gwalia Prop, people have
been egging the Sons of Gwalia on to take up an area
between the two properties, in order to give the impres-
sion that the big Gwalia Co. has (as a local paper puts it)
something to gain by extending its holding to the boun-
dary of its hitherto unprofitable neighbor. But up to
the present the cheerful little scheme has been a failure.
* * * »
Golden Pole (W.A.) announces its intention of
continuing the policy of development outlined in the
last report, and to further test the country at the 7th
level by east and west crosscuts. The winze below that
level will be sunk 120 ft. or thereabouts, and a drive north
on the lode put in to prove the ground below the junc-
tion of the main crosscourse and the north break, which
cut off the lode below the sth level. The half-yearly
meeting was held at Kalgoorlie on the 14th inst.
* • * *
Lusitania, otherwise Goodenough (W. A.), which
sent the old Queensland Menzies Co. to its doom, and
which has several times since been proclaimed a failure'
on this page, was sold up the other day in order to satisfy
the claims Of judgment creditors. The whole concern
was knocked down to a neighboring claimhclder for £B4,
or £12,916 less than the former owner unsuccessfully
tried to get for it from a Melbourne syndicate last year.
A. E. Morgans’ attempt to reconstruct the
British Exploration, Ltd., having failed, the conglomer-
ates. reefs, lodes and other things owned by the co. in
the West are to be handed over to creditors, who have
formed themselves into a new concern. Shareholders
get nothing beyond a gentle reminder that a certain
amount of the liabilities of the old co. have been wiped
out by the arrangement mentioned above.
* * * *
8., M. and Co. have tacked the Queen of the
Hills, Meekatharra, on to their list of Westralian options.
This district has just added to its attractiveness by cut-
ting 3ft. of soz. ore in the Fenian at a depth of 525 ft.
The Fenian, by the way, has been an object of envy to
representatives of London buyers for some time past.
* * * *
Golden Ridge (W.A.) has now got its slimes
plant going; and, although costs were heavy last month,
the management says they will not exceed ss. in future.
The bottom level at 500 ft. is looking rather sick at pre-
sent, but the drive has still some distance to go to reach
the point where good values are expected. Meantime
sufficient profits are being earned to distribute 18 pence a
quarter.
• * * *
As gold isn’t nearly so plentiful as it used to be,
Coolgardie (W.A.) is turning its attention to a deposit of
“ amblygonite,” which an expert says contains a very
high percentage of phosphates. The locality of the find
is about 15 miles north-west of the town, and two local
residents (one of whom, Mercer, recently returned in a
disgusted frame of mind from Tanami) have pegged out
30 acres to go on with.
• * * *
The Charters Towers output for March got
down to 11,6970 z. ; Mount Morgan beat the whole
northern field by 31990 z. And all the other Queensland
fields put together piled up only 10,5580 z. Croydon's
eclipse is the worst. Its contribution was only 3760 z.
» * •* »
The Brilliant Co.’s Stockholm mine, Charters
Towers, crushed 949 tons for £3428 (£3 12s. 3d. per ton),
which is a big improvement on the previous crushing;
1063 tons then averaged £2 Bs. lid. This irregularity is
explained by the character of the reef ; it is patchy both
in size and quality. No. 7 is the deepest level, and is
showing a mineralised reef of good value. The Brilliant
has two strings to its bow, but it needs them, for it is
loaded down with 260,000 shares. The Brilliant lease is
at present being prospected for the Day Dawn ; but the
200 ft. of driving from the New Brilliant Freehold’s
boundary has been on a bunchy reef in a wide formation.
The latter was wider than the drive, so a crosscut has
been put in to prospect a vein of stone on the footwall,
which will be driven on. Brilliant Central has a winze
down 105 ft. below No. 9 level, which has followed a reef,.
12in. to 18in. wide, of payable stone. 170 tons returned
£1155, or at the rate of £6 16s. per ton, which looks
healthy. They are starting a level from the bottom of
the winze, and it is quite on the cards that the Brilliant
Central will open up a fair-sized block of ground.
* * * *
Towards the end of last year a Gym pie (Q.) co.
was being booiqed in London ; and the statements made,
obviously for the purpose of unloading shares on to
J. Bull, were so wild that the Queensland Mines Depart-
ment took a hand and cabled tcrthe effect that whoever
touched the thing would be pretty sure to get his fingers
burned. Lately the Government received information
that, though one scheme had '.been stopped, others
were being hatched; and, after making inquiries,
the Department has sent another cable to the
Agent-General as follows; “ Information received that
attempts are being made, or attempts will be made, to
sell in London shares in certain mining companies whose
registered office in Queensland is Darragh’s Buildings,
Queen-street, Brisbane; secretary, P. W. Crowe. Com-
panies are named as follows : Cloncurry Copper and Gold
Exploration Company Limited, North Queensland Copper
and Gold Association (Bowen) Limited, and Sellheiin
Silver and Copper Mines Limited. None of them hold
any mining tenementsin this State. Crowe holdsmineral
land at Sellheim under application for lease, and also a
prospecting area ; but this land is not being worked, nor
has it been worked for several years past. Late intelli-
gence from Gold Reefs Exploration Mine confirms my
telegram of November 23 last. Immediate steps should
be taken to publish this’information.” The Gold Reefs
Exploration is the thing that the Government warned J.
Bull about late last year. The unloading of shares in
such concerns is usually undertaken by “ bucket shops,”
trading under high-sounding names ; and very often these
shops add to their dangers by running or subsidising
“ financial” papers.' A London Stock Exchange quotation
is far too easily got for such stocks. Apparently all that
the Exchange worries about is whether there is any
liability on the shares. If there isn’t it is all right. It
doesn’t seem to trouble whether there is a mine or not.
* * * ♦
New Einasleigh (Queensland) has bored through
107 ft. of low-grade mineralised formation at No. 2 level.
At No. 3 level (270 ft. vertical) the northern end con-
tinues in good form ; 1800 tons were stoned from there
last month. At No. 4 level (380 ft. vertical), where a
body of ore is being developed south of the shaft, there is
not such a big width of ore to operate on. The total
shipments for the month were 2536 tons of 6 per cent.
Fortunately the ore is fairly easy to smelt, and gives an
extraction remarkably close to the assays published in
the mine report. The month’s output should amount to
from 140 tons to 150 tons of copper. It is not easy to
apply fixed rules to copper mining. Local conditions
alter everything. Thus, while Einasleigh is shipping 6
per cent, ore to Ghillagoe, Kyloe (N.S. W.) is sending ore
of a somewhat higher grade to the concentrating mill,
and Great Fitzroy’ (Queensland) is actually producing
concentrates containing only slightly over 6 per cent. In
the Fitzroy case, however, the copper is helped out by
sdwt. or 6dwt. of gold, which, with an ounce of silver,
will increase the value of Fitzroy blister by about £2O
per ton.
• • * *
There are hopes up north that either Bewick,
M. and 00. or the Mt. Morgan people will take Glassford
Creek under their wing now that Willcocks has shown
that it may turn out a mine. The Boyne Valley railway
will also be a big help to it. * *
The township of Ruby Yale, which is a full
brother to Anakie and Sapphiretown, in Central Queens-
land, feels more hopeful. The old throat-cutting
practice of offering the gems to visiting buyers was
altered, and a Miners’ Co-operative Association was
evolved out of the gloom. It. seems to be on the right
track, too. Last week, £365 was received for No. 2
parcel forwarded to Brisbane.; and Ruby Vale reckons it
is all right now. ■ . .i #
“ Myrtle ”: The Bluff Colliery, in Central
Queensland, is making some headway. Last year 15,538
tons of coal were raised, and this year promises an in-
crease, though flood weather has affected the coke out-
put. The mine continues to send both coke and coal to
Mount Morgan, while the strike at Newcastle gave it a
chance to get markets further afield. The. Bluff Co. has
taken up six square miles of eouhtry on the McKenzie
River, where coal was discovered by Dr. Jack 23 years
ago. A test sample of 100 tons has been raised from
there, and sent to the warships at Sydney. The Bluff
people have also under, offer a coal area near Blair Athol,
the idea being that a mixture of Blair Athol and Bluff
coal will eclipse either of them alone.
* * * It
■ Steady work proceeds at Philip Charley’s coal
claims on the Central line (Q.) at Tryphinia. The place
is 78 miles west of Rockhampton. Twenty-four men are
employed, and steady boring has gone on since July,
1908. In that time ten holes aggregating 7000 ft. have
been put down, the deepest being 2006 ft. The experience
of previous failures is being put to account. The Queens-
land Anthracite Coal Co. started in 1900 on the extreme
east edge of the measures, but after boring 1200 ft.
the drill was still in clay. The same co. started boring
at a point six or seven miles west, and struck coal
at 250 ft. Shafts were then sunk, only to find that the
measures were inclined at a steep angle. The co. then
stopped there also. The Wallaroo Co. commenced work
further west, and got coal equal to the best, but very
friable. It stopped too. Philip Charley then dropped in
between the two. And, though he doesn’t know what
he will get, Rockhampton papers talk of an “ output of
3000 tons per day,” and hint that the duplication of the
line will be wanted soon.
* * * *
“Ten bob for the lot” was the best price in
Adelaide for 1000 Stannary Hill tin shares.
• * * *
The improving Kalamadau (Woodlark Island)
crushed 1000 tons for 7750 z. gold (value £'3 Bs.) and 30
tons of concentrates. The return was worth £3050, or
£3 Is. per ton. The estimated profit is £2054, so working
costs, helped by local island labor, must have been got
down to the neighborhood of £1 per ton. Kalamadau is
mining a hanging wall reef parallel to the old workings
at the 400 ft. level. Some of the stopes over No. 4 level
show 6ft. of payable stone. A previous two months re-
turn was 1500 tons for £3310 (814 oz. smelted gold and 30
tons concentrates); so those who expect a regular profit
of £2 per ton of stone are probably over-sanguine. The
co. is now out of debt; but, as there is a big swag of
shares, it will take some time to save up dividends.
* * * •»
Bull has another nasty taste in his mouth.
This is over the Victorian deep leads flutter, in which
“the greatest engineer on earth” took part. The
last mine of the group has been closed down in the shape
of Ha-Ha Peacock’s Berry United, Creswick. Over and
over again 8., M. and Co. were reproached that they had
not gone down next to the Spring Hill Leads instead of
to Moolort. Their visit there has been as luckless as to
any other part of the State, though not so costly, for to
look after things they had a rattling good man,
bred on the leads. Still, that has not put gold
into the wash. The present stoppage has been
expected, as it was plain that Bull, having put
up over a million, and not having got more than
scrip to plaster his walls with, had all the available space
covered, especially now the oil and rubber madness is on
him. 8., M. and Co. tried Ararat, Creswick, Rutherglen
and Moolort, but in no case did the wash do more than
pay for a while ; then it dropped in value below the profit-
earning level. Some of the old deep leadites may try to
make a hit of the Berry United, where Bull failed, as they
hold that, 8., M. and Co. having done all the dead work,
cheap Victorian ways may pull in profits. But the truth is
that 8.,M. and Co. and the London and Victorian directors
have worked for nothing for long past. So, resolving
everything down, it means can better mining be done /
On that the verdict is against the fresh enterprise.
* * * *
Long Tunnel Extended, Walhalla (Vic.), has
gone on picking out titbits of stone, left here and there
in the old workings by Dicky Noble and his successors.
Enough gold has been got to pay a forlorn div. and build
up a bit of a cash balance. Most of the present stone
comes from No. 4 level, and the supply barely keeps the
battery going one shift. What a come down for a co.
with a £950,000 dividend record ! To fill the gap the co.
intends to have another look in at the Consols’ ground of
the old North Long Tunnel mine. This involves unwater-
ing a shaft which should not have been allowed to
fill ; and it means as hard a spell at the
pumps as on an ocean-battered derelict. Cash
in hand cannot carry this strain for long, so there
must be a reconstruction. The special patch of stone to
be tested lies between 1700 ft. and 1900 ft. in the Consols
mine, where manager Barnes thinks pay dirt may exist.
About 800 widows, orphans, and mining investors will
watch this gamble, for the testing of the North leases
deserves no other word.
* ■* * *
Even in the past half-year, which was unusually,
prosperous, the J umbunna Co. (Vic.) made all its profit
out of the special railway freight concession of id. per
ton per mile. The net profit works out at Is. 6d. per
ton, while the freight concession between the mine and
Melbourne amounts to Is. 7d. person.
“Underlay”: Re par (B. 9/4/T0) about the
Poseidon goldfield (Vic.), there is not the slightest doubt
that the big specks got in the Dividend and other claims
down the lead at Poseidon, have been locally shed. Prom
the Dividend claim (70ft. ground) up to Cummins’ claim
(about 20ft.), near the source of the lead, there, were only
three or four patches got worth talking about. The
lead runs out almost due west from the Woolshed reef,
and then trends north, gradually bearing :east until it
crosses the line of reef again just above the Dividend
syndicate’s claim ; so the two circumstances together
seem an almost overwhelming proof that this deep-ground
gold is locally shed. Stanley Hunter, about two years
before the Poseidon rush broke out, spotted the site of
this lead as the most likely-looking place for a good
alluvial lead in the Tarnagulla district. The lowest claim
on the lead is on the Tarnagulla racecourse, and from
that claim the lead will go under the Loddon River to
the LaanecoOrie side. About five years ago a party, of
which I was a member, bored the racecourse, and get
140 ft. ground; and no small cos. will ever work deeper
than that on account of the water.
* • * *
The Tasmanian is a simple cuss—sometimes. A
few years ago an ordinary fraud visited a district where
the oil shale grows. He hadn’t any money, but he
talked largely and encouraged some Latrobe workingmen
to peg out and secure shale areas for him at their own
expense. Next he got them to sink shafts (at their own
expense), and thirdly he got them to put up the money
to send him to America to float the leases they had
applied for with their own money and prospected without
wages and without price. Then he really went to
America and cabled back that he had been robbed, and
they sent him a further £BO. Juft at that moment the
dramatic unities demanded that he should slip quite out
of sight, and he disappeared accordingly. But the
islander has another side, and that side is mostly front.
The other day the owners of a slightly prospected gold
show in the island negotiated with a Melbourne firm of
brokers for a float, and finally they got to grips. “These
are the only terms on which we Will sell our mine,” wrote
the islanders—“£sooo cash and one-fourth of these shares ;
all the rest of the shares and the balance of the money
raised to go to working capital, with absolutely no deduc-
tion.” The brokers puzzled this out, and at last decided
that the Tasmanian really intended the blasphemy of
proposing no brokerage, and no free shares, and no any-
thing—of proposing, in short, that the brokers should
find the capital for love of Australia and a desire to benefit
the (hie) mining industry. After recovering from the
shock, they wired the owners of the mine—“ Proposition
too big for Australia. Try London.”
° * * * »
The Tasmanian Shale and Oil Co. was success-
fully floated, and begins business immediately. For a
start, the treament is to be only for the production of
motor spirit, ammonia sulphate and fuel oil; and the
plant necessary is not costly. W. J. Hall, the co.’s_
managing director, says that within six months he will
have a 62|-ton-a-day treatment plant running, and that
it and another equal to it, will be erected and started
for £BOOO. Valentine Saddler and Alex. McCracken are
on the Board.
* * * *
The long lock-up of the big iron ore deposit on
the Blythe River (Tas.) is being objected to by residents
who want to get it out for flux. The Queen-street crowd,
which owns a big interest in the show, roped in Bull
when there was a hope of an iron bonus and tariff
duties to enable a start to be made with the
Australian iron industry. But the Labor party wants the
industry nationalised. With the numbers up after the
elections, it won’t matter much, if they press that point,
whether Bull loses the leases or not. If there is to be no
nationalisation, the proper thing is to clap on the duties
and let the man who has the capital get going.
* » * *
Tittle-tattle from Zeehan (Tas.) relates a story
that Lindsay Tulloeh’s Primrose mine,, next the Tas-
manian Copper lease, is under option to William Jamie-
son and other Broken Hill nobs. The terms mentioned
are £30,000 working capital and a half paid up interest to
Tulloch’s crowd. The raison d’etre of the deal is Hor-
wood’s process, which is proclaimed to be suitable for the
treatment of such ore as is got in the mine. The lode is
akin to that found in the Tasmanian Copper lease, and,
being a big formation, it gives room for profit making if
the process is all right.
Everv engineer in charge of factories and nulls
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement worns,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require u»’ ther
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E.W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* * * *
Jodklitk Wood Preservative, for preserving
timber against White Ants,, Dry Rot, Fungus, Teredos,
ravages of ratsj damp walls, etc. Used by all Australian
Governments. 1250 galls, supplied S.A. Government
in one order in September. Agents, Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney; also Melbourne and
Brisbane.*
* * * *
COAL IS SAVED in the generation of steam
by absolutely reliable boiler mountings and stop valves,
steam tight piston glands and steam joints, also perfect
insulation of boilers and pipes to prevent radiation and
ensure transmission of heat.. Bell’s Asbestos-Packed
Water Gauges, Blow-off Cocks and “Belfry” Patent
Steam Valves, Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing and
“ Bellite” Jointing and Bell's Asbestos Non-Conduct-
ing - Composition will ensure economy and safety
to steam users.—BELL’S ASBESTOS AUSTRALIAN
AGENCY LTD., 315 Kent Street, Sydney. Also agents
for THE FARNLEY IRON CO., LTD., and FRASER &
CHALMERS, LTD., Mining Machinery.*
* * * *
The Callow Revolving Band Screen gives
promise of revolutionising the system of ore classification
in Australia, as it has already done in America, for all
classes and conditions of concentrating ores, with vastly
improved extraction in the mills. At Broken Hill it has
been especially successful. It is an unqualified success as a
fine wet screen, and this is what all the mining world has
been seeking; it is also equally effective on the coarse rafts
from Cornish Rolls. With it there is no excessive wear, no
clogging - of the mesh ; it has an enormous capacity and a
small water consumption. The fundamental principle of
this machine is a travelling band or - belt of screen cloth
stretched on a drum over which the ore and its carrying
water is spread by means of a distributing apron of
special design. The drum passes over rollers, and the
belt is caused to revolve continuously at a speed adapted
to the nature and quantity of the material to be screened.
The machine is fully protected by patent rights. For
further particulars apply to the Austral Otis Engineering
Co., of Hanna Street, South Melbourne. This firm are the
manufacturers and sole agents for Australasia.* [1
•' * . * .
Cool, fireproof houses, ensuring less discomfort
in summer, obtained by building with “ Fibro Cement ’
Asbestos Slates on roof, sheeting in walls and ceilings.
Light, strong, cheap, artistic, besides being durable, fire,
acid, ant and vermin proof. Photos., testimonials, from
Sole Importers. James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay,
Sydney.* I 3
* » * »
The gold output of the South African mines for
the last year was considerably in excess of the pre-
vious year, and according to files to hand this year
will be a bumper altogether. A noticeable feature of the
S. African mines is that they almost all use the Cape
Explosives and pronounce them superior in every way to
some of the old brands. These explosives are made at
one of the. largest works in any part of,the world, and
considering the few years they have been on the market,
the size of the works talks larger than anything else.
The Sydney agents are Noyes Bros. (Sydney) Ltd., of
109 Pitt Street.*
* * * •
The Post Magazine & Insurance Mtftmoß,
London, of 31/10/’OB, in commenting upon The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited, writes:
“ Wherever the Society has gone it has stood for sound
life assurance principles, and it can look back liponone-
third of a century of useful work.”*
m** ' *
To Engineers and others who have to consider
the conveyance of water for any purpose Wood Pipe isan
attractive proposition. It is cheaper, more durable, has
greater capacity'and is easier to lay than metal pipe.
THE AUSTRALIAN WOOD PIPE CO., LTD. Balmain,
Sydney.* # * «
GEORGE D. MEUDELL, 57 Moorgate
Street, London, E.C. Financial and Mining business
undertaken.* , ■ . .
•■* • *
Mining and assay requisites, can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample,
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
• * * •
Refractory Mines.—Owners of arsenical gold
mining properties are invited to send particulars with
samples of refractory ores to the Oxy-Hydro Company,
Sydney, who are successfully treating same by their new
and economical process. Mutual Life Buildings, 14
Martin Place.
* * * *
William Bradford, Ballarat East. Late special
expert Victorian Government. Examines Mines. Advises
Works. Capital Furnished.*
i * * *
TUOKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* • * •
Nobels (Hamburg) Explosives.—Messrs. Wm.
Adams & Co. Ltd., of 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, have
now taken over the sole agency in N.S.W. for the above
high-grade explosives. Large stocks on hand. Please
note these are the genuine Nobels.*
* •» * *i
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout Australia by Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinder are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangement of valves, and automatic.luhrica-
tion, and these are testified to by Australian users. The
engine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annunu* [1
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.* i
*■*•*■*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* *
Assaykrs, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silbkrbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh * hand sample grinders to 120 mesh; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*


Wet Feet
Often result in a heavy cold, neglect of which
means pneumonia or consumption. A positive
preventive of these ills is Dr. Sheldon’s New
Discovery for Coughs and Colds. Small dose.
Pleasant to take. Every bottle guaranteed.
Price Is. 6d.and 3s.
LEWIS & WHITTY’S
OLIVE
OIL.
Guaranteed in conformity with the PURE
FOOD REGULATIONS of the Australian States.
LEWIS & WHITTY
.r ,
Melbourne and Sydney
• [i
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0, Robinson, Proprietor
VJ
fob,
CalionThan.Anv.Qtli
VACUUM MOBIL OIL,
Saves One-Third of Your Running Cost.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Kangaroo Pan” : “Harrison O.’s ” game
of “rooster” is a piracy of “Judas,” which will
come off three or four times consecutively if you
get the right kind of mug outside the bar. A
game of “Judas” is suggested, the hard-doer ex-
plaining that the names of the Apostles have been
written on the slips of paper. The slips are
drawn from the hat. “ Watchergot ?” inquires
the tough joint. “Matthfew,” “Mark,” “Luke,”
“John” and so on from the dry and impecunious,
but knowing. “And you?” to the victim;
“ blime, you gotitagen." As a matter of fact,
each slip is marked “Judas,” and Judas pays
over the pieces of silver.
THE OBSTACLE.
“ You say you're out on strike. Why don't you
return to work?”
“ Can't, Lady. The firm’s gone out o’ business
this twenty year.”
Black brother of the Islands has his own
ideas about harbor lighting. At Tulagi, the
Government headquarters in the Solomons,
Authority a while ago thought it would be a fine
thing to beacon the reefs in the harbor so that
boats might come in and move by night as well
as by day. To that end it put up stakes, with
hurricane lamps on top of them. The scheme
answered first-rate. But the natives want oil
more than almost anything else on earth, and
when one of them sneaked out and emptied the
contents of a lamp, the beautiful scheme was
killed. Black brother had tasted cheap oil, and
there was no keeping the lamps going after that.
So Authority reckoned that a reef that was
beaconed one night and was as black as a nigger’s
inmost parts the next night was more dangerous
than one that was never beaconed at all; and
Tulagi harbor fell back into its ancient gloom.
What’s the time? Just the time for a
glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
“Brolga,” from some outlandish place in
the Philippines :
The other day a Bulletin reached me, banged and bat
tered and bashed, minus the Red Page, and with post-
marks from Sydney to Kimberley (N.-VV. Australia), Hong-
kong and Shanghai, Manila and half a dozen island towns.
It was dated early last year, and looked as if it had come
through a Judkins prayer meeting. But the “Abos.”
were intact, whereat my American magazine went down
with a bang. Among the “Abos.” were sundry remarks
on the mutta-mutta, alias wurra-wurra, alias bull-roarer.
The inutta-wurra-roarer discussion has no doubt been
slain long since by the chucker-out of the “Abo.” page ;
but as I have one of the implements hanging near my
bunk (in company with a kreis, a bolo and sundry other
strange mates), I send along a final mutta.
I found my wurra in a cave at the head of a gorge in
the Carr Boyd ranges of East Kimberley. The cave was
a blacks' camp, and had apparently been evacuated with
terrific suddenness. The wurra was in a cleft of rock,
wrapped in many folds of paper bark, and tied round
with creeper-twine. I had a nigger with me, and he de-
veloped an unseemly attack of excitement when I fished
out the wurra. He warned me, in the name of all the
debil-debils that live in the big paper-barks down by the
deep river holes, to putit back. Instead, I put it in a pack-
bag, and, after braving debil-debils for several nights, we
reached the homestead. Half a dozen lubras gathered
round as we slung off the packs, and I casually took out
the wurra and proceeded to unwrap it. They gave a
howl and bolted in a mob, all except one old girl who had
been on the run for years. She stood and laughed
brazenly at “ the thing,” and remarked: “ Him no
debil-debil ; white man talk him all same plurry fool.”
Some time after that I showed it to an old gentleman
in Shanghai, and told him something of the queer cere-
monies in connection with it, and he offered me a $2O
bill on the spot. It was a pretty bill, too, for
it was on the Yokohama Specie Bank ; but the
laud of wurra-wurrns seemed very far away, and I clung
to it as a Hielander to a sprig of heather. “Jimmie
Pannikin ” says the bush calls to those who have once
been there ; and, as I gaze on the old wurra on the wall,
I can hear the cattle bellowing in the yards, hear the
niggers crooning round the fire, hear the horse-bells
tinkling down in the river bed, and the “call of the
East ” hasn’t got a hope.
* * * *
“ J.G.” : Re “Agricola” and stubble-
burning (B. 24/3/10). If you took the tirestick
from the average cocky, he would certainly go
mad. The stubble-firing is not done to fertilise
the land, but just to show the neighbors a big
blaze, the job being left till nightfall, so that the
flames will show up better. If, instead of being
burnt, the long straw was ploughed into the soil,
the fertility of that article would be largely in-
creased. There is only a trifle of potash left
behind from the burnt offering; but ploughing
would leave in the soil all the potash, as well as
the nitrogen (now lost in smoke), and a few
other manurial agents, whilst a good proportion of
humus would also be added. The lack of humus
in the soil of Northern Victoria and Riverina is
its worst failing. Again, the ploughed-in straw
would help to keep! the surface well drained and
warm in winter, instead of allowing it to get into
a sodden, cold condition, which often means the
death of young cereal crops. Of course, I know
it is no good pointing out such matters to the
cookies, as they know more about it and every-
thing else than I do. I think the average cocky
is about the most short-sighted cuss there is
anywhere to be found.
* * * *
“J- Hutton”: The Palmerston hospital
(of which something has already been written
consists of three nurses (European) and a wards-
man (European), one Chow cook, one Chow
waiter, one Chow washerman, and Chows to
attend to bedding. The beef is Chow slaughtered,
the bread Asiatic baked. A Chow supplies the
vegetables ; Chows are employed in the Govern-
ment gardens ; at the Residency there is also
some Chow ; in the Railway Department there is
a Chow carpenter ; Chows are employed in load-
ing and discharging vessels at the Government
jetty ; Chows get most of the tin at West Arm,
and, up till recently, a Chow ran a Chow cutter
from there, carrying tin and passengers (some of
them Chows). Chow storekeepers have a big grip
on business ; so, on the whole, the Chow has a
fair share of what is going. Taking it all round,
the Front Door of Australia is chook-a-block with
Chow.
« * * *
“Snowflakes” : There used to be a
shanty-keeper up Tirana (N.S.W.) way named
Hogan. He imbibed his own liquors freely, and
this ultimately led to his decease.” One
night he went to blow out a candle and
his breath ignited. Mrs. Hogan ex-
tinguished him with a jug and diffi-
culty. The remains were interred
in the local cemetery, but it soon
became evident that Hogan
“spooked.” On numerous oc-
casions his apparition was seen
disporting itself, or else grazing, in
the long grass near his grave. When
disturbed, it would traverse the
cemetery with terrific leaps, disap-
pearing over the fence just along-
side Hogan’s grave. Its distorted
appearance was so exactly like the
liquor that the deceased used to sell
that identification was easy. One night
an impious inhabitant shot it with a
rifle, and it proved to be a white kan-
garoo ; but as a man who led the sort of
life Hogan did might reappear in almost any
shape, this left the mystery very much where it
was. Out of this episode arose the favorite ejacu-
lation, “ Hogan's Ghost!”
“ Phil ” tells a typical Maori story :
Maori visits lawyer’s office for (is. Bd. wortli of inter-
view concerning his wife.
Maori: “Mornin’boss.”
Lawyer: “ Good morning, Henare ; what is your
trouble ? ”
Henare : “ I want talk you ’bout bit law.”
“ Well, wl\at is it?” , ■ ■ ■ •
“Las’ night I come home I find t’ ole woman with
some other chap. That no good t’ me.”
“ Well, what are you going to do about it?”
“ X dunno. I come see you ; what you tink ? ”
“ Well, you are sure you saw another man with her? ”
“ Ho ! sure ; I see him easee.”
“ Well, will you sue for a divorce or damages?”
“I dunno! Which you tink te best ? ”
“ Oh that’s for you to say.”
“ I tink I take te tamage.”
“ How much d images will you go for? ”
“H° ” (scratching his head), “ I dunno. You tink it te
ten bob too much?”
COME TO STAY.
LANDLADY : “I make it an invariable rule that my boarders must pay as they go.”
NEW LODGER: “Quite right, madam. But I'm not yoing for a lony time.”
The . Bush is getting on. At Moree
(N.S. W.) Police Court, the other day, a hardened
criminal (with "‘nothing previously against him,
your Worship”) was fined 10s. or three days for
referring to a policeman as a “John Hop.”
*** » "
“How doth the little busy bee improve
each shining hour?” Well, when things are dull
in the honey-gathering line and flowers are extra-
scarce, he seems to go out and loot a cordial
factory or a store, or break into a pantry. The
bees down at Bellingen (N.S.W.) raided that
town one day lately in search of sugar, and stung
the Oldest Inhabitant till he leaped like the goat
that has just banqueted upon a discarded coal-
scuttle and half a fender. The heavy rain had
smashed up most of Bellingen’s supply of flowers,
and the ones that were left were full of water ; so
the insect that is supposed to represent all the
commercial virtues buzzed angrily into town and
THE MAORI BIRTHRATE.
RANGER: “So you've had another piccaninny.
Mary. How many docs that make? ”
WAHINE : “I doan ’ knaw. I'm naw addin’
machine.”
went in extensively for robbery with all possible
violence. It is about time people revised their
ideas about the piratical bee, and ceased quoting
him to the young as an example to be imitated.
Judging by the Bellingen variety, the bee is a
conscienceless, ruthless thing with the manners of
a thug and the commercial morality of a Rocke-
feller.
“ Oxie ” : Ifc is always a serious thing to
leave a gate open in the back country ; but it is
much more serious sometimes than others. One
fiend discovered one of the more serious times
near Nanango (Q.) lately. The seriousness was
''hat the gate that was left ajar belonged to
Arthur Oripps, champion dealer-qut of middle-
weight stoush. Not that Cripps hurt anybody.
Rut there was a creek near, and I thought I
heard bubbling and gurgling yells of sulphuric
composition coming from that quarter, as though
somebody was bobbing up and down in the mud.
It may have been only fancy or a bunyip; still,
gates around that way have since had a habit of
keeping themselves shut.
* * * *
Konini ” : After many years of indiffer-
ence Maoriland has come to at least a half-
hearted decision to put a stop to the career of the
morally-greasy tohunga (medicine man). For
many years, whenever some
particularly horrible practice
or manslaughter—plain mur-
der, often enough—came to
light, the public, would rise
and indignantly demand that
the Government should yard
up all the' Maori men of
wizardry, and set them to
pick oakum or break blue
metal, or whatever other
pastime happened to be in
season ; but the Government
has, for Some unpublished
reason, never replied to the
demand in a concrete form
by producing any appreci-
able supply of tohunga. In
fact, it never seemed able
to find as much tohunga as
would go into a jam-tin.
Latterly, however, probably
because the tohunga, or some
of him, has taken to sussing
the outlying pakeha and
threatening to cut loose and
break things,‘the authorities
have been out looking for
the brown doctor. An Act
prohibiting tohungaism,
which was passed some little
time ago, was dusted up,
and Paku and his wife Hera
were joyfully convicted at
Wanganui of the tabooed
practices. The man was
sentenced to three months’
hard labor, and the woman
to one month. It was the
first prosecution under the
Act, and the considerable quantity of tohunga
that is Still at large is saying, “Pvcrikev!” in
a loud voice.
■* * * *
“ Myrtle ” : Miranda bulrush is another
pest that is getting itself disliked up north. It
grows quickly to a height of 6 or 8 feet in the
artesian bore drains, and gradually spreads till
the gutter is choked. Then the. beast that bogs
in it has to take his chance, and it’s a pretty poor
one. The Queensland Lands Department re-
cently experimented with the gigantic rush, and
found that even in water 110° F. tire plant grew
on gaily ; and anything that takes as much killing
as that wants watching.
MARY CLANCY OP THE OVERFLOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Machete”: Room for the lady drover. Four of her
lately passed through Hughenden (Q.) personally con-
ducting a tour of 2000 sheep and one man. An uncle
left them a freehold selection near Dalby, and as sheep
were dirt cheap, they bought the mob and started to
drive it to their new Canaan. What the mere male of
the party does no one knows, but the signs are that Salt-
bush Bill is making way for Bluegrass Sarah.—Bulletin.
She was droving when we met her, and devoid of frill and
fetter,
And her sheep spread sut before her down the lazy
Warrego;
And a bushman of our party cried, in fashion rough and
hearty :
“ S’elp me bob, it’s Mary Clancy, of the good old Over-
flow 1 ”
And since then, in careless fancy, oft I vision Mary Clancy,
Notin fashion’sgleaming clobber, as the city damsels go,
But in masculine apparel, lifting up a cherry carol,
Riding on behind her muttons in their south’ard march
and slow.
And the Bush hath friends who meet her, drovers tall
who gaily greet her,
And she hears a kindly whisper in the breezes from
afar;
Never lass that runs a dairy half so bright as Clancy’s
Mary,
With a cheery cheque in prospect that will never cross
the bar.
Does it really deeply matter if the sunbeams do not
flatter
Her complexion into picture-tints of lily-white and
rose?
ff her hands are tanned and tawny, quite unlike the limp
and lawny
Helpless lassies in the city, who can only dress and
pose?
What a contrast makes our drover, as she rides the big
plains over,
To the jaunty drapers’Johnnies selling ribbon by the
mile!
To the city youths so weedy, to the city girls so needy,
Who must.pass a life in bondage that a boss may make
a pile !
Void of notions vain and silly, see her boil her daily billy,
See her bake her little brownie in the ev’ning calm and
cool.
Do you think she need be jealous if the city’s dandv
fellows
Waste a wealth of fop-attentions on their fellow female
fool ?
And if plucky Mary Clancy meets a man who takes her
fancy,
Let us hope her luck continues as the seasons come
aim go ;
When her droving days are ended, may her luck be sweet
and splendid,
May her grit find recognition and her blessings over-
flow.
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.


flfl&Sn&LL
SHOC
Look for
the Name
on the
Strap.
Ask for
the Marshall
Style Book.
MARSHALL SHOES represent some-
thing more than the most experienced work-
manship—they represent the application of
strictly scientific methods to the business of
shoemaking. Just in the same way as the
watchmaker selects, tests and connects the
many different parts with the most careful
scrutiny, so are the fitting qualities and
service of Marshall Shoes made perfect in
every detail by the care given to the many
points which make for consistency, symmetry
and dignity in style.
MARSHALL SHOES are made in
half-sizes and three fittings. Sold by all
retailers.
Gj
Marshall Shoe Co.
Richmond, Victoria.
ħ
YOU cannot get a better
polish than CHERRY
BLOSSOM. It is recog-
nised everywhere as the best, and
if you wish your boots to be
bright and smart you should use
it. Cherry Blossom is supplied
in large tins—Black or Tan —at
3d. and 6d. Get a tin to-day,
and you’ll quickly realise
superiority over all others.
Write to us if your dealer does
not stock CHERRY BLOSSOM.
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street,
Managing Agents in Australasia.
Sydney,
Watch Bracelets
Are Most Pronouncedly
Fashionable.
WE import the Watches.
WE make the Bracelets.
Our stock is a very larsre one.
Gold Watches in fiat, flexible Bracelets.
Watches enriched with Pearls.
Watches with Turquoise and Pearls.
Watches surrounded with Diamonds.
Bracelets and Watches set with Rubies,
Sapphires, Olivines, Peridots, Tourmalines.
As manufacturers, our prices are the lowest
possible.
exp
■
■
*NO
ZD?
:
Reliable Watches, 15 jewels, in the new Expanding Brace-
let, from £77s. If sec with Pearls, £lllls. to £25.
Plain Figures'
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
BALANCING.
JIM'S Wife (handing over 10s.): “There yeh arc! Take it! It's every bloomin’ cent I’ve
earned the whole week!”
JIM : “ But , blime! wot are you (join’ to do yourself ? You’re not a-goin’ to loaf on ME, are you?”
“L.L.” : Propose to back my opinion
that the bulldog ants"up Pilliga.Scrub (N.S.W.)
way are the largest in Australia. They are so
big that if they bite a cove he generally gets
hydrophobia.
• * * *
“ Machete ” : Be turtle soup. When made
by simply stewing turtle meat with water, etc., it
is a vile and unpalatable mess. To get good re-
sults with your turtle don’t “soup” him. Cut
his meat into steaks about ljin. thick, and grill
him over coals. Serve him with red pepper
and fresh-squeezhd juice of limes. Then, to the
epicure and the “ bulamakan ’’-sated
explorer alike, will come a true ap-
preciation of the turtle’s proper
place in the scheme of things.
The great soup standby among
the Papuan miners is the big
black and white hornbill, which
is pretty cohwmon in most parts
of Papua. When plucked the
weird-looking fowl, with his
immense curved beak, has the
appearance of a naked default-
ins bookmaker. In consequence
of this, and of the fact that he is
an omnivorous eater, newcomers refuse
hornbill soup. But after a bit they ask for it, and
see that they get it. When cooked it is a rich,
fragrant brown mess like good hare soup, and
it goes very well after a long day’s tramp in the
rain. Note that it is important to have the
bird’s clockwork removed under your personal
supervision. Papuan cooks are indifferent to
minor details.
* * * *
“ S. H. Andy’s ” little game :
The ignorance displayed by “Rang” (B. 20/1/10) and
“ Marloo ” (B. 30/12/’O9) concerning the devices whereby
impecunious beer-chewers induce Ferdinand Mug to
shout, practically brands then) as backsliders from a tea-
meeting. Else they would be familiar with fly-100, a
more popular brother of cork-ioo. Fly-100 is very simple.
If there be six thirsts to quench, six pieces of lump
sugar are placed on the bar,. Mr. Pub, as referee, ex-
plaining that he on whose sugar a fly first alights
must pay. But five of the pieces have at a former
date been damped with whisky, and as a fly is •
teetotal, it alights on the sixth one, which always
belongs to Reginald Mug. Amazed at the fly’s
persistence Herbert Percival Mug pays till the game palls
on him. Pieces of sugar for fly-100 purposes are as neces-
sary items in the stock-in-trade of hardened beer-sparrers
as collection-plates are at revival meetings. The epistle
of “Simon” (B. 20/l/’10) deals with an abortion of the
“ Carbine,” so beloved of thirsty sports. At my hash-
house the other Evening the recent arrival from “ ’Ome”
consented to join in a Carbine. Five pieces of paper
were carefully rolled up and tossed into a hat, and after
much preliminary shaking—in order, as Jim said, to give
us all a square “go”—it was agreed that he who drew
“Carbine” should run the rabbit. The new-chum,'
drawing first, yanked the famous moke out by the tail.
The liquid having materialised, it was proposed that we
should try again for luck. Jim drew first, “ Trafalgar ” ;
then me, “Alawa ” ; then the Lamb, “ Carbine” again.
“I can’t make my luck out,” he said, as we cut slices
off the beer. “ Let’s have another.” He-drew last, and
read his ticket with a moan—“ Carbine.” Pausing with
one hand on the empty beer-jug he picked up the fallen
slips, and as we dived for the door we heard him yell:
“ You dashed cows—they’re all Carbines 1 ”
“Languid Lou” : If “Via” (B. 31/3’/10)is
wandering abojit the face of the earth with no aim
and object but to find an old buckjump rider over 45
years who is still game, let him to the Hinders
Kiver and ask for one Dick Mahon. If Dick is
not “ breaking in” along that river, he is spelling
at Poverty Point or Pinch Gut, at the junction of
the Flinders and Cambridge Creek. Anent the
blacks turning the game up at 25 years of age :
Why should they ride buck-jumpers ? For how
are they treated ? The storekeeper gives them
' any old saddle ; the overseer points out a horse
which has not been ridden for months. All the
same, most niggers have plenty of nerve for rough
horses. And as for the white
fellow, it is not the horses
that take away nerve—
it’s the bush shanties.
HIS POINT OF VIEW.
TRAVELLER (just arrived): “Say, what's the
accommodation like up at the pub?”
SWAGGIE : “ Tip-top. Never tasted better in me
life."
THE GENERAL’S GOOD TIME.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
General Booth is reported to have remarked, “ Heaven
is worth suffering for, and I mean to have a good time .
when I get there. It’s ‘2O years since I had a rest, but
when I get through the pearly gates, have kissed my
darling wife, and heard the Salvationist’s shout, ‘ Halle-
lujah ! ’ I am going to ask Peter whether I can’t have a
three months’ holiday.”— Daily paper.
The General his halo
Threw crossways on his head,
Jabbed Peter in the waistcoat
And, winking slyly, said:
“For years I have been holy,
And walked in saintly ways,
How’s it for a vacation
Of ninety careless days?
When Peter smiled benignly
He danced a jig with joy,
And slung his harp behind hint
A la the Minstrel Boy.
The Angel Army saw him,
And “ Hallelujah ! ’’ cried ;
He turned his back upon them
And calmly walked outside.
Old Peter travelled with him
To show him on his way
As far as the first tavern,
Whereat they met delay.
I cannot say exactly
The things that happened there ;
But both of them directly
Had vine leaves in their hair.
They at this tavern parted ;
But spent long time before
Bung kicked Booth through a window—
And Peter through a door.
But Booth his gay course wended
Through taverns hellwards, where
He pawned his harp for liquor,
His halo swapped for beer.
He used up all the credit
Of a long, saintly life ;
His angel wings he bartered
For hats for Satan’s wife.
How many times he suffered
Five shillings or the rise ;
And other things as sinful
I will not specialise ;
But just remark in passing
Along this history,
The hottest of hot member’s
A saint upon the spree.
At last there came a message
That checked him o’er a cup :
“To Booth. Return to Heaven,
Your ninety days is up.”
It staggered him completely ;
Also it made him mad,
Until he, of a sudden,
An inspiration had.
That white and gem-strewn Heaven
He held it not so dear ;
He'd sell his passport for it : y.
And buy more blissful beer !
He took his proposition
Throughout all Hades grim ;
And in a fiendish hurry
The Devil closed with him.
All those who study Nature
Know very'well, my friend,
. That extreme courses make for
Revulsion in the end.
The soul well trained in bondage
At last breaks from restraint ;
The saint wastes to a Devil —
The Devil blooms a saint.
N.S.W.
HAMER.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (exceot of a hostile character) loillbe taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Deeby : Afraid the High Court would want
better evidence than the vague yarn of the mysterious
washer-lady....M. Mack : Searched through seven years
without luck. Can't you fix it approximately ?
N.H.McK.: The fly-trap story is a good one now that
you recall it William Astley : There’s a letter for you
at this office Serpent: We let the buzz-flies have their
way for six weeks ; then we reckoned it was time to hoist
the discussion. Hoisted accordingly.... What Ho : She
bumps... .H.J.L. : Well, present writer has fixed up most
of your pars, not because of their form, but rather in
spite of it and because of their matter. The same thing
will happen again when the matter is there.. . .S.W.P.:
Reproachful poem printed with great pleasure:
WHEN NO LONGER IN EXISTANCE
When no longer in existance
and reduced to earth and bone
your hardie heart then only'
Will repent and beat alone.
Come then, kneel on my grave,
kneeling pray on the top,
and a tear from your eyes
on the stone you may drop.
May that only late tear
bear console when it part,
as you mean to grant me living
your cold, hard heart.
Nix: The first one is fairly coherent till it gets to
this:
And I must own I love her
Though I now have given up
To, like the stars above her,
Understand my Pup.
“Dream of Yore” comes to an indifferent end by
trying to rhyme “where” with “sphere.” The poem
about the Devil is cheerful but crude G.C.W.: Un-
suitable Furore: Cut out accepted pars, attach date
and page and send to the accountant Akarana:
Surely you’ll let an Aboliar invent a special breed of cow
if he wants to Pokar : The drawing was by a man
who never saw the par. In fact, the only man who saw
it was the writer of this, and he dropped it into the
cavern, and never thought of it again... Dot: Too late.
F.W.B. : Fact that Mortlake (Vic.) Mechanics’lnsti-
tute committeemen object to Orczy’s “ Pam ” isn’t worth
a brick that size. Besides, your brick is all corners and
ragged edges C.A.8.: That mean-man yarn was one
of the late “ Tiger ” Jimmy Inglis’s oldest pet stories....
F.T.G. (Q.) : Sorry to say “ Advice” isn’t good enough.
Ham' on to the shovel, and keep the pen for the leisure
houi" ...Millice: Not badly done; but the deserted
srravevard needs a very skilful pen E. Painter
(S.A.): Regret unsuitable... .F.B. (Cloncurry): In The
Bulletin: Story Book is a yarn by Favenc, “The Parson s
Blackboy.” You have hit on exactly the same plot.
Coincidence ?....O.W. (W.A.): It is rough, sincere work.
Bellerive : The lucidity of the following poem appeals
US ' THE RIVALS.
While music floated from a ball room
A jealous youth in wild despair
Fiercely wrest from the arms of a rival
A fascinating lady fair.
From the dancers he did drag her
To where a hansom did await
The citv st. was dark and silent
The lamps were out—the hour was late.
As he tried to force into the hansom
By her side appeared his rival foe
Angry words ensued and the stylish stranger
Felled him with a terrific blow.
Then he emerged into the ballroom
With the lady upon his arm
While the cabman turned his lantern
Upon the youth with grim alarm.
“’Twas a foul blow,” the veteran muttered
As he gently raised the victim’s head.
Then he drove away from the scene of horror
To inform the police the lad was Dead.
Femina: Very rough verse, and the humor raises
only a wan smile'... .D.M.: There is a lot of truth and
some grace in the city-bush rhyme ; but it is rather
monotonous and a trifle lyugh. Topical verse should be
served hot...lnsomnia(South Melb.): Sorry versesabout
noisy milk-carts not up. We sympathise with you. Our
particular trouble is the church-bell across the way; it rings
ten times every Sunday—starting punctually at 7 a. m....
H R (Dunedin): Have reserved for a second glance
E.C. (Petersburg, S.A.) : These are the days of afternoon
tea, and the alcoholic drinking song is more or less a
mere relic. There are at least two promising gleams in
your joyously defiant wine song, but' it doesn t quite
an .ive Alicia: Good enough to earn the word of en-
couragement that cheers, but isn’t meant to intoxicate.
Keep trying F.C.H. : Posted back on l/4/’lO Jack
Dogchain' (no address): Very wild and dull; also, it
begins without introducing itself properly, and discon-
tinues without warning... Garry : The poem has a cer-
tain amount of grace and abandon ; but, as written, it is
spasmodic. You set yourself a hard job in trying to.
pack a sentimental dialogue into those clipped lines
R.E.F.: The woman with the bronze hair and the green
eyes, or the green hair and the bronze eyes, is about the
only’interesting one of the three. Story is very uneven ;
the romance falls to pieces without reasonable excuse ...
N.L.P. (South Yarra): It is not so much a poem as a
bucket of words emptied into the reader’s eye D.G.
(S.A.) : Tame and unoriginal. Every woman occasionally
worries her husband or sweetheart by asking him if he
would love her still if her hair turned brick-red in the
night, or some such thing. Sometimes the dye does go
back on a girl and her hair turns green Blazer’s Wife :
(1) The verse is the poor product of the beginner. (2)
Unless,your prose is much better than your verse, you
stand very little chance of getting stories published in
book-form. (S) Cost depends entirely on the publisher.
(4) Any of the Australian firms. (5) It is not absolutely
essential to have MS. typed; but it is always advisable
W.H.L.M.: Too late. No stamps enclosed for return,
;;;.D.K.: The Derelict is too weather-beaten for use
Hawker : It rambles and the handwriting is spidery.
Also, it is dull A.S. (South Coast): The jest is only fit
for a slaughter-house publication C. and T. : Worth-
less stuff, without a name or address ...Darling Nell:
Unsuitable.... H.V. (Edgecliff): No you don’t... .J.C.
(M.L.): We admire your tremendous footnote—“ Note.
If another verse is required, read the last line of eac v
verse and burnish to suit.” Here you are, then :
For your husband’s dictate
Which broke my heart ?
After nine long years?
Is a maddening thing.
May I be damned.
Gaul: Very rough rhyme, but it contains a promis-
ing idea. Held for further consideration H. Mac.
(Sydney): Too slight—humor forced J.W.W.B. : Of no
earthly use. Why did you write it? J.M. (Goondi-
windi): Wish you all sorts of luck, but' can’t print the
poem, all the same Ritley: Your record-breaking
verses haven’D-sufficient staying power.


CAPITAL LEAVES.
Foreign Capital.' It you vos leavtfT
dor coundry as usual, I link 1 vill
shust step in "
OUT.
THE HEEEREE,—’One—two—three—four •• '
five —six seven eight—nine--I|| |
HIS FAITHFUL TYKE.
Mr. Knox.— “ Good dog! Good Dog ! Once
more you’ve pulled me through
Af t^L
t uP * \
1 1 ixh.
/HUME MINISTER'S COMMENT,
/ "PITBLIC LITE NOT WOETH
r, LIVING."
11 Vote ! VOTE ! VOTE ! No matter how
only VufE ! ” —Argus bejdie ike electjont
In that case, Alfred, why howl ? This
-appeal's to be an occasion for heart-felt
ieongratula tious.
THAT ENTHUSIASTIC RESPONSE.
Argus (ajter tile elections). 1 1
hadn't mentioned it.
THE THIRTEENTH-AND AFTER.


‘A THING OF SHREDS AND PATCHES.”
Nanki Poo (“The Mikado”) looks for a handy place to fasten t’other end of the rope to.
MR. DEAKIN (when the returns came in): “POLITICAL LIFE WILL NOT NOW BE WORTH LIVING.”


GAELIC
WHISKY
"■——m iiiiwwiaMggaßtaßßgaaMim«MaßMi»
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Aldershot Smelting Works, Queensland.
Important announcement. Messrs. Pryce & Netterfield,
Auctioneers, Maryborough, Queensland, on behalf of the
Receiver for the Debenture Holders of The Queensland
Smelting' Co. Limited, invite tenders for the whole or any
part, for removal, of this valuable and complete smelting
and ore dressing plant, works buildings, etc., situated at
the Aldershot Smelting Works, near Maryborough,
Queensland, such tenders to be in their hands not later
than one o’clock p.m. on Saturday, the 30th April, 1910.
The attention of all those interested in the treatment of
refractory or low-grade metallic ores is particularly in-
vited, all the appliances (many quite new), having been
kept up-to-date and complete in every respect. The
facilities for removal, either by rail or steamer, are per-
fect, as the works are situated within a few hundred
yards of the Queensland Government Railway, with a
siding into the works. The port of Maryborough is seven
miles distant, with a branch line to ship’s side, and
steamers regularly call going north and south. Corres-
pondence and inspection invited. Prompt replies to all
enquiries. We can arrange for personal visit to the above
works at any time, by request. For full catalogue and
forms of tender, apply to Pryce & Netterfield, Auctioneers,
Stock and Station Salesmen, etc., Maryborough, Queens-
land.*
Baby’s Rash. Cured.
“ My twin baby boy was covered with an obsti-
nate rash,” writes Mrs. M. Wilson, of 132 Little
Simmonds Street, Newtown, Sydney. “ I rubbed
Rexona Ointment on night and morning, and the
rash soon healed, leaving the skin smooth and
clean.” Price Is. 6d. and 3s.*
FROM BULKINESS TO BEAUTY.
A Priceless Prescription.
To be growing fatter every day without discover-
ing anything which will diminish the humiliating
growth is a very distressing experience, especially
for a woman of refinement and taste. Dieting
appears to be of no avail; exercising is generally
an added danger. And, after all, the true remedy
is a very simple and inexpensive affair, and
involves no sacrifices of any sort. The fame of the
remedy of which we now give the exact recipe is
becoming world-wide, and no stout person should
neglect it one moment longer. The prescription
is indeed a priceless one to those who have groaned
for years under the burden of excessive stout-
ness:—One half-ounce of Marmola, one ounce of
fluid extract of Glycyrrhiza B.P., one ounce of
pure Glycerine B.P., and Peppermint Water to
make six ounces in all. The regular dose is of two
teaspoonfuls after every meal and at bedtime.
Any chemist will fill this prescription complete, or
you can obtain the ingredients separately and
mix yourself. The change which this treatment
brings about is little short of marvellous. There
is no necessity to worry about food. Appetite and
digestion are greatly stimulated, and to good feed-
ing the recovery of strength and vitality may be
in a great measure attributed. In the severer
casesof excessive stoutness the person under treat-
ment will lose pounds of superfluous fat in a week.
The blood is purified, and the skin and complexion
are freed from impurities and sallowness. It is
altogether a rejuvenating treatment, and does
lasting good in every way.*
Attention is drawn to the advertisement in our
columns of the first subdivisional sale of the Red Bock
Estate, on behalf of Sir Rupert Clarke, of 8000 acres of
agricultural and grazing land within 25 miles of
Melbourne. The land is absolutely all virgin soil.
Sunburv railway line runs to within a mile. The
main road from Melbourne to Bendigo runs right through
the property, and the Gisborne township is within three
miles. This is absolutely some of the pick of this estate,
and will be sold on long terms of 10 years, 10 per cent,
cash, 5 per cent, each year off the principal for a term of
six years, and the balance at the end of 10 years at
4J per cent.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Rumor was wrong again when it alleged
that Lady Dudley had left Australia for good.
Her return ticket is taken.
Henry Burrell, of Dromana (Vic ), one of
the party that went to find the bones of Burke
and Wills, and brought them back to Melbourne,
died last week.
The 13th was the Pulsford family’s day
out. Father Edward was beaten for the Senate,
and son Frank for the Reps, at Newcastle
(N.S.W.).
Campbell, one of the two men named as
likely to be Attorney-General in the comingS.
Aus. Labor Government, is an articled clerk in
the office of P. McM.. Glynn, Federal Attorney-
General. The party has, however, a full-fledged
lawyer in W. J. Denny.
MRS. J. T. BELL.
Mrs. Bell is probably the first woman in Australia
to respond at a public banquet to the toast of
“ The Parliament." It was at Chinchilla (Q.)
where she took the place of her husband—the
Speaker—who was unavoidably absent.
Photo, by Freeman.
The baby of the new Parliament will be
Ready, the Tasmanian Senator. He is only 22.
He would have to be eight years older before he
could sit in his own State House of Dodery ; and
the same age-limit applies to the South Aus. and
Westralian “Upper” Houses.
All three new Senators from Westralia dug
their unionism and their Labor principles out of
N. S. Wales’ mines. Henderson used to be the
Lithgow coal-miners’ secretary ; Buzzacott comes
from Broken Hill; and DeLargie was an officer
in a northern (Newcastle) miners’ union.
Another Sydney University graduate has
reached the rank of Professor, E. J. Goddard,
8.A., B.Sc.. having been appointed to the Chair
of Zoology at Victoria College, Cape University,
South Africa. Goddard obtained his B.A- in
1904 and his B.Sc. in 1906, both at the Sydney
University. He then accompanied Dr. Wool-
nough to Fiji on a scientific excursion, and later
acted as demonstrator in biology at his old
University. While he was demonstrator he
carried on original research, and obtained one of
the Macleay Fellowships, which he gives up to
take the new billet.
The N.S.W. State Parliament supplies
two of its brothers to the new Commonwealth
Parliament. The Laborite who beat Bowden for
the Nepean is a brother of J. H. Cann, one of
the three oldest Labor men in the Assembly ; and
a Westralian Senator is a brother of N. J. Buzza-
cott. one of the two or three Labor M’s.L.C.
Bruce Smith won his old seat for Parke s
(N.S.W.), but he had to do the hardest fighting
of his life. Mostly the tremendous Spruce treats
his mere constituents with a lofty indifference;
but it wasn’t that sort of Spruce who rushed from
street corner to street corner, and held forth from
the tail of a cart to Saturday night crowds till
past 11.30. He had for the moment left off being
Spruce, and was just Smith.
London “literary circles” have made a
pow-wow on discovering a grand-daughter of the
poet Crabbe (Mrs. Orr). But Melbourne has two
of them. Mrs. Wordsworth James, sister of
Mrs. Orr, is one; she is a smart writer of prose
and verse and an inventive lady, who evolved the
Coo-ee jewellery, and makes a good income out of
it. The other is Miss Winifred Crabbe, a younger
sister, who also spills considerable ink.
Frank Trask, M.L.C., who died suddenly
in Nelson (M.L.) the other day, was one of Dick
Seddon’s closest friends, and owed his place in
the Council to the fact. He came out to the
Dominion as a boy on a whaling ship, had varying
fortunes on the diggings, and finally established a
prosperous business in Nelson. For nine years
he was mayor of the little city, and when he
passed Over Yonder he didn’t leave many enemies
behind him.
Victoria has just buried a pioneer in the
coffin of Samuel Carter. Samuel was born at
Hobart Town in 1833, and, at the age of five,
migrated to Melbourne, which was then a two-
year-old. In 1842 his father was commissioned to
explore the Wimmera River (Victoria), and the
whole family set out, taking months to com-
plete the journey. The result of this trip was
that the Carters became land-owners, Samuel’s
father first taking up North Brighton station in
August, ’42, and Samuel later settling with a
bride on Glenisla station in ’66. He was still
there when the undertaker called.
M. Aurele Sydney, who plays the game-
cock in Rostand’s “ Chantecler ” at the Porte St.
Martin, Paris, is a Sydney native who adopted
the name of his native place for show-bill pur-
poses. He is from Sydney University, and played
a long spell with Bland Holt in “ The Prodigal
Son” and “ Woman and Wine.” Aurele Sydney’s
family name is Lambert, and his father is Leo
Lambert, a well-known Melbourne hairdresser.
It looks as if the theatre programmes of creation
will presently be given over to Melbas, Sydneys,
Ballarats and Bendigoes.
It was anything but an Affable Alfred who
sat and wailed as the election returns came in.
His own State had routed his nominees whole-
sale, and things were not much better for him
elsewhere ; while in his own constituency, Russell,
the unknown miner, was at 11.30 p.m. a hundred
ahead of theorator, the Prime Minister of Australia.
David P. Russell, by the way, had some slight
political “pull ” and knowledge through having
married a daughter af that ex-M.L.A. Lugg, who
years ago frequently opposed and occasionally
defeated McGregor, of Ballarat and Warrenheip.
He is a brother of fireman Russell, who was killed
in the Beaufort smash early this year, and a
cousin of Senator Russell, and is only 25.
Mrs. Annie Lowe, the first Australian
priestess of the sufifragistes, died in Melbourne
last week. She was the grand old woman of what
used to be known as the “ shrieking sisterhood.”
Like most sturdy battlers, she had much to thank
her ancestors for. Her grandparents settled on
the banks of the Ilawkesbury (N.S.W.), where
she was born in 1834. Married young, she was
the first white woman to go to the Queensland
outback, and her stories of aboriginal life were
most interesting. Her father had been a one-
man-one-vote champion in the old days, and when
Mrs. Lowe came to Victoria she conspired with
Mrs. Dugdale and Mrs. Renwick to found the
Vic. Women’s Suffrage Society. That was in
1884.
Henry Butler, the softgoodsman who died
in Melbourne last week, was so eminently well
suited to adorn the Vic. House of Fat that the
failure of his recent attempt to get there gave
Melbourne a shock of surprise. Butler was the
beau-ideal of a prosperous importer, especially
when he pressed the hind rim of his belltopper on
the back of his brawny neck and said “Bah !”
In his younger days he was the pushing man of
business-cim-pleasure; and during the last 20
years, in the fulness of his Fat, he represented
all that is weightiest at those social-commercial-
political gatherings where somebody’s health is
proposed, and the Hempire is mentioned with
reverence. Linked arm in arm with his old crony
Drummond, the Collins-street jeweller—tall and
portly as himself —Henry Butler looked like a
defiance of Socialism. There was no shifting him
from his principles, wherefore he commanded the
confidence of every good old Tory in his large
circle of acquaintance.
“ Sammy ” Mitchell, the new Government
Resident in the Northern Territory, is followed
in the Assembly by J. A. V. Brown. The
Browns —all Vowles Browns—are the best-known
of Northern Territory families, and there are
few businesses up there into which they haven’t
stuck a finger—from town-clerking to turtle-
catching. The original Brown was an early S.
Australian, who struck a queer but fairly profit-
able industry ; he gave the ground for a church,
and then established a'cemetery in connection
with it; and when an early Governor’s lady was
buried there, it became quite the thing to buy a
neighboring 6xB plot in case of accident. To
catch the living as well as the dead the original
Brown put up the Thatched House Tavern —one
of the first pubs built south of Adelaide. The
descendant when he talks about the Territory
will know his subject, at any rate.
Ifc is said that when the time comes for
Jack Verran to form his Labor Cabinet in S.
Aus., his colleagues will be chosen by the party
by ballot—which brings The Bulletin’s long
struggle for an elective Ministry a step nearer.
The Cabinet is expected to include Wilson.
M.L.C., and Wallis, M.L.C.; Goode, Denny,
Verran and Vaughan or Coneybeer.
WHERE IGNOR-
ANCE IS—
“How fearful it
must be for a
singer to know he
has lost his
voice."
“ It's much more
fearful when he doesn't know it."
Those meetings of the Federal Convention
12 years ago produced morei than one union.
John Downer, of S. Aus., who was much associ-
ated with Edmund Barton, met and married a
pretty Sydney relative of Barton’s. The old
politician, who was a widower, is now running
on towards 70, and had booked himself and his
wife for a trip to England this year. But the
unexpected happened, a firstborn arrived, and the
tripping arrangements had to be cancelled.
A man with an inter-State record has just
induced S. Australia to take charge of his future
for three years at least. He is known as William
Anderson, or James Francis, or James Owen, or
James King; while his real name seems to be
Francis Evelyn Bowes-Hillier, “of good family,
with distinguished connections.” He was a
Customs officer in Westralia, police officer in
Queensland, with a good record till 1902 ; but
since then he has put in much of his time in pass-
ing valueless cheques. He acknowledged six
previous convictions at Newcastle. Maitland and
Wollongong (N.S.W.); and Judge Gordon, in
sentencing him in Adelaide, gave him a handsome
testimonial as “one of the cleverest—and there-
fore one of the most dangerous—swindlers in the
Commonwealth.”
THE AMMUNITION.
Mr. Howe said they called themselves the great Aus-
tralian people, and they spoke of the great British
nation. But if war came to-morrow they would not look
to the British nation for help, but to the great financiers
of the world—the money-lenders.— Daily Paper.
COHEN: “ Here's the ammunition, my poy. ”
Waverley Cemetery continues to make
progress as Sydney’s Westminster. There is no
Abbey about, certainly, but the accumulation of
the bones of eminent dead men goes steadily on,
nevertheless. A memorial to the late Primate
Saumarez Smith was set up there the other day.
True, this Smith was not a prodigy; but he was a
plodding old bookworm who might have been a
famous prize-fighter if his inclinations had been
that way, for he was clever with his fists in his
salad-days and his muscles were the pride of Uni-
versity oarsmen. His memorial consists of a
Celtic cross, the first 'of its kind in Waverley.
The marble is Carrara, with a base of trachyte
from Bowral.
Archdeacon Giinther, who bridged the
gulf between Archbishops Smith and Wright,
retires from St. John’s, Parramatta (N.S.W.), at
the end of the year, and will go into unofficial
life. He has been over two-score years in the
sleepy old town, and has remained in it chiefly
because it was old. A bit of rusty hoop-iron from
one of Governor Phillip’s rum-barrels interests
him more than money or costly piles of architec-
ture ; and Parramatta was the place for rust. The
Archdeacon has, written and spoken much about
Australia’s early days, but he knows a great deal
more than he has told so far, and in his leisure he
may put some of the rest on record.
Australian immigration will get an un-
happy advt. from the experiences of one luckless
individual who took up land in the New England
district (N.S.W.). The first thing he struck was
the Tamworth flood—the first time his particular
part of the district had been flooded for years.
He lost everything, and English friends sent
out money to enable him and his family to return
to the Cold Land. They shipped on the Pericles.
The immigrant’s run of bad luck stopped there,
or he would have been the only man drowned.
The retired “G. 8.” or “ Simmy,” as he
was variously known to the Bar and to Gents One,
was. for many years the best lawyer and the most
carefully-dressed man—Darley not
excepted—on the N.S.W. Bench.
Punctiliousness in the matters of
clothing and manners was a fad
with him. He could not en-
dure the spectacle of a bar-
rister with check clothes
under his robes; and the
practice of allowing the
Bar to shed its collec-
tive wig on hot days
never found favor in his
eyes. One of his few
defects as a Judge was a
certain pernickitiness
which impelled him to
burrow inquiringly into
all sorts of immaterial
details of fact. This
caused loss of time, a
needless bloatage of Costs
and puzzlement on the
part of witnesses. Never-
theless he had, unlike cer-
tain of his brethren, the
“judicial mind”; he re-
mained unbiassed, as far as
one could see, till the last words
had been said ; and neither politics, religion, Him-
perialism nor sentiment swayed him a millimetre.
He is 72, and, all things considered, a credit to
the Australia wherein he was born.
There has been some doubt as to the part
of the newspapers that “Joseph Cook, journal-
ist,” wrote ; but his speech bn the eve of the
election explained things :
They were in the last lap of a very long and strenuous
race, and he believed they were going to win it.
Then he proceeded to mention some of the
winners—who all turned out to be losers. Joseph
is clearly the gentleman who supplies the racing
tips.
Dr. Cullen, N.S.W. Chief Justice, has
been gazetted in London as Lieutenant-Governor
of the Ma State. As on every previous occasion
bar one, the thing was done very quietly. The
exception was when James Martin, C. J., wanted
to be Lieutenant-Governor while Governor Her-
cules Robinson tripped toFiji toconvert thenatives
into British subjects. “ Jimmy ” Martin didn’t
give a straw for the billet; but he desired to have
a social pull for his friends. That was smelled by
Lady Robinson and ex-Chief Justice Alfred
Stephen, and, with the help of Henry Parkes,
then Premier, they stalled off “Jimmy” until
authority came from England conferring the billet
on Alfred Stephen. The billet is sometimes pro-
fitable, especially if a new Governor is long
a-coming; Frederick Darley made between the
Chief Justiceship and Lieutenant-Governorship
over £lO,OOO one year. But, in general, the social
pull is the thing.
From the Oldest Inhabitant:—
Daniel Wilkie (B. 14/4/’ 10) mentions his father, Dr.
David Elliott Wilkie, as one of the first three doctors who
came to Melbourne, and he names Dr. Howitt and
another. Sorry to have to beard Daniel in his den. The
first doctor in Melbourne was Alexander Thomson, who
came across the Straits as medical officer and catechist
to the association formed by Gellibrand and Batman.
At the first land sale he bought the western corner of
Elizabeth and Flinders streets for £46. He subsequently
settled at Geelong, and represented Port Phillip in the
single Chamber at Sydney, and had a seat also in the
Victorian Legislature. Barry Cottar, M.D., followed
Dr. Thomson, and at the first land sale bought
the south-west corner of Collins and Swanston
streets. He was the first general practitioner in
Melbourne. Then Dr. Palmer arrived in 1839. But
patients were few, so he started to manufacture ginger-
beer and cordials, and then drifted into wines and
spirits. He became Mayor, Speaker, President and
Knight. Dr. David Wilkie, who arrived in the same year,
was afterwards one of the “ Committee of Doctors” who
conducted the preliminary business of the Bourke and
Wills expedition. Dr. Godfrey Howitt, of the literary
Howitts, arrived in 1840, and remained for life. Dr.
A. F. A. Greeves arrived in the same year ; but there
being but little practice, he took a pub, and afterwards
got into politics. There was also a Dr. McCrea in 1838,
but not much is known of him. Dr. Thomas Black was
also in Melbourne in the late ’thirties. He bought at
sale in Sydney the half-acre S.-E. Collins and Swanston-
streets for £l67—and gathered in £3OOO a year in ground
rents until his death in 1894 at 94 years of age.
WHAT’S IN' A NAME?
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I met a hero t’other day,
And thought to celebrate his deed
In verse divine and tuneful lay,
That Worth should find a fitting meed—
For noble Song there’s always need.
I strove to lift my loftiest tones,
But ne’er a note my Muse would lead—
She knew his name was Jabez Jones !
And then I thought to carve away
His name in marble, fair indeed ;
With chisel keen I made essay,
And all who saw me bade me speed ;
But when the features one could read
I heard a critic’s blighting tones—
“ Just fancj 7 1 Statues to the breed
That bears the name of Jabez Jones ! ”
And then, when Jones was getting grey,
I wrote a play and tried to plead—
“ What matter names? And what, I pray,
Are you who scoff but wastrel weed?”
Still, when I staged my epic screed,'
The air was thick with grievous groans
From foolish folk who would not heed,
Because its name was “ Jabez Jones ! ”
Envoi.
From John of Gaunt and ancient Bede
No place majestic history owns,
Although he bled as heroes bleed,
For him whose name is Jabez Jones !
QUEENSLAND.
PHILASPER F.


Abridg'ed Prospectus of
THE STADIUM, LIMITED.
To be Registered under the Companies Act, 1899-1906.
For the promotion of Athletic Contests and other forms of Public Entertainment.
Capital £75,000, in 75,000 shares of One Pound (£1) each, of which 25,000 will be issued as paid up to 16s, in part payment
to the Vendors, and 25,000 are now offered to the public, payable ss, on application, 10s* on allotment, and the balance by calls of not
more than Is, per share at intervals of not less than one month, 25,000 shares being reserved for future issue*
The Subscription List will remain open for one week from Wednesday, 20th April, 1910*
In addition to the 25,000 shares to be issued to the Vendors above referred to, the Vendors will receive £15,000 in cash, as part
payment for the business, assets and undertaking to be acquired by this Company*
The Vendors' shares become liable for calls equally with those subscribed by the public as soon as 16s* per share has been called
up on the latter*
The Company may be declared formed on 20,000 shares being applied for*
The Vendors have agreed to deposit with the Company 12,500 shares as a guarantee of a dividend averaging ten per cent* per
annum during the first five years*
As 15,000 of the shares have already been underwritten, the formation of the Company may be considered practically assured*
The Vendors or their nominee or nominees reserve the right to take up one-half of the original capital when issued at a premium
of 2s* 6d* per share*
A brokerage fee of 6d. per share will be paid to any Member of the Stock Exchange whose stamp is on the application of
allotted Shares*
Application will be made in due course for a quotation on the Stock Exchange*
Directors :
(Who will retire at the first meeting, but will be eligible for re-election.)
HUGH D. McINTOSH, “The Gunyah,” Darling Point, Sydney.
W. C. J. KELLY, 228 Clarence Street, Sydney (Manager in Australia for
A. G. Spalding & Bros.).
WILLIAM KERR, 544 George Street, Sydney.
Bankers : BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Solicitors : J. R. BAXTER BRUCE & CO., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Auditors : JOHNSON, JOHNSON & GIBB, 13 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Broker : WILLIAM TILLEY, 70 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Secretary and Registered Office :
EDMUND COYELL, The Stadium, Rushcutters Bay, Sydney.
This Company is being formed for the purpose of acquiring the business carried on
by the SCIENTIFIC BOXING AND SELF-DEFENCE, LIMITED, at the STADIUM,
SYDNEY, and to extend and carry on this business also at MELBOURNE BRISBANE, and
ELSEWHERE. The business consists of the promotion of Roller Skating, Cinematograph and
Theatrical Entertainments, Boxing Contests and Athletic Games.
The business was inaugurated in AUGUST, 1908, and has proved very successful. In a little
more than 18 months a clear profit of £25,000 has been actually earned, as will be seeu by the
attached extract from the Auditors’ report. It is anticipated that a solid and lasting business can be
carried on in Sydney, and that the operations of the Company can be profitably extended to
MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and ELSEWHERE. Arrangements have already been made to
extend to Melbourne at an early date.
The Directors have been able to sechrh'the Valuable assistance bf Mr. Hugh D. Mclntosh, who
founded the business, and who is known to the Sporting Public all over the world. Mr. Mclntosh
has agreed to continue in the management as MANAGING DIRECTOR for three years, and lias
given the Company an option over his services for a further three years.
Basing calculations on a careful analysis of the past 18 months, as shown in the attached
accounts, it is anticipated that the working expenses of the Company will be as under
WAGES AND SALARIES £2OOO
NET RENT SYDNEY AND MELBOURNE ... ... 500
PRINTING AND ADVERTISING 1000
GENERAL EXPENDITURE 1000
When the hitherto untouched skating and cinematograph entertainments are in full swing, the
expenditure for wages and advertising will increase, but it is safe to estimate the working charges in
Sydney and Melbourne at £5OOO per annum exclusive of prize money, which, being payable by way
of a percentage on Gate Money, is not an expense of the Company.
PROSPECTIVE INCOME.
The following information is extracted from the prospectus. The income of the Company
will be derived from the following sources
(1) Roller Skating. —Plans are in hand for the erection of a skating floor at the Stadium
for the purpose of carrying on Roller Skating during the winter months. This form of amuse-
ment is now booming in London and on the Continent, and promises to become quite as popular
in Sydney during the coming winter.
Being in the open air, skating will be possible at the Stadium for a much longer season than
in the case of rinks in halls, and there will be no interference with the weekly Stadium fixtures.
The cost of preparing the Stadium for skating, including purchase of skates, will be less than
£1590, and it is anticipated that a net profit of £2500 a year at least can be relied upon from
this source. *
(2) Cinematograph Shows. —The Stadium is ideally situated for the projection of Cinemato-
graph Shows in the summer evenings, and from this source it is anticipated that a sum of at
least £2500 per annum will be realised. As the building will accommodate with seats 16,000
people, popular prices can be charged.
(3) The Stadium. —The Stadium is also most suitable for use as a Hippodrome, and offers
have been received from Circus and Show proprietors at a large weekly rental. Nothing, however,
has been included in the estimate of profits under this heading.
The ground on which the Stadium is erected, approximately two acres in area, is on lease
for six years, with option of purchase for £5OOO.
(4) Cinematograph Pictures. —The right of publication of Cinematograph Pictures of athletic
contests yields a fair income, and in the case of World’s Championship Contests the return is very
great.
In the past the Vendors have had to rely upon contractors for the carrying on of this part of the
business, but it is proposed to purchase a complete Cinematograph Plant in order that this expendi-
ture may be saved. Basing calculations on past experience, it is anticipated that at least £2500 per
annum net profit will be earned from this source in ordinary years, while in a year in which a World’s
Championship is held in Australia the profits will be very much greater.
(5) Theatrical and Music Hall Rights.— A further source of revenue is the receipt from
Theatres, Music Halls, and the like of fees for the appearance of Athletes under contract to the
Company. A considerable sum has in the past been realised from this source, which is capable of
very considerable development. A considerable revenue is also expected from Country Lecturing
Tours by well-known Athletes, and as these are run on a percentage basis only, the earnings will be
all profit to the Company. It is calculated that not less than £2500 per annum will be realised under
this heading.
(6) Athletic Contests of various kinds, including scientific boxing, will be conducted by the
Company. These contests are conducted under stringent rules, and as the system of remuneration
is by way of a percentage on gate money, the risk of loss to the Company is infinitely small. It is
anticipated that from 35 to 40 small weekly contests per annum can be arranged which return a pro-
fit of, approximately, £lOO per event in Sydney alone; and other fixtures to be arranged bring the
estimated profit under this head in Sydney to £7500 per annum. It is intended to carry on similar
athletic contests in Melbourne, where they should produce about a similar amount.
(7) Melbourne. —Negotiations have been practically completed for a magnificent site on lease for
six years in Exhibition Street, Melbourne, opposite to Her Majesty’s Theatre. When certain
improvements have been carried out at a cost estimated at £2OOO, this will hold a roofed Stadium
capable of seating 9000 people, and will contain a huge Skating floor. The business to be carried on
in Melbourne will be similar to that in Sydney,,and it is expected that on the most conservative
estimate a profit of at least £7500 per annum will be derived from the Melbourne business.
By judicious expansion in other States the general organisation expenses may be greatly reduced,
and the visits of Athletes from abroad made much more profitable. The question of such expansion
will be seriously considered at an early date, and when the full scheme is in complete working order
a great appreciation of profits may be confidently looked for.
SUMMARY.
Summing up the foregoing, the earnings anticipated per annum on the present basis of working
in Sydney and Melbourne are as under :
Roller Skating £2,500
Picture Rights ... 2,500
Theatrical Rights ... 2,500
Sydney Athletic Contests... ... 7,500
Cinematograph Entertainments ... 2,500
Profits in Melbourne from all the above sources 7,500
Total estimates of earnings £25,000
As it isf anticipated that only about £5OOO per annum will be required to pay expenses, it will be
seen that there is every prospect of a considerable balance being available for dividends.
The Company will take over the business as from midnight on 9th April, 1910, from which time
it will be entitled to the receipts (which include the Burns-Lang contest) and be responsible for the
liabilities. Apart from this, it is estimated that the liabilities to be taken over by the Company will
not exceed £750.
The vendors have submitted their books to the auditors of the Company, who have made an in-
dependent investigation of the same. An extract from their report, which is open for inspection at
the solicitors’ offices, is appended.
The contracts to be entered into by the Company are : (1) An agreement with the Scientific
Boxing and Self-Defence, Ltd., for the acquisition by the Company of its business ; and (2) an agree-
ment with Hugh Donald Mclntosh for the retention of his services. These agreements will be
available for inspection at the offices of the solicitors. A copy of the underwriting agreement, dated
April 9, is also available for inspection at the solicitors’ offices. The underwriters’ commission is not
payable by the Company.
Extract from Messrs. Johnson, Johnson <sc Gibb’s Report, dated 12/4/1910.
“ We certify that we have completed an examination of the accounts of ‘Scientific Boxing and
Self-Defence, Limited,’ and have reported thereon accordingly. As shown by the books completed
to 30th June, 1909, and by later particulars (which we have satisfied ourselves to be substantially
correct) the profits earned up to 31st January, 1910, were £25,000.”
The following statements of account show the profits earned for the various periods from the
inception of the Company to 31st January, 1910 :
SCIENTIFIC BOXING AND SELF-DEFENCE, LTD.
Dr. Summarised Profit and Loss Account for Period 10th August, 1908, to 30th June, 1909. Cr.
To Wages and Salaries
„ Printing' and Stationery
~ Lease Rent
~ General Expenses
~ Depreciation Account..
~ Balance (profit for period)
.. 1886 8 6
.. 1182 10 9
.. 74 11 3
.. 2772 11 7
.. 1191 13 4
7,107 18 5
17,935 17 4
£•25,043 15 9
s. d.
£
By net receipts—Athletic Contests, Sale
of Picture Rights, etc., and Miscel-
laneous Revenue .. 25,043 15 9
£25,043 15 9
Summarised Profit and Loss Account for Period Ist July, 1909, to 31st January, 1910.
£ s. d.
To Wages and Salaries 49S 5 0
Printing and Advertising 59 13 6
~ Lease Rent 249 13 5
~ General Expenses 344 4 11
~ Depreciation Account 758 6 8
„ Balance (profit for period) .. .. 7082 2 5
£8992 5 11
£ s. d.
net receipts—Athletic Contests, Sale of
Picture Biyhts, etc., and Miscel-
laneous Revenue .. .. .. 8992
5 11
£8992 5 11
The assets are estimated at it total of ,£6500, at which price they will be taken into the Balance-
Sheet of the new Company.
The full Prospectus, together with Forms of Application for Shares, may be obtained from the
Company’s Offices, The Stadium, Rushcutters Bay; the Brokers, W. Tilley, 70 Pitt Street,
Sydney ; the Solicitors, J. R. Baxter Bruce & Co., 9 Bridge Street, Sydney ; or the Auditors,
Johnson, Johnson & Gibb, 13 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
FORM OF APPLICATION FOR SHARES.
To the Directors of THE STADIUM, LIMITED.
I hereby apply for Shares
in,the above Company , and enclose the sum of.
, being the amount payable on application (ps. per share)
in the terms of the Prospectus , dated the 19th April , 1910. And I hereby request you. to allot
me that number of shares. And I agree to accept such shares or any less number that may be
allotted to me on the terms of the said Prospectus. And I authorise you to place my name on the
Register of Shareholders in respect of any shares so allotted. And I agree to pay the amount due
on allotment and further calls as and when the same become due. And / agree to waive any
claim I may have against the Company or any other persons for not more fully complying in the
said Prospectus with the requirements of Section 66 of the Companies Act, 1899.
DATED this day of. 1910.
Signature
Name in full
Address
Occupation
APPLICATION MAY BE MADE ON THIS FORM.
Send this form to the Secretary of the Company or the Brokers, W. Tilley, 70 Pitt Street, Sydney.


The Magic Healer —
Chase’s Universal Ointment
Chase’s Universal Ointment is the latest and
greatest advance of Science. Its remarkable sooth-
ing and healing: qualities have earned for it a place
unique in the history of ointments. It gives
instant relief in all eases where pain is present, is
thoroughly antiseptic, and heals quickly.
Chase’s Universal Ointment is composed of the
rarest materials by a perfected process known only
to the proprietors. It destroys all germ life instantly,
thus paving the way for a speedy and certain cure.
Burns, scalds, cuts, bruises, abrasions, swellings,
sprains, bites from animals and insects, boils, acne,
pimples, carbuncles, poisoned wounds, festering
sores, corns, piles and old wounds, all yield to the
soothing and healing influence of Chase’s Universal
Ointment.
No home should be without Chase’s Universal
Ointment. It is sold in large jars at 3/6. Send us a
Postal Note for that amount to-day, and we will
immediately forward you the ointment by.return
post, postage paid. Send the order now. Addressit:
The Ridgway Society, Box 1700, C. P. 0., Sydney.
Chronic Rheumatism.
“Some time ago I contracted rheumatic fever,
which left behind it chronic rheumatism,” writes
Ernest G. Breeze, 107 Day Street, Leichhardt,
N.S.W. “As liniments and doctors’ physic were
of no use, I tried Laxo-Tonic Pills. These quickly
relieved me. My joints became more supple, and
the pain disappeared. I feel constitutionally
better since taking Laxo-Tonic Pills.” Price
10|d. and Is. 6d.*
I
CAUSE AND CURE
OF SCIATICA
♦
A Seymour Man's Experience
of Various Treatments.
Because sciatica is a disease of the sciatic nerve
it has been found that the best treatment is one
that tends to put the whole nervous system in a
strong healthy condition. Blisters and injection?
are sometimes used to ease the sharp, shooting,
lightning pains in the hips and legs, but this treat-
ment is not regarded in any sense as a cure. A
cure can only be obtained bv looking to the cause
of the complaint and restoring the nerves to their
proper state of tone. In addition to the tonic
treatment* resting the limbs in bed or on a couch
as much as possible helps in a cure.
Mr. William Patterson, of Emily Street, Sey-
mour, Victoria, had a bad attack of sciatica, and
declares that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills cured him,
and nothing else. This is because they are a
blood builder and nerve tonic; the new blood they
make nourishing the irritated, inflamed nerve,
thus completely removing the cause of the com-
plaint and making a permanent cure.
“Some time back I was employed fencing at a
place called Glenoura, about 18 miles from Sey-
mour,” said Mr. Patterson to a reporter, “when
I was suddenly attacked by sciatica. It was
so bad I had to get another man to take my
place. In about a week I was unable to walk
about. The pain increased in severity and used
to keep moving right up to my hip. About three
or four in the morning it used to get very bad.
The sciatic nerve in my left leg got very tender to
the touch. At times I could not move my leg.
The pain in the back of the thigh was fearful. It
was as if red-hot needles were being pushed into
my sinews. I consulted the doctor and he said I
was suffering from a very bad attack of sciatica.
I tried liniments, but they did me no good. I was
in a very bad state, unable to walk or work, when
my brother Henry told me of someone that he
knew who had suffered something like myself
being cured by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. I was
only too glad to try anything that was likely to
give me ease from my sufferings. The first box
didn’t seem to do me much good, but I continued
their use until I had used about six boxes, and then
I was able to go to work again and have had no
relapse since. My occupation is such that if the
pills had not completely cured me I am sure I
would have had a relapse.”
When you want Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills don t
be put off with anything else said to be just as
good. If you have trouble in getting them send
direct to the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of
Australasia Ltd., Sydney, who will send them
by return, post free, 2s. 9d. for one box, six boxes
15s. 3d.*
This Elastic Truss
VM
Elastic I
Truss-
Single, 17/6
Double, 22/6
istheacmeofcomfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
the required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced fitters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
Also at Melbourne.
POLITICAL
POINTS
The Senate figures in the Melbourne
electorates should afford William Trenwith some
painful thought. “ Trenny ’’ received his largest
bunch of votes, viz., 15,248, in Kooyong, the most
Tory of Melbourne constituencies, and his smallest
(4359) in Yarra, which includes his once idolised
suburb'of Richmond.
Probably Hume Cook was smitten much
worse than people think. Anyhow, it was com-
monly reported that, in the event of his defeat,
he was to be provided with a job on the Deakook
Inter-State Commission. Now, it seems, he will
have to be content with merely an honest living
in private life. In private life he lets villas.
In a “Right-Thinking ” leader the Argus
explains that, as Laborites always v ote solidly,
every votegiven toVidaGoldstein wasstolen froma
Fused candidate. It seems from this that the Fuse
supporters think so mighty little of their alleged
principles that they are quite ready to vote for
somebody who professes practically the whole
Labor platform, provided he or she isn’t actually
branded “Laborite.”
Speaking on the “no encumbrance”
dodge, and the bad advertisement Australia is
getting thereby, Victorian Premier Murray lately
said he thought “nothing could be done to correct
the habit except by force of public opinion.” It is
the good, weary old gag of the man who wants to
let the thing slide. When Wade desired to
suppress Bowling and Co., did he hand them over
to “ the force of public opinion ” ? Not much !
Said the Argus, between sobs :
Men with long and distinguished services have been
sacrificed in Victoria to the superior discipline of the
Labor party ; and Mr. Stephen Barker and Mr. A.
Blakey, who have had no experience in Parliamentary
affairs, will-be the colleagues.of Senator Findley for the
next six years.
The agony is softened by the reflection that even
Senators are. bound to. have a beginning. Also
the deplorable newness of Barker and Blakey
seems less unendurable when it is - remembered
that one of the original Argus nominees for the
Senate was the late Skene, who also suffered from
inexperience in Parliamentary affairs.
Anti-Sosh gets bricks heaved at it from
queer quarters nowadays. The Draught Horse
Stud Book Committeeof the Victorian Agricultural
Society reported against the compulsory licensing
of stallions, for the tiresome old reason that it
“interfered with individual judgment and the
liberty of the subject”; but the society was full
up of the old gag, and sent the report back to the
committee with instructions to shift out of the
rut. Private Enterprise has made such a mess of
the horse-breeding business that even Tories can
foresee its death unless the State starts looking
after it.
“ The ballot box,” said the Sydney Tele-
graph, on the eve of the elections, “is as silent as
the grave.” But just when sexton Ward was
hanging up his spade the coffin blew up, and the
thud of falling corpse was still echoing through
the country when The Bulletin went to press.
It used to be affirmed that the N.S.W.
Closer Settlement law barred the settlers from
holding more than
one block. But the
Wade crowd seems
utterly incapable
of making a law
that won’t leak,
and a supposed
leak has naturally
been discovered in
■this one ; where-
fore, one of the
members of the
Farmers and Sett-
lers’ Association
moved the other
day that “ no per-
son already hold-
ing a living area
should be permitted
to acquire more
land by purchase
or transfer or in
any other way.”
When the proposal
came before the
Riverina District
Council (a sort of
Upper House of
theF.and S. Ass.),
the “ poor selec-
tors ” who consti-
tute that democra-
tic body almost un-
animously heaved
it aside, with a
curse to the effect
that it “ inter-
fered with the
liberty of the far-
mer,” and that it
“did not give a
man a chance to
provide for his
family.” The fact
that the aggrega-
tion of blocks
doesn’t give other
men a chance to
provide for their families doesn’t, of course,
worry this precious association at all.
J. B. Steel didn’t win North Sydney, and
he didn’t expect to. What he did want to do was
to get the people talking about Unification ; and
he did that. Also he wanted to throw some light
on Wade-Waddell finance; and he succeeded in
doing that as well, even though it did not have
much to do with the Commonwealth campaign.
There was not a more hopeless seat for him to
tackle; but it was Wade’s district in the State
Parliament, wherefore he tackled it like the
plucky fighter that he is.
One of the incidents of election eve in
Melbourne was a waterspout of abuse from that
whale of self-righteousness, Robert Best. For
instance:—
He asked them to read the Labor press if they were
prepared for a time to pollute their minds with
blasphemous literature, and they would see that this
press had discovered it to be its duty to parody religion
and discredit Christianity.
Robert is misinformed. It wasn’t the Labor
press, but his own beloved mentor, the Mel-
bourne Argus, that recently came forth with an
article so sceptical towards the miracle of the
Resurrection that both Archbishops Clarke and
Carr, of the Anglican and R.C. churches, were
moved to protest bitterly.
A SUGGESTED IMMIGRATION “POSTER.”
On the following morning, and indeed on each day
since, the prophecy that Mr. George Reid would be of an
immense advertising value to the Commonwealth has
been amply justified. —Daily Paper.
0 UNMWD 863
k j(S@ t U > (r3OC9
1/ <§>
to ran wo as
Sydney Telegraph about reached the
limit a day or two before polling arrived.
While Fusion was bagging every cab and motor-
car, and was handing out cak6 and music whole-
sale, the paper had the gall to screech this :
Their [the Labor party’s] whole organisation is built up
on bribes of one kind or another. “Higher wages” and
“ less work ” for those who will vote for them is their
chief stock-in-trade. They have lately been vote-catch-
ing in the asylums with a promise of extra plum-pudding
to the unfortunate inmates.
Well, talking about bribes and rewards, if the
Herald’s circulation jumped 10,000 or 20,000 at
the precise moment that the Telegraph’s pub-
lishing clerk tore into the managerial room with
the information that he had 10,000 or 20.000
samples of Dr. Ward’s work on hand, a deputa-
tion of directors would probably be on the way to
the Trades’ Hall in 10 minutes with an olive
branch in each hand and another sticking out of
its coat-tail pocket.
The Tasmanian Government has just sent
out notices demanding a.super-tax in addition to
the ordinary Ability and Income taxes. Pre-
sumably, to let the public know that it is doing
all it can to make the incomes as small as pos-
sible, the Government sends out the notices in
envelopes conspicuously marked: “Made in
U.S.A.”
A HORRIBLE SUSPICION.
ASXIOUS TORY : “ About this ’ere Labor victory—
what does it mean? Have we alt got to work? ”
A staunch Tory voteress, who said she had
been persistently canvassed by friends of Yida
Goldstein, scored her point both ways by answer-
ing :
I can think of nothing better calculated to justify all
that has been said as to the unfitness of women for the
suffrage than for them to vote for a political opponent
simply because' she is a woman.
Whether the Tory lady thus reported by Mel-
bourne Argus was an actual person or an Anti-
Sosh myth, the fact remains that Vida Goldstein’s
candidature was run on the sex ticket, and there-
fore deserved the gibe it is alleged to have got.
When Johnson of Lang (N.S.W.) went
forth to address the electors on “ the eve of
battle” he travelled in a waggonette bearing a
tall pole from which floated a shame-faced Union
Jack. Down came the rain, and the sodden banner
fell and coiled miserably round the pole. Then
the burly ruffian in the front of the crowd jeered :
“ What’s wrong, Johnson ; why, the old rag dis-
owns you ! I think your name’s Slush ! ” But
Johnson got in, though it was a close thing.
What will they think in England ? Well,
after giving 48 hours for the news of the Labor
and National victory to soak in, Elder Smith and
Co., the Bank of Adelaide, and the other people
who had underwritten the last S. Aus. loan
decided to float it off. Instead of the victory
driving capital out of the country, these people
evidently concluded that it was just the time
capital would be anxious to come in.
The Victorian results showed the utter
hopelessness of attempting to fuse milk and
vinegar, and the consequent complete breakdown
of the attempt to “ restore the two-party system.”
The fight for the Batman seat summarised the
situation. Coon, a local boot merchant and a
good democrat, had voted Protection all through
the tariff struggle. Last election, when an un-'.
known man, he beat Solly with a few hundreds to
spare ; this time, with the Age support, he was
against one of the weaker Labor men. Yet,
because he had fused, the local Protectionists
threw him out, and gave his opponent nearly two
votes to his one. Also, Bourke and Maribvrnong
have never before returned pledged Laborites,
though good men have tried ; but Hume Cook
and Mauger were coquetting with foreign-traders,
and their old supporters turned them down re-
morselessly.
Said the Capitalist in the Tram Car :
All this talk’bout Labor organisation makes me sick.
It’s all rot, that’s why. We had all the organisation—too
much organisation. They had all the enthusiasm.
That’s what killed our pig. These fellows are in earnest;
we aren’t. They went to the polls at considerable incon-
venience ; we went with our tongues in our cheeks in our
motor-cars. Our women would go only if motor-cars
were sent for them. Theirs washed their kids and started
out per boot, their babies with them ; marked their papers
and then off home to clean up the house. They made no
fnss—just got the job done and away. It was that steady
stream of quiet people who came quietly and got away
quickly that did it. No, we don’t want any more organisa-
tion. You can chuck the blessed papers, the motor-cars,
the afternoon teas, the organising secretaries, and all the
rest of it. Give them to Labor in exchange for Labor’s
enthusiasm.
The Fat Man was right. It was the enthusiasm
of the Labor men which won the election by
winning over wavering voters. Labor was fight-
ing ; Liberalism was merely trying to buy its vic-
tory. And in the end the buyer always goes
down before the fighter. Liberalism’s organisa-
tion was a perfect engine, but it had no steam in
it. Some samples of the way Laborites sacrifice
themselves : A father and three sons, working at
Dubbo, hearing that Carr’s seat in Macquarie was
in danger, threw down their tools and lost three
days travelling to and from Lewis Ponds, where
they resided, to vote for the Labor man. Two
women past the prime of life walked 16 miles to
vote for Spence in the Darling electorate. After-
noon teas can’t do much against that kind of
enthusiasm.
LAME BACK.
This ailment is usually caused by rheumatism
of the muscles, and may be cured by applying
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm two or three times a day
and rubbing the part vigorously at each applica-
tion. If this does not afford relief bind on a piece
of flannel dampened with Chamberlain’s Pain
Balm, and relief is sure to follow.
Judkins bored into the campaign in Vic-
toria to help Mauger. Naturally, Mudkins
couldn’t give the clean helping hand, but issued
a circular characterising some of Mauger’s
opponents as “among the worst social elements
in the community, in the shape of drink, gambling
and immorality.” It so happened that Fenton,
Mauger’s opponent, was a lifelong abstainer (but
made no parade of the fact) and a regular church-
goer (but didn’t advertise the circumstance), and
that, like practically every Laborite candidate, he
was a moral, clean-living man (but didn’t trade on
his virtue). As a social reformer and Victorian
citizen of some years’ standing, Mudkins should
have known all this ; but he either didn’t or he
suppressed his knowledge for the convenience
of the Fuse. And now he and the unvarnished
vilifiers have their reward.
THE REASON.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Mr.. Lees thought the Liberal organisation was good in
East Sydney, where there Was, he pointed out, a general
committee and many sub-committees, and where the
district was canvassed thoroughly. “I really do' not
know,” said he, with a puzzled air, when asked to what
he attributed so decisive a majority for Labor in this
electorate. He frankly could not understand the
Parlinghurst figures.— Typical mental attitude of para-
lysed Fnsionist candidates.
It was after the Freeze —
The great Fusion Freeze—
That the editor said, slightly raising his head
(He was coming to by degrees):
“Send someone round, please,
To interview Lees—
To find out to.what lIE attributes this horrible and most
deplorable Freeze.”
The scribe (call him Rees)
At once sought Mister Lees.
That good man received him, and greatly itgrieved him—
’Twas clear he was ill at ease. •
Said the scribe : “ If you please,
I am one of the D.T.’s
Young men. My instructions are, ‘ Seize
On all available explanations of this most ungrateful
nation’s
Unlooked-for political Freeze.’
Tell me, please, Mister Lees,
Whdt caused this fierce, earth-sweeping breeze !”
In a tone of deep woe
Lees replied “ I don’t know ;
I do NOT understand how the things seem to go :
But (and this is mere guess)
I believe that this mess that the Fuse has got into, this
stage of distress,
This loud, hollow bust
Was just due to disgust—
That the people got tired, so the Fusion was fired ;
You quite understand me, I trust ? ”
And the scribe (call him Rees)
Back to King-street then flees,
And there his perturbed, shattered editor sees . . .
Next day there appears the old stereotyped wheeze
That it wasn’t the nation
But organisation
That bust up the Fuse and defeated poor Lees—
And a whole lot of other played-out M.P's.
■N.S.W.
CLARENCE O’HAGAN.
THE INDISPENSABLE CAB-HOSS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The wrongs of man, the rights of man, the rights and
wrongs of Fat;
The hashing up of Nature’s plan by those whom she
begat;
The price of sugar and of bread, and of our daily boots ;
The problem of the hardly-fed, the sins of hint who loots
The purses of the citizen, and gains much cash thereby—
On these we ponder deeply when election day draws nigh.
But, though we still dwell on our wrongs, and for our
rights we shout,
Upon election morn the thing’s the cab-hoss of the Stout.
The hardly-fed, the dairy-fed who own the blessed earth—
The lean and anxious and the stout and scornful men
of girth—
They all, in argument, have had a few things to remark :
We’ve heard Fat’s self-concerned dissent, the good Aus
tralian’s bark.
Yet, though Fat’s voice be feeble and his choicest gibe be
“ Bosh ! ”
lie’s kept a firm and cautious hand upon his bags of
splosh.
But when election morning comes, Fat’s cab-hoss speaks
a word—
Fat’s cab-hoss and his niotah-cah ! Fat’s last appeal is
heard.
Fat fears no foe, or fears him less, when cab-hoss is for
hire
In quantities, good Fat to bless and save him from the
fire ;
There is less hope for Bill and Jim, undoubtedly, when
Fat’s
Good friends arrive to shout for him in tails and shiny
hats.
Each of ’em leads a cab-hoss as his tribute to the Cause—
To save the country from the thing with horrid beak and
claws.
And so the sad, old, winkered thing that droops upon the
shaft
Is Fat’s best friend—his last resource—his lifeboat and his
raft.
VICTORIA.
FIANK HENTY.


Buckley,/torn E
Melb?ubke,S,E.
cr
/ nr
/
i,n un
/
nr
"A
m
t /
,///>
(J\ V K\
‘H
Sr
m
§m>
iiwc
W’y
I'l'll
O^jlw
x
Riding
CHES.
ĥ
TOlO BREECHES 1
Bi
WHITE MILL
CAHTOOJi.
ħ
h
WRITE
Fox.
MEASURE
-TOTOti
&
lATTERKJ
ON PLAYING A
BRINSMEAD PIANO.
A musician, however consummate his genius, can only
come to his own and find scope for his sublime powers
when the instrument upon which he plays is capable of
interpreting and of immediately responding to every
transient mood, every enraptured fancy, and every beautiful
thought of the master.
- That is why TOUCH and.TONE are the only criteria
of the true worth of a piano.
TOUCH —rapid, refined and responsive, can only be
secured by perfectly balanced mechanism answering to
the slightest pressure of the fingers.
TONE —that which gives quality, richness and color
to the music, is found only in combination with supreme
craftsmanship, when each minutest portion of the in-
strument is wrought into each other portion in har-
monious union.
* • ■ «<'■ V . •. . > £1
Because of their perfection of Touch and Tone, such
virtuosi as Charles Gounod, Saint-Saens, de Pachmann,
Ganz, Strelezki, de Kontski, and many others have
spoken and written in highest praise of the pianos of
John Brinsmead &. Sons, Ltd.
SOLE AGENTS
NICHOLSON & Co. Ltd
342 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
FERRO VALVELESS Engine
... FOR...
Pumps,
Dynamos,
Cement Mixers,
Stone Crushers,
Vacuum
Cleaners,
Saw Benches,
Spray Pumps,
Separators,
Chaffcutters,
Lathes,
Drilling
Machines,
Well Boring,
Sheep Shearing,
Mining
Machines,
Printing
Presses,
Refrigerators,
Launches.
ĥ
There are already over Eight Hundred FERRO ENGINES in use in Aus-
tralia, and for whatever purpose they have been installed they have proved a success.
The following result of a test will give some idea of their strength and reliability :
United States Navy Brake Test of a
15-H.P. FERRO ENGINE
showed 18.85 H.P. on a CONTINUOUS RUN on 30th Sept., 1909.
ALL FERRO ENGINES develop EXCESS OF RATED POWER.
MADE IN 3,4, s#, B, 11, 12, 15, 17 and 25 H.P.
THE PRICES ARE RIGHT. FOR FULL PARTICULARS write to NEAREST AGENT.
Agents—
VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, TASMANIA—
Acme Motor & Eng. Co., 355 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES—HaII Bros., 51=53 Druitt Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND—Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—W. Saunders & Co., Perth.
NEW ZEALAND—Ayers Baker & Co., Fort Street, Auckland.
SAMOA—H. J. Moors, Apia, Samoa.
To JAVA,
“The Garden of the East,”
• by the *—-
ROYAL PACKET.
- - •
' t\
•, - .
*
,
.
■
. • .
,‘h: < ’ ... • * K- • r*
■
ant
glgpfe rt -
w
:~»r-/'is:-
REGULAR MONTHLY SAILINGS for
Java and Singapore,
via Brisbane, Townsville, Port Moresby, Thursday Island, Dobo
and Macassar.
S.S. VAN HEEMSKERK, 3500 Tons
• Commander, T. L. ARNOLD.
Leaves Melbourne 26th APRIL; leaves Sydney 2nd MAY.
S.S. VAN LINSCHOTEN, 3500 Tons
Commander, J. A. LUGTEN.
Leaves Melbourne 21st MAY; leaves Sydney 27th MAY.
New Steamers specially built and equipped for voyaging in the Tropics.
Large, airy two-berth cabins. Spacious promenade decks. English spoken
on board, and English Stewardess carried.
For further information apply to
ROYAL/ PACKET S.
N. CO.,
Telephone 953 City.
7 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY,


R
mmm
Esteb.
1818.
R9BVR
ws v
M
3
The way to keep boarders is
to feed them well —as a matter
of fact, 1 find it hard sometimes
to get things as good as l would
like them to be. As regards tea,
however, I’m alright—l’ve been
using Robur for years, and 1
must say that I’ve never been
disappointed in a single packet—
sometimes I’ve found the tea a
little broken perhaps, but then,
it’s such real good tea to drink,
1 don’t mind that.
The No. 2 Grade is what l
use, and 1 never hear a grumble
about it. I’ve tried other kinds
of tea some were weak, and
had hardly any taste, and
others were bitter, and left a
horrible taste in your mouth;
but Robur, if you make it
properly, is always nice, and it
saves quite a lot of money in
a year.
The Boarding-House Keeper,\
VERY OLD COGNAC.
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1860, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A WOMAN'S
LITTER
SrnNKV, Apeilj 19, 1910.
Mt Dkae Auini,—
I have been meeting gloomy women everywhere
since April 13. They are those who took the pre-
election li—-that istosay, arguments and prophecies
of .Liberalism seriously. One bunch of live I en-
countered last Sunday, drinking tea. They were
affected with the sombre hopelessness one con-
ceives as distinguishing Marie Antoinette and
her ladies immediately prior to the great un-
pleasantness of 1793; and from them I extracted
the following vaticinations: (1) their marriage-
lines would either be seized outright by Social-
ists, or so legislated against as ' to be
rendered invalid, and hence useless for
the purpose of coercing their spouses when
recalcitrant and inclined to play up with the
peroxided temptresses of the city ; (2) the Pope of
Rome would occupy Parliament House, and the
Scarlet Female take a flat at the Trades Hall ; (3)
prohibitive taxes would be imposed on tricorne
hats, lipsalve, pearl powder, skating instructors,
Pansy novelettes and matinee theatre tickets ; (4)
all domestics would strike, and set up on their
own unless paid a minimum wage of £3 10s. a
week (exclusive of beer money), and allowed
five afternoons off per fortnight and all
of every Sunday; (5) missionary teas, plea-
sant Sunday afternoons and Sabbath-school
pmnics would presently be proclaimed indictable
offences, and religious instruction in the home
would be replaced by free, universal and compul-
sory tuition in the principles of Philosophic Doubt.
It was at this stage that I changed the subject
by a deft reference to the utter and seemingly
chronic rottenness (or glory, I forget which) of
the weather; but their cheerlessness was not dis-
pelled thereby, and the general atmosphere of
Socialistic specks-before-the-eyes and a persistent
Dread of Something Awful about to Happen
abided till the end.
Maori land’s new Governor, Baronet John
Dickson Poynder—he has just bebn made a
peer too—is somewhat over 40 years of age, and
married to a Miss Dundas, a lady with ye olde
English 1 3i l V ies of Ann Beauderck. He belongs to
l 6 a, and the fierce light that beats upon
the baronetage shows that he has no heir
l' l ere may be little Anns if not little Johns ; but
they are not mentioned—though I’m told there is
a daughter. M.L. had got used to the large
brood of dear little Plunkets, and will be on the
look-out for small Poynders. The new potentate
owns two country seats, and a town residence in
Mayfair. These are an earnest of his being able
to give the Maorilanders some entertaining.
Mrs. George Reid proceeded to London last
week; and she did it under the wing of the
Dowager Lady Dudley. She and her stout hus-
band are suspected of powerful social leanings.
Miss Reid is to be sent to Paris, there to acquire
that glitter and polish which (or so it is faithfully
held in certain quarters) Burwood cannot give’;
and the Reid boys, who have lately had a private
tutor, go to Harrow. The Dudleys took a fancy
to the Reids, more especially to the main humor-
ist of the family, whose like they had probably
never encountered, nor expected to. on earth. If
the Dowagerdoesn’t tire before England is reached,
she should be the most useful sponsor and guiding
star. But there lies the danger. It has been
recorded by many an butraged Australian that
people who are It in the great world of London
prove to beamazinglyanddisconcertir.gly different,
when at home, from what they are in the outlying
parts of the Hempire.
Australians in London write in consternation
anent Mr, George Reid. The natives look for
gravity in their representative institutions ; and
the chronic waggishness of our old Dry Dog fills
the Foggy City with something that is between
pain and amazement. As a result of his unending
efforts to be bright and amusing, the superior
Britisher has acquired a vague sort of an idea that
the Australian High Commissioner is a curious
fat person, a sort of cross, between Barnurn and
John L. Toole, who may be expected to stand on
his head in the street at any moment, and who
will, perhaps, be useful at garden parties when
Little Ticli has given out. Which is embarrassing
for Australia.
I got this from a nice man :
Dear Akenehi,—Concerning your remark: “If there
is a citizeness of this State who has scant opportunity of
fathoming the characters of those she meets here, it is
(after the Governor’s wife) the spouse of t,he Admiral for
the time being. A temporary divinity doth hedge her
round, as a result of which she rarely hears the un-
pleasant truth spoken, and is never suffered to get below
the surface of things local.” Rather! A hundred or less
3' ears ago a hospital nurse asked an admiral's wife who
professed great interest in the uplifting of humanity,
especially of female humanity, to use her social influence
on behalf of the sweated hospital nurses. “ What! ” ex-
claimed her philanthropic Excellency. “Do you know what
you reasking? Andwhatitmeans? You want, I expect, an
. u UrS ’ day >. instead ol .V°ur present 12 hours’ day !
Whatabout the sick poor? For, of course, you’d want to
be paid as much for the eight-hours’ day as you are now
for 3 T our 12 hours. That would mean more nurses
and an increased expenditure, and, therefore, less money
and nursing for the poor sick. Some of the wards might
be shut up! How uncharitable you are! Put up wTth
your Jot and don’t try to make money at the expense of
the sick poor !” Which meant, if it meant anything, that
nurses have to make of themselves a sacrifice. Why
should nurses have to do that? I haven’t heard that
a< ?roiralB pay back their salaries to the Treasury, and are
willing to serve their King- and country merely o*n account
of patriotism. As it happened, the nurse to whom this
Excellencj’ addressed her reproof belonged to a hospital
whose nurses aren’t paid a single cent. If they were paid
10 times as much for eight hours’work as they are now
paid for their 12 hours* work, they would still be getting
nothing a week. It s always like this. Women —especially
fashionable women—are the last persons to help their
Si ifrs* thank Allah daily—like Bruce Smith’s wise
Mohammedan brothers—that I was born a man-child.
Poor Ladj' Poore! What a big pebble she
threw into the Commonwealth pond. It is still
making circles. Several of my friends who have
no more imagination than a scrub turkey are
protesting that they have it. They don’t know
what it is, but they’ve got it. When I was ram-
bling on the subject last Letter I didn’t tell you
of the school marm who some years ago remon-
strated with me upon the manner of my mention
of a picture of roses in our National Gallery. I
think it was Grace Joel’s painting, and what I
wrote was—“ Those roses have souls, and their
mother was the sunset.’’ The appreciation had
been unconsciously suggested by a verse of
Edmund Gosse:—
The languid sunset, mother of roses,
Lingers a-light on the magic seas;
The white fire flames as a flower uncloses,
Heavy with odor and loose to the breeze.
The young-idea trainer wrote me that my
comment was vulgar and irreverent—the sunset
was not capable of maternity and flowers had not
souls—and gave me kindly advice about art
criticism. I replied entreating her to call on me,
for I wanted to know from what department of
the Zoo she had escaped. She came. A pretty,
faded woman who had had “a private ladies’
school ” for years ; but was now married, well-off
and “devoted to watercolors.” She persisted in
her charge of vulgarity, and I showed her the verse.
She knew Gosse’s poems, she said. “ That,”
she replied, “is poetry. In writing prose or talk-
ing, I like, and I think other women like, common-
sense.” She was surely one of the kind that
plagues Lady Poore ! But I was not taking on
her education, so I showed her my green velvet
dog, and my bronze Buddha, and made a few
commonplace and -sense remarks, and got rid of
her. But there are millions of her in the United
Kingdom as there are thousands of her here.
Portraits of Mrs. Hugh Dixson, wife of the
tobacco magnate of this State, and of Mrs. T. B.
Robinson, wife of the Agent-General for Queens-
land, both in Court raiment, are published in
London. Both ladies bent their spines to royalty
last month, and, judging from their Ich Dien
head-dresses, their huge posies, and the surplus
amount of gown-tail lying on the photographer's
studio floor, they did their respective States
credit. Ivory satin, ninon and gold, crystal
and pearl wheat-ear embroidery are men-
tioned in the description of Mrs. Robinson’s
gown, and amongst its other embellishments was
a knot of silk balls strung on crystal on the front
of the tunic. Deponent speeifieth not, but every
self-respecting Paw-Paw will hope that there
were more or fewer than three balls. Anyhow,
they were not gilded ; so much is made plain.
Our Mrs. Dixson’s gown was such a charmer that
she will be guilty of cruelty to Australians if she
does not bring it back with her and wear it at,
say, a Women’s Patriotic Club razzle. Black
chiffon, over gold tissue, embroidered in jet and
a court train of cut velvet embossed on gold
brocade, are some of the things said of the garni-
ture of the dame of Summer Hill.
The most striking vision at the Norland Nurses’
ball was Mrs. Hugh Denison. It was suggested
that in a sheath gown she looked like Undine
brought up to French fashion-plate date. A tunic
of shot-green, gold and blue tissue, encircled an
underdress of cloth of gold. The tunic was bor-
dered with emerald green, and from it depended
a deep gold fringe.
Mrs. Miklouho Macleay, with a big wreath of
pink rosebuds and forget-me-nots on her grey hair,
and white satin and lace on the rest of her,
was a picturesque figure. Mrs. Greig Smith (the
founder) was an apple-green charmeiise vision ;
and Mrs. W. Chisholm (president) glittered black
diamond-wise in jetted net. Mrs. Rutter’s was a
snow-white and jet-black outfit; and Mrs. Onslow
Thompson’s black robe, worn with black wings in
her bright hair, could not be criticised adversely.
Dr. Router Roth did the Eiffel Tower man in the
debutantes’ set.
At the same frivol, Miss Florette Murray-
Prior, who is being congratulated by her friend's
on her engagement, was an all pink girl in a
gown brought from foreign parts. Her fiance is
Mr. Sydney Herring, second son of Mr. Gerald
Herring, once Under-Sec. for Mines.
A belated congratulation to the beknighted
John Downers, of S. Australia, on the arrival
of some stork-luggage. The handsome mother was
Miss Una Russell, of Kirribilli way, and her
marriage to the heavyweight knight occurred
some 11 years ago.
Miss Fan Dango, reports says (in fact, shouts),
will make her home in Australia—to be specific,
in Victoria. The true-lovers’ knots are being
embroidered on her hankies, and the gilt-edged
male security for the little dancer’s future better-
or-worse will be nearly ready to take on, for a
second time, the white man’s burden when the
damsel returns from W.A.
Hordes of Dangars, Stephens, Lambs and
Knoxes (the bride is a Knox off-shoot) were at the
Turnbull-Robinson wedding mentioned in my last
letter. Moonbara, Port Hacking—where the
ghosts of so many dead honeymoons prowl round
that the caretaker’s rest is disturbed, and where
the myriad sounds of phantom kisses keep the
’possums awake o’ nights—was lent by the
Arthur Allens for a space.
Miss Kidman, daughter of the South Australian
cattle-king, told a ha’penny-paper interviewer in
London that she had come 12,000 miles to buy
her trousseau. Now. Maoriland may indulge in
great expectations! For the king’s daughter is to
marry a modest young man (not belonging to anv
of the reigning families) in Wellington. The
remainder of the little interview would seem to sug-
gest that the princess had gone 12,000 miles to
buy her wedding clothes cheaply. She cannot
know much about swell shops:—
In Paris the best things never seem to be shown in
the windows, but are only brought out when one is in-
side the establishment, and consequently under a certain
obligation to buy.
I confess, too, that the domineering and off-hand
manner of the French shop assistant does not appeal to
me.
It’s very different in London. Here you walk down
the street and pick out things that appeal to you from
The hair does not fall out under normal
conditions, and anyone who allows it to do so for
any length of time unchecked is liable to see it
lose all its beauty and thickness. Moreover, pre-
mature greyness is the certain result of neglected
hair trouble. Those who are wise will not waste
their money on advertised hair tonics. There is
no ready-made remedy for falling hair. Expert
individual treatment is what is needed. The
Hygeia Individual Treatment will cure the scalp
disease which causes falling hair, dandruff and pre-
mature greyness. The President, Mrs. Cowling,
the hair specialist, prescribes personally for each
case. She may be consulted, free of charge, any
day but Saturday between 2.15 and 4.45, and on
Wednesday between G and 7. Those who cannot
call may write for booklet and testimonials, en-
closing 3d. stamps to cover postage, etc. Letters
should be addressed to the President, Dept. B,
Hygeia Limited, Ocean House, Moore Street,
Sydney.*
the window, and when you enter the shop to buy the
assistants are all courtesy, interest and {rood-nature.
But in poor despised Sydney and Melbourne,
probably in Adelaide also, the best things are not
put in the windows of the best shops. In London
and Paris they most certainly are not, either, for
the good reason that the swellest establishments
there have no “show” windows. A tiny brass-
plate is all that indicates that the seats of the
mighty fashion-arbiters are hidden from the fierce
light that beats upon plate-glass fronts. And you
want some one absolutely “ in the know ” to take
you there. So far as outside show is concerned,
you might be going to see a nerve-specialist.
Miss Kidman is missing more than she knows. As
for the incivility of the French—well, they have
been punished by the Seine. If Miss Kidman
went there now she’d get no end of luck on the
bargain-counters.
The J. C. Williamsons have deferred their d%
parture and go by the Gneisenati, so tiie Otway
shouldered out of our waters without them. Mrs.
and the two children are going about with one
arm each put out of commission by the vaccina-
tion trefoil. I think it is a shamrock you get
from the anti-smallpox needle.
Miss Muskett, the artist-sister of the doctor
who has written much valuable information at
Australians, departed by the Marmora on a
recent week.
Miss Ola Humphrey has had to have her
appendix excised. When the necessity arose she
was playing at a music hall in a half-hour thing
called “ I Dine with My Mother.” Now, if it had
been with her mother-in-law one might under-
stand the appendicitis.
Mr. E. W. O’Sullivan’s friends will be sorry to
hear that he has been compelled to go into
hospital, and this after lying up for many weeks
at his own home. One of his honorable toes, a
major toe, has had to be removed, the result of
blood-poisoning.
The Sydney Stage Society will produce on
May 5 and 6, at the Standard Theatre, “The
Caskilis Engagement,” by St. John Hankin. Miss
Dorothy Grimston, who starred here in “The
Flag Lieutenant,” will stage-manage the show
and take a part. Mrs. T. H. Kelly will play
Mrs. Cassilis, and other rbles will be sustained by
Misses Kathleen Beattie, Hilery, Raymond and
Hanbury Davies, and Messrs. Champion and
Innes Noad. “The Cassilis Engagement,” which
is a four-act comedy, was produced originally by
Madge Mclntosh in London in 1907. It will be
the first sample of a charming and literary writer’s
work that Australia will have seen.
Young Godfrey Ludlow, son of Dr. Buxton
Ludlow, of this capital city, who has been study-
ing under Sevcik for some years, is now making
his violin sing on a tour through the Orient. He
will later play in Vienna and Trieste, and later
still will come his London debut. His native
country will welcome him when he is quite silver-
pointed and his virtuosity an assured thing.
Contrary to the expectations of the croakers,
“ Madam Butterfly ” has drawn nearly as well as
a good race meeting. Musical fanatics have lent
eyes and ears to the opera again and yet again.
Mr. Arundel Orchard, for one, confesses to having
walked into the “ Butterfly’s” net eight times.
Dear, dear ! And I have not yet recovered from
my two times!
Which reminds me that I have received an in-
furiated anonymous letter from the local lady in
love with the tenor Zerga. The imported male
singer or mummer is always sure of a local lady-
love who will write (backhand) anonymous, in-
furiated letters on his behalf to unappreciative
press persons. But no devout lover, male or
female, should hand-write his or her infuriations.
They should be typed. So will possible compli-
cations be avoided.
Contralto Ella Caspers is doing well near the
Thames. She has made six appearances in 12
months in connection with the Royal Academy.
Looking through a terribly “profound” book
by a German scientist, I was hit by this brick
thrown by the writer : “ Women are never great
criminals; they are too low in the intellectual
scale.” Possibly, if I had read it through, the
chapter in which that gem was set would make
its sparkle more illuminative. To the scientist
Napoleon was, maybe, a great criminal, and none
will deny that there has never been his female
counterpart. But the criminality of a certain
Russian Countess Tarnowski, now on trial at
Venice for the murder of her fiance, one Count
Kamarowski, leaves nothing to be desired in the
way of cold-blooded malignity. It ought to be
“great ” enough to satisfy the’German writer. I
have just been gazing at the lady’s portrait,
searching for the mark of the beast. She is
described as a beautiful, slender woman of 30.
The mark is not apparent on her face. It
is probably a long, narrow face, for her hair is
dressed to her eyebrows and hides her forehead
from scrutiny. But the eyes, nose and mouth are
fine, and there is nothing audacious about the
jaw. It is an eager, ardent face with great
intelligence, full of expression and refined. A
high-type Jewish face.
Marie Nikolaievitch O’Rourke, for that was her
maiden name, was the daughter of a high Russian
official, who was a descendant of the O’Rourkes of
Ireland. She married a noble, became the mother
of three children, and presently her husband
divorced her after he had shot the officer whom
she had hugged in his presence at a dinner partv.
Report doesn’t tell whether the shot party had
intrigued for the cuddling. It might have exas-
perated him, in which case the shooter shot the
wrong person. One of the lawyers who acted
for her in the divorce proceedings became
enslaved, and absconded with trust-funds for her
expensive sake. A little later she became engaged
to a millionaire soldier and aristocrat, Count
Kamarowski; but as most of his property was en-
tailed, she was not keen on taking him for
better or for worse. She decided to deal out
the worse before the wedding, and got her
lawyer-lover to insure the new love’s life for
£20,000. A third man, a young Russian doctor,
had meanwhile become nearly crazy for love of her,
and,’like the other two infatuated ones, hoped to
marry her. With forged telegrams, purporting
to come from the Count, she made the doctor mad
with jealousy ; then sent him away to kill the
alleged sender. The two men had been friends
but the murder came off successfully. All this
happened nearly three years ago, but
the trial would seem to be in serial-
story form. The murderer apparently recovered
from his hypnotised condition after the crime,
and was a very grieved and repentant sinner.
Ihe lawyer failed to draw the insurance money,
and all three are now “telling on” each other.
Only the two men have broken down ; the siren
hasn t turned a hair, and is now enslaving law
and prison officials at the new address. Greed
and cruelty were the largest items in her character
outfit. Even to her adorers she was a fiend. The
young doctor tells that she used to extinguish her
burning cigarettes on his neck or wrist. But she
was always such a smiling, well-dressed, charm-
ing fiend that he endured the agony rather than
ruffle her by protests.
Curious how two winged things, the chanticleer
and tlie aeroplane, are brooding over our millinery
from veil to crown. Hens, cocks, pheasants,
bantams, parrots, owls and the rest of Rostand’s
properties are on the hats, and in the mesh of the
veils (so a foreign correspondent says) are worked
the winged-insect kingdom and the bruises yon
get on the cheek or under the eye when you fall
out of your airship. The possibility of falling out
of your air vessel and escaping with a bruised face
is very remote. But perhaps the fashion writer
has what Lady Poore denied to Australian women
—imagination.
A friend, writing from London, mentions that
artist Lambert has painted a large portrait of the
King, and that it is on exhibition upon the pre-
mises of the Modern Society of Portrait Painters.
The Daily Mail gives the painter much praise
for the work. Lambert and Harold Parker, the
Australian-born sculptor, are, it is asserted, two
good tips for the A.R. A. vacancy caused by the
recent death of the painter-man Swan.
“ Two women born on the same day won’t be
50 on the same day,” said a French authority
when asked by some blithering person “ When is
a woman old?” Now, here is Mrs. Mary Con-
nery, of Axedale (Vic.), aged 92, and admitted
to Bendigo Hospital with a fractured thigh,
acquired whilst riding in a horse-race with some
of her relatives. And many women born on the
same day as that plucky, horsey old great-grand-
mother, died of old age 30 years ago. Axedale
ought to be proud of its Mary Connery.
Yours affectionately,
A RKNEHI.


Tounder Loo
Of Akim Foo
Swims within
The ocean blue.
Takes a white pearl
And is able
" . ! jJ.i' a • . /r
Wizard-like to
Make it sable.
Then an oyster
in great glee
Blesses “COBRA”
’Neath the sea.
C-O-B-R-A the Boot Polish!


A
REMARKABLE
RIDE:
SYDNEY TO-
MELBOURNE
-577 MILES-
in 49 HOURS by
Mr. E. A. PEARSON.
This Wonderful Performance,
which betters the previous Record
by 6 hours 56 mins., is one of the
finest Cycle Rides recorded in the
world,
Mr. Pearson naturally chose
the best Tyres procurable and
rode
DUNLOP
TYRES *
Dunlop
Hose
Lasts for
Years.
JflC
DUNLOP
GARDEN IIOSE
will give you every
satisfaction, for it is
made to last. Does
not Kink or Burst.
The fact that more “Dunlop” Hose
is . sold in Australasia than any
other brand, speaks volumes for
its Quality and Durability. Only
accept “Dunlop” Brands.
OBTAINABLE ALL STORES.
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., all State, and NX
$9
I
i
Medical & Toilet. Black & Green r«?
MISS t;iLDA SPONG and SOLYPTOL SOAP.
Miss Hilda Spong, the beautiful and accomplished actress, who commenced her stage career in Australia,
sends the following unsolicited testimonial to the manufacturers of SOLYPTOL SOAP
Messrs. F. H. FAULDING & 00. Savoy Hotel, London, W.C., July 31, 1909.
Dear Sirs,—Your Solyptol Soap was recently brought under my notice, and you may be interested to know that
I have found it absolutely the best skin soap I have ever used. It lathers most freely in the hard London water
its perfume is delightfully refreshing, and it leaves the skin soft and velvety in a manner unobtainable with
any other soap. It is particularly gratifying to me to know that Australia is the home of such a perfect
production. Yours faithfully, HILDA SPONG.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, April IS, 1910.
My Dear Yarrik,—
The Gibson-Carmichael Excellencies gave a
feast of the chrysanthemum, with bagpipe sauce,
at Stonington, on Wednesday, the 13th—a peace-
ful garden-party frivol amidst the wild rage of
electoral war. The feast was in honor of the
Aso-Saya Japs. White men were conspicuously
absent— they were all clawing wildly at the chang-
ing fabric of a Parliament. The most conspicuous
thing about the Jap is that he appears so very
numerous. The net quantity to two boatloads is
appalling; he tints the landscape in a vast,
sinug smile. At the garden party he made a
masculine 10 to one of local womenkind—a
noticeable thing at a lawn-parade, where the frilled
she-bird generally flocks in quantity. Of course
only officers and admirals and such were invited
to the tents of vice-royalty, so the nuinerousness
was even more impressive. Admiral Sneeze (that’s
the Japanese pronunciation to a syllable) wears a
sparse, underfed fringe on his face; he is not
shaven like the other officers, so perhaps the
fringe is Japanese nautical etiquette for Admirals.
Asmatteringof the gold-laced brownies havegrown
a truly British haw-military moustache, at what
effort their gods only know. After how-do and
banzaisin the drawing-room, the Excellencies took
the guests to the terraces and to look at the
roses and the other glories of the Arcadian garden.
The necessary sustenance was spread in tents
swamped in chrysanthemum, and bagpipes
skirled superciliously, to the great interest of the
brown men. This was something new; they
handled the “cushions” and the pipe; so there’ll
be Japanese bagpipes soon, for these people can
copy anything. Sassiety darlings annexed each
her own little man, usually the particular speci-
men who gave her flags and cherry blossom on the
boats at the Admiral’s reception. Each girl
petted and flaunted her catch as if he were the
newest successor to her teddy bear.
The Japanese people, here with their Admiral
and two boats, asked Quality down to Port Mel-
bourne. Not content with the deck space on both
boats, the officers had fenced in that part of the
pier that stretched between the two; so any Aus-
tralian who wanted to rush off the end of his own
pier to suicide could not do it. Several smooth,
polite little officers guarded the ticket entrance to
the roped-off section ; this left a clear hundred
yards wherein everybody might be observed who
approached the wispy-bearded Admiral, flanked
by two orderlies and situated in the centre of an
acre of loneliness. Beyond this was more com-
mandeered pier, with jiu-jitsu mats and wrestling
Japs for the delectation of the guests. The jiu-
jitsu gentlemen were not too heavily clad in the
first instance; after a period of thwack they
were practically nude. Some comic-opera warriors
next took charge of the show. They were bottled
in quaint old armor, each with half a wooden
barrel round his middle.
Despite the huge crowd of guests, none was
allowed to wander about the warboats without
finding a quiet, polite shadow at his elbow. All
the ordinary fixings were trussed up into curious
figures. The fire hose, for instance, was covered
with a thick rug, and a tuck and a cunning touch
here and there had turned the heap into an ele-
phant. Guns were transformed into ravening lions,
with glaring glass eyes in the wrappings of wool
and canvas. A hundred or so things were covered
in this tricky way. What the covered things
were did not always appear. But you knew the
fire hose, because its nozzle made the trunk of the
elephant.
Sassiety girls snuggled alongside of brown men
on the deck and in the saloons, where tea was
served. One woman said : “Tank you ; welly ni’
—welly ni’ tea.” And the smile of the Jap who
had bowed the cup into her hand was curious to
watch. As the guests left, several cock-sparrow
sailors handed out branches of cherry blossom—
good imitations of the real thing, except for the
perfume. Others came away quite happy with
the flag of the Rising Sun flaming from gilt-
nobbed sticks. Poor Australia!
There was a Prince with the ships—a small,
moon-faced cadet, with a name as long as a yard-
arm. The Carmichaels invited him and a brother
cadet to dinner, and included the pretty girls who
had claimed most of his Most Curtailed High-
ness’s attention during the earlier frivolities.
There is a beautiful thing loose in Melbourne.
It is Calve s voice : all glowing and warm like a
ruby, yet round and whole as a pearl. Austra-
lians are naturally looking for comparisons of this
organ with the Melba voice. But they are two
things that cannot be compared. Calve’s voice is
not the only one of its kind. Melba’s is unique.
It is the one voice of ice—ice that burns. Icily
perfect, with the color coming from God-knows-
where, like the flames in a white diamond.
Calve’s voice, on the other hand, glows. And she
has the foreigner’s ease of movement and gesture
—the passionate movements in opera that make
scenic backcloths almost a redundance.
Her dress for Saturday’s opening concert was
“white samite, mystic, wonderful”; the white
shot with gold. A scarf of lace ivory, tinted with
age, tightly covered her beautiful shoulders; a
rope of pearls round her neck ; on her black hair
a curious little coronet, like the Queen of Hearts
wears in the best-regulated fairy books. Not a
diamond on the broad field of chest. To sing
“ Carmen ” she wrapped a great fringed scarf of
gold round her head, and tucked a red flower in
her hair ; she merely changed her expression, not
her dress.
In the “house” Governor Carmichael lay back
happily in a big padded chair with crossed legs
and a whole sock showing (not fancy striped,
thank goodness!). The Carmichael Lady un-
muffled from a gorgeous seal motoring coat to
black and diamonds. She had a round-eyed little
niece with her in an unripe white frock, her hair
twisted up to a morning-tub knot. The Sargood
lady, just returned, put her spy-glasses round the
hall for familiar faces, and accentuated her grey
hair with a guillotine collar—one of those
jewelled black-velvet things like a mastiff’s badge
of subservience. Pretty Miss Addison-Pudney
drooped in blue, with Mrs. Jack Scott and Mrs.
Tait and Mrs. Nuttall. The Railway Taits
brought daughter Winnie, a subdued creature
with her hair bound in hard silver. The Pin-
sehofs were in full force. Mrs. Edwards was
painted-in in one color; hair, eyelashes, eye-
brows and dress one comprehensive corn color
with flesh tints of a fainter wash. In spite of the
crowd the seating was quietly managed; only
Bernard Hall got turned out of his manger, and
walked with a bristling of his cropped hair and
moustache to another stall.
Gasparri has an undeniable voice to add to his
beauty. So matters are clinched ; the Sassiety
girls are his. Someone says he is like Puccini,
the man of melody; but to Australians he is some-
thing between artist Alf Vincent and Mark
Hambourg. Unfortunately he wears rabid pearl
buttons to his waistcoat; but even these are for-
gotten when be sings. He wears one white glove
and holds the other. Evidently this white glove
is his only love. He clasps it—then pulls it
fiercely. In extreme cases of pathetique the poor
kid is rolled into a tight ball and ground fiercely.
It must cost a lot in gloves. In his Italian un-
affected fervor he flings his arms abroad in a wild
yearn to the audience. Twenty spoilt, gilded
girls went straight home and wrote proposals on
the strength of it.
The pianist Pintel, despite his Russian shock of
stiff hair, is not in the running with Tempera-
ment. He is as good as a mechanical piano-
player—accurate, but not enthusiastic.
There is a member of the Calve entourage who
has no Temperament, but has much Braid. He
is a gorgeous creature, covered with military
cordings and mammoth frogs, who opens pianos
and fixes the stage. He came with the co.—such
magnificence could not be picked up everywhere.
Standing at the head of the portico steps, he was
an impressive overture.
In the final number of the Saturday concert —a
duet from “Carmen”—someone went wrong.
Carmen Calve, towering behind the accompanist
and the tenor, with her fan clutched like a dagger,
had murder in her eyes. Nothing happened on
the stage ; but there was no final encore. Prob-
ably a stabbed artist lay writhing in his
gore in the green-room. Calve simply threw her
hibiscus-colored flower to the audience and fled.
Saturday was Commencement Day at the Uni-
versity. Commencement Day has usually been a
howling horror ; but the howls were forbidden
this time, and the show was a funereal thing.
Better the row and the maudlin jokes of pulpy
students than the sleepy, speechy affair of Satur-
day. The gaud Mayor did go to sleep, and had to
be pummelled into activity again. State Ex. Car-
michael lolled back in his chair, showing a full
length of sock, as is his comfortable wont.
Premier Murray scowled through a lengthy
speech, hurled sideways at him, and chockfull
of hints for more Government grant. The only
students there were the degreed, planted in a
gay block of gowned girls and men at the
back of the platform. The degree-conferring is a
lengthy matter ; then speeches, speeches, and more
speeches, all tame, and all listened to in stony
silence. Chancellor Madden might have done
better; but he was absent, and his place was
taken by an understudy.
A concert in the old Conservatorium preceded
the opening of the new Conservatorium building.
Melba laid the stone of the new building, and she
was one of the forces that levered the building
grant from Bent. To its present extent the place
cost £BOOO. It is built in hopes of betterment.
There is a clean stretch of lawn for an acre to the
rear and some space on the flank, ready for addi-
tions. The new place is planted well in the front of
the grounds ; the old was alongside the library, and
students will not regret to miss the wail of prac-
tising violins and the screech of primitive prima
donnas.
Lady Carmichael, in mauve, flimsy drapings,
anchored by amethyst blobs at the foot, helped
the. Governor to unlock the new door. They
managed excellently between them.
Among the degrees conferred was a courtesy
LL.D. on Argus Cunningham. He sustained
the original courtesy "abrawd.” Now the local
Uni. plays to the same tune.
The Governor and Lady Carmichael are taking
a live interest in the Talbot baby question—l
mea.n the Talbot Institute for supplying pure milk
for infants’ use. They intend visiting the dairy
farm on Tuesday, the 19th, and they mean to
follow the milk (as if it were a trail) from the farm
to one of the distributing centres, and thence on
to some of the consumers’ homes, so as to get the
hang of the whole thing. The Institute has been
doing great work since its inception two years
ago. Figuring out shows that it is saving
infant life at a cost of £2 a head, which
is cheap when contrasted with the price paid for
assisted immigrants. More figuring shows that
Talbot-milk babies only depart this life at the
rate of 3 per cent., as compared with an average
rate of B'4 per cent, for babies of all sorts and
conditions in the metropolitan area. And this
splendid record looks all the better whett it is
remembered that crowded South Melbourne is
part of the Talbot area.
The Institute’s dairy farm is at Caulfield, and
every Spot and Strawberry on the premises has
passed the tuberculin test, and the lady’s health
is made a subject of frequent inquiry. The
milking is done by machine ; and the extract,
having been cooled to just above freezing-point,
is run direct into the Institute’s special bottles.
These, having been sealed, are packed in ice
and hurried into the refrigerating chambers at
the Institute’s six distributing depbts. With
each bottle lib. of ice is served, and the goods
make a two-legged race to a small ice-chest
(lent by the Institute). Along with the ice-
chest the Institute lends three specially-trained
nurses, who tell mother how to feed the baby and
keep a careful-record, so that any change in the
little immigrant’s condition may get prompt
attention. Each nurse has about 150 little immi-
grants to look after; and the splendid figures
quoted above show what a fine job she and a
carefully-selected Strawberry and the ice-chest
and scrupulously clean bottles are doing between
them. But the funds, at present, will not run to
winter as well as summer feeding, and it is that
which is worrying the Institute just now; for it
realises that the little Australian who departs
this life in June is just as much dead and lost to
the Commonwealth as its little brother or sister
who leaves in December.
The Gibson-Carmichaels have been busy. The
lady of the smile made a batch of scones at the
opening of the new domestic school, run in con-
junction with Fitchett’s academy, at Hawthorn;
and with hubby she visited Web" Gilbert’s studio,
and expressed much admiration for Web’s bronzes
and bas-reliefs and auto-reliefs. The gentleman
himself is to be shortly put into bronze.
Private-Secretary Victor Hood has been made
aJ.P. I suppose the Carmichael finds it useful
to have one about the house. Ordinary citizens
usually wander around vaguely, waving a printed
document, if they have need of the article. The
Governor’s J.P. has just returned from Queens-
land, bucking himself up with a holidav for the
tempestuous season of winter gaiety. In Banana-
land he was kept busy hunting up old acquaint-
ances—he secretaried for a Queensland vice-
royalty once, as well as for another in S. Aus-
tralia. But he has been and done other
things. Cattle ranching in Mexico in the
’eighty-somethings made him a crack shot and
a rider of fiendish horses; so when he
was in Sicily, later on, rooting up a place belong-
ing to his people, he did not feel out of it in
bandit hunts. He would now be the proud pos-
sessor of several brigands’ scalps (or hats or some-
thing) if capital punishment for prisoners had not
been forbidden in those days.
On the Day of Confusion some of the “Liberals”
showed an intense solicitude for the lowah ordahs.
One innovation was to provide stipendiary male
nurses at the polling booths. The business of
these gentlemen, who received a crown of silver
for the day, was to wait on Mrs. Working-class
when she arrived, and take charge of baby while
she bustied in to record her X. And now they
must have very grave doubts as to the square she
did it in.
“The twins” in the Arcadian Co. are Denton
sisters, daughters of the Charles St. John Denton
who brought the Comic Opera Co. out. Miss
Dora has gone back to England, and Sister Lena
takes her place like a shadow. They are so much
alike that, without an earmark or a chain on the
toe, it is impossible to fix the identity of either.
They both speak with a cunning half-lisp, so that
even their voices don't betray them. Your
Johanna knew there was a twin somewhere, and
thought it was attached to Miss Gillian; but it
appears that there’s only one of her.
A male person writes :
A tall young woman, with a deceased rooster (of the
white Spanish variety) on her head, provided harmless
diversion for the “ Block ” one recent day when the gap-
ing throng was thickest and clerklings' lined the kerb.
She may have been one of the imported fashion-models
from “ The Arcadians” airing her stage headgear under
managerial instructions, in the cause of advertisement;
or she may have been a suburban spinster who had slain
the fatted chook and fixed the bulk of its cold remains on
a home-made millinery framework. To the uncritical eye
she presented no conclusive evidence of her origin. Her
round, uneventful face wore an expression of subdued
alarm at the awful success of her venture. The crowd
chased her up the “ Block ” to the Swanston-street
corner, where she turned and retraced her steps, and the
last I saw of her was when the elevated fowl was dis-
appearing round the far turn of the Block Arcade, with
a stream of excited populace in its wake. Nothing so
attractive in latest fashions had been offered to the rude
world since a certain lady introduced a Directoire gown
and a silken-tighted leg to notice at Flemington races,
and had a string of followers wherever she went. But
the dead bird had the advantage of being visible from
afar, whereas the live leg could only be admired at close
quarters. Besides, there is a sweet, homely back-yard
sentiment about the Chanticleer hat. And to people of
mature age it brings back memories of the dear old
ehinaware egg-dishes of yore, the lid whereof was sur-
mounted by a broody hen. I hope to see the day when
fruitful matrons will walk abroad in emblematic hats,
trimmed with a clutch of chickens.
Some good Australians are asking the public
purse to open for the purpose of bringing home to
their mother’s country the children of the “ Gipps-
land Poet,” Jennings Carmichael, and I hope it
will distend like the public’s eye did when it read
the election results. Born in Ballarat, Jennings
Carmichael, when about 10 years old, went to
Orbost, where her stepfather was manager of a
station belonging to the late W. J. Clarke. About
1889 she came to Melbourne, and, after qualifying
at the Children’s Hospital, was for some time
nurse to the afflicted son of some wealthy people.
Her first book, “ Hospital Children,” was pub-
lished in Melbourne in 1891, and her volume of
collected poems appeared in London in 18951
For awhile she lectured throughout Australia on
“The Spirit of the Bush,” and then went to
England, where she died in 1904, aged only .36.
What became of her husband nobody seems to
know ; but her sons, now aged 13, 10 and 7, are
in the Northampton Union Workhouse ; and it is
to rescue them from there that the good Aus-
tralians, aforementioned, are requesting the public
cash-bax to gape; and it has often gaped on much
poorer provocation.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide
The Excellencies are having a garden party ; that is to
say, they will have had it, Halley's comet and other acci-
dents permitting, between the time that I am writing this
and the moment when it comes under your notice. The
function is to be (or was) chiefly for the Royal Society of
St. George, though what that body has done to deserve it
remains a mystery.
Over a hundred and forty pictures are on exhibition in
the S.A. Society of Arts’ rooms on North Terrace. The
occasion is the Society’s yearly outburst. Taking it all
round, also square, it is a good exhibition, with the usual
preponderance of little landscapes and the usual painful
scarcity of figure-subjects. Hans Heysen contributes
only three canvases, all small and all exquisite ; the
latter adjective fits “The Haywaggon ” in particular.
This picture has some glorious, golden Heysen sunlight.
Will Ashton has six, the most considerable being “ Morn-
ing Rest,” a study of gum trees, full of fine, subdued tones.
Rose McPherson shows some -of her notable still-life
studies—green apples and celery—and a strong head of
an old woman. Bessie Davidson, now on her way back
to Paris and more study, has only one exhibit, a por-
trait of Francis Snow, easily the best piece of portraiture
in the exhibition. Gustave Barnes has six little English
’scapes, full of atmosphere and charm ; and of the two
Hambidge pictures, the better is easily the head of a
pretty girl with a filmy veil round her hat. A very small
canvas with large promise in it is “ A Summer Evening,”
by Ethel Barringer, a Heysen pupil. H. P. Gill has a
dozen pictures, mostly seascapes ; and James Ashton
some queer, bluey, night scenes of Ceylon.
During the opening ceremony the Society of Arts had
a presentation made to it by Mrs. Baird—a bust of her
father, the late Mr. Sheridan, K.C., by Pomeroy, R.A. It
has been exhibited at the London Royal Academy, and
only arrived on these scenes a day or two ago. The
Society accepted it with pleasure, not to say alacrity.
The new little theatre that is being built here has been
leased by the Branscombes for I don’t know how many
years to come. Incidentally, an Adelaide man—Percy
Bevan, son of him who trains the Conservatorium’s
warble —is to be Adelaide manager for Mr. Branscombe.
The cable ship Patrol, with a cargo of Boy, is in our
waters, and the local Girl, or as much of her as can claim
acquaintance with the cargo, is having a whirling time.
There have been various gay revels, including a dance on
board, whereat the cargo acted as host, and acted very
well.
The Vari Sendens are asking Youth and Frivolity to
come to the Rowing Club sheds on the banks of the
Torrens next Saturday. He is President of the Adelaide
Rowing Club, and this revel is by way of irrevocably
shutting the season.
The weather god was in an affable mood for the
S. A. J.C. meeting at Morphettville. But vice-royalty was
sailing over the Gulf at the moment, so most of the peer-
age effaced itself. Mrs. Dearden, who wields a busy quill
as Kathleen Watson, was there with the Register
Thomases ; also there were some Croziers, Scarfes, Ander-
sons, Cruickshanks, Rymills and a few more.
Some matrimonial items: Kenneth, son ofjjthe John
Milnes, and the Anthony Fotheringhams’ pretty damsel,
Hazel, one of the most graceful girls we have to spare, are
to wed ; also, lawyer Stanley Skipper, who is burgling the
harbor city for his bride.' She is Kathleen Beach, the
striking-looking and jolly daughter of a family that
originally dwelt in South Aus., and we shall be pleased
to have her back again.
Miss Anna Stirling and Mr. Russell Booth were married
recently. He is secretary to the Traramy Trust; she is
a daughter of the Stirlings who dwell at Mount Lofty.
The Caledonian Society is going to dance all over the
Town Hall on May sth. There are to be fancy sets, and
his Ex. and the graceful Admiraless and the vice-regal
daughters will look in upon the ball while it rolls.
Port Adelaide’s municipal monarchs, Mr. and Mrs,
Rofe, held a reception last week, and had the Town Hall
decorated with flowers, music and tea-tables. There was
a string- band among the palms, and pretty little Ivy
Phillips lifted her pretty big contralto voice; and Ger.
trude Lewis recited to aid the ball of conversation on its
arduous way.
Mrs. J. H. Angas died at the family place, “Collin-
grove,” near Angaston, last week. She was the daughter
of a mill-owner in Cheshire, and the late millionaire (or
thereabouts) met her while visiting the British speck in
1855. Thej’ were married soon after and came to Aus
tralia, Mrs. Angas being then a girl of 20.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


Schweppes “Dry.
4 ♦./
•i
v
■C*
i r s
lu
v.
‘n
1
I; I
Pa -u
7 r s ;
* fa
ffl«al&‘,' ; « u s ■ s.
-
'■m
m
Always Order
Schweppes
Dry Ginger Ale.
jZ?
Avoid Substitutes
and Imitations.
Awarded
Grand Prix,
i r
London, 1908.
Schweppes Lime Juice Cordial
Verse Competition Results.
THE OMAR-KHAYYAM VERSE COMPETITION.
The Final Judge, Mr. DANIEL LEVY, M.L.A., in his report writes as follows:
A good number of excellent verses are to be found amongst those sent in. I
could not help feeling that it was a great pity that some recognition could not be
accorded to some of the competitors not being prize-winners. I found it hard to
reject some of these’contributions—they are of a very high order of merit. I arrived
at my final decision only after most careful consideration and reflection.
I AWARD THE PRIZES AS FOLLOWS
FIRST PRIZE, £2s.—Mrs. W. H. Monckton, Pacific Street, Manly, N.S.W.
“ Breathes there a man who never yet has heard
The name of Schweppes ? The notion is absurd !
By Land-or Sea—in North, South, East, or West—
Schweppes’ Lime Juice Cordial is a Household Word.
Omar, thou should’st be living in these times,
Schweppes’ Rubaiyat to sing in rosy rhymes ;
For, lo ! thy purple vintage pales before
The golden splendor of Montserrat’s Limes ! ”
THIRD PRIZE, £6.—W. A. Tainsh, Melbourne, Victoria:—
“The day is hot, and brazen is the sky,
The throats of thirsty citizens are dry ;
Perspiring men within the tavern stand,
In vain to find refreshment do they try.
But there comes one the thirstiest and best
Who’s sampled every drink with searching test.
Cries he, l ’Tis LIME JUICE CORDIAL you require.’
And, lo ! in ‘SCHWEPPES” they find their heart’s desire.” -
THE LAST LINE COMPETITION.
(SECOND AND FOURTH PRIZES, and TEN PRIZES OF £l EACH.)
A. SECOND PRIZE, £lo—Mrs. Isa Mary Allfrey, Mysia, Victoria :
“ I wish no other brand but this from New Year to December.”
B. FOURTH PRIZE, £4.—A. B. Munt, Stawell, Victoria
“ All people that are wise use Schweppes’ from New Year till December.” '
C. TEN PRIZES OF £1 each.—T. A. Bernol, Geelong, Victoria ’•
1. —“ This loving cup when far away in England’s chili December.”
Mrs. J. Gyles, Casterton, Victoria:
2. “ To bring a larger bottle when we picnic in December.”
Llewelyn Giles, Adelaide, South Australia :
3. “To order more, we’re pretty sure to have a warm December.”
R. Peploe, North Perth, Western Australia :
4. “ To bring some of this nectar to our picnic next December.”
J. E. Flynn, Pomborneit, Victoria :
5. “ That nothing equals Schweppes’, my lass, for tropical December.”
Miss Muriel Brewster, Carlton, N. 8. Wales :
6. “To order in enough of this to last us till December.”
S. Boddy, Perkin Street, Newcastle : .
7. “ To have Schweppes’ Lime Juice Cordial at our wedding in November.”
A. O’Connor, 13 Kellett Street, Darlinghurst, N. S. Wales :
8. “ Schweppes’ brands are best, and. stand all tests from January to December.”
Miss G. Levy, Fowler Street, Camperdown, N. S. Wales
9. “This drink’s the best to quench your thirst through parching hot December.”
G. Studdy, Geelong, Victoria :
10. “ The coolest draught, oh ! sweetest maid, is this in fierce December.”
Always Order Schweppes Dry Ginger Ale
Avoid All Substitutes and Imitations.


A. SAUNDERS’ HANDSOME PRESENTS.
A. SAUNDERS.
PICKLE JAR and FORK, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver,
Crystal Glass Jar,
17/6
Other Styles 22/6, 25/, 30/, 35/
THOUSANDS OF OTHER BEAUTIFUL IDEAS IN STOCK.
USEFUL -PRACTICAL MODERATELY PRICED.
A. SOUNDERS.
TEAPOT, Pure Silver-plated on White Metal,
Handsomely Embossed, Waratah Design,
35/-
Other Styles, 17/6, 21/, 25/, 30/, 40/.
ilatl
asunv
MmnM
*****
LIU'JU'J'J'J
Villa*
niiii'ja
HMSs
•j'JU
A. SAUNDERS.
INKSTAND, Silver-plated Stand, Crystal Glass Bottles.
12/0-
Other Styles, 10/6, 15/6, 20/, 25/.
b-AU
A. SAUNDERS.
EGG STAND, 2 Cups and Spoons, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, Gilt-lined,
Richly Fluted, 25/-
Other Styles, 21/, 25/, 30/, 35/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HOT-WATER JUG, Pure Sil-
ver-plated, Hand-engraved,
Highly Burnished,
15/6-
Otlier Styles, 25/, 30/, 35/.
■
A. SAUNDERS.
BISCUIT BARREL, Silver-
plated Mounts, Fancy Floral
China, 10/6-
Other Styles, 7/6, 9/6, 10/6,
12/6, 15/, 17/6, 20/.
Wingfield KowbothamaC-
A. SAUNDERS.
MEAT CARVERS, 3 Pieces, Xylonite Handles,
Silver-plated Mounts,
27/6-
With Poultry Carvers, 45/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SWEETS DISH, Pure Silver-plated
Frame, Fancy Floral China Shell
Pattern Dish, 8/C-
Other Styles, 4/6, 6/6, 7/6.
\ A. t SAUNDERS.
SERVIETTE RING, Pure Silver-plated,
A 1 Quality, Satin Finish,
7/6.
Other Styles, 1/0, 2/6, 3/6, 4/<j, <5/6,
0/6,. 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
DIVISION VEGETABLE DISH, Pure
Silver-plated Nickel Silver, 2 Com-
partments,
30/-
Other Styles, 45/, 50/. 60/.
A. SAUNDERS.
OAK BUTTER DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Mounts, Porcelain China
Lining, 7/6-
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CRUET, 4-Bottle, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, Guaranteed
Quality, Crystal Glass Bottles,
17/6.
Other Styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUTTER’ DISH,' Sterling Silver, Handsomely Em-
bossed, Pure Crystal Cut Glass Lining,
20/-
In Silk-lined Case, with Knife, 25/.
4
LONDON 5c SYDNEY-
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON DESSERT KNIVES and FORKS, Pure
Silver-Plated, A 1 Quality, in Silk-lined Case,
50/-
With Ivory or Pearl Handles, 60/.
With Half-dozen Afternoon Teaspoons and Tongs, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
SALAD BOWL AND SERVERS, Silver-plated Nickel
Silver, Handsome Floral Decoration, China Bowl,
20/-
V Other Styles,; 12/6, 17/6, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Imitation Seal PEGGY PAG, Good, Strong Lining,
Nickel Frame, Well Finished Throughout,
5/6-
o:her Styles, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6, 11/6, 12/6.
fflff n
A. SAUNDERS.
FRUIT SALAD .or PRESERVE DISH, Art .Hand; .
decorated Floral; Dish,- Silver-plated Nickel Silver
Frame, 15/6-
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SUGAR and CREAM STAND,
Pure Silver-plated Nickel Sil-
ver, Floral China Jug and
Dish, Handsomely Finished,
207-
Other Styles, 10/6, 15/6,
20/, 25/, 30/.
m
i
’MI
A. SAUNDERS.
FERN POT, Pure Silver-
plated Richly Embossed,
10/6
Other Styles, 8/6, 13/6,
17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS, ...
TEAPOT STAND, Fancy China Base, Silver-
plated Frame, 5/6-
Other Style, with Handles, 8/6.
UPS'.
(wv
m
cJ
A. SAUNDERS.
5-BRANCH FLOWER EPERGNE, Pure Silver-
Plated, • Fancy Glass Tubes, in Ruby or Crystal,
20/-
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
BREAKFAST CRUET,
by Jas. Dixon, Silver-
plated Nickel Silver,
Crystal Glass Bottles,
10/6.
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/d,
12/6, 15/.
SAUNDERS
HANDSOME PRESERVE DISH, Pure Silver-plated
Nickel Silver Frame, Art Hand-decorated, Floral
China Dishes, 15/0-
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
JAM DISH, Pure Silver-
plated Nickel Silver, Crystal
Glass Dish, S/6-
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
AFTERNOON TEA SPOONS and TONGS, Pure
Silver-plated, Shell Design, in Velvet-lined Case,
10/0
Other Styles, 7/6, 12/6, 15/6, 20/.
JEWELLER,
yt^aotir
fk MAKER /
SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809,811.815.815.817. GEORGE ST. (Opposite Railway Sralion) SYDNEY.N.S.W.
(SILVERSMITH
LTlffcj
&PTICIANJ


Just tHe Time and Place
for a KODAK
THE KODAK is always ready and reliable. It will take good
photographs under any ordinary circumstances. You need no
previous knowledge of photography, and no dark room is
required. Every operation can be carried out in daylight with
certainty and ease.
A complete book of instructions is supplied with every instrument,
in addition to which our expert knowledge is always at your disposal,
either by correspondence or in person.
Kodaks range in price from 265., Brownie Kodaks from ss.
All Kodak Supplies are sold at English List Prices.
Call or write for a free copy of the Kodak Catalogue, which gives
full particulars and prices of Kodaks, and all photographic accessories.
//? w*
LIJ
mi
m
m
y*
II
v\
i
#
m
0
~' x «
h!K
W
-!r'
Taße one of these KODAKS with you.
No. 1 Folding Pocket Kodak
is a compact little Camera that takes pictures
2^in. x 3^in., and has a capacity of 12
exposures without reloading. It possesses a
Meniscus Lens, the Pocket Automatic Shutter,
and a brilliant, reversible Finder.
Price £2 2s.
Postage Extra,
Hr
No. 3 Folding Pocket Kodak
takes pictures x and has a
capacity of 6 or 12 exposures without reloading.
It is fitted with an R.R. Lens, F.P.K. Automatic
Shutter, two tripod sockets, brilliant Reversible
Finder, and Automatic Focussing Lock.
Price £3 12s. 6d.
Postage Extra,
1/3.
No. 3a Folding Pocket Kodak
takes pictures 3-^in. x s^in., the popular post-
card size, and is fitted with an R.R. Lens, th'e
F.P.K. Automatic Shutter, two tripod sockets,
brilliant Reversible Finder, with hood, and an
Automatic Focussing Lock.
Price £4 lOs. Posta *% Extra ’
AUSTRALIAN KODAK, LIMITED,
Incorporating' Baker & Rouse Propty. Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney.
78-80 Queen St., Brisbane.
“ The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba, Q. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill.
37 Rundle St., Adelaide
6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
CHiTtminxingrdjpDmmininnppm
-rrfff &
A
SARGENTS’ SUPERIOR
ERVICE SATISFIES
SARGENTS’ CAFE is as pleasant a place to
dine in as could well be planned. The dining
halls are spacious, and appointed in the most
luxurious manner. The menu is excellent,
and, apart from being on quite an elaborate
scale, represents the season's choicest eatables,
all deftly prepared by a highly proficient and
experienced chef.
The increasing number of connoisseurs
who dine daily at the Cafe is a commentary on
the superior goodness of the cuisine. Dine at
Sargents'; you will relish the home-like meals
and appreciate the quick and courteous service
given you. Tariff from J/-
SARGENTS LTD.
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt Street
( Phone—Office, 3559; Cafe, 1876; Catering 1 , 4250).
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth Street
(’Phone— City, 1344).
A
-
3
Ilf
8
7f
m
m
m
tv
■m.
ZW.yZiK-Y.y/Si
\
SBS
4260
Specialties : WEDDING CARES. MEAT PIES, PASTRY
/war" 1


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies* hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland. & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London. (
STIFF JOINTS.
From whatever source arising there can be no
greater cause of pain than that inflicted by stiff
joints. Like a badly fitting door the bending or
straightening of the leg or arm, or the part affected
moves with a jar, so excruciatingly painful that it
is only a matter of time before the joints become
fixed Bathing, friction, oils, liniments and oint-
ments have in thousands of cases provea utterly
unavailing. Stiff joints that have resisted all
other treatment have yielded to the powerfu
influence of Comstock’s Nerve and Bone Liniment.
Persevering use of this liniment will cause ttie
most stubborn case to relax.
Sold bv all leading chemists and storekeepers,
nrice 2s 6d.; or will be sent post free at same price
by The W H. Comstock Co , Ltd., 58 Pitt Street,
Sydney.*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALCOORLIE and COOLGARDIE.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Jeffries-Johnson scrap comedy proceeds on
its humorous course. One almost infallible way to arouse
interest and sustain it in any scrap in the (treat and
glorious U.S. A. is to get the gentleman known in sporting
circles as “ the wowser” on the warpath. When “the
wowser ” gets loose the whole sporting community arises
as one man and backs up the particular gamble attacked.
The J.-J. scrap is a very dubious business any-
how, and apparently the gentlemen who are running
it have determined to stifle all ideas as to its
genuineness by getting someone to work a city
council and a congress of some religious sect to
inquire loudly if nothing can be done to stop the
mill. Result, a wave of enthusiasm. But hardly had the
wave got going when it was spoiled somewhat by the
press resentment at the institution of a special and ex-
clusive “press service” in connection with the two
gentlemen who will, D.V., and Mammon permitting,
stoush one another. N.Y. World and Son and Chicago
Tribune, all papers which, in their own allotments, can
raise considerable dust, bitterly resented the dodge and
practically declared war.
To come away from newspaper views, which in
the U.S. are mostly mendacious, the private person who
knows his America doesn’t give Jeffries a hope if the
battle is fought on the square. The writer met a well-
known Australian doctor the other day who, on arrival in
N’York recently, was interviewed as to, among other
things, his estimate of Johnson’s fighting capacity. He
nave it as his regretful opinion that Johnson was a
physical marvel, and as skilled a boxer as he
had met in the course of a long acquaintance
with the ring. Having heard on good authority that
Jeffries is afflicted with a “ heart,” and knowing, from
personal inspection, that he had 231 b. of hog-fat to get-
off, the medico expressed the view that the white cham-
pion was doomed. The papers didn’t print that part of
the interview. The fact is the American public yearns
madly to see Johnson wiped out; and it can’t endure
prophecies which run counter to its hopes. And, as the
newspapers there lay themselves out to give their readers
what they want and nothing else, a dense haze of fat-
headed ignorance obscures the whole trouble.
Two things may defeat Johnson, and only two.
The first is Money. Certain picture-show folks are pre-
pared to give him £BOOO to take-a good, gory, spec-
tacular hiding. The second is Funk-—not, needless to
state, of Jeffries, but of the crowd. Those who saw the
cheeky, debonair Ethiopian in these law-abiding parts
have no conception,, it is said, of the self-effacing way in
which he comports himself in his native land. When he
came to N’York to fix up terms with Jeffries, his whilom
cocksureness was all gone. He agreed servilely to every-
thing that was proposed and never speechified once. He
had'intended to visit his home in Texas. A curt intima-
tion reached him that if he did, and brought his wife, he
would be first tarred, then feathered, then banged. Pos-
sibly the idea of being hanged in so absurd a garb
revolted him. Anyhow, he stayed away. Arrangements are
to be made before the big fight, to search each individual
spectator for guns, revolvers and such like lethal
hardware. It is recognised " that if a Johnsonian
wallop puts the Caucasian idol out of action, the
next act in the drama, unless precautions are
taken, will be the untimely passing of the walloper per
medium of a ball cartridge. Johnson knows all that, and
it is not going to help him in the coming fray. A pug has
to be captain of a pretty resolute soul to do himself jus-
tice under such auspices.
* * * *
Although there was no word that Jeffries had
left his punch lying around and forgotten the locality,
the fact that thie cable recently announced that he had
recovered it suggests that it had been mislaid. It was
on February 21 that the ex-champion gave his first public
exhibition of training, and the press gentlemen who were
allowed to see him went dotty. According to them, the
whole audience did the same, for we are told that his
exhibition of footwork was “ marvellous” ; that he was
faster than when he fought Corbett seven years ago ; his
shadow boxing feats made the spectators “hold their
breath"; his chair exercise “ made their heads swim”;
and his general wonderfulness broke them all up. The
explanation is that the report was supplied by Mr.
Berger’s tame reporter, and as he is paid to write stuff
like 'this, he writes it even if'the eyes of his readers
burst. But it is all part of the great scheme of bluff and
ad. Meanwhile, Johnson is training on a system of 10-
mile runs.
* * * *
A scrap that attracted much interest in Mel-
bourne was fought at the Cvclorama the other Monday,
when Starlight junior butted into_ Ed Gordon, pride of
the army and navy. Starlight 11. is son and heir of the
dandy colored coon who-has been putting it all over this
continent for the past 50 years or so. The fight was of a
startling suddenness. In the first round Starlight 11.
pawed about, and seemed nervously deranged; in the
second he smote Ed Gordon in the dead centre and
middle of his feelings, and the pride of the military and
the marine was five minutes recovering his breath. There
still remains some dubiousness re the ability of Starlight
(second edition); but there is not the smallest doubt
concerning the power of the impact when he hits with all
his’eart.
• * * *
Richard Arnst is now in Sydney and busy
paddling up and down the historic river with a view to
arriving at the post of the Parramatta Hundred fit and
well. He has a new Towns-built boat, which with two
others he will take with him to the Zambesi. Why he
requires three boats in which to row one race passeth all
understanding.
* m * *
“Wanganui”: The Whelch-Arnst contest for
the sculling supremacy of the planet was not a race. It
was a procession, with one good little man rowing desper-
ately to tear the bauble from a very good big man, who
was 10 lengths ahead most of the time, taking a leisurely
pull for the good of his health and his banking account.
At the end of 100yds. Whelch was leading by about half a
length. Then the big rowing machine got properly
going, and, pulling a lovely, long stroke, went away a
clear 10 lengths. Whelch sprinted desperately, but he
could not hold the champion. Two minutes from the
start the race was over. After passing the mile-post
Arnst generously slowed down and allowed his plucky
little opponent to gradually creep up, until he
was only three lengths behind. Then the gun went off.
The big ex-cyclist could have won by 30 lengths if he had
rowed himself out. The time—2Lmin. 50 3-ssec.—was
fair considering the bad water and the lack of incentive
to hurry. Arnst’s capabilities in a boat are still unknown.
Some-day, perhaps, a man will arise who will extend the
champion from “Go!” to {run, and then the sculling
world will see a race fit for the gods. Present scribe
doesn’t reckon that Barry, of Fogland, will be able to
seriously trouble the big liaorilander ; but he looks with
some hope towards,a young man named Hagney, who is
also an ex-bike pusher.
• * * *
Brief biography of Richard Arnst, the 100-h.p.
rowing-machine that retained the world’s championship
the other day: Born at Tai Tapu, a great Cow district,
close to Christchurch (M.L.), Nov. 28, 1883. Father a
farmer and a German ; mother English. Brought up on
the farm. Took to road cycling at 18. Third, and
second-fastest time, M.L. Dunlop Road Race, 1903.
Second-fastest time Warrnambool Race, 1903. (Race was
won off scratch by brother Jack.) Took to the track and
won the M.L. Wheel Race, 1903. Raced in M.L. and Aus-
tralia till 1906, when he bagged the Sydney Thousand off
90 yards. A Christchurch man, J. H. Parker, persuaded
him to take to sculling, and a Christchurch syndicate put
up the cash to have him taught to shove boats by George
Towns on the Parramatta. Spent six months falling out
of boats and swimming ashore. Won Rush Handicap,
February 16, 1907. Lost a race on Easter Monday same
year through falling out of boat. In July won
a handicap at Maclean (N.S.W.) off ssec. Found
himself on scratch, and has stayed there since.
Went round Australia and M.L. seeking whom he could
devour at £2OO a time. Wiped out Harry Pearce on the
Parramatta by four lengths, and then tackled Webb, the
world’s champion. On December 16, 1908, rowed down
the Wanganui many lengths ahead of Webb, and took the
title and cash. In June, 1909, again showed Webb the
way down his own river, and collected more cash. Last
January won the Wanganui Handicap off scratch ; and on
April 4, 1910, demonstrated to Geo. Welch that a good
big man is much better than a good little man, and in-
cidentally collected more cash. After the Sydney Handi-
cap he meets Englishman Barry on the Zambesi —on
August 18. He stands 6ft., rows at 13st. 31b., has enor-
mous reach and stamina, and a chest expansion of lljin.
There are dozens of Arnsts still hiding in the swamps of
Tai Tapu, waiting to come forth and row, or cycle, or
fight.
* » * *
The final exhibition splash of the N.S.W. inter-
state Eight last week inspired a feeling of confidence. The
crew, which averages 12st. 71b., drove the new Towns
boat through the water in a clean, workmanlike style at
a clipping pace ; and as its condition appears to he all
that can be desired, it should make a gallant show on the
Derwent on the 30th. The team was to have left on
Tuesday.
The Kangaroo’s tail is high these times. Arnst,
who learned the game on the Parramatta under an Aus-
tralian mentor, is sculling champion of the world ;
Postle, the Australian professional, is the world’s best
50,yds. sprinter just now ; and Donaldson, also an Aus-
tralian sprinter, is the world’s best for distances over 50
and up to 100yds. Also, Australians hold the Davis
Gup, the outward and visible sign of the world’s tennis
championship.
* * * •
The fact that the N.S.W. Motor-Boat Club will
hold its final event for the 1910 season, the usual annual
race from Sydney Harbor to Broken Bay and back, re-
minds one that public interest in motor-boating has
slumped considerably around the shoresof Our Beautiful.
The wherefore is not difficult to guess. When the M. B. O.
first burst on the Ma State capital it came in a gorgeous
array, and that opening procession to Chowder Bay was
a sight to he remembered for many years. At one bound
it Was the New Craze ; and people went mad on it. The
establishment of the club was followed by some sensa-
tional racing, and when Relph’s beautiful green Invin-
cible was engaged, an interested crowd alvvays watched the
event from the shores. But although it seems to have
slumped, public interest is not dead even now, and a
revival of exciting racing would make it as popular as
ever next season if the revival could be brought about.
The proposal to institute one-class racing was good—had
there been enough enthusiastic wealthy men to burn
money on frequent new boats. But there were not. It
is the same in Britain. Motor-boating attracts but little
public attention now, although it is as popular as ever
among people who can afford boats. But the great cause
of the seeming decline of interest has been the establish-
ment of aviation by the press as the New Craze ; it is so
even here in Australia where we have no flyers. But, all
the same, there would be a lot more public interest in the
motor-boating sport all over Australia if the clubs had
good press secretaries who would supply the harried
sporting writers with interesting items of news.
Yet the N.S.W. Motor Boat-Club is flourish-
ing, apparently', and is threatening to break out in a
place were it will get still another leg-up. A sub-com-
mittee has been appointed to select a waterside frontage
with a view to erecting thereon a club-house, slips for
renovation purposes, a boathouse and also a jetty. This
will mean that motor-boat owners will derive some direct
advantages from joining the club, which is a thing to
make the movement popular among such as go down to
the great deep in clatter-billies. *
Some time ago the British naval authorities
sent a couple of unusually fast motor-boats out to the
Persian Gulf squadron, which is kept busy' trying to sup-
press the gun-runners. The Arabs bad some dhows there
which the ordinary gunboats could not overhaul, and
they were doing a roaring trade. Then one day the fast
launches were let loose. With a roar and screech they
dashed into range, and then the shots began to fly. Soon
it was apparent that the launches held the dhows easily,
and, dashing alongside, ordered them to surrender.
The result was a storm of bullets, to which the
launches replied with a bombardment of Vickers-Maxim
shells. Then followed a record capture of gunware.
Later on some of the officers proceeded to Bassorah
in one launch, and dashed up the Shat-el-Arab
to within sight of the ruins of Babylon. Later on,
a trip was made to Bagdad ; and everywhere the Jews,
Arabs, Persians and other heirs, executors and assigns of
the Babylonian and Assyrian evinced great interest in
the new kind of craft, inquired as to price and so forth.
The Yankee Consul immediately communicated with his
Government, which published the information. But for
once the effete Briton got in first, and there are signs
that very shortly there will be a motor-boat club of
Bagdad, holding races on the waters of Babylon.
• • * •
The Zeppelin Arctic Exploration scheme will
be carried into effect the coming summer in the Northern
Hemisphere. Prince Henry of Prussia and Count Zeppelin
will sail, per dirigible, for Spitsbergen to chose a site for
the starting station. Two dirigibles will be used, one of
which will explore in circles and the other remain at
headquarters, to keep open communication with civilisa-
tion and go in search of the first ship if it fails to run to
time. Providing German ingenuity can devise some
method of keeping the explorers warm while sailing
among the clouds, it seems an eminently practicable way
of dealing with a dangerous and difficult business.
In the meantime Count Zeppelin will try to get
back some of the money he spent in perfecting his
bloated machine, by starting a regular service between
Berlin, Copenhagen, Hamburg and London. Six diri-
gibles are eventually to be employed in this service,
although a start will probably be made with two. That
trip from Hamburg to London is the sort of thing that
sundry Germans will probably try to make their dearest
enemies play the pioneer part in.
“Sparrow” writes: “The present offer of
£lO,OOO by the Australian Government for a flying
machine on fresh lines is likely to remain open till
Doomsday—or longer. When motors came in, did any
fool offer a prize for one that could turn somersaults, or
buck, or in any wav be quite different from any so far con-
structed? What our authorities want is not aeroplanes
—they can be made here on approved lines by
hundreds—but trained men to fly them when
they are made. The men cannot be imported,
but the machines can. What we want are practical and
properly-trained men, resident Australians and Australian
citizens, so that, in time of need, an Australian aeroplane
squadron can take the air at a moment’s notice. I would
like to suggest the following prizes : First resident Aus-
tralian to fly in each State, £lOO ; first resident Aus-
tralian to fly for half an hour, £100; ditto for 20 miles
cross country, £100; ditto to carry a passenger for
15 minutes, £2OO. A couple of thousand pounds spent
this way would do more to encourage aviation than 10
millions under present conditions.”
This sounds very convincing till looked at from
both ends. What Australia wants is an aerial ship that
can be used for fighting—not any gimcrack aerial gig fit
for making a mild] v-exciting interlude in a horse-racing
meeting. And that on the lines of the Wright, Voisin,
or other present-day aeroplanes is just simply impossible.
The Australian Government doesn’t want aeroplanes or
aeroplane navigators. It wants an aerial warship ; which
an aeroplane of the present type is not. Wherefore
should it spend money on a vain thing it does not re-
quire ?
* » * *
When it comes to land-grabbing N.S.W. Rugby
League is no slouch, as its record this season shows.
Besides the Agricultural Ground the League has swal-
lowed a hunk of North Sydney Park, and enclosed it with
an iron-clad fence which laughs at impecunious bar-
rackers. All the old grounds have been acquired, and
also an entirely new one at Newtown. Last year the
Union was the octopus ; this year the League is. The
Union is feeling uneasy just below the cincture.
Thus other sports are pushed right out into the
cold. The men who play hockey ; the cheerful Celts who
play the same game and call it hurling ; the nice bright
giris who play both games in picturesque attire ; and the
lacrossers —all are out in the cold. The cheerful lunatics
who play the glorified rounders known as baseball are
somewhat better off, owing, no doubt, to the fact that
they are all cricketers; and cricketers in N.S.W. can
grab in a way that would put even a land-agent to the
blush.
f .* * *
Johnny Worrall has been appointed coach to
Victorian Football League umpires, at £24 per month
until September. As a coach for umpires Johnny is an
unknown quantity, yet his appointment was reckoned a
foregone conclusion before the League met. Applications
were not called for, so. there was no competition for the
billet. Nevertheless, only two League clubs stood out
against it —Carlton (Worrall’s old club) and St. Kilda. A
newly-appointed delegate stood on his hind legs and said
things about the business, much to the astonishment of
the older leaguers, who regarded him as a sinful iconoclast.
Seeing that men with stronger recommendations could
have been obtained, this apparently pre-arranged allot-
ment of the £24 a mqnth has set football enthusiasts
thinking.
* * i * *
When one of the Edwards of England decided
to smash the vested interests in highway robbery, he
made the people of the district responsible for the
restitution of the plunder and compensation to the
victim, and also fora compensation to the Crown for its
outraged dignity,.' The result was that in less than no
time it was said that a child might walk from
one end ■ of the kingdom to the other . laden
with jewels, and none interfere with it. This
ancient tale was impressed on the Wanganui Rugby
Union, and it recently proposed to use the same methods
in the squelching of rough play. The idea is to penalise
the club as well as the player, and when a player is
warned, his side shall lose a point; while the team that
has a player ordered off will be smitten with a deduction
of two points. If the idea is carried, Maoriland Rugby
will become a game of politeness in which the player who
has tossed another will hold his woollen cap in one hand
while he helps up tfie tossed gentleman with Hie other.
Whenever Yankee University Rugby has been
attacked on account of its brutality and high per-
centage of fatal accidents, the reply has been that its
“dramatic and disciplinary qualities” completely out-
weigh its disadvantages. But recently, when a number
of pugs refused to take part in a match on the grounds
that it was too dangerous, .people sat up and thought
hard. The Yankee game has vanished from the Pacific
Coast, and given place to a sort of Rugby that is fashioned
on N.S.W. Union Rugby lines. The new game is spread-
ing ; and if present appearances are to be relied upon, in
about three seasons the old Yankee game and its pic-
turesque butcher, known as “ buck-centre,” will have
retired to the pages of history. ......
9 * • *
The Victorian Eootball League lost no time in
dipping its paw further into the well-filled bags of club
gate money, having last week decided to annex 10 per
cent, of the gross gate receipts of each match. This is
apparently intended to replace the call of £6O per club it
made last year, and as last season’s net gates varied from
South’s £1054 to Richmond’s £450, it has distinctly
the better of the arrangement. Bight of the
20 delegates advocated handing over all gate money
to the League and cutting up the net results
among the clubs; but the majority thought this
savored of co-operation or Sosh or something, and jumped
on it. After that the delegates raised the field umpire s
fee from £2 2s. to £3 3s. per match, and boundary and
goal umpires’ fees correspondingly, and then appointed
Johnny Worrall as coach to the said umpires, at a salary
of £l2O per season. As Worrall is also coach to the rising
generation of cricketers, per favor of the V.C.A., the
Murray State would appear to be leaning rather heavily
on one man in the matter of athletics.
* * * *
Judging by the attendances at the preliminary
canters, League Rugby is-going to boom this season.
When early practice matches draw crowds of over 2QOO,
things look promising indeed. The League’s visitors
from England’s Northern Union left home last week
accompanied by quite a number of ex-Australian players,
who evidently hope to be enlisted locally against the in-
vaders. But as these gentry have been playing in Eng-
land under the Northern Union for wages, the local body
would be well advised to shoo them off and let the Aus-
tralians who stayed at home defend the country. The
trip will last a month, and should provide some mterest-
ingplay- *
If the Vic. League of Wheelmen has any regard
for its reputation, it should at once investigate some
ugly insinuations that are made in Melbourne as to
the injured cyclists’ fund, supposed to be under its
control. The specific case is given of Maoriland rider
Orlowski, who was thrown in last year’s Austral and
taken to the hospital with concussion of the brain. He is
not yet fully recovered, and on being discharged from
the hospital had to rely on the kindness of a few friends
for subsistence. The League voted him a whole £„, but
so far it is said he has been unable to collect even that dole.
Cricket will end this Saturday, and baseball
start on May 7 ; so the “ flannelled fool will not have
much time to put on flesh. Apparently there will be 10
baseball clubs ragin# rouhd Sydney and ‘ its environs ;
but as new clubs may enter up till the 23rd, another one
or two may spring up, like mushrooms in the night. A
Melbourne team will visit the Ma capital, and play three
games during the season; but, apart from that, there is
likely to be little excitement.
# * * *
The final round of first grade Sydney cricket
started on Saturday, and did not yield much excite-
ment, the two centuries by the Minnett brothers
standing out like good deeds in a naughty world, or lodge
nights in a married man’s life. With only three wickets
down for 333 (all threes !), North Sydney had the satis-
faction of seeing R. V. and L. A. Minnett carry their bats
for 152 and 107 respectively. For the rest, Diamond made
83 for Burwood against Middle Harbor; Collins 62 for
Sydney against University ; and Watson, of Glebe, 49
against Balmain. The bowling was more exhilarating :
Proud, of Gordon, took seven of Central Cumberland for
78, in return for Ayres, of C.C., knocking down six Gordon
wickets for 39. R. B. Minnett did good work for Uni-
versity by taking five Sydney wickets for 37. There were
other good averages, but these were the cream.
* * * *
One of the features of the day was the Middle
Harbor wicket-keeper Long’s performance against Bur-
wood. He stumped five and caught two in the first
innings, and it was he who assisted bowler J. Randall to
take three wickets in succession, and thereby achieve a
sort of record hat-trick —a record that will probably long
remain uneclipsed.
* * * *
Victoria’s club cricket final was continued on
Saturday before ah even gaudier crowd than in the
previous week, most of it evidently pleased at seeing St.
Hilda doing a dash. The Saintly “ not out,” C. Armstrong,
raised his score to 61 before giving McAlister a chance in
the slips ; Euss added 40 before sticking his leg where his
bat should have been ; and Punshon was 72 not out when
the innings closed for 487. Then East Melb. turned to,
and had laboriously scraped together six runs
when the sun set and the argument was post-
poned till Monday. Then East was disposed of
for 93, and Saints won by 394. Sensational ! East
had all the worst of the luck ; but that was chiefly its
own fault in missing chances ; still its bowlers and fields-
men got some much-needed exercise, and shouldn’t need
treatment for sluggish livers for some time. By the way,
East’s captain might explain to his wicketkeeper that
36 sundries in a score of 487. is a lavish allowance; also,
that it isn’t a bad idea to stump a batsman who per-
sistently runs out to slog and misses the ball.
* * * *
The S’Afriean cricket team will fall on this
‘“'haggard continent” sometime in November next a.nd
dig the first grave in the triangular contest to which
England, Australia and the Land of the Lion are com-
mitted. The tour will last a month, and should prove an
interesting departure. Cricket requires something to
liven it up.
* * * *
Miss Hough, wicket-lceeperess for N.S.W. in
the recent inter-State ladies’ cricket match against Vic-
toria, set up a ladies’ record by failing to allow a sundry
in Victoria’s total of 125. In the 54 years in which
matches have been played between the two States,
sundries have been absent from only four innings ; the
’keepers were:' John Morris (N.S. W.), in 1859; Nat
Thompson (N.S. W.), who did not allow a sundry in either
Victorian innings in 1878 ; and A. E. Johns for Victoria
in 1898. Therefore Miss Hough takes credit for a record
which is well-nigh beyond the reach of man.
♦ * * *
‘■‘ Snaffle ” :: Australian newspapers have mostly
dropped the snobbery of making the amateur cricketer
“ Mr.” and professionals merely plain Smith; but
it is still practised in connection with horseracing.
The amateur rider is “Mr.,.” whilst the pros, are just
plain Woottons. I remember once at Onkaparinga(S.A.)
an aboriginal, who earned his crust as. a show-
man in a circus, was granted permission to ride in the
Amateur Steeple. Next day the papers duly made him
“Mr.” If he was not a professional horseman, then Noble
and Trumper are amateur cricketers. Anyhow, to be
consistent, the papers should drop the prefix when men-
tioning riders, pro. or otherwise.
* * * *
North Canterbury has had a horse-walking
match. It was nominally for the championship, between
O. H. Ensor’s Spider and O. O. T. Rutherford’s Deceiver,
over a 50-mile pack-track. The winner cut out the
distance in 6h. 37min., or an average of just over 7J miles
-an hour. An hour’s spell, for feed, etc.., happened along
at the 25-mile peg. •
The silver cup which formed a part of the Mel-
bourne Cup prize won by Glenloth, in 1892, was offered at
a Sydney auction mart the other day. But it was passed
in, the bids not reaching the reserve.
r * *
Cyclist E. A. Pearson announces that, his cup
of glory being full, he will leave his latest record to take
care of itself. The great road rider is now 42; and
henceforth will stick to the bike as a means of quiet exer-
cise and fresh-air recreation. In other words, he retires.
* * * *
The whispered threat to resurrect the “ Sydney
Thousand”is causing some stir in the dwindling ranks of
the professional cyclists of Australia. The story is that
our old friend Floyd Macfarland, sometime known as
“ the Handicap King,” received an offer from a Sydney
syndicate to collect and bring out a band of wheelers
who would revive the sport by creating an intense public
interest in their doings. May be true that someone is
going to drop some money on the idea (somehow pro-
moters can always find men ready to drop money on big
projects); but there is little doubt that if any attempt
were made just at present, the big race would lose money
for the promoters. Pro. cycling is fairly dead ; and when it
has been dead long enough to let people forget its more
recent past, it may pay to revive the great race. But
“the time is not yet.”
* * * •
The most interesting incident of billiardist John
Roberts’s re-appearance in Australia will be his meeting
with George Gray before the boy leaves for England.
The old professor and the coming don—between them
there is a difference of 40 years—are expected to play
an exhibition match in Melbourne. What the “old
man” has to say about the youngster and his mar-
vellous proficiency in making losing hazards will be
worth hearing. Being now out of the championship
running, Roberts can speak as a dispassionate pastmaster
who has had to put. up with at least one alteration
in the rules of billiard play which was made to
his disadvantage, and who had been a willing party to
a previous alteration, viz., the one that killed the
old “spot” stroke. George Gray’s all-conquering art of
making losers from the baulk crescent is pretty certain
to be legislated against when he has proved its value in
a championship match in England—but not until then.
Thus far it is only a matter of discredited rumor in the
Cold Country, seemingly. Stevenson and co. have yet
to sit and nurse their cues whilst the boy is scoring hun-
dreds of hazards from the D with automatic accuracy.
Roberts will get his object-lesson presently, and his
summing-up of the situation will be equally learned and
business-like. The spot stroke was abolished because it
made the game too monotonous to the onlookers ; the
push stroke was ruled out because there was not enough
movement in it; and George Gray’s monotonous method
pf scoring, although full of movement, will be somehow
checked because, being slower than the spot stroke, it is
even more monotonous when the ndvelty wears off. But
in the meantime it is all in the game, and cannot be
barred.
# * * *
The Sydney Stadium people have secured a site
in Exhibition-street, Melbourne, almost opposite Her
Majesty’s, and they propose to do for Melbourne
what they have done fjr Sydney, though the building
won’t spread over quite as much space. At least they
propose to ask Melbourne to come in and share the oof.
For the purposes of a co. which is on the stocks, an
accountant has been going through the Mclnstoush books,
and the net profit for a little over 18 months is said to be
£25,000.
One remarkable thing about the lot just
elected to the Senate is that it does not include a
single lawyer.


Missing; Friends.
A NYONE knowing the present whereabouts
■cjL of J OHN McEW AN, who followed the occu-
pation of an ironmoulder at Mount Morgan some
two or three years ago. please communicate with
Dawson, Waldron & Glover, 109 Pitt St., Sydney.
For Sale.
QUEENSLAND. Brisbane City Restaurant
and Boarding House. Best position,
paying well, thoroughly equipped. Doing £2OO
month. Special reasons. £4OO. Albert HarTK,
Queen Street, Brisbane.
The “CONFOMAT” (EEOD)
FITS ANY SHAPED HEAD.
Hand-made by highly-skilled labor in a special way
from the choicest materials, the “Confomat” is the
most comfortable Hard Hat you have ever worn.
Exceptionally light, durable and fast dyed. Every hat
guaranteed to give complete satisfaction.
13/6. In all the latest shapes and styles. 13/6.
All leading houses throughout Australia stock them.
Avoid inferior imitations. Look out for “Confomat” on
the leather, without which none are genuine.
If unobtainable in your district write us direct, and
ask for Booklet—“ 1910 Hat Styles.”
Austral Hat Mills Ltd., Abbotsford, Melbourne.
SHELL
VIQ-
J3S
3-0
m
BEST IN ALL
TEMPERATURES.
Read what
MR. CHARLES JARROTT
•ays >
Dear Sirs—l have used “SlieD'
Motor Spirit exclusively for one
reason only—namely, because I
believe it to be the best. The
particular point I like about Shell
Spirit is that its vaporisation
does not seem-to be affected by
changes of temperature or
climate to anything like the
same degree as is the case with
other petroleum spirit.
Its perfect purity-thats the point!
A Shoe for a Gentleman
The shoe illustrated is truly a gentleman’s
shoe—it shows it in every line.
It is neatly perforated and perfect in finish.
It is a Tan Willow Calf Shoe—Bespoke style.
Prices 22/6, 25/-, 27/6.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for Booklet, “The Rigney Shoe for Men.”
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place)7
ħ
YOU’LL RECOGNISE,
h
the veracity of our claims for perfect Cycle Building when you
start riding a
B. and B. MODEL 3 CYCLE,
l
a perfect machine for comfort and wear, fitted with
the highest class tyres and guaranteed a year.
Price £ll.
Write for a Free Catalogue, mentioning this Paper.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Specialists in Modern
Cycle Buildin
234 Pitt Street, and
Gastlereagrh Street,
Sydney.
BRANDT DE LUXE.
THE LATEST ACETYLENE BURNER,
THE BRANDT DE LUXE
Gives the most light and the least trouble. No metal
arms to warp, only the best lava -used in the manufac-
ture, Solid hexagon base, will not crush when screwed
on with pliers.
Send us 10/- and we will forward SAMPLE
PARCEL OF ASSORTED BURNERS.
Booklets on Air Gas and Acetylene Gratis.
BRANDT BROS.’ LAMP HOUSE,
197-199 Elizabeth St., Melbourne ; and 236 Pitt St., Sydney.
ĥ
ħ
The Plum Razor Satisfies .
There is no doubt, whatever about the feeling's of the
man who usesour PLUM RAZOR. Satisfaction—comfort
—are the only two words that fit his feelings. The
PLUM RAZOR has a keen cutting edg&—gives an easy
and smooth shave. Guaranteed and kept in shaving
order by us for the first two years.
PRICE
10/6
post free
to any
address.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor In Strong Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other Good Kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
Send for our Free Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG S AITREN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
“Andrew McGee
“ The Name on the Blade ! ’*
That one word “THISTLE” on your Razor is a guarantee for
flawless, well-tempered steel* and a keen, lasting edge—in every
way a trusty Wade.
“Thistle” Razors cost, Black Handle, 10/6 ; Ivory Handle,
12/6 ; Pairs in Cases, 21/- and 25/- Other Hollow-ground Razors
from 3/6. Strops from 2/6.
h
SYDNEY’S LEADING TOBACCONIST AND GENTLEMEN’S HAIRDRESSER,
5 and 7 CASTLEREAGH STREET, corner Hunter Street, SYDNEY.
Saloon open all day Wednesday.
SATURDAY, 14th MAY,
AT 2 O’CLOCK.
AT THE MECHANICS’ INSTITUTE,
SUNBURY.
TO FARMERS, GRAZIERS, AGRI-
CULTURISTS AND OTHERS.
FIRST SUBDIVISION OF 8000 ACRES
OF THE
RED ROCK ESTATE.
In Farms from 70 to 350 Acres.
By Order of SIR RUPERT T. H. CLARKE, Bart.
WS. KEAST has received instructions from Sir Rupert
• T. H. Clarke to sell by public auction that
magnificent property, being portion of the
RED ROCK ESTATE,
the first subdivision of which will contain somewhere
about 8000 acres, subdivided into farms
From 70 to 350 Acres.
The portion of the estate now being sold adjoins the
well-known Mount Aitken Estate on the one side, and
the other side runs to within one mile of the Sunburv
R.S., and the north side within two miles of the old
Gisborne township.
The bulk of the property has a double frontage to the
main road from Sunbury to Woodend.
The land consists chiefly of volcanic rises of an undu-
lating character, being well suited for the carrying on of
dairying and lamb raising, and a great portion of it fit
for agriculture.
There are some hundreds of acres of black land on it
that would be suitable for the growing of potatoes or
onions, or any kind of root crops. The rainfall in this
district is over 25in., and the land is of volcanic quality,
none of it ever having been broken up ; so that the
purchaser of any block will have all new country.
Particular attention is drawn to the fact that this
property is only 25 miles from Melbourne, has never been
cultivated; there is plenty of timber on the estate for
firewood purposes and also for fencing—and as this is the
first part of the subdivision of Red Rock, buyers cannot
,do better than come and see for themselves.
* The land is being sold on long terms of 10 years—viz.,
10 per cent, cash, balance payable by instalments equal
to 5 per cent, of the total amount of the purchase money
each year for a period of six years, and the residue at the
end of 10 years, bearing interest at the rate of 4$
per cent.
Plans are now ready, and will be posted on receipt of
application.
Buyers will be met at Sunbury or Gisborne railway
stations and driven over the property free of charge.
Those in search of land near Melbourne of good quality
and in a good climate should not miss this opportunity,
as there are few ver3' big estates left near Melbourne.
A SPECIAL TRAIN WILL LEAVE SPENCER
STREET FOR SUNBURY AT 1 O’CLOCK ON THE
DAY OF SALE.
For further particulars apply W. S. KEAST, 610 Collins
Street, Melbourne; and as to title, Messrs. WHITING
and AITKEN, Solicitors, 101 William Street, Melbourne.
Amusements.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYD.JEV.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45 SHARP.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S GRAND ANNUAL
SPECTACULAR PANTOMIMIC EXTRAVAGANZA,
ALADDIN.
PLAYED BY A BRILLIANTLY CLEVER COMPANY
OF COMEDIANS, SINGERS, DANCERS and
PANTOMIMISTS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
Theatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager : J. 0. WILLIAMSON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of
MADAM BUTTED PLY.
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 23,
LA BOHEMU
Prices—7/6 to 1/- Plan at Paling’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE & CLYDE MEYNELL SEASON.
The Greatest Dramatic Success of Recent Years,
COUiVT HANNIBAL,
Presented hv
OSCAR ASCHE and LiLY BRAYTON,
with the whole of the Original Cast.
OSCAR ASCHE as COUNT HANNIBAL.
LILY BRAYTON as CLOTILDE.
Prices—6s., 35., Is. Plan at Elvy’s.
SYDNEY GLACIARIUM
Managing Director : T. J. WEST.
Nightly at 8 ; Matinees Wednesdays & Saturdays at 2.30.
WEST’S PICTURES,
LIMITED.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER, and BETTER THAN EVER.
2s. Is 6d, Is, & 6d. Popular Prices. 6d, Is. Is 6d, & 2s.
HE LYCEUM
EVERY EYENING AT 6.
Matinees-Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 230.
CPENCERSIHEATRESCOPE <°
J PICTURES
« HRE SUPERIOR TO /JLL OTHERS.
Popular Prices —»- Plata at Paunos.
UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF
u CIRCUSDOM.
WIRTH BROS.’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
Circus, Hippodrome, Zoo and Elephant Herd.
EVERY EVENING. AT S.
PRINCE ALFRED PARK, SYDNEY.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS & SATURDAYS.
GRAND CHANGE OF PROGRAMME.
SEVEN SHOWS FOR QNE TICKETf-
Cireus, Menagerie, Museum, Vaudeville, Hipjoodrbme,
Colossal Elephant Herd, and a Grand Oriental Pageant.
POPULAR PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
PLAN AT PALING’S. Reserved Chairs, 4s.
CHILDREN, Half-price to all parts EXCEPT the Gallery,
which is the one price—Is. for Everybody.
EILEEN BOYD
WILL GIVE A
GRAND CONCERT
AT THE
TOWN HALL, SYDNEY,
ON TUESDAY EVENING, MAY 3.
TICKETS—3s., 2s. and Is. ; and Plan at Nicholson’s.
Amusements
IVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
WILLE BROTHERS, Acrobatic Artists.
VAUDE and VERNE.
TYVO BEERS.
MR. JAMES HINCHEY.
MISS MAY LEWIS.
DOROTHY FORBES.
MR. FRED. BLUETT.
BROWN and ROBINSON.
MR. ALLAN SHAW.
MR. WILL WHITE.
TED KALMAN.
HARRY BAXTER.
PRICES—3s. and Is.
HILDA LANE.
Plan at Palinsr’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manatrer, Mr. Harry Rickards.
CARTER THE GREAT, Illusionist.
BILLY WILLIAMS, Comedian.
HOWARD BROS., Mental Telepathists.
MARTINE BROS., Acrobats.
ALEXANDRA & BERTIE, Gymnasts.
VASCO, Mad Musician.
JOHNNY GILMORE, Quaint Comedian.
GRAHAM & DENT, Popular Comedy Artists.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
JOWN HALL, MELBOURNE.
DIRECTION J. & N. TAIT.
APRIL 21, 23.
CALVE.
Box Plans now open at Allan’s.
PRICES OF ADMISSION—
-215., 12s. 6d., 10s. Gd. and ss.
The kino's* theatre, Melbourne.
Sole Lessee and Manager— William Anderson.
FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALIA.
William Anderson's Famous Dramatic Co. in
A NEW ORIGINAL SPECTACULAR DRAMA,
FROM SHOP GIRL TO DUCHESS.
EUGENIE DUGGAN as SYLVIA GREY.
Box Plan at Allan’s.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
A MERRY WIDOW’S SUCCESSOR.
J. C. WILLIAMSON’S
NEW COMIC OPERA CO. in
THE DOLLAR, PRINCESS.
Plan at Allan’s. Prices as usual.
I‘HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
FIRST APPEARANCE IN AUSTRALIA OF
RUPERT CLARKE & CLYDE MEYNELL’S
NEW ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
in the Fantastical Musical Play, in Three Acts,
THE ARCADIANS.
Prices—ss., 35,, Is. 6d. Plan at Alim’s.
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction of J. C. YVilliamson.
SATURDAY NEXT, APRIL 23,
Australia’s Idol, NELLIE STEWART,
—in —
WHEN KNIGHTHOOD WAS IN FLOWER.
Nellie Stewart as . ..Princess Mary.
Box Plan for First Six Nights at Allan’s.
Prices —55., 35., Is.
Wl RTMSOLYMPIA
every evening at 8
M ati nets -Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30.
C PENCER'SIffATREJCOPE <s>
JPICTURES
/o» /?&£ suPE/zrote ro p/.l ot/ieps
Popular Prices Pl/vm as Usual^.
G
LACIARIUM,
Lessees,
MELBOUR NE
J. & N. TAIT.
J.MN.TAIT'S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holiday
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. Plans at Allan’s,
THE BEST
OF ALL.
THE BEST
OF ALL.
WEST’S PICTURES,
LIMITED.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in tiie World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving: Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
Business Announcements.
GREY HAIRS
And Then—THE END !
You're comparatively young—you feel
young, and you desire to remain young :
yet a few tell-tale grey hairs debar you
that privilege.
GET A BOTTLE OF
NERO’S HAIR TINT.
It is easily applied with a comb by comb-
ing the hair in the ordinary way. It
stains only the hair, and does not
rub off ; requires renewing about once ,a
month only; one buttle will last for
months- Obtainable in Light, Medium
or Dark Brown, Chestnut, Auburn, or
Black.
3/6 All Chemists, or 3/6, Post Free, from
the Australian Distributing Agent,
GEORGE ST., GEDDES, BRISBANE.j
DRUNKENNESS CURED.
It is now generally admitted that Drunkenness is'
not a vice, but a disease—happily one that is curable.
- DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered by the
Govts. Vic. and N.S. W.) is a certain cure—is harmless
and can be given secretly or taken voluntarily.
Advice Free. Write or Call.
DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISHMENTS : 54 Russell Street,
Melbourne; 1161 Hay Street, Perth, W.A. \[i
When Snowball, Victoria’s boss Orange-
man, was run for Bent’s seat in the State
Assembly, the insectarian choice lay between him,
Adamson and Elisha de Garis. The arrange-
ment arrived at was that Adamson should be sup-
ported presently for the Leg. Council, while
Elisha should get the Yarra seat in the Reps. The
latter part of the compact came up for the public’s
endorsement last week, and the result was—Frank
Tudor, 13,543; Elisha, 4254. As somebody else
said toEiishasome years ago, “ the situation of the
city is pleasant, but the water is naught and the
ground barren.”
Next to Deakin’s fight for Ballarat, the
most personally interesting of the Vic. elections
was Robert Harper’s for Mernda. It was only
on the Monday before polling-day that the Crown
case against Harper and others for conspiracy
was dragged to a conclusion, and the Bench
had to say whether there was evidence to
connect the defendants in this case—all, or
any of them—with a conspiracy. The Bench
decided that all, save Robert Harper, should show
cause why they should not be committed for trial,
whereas he was entitled to acquittal and need not
stop to defend himself. This gave him a sporting
chance. The odds against him were still, how-
ever, 4 to 1 (freely offered). When the lawyers
were wrangling over a question of procedure so as
to let the discharged party push his political
barrow ere he was called as a witness, the scoffing
Purves, K.C., said : “It is useless to tell me. as
an old politician, that it will affect Mr. Harper
in any way. It is too late.” Yet the old member
got re-elected, with 600 or 700 votes to spare. The
Labor candidate scored an advance of 3000 on his
previous try ; but Harper also scored nearly 2500
better than his previous total. Which was a nasty
jar for the Vic. Grown Law Dept., anyway.


Shipping:.
LUND’S BLUE ANCHOR LINE.
For NATAL. CAPETOWN and LONDON.
* Twin Screw. Oallinp at Plymouth.
And Repularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £lB 13s. to £3l 10s.
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by these Steamers.
Round THIS WOULD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINK STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, be., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
Apents, 7 Rent-street, Sydney.
M bi.sournk A hunts : .IOIIN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
AimtAiDK b Fiihmanti,k Aofntk : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA ENGLAND.
ORVIETO .. Twin-Screw .. 12,130 Tons.
OSTERLEY „ „ .. 12,129 „
OTRANTO 12,124 „
OTWAY .. 12,077 „
ORSOVA .. „ „ .. 12,036 „
ORONTES .. 9,023 „
OMRAH .. „ „ .. 8,282 „
OPHIR 6,814 „
ORMUZ .. .. .. 6,465
Sailing every fortnight from RRISRANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and EREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Eta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking:, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial (Ijutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
for .
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Hear Officf. :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. ±3,000.000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring: £33.888.510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
t rnvellinjr. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for. New South Wai.es :
105 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
The Ilor.i* C. .1. Roberts, C.M.G., M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
jjank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. . .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp&Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE. -«*-
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES. ,
AGENTS ’ throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
I and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited
CI pi tal Paid-up £505,197 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. ■ .. 162,824 0 0
Reserve Fund.(lnvested in Govt. Stock) .. 73,500 0 0
£744.521 0 O
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. --i.™....-.,,. „ -
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budgre Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
THE
Metropolitan Accident,
Fire and General Insurance Co., Ltd.
Directors:
R. M. PHILLIPS, Esq., J.P. (Chairman).
Dr.. VICTOR E. LUDLOW.
CLAUDE MANNING, Esq.
J. J. ALLEN, Esq.
Beresford Chambers, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Metropolitan Building's, Adelaide St., Brisbane.
Salisbury Buildings, Queen St., Melbourne.
AGENTS WANTED
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
i . R. M. Phillips, E«q., .T.P.
Victor E. I.udlow, Esq., L.R.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, E-q.
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq.
D. W. Watkins, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary: Consulting Actuary:
Frerman J. Eaton.- W. R. Day, F.I. A.
Head Office:
30 CASTLE3EACH ST. (facing: Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland:
Metropolitan Buildings,
Adelads St., Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen ft.,
Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan” always has vacancies on its
Afrency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
Shipping.
THE OCEAN
* HO LI PAY
TO
N. QUEENSLAND
Coastal Mail Steamer
to Coolctown. and thence by
the Island Mail Steamers
Moresby and Makambo tc
Port Moresby, Samarai. and
Woodlark Islands (8.N.G.),
Shortland Islands (2 ports),
Solomon Islands (about 8
Hotels, &c.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
Grosvcivor Hotel,
, > '
Church Hill,
SYDNEY.
The coolest and most comfortable Hotel in
the City. Every modern convenience. Ex-
cellent cuisine and service. Tariff cards on
application to the Manager.
TEL. 860 CENTRAL.
f/i\
N ord D
eutscher
'loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE.
PASSENGERS booked to Eerypt. Naples. Genoa. Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Twin Screw Steamers.
GNEISENAU .
SCHARNHORST
PRINZ REGENT
LUITPOLD
SEYDUTZ
ZIETEN ..
GNEISENAU ..
SCHARNHORST
Unsurpassed Seagoing: Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnaee, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Ag-ents.
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANILA,
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA.
LOHMANN & CO.,
Tel. 695. 7 Bridge-street, Sydney.
Banking. Public Companies. &c.
Bank of |)eui Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH :
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2.000.000
Uncalled Capital £500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £710.90S
GRANTS DRAFTS on Australia, New Zea-
, J UISHr * d land - F Ui. Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
ĥ
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney : J. Cami'iu'M.-Wood, Esq. • W. O
Watt, Ksq. (Gilchrist, Wntt & Sanderson Lid.) j’llon. W
IL Wood, M.L.A. ; E. Owun Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia : JOHN COODWYN, A.I, A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pm St., SYDNEY.
ħ
CRUISES. %
ANP
THE ISLANDS.
ports), Brisbane and
Sydney, combining a de-
lightful Island Cruise with
a visit to the famous Barron
Falls and district.
Send address for Illus-
trated Descriptive Pamphlet.
BURNS, PHiLP & CO., Ltd., 10 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
h
f\
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.— INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
A™r?L a T^o° n de P° slts U P to #PO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVAJ\tLh made up to ,425,000 at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.-CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
Fuil particuiars on appiication to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
CC ' J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
k EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
Hotels, &c.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel,
VICTORIA STREET,
LONDON,
Opposite Westminster
Afcbey and the Houses
England, of Parliament.
A thoroughly comfortable Hoine-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms from 3/6, and Double Bedrooms
from 6/6 per day, and NO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet on Request.
GEO. J. BRINKWoRTH, Manager.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
Steamer.
*MILTIADES..
a MORAVIAN.
*MARATHON.
[ Tons. | Commander. | Leave Svdnev.
I ' “I I '
I 6,800 I Douglas, R.N.R. | About April 23
I 4,573 |A. Robb ...| ~ May 20
6,800 IN. Allan .. j ~ June 18
I I
•Twin Screw.
a One class only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORM) Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridjre decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, (fee., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Aeents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12,(.00 tons, to sail about
May 18
AFRIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
June 8.
SUEVIC, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow'
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARKS—Cane town or Durban jtlo 15 0 to £l’4 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from -24 10 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
fi / lcrictjv?uC&'
//IUJ Uxrtd/?*
ĥ
<L %urur-'(L 7
lldrfiJl/
Latest Evolution of Modern Pharmacy.
“ QOLCRYST ,v is a Combination of
Salts, Senna, Sarsaparilla,
Dandelion, Liquorice and Ginger.
ISPThe crystals dissolve in water, forming
a Blood-Purifying and Rheumatism-Curing
Aperient Medicine.
SOLD IN 3d., 6d. and-k. PACKETS.
Write for Free Sample to the Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO., MELBOURNE.
rOLTCY FOB THK COMMONWEALTH
Price Gd, from The Bli.i.ktin (Jliice.
FOE MELBOURNE Y
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhippin? at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
BRISBANE ~v
MACKAY {
TOWNSVILLE (
And Ports North to Claims. '
ħ
Pipes
GBD
Pipes
h
Xt rn
SPECIAL
Silver
Mounted.
Nothing ever like them
Shown in Australia before.
SOLD BY ALL
TOBACCONISTS*
-r/w
IT
unable
'n r °
Procure
ah Local
iTobocconish
apply at
Wholesale
Depot.
231 Clarence
Street,
. Sydney.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
S.S. Grantaja, April 29.
S.S. Yonjjala, Maj r 6.
(Melbourne only.)!
S.S. Koombana (from Fre-
mantle), May 4, calling
at all N.-West Ports to
Wyndham.
S.S. Innamincka, April 30.
S.S. Grantala, May 7.
S.S. Yonirala, May 14.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on all
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at theCoinpany’s Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, (i BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
THE BEST ROUTE to
Canada, United States
and Europe.
Via BRISBANE, SUVA (FT.TI), HONOLULU,
and VANCOUVER (8.C.).
SAILINGS:
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER,
t Fitted with Wireless'Telegraphy.
Choice of the Finest
Vessels in the World
crossing' the Atlantic*
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
J 1 an aging Aherns, George-street, Sydney.
F. H. A.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “ESSEX.”
11,300 Tons. T. Prisku, Commander
Will be despatched from SYDNEY - - 17th May
>i I, ~ MELBOURNE - 21st May
.. „ „ ADELAIDE - . 24th May
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Sues
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES—*• Saloon. Third Class.
LIVERPOOL \ 10 s - £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
DIRT & CD., Ltd., Svdnev and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
MeILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;. -
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
'J'HE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 O'
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Del»entures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. £30.000 0 O'
Dirkctors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., 0.M.G., Chairman
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; Alex-
ander M'Craeken ; .1. H. MacFarland, #sq., M.A., LL.D.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
Wanted.
WANTED at once a competent DIAMOND
DRILL FOREMAN. Practical know-
ledge of Oil Motors preferred. Address, with
statements of experiences, references and salary
required, to
The Manager.
The Lancelot Tin Mines, Ltd.,
Lancelot, via Herberton,
North Queensland.


Coughs and
Colds can be cured
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Coughs and colds, acute or
chronic, are cured by taking
Scott’s Emulsion. Scott’s
Emulsion permanently cures
coughs and colds in all their
forms. This statement is
made because hundreds of
people have written to say
they were cured of cough or
cold by Scott’s Emulsion.
For example, Mrs. J. Sainty
wrote, 30th September, 1908,
from 31, Church Street, St.
Peter’s, Newtown, N.S.W.:
“ Troubled ivith a cough for a very long
time, and feeling completely run down, I
m
decided to try Scott’s Emul-
sion. The results were be-
yond expectation. In a few
weeks Scott’s had quite
cured the cough, and I felt
bright and well. lam now
thoroughly restored to health.
This trademark was on the
emulsion I bought.”
If you wish to get rid of your
cough or cold, and decide to
buy Scott’s Emulsion,decide
also to GET SCOTT’S
EMULSION. You may be
asked to buy another emul-
sion and told it is “just as
good as Scott’s.” Substitute
emulsions can only be sold
on the reputation of Scott’s
Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion cures the disease-
no matter the age of the patient—and
will be approved by your Doctor for
Coughs and Colds if you ask him.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
They Play For
Four Full Minutes
—instead of two—just as sweetly and as
clearly as the Standard Edison Records—
and cost but a trifle more.
That is what Mr. Edison’s latest achieve-
ment—the Amberol Record —does.
While the Standard list has the best
selections that can be given in two minutes,
there are many pieces of music that cannot
be reproduced in this time at all, and are
only available for the longer Amberol
Records.
Call on your nearest Edison dealer to-day,
and be will gladly play over some of the
Amberol Records for you.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF
AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
DEPT. B, KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
THE
BEST PIANO
for the
Australian Climate.
Obtainable from
MAX WURCKER,
99”>oi, York Street, SYDNEY.
Ana all prominent Piano warehouses in
the whole of Australasia.
ĥ
ħ
h
ĥ
PRICES
18|6 8 22|6
FOOTWEAR for
MEN OF TASTE.
The Shoe illustrated is the very latest style—
the fit and appearance all that can be
desired. Can be had in Black or Tan.
Prices 18/6 and 22/6.
Send for our Booklet, “ SHOELIGHT ” ; it contains
all the latest Boots and Shoes with full description.
Note.—Postage in Victoria, 1/- ;
other States, 1/2 extra.
LEEMING’S,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 257=259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran ; I=3 Errol Street, North Melbourne.
PALMER TYRE,
SHOWING SQUARE
TREAD WITH
CIRCUMFERENTIAL
GROOVES.
The Reason Why
The Palmer Cord Tyres
take precedence with
experienced motorists.
Absence of internal friction makes them the
coolest running tyre. ,
They increase the speed at a lower con-
sumption of petrol.
They raise less dust—have greater wearing
powers than other tyres.
Their immunity from side slip make them a
safe and gilt-edge tyre investment.
PRICE LIST FREE.
THE SILVERTOWN RUBBER COMPANY,
279 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
a
ms
Hi
mm.
m
asgggi
II
*»
m
m
co
MICHmgjjHAN " iTHE SWORD
Something Unique in Pens
BALL-POINTED PENS neither stick, spurt
nor splutter, and they are so delightfully
easy to write with.
Get a fid. Sample Box from your stationer,
and adopt the style which suits your hand.
ipg- They write just like a Gold Nib.
ħ
h
ORffiSTOtf & GLASS
LONDON
7
*
7
Consult any competent judge of billiard tables, and he’ll
promptly tell you that there are no tables equal to “Alcock’s.”
Many of the leading billiard matches have been played on
these tables—the last that with George Gray v. Fred Lindrum,
jun., when Gray scored 836, 831 coming off the red, making a
world’s record, for which Gray recently received a gold medal. .
This score is but an example of the marvellous accuracy and
perfect construction of our billiard tables.
Each table is fitted with Imperial Low Cushions, and
bears our trade mark.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
397 George Street, Sydney. 155 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
The Inky Way.
The S. M. Herald's weekly, the Mail, contemplates
euti ing the price from sixpence to threepence in the near
future. The Mail’s jubilee is to be the excuse. For
years the Hkrald proprietary carried the Mail as a non-
paying proposition. A few years ago, under new control,
it began to make profits ; but it isn’t making them fast
enough for the Fairfaxes.
* * * •
“ The Board deeply regrets to say that the assets
realised have only been sufficient to pay the liabilities
of the co., leaving nothing for shareholders.” This is the
business-end of a circular just issued to the shareholders
in the old co. which owned the Star (Sydney) and the
Sunday Sun. The new owners are the old debenture-
holders ; arid H. R. Denison and G. F. Todman, the big
tobacco people, could no doubt tell who they are.
“ N.” : The late James Smith’s spiritualisnubroke forth
about 30 years ago. His brilliant friend, Charles Bright,
was employed by the Arous to write down spiritualism,
but got converted to it. Smith had been a gentle
Agnostic till he found the same goajl His friend Rae had
i he Maryborough (Vic;) Advertiser," which appeared on
Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, and well enough
served the little town. But all at once every issue burst
into about four columns of spiritualism, in big, leading-
article type. Smith and Rae thus began a campaign.
Obviously local news was sacrificed. Apparently the
idea was to repair the local damage with an Australian
'•ireulation. Smith at this time evolved a talent for
■ iludgeony writing about the churches with which he
nad not been credited ; though, after this Maryborough
Advertiser spell, he laid aside the bludgeon again. But
lie took it up occasionally. He and David Blair were
bitter mutual haters, and the editor of a Melbourne paper
once showed me an article on “Livid Glare,” sent in by
Jafnes Smith. Such vitriol I never saw. The Advertiser
made Maryborough sit up, mostly on its h.ind legs.
Gearing started the Standard, on Tuesdays, Thursdays
and Saturdays, just for the plain beef and cabbage of
news. This helped Rae and Smith towards ruination,
nut they pulled up on the verge. The Advertiser then cut
its spiritualism, and has gone on since in plain fashion.
But it had lost its old monopoly.
**■»■*•
The Kino Island Record—-the sole publication on the
fragment of earth that juts out of the sea somewhere
between Tassy and the mainland of Australia—has a lot
of fight for its size. It is little bigger, advts. and all,
than the average young girl’s love-letter ; but, for sheer
dogged, whirling, aggressive stoush—well, consider a few
items from its issue of the 12th inst.:—
“Report has come to the editor’s ears that certain
meh of Belial propose making an effort to have the
Record stopped. Come out into the open, ye dogs, and
let’s have a look at your ugly faces ! ” •
The editor has weighed the local soul-salvagers and found
them wanting
“ A lot of hypocritical, canting humbug continues to
be thrust upon the editor by those who have gleaned an
.utterly wrong and unscriptural notion of the Christ from
the multitudes of false Protestant clergy—gossiping,
tattling old hens, with an inordinate idea of their own im-
portance, for whom the Record has a rod in pickle.”
Then the paper makes remarks about a Minister :
“ That filthy, lying scoundrel, the dishonorable ,
Avho should be keelhauled.”
The! editor puts his general attitude fairly and temper-
ately in a short article anent the main trend of the
journal he controls. An extract:—
“ No one need come prating to the Record about peace
while there remains so much wickedness to be wiped out.
No one longs for peace more than the Editor of this
paper, or views discord and warfare with greater abhor-
rence. But good can make no terms with evil, and there
must be war so long as evil remains in the world. Peace
afterwards when the evil is wiped out; but till then we
will not even declare a truce.”
* • * *
“ Kobbi ” : “ A.V.” (B. 24/3/TO) complains of the Slump
in the little country-rag industry, due to railway facili-
ties and the city dailies. It is not only the little country-
rag industry that suffers. For instance, Mt. Morgan,
with 12,000 people, can’t run anything better than two
newspapers, issued weekly, because Rockhampton is
within cursing distance. Even those two have to adopt
special methods of supplying themselves with oxygen;
one of them offers “free papers to everybody,” trusting
to the advts. to do the rest.
* * * «
“ Bill Sticker ’’ : Tasmania undoubtedly owns the
hungriest inky way in the Commonwealth. Hobart,
Launceston, and other Tas. dailies and weeklies accept
original contributions, no matter how excellent, only at
advertising rates. Not a single well-known Australian
writer’s stuff is ever taken first hand. What space
dull Tory publications can tearaway from the claims of
the great Hempiah, tl e glorious Union Jack, the noble
“ Mistah ” DObson, etc.,, is filled in with gre.v-haired
clipped matter, mostly headed “ Good Stories,” “ Threads
and Patches,” “On the Bluey Track,” etc. Naturally, as
soon as a man finds out that he is some good, he passes
out ; for an absolute genius of a verse or short-story,
writer couldn’t sell two pounds worth of “copy” a year
in all Tassy !' Whether it’s merely stony-brokeness or
just mean parsimony, I don’t know. I expect it’s both.
“ Wang ” (from a public library) calls for hash: About
two-thirds of the fiction devoured by Australians is
written by men of the canned-sundries nationality. And
speaking as one of the army of readers of twaddle, I
cheerfully admit that I prefer the American literary hash
to the British dish. The Yank makes his yarn bristle
with movement and incident. He makes his hero
a man who moves, and the Australian (Coster
Fraser notwithstanding) is a whale for action.
As a rule, the Yankee writes only one book; when he
wants to write another he repeats the first. About two-
thirds of the writers are literary pirates. They crib the
original writer’s ideas, and hash them up in their own
particular way. Will Harbin’s “ Abner Daniel” is “Pole
Baker”; “Pole Baker” is “Gilbert Neal”; “Gilbert
Neal” is “Ann Boyd.” Joseph Lincoln’s books are all
“ Mr. Pratt ” under different titles. Chambers repeats
himself always, and so does Phillips. Stewart White’s
“ Blazed Trail ” is still the same old blazed trail in his
other books. Ridgwell Cullum has copied “ The Vir-
ginian”; Frank Norris and Upton Sinclair read much
the same. But whatever their demerits, the Yank can
pitch a yarn that appeals strongly to Australians, and
while he continues to do so he will always get the win-
ner’s proportion of the gate. Wherefore, Hash one ! '
» * •
“ Philoyid ”: The N’York Press publishes an article on
the Yiddish newspapers in that city, and admits that
they have enormously advanced in prestige. There are
the Vorwarts (Socialist), the Yid Daily News (Conserva-
tive and orthodox), the Yid Morning Journal, the
Kundes (a comic), Arbeiter Stimme (inclined to Anarchy),
Volk (Zionist), and Warheit(Zionist and Socialist). The
working journalists are apparently well paid, and the Yid
press club is a powerful institution.
THE SORROW FACTORY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wandered, wandered slowly
Amidst the Books of Verse
(Unhonored and unholy,
Though “ true to life” and “ terse”) —
Just slabs of melancholy
Enscribed with endless Curse !
I saw the deathly draping
On ev’ry mirthless leaf;
I saw the sombre craping,
Where Laughter plays the thief!
And cried, “ There’s no escaping
This Gallery of Grief ! ”
No brightly-blooming garlands
Upon those pages hung ;
No flashes from the star lands
Were rapturously flung;
The triumphs of the far lands
Were not those songs among.
No creed of Strong Endeavor
Those dirges voiced for me,
And never, never, never
One song of Joys to Be.
. . . Thank God, I left for ever
That sorrow factoree !
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


There are probably thousands of Australasian
cyclists riding B.S.A. bicycles who are unaware that
B.S.A. rifles and B.S.A. motor-cars are products of the
same huge concern that manufactures the celebrated
cycle fittings, and the recent brief cable advices of the
placing of a large contract for B.S.A. rifles by the Com-
monwealth Government may not have been particularly
noted. We are advised by Mr. Bennie, the Australasian
manager for the Birmingham Small Arms Co. Ltd., that
the contract referred to was for no less than 56.000 rifles,
and that it will keep one of his company’s mostimportant
departments fully occupied for over a year. These rifles
are of special pattern intended for the use of the
Australian cadets ; and the placing of this large order is
distinct proof that the previous consignment of 9000
similar rifles from the B.S.A. works has turned out
entirely satisfactory. Another large order recently
placed with the Birmingham Small Arms Co. was for 250
motor-cabs for a big London company. This order was
obtained in open competition with the leading motor
manufacturers of England and the Continent, and is
eloquent testimony to the development of this branch of
their business. The present position of the B.-S.A.
Company should give food for thought to those pessi-
mists who arecontinually crying out about the decadence
and conservatism of the British manufacturer, and one
might almost assert that their standard of quality and
interchangeability are in a class by themselves. There is
no doubt that the great body of Australasian cyclists
would willingly subscribe to this assertion.*
There’s an old saying that “ appearances
are deceitful,” but all users of the breakfast cruet
illustrated here will doubt
iiiiiiiiiiK
the truth of the adage.
This cruet is a spe.cial
design for A. Saunders
of the famous James
Dixon Silverplate. They
are of the finest glass,
mounted in silver. The
base is firm and artistic,
and the whole a hand-
some, attractive addition
to any table, with a life-
time’s wear in it. The
| orice, 10/G, is far below
its original cost, but a
large, overlooked stock
accounts for the wonder-
ful value offered. It will
he sent carriage paid to any address, together with
a handsome catalogue, from A. Saunders,
Jeweller, Silversmith and Optician, 807-817
George Street, Sydney.*
A minute’s delay in treating some cases of
croup—often the length of time it takes to go for
a doctor—frequently proves fatal. To save worry
keep a bottle of Chamberlain's Cough Remedy in
the house, and at the first indication of croup give
the child a dose. Pleasant to take and always
cures.*
This Pretty Costume,
made in Striped Tweed —light and dark Greys,
Blues, Browns—step collar —raised seams —semi-
fitting back,
9s. lid.
This is more evidence of the fact that we can
save you money.
FINNEY, ISLES 8 CO.,
LIMITED,
The Big. Block, BRISBANE.
9/11
IN BANANA LAND
W. F. Finlayson, who has relieved Minis-
ter-without-portfolio Foxton of his seat at Bris-
bane, is a comparatively new man in Labor
politics, and the party ran him with small hopes
of success. Dr. Culpin captured the seat on a
split vote in 1904, but was badly beaten in 1907.
Finlayson is a virile man of common-sense and
courage. For years he has been a bright light in
circles addicted to lemonade, and his views on the
sanctity of the marriage tie are uncompromising.
At Mt. Chalmers, according to the Rock-
hampton Bulletin, Kidston’s colleague, Grant,
said: —
A deputation waited on the Premier that afternoon
and asked for a subsidy for the recreation grounds, for
alterations to the railway station and a, subsidy for the
hospital. The Premier had met the deputation in a most
friendly manner, and he thought that Mr.' Kidston would
be able to accede to its wishes. But if the Government
did not get portion of the Customs revenue it would not
be able to do that.
In other words, if Mount Chalmers didn’t roll up
and vote for the Twenty-five Bob Fraud, it
wouldn’t get its railway station altered, or its
recreation ground improved, or its hospital subsi-
dised. And, after that, the “Liberals” had the
sublime impudence to say that the Labor party
offered bribes because it promises to try to make
the world a bit pleasanter for the under-dog !
W. G. Higgs, the Labor man who wiped
the superfluous Archer out at Capricornia, has
something of a political record. Fifteen years or
so ago he arrived in Queensland to edit the
Worker, in succession to William Lane and
Ernest Blackwell. He soon nearly paralysed the
fossilised Brisbane Municipal Council by entering
it as a straight Labor advocate of extensive
municipalisation. Next he entered the State
Parliament as colleague of Bowman, present
leader of the State Labor party. Then he moved
on to the Federal Senate, where he sat for six
years, part of the time as Chairman of Com-
mittees. In 1907 he fell out through a split Labor
vote, and now he comes up again as a member of
the House of Reps. He is the only member of the
Federal Parliament who has been returned to both
Houses. When the present political Labor move-
ment started, 20 years ago, he was a compositor
on the S. M. Herald, and was “ the room’s”
chief practical joker and cartoonist.
Absolved.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
COLD is the face of Christ as He looks from
His lamp-girt corner.
Cold is the face of Christ, who is weary,
perchance, of tears.
Long hasHeseen men sinning, long has He heard
their sorrow;
Always the human cry unchanged for nearly
two thousand years.
Back swing the padded panels, far back from the
gaping doorway.
Cool is the night beyond, and the gardens are
blind with sleep.
Up in the blue of Heaven she of the golden sickle
Counts o’er on her misty fingers the fields that
she has to reap.
A priest still kneels at the altar—lights still lift to
the arches;
The music faints in silence and sobs like a
suff’ring thing.
Heavy the waft of incense, while on the left the
Virgin
Smiles out, the eternal mother, from under an
angel’s wing.
The blessing of God is round me ; holy tapers
before me—
The Father has shown the pathway that leads
to the peaceful years.
But cold is the face of Christ, high in the lamp-
gold corner,
Cold is the face of Christ, who is weary, per-
chance, of our tears.
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane. April 16, 1910.
Mt Dear Thargomindah,—
As guessed some weeks ago, the first senate
for our new Temple of Learning includes a large
percentage of political deadbeats. There are
bright spots, certainly : his Ex. takes a seat, and
he is a practical authority on medicine and medi-
cal schools; and R. H. Roe and one or two of the
old University extension men join him. But the
list also includes the ancient Barlow, Dalrymple
and E. C. Barton, who are only politicians, and
not much at that. Then there are Doctors Hardy,
Hirschfeld and Wilton Love ; and a miscellaneous
collection, including .T. K. Stewart, A. M. Hertz-
berg, L. G. Corrie, F. McDonnell, J. B. Hender-
son, A. J. Thynne, Morrow (the biscuit man), G.
A. Richard (the Mount Morgan boss), G- W.
Power, J. L. Woolcock and E. W. H. Fowles.
The Macgregor clan will flit to Toowoomba on
Monday, when the festivities of Show time will
commence, and a week of red dust will set in.
As the influx of western folk is larger than usual,
the dust will be redder than usual, I suppose.
The air is thick as a London fog with politics ;
and as the numbers go up, it looks as if the down-
fall of Wullie Kidston was drawing nigh; while
his chance of the coveted Chairmanship of . the
Inter-State Commission is, like the unhappy
dynasty in “The Waltz Dream.” “up a tree.”
To add to his troubles, Kidston finds himself
blamed all round. He would have Glassey in the
team, and that disgusted hundreds of the pure
inerinoes. who naturally throw the whole respon-
sibility on to the Man Who Would Be King. Still
another knock came from his own Rockhampton
district, where Labor scored a most decisive win,
in spite of Kidston’s personal attendance and
canvass.
THE SORROWS OF A
LANDLADY.
IRATE LODGER: “ Is there
anything in the room
strong enough to break
this stcalc? ”
MAUD (who has been given
notice): “ Yes, Mister;
try the butter.”
The Women’s Progressive Club had its annual
meeting last Thursday ; and if the personnel of
the officers counts for anything, the year should
be full of business. I hear that a plank in the
club’s platform is to be aimed at the disgraceful
sweating that is carried on in mercantile houses
and other big offices and warehouses, especially
among young clerks.
A horrible explosion has occurred in the Social
Service Institute, a place in the Valley, where
some three or four years ago an enthusiastic
Yankee parson started to blaze a track to the city
of peace with the help of boys and girls’ clubs
and a kindergarten, creche and other such
things. He got the Dixson tobacco people to let
him have a building free, on the understanding
that social reform of a solid character would re-
sult; but very soon the machinery (which from
the first was ill-constructed) broke down, and
the latest smash has occurred through the insub-
ordination of the committee of fashionables which
has been running the infant department. Great is
the storm of indignation raised against the
council. But it seems that the high-minded dames
have somehow made themselves obnoxious to the
other committees which run the other departments,
so it means either losing, the one or losing the lot.
The work of the infant department will go on,
in any case —the work of looking after baby
left while mother washes the fine linen of the
mighty.
“I will ” was said quietly on Wednesday.last
by Malcolm Corrie, eldest son of Alex. Corrie, of
the Stock Exchange, and a second or two later by
pretty Ernestine Webb, a granddaughter of the
late L. A. Bernays. Another Brisbane belle who
did the same business in an unostentatious manner
last week in Melbourne was Miss Bessie Anning.
Garbed in a simple walking gown, she undertook
to brighten the life path of one Foster.
Mrs. Norman Lindsay is tripping round Bris-
bane this week, piloted by her sister, Mrs.
Elkington. The artist’s lady, who professes a
love for the local climate, will probably remain
until the jacaranda trees bud and you can leave
off your furs.
Sailing's for Europe include partof the Willcocks
clan. The chief part of the expedition proposes
to bestow its heart upon a seafaring doctor. The
maternal relative goes as chaperone and to see
that the job is rightly done. The flitting will be
done per Orvieto, on May 7. Pearl King Jim
Clark goes a week earlier.
A returnee per the Otway was Miss Amy Mills,
who tells of the commotion there was on board
both before and after the small-pox discovery was
made. Very soiled voyagers from the third-class
would come into the sacred dominions of higher-
grade travellers, till at last a round robin was
presented on the subject.
Miss Mills, who has had a final polish put upon
a nice contralto voice by Minna Fischer and an
English expert, has been revelling in music and
the play. She says Australian actresses have now
a very particular seat among the mighty in the
Fog, partly because they are looked upon as
champion toilers.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
The Port Alma line (Q.) wasn’t born under
a lucky star. The work had just been started
when the wettest of wet seasons happened, and
there is even more mud than usual thereabouts,
which is saying a good deal. At Saltwater Creek
—on the proposed line—a 47ft. pile was driven
into the slush ; but when only Ift. of timber
remained above the mud the workmen stopped.
They hadn’t touched bottom, but they didn’t
want to be blamed for losing the monkey.
An 18 - year - old Queenslander, Henry
Miclcelson, is credited with being the first to
climb Crooked Neck, a peak of the Glasshouse
Mountains, back of Brisbane. He posted a flag
on the summit in a mound of stones as a guarantee
of good faith and better lungs. The bullock-
whacker and the log-choppers thereabouts have
put Henry’s exploit first amongst recent topics.
“Boro-belle”: The Japanese beche-de-
mer fisherman of the Queensland coast is brutally
cruel to his aboriginal crew. A ketch or lugger
generally has about 12 “boys’’ aboard, and from
two to four Japs,- After signing-on the boys up
Thursday Island or Cooktown way at ss. a week,
loin-cloths and tucker, the boats are worked right
down along the reef to Rockhampton. At Mackay
alone during the past year no less than half a
dozen cases of harsh treatment have been re-
ported, yet nothing is done, and the last
report of the Protector (Mr. Howard) did not
even contain a reference to the subject. A while
ago when a .Tap ketch was in the river at Mackay,
it happened one night that the vessel broke its
moorings and drifted up against the bridge, the
Japs at the time being ashore, at Chinatown,
while all the blackboys were across the river visit-
ing their tribe. Next morning when the boys
paddled aboard, the Jap owner beat the head boy
till he was insensible. The Mackay newspapers
duly recorded the fact, and it ended there.
Six months or so back an inquiry was con-
ducted at Mackay into the death of an abori-
ginal who had pegged out through exposure
on the reef. Black brother had been gathering
beche-de-mer. A storm came up, and the Japs—
who appear to lose their heads completely in a
heavy sea—promptly hauled up their anchor and
fled. It was midwinter—not a good time for a
nude brother to camp on the Barrier—and when
in calmer weather the Jap loafed back to pick
him up, Binghi was dying. A bird’s-egg hunter
who goes round among the adjacent islands once
told me that mounds which look like graves are
altogether too numerous in the quiet spots. He
never eared to dig one up to see if Binghi slept
below, and if so what Binghi died of; but that
egg-hunter says he has suspicions.
Horse-training and music don’t seem to be
a natural team ; yet two of the compositions of
J. E. Gorman, a well-known Brisbane trainer,
were played by the Sandgate (Q.) town band at
the races there the other day...
J. F. Bailey, the Government Botanist,
has been digging into early records to find out
when sugar-cane was first planted in Queensland.
There is a record as far back as 1828, when it was
planted as a fence round the penal establishment
at Brisbane.
Dr. Elkington, Queensland’s new Health
Commissioner, has started a characteristically
vigorous crusade against the practice of spitting
in streets and places of amusement, and posters
now confront one everywhere in Brisbane, bear-
ing this legend: “Gentlemen will not spit;
others must not. Penalty £2O. Spitting is a
murderous and filthy habit. Every decent
citizen is asked to aid in suppressing it.”
Owing to the foolish indifference of some
thousands of democratic voters the mischievous
Bible-in-State-schools referendum seems to have
been carried by a considerable majority. The
Bible-in-State-schools agitators were well organised
and voted—to a woman. The business will yet
lead to a world of sectarian trouble in Queensland
—a State which so far has been fairly free from it.
The Brisbane press is bragging immensely
about Queensland hardwoods being used by the
German Naval Department in the works at Kiel
Harbor, in the street-paving at Rotterdam, on
the new Hague bridge, etc. Fully 80 per cent, of
Queensland territory is absolutely devoid of build-
ing-timber ; in the north hardwoods fetch a
terrific.price ; and in Brisbane every six months
or so sees a fresh rise in the cost of building
material. Under the circumstances the export of
timber to pave the Dutchman’s streets in far-off
Rotterdam doesn’t seem much to be joyful about.
“ Ossian ” : Bananaland’s magnificent dis-
tances are a national asset; but their magnificence
hardly appeals to the traveller whose pursuits
take him often on some of the way-in coach
journeys. At present there are 191 different
routes, representing a total of 13,240 miles. The
champion long-distance trip is from Charleville
to Barcaldine, 278 miles; the Normanton-Clon-
curry jaunt is 260 miles ; the Winton-Boulia dash
is 240 miles ; the Charleville-Eromanga stretch
is 221 miles; and the Cloncurry-Camooweal
sprint west towards Sunsetland is an even
200 miles. Private Enterprise is the sole boss and
controller of coaches. It scoops a fair revenue;
but it has to swallow a fearful amount of dust and
other discomfort to do it.
“5.8.” : Billy Wilson, the station black
who figured in the murder trials that followed the
tragedy at Carpentaria Downs St&tion (Q.), was
sent, after his acquittal, to the Barambah Mission
Station in the Burnett district. Barambah is in
the centre of a cow country, and the cow-chasers
didn’t enthuse over the acquisition from Carpen-
taria Downs. Billy’s exemplary behavior has,
however, resulted in his appointment as a dairy
hand ; so now the gentle being who told how he
held the girl’s hands while her throat was cut
goes daily into the township with the cream cans,
and is reported to be quite docile. But Binghi
always is like that until he gets a white man
walking in front of him.
“ Quan ” : Davis, who acted as inter-
preter for the two girls rescued from Frazer’s
Island (B. 24/3/TO), learnt the Binghi speech of
those parts while living with the blacks in the
Wide Bay (Q.) district. He was a runaway con-
vict, and took the name of Duramboi while hunt-
ing ’possums and otherwise leading the simple
life with black brudder. A party consisting of
Andrew Petrie, Henry Stuart Russell, and a
couple of others, which went on an exploring trip
to the Wide Bay country, found him on May 20,
1842. About a fortnight before they had found
Braeefield, another escaped convict. (His Binghi
name was Wandi.) Between these two not very
valuable finds Petrie’s party discovered the Mary
River. Duramboi’s portrait is in the Brisbane
Art Gallery. It shews him as a somewhat villain-
ous-looking old fellow.


ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS OF THE
Semiling Rubber Estates Limited
KEDAH, MALAYA (Registered Under Part I. of the Companies Act 1890).
CAPITAL, £40,000 in 40,000 SHARES 0/ £1 EACH.
10,000 Shares Fully Paid, to be Allotted to the Vendor, together with the Monetary Consideration hereinafter mentioned, in Full Payment for the Property.
20,000 Shares of £1 each to be offered for Public Subscription at £1 per Share, payable 10/- on application, 5/- on allotment, 2/6 in three calendar months,
and 2/6 in six calendar months after allotment.
The whole of the issue of the 20,000 Shares has been underwritten by Messrs. E. L. & C. Baillieu.
10,000 Shares to be held in Reserve.
Y'HE consideration above referred to payable to the Vendor (Eastern Exploration Company, Limited) is the repnv-
„_ ah 'tw o . a, I nou * ,t P ald nr P avable b .V under its option to purchase the properties (viz., £10,690) and £lOOO in
; „ I f le capital to be subscribed will be applied in payment of the above amounts and the balance of the proceeds
win De placed to the credit of the Company less brokerage and flotation expenses.
•the underwriting commission will be provided by the vendor out of the 10,000 shares to be allotted to it as above.
DIRECTORS:
JAMES MACGREGOR GILLESPIE, Swanston-street, Melbourne, Accountant,
PHILIP JOSEPH GLASS, Swanston-street, Melbourne, Rubber Manufacturer.
HON. WILLIAM ALEXANDER WATT, Kiora-street, Esseudon, Grain Merchant.
WALTER HUGO SCHMIDT, William-street, Melbourne, Metallurgical Engineer.
BANKERS •
THE LONDON BANK OF AUSTRALIA, LIMITED, Melbourne.
SOLICITOR •
ARTHUR ROBINSON, 375 Collins-street, Melbourne.
BROKERS and UNDERWRITERS:
E. L. and C. BAILLIEU, 375 Collins-street, Melbourne.
SECRETARY and REGISTERED OFFICE:
EDWARD H. SHAOKELL, 375 Collins-street, Melbourne.
This Company is being formed for the purpose (inter alia) of acquiring lands of leasehold or other tenure of
about 611 acres (be the same more or less) situated in the District of Kuala Muda in the State of Kedah Malaya •
ana of working- und developing- the same as a Rubber Plantation. ’
r • h l'? r °P m - v above to has been secured for the Vendor Company (Eastern Exploration Company.
Liimited) by Mr. C. H. James, now m Malaya as its agent, under option agreements made in Malaya, copies of which
are not yet available, and has been reported on by Mr. J. A. Symes, Manager of the Riversides Estates, Semiling. The
toiiovving is taken from his report, which is telegraphic and in code, under date Bth March, 1910
SEM I LIN “ The property cov-rs 611 acres, good quality. Trees under 12 months, 8300 ;12 months, 22,500 ;
! years, 16,000 ; 3 years, 8000. Yield estimated at about pounds weight
1911
1912
1913
1914
1915
1916
Lb.
4,000
•16,400
27.500
55,250
68.500
86,750
“ Everythin? is now ready (for) planting balance during: (next) six months. Total cost will not exceed £2OOO.
I estimate the total expense at £5OOO as sufficient working capital, in order to carry this through to the end of 1912.
Communications very good. Government land adjacent.”
Mr. C. H. James, the Vendor’s Representative, strongly recommends the property; and Mr. John L. Wharton, of
Melbourne, a Director of the Vendor Company, who has investigated the purchase of this particular property, cables
from Penang:, in code, under date 11th March, 1910, as follows:
“ James considers Semiling thoroughly good property. The property is a good one on evidence available ; con-
sider sound purchase. .. . Syme’s estimate only covers production (from) area planted 331 acres. Balance imme-
diately planted should increase the production fifth year (to) 70,000.” (Mr. Wharton had not had time at date of
his cable to personally inspect the property.)
Attention is drawn to the fact that more than half the area secured is planted with rubber trees of various ages,
up to three years old ; and, according to Mr. Syme’s report, will begin yielding next year.
Taking Mr. Syme’s estimated yield frdm the area ALREADY PLANTED, the property should during the next six
years give the following returns :
According to the latest cabled advices, published in the Argus and the Agk on the 11th day of April, the present
price of rubber is 11s. lOd. per lb.
The above estimate covers only the area already planted, and when the balance (280 acres) is planted, the yield
from the property will be very considerably increased.
The Directors above mentioned, James Macgregor Gillespie, Philip Joseph Glass, William Alexander Watt, and
Walter Hugo Schmidt, have each agreed to take, and now hold, one share. The minimum subscription upon which
the Directors may proceed to allotment is 5 shares, and the amount payable on application is 10s. per share and on
allotment ss. per share. Applications for shares offered to the public will proceed only on one of the forms of
application endorsed upon the printed copies of the Prospectus. This advertisement does not fully comply with the
requirementsof Section 104 of the Companies Act IS9O. Copiesof the full Prospectus, which is dated and issued the
14th day of April, 1910, and forms of application for shares may be obtained at the Registered Office of the Company,
No. 375 Collins-street, Melbourne.
FITZ’S
The Quality and Style of these Garments reflect
the Art of Juvenile Dressing in a very high degree.
FITZ’S
N’o. 11— “ THE NESTOR,” an exquisitely tailored
suit for “ The Little Master,” in Striped Tweeds,
linished with Fancy Collar and Massive Metal
Buckle, 12/6, 15/6. Sizes oto 5.
WHEN ORDERING
VV KINDLY NOTE
that Size 5 fits full
grown Boy of 7 years;
Size 8, a Boy of 10
years*
Larger Sizes can be
made at an extra cost
of 2s*
The Postal Rates on
each Suit are—in Vic-
toria* Is*; to any other
State in the Common-
wealth* Is* Bd*
No. 9—Pretty Double-Breasted
Tunic Suit., in Cream Series,
finished with Silk Braid, 16/6.
Sizes 0 to 5.
J7ACH SUIT is strongly
boxed to prevent
damage in transit.
Give age as well as
size of Boy ; his chest,
waist, in-sleeve and in-
leg measures.
Make your Postal
Notes and Money Orders
payable at North Mel-
bourne. Inter-State
Stamps cannot be ac-
cepted.
No. 6— “ THE ELMSLIE,” D.B. Suit in
Navy Serges, Collar Finished with Silk
Braiding, Self Belt with large Metal
Buckle, 12/6,16/6. Sizes 0 to 6.
No. 19-“ THE CLARENCE,” in fine
't-xture Botany Twills, Fast Indigo Dye,
finished with Stitched Silk as depicted,
19/6, 22/6. Sizes 3to 8.
No. 17—“ THE RONALD,” in Navy Bntanv
Twills (fine texture), finished with Black
Silk Collars, 17/6. Sizes oto 5.
No. 14—“ THE BRADLEY,’’Smart D.B. Suit,
in Selected Tweeds, finished with extra
Collar, 12/6, 15/6. Sizes oto 5.
No. 24—Saloon Suit in Fancy
Tweecls, with extra Collar, 15/6.
Sizes 3 to 8.
No. B—“THE NORMAN,” in all shades of
Silk-finished Velvet finished with larg-e
clear Buttons, 15/6. Sizes oto 5.
FITZGERALD BROS.
Drapers, Importers, Manufacturers,
Errol Street, NORTH MELBOURNE.


Girl of Six Months had Fearful
Attack of Eczema—Spread All
Over Her Face and Eyes Began to
Swell —Scratched Till Blood
Came—Relieved in a Night and
CURED BY CUTICURA
AFTER LONG SUFFERING
"When my little girl was six months
old I noticed small red spots on her
Y/
r\
right cheek. I did not
pay any attention to
them but finally the
spots grew so large
that I sent for the doc-
tor who said it was
ringworm. Ho pre-
scribed an ointment
which I used for two
weeks, but instead of
helping the eruption,
the ointment seemed
to make it worse. Then I went to a
second doctor who after examining the
baby said it was eczema. He also gave
me an ointment which did not help
either. The disease in the meantime
spread all over the face and the eyes
began to swell. I became very anxious.
The itching grew intolerable. I had to
tie the baby’s hands to the cradle to
prevent her scratching. The cheeks
were covered with blood and it was a
terrible sight to see. I consulted doc-
tors from September to December, but
they were unable to euro the baby. I
paid out from twenty to thirty dollars
without relief.
“One of my friends told me of the
Cuticura Remedies and I sent at once
for a set which I began to use that even-
ing. The next morning the baby’s face
was all white instead of red and you can
imagine how surprised I was. I cannot
find words enough to praise Cuticura
and I do not know what would have
become of my baby only for it. I used
the Cuticura Remedies until the eczema
entirely disappeared. The child is now
three years old and quite well. I used
three cakes of Cuticura Soap, two boxes
of Cuticura Ointment and one bottle of
Cuticura Resolvent and I never use any
other soap. I always recommend them
whenever there is a chance for doing so.
I will send you one of her pictures
which she had taken just after she was
healed. Mrs. P. E. Gumbin, Sheldon,
la., U. S. A., July 13, 1908.’’
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney.
Cuticura Depots: London. 27 Charterhouse Sq.:
Australia. R. Towns & Co., Sydney: U. S. A.. Pot-;
ter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props., Boston.
ARNE?
»
‘JUmnniii
Csir
l 4
BA
234 CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
AND
ALL
STATES
CHANCE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR ME.
LAXAT/NE The Peerless Aperient.
LAXATINE The Gentle Regulator.
LAXATINE The Lollie-like Laxative.
LAXATINE The Cure for Constipation.
LAXATINE Sold by All Chemists.
LAXA TINE Equally Good for Children and
LAXATINE Adults.
LAXA TINE ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
DON’T
soon convince the most
are free. Call or write,
healthy and vigorous.
be despondent if you have
failed to obtain relief with
mineral drujrs, patent nos-
trums, electric belts, etc.
Trv our Herbal Remedies—
Nature’s own cure. They will
sceptical. All consultations
We can make you strong,
AMERICAN HERBAL DISPENSARY,
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
WHY
STAY
FAT?
When science of-
fers a complete,
positive, safe, lasting and effective cure for
Obesity ! It seems a crime nearly, that any
fat woman or man should continue their life
a burden to themselves, and a laughing-
stock for their acquaintances.
“FATCURE”
will reduce your weight by as much as 5
lbs. a week and, at the same time, it is ben-
eficial to your general health. No drastic
dieting or killing exercise is required when
this method is used. It is most beneficial
in all cases of weak heart, especially if
fatty degeneration is suspected. A few doses
improves your breathing, Send 2d. stamp
for FREE TRIAL Sample and particulars
ĥ
Watworth Co., Suite J t
Linden Court, Castlereagh St,, Sydney.
System
of Induced Draught for Mine Workings,
Tunnels, etc., and of Forced Draught for
Combustion, is Effective and Economical.
ESTIMATES SUBMITTED.
THE. HYDROBLAST CO.,
Patentees and Makers,
FLETCHER STREET, WOOLLAHRA, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
A BEAUTIFUL COMPLEXION IN THREE MINUTER
PULCHRIT,
A GENUINE SKIN TONIC, AND SUBSTITUTE FOR
FACE CREAMS and ALL OTHER SKIN SPECIFICS.
(1) PuijCiirit is the only powder which produces
amazing effects after being washed off. (2) If used
as ordinary powder (dr.v), lightly rubbed into the skin,
it becomes equally invisible. (3) It produces a dazzling,
beautiful skin, and idealises the complexion. (4) It im-
parts to the roughest skin a velvety softness, and pro-
duces that fascinating appearance which is so much
admired. (5) It is indispensable for the culture of the
hand. (6) Instead of clogging the pores it cleanses them,
removing all blemishes, such as wrinkles, freckles, red-
ness, yellow skin, pimples, etc. (7) It creates a feeling
of comfort and tase by neutralising perspiration ; there-
fore indispensable at balls, theatres, etc. (8) It stands
for health and hygiene of the skin.
Price 45., post free, from the wholesale agent for Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, H. A. Goddard, Eagle Street,
Brisbane, Queensland ; or a sample will be forwarded on
receipt of Is. in stamps or postal note. [2
BARROWS
English Portable Engines
iS it
PASTORAL-
ISTS AND
FARMERS
USE NO
OTHER.
SOLE
AGENTS:
J. H. YOUNG 8 CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LONGREACH, CHARLEVILLE.
FROM SOUTH AFRICA
mm
. -»v
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
ipped with White.
Length, 9 inches.
5/ The Bunch,
/ m Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER'S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
"AWL-YOU-WANT.”
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2s • Posted.
(Awl, 2 needles,
z reel cotton.)
ħ
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., witli a LOCK-STITCH.
Its immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
I is the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one’s pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sewing .Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needtes are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight—l reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, pose lree. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for as. Send postal note to
STAB dOVZZVx CO., 229 Cohans S-i*coi, Melbourne.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
?
/A
That Have
Caught On!
They’re books every Aus-
tralian should read.
They’re typical Australian
from cover to cover—full of
intense interest from start to
finish. They’re written, printed
and illustrated in Australia
you ou;:ht to read them—
they’re published in cheap
editions.
Here we enumerate just a
few of them.
Steve Brown’s Bunyip, l>y A. J. Barry ; price,
cloth, 1/-; postage 4d.
The Luck of the Native Born, by A. J. Barry ,
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
How McDougall Topped the Score, by T. E.
Spencer ; price, paper, 1/-; postage Sd.
The Spring Cleaning, by T. E. Spencer;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
(The above two combined), price, cloth, 3/b ,
The°Surprising Adventures of Mrs. McSweeney,
bvT. E. Spencer ; price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
Budgeree Ballads, by T. E. Spencer; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
A Man of Sympathy, by Harry Tighe ; price.
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
The Spell of the Bush, by John X. Cameron ,
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d. _
Adventures of Mr. Barnes, by Alf Brasch ;
price, paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
John Vane, Bushranger, by Chas. W hite ; price,
paper, 1/- < postage 3d. ~r
Riverfall, b.v L. B. Porter; price, paper, 1/-;
postage 3d.
Adventures of Russell Howard, by A. E. Job-
son ; price, paper, 1/- ; postage 3d.
The New Chum, by A. H. Adams; price,
paper, 1/-; postage 3d.
And other equally good books to follow.
N.S.W. Bookstall Co.,
476 George Street, Sydney.
All Branches and Booksellers.
TAILOR-MADE
COSTUMES.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
80 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
have an excellent range of patterns of all
kinds of cloths suitable for Ladies’ Garments,
including pure Indigo Serges, Woolly Bannock-
burns, West of England and Scotch Tweeds,
newest designs and shades in striped and
plain Faced Cloths, and also Cloths of
Australian manufacture.
Mr. Murphy, the cutter, has a wide reputa-
tion for his success in ladies’ work, and gives
every customer his personal attention and
advice. (
Ladies’ Tailoring in all its Branches.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
m
TrJORRISS I
hree Witches
SIOARETTeS
•vmltljr
6° for' 10"
londoo
HIGHEST GRADE,
os per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, sroNEr.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send., for our Trade Lists.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Statistician Knibbs is about to start an interest-
ing investigation. He wants to find out the cost of living
in various parts of Australia, and to this end he pines
to hear from citizens sufficiently methodical and patriotic
to keep a record of their household expenses from July 1
next to June 30, 1911. Specially prepared books will be
forwarded on application to the Commonwealth Bureau
of Statistics, and all information supplied by citizens will
be treated as confidential. In fact, to ensure absolute
secrecy, no names need be disclosed even to the Bureau.
Beer money would not necessarily come within the cost
of living, although some people might reckon it should be
included under the heading of amusements, while others
will prefer to treat beer not as an amusement, but as a .
religion. On this matter Mr. Knibbs gives the citizen a
free hand.
• * * *
“R. D’TTppe”; Will Lawson puts forward a
strong claim in the April Lone Hand on behalf of the
little M.L. coaster, Stormbird, as the oldest full-powered
steamship afloat. It is interesting to note that the very
day the article arrived in Wellington (M.L.) the New
Zealand Times reported a very smart piece of work just
done by the ancient fowl. She left Wellington at 5.30
p.m. on a Friday night; reached Wanganui at 7.20 a. m.
next day ; discharged 74 tons of cargo, including 4000 ft.
of hardwood ; took in a small quantity of cargo for
Wellington, and got out on the same tide. Evidently the
Stormbiid is having a strenuous old age.
* » * *
“Baro”: Statuopolos sat on his upturned
basket and wept bitter tears. Inquiries by the curious
crowd as to the cause of the moistness passed
unheeded; but when Mieko expressed the opinion
that whatever it was it “ served the blanky Dago right,”
the victim rose in self-defence and said in a
voice shaken with sobs:—“You say it serva me.
right. You spealta the damrot. Two, tree week ago
I coma to Melb looka for work. I hava no luck ; getta
the stonibroke, Then I meeta Alfa the Deek. He say,
‘ You sella the statu, you worka the Fuse.’ I ask, ‘He
my countriman?’ lie say ‘Something like that.’ He
gi'va me the twin —Alfa the Deek and Joa the Kook —and
tella me to finda the Bully tin office and sella them. I
ringa the,bell, and Mr. Hoppa come. I say, ‘ You buya
the lovely twins, Alfa the Deek and Joa the Kook?’ He
tella me ‘ scoota to blaze,’ and slama the door. I getta
cute. I coma round next day and putta my foot in the
door. I tell Hoppa ‘I nota go till you buya the stat.’
Then somebody sing out, ‘ Killa the cow ! ’ and I see stars.
Hoppa he slama the door and knocka me down the steps.
Alfa the Deek smash to pieces and the arm of Joa the
Kook break off. When I cry and aska the Hop what I do,
he larf and say ‘ Poka Joa the Kook’s eye out and calla
him Nelson.’ Then he slama the door lika the dev. By
crees, I no lika the Hop.”
* * * •
That particular Ram Bux who has been lighten-
ing the cares of Charters Towers with his weird advts.
grows menacing. His latest:—
WHAT I give Notice for Debter and Creditor
March 16th, 1910, by paper, I wish Queensland
Government fix up this case, particular cleared com-
pleted improvement. Answer me by according to
law before I see English Government for both matter.
SUBAN BOX, Indian Hawker.
Charters Towers, Queensland, Australia.
It’s pretty rough on Kidston. He has been helping the
old friends of the yellow man and the brown and the
black on a dozen platforms ; and his reward is to be told
by the brown man that, if he doesn’t look sharp, the
English Government will be told about his disgraceful
conduct. ■
* * * *
“San Remo” : Re posting circulars in N. S.
Wales. Some Sydney catalogue-printers, when touting
for Queensland business, offer to address and post the
catalogues from the Ma State capital. It appears that on
certain printed matter a halfpenny in N. S. Wales does
the same amount of postage work as a penny in Queens-
land. But, even apart from these anomalies, it seems to
me that the, big Australian firms get too much for their
money out of the Post Office—particularly the big news-
paper firms. The United States service is up against the
same problem, and recently the Postmaster-General let
out a whoop when he discovered that his department
was doing work for one cent which was costing him nine
cents in railway charges alone. The difference between
the price charged for newspaper and circular freights and
the actual cost chiefly' accounted for his ninety million
dollars deficit.
POCKET WIRELESS
[FOR TH E BU LLETIN.]
Professor Gerebotam, of Munich, has invented a pocket
wireless telegraphic apparatus, which will enable the
carrier to be called from a central wireless station. A
remarkable demonstration of the apparatus has been
given in Berlin— Cablegram.
I walked with Stodger yesterday ;
There was a crackling in his hat;
I said, “ Excuse me, %vhat is that
Annoying sound like burning hay ? ”
He answered not, but, with a stare
Preoccupied, strode swiftly on.
When we another mile had gone
I said, “ I’m certain it’s your hair ! ”
“ I’ll wager you five shillings that
Your scanty thatch is burning fast!”
(He muttered, “1/1 had a mast
I’d tell her that she’s got a rat ! ’’)
I looked askance at my poor friend,
Thinking, of course, his mind had failed ;
A passing taxi-cab I hailed,
And urged him, gently, to ascend.
Upon the kerb with fury white
He stood awhile and clawed the air ;
The fierce, quick crackling in his hair
Grew louder. ’Twas a woeful plight!
I called my poor friend by his name
As with my stick I tried to poke
His boxer off. I thought that smoke
Would rush out mixed with sheets of flame.
But ere I could his hat release,
He shouted gleefully, “I kmnv !
I’ll tune myself some notes below !”
And instantly he was at peace.
In silence from the staring folk,
I walked him with a happy smile ;
We strode along another mile
Ere I the placid silence broke.
“ Stodger,” I cried in great alarm,
“ Explain this awful mystery ! ”
He said, ‘‘lt’s this telegraphy—
This Wireless that has done the harm.
“ She says that she can’t keep her eye
On me, so this is how she scores !
All through the day she nags and roars
Until I change my key, and fly 1 ”
“Now, while her patience lasts, she’ll seek
About the scale for my new note ;
It is a small one and remote —
She might not find it in a week.”
Then happily, as we did jog,
A mist came up, and he with joy
Exclaimed: “ Now lam safe, my boy !
The d d thing’s useless in a fog ! ”
This is a prophecy of sorts.
Pray muse upon it when you moan
Around the madd’ning telephone
And scatter curses wild, and snorts.
N.S.W.
FOR.


RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY,
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blair’s
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Heuer Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand.
London. England
h
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
7') 2;
WTWi
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary milk foods,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Invalids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who are
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infant; ,
FULL PARTICULARS Oil APPLICATION TO
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd. and Bridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, 6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd.
Last Days! Last Days! For a Chance to Win.
£lOOO
IN PRIZES
£lOOO
VALUE i
£5OO j
FIRST
GREAT PRIZE
f VALUE
{ £5OO
Or Twelve Months’ Trip Round the World and £lOO in Cash for ONE PERSON,
or Eight Months for Two.
xuo vuiyuuutce, Having pmu iuii vanie ior cne
of fho t . JU . work of art, is prepared to find a purchaser for same
at the-advertised amount if the winner so desires ; also for'the Second and Third/Prizes.
SECOND: Value
EIGHT
£IQO; THIRD : Value £5O; and 97 other Prizes, totalling £lOOO.
HOURS’ GREAT ART UNION.
54th Year—Oldest and Most
Popular—s4th Year.
Proceeds in Aid of the Hospitals
and Public Charities of Australia.
Prizes will Ix 3 delivered to winners free of all charges. A list of winning numbers will be
posted to any person sending an addressed envelope to the representative, with stamp unafixed.
.buy from your Local Agent on or before 29th April, or send Postal Note, P. 0.0., or
stamps with Exchange added, direct to the representative, Australian Buildings, 49 Elizabeth
street, Melbourne, at once for tickets, and secure a chance in this Great Art Union,
W 22 for £l, 11 for 10s., or Is. EACH.
All direct applications must roach Melbourne before the date of drawing, 17th May, 1910.
Lest You Forget, Buy TO-DAY.
THEO. W. HEIDE, Representative,
Australian Buildings, 49 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, Victoria.
MARK
Underwear.
Made in
England
MARK
The “ BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only :
I. & R. MORLEY and UEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK' MERINO UNDERWEAR
g=p|
HOME
HEW
MEDICAL APPARATUS
WITH 'DRY BATTER?
W
«£>
■;
-
m
m
mm
msi
3*
JERDAN’S
“HOME" Battery
EOR WINTER AILMENTS.
We illustrate here a Medical Battery that is
better and more efficacious than the best
Electric Belt ever made.
No other Electric Medical appliance can
equal the good qualities and h> alth-giving
features of this grand “ HOME ” Battery.
For Rheumatism it is unequalled—it not
only relieves, but permanently cures by
l ccelerating the flow of blood and driving* the
iisease from the body.
In fact,* there is nothing better, more effec-
tive and reliable for all winter ailments—Gout,
Lumbago, Sciatica, Neuralgia, etc.—than this
little Battery.
The “ HOME” Battery is used in the leading
Hospitals, and supplied to the Medical Pro-
fession all over Australasia, and will cure
EVERYTHING that Electricity is good for.
It is simple in its working, easily adapted to
persons of any age, and costs nothing to
maintain.
PR.ICIL 355., Post Free.
Write for our Battery Booklet.
We send it FREE.
JORDAN’S
(Formerly Osborn & Jerdan),
“MY OPTICIANS,”
OPTICIANS AND ELECTRICIANS,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
ROYAL HOTEL,
SYDNEY
t %
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and Victoria. Thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN $ CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
Gold Aedal Paris 1900 e Grand Prize St Louis 1904
RfILOO
Ic=l
ĥ
ħ
FJOLFF & SOHli Karlsruhe nnti London
Kalodermo Jelly
prepared with glycerine 3j honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; is most
agreeable $ efficacious for preventing and allaying irritation.
Knlotfermn Sonis
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap.the leading soap for softening# improving the skin.
Kaloderma Rice Powder
most popular and refined
toiletpowder. jzr ucT
Knlotferma Shaving Soap
prepared with the renowned
Kaloderma Jelly undispu-
ted I y the most emollient shaving soap on marKet.
fl refired luxury at a popular price. jeT JST fJcT
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball
Bearing 1 Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and ouerate Roller Rinks.— Richardson Ball-Bearing
Skate Co.. 311 Michigan Street. Chicago, U.S.A. Sole Distributing Agents
—Messrs, J. C. Plimpton & Co., Liverpool.
RICHARDSON"
CHICAGO
Hotelkeepers!
Storekeepers !
Confectioners !
Make your own AERATED WATERS
Price, £lB
and up.
Cash or Terms.
2sS
m
V.
WITH AN
“AUSTRAL”
Aerated Water Machine
at a cost of 4d. per dozen.
Requires Only ONE (unskilled) MAN to work it. No special
bottles. Aeration superior to any others. Catalogues and
full particulars from the SOLE PROPRIETORS:
ECKERSLEY 8 SONS, 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland Agents :
ELLIOTT & DONALDSON, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.


The Bank of Australasia.
(Incorporated by Royal Charter, 1835.)
Paid Up Capital £1,600,000
Reserve Fund (£500,000 is invested in 2J per cent. Consols at 80, the
remainder being used in the business of the Bank) 1,710,000
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter 1,600,000
£4,910,000
SEVENTY-SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT of the DIRECTORS of THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA, with the
Accounts for the Half-year to 11th October, 1909, presented to the Proprietors at the Annual
General Meeting, held on Thursday, 17th March, 1910.
REPORT.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance Sheet as at 11th October last, with the Profit Account for
the half-year to that. date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and Colonial rates and taxes, and
for all bad and doubtful debts, the net profit for the half-year amounted to £177,565 os. 3d.
To this sum must be added £16.906 11s. Id. brought forward from the previous half-year, making a total of
£194,471 11s. 4d., out of which the Directors have declared a Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 12 per cent,
per annum, or £2 Bs. per share, and a Bonus of Bs. per share, free of income tax.
The Dividend and Bonus will absorb £112,000, and the Directors have further appropriated £50,000 to the
Reserve Fund, and £15,000 in reduction of the cost of Bank Premises. There will then remain £17,471 11s. 4d. to be
carried forward to the next account.
The Dividend and Bonus will be payable in London and in the Colonies on the 18th inst.
The Directors retiring by rotation are W. R. Arbuthnot, Esq. ; the Hon. Sir C. W. Fremantle, K.C.B. ; and
Leslie Sanderson, Esq., who, being, eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Auditors, Messrs. Welton, Jones and Co., also offer themselves for re-election.
Since the date of the last Report new Branches have been opened at Berry, in New South Wales ; Norseman,
Pingelly and York, in Western Australia ; and Tauranga, in New Zealand ; and the Branches at Cue and Laverton,
in Western Australia, have been closed.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 7th March, 1910. LICHFIELD, Chairman.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from 12th APRIL, 1909, to 11th OCTOBER, 1909.
Undivided Profit, 12th April, 1909
Less Dividend and Bonus, Bth October, 1909
.. £128,906 11 1
.. 112,000 0 0
Profit for the half-year to 11th October, 1909, after deducting rebate on bills current
at balance date (£7663 12s. 6d.), and making provision for all bad and doubtful debts £343,456 11 8
Less—
I. Charges of Management—
Colonial—Salaries and allowances to the Colonial staff, including
the Superintendent’s department and 173 branches and
agencies £101,891 6 10
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery, travel-
ling, etc 22,505 19 2
London—Salaries 9,356 12 6
General expenses 3,249 19 10
16,906 11 1
11. Rates and Taxes—
Colonial
London..
£13.645 0
15,242 13
£137,003 18 4
28,887 13 1
165,891 11 5
177,565 0 3
Total amount of unappropriated profit 194,471 11 4
From which deduct —
For transfer to reserve fund .. .. £50,000 0 0
For reduction in cost of bank premises 15,000 0 0
65,000 0 0
Leaving available for dividend £129,471 11 4
Dr.
BALANCE SHEET, 11th OCTOBER, 1909.
Cr.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation
Deposits
Bills payable and other Liabilities
£488,309 0 0
16,214,618 9 9
2,287,380 4 10
Capital ..
Reserve Fund
..£1,600,000 0 0
.. 1,710,000 0 0
(Of which £500,00() is
invested in 2| per
cent. Consols at 80,
the remainder being
used in the business
of the bank.)
Profit Account Un-
divided Balance
£18,990,307 14 7
129,471 11 4
3,439,471 11 4
£22,429,779 5 11
ASSETS.
Specie, Bullion and Cash Balances
Loans at call and at short notice
British Government Securities ..
India and Colonial Governments
curities and other Investments
Se
£3,921,842 2 4
2,078,000 O' 0
927,187 2 11
528,102 17 7.
Bills Receivable, Advances on Securities
£7,455,132 2 10
and other Assets ..
Bank Premises in Australia, New Zea-
land and London ..
.. 14,806,564 4 7
168,082 18 6
£22,429,779 5 11
F. H. BLOGG, Accountant. R. W. JEANS, Manager.
We have examined the Cash and Securities in London, and the London Books, and have verified the transfers
from the several Branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg to report that, in our opinion, the
foregoing is a full and fair Balance Sheet of the Bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the
Bank’s affairs as shown by the books.
■ London, 2nd March, 1910. WELTON JONES and Co., Auditors.
HIGH PRICED QUALITY
Model “ T ” Touring Car, 4-oyl., 20-h.p., 5-passen~er, £3lO (full equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials :
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. .Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
m <
V
\wm\
\VS
\ V ,
1
gUNVIP ~
Forest Devil.
Pulls Trees and
Stumps Out by
the Roots.
This is the latest device for pulling- out trees and stumps. It is
small, compact, quickly adjusted and easily worked. The ropes
withstand a terrific strain—the tree or stump must come out.
Illustrated Catalogue free.
This is the very latest and only fully patented “ Forest Devil” in
the Commonwealth. Ask for illustrated Booklet.
Anyone infringing anv of our Patent Bights (No. 6875) in regard to
the “ BUNYIP” FOREST DEVIL, which cover 1,2, 3 or more eircular
rack wheels, either maker, seller or user, will be prosecuted.
JOHN COOPER & SONS,
287-9 Elizabeth Street,
MELBOURNE.
STOTT & HOARE’S
BUSINESS
COLLEGE.
We can improve your
position and help you
to realise your ambi-
tions. Write to us and
we will tell you how
you may become an
ELECTRICAL
ENGINEER,
STEAM ENGINEER,
SURVEYOR,
ARCHITECT,
DRAFTSMAN,
SHIRE CLERK,
AUDITOR, or
ACCOUNTANT.
„
m
V-
-38
EDUCATIONbvMAIL
Let us know
what you want
to learn,
and we will
teach you.
We coach successfully
for all Exams., and in
the following subjects:
SHORTHAND,
TYPEWRITING,
BOOKKEEPING,
ACCOUNTANCY,
PENMANSHIP,
ARITHMETIC,
ENGLISH,
LATIN,
FRENCH,
MATHEMATICS,
COMMERCIAL ART,
Etc., etc.
Send for Descriptive
Pamphlet.
Only Address: MOORE ST., SYDNEY.
I I
r/
y>~
£ f::;^
| liff
| ;■>:•
I £&3 :
I >
2•/
I .
? v.
TRENCH’S REMEDY FOR FITS AND EPILEPSY
CURES THE SEVEREST AND LONC-STANDINC CASES
Six Weeks’ Trial Treatment, Only FIFTEEN SHILLINGS, Carriage Paid
THIRTY to FIFTY The REV. D. B. Blackwood, M.A.,
FITS IJt A DAY Th.L., Vicar of St. Helens, Tasmania,
wrote: —“I can honestly say that I recommend anyone
suffering from Epileptic Fits to give Trench’s. Remedy a
trial. It is from personal acquaintance with one who
was cured that I say so. She was a girl mine years
of age. Her father told me she would nave as many as thirty
to fifty fits in a day. After she tooK the Remedy she never
had one, and I saw her for over a year after at intervals. So
far as I could see it seemed a wonderful and complete cure.”
His Grace Archbishop Cart and Clergymen of all Denominations personally recoin mood Treoc^^emody.
THE UNION MANUFACTURING CO., 299 Elizabeth St [elbourne
VALUABLE BOOKLET
POST FREE
Send for it
at once
h
Delay is
Dangerous
ĥ
ħ
K
What’s a Moustache Worth to You ?
Your too-youthful appearance is undoubtedly a handicap to you
in your business career. CAPILLARINE is what you need to
improve your appearance. By its use we guarantee a strong,
permanent moustache in a very short time. A little rubbed on
at night is all that is needed.
Price 10/6 a Jar. Posted free to any address in the World.
Craig & Aitken, 654 George St., SYDNEY.
Established 30 Years.
-fs
s
si-
,
h
Under Vice-Regal
THE NEW TURBAN FRAME,
in two sizes, 1/6 and 2/6, postage 3d. extra; covered with natural
hair, 21/- Light, dull and grey shades extra. Obtainable only at
Patronage,
The MISSES ISAACS,
Ladies’ Hairdressers. Hairworkers, etc.,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY,
Telephone 2138 Central.
Combings Made Up.
between Elizabeth and Castlereajfh Streets.
Country Orders promptly attended to.
ĥ
ħ
h
Falkiner-801l Latest Patent
Owing to their simplicity and economy, we have attained such remarkable success with our
ELECTRIC SHEARING MACHINES
1 IWHIH—* iiliiWTM ■■ 11 — n ™» 11 1111111
that we have been induced (to meet the great and ever-increasing demand for a SMALL, LIGHT, PORTABLE,
COMPACT and CHEAP MACHINE) to place the complete 4-Stand Plant, as illustrated in the margin, on the
market. This MACHINE is designed specially to meet the requirements of the small Sheepowner. the man who
wants a portable plant to run out to the yards for wigging or crutching ; and especially in those districts where
the MAGGOT FLY is such a pest will this machine be found most valuable. From practical experience it is
well known that a properly machine-crutched sheep is seldom struck by the Fly.
“ PREVENTION IS BETTER THAN CURE.” Write for PRICE LIST and ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE, containing
full particulars of OUR ELECTRIC SHEARING MACHINES and GRINDERS, as well as our Last Invention
4“STAND PORTABLE PLANT.
The FALKINER-BOLL Patent Electric Shearing Machine Co.
G. W. HELLICAR, “Lombard ” Chambers, 107 FITT STREET, SYDNEY, Representative in Sydney.
HEAD OFFICE : 103-105 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
Sole Agent for TASMANIA—A. E. EVERSHED, 65 George Street, Launceston.
Sole Agent for SOUTH AUSTRALIA—H. C. RICHARDS, 6& 8 Blyth Street, Adelaide
Sole Agent for NEW ZEALAND—R. P. M. MANNING & CO., 115 Hereford Street, Christchurch.


“ The Waybacks Again.”
Another
stack of
joy and laughter about the famous family.
1s
p
□
n
%
&
{?ARd
Of
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GENASCO
READY ROOMWC
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing in
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe U Company Ltd.
383-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing; it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE LOOK AND LAUGH GLASS.
PUZZLE POCKET KNIVES.
See the passing: Show.
Your friends grotesquely
Photographed stout
people look thin—thin
people look stout. The
Laughing- Camera fur-
nishes all this, and more.
By getting a focus on
passing pedestrians,
horses, waggons, trains,
trams, etc., the most
grotesque and ludicrous
pictures are witnessed.
All growfat from laughter.
It is well and strongly
made, and cannot get out
fifl
of order. Price 1/-, post free anywhere.
The Laughing Camera.
The Chinese Rinf> Bax* Puzzle.
The object
is to remove
the handle
from the
rings. You
get it out of
one ring,
ĥ
you may set it out of two rings, hut can you tret it
out of all the rings? It is sufficient to say that it
can be done. Very neatly and perfectly made, and
can be carried quite easily in the vest pocket. Made
of polished brass. This puzzle was made in China in
the early part of this century, and a few were
brought home made of ivory. Price complete, with
full directions, 1i- post frpe anywhere.
A Puzzle Pocket
Knife is one of the
most useful novel-
ties obtainable.
Best quality steel
blade, buff horn
handles, spring
back. Puzzle to shut
i'l.
I
aswell asTto open.” Makes a splendid knife for general
useTalso a superior rabbiter’s knife. Price, w.th full
directions, 2/2, post free anywhere.
The TOUCH-ME-NOT SUR-
PRISE MATCH BOX. Can be
carried in the vest pocket, and
never fails to jrive the match*
cadger a shock. When your
friend asks for a match, just
hand him the box, and im-
mediately he attempts to open
same he receives a very sudden
shock. Nicely made of nickel,
and finished in leather. Price,
post free anywhere for 1/2.
m
Send for our Illustrated Catalogue
New Edition just published.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King: Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
The Accordeori with
The Mellow Tone
Is just perfection for Sang Accompaniments, Dance Music and
Picnics. The Organ-like Tone of these Instruments is attained
by the use of Bell Metal Reeds, which are hand-fitted and tuned.
OTHER MODELS
From 776 to 40/-
THREE POPULAR MODELS.
THE ORGAN TONED MELBA
8 Sets Bell Metal Reeds, Price 22/6, Post Free.
THE DANCE KING
4 Sets Bel) Metal Reeds, Price 30/-, Past Free.
THE PICNIC MODEL
2 Sots Bell Metal Reeds. Price IS Post Free.
FOR A FREE CATALOGUE WRITE
ALLAN & Co.,
276 Collins Street, Melbourne,
And also at BENDIGO & GEELONG.
STEVENS
New Visible Loading
Repeating Rifle No. 70.
The Most Accurate .22 Calibre Repeating Rifle Made.
Barrel rifl&d with slow twist, one turn in twentv-flve inches. Weight 4J pounds. Handles fifteen .22
short cartridges, which are always in sight while being fed into chamber. Extra double extractors.
The No. 70 Rifle is also manufactured for .22 long Rifle Cartridges.
The Stevens No. 70 Repeater is absolutely guaranteed, and bound to give universal satisfaction.
No. 70. Fitted with bead front and sporting rear sights.
Ask your Dealer.
Insist on
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [8
THE JUMP RABBIT TRAP. TttT"
ħ
THAT’S
IT.
Easy Money vor Trappers .
£BO IN CASH PRIZES £BO
I will donate £2O in Cash Prizes each month to the trappers
who catch the greatest number of rabbits with Jump Rabbit
Traps during the months of May, June, July and August, to
be divided as follows £lO first prize, £5 second, £3 third,
and £2 fourth. Write for conditions and entry forms.
Trappers, you can double your “earnings”
by using only the JUMP TRAP.
WHY? YOU ASK. WELL, the JUMP TRAP is made of steel, only half the weight of ordinary traps.
YOU get a stronger trap at half the weight, and can carry double the number of traps.
A trapper can only set as,many traps as he can carry.
WHY should you not catch double the quantity of rabbits.
THE jaws and pan of the JUMP are as large as the largest traps, yet the earth scrape necessary to set is
only half the size required for ordinary traps.
PAN and jaws of a JUMP are full size of scrape ; if a rabbit touches your scrape he is in the trap AND
IS YOURS.
WITH the old-fashioned trap half the scrape necessary to cover the long spring. The rabbit is just as
likelv to prospect on the spring end of the scrape as the jaw end. If he touches th'e spring end lie will
take fright, and IS NOT YOURS.
WHY make a .pack yourself by carrying a lot of unnecessary iron around on your back ?
FOR SALE by all Storekeepers. If your Storekeeper cannot supply you with the JUMP TRAP, write.
ANDREW ROBERTSON, Sturt Street, South Melbourne, or Box 373, G.P.0., Melb.
Send 1/6 to cover postage, and I will mail you a free sample Trap.
SUPERFLUOUS
HAIR and MOLES.
MANY BEAUTIFUL WOMEN have enlisted my aid to
remove Superfluous Hair and Moles, and if you are afflicted
with these annoying' little growths I am willing to extract
a few hairs for you free of charge. Then, if satisfied that
my system of Electrolysis is practically painless, that it
destroys the growth for ever, and that no scarring will
result, you can begin the treatment. Could I offer to do
this if my method were not certain ? Electrolysis enables
you to avoid depilatories, that often cause blood-
poisoning and have always the effect of increasing the
hairs. I OFFER £lOO REWARD TO ANYONE
PROVING MY SYSTEM UNSUCCESSFUL. Absolute
privacy is maintained by individual waiting-rooms. Call,
write or’phone (Central 193) for appointment; or get
my new Booklet; it is free for the asking.
FACE MASSAGE A SPECIALITY.
MISS MAUD MADDOCKS,
Federal Chambers, 100 King Street,
Corner of King and Pitt Streets, SYDNEY.
ENTRANCE IN KING STREET.
For your everyday use,
and your everyday
comfort, buy . . .
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Toilet Soap,
For you want a soap that is pure
and cleansing, you like a soap that
is pleasant and refreshing, and an
antiseptic soap like this, containing
10% pure Carbolic—an ample
proportion—protects you against risk of
contagion. Sold at Local Stores and
Chemists, in three-tablet boxes.
Makers, F. C. CALVERT & Co..
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND. .
:o.
t
IN
TRADE MARK,
Look for this Trade
Mark. It appears in
red on every Bottle of
genuine 3 in One Oil.
If you don't get 3 in One
you don’t get the First,
the Best and the only
oil for Lubricating,
Cleaning and Polishing
Write for free sample to
REID * REIP(Dept A ).
Australasian Representa-
tives —Wellington.
New Zealand, ,
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in. appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite:
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
A
l
$
r
v
4 r
Food.
BENGER’S FOOD ASSISTS NATURE. It is used mixed
with fresh new milk and forms a delicate and nutritive cream which can
be enjoyed and assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely
free from rough and indigestible particles which produce irritation in
delicate stomachs.
Benger’s Food is sold in tins, by chemists, etc., everywhere.
The Old Soldier deposits some dusty
remarks :
Re that yellow absurdity, the Dalai Lama of Tibet.
Within the past 114 years there has always been a Chinese
Amban or Resident at Lhassa, and two invasions from
the side of India have been decisively repulsed by Chinese
armies. In 1792, the Gurkas, after conquering l Sikkim
and Bhutan, invaded Tibet with 18,000 men, marched at
a great speed 398 miles into the country, and plundered
Tashi Lumpo. The Chinese at once set an army on foot,
and while it was getting ready, sent an envoy to demand
the return of the plunder and the surrender of a Lama
who had guided the Gurkas. Here’s the rest of the
story:
“On receiving an insolent defiance in answer, the
Chinese, under a general named Sung Fo, began their
march 70,000 strong in two columns. The Gurkas
retired and took post at Tengri Maidan, where they were
overthrown. Sung Fo pursued again, and overtook them
at the head of the pass leading into Nipal, again heating
them badly. He followed down the pass. They made a
stand in a strong position on the River Tandi, 20 miles
from their capital. The two armies faced each other for
some time till Sung Fo drove his men straight at the
Gurkas, who were, in their turn, driven headlong into the
roaring torrent of the river, where they perished almost
to a man.”
That is the story as it is told in the India Office records.
The victory was used to compel the Raja of Nipal to pay
tribute to China, and he continued till within the last
few years to send an embassy every three years to Pekin
with the tribute. That was the last time a Chinese
army got below the passes, but it got 121 miles below,
and, for all anyone can tell, it might have gone a great
deal further. There is another and more recent instance
from the same records :
“In May, 1841, the Jamu Raja sent Zorawar Sing with
5000 trained Dogras up the Indus into Western Tibet to
annex what they could. They occupied the country
round the sacred Mansarpvvar Lake. The news reached
Lhassa in November, and the Chinese army advanced
over the Mariam La Pass, and on December 12, 1841, met
the Jamu men at a place 15,000 ft. above the sea, among
the snow drifts. There was desultory skirmishing for
two days, in which Zorawar Sing was killed with prac-
tically all his force, for only one-sixth of them ultimately
made their way by the passes into British territory.”
The Indian office knows quite well that the Jamu Raja,
"ho is now better known as Raja of Kashmir, pays
tribute to China, and, like the Nipal man, gets trade
privileges in return. It is quite well known that the
Chinese in Eastern Turkestan have always been well able
to keep the Russians at arm’s length, and prevent their
annexing even territories so far from China Proper as
Kashgar. It is hardly likely they would let go a territory
like Eastern Tibet, which lies close to the province of
Szechuan and is a market for the brick-tea made there.
It is a curious proof of the weakness of the 1 Indian
Government that it has not been able to introduce
D irjiling-made brick-tea into Tibet. The planters have
made it, but have tried in vain to sell it. If India is really in
any danger it is from China, which has 150,000 European-
drilled troops and no obstacles but the easy passes of the
Eastern Himalaya to overcome. They know the way,
too, and have the two tributary Rajas to cover their
descent from the mountains.


The Largest and Most Up-to-date Tackle Shop in Australia
WHOLESALE CSL RETAIL.
TROUT TACKLE.
We can fit you out with Tackle suitable for all kinds of Fish.
Our Stock of TROUT TACKLE comprises all that is LATEST and BEST.
An Unlimited Range of the FAMOUS “KINGFISHER” and “STANDARD” LEVEL
SINGLE TAPERED and DOUBLE TAPERED Waterproof Silk Lines in Stock.
We here quote a few of our Specialities—
The “M.S.” Perfect Split Cane Trout Rod, and lift., 3 joints, 2 tops, steel
centre, cork grip, best bridge rings, agate runner and end ring, best solid winch mounts,
very closely silk bound, lock joints, double brazed, put up in partitioned bag, £5 10s.
The “MS.” Special Split Cane Ply Rod, 10ft., 10£ft. and lift., 3 joints, 2 tops,
cork grip, bronzed fittings, best snake rings, universal winch mounts, double brazed, put
up in partitioned bag. 40s.
Special Greenheart Ply Rod, 10ft. and lift., 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, snake rings,
bronzed fittings, universal winch mounts, in bag, 9s. 6d.
Special Hickory Fly Rod, lift., 3 joints, 1 top, balanced grip, snake rings, best fittings,
brazed, in bag, ss.
Special Cane and Lancewood Ply Rod, lOift., 3 joints. 1 top, balanced grip, snake rings,
bronzed fittings, brazed, in bag, a nice light rod, ss. ; 12ft., ss. 6d.
The “M.S.” Perfection Trout Reel, contracted drum and patent brake, made in two
pieces only. One of the most perfect reels procurable. 3in., 225. 6d. ; 3Jin., 275. 6d.
The “ M.S.” Ventilated Ebonite Back Rotary Reel, fitted with wire drum for rapid
winding, German silver rims, l6s. ; 2fin., 17s. 6d. ; 3in., 18s. 6d.
The “M.S.” New Eared Rotary Gunmetal Reel, 2iin., 12s. 6d.; 3in., 15s.
The “ Moscrop ” Gunmetal Trout Reel, check regulation, rapid winder. 2§in., 225. 6d.
Invincible Trout Spinners, Is. each. Spoon Flashes, Jin., fin. and lin., 6d. each.
“ M.S.” Eyed Ply Box, fitted with spring dips, 2s. each.
Best Japanned Cast Cases, 4in. diameter, 3 divisions, 3s. ; 4 divisions, 4s. each.
Celluloid Ply Boxes, 3s. each. Fly Books from Is. each.
The “M.S.” Perfect Turnover V shape Collapsible Trout Net, small mesh
waterproof net, clip to hang on belt, 2ft. 9in. handle, a splendid net, 17s. 6d. each.
Double Tapered “KINGFISHER” Lines.
30yds.—No. 2, lOs. each; No. 3,11 s. 6d. each.
40yds.— No. 1,11 s. 6d. each; No. 2,12 s. 6d. each; No. 3. 13s. 6d. each.
42yds.—No. 4, 225. 6d. each; No. 5, 255. each; No. 6, 275. 6d. each.
Double Tapered “STANDARD” Lines.
40yds.—13s. 6d., 205., 255., 275. 6d. each.
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO TROUT ANGLERS.
We are offering as a Trophy a splendid SPLIT CANE STEEL CENTRE ROD, VALUE £5,
for the largest Trout forwarded to us during the present season.
Write for our NEW TROUT GUlDE—Gratis and Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS
|o* " THE HOUSE THAT SELLS THE BEST TACKLE,”
9 HAYMARRET, SYDNEY.
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRD'S;
ikC-USTARD^P
Bird’s
Custard with 3ruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
i Adults and the Youthful alike. .
Y. J. Daley’s “At Dawn and Dusk,” a
eollectionof his best verses ; bound in cloth, with
portrait; price 4s 6d. from all booksellers. Post
free from Bulletin office, os.
Ladies’ and Gent’s Watches FREE.
TK=(
4V
V
Test your Size.
Send us your Number.
N?l
N? 2
N? 3
Solid Sterling Silver
Rings FREE
SSSXS9
EXES M
! ii oeiXD
IF THEY FIT YOU.
They are not made r of brass, tin or 'white metal, but are
Guaranteed to be I PURE STERLING SILVER through"
out, STAMPED and WARRANTED, and are sold retail
from 2s 6d to 4s Gd at all jewellers, THESE RINGS ARE
FREE IF THEY FIT YOU.
HOW TO WIN ONE.
Cut out the inside of the Rings marked No. 1, N 0.2, and
No. 3, and try on any finger of either hand, forward us
the number of the one that fits your finger, and we will
immediately forward one of these SOLID SILVER RINGS
FREE. With the ring we will send you also FREE 12 of our NAME or MOTTO BROOCHES (as illustrated)for
Distribution Among Your Friends. These Brooohes, which are very strongly made (acid proof), and unique in
design, are sold Sydney Prioe 2s. each, and WE GUARANTEE THEM to be the BEST VALUE IN BROOCHES
EVER PLACED ON THE MARKET.
'Ssf//A
MOTHER
»"KIA-ORA
All We Require You to Do
is to plaoe these Brooches among your friends and collect Is. from
, each. Return us the 12s. collected, and We Will Send You FREE
A RELIABLE WATCH and CHAIN (Lady’s or Gent’s)
OR ANY OTHER PRESENT FROM OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST which we will send with the Brooches.
Remember, We Require No Money
in advance. Simply send us your Name and Full
Address, and we will send the Solid Silver Ring
and the 1? Brooches by r3turn mail, postage paid, at our own expense. We know you will HAVE NO TROUBLE
in SELLING THESE BROOCHES, owing to their Excellent Value, or we would not go to the expense of sending
them. We send them out at our own risk, and if you are unable to sell the 12 we will reward you according
to the number disposed of by you upon you returning us the balance unsold.
All letters must be
addressed direct to
the Sole Manufac-
turers,
Jewellery Supply Co.
Pitt-st, Sydney,
N.S. Wales.
BRONCHITIS
CURE.
Those who have taken this medicine are amazed at its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bronchitis, Cough, Croup,
Asthma, Difficulty of Breathing, Hoarseness, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience delightful and rapid relief; and to those
who are subject to Colds on the chest it is invaluable,' as it effects a complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irritation
in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice, and it neither allows a Cough nor Asthma to become chronic, nor Consump-
tion to develop. Consumption is not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appearance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or two is generally sufficient, and a complete
cure is certain.
Small Size, 2/6; Large Size, 4/6 Sold by all Chemists and Medicine Vendors, and by W. G. HEARNE & Co., Ltd.,
Geelong, Victoria. Forwarded to any Address, when not obtainable locally.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrib
England, 9d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine's Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
OF Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book d.v De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Rheumatism and its
CuitE,lsposted. My Neighbor Raymond, l.s ; post, Is 3d.
Georgette, Is ; post, Is 3d. The Cuckold, Is ; post,
Is 3d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. Howto
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
38 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is post.
r'RosAßio, 2s. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted/
i Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
•of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce,; 11s. One Hundred
Latest Recitations, Is. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, sd. Britain for the
British, 4d. Behind the Scenes, Is 2d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
.and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
h
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. 400 Songs and Ballads of Ireland, 2s.
How to Mesmf,risk, Is. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How' to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hotle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. Book of
100 Games, Is. Man From Snowy River, ,5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Max His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. Australian Doctor,
cures for all diseases, Is posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EASy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s Cd.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR "PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can aftord to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d. Mac-
fadden’s Physical Training, Is. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougal Topped the Score &
Other Verses, 3s 6d. Lung Complaints, Is 6d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron Of Boccaccio, Hf.ptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Established, 15 Years.
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
Write for my .
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY/
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ui>, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. SArmo, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Love and Parentage, Bd.
Secret History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. New Book of Dreams, Is
posted. All About Incubators, Is 2d. Morgan’s
Freemasonry Exfosed, Kev to all Degrees, 1906
Edition, Is posted. Vest'Pocket Dictionary, 8d
posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post. Voltaire’s Romances,
2s. Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. ,G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. Howto
Bet and Gamble and Win, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Is 2d. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).


ĥ
A Prospector’s Sufferings—Tortured by Retching and
Pains in Head and Chest—Other Remedies Prove Useless.
The following case of Mr. F. Paulin, a
miner and prospector, living at King’s
Plains, near Blayney, N.S.W., demon-
strates to those who suffer from bilious-
ness the wonderful virtues of Bile Beans
for this most sickening of complaints.
Bile Beans cured Mr. Paulin after 18
months’ continual failure of other so-called
remedies, which is proof of the triumph
of Bile Beans over all other medicines.
“ For about 18 months I was in the grip of
biliousness and indigestion,” says Mr. Paulin.
“ I often thought my head would burst, so
severe were the agonising pains which afflicted
me, and frequent fits of retching would send
pains shooting through my head with a terrible
throbbing. I could not eat any food without
experiencing nasty, uncomfortable feelings and
pains in the chest. My appetite completely
failed me, and I became thoroughly miserable.
I consulted a doctor, and tried many so-called
remedies, but in vain. I was recommended by
m
a friend to try Bile Beans, and to make sure I would act on his recommendation,
he bought a box of the Beans, and I started on them. I gained great relief from
the very first dose, and after continuing the course to the extent of four boxes,
I was completely cured. Since then I have had no return of the complaints, and
as it is two years since the cure was effected, I think I may safely say that I
am permanently restored to health.”
| THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.
IMPURE BLOOD.
The existence of bad blood in the system is shown
by the presence of boils, pimples, blotches, eruptions, etc.
In order to eradicate the causes of which the above are the
effects, it is necessary that the blood should be cleansed of
all impurities. Bile Beans act directly upon the liver, thus
becoming the agent by which pure, healthy blood is cir-
culated through the system. Bile Beans have cured the
severest forms of bad blood, from the common pimple to the
worst scrofulous sore.
Bile Seans are a reliable
remedy for indigestion,
biliousness, headache,
constipation, dizziness,
and the whole host of dis-
tressing ailments which
owe their origin to a sick
liver. Price 1/1 J & 2/9 per box
of all chemists and stores.
Rue beans
FOR BILIOUSNESS.
Beauty’s Favourite,
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged and honoured
position held by Pears* Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to the
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
MatcHless for tHe Complexion.
The Under-World.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
waters are gleamin’ gold an’ blue,
An’ their stretch is far and free ;
It’s the plush-upholstered saloon for you
An’ the engine-room for me !
Oh ! it’s dainty food an’ ladies fair
With the best the world can give,
But for me the bunkers an’ coal-filled air
An’ the bare, raw right to live.
You’ll feel her throbbin’ from deck to keel
In a sudden rush o’ pride.
An’ the whole of your padded world’ll reel
When we leave the roadstead wide.
You’ll be crawlin’ roun’ the engine-room,
A-spottin’ yer Paris pants,
An’ wonderin’ why does her shaftin’ “ boom ” ?
An’ is oil-spits bites from ants?
The engineers ’ill be cursin’ low,
An’ the head Serang ’ill glare,
While you’ll tell us about the things we know,
An’ pruceed to poke an’ stare.
You’ll push yer nose with a careless air
Wherever you’re warned away,
An’ save yer scalp by half a hair
Where the racin’ cross-belts play.
The gauges ’ll hold your eyes a while
With “ What is the pressure NOW ? ”
An’ you’ll contradick with a cocky smile
To show what you know an’ how !
An’ we’ll all be wishin’ you safe in Hell,
Though there’s none’d dare to say
Till you clamber on deck in haste to tell
Of yer “most instructive day.”
You’ll be trampin’ round in conscious pride,
An’ the dainty ladies fair
Will shudder to hear o’ the fire-doors wide
An’ the rush o’ hell-hot air.
But we’ll be breathin’ its reek an’ grime,
An’ shovellin’ coal below,
In a joyful race against seas and time
In a world you’ll never know.
S. A.
LILLIAS GORDON.
“As Advertised.”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
big man, who would have served as
a model for Goliath of Gath, finished his
sixth chop, champed up a couple of pickled
cucumbers that had somehow escaped notice before,
washed them all down with a pannikin of black
tea, and groaned.
“ Ain’t ye well, Bill ?” inquired the man in the
felt hat, anxiously.
“ Well ? ” echoed the giant, flinging himself on
his bunk with an emphasis that made every slab
in the hut rattle. “Am I ever well ? We’ve bin
mates this three year, Tom, and did you ever
know me what y’ could call real well ? ”
*“ I thought the new stuff had fixed ye,” replied
Tom. “ You know y’ reckoned it was doin’ it.”
“ And I’m not denyin’ it yet; but I’ve only
took four bottles, and the chap said that nothin’
short o’ six large ones at four-and-six’d give it a fair
go. I’ll take ’em, though I’d feel more hopeful if
I c’d find a testimonial that’d fit me. There’s a
parson an’ a bank clerk had backs like mine cured ;
but it ain’t likely either of them did much muck-
shiftin’. An’ the navvy, he only had spots before
the eyes, which I ain’t got.”
“Is it yer back agin ? Ain’t yer ’lectric belt no
good ? ”
“Good? A-course it’s good; but how’s elec-
tricity to work in the steam o’ No. 4 bore? Yeh
don’t seem to know too much about ’lectrics, Tom.
If I was you I’d keep what I didn’t know about it
covered, same as you do your head.”
“ You leave my head alone,” snapped Ransom,
dashing the breakfast things into a bucket with
unnecessary vigor. “ I’ve missarged you, an’
’leotrified you, an’ imbrocated you three Sundays
out o’ four the last three year, an’ now you sling
off about my head ! We’ll leave it at that. I’m
full up. I’m goin’ inter Ringandoon to-day, and
then the boss can send another boundary-rider to
Number Four as soon as he likes. I’rn ‘ jack !’”
“ Gur-r-r ! Don’t be a nark. It ain’t my
fault. Ye know me symptoms as well as I do—
and irrertibility is one of ’em. The ‘Pound-is-
suffieient-to-send ’ bloke reckoned it was the
hardest to cure. Another boundary-rider at
Number Four ! Now chuck it! Didn’t I tell
Polly at the Imperial what sort of a mate you
was ! It made her think, Tom—y’ could see that
when she says as you’d the finest beard she ever
see on a man.”
The warlike glare died out of Ransom’s eyes.
He ceased dish-washing to finger lovingly the
long, black, glossy mop that flowed down from
his face.
“ Polly oughtn’t ter be in that pub,” he said at
last. “ I reckon if a chap got hold of a wife like
her an’ a decent ’otel where the coach changes
(yeh know the one at Gidyea Crick) he’d be set
up. I’m about full up o’ chasin’ old Armstrong’s
mickies in the mulga—an’ I’ve a quid or two my-
self.”
“ There ain’t no sech thing as savin’ fer me,”
said Bill, sadly. “ Armstrong pays good money,
but what’s the good of it when the bore-steam gets
into yer bones, an’ you feels you must have
whisky, er die? I’ve tried the gold cure an’ the
stuff yer puts in yer tea, an’ I parted a quid ter
be mesmerised last Mulga races.”
Didn't the mesmerist do you no good ? ”
“He fergot the porter, Tom,” returned Bill,
sadly. “He sot me down, an’ glared at me like
snakes, an’ waved his hands about till me flesh
was all of a creep, an’ then he sez solemn : ‘ Rum
yeh hate, whisky yeh abhor, beer yer detest,’ an’
so along ; an’ I felt in my bones that what he said
was true, an’ half wished ’twasn’t. When he let
up I felt that shaky I had ter go fer a
stiffener, an’ the only thing I c’d think of with a
bite in it was ginger-beer. ‘ Ginger-beer fer Mr.
Weatherall! ’ Polly says. ‘ls it a silver cheque
this time, Bill?’ Then me eve dropped on a
bottle o’ porter she wuz openin’ fer the private
bar, an I run through all the drinks I hates an’
abhors, an’ it ain’t on the list. Thinks I, porter’s
a wimmeti s drink, an’ you can’t get tonicked on
it, but it’s ahead o’ soft tack, anyhow ; so I calls
fer a small bottle—two bob’s the Mulga price.
open the door fer all the rest,
an the nex thing I knowd wuz two pound er 14
days.”
“Was that the time it took six of’em to run
you m? inquired Ransom, as he finished putting
away the breakfast things.
Matchom swore it did, an’ I ain’t denyin’ it
might. I was jest through my fifth bottle of
Ajax Strengthener. an’ feeling pretty fit. Ajax”
I Bill said reflectively—“ is all right, only it ain’t
las tin . boon as the boss set me cuttin’ the new
drain in the weaner paddick, it fair broke down.
Sticky yaller clay won’t give no tonic a show.”
Absorbed by his own affairs, Ransom made no
comment. From the depths of a kerosene case
under the bunk he produced a pair of skin-tight
moles of dazzling whiteness, a white silk shirt, a
carefully-dinted grey felt hat with three bronze-
wing tips showing above the band, a broad green
belt with a horseshoe buckle, a pair of black kid
boots with high brass-tipped heels, a crimson silk
handkerchief for his throat, and an opal pin with
a head the size of an acorn.
“ Anything ye want fetched from the station ?”
he inquired when at length he stood forth in his
glory.
“ That iron finger-ring oughter be up this mail,
an’ p’raps the self-healer book. Don’t ferget
terbaccer—a pound o’ Derby—and I think that’s
the lot.”
Bill looked out at his disappearing mate.
“Wonderful,” he mused, “what fools wimmen
makes o’ men. I’ll bet a pound Polly's wearin’
that opal pin next week ; an’ I’d give two to
know what’s on that paper Tom sneaked inter the
breast of his shirt when he reckoned I wasn’t
lookin’ 1 ”
Meantime Ransom, cantering easily along, was
fingering that very paper jubilantly.
“ A guinea’s-worth’ll do it, the bloke sez,” he
muttered, “but I ain’t talcin’ no chances. I’ll
send fer two. I’d pay 20 fer a thatch like Bill’s.
The free bottle ain’t made much difference,” he
said, mournfully, as he pulled off his hat and
showed the sun a pate which, except for a faint
wispy growth above the ears and at the nape of
the neck, gleamed with an absolute hairlessness.
* * * *
“ Now, what the devil’s the meaning of that ? ”
inquired Armstrong, flinging a remarkably dirty
sheet of paper upon the bookkeeper’s desk.
Hoyle took it up and read :
deer sur you can send a chap to noniber four as soon as
you like he can berry me and clean the drane in the bull
paddock them bulroses is reel bad Tom ltansom done it
and orter swing for it but I wuddent like to hurt his
feelins so no more at present yours respeckfly VV.
Weatherall.
“Looks like a row, eh? Who brought the note?”
“ A nigger from the camp ; but all he knows is
that Bill is ‘plenty sick’ and ‘close up tumble
down.’ ”
“Well, you’d better put in Diana and Trixy
and run out and see what’s wrong. Bring
Weatherall in if he really is sick.”
When Hoyle reached the No. 4 hut he found
Ransom seated outside with his bald head, which he
had for once forgotten to cover, between his hands.
“ Where’s Weatherall ? ” demanded Hoyle.
Ransom jerked his head towards the building,
whence proceeded a succession of groans.
“What’s wrong, Bill?” inquired the book-
keeper, entering.
“Dyin’—p’isoned ! It’s appendercitis,” the
giant whispered hoarsely. “They’re growin’
faster, bein’ kep’ warm an’ moist; and 1 reckon
about three days’ll see me out.”
Hoyle wanted particulars.
“Nothin’.” groaned Weatherall—“nothin’’ll
stop ’em. The * Home Doctor ’ sez one has killed
a strong man, an’ I’ve got millions. I can feel,
’em in me throat an’ me stummick an’ me liver.”
“ One what, Bill ? Millions of what l ”
“Hairs!” roared Weatherall, recovering the
use of his voice with a suddenness which made
Hoyle jump. “They’re growin’ everywhere;
an’ Ransom ought to swing fer it. He” put his
stuff on my shelf.”
“ I didn’t,” snapped Torn from the verandah.
“I put it on the top shelf, an’ yours is the
bottom.”
“As I’m a dyin’ man, Mr. Hoyle,” asserted
Weatherall. solemnly, “he did! Tickler’s tonic
ain’t no good unless it’s took reg’ler every four
hours. Do all I know, I can’t wake at 12 o’clock ;
an’ when I did roust meself I reckoned ’twas
past three by the moonlight, so I reaches out me
hand fer the bottle an’ pours a double dose inter
the panniketi. Soon as I swallered it I knowed I
wuz done fer—it burnt terrible. I strikes a light,
an’ ”
He groaned, and held out a bottle.
“ Hercules Hair Tonic ! ” And Hoyle roared
with a laugh. “ Cantharides poison you!—you
who’ve poured gallons of Mulga rum down your
throat! Not much!”
“ It ain’t the poison—it’s the hairs that’s done
fer me. Appendercitis,” moaned Bill. “One
hair outer a tooth-brush has been known to kill a
strong man—it’s in the book.”
“Good lord, you don’t believe,” began Hoyle;
then broke off, and resumed—“ Don’t you think if
you got up and walked about you’d shake it off ? ”
“No hope! I’ve took a quart o’mustard and
water an’ most a bottle o’castor oil to oblige Tom,
and it ain’t no go. Hairs has roots, an’ can’t be
shifted. If I jest lies here quiet, I’ll maybe last
the fortnight.”
“ And the drain into the bull paddock’ll be
ruined,” said Hoyle.
Bill simply groaned and turned his face to the
wall, as one who had lost all interest in drains and
bull paddocks.
Hoyle regarded him gloomily, for the drain-
clearer is an important person on artesian-watered
runs. Bill Weatherall was a champion at his
work, and, with shearing in full swing, there
would be much difficulty in filling his place.
“Come in and see the doctor?” he suggested
at last.
“Not me. I ain’t goin’ter be cut an’hacked
about. I don’t believe in doctors neither ! Give
me the chap as tells you plain in print what he
can do.”
"By Jove, Bill, we can fix you !” exclaimed
Hoyle, suddenly. “Keep alive whilst I go to
the station and back.”
Like most inland runs, Ringandoon stocked a
fair supply of ready-made remedies, and from
these Hoyle, on his return, selected a bottle of
Blank’s Ginger Cureall.
“ It’s hot and strong, and I don’t suppose it’ll
hurt him,” he said, as he carefully soaked off the
label. “Now where the deuce did I see that
circular ? ”
A hearty rummage amongst the rubbish in the
back store unearthed what he needed, and, after
some neat work with paste-pot and scissors, he
started again for No. 4.
“Here you are, Bill!” he exclaimed, as he
entered the hut. “It’s providential that they
should have sent up this sample bottle.”
“It ain't doctor’s stuff ?” questioned Bill sus-
piciously, as he raised himself on his elbow ; “ I
won’t touch it if it is.”
“Of course not. Read what’s on the bottle—
‘Vegetable Depilatory: Completely removes
superfluous hair in a few minutes.’ Here’s a
sheaf of testimonials, and pictures of a lady as she
appeared when wearing a fine moustache and side-
whiskers, and after their removal.”
“What’s the dose?” demanded Weatherall
eagerly. “Gimme a panniken, Tom, an’fetch
the corkscrew.”
Quarter of a pint gurgled out of the bottle.
“ Cripes, it’s hot,” he gasped. “ It’ll wipe ’em
out like a bushfire. ... I hope yeh brought me
out the new shovel, Mr. Hoyle, i’ll never be able
ter deal it ter them bulrushes with the old one.”
LEWIS HOWARD.


You Can Always Tell the Man
with Kidney Trouble.
The man with kidney trouble is cheerless in expression, sallow and heavy-eyed. He is
easily irritated, excited, and worried over trifles, and nervous. His back troubles him
day and night—spoils his sleep, and makes him dizzy and faint after the slightest
exertion. He is rheumatic, dyspeptic and hopeless. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
make the kidneys well; they are the one medicine that is especially for kidney and
bladder troubles —the one medicine that cures men and women to STAY cured, and pro-
tects them against such advanced kidney complaints as Bright’s disease, diabetes, dropsy,
rheumatism, etc. B-ead the following cases of Sydney people who have been cured :
Sydney Testimony*
FROM BROOKVALE.
Mr. William Bagnall, Storekeeper, Brooltvale,
near Manly, says : —“ About five years ago I met
with a serious accident—was thrown out of a
sulky and hurt my back. I was so bad I knew I
had injured my kidneys. I could not get about
at all for a couple of months, and then only with
the greatest difficulty, and I endured agony.
Every move was torture. I used many remedies,
but nothing eased the pain. Seeing Doan’.s
Backache! Kidney Pills advertised, T decided to
try them. After taking one box I noticed an
improvement, so I went on taking them. In all,
I used 20 boxes for a cure, and I am now as well
and strong as ever I was. This did not happen
yesterday, but four years ago, and it proves that
the remedy is genuinely good that I’ve been well
all the time. I consider my cure marvellous, for
lam over'seventy years of age. I have lived at
Manly for 50 years, so I am well known, and my
word should carry weight.”
FROM NEWTOWN.
Mr. James Hudson, 14 Lennox Street, New-
town, Sydney, says:—“l work in the Bondi sewer.
There is a constant drip there, and, when work-
ing, it mostly happens that one is wet through.
Some parts are better than others, but, while
working in the shafts one is constantly damp,
and this affected my health. My trouble came
with a bad cold in the kidneys, which caused
terrible pains in my back. I did my work, but it
was most fearful torture for me to have to do it.
X was very bad the first day that I saw Doan’s
Backache Kidney Pills advertised, and it struck
me that, by the name of the remedy, they should
be good for my complaint. I procured them, and
they cured me in a fairly quick time. lam never
without them in the house now.”
Mrs. Hudson confirms the above : —“ It is now
nine years since my husband gave the above testi-
monial for Doan’s Backache kidney Pills, and he
is as well to-day as he was then. Doan’s Pills
cure for good.”
ħ
h
ĥ
ħ
"Every picture
tells a story.”
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
are sold by all Chemists and Store-
keepers at 2s. 9d. per box (six
boxes. 155..3d.), or will be posted on
receipt of price by Foster-McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Dead Pirate.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE yard-arm is above my head,
Beneath m v feet are air and sea ;
For I am swinging stiff and dead
Because-I led the mutiny.
The noose grips tight my broken neck,
My head upon my shoulder lies,
And giant sea-birds swoop and peck
With cruel beaks at my dead eyes.
The ship heels over to the squall
That whirls upon her cold and dark.
. (God’s pity , lads ! will ye not haul
My poor hulk from yon gliding shark !)
Ben Goodman ! You that lounge and grin
Below there by the shot-scarred rail !
See you not, Ben, the cursed fin ?
(The villain heareth not my hail!)
Come, Roger Blake, now hoist me high.
And I will promise—heed this well! —
When it shall come thy turn to die
I’ll save thy coward’s soul from Hell.
I’ll grip the Fiend with these—the hands
Yon traitors bound—wilt thou but take
A pull upon these gory strands !
Come, Roger, lad, for pity’s sake !
God’s mercy ! He is like the rest !
He heeds me not, and I must swing
Like Hell’s own fruit, while to the west
This ’frighted ship doth slowly wing !
Why swims that thing about us yet ?
(Oh ! God ha’ mercy ! Now I see !
Those cold, wet, devil-eyes are set
Upon my face ! The Fiend l ’Tis he !)
Ha, Fiend ! thou must wait longer still.
Keep thou the Gates of Doom ajar,
For I of life will see my fill
Though dead I hang upon a spar !
But swim thou on ! Here in mid-air
I swing to awe the curs I led !
(They growl and mutter here and there,
And each one mocks my rolling head !)
Weak cowards all ! They think my soul
Is even now within the Pit !
(Laugh, Ben ! But when thy knell they toll
I’ll meet thy soul and strangle it.
So surely as there’s rope in Hell—
And hangman’s rope there sure must be —
Ben, I will hang thee high and well,
And ask no jingling hangman’s fee !)
The yard-arm is above my head ;
Below It swimmeth fast and well.
(An instant since Its black fin sped
Like some stained dagger through the swell.')
On ! On, Grey Fiend ! The night is nigh,
And, ere light leaves this deathly sea,
The strangled clay that once was I
Must splash into Eternity.
Think you the dogs will leave me here
To dance before the white-faced moon ?
E’en now their hearts are full wi’ fear,
Swim on ! I shall be with thee soon !
Whence came that order ? Ah ! ’tis he !.. ■
Farewell, my Judge ! For thee 111 grope
Among the damned. Thou wilt know me
By my broke neck and hangman s rope !
And we will fight the flames among,
And I will break thy bearded neck,
For that through treachery I swung
In air above thy quarter-deck !
So-ho ! The knife ! The rope runs free !
The Grey Fiend leaps ! Farewell ! Igo
With him into Eternity
To wait the soul of thee, my foe !
N.S.W.
E. FRANCIS.
A Sad Case.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A PETTICOAT was the cause of it.
It was a dream—a scintillating, glace
confection in the rose-red hue of a winter’s
dawn. There were others, certainly; but one
never noticed them. This was the PETTICOAT.
I saw it on my way home, and I had exactly
in my purse.
It let loose a whole flood of feminine emotions
that I had been repressing for many months.
One cannot afford emotions on 255. a week.
When I got back to my cheerless room, and the
primus stove refused to boil my tea, I said that
Happiness was a delusion, and Life an even
greater one.
I hated my flannel blouse and respectable linen
collar. I hated my pale face and tired eyes.
Most of all I hated the vista of dreary years that
I saw stretching before me —the grey tapestry of
years that Fate has woven for me with never a
purple or golden thread.
Then I resolved.
In the morning I breakfasted in bed and sent
the landlady’s daughter round to the office with a
note. Back came an answer—three days’ sick
leave.
And that was the beginning of it.
• • * *
Later in the morning I went shopping. I know
several families of country,people who have un-
limited credit at the various houses. We had
ourselves once—before we fell on evil times.
Again I was one of then:, for the time being.
Mrs. So-and-So had given me an order for
various things, I said, glibly. Oh, certainly,
would I tell them my pleasure ? (Miss Merino,
of course, down from the country, and given a
free hand by her fond papa.) They signified that
the shop was mine for the asking ! And the de-
lirious joy of it !
I swept from counter to counter and ordered
what I fancied —more clothes in half an hour than
I had had in the last three years. And first of ah
THE PETTICOAT !... .
I fitted myself with a green Directoire that
clung in sinuous folds to my feet, and a Merry
Widow hat with sweeping plumes. I ordered
gloves to match and a distracting pair of shoes
with jewelled buckles ; and a sheath-like petti-
coat with the foamy frills that the present mode
demands. Oh those petticoats ! The pinks and
blues and greens and mauves of them ! It is her
petticoats that ruin a woman—not her hats, as
Mere Man supposes.
I flittered to Messrs. B. Bros.’ famous em-
porium.
“A ball-dress, madam? Certainly. Kindly
step this way.” (I was then Miss Shorthorn,
down for the season, and requiring a ball-room
outfit.)
I chose my ball-dress —white this time, with a
sweeping train, and, underneath, a girlish petticoat
of tucks and Valenciennes. I had heliotrope
shoes and gloves and a spangled fan, and a be-
witching coat of cream glace lined with violet.
Then to the last shop for etceteras—for lingerie
of all kinds, slips run with baby ribbons, and
nighties that turn one dizzj', belts and gloves and
neckwear, and stockings in which a woman could
walk to Perdition with smiling eyes.
I glutted my soul with clothes.
No woman of wealth gets half as much pleasure
outof a morning’s shopping as did I that day—l a
struggling clerk with 255. a week, and a pretty
face as her only asset. That it was illegitimate
pleasure was a mere detail.
A passion for buying seized me. I could not
stop. I was drunk with my su'ccess and the un-
questioning, unbelievable credulity of these shop
people.
I pretended I was going to set up house. I
bought chairs and tables, carpets and pictures. I
bought dinner-sets and breakfast-sets and tea-
sets, and enamelled ware for the kitchen. I even
refused a door-mat because it wouldn’t match
the painting of the room. And then I had to go
behind a sideboard and laugh into my handker-
chief.
At one place I gave the well-known address of
Mrs. 8., at another that of Mrs. C. I told them
to send the things up at once.
I didn’t care a d—n if they did or not. I had
had my pleasure out of them ; but I would like
to hear what Mrs. B. and Mrs. C. had to say.
Then I drew from the Savings Bank £lo—my all.
There are some things credit—other people’s credit
—cannot buy. ... In the afternoon I collected
my clothes from, the cloak-room of the railway
station —I had been cautious in the first stage of
my frenzy—and when I sallied forth to town I
was for once perfectly dressed.
When I looked in the landlady’s long mirror I
nearly cried for joy. A judicious touch of rouge
and lip-salve and eyebrow-pencil had restored to
me my fading youth, and only the woman of
nearly 30 can appreciate this moment at its true
worth. My golden hair was puffed and arranged
in curls and banded with ribbon—the dernier eri
of fashion. My hat sat at the right angle, and my
veil was perfectly arranged.
I looked a bold, bad girl, and I gloried in it.
I had afternoon tea in the midst of the Smart
Set at a fashionable cafe, and the men looked
covertly at me and the women openly stared. I
was content.
Then I strolled round to the fire insurance office
where Roland slaves on a modest salary that pre-
vents me from falling in love with him.
“ What can Ido for you, Mad” he began,
politely, and then he gasped, “You —you ! ’’
“Don’t disarrange my hair,” I said. “1 ve
come into a little legacy, Roland, and I’m making
a splash. Yes, old boy, I know it’s foolish, but
these clothes make me feel—well, feminine again.
Roland didn’t ask inconvenient questions; but
even had he done so I had an answer ready for
any possible one.
I told him he was to come to the races with me
to-morrow, and to the theatre in the evening.
One must have a man in attendance at that sort
of thing, and Roland is the most presentable man
of my acquaintance. Besides, he has the neces-
sary clothes.
I looked well at the races. When we were
powdering our noses in the dressing-room I heard
someone say, “Who is she?’’ and a society
reporteress asked me my name, and scribbled a
lengthy description of my frock. I didn’t bet,
because I was afraid of the £lO not hanging out to
the end of the splash. I only strolled on the
lawn. .
In the evening I put on the white frock and
heliotrope etceteras. I looked 18, and wore a
naively-innocent air that befitted the lroc ]“
Roland proposed to me again in the cab. I told
him not to be silly ; and then, as lie was
crumpling my skirt, I asked him to let it wait
until next week. I hate unpropitious proposals.
We dined in style—no three courses for Is., as
hitherto, when on our way to the early doors, but
from a French menu and with an obsequious
waiter bowing attendance on us. Roland dined
heartily. I reflected, cynically, that the most
impassioned man becomes coldly unemotional
when he feeds. To think that a few moments
before he had been crushing me in his arms in the
semi-darkness of the cab.
I was too excited to eat. I merely toyed with
everything and drank a glass of wine, which
deepened the color on my cheeks.
Beside us in the dress circle sat (ye gods !) my
employer and his wife and daughter a plain,
dowdy girl with gooseberry eyes. For a moment
my sang /void deserted me. Then I refleett'd
that an old spectacled man would never recognise
in this blushing innocent the flannel-bloused
pallid girl with a respectable linen collar and
scraped-up hair who toiled in his emporium.
And, anyway, it didn’t matter. The smash was
coming, as a matter of course.
We supped on oysters, and then I cabbed home
to my lodging. , , .
I was supremely tired and supremely happy.
* * * *
The charge was obtaining goods under false
pretences. The verdict was restitution or pay-
ment, and release under the First Offenders Act,
The magistrate was a fatherly old man, and he
shook his head sadly over the unfortunate lapse of
one who had hitherto been pre-eminently respect-
able.
The reporters looked at me sympathetically
and their papers described me as “ A Sad Case.
There are heaps of things in my room— lingerie
and belts and dainty trifles that I have not worn,
only fingered lovingly. I suppose they will take
them all.
As for paying for that hat and gown —I have
just £1 2s. 4d. in the whole wide world.
Roland has come and he says he will pay. He
is coming again this afternoon to see me.
And the end of this story has yet to be written.
PAPOLLON.


< ‘After having recovered from rheumatic fever I was
so weak that I thought I would never get strong again.
F
W
A friend insisted that I should
try Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. After I
had taken about half a bottle
my appetite got better and I be-
gan to be quite light-hearted. I
was quite well and strong before
I had finished the sixth bottle,
hut to make sure I took in all
eight bottles.”
R. T. Moore,
Adelaide.
AYER’S £ arsaparilla
makes the blood rich in red corpuscles, thereby imparting to it new life-
giving power. Begin taking it at once. Day after day you will slowly
but steadily feel yourself growing stronger and stronger.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol.
There are many imitation Sarsaparillas that will disappoint
you. Get “AYER’S."
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Dowell, Mass., U. S. A.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
ouinuoo *l"0 P"» a*#Z
saNMOds smoo r da
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle..
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/IJ, 2/9 & 4/6
m crotT
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the onl
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Tiiibault. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines, sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d,
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 ls>
F. Danvkrs Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
Brilisb=Husiralasian
jr
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians In London.
Price 6d.
POST FREE, £1 per year,
in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where hies
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address —
115 HIGH HOLBORN (NearKingsway),
LONDON, W.G.
A
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
*LL SHAPES
I/each POST FREEf/a
Quality Not Better
m a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
r STOREKEEPERS* TOBACCONISTS
SHOULD SEND FOR OUR TRADE LIST
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Go.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
to a close, they have decided upon the compulsorv
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear :
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Price £3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding locks,. No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price .. £5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Haminerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 15 0
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price , £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellent stock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. ..£2176
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price 13 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given With every Gun.
All Bank Drafts. Cheques or Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS & CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
any address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
h
Superior to *
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
[copaiba.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
ĥ
Each Capsule bears the name
PUBLIC OPINION
is generally sane and trustworthy. It is only on really insignifi-
cant and unimportant matters that the sense of the community is
ever at fault. The sentiments and opinions of the world are more
likely to be right than those of the isolated critic. This is partic-
ularly true of such matters as must be decided by the test of expe*
rience. What the majority have proved in practice to be true
ought to weigh with us as an established fact. Now if there is one
question more than another on which public opinion is unanimous
it is that the excellence of BEECHAM’S PILLS as a family medi-
cine is unsurpassed. Their universal popularity has very suitably
been expressed in the world-famed expression
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
ARE
WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Prepared only by THOMAS BBBCHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire.
Sold everywhere in boxes, price IjVt (56 pi'ls) & 2 9 (168 pills).
ee
the
Announce
ment In
i
the April
Hand
IT REFERS TO THE MAY ISSUE.
w g
Aft
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending- all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your case
and I will advise you
honestly and without charge.
S.H. HENSHALL,
Regd. Chemist,
by Examination
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne,
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centunee
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In me since 1598.
a-. 5 *
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 21t). Lambeth Koad. London, Eng.
THE BALLET GIRL
ħ
h
Her Theatrical and
Domestic History.
Pest Frss, is.
The Life, Adventures
and Confessions of •
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frse, is..
Send Stamp for Illustrated Lute of Books and Noveltiet
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.O.m SYDNEY.
'
ASTHMA CURE
BRIAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nerrons Conyhs,
Catarrh, Sleepleag-ness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GRIMAUDT & Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.


Perdriau’s Reliable
Waterproof Leggings.
ĥh
Oar Waterproof Leggings are eminently
satisfactory, being well made' of the
highest grade materials, fitting comfort-
ably and giving long service. The prices
make for economy. Country orders sent
post free.
Waterproof Tweed Newmarket, assorted
shades, 4/6 pair.
Waterproof Brown Canvas Putties,
without straps, 5/6 pair.
Tan Pig-grained Putties, with straps,
9/6 pair.
Overall Leggings, Black Oiled Calico, double thickness,
4/6 pair.
Come in and get a pair to-day, or write for a copy of
our Winter Catalogue, which jrives full details and prices.
If you want a good Macintosh ask for our sample book
of materials.
PERDKIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“ The Best House for all Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.’
ELECTRIC HAULAGE
AND OTHER
Electric
PLANT
h
FOR
MINES.
Sole Agent: T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADku
ĥ
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a iruard against inferior;
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, Od ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
SCIIK
*
The beverage
that benefits.
At all times
asK for and obtain only
Small
Single Stage
Air
Compressor,
with Disc
Wheel for
Direct
Coupling.
I * '
“McINNES DOBBIE” INDICATORS,
aod
'S3NIDN3 310 Jo SVD ‘UV3IS
Adopted toy British Admiralty, and used
toy the Largest Power Users of the World.
ħ
AIR COMPRESSORS
*■ ■
STEAM, BELT or ELECTRIC
DRIVE.
HIGH SPEED ENGINES
Simple, Double or Triple Act-
ing, with Forced Lubrication.
J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
1910 PATTERN.
o
SCREWLESS UNIVERSAL SHEAR JOINT.
Send in your Handpieces early and have
them fitted with the new Screwless Joint.
Repairs to outfits carried out quickly and
cheaply in our new up-to-date workshop.
THE
Sheep Shearing Machines
Sole Agents for Australasia— D ALGETY (St, COMPANY, LIMITED. Depot—Miller’s Point, Sydney,
TEL.
3236
5221
ELECTRICAL MINING MACHINERY
WARBURTON, FRANKI & CO
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE.
SPECIALISTS.
162 Clarence Street,
SYDNEY.
Postal Address:
G.P.O. BOX 1629,
SYDNEY.
’Phone 1390.
THE MINE SMELTER
ENGINEERING and SUPPLY CO. LTD.,
Head Officei Mutual Life Building, Martin Place, Sydney.
Telegraphic Address:
“ MINE SMELTER,”
Sydney
in
PERCUSSIVE ROCK DRILLS
A!R<h, id) HAMMER DRILLS
ices and Full Partic 4lars shall be pleased to receive your inquiries.
h
US
&
&
W*
©*
&•
&
St®
<s&
;;
W
o«
<0
*©•'
&
■sN
ĥ
N. GUTHRIDGE Lid.
ħ
CONCENTRATOR GVr al
AGITATING CYANIDE TANKS.
CM*°
h
