

DEWAR’S -THE WHISKY OF WHISKIES
R. 6. «§c 00.,
10*7 Kent street, Sydney,
. —FOB— _
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE. ________
Sil&ju,
SOLE AGENTS for
Jeffrey Elevating and
Conveying Machinery.
7
B.A
Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Agent: C. C. DELAND, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaic
HOBA.R.T.
flfft
Hadley’ s Orient jotel.
lONEE
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
«/. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
■
117 YORK STREET,
sdf
" Take It back,
I must have -
HUTTONS
Pine-Apple Brand I
HAMS ®
BACON.
gds
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
JUNKET made from thes<
recommended by numerou
highly nutritious and invigo
tiv® organs.
fg
fdsg
sdf
gsd
indigestion
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets sots most
beneficially when taken daily after meals,
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
alts, (/Oilljtin/ on &ts
*%*/ ItrCao/Gf OjC/C, tfzs it&L. /ja&l auto £**' &<f ffyu/a/w™.
JsJ'Vjg?' «N* /*
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager,
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
fg
dsfg
I
c
is the Queen of all Cocom
FOJ\,
| Aroma,Strei\gtKfc-Purity:
PABCO ROOFING
(WHITE MALTHOID)
REDUCES INTENSE HEAT TO NORMAL TEMPERATURE.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY '(WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), OHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
REFRIGERATORS
ECONOMY
sfd
REFRIGERATORS
SIMPLICITY
C. A. MacDONALD LTD., 03 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Wjjij
w
TON
FOR ALL SERVICES KEPT
IN STOCK.
Send fob. Catalogues.
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives, 32 8 34 Clarence Street, Sydney.
THORNE’S
WHISKY.
MARTELL’S
BRANDY.
HELIDON SPA WATER
A French savant says that the great value of a mineral water lies 1
in what it deports rather than in what it imports into the system* J
DEWHURST 8 HAILORAN, Ui„
Agents.
The Bulletin
V01.31.— N0. 1601.]
[Thursday, October 20, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS FOR THE BUSINESS MAN,
Barton, J. S.:
Cropper, L. C.
Dicksee, L. E.
Dicksee, L. E.
Dicksee,- L.E.
Dicksee, L. E.:
Fieldhouse, A.
posted 4s
20th Century Bookkeeping, 10s6d,p. 11s 2d
: Bookkeeping and Accounts, 4s 6d, p. 5s 2d.
• Advanced Accounting, 255, posted 275.
: Auditing, 255, p. 275. (12s 6d, p. 33s 2d.
: Bookkeeping for Accountant Students,
Bookkeeping for Co. Secretaries, 6s, p. 6s 6d
: Students’Bookkeeping, 14th edition, 4s,
9d.
Field house, A.: Ivey to Advanced Bookkeeping, 16s, p. 16* 8d
French, Geo.: Arc and Science of Advertising-, 10s, p. 10s 6d
Lisle’s Accounting: Theory and Practice, ISs, p. 19s.
Moody: Men Who Sell Things, 3s 6d, p. 3slod. [p. 16s8d.
Nathan: How to Make Money in the Printing Business, 18s,
Scott’s Psychology of Advertising, 7s, posted 7s 6d.
Scouller : Pract. Accountant's Guide, 2s6d, posted 2s lOd.
Steele : Present Day Banking, 6s, posted Gs 6d.
BOOKKEEPING AND ACCOUNTING, by W. JENKINSON, 19s, posted 20s.
ROBERTSON & CO., PROP. LTD., 238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The. Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.”
The Lancet says Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
m
A, The Larynx
Organ of Vo'
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
0. Th<
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stamps.
HUDSON’S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
the Australian States, Hew Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
Agencies in all
THE RED PAGE
My Mirandelay
An occasional luxury of mine in rare
moments of leisure is to weave fancies of all
kinds around the theme “Ferdinand and
Miranda.” While at this lately I was think-
ing of the platonic and mystic idea of the
divided parts of the one soul seeking each
other through the world and the ages until
success and consequent merging, away from
earth, into one angel. I was also thinking
of the Gnostic idea of the descent of the soul
(or of Sophia, according to one version) into
matter and its subsequent re-ascension, and
the thought struck me that it should be pos-
sible to frame a poetic form that would sym-
bolise the said ideas. My first notion was
to use the “ dose,” a beautiful form almost
unknown in English, but 'which with its
verses each ending in consecutive lines of
the first verse seemed to promise both tho
music and the recurrence suitable to a
reverie-poem. Then I suddenly thought
that McKay’s Reversolet was the very thing
to express in form the descent and ascent of
the soul. Hey, presto 1 combine the Rever-
solet and the principle of the Glose, and the
thing was :
[ln all save the fifth stanza this mirandelay
justifies itself as poetry, and the “kiss that weds
the welkin and the clay” must be added to the
great kisses in literature. There are “ potenti-
alities ” in this form, and while the souls of Ferd.
and Randa are waltzing and reversing in space,
some other contributors may be able to make a few
bodies mirandelet on earth. £1 Is. offered for the
best mirandelay sent in before November 30.]
A MIRANDELAY.
Soul I would with mine one angel form !
Mind I roam with on the stellar way !
Heart I throb to when the weary moan !
Eyes’ unfathomed light that light mine own !
Kiss that weds the welkin and the clay !
Sylph of Paradise, yet woman warm !
Mind I roam with on the stellar way.
Bringing men the symbols that unbar
Their old doors of glamor to the light,
Dropping unguents that unfilm their sight,
Or from dramas of some flaming star.
Tinging petty waking life’s pale play !
Heart I throb to when the weary moan.
Thirsty, with the idle sipping wine—
Darkened, while the learned split theirstraws —
Harried, and the wolves enacting laws—
At them, idlers, sages, wolves, with mine,
Throbbing human heart, one thunderstorm !
Eyes’ unfathomed light that light mine own
With the clean desire of shriven stars,
For the merging kiss of God—anon,
With the one light left since Eden’s shone,
Morn-warm messenger, whose rosy cars
Bring our children from Ilis very Throne !
Kiss that weds the welkin and the clay !
Bride delectable, yet nun demure !
Fountain of the soul with sweet flesh rimmed !
Chalice to the full with rich sex brimmed !
Dream, prayer, petalled song abide in your
Smile serene -that smooths the creased day;
Sylph of Paradise, yet woman warm !
Kiss that weds the welkin and the clay !
Eyes’ unfathorned light that light mine own !
Heart I throb to when the weary moan !
Mind I roam with on the stellar way !
Soul I would with mine one angel form !
BERNARD O'DOWD.
Pett Ridge
Not long ago W. D. Howells waved a
greeting to W. Pett Ridge from the pages of
an American review, and said, gracefully
and at length, “ thanks for much good read-
ing.” It was right that the chieftain of a
clan should commend a sturdy lieutenant
fighting on the same side. For many years
Howells has championed the cause of realism
in fiction and placed principle before passion.
In his own work, the greatest defect is want
of humor. Pett Ridge has plenty of it. He
has kept to a narrow strip of life—the poor
and lower middle classes of London ; he does
not go deep, but he never flounders in the
shallows of sentimentality. Things happen,
in his novels much as they happen in life,
save that the events are selected for your
entertainment. They are not boisterous or
thrilling enough to appeal to the multitude,
so his books are never “ best sellers.”
Pett Ridge began as a journalist in 1891,
and he published a collection of short stories
in 1894. His first novel, A Clever Wife,
appeared in the following year. Minor Dia-
logues, printed about the same time, met
with general praise, and next to Anstey’s Voces
Populi they are the best of their kind in
English. In his later work— Mord Ernly,
'Erb, Name of Garland, etc. —the dialogue is
neat and pithy, and in the latest novel, Nine
to Six- Thirty (Sydney Book Club), it is one
of the features that appeal to a reader
vcith an eye for workmanship.
Nine to Six-Thirty, as the title suggests,
is a story of office life. A girl who had been
treated as Cinderella by her elder sisters
rakes a job suddenly vacated by one of them
in an up-to-date tourist agency. She de-
velops rapidly, discovers a capacity for
management and sharp practice, and, in
the determination to get on in the world
she pushes anyone down who stands in her
way. Eventually she finds that it is not
gqod for woman to be alone. While the
hardening process was going on she got some
inexpensive amusement by watching the game
of life—the frequent dramatic episodes, short
stories in the street, low-comedy everywhere.
As the lines at a chapter-head put it:
You look on from the special members’ stand,
Or maybe only peepin’ through the fence.
If lucky, vou’ll be playin’ in the team ;
If not, you sell the cards to make some pence;
But you must be somewhere in it, and in it every
minute —
Life is cricket, and the game it is immense.
That is Pett Ridge’s attitude, and he makes
the reader feel its advantages.
Photo, by Appleby.
Florence Rodway
The photograph does not do justice to
Miss Rodway ; no photograph could. You
must imagine a tall fair-haired figure
upon whose face the Tasmanian bloom
defies the menace of Sydney weather.
The early imaginings of this quiet soft-
voiced young lady took shape in large
pictures of massive allegorical figures draped
in the manner of Leighton and shrouded in
profound gloom. The vision was somewhat
ahead of the faculty ; but there is a sense of
power about these pictures which is still
more evident in the few portraits we have seen
in oil and black-and-white, The latter have
the quality Which ■is usually called virile ;
the work seems to have been done with a
sure, strong hand, and there is no trace of
that prettiness which is the distinctly fem-
inine note.
“Sleep,” exhibited at last year’s Society
of Artists’show, and the two pastels pur-
chased by the the National Gallery -are
admirable; the subjects lending some"
thing to the charm of the pictures.
The fluffy softness of the medium makes it
suitable for portraits of children, and Miss
Rodway has recently drawn little Bertha
Lawson, Alfred Wunderlich’s daughter, and
some others. There are two “heads” in
black and white at the Gallery, and a few
oil paintings in private houses. So far Miss
Rodway’s best work is in pastel; but if a de-
mand ever arises for large decorative panels
and frescoes in public buildings, she would be
able to supply work which probably no one
else in Australia could do so well.
This is her story of a career which began
only a little while ago :
“ When I was very small I used to amuse
myself with a pencil. I would take my
father’s best pencils and note paper and draw
steam engines and boats and houses, like
most small children. I hardly ever drew
from a copy, though—preferring my own idea
of the thing. At school I had a drawing
lesson twice a week. I thin ft 1 drew every
ornament in that house, -away from the
drawing class, when I should have been
doing my lessons, I drew little girls. They
always had long hair and long legs, and were
very much admired by the other small girls
at school,
“ The first lessons I had in painting were
from Sid Long.. ~ It was my first trip away
from Tasmania. I came to Sydney, and, being
impatient to paint* began the study of art
with landscape painting.
“I had always the idea that I was to be an
artist some day, and was very much encour-
aged by my father ; but did not work seri-
ously until I went to the Technical School
in Hobart, where I studied for two or three
years under Benjamin Sheppard. He had
been a student at the Royal Academy
Schools, London, and I became possessed by
the idea of studying there, too.
“I gave up painting, and went back to
black-and-white. Sent my work to London,
and was accepted as a probationer at the
schools.
“I worked for a while at Cope and Nicholls’s
class at Kensington, while waiting for the
examination for entrance to the Academy
schools. Later on I passed my exam., and
was admitted as a student for three years.
There were more exams., and I worked up
from the ‘Lower School’ to the ‘Half-
Upper ’ and to the «Upper School.’ We
studied from 9.30 a.m., with some little time
off in the afternoon, until 7 p.m.
“ Most of the time that I was in England I
lived about 12 miles out of London, which
meant many an anxious time in trying to
catch my trains. If I missed my morning
train, I had to dodge the R.A. curator, for
we were not allowed to be late. If I missed
the evening one, I had an hour and a half to
wait for the next.
“Sargent, Gregory, Bacon, Dicksee, Solo-
mon and Clausen were some who took it in
turn to visit us at the schools. At the end
of three years, through passing another
exam., I got my ‘second term’—meaning
another two years. But I only worked for
about five months of pay ‘second term,’ and
came back to Tasmania. I remained there
for a year, and finding no prospect of making
my way, I came to Sydney. There was
something of a struggle for two years, but
now lam doing very well. I have taken up
portrait painting chiefly, and am very inter-
ested in decorative work—for which I think
there will be more demand in the future.”
Good Average Fiction
Reading a Harold McGrath novel is like
watching a game of billiards. The story is
written well enough to provide interest for
half an hour or so ; it is not long enough for
the click, click to become monotonous, and it
is perfectly harmless. In the latest, A
Splendid Hazard (George Robertson and
Co.), one of Napoleon’s immense brood of
fictional descendants prepares to pot the red
and goes in off the white instead. He missed
the glory but scored the love, and every-
one is satisfied. His name is Breitmann, and,
naturally, he reads Heine. (You remember
—“ Haus Breitmann” translated Heine.) A
gentle ironist, who chases butterflies and the
enemies of France, is appropriately named
Anatole. There is also an admiral, whose
one hobby is pirates—he has the finest
library on piracy in the world. Christy’s
illustrations of costumes “as now worn”
will be much admired by ladies.
* * * *
In The Wild Olive, “the author of The
Inner Shrine” (Angus and Robertson)
attempts to do again what she did before.
The sacrificing heroine on this occasion is
not so stagey as her predecessor, and the
opening chapters, describing Ford’s flight
and life in hiding, are well written. When
events thicken, and the way is made ready
for the great renunciation act by the heroine,
the style deteriorates. There'is no illusion
of reality ; you do not feel that you are
witnessing a drama; you know that the
figures are wooden, and the best you can say
is that the mechanism is skilfully worked.
# * * *
Sophie Cole’s Blue-Grey Magic (Dymock’a)
is something fresh in sentimental fiction,
although the doctor reminds us of old-time
heroes depicted by women. He is large in
size, soft of heart and utterly unsentimental,
As a set-off, there is an ultra-modern girl,
through whose blue-grey letters the mischief
is done which makes a very agreeable story.
* * * #
Mary Gaunt’s latest— The Mummy Moves
(Dymock’s) is a fairly good mystery story with
a tiresome detective whose speech is full of
Latin tags and their English equi valenbs. It
begins in a manner now familiar—two men
outside Marston Mansions, London, discuss
the possibility of adventure in such a prosaip
place.
“The flats are all alike,” said one, “ the people
are all alike, they get up in the morning, they
eat, they brink, and they go to bed at night, and
they are just a commonplace herd going on in the
old humdrum way.”
Immediately afterwards they are called to
look at a murdered man m a room upstairs,
where there is also a mummy with blood on
its hands.
Intellectual Mansions , S.W., by Phillip
Gibbs, starts in somewhat the same way.
The party on the flat upstairs, however, is a
very live young woman who writes love
stories at 10s. a thousand words. A number
of writers and artists hold intellectual meet-
ings in the Mansions; but the principal
interest of the novel is political, and the
Suffragettes are strongly represented. This
is a book worth reading, though it is not
quite so good as the same author’s Street of
Adventure, noticed here last December.
The London Daily Telegraph of 25th
August last announced that its new serial
would be “The Children of the Cloven
Hoof,” an Australian story by Albert
Dorrington.
Baroness Hermione von Preuschen is a
painter of note in Germany and a writer of
verse (“ Poems that were lived ” is the title
of one volume). She went to America
recently and told the N. Y. World :
I think the most truly poetic thing you have in
America is the stockyards in Chicago. I was
enraptured with them, and everyone laughed at
me. But they are great — magnificent— the feed-
ing-place of a nation, of a world. They were like
a description of Dante’s.
Frank Brangwyn and His W ork, by W.
Shaw Sparrow, will be published shortly by
Kegan, Paul and Co. It is to contain 20
color-plates and 10 other full-page illustra-
tions, crown quarto size, and will be sold at
10s. 6d. net. This should be a book worth
having. “The Scoffers,” in the Sydney
Gallery, gives the impression that Brangwyn
works in color in the generous, forthright
fashion of Rodin in marble. He has had a
varied career over most of the world, and
the story of his life ought to make good
reading.
The University of Cambridge has taken over
from The Times the copyright of The Encyclopedia,
Britannica, and will publish a new edition at the
beginning of next year. Much of the_ material
has been re-written, and everything is to be
revised down to the middle of this year, so that
the Eleventh Edition will be virtually a new
work. It will be printed on India paper, and
occupy one-third of the shelf-space taken up by
the present edition. The 28 volumes will be
issued at the same time.
R.A.S.: The lines you want are those of a song
called “Good-bye,” by G. Wbyte-Melville,
printed in his Songs and Verses (Ward, Look and
Co.). Here is the first stanza:
“Falling leaf and fading tree,
Lines of white in a sullen sea,
Shadows rising on you and me
The swallows are making them ready to fly,
Wheeling out on a windy sky.
Good-bye, Summer! Good-bye, good-bye ! ”
THEY ALWAYS FELL.
They went forth to battle but they always fell:
Their eyes were fixed above the sullen shields ;
They fought the battle nobly but not well,
And sank heart-wounded by a subtle spell.
They knew not fear that to the foeman yields,
They were not weak as one who vainly wields
A futile weapon, yet the sad scrolls tell
How on the hard-fought field they always fell.
It was a secret music that they heard,
A sad sweet plea for pity and for peace ;
And that which pierced the heart was but a word.
Though the white breast was red-lipped where the
sword
Did press a cruel kiss, to put surcease
On its fierce longing, but did drink increase.
Ah, they with some strange troubling doubt were
stirred,
And died for hearing what no foeman heard.
They went forth to battle but they always fell:
Their might was not the might of lifted spears;
Over the battle-clamor came a spell
Of troubling music, and they fought not well.
Their wreaths are willows and their tribute,
tears;
Their names are old sad stories in men’s ears:
Yet they will scatter the red hordes of Hell,
Who went forth to battle and always fell.
SEUMAS O'SHEEL.
BLACK SHEEP.
From their folded mates they wander far,
Their ways seem harsh and wild ;
They follow the beck of a baneful star,
Their paths are dream-beguiled.
Yet haply they sought but a wider range,
Some loftier mountain-slope,
And little recked of the country strange
Beyond the gates of hope.
And haply a bell with a luring call
Summoned their feet to tread
Midst the cruel rocks, where the deep pitfall
And the lurking snare are spread.
Maybe, in spite of their tameless days
Of outcast liberty.
They’re sick at heart for the homely ways
Where their gathered brothers be.
And oft at night, when the plains fall dark
And the hills loom large and dim,
For the Shepherd’s voice they mutely hark,
And their souls go out to him.
Meanwhile, “Black sheep! Black sheep!” we
cry,
Safe in the inner fold ;
And maybe they hear, and wonder why,
And marvel, out in the cold.
RICHARD BURTON.
We have sonnets enough, and Songs enough,
And ballads enough, God knows !
But what we need is that .cosmic stuff
Whence primitive feeling glows.
Grown, organised to the needs of rhyme
Through the old instinctive laws,
With a meaning broad as the boughs of time,
And deep as the roots of cause.
It is passion and power that we need to day,
We have grace ;i.nd taste full store ;
We need a man who will say his say --
With a strength unguessed before—
Whose lines shall glow like molten steel
From being forged in his soul,
Till the very anvil shall burn to feel
The breath of the quenchless coal!
Your dainty wordsters may cry “Uncouth ! ”
As they shrink from his bellows’ glow ;
But the fire he fans is immortal youth,
And how should the bloodless know ?
Frederic Lawrence Knowles.
(These three from America.)


a
<*slpes
/ok*
a^HONt
fe •
>*»
*■
ffT.'V
-ro
a?
hr*
VJ '»
4m
n
/
Z?.
k t-/
W*.
w
s 5?/" ":
jf', , 1 ”'
•::•
pp*
FASHIONS for FAIR
AUSTRALIANS
■ 89
at Anthony Horderns’
Famous Low Prices
THE immense collection of Fashion’s
Choicest Creations shown in the Green
Room presents attractions that are not
to be found at any other store. There is a
distinctive smartness and a refreshing elegance
in the stylish Costumes, Blouses and per-
fectly-fitting Skirts, and all the new tones
of the season are represented. The new
Millinery must appeal to all ladies, inasmuch
as, while the extremes of the season are in
evidence, there is a pleasing variety of many
beautiful and moderate examples of the,
latest creations.
OUR FASHION GUIDE
The illustrations on this page are taken from our
Summer Fashion Portfolio, which faithfully presents the
modes of the moment. Write for a copy, posted free on
request.
No. 2772— Children’s Costume':es, White, Swiss Muslin, Embroidered
Skirt, dainty style, to fi - child 2 to 8 years—
Sizes.. .. .. 22in. 24in. 26in.
14/9 15/9 16/9 17/9
No. 2784 — Girls’ Costumettes, Tussore Silk, trimmed Cream Valenciennes
Lace and Insertion, Skirt finished deep hem and Pin Tucks—
Sizes 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
17/6 18/3 19/6 20/6
No. 2767—Girls’ Costumettes, White Muslin, trimmed Real Torchon
Lace and Insertion—
Sizes.. .. .. 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
21/6 22/6 23/6 24/6
No. 2783— Children’s Costumettes, Ivory Silk, trimmed Malines Lace
and Insertion, pretty style, to fit child 2 to 8 years—
Sizes.. .. .. 20in. 22in. 24in. 26in.
20/6 21/6 22/6 23/6
No. 2769 — Girls’ Smart Costumettes, White Organdi Muslin, tr imed
Broderie dainty design, to suit girl 10 to 14 years-
Sizes.. 27in. 30in. 33in. 36in. 39in.
19/6 20/6 21/6 22/6 23/6
No. 890— Girls’ Costumes, Navy and White Spotted Cambric, Skirt
gathered into waistband, turn-down Collar, to suit girls
7 to 12 years—
Sizes.. .. .. 27in. 30in. 33in. 36in.
3/9 4/3 4/9 5/3
No. 1852— Children’s Costumettes, Ivory Japanese Silk, trimmed
imitation Maltese Lace, to fit child 2 to 4 years—
Sizes 20in. 22in.
21/6 22/6
No. 850 — Girls’ Paletots, White Muslin, to suit girl 6 to 10 years—
Sizes.. .. .. 24in. 26in. 28in. 30in.
8/6 9/6 10/6 11/6
No. 856 — Maids’ Princess Robes, fine White Mu. n, daintily trimmed
Muslin Insertion and Pin Tucks, to fit girl It to 14 years—
Sizes.. 30in. 33in. 36in. 39in. 42in.
25/6 26/6 27/6 28/6 29/6
No. 41,308— Girls’ Costumes, Taffeta Voile, in pretty shades of Amethyst,
Electric and Navy, to suit girls 10 to 14 years—
Sizes.. 30in. 33in. 36in. 39in. 42in.
17/6 18/6 19/6 20/6 21/6
No. 845— Maids’ Costumes, White Muslin, banded into waist, finished
deep Flounce and Tucks, to suit girl 8 to 12 years—
Sizes 27in. 30in. 33in.
11/6 12/6 J3/6
36in.
14/6
m
m
m
7
«60.
P
> iism
i
m
4m
*
s?>
-5
s
nVi
KSWS
ft
SB
$
BJJW
»l
SSSt
yf<
iff)
<)'
i. -----•■
I
I
■ '•
856.
41308
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Andrade fob BOOKS.
8 POPULAR FARCES
FOR AMATEURS.
Contents—
Turn Him Out.
Box and Cox.
Popping the Question
That Rascal Pat.
A Kiss in the Dark.
A Regular Fix.
My Turn Next.
The Loan of a Lover.
All these are IN ONE
VOLUME for 1/-;
Post Free, 1/2.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Goteh, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand VV ays
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 124 S
pages,. 400 colored plates
and engraving's, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
ggTAND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
7 J
.
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying and Van-
ishing Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the finders (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Tun Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special shill), post freeany-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Above prices include postage to any address.
Stamps or Postal Notes ot any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
The same blade
but a new edge every
morning
g
Don’t
confuse
the
Auto Strop
with any
other
Safety
Razor.
To strop the AuloStrop Safety Razor, insert the
strop through the razor itself—move the razor to and
f ro —the blade reveises automatically at the end of each stroke,
thus stropping itself—in an instant you have a keen edge. The
Auto&trop
Razoß
is far quicker, handier, and cheaper than a no-stropping razor
gives an easy and luxurious shave —obviates the continual expense
for new blades necessary with ordinary safety razors.
25/-
and no
further
expense
The Standard Outfit consists of quadruple silver-plated, self-stropping razor!
one dozen specially tested lancet-steel blades; one horsehide strop ; the whole
( contained in handsome leather case, size 2 in. by 3* in.
Sold by all high-class dealers.
You see it everywhere.
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., LTD.,
The Rialto. Collins Street, Melbourne, and
222, Clarence Street, Sydney.
i
A
sfdg
fdsg
UNSHRINKABLE
UNDERWEAR
The extreme comfort of JAY Underwear is ensuring for
it an ever=increasing sale in all parts of the world. It is
durable, economical, and guaranteed against shrinking.
Made of the Finest Australian Wool
All the wearing parts are strengthened by patented
improvements, and there are no irritating seams. Made
in all weights and sizes for men, women and children.
SOLD BY ALL HOSIERS AND OUTFITTERS.
Wholesale only: I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO., London, England.
N.BThe genuine JAY UNDERWEAR bears the above Trade Mark.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society
For Life Assurance t i the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Secu
City or
ity or Freehold °Jl i^® a9 < f r ho on
Suburban Properties,
+He Security
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the A us
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of_ y INTEREST
tralian States or New Zealknd AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF l
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege o r ®P a i* ”
ud to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment o a ' Beniamin
Directors —The Hon. A. W. Meeks. M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chmr M _ L 0 . ;
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon F.E. Winonco
Adrian Knox, Esq.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. . y Secretary-
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. Arrrm,
ZERCHO’S
CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE.
mi
ijii
ni SIC
rr-s
rn
9M
r
I*l Itl'li £
!j 01 11 S
H SS -1
Ssi -I
81 ni
35 '
rp rb
>7T=I
*M.
i yS
r I
ml ■
159 Collins St., Melbourne.
28 Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Currie Chambers, Adelaide.
Utilise your spare time by studying at home some
of the following subjects
Send for Descriptive Pamphlet “S” and state subject
in which you are interested.
Shorthand
Typewriting
Bookkeeping
Accountancy
English
Penmanship
Arithmetic
Correspondence
Latin
French
Greek
Algebra
Geometry
Trigonometry
Elementary Science
History
Geography
Surveying
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Draftsmanship
Freehand Drawing
Pen and Ink Drawing
Illustrating and Designing.
Let us coach you for a University, Local Government
(Shi.e Clerks or Auditors). Public Service, Sanitary
Inspectors', or any other examination.
STEVENS RIFLES
«BULL’S-EYE KIND”
More Records hold than all other makes combined!
E. W. Fielding recently won the Tanunda, South Australia,
Kingship (a notable Rifle Tournament) for the second
successive time. Total of 148 out of a possible 156 points
under most unfavorable weather conditions.
Write for Catalogue to
Ask your Dealer and ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent- Send for latest Flre-
insist on STEVENS. Stevens Arms and Tool C O., s^v’ensl PopTcaTa-
erC stltute"? 8U " Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia. logues. [l
This Man was Rescued from the Grave , and Lives.
THE MIRACLE OF RITTHERCLEH, VIC.
df
Cured after every Treatment Failed
with
Clements Tonic.
ifYOU WISH TO BE CURED, READ THIS LETTER.
The medicine that saves and lengthens human life as
this one does; that brings back the health so long
despaired of ; that proves by restored vigor and mental
energy that professional verdicts have not been fulfilled,
and that out of years of pain and suffering men and
women recover and enjoy life, surely this is the medicine
for the people in every rank and walk of existence.
People who are ill, sickly, weak-nerved, etc., should read
this letter to a great medicine. The writer can be seen
at Rutherglen any day, after being in four hospitals and
having no less than 17 medical examinations.
On 19th May, 1910, Mr. Downes again writes to Clements Tonic Ltd.:
“ I have sent my photo., as you desire. I wish I could do
more to advertise Clements Tonic to sufferers of ill-health, for
scores of men and women came to me the last three months
from far and near to see me, and wanted to know if Clements
Tonic cured me. I am thankful 1 can assure them all, without
fear or doubt, it has. I can say that also to the hundreds of
people who know the truth, when 1 was ill in Clunes, Ballarat,
Wangaratta and Corowa, and to those who had no hope for me.
But, thanks to this medicine, I am here before them all this day a
cured man. 1 wish I could show you in person the look of surprise
many persons have (especially those connected with the hospitals)
who meet and see me alive. / Signed ) PATRICK DOWNES.”
Great Southern Consuls Mine, Rutherglen, Vic.
You will Live to a Green Old Age with the Medicine.
All Chemists and Stores sell it in Australia.


True Economy
is to have the best. When
that happens also to be
economical in use, who
would be without it?
Cerebos
Stir
goes a very long way.
Agents—Harrison and Attwood, Sydney.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
c
We despatch direct from our Coventry factory
to an) one, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Co ven try Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
MODELS £3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest Improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port In the World.
Afvrillc IOCUTO wanted in each dis-
AUllVfc Autnlo trlct. Larce i iroflti
easily made. Write a. once, using sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and oar Speolal Offer
en sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO.. x>ep, 280 LIVERPOOL
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Apent,
157 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
VARICOSE
VEINS
Can be successfully
CURED without the
aid of the surgeon’s
Knife.
IF YOU suffer from Varicose Veins in the
legs you should send at once for full par-
ticulars of the wonderful VECSEY
METHOD OP TREATMENT. The
discovery of this splendid method of curing
Varicose Veins ranks amongst the scientific
achievements of the past decade, and its
wonderful properties have given relief and a
cure to hundreds of sufferers who had des-
paired of getting even permanent relief. The
method is simple, efficacious and reliable, and
is essentially a home treatment. No laying up.
SEND 2d. STAMP for our Free Book,
which gives full particulars of this wonderful
treatment, and also contains much useful
information about bandaging. Sent free to
any address. Advice Free. Call.
The Vecsey Varix-aroum,
104 Linden Court, Sydney. 603
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
EYE
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
sJpaTW-J
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors’ Guide.
Established 1877.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new—is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease from the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Pres
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
UUadJIQiS
mm.
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE-
of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAR CURE FOR
COUGHS, COLDS, BRONCHITIS, CROUP,
WHOOPING COUGH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNCS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINCTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
OUR JACK" Brand.
Obtainable Everywhere.
Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
100 CUPS FOR I\6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St., Sydney ; Currie St„ Adelaide; Elizabeth St„ Melbourne.
UORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, Horlic k’s
Malted Milkisan
ideal food-beverage,
easily digested, nour-
ishing, invigorating.
It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
FOR
ALL
TIMES
AND
ALL
CLIMES
At
break-
ia s t
time or
supper time
H or lick - s.
Malted Milk is
a delicious substitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute
and requires no cooking.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples: 8?, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Korlick’s Malted Milk Co. Slough, Eng.
ffi -
Jt'turur tyje/ \
TULrrtSy*
Latest Evolution of Modern pharmacy.
“ QOLCRYST ” is a Combination of
Epsom Salts, Senna, Sarsaparilla,
Dandelion, Liquorice and Ginger.
crystals dissolve in water, forming
a Blood-Purifying and Rheumatism-Curing
Aperient Medicine.
SOLD IN id., 6d. and Is. PACKETS.
Write for Free Sample to the Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO., MELBOURNE.
STOP DRUDGING
gs
fgd
TRADE-MARK
Don’t work yourself to death
cleansing and polishing furniture
in the old-fashioned way, with
soap and water or varnish.
3-in-one Oil reriaoves spots,
scratches and scars from piano
cases, fine furniture and all var-
nished surfaces easier, quicker
and better than any furniture
polish. It brings back the
original lustre, dries quickly
ana gives a bright, lasting finish
Write'for free sample to
BBID & REID (Dept. A ), Australasian
Representatives—Wellington, New Zealand,
g
Zaw Points
>£r inventors
Can I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest way to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE, is to
write to me describing' your invention, enclosing a small
sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing isnot essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are cc/dially in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, an hones opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
MILNERS’ SAFES
have the Largest Sale in the World.
SYDNEY : John Keep & Sons, Ltd., Clarence St.
MELBOURNE : Briscoe & Co., Ltd., Lit. Collins St.
BRISBANE : Webster & Co., Ltd., Mary St.
PERTH : McLean Bros. & Rigg.
Aus. Rep.—T. Nicholls, c/o Sydney Agents.
lillHENfr!
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS!
MAGNESIA,
MAGNESIA
BOV R I L
The Supreme Achievement in Beef Concentration.
INFINITELY SUPERIOR TO MEAT EXTRACT OR BEEF TEA.
BOVRIL is supplied to the British Admiralty and War Offiee, the India Office,
and is used in over 2,000 Hospitals.
BY APPOINTMENT TO
dsf
HIS MAJESTY THE KINC.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the Shells Begin to Fall.
Twenty thousand people witnessed the football match
last Saturday.— Daily paper.
A roar goes up from the football ground—all’s
well with the world to-day ;
Hear the barrackers howl and dance and bound
whilst the mud-splashed persons play !
But it seems to me that the time draws near when
a Voice at Australia’s door
Will announce that Trouble is hastening here with
the fresh-laid eggs of War !
Though I hear the barrackers shout and stamp in
their noisy wrath jejune,
There is never the tramp of an arm&d camp on a
Saturday afternoon !
And it seems to me that it’s overdone, this cult of
the useless ball.
Shall we gasp and run for our (missing) gun When
the Shells Begin to Fall ?
I am tired and sick of the howling mob, and I
reckon that James and Bill
Would be better prepared for Australia’s job if
they savvied the range and drill!
I am tired of the roar of a thousand throats—of
the “ clurk ” with his frantic curse ;
And it seems to me where the goal-flag floats they
are pushing Australia’s hearse !
I have listened in vain for the rhythmic beat of
an army drilled and clean ;
There is never a street where a man shall meet
with Australia’s War-Machine !
So it seems to me that the time arrives for this
game to dwindle small ;
Shall we save our lives (there are kids and wives !)
When the,Shells Begin to Fall !
It is time that our eyes were opened wide to the
trend of the frowning years ;
And I do not think that Australia’s pride is found
where the ’bailer jeers !
I have waited long—are you waiting, too?—whilst
Governments chaffer and change ;
They are pushing amendments slowly through—
but there’s never a rifle range !
There is never a call for the Nation’s best, for the
men grown from their teens ;
When the barrackers rest in their graves unblessed,
shall we count with the Might-Have-Beens ?
So it seems to me that’s it’s time we broke from
this niddering football thrall;
Shall our rifles smoke (they're a mournful joke 1)
When the Shells Begin to Fall ?
We are drilling a crowd of feckless boys, and the
school-kid humps his gun ;
We are filling the air with useless noise, and ’tis
thus that the good years run !
We are cursing the umpire’s sinful whims, “ Free
kick ! You’re a blanker ! Gar-r-r /”
So they shriek and howl till the reason swims,
and I ask where our Fighters are ;
Shall we hold this Land when the war-storm
breaks and the bolts of anger blow ?
So I ask once more—l have asked before, but
nobody seems to know !
And it seems to me that the hour has struck —do
ye hear your country’s call ?
Shall we trust to luck (hear them cheer the ruck !)
When the Shells Begin to Fall ?
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
The Soul of Babette.
“With all my heart,” she cried, “ with all
My woman’s soul I love you, dear! ”
Her voice was true and musical,
And, oh, her eyes were fond and clear.
“ Dear lover, husband mine !” : he sighed,
“ You are my world, my joy, my pain !”
I gazed on her with tender pride.
And kissed her ready mouth again.
But straight she turned with laughter cold
And smeared our dearest shrine with dirt;
She bartered her red mouth for gold,
And pawned her honor for a skirt.
Yet, ah, her voice was musical,
The eyes I loved were soft and clear.
“ With all my heart,” she cried, “with all
My woman’s soul I love you, dear ! ”
MAORILAND.
FRANK MORTON.
The Poet Confesses.
I wrote some jolly good lines last night,
Blasted them out of my weary brain ;
Thrilling with passion they were and bright;
Gave them the title “Grey Eyes of Pain ” ;
Founded the poem on Mary Jane ;
Knew her before I began to write ;
Kissed her just once in a gloomy lane;
At least I tried to —I didn’t quite.
I didn’t know she would scratch and bite ;
Else I would never have missed my train;
Just to be pummelled with all her might,
Until I slipped in a filthy drain ;
I got no kisses from Mary Jane !
Oh ! but her eyes had a wild-beast light,
As she informed me her laboring swain
Revelled in punching “a dirty skite.”
Though she had managed my love to blight,
I tried to soothe her—also explain ;
Wasn’t too anxious o’er her to fight;
Thought it quite likely that I’d be slain.
I couldn’t pacify Mary Jane !
“ Bad men,” she said, she could “ tell at sight” ;
Never set eyes on the girl again;
Wild as the Devil she was, and white.
Editor, say are my sins inane ?
Are all my rapturous statements trite ?
I did my best to kiss Mary Jane,
But she repulsed me and took to flight.
N.S.W.
GARDEN RAKE.


Combination Couch and Bed.
Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
CHANGED INSTANTLY.
4 ■* i * ' » ' ' >. * .'ll'
Steyt- V- <►'* v- v V v.' v if. * j
5Sa
s®fe
CLOSED AS COUCH.
•?
■nMI
■■V
««*,***
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 45. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY,
The Bulletin Post Cards*
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve ...
Packet of Ten
.. 6d
.. 5d
SAVE MONEY
by buying one of DWYER’S VEHICLES. They cannot be
equalled for Beauty of Design, Durability and Light Running.
Factories—"WOLLONGONG and NEWTOWN.
gdf
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALCOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Full particulars and prices onjippHoatioru
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau,
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Aus*~ ..na.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street—Local Jirector: A. MESTON.
Hotelkeepers! Storekeepers ! Confectioners!
Make your own AERATED WATERS with an
m
ssa
“AUSTRAL”
Aerated Water Machine
at a cost ot per dozen•
Requires only ONE (unskilled) MAN to work it. No special
bottles. Aeration superior to any others. Catalogues and
full particulars from the SOLE PROPRIETORS :
u I I Cl C .. 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne
Eckersley 8 Sons, and 3 Bond Street, Sydney.
ELLIOTT, DONALDSON & DOUGLAS, 108-110 Eagle St., Brisbane.
LIONEL SAMSON & SON, Cliff Street, Fremantle.
S. G. BILLOWS, c/o New Zealand Express Co., Wellington
and Invercargill.
AULD & SONS, Cilbert Place, Adelaide, S.A.
g
UNDER VICE-REGAL
fdg
PATRONAGE
For the Latest Style of Head-Dress, Puffs and Swathings, £2/10/-
Very Light and Easily Adjusted. Obtainable only at
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
16-1 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereaph Streets.
Telephone 2138 Central. COMBINGSjyiADE_UP^
ABDVLIA
CIGARETTE S^j
TURKISH, EGYPTIAN 8 VIRGINIAN.
The world is full of ups and downs,
and changes and regret—
But the thing that never changes is
Abdulla’s Cigarette.
PAIfiETUC? LI?
fd
¥
m
i
//"
Q
Urn
im
WM
‘-■'.-oSV,
.
I®
■'.■■■--'•
; : s"
trSM'^E-
/2
Ejf t*
m
WfS^_
mmm
>M*
mm
’kW? V
r-l®B-
- ■ !
p*
(AUSTRALIA) LTD
STRAND
CORNER,
412 George Street, Sydney.
HANDSOME WEDDING PRESENTS in Sterling Silver and Electroplate.
THOSE of you who are interested in approaching Weddings should make a point of
inspecting our fine selection of High-Grade Goods. As we purchase direct from
only the actual manufacturers for Spot Cash, you may be sure of getting supreme
value for every shilling spent with us. Our stocks are always up-to-date-each week
sees new shipments arriving. If you are unable to call, write for our new Art
Catalogue, 112 pages, beautifully illustrated in fine art. cover. We post it Free!
No. G42B6—Finest quality Silverplate on
Hard White Metal, Embossed Pattern
Biscuit Box, £2/7/6.
No. B499o—Finest quality Silverplate'on Hard
White Metal, Revolving Vegetable Dish. Each
dish can be removed and used separately.
£6/6/-
No. 5263—Best quality Silver-plated
2-Bottle Inkstand, 16/6.
No. J26ls —Solid Silver
Flower Vase, 8 inches
high, 21/=
No. G4269—Finest Quality Sheffield Silverplate
Asparagus Dish, with Removable Rack, £2.
No. J2BB2—Fine Cut Glass and Silverplated
on Nickel Silver Dinner Cruet, 16/6.
Other designs at 27/6, 37/6, 50/=
No. F4B49—Embossed and Eluted
Silverplated Fern Pot-
-41 n.:, 22/6 4Jin., 27/6
sJin., £2 Sin., £3/7/6
No. H 2095 —Handsome Claret
Jug 1 , Finest Cut Glass and
Silverplate, £3/15/=
Others at 16/6, 25/=, 35/=, 60/=
No. G2s34—Finest quality Silverplated
on Nickel Silver Triple-Expanding
Biscuit Box, £B/10/-
No. F942l—Six Solid Silver Afternoon Cake Forks
with Mother of Pearl Handles, in Silk-lined Case, £3
No. H366—Fine Polished Oak Tray, with best
quality Silverplated Pierced Border Mounts,
20 inches long, £4/10/=
Other designs from £l/5/=


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vot. 31.—N0. 1601.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1910.
Pkice 6d.
THE COMFORTER.
THE TRAINER: “Here, buck up I Why, the last race I trained this ’ere ’orse for, it lost by about two miles, 0


J XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1910.
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 15.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), contributed
during the year by the foremost Australasian
writers.
The illustrations by ‘ ‘ Hop,” Alf Vincent, Norman
Lindsav and other leading representative artists,
will be the finest Black and White work obtainable
in Australia, and will reflect the national humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number is the annual re-
flection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence of
the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be allowed
•for.
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 19th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, 7d. ;
Foreign addresses, 9d. (
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maolkod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman. for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
/
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum .... ... ... £1 6 *0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tiik Bulletin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
lobe addressed to William Maclkod. Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tiik Bulletin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (‘with regard to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a pood thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin,” is the proper
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence ” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with A ustralian subjects, and not exceeding
twe columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Betters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tiik Bulletin ivill return all unsuitable MS. when the.
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention . Tiik Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs In Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tint Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
Will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture ivhich has to be re-drawn —ivill be paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions ivill be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotcli (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tiik Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotcli, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Uolborn, London. 11'. C.
South Akrica. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Daivson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., I'ancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Forman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.— lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington ; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Neivspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Earn. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Brewer and Co,, Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice•
The Bulletin metal advertising plates, size 6 fin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded, on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2J, 1910.
THE DOWNFALL
Like the oil kingdom of Poland, the Wade
Government of N.S.W. committed suicide. There
is nothing to be gained by the use of large,
haiiy superlatives, which are, at best, only the
loud and disarranged sounds which give away
the unfurnished mind ; therefore it isn t worth
while repeating the statement of certain Labor
men to the effect that the Wade Ministry has
been the worst with which the State was ever
afflicted. It may have been the worst, or it may
not; certainly, if it wasn’t the worst, the other one
must have been something awful. The combina-
tion which met the shook of its life last
Friday was essentially one of small aims,
small ideas and low-down political in-
stincts. It lived in the cellar or basement
of things, and never looked upward. It was so
essentially mean that it hadn’t a glimmer of an
idea of its own meanness; it was so little that it
had to stand on a threepenny bit to see over two-
pence, yet it firmly believed itself a giant. Its
lamentable mental attitude was especially dis-
played during the last few months of its career.
The great downfall of Toryism at the Federal
election of last April evidently impressed it with
the idea that it must hustle for some more sup-
port and buy a lot more popularity. There are
two ways of meeting such an emergency. One is
to purchase the support of the community whole-
sale by doing big conspicuous things, or even one
big conspicuous thing, for the good of tlie country in
general. A leader who plunged on the immediate
establishment of a Greater Sydney, or the im-
mediate opening of the Closed Ports, or came to
the front with a definite proposal for the abolition
of loans and the repayment of the public debt, or
who grabbed with both hands at the skirts of
Chance in any large, imposing fashion, would
either make a great success or a great failure.
Most probably, unless the rest of his policy waa
very bad, he would make a great success. The
other device is to buy, or attempt to buy. the
support of individual sections with individual
bribes, in the hope that the country will over-
look the fact that one fellow lias to pay
the other fellow’s bribe, and the bigger the
bribe one fellow gets the greater the other
fellow’s ruin. This Wade party adopted this
petty sectional method—quite naturally. It
bade for the support of 20,000 railway and tram-
way men by a promise of such absurdly lavish
pensions—absurdly lavish in proportion to the
price to be paid for them—that the whole busi-
ness became a shrieking jest. It tried to mollify
land-sellers and land-buyers with an outrageously
unsound scheme whereby the State was to inter-
fere between them, and advance, in a time of
dangerously high values, 95 per cent, of the
purchase money. It sought to pacify certain
State leaseholders with the offer of the freehold
at a mere fraction of the current value, which was
practically giving away State property. Not
knowing "how to create wealth by sheer good
management, it was full of flurried schemes for
politically robbing Peter (who might not notice
the robbery till after election day) in order to
remunerate Paul. And the result was that Petek
was angry at what he was going to lose, while
Paul wasashamed of what he expected to gain.
* * * *
The fact that the people appreciate large ideas
and straight-going never apparently loomed on
the “Liberal” horizon. The party and the
fatuous papers which blasted it with their support
stuck to the old stock-in-trade—the anti-Victorian
grudge, theanti-Federal curse, the anti-Australian
snarl, the policy of demanding everything for
Sydney and denouncing everything that wasn’t
Sydney. The N.S.W. community never gave
them any reason to believe that it was craving
for a shabby little Federal capital at Wade’s
own door—something acquired by dirty means,
and snatched by dirty hands, and handed to the
Cornstalk people on a dirty dish like a soiled head
of John the Baptist. It gave no evidence of
a frantic demand for possession of the naval
station, or any of the other things on the strength
of which the Wade party posed as the special
saviours of the State. The people took a larger
and more Australian view than their alleged
leaders, and with them there is no reason to be-
lieve that these clamors cut any ice. But the
alleged leaders, like the Bourbons, learned no-
thing and got no further forward. They had seen
George Reid go.down heavily in 1906 with his
Anti-Sosh and “confiscation ” cries, and they bad
seen the still worse failure of the old Reid party
last April; yet they talked the old confiscation
foolishness in theold, old way ; also the Walls of
Derry foolishness,, and the alleged Labor-and-rum
alliance foolishness. They might have survived
the dying rockchopper, and Peter Bowling’s
leg-irons, and the disgraceful McKte case, and
even the murky-looking circumstances connected
with the Bowling trial; but their lack of big
ideas, and their absurd devices for buying stray
scraps of popularity on the cat’s-meat principle
with the public assets, and their anti-Australian-
ism, and their large vituperations, and their insig-
nificant meannesses, and their transparent trading
on what they imagined to be the public ignorance
and credulity were fatal. It was typical of them to
send a commission round the country to consider
the opening of the Closed Ports while intimating as
clearly as they dared in the city that the move-
ment was a mere pretence, and that the old con-
gestion policy was to be rather strengthened than
otherwise. A superbly adroit politician may run
two contradictory policies at one and the same
time, and run them within a few miles of each
other ; but a clumsy politician with the light touch
of an elephant and the noiseless footfall of a
traction engine should leave such things alone.
* * * *
It is difficulty to imagine how a campaign could
have been much worse managed than that of
the “ great Liberal party.” The Ministry’s loud-
mouthed adulation of itself—of its honesty, its
fairness, its mental brilliance, its general incom-
parableness—grew wearisome, and then sicken-
ing. Certain of its maddened supporters, mostly
females, did it no good by keeping before the
public the fact that Wade was the only N.S.W.
Premier who apparently came within an ace of
using his authority to appoint himself to a posi-
tion on the bench to which his legal experience
and standing gave him no claim whatever, and they
poured the butter of adulation all over hitn because,
after much delay, he announced that he wouldn’t
do the deed. People grew tired of hearing of
Wade’s early football exploits, and of his
alleged heroism in a long-ago coal-mine accident.
They knew him as a man who was capable of
wasting the public money in two years of costly
litigation dragged through the highest courts of
the Empire, that he might get his own railway
refreshment-room keeper fined ss. for selling a
cigarette, and in that capacity they regarded him
as something of a joke. They hated his sordid
litigation with old public servants over scraps of
pension money, especially as it almost invariably
proved that the Government was in the wrong and
the aged and harried pensioner in the right;
and when another of these wretched cases hap-
pened along in the middle of the campaign
it was unhealthy. The voters found Wade, on
closer inspection, a very wooden and uninspiring
affair, and a person whose speeches were one-half
wild abuse and one-half tame platitude that
would feed out of the hand. When the Tory
papers tried to lift him to an elevation on which
even a Gladstone or a Diaz might have felt
dizzy and cold about the feet, and described
every two-men-and-a-dog gathering in the
Government interest as a great national up-
heaval, and prophesied almost certain success
for the Tory candidate in places where
everybody knew that under the old system he
would have been hard put to it to save his de-
posit, part of the community shrieked with mirth,
and another part unwisely concluded that it was
all over bar the shouting. In the last days of the
campaign or scramble or dog-figlit the “Liberals”
started to pose as the big-loan party, and to fill the
air with denunciations of the Labor policy of re-
stricted borrowing, and even a crowd which had
been drinking out of the bottle should have
known better than that, for Australia is growing
tired of big loans. But the Premier put the
finishing touches to his work when he issued his
final manifesto. In that disastrous document the
public found not one definite promise to do any-
thing—only the vague old remarks about sound
finance and honest government, and maintenance
of the Constitution, which have been the stock-in-
trade of every second-rate politician since the
original second-rate politician was born. And that
was very long ago, when Mandril Trektop was
King, and the deficit was stated in cocoanuts.
On Friday the Ministerial majority vanished,
and about one-third of the Ministry lost the num-
ber of its mess. The Labor victory should have
been much greater, but the best that can be said
for the Labor leaders is that they didn’t make
quite so grievous a muddle of things as their
opponents. James McGowen is a plain, ordin-
ary, uninspiring man who has grown old in
Opposition. He gives the impression that his
real name is Fbenezkr Stodge. His second in
command is a flashy, voluble, shifty individual of
whom little is expected. They both share Wade’s
delusion that what the great heart of New South
Wales desires is a grumpy attitude towards the
other States ; a sour hostility towards the Com-
monwealth ; a mean, cantankerous anti-Australian-
ism ; a darkly suspicious outlook upon those parts
of their own State which don’t happen to be Syd-
ney ; and a grabbing for that city, by clean or
infected means, of everything that can be grabbed
at Australia’s expense. Though Sydney cares so
little for having the Australian capital right at
the office doors of the Herald and Telegraph
that it didn’t raise one public meeting in protest
when it was proposed, in Australia’s interests, to
place it in another part of the State, yet
McGowen and Holman firmly believe that the
heavens will fall if the capital isn’t placed right
alongside the Herald and Telegraph because
these papers have told them so. Their faith in
Tory papers is pathetic. Still, things might
be a great deal worse than they are.
In the first place, the Labor party,
State and Federal, is to a great extent one
organisation, and as it spreads all over Australia
it is difficult for even the most local kind of Labor
man to avoid being occasionally threatened with
a broad Australian view. Then the Labor party
lias a definite programme supplied by the central
authority; and, though it doesn’t include an abso-
lute no-borrowing policy, it gets nearer thereto
than any other programme which has yet been
published in N.S. W. Above all, the Labor leader
lias the advantage of not being Wade ; and any
time in the last six months the advantage of not
being Wade has been something tremendous.
When the Labor Ministry is formed it will
consist wholly of inexperienced men; and
such a Ministry, if opposed by an able tactician,
often gets into discredit by falling over its own
feet on matters of detail. In this case the Labor
party will have an unusual advantage, for its
chief opponent is a man who always falls over his
own feet. With reasonable honesty, no burden
of a disreputable past, and the chance of doing
things in the intervals when the Opposition
leader is slowly getting up after stumbling over
his personal extremities, a McGowen Cabinet will
have a fair chance of usefulness. And when
Labor takes office, and becomes a constructive
body, the capable men of the party will have an
opportunity to come to the front. Most of the
aggregate intelligence of the State is behind the
Labor movement. It is mere accident—the acci-
dent of long stagnation on the Opposition
benches—which has enabled the brown, dull,
Sunday-school element of the party to assert itself
by a process of seniority, which is only another
name*for old age, which is another term for mould
or fluff.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
More About the Parish Pump Railway.
Were the Commonwealth bound to build the line
directly for the benefit'of the comparatively small popu-
lation around Adelaide, and not for the benefit of the
whole of Australia ? What this Bill does is to tie the
hands of the Federal Parliament down to one route. It
is not pretended that there would be any traffic on the
line running from Adelaide to Port Darwin.. But, if the
line were brought down from Port Darwin into Queens-
land territory, and then connected wtih New South
Wales, and through New South Wales to Victoria, it
would open an immense area of country and secure a vast
extent of traffic. In South Australia it will serve a hand-
ful of people, and will never, on the testimony of every-
body—not in South Australia —pay for the grease on the
engine wheels. By striking into the Itastern States it
would at once come into contact with three millions and
more of people. The effect on the development and ex-
pansion of settlement in the Northern Territory must be
obvious. — Sydney Telegraph, ISIIO/’lO.
If Australia dies young it Will be written on its
tombstone that pafochial selfishness was mainly
responsible for the deep damnation of its pegging
out. The craving to bring everything to “our”
State and plant it at “ our ” back door beside
“our” hen-house and adjacent to “our” ash-
barrel, or else to let Australia go to perdition out
of sheer cusseduess, seems quite incurable among
the Tory classes. The above is a fine sample of
the sort of argument which is considered good
enough in a notable parish-pump case. For some
curious reason it is considered necessary in Tory
quarters to bring the very essential transcon-
tinental railway round by a long eastern circum-
bendibus. It is first to come at great length
through that dry western strip of Queensland in
which lie the perishing towns of Boulia and
Birdsville. This strip, from about the mouth of
the Norman River southward, isn’t really Queens-
land, but a bit of the Northern Territory tem-
porarily attached to Queensland under letteis
patent, just as the rest of the Territory is attached
to South Australia; and if a railway built with
Federal money comes through it the question of
Queensland’s wholly unreliable title will almost
certainly be raised one day or another. And no
one can say that Queensland would not be rightly
served for its gross selfishness if that event hap-
pened, and confiscation followed. Then the devia-
tion party proposes to bring the transcontinental
into N.S.W., and connect it with the fading town
of Bourke. The Bourke railway thinks nothing
of losing £15,000 in a single year, and the adja-
cent branch lines to Brewarrma and Warren are
also highly unprofitable speculations. I here
is to be a connection with the fast-wearing-
out silver town of Broken Hill and the
utterly dead towns of Tnackennga (which
has really vanished off the earth) and
Silverton. Possibly there will also be a connec-
tion with the Riverina lines to Hay and Finley
(N.S.W.), which lose, between them, nearly £50,000
a year. It is in this land of fading population and
mostly unpayable railways that the
transcontinental is to find “a vast ex *
traffic.” Also it is to “ open an immense area or
country” (much of it country which has been
opened by State railways and has closed aga ),
then the direct line would also “open up a
rnense area of country.” In order to crawl
these parts the line is to be made longer and more
costly. It will occupy more time in build ng
under these conditions, and no one k
much or how little time we have lhe distance
between Port Darwin and Melbourne, o
Darwin and Perth, will be lengthened by
the deviation; and that between lor ‘
win and Sydney will be made very
shorter than by the straight hne a
connection with the waters of Port Jackson,
Broken Hill. The railway will “come in contact
with three millions and more of people j •
much one way as the other, and, despite
hard lying of which the TELEGRAPH is ’
there is piobably far more chance '
grease on the straight route than by the d *
When N.S.W. can’t get axle-grease out of its mi n
line to Bourke, the great riches of the _count
thereabouts are problematical. Ih© devia
will more directly take in the little ci y
Brisbane, at the cost of leaving out the larger and
more promising and more progressive Adelaide,
will increase the distance between Central Aus-
tralia and Europe, and it will add greatly to the
number of miles that troops will have to travel in
order to reach Port Darwin overland in time or
war. Also, it will do away with the hope ot
having a Federal line from sea to sea, with a
Federal port at each end. But with a certain
class the satisfaction of dragging the railway into
“our” State outweighs all other considerations.
The deviated line has not one advantage or pros-
pect or hope to recommend it from the Australian
point of view, and that fact is obvious to 99 out ot
every 100 of its advocates. But it is backed by the
parish habit of mind, and the parish habit of mmd
accounts for manv mad doings.
♦
Failure of the Dilapidated Pub Party.
The No License party struck its Whiskyloo in
N.S.W. last Friday. It didn’t carry No License
in a single electorate, and it carried Reduction in
very few. The weird idea that the regeneration
of man can be brought about by compelling him
to buy at least two gallons of liquor when lie only
wants half a pint has been considered by the
people, and their verdict is that they can t see the
point. All through the anti-liquor campaign
which preceded the election the community was
blighted with statistics about the alleged de-
ciease of drinking in Maoriland No License
districts—also about the alleged increase. Ihe
windows of Heaven were opened, and it
rained figures for 40 days and as many
nights. To all this devout mullock there was
only one possible answer. If liquor is a bad
thing, then it is a fool (or else a knave) of a party
which, wilfully and needlessly, allows it to be
brought into No License districts in unlimited
quantities, to be sold freely (provided you buy a
darned lot more of it than you used to do), to be
kept in clubs and private houses (any quantity of
it), and to be drunk to almost any extent. And
if liquor is a good thing, then it is sheer hypocrisy
to stop the retail sale of it under condi-
tions in which the seller dare not encourage
actual drunkenness for fear of losing his
valuable license. All the eloquence, and all
the loose and tight statistics on earth can t alter
the fact that the position is wholly illogical, and
all the figures about the alleged success of 1 ro-
hibition in the United States have no bearing on
the case, for Prohibition is no more No License
than Mosks the law-giver is Moss the money-
lender. To people who have visited the JSo
License districts of Maoriland the policy is not
inspiriting. As a rule, the}' find the once fine and
comfortable hotels degenerated apparently
through the loss of the bar profits—into faded
hash-towers, while a furtive smell of drink sug-
gets that the profits are still there, but that
some one else is enjoying them. The gene-
ral impression is that No License is a
bad tiling for the hotelkeeper and a very
good one for the wholesale dealer, the
man who runs a club, the sly-grog person and the
secret drinker who is glad of an excuse to keep
his liquor in the house and soak surreptitiously.
The system which makes two gallons of beer
legal and one glass unlawful passes comprehen-
sion, and all the Judkinses on earth can’t make it
understandable. In fact, it is strongly suspected
that the No License crowd itself realises the
absurdity of its position, though its stupendous
vanity prevents it acknowledging the fact. So
Judkins drags his diminished tail back to the
place whence he came, and a period of rest is
expected.
♦
Fourteen Old Gentlemen.
At the present time 14 old gentlemen, most of
them not even threatened with brains, are hold-
ing up progressive legislation in Victoria. A
house of nearly 70 active members puts in a
laborious time passing measures; a day or two
later, the 14 old gentlemen apply their collective
boot and kick the measures out. A very
good Electoral Act was treated in that manner
a few days ago; and then an Act providing
for a wages board for coal-miners. Owing to the
action of these ancient dodderers, the Victorian
State coal mine is going about in hobbles, as they
put a clause in the Coal Mines Act prohibiting the
State from selling coal to the general public, how
comes the entertaining spectacle of the moderate
Tories abusing the 14 old people and pointing out
that they are, in a fat-headed fashion, playing into
thehands of the Labor party. Asan example, the
land tax is quoted. If these 14 fossils had per-
mitted a State land tax, they would have lore-
stalled the Federal land tax. But still the 14
relics go on their fatuous way, and, as the
moderates see, their muddle-headed opposi-
tion to all liberal measures will be used
with effect when the two referendnms to alter the
Federal Constitution come to be voted on shortly.
The Victorian House of Fat has only four decent
Liberals in it. Six other members usually vote
with the Government. An average meeting is
24, so that the 14 aged ruins who are against
all’ progress can do just what they please.
The only consolation for Liberals is that the 14
family heirlooms are really pulling the House
down on top of themselves. When it does fall, it
will never be reconstructed. In fact, it is
very likely that no one will ever trouble to
search for the political remains of the 14 old
gentlemen who will have been responsible for the
catastrophe.
Queensland’s Separation Movement and Other
Separation Movements.
A curiously futile-looking business is the propo-
sition of Higgs, member of the House of Repre-
sentatives, for the subdivision of Queensland into
three States. The arguments in favor of subdi-


vision are good enough, yet Queensland’s case is
not so unusually awful that the representatives
of the other States are likely to burst their
boilers in the effort to get it any special
form of , relief. North and Central Queens-
land don’t require separation, as the northern
and southern parts of N.S.W. do, because it is
the only means of escape from the oppressive in-
fluence of an overgrown capital, which keeps their
ports closed against foreign commerce and com-
pels the people to pay railway charges over
hundreds of useless miles in order that they may
export and import through the bloated metropolis,
lownsville, Rockhampton and Cairns have big
railways striking out into the west —the sort of
railways that Coff’s Harbor, Port Stephens and
Twofold Bay, in N.S.W., want so badly. Nor
does Queensland want separation nearly so much
as Western Victoria does; if Portland was half
as well treated by Melbourne, in the way of
railway facilities, as Townsville is by Bris-
bane, it would complain a great deal less
than it does, and be rich enough to drink a great
deal more. And even if Queensland is an un-
wieldy State it doesn’t call for subdivision on
that ground near so urgently as Westralia does.
v ttlese circumstances certain members from
other States are not likely to enthuse much over
a proposal that they should rush to assist Queens-
land in this matter without any assurance that
Queensland will assist them in return. More-
over, the method of Higgs, M. H.R., is so hope-
less that it seems mere waste of time to meddle
with the matter. He suggests that the two
b ederal Houses shall declare their willingness to
create the new States of Northern and Central
Queensland. Should they do so, thenthenew States
may be established, provided the State Legislature
at Brisbane is willing, but not otherwise ; and the
chance that the State Legislature at Brisbane
may be willing is apparently just about what it
was any time the last 30 years or so—-no less and
not much more. If it was proposed to take a
referendum of all Australia on the question of
temporarily handing over to the Australian Par-
liament all the powers, assets and liabilities of the
local Legislatures, so that it might subdivide the
country into small manageable States, each with
a common-sensible little Parliament of one Cham-
ber, there would be no need to ask the consent of
the two local Houses at Brisbane, or the two local
Houses anywhere else. In that case, it might
be possible to achieve something. Queensland’s
Separation movement would then be backed up
by the full strength of everybody else’s separation
movement, instead of playing a lone hand. As it
is, the rank selfishness of the demand that
Queensland’s little grievance should receive
special attention is more likely to evoke cuss
language than outside support. The fact will be
specially noted that, in the event of Separation,
South Queensland, as the original State, would re-
tain all its old representation in the Senate, though
its membership in the House of Reps, might be
diminished, while the two new States of North and
Central Queensland would also have, of necessity,
a certain amount of representation—the exact
amount would be fixed by Parliament. There-
fore subdivision of one State only would mean
a congestion of political power in tiiat corner of
the Commonwealth quite irrespective of popula-
tion. And the new States of Separated Queens-
land, enjoying a rush of Federal authority to the
head, would probably rather oppose than assist a
demand for autonomy from Kalgoorhe or Monaro
or the Western District of Victoria on the ground
that the original act of Separation had done a lot
to shift the balance of Federal power to the north
(which was good), while the establishment of these
new States, each with a separate membership in
the Australian Parliament, would tend to remove
it south again (which would be darned bad). All
these considerations tend to cast such a gloom
over the proposals of Higgs, M.H.R., that it
seems hardly worth while to pursue them further.
NS.W.’s Endorsement of the “Unwritten
Law.”
If, in N.S.W., you suspect an acquaintance of
fiivolling with your wife, and in a burst of annoy-
ance proceed to mutilate him with a knife so
that his life is endangered and his health perma-
nently injured, nothing particular will happen to
you. Certainly you may be tried. But the jury
will recommend you to mercy, and urge his
Honor to treat you as a first offender; and his
Honor, with tears of sympathy in his voice, will
bind you over to come up for sentence if called
on. This was established when John Heath, the
mutilator of Mrs. Heath’s friend Mottekshead
left the dock at Darlinghurst last week
a free man, trailing judicial bouquets as
to his exalted character behind him. It
amounts to an endorsement by the court of the
“ unwritten law ” business which is reprobated
even in America, the land of the lyncher. Adul-
tery is a reprehensible practice, no doubt, but it
is not a crime. Injured husbands are provided,
under Australian law, with a remedy against
those who wrong them. Many cases occur
daily, in the vast territory which that law em-
braces, far harder than the case of John Heath.
It is certain that many of the husbands
who, like Heath, suspect that they have been
betrayed, feel quite as mad as Heath felt when
he discovered his supposed rival on the verandah
of his Woolwich home last June. But they don’t
consider that that entitles them to act the part of
torturers or executioners. They know the law,
and they abide by it. If they feel that the home
is irretrievably burst, they start divorce proceed-
ings. If it is revenge they are after, they apply
for damages against the seducer; and, assuming
the latter is guilty, the jury mostly sees to it
that he pays for his lapse. In a whole
heap of cases the husband feels that it
is not for him to throw the heaviest brick,
and there are explanations and a reconciliation.
In any case, the community has not given the
slightest indication, so far, that it considers the
remedies already provided against adultery in-
adequate. It has been left for a N.S.W. Judge
to lay it down that, where a man unlawfully
wounds another, and does it with such thorough-
ness that the victim’s life is despaired of for
weeks, he (the mutilator) shall be treated as a
species of Galahad, and discharged from custody
—not merely without a stain on his character, but
with a feather in his cap. The amazing treatment
meted out to Heath is likely to do more
than cast mud, dead cats and general obloquy
at the State’s divorce law. There are numbers of
people, of both sexes, possessed of ungovernable
tempers and jealous dispositions, who need scant
encouragement to behave as Heath did, and who
are extremely liable to get to work with a lethal
weapon on suspected supplanters the moment
they consider it is safe to do so. It will not
be the fault of Judge Rogers and the jury
associated with him in the trial of Heath if the
work of Divorce-Court Judges in N.S.W. is
lightened in the future and that of the casualty
wards and morgues vastly increased.
The Bookmaker: A Sermon for Young Men-
The bookmaker, with a good deal of justice, claims
that whatever he gets he earns, and earns it by hard
mental work of the most nerve-racking character.—
Melb. Argus.
This sympathetic statement of the bookmaker’s
claim to toleration is preceded by a reference to
the high expenses which the hard mental worker
has to meet. He has to pay license fees, clerks,
travelling expenses, admission fees (the travelling
and admission expenses are common also to the
backers on whom he lives), and “he has to
buy information, for early racing news is
of vital importance to him.’’ Thus does
the Argus, and every other counsel for
the defence of Ikey Mo, argue uncon-
sciously for the legalisation of the totalisator,
whilst striving to perpetuate the evil of the
man with the leather bag. Granting that
bookmakers put a lot more mental work into their
business than (say) bootmakers, even the Argus
must admit that, from a national point of view,
their industry is a shocking loss of brain-toil to
the community. They produce nothing but a
conflict of betting-market prices which keeps the
punters (or buyers of odds) in a perpetual state of
doubt as to whether they are getting fair treat-
ment. The punter, if he is not a careless simple-
ton, hunts around the ring for the longest
available price about his “fancy,” and when
lie finally accepts five to two from Moses,
he hears Aaron in the distance offering three
to one. This phase of the “ glorious uncer-
tainty of the turf” is eliminated by the tote.
The machine lays one price to all people.
No unnecessary expenditure in hard mental labor
is imposed on it. It has no nerves to be racked.
It spares the public the din of the betting ring,
and in its own peaceful fashion pays two divi-
dends instead of one. When a rank outsider
“ pips” the red-hot favorite on the post the book-
makers pay 20 to 1 to a very few punters and
nothing at all to the others. The tote, under the
same circumstances, pays 30 or 50 to 1 to the lucky
few and returns some of their money to the many
who backed the favorite at evens or short odds.
To the tote it is immaterial whether certain
horses are being backed on the strength of good
trials, or on account of roguish arrangements
whereby other horses are “ stiffened.” The “ fit-
ness ” or “unfitness” of any individual starter
matters nothing to the machine. It never needs
to “buy information,” whereas the bookmaker
must get enough out of the public to keep him in
“information” as well as in champagne, dia-
monds and other luxuries. Nay, if he is to be an
exceedingly influential trader, who keeps horses
of liis own and “mixes” his game, he must be
provided by the public with ample means for
bribery and corruption, in order that he may
take the public down and bring off big coups.
How often is it said that “ bookmakers’ horses,”
running in their owners’ names or in the names of
men they control, or ridden by jockeys who are
under their thumbs, are destructive of good sporton
the turf. The tote is a bookmaker who owns no
horses, nor shapes the policy of any stable. It
devises no dishonest schemes, makes no ungodly
noise, employs no tag-rag army of runners
ruffians, tick-tackers and what not. It pays out
over two horses in every race, and devotes. 5 per
cent, of its profits to worthy charity instead of
disbursing half-crowns and half-sovereigns amon° r
wasters, as the bookmakers do. Where it is
established in place of the bookmaker, the silent
respectable machine adds to the productiveness of
the community by withdrawing their old means of
subsistence from quite a large number of able-
bodied parasites, thereby compelling them to find
work. And if the bookmaker—as the Argus
puts it—is a hard mental worker, the
tote which forces him to employ his brains in
another field of industry is a boon to the Com-
monwealth. Finally, the Argos, mentioning in
praise of bookmakers that they “ require a good
deal of ready money to bet at a big meeting,”
says tha,t “ most of them take between £4OO and
£5OO with them.” The tote is not responsible
for any such idleness of capital. Its methods of
living on the community whilst assisting the
public charities entails no deplorable waste of
time, money or nervous energy. All along the
line of argument it is the lesser of two gambling
evils. Political economy demands it in place of
the bookmaker. Punters plead for it; “ the
sport of kings ” wants it badly. And N.S.W. and
Victoria are bound to get it.
—4
Mock-Martyrdom in Politics.
The “Liberal” press overdid things in its
efforts to present C. G. Wade as a Calum-
niated Saint. There came a time when the
public wearied of Peter Bowling, his hard-
ware and his jury panel; and that was the
psychological moment for Liberalism to have
dropped all such criticisms with a sneer, where-
upon they would have died from old age and
dulness. But “ Liberalism ” didn’t know enough.
Long after newspaper-readers were utterly sick
of the circumstances under which Bowling was
gaoled, the wooden-headed Sydney journals con-
tinued to use the misfortunes of Peter as texts
whereon to hang agonised discourses concerning
the wrongs of Wade. This error in tactics pre-
sented the Labor men with excuses to pour
further broadsides into the sporting champion
from Chatswood. The final rally between
Wade and Meagher, on the subject of the
jury panel scandal, must have lost the
Liberal cause heaps of votes by sheeting home
the fact that, however peerless Wade was as a
footballer, he was a failure as a martyr, arid a
shifty politician to boot. That the Crown Law
authorities passed the Bowling jury-panel on to
the police, in order that inquiries might be insti-
tuted regarding the jurymen’s “impartiality”
could not be contested. Wade was therefore
hounded on by his supporters to show that what
he had done had been done regularly by N.S.W.
Attorney-Generals. The evidence adduced was
thin. It was suggested that Jack Want approved
of the practice. “With him,” said Wade, “I
discussed the question many times.” Jack
Want is dead, and be left no written evi-
dence in support of Wade’s contention. On
the other hand, the only two ex-Attorneys-
General of N.S.W. who were living and available
denied ever having heard of such a practice before
the Bowling trial. Wade quoted the late C..T.
Darley as one who held that it was permissible
for the Crown to sound jurors before a criminal
trial. Darley is as dead as Want; but he was
an unhappy pick, inasmuch as his opinions on this
question are to be found in black and white. The
Laborites mentioned the case of Parker v.
Falkner, quoted by The Bulletin, a couple of
months back, where Darley laid it down that:—
The moment the jurymen are summoned they become
part and parcel of the tribunal which may have to try the
case, and any party who attempts to approach any jury-
man when once summoned is guilty of interfering with
the due administration of justice.
L T pon this weighty brick being propelled at him,
Wade suddenly encased himself in his righteous-
ness as in a blanket, and retired from the fray,
intimating that he would leave the country to
judge between him and his critics. The country
would have been demented if it had con-
sidered Wade’s character magnificent enough
to ' weigh down the plain facts that were
stated against his administration. Undoubt-
edly thousands of votes were lost to “Liberal-
ism ” by the nauseating flood of cant and
mock heroism that surged round it. The moral
seems to be that in future “Liberalism’’should
go slow with the Wronged Idol ticket, unless
there is a certainty of being able to show that the
Idol in question really was wronged. There is no
spectacle at which the “great heart of the popu-
lace ” is more revolted than that of a person arro-
gating to himself a halo when the only headgear
he is properly entitled to is an ordinary plug hat.
The Church Bell That Is Only Holy
After 9 a.m.
A Judge of the Vic. Supreme Court has granted
an injunction against the ringing of a certain Mel-
bourne church bell in the early morning of Sun-
days and holidays. It was a horrible instrument
of ear-torture, and his Honor’s comments during
the progress of the case suggested that he would
have sentenced it to utter silence but for the fear
of exciting godless outcries against all church
bells. So he compromised by deciding, not that
the complainant had a right to protection against
the nuisance of the church bell at all times, even
as all citizens are safeguarded against muffin bells,
but that he was entitled to “sleep in,” if he
wished, on Sundays and other days of rest. Said
his Honor: —
I think it a plain, sober and simple notion to object to
being roused from sleep by your neighbor’s bell
when you are lying in bed at 7’30 a.m. on Sunday morn-
ing. I think that a large portion of the dwellers in Mel-
bourne suburbs would be found in bed and asleep at
7*30 a.m. on Sunday morning. That many people are up
and about at that time does not lessen the right of others
to remain in bed and complain of being pulled out by the
ears. Churches are not exempt from the application of
the maxim, which holds good in other cases of nuisance.
So the complainants, man and wife, got a verdict
for the £5 damages which they had claimed, in
addition, to Costs ; and the vicar and his church
guardians were forbidden to ring the bell before
9 a. m. on Sundays, Good Fridays, Easter Mondays,
etc. But, for once in a way, the judicial argument
was more interesting than the judicial decision. If
the bell were part of the business carried on in
the church, his Honor confessed he could have
done nothing. But—and herein one gets the
most interesting view of Justice a’Beckett’s
judgment—bell-ringing was “not a necessary
incident to its trade.” Had it been an item in
the church service, like choir-singing and organ-
playing, it would have counted as a noise
“actually necessary for trade and commerce,”
and then the plaintiffs would have lost their case.
A citizen must subject himself to the conse-
quences of legitimate trade operations in his
immediate locality. He has no remedy, for
instance, against the noise of railway trains.
At the same -time, it looks as though he might
have an action against Tait if what worried him
was the whistle or the bell of warning that Tait’s
conveyance was about to start. It is, however,
the compromise part of the business that is
likely to cause trouble. In the first place, the
church is judicially classified as a business con-
cern, and therefore not entitled, any more than
any other trade, to make a noise that isn’t actu-
ally necessary to-the trade. But, while that is
laid down as the law, the decision practically
means that the church is a trade only up to 9
o’clock on certain mornings; after that it isn’t a
trade, and can ring the bell l whether it is a
nuisance or not. This leaves the matter vague
and unsatisfactory, and encourages the muffin-
man to argue that, while his is a trade on Mon-
days, or when the wind is blowing from the
west, it is something else on Tuesdays, or when
the wind is blowing from the north, or on the
nine days following full moon.
4.
The Slaughtermen’s Strike of the Future.
If the statement made by Senator
Pearce, Commonwealth Minister for Defence,
concerning the power of the German Socialist
party in maintaining the peace of Europe, is not
entirely correct, there is a good deal of truth in
it. Said Pearce
It was an acknowledged fact to-day that the peace of
Europe was guaranteed not by any entente cordiale
between the nations, or friendship between the crowned
heads, but by the growing power of the Socialist party
in Germany. If that party became the dominant party
it would be the greatest guarantee of peace they could
have.
An important discussion on the best means of
halting red war before it can start to serve up
desolation took place at the recent International
Socialist Conference at Copenhagen. A sub-
committee of the anti-Militarist Commission was
appointed to frame a composite motion, and the
only critical point of difference among members
was as to the advisability of recommending a
general strike in the event of national hostilities.
Kier Hardie (British) and Vail bant (French)
strongly urged the inclusion of a paragraph to
that effect, but Leoebour (German) raised objec-
tions. The difficulty was eventually overcome
by Hardie and Vaillant being allowed to move
the strike proposal as an amendment to the
general recommendation. Later, the amendment
was brought down as follows :
The Congress recommends the affiliated parties and
Labor organisations to consider the advisability and
feasibility of the general strike, especially in industries
that supply war material, as one of the methods of pre-
venting war, and that action be taken on the subject at
the next Congress.
Ledebour, on behalf of the German party,
attacked the amendment with all his brilliancy,
on the ground that while it was right in theory
it was quite impracticable—which doesn’t seem
to bear out Senator Pearce too well. The British,
French, American and South German represen-
tatives supported the amendment, but the Aus-
trians doubted its wisdom. One said that its
adoption would sound the death-knell of the
Social democratic party in Austria. The Bel-
gians refrained from voting. Eventually a com-
promise was arrived at whereby the amend-
ment was carried on the understanding that
it would be considered by the International
Bureau. There can, then, be no doubt that the
war-strike is being seriously considered. Even
in Japan, with all its newly-acquired national
arrogance, the note has been sounded, and quite
recently a well-known Japanese writer published
an article on “Socialism in Japan,” in which he
discussed the future relations between that coun-
try and the United States, and appealed to the
Socialists of the world and the workers generally
to prevent war breaking out between Uncle Sam.
and the Jap. For myself, I have great hopes of
yet shaking hands with the day when, on Fat
clanging the war-bell and yelling “ Toarrns !” the
people of the nations will down tools and tell the
perspiring gentleman to go to arms himself.
A cry from the West:—
Westralia has the Closed Ports complaint in almost as
virulent a form as either Victoria or N.S.W.; and a glar-
ing instance thereof is Esperance. The linking of
Esperance with the Eastern Goldfields would bring
Kalgoorlie, Boulder, Coolgardie and Kanowna 150 miles
nearer a seaport; also it would bring them two days
nearer the Eastern States ; for, besides the saving in rail-
travelling, they would have 524 miles less of the uncertain
ocean that heaves around the Leeu win. The distance from
Adelaide to Kalgoorlie by way of Fremantle is 1737 miles ;
by way of Esperance it is about 1056 miles. But still, as in
the days when the fields were being pioneered, all traffic has
to be dragged round the Leeuwin, because the idea of
opening- up a new port on the south coast is anathema to
the Perth Government.
Esperance is an ideal health-resort. To open it to the
interior would be to confer a blessing on the scorched
Goldfielders hankering for a change. From a defence
viewpoint, also, it is desirable to attract population to
the empty coastline between Albany and Eucla. And
as a business proposition the scheme is sound. There is
a large belt of excellent land between Esperance and
Norseman. Within the last six months 120,000 acres
have been applied for, and there is little doubt that over
a million acres would be taken up were the railway built.
There is a large population on the Goldfields eager to
settle on the land, and in no need to go hunting for
selections further afield when there is material for a new
agricultural settlement between Kalgoorlie and the
nearest seaboard.
But Perth Governments and the Perth press object
bitterly, in the interests of West Coast property-owners,
to every forward move ; and at any mention of a railway
frem the Goldfields to their nearest port a yell arises sug-
gesilve of Fat being violently separated from Capital.
Wherefore, despite petitions, deputations, resolutions of
public bodies, and Parliamentary motions by Goldfields
members—despite the resolution of the Chamber of Mines
in 1901, “ that the railway would be beneficial to the whole
of the State, and should be constructed without delay,”
despite the action of Mahon and Kirwan, M’s.H.R., in
appealing to the Federal Parliament in 1002, Esper-
ance in Westralia stays as hermetically sealed as Port
Stephens in N.S.W.
There is a national as well as a local aspect to this
question. The transcontinental railway from Kalgoorlie
to Port Augusta can’t be delayed many years more. If
the Esperance-Norseman line precedes the larger work,
the saving in cost to the Commonwealth must be very
large. From Fremantle to Kalgoorlie is 387 miles, as
against 240 miles from Esperance, and rails for 500 miles
of line at least will have to be conveyed to the Kalgoorlie
end when the line is put in hand.
♦
A new subject of bitter complaint on the part of
the N.S.W. Premier arose last week, when news
(which was really an unaccountable republication
of a fact that was advertised 12 months ago)
came to hand that the British naval headquarters
in these seas would probably be removed to Auck-
land (M.L.). This shows YVade in an astonishing
aspect; apparently he wants Sydney to be not
only the most crowded commercial harbor in Aus-
tralia, and the headquarters of the Australian
navy, but the headquarters of the local British
squadron also. Yet Australia, when once it gets
its own fleet afloat, will cease to have any
connection or relationship with the British
squadron hereabouts. That composite insti-
tution will consist of several British vessels,
appointed to the Chinese station, and the Maori,
land ships—Maoriland being the kind of place
which prefers to hitch on to a distant Anglo-Chow
squadron than to connect with an Australian one
closer at hand. The idea of making a State
grievance out of the fact that this partly-Maori-
land fleet is likely to have its local headquarters
in its own country instead of at Sydney is the
sort of thing that only an impossible person like
Wade would be guilty of. In any case, Auckland
harbor is larger, deeper and better protected from
attack than Sydney, and it is far less crowded
with mercantile shipping; also, it has almost the
best graving dock in the world. It isn’t so pic-
turesque as Port Jackson, and, ashore, aggravated
piety and No License are fast making life a
burden ; but, all the same, the advantages from a
strictly business point of view are such that the
removal is almost certain to happen one day or
another.
Peace and War.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Baptist Union to-day deplored recent legislation
for the purpose of enforcing conscription, and expressed
the hope that, in all matters of difference between the
nations, Australia would endeavor to the very utmost to
adjust matters by methods of peaceful arbitration.—
News item.
I stood awhile by the ocean-side of life,
Commanding that the ebb and flow should
cease;
I said : “ These are the dying days of strife—
All hail unto the dawn of perfect peace ! ”
Whilst yet I spoke I saw the lightning’s flash
Leap out in flamed derision ’thwart the sky ;
And in the rolling thunder’s heavy crash
This universe flung forth its soul’s reply :
“I that was born before the birth of Time—
The spawn of worlds that met all-palpitate;
I that was shaped in passioned hours sublime,
’Midst shock of spheres and cannonading Fate;
I that have felt the glaciers on my flanks,
And known the sullen roar of angry seas—
This is my word : ‘ Prepare the fighting ranks!
There is no Peace ! ’
“The steaming oceans cooled in days of yore,
And back and forth there swam first shapes of
life;
Strange creatures left the surges for the shore,
To raise again their mimic forms of strife.
In them I saw the anger of the spheres,
And all the primal force and bitter hate ;
I heard the whirling loom of many years,
Slow-shaping Man from warp and wefts of Fate;
He, too, was born with anger in his blood,
And all along his corridors of soul
I saw the passions pour their boiling flood,
Whilst Bitterness and Hate kept grim patrol !
Who prates of peace—of days when fighting men
From all the iron grips of war will cease ?
For these I write with lightning’s vivid pen :
‘ There is no peace 1 ’ ”
I hastened forth—the ocean-tide of life
Still flings its angry surges on the shore ;
I see the sullen nations heave in strife,
And primal force leaps high in days of war ;
Vain voices lift their clamor in the night,
And saddened preachers ask the endless
“Why
In Calvary’s and Nazarene’s despite,
Still lifts the vanquished sob and victor’s cry ?”
Of mythic Peace hear ye the ancient prate.
Whilst lands grown weak put faith in thewless
laws;
Before the storms of wrath and deathless hate
Wrecked empires blow like winter’s scattered
straws !
’Neath protoplasm and the stern phalanx
Force surges still—and strength will have its
fees;
All things cry out: “ Prepare the fighting ranks —
There is no Peace !”
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
MMSF" Moving Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney—3B6 George Street; Melbourne—266 Collins
Street; Brisbane—93-95 Queen Street; Adelaide—
Gawler Place ; Perth—Tillys’ Photo. Stores.
“ Liberalism’s ” Tribute to Labor.
Thebe was one point in regard to the N.S.W.
elections that the “Liberal” dailies were agreed
on. Here is what the S. M. Hehald said, on
the Monday following the unpleasantness of
October 14: —
Liberals owe such defeat as they have met with to their
deep-rooted apathy.
And this is how the Telegraph put it
The heavy 7 percentage of electors who did not. vote were
chiefly Liberals. To the apathetic Liberals must be
assigned the whole responsibility.
Consider some of the people who are so un-
patriotic, or mad, or bad, or all three, as to take
no interest in the urgent question of how their
country shall be governed. A big proportion of
them are criminals, habitual and otherwise. To
the professional burglar, for instance, it is a matter
of indifference which political party comes out on
top, since each is equally hostile to the house-
breaking line of Private Enterprise. Dipso-
maniacs don’t vote. They lack the moral sense
which impels the normal citizen to do his duty at
the polls ; and, anyhow, when polling day comes,
they are liable to be too drunk to vote ; failing
which they are probably suffering a recovery
from the previous day’s burst, and are in
no condition to toil to the booth. The same
applies tomorphinomaniacs, opium-eaters and drug
fiends generally. Ladies of the Flossie type are
notorious non-voters, as are operatives like
“Bill the Bludger” mentioned by Reuter last
week. Persons of weak intellect stay at
home and yammer while their more intelligent
relatives and friends go forth to deliver a biff
at Progress or Reaction, as the case may be. Race-
course touts, spielers, tick-tackers, three-card
experts, Fiji uncles, bridge-maniacs, card and
billiard sharps, pub-loafers, gutter-rakers, domain-
dossers, purse-snatchers, counter-lunchers and the
erotic kleptomaniacs who live propped against city
verandah-posts for the purpose of leering at pass-
ing females, are all of the non-voting class. So are
illiterates and folks who, though sane and able by
virtue of a socialistic educational system to read
and write, are of such low mental calibre that
they lack the capacity to distinguish between
political issues. People with the “ tired feeling ”
in an acute form —those whom psychologists
term degenerates—never vote; they are too
weary, and, anyhow, they can’t appreciate that it
is worth the trouble. In short, it is the decent and
intelligent people in any community who may be
relied on to sacrifice their personal convenience in
what they conceive to be the cause of the
State; and it is the utter, hopeless wasters
who are cheerfully prepared to see the State
go to Sheol before they devote five minutes
of their leisure to helping to avert the catas-
trophe. Labor doesn’t often have adulation
spilled on it by “Liberalism,” wherefore it must be
all the more cheering to it to learn—from the
enemy’s own lips, as it were—that the majority
of thinking and patriotic people are on its side,
the hordes of the short-sighted, ignorant and
criminally lazy, who constitute the army of non-
voters, being almost exclusively “Liberals.”
♦
The Case of Mr. Sealing-Wax.
“ Red Tape Junior One of the curiosities of
the N.S.W. election campaign was the monstrous
politeness of the S. M. Herald to the Public
Service. Almost every day the paper was breath-
less with anxiety as to the conditions under which
dear Mr. Sealing-Wax was working, and the
health and happiness of Mrs. Sealing-Wax and
the sweet children. Three days running we
had a leader to ourselves, pointing out that
McGowen (who is only a Labor person,
after all, my dear) never bothered his head
about the Sealing-Waxers except when he
wanted their votes. Not content with this
solicitude, the large-hearted old thing thought-
fully published a two-column heart-to-heart talk
with the Service by “£.S.D.” Apparently he
was one of us, although I don’t know anybody
in the Service named £.S.D., or even S.D.
He fractured about 11 Acts and 99 regulations
by meddling in politics, but he triumphantly
proved McGowen’s intention of giving us greater
scope and a wider field by nationalising iron
works, sugar works, boiling-down works, coal-
mines, liquor traffic, hot-pie stalls, McCaughey’s
bit o’ land, David Storey’s hattery, and Uncle’s
place. Altogether, I counted up several dozen
reasons why we should vote for McGowen, and
one why we should vote for Wade —that one being
the goal he kicked at Oxford. Probably the old
lady’s age made her forget to mention that Wade
had refused the Service an Appeal Board, did not
provide a superannuation fund (except the rail-
way one, which will probably run off the rails and
break its back before long), did not arrange a re-
constitution of the P. S. Board, abolished our ex-
aminations, and handed over many of the plums
of the Service to hangers-on. The Public Service
Journal held a better hand recently when it
said :
From the time that the Public Service Act became law
it was the hope throughout the Service that appoint-
ments as far as possible would, as the Act directs, be
made from inside the Service, and not from outsiders
when there were any plums or otherwise going.
Political patronage nominally received its death-
blow by the Act mentioned; but it has been
better kept in the breach than the observance,
and the blow, far from being final, was, like the
account of Mark Twain’s death—greatly exaggerated.
... And now w'ith the Justices Amendment Act... Mr.
Wade has deliberately opened the door which Mr. Reid
endeavored to lock and bar in the interests of the Ser-
vice, and has, by a clever juggle of words, so amended
the Act that the Board may be able to appoint anyone
suggested by those to whom the Board has to look for
bread and butter. The Board is appointed politically,
and, reflecting upon this, we ask what sort of a chance
would a poor wretch in the Service have when applying
for a stipendiary magistracy against some briefless
barrister or indigent solicitor who had a friend in the
right spot of the political arena ?
That wasn’t exactly the same as the S. M.
Herald said. But the 'difference between the
Journal and the Herald is that one has the in-
terests of the Service to look after, while the
other was concerned with the interests of its pal
Wade.
Jack London’s Snark, which has been laid
up in Lavender Bay, Port Jackson, for a couple
of years past, has been “sold to the Islands,” the
last destination of quite a fleet of sailing craft.
The cost of building the Snark is put down at a
modest £5BOO, and London’s efforts to get some
of his money back has delayed the sale. But at
last the lugger has been sacrificed, and the expen-
sive fittings, etc., will be gutted out before the
anchor’s weighed in a couple of months. Another
one-time pleasure yacht trading thereabouts is
Rupert Clarke’s La Carabine, which now carries
niggers and cocoanuts in the place of beauty at
the prow and pleasure at the helm.
There were only three N.S.W. candidates
who didn’t have to worry about what the electors
might do to them—Caun, McDonell and Scobie.
All three represent far-western districts, and the
“ Liberal ” machine didn’t think it worth while
chasing them. In fact, the only far-western
electorate that the “Liberals ” nominated for was
Sturt; and the Labor candidate treated the oppo-
sition with such supreme contempt that he wrote
a message to the electors, dropped it into
the post, and left it at that. Labor
has been the only brand of member in
far-west N.S.W. since the late Speaker Joe
Abbott’s day. Scobie, a Menindie saddler, gave
big Joe a couple of runs ; but the Speaker’s wig
mesmerised the Westerners, and Scobie had to
wait. Since Abbott left nobody has had a hope
against the large, white-headed, big-hearted
Scotchman, who knows his West almost as well
as he knows his Burns.
The Corpse.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Liberal apathy is responsible lor this defeat.— Chorus
of flabbergasted dailies.
They flog the corpse of Apathy with whips of
angry speech,
And many leading articles are filled with saddened
screech.
The Sydney Mourning Phagocyte is leaping on
its hat,
The apple-cart’s a ruin, and G. Wade is trodden
flat.
A choir of vanished Minister is wailing loud and
long—
You’d think the cheerful cherubim had banged
the Judgment gong.
Behold this fact imperative uplifts its earnest
head—
What ails the prostrate Liberal ? The poor old
cove is dead !
Biff!
The Telegraph despondently surveys the ghastly
scene ;
What horrible catastrophe has caused its anguished
mien ?
Was it some fearsome catapult that flung from
distant Mars
A rock of dreadful magnitude that echoed through
the stars ?
Ah no! the Mourning Phagocyte discreetly does
not say
What struck the perished Liberals in Wade’s
Deforming dray.
But if you ask this Commonwealth precisely what
took place,
You’ll learn State Spites have rocketted ; their
corpse explodes in space.
Bang !
The Argus weeps in Collins-street; its tears sub-
merge the trams;
And crusted old Conservatives are breathing
fervent damns.
The House of Ancient Doubts and Dreams, where
cow-like persons sit.
Is feeling cold, BELSHAZZAR-like; ’tis time for
sloth to quit.
The Commonwealth exultantly begins to swing
its axe,
And Fat’s dishevelled universe is seamed with
yawning cracks.
The hearse is heaped with customers, and Murray
stands aghast,
The party anti-national begins to burst at last.
Crash !
The solemn Slowbart Mercury, a sheet of dismal
lead,
A rag whose ink is chloroform, has sunk its sad-
dened head;
In Tassy’s House of Dodery loud wails the shrill
banshee.
For catafalque and monument await each M.L.C.
Beside old steep Mount Wellington prepare the
coffins now ;
The clammy hand of Azrakl is on the Tory’s
brow.
From Slowbart and from Launceston ascends the
tombful whiff,
Loud howls the sad Examiner, the Tory corpse is
stiff.
Thud !
The sickened Brisbane Courier lies groaning on
the mat;
’Tis hardly breathing (Ichabod !), its gods have
fallen flat.
From Barcaldine to Normanton, from Warwick
to tne Towers,
Bananaland, exultantly, chants “By request, no
flowers ! ”
For now each ancient obstacle goes sliding to the
tomb,
Each Stinking Fish emporium is closed with slabs
of gloom.
There is no balm in Gilead as far as Philp can
see,
And Kidston wails in dismal tones “Death
waiteth near tor me.”
Boom !
The holy city’s Register is clawing out its hair,
The ’Tiser bangs its occiput upon the dismal
stair.
While Dismal Dick disconsolate is weeping in
the soup;
The Peakes in old Crow-eater Land like wilted
blossoms droop.
I hear the Torrens murmuring this jubilant re-
frain :
“The useless push are perishing. Thank God,
they’ll soon be slain ! ”
Old views and bogus policies to-day are grave-
ward whizzing—
The fact infests the continent; Australia’s stocks
have risen.
Hoo-blanky-ray !
In Perth the voice of ’Groperdom goes moaning
through the stars;
But joy pervades the toiler folk who gouge with
drills and bars.
The plain Australian citizen grows cheerful at his
trade,
Joe Cook has wrecked his chariot, and now
farewell to Wade.
The Fusion and the Liberal, whose name is really
Sloth,
Will soon be ancient memories like Kish and
Behemoth.
The nation grasps its implements, whilst from
their sinking raft
The Insects sight a Commonwealth. The land
begins to graft.
Three cheers for Australia !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “Our Miss Gibbs.”
Royal “Paid in Full."
Criterion “ The Night of the Part} 7 .
Palace “Why Men Love Women.
Tivoli ! Rickards’ Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
Lyceum Spencer’s Pictures.
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Whip.”
Royal. “Tom Jones.
King’s ‘‘By Wireless Telegraphy.
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
Athrn.®um Hall The Corrick Entertainers.
Glaciarium Taits’ Pictures.
Arcadia, St. Kilda.... The Jesters.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
Town Hall Carreno (22nd).
Wirths’ Park Wirths’ Circus.
Open-Air Theatre, St.
Kilda Follies Comedy Co.
4.
The general thesis of “Paid in Full,” the
new Sydney Theatre Royal play, is convincing
enough. Emma, the wife of Joe Brooks, has
married, as her family would say, “beneath her.”
Her husband is an ill-paid drudge, and likely to
stay so, being a born incompetent and waster.
It is natural that she should be dissatisfied ;
natural that her mother should call on her and
chatter exasperatingly about the shame of existing
without a “ hired girl ” ; natural also, more or
less, that Captain Williams, a friend of the family
and her husband’s employer, should join in the
general wail of commiseration. And from these
things it follows that the poverty-stricken
Joe Brooks should be in a chronically-
maddened state with his wife, her relations,
his employer and the world at large. In
other words, that he should be ripe for em-
bezzlement, or any other way out of his intoler-
able position. In due course he does embezzle,
and it is hereabouts that the play goes to pieces,
so far as the eternal verities are concerned.
* * * *
Many of the happenings subsequent to the
fall of Joseph are explicable only on the assump-
tion that those concerned have been smitten with
insanity. Joe and his wife leave their cheap
rooms and move abruptly into a gorgeous hotel-
apartment. The embezzler explains that he can
afford this vast change since Williams, previous
to leaving for Guatemala, “raised his screw.’
The lie is too preposterous for human consump-
tion, but Mrs. Brooks is represented as crediting
it, and so are her relations and friends. When, after
a few weeks, Williams returns, Brooks has got
through over 16,000 dollars. Now, Williams is a
bad man to swindle. His perception is super-
human. He has marched to affluence through
murder, piracy, theft, rapine and sundries. To
him, the life of a human being is no more than that
of an insect. He is devoid of pity, fear orany other
human sentiment. Epileptic rage contorts his
crime-scarred visage as he surveys the luxurious
Brooks’ apartment. Joe is informed that his
absurdly-conducted felony is known at head-
quarters. In desperation he implores Emma to
visit Williams in his rooms at night, wins her
consent, and himself arranges the assigna-
tion over the telephone. Williams, heed-
less of possible blackmail complications,
fairly leaps at the proposal. The deeds
and motives of the parties grow’ more and more
unlikely and mysterious. The ex-pirate is
shown chuckling hideously in his lair, what time
he writes on a scrap of notepaper. Mrs. Brooks
enters. Did she ever intend to pay the price for
her husband’s salvation that is implied by a
midnight visit to the flat of a notorious libertine ?
If she didn’t, why not have postponed her call till
the morning and kept he’r character ? Did
Williams mean honorably by her all along, and
was his vaunted infamy a coy disguise ? If so,
why put on this innocent and virtuous lady the
agony and humiliation of trailing round to him
like a mere Female? Anyhow, this allegedly
soulless old malefactor, who has never known
what it was to respect Purity in distress or else-
where, on being roundly abused Brooks
for his licentiousness, unexpectedly effects a
lightning change into the rsle of Heavy Father.
With a winsome smile he produces the scrap of
paper aforementioned, and hands it to his visitor.
And lo ! it is a statement that the erring Joseph’s
books have been audited and found correct. All
Williams asks in return for his 16,000 and
odd dollars is the respect of an American (and
hence virtuous) wife and the right to call her by
her first name. Emma leaves Joe tor ever; but
the audience is not wholly depressed, for it recog-
nises that the fascinating and altogether worthy
“ .Timsy ” Smith is somewhere adjacent, and that
Reno isn’t a bad place to put in a few months,
anyhow, i
BENNO
Carreho's Violinist
SCHEREK,
and Manager.
Miss Katherine Grey acts incomparably
as the central figure—one of those strong, help-
ful, patient, and (above ail) Good women at whose
shrine American men have worshipped in ten
thousand U.S. novels and plays. Cyril Maekay
presents a masterly portrait of the weak and
currish Brooks. The Captain Williams of George
Bryant is an impressive figure so long as he
remains Bad ; and William Desmond’s “ Jimsy
Smith—-a delightful, if unusual, character, com-
pounded in about equal parts of goodness,
generosity, strength and brain-power—must win
the affections of all right-thinkers. Miss Susie
Vaughan, Miss Florence Gleeson and Leslie
Victor do well in minor parts.
Miss Gibbs is still at Garrod’s and Gar-
rod’s at Her Majesty’s (Sydney). Custom „is
enormous. The above remarks are likely to stand
good for weeks and weeks and weeks.
* * *
To-morrow (Friday) week is, so the adver-
tisement alleges, the last chance that Sydney will
have to rush headlong into the Criterion Theatre
and view “The Night of the Party.” This is dis-
tressing information, but the city hopes to bear
up with the aid of a porous plaster on the small of
the back and other carefully-seiected medical
assistance. If these things fail there will pro-
bably be nothing for it but amputation, ihe
case doesn’t seem to be one in which a second
ballot would have the slightest effect. When the
show departs it will leave behind it a kindly
recollection of the lady who dropped into the
bachelor’s establishment during the early hours
between midnight and the time when the rooster
gets out of his four-post bed and rends the silence
with the loud discourse of his beak. She does
nothing of great importance, but she does it
pleasantly, and compared with the laborious fuss
of Crosbie, the valet, she is a nice and fairly re-
poseful person.
“THE NIGHT OF THE PARTY,” AT
THE SYDNEY CRT.
Harry Halley as Bogle,
Esq., Hall Porter.
“ Cognosco nil” (I
know nothing) Geo.
Willoughby.
The answer to that age-old puzzle, “Why
Men Love Women,” is still receiving a large
share of public thanks and interest at the Palace
(Sydney). The play removes the last shade of
doubt as to the accuracy of the late lamented John
Dryden’s remark that “ Love is the noblest frailty
of the mind.” No change of programme had been
announced by the Hamiltpn-Maxwell co. when
this gentle publication went to press.
* * * *
Carreno played a brilliant farewell to
Sydney at the .Town Hall last Saturday night,
after a busy afternoon with the Symphony
Orchestra. The audience was numerous and
enthusiastic, but not numerous enough for one
critic, who gravely asked if it were not a re-
flection on the artistic aspirations of the city
that there should have been a single vacant
seat at any of the Carreno concerts. The vacant-
seat trouble—or hall-baldness—has been a bit
troublesome this season ; but The Bulletin does
not think that persons who make such remarks as
the above ever stop to consider (1) the acreage of
the Town Hall, (2) the frequency of high-class
concerts, (3) the infrequency of shillings, and
(4) the last crop of colds. The writer knows
one man who had tickets for Saturday’s
feast but refrained from using them, as he had an
awful cold, and knew that, if he ventured to make
the pilgrimage to Row B, he would sneeze 45
times during Beethoven’s. Sonata in C sharp
minor, and thereby madden several hundred rapt
enthusiasts and make them say D ! There are
occasions when absence is the sincerest form of
flattery—or words to that effect.
* * * *
Sydney Tivoli has taken unto itself a new
beer-garden first part, labelled “Heidelberg”;
but no great rush of business is likely to result
from it. The acquisition of a new first part by
the Tivoli has merely a scientific interest to the
theatrical critic in his observatory ; it shows that
an immense period of time has elapsed since the
previous first part, and that another immense
period has been entered upon. The whirling
Kremo people came back on Saturday night to
fill the gap left in the programme by the depar-
ture of Juggler Morris Cronin ; their somersault-
ing return season is billed to last a fortnight.
Gracie Grahame, the packing-case of mischief, is
still available; as also are Tom Dawson, the
Quealys, Woods and Fraser, and Olga Grey.
Barnes and West, the fashion-plates, are due to
pack their beautiful rags at the end of this week,
and cease soothing the gallery with the rapid
clatter of their talented feet.
* * * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melb.) the noblest gee
in the noble marquis’s stable will keep on winning
until further orders. Its escape from destruction
by the gentle midnight express is narrower than
of yore, but the animal lives a charmed life and
is invariably taken from the horse-box in time.
This is the fifth week of “The Whip,” and it is
galloping with a machine-like action which is
beautiful to see. After Cup week the pace will
slow down, no doubt, but in the meantime some
thousands of visitors from the country will back
this good thing; and all tickets issued on the
event will be duly collected at the entrance to
J.C.W.’s grandstand.
* * * *
“ The Brass Bottle ” is leaving the Prin-
cess’s, so all persons in need of mental refresh-
ment from that strange drinking vessel must
hurry up before the Green Jinn is quite gone. On
Saturday the Arion Operatic Society will drop
into the” Princess’s and stay three nights. The
amateurs bring “ Dorothy ” with them, and their
intentions are strictly charitable, it seems. They
are by way of keeping the theatre aired in readi-
ness for J.C.W.’s new comic opera co., which
opens on Derby Night in “ A Knight for a Day.”
* # * *
“ Tom Jones ” proceeds on its musical way
at the Melbourne Royal. Squire Western still
commands Sophia to marry the objectionable
young man with the unromantic nose, and Sophy
relaxes some of her frigidity to tell the old man
that, although his word is law up to a certain


JERDAN’S PICTURES are shown at Wentworth Park
every Monday night. Rushcutter’s Bay every
Tuesday. New Pictures—New Music. 3d. admission.
JERDAN’B— The original' open-air Picture Specialists.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KING STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
■Phone No. 236, GentraL
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
GREY HAIR MAKES YOUR FACE
LOOK OLD.
A young face looks old if it is surrounded with
grey, faded or dead-looking hair. Allen’s
Mexican Walnut Stain will make from 10 to 20
years difference in your appearance if you are
grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly harm-
less, and easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth or younger
years. . ,
Allen’s Mexican Walnut Stain is not to be
confounded with the common or garden hair
restorers,” which deceive nobody but the deluded
users. This unique preparation is offered as a
superior stain, and its composition has been
arrived at only after a long series of experiments.
No injurious effect will be produced, provided the
simple directions are fob owed out it is quite free
from Lead, Mercury or Sulphur. It is equally
suitable for ladies’hair or hair of the beard or
moustache, and will not wash off or stain the linen.
None Genuine without the signature of Alfred
Ardley. Registered in the Patents Office of the
Commonwealth of Australasia, and sold by all
reputable Chemists.
point, she intends to draw the line at the object
of his choice, her heart having been engaged by
the inflexible hero with the angular airs and
graces. The opera takes a serious and convincing
turn when Western flourishes his alcoholic anger
at the sweet soprano. Also, it is a soundly
humorous opera when the Squire’s scarecrow men-
servants come into contact with the festive Mrs.
Honor, whose only fault is a disposition to over-
emphasise her lines. Tor the sake of the breezy
bucolic first act of “Tom Jones,” one can easily
forgive the indiscretions that occur later.
*# # *
The King’s announces a change. “The
Winning Ticket ” is to be presented for the last
time on .Friday, and a drama, concocted from the
Crippen case and christened “By Wireless
Telegraphy,” will be staged on Saturday (22nd).
Friend Crippen, by the way, has not yet ceased
to be a possible claimant in libel actions, yet he is
already the hero of a Yankee drama, and now
Anderson is about to convict the world-renowned
dentist on circumstantial evidence.
** * *
The voice of Lydia Yeamans-Titus, singing
of Sally and chanting the recitative of the Baby,
has been added to the programme at the Opera
House. Also, Titus accompanies the lady, as of
old. The Newman aeroplane is another recent
arrival, and for the rest there are all, or nearly
all, the people who have been the latest attractions
in their respective turns during the past month.
Whereof Walter C. Kelly appeals specially to
them who know a gifted monologue entertainer
when they get him. There hasn’t been a Law-
yers’ Institute Night at the Opera House as
yet, but it is certainly up to the learned
profession to muster in its wigs and gowns at
Rickards’s whilst the Virginian Judge is holding
court there. De niggah lady, who talks of return-
ing to the charge with de peace of Gord in her
heart and her husband’s ear between her teeth, is
one of the choicest plaintiffs on Judge Kelly’s
list; but the Italiano banana-vendor, the wild
Irishman and the mild witness who thinks that
48 hours will be plenty are a great trio. The
three Italians in Randolph Bedford’s finest
smoking-room story pale by comparison.
** * *
The inaugural frivolity of The Follies was
heard at Taits’ Open-air Theatre, St. Kilda (Vic.),
on Saturday evening. A big house viewed the open-
ing performance, and bestowed applause on the
company, the scenery and the gentleman who
toyed with the keys of the piano. The pro-
gramme was of the usual gentle character, where
the banter wears 240 z. gloves and the sentiment
is subdued to a sigh. The meatiest item was
Henry Ross’s “ Take a Pair of Sparkling Eyes ” ;
Henry took them with the joy of a hungry mid-
nighter lifting a brace of trotters. Howard Hall
warbled “Stonecracker Jim” in a cultured bari-
tone ; Miss Grace Darley and Edwin Grainger
gave the “ Fairy Wand ” duet from “Maritana”;
and, among others, the most blessed was J. M.
Campbell, the pantomimist, who slew Gravity,
and raised a continuous Giggle over its bones.
** # *
“ The Call to Arms ” is the brightest item
in West’s (Melbourne) Catalogue of Strolling
Pictures. Digging up a bit of the Middle Ages,
it supplies a parade of loves and hates, fights and
plots, wild gallants and base emotions. _ “ His
First Contract,” which unwinds a story of
sonation, has all the elements of French frivolity ;'
while “ Over the Garden Wall,” which narrates
the beginning and end of a stale romance, is com-
mended for a certain meek simplicity. Included
in the strollers is also a beautiful picture of
Nuremberg, whose appearance of age and quiet
fills grave folk with a feeling of cloistral peace.
** * *
Sfc. Kilda (Melbourne) will add to its array
of electric lights next week. On Monday (24th)
Branscombe’s Jesters return to Arcadia for another
summer season. Some of the Jesters will be as
before, and others will be new, and the glittering
stars above will shine upon a galaxy of refined
attractions.
*# * *
Needless to mention that the circus is
coming to Melbourne. In previous years Wirths’
show came with the Caulfield Cup, but this time
it begins on regatta night. The advt. stands
amazed at the convocation of arenic talent. Im-
mense attractions are breathlessly hinted at. lor
instance, Lizzie the hippopotamus will be there.
A while ago it was stated that Roosevelt had
specially captured the hippo for Wirths. but later
advices represent her as having been purchased
in Germany.
CLARKE AND MEYNELL’S “TOM JONES,”
MELBOURNE THEATRE ROYAL.
Willy Cromwell as Ben-
jamin Partridge.
Charlie Stone as
Biifit.
The long Adelaide beach has broken out
into its summer crop of Pierrots, at Glenelg,
Henley and the Semaphore. The weather fairly
stood on its head to welcome them. On Monday
of last week snow was lying about within 10 miles
of Adelaide; on Friday, it was 80° in the shade—
and felt hotter than that. Bert Gilbert is still
going strong at the Royal as the duke who was
too sensible to want to be King of Cadonia.
The piece is not nearly as funny as it might be.
Miss Emma Temple, for instance, has a mere
skeleton of a part; and Gilbert and Victor,
Prince and Lissant, with Miss Godwin and Miss
Sargent, mostly have to work up their own
humor, wherefore they prattle about semi-private
jokes, and enjoy themselves immensely. The
best song in the piece' is Clayton’s ‘‘intense ’
ballad, “ There’s a King in the Land To-day ;
and the finale is a real dramatic moment, instead
of the usual “ Shut up—it’s ten to eleven.
Powell and Miss Vesey are making merry at the
Tivoli; also Carl Howard, a new arrival who
mixes magic with mirth. Cronin, with his
weird assistants, is expected back at any moment.
The other Adelaide shows are either concerts or
pictures —both too numerous to name in detail.
An official epitaph has been prepared in
view of the approaching end of the Tait railway
regime in Victoria. Naturally, its authors have
set it to the music of self-approbation ; but still
they have not deprived it of a certain humor.
For instance, in talking about railway accidents
during the past seven years, the pamphlet observes
that, “apart from the Sunshine and Richmond
disasters, thenumberof fatal railway accidents for
which the Department could be held responsible
was infinitesimal.” This is really a charming way
of putting it, much better than saying, for in-
stance: “We killed a few hundred people in two
frightful smashes; but you will please credit us
with the fact that we didn’t have that kind of
disaster every day.”
Of the five members of the Wade party in
the last N.S.W. Parliament
who heard the gale getting
up in the night, and
handed in their ticket
rather than make
the voyage to the
polls, only one
read the weather
glass wrongly.
That was Mahony,
of Annandale,
whose risk was
safely taken by
“Briggy” Brunt-
nell. The others
whose ears didn’t
deceive them were
Collins, of the
Namoi ; Broughton,
of King ; Barton,
of the Macquarie;
and R. W. W.
McCoy, of Mar-
rickville. And
the ships
promptly sank
according to ex-
pectation.
Which shows
whata reliable weather-
cock conscience is.
BLAMIRE YOUNG,
Artist and Esthtee.
“Henry Horsecollar” writes :
What should be done with the Society of Friends in
wartime? That body is opposed to war, and it has re-
cently gone so far as to declare that it will rather be put
in gaol than go in for military training and learn to de-
fend Australia in case of need. A Quaker, in short, is a
very good man who, if he sees a Chinese invader disem-
bowelling his mother, will, on principle, just let his
mother be disembowelled. So the question naturally
arises : If a Quaker thinks it wrong- to defend himself
(and incidentally his country), is it right for anybody else
to defend a Quaker? Even if he doesn’t fight, his
existence is part of the cause of the other fellow
fighting—and that seems contrary to his faith.
Perhaps the most logical idea would be, when the in-
vasion conies, to put all Quakers in the space between
the two armies, and let things sort themselves out. I
don’t know for certain how they would sort themselves
out, but I presume the Quakers would surrender to the
Japanese or Chinese or whoever the invaders were. And
then, if these persons insisted on the Quakers fighting-
well, it would, I expect, be a case for legal argument.
Town Clerk Ellery has started to worry
the Adelaide City Council to enlarge the Town
Hall. The usualS. Aus. habit has been followed
here of getting in early and putting up something
good—and then letting it stand unimproved while
slower starters gradually pass it. The Town Hall
of Adelaide is over 40 years old, and does not
now seem so enormous as it did in the 60’s. The
main hall upstairs has another smaller one behind
it, and this can be thrown into it by the simple
process of taking down the dividing wall, and
running the stage and organ back to the rear wall
of the building. The rest of the structure is
simply starved now for space, though at first it
seemed so vast that some of it was leased to a
bank. This space has long been resumed, and
still the corporation offices are clamoring for
more. The Ellery plan is simply to mop up the
neighboring Prince Alfred Hotel, which was built
to correspond with the Town Hall exterior. So
it seems likely that at the end of 1914, when the
lease falls in,' the Prince will follow the Globe to
wherever-good-hotels-go-to-when-they-die.
I 0 U Ward’s Government is having
serious trouble over the housing of Maoriland’s
new figurehead, Islington. Eirst it was proposed
to have only one official residence, the new shack
at Wellington. Government House at Auckland,
dating from the early days of Auckland s glory as
the capital, was to be closed, and the ground
handed over to the University College and
Grammar School. But such a shriek went up
from “ the neglected North,” led by the local
snobocracy, that Ward couldn’t think out excuses
for his new loan ; so he retired from the position
with as much strategy as lie could muster up on
short notice. Meantime most of the furniture had
been shipped to Wellington, including the bed
on which the Duke of Edinburgh reposed ; and
Auckland won’t be happy till it gets that bed
back. Now, to add to the upset, Islington and
his camp-followers have been obliged to flee for
their lives from the new Wellington residence on
account of tho outbreak of a mysterious sickness
among the kitchen guard. The sanitary pro-
fession of Wellington is nosing around the drains
to find out whaffor, and the harassed Ward is seri-
ously thinking of passing an Act to exclude
Governors as undesirable immigrants who cause
more trouble than they are worth.
The most amazing item for Cockney readers in J. C.
Williamson’s yarn with London Referee was the mention
of the fact that his firm sends every year a complete
panto, production and a co. of over 100 people to Maori-
land, which is five days* sail from Australia. This
must appear incredible to the Refkree public. •
Towns no bigger than Auckland, Dunedin or Wel-
lington are outside the field of the biggest theatrical
ventures in England. Their proportion of theatregoers
who can afford to pay more than sixpence or a bob is
relatively small—thanks to a long course of Freetrade
and other blessings.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ Theorbo ” : Bosina Palmer has just signified her re-
tirement from the Melbourne concert platform. She was
the eldest of Mrs. Carandini’s five daughters, all song-
birds. It is curious that the five musical Misses Corrick
happen to be in Melbourne just when the last of the Car-
andini Five abdicates. Mrs. Carandini was an Australian
pioneer in opera, like Mrs. Guerin, afterwards Mrs.
Stewart, Nellie’s mother. Mrs. Carandini even acted
tenor parts, like Fra Diavolo. Her husband, Marchese
Carandini, was an expatriated Italian patriot, but she
was English. The daughters were Bosina, Fannie, Lizzie,
Tessie (or Temmie) and another. Lizzie married Cot-
terell, the entertainer. They formed an efficient troupe,
under the direction of Sherwin —a tinpotty tenor, but
a capital business man. He lost an arm in shooting,
and tenor Beaumont lost an eye in the same manner.
Sherwin sang with a wooden arm and hand, and people
were not the wiser. Few Australian benefits have been
so lucrative as that given to the Carandinis in Sydney,
under the Duke of Edinburgh’s auspices. Eliot Yorke
appeared in a scene from “Bichelieu,” and Edinburgh
made him up in the dressing-room. Bosina Palmer says
Edinburgh was more than pretty good as a violinist.
Santley and others expressed surprise that she did not go
to Europe, but her plea was the care of her large and
small family. She has been much the best vocalist of all
the Carandinis. Her father was musical and a splendid
dancer, appearing as harlequin in the first Melbourne
Theatre Boyal Christmas pantomime, 1855.
“ Sceneshifter ” : “Tom Jones,” like most modern
comic operas, lifts the baritone to the place once occu-
pied by the tenor. The tenor once had all the “ sweet
stuff”; now he shares it, and generally gets the
worse half. And sometimes he does not even get
a chance to share. In the days of “Les Cloches
de Corneville,” “Paul Jones,” “Dorothy,” “Bip Van
Winkle” and “La Mascotte,” he disputed to a
certain extent the honors with the baritone. With
the advent of Slaughter’s “Marjorie,” in 1890, he
surrendered. In “ Marjorie ” (which would bear revival
nowadays) the baritone—a dashing Earl, one of Charlie
Bvley’s r6les in Australia—has all the acting and nearly
all the singing. The tenor here degenerates into a love-
sick puppet. Later still, he was summarily dropped
altogether, as in “ The Arcadians,” “ Miss Hook of Hol-
land,” “ Tom Jones,” “ Floradora,” “ Country Girl,” etc.
I know this theory has been upset in cases like “ The
Little Michus,” “ Ma Mie Bosette,” “The Duchess of
Dantzic," “The Lady Dandies” and “ A Waltz Dream,”
where the tenor came into his own again to some extent;
but, all the same, the tendency is to promote the baritone
into the boss rdle.
“ 0.K.”: Strange that Bill Anderson doesn’t adver-
tise his King’s Theatre as an Australian factory
rather than as “ the home ”of melodrama. Anderson is
not the first regular producer of plays made in Australia;
George Darrell, more than a quarter of a century ago,
followed up his success with “ The Sunny South ” by
staging a number of his own plays. But the industrious
George was not a permanent manager with a theatre to
his name. Anderson was the first recognised im-
porter of melodrama goods to start, as it were,
a factory in connection with the warehouse. The
new industry began with “The Squatter’s Daughter,”
by Bert Bailey and Ned Duggan, who have made thou-
sands apiece out of their authors' rights. Anderson
next produced Ambrose Pratt’s adaptation of his own
“ Thunderbolt.” Then Bailey and Duggan interrupted
the course of imported bellowdramas with another joint
effort. Next came Australian plays by Bandolph Bed-
ford and Tom Smith, and after a further lapse into the
import trade, Anderson broke out again with an Aus-
tralian hippodrama constructed by a third mummer of
the co. (Temple Harrison), after designs by Anderson.
Now, having got fairly going as his own part-author, in
collaboration with a man on the premises, Anderson is
about to stage a shocker constructed by his foreman
mummer, Boy Bedgrave. Obviously Anderson is in a fair
way to increase his business by attracting a superior class
of customers with the “ Made in Australia” ticket, whilst
gradually improving the taste of his unsophisticated
supporters who have been suckled on British beerdrama
and weaned on local “ tanglefoot.” He couldn’t possibly
create a payable demand for local literary drama at
present; but he has already got the sympathy of people
who will follow the Australian-made drama, crude
though it be, if the main body of the Andersonian
clientele will permit it to advance slowly. Already the old
habitues of the King’s, mostly young in years, have
abated their demands for gore. “ The Winning Ticket ”
has been running for some weeks without a murder in
it, and if the plot is preposterous, the dialogue
is at least reasonable. Also, it has been some-
what improvingly elaborated during the run, which is
what never happens to an imported bellow-drama. The
state of things is progressive. If every member of the
co. carries an author’s baton in his knapsack, Anderson
should be able to recruit young talent that gets no
chance of making a rapid rise at houses where the plays
are always imported and “complete companies” are
often imported with them. An apprentice in the Aus-
tralian drama-factory can hope to get his invention
taken up by the boss, and may dream of a not distant
day when his thrilling story of domestic interest (not
necessarily local) will be “staged under the personal
direction of the author.”
“Stargazer”: Artistically, Anstey scores a miss with
“The Brass Bottle.” The effort fails in conviction. It
is not satisfactory as farce, nor does it fill the gap from
the point of view of the actual. The supposedly magical
transformation in Act 1 is only a very commonplace
stage effect, after all, and is worked nightly in many
plays that make no pretence of starring miracles. The
trouble is that with a farcical idea that has practically
no limits, Anstey does not succeed in being humanly
comic; the joke is not well sustained, and succumbs
before the last act is reached. Beside “Niobe,” for
instance, where the coming to life of a marble maiden
fills the house of Peter Amos with woe and worry, “ The
Brass Bottle ” is a thin jest, the characterisation in-
different, and the complications wanting in ingenuity
and vital concern. Compare “Vice Versa” with “The
Brass Bottle ” to discover the demoralising effect of Lon-
don Punch on a man of fancy.
George Rignold completed his 71st year on October 18.
He has a picturesque home far up Middle Harbor, from
which he makes only very rare descents upon the city.
Sarah Bernhardt will be 66 this next Saturday.
Hall Caine, who has the keenest nose in Great Britain
(with the possible exception of W. T. Stead’s) for an
advt., has struck a snag in his booming of Tittell
Brune. He was not satisfied with giving his own opinion,
but dragged in the late Clement Scott, and deplored that
he was not present at the first performance ; in that
case, says Caine gratuitously, the lady would by this
time be the most discussed woman on the English stage.
Then Clement’s widow took an unexpected hand, writing
to the papers to protest against opinions being fathered
on to a man who “ no longer has the power to repudiate
them. But H.C. and T.B. and the play get the advt. all
the same.
“Cockaigne”: Beerbohm-Tree’s sumptuous Henry
VIII. is lucky, chiming in with the gabble about that
molluscous Alfonso proving another Bluff King Hal. It
may bear transplanting to Australia, for the props, as
was done with Irving’s “ Romeo and Juliet,” when Cates
acted Romeo. The ecclesiastical interest is strong, as
v, ith “ The Huguenots ” and “ Count Hannibal.” Literary
circles are divided as to whether Shakspeare wrote
“ Henry VIII.” Most of the blank verse is devoid of his
masterly stamp—merely prose cut into swathes. Note
how awkwardly many lines end. Yet the master-hand
is upon the great part of the drama. Fletcher is
credited with some, and even with the whole, which is
preposterous. Shakspeare may have been hurried into
collaboration, as Corneille helped Moliferewith “Psyche.”
Another question is, When was “Henry VIII.” produced?
Critics divide again. Some say under Elizabeth, others
under James. Perhaps under Elizabeth, and then touched
up towards the close for James. The Globe theatre was
burnt down, while Shakspeare lived, during the per-
formance of a plav about Henrv VIII. ; but that one was
called, “All is true.” Doubtful whether Shakspeare
was a loser; he doesn’t seem to have been hit hard by
any financial disaster. Henry Irving, sen., declares that
Shakspeare wns never a manager—only an actor with a
large share in the Globe.
“Snail’s Bay": “Tom Jones” in Melbourne recalls
Robert Buchanan’s dramatised version, “Sophia,” pro-
duced by Brough and Boucicault in 1888. Writing from
memory, Mrs. Brough was the
original Sophia, with Robert
as Squire Western and Cecil
Ward as Jones himself. Myra
Kemble played Lady Bel-
laston and Pattie Browne
was a piquant Honour.
Lilian Gilmore was an-
other Sophia of these
far-away days. She
made the innovation of
dressing each scene in
a different costume.
When th Broughs first
invaded oriland, in
1894, t t up “ So-
phia ” ■ very strong
cast,l lnded Grace
Noble as the heroine,
Miss RomerasMiss Wes-
tern, Emma Temple as
Honour, Brenda Gibson
as Molly Seagrim, Mrs.
Brough as Lady Bellas-
ton, and Bessie Major
as Fotheringay. The
male side of the show
found Boucicault as
the odious Blifil,
Brough as the fox-
hunting Squire
Western, Cecil
Ward as Tom
Jones and George
Titheradge as
Partridge. Bu-
chanan hawked
his play round
LEGS AND THE MAN.
An Inartistic Contributor's idea
of Julius Superbus.
vears°before Tom Thorne bought it for £6OO. It was
staged at the Vaudeville, somewhere in the early 80s
where it ran for 500 nights. Lester Wallack, Wilson
Barrett, the Bancrofts and Edgar Bruce were among
those who had refused the script.
“Jean S.”: “The Chocolate Soldier,” founded on
Shaw’s “Arms and the Man,” is said to retain little of
the original atmosphere. The German adapters have
not even stuck to Shaw’s names or the number of his
cast. In “ Arms and The Man ” there are princi-
pals-Bluntschli, Kama, Catherine Petko ff , Paul Petkoff,
Nicola, Louka and Sergius Saranoff. In ‘ The Chocolate
Soldier” there are 15, all disguised. The art of attaching
“ off” to a sneeze and “ ka ” to a snort has been employed
to christen these illusory personages. Among the gentle-
men are Casimir Popoff, Alexis Sparidoff and Massakroff ,
and among the ladies are Laska, Mannska and the in-
evitable Katinka. Beneath these names the indentities
of Bluntschli, Ra'ina, etc., are as effectually concealed as
Bernard Shaw’s connection with the whole composition ,
for when “The Soldier” was run up at the Lyric
Theatre, London, it was coolly described as ‘an Englished
version of Bernauer and Jacobson’s parody of a well-
known comedy.”
“L.H.P.” : This upheaval in Portugal has set me count-
ing the plays and operas that have their scenic home
thereabouts. Spain, France and Italy, with Germany,
Turkey and Switzerland as good seconds, are used over
and over again ; but with a fairly good nodding acquaint-
ance with opera and drama, I can only recall two in-
stances of a Portuguese setting, and both of them are in
the musical line. Meyerbeer’s “ L’Afncaine (The Afr i-
can), with its absurd plot but glorious music, opens in
the Royal Palace at Lisbon, makes the prison there do
duty for Act 11., and then shifts the incidents to Vasco
de Gama’s ship at sea and Madagascar. In the old Lyster
days “ L’Africaine ” created a boom with a double cast—
Henry Squires and Lucy Escott in the leads one night,
and then the Australian tenor, Armes Beaumont and
Fanny Simonsen. As the representative of the Portu-
guese navigator who found out the Cape route to India,
the Australian is at least as good as the imported man.
“ The Crown Diamonds,” one of Auber’s charming comic
operas, is laid entirely, throughout its sparkling three
acts at Lisbon or thereabouts ; and this fine old-time
favorite figured both in the Lyster repertoire, and in the
shows subsequently controlled by Martin Simonsen.
There seems to be a wide field open for the librettist of
musical comedy, for Portugal, as far as the stage goes, is
an undiscovered country.
“ Vulcan” : Fired, apparently, bv the recent triumphal
progress of our other Nell-she of the nightingale throat
—“ Sweet Nell ” Stewart purposes, after her return from
Maoriland, making a tour of “ Outback ” N.S. W. with the
“Old Drury” drama. Where Melba can profitably go,
argues the other Nell, she can go ; and the bucolic clamor
for inclusion “in the ports of call ” promises encourag-
ingly. Nothing so comprehensive has been attempted
before, and the experiment, successful or not, will be a
mighty expensive one. Melba, travelling “ light ’’ with a
co. of half a dozen, is no criterion for “ Sweet Nell ’ with
a co. of over 30, an orchestra and scenery—not to mention
the spaniel.
MUMMER—AND DADA TOO 1
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A mummer beauty-man is taking his Collins-street
strolls in a limelight hitherto unexploited by matin6e
idols. He and wifey take the pram along with baby gurg-
ling among the fripperies. It is usually papa who wheels
the chariot, too. —“ Melbourne Chatter," 8., %91'Jj'lO.
None but the brave deserve the ad.
That he so nobly earns
Who plays the good old r6le of “ Dad ”
A mummer bold, who yearns
To do away with stagey sham,
And on the block to push the pram !
He has a wife. He will not pose
As single—a pretence
Sometimes indulged in by male pros.
To please an audience
Who like their hero to be “ free ”;
He strolls round with his familee !
The “ limelight ” and the “ centre ” he,
As hubby, seems to scorn ;
The push known as “ Society”
He leaves alone, forlorn.
The only “ push ” he cares a d—n
About is pushing baby’s pram 1
Who knows, a fashion he may set !
All married mummers soon
May with their wives be often met;
And, ev’ry afternoon, (
Of footlight favorites, a flock,
We’ll see pram-pushing on the Block !
MAORILA ND.
EARDLEY TURNER.


Five Standard Cars
gd
Sole Agents-
DAIMLER,
DELAUNAY-BELLEVILLE,
AUSTIN, F.N.,
SCHACMT MOTOR BUGGY.
These have all been
selected with a view to
their suitability to Aus-
tralian conditions. Each
is perfect in design, in
workmanship and in ad-
justment.
You cannot afford to
buy a new car without
first seeing these.
DALGETY 8 CO. LTD., 136-138 Phillip St., Sydney.
ORIENT RIDING BREECHES
FOR COMFORT ON HORSEBACK.
The Riding Breeches we produce are the outcome of years
of study and experience. We know exactly how they should
be cut to ensure comfort, and the materials have been
specially imported, and are the best absolutely for w ear and
durability. Made in Drab color and White —
in Came,ii Moleskin, odorless—full cut and
sf-\'ped knees. In all sizes, as illustration ...
14/&
Can also be had close-fitting, with Strapped Knees. In all
sizes ... ... ... ... ... 12/6
In Geelong Saddle Twist Tweed, Grey or Drab, full cut, not
strapped ... ... ... ... ... 21/»
Bedford Cord, full cut or close fitting, not strapped ... 21/=
ALL STRAPPING EXTRA.
Country Residents should write for our Men’s Catalogue. We
se:.a it post free, together with Self-measurement Form.
We Pay Carriage on all goods except furniture, floor covering,
Kitchen and hardware to any part of the Commonwealth.
m
j; S
David Jones Ltd.
Opp.
G.P.0.,
Sydney.
SOCIETY
PENFOLD'S
WINES
One of the cheerful happenings of last
week was a furious letter to Sydney Telegraph
signed “Insurance Underwriter.” At the Angli-
can General Synod on the previous day, Arch-
bishop Clarke, of Melbourne, had moved
that the Church do its own under-
writing, as no one in this peaceable
country wanted to burn down church
buildings, and the companies that
got the business made large profits
out of it. This Socialistic move
maddened one of the Private En-
terprise faithful, and he spake
heatedly as follows to Editor
Ward : “ The moment the Church
takes up fire insurance, I withdraw
the whole of my subscriptions. I
will cease to pay rent for mv pew
at church, and I will decline to
subscribe to any offertory.” It
will be noticed that the blazing
saint does not say he intends to
cease churchgoing; he merely
threatens to discontinue paying
the voluntary premium to keep
alive his insurance against the
risk of Sheol, whilst hanging on
to the policy with both hands.
It would be interesting to obtain
the opinion of (say) Peter on the
point. Is a man who gets his
living by mortal fire-insurance, and
who insists on insurers paying
their premiums regularly, entitled
to participate in the benefits of
immortal ditto, when he has given
formal notice in writing to the
editor of a great daily that, after
a certain date, he will cease to send
his quarterly cheque along to the
Vicar or Resident Secretary? If
Peter declines to express an
opinion, perhaps Aged Nicholas
might be persuaded to give a ruling.
Senator ’Siah Symon, who got up a.shilling
sweep or someth ingsuch to buy afew gold plates and
dishes for the officers of H.M.S. Commonwealth,
recently sent an invitation to the battleship to
come to Australia and take delivery of the
goods. Symon’s idea was apparently to present
a plate, say, in Sydney, a dish in Melbourne, and
a mug in Hobart, and thus spin the thing out and
make the business talked about. However, the
Admiralty has informed him that it can’t spare
the warship for six months, owing to the uncer-
tainty of Kaiser Bill’s relations with Providence.
Further, the trip would cost £3OOO for coal alone,
and £3OOO is not easy to get in a Freetrade coun-
try where one of the staple occupations is hunting
for a job. So Josiah has been advised to send the
crockery parcel by post, and make the. most of
the receipt when it arrives. Which seems a vague
and unsatisfactory reward.
The Karachi (Indian) Argus (7/9/T0) thus
describes the murder of Mrs. Dost Mahomed (the
white Australian woman who married a nigger)
in a bungalow at the native village at Malir:—
The murder occurred after midnight apparently, in
the small hours of Sunday morning, in darkness. There
seems to have been a desperate struggle. The deceased
was somewhat powerfully built, and it is alleged that
she bit off part of the band of one of the assailants, a
Brahui, one Dosta, whose whereabouts have not yet been
traced. There were many wounds; an eye-witness
informs us he counted II deep stabs, made forcibly with
a heavy, sharp instrument, in one case a rib having been
severed with the force of the blow ; altogether a clumsy,
brutal murder. All the wounds were low down, most on
the left side, well below the heart, as if that had been
aimed at. Probably none of the wounds were imme-
diately fatal. A girl child sleeping with the mother was
cut over the knee by the same knife that killed the
mother. The other children were sleeping on another
bed close at hand. Two men, it is alleged, afterwards
made their escape into the jungle through the unfastened
door.
All of which The Bulletin prints for the encour-
agement of any other white woman who may
think of becoming the mother of a loathly Asia-
tic’s half-caste brats.
* ■ * * *
“ Leno ” : If Foster Fraser could be
dumped down in Wonthaggi, the baby town be-
side the Victorian State coal mine, his idea of the
Australian’s lack of energy, etc., would get a
bump. Although only about four months old, the
progress made in building the town is marvellous.
Wonthaggi has about 3000 inhabitants, the busi-
ness portion is lined with shops, the residential
part contains about 200 fairly well-built cottages,
and new places are going up every day. There
are three newspapers, four churches, a skating
rink and a theatre. But there are no hotels. A
large two-storeyed brick building nearing comple-
tion is labelled “Hostel,” and the owners are
hoping to obtain for it a “ club license.” For
water the Government has temporarily laid pipes
along the surface ; for beer the holder of a two-
gallon license delivers the liquor per dray. Coal
mining is a thirsty game ; and as the beer cart
can’t call often enough, there has been a great crop
of sly-grog shops at Wonthaggi. These shops are
known to the initiated as “The Blue Pig,” “The
Little Pig,” “The White Pig,” etc. Always
the name has “Pig” in it. The police spies,
working as miners, have been kept busy, and in
one week five “Pigs” were turned into pork.
’When the five were captured they immediately
drew up a circular letter to all the business people
of the town, asking them to organise a fund for
their defence, which looked like a delicate way of
suggesting that the captives were not the only
ones in the sly-grog business. N. S. Wales
needn’t have gone so far as Maoriland to learn
what happens when there isn’t a licensed pub in
the neighborhood.
A USEFUL BACKGROUND.
HE: “I believe you are a man-hater, Miss
Hobble? ”
SHE: “ Oh, clear no! I like men. They make
me think so much more of myself.”
“The Pariah”: The Lone Hand con-
troversy on “Are Australians Disliked?” re-
minds me of what happened one evening at the
Y.M.C.A., Hongkong (snooker was the attrac-
tion). Manderson, a Victorian, was fluting con-
siderably in praise of Australia, when the head of
the Postal Department wanted to know why so
many Australians were on the China coast if Aus-
tralia was such a wonder. Manderson had no
answer ready, but a one-armed Australian cut in
with, “Well, up here we’ve only you fellows to
rustle with, so it’s easier to get to the top.” We
didn’t call the one-armed man a liar, but we
told him afterwards that he might have put it
differently.
THOSE HATS.
“ How happy could I he with either were t'other dear charmer away."
“• Woodburn ” wants information :
Three months ago I arrived here from England. To
get a knowledge of things generally, I have been reading
the Sydney papers at the local School of Billiards. As I
am greatly perplexed over some matters, I appeal
to you. The dailies (including one that wanders
forth on Sundays) say that the Commonwealth
Government is going to make this country im-
possible to live in, first by its note issue, second
by its land-tax, third by high Protection. In other
columns they give accounts of Australia’s unprepared-
ness for war, and they state that a fleet off the coast and
battalions ashore are an immediate necessity ; also the
transcontinental railway should be built, and it should
wander around the country a good deal before it lands any-
where. Now this is where I’m fogged. They don’t say
where the money is to come from, yet every time the
Government reaches out for money they cry “ Ruin ! ” I
thought probably the Lord Mayor’in time of peril might
call a meeting to raise a war fund, and that this was the
before-mentioned papers’ idea. But on telling Bill he
laughed and said “ Dreadnoughts.” What did lie mean ?
H Hr k
The underwriters lately dropped a memo,
to the Victorian Marine Board explaining that,
though their business was to take
risks, they had bad dreams whenever
they thought of the lighters that lum-
ber in and out of Melbourne port.
These arks are nearly all worn-out
wind-jammers, their ages ranging from
40 to 1)6 years. No vigorous barnacle
attaches himself to one without run-
ning the risk of holing right through ;
and when they go to Geelong or any-
where out of sight of Melbourne, they
meander cautiously along the coast so
that the bargee and his family may
have a chance to wade ashore. Yet
these old coffins frequently carry car-
goes wo: tli £lO,OOO or £i5,000. The
underwr ters said that their rates
didn’t p ovide for this sort of risk,
and tb y wanted the tubs inspected
occasii nally. They had already ap-
plied to the Harbor Trust, which had
disowned all responsibility; and now
the Marine Board has decided that
it has no supervisory power either.
Until the Federal Navigation Bill is
passed, the coffins, therefore, seem to
lie beyond the law, which is a very
bad place for any coffin to get into, and worse for
the people who happen to be occupying the coffin.
* * * *
“F.C.”: The Vic. railway bosses may
not keep the fourth commandment themselves,
but they at least discourage others from breaking
it by charging 50 per cent, extra freight on all
milk carried per train on the Sabbath. As the
cow persists in yielding her juice on that day, and
as the average infant demands the same nourish-
ment on Sundays as on week days, and as Satur-
day’s milk has the same bad habit of going mouldy
as any other day’s milk, the Sabbath fluid simply
has to be railed to the city—which is possibly why
the extra rate was put on. So far, there has been
no insinuation that the drivers and porters’
wages have been raised to correspond.
After a three years’ trial the Vic. Govern-
ment has decided that the making of wire-netting
in Pentridge prison is a failure, and that the stuff
costs more than it is worth, which conclusion is a
caustic comment on the management of the in-
dustry and the system generally. The goods sold
readily at market rates; but they cost 10s. per
mile above those rates to produce, and, owing to
the recent rise in spelter, they promise to cost
235, per mile more. The department excuses its
failure by saying that the “labor’’ is unskilled
and intermittent; but as it has no minimum wage
to pay, and can work its men 12 hours a day if
they refuse to do a fair thing in eight, it looks
very much as if some one was too weary to bog
into the business and run it enthusiastically. It
is so much easier to set a man to scrub one small
floor or wash down two yards of paint in six hours
and lock him in a cell for the rest of the 24. But
it isn’t good for the man himself, or for the State
that has to keep him, or, in fact, for anybody.
PERPETUAL MOTION AT LAST.
ClLERK (making excuses for a big error): "But,
sir, a man isn't a machine. lie can't go for
ever. ”
EMPLOYER : “ Oh, ves, he can! You're going for
ever at the end of the month.”
Advertisement from S. M. Herald
(10/10/10): —
MOHAMANT —JACKSON.—SuItan Moliainant, mer-
chant, of 191 Elizabeth-street, ltedfern, to Sarah,
eldest daughter of William Jackson, of ltedfern.
But why actually pay to publish the shocking
fact ?
BROTHERS—BUT NOT BROTHERS-IN-LAW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN. ]
Colonel Onslow said tliat, although the Japanese had a
different civilisation, they were just as good as we were.
“ How would you like one for a brother-in-law?” the
candidate was asked.
“That has nothing at all to do with the question ” was
t he answer.” —Daily paper.
I simply love the gentle Jap ;
Ilis morals I revere ;
In brain and grit and character
lie is without a peer.
And yet, I’d rather die than see
Him wed into my familee.
Ilis prowess on the tented field
Inspires one with contempt
For mere white trash ; he from our fear
Of Death is quite exempt.
Withal, I would by no means care
A battle-tent with him to share.
His manners are above reproach,
Their sheer perfection makes
The crude, rough Briton blush with shame ;
And hopeless envy wakes
In folks wlio’d see him hanged before
They let him pass their club-house door.
Hail to this human Paradox
Whom Jingoes love, yet shun,
Who’s known as “ friend ” till he attempts
To act the part of one !
Afar, he is a Superman ;
Close to, an Outcast, ’neath a ban.
IL S.W.
10-2-4.


It
911
m
fg
For all
domestic uses.
Half the toil of
household work is
done away with
when Sunlight
Soap enters
the home.
No. 87. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
‘‘PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,**
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED.
SYDNEY, N.S.W. No. 67.
By Special
Appointment
df
to
Lord Brasse}'.
ROBERT OVENS,
THE CATERER, Tel. No. 2, Ascot.
MOONEE PONDS,
VICTORIA.
Wedding: Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Ring up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
gdf
Ideas in Underwear.
THERE is as much scope for individual selection as regards
one’s underwear as there is in one’s outer garments—and,
after all, comfortable underwear means every whit as
much to one’s bodily ease as does correct outer attire.
We depict here a clever idea for Summer in loose-fitting
under garb. The shirt is cut in coat style, buttoning down the
front, and goes on and off like a coat —the pants are loose, and
allow free passage of air about the body.
The material is the very lightest of fabrics—a White
Cotton Zephyr, whilst the cost is very reasonable.
Coat, 4/= Trunks, 4/=
Postage 3d. extra on each garment.
Send for our New Handbook of Men’s Wear. Colored Illustrations.
50 pages. It’s free.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.,
“ Men’s
Outfitters,
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The Victorian Premier should now repent
somewhat of the stupendous verbal testimonial
which he gave to Railway Commissioner Tait
when that eminent cigar-conflagration threw up
bis job. The case of signalman McDonald, who
was proceeded against on account of the Rich-
mond wreck, has fallen down dead on the front
step of the first court it got to. And the reason
of the corpse was that McDonald, in the magis-
trate’s view, had been guided by such a vague
and incomplete regulation that, even if his read-
ing of it did bring about the great smash, which
was by no means certain, it was impossible to say
uiat he had broken or departed from the article.
Ihemagistrntelookedatitfrontways, backwaysand
sideways, also endways, and his opinion was that
if he had been signalling under the same circum-
stances he might have done what McDonald did
or he might not, and either way he wouldn’t be
very clear about his reasons. ”It didn’t seem to
be the sort of regulation that nailed a man tightly
down to anything; rather it left him to his own
judgment, so that whatever he did would be the
wrong thing if it happened to turn out wrong,
whereas if it turned out right it would go to prove
the excellence of the blessed regulation. So
either there is a very hazy magistrate for whose
appointment someone is responsible, or there
is a very hazy regulation, and somebody
made it, and somebody appointed the man
who made it. These things being in the
balance it would have been wiser of Weary if he
had postponed his eulogium of T. Tait. The
position seems to be that that gentleman devised
an almost perfect railway system with a dreadful
tendency to accidents, which is suggestive of the
case of the rigidly honest man who stole a horse.
* * -r *
There doesn’t seem to be any sting in
revolutions these days. The cables kick up many
columns of dust; but the excitement slumps
badly when one reads that the bombardment, the
street fighting and the rioting, all combined,
resulted in a casualty list about as big as the one
the ambulance people compile after a king’s
funeral or some other free, overcrowded spectacle
to which infirm people rush at an excessive speed.
The Portuguese disturbance boils down to a
certain amount of flag-trampling of the Mafeking
variety, three dozen speeches, salutes by the war-
ships, frantic cheers, the flight of Manoel with
the photo of his actress and other State papers in
his pocket, a full-uniform visit of the British
Consul to the Republican leaders at the Town
Hall, and a little fighting—followed, when the
revolution was all over, by the usual bad time for
the monasteries. The promptness of the British
Minister looks as if he had sat up all night, wait-
ing for the performance to begin. It must have
been a long, dreary evening ; most likely lie put
in the time reading an old newspaper, with occa-
sional interruptions to ask some wayfarer, from
the second-floor window, if the upheaval was on
yet. His only anxiety, when the firing had died
down and the cheering had started, would be to
find out whether he had to drive to the palace
and congratulate the king, or hurry to the Town
Hall and warn a revolutionary in a plug hat that
capital would fly the country unless he went slow.
Portugul has, for the present anyhow, got rid of its
monarch by painless extraction. ” A little blood was
lost; but you can’t avoid that in these operations.
As a spectacle, it was a failure ; there were too
many belltoppers in proportion to bombs.
A MAY-DAY REMINISCENCE.
STUMP OATOR: “ What did then tell Colonel Tom Price to do to us that time ? Didn’t they
say "Fire low and — and — and — and ” (forgetting) “hit ’em in the stomach!’”
“ L.” : The other day I was in the casualty
room of the Melbourne Hospital for five minutes,
and in that time saw two men carted away to the
ward. Looking at the book of entries, I learned
these facts: —“John Smith, wharf-laborer, con-
cussion ; fracture (?) ; struck by falling timber.
William Jones, laborer, broken leg ; fell 20ft.
from scaffolding.” Heard also that these fatted
gentry earned about 425. a week. Then I went
on my rounds and heard a Tory orator say that
the Labor party was greedy, grasping and tyran-
nical. ’ I was properly alarmed. lam amazed at
the brutal selfishness of John Smith with the con-
cussed head, and William Jones with the frac-
tured femur. Is their
arrogant rapacity to
receive no check
from the champions
of human liberty ?
HOW HE FOUND IT.
KINDLY LANDLADY (to the new hoarder): “How
did you find your bed, Mr. Ini ale? ”
MR. INLATE (taken aback): “ Oh , dash it,
ma’am! I was not as bad as THAT.”
The tragedy of Edwin and Angelina, from
that ultra-virtuous paper, the S. M. Herald :
CHAPTER I.
T ISTEN, sorry ever met you. Wife with me. Happy
together. Address not required again.
CHAPTER 11.
pOOR WIFE, —She has my sympathy.
Then the Serpent sniggered !
“ S.S.” : So far as I have seen, not a single
Melbourne paper has given attention to the
Mackennal memorial to Robert Brough, presented
by Brough’s widow to the Vic. National Gallery.
This handsome gift cost £5OOO, and is worth it.
The,,.memorial is not grand, but it is exquisite.
The figures of Comedy and Tragedy are two-
thirds life size, and have a cameo grace and mar-
vellous refinement. Tragedy in particular is a
striking figure. The delicacy of it is almost
flower-like ; but, despite that, there is profundity
in face and pose. Beauty and grief are blended
here as only genius can blend them.
* * * *
Prahran, which prides itself on being the
“second city of Victoria,” has decided to throw
up the pretence of being civilised ; at least, that
is the effect of its latest decision. For many years
a bridge has connected Chapel-street, Pr’an, with
Church-street, Richmond ; but, like other “per-
manent and reproductive” works, it refused to
lust for ever, and latterly several engineers have
told both councils that the contraption is liable to
fall into the Yarra at any moment. Having
naturally made no pro-
vision for a new
bridge, both coun-
cils now declare
that it is a “na-
tional” work, and
want the Govern-
ment to build one ;
but Weary and
Watt, being pretty
hard up, say “No.”
So P’ran, fearing
actions for compen-
sation and damages,
has decided to close
the bridge, and has
told the citizens, in so many words, to
swim across. It is, of course, a blustering effort
to force the hands of the Government; but, can
anyone say what councils like that of P’ran exist
for?
* * * *
The penal system of Victoria isn’t exactly
a success as a reformer; but the prisoner who
dodges any extra punishment which the system
thinks is coming to him has to be pretty fly. The
other day two men employed in the bakehouse
were noticed to be adorned with black eyes,
swollen noses and other evidences of a strenuous
encounter. Fighting in gaol is, of course, a
heinous offence; but as both men assured theofficeis
that they had sustained their damages through
falling over the wood heap, and as there were r.o
witnesses to the contrary, they made sure of escap-
ing further phnishment. But they didn’t know
the System. They were promptly charged with
“having their faces marked and not reporting
same to the officer in charge,’’and were handed
an extra seven days’ apiece.
While the Yic. Employers’ Federation is
girding at the promised provision of plain gaol
for “reputable” law-breakers, individual em-
ployers, like dairyman Vanderbilt, of South
Melbourne, are doing their best to prove the
necessity for the cold-cell treatment. Sundry
milk inspectors lately called at Vanderbilt’s dairy,
and among a dozen other milk cans observed one
containing something that shrieked for notice.
It proved to have been a can of frozen milk, but
that was a long while ago; now', in its ripe old
age it “wasin a rotten state and emitted a most
offensive smell.” The inspectors were kindly, and
urged Vanderbilt to throw it away ; but lie was a
careful man —“he wasn’t going to lose it; he
would sell it to a baker for scones.” His thrifti-
ness cost him £l5; and whether the Employers’
Federation thinks the fine sufficient, or whether
it fancies that such a case calls for gaol, depends
probably on whether the Employers’ Federation
is in the habit of eating shop scones or not.
* * * *
A correspondent of Sydney Telegraph
sprang off his tail last Monday'with a proposal
that “ our great Premier Wade ” should be “im-
mortalised ” by having his oil-painting hung in
the Sydney Art Gallery per medium of a bob sub-
scription. But the scragging of a portrait in an
unfrequented apartment is likely to bring about
a very temporary form of immortality. Why not
do the thing properly with a heroic figure of
Wade at the entrance to Sydney harbor—a figure
75ft. high, holding up a light with one hand and
holding its nose with the other ? The great work
might be hollow, and inside it could be stored
files of the Tory papers covering the period
of Wade’s premiership. Parliamentary docu-
ments, etc., these priceless archives being
accessible by a fireproof door in the stomach
of the image. Then Wade Would have a certain
amount of immortality. When strangers entered
the Heads they would ask, with curiosity, what
the amazing thing was; and the steward, the
cook, the slushy, the deck-sweep and the coal-
passer would reply frankly that they didn’t know.
The Westralian Government, having no
other accommodation, proposes to house immi-
grants at the Perth police-station. The, idea
recalls the action of S. Aus. Governor Gawler in
1839. There had been a rush of immigrants, and
many were in a sore way ; so they went in a body
to Government House. Gawler looked them over
and then put them to work building a prison.
The place still does duty as the Adelaide Gaol.
* * * *
They are digging for Ethel Harris in the
backyard over in Perth (W. A.), but, up to time of
writing, the lady has eluded all search. The story,
so far as it has gone, presents a curious resem-
blance to the Hawley Crippen narrative. Ethel dis-
appeared the same as Mrs. Crippen. She was said
to have gone to Mount Gambier, just as the other
lady went to California. Her ring is alleged
to have been seen in the possession of Sarah
Jane, whom the man in the case promptly mar-
ried, just as Mrs. Crippen’s gems were seen
decorating the person of Ethel with whom the
man in the case didn’t bolt promptly enough.
And in each instance the police started dig-
ging. Last Monday’s Sydney Evening News (the
sheet that specialises in details concerning the
appearance of the remains) announced the un-
earthment by the Force of ruined garments
in the yard where Ethel once suspended her
washing. When the bobby intelligence be-
gins to suspect that a domestic tragedy
has happened, it always proceeds to dig
in (1) the cellar, (2) the yard, (3) under the
hearthstone. It never by any chance looks on the
roof for the remains. Yet if a murderer happened
to own a very tall house on a hill, he could hardly
do better than moor the remnant of his victim
securely on the slates and await events. Aero-
planes and balloons are an almost infinitesimal
danger at present, and only an extraordinary cop
would start digging the upper atmosphere for a
problematical cadaver.
WE DO NOT KNOW.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
new parson erupted in Scots’ Church, Melbourne,
the other day, and was duly press-boomed. And this is
the porridge he served out to his Presbyterians : “ What
was Christ like ? We do not know his height, his build,
the color of his eyes, the color of his hair (except the
tradition that it was red), the sound of his voice, whether
tenor, bass, or baritone,” etc. Quite a long sermon could
be preached on these lines.
We do not know what hue were Adam's eyes,
Or what was Eve’s circumf. around the calf,
Or where Ulysses learned to advertise,
Or who provided Pegasus with chaff ;
And whether Homer wore a No. Nine
In sandals, or was proud of trilbies small;
These are important facts we can’t divine
At all.
Regarding famous folk of later days—
Joe Chamberlain, John Wren or Julius Knight—
We re well equipped with knowledge ; know their ways,
Their debts, their tailors ; what they sup and bite ;
How oft their barber gets Ins due reward,
Their favorite pastime, poet, novel, play ;
These things the Woman’s Journal doth record
Each day.
But we are ignorant what shape of nose
Adorned the visage of the Nazarene,
Nor are we told where Xerxes bought his elo’es,
Noah his wines, or Job his kerosene.
These questions do for parsons here and there
To fill their void with oratorio flam ;
And yet we do not know, nor do we care
A damn.
VICTORIA.
L.
THE WOWSERS ARE DOWN AND OUT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Oh ! fill me a glass of the Riverine !
And sit on your lover, my sinful queen ;
We’ll drink to the days that have always been
The wowsers are down and out 1
Without a fear of a “ warning,” love,
We’ll have a swim in the morning, love,
Where the rollers break in their scorning, love—
The wowsers are down and out.
We’ll sun-bathe there till the noon, and go
In the afternoon to a sinful show.
With wine to follow, and joy shall flow—
The wowsers are down and out.
We’ll moan no more for the rarity
Of Christian (or heathen) charity ;
The Truth has come in its clarity—
The wowsers are down and out.
We’ll breathe with freedom on Sunday now,
While laughing at old Mrs. Grundy now—
Oh, there shall at least be one day now
The wowsers are down and out.
N.S.W.
HENRY LAWSON.


fiMPLOYERS’ FEDERATION.
AMENDING FACTORIES BILL.
“A CROWNING INSULT."
At the-weekly meeting; of the execu-'
Hve of the Victorian Employers’ Feder- ,
atlon (Mr. R. O. Blackwood In the chair),
special reference was made to Clause 3.
of the third Amending Factories Bill in-
troduced this session, which makes em-
ployers liable to Imprisonment for three
months, in default of the payment of a
fine of £5O, for dismissing any employee
on account of his connection with a
\ Wages Board.
I It was stated that there was no
I authenticated case of any employee being
’dismissed for that reason. Under the
k circumstances, the condition respecting
[imprisonment was considered by the
[executive to be a deliberate Insult to
[employers as a body, and unworthy of
I the Government.
-]SL
/ Twc
v> 2«
Iceberg I Q*>
doleful —
' * Woe "fb tt
lAtd !
V, c Emblo ieri Fcderatfon' - IS 4 1 W- 4 4 » jH '
fremier - " Wt|*+ ! TW
‘/SS'J&lz. £? . .
RECENT RAILWAY ACCIDENTS.
Mr. Murray, in reply, said the matter
-had been under the consideration of the
Government, and it was deemed advis-
able to appoint a Board of suitable men
- on the same lines as the officials ap-
pointed by the Board of Trade in Eng-
land. Then when a railway accident
occurred the Board could at once visit
, and report upon it.
-Here we s Kerdf of 1?e new fern,*n,e»T'
Qozvd on iIT v/asy ib worir
\ohn Madden drd^ b A
h,c+-«re °\ wHA-rwill
to Viim 'f ne
Cwbloys "l** 7 to
mkKt a, o\
~h«s l*rxi a>wd
a
ol' I.V f>er
> * CeoV
The action of the Legislative Council
in shelving the Coal Miners’ Wages Bill
on Tuesday, following up the emascula-
tion of the Electoral Reform Bill two
weeks ago by that Chamber, was the
subject of caustic comment by the Mini-
ster of Agriculture yesterday. “ The
Council,” he said, “is filling the cup of
its Iniquity to the brim. It seems to me
as if it will pass nothing at all in the
shape of Liberal legislation.”
• Tyj&re
id
drop.
Na matter what the politicians said
'and did for “ the salvation of the coun-
try,*’ the people should always remem-
ber they were “ saved ” already,
(Laughter and applause.) So long as
they could hold on to what they had
they would be one of the very best
peoples on the face of the earth.
—John Madden.
O KtiraJ
-P I"
jzr eVfer!
/ Wtye»'T j
'ffoub^e-
(orrlc^
nje. lV» aj ready
S&yed. 5t if- y don't" believe me,
$o it my friend Jo'Hn A\addeo!
Ur cW- Hey, M. liter ' w^t
. „ l£e cr •..
0 M&Jty: -« " Pont"c h}[ me. i-nistfer. I cb
Km«j k lougVt’totecaJled v/i'ibno emfcellisWolV
If”■s&+ I j>oj>«U+Tor> op
J)lwVoola p/it) "CVi'iot' |oe>K upon tif£ doings 0 f
'federaj
faction " "My "savyj tfa. oldes*"
in "tfte d !«, l t'io'o ~ ..
doesn't" mt „ ’s*■ prof-i •
THE WEEK IN MELBOURNE.


Lewis & Whitty’s Harness Dressing
(BLACK OR TAN)
Gives a brilliant finish, preserves and nourishes Buggy
or Motor Hoods, Harness, Leggings and all Leather Goods.
LEWIS & WHITTY,
MELBOURNE and SYDNEY.
[3
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
CLEMENT-BAYARD
MOTOR CARS
DOCTORS—
Do you know that the 4-Cylinder 8/14 h.p.
Clement-Bayard Motor Car, with double phaeton
side entrance body, with detachable back seat,
will carry you
102 MILES ON 3/= WORTH
OF NAPHTHA?
gfd
Car as shown, 8/14- h.p., 4-Cylinder, with
detachable Back Seat, £275.
That it simply romps up Pymble-hill on the 2nd gear? That it will stand up against hard wear surprisingly ?
That, although one of the most costly small cars in Europe, our price in Sydney is only £275 t
The New 1911 Model 4-Cylinder 12/18 h.p., with Double Phaeton Side Entrance Body, £450.
This is an ideal car for family or touring use.
CLEMENT-BAYARD, 6-Cylinder, with Double Phaeton Side Entrance Body, £6OO.
All powers of Clement-Bayard Cars are in Stock fitted ready for the road.
No Vexatious Delays over bodies being built. _ _
Office:
FAIRFAX 8 ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Svdnev.
Sole Agents, 23 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Gar ape: CANTON COOK, LTD., 6, 8 8 22 Underwood Street, off 37 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Victorian Agents: JAS. A. MUNRO & CO., Elizabeth & Queen Streets, Melbourne.
ABORIGIN-
ALITIES
A PESSIMIST.
FIRST DIRTY GENTLEMAN : “ Why not try the
back, mate?
SECOND DITTO: “ Wot’s the use! Whenever yer
arsks for bread they points to the axe.”
“The Scapegoat ” ; If a referendum were
taken of bird-lovers as to the friendliest bird in
•the bush, I would plump unhesitatingly for the
thrush (Australian mavis). His coat cannot com-
pare in brilliance with that of some other
feathered aboriginals, but he is a sleek, well-
groomed rogue, and his clear, bell-like note is
unsurpassed for purity of tone. A pair has been
housekeeping with me for the past three years.
The male bird arrives regularly towards the end
of the winter, and having made sure that last
year’s domicile is habitable, flies away, returning
early in the spring with his bride. He and I are
on the most friendly terms, and he has no hesita-
tion in flying through the’window to pick crumbs
from the' table. I don’t know the lady very well,
principally because she’s not the same lady more
than once a year.
SUPEREBOGATION.
FIRST NOBLE DOSSER: “ Those fellers lays in ther sun ter get brown!”
SECOND DITTO: “ Yers; but whatter they wanter git wet fer?”
“ Snakebite ” : This alleged toughness of
the Australian black is all rot. A nigger so
quickly recovers from a bad gash or wound simply
because he does not know its danger. If he gets
it into his head that he is going to die, even from
a slight injury, die he will, and in a very short
time. My mate and I had Tommy working for
us in the Territory. One day Tommy got a bit of
a rip on the chest from a snag in the river. It
looked nasty, but it was really a very trifling
damage. As we fixed up the cut, my brother,
who is the humorous ass of the family, brayed in
jest: “My word. Tommy, you bin settled
this time.” Next morning we found Tommy
dead in his camp. He just died because he
thought he was going to. Be the nigger
in “Ossian’s” par. (B. 21/7/’10) who got
the spear wound right through his body, at
Pinkenba (Q.). This may or may not have hap-
pened ; but something similar certainly did hap-
pen lately to a white man. During the building
of Sandover’s, in Hay-street, Perth, a crowbar
dropped from the top storey and struck a man
who was working lower down. The sharp end hit
him just above the collar-bone, went through his
body, and came out of his back just below the
waist. Of course, they had to pull it through.
The bar missed all the vital organs, and the man
is again doing his eight hours a day.
* * * *
“J. 5.8.”: “E.S.S.” (B. 29/9/10) says
there should be good money in a reliable wet-
sheep tester. True bill—if he will invent one
which can be relied upon to prove that wool is
dry when it’s wet. In 1896 the owners of Narro
mine (N.S.W.) used the Austral
Wool Tester, and it was so reliable
that at the end of the shearingseason
it was given an hour’s notice to quit.
The test most shearers rely on is the
appearance of the comb after a few
sheep have been shorn. In the case
of wet sheep, if the machine is run-
ning cool, no yolk collects on the
back of the comb; but if running
hot the yolk gathers in large quanti-
’ties. Anyway, the arguments about
wet sheep are generally not whether
they are too wet to shear, but whether
they are dry enough, and a good many
shed bosses have fallen in by “shandy-
gaffing ” two flocks, or turning the
dry sheep in the shed out among the
wet ones in the yards, and then put-
ting the lot back in the pens. I once
ran a shearing contract at Kama-
rooka(Vic.), and saw the owner de-
ceived in the same manner as the rep.
“E.S.S.” mentions. On the Culgoa
(N.S.W.), in ’9l, I also saw a team
of shearers refuse to shear a mob of
sheep on the ground that they were
wet, after a month’s fine weather
with the mercury at anything from
110° up. The boss was furiously derisive ; yet
when those sheep came back into the pens they
were wet —for the rousies had run them through a
swamp by way of making a short cut.
“ Geofred ”: Truly the way of the “ Abo.”
writer is bestrewn with the blue-metal of the
ignorant. Here is “ Wonga ” pelting me because
I likened the shearing of the angora goat to a
tempest in Tophet, and declares that “plenty of
the shearers reckon they would sooner handle
angoras than flock rams, or, for that matter,
ordinary station sheep.” “Plenty of shearers”
is too vague for me. It was such men (all shearers
of the 200 odd class) as Garvie, Ted Dean, Frank
McCrystal, George Bean, Dolph Williams, Larry
Dryden and .Timmy Gibbs, who first drew my
attention to the utter fierceness of the angora on
being promised a hair-cut. Peculiarly enough, I
ran across Garvie in George-street, Sydney, the
day after “Wonga’s” par was published, and on
being shown the remarks, that expert made some
comments which I will forward to “ Wonga ” on
receipt of a 2d. stamp, some asbestos packing
and an undertaking not to start a slander action.
“Sil”: We celebrated Brown’s birthday
last week, and, after the function. Smith and I
found ourselves comfortably tucked in on the
for’ard seat of the last boat to Manly, along with
two quarts of prawns and some remnants of
counter-lunch. When we reached the wharf, I
woke Smith up and helped him explore for the
gang plank. Having dropped across it, we
wandered joyfully along the pier, hugging the
prawns to our breasts, when, just as we turned
into the Oorso, a ghostly white figure loomed and
confronted us. We held ourselves up, and I
poked my umbrella at the apparition, while
Smith threw prawns at it. But, instead of my
brolly going through the spectre —as it should
havedone, according to the rules of the ancient
and honorable order of ghosts—it bumped
against solid, inanimate stone! “Ish
ermonument !”saidSmith. “ Shome-
body’s dead. Lesh s’tiee ’oo tish.”
We got down on our hands and
knees, and there, at the feet of
the statue, graven in letters of
gold, was the word “Spring.”
“Sphring, ole man,” says
Smith; “I didn’t know y’,
but Death levels all form
(hie) alities. I pay my lasht
respecks, ole f’ler, as cir-
cumstances permit.” Here
Smith solemnly laid a bunch
of prawns on the grave. We
rolled away quietly for 100
yards, where we cameupontwo
more tombstones. “’Struth,”
gasped Smith; ’ish a cemetree.
Wtinner who sleeps after Life’s
fiscal fever beneath the shel-
term’ tomb?” We struck our
last match, but the cold night
wind blew it oat, and we o uldu’t
read the obituary remarks. “Wasit-
matter?” said Smith. There was
only one nosegay left in the bag, sO
he placed it on the nearest grave-
stone and reverently hung his hat on
the other. At daybreak I went to get
the hat and found it drooping on the right
ear of “Summer.” The prawn was singing to
the dawn from the lapof “Autumn.” I let it sing.
•#•**-*
“Werrimee” describes the uncivilised
duck:—
The whistler and the nowee (plained whistler) are the
only ducks that habitually settle in trees. They are
good game for the gunner. Many of them can be dropped
with one barrel; and, even with dead mates as evidence
of the unhealthiness of the neighborhood, others will
circle about the shooter. They have not the wing-power
of other ducks; neither are they so good eating; but
they are good swimmers and divers. Their general color
is brownish black, marked with buff; breast buff,
barred with black; chin, flanks and under tail,
white ; wing coverts and abdomen, chestnut.
Both whistler and nowee make their nests in
grass and herbage, though the whistler lady occasion-
ally housekeeps in a tree, laying 10 to 12 eggs. The
nowee is greyish-brown, darkening on the rump; sandy
red on the wings. A band of the same color crosses the
whitish abdomen, while a band of buff crosses the
brownish-black tail. The whistlers are the easiest of all
ducks to kill; the musk duck is the hardest, with the
gnaroo (wood duck) a close second. The last-named may
often be seen perched in trees, but mostly on low limbs
over water. It nests in tree-spouts, laying eight to a
dozen eggs. The white-quilled pygmy goose, or goose
teai (Q. and N.S.W.), also nests in tree-spouts, and like
its ally, the loonbi (green pygmy goose), perches in trees.
The general color of the loonbi is green, with white neck
and abdomen. The total length is a little more than a
foot. The other is much like it, but has white pinions
and freckled flanks.
“Leo Lear”: Where did the scientific
people obtain the information that ants have
brains? Not from studying the beast, 1 lay.
There is a meat-ant citadel about 200yds.
from my back door, and daily the inhabitants
make a pilgrimage down the hill, on to a log, over
the creek and up the bank to my rubbish depot.
Then they commence the homeward journey, witti
iunks of material about four times their own size.
They have performed this journey month after
month, and never seem to think of .moving their
residence nearer the tucker emporium. Again,
watch a meat-ant’s nest on a road. At great
expense of time and muscle they burrow out
a city in the hard surface, and every passing trap,
dray or cart runs over their roof-gardens, and
bursts up the metropolitan waterworks and slays
hundreds of J’s.P. and other eminent citizens.
What does the intelligent ant community do.
Merely turns out in a body and pursues, the
wheel of the devastating vehicle with infuriated
ant language and empty ant salmon tins. -The
which being done, the party returns to patch up
damaged earthworks and re-build the public
libraries ready for the next waggon to flatten out.
This goes on for years ; the site is never deserted.
The only human intellect that an ant’s intellect
approaches belongs to a Peace Society.
“ The Loafer ” : They are not all coarse,
mannerless bloques who inhabit the waste spaces
Back-o’-Beyond. I recall one small merino-raiser
who religiously “mistered” all his shearers and
rouseabouts. As thus: “I should be greatly
pleased, Mr. Woolhawk, if you would kindly pay
just a little more attention to the trimming of the
legs of your sheep” ; and “Mr. Loppy, I should
be extremely grateful if you would oblige me by
picking those dags a trifle cleaner.” One Cobar
(N.S.W.) squatter held converse with his shearers
through the written word alone. If a man “toma-
hawked ” he would find stuck to his pen-door next
morning a note to this effect: “No. 15. —Sheep
very rough. Please shear cleaner.” If No. 15
reformed he would find in the same place on the
following morning this laconic message: “Im-
proved. Thanks.” On the Warrego (Q.) I struck
a station boss who handed me the gratuitous pan-
nikin of dust in a neat paper bag with : “ If you
•please, sir.” When travelling “on the never
one appreciates little touches like that.”
* * * *
“A. Kanak” : Concerning “Medico’s” par
(8.8/9/’lo)re the female patient and thesecretdrug.
In the days before Australia was white, Schlinter,
an enterprising German of Bundaberg (Q.), did a
lucrative trade in beads, etc. (as a side line) to the
“ pore Kanaka.” The main line was rum, retailed
at a shilling a nip. A new and aspiring John
Hop sought renown by bribing the Kanakas to
store some in their mouths, with a view to a con-
viction for sly grog-selling. Result, Schlinter
fined £25. To make good this amount would take
weary months of dealing in beads and red hand-
kerchiefs ; so Schlinter had again to resort to the
shilling nips. But they were now poured into a
pint-pot attached to a chain on the wall, and as
the Kanaka was departing through the only door
he had to submit to a
violent swipe across
the bingey, for the
d slodgingof any
liquor whoh hud
not found the
way to its
proper recep-
tacle.
WHAT DID HE MEAN?
THE MAID : “ Mr. Smith , we shall he neighbors.
Eve bought a house near yours with a water
frontage .”
The Smith: "So glad! I hope you'll drop in
some time !"
“Birnie”: Which Australian tree gives
the coolest shade ? (B. 29/9/10.) My note (it’s a
p.n.) goes on the kurrajong. In the bad summer
of ’92 Hooked after 10,000 weaners in a paddock
between Byrock and Brewarrina; and I’ve sworn
by the ’jong ever since. We used to wonder why
its light shade was cooler than the dark one of
the wilga or pine, and finally reckoned it must be
because there is more moisture in the leaves of the
kurrajong.
GERRINGONG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I wonder if the red blood dances through some young
heart like wine
As, in the green Shoalhaven springtime it pulsed a-fire
through mine?
I wonder if, when Morning marches his cohorts brave
along
I he purple hills of Cambewarra, they echo to the song
Of some gay lad whose “love lies dreaming ” down there
in Gerringong?
Oh, I have wandered o’er the borders, and many lands
I ve seen—
The valleys of New England shining, the Queensland
canefields green,
The black-soil plains in brown leagues rolling, the plains
of Riverine.
But though in visions, wide and splendid, Australian pic-
tures throng,
The fairest star of all my dreaming still burns o’er Gerrin-
ftong.
Yea, I have answered to the longing. It lured me far and
wide,
Where dusty swagmen plod the Distance, where bearded
bushmen ride.
I’ve heard, along theGippsland ranges, the magpie’s morn-
ing song ;
I’ve seen the sunset shadows lengthen through woods of
Dandenong—
'But ah, the dew upon the clover that shines by Gerrin-
gong!
And now in dreams I see the palm trees, high waving to
the breeze,
And hear, on curved Shoalhaven beaches, a surf-song of
the seas,
The creeks, from silver harps outpouring their constant
symphonies ;
And all the glory of the southland and all her fervid song
Of love and youth, in recollection, come back from Gerrin-
f»ong.
I wonder if some boy is yearning beneath the fig trees
brown,
As Fancy paints in pictures templing the pleasures of the
town.
If in his soul the distant bugles with onward marches
strong
•Of Glory and Achievement call him to join the city
throng.
While Love and Faith, alas, lie dreaming in drowsy Gerin-
gong !
( wonder if a girl is waiting beneath the coral red,
That like a wounded heart is bleeding in flowers over-
head ;
While all the marvel of the morning, before her eyes
outspread
The green delight of pastures gleaming, the picture and
the song
Have grown to her but ghosts of Fancies —that died in
Gerringong.
No more—though summer follow summer, and spring
trip after spring,
Though clear among the scented lilies the joyous blue-
caps sing - ,
Though from the little painted chapel a cynic shrill ding-
dong
Of wedding bells at last may gladden the gossips in the
throng—
That Coral Tree shall be their trysting in green, old
Gerringong.
I wonder if, when Life’s rich dishes pall one by one on
him,
Among the aloes and the ashes, in day-dreams faint and
dim,
That boy will watch the sun uprising across the water’s
rim,
And in the clear Shoalhaven morning, heart wearied,
hear the song
Of Youth that long ago lay buried for aye in Gerringong.
VICTORIA.
E. J. BRADY.


Interest Awakened-
Interest awakened everywhere in the marvellous
cures of cuts, burns and wounds with Ur. Sheldon’s
Magnetic Liniment. Urice Is. 6d. and 3s.*
The Old Blend.
nb
Whisky
° f Whi^ HoRSE
CELLAR
distiller*.
OIRECT FROM
ALWAYS THE SAME. FUSE MELLOW/
MATURED SCOTCH MALT*
HEADACHES,
Like many other human ailments, have been
wrongly diagnosed and altogether misunderstood.
The headache itself is not the thing to treat, for
the reason that it is simply a symptom and is
wholly dependent on the action of other organs.
Not infrequently the direct cause of headache is
an inactive liver. If you are troubled much with
headaches, then try Chamberlain’s Tablets, the
reliable, tried and true liver medicine that sets
that organ right. One box is medicine for the
whole family and costs but Is. 6d.*
Ideas. Yes, it’s true you might feel
interested. 11’s made in Australia by Australians
for Australians. Many admirers exist. The
Melbourne Age of it says, “important articles . .
of interest to persons concerned in science and
invention.” The Argus affirms that “it contains
full reference to local and foreign novelties and
improvements.” Various other publications join
the chorus saying that it repays reading. Hadn’t
you better subscribe ? Send 2s. 6d. now and
patent agents Phillips Ormonde & Co., Empire
Buildings, 266 Flinders Street, Melbourne, will
despatch you or a friend the Scientific Austra-
lian quarterly for 12 months.*
Seasons change, Spring, Summer, Autumn,
Winter. Wolfe’s Schnapps at all seasons.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. ...
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
“ Eddy son ” : I was working at the
Parkers at the time, and had gone into the State
forest to massacre rabbits. Carrol was with mo.
After a half-day’s wandering and much murder,
we came upon an unoccupied tent. We made
use of the camp ware and the water-bag for a
midday meal, over which we spent an hour. Then
Carrol suddenly discovered the proprietor of the
rag residence. A man’s head was sticking from
a round hole in a hollow gum about 50ft. from the
ground right above us. We called out, but re-
ceived no answer, and all appeals to the stranger to
“have a bit o’common ” were of no avail. We
went on, intending to return that way and inves-
tigate further. When we got back at dusk, the
man was still in the hollow butt, and poked his head
out of the same hole to watch us. We addressed
him on the folly of his ways for half an hour.
Then he must have grown weary, for he wagged
his head out of the hole again, and said wearily :
“Oh, do go away, you d d fools 1 Can’t you
see I’m a ’possum V” We went away, and sent
the constable. The constable smoked the 'possum
out, and locked him up till he beoame a man again.
AN ADDITIONAL BURDEN.
COCKY: “ S'pose you ain’t wantin’ to buy a hoss,
Ned? ”
NED: “ No. Much as I can do to carry myself.”
“ C.V.E.” : Recently met “Overland
Jack,” one of the toughest of the Australian
prospector breed, at Marble Bar (W. A.). He had
just humped the “knot” from Port Darwin
(Northern Territory) to Wyndham (nor’-west
W.A.). Although he had travelled through
country infested with “bad” niggers, he was
never troubled by them, for the reason that they
thought him koonemi (mad). He consistently en-
couraged this belief by lighting a big fire at night
when he suspected Binghi was entertaining un-
charitable thoughts; then, stripping himself
naked, he danced round the blaze for half an hour
or so. After the performance he turned in, and
slept without fear till morning. Occasionally,
during the day, he repeated the performance
round his swag. As a further safeguard, he is
6ft. 2in. in his socks.
PROCEEDINGS AT CAIRNS.
COP: “Take the hook in your right hand."
Local Witness (amazed): “ Wot fori"
COP: “ To he sworn, of course.”
LOCAL WITNESS: “ Gor’struth, I thort yer ’ad ter blow out a match!”
“ Wyndy Ryder ” : White Australia ?
Most decidedly. A few weeks ago I reached a
station in the Kimberley country (W.A.), where
shearing was in full swing. Looking over the
board I managed to piok out five white shearers
from a horde of black and brindle men, women
and children employed on the premises. A mob
of gins were wool-rolling, picking pieces, etc. j
bucks and piccaninnies were picking up, and
three bucks were doing the pressing. Another
tribe was scattered over the landscape bringing in
sheep, with the assistance of a white boundary-
rider. Passed the
kitchen on the way
out, and observed Hop
Sue at work, assisted
by two lubras and
several naked brown
youngsters. Subs e-
quently visited another
shed, where there was
still less White Aus-
tralia. Bucks were in
the majority on the
board, and there must
have been several
tribes of Binghi scat-
tered round the place.
The nigs, are all em-
ployed on the permit
system—a permit issued
by a Resident Magis-
trate or Protector of
Aborigines to Mr.
Jumbucktowork Polly
or Billy for 12 months
in exchange for
clothes, tucker and
tobacco and Bi ngh i
earns all he gets.. Flee-
ing to Derby from this
station, on the road
I met Ah Sin coming
out of the town with
his wife and family
of four, said wife
being a cross between
black and white. Blew
into Derby with a
nasty taste in my
mouth, and charged
the nearest pub. Be-
hind the bar was a
big buck American
nigger. As far as I
can see, the few White
Australians in the
Commonwealth will
soon have to form a
union and apply for a
Wages Board.
“ Cict ” : Machinery triumphs even in re-
gard to the curse output; and the ox, which from
the time of the Pharaohs headed all others as a
producer of raw and gory language, must give
place to the traction engine. With the ox there
was a limit to the demand made on the bullockv ;
the team would do something in the long run, and
the need for blasphemy would expire. But what
prevails it to punch, poke, yell, curse, fume
and sweat at a refractory engine ? It can’t gee-
back, come-hither, whoa-thereoreven get to blazes.
If it becomes bogged, or cants over, or slithers
half-way down a cutting, or runs short of wood or
water, all the bullockies that ever steered a dray
might stand round and curse till the atmosphere
would melt lightning without driving the iron
cow forward a yard or even five-sixths of an inch.
The brute is sworn at from the moment it leaves
its garage till it reaches the scrap heap; every
driver, rider, pedestrian, shire council, hawker
and dog heaves at it sulphuric remarks ; road in-
spectors and navvies follow its trail of ruin, and
cry aloud to Heaven and the local Jay Pay to
smitethedashed thing;andlongafter midnight the
lights are burning in the Recording Angel’s office,
where all the staff is working overtime and
mourning over the contraption that keeps them
off their roosts.
A few days ago, while en-
gaged in the art or profession of trapping, I found
a fair-sized black snake caught by the middle in a
steel trap. The snake was almost dead, but not
nearly so dead as he was a few moments later.
After killing him I set the trap up in the same
place, without cleaning the jaws. Next morning
I took out an iguana that couldn’t have been more
fatally dead. Now, as I get one or two go.’s in my
traps each morning, and this was the first one to
be so uncompromisingly defunct, it seems to me
that the snake must have bitten the trap, and in
doing so had left enough poison to kill the
wounded gohanna. The moral of which, to fellow
spreaders of ironmongery, is : Be sure to thor-
oughly clean a trap after it has held a snake, else
when you start to go round your next catch you
may find yourself dead. And the annoying part
will be you won’t know what killed you,
* * * *
“Machete”: Great is the love the
Papuan bears for his dog. In many parts of the
big island an amazing consideration is shown for
the tyke’s comfort and happiness. Seldom does
his owner chastise him with a brick or other
missile, and, if a well-meaning white essays
altruistically to take a hand in the brute’s moral
reform, an amazing flood of Papuan blanky and so
on eventuates. As a pup, the
Papuan dog shares with his two-
legged brothers and sisters any
of the maternal fount that may
be going. He is carried with
them, together with taro and
other oddments, in a comfort-
able net bag on his foster-
mamma’s back. In the Musa
river villages, where the houses
are on high piles, Fido is pro-
vided with a special opening in
the floor. From this a trough
made of a sago pal m trunk slants
to the ground, so that he may
convey his burden of fleas up
and down in comfort, while his
perspiring proprietors have to
climb an inadequate notched
post, when going in to dinner.
I have seen a dog sit on one
bank of the Mamba River, and
wait, with an occasional curse,
while his old mistress hurriedly
untied a canoe and came across
for him. For all his pampered
life the Papuan hound is a sad,
disgruntled sort of beast. The joy of life is not
in him. Insects and superciliousness are his main
features.
“ H.S.M.” meets the Stranger :
I was leaving: Sydney by the Brisbane mail train last
week, and took iny seat in a first-class smoker. A lew
minutes later a young:, clean-shaven, smart-looking:
fellow got in, his only luggage, as far as 1 could see, being
a new saddle, which he put under the seat. He then,
turned to me, and asked if I would lend him my rug to
throw in a corner seat, to keep the place for his father
who would be along presently. I gave the rug, and
asked him if he could move the saddle a bit, as it was in
the way of mv legs. He apologised, and remarked that
the saddle was a nuisance. He explained that
he had brought an old one down to be done
ud and the saddler had induced him to buy
a new one. Also, the saddler had promised to
send the old saddle down to the train, but it hadn t.
turned up. The stranger then opened his paper, and
began to read and smoke. I was gazing out along the
platform, when I noticed a man peering into the various-
carriages and carrying an old, patched-up saddle,
drew my friend’s attention to him. He remarKen,
“Thank goodness! ” ; then, to the man, “Wh«its the
damage?” “Two-ten,” was the reply. The owner
pulled out and handed over a fiver “ Haven t you an.^
smaller change?” asked the saddler. No sad the
other: “get change at the booking-office. Hurry up.
Presently the saddler came back with the lnforn ™; tl J™‘
that he couldn’t get change anywhere. Could you by
any chance change the note for me?’ said the stranger
to me. “No,” I replied, “but” (and this is where
I start kicking myself) “I’ve got £2 10s.„ that
you can have, and we can square up *atei. He
thanked me profusely and paid the man. Then iny
voung friend pulled out the new saddle, and giving it to-
the outsider, said, “ Slip down and put these in the lug;
.rage van. I can’t very well take two in the carriage.
A wav went No. 2, but once again he appeared in a great
liurrv saving, “ They won’t book it unless they see.your
ticket, you’ll have time to run down and show it. bo
up he sprang, leaving pipe and paper on his seat, and
sped along the platform. A minute later the whistle
blew and off we went; or, rather, off I went. At Strath-
field I had a look in the van. There were no saddles. 1
didn’t look for the £2 10s.
* * *
“Sept”: He clambered into the tram-
car at King-street (Sydney), and wedged himself
between the two men on whom he had fallen a
bush panel let into a fence of spick-and-span city
men. Apologetically, he said : “I’m not used to
these ’ere trams, and the chap with the cap
cracked his whip afore I was ready. S pose he s
in a hurry. Everybody seems in a hurry down
here —s’pose you coves are in a hurry, too. . . .
On’y came down meself larst night; the first time
for gittin’ on thirty year. These ’ere trams uster
puff like billyo them days. Quieter now. Broke
’em in, I s’pose. ’Lectrieity? Well, they ain t
so bad as these ’ere motor-cars that blows a orn
every time they run over you. l)id y’ ever notice
the scent them chaps uses that rides in motors .
’Swelp me never, I dunno how they stand it. • • -
The Q ua y. ia it? Crikey, look at ther crowd;,
must be a cattle-sale on. S’long.”
* * * *
“ Quidam” hails the mainland :
The possibilities and advantages of King Island, lying
about half-way between Victoria and Tasmania, have
only recently been realised by the people of the former
State; but they have made.the most of the discovery
since, and practically the whole of the available land has
already been taken up. A widely-held impression out-
side the island was that it was simply a sandbank, and
the comparatively few inhabitants of the place apparently
had such a good thing on that they didn't trouble to
correct the error. The impression was ludicrously wrong.
Part of the west coast of King Island is sand, grassed
with melilotus (a species of lucerne) and spear-grass,
and it is in fattening cattle on this land and
exporting butter from cows grazed on the same
country that the old residents found their principal
source of profit. Last year 2300 fat cattle and 66 tons of
butter were exported. But the interior and east coast
of the island, comprising chocolate, black and peaty
soils with clay subsoils, carry timber that is a source of
wild surprise to people from manyparts of the mainland.
There are blue gums and blackwoods 250 ft. high and-
from 4ft. to 7ft. thick, and other forest giants 300ft-
high and 10ft. to 12ft. thick, and miscellaneous twigs and
herbs of similar tonnage. Most of the big trees are dead
owing to bush fires, but there are plenty more growing
up; and when the speculator is told that most of the
PREHISTORIC DENTISTRY.
“ Open wide, please, and don't make the slightest
noise, or you may discourage the others."
standing trees sprouted within the memory of white men
visions arise of the gigantic timber-growing industry that
may be fostered on Tasmania’s detached molecule, which,
by the way, is not so small by a hatful as it looks on the
map. The island’s rainfall is 35 to 40 inches, and in winter it
rains most of the time ; but it is nice, warm comfortable
rain, as rain goes. The temperature is rarely below
39deg. in winter or over 85deg. in summer. There is a
larere pub on the island, post office, doctor, police station,
butter-factory, stores and two lighthouses. There might
also be a church, but I can’t swear to it. At one time
there used to be only one lighthouse (at Wickham, on
the northern end of the island). Oversea boats got into
the habit of mistaking it for Cape Otway light, and at
times severely assaulted the island under the impression
that it was Bass Strait. In 35 years there were about 39
wrecks, and over 1000 lives were lost. Since the erection
of the second light the immigration of corpses has fallen
off to an alarming extent, and the dead birthrate is now
almost nil. The population of the island is about 900,
and they are a happy, hospitable people, who are not
afraid of To-morrow worth a cuss or even tuppence.
BLUE-RIBBON BROWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Brown is a single man of means,
And there are several girls, with Look 9,
VVho’d like to “ save ” him (and his beans)
From Drink’s infernal tenterhooks.
So, sometimes, on these warm, wild nights
When we are taking beer by tanks,
Our souls up-flown to joyous heights,
Brown says, “ Mine’s ginger ale I Yes, thanks I ’
This good mood lasts some time with Brown,
And he goes on with ginger ale
Although wild, weird bar-noises drown
His plea for liquors, soft and pale.
But, as the restless, quick clock hands
Move on ; as yarn and chestnut sere
Pass swiftly round Bill Brown demands
At last, in innocence, “ Long beer 1 ”
It’s then that Brown somehow forgets
About his sudden, holy fear
Of big, strong drinks —the old Brown sets
All boldly out to swim in beer.
He plunges in, and, with a will,
Sticks to his new-found brew, and now
Mops up his loud, uproarious fill,
The wrinkles vanished from his brow.
Yet, later on, across the night,
When Brown has had at least enough,
He tells the Law, loud-voiced, “ ’Sorright 1
I’m zhinkin’ zhinzher-ale—shof’ shuff I”
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTT.
THE INDIGNANT DINNER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When they tell us that all the giving of all the
Christians in the world amounts to a penny a head for
all the heathen, it is beastly bod business; and if we
don’t go home ashamed of oursehes, then we are beyond
hope. —lndignant Baptist minister.
What do I owe the heathen who loafs ’neath his bread-
fruit tree?
What do I owe the heathen, or what does the brute
owe met
What shall I send him at Christmas? A fatted
missionary ?
Why should the gander upbraid me, hissing within his
cage ?
Is he so keen to waddle off Life’s unsavory stage
That he calls on me thus to buy him, ruffling his feathers
in rage?
Back to your peas and pollard : More corpulent you
must get 1
Eat all they put before you ! Quack gaily and do not
fret,
And I will buy you at Christmas— the time is not npe
just yet!
What do I owe the heathen who waveth a palm-leaf fan ?
Must I vary his diet—which is vegetarian?
Then will I send him at Christmas this missionary-man 1
N.S.W.
A LARGE SUBSCRIBER TO MISSIONS.


BREAKDOWN OF THE WATER-WAGGON.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
best of quality.
PERFECT PURITY.
Rexona,
The Rapid Healer, is an ointment which heals
with remarkable rapidity. Unlike the old-
fashioned ointments, which are very slow in their
action, Rexona speedily effects its cures after a
very few applications. Sold in triangular pots at
Is. 6d. and 3s.*
Have a dash of
Extract of"
Fruits itterta.
g
Moderate Drinkers take O.T.
with Whisky, Gin and other
Spirits, to moderate the effects
of the Alcohol. Try O.T. with
Schnapps or Gin.
PERSONAL
ITEMS
T. J. Davey displaces Burston on the
mayoral throne of Melbourne. The new man,
who takes his job with monumental seriousness,
has made municipal life his one indulgence. The
electors of Lonsdale Ward made him a City
Father in 1891, and he has remained a Dad ever
since. It may, at least, be said in his favor that
he has the virtue of self-effacement. For 20 years
he dodged the chief civic position with a humility
that almost looked like pride.
JAMES McGOWEN— PREMIER SOON.
Sydney journalist Charlie Bean’s book on
Australian wool (“On the Wool Track”) —are-
print of articles in the S. M. Herald —gets a
good notice from London Spectator, which
praises the writer’s “strong, vigorous style.”
Unfortunately, the usually correct Spectator
makes a bad misprint, and talks of “C. E. W.
Bran.” Bean has left Sydney to look after the
Herald’s copy from London, and starts off with
a series of readable yarns, “Via America.”
Education-Minister George Fowles, of
Maoriland, who represents the Dominion at the
opening of S’Africa’s Parliament, is a draper by
occupation and a Cold-Tea apostle by persuasion.
He is also a single-tax enthusiast, and gives free-
hold farmers the shivers. Fowles has “worked
up from the ranks,” but, as often happens in a
case of that sort, is not too sympathetic toward
Labor ideas ; and he is reputed to have hopes of
a knighthood. By the way, his father, who died
lately, was a fairly well authenticated centen-
arian.
Parson Leyton Richards, from the Cold
Country, is Heaven’s new ambassador at the
Collins-street (Melbourne) Congregational taber-
nacle. Richards, a man of comparative youth,
has been for some years entangling the Devil at
Peterhead (Scotland). His tongue is restless with
wild rhetoric, and he is a man of terrible zeal
that will be a striking contrast to the serenity of
his predecessor, the cherubic L. L. Bevan.
A wonderful old stayer is Alec Forrester,
secretary of the Amalgamated Mining Engineers
Association of Victoria. He is a Scotchman who
first sniffed the cold air 82 years ago, and he drove
an engine until he was 70. He came with a de-
putation to Premier Murray the other day, and
left that lethargic individual gazing in wonder
that a man should be able to work so long. What
Forrester wanted, by the way, was a wages board
to give engine-drivers something better than 455.
a week.
George Reid, according to the cables, has
been “at work” in London. The unusual
activity of G. Feed is in connection with the
attractive question of MORE MEAT. George
says he seldom reads ; so somebody has evidently
told him that the continent is short of meat; for
he has temporarily thrown down his napkin and
left the banquet table to the waiters and the rats.
The idea of anyone going short of his rations
seems to have shocked Australia’s Pie Commis-
sioner to the very depths of his being and started
him going.
Sydney’s Mitchell Library has just re-
ceived the only known portrait of Barron Field,
one of the first two Judges of the Supreme Court
of N.S.W. The likeness doesn’t show him to be
nearly such a splendid person as a suburban
mayor of the present day. In his time Aus-
tralia had three courts—a Governor’s Court, a
Supreme Court and a Lieutenant-Governor’s
Court, which sat in Hobart and hanged enthusi-
astically. The Governor’s Court dealt chiefly
with land cases. Barron Field, who sat in the
Sydney Supreme Court, was not a bad Judge.
He, at least, hit culprits fair and square. But he
was touchy, and demanded assent to the idea that
a man of his calibre was thrown away in such sur-
roundings. To console himself he indulged in
verse-writing. He wasn’t the worst of his time
in that line, but the style is now out of date. Two
or three of his prettiest verses he wrote while
waiting for verdicts in death-sentence cases. But
a day came when he heard that Francis Forbes
was commissioned to inaugurate a new Court
system, under a new Charter of Justice, where-
upon he declared that N.S.W. was doomed to riot
and republicanism, and, packing up his effects,
he got away in a boat before the avalanche fell on
the land.
After a feverish spell of Thomas Tait, the
Victorian Ministry has decided that a local man
may easily be the best appointment
for Chief Railway Commissioner. The
points about the freshly imported man
are that he knows nothing of the
country, and that the country knows
nothing of him save that he is recom-
mended by people of whom the country
also knows nothing, and the finding of
the court is that the position isn’t
good enough. So Fitzpatrick, who
was Acting-Commissioner before Tait
came, is to have the job that he should
have had in the first instance. But
though bitter experience has cured
John Weary of the importing disease
in this one instance, he still hangs on
to the old complaint wherever possible.
There are two plans for harbor im-
provement in view. One is by an emi-
nent Maoriland harbor engineer, who,
after spending weeks in personal in-
spection, recommended the cutting of
a short, straight channel from Mel-
bourne to the sea, and the abandon-
ment of the old, long-winded, crooked
Yarra as a water highway. The other
is from an English engineer who was
never in Australia in his life, but who
has looked at the case on paper, a-nd
recommends that the endless dredging
of the weary miles of serpentine Yarra
be resumed. And Weary John says
he is going to stick to the imported
opinion supplied by the man who never
saw the place.
Ex-Sal’ Army man Bruntnell, who
gets into the Assembly for Annandale
(N.S.W.) by a 200 majority, has had a
stormy time. As far back as 1904
Owe’Sullivan licked him at Belmore
by about 800 votes. He got in for
Surry Hills at a by-election in July,
1906, with something like a 150
majority, and he was cast out by 900
votes next year, same as if he had been a devil
in the New Testament. And after that, though
lie was a persistent trier, there wasn’t a gleam of
success for the ex-big drummer till last Friday.
Several times last week the cablegrammer
mentioned that Mrs. Clara Warren had got a
divorce in London from “ Bill the Bludger, a
notorious Australian adventurer.” The lady is a
mystery, but Bill —a good-looking man of about
45, who” would steal anything from a sixpence to a
range of mountains —is still remembered by the
force in these parts. When the Australian takes
to the confidence game he is usually among the
world’s best; and, curiously enough, some of the
swiftest men at the business—men who have per-
suaded kings to let them carry the crown round
the corner as a sign of good faith and have never
come back—have hailed from peaceful Bathurst,
of all places.
London Morning Post announces that
“Major F. J. Carandini, ex of the sth Lancers,
has received permission from King George V., by
Royal warrant, to use and bear the titles of
Marquis of Sarsano, Patrician of Modena and
Noble of Bologna, to which he succeeded on the
death of his father. He will in future be known
as the Marquis of Sarzano.” The Major’s father,
having lost his estates, came to Australia in the
mid ’4o’s, and set up as a dancing master. He
married Marie Burgess, a singer, and the family
of Carandini became famous on the Australian
stage and concert platform. When the ducal
Edinburgh was out this way he interested himself
in Frank James, the only son, and had the lad
entered at a military training school in England.
He may adopt his father’s title; but, titles and all
thrown in, he will still owe more to his mother
than he ever did or will to his other parent.
Fraser E. Churchill, successfully cockying
nowadays in the Molong district (N.S.W.), was
25 years ago, the crack amateur oarsman of the
Cold Country. For four years he rowed with the
Eton crew, and three years with Cambridge.
Not long ago, he was visited by the man who was
coxswain in ’a crew which won at Eton 30 years
ago. Their weights then were <st. 101 b. and
12st. 51b. The coxswain had fattened up to
19st. 101 b., and Churchill to 13st. 51b. Churchill,
who' came to Australia as a jackeroo, after-
wards bought Brymedura, and has applied his
horse-sense very successfully to fodder conser-
vation.
HE HADN'T LOST
HOPE.
KID: “ Say , mother!
If I’m a good bop,
when I grow up
shall I be a Wow-
ser, like uncle?"
Ernst-Carroll, who has been appointed
hon. Australian Commissioner in Neuchatel, once
resided in S.A., and was afterwards Professor
of Geology in the Tasmanian University. For
years he has been enthusiastic in keeping Aus-
tralia before the Swiss, and he has boomed it at
the Neuchatel University of Commerce, which
attracts hundreds of students from all parts of
the world. His father was Speaker of one of the
German State Parliaments. The second name,
Carroll was taken when a relative left him a com-
petence.
The self-killer often takes it into his head
to write a letter to the coroner; and if such
epistles are ever to find a place in books like
E. W. Cole’s Complete Letter-Writer, a model
was lately left behind by a 60-year-old suicider in
Melbourne: —
To the Coroner, 4/10/’lO. No sleep. No food. Finis.—
H. T. P.
You couldn’t find anything more comprehensive
and concise, even in the Acts of Parliament that
Charlie Kingston used to draft.
McGowen’s first choice of a Lands Minis-
ter lies between Neil Neilsen and J. L. Trefle;
and if one takes Lands the other will probably
take Agriculture. Both know a plough from a
pump. Trefle’s father, still living, was the first
man to grow wheat in the Temora district. The
squatters, of course, told him that wheat was im-
possible, and he’d better go away before he
starved. Trefle, a French-Canadian, said that they
didn’t look too emaciated themselves, and he
would risk it; and the Temora district is now
one of the most prolific grain areas in Australia,
while cultivation has spread out a hundred miles
further west. Young Trefle was the boss plough-
man of the district; but later in life he took to
the pen, and ran one of the Temora papers.
Even George Reid has his uses ; the pub-
lishers of a well-known encyclopaedia are using him
widely in England and America as an advertise-
ment. It appears that Gorge, at the dinner of
the Royal Literary Fund, unburthened himself as
follows: —
I was looking up an encyclopaedia this morning to get
hold of something to say to-night. I am in a flat that
has not got a library, but, fortunately, has an encyclo-
paedia—and may I, as a man who seldom reads, express
my profound gratitude to those who publish encyclo-
paedias. I find I can get a brief up on any subject under
the sun, at the shortest possible notice, by referring to
books of that sort. Give me an encyclopaedia like (advt.).
There you get a bird’s-eye view of everything, a.nd that
is the only sort of view I can take at my time of life.
It is all very well for the publishers, but what
about the country that pays his salary ? The
sleepy old gentleman with his bird’s-eye views,
his weary remark about “my time of life,” and
his damaging admission that he is a person who
“ seldom reads,” is calculated to give the intelli-
gent banqueter the impression that the land
whose accredited representative he is must be a
sort of Cow Flat. George Feed shouldn’t be High
Commissioner for a hustling continent; he ought
to be Consul for Geelong.
New South Wales has a blind orchardist
who trains the apple and the peach to shoot at
Kurrajong, and makes his trees pay up remark-
ably well. He does all the work himself, prun-
ning in the most approved style, and keeping e
soil free from weeds. He has no difficulty in i
criminating between the fruit-bearing brandies
and the non-productive ones, and his trees are
quite shapely.' The producing value of eaca tree
he measures with remarkable exactitude, and
when the branches are fruit-laden he selects e
marketable stuff without hesitation. Ihe neigh-
borhood also credits him with being one ot the
best judges of horse-flesh in the district.
G. R. W. McDonald, who did the unex
pected and wiped out Minister for Lands Mooi <
at Bingara (N.S.W.), will be the pink-clieeked
boy of the new Assembly. Until a few month'-
back, he was in the Justice Department and sucked
in Labor doctrines at Broken Hill. Then tin-
hobble of redtape was too much for him, and In-
started out for freedom and a crust in the Tam-
worth district. He has a neat wit, and has
turned out many a good way-back paragraph.
One of the effective leaflets with which he ate up
his tough opponent showed the Chinese store of
Hip Cow (or words to that effect) plastered with
notices imploring the district to “Vote for Sam
Moore, the Workers’ Friend.”
Postmaster-General Thomas, who is doing
things, wasn’t always suspected of being a fast
goer. He first got into the public’s eye during
the big Broken Hill strike in 92. Though
Thomas was the miners’ president, Sleath and
Ferguson took charge of things, and Thomas was
packed off to Queensland because it was reckoned
that he was too easy-going for a strenuous tussle.
Had he remained on the spot, he would probably
have gone to gaol with the other leaders; as it
was, the Queensland police shadowed him every-
where, and that and the scurvy treatment he
afterwards got from the mine-owners, put into
him the only drop of bitterness in his nature.
The owners had the idea that, having been a mine
manager, Thomas should have ratted to their
side; and the worse they treated him in conse-
quence the surer they made his seat when the ’94
State elections came round. He hasn’t been out
of politics since.
“GENTLEMEN, THE KING!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“I don’t want people to call me‘Mister.’ I’ve been
christened King O’Malley, and I ought to be called King
O’Malley, without embellishments before or after.” King
O’Malley, who spoke as if his dignity had been outraged
for many years, commenced the new order of things by
“rounding on” the pressmen who had carelessly ad-
dressed him in the orthodox fashion.—Melb. Herald.
“ Stow the ‘ Mister,’ ” said O’Malley,
Mad as anything ;
“ Even though we he not pally,
Always call me ‘ King.’
“ ‘Mister’ or * Esquire ’ is merely
Slush that Tories sling :
Being thus baptised, I’m clearly
Nothing more than ‘ King.’
“Duke or marquis, earl or viscount,
Other blokes may be ;
Meanest men my equals I count
When they talk to me.
“ Not from ‘ noble ’ birth or station
Should distinction spring ;
I’m a pattern for creation,
Yet I’m simply ‘ King.’ ”
In the court or in the alley
None can ever bring
Charge of pride against O’Malley',
Who was christened “ King.”
Here’s a toast for all the masses,
Here’s a hymn to sing !
Democrats, fill up your glasses,
Drink—with cheers—“ God Save the King ! ”
VICTORIA.
O. K.


£
of
Cs
free Gim
Tobacco
The Manufacturers of “VENUS” TOBACCO will give FREE in return for the
RED PAPER SEALS from the 2oz. Tins, or the TIN ( figure) TAGS
from the Plugs, as under:
NICKEL KEYLESS
WATCH.
For
75 Venus (2oz. tin) Seals
or
75 Venus (plug) Tags.
LADY’S MOROCCO LEATHER BAG.
For 75 Venus (2oz. tins) Seals or
75 Venus (plug) Tags.
LEATHER PUZZLE
PURSE.
For
25 Venus (2oz tin) Seals
or
25 Venus (plug) Tags.
For 10 Venus
(2oz. tin) Seals.
For 15 Venus
(2oz. tin) Seals
SELF-FILLING FOUNTAIN PEN.
FIRST QUALITY TWO BLADES POCKET KNIFE.
Or 10 Venus
(plug) Tags.
Or 15 Venus
(plug) Tags.
DIRECTIONS.
1. Send or post the Seals or Tags to KRONHEIMER LTD., Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, or Perth, and write your name
and address distinctly on the outside of the package.
2. Post at the same time a letter stating the number of Seals or Tags in the package, and the gift you desire.
3- —The Gifts can be obtained on personal application, or will be posted free of charge to anyone complying with
the foregoing directions.
4—This offer will absolutely close on 30t JUNE, 1911.


“National” Gas Engines and Suction Plants
Known as the “Royal ” Gold Medal Engines and Plants, beat all comers
in England after exhaustive trials.
EXCELLENT RESULTS FROM EITHER COKE OR CHARCOAL.
SOLE AGENTS, with experts from the English Works:—
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER 8 CO., 2 Circular Quay East, Sydney; 34 Queen St., Melbourne.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
jar “NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE.”
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Treasurer William Watt, of Victoria, was a
man who felt only moderately good when he announced
the State’s revenue and expenditure figures for the
financial year to June 30, 1910. This was the position as
compared with previous years :
June, Revenue. Expenditure.
1902 .. £6,997,792 £7,398,832 Def. £401,040
1903 .. 6,954,619 6,759,960 Sur. 194,659
1904 .. 7,319,949 7,339,608 Def. 19,659
1905 .. 7,515,742 7,343,742 Sur. 172,000
1906 .. 7,811,475 7,261,475 „ 550,000
1907 .. 8,345,534 7,679,143 ~ 666,391
1908 .. 8,314,480 7,862,246 „ 452,234
1909 .. 8,247,684 8,240,177 „ 7,507
1910 .. 8,535,747 8,488,667 „ 47,080
£70,043,022 £68,373,850 5ur.£1,669,172
The expenditure is going up in a remarkable fashion,
and apparently the days of big surpluses are done. Even
such surplus as there is has to go, according to the Rail-
ways Special Funds Act, towards railway improvement,
so Willie has nothing to carry forward.
For the present financial year (to 30/6/T1) the
Victorian Treasurer estimates his revenue from present
sources at £8,660,000, the probable return from the Aus-
tralian Treasurer being greatly reduced under the 255.
per head subsidy arrangement. And he sees ahead of
him £8,940,277 of expenditure. The difference repre-
sents a large ahd cheerless deficit, and as William W. has
no love for intense cheeseparing, he proposes to levy
new taxes—a considerably increased land tax, and
a slightly increased income tax. Being a sanguine
man, he puts his revenue, when the new imposts
are fixed up, at £8,964,665, leaving a surplus of £24,388.
The bulk of the theoretical improvement is to arise from
the amended land tax. It is to represent Jd. in the £ of
the unimproved value with certain exemptions, and the
big Victorian landlord, who now pays about £90,000 a
year, is to pay £296,000. The chances are that he will
flatly refuse to do anything of the sort, and will throw
out Watt’s scheme on its ear, and propose drastic
economies, or loans, or both. The Victorian House of
Landlords was unmanageable enough on this point when
there was no Federal progressive land tax in view, and its
general attitude was that no deficit, however vast, justi-
fied further taxation of the big landowner. Now,
maddened by the Federal tax, it will probably be more
solid than ever on this point.
• * * *
Tasmania, whose Government never mentions
Federation without putting its handkerchief to its nose,
expected a deficit last year; and the Treasurer, who
delivered his Budget last week, takes it almost as a
wrong that he didn’t get what he expected. Revenue
insisted on coming in £54,320 in excess of the estimate ;
so there was a surplus of £11,611 instead of the antici-
pated deficit of £21,406. (Sniff.) This current year—
and the Treasurer takes out the hanky again—the
Government expects to raise £980,416, and it knows
it’ll have to spend £1,013,161, so there’ll be (groan) an-
other deficit of £32,745. The chief explanation of Tas-
mania’s troubles is that it refused to pay its way like an
honest, respectable persorf, but borrowed money to pay
not only for all sorts of works, but for all sorts of ser-
vices. At the same time, it allowed great areas of coun-
try to be either used for sheepwalks or not used at all.
The railways, therefore, haven’t had a chance, because
even a prize ram isn’t much of a railway customer ;
so the railways called during the year for £79,594
of help from the general revenue, and the
interest on the other odds and ends of loan expenditure
had to be practically all paid out of taxation. The one
thing above all others that Tasmania wants is popula-
tion, and it will have to get more people, no matter what
happens to land values in the process. It may be very
awkward for the big land-owner ; but desperate ills de-
mand desperate remedies, and Tasmania’s ills become
desperate. Federation isn’t responsible ; it was the old
shameful policy of muddle and drift that landed the
island in the bog, and all the snivelling and nose-wiping
m the world won’t get it out.
* * * *
The Maoriland State Land Bank, whose
deficit to begin with was due to preliminary expenses
and loss on loan flotations:—
Loss on Loan
March, Profits. Flotations. Deficit.
1900 .. £14,073 £28,142 £107,644
1901 .. 20,325 9,889 97,208
1902 .. 29,452 67,756
1903 .. 24,907 43,953 86,802
1904 .. 26,561 20,585 80,826
1905 .. 34,454 46,372
1906 .. 34,048 12,324
Reserves.
1907 .. 44,972 32,648
1908 .. 48,449 81,097
Premiums Received.
1909 .. 60,822 3,014 144,933
Loss.
1910 .. 41,832 6,439 180,326
This State bank has undergone.a change during the year,
having been made a branch of the State-guaranteed
Advances Office. This office includes the State
Land Bank, officially known as the Advances
to Settlers Branch ; the Advances to Workers Branch,
which helps city and other people to become their own
landlords; and the Advances to Local Authorities
Branch. The whole business was put into the charge of
J. W. Poynton, hitherto Public Trustee, and previously
magistrate and lawyer. The change in control has pro-
duced some change in the accounts. The Act provides
for a sinking fund, and that is responsible for the chief
change.
• • • • • •
ThiB sinking fund is, however, a strange bird.
Says the Act (section 30): —“ In connection with each
branch there is hereby established a sinking fund
as security for the capital moneys raised for ad-
vances belonging to the branch. In the case of
each such branch the sinking fund shall consist of a sum
to be paid into the sinking fund each financial year out
of the Advances Account from the moneys belonging to
the branch equal to 1 per cent, of the total capital
moneys raised for the purpose of the branch... and
then outstanding.... Subject as aforesaid, the respect-
ive sinking funds and the investments representing the
same shall be held by the Public Trustee, to be applied
by him as and when the Minister directs in repaying the
capital moneys for which they are a security.” The Act
doesn’t say that the sinking fund shall be built up
out of profits. It simply says that when the Settlers’
Branch borrows, say, £1,000,000, it shall pay £lO,OOO a
year to the Public Trustee. But it need not make that
£10,000; it may borrow it. Or it may pay it back out of
the repayments received from clients. It is a fool of a
sinking fund altogether, and is only calculated to cover
the name of sinking fund with ridicule. Previously
there was a sinking fund, and it had a respectable
character, being made of honest profits. But
it has 1 now been absorbed by the bogus sinking
fund, though the two have nothing in common. The
genuine sinking fund was £44,190; and “a sum of
£57,438 has been added to the sinking fund established
under section 30 of the Act, bringing the total amount
standing to the credit of that account to £101,628.” That
£57,438 isn’t, of course, included among the reserves in
the balance-sheet. It only appears among the borrowings.
The profits show a considerable shrinkage, due
to a heavier outlay for interest. The old loans have
no doubt carried the old rate ; but an additional
£586,000 of temporary advances had to be arranged
to finance the branch. Apparently, this was dear money.
And the branch didn’t really need it all; it had to
borrow £57,438 simply to pay it to the Public Trustee in
connection with the weird sinking fund. Still, there are
no proprietors to be paid out of the profits. What are
referred to as profits are in fact surpluses in ex-
cess of interest, and the whole of the amount is avail-
able for reserves. These reserves amount, as shown, to
£180,326. The advances total £5,662,973 ; so the reserves
are equal to about 6s. sd. per cent, of the advances or
risks. This looks very little protection ; but it has to be
remembered that many instalments have been paid off
the bulk of the advances, wherefore the loans outstand-
ing are far under the market value of the securities.
Still, in case anything very bad should happen to Maori-
land and its property values, the reserves ought to be
fed up much fatter yet. They would have been much
fatter but for about a quarter of a million of loan
discounts which have had to be made good. This, of
course, will make thing’s better in the future, because it
really means that the branch will have to pay out less
interest than it would have done if the loans had been
issued at par.
The expenses are very moderate, and show a
good reduction this year :
Expenses
Cost of p.c. of
Advances Manage- Mortgages.
Outstanding. merit. s. d. •
1900 .. £1,747,329 £7,267 8 4
1901 .. 2,131,100 6,869 6 5
1902 .. 2,368.317 7,696 6 5
1903 .. 2,590,543 7,316 5 8
1904 .. 2,795,849 7,439 5 4
1905 .. 2,753,182 6.834 4 11
1906 .. 3,125,069 7,989 5 1
1907 .. 3,551,876 8,453 4 9
1908 .. 4,180,616 12,792 6 1
1909 .. 5,114,300 15,759 6 2
1910 .. 5,662,973 14,987 5 4
Until a couple of years ag’o the cost of valuations was in-
cluded with the charges ; but the work is now done by
the Government’s special Valuation Department. For
the sake of uniformity the fees paid to that Department
are included with the expenses as set out in the fore-
going table. Most of these fees are, however, paid by
clients, and don’t come out of general revenue. No
other State bank in Australia works at so low an ex-
pense rate, and that is mainly because of the superior
size of this bank’s business. It is an experience which
ought to encourage borrowers in the other States to rely
upon the public Cohen ; for the more that get their ac-
commodation from him, the lower the rate of interest
they will be able to get the money for, owing to the
natural reduction in the expense rate as the turnover
increases.
» ■* * *
The Royal Bank of Australia (Melbourne)
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
Mar., 1903.. £7,380 5 p.c. = £3,750 £3,630 £32,095
Sept., 1903.. 6,819 6 „ „ 4,500 2,319 34,414
Mar., 1904.. 7,556 6 „ „ 4,500 3,056 37,470
Sept., 1904.. 7,333 6 „ „ 4,500 2,833 40,303
Mar., 1905.. 8,335 6 „ „ 4,500 3,835 44,138
Sept., 1905.. 8,238 6 „ „ 4,500 3,738 47,876
Mar., 1906.. 10,072 7 „ „ 5,250 4,822 52,698
Sept., 1906.. 10,179 7 „ „ 5,250 4,929 57,627
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 70,127
Mar., 1907.. 12,882 7 p.c. = 6,687 7,195 77,322
Sept., 1907.. 14,619 7 „ „ 7,000 7,619 84,941
Mar., 1908.. 13,517 7 „ „ 7,000 6,517 91,458
Sept., 1908.. 14,697 7 „ „ 7,000 7,697 99,155
Premiums on new shares .. 12,500 111,655
Mar., 1909.. 18,003 7 p.c. = 10,062 7,941 119,596
Sept., 1909.. 17,974 7 ~ ~ 10,500 7,474 127,070
Mar., 1910.. 18,549 7 ~ „ 10,500 8,049 135,119
Sept., 1910.. 18,844 7 „ ~ 10,500 8,344 143,463
This is the infant among Australian banks ; it arrived in
1888, about six months after the Bank of North Queens-
land. Thus no new bank has appeared in Australia for
the past 22 years—at least, no new bank that has stayed.
The Royal made a pretty bad start; but it had a
cleaning up, wrote off half its capital, and thus
started life afresli with a clean slate and a new lot
of resolutions. It lived a very quiet life for years; it
paid no div. at all until 1897, and then for sometime kept
the payment at 3 per cent. Also it confined its business
to Melbourne ; but a few years back it spread to Bendigo
and Ballarat, and a few months ago opened up at Sydney.
Probably this last step accounts for a good deal of the
big increase shown in the advances. That movement and
others are indicated in the next table :
Sept., Sept.,
1909. 1910.
Notes in circulation.. £14,110 £17,928 Inc. £3,818
Bills in circulation,
etc 78,140 72,253 Dec. 5,887
Deposits at interest.. 969,551 1,092,944 Inc. 123,393
Free deposits.. .. 513,078 621,544 Inc. 108,466
Liquid assets .. .. 842,793 778,897 Dec. 63,896
Advances .. .. 1,104,759 1,415,827 Inc. 311,068
Premises, etc. .. 64,896 63,908 Dec. 988
Yet, though there has been this very solid increase of ad-
vances, the cash position is still strong; liquid assets are
equal to no less than 43 per cent, of all liabilities to the
public. Further, on figures, the shareholders’ risks are
not excessive : for every £1 of capital and reserves the
advances are equal to £3 7s. Partly, no doubt, because
there is not a very large proportion of the public’s money
in the business, the profits calculated on capital and re-
serves combined are not very large either: —
Mar., 1907.. £lO 0 10 p.c. Mar., 1909.. £9 3 11 p.c.
Sept., 1907.. 10 10 10 „ Sept., 1909.. 8 11 4 „
Mar., 1908.. 9 9 9,, Mar., 1910.. 8 13 9 „
Sept., 1908.. 10 1 8 „ Sept., 1910.. 8 13 3 „
But while not very large those figures are quite large
enough to suggest that there are not many unproductive
accounts in the total of assets. The last little table
shows that the earnings have shrunk a good deal. That,
however, is not a matter for either shareholders or de-
positors and other creditors to worry about. As a matter
of fact, the bank was sailing too close to the wind a few
years back, and didn’t have the reserves it should have
had ; but it improved its position very much by doubling
its paid capital, which now stands at £300,000. And a
considerable part of that new capital is represented by
liquid assets which, though they don’t earn very much,
put the bank in much better position to meet trouble
than it used to be.
* * * *
Ifc would be a lot more satisfactory if the
Mutual Life of New York would issue its accounts in the
same form every year. No doubt the co. is making good
progress, after the set-back of a few years ago, but that
progress isn’t easy to follow. Before the commotion in
1904, this co. had achieved £2,362,285 of new premiums
in one year (1903). With ren'ewal premiums the total
for that year was £11,618,074. For the past year
(1909) the total was £10,972,662; but the new
business figures are not set out. The shrinkage is due to
two causes—(l) the American insurance legislation, im-
posing restrictions on the quantity of new business and on
the expense rate, etc.; (2) the heavy surrenders and with-
drawals. But here again there is a variation from the
old form of the accounts. It used to be possible to say
what the surrenders amounted to. Now surrenders
and endowments are lumped, which is a most unsatis-
factory way of doing things. This shows the movement
as far as it can be followed :
1903. 1909.
Death claims £3,965,020 £4,531,493
Endowments and surrenders 1,765,638 3,927,641
So while the death claims have increased by about 14 per
cent, in the six years, the endowment claims and sur-
renders have increased by 122 per cent. The endowment
claims may have increased more rapidly than the death
claims; but it is almost certain that the surrenders are
mainly responsible for the big jump in the figures. For
the previous year the surrender figures were made avail-
able :
1903 £813,770
1908 .... .. 3,034,569
In the wild days of American insuring, over-insurance
was common; and over-insurance is almost as bad as
under-insurance. Further, in those wild days equally
wild estimates of profits were put forward. The position
is really much sounder than it used to be ; but when the
old estimates were shown to be untrustworthy, there
naturally followed dissatisfaction, and a demand on the
office to know what it would pay to end the business.
Under the new American law it has been
illegal since 1906 to write “deferred dividend ” policies ;
the annual bonus system, always practised in Australia,
now prevails also in the U.S. The cash distribution as for
last vear was £2,546,561, and, in addition, £885,412 was
added to the fund out of which bonuses are added to
deferred div. policies as the latter complete their dividend
periods. This deferred-div. fund amounts now to
£15,192,420 ; the whole of this amount will be added to
policies during the next 16 years. The cash and deferred
dividend (or bonus) added together are equal to 31 per
cent, of the premiums ; the cash bonus, apart from the
deferred bonus on the old policies, was equal to 23 per
cent, of the total premiums. This is a better result than
was shown a few years ago. In fact, for five years run-
ning, each year has given a better bonus than its pre-
decessor. The improvement last year was due to (1)
large profit on the sale of securities ; (2) a lower expense
rate ; (3) satisfactory mortality experience, etc. The re-
duction in the expense rate is the most satisfactory
feature. In 1903, when the mad competition for new
business and big figures was still raging, the expense rate
was £2O 14s. sd. per cent, of total income. For last year
it was got down to £l2 3s. 7d. per cent. This means less
glittering aggregate-business figures ; but it means bigger
bonuses for policy-holders. They get more substance
nowadays, wherefore they are not likely to weep over the
lost shadow.
* * * *
The Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1900 .. £l7OO 5 per cent. = £1250 £450 £4,258
1901 .. 2074 6 „ „ 1500 574 4,832
1902 .. 2302 6 „ „ 1500 802 5,634
1903 .. 3939 8 „ „ 2000 1939 7,573
1904 .. 4226 8 „ „ 2000 2226 9,799
1905 .. 6724 10 „ „ 2500 4224 14,023
1906 .. 5172 10 „ „ 2500 2672 16,695
1907.. 5118 10 ~ ~-2500 2618 19,313
1908 .. 6013 10 „ „ 2500 3513 22,826
1909 .. 5712 10 ~ „ 2500 3212 26,038
1910 .. 6463 1 0 „ „ 2500 3963 30,001
While Victoria had an eruption of trustee cos., and over-
did a good thing, N. S. Wales was content with two —the
Perpetual, incorporated in 1886, and the Permanent,
which is two years younger. The authorised and
issued capital of each is a round million ; and
the paid capital of each is a modest £25,000.
There was, and still is, virtue in this big heap of
uncalled capital. Twenty-five years ago the trustee co.
was a new institution, whose chief merit was that it
guaranteed that nothing unpleasant would happen to a
trust estate after it had been committed to the co.’s
keeping. In Victoria the pioneer co. got in a large paid
capital by way of guarantee ; in N. S. Wales both the
cos. argued that the practical effect would be the
same if they made the shareholders liable for a large
sum. The trustee co. doesn’t guarantee the trust
estate against losses. It doesn’t guarantee that
the trust investments will bring in any specified
interest. But it is bound to see that the instruc-
tions in a will are carried out, and if it misinterprets
them it is responsible. Also, of course, it is respon-
sible if any of its officers leave for parts unknown with
the cash, or drop it in backing sure things for the Metro-
politan. It isn’t, however, as liable to make mistakes as
the amateur trustee, or even the lawyer who is a trustee
in his spare time ; and in other respects the advantages
of the trustee co. are overwhelming. Whether it has yet
done all that it is capable of doing is another matter.
The Maoriland State office has, in fact, gone a step farther
than the Australian private offices, and guarantees a fixed
rate of interest if it is allowed to choose the trust fund
investments; and, boiled down, a life-insurance office,
which has some capital in the business, does practically
the same thing. It seems very likely that, sooner or
later, Australian trustee offices will have to follow suit.
As they get more and more experienced their risk of
making losses through misinterpreting wills will diminish ;
and the gradual growth of business will produce a further
slight reduction in the percentage costs. It should,
therefore, be possible to do more for the same money, or
the same for less money, without diminishing the aggre-
gate of profits. In common with the best of the offices,
the Permanent’s earnings in proportion to funds
in the business (capital and reserves) are very fine
and large. Last year they amounted to £l2 13s. 3d. per
cent. ; and when a co. can make £l2 13s. 3d. per cent, on
its funds, it is time to ask whether it can’t afford to ex-
tend its benefits a trifle. Admittedly such a co. may be
hit heavily at some time or other; and admittedly, there-
fore, one single year’s profits are not a fair criterion. But
as this co. has been going on for very many years
without being hit, it looks as though the peril can
be regarded as only very moderate. In the past
10 years tne co. has made great progress. The
amount to the credit of the estates in hand
is £3,029,970, as against £1,350,258 ten years back. But
the proportion of trustee work done by the N.S.W. pro-
fessional trustee cos. is still much less than it ought to
be.
* * * *
The Perpetual Executors and Trustees’
Association of Australia (Melbourne): —
Written To Re- Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1899.. £1283 1J p.c. = £375 £943 £6776
1900 .. 1801 2| „ ~ 750 £lO5l 7827
1901 .. 1887 2J „ „ 750 1137 8964
1902 .. 1864 2 1 ~ „ 750 376 738 9702
1903 .. 1940 2| „ „ 825 2040 8777
1904 .. 2009 3 „ „ 900 9357 529
1905 .. 2198 3£ „ „ 1050 1148 1677
1906 .. 2250 4i „ „ 1275 -- 975 2652
1907 .. 2392 5 „ ~ 1500 892 3544
1908 .. 2806 5 „ „ 1500 1306 4850
1909 .. 2930 5 ~ „ 1500 1430 6280
1910 .. 3362 5% „ „ 1650 1712 7992
This co. found the usual trouble waiting for it out on the
rocks when the boom-tide had ebbed. It had a capital of
£30,000 and very fair reserves ; but, unfortunately, it had
put almost everything into mortgages, and the value
of the securities slumped horribly. But troubles
are sociable birds, and no sooner had one arrived
than two or three more perched alongside. For in-
stance, the co. had the lease of big city office pre-
mises ; and some of its sub-lessees failed and others
cleared out. Also, there was the expensive Swan litiga-
tion. That is the way with trustee cos. ; they rarely
have troubles when values are rising; it is when
the things are falling that the beneficiaries nose
round and scent out misinterpretations of wills,
and come at the trustee co. to recover losses
sustained. Thus it came about that for four or
five years this co. paid no div.; and, as the table shows,
when it did resume it did the thing modestly. A fine
improvement in profits is disclosed ; but it is possible
that in the early years some of the revenue was used
quietly to fill up the gap between the book value and
the market value of the bad old securities. Still
that wouldn’t make the present profits any the
less. Mortgages don’t now bulk overwhelmingly in
the list of assets. The big investment lately
has been office premises in Queen-street ; on
these, which cost £13,950, there is a mortgage of
£5OOO. Apart from that, there are no debts. Other
assets include £lO,OOO of Victorian 3 per cent, stock,
taken into the accounts at par. The co. has had a good
year ; estates to the value of over £400,000 have come
under administration, making the total upwards of
£2,500,000. In view of this, and of the generally satis-
factory outlook, the dividend for the scond half was put
up to 6 per cent.; and even then more was laid by than
was distributed. On shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) the profits were at the very good rate
of £9 ss. 4d. per cent. If the co. can put by £l5OO a
year, and if it can only earn 4 per cent, on that money,
the extra income is equal to another 4s. per cent, per
annum on the capital; so even if profits from business
should presently ease off somewhat, there is a strong
factor at work to maintain the dividend.
The Federal Building Society (Melbourne)
Business Profit on Total Dividend Nominal
Sept., Profits. Sales. Profit. (4 p.c.). Reserves.
1904 £26,488
1905 .. £4323 £1495 £5BlB £3854 28,452
(4i p.c.)
1906 .. 4924 684 5608 4336 29,724
(5 p.c)
1907 .. 5605 425 6030 4817 30,93/
(6 p.c.)
1908 .. 6299 144 6443 5781 31,599
(6J p.c.)
1909 .. 7140 7140 6263 32,4/6
(7 p.c.)
1910 .. 7607 7607 6745 33,338
This is the Federal’s second time on earth. Its first time
climaxed in a brief but gorgeous boom-drunk, followed
by a long and painful recovery. When the society came
to its senses after the boom it found that it had
given I O U’s for £389,939, against which it held
assets over the bulk of which it could only shake
its sore head doubtfully. It then put its nose
to the plough, and kept in the dusty furrow for 12 years,
selling a bit when it could, paying off a bit when it could,
and generally feeling very sorry for itself. All this time
it paid no dividend at all, of course. In 1904 a revalua-
tion was made, and the surplus of assets over liabilities
w'as set down at £122,839. A new co. was then formed,
with a capital of £96,351, leaving £26,488 to represent
reserves—a contingency fund in case things should go
wrong with the new valuations. The provision was ex-
ceedingly liberal, because more than half the assets con-
sisted of new advances, and considerably less than half
was represented by old foreclosed properties. The new
society continued to get rid of the latter w'hen buyers
could be found ; and the money was put into new ad-
vances. Also, new deposits were secured in moderation,
and use w'as found for them also. This shows the pro-
gress in the several lines :
1904. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Liabilities—
Deposits, etc... £25,048 £32,651 £43,830
Advances .. £63,160 136,217 143,452 152,156
Properties i n
possession .. 54,071 20,124 18,813 16,729
Cash balances.. 4,779 2,548 8,006
Thus only £16,729 worth of properties remain on hand.
For some years, as the first table shows, a profit was
made on sales. What has happened in that respect
latterly isn’t disclosed. If any profit has been made it
has been stuffed away somewhere. However, it pro-
bably doesn’t amount to much, because the last
two years’ sales have been small. The advances include
balances due by purchasers on time-payment sales.
There may, of course, be some losses over these ; but the
more instalments that are paid, the less the society’s
risk ; and, as few'sales have been made lately, most of the
balances ought to be well protected. There is, how-
ever, some entirely new' business ; the risk with regard
to that depends entirely upon the management’s view of
what is a safe thing to advance. Deposits are increas-
ing ; but the security is still beyond all question. From
the investor’s point of view, the strength of the society
lies largely in the size and genuineness of the reserves
with which the new co. started ; they amounted to about
6s. per £1 share, and they naturally make it a tolerably
easy matter to pay a substantial dividend on 20s.
* * * *
The Bellambi Coal Co. (N.S.W.) —the last few
years of a remarkably prosperous concern :
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves. serves.
1907 .. 17£ p.c. = £30,625 £77,351
£25,000 transferred to Capital .. 52,351
1908 .. £61,936 17£p.c.= 35,000 £26,936 79,287
1909 .. 53,879 15 „ „ 36,250 17,629 96,916
1910 .. 57,345 12J „ „ 31,250 26,095 123,011
It seems probable that no other Australian coal co. has
been making quite such profits as this one has done
during the last few years. It only arrived on the
scene 21 years ago, and as it spent a good while
getting things ready, it has still a long way to go
before it will own no more than a damp hole
in the ground. Though its Bellambi property was
pretty extensive, it added the South Bulli a few years
ago, and now its total holding runs to 200,000 acres,
partly leasehold and partly freehold. Its remarkable
money-making success has been due to the discovery of
the virtues of its output for bunkering purposes ; and it
has big Orient and other contracts on that ac-
count. Also its small stuff, regarded one time
as refuse, has found a good market for coke-making
purposes; and it has a seven years’ contract to
feed the Broken Hill Prop.’s ovens. The co. has at
various times issued bonus shares, which explains why
the reserves are no greater than they are ; for, of course,
these shares have had to be paid for out of accumulated
funds. For a fthv years prior to 1907 the capital was
£175,000. Then it was decided to issue another 75,000
shares, bringing up the total to the full £250,000 author-
ised. Of the £75,000 of new capital, £25,000 was trans-
ferred from reserves, and the other £50,000 was got in by
issuing shares at par—a sweet titbit for shareholders,
seeing that the shares W'ere then paying 17J per cent.
Last year the profits were affected to some extent by
strikes, though the trouble on the southern field didn’t
last so long as it did in the north. For appearance sake
more, perhaps, than for anything else, the dividend for
the half-year was put down to 10 per cent, per annum ;
for the second six months 15 per cent, per annum is paid,
making 12J per cent, for the year. There is still £26,095
left over to lay by. It may be that this is not all net profit;
the bulk of it (£26,000) is money added to the reserves
“ for insurance of steamers, steamers’ renewal and de-
preciation, collieries amortisation, and colliery stores de-
preciation.” If no other provision is made for deprecia-
tion, etc., the true net profit for the year is not the
£57,345 mentioned in the table—it is that, less what-
ever ought to be written off to cover depreciation
of mines and plant. But it is highly probable that, in
addition to the formal reserves, something is written off
the assets. The main features of the balance-sheet com-
pare as follows with those in the document of 1905 :
1905. 1910.
Liabilities £39,445 £12,017
Assets —
Collieries, plant, steamers 209,345 265,069
Stores and stock .. .. 4,591 7,334
Liquid assets .. .. 55,183 131,375
In those five years £50,000 of capital has been got in (and
obviously it wasn’t got in because it was wanted). That
much, and a great deal more, has been put into the mine
and plant; while liquid assets have moved this way :
1905. 1910.
Liquid assets (inc. stores).. £59,774 £138,709
Liabilities 39,445 12,017
Surplus £20,329 £126,692
That is £106,363 added to the liquid assets in five years,
after paying big di vs. and putting large but unknown sums
into plant, etc. It is dazzling. In fact, one is almost
tempted to say that, with economy, the co. could have
afforded to pay—well, at least, three ha’pence a ton to
the miners for hewing small coal.
The Wide Bay Co-operative Dairy Co. (Gym-
pie, Q.)
Bonus
to Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Suppliers. Off. serves
June,’oB .. £953 6 p.c. = £72 £454 £286 £409
Dec., ’OB ..432 6 „ „ 83 291 158 309
June,’o9.. 702 6 „ „ 87 512 152 260
Dec., ’O9 ..499 6 „ „ 95 249 215 200
June,’lo ..979 6 ~ ~ 98 639 192 250
A few years ago Queensland told itself that of course it
couldn’t make, butter. Then a few people began to sus-
pect that Queensland hadn’t been as truthful to itself as
it might have been, and they resolved to try. This
was the pioneer co. on the State’s North Coast line.
A small factory, the Silverwood, had been going some
little time, and the co. took it over in 1906, getting help
from the State to do it. For the first four months £6367
was paid for cream, or at the rate of £19,101 a year ; for
the past six months £16,233, or £32,466 a year. The co.
has been quite lavish enough in the matter of bonuses to
suppliers, and its reserves haven’t been moving the
right way ; but a fair thing has been written off to cover


By appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited)
to act as
Trustees, Executors,
Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power, Agents, etc.,
You are assured of Absolute Security, Efficient
and Economical Management, etc.
Trust Funds to Lend.
2, 4 and 6 Spring Street,
Sydney.
Write for Booklet.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
CAMPBELL
Gas Engine & Plant
Also OIL ENGINES .
Highest Efficiency.
Agents for Victoria and W.A.—
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
[2
F. M. B. (“Johnnie”) Daw has retired from
the management of the Crown mine at Karangahake
(M.L.), and has been followed by John McCombie, long-
time underground manager. A new eo. has been formed
to see what can be got out of the deeper ground. The
mine has turned out a lot of gold in the past, and the new
people (English) will still have a run for their money.
* * * *
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes rof
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement WontS;
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. , Blish-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys ok-
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers k-equik-e furthter
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lemptiere, Melbourne ; or 111. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* » • *
“Ferrodor” Paint.—Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort’s
Dock and Mt. Lvell buildings; Hawkesbury, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. &O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
THE LOSS of LIVE Steam in generating
steam power through faulty joints, badly packed piston
glands and leaky boiler mountings and stop valves causes
waste of fuel which can be prevented by using Bell’s
Asbestos “Bellite” Jointing, “Dagger” Packing and
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Water Gauges, Blbw-Off Cocks
and Stop Valves. Permanent economy is also ensured
by protecting steam pipesand boilers with Bell’s Asbestos
Non-Conducting Composition or Flexible Rope Lagging.
Send for illustrated catalogue of engineering specialties to
BELL’S ASBESTOS AUSTRALIAN AGENCY LIMITED
(A. J. Borchert, General Manager), 315 Kent Street,
Svdney.*
* * * *
The most modern, simple and effective Vacuum
Slimes Table is the “ Wilfley.” It is continuous, and boh-
sists of a revolving drum which is partly submerged ih a
tank of slimes or material to be filtered. The drum Is
covered with a filter cloth supported on grooves oh the
drum, which are connected by means of holes to the
interior to allow the liquid to be withdrawn. Through
the trunnions at the ends of the drum the vacuum pipe
passes to the interior. This pipe connects with the
interior of the drum, through which the liquid and sh-
are withdrawn by means of a vacuum pump. The filtered
slime is removed by a simple apparatus placed at or
below the level of the pulp in the tank. So that directly
the cake is removed the surface of the filter cloth as it
revolves is-immediately re-immersed in the pulp ready to
receive a fresh cake, thereby preventing the sucking in
of air, and consequent loss of vacuum between the time
the cake is removed and a fresh one is forming. The
residual liquid in the slime cake is removed by distribu-
ting water over the surface of the semi-dried cake. Owing
to the fact that the filter is circular in form, it will be
seen that it is continuous in operation, and has no com-
plication of valves to get out of order ; furthermore,
work is being done continuously during the ivhole revolu-
tion of the filter drum. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of South Melbourne, have the sole manufactu-
ring rights of this filter.* [2
* * * *
“ Fibro-Cement ” Asbestos Fireproof Sheets.
In large size, Bin. x 4in. x (about) Jin. thick, now largely
used for walls, for homesteads, bungalows, silos, cottages,
shearers’ quarters, dairies, stables. Fire, heat, acid and
ant proof. Strong, cheap, everlasting. Lower insurance
rate. Photos, and testimonials free from sole importers.
James I-lardie Co., West Circular Quay, Sydney, and
581-583 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.* [1
♦ * * *
The Insurance Freeman, Liverpool, under
date October, 1908, writes re The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society, Limited:—“ln every branch of busi-
ness success has been marked with sagacious manage,
ment, and it must be highly gratifying to all concerned
to note that the huge surplus at the last valuation
has been put to most excellent and practical use in
strengthening its resources.”*
Increased capacity, durability and economy are
the points u'hieh are winning favor for WOOD PIPE. Its
capacity is 15 per cent, to 20 per cent, greater than that
of metal pipe of similar size, while for durability and
economy the comparison is equally in its favor. The
Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain, Sydney.*
* * * *
Mining and assay requisites can be procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
* • * •
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Mine managers will be largely guided by the
wide experience of the N.S.W. Government Railways!
Half this year’s contract has been placed with Messrs,
Wm. Adams & Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, for
their Genuine Nobels Explosives. Large stocks of high
explosives on hand. Write for contract forms and
quotations.”*
* * * *
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, is now
represented throughout Australia by Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd., Haymarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinder are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangement of valves, and automatic lubrica-
tion, and these are testified to by Australian users. The
engine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annum.* [1
* * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria.*
* ■* * *
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Coi.i.ison & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
*»'■**
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Sii.berbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-CLASGOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
■depreciation. At December, 1906, the co. owed £3383,
■and had £2170 of cash and liquid assets; now it
•owes £1550, and has £2835 in cash, and liquid
assets. So a deficit of £1213 has been turned into
a surplus of £1285. Meantime, however, £1764 of new
■capital has been got in. The co. has, therefore, so far
put by £734 in cash or liquid a*ssets out of trading, and
this has to cover depreciation (renewals, etc.). The co.
can’t afford to be any more liberal. It exports what it
■can’t sell locally ; and in that business it is always liable
to be hit by a sudden slump. It ought to start an export
■reserve fund.
* * * *
From London: — “The Spelter Convention has
just been renewed, and prices have tightened. Con-
sumers’ stocks are low, dealers hold little, and Conven-
tion stocks of metal are smaller than they were, so the
outlook is good.”
* * * *
The Amalgamated, the second of the big Aus-
tralian zinc cos., has got on to the dividend list. An
interesting yarn will be written some day about how
Australia suddenly became the second-greatest zinc pro-
ducer in the world. At first it was thought that magnets
would get the discarded metal out of the Broken Hill
sulphide ore and tailings. Two or three German
cos. , experimented on those lines for years, but
didn’t achieve much success. Then three pro-
cesses arrived in a heap. One belonged to the Elmores,
two hard-fisted young English brothers who spend their
lives in inventing things and punching their way'through
difficulties. The others came, curiously, from two Mel-
bourne brewery chemists, working independently. Of
these two Potter had brutal luck, and died before he
reaped any' reward ; the other, De Bavay, got the back-
ing of Melbourne brewery people and afterwards of the
Baillieus. The De Bavay'process was some time getting'
to work ; but now there’s a gorgeous profit while the old
tailings last and the spelter market keeps good. The last
10 weeks pan out something like this: —
Revenue, all sources .. .. £76,829
Outgoings—
Working expenses .. ..£34,004
Percentage to South 00. .. 14,183
48,187
Total profit .. .. £28,642
Administration costs are not included with the exes. On
the other hand the zinc is taken at £22, which is nearly
£2 below the current price ; so the surpluses will prob-
ably balance the additional exes. The co. is working the
Broken Hill South’s tailings under a partnership agree-
ment ; and the foregoing calculation shows that ii is pan-
ning out well for the South, which is apparently getting
about 3s. Id. per ton in excess of the flat rate agreed
upon.
* # # *
Tolwong Minerals (N.S.W.) expects to get its
plant in order in a month from now. Only the most indefi-
nite of reports are allowed to escape regarding this mixed-
metal proposition. The valuably mineral stannite (a
double sulphide of copper and tin) occurs entangled in
dense arsenical pyrites, in addition to the usual gangue
minerals. The flat, ore body is exposed on either side of a
precipitous gorge close to the Shoalhaven River. Along the
north exposure the vein is mostly a uniform streak, charac-
terised mainly by its narrowness. This feature is con-
firmed by’ the only adit driven on this end of the property.
The south exposure shows a series of small lenses, down
the centre of which short adits have been driven. None
of these adits have been connected away from the out-
crop, so there is no apparent reason to suspect the
deposit of changing its exposed character. The short
lenses are connected usually by a' narrow vein of ore.
The assumption that the widths exposed by the pre-
sent working faces are averages over the distances
between the adits is liable to cause trouble. Ore
reserves will remain mythical unless the co. conde-
scends to get a move on with mine development.
The complexity of the ore and its novelty' has so far fas-
cinated the management, and the usual business of get-
ting a little ore blocked out has been neglected. Treat-
ment by means of revei'b. furnaces will, it is alleged, pro-
duce marketable products of arsenic, copper and tin.
The means and methods to be adopted have been tried
wholly or in part elsewhere ; and costs have developed
the habit of killing such schemes iti their infancy.
The co.’s pot has been kept bqiling by market-
ing the reserve shares, (>ut this source of “re-
venue ” is fast becoming exhausted. Considering this item
together with (2) lack of developed ore, (3) experimental
nature of treatment plant, and (4) doubtful value of
final products, the co. is in for a parlous time in the near
future.
•* * * *
Great Cobar celebrated the acquisition of the
Cobar Gold Mine (Fort Bourke) by a substantial increase
in the monthly gold return. The output of copper still
remains far below the frequently predicted 900-1009
tons, with little chance of ever getting close to that
quantity. Work now in hand at the Oobar mine is ex-
pected to improve mullocking facilities to the extent of
permitting a slightly increased tonnage from here. Fur-
nace work has been slowly improving, and an increase
could be handled by the treatment plant. For reasons
indicated, the big mine cannot, however, yet supply the
tonnage. Also the Ohesney mine is feeling the strain of
having all the plums carefully removed, and the re-
maining stuff is not likely to be rushed. Unless something
unforeseen happens, things will, therefore, continue dull
at the Chesney. Fort Bourke now provides the silicious
part of the furnace mixture, and the gold output should
be well maintained. Development work here should
also be satisfactory, as the workings are within the zone
where secondary enrichment is supposed to have
occurred. It would be interesting to know the cost of
the increased output, comparing old and new plants.
* * * *
Bourke’s Hill tin (N.S.W.), havinggoton to the
dividend list, looks like staying there awhile. Working
account profit for the half-year to February, 1910, was
£2884 ; for the past half-year, £2233. In the 12 months
£4500 has been divided, and, after paying all debts, there
was more than enough for another 6d. (£1125) in hand.
Altogether, £5625 has been cut up so far, and two-thirds
of the total area still remains to be worked. The,tough-
ness of the ground is the co.’s chief bugbear; it means
constant shooting and heavy costs. The paid capital is
£16,875.
* * * *
Cosmopolitan, Hillgrove (N.S.W,), crushed 227
tons for 4260 z, gold, with 30oz. from concentrates. The
profit on the month’s run is reckoned at £1000; but this
is a bit doubtful if the long course of expensive develop-
ment work is taken into account. How long the 2oz.
stone will last is also worth consideration. The end of
the main south level at 224 ft, is already looking rather
poor, with 2ft, of stone averaging 13dwt. In the second
level, however, the few feet of driving from the shaft has
proved some good-looking stone, though even that is only
worth 24dwt. for an average width of 20in. The reef ap-
pears to have been thrown about by erosscourses; but
these are sometimes associated with rich makes of stone.
That was the case in the neighboring Baker’s Creek mine,
where the tributors are now doing fairly well by picking
out the best of the stone left in the old stopes.
Southern Cross (W. A.) is having the time of its
life, and is swelling visibly over the number of visitors
who are journeying to the old-time centre to see the
Bullfinch finds. Leases have been pegged for miles
around ; but complaint is naively made that it is a pity
so little work is being done and so much time is spent
hunting for buyers. The Bullfinch itself is looking
gorgeous, and is apparently to hold its own. A little fly
settled on the ore last week, when it was announced that
the Kalgoorlie Gold Recovery Co. had had "some difficulty
in treatment; and, as the plant is a pretty complete one,
the note is significant. But if Doolette, Harris and Co.
can gouge out many more tons of ore like that so far
treated, they will be able to afford to let somebody else
do the puzzling later on.
* * * *
Adelaide is speculating wildly in Bullfinch
options. The holders and first robbers are losing n» (
time : already one co. in 130,000 shares is on the market,
or about to get there. A Bullfinch in the hand is worth
two in the Southern Cross bush, so the birdcatchers pro-
ceed to get on velvet and have a bit over. There is no
certainty yet about the course of the lode, wherefore the
whole thing is a gamble.
The half-yearly report of the Sons of Gwalift
South, the VVestralian-owned mine which was recently'
under offer to the Sons of Gwalia, show's a profit of
£11,958, of which £6692 is written off for depreciation.
This leaves £18,394 to be carritd forward. On this the
directors declared a shilling dividend, which will absorb
£3500. The plant is now reckoned complete, so capital
expenditure should not be a large item for some time.
As the mine shows 61,000 tons of ore worth 415., besides
15,000 tons of sands worth 75., and 7780 tons of slimes
valued at 65., shareholders will not trouble whether the
option on 30,000 shares given to Lionel Robinson and Co.,
of London, is exercised or not. The option runs to
October 23, and if the report oT'-Cge geologist now going
through the property is satisfactory, iTTxI is to hand before
that date, the London brokers may take command. Also,
it is whispered the last has not been heard of the pro-
posed sale to the Gwalia.
r * • * *
The Golden Ridge, a local Kalgoorlie concern,
has followed the example of many of the English cos.,
and taken a two months’ sampling option and a six
months’ purchase option on the Augusta at Laverton.
The move is not viewed favorably by some of the share-
holders, as it means swallowing up reserve cash now
standing against share values, while it is also taken as a
reflection on the Golden Ridge and its chances at depth
—chances, by the way, which are not being much rushed.
Besides, that appalling disappointment., the Laneefield,
is near the Augusta, and that doesn’t make people very
anxious to make the lady’s acquaintance.
# * * *
The new Oroya-Links Co. (W.A.) has knuckled
down to it, and authorised “ a reduction in quantity of
ore treated to 7000 tons monthly, pending vigorous
development in Eclipse and Amalgamated groups of
lenses.” To temper the wind to the shorn lamb it is
added that “the result? are very satisfactory” at the
Eclipse and the Amalgamated ; but it is really too early
to say much of any value on that point.
* * * *
New Temperance is to rise out of the stone-cold
ashes of the old Temperance at Ballarat. A bulky
£270,000 is the record of the mine, and the old story is
told that work was stopped because of a boom elsewhere
and the want of system in the old co.’s operations.
These are poor props to rely upon. That there
was grit among the old-stagers is shown by their
having punched out stone down to 850 ft. At the
spree over the re-opening the other day in Ballarat East,
one James told that he was the last man to leave the
bottom of the old mine, and that as good gold was then
carried as there had been for five years before. No one
paused to ask if the five years’ work had been profitable,
or whether there had cotne at last the tired feeling on
the part of shareholders which naturally follows years of
profitless call-paying. Anyhow, the co. has three strings
•of some sort to its bow—the Temperance shoot and a lode
on either side of the shaft. Its plan ought to be to try
the two latter while it is pumping, for Ballarat records
show that the best gold is nearest the surface.
* * * *
Side-line work at Bendigo still spells profits.
Central Red, White and Blue is turning out fair-grade
stone from the saddle at 311 ft. The worst is that the
shoot of stone is not large ; hut its persistence charms
those who have boldly locked up shares; l So far the
shoot has been opened up 120 ft. north and south, and it
is within the mark to say that the two faces now look as
promising as ever. Other development ,w;ork is, how-
ever, only so-so, and it wants more than a 4ft. shoot of
stone to justify the screeds that are being posted to
Melbourne to make softies there believe that a second
New Moon has appeared on the horizon. What helps the
tarradiddlers is that at Lansell’s Little 180 rich gold is
being got. But it is all in a small way. There is no Bull-
finch records to set the blood rioting, and that is about
what is wanted at Bendigo to get a hustle on the
people who want to forget all they have dropped of late
years on premature booms. . *
The fuss over the Cathcart, Ararat, is material-
ising in a way that gives some people a sick feeling under
the belt. Meanwhile Harry Dodd is back from Mount
Copeland with a smile as bland as that of George Reid
when he took the dog from Manly on his holiday
trip abroad. And George Buchanan and the
Bryants aren’t in mourning either, and the Stock
Exchange has settled down to the opinion that
the Cathcart isn’t the iame dog of yesterday.
Manager Bryant isn’t likely, after Boulter’s pilgrimage to
the legal manager, to let developments lie fallow, and
the Stock Exchange cannot complain if he should fill the
notice board with glad tidings. The change arises from
the high ground having been met down the lead to the
east. The latest wire, flashed in Sydney to sizzle up de-
tractors there, tells of 12dwt. per truck dirt. This
is as good as was got off the rises east of No. 5,
and helps to explain the nice little yield of 700 oz. for the
past fortnight. Should the mine furnish, a second Cup
season surprise, look out for high jinks in Ararat! It’s
a bit soon, though, to bet on that event, seeing the pace
the wash was beaten out from the No. 5 to No. 10 rise ;
and it’s just that fact that keeps outsiders from swallow-
ing all the yarns about the rich ground ahead.
* * * *
Forest Creek Hydraulic Dredging Co. (Vic.),
which has been cheering old Castlemaine for 10 years,
sees its hearse galloping up. It used to have enough
ground to keep two plants busy ; but one of them has
lately been sold, and the second will probably take in its
last mouthful towards the end of 1911. Last half-year’s
work gave a profit of £530; but as there was a tidy bal-
ance in hand when the term started, and as £466 was got
from the sale of the plant, £1687 was divided. They call
this money dividend, hut most of it is merely return of
capital. The Forest Creek Co. is one of the many that
don’t write down mine and plane ; so that 18 months
hence its capital, though nominally intact, will really be
represented by nothing better than a few pounds’ worth
of old machinery and a few shillings’ worth of distracted
ground.
* * * *
The half-year’s copper output from Mt. Lyell
(Tas.) to September 30 was 4024 tons, which is 140 tons
below the yield for the previous term. For the full 12
months the output was 8188 tons. The only thing that
causes any immediate concern is the decline in the
value of ore treated. Reckoning up the returns for 12
weeks to October 5, the smelter handled 84,985 tons ore
and the converters produced 1689 tons copper, 140,8580 z.
silver and 23940 z. gold. Taking copper at £5O, the aver-
age return doesn’t pan out more than 255. per ton of
ore: even if the red metal is taken at £6O, only 4s. can
be added, making’ 295. for the stuff treated (84,985 'tons
for 1689 tons of pure copper). Last month’s return to
October 5 certainly looked up (584 tons 'copper, 49,7570 z.
silver and 7900 z. gold). Still the grade is low ; for the 12
weeks the furnace has 'required 50’03 tons of ore to pro-
duce a ton of copper. And gold and silver values nowa-
days average -less than 6s. per ton of ore. There is less
than £l5 worth of the precious metals in a ton of copper,
and a big'slice df that has to be cut off to pay for re-
ining.
* « * *
Mount Lyell had a Melbourne Stock Exchange
crowd at' it last week. Plainly a body of speculators is
making the North Lyell shoot of ore the winning post ot
the Lyell Blocks. One well-known trainer puts it: “If
it ain’t been spewed over the boundary. Well I’m bust! ”
The assertion crystallises the view of tbfespeckers that the
Lyell Blocks has at last got in side Sticht’s armor. Everyone
realises bv now that the llOOfc. level of the North Lyell is
not only below the measure of the ore in the 1000 ft. level,
but is far short of the 850 ft. level resources. While the world
knows that there was a pitch of the ore-body down to
1000 ft. towards the Lyell Blocks, there is not the same
w4d’e recognition of the shrinkage in the size of the shoot
at 1100 ft. The country is getting as hard as the gates of
Sheol, and the ore is not as rich as at 850 ft. So the
point, after all, is, what will be the grade of the ore and
t he size of the shoot should the Blocks get it ? Even if they
do make a strike, where is their supply of pyritic ore to
come from ? The possession of that asset is what inakes
Mount Lyell so cocksure, in spite of the behavior of
the North Lyell deposit at depth.
• * * *
Evidently on the strength of Shepherd’s report,
McGregor, Cloncurry (Q.), has got its new share issue
underwritten. It is apparently taken for granted that
Shepherd will carry out the construction work, and pro-
bably run the furnaces afterwards; and when Shepherd
says he can make a profit there is a strong party prepared
to back the opinion.
* * * *
Hampden-Cloncurry (Q.) is doing well with its
prospecting and development work at the Duchess mine.
The deepest level at 400 ft. vertical has been driven 467 ft.
north, and has proved two highly payable wedges of ore,
with rather a long blank of calcareous material and
quartz between them. The first make of rich ore started
about 200 ft. north of the shaft, and at a point 220 ft.
north a rise was started which will connect with a winze
from the 260 ft. level. It may be noted that the ore near
the top of the rise at 96ft., and at the bottom of the winze
at 30ft., is considerably below the value of that obtained
for the first 50ft. of rising above the 400 ft. level. The
second wedge of ore started to make good just past the
400 ft. mark, the barren quartz and calcareous material
changing to gossan, with rich veins of copper-glance and
bOrnite.
• * * *
East Mexican, Charters Towers, crushed 298
tons for £1723, or £5 16s. 7d. per ton. This is not so rich
as previous returns, but is payable. The good prospects
so much talked about a week or two since have shaded off
at the end of No. 6 ; and although there is a wide forma-
tion in the rise, the stone is patchy and somewhat lightly
mineralised. All of which excuses a weaker market,
irrespective of the crushing. It is madness, though, to
judge a show like the East Mexican on face prospects at
any time.
* * * *
The fact that New Brilliant Freehold, Charters
Towers, has bought an acre from its neighbor, the
Brilliant Block, for £lOOO shows that the Freehold is any-
thing but faint-hearted. It evidently intends to explore
the Day Dawn formation much deeper. So much atten-
tion ha's been devoted to Day Dawn developments that
the Freehold’s first love, the Brilliant formation, has
been almost forgotten. Perhaps the Freehold directors
■ remember old times and the sickening calls that had to
be made to explore the Brilliant formation, which
was so erratic as it tailed west. The N.B.F. report
mentions that No. 3 east is out 136 ft. with no stone
showing, but it is continuing this drive in the hope of
finding a payable reef. Prospects along No. 3 west for
372 ft. have been in and out, but it is encouraging to find
that the winze below No. 3 is down 66ft. on a reef of
fairly good stone. A second winze has been started
below No. 3, but so far there are only “splashes of
mineral.” The winzing ahead of No. 3 and below the
level show that the Day Dawn is very capricious.
* * * *
The Brilliant, Charters Towers, sends out a
report full of information about the prospecting work
done for it by the New Brilliant Freehold. The latter
co, extended its second level 387 ft. into the Brilliant,
and sank a winze at 220 ft. east of the boundary to a
depth of 100 ft. The last 14ft. showed a strong make of
stone; 12£ tons crushed for an average of £4 10s.
Those few tons are the firstfruit of the Day
Dawn development east of the dyke, which,
by the way, not only displaced the reef, but
has left it even more erratic than it was to the west
in the Freehold and Mills. The Freehold can’t continue
prospecting on behalf of the Brilliant, so the latter is
thinking about repairing its shaft at a cost of £3OOO.
Meantime the Brilliant keeps an anxious eye on the cross-
cut coming towards its boundary from the Brilliant
Block, because the work will test the Day Dawn forma-
-1 tion at a depth of 2100 ft. The Brilliant Block has bought
some mining machinery, and to lighten the expense has
sold a scrap of ground to the Freehold for £lOOO.
*• * * ' * .
Brilliant Block, Charters Towers, has stopped
prospecting while it instals the machinery purchased for
£2500 from the Block and Wyndham. The crosscut at
2100 ft. vertical reached the Brilliant P. C. boundary, but
didn’t pick up the reef. Probably it will be early next
year before sinking can be resumed. The Brilliant P. C.,
next door, is repairing its shaft; but it would be very
much better for these two'cos. to come to an understand-
ing, for the Brilliant Block shaft is so close to the
boundary that both leases could be prospected from it. '
* * * +•
Mungana (N. Queensland) has bought a crush-
ing plant and engine for the Girofla mine, which is provid-
ing shipments of mixed copper-lead carbonates and lead
sulphides for the Chillagoe smelter. The Lady Jane is
also producing some high-grade copper ore, low enough
in lead to be sent direct to the copper furnace. The total
monthly output from the mines is from 2000 to
2500 tons. The extraction from 3036 tons in August
was 176 tons c'-jyper, 142 tons lead and 42,9530 z.
silver, Showing a gross value at average prices of £16,564.
It is good ore from money-value point of view ; but it is
complex, and the cost of separating the metals always
stands in the way of substantial profits. And there is
cause for anxiety about reserves, too ; hence the boring
all round the cqmpass in search of ore. The deepest
level Is in the Girofla, at 610 ft. ; the lead sulphides in the
face there show a better quality;, but that doesn’t tell
whether any profit will be left after treatment. The pur-
chase of a crusher suggests that the co. is going to try
working on a new line.
» * * *
Waihi (M.L.) shares are not so jumpy as they
were. After all, the scare seems to have given “cold -'
feet” to very few ; the statement of transfers issued by
Rhodes, the co.’s Auckland attorney, seems to prove that
much. In June, when shares were fairly high, 3090 were
transferred to London, and in July 1245. ■ In September,
when shares struck the low bass note, 3105 were back
in Auckland. The sinister rumors got going first
through Thorne George, a local director and big
holder,'having his shares transferred to the London,
register. It was explained that the transfer was only '
to convenience him in drawing his dividends while in
the Cold Country ; but lower assay values in some cross-'
cuts in the No. 9 level now being blocked off didn’t help
to warm the toes of investors. Still there has been a big
chance to get out at a high price and in again at a low,
which makes one think hard.
* * * *
Talisman, Karangahake (M.L.), crushed 4000
tons for £19,112 ; costs for the month, including develop-
ment, are reckoned at 375. lOd. Shares lately got a bit
of a set-back through afire throwing the air-compressors
out of work ; but the manager reckons development will
be in full swing again by Christmas. A new lot of shares
has been issued to finance the opening up of the Wood-
stock section of the co.’s property.
From Kalgoorlie : The recent cave-in of the sur-
face of the Golden Horseshoe is only what will happen
at nearly every bier mine here. In the early days the
upper levels were badly timbered, and filling was done with
sand, which has invariably proved a failure for mullock-
ing-up. For several years past- most of the ore has been
slimed, and damp slime is the best filling' BUbstabpe. It
does not “run "like sand, and it hardens to rock in a
very little while. So, though there will be serious trouble
over the top levels, the bottom workings should be
steady. As a nutter of fact, the top of the Horseshoe has
been shaky for the last four years, but any whisper on
the point has been instantly suppressed.


K
Esiab
1818
ROBwr
*9^
Cookin’s not half bad if you
have nice people to cook for—
my idea is a cook ought to be
boss of the kitchen, and nobody
should interfere with her the
sort of place 1 like is where
the missus leaves everythin’ to
me —-l knows what’s wanted
how much to order, and the
best sort to buy—much better
than any missus does.
The thing that most people find
hardest to buy, with satisfaction
to themselves, is tea —it isn’t
everybody as knows when tea
is good, do’ye see? —now, I’ve
tried ’em all, and the only
tea l ever bother about gettin’
is Robur 1 like the No. 1
Grade, and 1 believe it’s as
good tea as can be got.
Tea travellers don’t waste their
time about my kitchen l tell
’em straight out 1 won’t be
bothered with ’em —1 know what
Robur is—it’s good wholesome
tea it’s always the same, and
the flavour’s just as nice as
nice can be, and what more
can anybody get or want.
The Cook.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE.”
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, October 18, 1910.
My Dear Arini, —
The Chelmsfords took a spell from bazaar-
opening and other Imperial labors one recent
evening and went to Her Majesty’s. They
seemed to enjoy the show, but I fancy'their bliss
was mitigated by the attention the audience paid
them. Every time Langford Kirby or the Gibbs
family did or said an amusing thing a hundred
heads were twisted towards the Chelmsford box
to see how vice-regality was taking it. Use recon-
ciles one to all things, saith the sage ; but for me
such an experience would be overmuch like
taking my pleasure in the monkey-cage at
the Zoo. Still, Government House doesn’t need
to go to the play to be a target for the public eye.
A few days ago I saw what, at first, I took to be a
popular street-rising against the Wade Govern-
ment. Not so, however. It turned out that one
of the Dudley household was buying a tie in a
haberdashery shop, and the crowd was there to
see he wasn’t taken down or something. It was
the same at Randwick. Hordes of expensively if
not well-dressed suburbanites massed about the
vice-regal pens and peered into the occupants’
faces with the frankest sort of interest. But
the wooden expression on the vice-regal face
never wavers no matter how fierce the fire of
eyes. On the principle that there are few things
the normal person dislikes more than to be bailed
up in a corner and persistently stared at, it seems
to me that our Governors earn their salaries while
in Sydney. They are better off, in ways, than
the imported polar bear, who has to endure the
same trial, year in year out, for a miserable fee of
a few buns and an occasional lighted cigarette
hurled down his throat; but that is about the
best that can be said.
A feature of Sydney’s recent festivities was the
majestic height of many of the young women who
were on view. One of the handsomest was Mrs.
Cyril Ward, a visiting sister-in-law of the
Dudleys. She is 6ft. if she is an inch, and the
owner of a straight, slim and perfectly-modelled
figure, calculated to make a show-girl envious.
The good-looking Anderson girls tower above
ninety-nine male escorts out of a hundred. So
does Miss Enid Bayley ; so does Miss Ogilvie, a
fair vision from up-country. And there are others.
The Cyril Wards were due to proceed to the
Carlton at Manly after they returned from Med-
low. There they proposed to test whether the in-
digenous sport of surf-bathing is really the thing
it is cracked up to be, as a preliminary to the
strenuousitiesof Cup week in Melbourne.
I was in time to meet the remains of Mrs.
Allen Taylor’s reception to Lady Henderson, wife
of the visiting Admiral, coming away from the Town
Hall on Monday afternoon. It was a beautiful re-
mains. There was Miss Rose Scott, glad with a
spice of sorrow at the turn the elections had taken.
There was Mrs. (Dr.) Collins in a green dream-
frock, with a white gardenia in her corsage,
and lime-and-pink silk roses overhead ; and
Mrs. Earp (in a dawn-in-December pink cloth,
with an eighth of a mile of pink corals round her
neck), and Mrs. Monty Severn were more re-
mains. Mrs. Layton was also “just going,” with
Mrs. Flulfy-Ruffles Justice Cohen. The guest-
in-chief still conversed with her hostess. Lady
Henderson is of medium height, with the figure
of a girl of 17 and clear-cut features, and was
silkily frocked in grey. She is a sister-in-law, I’m
told, of Mrs. (Dr.) Jenkins.
Gaby Deslys, who, according to the cable man,
was a side-issue of the Portuguese trouble, was
well known by sight to a number of Sydney
people who chanced to be in London when the
“New Aladdin,” in which she had a part, was
produced there some four or five years ago. They
describe her as a blue-eyed, orange-haired girl,
angelic-looking in her fairness. She was a great
friend of Fanny Dango. A lately-returned
Sydneysider saw the dancer at a French water-
ing place wearing a white linen skirt, a short
coat of bright cretonne and a lingerie hat,
and looking like a beautiful doll. I don’t sup-
pose that many persons believe that her flirtation
with King Manoel (if any) had anvthing to do
with losing the lad his job. Most likely the
cabled yarns anent her share in the revolution
represent the astuteness of her manager. ‘‘ Here’s
an important crisis,” says he ; “I must drag in
Gaby by the tights.” And he does, for the cablers
have such large ears and the public such a wide,
wide mouth—especially when the potage to be
swallowed is heavily seasoned with scandal about
a man and a girl.
If the aged Francis Joseph of Austria, in whose
capital the Deslys is now dancing, were to be sud-
denly bereft of his throne by revolutionaries, and
told to go and get work in Albion, the dancer’s
manager would certainly rush out to the live-wire
man with the misinformation that “ the woman
did it.” Albion, by the way, notwithstanding
Byron’s line about “ the cold in clime are cold in
blood ; their love can scarce deserve the name,”
seems to have been ever sympathetic to dis-
tinguished lovers. Charles 11. was never in
danger of having his throne bounced away from
him through his intrigues with orange girls ; and
there have been later philanderings than those of
Charles and Nell.
'■A man sends me this: “King Alexander, of
Servia, lost his crown and life the other day because
his Queen hadn’t been all she should ; and now one
reason advanced for the summary dismissal of
Manoel, of Portugal, is his devotion to Miss Gaby
Deslys. These happenings indicate a change in
the popular ideal of a king. Of old the royal
morals weren’t questioned, so long as the man
who owned them was handy with the broadsword
and lavish with his subjects’ money. The
habits of England’s Georges were inexcusable.
The domestic story of the French kings is unfit
for any decently-conducted Sunday-school; and
the same applies to the more prominent members
of the House of Savoy, to the Hapsburgs, to the
Spanish sovereigns, and, above all, to the Napo-
leon family. The populace always accepted their
ruler’s frailties as necessary accompaniments of
their position. Not so to-day. The king, if he
is to hold his job, must give general satisfaction.
His character must at least be as good as his
butler’s. He has laid down the battle-axe
and helmet of his ancestors and taken up
in their place the umbrella and top-hat
of the city man. And he must act accord-
ingly. In the period when it was part of a
king’s job to lead forlorn hopes, quest after
Grails, attack the Saracen in his insanitary lair,
and otherwise take big risks, the nations were
willing to excuse a few moral lapses. But now a
king has little to do save draw his salary and lay
foundation-stones. There are so many who are
capable of these duties that derelictions from the
path of duty are severely chided.”
Poor King Manoe 1 started handicapped, any-
way. He was christened with 13 names. And
now he has but one—Walker.
The Frank Browns—she was Miss Elsie Blax-
land of the ancient exploring family—are off to
older worlds. They intend to be some years
travelling.
Other departers for the Motherland and the
Coronation will be the ex-Mayoral Tom Hughes
pair. A very presentable brace indeed. No
shaky syntax, saggy deportment or audible eat-
ing of consomme in that direction. Sydney ad-
mires the Hughes couple, and they have its
permission to attend the George V. production,
for they will be creditable representatives. The
W. H. Kellys, who have just endured a week at
Federal Government House, are going in Decem-
ber ; and Mrs. Forsyth, of Dudley, near Newcastle
—the wonderfully-frocked Mrs. Forsyth and one
of the best riders anywhere—is preparing for
early flight in the same direction.
An exhibition of George Lambert’s work will
be opened at the Society of Artists’ rooms at the
Q.V. Markets on the 27th of this month. Mr.
Hardy Wilson, a Sydney architect, who has been
six years in foreign capitals studying his craft and
learning to loathe the disfiguring Austra-
lian architecture, such as mars Mosman,
will manage the exhibition. Allowing for
the partisanship of an admirer, Lambert
is a bigger man than Australia realises.
He is recognised, says Mr. Wilson, as a leader of
British art. Dusseldorf has asked him to select
the British work for its exhibition, and he has
already bought for German galleries. New
York has almost stopped work waiting
for him. Lambert’s portrait of the late
King was a masterly achievement. The
monarch stands near his horse, whose head is held
by a groom. Men and steed are life size ; the
picture is lift. high. “The Blue Hat,” which is
amongst the pictures Mr. Wilson has brought
here, he describes as a miracle of artistry. A
lady holds a small boy on her knee, and has
put on his head the big blue hat of a visitor who
is standing near. The group represents Lam-
bert’s wife, two little boys, and Miss Thea
Proctor. The painter is said to be a certainty
for the next R.A. Associateship.
Mr. Wilson’s own contribution to the exhi-
bition will be his collection of 18th century
carved ivory fans. He has the finest collection
of its kind in the world, he asserts. Some are
painted on chicken-skin, others on silk. The
carving is the work of old Chinese artists to the
order of noble French houses, and, as the art is
lost, we ought to be grateful to the collector for
letting us see something that has been, but won’t
be again. The world is too busy inventing aero-
planes to go groping after lost Chinese arts, es-
pecially the kind that are painted on hen-skin.
Contralto Ella Caspers has sprung a little mine
on the subscribers to the fund that sent her for
study to foreign parts. She writes from some
place in Germany to Miss Blanche D’Alpuget
that she is to be married to Mr. Charles Bradley
in January, an-J requests that the balance of the
£3OO collected for her should be returned to the
subscribers or placed to the credit of some other
student. About £7O of the fund remains, and the
committee is puzzled as to the ultimate bestowal
of the money. Legally, the committee cannot
convert it to any use but that for which
it was collected. To return it to the
givers seems ridiculous, as each person’s
share would be infinitesimal. Before Miss
Caspers left here, her engagement to Mr. Bradley
was rumored but denied. However, she has had
two years’ musical education, and will, she
promises, return here for a tour. Next year,
probably.
Concerning singers : Sydneysiders would like a
chance of hearing Mrs. Mary Conly in oratorio.
Her work in this class of music is said to be very
fine. The Philharmonic might arrange the
matter.
Dolores will come back to Sydney about two
months hence for the sole purpose of singing at
Mr. Sykes’s concert. She is raining the silver of
her voice on the Westralians about this date. A
Melbourne girl, an R.C. in training for the cheru-
bim, tells me that Dolores and her faithful com-
panion, Miss Something, never missed matins
whilst in the southern city. Every early-morning
of the week the devoted and devout pair were to
be found in the doubtful daylight of the cathe-
dral. Their efforts to save the soul of the star’s
manager (Southwell) by getting him to arise and
be plucked from the burning were heroic but un-
availing. The wretched man remains Lost. At
Horsham the whole town turned up at the railway
station to meet the singer, and the Mayoress read
her an address. At Stawell she opened the new
bowling-green by bowling the first jack on its
shaven sward.
Tenor Walter Kirby is in Sydney, a living
picture of what to wear and how to wear it. He
looks as if he were paying a chronic morning call
on the Countess of Dudley. As a matter of fact,
he has been singing duets with her nearly every
day of his stay. And he speaks of her musical
knowledge as far above that of the amateur, and of
her voice as “somethingexquisite.” When thelady
married, correspondents wrote of her as having “a
voice like Nordica.” But she does not raise it at
any even of her private parties. None of the Few
Called and Chosen who are summoned by telephone
to an informal evening have been honored to the
extent of hearing that voice breathe in song.
They lose something, for Kirby says Lady
Dudley’s singing (to her own accompaniment) of
French ballads is a memory that will dwell for aye
under the regidn of his ashes-of-roses tie with the
powder-of-carrots’ spots.
The tenor, who, by the way, is a Maorilander,
has been like “ one of themselves ” amongst
English and foreign royalties, and the coroneted
persons of England who pay artists high fees
for warbling at their town and country houses.
The late King commanded Kirby to supper, and,
of course, be had to go whether he liked or not. I
wish some King would invite Randolph Bedford to
supper. Efjs account of the occasion would be worth
printing. Princess Henry of Pleiss, our visitor says,
is the most beautiful woman he has ever seen, and
she sings and dances “as well as a professional.”
She does the Italian and French dances. Princess
Louise of Argyle, a daughter of the late Queen
Victoria, is also the owner of a voice. Voices
seem to be raised in all sorts of unexpected
persons and places. Kirby sang a duet with
her at one of her charity entertainments. Further,
he says “she looks like a girl of twenty.” One
wishes he had found out more about this phase of
the royal lady’s accomplishments. Lady Want-
age, who is chieftainess of Lloyd’s Bank —a multi-
millionaire and a fosterer of art and music—has
been one of the tenor’s greatest friends amongst
the Lights o’ London. She it was who armed him
with introductions to the Dudleys.
Mr. Kirby’s concert will eventuate next Thurs-
day, the 20th inst., at the Y.M.C.A. He will
sing the aria from Andre Chenier, Caruso’s great
aria from Pagliacci, and a group of Italian,
French and English ballads. Mrs. Slapoffski,
Staell and Harold Whittle will help.
The engagement of Miss Norma McMeiken, of
Melbourne, to Mr. Keith Maxwell is announced.
The lady is dark, strikingly handsome and an
heiress. Last year she went to London, was pre-
sented at Court, and otherwise had a pleasing
time. Mr. Maxwell is a member of a local business-
house, and belongs to one of N.S.W.’s most aged
families.
How much more brains go to the making of a
play like “ Paid in Full ” than to the stringing of
beans or the writing of an “Our Miss Gibbs.”
To your “ Akenehi ” “ Paid in Full ” seems a suc-
cess of construction and American portraiture.
Katherine Grey, as Emma Brooks, wife of the
collector of a steamship company, is a revelation
of the essentially feminine. Cyril Mackay plays
the husband, Joseph Brooks (that name of Joseph
again tacked on to the unsatisfactory man !), and
suggests the modern American of Claudio in
“Measure for Measure” for meanness and
sordidness of character. There were cataracts of
applause during the progress of the play ; but the
final curtain fell to no tumult of appreciation. I
fancy the audience was disappointed at finding
that the old captain, whose flat Emma Brooks
visited at close upon midnight, hadn’t strictly
dishonorable intentions towards his visitor.
Everything pointed that way. It was a cun-
ningly baited hook of the dramaturgist’s to lead
his audience up to expect a deadly sin and then
present them with a cardinal virtue.
It is a singularly quiet play save for the young
husband’s froth and bluster. And it is not a
particularly frocky one. Miss Grey, while she is
poor and living in a cheap flat, wears a poor,
cheap, white frock. When she is well-off and in a
flat to match, she has a martingaled gown of
flame-colored satin, with a tunic of amethyst
ninon. Susie Vaughan, who is Miss Grey 's stage
mother, dashes in and out on her way to and from
a theatre in the blue silk get-up of a woman
whose husband’s will, as she herself says, has been
a disappointment. Florence Gleeson, with a
motor disguise, has a dandy little motor-bonnet
of brown, with bunches of little pink flowers.
Mrs. William Desmond, wife of Miss Grey's
new support, is built on the same noble plan as
her sister, Nance O’Neil. She is large and fair.
Probably a later play will give her a chance of
appearing.
This is for Mr. George Willoughby, of
“The Night of the Party,” at the Criterion.
The make-up of the manager of the Had-
stone Castle Hotel would drive clients to the
opposition shop. He wears a pair of let-us-prays
(or side whiskers), and looks like a dissenting
parson paying pastoral calls. Mr. Willoughby
ought to send him to the Australia to study
Father Smith, or run him up to Mealow to collect
an imitation of Beautiful Burgess.
For Coogee and Manly, where surfing started
with great enthusiasm last Sunday, there is a
new bathing wrap of red and white Turkey
towelling. Another of blue and white-bordered
towelling is a useful and harmonious one. Both
are merely for wear between the water’s edge and
the dressing-tent.
The other afternoon I went in the Long Bay
tram to La, Perouse. As we sped past the
Female Penitentiary—the grim pile which houses
the most unpleasant of our female offenders —an
elderly person in my compartment seized the arm
of her companion and said : “ Fine building that,
ain’t it? It’s the Ladies’ Gaol.” It struck me as
a unique effort in the art of genteel expression.
Hotel Australia is wearing its new race dress.
Only it wears it inside, not out. In fact, the
dress may be said to wear the hotel. A mile of
carpet arrived by some recent liner, and now
rests, in pieces, on the various corridors. New
floor-frocks of soft, glowing colors are on the re-
ception and dining rooms, and now will the tail
of the restaurant gown have a fine relief. Some-
thing wonderful in the way of bridge-building is
to be done in the neighborhood of the smoking
gallery.
What may happen to a motorist: A Mosman
doctor, accompanied by his wife, was motoring
down that steep road that leads to the Spit, where
the punt chains lie low to upset your boat and
drown you. A tram and a cyclist were coming
towards him, and, in trying to do the right thing
by both, he struck the cyclist’s machine, The
rider was hoisted high into the air, then threw an
aerial somersault and fell into the lap of the
doctor’s wife. The surprise of the faller and the
fallen-upon was about equal. Fortunately, neither
was hurt.
Isn’t it Jerome K. Jerome who tells the story
of how he hunted for days for a method of curing
fits in cats, and finally found it at the end of a
cookery book ? After pondering over his dis-
covery, he came to the conclusion that it was the
only way the author could find of unburthening
his mind of the unusual bit of information. I
marvel that Savarkar, the Indian person who
printed his bomb-making manual in London and
posted it out to India, didn’t strike the idea of
masking his combustible knowledge with a couple
of hundred pages about flour and baking powder
and eggs. No detective would ever have found it
then. Which only proves once more how
variously-useful an animal woman really is; for
without women, of course, there wouldn’t be any
cookery books.
A small girl who signs herself Margaret Bal-
cxnqual, and who writes from Pier’s Hill, Edin-
burgh, has sent a box of pink heather “ pulled at
Quarri Wood, Elgin,” to one of The Bulletin’s
staff. It has retained its scent of sea and wind
(or, maybe, this is imagination), and is a remem-
brancer of Charlotte Bronte and grouse. I believe
the grouse eat the flowering heather, and I recall
that the Bronte girls, from their lonely house near
the graveyard on the Yorkshire moors, used to
look upon a wondrously beautiful scene when the
pink and white heather bloomed in the autumn
over an otherwise objectionable landscape. Little
Margaret Balcanqual is hereby thanked.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHI.
When Minister Sammy Moore was re-
jected at Bingara (N.S.W.) he had been 20 years
in Parliament. His colleague, James Alex.
Hogue, who also went down, had just finished 16
years.
“ Pa ” Delohery, Sydney’s old magistrate,
represented by his eldest son, who is instructed
by another son, is suing the N.S.W. Government
for £5OOO, alleged arrears of pension money. The
case came on for the first round last week. The
State seems to have two defences —(1) that the
superannuation fund went bung, and so the Gov-
ernment isn’t liable, at any rate, for more than a
portion of the money; (2) that the Government gave
Pa Delohery a job as Public Service Commissioner
at £lOOO a year up to last January, and hopes he
doesn’t expect to draw his salaryfor his valuableser-
vices simultaneously with a pension granted on the
supposition that he was past work. As to this,
Pa Delohery and his boys have said nothing ; but
as tc the first point, they say that the fund went
bung because G. H. Reid flung a host of pen-
sioners on it who weren’t entitled to pensions at
the time. The Crown has demanded from the
Delohery family the names of these persons, and
they (the family) have been given a month to dig
them up.


M
if.
mihiMm
e;
WffmA
mi
€J
Of
L.-C
Sn
r*
WAmJ,
i
iWI //j >•/
'V f-f
“■*> .i.
tk*
s
vrvj
\r*
/v,
X
vx
5?
rv
f€,
/V
a
X
XL-
#>*
>f:
/v
nmmw,
••V&fflK
ws»sSs ! ‘ r :
«,V-
- n-^-.
&&&&&
N.L
nS?
r.KAz
l^'j
i
C-O-B-R-A Ghe Boot Polish!
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Round the world
At boot-time due,
Hitches up
His team and drives,
Ev’ry morning
He arrives.
He has time
And cash to spare,
“COBRA” takes
Him ev’rywhere !
All the other
Sorts he loses !
“COBRA” is the
Stuff HE uses 1


DUNLOP
CARDEN
HOSF
w*-
TT
* B
r Gives long service, does not kink
or burst, and lasts for years.
Specify “DUNLOP” Brands, and
you will get the Best Hose at a
reasonable price.
OBTAINABLE ALL LEADING STOREKEEPERS
Vhc'l
DUNLOP RUBBER CO. ,
Melbourne. Sydney. Adelaide, Perth, Briibmr i
and Christchurch. N.Z
Si
MU
•«&.'
m
%
I
Outwear
All
Others.
Only Accept
Dunlop
Brand*
fThere’s nothing like
! our soft Para Rubber Duo Top
Heels for Comfort, Wear
and Finish. They absorb all
[ jarring, and outwear several
pairs of leather heels. I
I Obtainable in various shapes' and I
sizes from all leading Stores, But fl
to get Best Results you must I
specify " DUNLOP * l Brand. |
ROBBER HEELS
OUNLOP RUBBER CO.
M«lto»wrn«. SydntH
Y Adelaida, P«rtN
C»*rt«tChurcK. M.*.
:
l>
Medical &Toilet Blacks Green Fkket R c -
GOLD MEDAL FRANCO-BRITISH EXHIBITION.
AN IDEAL TOILET SOAP . . .
A DELIGHTFUL NURSERY SOAP
being absolutely Non-Irritating even to
most delicate skin.
ttie
A Perfect BATH SOAP, being most Refreshing in use and at the same time Antiseptic.
AN IDEAL SOAP FOR THE HAIR, as it cleanses the Scalp perfectly, and makes the
hair Soft and Glossy.
A PERFECT SHAVING SOAP, as it Lathers Freely in even the hardest water.
F. H. FAULDING 8 CO.. London, Adelaide, Perth, Sydney.
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, October 17, 1910.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Caulfield Cup has always a fine day. Curious
how consistent the weather can be if it likes.
Nothing could have been more erratic than the
wild gusts, the hot puff«, the tropical rain and
the hail and sleet that forced itself on the notice
of even the most supercilious scorners of
weather moods up to Friday. Then suddenly
the elements pulled themselves together, and
Saturday was a great day entirely. All the
people—the sporting people—and all the sporting
people’s best clothes got an outing. Men made
dandies of themselves, and put on socks that only
a chord of music could describe. The new gloves
among men are chamois leather, just like the ones
Mary Ann wears when she polishes up the handle
of the big front door. With these paw-coverings
you wear (if you are a marl with any soul) it
buttbii-hble of cornflowers and baggy £>ants, tapef-
ing.iri at the ankle.
The women wore everything—positively every-
thing. Three in a row held a harvest festival on
their three hats. The collection included sheaves
of corn, stacks of flowers, and feathers of all the
birds that ever harried the early worm. Amaz-
ing what some women will put on. One, for
instance, boasts of her motor-cloak as being
made of hundreds of skins of “ unborn birds.”
She has forgotten the name of the bird, as it is
“almost extinct.” The garment may be made of
the cast-off skin of the sea serpent, for all I know
to the contrary ; but I am told that it is one of
only five such cloaks in the world. People who
own thrones and castles and bomb-proof shelters
have the others. It was not worn at the
races, as it is designed for motor-wear
only. I shuddered at a black hat with quite
50 white aigrettes. The sepulchre came down
to the shoulders of the destroyer who wore it,
completely hiding her face. In that one respect
it was a sensible piece of millinery.
Mummer Atwell brought a lovely girl in grey,
but she was almost hidden under her hat. Re-
cognition is as uncertain with this shoulder-
drooping headgear as if the girls were veiled in
true Turkish fashion. Mrs. Eugenie Duggan
AndersOn ivas irtost chastely subdued in black.
Black is such a smart Color. Mrs. Reggie Power
had a key-pattern, the color of skinned rabbit,
tattooed all over her tight dress. She carried a
lavender parasol lined with rose. If there is any-
thing that can beat the joyousness of a pink
parasol, it is One of this lilac color with the light
filtering through it. Mrs. Captain Polar-Scott
walked Out in a narrow mole-colored frock that
gave her a Bond-street air. Mrs. Syme showed a
cute little flat black bow on her hat, and the pret-
tiest neck imaginable. She wore creamy fixings,
and brought her sister along half-hidden under a
grey hat and roses.
The Burston ball was a gorgeous and defiant
mayoral swan-song. The Town Hall and all its
surroundings looked like a red-ant hill that some-
one had wickedly poked with a stick. Inside the
hall, Frank Walker, like Jinney the Djinn, had
made roses to grow from the ceiling, and japonica
to sprout from the balconies, while hollyhocks
flaunted where concert operators usually make
their noise. Hostess Mrs. Burston, slender and
handsome, looked like an American Trust
in gold and silver; gold flowers, crusted
on to silver net, were wound about silver-
grey satin. She danced with Governor Car-
michael in the first set, while Mayor Burston,
hot in his robes, led a cool Carmichael lady. The
Carmichael lady wore a coat of wonderful lace,
she had her white satin underdress tied round the
knees with black tulle, and some considerable
diamonds blazed for further effect. Captain
Scott paused long enough on his way to the Pole
to frivol through an evening’s dancing. He was
in civilian dress, with several small, but tremen-
dous medals pinned on his chest. His most
decorative possession was his wife—a sparkling
lady, whom General Hoad guided through the
official set. She wore a dull blue gown, glued
on to her; over this floated quite four
ghosts of gowns—filmy ninons in deeper and
deeper shades of sea-blue, with a turquoise film
fluttering somewhere. It was a poem of a dress.
Mrs. Justice Isaacs got herself into lurid reds and
wine color. Miss Burston, with Titian hair, wore
a white little dress—ankle short and fixed with
lilies.
The Mayoress-elect, Mrs. Davey, was at home,
mourning her mother’s death. Mrs. Madden,
\who has been a sad, black-clad figure lately, was
.also away. Daughter Beatrice, with laurels in
her hair, came with papa. John Madden is
growing Pickwickian with the two little tufts of
grey hair springing from either side of his shin-
ing, benevolent, bald head. Guy rolled round in
ibis kilt, like a big, gambolling, good-natured St.
Bernard puppy. Singer Maggie Stirling stood up
■out of the ruck like an Amazon, and Mrs. Campbell
■of much sheep-wealth waved metallic hair-fixings
dike a message to Mars. Mrs. Willie Sharp—black
.and blue in gowning—led the diamond brigade
.after the Carmichael lady. Mrs. Railway Tain
■broke out in huge black spots on a fresh-colored
silk. The Best lady made a re-appearance, fined
.down and thin after her illness. And there was
.also a great plenitude of pretty and decorative
Effirl.
St. Vincent’s ball shared in the gorgeous
ffroCking of the week. The depressing black and
i purple Court mourning has been cast off and every-
thing is sparkling. Silver and gold cover clothes
as if King Midas had been playing “touch.”
St. Vincent’s had so many sets that the ball
looked as if it were of the fancy species. The sets
were schemed for a big effect. Most of them took
a flower for a basis, with the blossom itself for a
cap. No matter how small it was, the girl who
“setted” it had to hide her hair under only one
bloom. The violetshad hard work tomagnify them-
selves sufficiently ; but it was managed somehow.
The nurses had a jolly set on their own all
in their smartest bib and tucker. The Frepch
Maids took the eye in the N whirl of the Lancers.
The Directoire plumped solidly for black and
white, and scored a striking effect. It was a
cheerful affair, and the balconies were crowded
with soberly-clad watchers, helping the hos-
pital with their looking-on fees. Secretary
Nat Fitzgerald, behind his monocle, skilfully
steered the enjoyable frivol, like the best chauffeur
that ever sat behind a glass screen.
The city newsboys, who from time unremem-
bered have had an annual ball to help their
finances, this year had a matinee instead. The
affair happened at the King’s on Friday afternoon.
The Carmichaels and a noble company occupied
a large segment of the front half-moon of the
dress-circle, and were jovial and interested. It
was very much their party. The newsboys are
a pet charity of Lady Carmichael, and she
had done her vice-regal best to get a good pay-
ing houseful. Aide Vaux worked like a tiger,
and helped secretary Miss Onions until a sprained
ankle laid him low. On Friday he was up and at
it, limp and all. Miss Greta Garnett had a party
which filled the front row of the stalls —mostly
j'Oung people of her Own number Of summers,
With sister Mrs. Svme as chaperone. The Frank
Madden’s fortified part of the house, and Mrs.
Staughton packed friends in another corner.
There was not breathing space for the unhappy
unbooked.
Every theatre “permitted” mummers to do a
charity stunt. All the present Melbourne plays
got in an act. Rickards sent Lorna and Toots
Pounds—the clever children who have been
mimicking current mummers and their manner-
isms at At Homes both here and in Sydney.
They wore simple white frocks that adver-
tised the good taste of the grown-ups behind
them. The two “Whip” leads broke into a play-
let of one act called “ The Fourth Kiss.” The
title sounds weakly sentimental, but the thing
was really powerful. The Kiss is a deathly
thing frorrij the ghost of an Asiatic god
which is pressed upon a too contemptuous
European; The little Dickenson maid from
the Mejmell and ClatkO Co.; growing into a
charming girl, danced a burlesque With Crom-
well, with her fascinating lint-white locks a-flow-
ing round her. Altogether, the programme had
more meat in it than one generally gets at a
matinee.
Henley-on-the-renovated-Yarra seems to be the
only reason why this week exists at all. House-
boats are being hammered into shipshape ready
for disguising flower screens. Girls lay them-
selves out to manufacture square miles of paper-
flowers, and so beat Creation at its own game.
Shops fill their windows with studied simplicity,
variously labelled Henley hats, Henley cushions,
Henley umbrellas (mostly paper) and fluttering
Henley scarves. People invited on to house-
boats, and the energetic crowds who “syn-
dicate ” for rowing boats and launches will
see the sights and the rowing—when they are
not being tipped into the water. The banks will
be swarming with people, thick as ants on a dis-
turbed hill-nest, who will pay a half-crown to
walk on the grass and look at houseboats from
the outside. As far as the marine workings are
concerned, the rule of the river is growing into a
bogey as big as the sea serpent, and seafarers will
have to mind their oars and propellers with
exquisite care if they want to avoid breaking the
rule in several places and being ruined with tines.
Calvd departed amidst a whirl of enthusiasm,
sending wireless messages in a private code from
her marvellous eyes. Galileo Gasparri also
seemed to be snapping off a few of his own as the
mailboat moved away.
Major Wilson, who promenaded so magnifi-
cently at Caulfield, departed by the India to the
Coral Strand, with several lily-fair hands waving
an affectionate farewell. Sister Mrs. Kathleen
Watson-Dearden piloted him tremulously round,
and let him peep only at the nicest girls—for the
Major is a desirable bachelor of 40 summers
(Indian ones mostly). The Colonel of his regi-
ment (54th Sikhs) is married to an Australian
girl; so the regiment turns its eyes this way
whenever matrimony is mentioned.
Some more than usually-noticeable good-byes
have been said to Miss Burleigh, the late matron
of the Melbourne Hospital. The whole hospital
staff, down to the pantry girls, found something
to press upon her as a memento. There is great
dignity attached to the high office of matron of a
big house of healing, for the one holding it has as
much responsibility as a captain of a ship. Un-
like most women in her position, Miss Burleigh
was not content merely to direct others. At the
time of the awful Sunshine smash she did a man’s
work out in the yards, lifting sorely-wounded men
and women from the ambulances. All the mem-
bers of the committee were aboard the boat that
carried her off, and had a last handshake. Presi-
dent Mrs. Godfrey, the committee member who
invited Miss Burleigh here 10 or more years ago,
was the last to say good-bye. The new matron, a
Miss Bell, is now on her way from Scotland.
Miss Darling, a well-known St. Kilda girl, who
recently went tripping to Java with her father,
basely deserted her adoring poppa in the Land
of the Nail, and entered into the bonds with a
fellow-passenger, Mr. Wills. Strangely enough,
the lucky man had spent 13 years in Melbourne
and had never met his future wife—which proves
once more that 13 is an unlucky number. Fate,
who arranges these matters, chose to wait until a
steamer was starting off to an odd corner of the
earth to bring them together. The two are
descending on Australia for the Flemington spree
next month.
On Thursday, the day this letter impacts your
eye, a wedding of interest to us will occur in your
Harbor city. Dr. Horace P. Godfrey, of St.
Kilda, marries Miss Pilcher, of Orange. Bride is
a sister of Mrs. (Dr.) Howse, of that fruitily-
named.city, and a niece of Pilcher, K.C. Bride-
groom is a son of Mr. George Godfrey, well known
to politics and the law.
Since his triumph of last week, William Moore
'is hatching bigger dramatic schemes, with the
Turn Verein for scenic background. The triolet
of plays —his own and those of Louis Esson and
Miss Pritchard—were given in the cosy German
hall. The next will be offered to a cafe chantant
audience out in the quaint gardens roundabout.
There is a long, wide verandah, high like a ter-
race, curving round from the main part of the
Turn Verein Club to the ballroom ; and this will
make a capital stage, with excellent exits for thb
mummers into the rooms behind. At the' last
show an orchestra played in the seductive little
gallery above the back of the hall. It was a
startlingly good orchestra, drawn probably from
several city bands at the call of the Turn Verein.
Antarctic Scott and wife—she is a nice-looking,
quite-young party—have just departed for your
city, and will put up at the Australia. He is of
the Shackleton build, clean shaven, and with
well-bred bulldog points. Dr. Simpson, who
registers “from Simla,” is with them.
The Victorian Artists’ Spring show will have
opened at the touch of Alfred Deakin by the time
this climbs into print. Wednesday, the 19th, is
the day fixed for the start of the exhibition, which
is to be held in the Upper Room of the Athenaeum
—nowadays the chief shrine of those who paint
and sculp.
, Maud-Grantham is obliged to .postpone her
'“KipTing'Night” at the Independent Hall from
October 21 to November 5. The date originally
fixed on had been dedicated to a children’s con-
cert, and Miss Grantham thought it wiser to
suffer a postponement than risk a clash.
Professor Lingham is to take the platform at
the Austral Salon once again —on Tuesday,
October 25. Faulkner Smith, who is managing
the scholarly entertainment, blows a trumpet for
the modest Lingham
To’see and hear this great artist in his magnificent im-
personation of Marcus Antonins and other characters is
a liberal education. He has a superb stage presence, is
endowed with the supreme gift of expression, is a subtle
tone-colorist, and has a voice that is an arrow for the
heart.
Which is a pretty warm personal reference for
poet Uingham. He will fire the arrow in three
monodramas, including “Saved by an Earth-
quake.”
A recent letter from Mrs. Doubleday, in Vienna,
to Mr. Oehr, in Melbourne, states that her
daughter Leila will study further before she gives
the concert which, according to her teacher s pre-
diction, will set Austria talking about the young
violinist. In anticipation of the success she is to
make in Vienna, there is talk of arranging a
London concert for Leila Doubleday next June.
Meanwhile, she is adding to her repertoire.
“During the summer holidays she has done the
Brahms concerto and the Lala symphony, and is
now doing the Beethoven concerto, writes mamma.
The distinction between holiday pastimes and
work-a-dav tasks is not very wide in Leila s case.
Blamire Young has finished up with a nicely
spotted collection of pictures. The show was
very much alive on its last day ; but in tnese ex-
traordinarily artistic times it is impossible to wring
the last guinea from the laggard purchaser, as the
showing place is booked for other hangings, and
must be vacated promptly. This is the city
where people cried aloud that there was no
market for Australian work in Australia ! iSow
We ha've two picture halls going solidly—the
upper room of the Athenaeum and the Guild Hall.
And both of them are booked well ahead. Blamire
Young this time painted as he sees, instead of
posterising his pictures into charming but con-
ventional schemes. Stolid city people say lie has
idealised. Evidently they do not know their
own country. Probably some of them have never
had a real good look at it; for one may easily cut
across vast stretches of country by train and see
nothing.
Jennie Brennan has her small fry in hand for
another opera. The Foundling Home is quite a
boomed charity now ; but Miss Brennan and her
children-dancers are old-time supporters. It is
two years now since they gave their first perform-
ance in aid of the unclaimed and homeless babies.
Sometime in December the next child-opera will
happen ; the youngsters are busy on rehearsal
already, and the Brennan clan have great enter-
tainment, as well as hard work, watching the
small mimics. A feather in Jennie Brennan’s cap
is the success of Addie Hine in London. She was
engaged for solo-dance work in principal panto-
mime only a fortnight after her arrival in Eng-
land. Royce, the stage manager, refused to
allow her to take any more lessons other than
some he gave her himself. “ The tuition she had
had in Australia,” he said, “possessed an indi-
viduality that must not be spoilt.” So Miss
Jennie is modestly elated.
The designing art of Desbrowe Annear was
lately employed in the transformation of the
old lounge and winter garden at Menzies’
into a large hall, which will be subdivided by
accordeon doors when occasion requires. The
ball is a beautiful improvement to Melbourne’s
toniest hostelry. Its decorations are an adapta-
tion of the Renaissance style, with a color scheme
of . old gold and sage green. Phil Goatcher has
painted the ceiling panels, and another artistic
worker claims the authorship of two domes of
leaded glass in browns and light greens. For the
accordeon doors aforesaid, Blamire Young designed
the grilles in the upper panels. The new hall
and all that is strike one with a sense of
harmony, and suggest American up-to-dateness.
And the" up-to-dateness runs also to the ventilation.
Under the Plemim system the breathing material
is first scrubbed and polished before being driven
in, cold or hot, as the seasons suggest.
From “Rosna,” of Adelaide:—■
His Ex. has opened yet another country show. Also,
on Monday night he exchanged his cocked hat for his
stars and garters, and went to a ball at Unley. It was an
army ball, and hence, in addition to floriculture and
banners, there was a brave array of military frocking and
gold lace. The Lady Excellencies helped the warriors
through the intricacies of the grand chain.
Some 50 white-robed angels warbled beneath the
baton of our new singing maestro, Mr. Winsloe Hall, at
the Conservatorium on Monday. Part-songs of assorted
sizes were soulfully given ; also a cantata, with the un-
Christian name of “ Johanistag.” A new young voice
appeared in one of the solos. It is the property of that
slim and graceful person, May Chamberlain, a sister of
tenor and newspaper-man Jimmy Chamberlain. The
voice is a pure, sweet, lyric soprano. A Van Senden
damsel managed another solo rdle, and Mr. Lionel Clark,
the one valorous male on the cantata’s landscape, set
the world a shining example by his fine enunciation. In
fact, this feature was conspicuous with all the performers.
To hear what a chorus happens to be talking about is an
unexpected luxury, and one to be encouraged.
While Eight Hours’ Day was raging in this City of Cul-
ture last Wednesday, we had the tail-end of the Spring
meeting at Morphettville. All the frocks and frills had
seen the light of day before, so there was nothing very
exhilarating.about the fixture except the effort of Gunna,
a kindly steed who paid his devotees a little dividend of
£24.
Adelaide Town Hall has now reached the advanced
age of 44, and the authorities begin to think the
shghtly-increased population justifies a few small ad-
ditions and a general hair-curling and face-polishing.
For instance, there ought to be a clock in the tower to
run races with the Post Office clock opposite ; but the eye-
socket designed for the clock hasbeen boarded upsince the
edifice was built, and we really don’t think a blind Town
Hall, with a common wooden shade over its eye, is worthy
of us. The Prince Alfred Hotel next door has a face that
matches the Town Hall’s ; and it has been proposed,
when the lease runs out, not to let it come in again,
but to absorb the Prince Alfred for municipal purposes.
However, this millennium doesn’t happen until 1914,
alack ! Meanwhile, the Town Hall is in the grip of pic-
ture show after picture show, and the musical societies
that can’t get in to wail to us for love or murder,
have been bombarding the Village Grandfathers with
protests. They threaten to go out into the highways
and hedges and build an opposition hall if the said V.G.’s
don’t push out the picture-shows and let the musicians
wail on occasion. But the city parents sadly wave the
bank account and point out that picture-shows pay
thousands in' rental, and thousands are useful things.
They will make roads and bridges, which are of more solid
comfort to the'citizens than the best of classic noise.
There is plenty of room in Adelaide for a new concert-
hall, anyway, most of the existing samples being cracked
in the acoustic properties.
Mrs. Harry Dutton, daughter-in-law of the Anlaby
Nabob, is being photographed by London papers as the
Australian Beauty. She was the elder daughter of the
Gawler Martin family, and went to England to see sister
Jean do her preliminaries on the British stage.
Pianist Arthur Williamson, just back from Europe,
brings news of that jolly and clever soprano girl, Clytie
Hine. She is still pursuing her scholarship at the British
Royal College of Music, and is adding all sorts of lustre to
her pretty voice. . J
The good, hard-working and unobtrusive Kindergarten
Union had its annual meeting on Friday, with her
Bosanqtfet Excellency in the chair.. The free kind'er*
„ ar t ens are spreading all over the city and even into the-
gU| Jur b Si aTl( i there are always more infants clamoring for
Emission than the committee ean find a hole and corner
for . Yet even with the Government subsidy the union
has only £275 a year to scatter on rentals, salaries, fur-
nishings, and all the other small necessaries of the work,
msn fche ffeneral direc tor-a charming girl,
who came here from the harbor city, when little over 20,.
t() manaffe the first kindergarten—is a marvel, and the
kindergarteners, to say nothing of the infants, literally
sit at her feet and worship. -
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


mu
9
ln iin
V.' : ‘
v
a.
A
£
H
#
sc
u
#
Vi/V
■
a
*
®v
.
X
a
%«R
B
X
21
tr—
: :
m
taS**
3
■
i£
X
./
»s
DEWARS
IMPERIAL’
THE WHISKY FOR MEN OF TASTE


df
'HE purchase of Cherry Blossom
Boot Polish carries with it the
assurance that money can buy
nothing better. It gives a splendid
shine with very little trouble, and is
a polish that need only be used
occasionally. The shine stays.
Cherry Blossom Boot Polish is
sold in 3d. and 6d. tins. If you have
any difficulty in securing it write
direct to us, and we will see that you
are supplied immediately.
Manas*. no- A fronts for Australia:
SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
Any sort of old weather is likely to strike
Victoria in. October, from snow storms to land
taxes. Meantime New South Wales is basking in
the sunshine of a Labor victory. And with an
alert Labor Ministry, quickening its wisdom with
D.O.L. inspiration, prosperity should scintillate
until it sparkles even like unto the amber smile o
P.0.L., the Wliisky of the Wise.*
NO DOUBT ABOUT IT.
There is no doubt about the curative properties
of Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy, which is the
best, safest and most reliable cough medicine you
can take. For harsh, hard, chronic coughs it is
a splendid cure, easily taken, and it quickly
relieves and cures the most obstinate cases.*
Gout and Rheumatism.
These complaints arise from the poisonous
waste matters accumulated in the blood conse-
quent on the kidneys, through temporary disorder
or through some disease being unable to carry out
their work. Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills rapidly reach
the root of the trouble, and soon effect a cure.
Is. 6d. and 2s. 6d.*
PALE, WEAK WOMEN
Will Benefit by the Experience
of this Woman who
Regained Health*
Mrs. Blanche Kingsley, Ferguson Street, Glen
Innes, found her health in a state of as
the result of an anaemic, bloodless condition. She
remained bad until she tried Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills, which renewed her blood supply. Mrs.
Kingsley gives the following account of her
cure :
“I became anaemic as a girl, and I could not
pick up strength,” she said. “My blood turned
to water ; not a scrap of color showed in my lips
or cheeks; dark rings came under my eyes, and
when I pulled down the lids I could see no rosi-
ness. By 10 o’clock each morning I would feel
so utterly done up and languid I would have to
lie down if I had a chance, I dreaded doing any-
thing, as I had not the heart. I never ate a good
meal, yet I fancied the strangest things, such as
a scrap of burnt meat, or lemon or pickles or any-
thing very sweet. My feet and hands were
always stone cold. I could not walk a short
distance without my heart thumping furiously.
My head would ache in the temples day and
night, so that I would feel quite dizzy and con-
fused and heavy, and for six months my eyes
were so dim that everything near or far was
smudgy and hazy, and I could not do one scrap
of sewing or reading. Mynerves were all unstrung.
I would start at any noise, and I did not want
anyone to come near or worry me. My hands
were waxy and the nails were blue underneath.
I tried all sorts of tonics, but got no relief. On a
hot day I would be quite played out, and it was
not till I tried Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills that my
health picked up at all. I would faint right off
at times I was so weak, but since I finished the
last box I haven’t had a sign of ansemia. All the
distressing symptoms have gone, and I am now
in excellent health.”
Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills are 2s. 9d. a box, six
boxes 15s. 3d., of all dealers, or from The Dr.
Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia, Ltd.,
Sydney.
PERFECT SECURITY
Ruptured persons may follow their avocations or
indulge in active exercise, free from danger and
inconvenience, by wearing- DENYERS’ SPECIAL
ELASTIC TRUSS. It is perfectly made, cool and
OCNYER
©
comfortable,
and has no
springs to
chafe or irri-
tate. We are
specialists,
and guaran-
tee exact fit.
Postal or
personal inquiries promptly
answered.
DENYER BROS.,
281 GEOKGE ST. (opp.
17/6 Single ; 22/6 Double.
Makers of Trusses and
Abdominal Belts,
Hunter St.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
If it keeps going as it is going at present,
Bananaland will be entitled to a tenth member in
the House of Reps, next general election.
Thomas, the Commonwealth’s P.M.G.,
knocked a few inches more off the top of the State
boundary-walls last week. The uniform Austra-
lian postage-stamp hasn’t arrived yet; but from
this out any one State’s penny stamp is good for
a penn’orth of postal work in any other State.
And the Minister has his postal Bill ready, to
establish penny postage right through the Com-
monwealth.
Both the S. M. Herald and Telegraph
leaped to their feet after the N.S.W. election to
point out the great advantage enjoyed by the
Laborites through their members being all mere
professional politicians, who'can stay in the House
day and night if necessary, while the Liberal
members have their businesses to look after.
That was just a few days after these same papers
had denounced Labor for putting up as candi-
dates barristers, farmers and other people with
private businesses to attend to. The Tory paper
is mighty difficult to please.
It was characteristic of Premier Wade
that he should take his wife to one of his political
meetings, and when a few people boo-hooed
should assume that they were groaning at her,
and discharge great toothfuls of language to the
press about their alleged lack of chivalry. Some
people always boo-lioo when they see Wade,
while others weep bitterly. The former probably
had no idea that the lady was brought as a pro-
tection, and that any common ordinary disarrange-
ment of sounds made that night would be charged
against her. How were they to know ? Notone
in 100 was aware of her name.
The Westralian Tory Ministry pulled
through its vote of censure by a majority of one.
Just before the vote was taken a rash Labor
member sassed the Speaker, and as he refused to
apologise he was ordered to leave the precincts of
the House. His attitude was that if the precincts
felt that they and he couldn’t get on together
they might go, but he wouldn’t. Then the mem-
ber and the Sergeant-at-arms fought three badly-
selected rounds, in the course of which the official
was severely grassed, but at last the member
went out. And that was why Labor was a vote
short.
For several reasons Westralia’s new Pre-
mier has been christened Ratcatcher Wilson.
Two of the reasons are in the Cabinet.
The mere shadow of the Federal Land
Tax served to burst up four estates in the Vic.
Western district the other day. Three of them
belonged to the Manifolds, and one to a wealthy
Warrnambool grazier, J. W. Anderson. The
operation was simple and instantaneous. All the
land in question was in the occupation of tenants.
The owners met the tenants ; an agreement as to
the price was come to. and the business was done.
And to-day there are about 40 more freehold
farmers in the district than there were.
The discussion on the Navigation Bill in
the Senate has been a bad advertisement for the
Tory character. Every proposed provision for
the care or protection of life at sea has roused a
lament on the sacrifice that the shipowner will have
to make to meet the comfort of his crews or the
convenience of his passengers. The Bill’s effort to
provide reasonable berthage for the mariners, or
to ensure that steamers shall have watertight
compartments, is regarded as a plot to reduce
Fat’s cargo space and bite off some of his sacred
profits.
From the Sydney Telegraph’s final out-
burst of “ Campaign Notes”:—
Our victory to-morrow is as certain as that the sun will
r i se ._The Solicitor-General at Botany last night.
Then (same day, same column):
Under all (he assumption of blustering cocksureness by
the [Labor] party, there is now a nervous anxiety, and
preparations are being made “ to get from under ” should
the arrogant prognostications of a sweeping victory prove
false. The Liberal organisation, on the other hand, in-
dulges in few if any prophecies.
No wonder the public dropped to the fact that
Mr. Ward was helping Mr. Wade to pull its leg.
Premier Murray’s Factories Amending
Bill provides a penalty of £5O or three months’
gaol for employers convicted of dismissing em-
ployees on account of their connection with a
Wages Board. This has roused the anger of the
Vic. Employers’ Federation, which is spluttering
hvsterically about the “ deliberate insult to re-
putable persons. Nobody has so far remarked
that the 21 years provided for burglary, or the
hanging provided for murder is a reflection on
reputable persons. Which suggest that the people
whom the Vic. Federation is really concerned
about are not the reputable but the disreputable
employers.
It is now up to Toryism in N.S.W. to
cast round for a new alias —its invariable habit
when it encounters disaster under the old one.
From a descriptive standpoint, the most honest
title the party ever owned was Freetrade —though
N.S.W. never knew a genuine Freetrader outside
an asylum. The anti-Socialist cry was palpably
bogus, which accounted for its early demise and
the determination of Toryism not to call itself
“ anti-Socialist ” any more. The word “ Liberal,”
as applied to folks like 0. G. Wade, is grotesque,
and last week the State of N.S.W. said so as
explicitly as it could. Heaven knows what
Reaction’s next titular disguise is going to be, but
there is a cheering certainty about the fact that it
can’t be as unconvincing as the last two anyhow.
“Boswell,” his parable :
During the week I saw the opening of Lismore (N.S.W.)
Circuit Court. An accused person was presented, and
presently convicted. Then did one seize a ponderous
tome and read therefrom a damaging list of delinquencies
on the part of him who stood in the dock, the same run-
ning back several years. I looked for him to rise and
loudly proclaim that these statements were “ diabolical
lies,” “ calumnv,” “misrepresentation”; that, any-
how, they would soon be forgotten, wherefore all this
fuss and muck-raking were most unseemly, and, surely,
greater matters demanded attention ; besides which one
of the robberies happened, nor, on August 29, as stated,
but on August 28, wherefore it hadn’t happened at all,
and those who still insisted on its occurrence were
venomous slanderers ; in consequence of all of which he
claimed discharge with a clean bill of health, and would
requisition the Daily Tklkgrapii cartoonist to draw his
persecutors in a pursuing attitude with buckets of mud
in their hands. But nothing of the sort happened. And
lo ! in a little while he was led away, and I saw him no
more.
A FAIR EXCHANGE.
‘ People rush into my vestry every now and then to
tell me they are going to Korea,” said Rev. John Fer-
guson to the Presbyterian Assembly. “They find me as
cold as ice. Isay to them, ‘Well, God bless you; but
when you do arrive see if you can send someone from
Korea to do the work of the same character that is wait-
ing to be done in Australia.’ ’’—News Item.
Some State railway employees in South
Australia recently got a small increase in their
screws, and forthwith those of them who
lived in Private Enterprise houses at Petersburg
received the following from their landlords
Take notice that, from October Ist, all rents will be
advanced Is. Id. per week. This is on account of the
advance of Is. per day being made in your wages.
Within about four minutes—less or more—of the
above document being brought to the notice of
Labor Premier Verran, that tyrannous person
announced in the Assembly that he had arranged
with the Railwav Commissioners to spend £BOOO
in building State cottages for the Petersburg em-
ployees. It was a beautiful example of the lengths
to which a Labor Government will go in inter-
fering with benev’olent EriVcite Enterprise,
vet, strange to say, not a solitary Liberal can-
didate even mentioned the matter during the
N.S.W. elections.
From the report of the Senate’s study of
the Navigation Bill,
Senator Guthrie (referring to the Opposition
tinn ro increase the amount of the sailors berthi
soace) • “ What is all this excitement about a foot or t\\ o .
3OO tons it will
“Why not? Would you like to tow
the sailors behind?” , , , , •
Some of them would, and then dock most of their
pay for towage fees.
DEFINITE.
The questions to be asked in connection with the
census are now under consideration. It has been
decided ttiat the religion of each person shall be one of
them. There will be a proviso that any person who does
not care to disclose his religion may decline to do so by
writing in the word “ object.”
Census Collector : “ And what is your re-
ligion 1 ”
The Other: “Well, I dunno; yer heller put
me down as a hobject.”
London Referee, in predicting an early
conquest of Australia by the Yellow Races,
remarks that:—
When a population scarcely exceeding the half of
Greater London owns an empty continent, the glamor of
the landowner surrounds manual laborers like a halo.
Pastoralists are patricians.
Also the same writer alleges that—
The Sydney Bulletin, one of the ablest Socialistic
oversea newspapers, teaches its subscribers that the
brain and pluck of Australia are sufficient to keep the
world at bay.
London Referee says many wise things; but its
information on this'matter has worms in it. In
the view of the Australian manual laborer the
big landowner isn’t an angel with a halo; he is
much more like “a cow ’’—either with or without
a spiked tail. Also, The Bulletin only teaches
its subscribers (and borrowers) that the brain and
pluck of Australia are sufficient to keep the world
at bay when there is a vastly greater number of
Australians to own the brain and the pluck.
The manifesto issued by the N.S.W. Pre-
mier on the eve of the election was a marvel of
dubious grammar and hazy platitude. He didn’t
tell the people whether he was going to build the
Sydney city railway and the connection with
North Shore; or whether he would allow the
people of the metropolis to decide the Greater
Sydney question by referendum; or whether he
would open the Closed Ports and build railways
to them ; or how he was going to pay the famous
railway and tramway pensions; or what his
views were on making an attempt
to pay off the public debt. But he
stated in nine paragraphs that he
favored (1) industrial progress; (2)
financial stability ; (3) land for
settlement; (4) freehold tenure ;
(5) a progressive public works
policy; (6) maintenance of law
and order ; (7) clean politics; (8)
maintaining the Federal Constitu-
tion ; and (9) “ Liberalism.” And
all these things were only footless
ghosts walking upside-down in the
sky. The nearest he came to any-
thing definite was when he said that
he was in favor of (4) freehold
tenure. And even then he didn’t
state clearly whether he believed in
giving State leaseholders the free-
hold of their lands at £1 an acre
when the land is really worth £5
to £l5. Also, he quite forgot to
mention that he favored (10) Heaven ;
(11) avoidance of premature burial ; (12)
general happiness; (13) a "sufficient rainfall ; (14)
the conversion of the Devil.
Two chief factors in the Wade debacle on
(Friday—Wood and Coal.
A statement that grows rather wearisome
is that of Defence Minister Pearce re the cost of
the Australian fleet. It is to consist, he says, of
one armored cruiser, three cruisers of the Bristol
type, six destroyers and three submarines, and
the bill is to be £3,695,000. This has been men-
tioned so often that many people begin to have
an idea that when £3,695,000 has been paid for 13
vessels the whole business is completed and done
with. It would be better to explain frankly that
the Australian fleet will consist of a num-
ber of vessels of which no man can see the
limit, that the bill is wholly in the hands
of Providence, and that only the long, bound-
less wash of events upon the shore of
history can decide whether we may not have to
maintain 70 big ironclads some day, and be darned
glad to do it. The blessed “ unit ”is a beginning,
like the early British warship which the crew
took home on his shoulder at night and used as a
pillow, and the end is only limited by the size of
our necessity. The gods may know it, but even
that is doubtful, unless the gods have an extra-
special telescope. Certainly £3,695,000 has
nothing to do w T ith the case.
A determining factor of great tonnage in
last week’s polling in N.S.W. was a single word—
wowser. It is hard to ever-estimate the influ-
ence of a descriptive phrase which really describes.
“Wowser” instantaneously presents a fully-
developed life-sized portrait of a dreary
monkey-shaven fraud, with a collection-trough
in one hand, an anti-everything brick
in the other, and a half-empty bottle
of gin projecting from his coat-tails. Ever since
the word was coined the electors have been busy
hurling out of Parliament members whom it
seemed to fit; and in the Local Option poll
thousands voted “Continuance” because the
wowsers of their acquaintance yelped for thrip-
pences and “No License” with almost equal
enthusiasm.
Someone seems to be pulling a very power-
ful string in Melbourne. Though the Powlett
State coal mine is now able to turn out about
2000 tons daily, and though the railways can carry
at least that much, the output is being limited to
1300 tons, equal to 1000 tons of screened coal per
day. Yet the railways are stacking up huge re-
serves at Spencer-street, and to do this are taking
Newcastle coal in almost as large quantities as
before Powlett opened. Seeing that “ Powlett ”
is some 6s. a ton cheaper than Newcastle, this
action of the Railway Department calls for more
explanation than has been given so far. Mean-
while, the general public, which can’t get a,ny
Powlett coal at all, except a trifle of slack, owing
to the obstreperousness of the Fat Landlords, con-
tinues to pay an unnecessary 10s. a ton to Messrs.
Barabbas and Co., coal and shipowners.
“ Steelsmifch ” sniffs a new danger
It is cabled that the Pacific Slope Chambers of Com-
merce are sending a large delegation to China to make
an inquiry. The decline in China is at the back
of the jaunt. Take the most important example to
realise what it means. Four years ago America started
to get pig-iron from China (Hankow district) in notable
quantities. Pig-iron in China has ever since kept steady
at about 16 silver taels per ton. This meant 15 gold dol-
lars in 1906 ; but now it only means 10 gold dollars.
Consequently, Chinese pig-iron is rushing into America.
The Western Steel Co. (Seattle, U.S.) orders 3,000,000 tons
of pig from Hankow. The U.S. Steel Corporation, the
biggest on earth, is about to establish works in China.
Note the cable message that Schwab, the bitter rival of
the Corporation as its sacked boss, has secured the
making of the Chinese battleships and cruisers. This will
be with Chinese steel, and involves his establishing works
in China. So there will be a Chow Pittsburg springing up.
All of which screeches at the top of its voice for
various things, but chiefly for High Protection in
white men’s countries and prompt steps to better
defend Australia against people who will become
a greater danger with every ton of steel they
make.
B. R. Wise would be invaluable to the
N.S.W. Labor party in the Upper House, which
is bound to prove obstructive. Curiously enough,
he appears to be acceptable to the fossil-growth
there, despite the deplorable Radicalism of his
views; it is questionable, in fact, whether any
other politician could have accomplished his feat
of engineering the Arbitration Act through the
reactionary Chamber.
THE SLANDEROUS LABORITE AND THE FAIR-
MINDED LIBERAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No man or woman having any sense of honor or decency
left, and knowing how the game is being played by the
Laborites would give a vote in their favor. Their utter de-
pravity is appalling, and if the country is going to be
governed by people so lost to all sense of honor, decency or
morality, Heaven help it! It is time that every person in
the country with any sense of decency rose up in righteous
indignation against the unscrupulous band of vile con-
spirators who are threatening their country with destruc-
tion. It is a crisis in the history of Australia. It is simply
a question as to whether all honor, decency and morality
are to be sunk in favor of vice, immorality and unscrupu-
lousness. It is a question as to whether this country is
going forward to its great destiny, or is to be handed
over to the vilest band of conspirators known in history
since the days of Catiline. —“ Common Decency,” in S. M.
Herald.
See where the loathly Laborite
Stands, in his garb of shame :
A monument of infamy,
A type whose evil fame
Shocks all right-thinking Liberals,
So that they curse his name.
Think of his callous viciousness !
To him.the Marriage Tie
Means absolutely nothing. He
Delights to drink and lie
And kick his wretched wife ; then bolt
And leave her there to die.
The Laborite’s spare time is spent
Conspiring to destroy
The welfare of his fellow-men.
It is his wont to toy
With bombs and such-like lethal goods:
They fill his soul with joy.
His utter lack of decency
And honor have been made
As clear as inud, repeatedly.
He shamelessly betrayed
The State of New South Wales, and hurled
Dead cats at Mister Wade.
Two thousand years, and odd, have passed
Since Lucius Catiline
Made Rome a moral Hell on Earth.
We do not carp or whine ;
All we observe is : “ Would that it
Were b.c. sixty-nine 1”
The old-time Roman criminal
Was mild and just and good
Compared witli modern Labor men,
Who’ve raised the price of food
And swamped the State in Vice, Lies, Crime,
Oaths, Calumny and Blood.
The Liberal is fair and straight;
He seeks not to enthuse
The waning feeling for his cause
By virulent abuse.
For libels, mud and such-lilce things
He lias no sort of use.
Accordingly you find, that when
He feels impelled to state
His views, he does not utter words
Of calumny and hate.
No, no. His language always is
Quite calm and moderate.
N.S.W.
H. SINGEMDINE.


JO
rrm
llillll'
Please
" Send me your 9i
Spring Catai
Our MAIL-ORDER SYSTEM
enables everyone in Australasia
to do fheir shopping, by Post.
BUCKLEY i NUNM /•'?
Melbourne S.E.
The World’s
Greatest
Musicians Say
That the
STEINWAY
is the
World’s
Greatest
PIANO
Sole
Agents
NICHOLSON 8 CO.
LiniTED,
Sydney——and Newcastle.
What to Wear &. When?
Co “'‘FARMER'S,
The High-Grade Tailors.
__
'
'it-'
m
,t. t
1
if!
We have just issued “ Sartorial
Psychology,”a Guide to Correct
Dress. It tells you what the
well-dressed man should wear
upon various occasions, and
illustrates the newest styles.
LET US POST YOU
A COPY, FREE.
SAC SUITS
HAND MADE
£4/4/- THE SUIT.
£4/I#/- THE SUIT.
£4/15/- THE SUIT.
NEW SEASON’S WOOLLENS
Direct from British Looms.
Angolas
Donegals
Galways
Serges
Cheviots
Flannels
Harris Tweeds
Worsteds.
FASHION’S SMARTEST
PRODUCTIONS.
We produce the Highest-Class Tailoring because our five Expert Cutters are men of
experience, taste and skill ; our work people are the most competent in Australia, and
all work is carried out in our Pitt Street Rooms, under careful supervision.
Patterns, Tape and Measurement Form sent Post Free
gdf
V
ACUUM
RUBRICATING
:' , :
Are treated in stills
from which the air has
been partially exhausted.
This permits distillation
at a temperature much lower
than the killing heat of
direct fire.
Thus the natural mineral
greases are not burned out of
the petroleum and we get
tbe uils that lubricate must


HAIR PRESERVED'
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is t’ Je best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is i nvalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by S tores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
HEALTH, STRENGTH
and MUSCLE
by my Physical
Culture Instruc-
tion BY POST.
Each exercise, fully explained and illustrated,
practised a few minutes daily in your own
room, will ADD to vour weight, INCREASE
vour strength, INVIGORATE your circulation,
and IMPROVE and SAFEGUARD your health.
WRITE FOR PARTICULARS NOW !
Others are benefiting, WHY NOT YOU?
R. L. (“Snowy”) BAKER
Belmont Buildings,
15 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
GRINDING THE TEETH WHILE ASLEEP.
Strong Indication of Worms.
One of the most pronounced symptoms of
Worms in children is grinding the teeth and
suddenly starting up out of sleep. There are
many symptoms of this most distressing com-
m
plaint from which not
only children suffer, but
adults also. When there
is a tendency to pick the
nose, and the bowels are
irregular, sometimes con-
stipatedand at other times
relaxed, the appetite vari-
able, a copious flow of
saliva, and a swelling of
the upper lip, there is a
strong evidence of the
presence of Worms. The
best proof of Worms is
Worms, and if their presence is suspected im-
mediate steps should be taken to positively
establish the fact, and when once established
■Comstock’s “Dead Shot’’ Worm Pellets should
be administered according to directions. Worms
require a specific medicine, and there is no
remedy so effective as these Pellets. They kill
the Worms, destroy their eggs, and dislodge their
nests. On sale at all chemists; price Is. fid., or
will be forwarded at the same price by The W. H.
Comstock Co., Ltd., 58 Pitt Street, Sydney.
New York Address :
The Billboard, Holland Building.
Edwin J. Kilpatrick .
Permanent Address:
TattersalVs Hotel, Sydney.
Mr. PERCY F. S. SPENCE’S
Exhibition of paintings and
DRAWINGS) at his Studio,
No. 14, 4th Floor, Equitable Buildings,
George Street, Sydney.
OPEN FREE EVERY WEDNESDAY from 2 till 5 o’clock.
Missing Friends.
WILLIAM JAMES FRIZZELL left New
Zealand in or about 1890; last heard
from in the Bathurst District, N.S.W. Any
information leading to his whereabouts will be
thankfully received by his mother,
MRS. FRIZZELL,
West Ej'reton,
Canterbury, New Zealand.
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
.JE. RESOH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE . NO PRESERVATIVES .
West Australian Agents —RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH, KALCOOBUE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Coongy Handicap, on the second day of
the Cup meeting at Caulfield, has often been a reliable
test of “ form.” Last year, when Dhobi and Woorooma
ran first and second, the field was of poor quality ; but
this year a lot of noteworthy Cup “fancies” saddled up
for the little event, and the”result should be worth con-
sideration. The closeness of the finish between Eye
Glass, Flavian, Artillerie and Langloh—heads and heads
—suggested that very little superiority in stamina would
give any one of them a decided advantage in the big han-
dicaps. On the other hand, the chances of Balgowan,
Matouree and Aborigine were heavily discounted by their
poor performances, although the black horse, Aborigine,
did make a bit of a show early in the race. Hoax, who
had been much talked of for the Caulfield Cup before
running like a non-stayer on the previoils Saturday,
shaped badly again in the Coongy. Nervous, fretful and
‘■flash,” Hoax seems more likely to score a surprise when
she runs unbacked than to carry the confidence of the
stable first past the post from a crowded field of triers.
* * * »
The Caulfield Cup race was not only a record as
regards the time for that particular event; it was also
the best contested Cup that ever was from the public’s
point of view. Out of 28 starters, fully 16 were declared
to be “good things,” and the race was practically con-
fined to these. They didn’t all run prominently at one
or other point of the struggle (two or three of them,
notably Artillerie, got badly away and could never
emerge from the ruck), but they supplied the
dangerous division all the time. The other dozen
were never in it, though a couple of them may
have finished in front of some that were easing off.
Of the four that fell only Call Boy had been seriously
backed, and he was beaten ere he came down in con-
junction with the penalised Eric and a couple of rank
outsiders. Considering the number of hopeless chances
in the crowded field, calculated to cause interference and
add to the inglorious uncertainty of the proceedings,
it was remarkable that the two popular favorites
at the start—Olivaster and Flavinius—both finished
in the first four, and that the Sydney horse
won so comfortably from Apple Pie (the sixth
favorite), who had been his immediate follower
in the Epsom Handicap at Randwick a fortnight
earlier. The Caulfield Cup, as it happened, vvas in strict
accordance with recent Randwick “form.” Punters
who believed only in what J. J. Miller’s latest
edition of the “Sporting Pamphlet” told them, and took
it for granted that the Sydney horses were more forward
in condition than the Victorian lot, rightly assumed that
Flavinius, Apple Pie and Britain were three of the best
handicapped horses in the race. The argument that
wherever one was the other two couldn’t be far away,
proved to be sound reasoning. One of them won the
Cup and the other two got the places. The luck of the
race tended to a vindication of recent form.
Two or three predictions by experts were ful-
filled. A Melbourne trainer said that the pace would be
too hot for the heavyweights from the jump. As a
matter of fact, all the running was made oy lightweights.
Sequarious, Danaus, Captain White and Eye Glass were
in front for the first nine furlongs or more. Eye Glass
lasted longest of the quartette, and was actually in front
at the home turn, where Olivaster, his stable companion,
joined him. Then Apple Pie made a run, and just as he
was tackling Olivaster there came Flavinius between
them.
If there was any bumping to speak of in the
straight, little Apple Pie and Eye Glass got the worst of
it, probably. Anyhow, Flavinius went ahead (his run
had been r well timed), Olivaster appeared to tire, and
Britain, coming with a very late run, pipped him for
third place. Olivaster was placed fourth, and Eye Glass
finished next to him. None of the others can be said to
have had a chance at any time, not as the race was run.
The early pacemakers, Sequarious and Danaus, had spun
themselves out. Which also was according to prediction.
There was absolutely nothing to be said against
Flavinius (Bst. lib.) as a “good thing,” except that in
previous tries for big handicaps the consistent animal had
always seemed to be not quite good enough. In last
Newmarket Handicap he carried Bst. 91b. into third place.
At Randwick a fortnight ago he was second for the Epsom
with Bst. 61b. up, and third in the Metrop. with 41b. less
on his back. His owner was said to be complaining that,
what with bad luck and other bad things appertaining to
horse-racing, he was getting tired of the game. Apple
Pie was another that had been running into places with
monotonous persistency, but on his performance in the
Waverley Handicap a week previously, where with 7st. 81b.
up he ran Britain (7st. 91b.) a close race, he seemed bound
to turn the tables on the Grafton horse at Caulfield.
Worth noting that tlie three first horses in the
Caulfield Cup had only lately arrived from Sydney. The
long journey is generally supposed to be an upsetting in-'
cident; but, seemingly, the change of air is likely to.
prove an ample equivalent. Given a fairly comfortable
trip, the gee gains more than it loses by being transferred
from Sydney to Melbourne close on the time for a Cup
race. If it causes a slight pause in its training, the holi-
day is beneficial.
Considered as a guide to the Melbourne Cup
tlie big race at Caulfield leaves Britain and Olivaster withi
better chances than Apple Pie and Flavinius, both of
which w'ere more favorably handicapped for the Urn.
race in the first instance. The latter, with a 101 b. penalty,
will haveBst. 91b. to hump, and, although he is a big horse,
Bst. 91b. is a fair lot for him on his best form. Flavin-
ius, moreover, has never shaped like a 2-miler. Britain,,
who has already won over lfm., will meet him on 101 b.
better terms, and so will Olivaster. Also, they will
both meet Apple Pie—a very doubtful stayer—
on 61b. better terms than their Caulfield Cup handicap.
Between Olivaster and Britain the question is open to
dispute. The Sydney horse has the more stamina on
paper; but he was probably quite fit last Saturday, whilst.
Scobie’s overrated favorite was apparently short of work.
Want of condition may have stopped Olivaster in the
Caulfield straight. If so, he will have to come on rapidly
before November 1- Seeing that the second-rate Britain
looks the most promising of the Caulfield Cup horses for
the two-mile go at Flemington, and that Comedy King is
not yet a proved stayer, the chance of Trafalgar is very
blooming just now. His credentials are undeniable.
The two-year-old racing at'Caulfieid indicated:
that most of the youngsters might as well have stopped
in their stables for all the chance they had, or were even
supposed to possess. In the Debutant Stakes, the three
favorites filled the places in the order of the betting at the
start. In the Gwyn Nursery, last Saturday, the betting
was 3 to 1 against the favorite and 7 to 2 against two
others. The winner and runner-up were among these
three fancies.
* * * *
The centenary of the first organised races in
Sydney occurred last week. The meeting took place on
what is now Hy'de Park, but which, until the last quarter
century, was known as the Racecourse. The course was
formed by the officers of the 73rd Regiment; most of the
regiment was camped at the time on the Liverpool-
College-street end of the park. The sports were con-
tinued for three days, and were followed by a ball. Three
Plates were run for, valued at 50 guineas each. The
grandstand was on a spot near the Market-street of to-
day. The dinner was a great success ; there were nine
set toasts and a few extras.
* * * *
The S. Aus. Derby (250 sovereigns added to a
sweepstakes of five sovs.) was put off from September 1
to mid-October, to catch the new Eight-Hour holiday. It
resulted in the most astonishing turn-up on record. S.
D. Brunton’s Isothermal went over from Melbourne to
win it, and was backed down to five to four in a field of
12. In the fastest-run race on local record, the favorite
looked all right till well up the straight, when a little
locally-bred colt, Sergius (Koran—Lulu) came from no-
where in particular and won by more than a length.
What would Moses have laid against the outsiders in a
field of 12? Twenty-fives? Forties, perhaps. Well,
Sergius paid £59 3s. There was another starter
that would have returned over £5O, and one that would
have paid £330 ! Further, the backers of Isothermal got
their money back, or thereabouts. (Are you listening,
Isaac?) His dividend for running second was 15s. for
each £1 invested. In the two days £25,000 went
through the totalisator, and the fact that this is nearly
three times the sum taken in 1906 proves that racing is
booming in S.A., or else that the bookmaker has been care-
fully squashed—probably both.
* * * *
Stanley Ketcliell, once looked upon as a world-
beater, recently went to pieces physically, and had prac-;
tically retired, perhaps for good, from the ring when he
was butchered. He called off the fight with Lang be-
cause he was quite unfit to even train, let alone fight;]
so retired for a long rest. He was only 23, but si nee he lost
his little manager, Willis Britt, he has been living at rail-
road speed, burning the candle at both ends and letting
rats eat it in the middle. His battle with Johnson
seemed to break up both Britt and Ketchell,
driving one to the grave and the other to drink.
Ketchell had fought about 60 battles, and accumulated
quite a tidy little fortune among them all, which fortune
manager Britt had invested rather well for him. But
popular report, which is generally a liar, credited him with
practically nothing nowadays, and accused him of having
“ blewed ” his whole substance. If what is said is anywhere
near the truth, Ketchell would have had to get work
immediately his “ long holiday ” was over. They said the
same about little Joe Gans, and when his affairs were
cleaned up it was found that he was worth nearly £14,000,
of which £2OOO was in hard cash at the bankers, £2OOO in
the form of diamonds, and the rest household property,
mostly saloon. The idea of boom, glitter and bust seems
to appeal to the Yankee writers.
The “long holiday” had commenced on the
ranch of some millionaire admirer, and Ketchell was en-
gaged in the simple life when he had a row with the
hired male help. The hired help seems to have been of a
broody disposition, and, having slept on his grievance,
he arose with butchery in his heart. He invaded the
breakfast-room with a rifle and shot Ketchell as that
young man was trying to escape. Ketchell lived long
enough to tell how it happened, and then passed out in
an odor of respectability. The millionaire host imme-
diately offered a huge reward for the murderer’s dead
body, but stipulated that he wouldn’t give a cent for the
live body. That killer is in for a bad time.
* * * *
Seems that Lang has been taken in hand by
Gentleman Jim Corbett, who has “been drumming
aggressiveness into him.” That was always the trouble
with Lang. When he had his man beat, he usually stood
off and waited to see him fall; and the brute promptly
revived and clinched. But Lang’s real trouble is that left
hand, which he has broken altogether this time. That is
going to be a lifelong drawback. He can get out of his
Peace Society methods of fighting, but once a bruiser’s
mauley has been splintered it is never again quite the
same.
* * * *
The latest yarn with regard to the downfall of
Jeffries is that two of the five doctors who examined him,
according to law, declared him suffering from intense
nervous strain and physically unfit to fight. Then it was
pointed out that, uniess they gave a unanimous certifi-
cate that Jeffries was fit, there would be frightful
losses and probably a riot. So, in the end, the two
medical men went back on their opinions and gave the
certificate. The result was that Jeffries went into the
ring unfit, and got Sheol. This yarn is somewhat
elaborated by other authorities, who state that Johnson
had secretly agreed to lie down in return for the lion’s
share of the boodle, and that the Governor of California,
findingthis out, blocked the fight. The Governor of Nevada
then offered to allow the fight to take place at Reno on
condition it was square. All parties agreed, and 4S hours
before the scrap Johnson asked Jeffries to agree to a
different division of the gate, as the fight had to be on
the square. This was the first intimation that Jeffries
had that Johnson was likely to give him the double-
cross, and he was flabbergasted, started worrying and by
the time of the scrap was a nervous wreck. What hits
the average dense-headed citizen in the eye is why men,
working on crosses and double-crosses, trust each other.
One would think that a gentleman of the rank and per-
fume of Mr. Jeffries would have trained hard and been in
perfect nick, so that, in case of Johnson trying to cross
or double-cross, he would be in a condition to hammer
the black caitiff into mush.
* * * *
Johnson is under the impression that boxing is
doomed in Yankeeland and will be shut down on alto-
gether even as horse-racing was in New York. He opines
that England and Australia are the coniing centres of the
world’s great bruising areas. Quite evident that Johnson
didn’t test the lung power of the wowsers during his stay
in Australia, or he would never have made that remark.
* * * *
“Pompadour Jim ” Corbett is wandering round
the S ates talking of “the Horror of Reno,” and inci-
dentally letting out that the Yank is no sport. This
from his own lecture: “As we sat in the corner,
Jeff and Tagreed upon another thing. I said : ‘Jeff, this
fellow Johnson likes to kid when he’s fighting, and he’ll
talk his head off if there’s anyone to talk to. Now, I’U
get him going right away, and say things to him that
will demand an answer. When he starts talking to me
you hook him with the left, and we’ll all be home in 10
minutes.’ Well, I was there with the gab, but Jeff
wasn’t there with the wallop.”
* * * *
A hundred yards’ race at the Adelaide Eight
Hours’ sports this year brought out 11 members of the
State Parliament, including some of the Ministry. Blun-
dell, Jackson and O’Loghlin were the placed men. That
field ouo-ht to be about a record for a Parliamentary race
* * *
S. Aus. football has lingered late this year.
Sturt was ahead on the season’s play, and, going down
before Port Adelaide in the “final,” had the right to
challenge again. This extra-final resulted in the same
way, and Port deservedly finished top, with 14 games won
and two lost. Sturt’s figures were 12 to four; but this
team was never beaten by any except Ports, while the
latter were not quite so deadly against the weaker clubs.
It is the first time Sturt has risen as high as the final;
also West Torrens had never before been as high as third.
The District system—pretty rigidly enforced in Adelaide
—is levelling up all the clubs. Norwood (which once,
long ago, held the premiership six years running) was
fourth, and West Adelaide, the champion of the past two
seasons, could only 7 get fifth among the seven competing.
In Sydney cricket on Saturday the trundlers
had a more or Iless joyous day of it for the first tune this
season In the competition Waverley, Redfern ana
Gordon are in the van with four points each ; Paddinffton
is on the second line with two, and Burwood and Sidney
walk together with one each. After that four clubs fly
the sign of the water-fowl, and three more are something
less tkan nothing. Saturday was graced withi only one
centurv-that of W. Farnsworth, who carried his bat for
103 for'Petersham against Waverley. But »t.was* aseconid
innino-s score and did not count in the final result, lhe
o he top scores were Fisher’s 92 not out for University
against Gordon ; and Small’s S 5 for Paddington against
Balmain. The successful bowlers were Asher, of Sydney,
who took eight Central Cumberland wickets for 3b ,
R B Minnett, of University, who smashed up seven
Gordon wickets for 44 ; Macartney, of Gordon, six Uni-
versity sticks for 85; and P. Docker, of Burwood, ha
of Middle Harbor’s for 34.
The feature of the games was the remarkable
upheaval of Gordon. It was at the dead-end of the list
last season, yet it walloped University, the premier
club. The victory was a first-ipnings one by the margin
of 63. On the home pitch, Redfern, where Jimmy
McGowen comes from, maintained the order of things
bv smashing up Glebe, where Jimmy Hogue was
defeated. Glebe is a powerful combination, and
had never previously been defeated by Redfern,
but it came to grief on Saturday by a margin
of 26 runs in the first innings. Having totted up
the, for it, amazing score of 306 in the first inn-
ings, Sydney District club gave Central Cumberland
two bites at "the cherry. The first yielded 134, and the
second only 93 ; so Sydney stood a proud victor with an
innings and 79 runs to spare. When will wonders cease .
The Waverley-Petersham argument was a close thing,
from which Waverley emerged with a credit balance of
21 on the first innings. Burwood gave Middle Harbor a
fearful doing. In response to Burwood’s 223 Middle
Harbor could only feebly ejaculate 99, and, following on,
made another 72 for the loss of one wicket. Then time
ran out, leaving Burwood victorious by nine wickets.
Balmain, having smacked up 331 for seven wickets,
closed, and started to get Paddington out. But only
nine wickets had fallen for 215 when time ran out and
Paddington had saved its face with a draw. North
Sydney had the bye.
* * * *
The first round of Melbourne Pennant cricket
finished on Saturday with a finely-compiled 133 by the
champion, W. W. Armstrong. This total helped Mel-
bourne to a first-innings victory by 213 against the flan-
nelled furies from South Melbourne. St. Hilda, which
massacred University for 53, easily declared a first-
innings surplus of 156 runs ; whilst East Melbourne sur-
passed die Essendon warriors with merely 23 trots to
spare. Richmond, defeating Collingwood by 97 runs,
humbled the pride of the Magpies in the mud ; and Carl-
ton, walloping Fitzroy by 95, left ’Roy in an extremely
despairful condition. Horrible excitement prevailed at
P’ran, where the local wonders just secured a draw by
making 175 for nine wickets against Northcote’s total of
195.
* * * *.
Victoria is on the look-out for promising young
players, and Jack Worrall has been installed as coach,,
with special instructions to get busy when he sees any
hopeful young vines. Cricket has been languid in.
Victoria of late years, and the presence of a keen-eyed
coach with latitude in the selection of colts may do.
something to lift it out from among the lotus leaves.
* ■* -* *
Though everyone else has put the windbag out
of sight for the year, the Victorian Junior Ass. played its
final at Croxton Park, Northcote, last Saturday—but
the end is not yet. The matter was supposed to have
been settled the previous week by. the victory of Port
Juniors over Yarraville, but it appears that the ball col-
lapsed a few minutes before the firysh, and when the
spare sphere belonging to Yarraville was requisitioned,
it was found to be punctured in its stomach, and before
a substitute could be commandeered the bell rang. There-
upon arguments raged and both sides claimed the match ;
so the Ass. ordered the collision to occur again, which
it did on Saturday, in the presence of 2000 spectators
and the Law. Notwithstanding this latter hint, Bill and
Lizzie were very fit, and the Yarraville 18 were as willing
as they make ’em; but Port Juniors declined to take
more than a casual interest in the proceedings, presum-
ably relying on the “ grand final,” to which their un-
beaten record entitles them, to gain the pennant and
whatever glory attaches thereto. Anyhow, the scores
Yarraville 50 points, Port Juniors four points—shout for
inquiry by the Ass. This body passed out four players
during the week, and it mightn’t be a bad idea to pass the
two teams out altogether and hang up the premiership
for a year. The footbrawler doesn’t seem to know when,
the public has bad enough of him. #
The Vic. senior football clubs have been handed
something to ponder over during the warm weather..
The trustees of the metropolitan parks and gardens,,
having casually noted the gaudy “gates,” want a trifle
themselves to improve the grounds and the parks sur-
rounding them. Some clubs, like Collingwood, North
and Carlton, pay a fair annual rent; others, like South,.
St. Hilda and ’Roy, pay £5O a year; others again merely
“ come to an understanding” with the local cricket club,
and the two bodies between them “ part ” a peppercorn
rent of £1 per annum. The trustees have an idea that at
least 10 per cent, of both cricket and football revenues
should be handed to them to be spent in improving the
people’s properties, both outside and inside the playing
areas ; and the public considers that the trustees haven t.
developed this mercenary spirit too vigorously or too.
soon.
* * * *
A southern city tells the story of a recent fist-
fight (under Marquis of Spoofb.erry rules) between two
reputable middle-aged citizens, in the presence of a select
company. The younger and smaller of the two gladia-
tors is not more than 40, but his advantage in youth and
agility was discounted by a tendency to palpitation of
the heart and pains across the kidneys. It was he who.
invited the trouble by twitting the other fellow with his
supposed lack of valor, whereupon the insulted party,,
being an offieah as well as a gentleman, challenged him
to a duel with nature’s weapons in a place set apart for
that purpose. The challenger carried weight for
age, i.e., he is a few years older and two stone
heavier. As neither party could fight for sour
apples, a fairly well-balanced battle was expected.
A well-known barrister and connoisseur of stoush under-
took to engage a private boxing saloon and manage the
entertainment; so at 8 o’clock p.m. the combatants
came along with their friends. They were both in the
pink of condition, especially the heavy-weight, whose
skin shone with the effects of whisky when he was
stripped. The ringmaster ruled that the bodies must be
bare if the “dooks” were unclothed; and although the
challenger had forgotten to bring a champion belt, he
was soon fixed up. He drew his pants together with
a safety-pin and prepared for battle. The fight
lasted five rounds, during which only' one frontal
blow was struck. This was a slow over-arm de-
liverv by the light-weight, which broke in from
w and "lanced off the military man’s nose, causing
it" to bleed. All the other attacks surprised the
combatants in the rear, whilst they were involved in
complications, aggravated by the discovery that Spoof-
berrv Rules forbade them to hit one another when down.
Each man in turn appealed to the referee to relax the
law on this point; but he gravely ordered them to break
awav and "et up. Finally the fat man was wrestled to a
finish. He lay helpless whilst the learned referee counted
19 Then his seconds sued for peace with honor, and the
gathering slowly dispersed after shedding three tears for
the victor. # *
In the second Victorian Marathon, the heavy
run from Frankston to the Wesley College cricket ground
at St Kilda attracted a field of 62 ; and Australia can slap
itself with the wallop of delight because despite the
heavy going, and with nothing more to look for than
certificates, 25 pluggers finished the course under the
allotted four hours.
* * * *
Australian boy-billiardist, George Gray re-
cently put up an amazing exhibition against Englishman
Hughes, whom he conceded 1000 points in 4000. After
making his record break of 985 he put up some other re-
markable runs, chief of which were 418, 471 and -53 (un-
finished), and ran out 2155 points to the good. In other
words, he made 4500 while the Englishman made 845.
And they call it sport 1
* * ■* *
Billiard champion Stevenson has sounded the
first English note of warning re young George Gray s
losing-hazard stroke, the monotony whereof is liable to
prove its undoing,” says the old stager. It didn t need
Stevenson to predict a Billiard Act for the prevention of
breaks of 1000 or 10,000 off the red. Monotonous potting
of the red off the spot was prohibited long ago, and
monotonous scoring off the red from “baulk will be
likewise dealt with in due course, either by limiting the
number of permissible successive hazards, or (more
likely) by altering the baulk conditions. The gate-money
interests of the game will demand it. Nobody who has
seen much of the play at which boy Gray is the world s
wondercan find any more entertainment in it. But, mean-
time, the novelty of Gray’s excellence is an attraction, and
the fact that the boy hasn’t yet played a championship
match and been beaten on his monotony, so to speak, must
deter the billiard bosses from any legislation against the
stroke. It is “ all in the game ” of which Stevenson is
the nominal champion, and until the lad has proved him-
self invincible by means of it, there can be no excuse for
blocking* his specialty. Stevenson, apparently, antici-
pates a challenge sooner or later, for he says he is not
likely to play against Gray until the latter is prepared to
enter for the championship.
* * * *
Tasmania’s champion amateur sculler, Cecil
McVilly, who also holds the blue ribband of the continent,
is the latest recruit on the Parramatta, where George
Towns is putting the hall-mark of proper finish on him.
Towns is said to be enthusiastic, and to hint darkly of
another champion looming horribly on the horizon.
“Glebe”: The rider from Yassberra who
figured in the Goulburn-to-Sydney cycle race (B. 29/9/’10),
was reckoned a “dead cert.” in that district. But he fell
into Paddy’s River on the way, and locally that is re-
garded as completely explaining his failure. People from
Yassberra are only used to water in moderation.
Letter for Frank Skurry Hewitt, ex-champion
runner of the world, lying at Bulletin office. Anyone
knowing his address, please communicate.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cricket Association is out to do busi-
ness on business lines this season. The State selection
committee has been notified that at least 20 playersmust
be chosen to practise at least three weeks before the
inter-State matches commence. The final team will be
chosen from the regulars at the practice nets. Whicli
means that this season’s N.S.W. XI. will represent form,
and not the intuitive genius of the selectors. It is’a sane
and business-like proposition, which does the Association
proud. Here’s to it 1 ,
In spite of the ruin that fell on Australia in
general and N.S.W. in particular on April 13, the number
of cars on the N.S.W. Traffic Department’s motor register
continues to creep up, and has mounted from 1500 odd to
2000. And still they come. But perhaps these new cars
represent tha loot of the capitalist by the Labor brigands.


THE
SfylLl
Shoe
HftMifc
SaO\
vKvXvX
wsm
Wi*’?
Ups*
fIH
*ssl
I#,
Plpi.,
«1
**#*«%*»•
» ♦«***.
mm
WmW*
»%
.
H
ttBG
mm
mm
m
WM&
*y.*.v.v.v
V
ip
*i|P
fPgif
■fa
Hi
,v
H
Mi
&
* w
Reach
for the
Best!
No Factory strives
harder to maintain
the integrity and
prestige of its pro-
duct.
€jj Your safety and
guarantee is buying
the product of a
well - known con-
cern. The style of
the Men s Shoes
produced in our
Factory is indicated
by the above pic-
ture.
HALF SIZES, THREE FITTINGS
All GOOD Shoe Stores keep them in Stock.
If yours don't, write and we will send you
address of the nearest Dealer, with Catalog.
LOOK FOR NAME ON STRAP
MARSHALL SHOE CO.,
:: :: MAKERS OF MEN’S FINE SHOES, :: ::
RICHMOND, VIC.
'T'HE highest developments reached in Wood-
-*■ working Machine construction are em-
bodied in our stocks. They contain the latest
ideas for high speed, quick handling and con-
Modern
Woodworking
Machines.
venience. We
have Bandsaw,
Mortising, Mould-
ing, Tenoning and
Planing and
Thicknessing
Machines, Fret
Saws, Swing Cut-off Saws, Saw Benches, Buzz
Planers and Wood-turning lathes.
Thomas McPherson & Son,
- Established Half a Century,
582-588 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
g
The “MOTA.
m
(Regd.)
imnnmii
Phi 4
The man who studies style and comfort in hats
has more than a desire for the “Mota”—he has
a NEED for one. For the “ Mota ”at a small price
is the most comfortable and most distinctively
stylish soft felt of the day.
The material is good—it will wear well; the brim
and crown is eai-ily adapted—it will suit your style.
Prices 7/6 to 12/6, in all fashionable colors, at
leading stores throughout Australia.
The name “ Mota ” is registered, and the design
also. Beware of infringements.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
MAKE A NOISE LIKE AN ORDER.
CADILLAC,
25-30 H P £5OO.
450 in Australasia.
35,000 in the World.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., Brisbane.
SAUL’S MOTOR CO., Launceston.
Q
John Strange
Winter’s
Hair Food
This marvellous hair grow-
er gave a hard-worked novel-
ist —John Strange Winter, the
author of Bootle’s Baby’*—a
magnificent head of hair, after
she had been reduced to wear-
ing a wig. Nothing short _of
overwhelming proof of its
merit would have induced a
world-famous authoress to
trade in the hair food. Sold by
all Chemists and Stores
Price 2/6 ; Post Free, 3/-
J.S.W. CO.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
and at Melbourne & Adelaide.
\
(u
Srttu
MOTOR
Spirit
fdg
FOR PRIVATE SUBDIVISION,
W. S. REAST,
Auctioneer,
610 Collins Street, Melbourne,
has received instructions to SELL BY PRIVATE
SUBDIVISION
ABOUT 15,000 ACRES
of the well-known
KIRNDEEN ESTATE,
IN BLOCKS from 300 to 630 ACRES.
Terms up to 10 Years.
The Estate is situated at Culcairn, and runs
nearly up to railway station; area proposed to
be sold is in northern portion of property ; land
consists chiefly of timbered country, some of it
has been cleared and made fit for plough ; nearly
every acre can be cultivated, and some best wheat
crops in the district have been taken off.
KIRNDEEN ESTATE is in close proximity
to Albury, Corovva and Wagga, three of the chief
towns in Riverina. Should commend it to those
in search of wheat lands. A number of paddocks
around homestead are sown down in lucerne, and
buyers need have no hesitation in inspecting
the property for either wheat-growing or lamb-*
raising. The property will be sold on very
liberal terms—lo per cent, cash, 5 per cent, each
year off principal for period 6 years and residue
at end of 10 years, with interest at the rate of
percent. '
Y'OUNG AUSTRALIA, and Boys and Girls’ own' s
" Newspaper, invites the submission of STORIES, *
VERSE, suitable PARAGRAPHS and ILLUSTRA-
TIONS. Australian and General. “PARMER AND
SETTLER” OFFICE, 435 Kent Street, Sydney.
Legal Notices.
TN THE INTESTATE ESTATE OF THOMAS ABDT,
x LATE OF GYM PIE, QUEENSLAND, FORMERLY
OF ARMIDALE, NEW SOUTH WALES, DECEASED,
INTESTATE.
NOTICE is hereby given to HELEN ABDY formerly
GILIES and HEdEN ABDY the wife and daughter
respectively and WILLIAM ABDY a son of the above-
named deceased that an enquiry will be held by the
Registrar of Probates for the State of New South Wales
on the thirtieth day of November next to ascertain who
are the Next of Kin of the above-named Thomas Abdy
deceased entitled to the moneys in the hands of the
Curator of Intestate Estates to the credit of the said
estate. The said Helen Abdy the widow of the said
Thomas Abdy deceased was iast heard of in Armidale
New South Wales in 1851 and her daughter the said
HELEN ABDY was last heard of in 1868 or 1878 as living
in Victoria and being the wife of a man named Lamb.
The said William Abdy was last heard of in Lawlers West
Australia. Any information regarding the whereabouts
of the above-named persons if living or their representa-
tives if dead will be gladlv received bv the undersigned.
(Signed) T. W. GARRETT,
Sydney, Registrar of Probates.
N. S. Wales.
fdg
A Proof of B. & B. Excellence i
It’s a big thing to get the fastest time against a crack rider mounted
on a speciallv-huilt racing model. Particularly when one’s own
cycle is but an ordinary roadster. But this is the record Mr. G.
Higg secured in a 10-mile race at Nowra on September ‘24. And
he has had his B. & B. machine in use for the past two years as
well. You should ride a cycle as dependable as this. Send for a
Catalogue.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Largest Cycle Building- House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and Castlereag-h Street,
Sydney.
RIGNEY SHOES for MEN!
It is an acknowledged fact that Rigney Shoes hold thei r
own in fit, style, finish and serviceability with the most
expensive made-to-order footwear.
Try a pair and see for yourself what high-grade shoes
they are.
The shoe illustrated is a Willow Calf Shoe* Bespoke style—
the very latest perforations. In Black or Tan.
Ditto in Boots.
Prices: 225. 6d., 255., 275. 6d.
Postage 9d. extra.
Write for Booklet, “ The Rigney Shoe for Men.”
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
df
gfd


A. SAUNDERS' RENOWNED TOILET SILVER!
A. SAUNDERS.
lIAIR BRUSH, full size,
handsomely embossed solid
silver, finest quality bristles,
207-
Other styles, 10/6, 12/C,
15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 35/.
msm
A. SAUNDERS.
French Briar PIPE, bent or straight Am-
ber stem, pure silver mounts and screw,
20/-
Without bowl mount, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SHOE-LIFT and HOOK, solid silver, 7in long,
handsomely embossed in silk-lmed case,
7/6.
Other styles, 8/6, 9/6, 10/6, 12/6, 15/6, 17/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
GLOVE BOX, pure silver-plated mounts, best
velvet finish,
5/6.
HANDKERCHIEF BOX to match, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Church of England COM-
PANION, A and M Hymns and
Prayer-book, pure silver-mount-
ed, seal leather case,
10/6.
>
A. SAUNDERS.
Real pearl shell TRINKET-STAND,
Solid .Silver Base,
5/6.
Larger Size, 8/6.
A. SAUNDER&
Ladies’ BACK COMB, very neat
and attractive in design, set with
Parisian diamonds,
15/"
Other styles, 6/0, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6,
12/6, 157.
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD or OPERA GLASSES, pocket
size, Morocco leather covered, achro-
matic lenses, enamel finished frame,
25/-
Other powers, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/,
30/, 35/ up.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAND MIRROR, cherub design,
solid silver, beautifully embossed,
full size,
30/-
Smaller Size, 20/.
V/a
A, SAUNDERS.
Qent/s SHAVING TIDY, seal leather, plain
solid silver mounts, nicely finished,
12/6.
Other styles, 5/6, 7/6. 10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s ASH TRAY, pure, silver plated,
5/6.
Other styles, 2/6, 3/6, 7/6,. 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Ladies’ solid silver HAIR BRUSH and COMB, hand-
somely embossed, fine quality white bristles,
15/6!
Other styles, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 35/, 38/, 40/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s CARD-CASE, solid silver, hand engraved,
with lid, \
15/6.
Without lid, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAT or CLOTHES
BRUSH, pure sil-
ver, large size, em-
bossed design, long
white bristles,
8/6.
Other styles, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6,
A GLANCE
at this page, at
the new designs,
exclusive ideas—
the quality and
value offered will
convince you of
the satisfaction
we can promise
and ensure to you.
Will you prove it?
SHAVING GUP, pure silver-
plated, on white metal, richly
embossed, gilt lined,
207-
Brush to match, 12/6.
Other styles, 7/6, 10/6, 12/6,
15/.
Gent.’s COLLAR STUD
BOX, pure silver-plated.
5/6.
Other styles, 4/6, 5/6, 7/6,
10/6, 12/6.
m
m
manicuring set, £^4/_/_
Watteau design, £l4/10/; embossed, £l5/10/
m
A. SAUNDKKS.
Baby’s SAFETY-PIN BOX, pure
silver plated, satin finish,
5/6.
DON’T FORGET
that we pay carriage or* any
order, howeyer large or small, to
any address, with the exception
of clocks and chinaware.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEWING COMPANION, sterling
silver mounted, handsomely em-
bossed,
18/6.
Other styles, 7/6, 12/6, 15/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
COMB, pure silver
mounted, full size,
embossed design,
5/6.
Other styles, 3/6,
4/6. 5/6, 6/6, 7/6,
8/6, 10/6.
A SELECTION
is made even eas-
ier to you by a
look at our inter-
esting Catalogue,
full Of beautiful
things, and mail-
ed free to any ad
dress in Austral-
asia.
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, solid
silver, richly embossed,
long white bristles,
8/6..
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6,
10/6, 12/6, 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
CHRISTENING CUP,
solid silver plate on nickel
silver,
4/6.
Other styles, 7/6, 8/6,
10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
Imitation seal PEGGY BAG, nickel frame, strong
lining, well finished throughout, with outside pocket
5/Ci.
Other styles, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 11/6, 12/6 up.
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, handsomely pierced and em
bossed, pure silver-plated silk-lined, A 1 quality,
17/6.
Other styles, 12/6, 15/6, 18/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOBACCO BOX, solid silver, richly hand engraved,
self-acting spring lid, gilt lined,
257-
Other styles, 30/, 35/, 40/, 50/, 60/.
A. SAUNDERS.
PEGGY BAG, Morocco leather, strong
handles, best quality nickel frame,
leather lined, with inset purse,
8/6.
Size larg-er, 9/6. Other styles, 4/6,
5/6, 6/6, 7/6 up.
JEWELLER, 1
M&toQOQfj
k MAKER A
.Saunders
SYDNEY'S LEADING JEWELLER.
.807.809.811.815.815.817. GEORGE ST. [ Opposite Railway Sration) SYDNEY. N.S.W.
SILVERSMITH
cO HSULT//v c
OPTICIAN


gfd
g
Development Simplified by
the Kodak Daylight Tank.
It does not matter whether you use roll films,
flat films or glass plates, we can supply you with a
Daylight Tank that will simplify the process of
development for you.
Tank development is a success. It ensures
absolute uniformity of results and a greater per-
centage of perfect negatives than is possible by
dark-room methods. It saves time by enabling
you to develop a roll of film or a dozen plates
or flat films at once. It saves space, as any one
of the tank outfits can be stowed handily in a
corner of your bag, ready for instant service on
your holiday trips.
The tank method of development, as exemplified
in the Kodak Daylight Tank, the Eastman Plate
Tank and the Premo Film Pack Tank, must
appeal to both novice and expert, and we will be
pleased to demonstrate its efficiency and superiority
free of charge to all enquirers.
The prices of the Kodak Tanks for films are :
Brownie Tank Developer, 14/6; 3)4' n *
Kodak Tank Developer, £l/7/6 ; sin.
Kodak Tank Developer, £l/10/=; 7in.
Kodak Tank Developer, £2/7/6.
The prices of the Eastman Tanks for plates are :
sin. x 4in. Eastman Plate Tank, 15 /- (takes
also x size); sin. x 7in. kast=
man Plate Tank, £l/2/6 (takes also 6)4in.
x size).
The prices of the Premo Film Pack Tanks are :
No. 2, for 12 4%in. x s)4in. x 34/in.,
or sm. x 4in. films, £l.
No. 3, for 6 7in. x sm. films, £l/7/6.
We have published a booklet dealing with Tank
Development, and this we will be pleased to for-
ward free on receipt of your request, We attach a
coupon for your convenience.
Fill in this Coupon
NOW ! and post it
to our nearest
branch.
Please post me your free booklet dealing with the daylight system of
development.
Name
Address
AUSTRALIAN KODAK, LTD.,
Incorporating Baker
& Rouse Prop., Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney. “ The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne. 37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
78=80 Queen St., Brisbane. Ruthven St., Toowoomba. Flinders St., Townsville. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill. 6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z
Important Subdivisional Sale
The Finest Agricultural and Stock Fattening Property
in the Renowned
Parkes District of New South Wales.
THE FAMOUS
NELUNGALOO
Estate
Area 20,965 Acres (More or Less)
To be sold on a Freehold basis on Extra Liberal and Lengthy Terms.
IMMEDIATE POSSESSION.
Railway facilities at hand. Reasonable freights to Sydney markets. Adequate
rainfall. Virgin soil, and, generally speaking, an all-round productive area.
Here a farmer may found a home, and at the same time be assured of
satisfactory grain returns as well as drafts of fat stock. The owners are genuine
sellers and give possession at such a period that the best of the year’s grass
is available; therefore spare a few days and thoroughly inspect for yourselves.
ROUTE FOR INSPECTION.—MeIbourne to Harden (on main Sydney line),
thence via Blayney and Orange to Parkes, or Melbourne to Sydney—
Sydney to Parkes.
RAINFALL.—AnnuaI average rainfall about 22 inches, and it falls at such
periods to exactly suit agricultural pursuits.
WATER SUPPLY.—Numerous tanks ranging from 6000 to 12,000 cubic
yards—dams and creek.
For full information re freights, rainfall, soil, timber, fencing and terms, apply to
BAIL-LIEU PATTERSON (SL SONS Pty. Ltd s ,
375 Collins Street, Melbourne;
YOUNG BROS., Horsham, Nhili, Hamilton, Echuca, Casterton, Willaura,
Ararat, Lake Bolac, Stawell, Rupanyup, Donald, Minyip, Warracknabeal,
Beulah, Murtoa, Dimboola, Natimuk, Goroke, Kaniva, Japarit, Rainbow
(Victoria) ; or their representative, Parkes, New South Wales ; and to
TODD & SONS, Trundle and Parkes, New South Wales ;
SHACKELL, WHITE & CO., Echuca and Moama, Agents in Conjtmction.
LOOK FOR THERED
WINCHESTER
RIFLE AND PISTOL CARTRIDGES
On account of being manufacturers of fire-
arms as well, the Winchester company
are peculiarly able to know the best re-
quirements for ammunition. This partially
answers the question often asked: “Why
do Winchester cartridges excel?” The
rest of the answer is contained in their
large, modern plant and their extensive
knowledge of the firearms and ammuni-
tion business. Winchester Cartridges are
made for all makes of rifles and pistols
and always give entire satisfaction.
FOR SALE BY DEALERS
EVERYWH ERE.
fdg


SARGENTS’
Wedding Cares!
36
V^v«
S33*
Si
m
f. ?
Wx
A
m
A
?ras
sera
m sa
<M ;
afM SS”
SARGENTS' WEDDING CAKES
represent a wide departure
from the usual methods em-
ployed in the making’ of
ordinary Wedding Cakes,
The ingredients—the finest
and purest obtainable are
scientifically prepared and baked
by the most modern appliances.
Sargents' Wedding Cakes of
one, two or three tiers, besides
being beautifully designed and
decorated, have reached the
point of excellence in both
flavor and quality.
The prices, which are most
reasonable, on request.
Pastry, Meat
Pies and
Apple Pies a
Speciality.
Sargents’ Ltd.,
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High=Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
(’Phone—Office, 3559;
Cafe, 1876; Catering-, 4250).
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St
(’Phone, City 1344).
THE FEDERAL BUILDING SOCIETY.
T
DIRECTORS’ REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 30, 1910.
To be presented to the Shareholders at a Meeting to be held in the National Trustees Building,
121-135 Queen Street , Melbourne , at noon on BRIDA F, OCTOBER 28, 1910.
HE Directors present herewith their Sixth Annual Report and Statement of Accounts, duly
audited.
The net profit for the year is...
Balance from last year
£7606 9 3
1476 9 10
Making a total of
which the Directors propose to apportion as follows
Interim Dividend at 7 per cent, per annum (to 31st March,
1910), paid ‘29th April last
To pay a Dividend for the half-year ending 30th September,
1910, at 7 per cent, per annum
To Reserve Fund (making it £32.000)
Carrying forward
£9082 19 1
£3372 5 9
3372 5 9
1000 0 0
1338 7 7
£9082 19 1
Messrs. Joseph Major Pratt and Thomas Arkle, who retire from the Board, in accordance with
the rules, have been duly nominated for re-election.
The retiring Auditors Messrs. C. H. Tuckett and W. N. Robertson, have also been nominated
for re-election. L Acting Chairman.
Melbourne, October 12. 1910. A. SCOTT, Secretary.
L)r.
BALANCE-SHEET.
Cr.
LIABILITIES.
To Capital .. .. *• . *• ..£96,351 0
Reserve Fund (usedin Society’s business) 31,000 0
, Prepayments .. .. 310 0
, Deposits and Accrued Interest .. .. 43,519 19
’ Balance .. ... ...£9OS2 19 1
, Less Interim Dividend paid
April 29, 1910.. .. •• 3372 5 9
5,/10 13
£176,891 13 0
ASSETS.
By Loans on mortgage and
balances owing by pur-
chasers of properties
upon terms .. ..£151,035 14 4
~ Arrears .. .. .. 1,120 15 8
£152,156 10 0
~ Properties in possession (at valuation as
taken over from the old Society) .. 16,729 2 1
~ Fees and insurance premiums .. .. 34 2 0
~ Bank credit 7,971 18 11
£176,891 13 0
PROFIT AND LOSS.
To Interim Dividend paid April 29, 1910 .. £3372 5
~ Management, including salaries, direc-
tors’ and auditors’ fees
~ Advertising
~ Printing and stationery
~ Commission
~ Postages, petty cash, etc.
~ Interest
~ Rent
~ Charges on properties—
Rates, repairs and insurances
~ Balance .. .. .. ..£9082 19 1
~ Less interim dividend paid
as above .. .. 3372 5 9
1304 0
105 9
40 17
386 16
98 9
2406 2
120 0
229 1 7
5710 13 4
£13,773 14 10
By Balance at Sept. 30, 1909 .. £SB4S 15 7
„ Less dividend paid Oct. 29,
1909, £3372 ss. 9d. ; less
transferred to reserve,
£lOOO 4372 5 9
£1476 9 10
~ Interest .. .. .. .. •• ..11,965 5 2
~ Rents .. .. .. .. •• 195 10 6
~ Fines and commission 136 9 4
£13,773 14 10
A. SOOTT, Secretary,
Melbourne, October 12, 1910.
C. H. TUCKETT, F.C.P.A.
W. N. ROBERTSON, F.O.P.A.
Auditors.
The Transfer Books will be closed from October 14 to 28, both dates inclusive.
The Dividend will be payable immediately after the annual meeting.
ran «j i > nm *i;na mm feMaiagaagpa
n
a.
GROW A MAN’S MOUSTACHE !
“A beardless youth” is a term applied in contempt.
It’s the same with a moustache—a young: man with soft down or
a few straggly hairs on his upper lip is put down as a callow, inex-
perienced youth, no matter what his years.
Apply CAPILLARINE to the upper lip before going to bed at
night, and you’ll grow a strong, manly moustache —that’s proved by
30 years’ sale.
PRICE 10/6 A JAR. Posted in plain wrapper to any address.
Illustrated Catalogue post free.
Craig* & Aitken, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
fs
s
V
4>
r
r
*sJ
325
v>
If!
30 WHEAT
FARMS NEAR PARKES
T N ,h. ccuir. of the P.rke,,o Coudobolin dismc. about 6
RINGWOOD ESTATE—I7,I2O were, of TOy fin wheat
I Edols’ famous Burrawong station. Some 2500 acres arc
not look better. of from 440 to 680 acres. Every foot
will grow wheat p„htah ly . These Fattns
are to be offered at
Auction on Nov. 8,
a, Bogan Gate. The .and is bepoid «.
C fu?fiHed— all the advantages of conditional purchases without restrictions
—without the uncertainty of a ballot.
THE EASY TERMS.
Could terms be easier than these ? 15 per cent, at fall of hammer 10 per cent, two
years later, then the balance in 16 equal half-yearly payments. Interest at 4/ per cent.
° n will be met at Ootha Siding, and driven to the Estate.
Railway fares refunded to all purchasers. Commissions divided with Agents introducing
bUye A number of the blocks are in crop, and this crop will help topayofftlieland. Two
farms have cottages ; a number of others are provided with dams and anks What
timber there is on the land has been ringbarked for years—ss. an acre will cka .
Plans, folders and full particulars from
ARTHUR RICKARD & CO. LTD.,
848 PITT STREET, SYDNEY,
AUCTIONEERS and REALTY SPECIALISTS,
or WM. TODD & SONS, TRUNDLE, Agents in conjunction.
The Royal Bank of Australia Limited.
HEAD OFFICE - MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
FORTY-FIFTH REPORT
PRESENTED TO THE SHAREHOLDERS AT T. E
ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING ON OCTOBER 27,19 k.
T-HE Directors have pleasure in placing before Shareholders the annexed Balance-Sheet and Statement of Accounts
1 for the half-year ending 30th September, duly audited and certified.
The net Profits (including' £5llB 10s. 6d. brought from last half-year) amount to £23,962 15 11
which it is proposed to deal with as follows, viz : jsio aon 0 0
To pay a Dividend at the rate of 7 per cent, per annum in non n i
To transfer to the Reserve Fund (making it £140,000) 10| J® ~
And to carry forward the balance .. .. •• •• •• •• ’
£23,962 15 11
The business has been well maintained during the half-year, and the branch at Sydney, referred to in last report,
is now well established, and is proving a great convenience to our customers as well as, a source of profit o the bank.
delThhas been filled by with the Articles of Association by the appointment of Mr
William George Sharp! a well-known and experienced business man, whose name will be familiar to most of the
Shareholders-tors wQuld remind shareholders that they have it in their power to greatly advance the interests
of the bank by introducing desirable business, and they hope for a continuance of the services rendered in the past
in this direction, which have been of material Board , H . T . WILSON, General Manager.
BALANCE-SHEET of THE ROYAL BANK OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED,
for THE HALF-YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 30, 1910.
Dr.
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES.
To Capital Authorised —
600.000 Shares of £4
each £2,400,000 0 0
Capital Subscribed ..£1,200,000 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. £300,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 130,000 0 0
Profit and Loss Account 23,962 15 11
£453,962 15 11
Notes in Circulation 17,928 0 0
Bills in Circulation 71,258 9 10
Government Deposits—
Not bearing-interest ..£38,273 4 8
Bearing interest .. 404,032 4 7
442,305 9 3
Other Deposits—Rebate and interest
accrued —
Not bearing interest. .£583,271 1 5
Bearing interest .. 688,911 16 9
8 1,272,182 18 2
Balances due to other banks .. .. 994 12 1
£2,258,632 5 3
Contingent Liabilities, as per contra.. 673,309 0 0
£2,931,941 5 3
ASSETS.
By Coin, Bullion and Cash
at Bankers .. ..£390,685 11 3
Money at call and short
notice .. .. .. 75,000 0 0
Notes and Bills of other
Banks 816 0 0
Balances due from other
banks .. .. .. 7,116 12 1
Bills and Remittances in
transit, and payable
in London .. .. 278,770 11 2
Government, Municipal
and other Public Stocks,
Debentures and Funds 26,067 12 0
Stamps 440 11 3
£778,896 17 9
Real Estate, consisting of —
Bank Premises .. .. .. .. 55,000 0 0
Other Real Estate, at cost to bank .. 5,593 9 6
Bills Discounted and other Advances,
exclusive of provision for bad and
doubtful debts 1,415,826 18 0
Bank Furniture, Fittings, Stationery,
etc 3,315 0 0
£2,258,632 5 3
Liabilities and Securities of Customers
and others in respect of Contingent
Liabilities, as per contra .. .. 673,309 0 0
£2,931,941 5 3
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
To Salaries, Kent, Income
charges
Balance
Tax and other
£9,886 18 7
23,962 15 11
£33,849 14 6
..£23,118 10 6
By Balance at 31st March, 1910
Less Dividend declared
28th April, 1910 .. ..£10,500 0 0
Transfer to Reserve Fund 7,500 0 0
lB,OOO 0 0
Balance carried down .. .. .. 5,118 10 6
Profits for the half-year after deducting-
interest accrued on Deposits and
Rebate on Bills Current, less Reserves
for Bad and Doubtful Debts .. .. 28,731 4 0
£33,849 14 6
RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT.
To Balance
.£130,000 0 0
£130,000 0 0
By Balance at 31st March, 1910 .. ..£122,600 0 0
Transfer from Profit and Loss Account 7,500 0 0
£130,000 0 0


SCIENTIFIC EVIDENCE I
What Sydney’s Leading Analyst says about
‘Fishers’ Phospherine.
“Nothing Better than ‘FISHER’S’ Phospherine.”
F. H. MOLESWORTH, F. 0.5., F.G.S., Public Analyst, late Lecturer in Chemistry
to the S.A. Government; and Technical College, Sydney, reports to Messrs. Fisher and
Co., as follows :
Oear Sirs,
I have made an analytical examination of a sample
of “FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE,” taken from stock,
and beg to report as follows :
It is composed of pure chemicals, carefully com-
bined, which are calculated to produce the effects
claimed by you.
“ FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE ” is a powerful
tonic, and will be specially valuable in curing cases
(chronic or otherwise) of neuralgia, rheumatism, and
kindred nervous disorders. It will have a beneficial
action on the kidneys, and will be a good anti-dyspeptic
—aid to digestion.
It contains no injurious compounds, nor anything
contraventing the “Pure Food Act,” or the regulations
under that Act.
It is generally recognised that “ FISHER'S
PHOSPHERINE ” is the best nerve and brain tonic
that can be employed to repair the ravages made upon
them in the strenuous battle of life. Five drops in
water after meals is the greatest aid to digestion known.
df
IF YOU PAY £5 PER BOTTLE YOU CANNOT GET A BETTER
TONIC FOR
NERVOUSNESS,
INDIGESTION,
HEADACHE,
MUSCULAR RHEUMATISM,
KIDNEY AILMENTS,
BACKACHE and
NEURALGIA than
FISHERS’ PHOSPHERINE.
A SAFE REMEDY FOR Is.
backache:
A SAFE REHEDY FOR Is.
AND
KIDNEY DISEASE.
A SAFE REHEDY FOR Is.
AN ELOQUENT TRIBUTE
(PURELY VOLUNTARY),
MARKED PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL.
FIRST LETTER.
Kogarah, February 21, 1910.
Gentlemen, Taking into consideration the wonderful good your Phospherine has
done me, I feel it my duty to write you expressing my heartfelt thanks, and wishing it a
wider range of popularity. Suffering humanity are exposed to so many puffed quackeries
that a genuine article should have its merits acknowledged. lam an engineer, and was
for many years in the employment of Messrs. Farleigh, Nettheim and Co. ° While in their
service I had the typhoid fever, and had four months in the hospital. After leaving the
institution I was in a very low state, suffering from backache, kidney complaint, bad sight
and other troubles. I tried a number of so-called remedies, and received no benefit. I then
took some bottles of your Phospherine, and was surprised at the wonderful beneficial re-
sults ; my sight improved, my kidneys got right, and my general good health and energy
returned. I now feel as strong and fit as I did 20 years ago. I will not trouble you with
any further details of my case. Again thanking you. I have waited some time before
writing, to be quite convinced that my CURE WAS PERMANENT.
I am, sirs, yours truly,
PRIVATE AND CONFIDENTIAL. ALBERT A. HAWKINS.
SECOND LETTER.
Kogarah, May 13, 1910.
Dear Sirs, —In reply to your letter of March 1, requesting my consent to your pub-
lishing a testimonial sent to you by me, setting forth the wonderful merits of your ELIXIR
OF LIFE, known as “Fisher’s Phospherine,” I now, after some further evidence of its
virtue, willingly concede to your request.
ALBERT A. HAWKINS,
Engineer and Machinist.
INDIGESTION
A Safe Remedy for Is.
fortmat
/fULL
Feeling” v,
AND v
-A.l JBurningSensatiowv
f oftheThroat l
\ TAKE I
I Fisher’s!
OiDHFRIHy
>~~¥
L~
gdfgs
Five to ten drops of “FISHER’S” PHOSPHERINE in water
after meals is the greatest aid to digestion known.
The after effects of over-eating and excess-drinking are removed
by this famous tonic.
Reliability Test:
Mr. Thomas Forsyth, of Ashfield, writes and declares on oath the following :
“I suffered from acute inflammation of the stomach, with a burning pain. My
tongue got a thick coating over it, and I constantly suffered from nausea. Why,
I used to be almost constantly vomiting. I consulted two doctors at Ashfield for
years without getting relief. But in three weeks FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE
completely cured me. lam Noble Grand for the Loyal Ashfield M.U.1.0.0.F.
I have been in the Lodge for 18 years. Most of the members know of my illness.
Five to ten drops of FISHER’S PHOSPHERINE always takes away a sour
taste in the mouth, and keeps my stomach in regular order. Let everyone know
of my case.”
Subscribed and declared at Ashtield, this
twentieth day of August, one thousand nine
hundred and three, before me—
A. R. LEM AIRE, J.P.
gh
IF YOU PAY £5 A BOTTLE YOU CANNOT GET A BETTER
TONIC FOR INDIGESTION THAN
‘Fisher’s’ Phospherme
ALL CHEMISTS, Is. PER BOTTLE. FOUR TIMES THE QUANTITY, 2s. 6d.
ALWAYS ASK FOR "FISHER’S.”
POST FREE FROM
FISHER & COMPANY,
Dispensing Chemists, 337 GEORGE STREET, Opp. G.P.0., SYDNEY.
“Fisher's” Phospherine is sold outside of New
South Wales under the name of “FISHER'S
GREAT NERVE TONIC/' Therefore always
ask for “ Fisher's Great Nerve Tonic" at
all chemists throughout the Commonwealth .


HAVE YOU GOT?
1. A Tearing, Hacking Cough ?
2. A Stuffed-up Chest?
3. A Teasing Irritation in your Throat?
4. A Difficulty in Breathing?
5. A Cold in Your head?
6. A Fit of Sneezing ?
7. A Pain in Your Chest?
8. A Shortness of Breath ?
9- “Only a Bit of a Cold?”
IF YOU HAVE, TAKE
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
THE GRANDEST REMEDY FOR
COUGHS & COLDS
“A STITCH IN TIME SAVES NINE.”
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS, AND
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
N-S.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney.
HAVE
YOU?
TRADEMARKS
&G
B.S.A
RIFLES
The World's best.
The B.S.A. WAR OFFICE MINIATURE RIFLE
may be correctly described as “ A REAL SERVICE RIFLE IN
MINIATURE” and is altogether an ideal weapon for scientific
and accurate rifle practice up to 200 yards.
THE W.O.M. RIFLE is a full sized weapon of -22 calibre with
improved bolt action of the Lee Enfield type, mil tary match sights
adjustable to 200 yards and is turned out in the B.S.A. Co-’s best
finish. It can be supplied with magazine if required and the B.S.A. No. 8
Aperture Sight can also be fitted at a small extra. Fully illustrated and
described in the B.S.A. Rifle Catalog, which can be obtained from
D. Y. RENNIE (Representing the B.S.A. Co. Ltd.),
5 STOCK EXCHANGE BUILDING. MELBOURNE.
SINGLE
BARREL
sfg
GUNS
20s.
“H. & R.”
225. 6d.
«'H. &B. EJECTOR.”
REMINGTON.
The “COLONIAL. 1
To the man who wants a good, true-shooting, safe, reliable gun, but does not feel inclined to pay the price
of a hio-h-grade Double our “Colonial” S.B. Gun appeals strongly. It is undoubtedly the best
value that can be got for the money. The quality of materials in it, the special construction of reinforced
base and well-bored, full-choke barrel make it such a hard hitter, and has deservedly given it a reputation
of being one of the longest distance killers made, even when compared with other guns of five tunes the price.
ALCOCK 8 PIERCE,
318 LITTLE COLLINS ST.,
MELBOURNE.
Postage on above to any part
of Australia. New Zealand and
Thursday Island. As. 2d ea»h
FURSKINS ARE BRINGING BIG PRICES!
TO GET THE BEST RESULTS SELL YOUR LOT THROUGH
New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY
Experts Carefully Supervise the Handling of Each Consignment.
' l
SSKftSiSSs
1
*
t
J
V
Consult any competent judge of billiard tables, and he’ll
promptly tell you that there are no tables equal to “ Alcock’s.”
Many of the leading billiard matches have been played on
these tables—the recent match between George Gray and Fred
Lindrum, jun., when Gray scored 836,, 831 .coming off the red,
thus establishing two records, and for which Gray
received a gold medal, is an example. This score is another
proof of the marvellous accuracy and perfect construction of
our billiard tables.
Each table is fitted with Imperial Low Cushions, and
bears our trade mark.
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
ALCOCK V CO. Pty. Ltd.
397 George St., Sydney; 114 Edward St., Brisbane; Lower Cuba St., Wellington
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne; 7 King William St., Adelaide; Murray St., Perth
[5
Yi
w -
Jjefweerj you and your cycle
is a saddle of some sort.
To get full service from
the cycle, and perfect
comfort for the rider, there
is only one sort of saddle —
BROOKS
Of all Dealers ,
ooks
d
gsfd
g
fdsg
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and Victoria. Thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ” best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s.


STATUTORY DECLARATION.
FRED FULLWOOD, of 35 Paling’s Buildings, Ash Street,
Sydney, in the State of New South Wales, Accountant, do
hereby solemnly .and sincerely declare
1. I am an Incorporated Accountant having been
in practice in Sydney for the past twenty years,
2. --That I am a Fellow of the Society of Incorporated
Accountants amd Auditors, London, and also a Fellow of
the Australasian Corporation of Public Accountants,
5. --That I have audited the Accounts of 6 * T H E
LONE HAND* * MAGAZINE for the
period of five months from May to September, 1910,
inclusive, since the price of the magazine was
reduced to sixpence, and I hereby solemnly declare
that the total issue was 177,450 or an average
circulation per month of Thirty-five thousand
four hundred and ninety (55,490) Copies, and that
the circulation has materially increased since
the issue of the first number at the reduced price.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of the Oaths Act 1900.
Subscribed and declared at Sydney
this thirtieth day of September,
one thousand nine hundred and ten,
before me,
sd
gs
fg


Shipping:.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund’s Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
sfdgfdgsfdg
♦Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
LONDON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10s.
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by this Steamer.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ARERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
SPECIAL ROUND TICKETS for return by P.O. Com-
pany’s Mail Steamers, First-class both ways, £lll 2s. ;
Second-class, Mail Steamer, £B4 6s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
MKLIiOURNK Agknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide & Fremantle Agents : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy. New and luxurious
12,000-ton Steamers. Cabines-de-luxe ; State-rooms, with
bedsteads; Single Berth Rooms, Private Bathrooms;
Electric Lifts and Laundries.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking’, Public Companies, &c.
gank of ||orth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370.000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J, P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of Dew Zealand.
SYDNKV BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Banking business.
THE
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,042.960
PAID-UP £958,172
HEAD OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS— PhiIip H. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Chas.
H. Myles, Esq.; Sir William P. Manning, Kt.; Hon.
Sir Francis B. Suttor, Kt., M.L.C. ; Rowland H.
Ducker, Esq. ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital .. .. .. .. £BOO,OOO 0 0
Capital Paid Up .. .. .. • • 413,368 18 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) .. .. .. 89,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,091,669 4 5
UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: JAS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO. Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C. ;
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD, Esq.
General Manager— W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital 'Paid-up - .. .. £513,632 0 0
Reserve,Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,449 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 74,500 0 0
£750,581 0 0
HEAD OFFICE : BRISBANE. =====
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mntrr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial Mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance,' Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
II hap Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring: £33,838,510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales :
28 ELIZABETH StREET, SYDNEY.
Directors:
The Hor., C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping:.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
Br
Nord D
FARES TO LONDON.
SINGLE .. 1., £66 11., £3B 10s. 111., £l5 to £l7
RETURN.. 1., 99 11., 57 15s. 111., 27 to 30125.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
fgfdg
w Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Arriving in London in good time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
df
Twin-screw Steamers.
*AFRIC, 12,000 cons, Co sail about
October 26.
SUEVIC, 12.500 tons, to sail about
November 23.
PEKSIC, EUNIC and MEDIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling Apparatus.
♦Taking Passengers V.R.C. Carnival.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES— Capetown or Durban £l5 15 0 to 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 3U 0 U
Melbourne 1 lu u
New fork, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from ‘-M 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Afrems in Australia.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
gdf
* Twin Screw, a One class only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. ... From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
f Taking Passengers for Melbourne Cup.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Branch Service.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets. Time-Tables, &c., on application.
H JOG AGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
g
WINTER TOURS C
to Papua and the Pacific Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Nov. 4, Dec. 16 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Oct. 21, Dec. 2 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT. —INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.— CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
Full particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Plead
Office. J. h. DAVIES, Secretary.
BANK. OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors
DIRECTORS;
£2,500,000
£1,750,000
£2,500,000
£6,750,000
The Hon. C. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, lvt., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors : Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq. ; Alfred George Mi'lsnn, Esq.
Head Office —George St., Sydney. London Office—64 Old Broad St., E.C.
With 317 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua ; and Agents and Correspondents
throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada the
United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
FRENCH, General Manager.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.); Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L.A. ; E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St.. SYDNEY.
The trustees, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Colline-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £37,500 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt; J. H.
MacFarland, Esa., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROWMAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant-
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6SJ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.,
— FOR
Ordinary 8 Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors:
R. M. Phillips, Esq., J.P.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.R.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq.
D. W. Watkins, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary:
Freeman J. Eaton.
Consulting: Actuary
W. R. Day, F.l.a.
Head Office:
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland:
Metropolitan Building's,
Adelaide St,, Brisbane.
Victoria:
48 Queen St.,
Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan ’’ always has vacancies on its
Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
DRUNKENNESS CURED.
It is now generally admitted that Drunkenness is
not a vice, but a disease—happily one that is curable.
DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered by the
Govts. Vic. and N.S. W.) is a certain cure—is harmless
and can be given secretly or taken voluntarily.
Advice Free. Write or Call.
DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISHMENTS : 54 Russell Street,
Melbourne; 1161 Hay Street, Perth,W.A. [l
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP GO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Yongfala, Oct. 21
(Melbourne only).
S.S. Kanowna, Nov. 12
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
ing with Koombana,
leaving Fremantle Nov.
26 for North-West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Oiirns.
S.S. Grantala, Oct. 22.
S.S. Yongala, Oct. 29.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields -
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on at
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
TH E ALL- RED RO UT E.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
fdg
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER,
t Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Laundry on board.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z.. LTD.
Managing Agents, 2590eorge-screet, Sydney.
F.= H. = vS.
Federal*Houlder-Shire Lines.
Fox* London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “ESSEX,”
11.300 Tons. T. Priskk, Commander
Will be despatched from SYDNEY about 25th Oct.
MELBOURNE „ Ist Nov.
„ „ „ ADELAIDE „ Bth Nov.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
\ £49 10s> £l3 13s ' £l5 15s< £1717s -
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Svdney and Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co., Ltd.. Adelaide.
Hotels, &c.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel,
VICTORIA STREET,
LONDON, England.
Opposite Westminster
Abbey and the Houses
of Parliament.
A thoroughly comfortable Home-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Most convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms from 3/6, and Double Bedrooms
from 5/6 per day, and NO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet Sent on Request.
GEO. J. BRINKWORTH, Manager.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
[ill
nm
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.


Coughs and
Colds can be cured
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Coughs and colds, acute or
chronic, are cured by taking
Scott’s Emulsion. Scott’s
Emulsion permanently cures
coughs and colds in all their
forms. This statement is
made because hundreds of
people have written to say
they were cured of cough or
cold by Scott’s Emulsion.
For example, Mrs. J. Sainty
wrote, 30th September, 1908,
from 31, Church Street, St.
Peter’s, Newtown, N.S.W.:
" Troubled with a cough for a very long
time, and feeling completely run down, 1
df
decided to try Scott’s Emul-
sion. The results were be-
yond expectation. In a few
weeks Scott’s had quite
cured the cough, and I felt
bright and well. lam now
thoroughly restored to health.
This trademark was on the
emulsion I bought.”
If you wish to get rid of your
cough or cold, and decide to
buy Scott’s Emulsion,decide
also to GET SCOTT’S
EMULSION. You may be
asked to buy another emul-
sion and told it is “just as
good as Scott’s.” Substitute
emulsions can only be sold
on the reputation of Scott’s
Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion cures the disease-
no matter the age of the patient—and
will be approved by your Doctor for
Coughs and Colds if you ask him.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medici nes
INCREASE YOUR
BUST
MEASUREMENT
/
27-
Write us for Full Particulars, en-
closing 2d. stamp, and we will
tell you how to develop your bust
to normal, even though you have
lacked bust measurement all your
life. We will also send you a
FREE SAMPLE of treatment.
Falliere Flesh-Food Co.,
,Dept. 5 , Linden Court, Sydney ,
gfd
The
Tie
that J
iwill not
Crease
mr
IRIS ( Rc § d )
Real Poplin Ties
Genuine
without
thij l
Reg* l . Tab.
gfd
g
REC?
REAL POPLfN
sHk&Woo/.
Obtainable All Mercery
ASTHMA-
In Asthma
Freeman’s Chlorodyne
is a veritable life-saver.
The terrible wheezing and choking quickly yield to a few doses
of Freeman’s, and perseverance with it will effect a lasting cure.
Excellent also for Colds, Influenza, Bronchitis, Spasms, Diarrhoea, Colic, &c.
Recommended by Doctors for sixty-five years. Price lllh, 2/9 and 4/6 per bottle.
SWF - * Be sure to get FREEMAN’S—the original Chlorodyne
It is an ideal remedy keep it handy.
TRADE
MARK
If your Chemist is
out of stock,order
a bottle, he can
quickly get it.
NEVER accept
imitations.
FREEMANS
CHLORODYNE
The New Edison Records
will be on Sale at all
Dealers To-morrow.
The lists for November are very complete, and you will do well to call on your dealer
to-morrow and select those you want.
We would draw the special attention of phonograph owners to the issue of Edison Grand
Opera Amberol Records. These are undoubtedly the finest Grand Opera Records yet pro-
duced, and the artists contributing are those who have achieved noteworthy successes this
season. You owe it to yourself to hear these splendid gems of vocalism.
We will send complete lists of machines and records on application, and supply the name
and address of your nearest dealer if you do not know it.
Amberol Records for November.
(FOUR-MINUTE).
325 Washington Post and High
School Cadets Marches .. Sousa’s Band
413 La Gipsy—Mazurka Ecossaise.. Sousa’s Band
414 I Wish That You Was My Gal, Molly
Romain
415 Moonlight in Jungleland .. Collins & Harlan
417 The Kiss Waltz .. .. H. Benne Henton
419 Beautiful Beckoning Hands
Ed. Mix. Quartette
421 By the Light of the Silvery Moon
Jones and Male Quartette
422 Down in Turkey Hollow .. Golden & Hughes
424 One Little Girl .. Hindermeyer and Chorus
425 Though Your Sins Be as Scarlet
Stanley and Gillette
426 Patrol Comique
American Standard Orchestra
427 I’d Like to Be the Fellow .. Joe Maxwell
428 The Suffragette .. .. Jones and Spencer
429 To You —Waltz Serenade
Vienna Instr. Quartette
431 Characteristic Negro Medley
Peerless Quartette
12142 The Farmer’s Boy .. Stanley Kirkby
12152 Staccata Polka Isobel Carol
12153 My Girl from London Town . .Billy Williams
12154 Medley of Welsh Airs .. Alexander Prince
12155 Molly O’Morgan .. .. Florrie Forde
12156 My Pretty Jane Ernest Pike
12160 Gems of Ireland.. National Military Band
Standard Records for November.
(TWO-MINUTE).
10350 Narcissus Sousa s Band
10351 Christmas Time Seems Years
and Years Away .. .. .. Romain
10355 Some Day.. .. Marvin and Anthony
10356 Return of the Arkansas Traveller .. Spencer
10357 Farintosh and Jenney Dang
the Weaver Craig
10358 Come to the Land of Bohemia Joe Maxwell
10359 Just a Little Ring from You Jones&Murray
10361 Under the Tent .. American Standard Orch.
10362 By the Light of the Silvery Moon .. Jones
10364 En Route to Catnp March .. N.Y. Mil. Band
13957 Kelly Two-Step .. National Military Band
13958 The Old Grey Coat .. . .Billy Williams
13961 Let’s All Go Down the Strand .. Kirkby
13962 A Chapter of Incidents .. Ben Albert
13963 Impudence Schottische Alexander Prince
13965 The Cooks—Danse Grotesque
National Mil. Band
13967 The Birlin’Reels.. .. J. Scott Skinner
20715 MEDLEY OF HAWAIIAN AIRS (Guitar
Solo), introducing Like No A Like, Tom
Boy Kealoha Wela
Edison Grand Opera Amberol Records.
Slezak
Slezak
Slezak
Slezak
Slezak
Slezak
Slezak
8150 Les Hugenots—Romanza, piu pura
8151 Tannhauser—Loblied der Venus
8152 Standchen (Serenade) ..
8153 Otello —Morte di Otello
8154 Aida—Celeste Aida
8X55 Tosca—E lucevan le stelle
8156 Otello—Ora e per sempre
8167 Aida—Mori r si pura e bella
terra addio .. .. .. •. Slezak
8158 La Boheme—Wie eiskalt ist das
handchen .. .. .. .. Slezak
8159 Lohengrin—Schwanenlied und
abschied vom schwan .. .. Slezak
8160 Pagliacci—Yesti la giubba Riccardo Martin
8161 II Trovatore—Ah !si ben mio
Riccardo Martin
8162 Cavalleria—Rusticana—Siciliana
Riccardo Martin
8163 Romeo Et Juliette—Ah ! leve
toi soleil Constantino
8164 Mignon—Ah ! non credevi tu Constantino
8165 Tosca—Recondita armonia .. Constantino
8166 Mignon—Polonaise .. .. Blanche Arral
8167 Carmen—Air de micaela .. Blanche Arral
BIOS La Perle du Brezel—Chamant
oiseau Blanche Arral
8109 Faust—Air des bijoux .. .. Blanche Arral
8170 La Traviata—Addio del pas-
sato Adelina Agostinelli
8171 LaGioconda—Suicidio .. Adelina Agostinelli
8172 La Boheme—Mi chamano
mimi .. .. .. Adelina Agostinelli
8173 Tosca—Vissi d’arte .. Adelina Agostinelli
8174 La Boheme—O soave fanciulla (Duet)
Agostinelli and Parola
8175 Benvenuto Cellini —Pitie pour moi M. Duclos
8176 La Favorita—Leonore veins .. Louis Nucelly
8177 Romeo et Juliette —Cavatine Gaston Dubois
8178 L’Africaine—O Paradiso
Floreneio Constantino
8179 Ernani—lnfelice Luigi Lucenti
8180 Cavalleria Rusticana —Voi lo sapete
Ester Ferrabini
8181 La Tosca—E luce van le stelle.. Riccardo Martin
8182 I Puritani—Suoni la tromba ..
Caronna and Lucenti.
8183 Freischutz —Grand Air d’Agathe
Margeurita Sylva
8184 Carmen —Romance dela fleur.. Constantini
8185 Romeo et Juliette—Valse Blanche Arral
8186 Hamlet—Brindisi .. Ernesto Caronna
8187 Tannhauser— Blick ich umher
Walter Soomer
8188 Tosca —Vissi d’arte .. .. Carmen Melis
8189 Carmen —Habanera .. Marguerita Sylva
8190 Coeur et la Main—Bolero Blanche Arral
8191 Cavalleria Rusticana —Brindisi
Riccardo Martin
8192 Mignon—Berceuse Gustave Huberdeau
8193 Zaza—Mamma ; non l’ho avata mal
Carmen Melis
8194 Pag'liacci—Pallatella .. Marguerita Sylva
8195 Werther —Ah ! non mi ridestar Luigi Cilia
8196 Ballo in Machera—Eri tu Ernesto Caronna
8197 Simon Boccanegra—Preghiera di Fiesco
Lucenti
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
DEPT. 8., KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
Send for Our
Cinematograph Catalogue.
fdg
IF you’re in the Picture Show Business you’ll
find all supplies you require listed in our
Catalogue at Economy Prices. Lot us send
you a copy—it gives all sorts of tips about
managing and operating machines, and describes
all the newest improvements in the mechanism.
All who contemplate going in for the Picture
Show Business need a copy of this Catalogue,
too —it points the way to the beginner.
MESSRS. JSUDAN’S LTD.,
“The Cinematograph House,”
303 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Please send me your New Cinematograph
Catalogue, absolutely free of charge.
Name
Address
JERDAN'S,
“THE
CINEMATOGRAPH
HOUSE,”
395 George St., Sydney
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be takel > ° f
communications insufficiently stamped. Name,
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted., wie 1
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. wi
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Much-taxed Cocky : We put it down to drink.
H.R., jun. : Yes, we’ve had the “ correcting the ien
Commandments ” jest before. In fact, we ve had ®°
often before that it has worn ruts in the track to t e
basket.... Metfield: Promising Farina: “Please use
what you can of the enclosed.” Thanks ; we will use the
pin Frank Incense : That’s nothing. A 421 b. fish was
caught the other day in a waterhole near Eulo.in farthest-
out Queensland M.A.O. : They were unsuitable. .
F.R.McC.: The Victorian figures are practically three
to 0ne—6.38 infant deaths to every 100 legitiuAte
births; 19.07 deaths per 100 of the other sort
j F.: The man who typewrites his matter so close that a
typhoid germ would be crushed between the lines puts
hobble-skirts on himself in the race for print.. . Variant:
Too inflammable for any paper that isn’t printed on
asbestos ...C.V.E. : The father of all Bridge yarns....
Rock: Mr. Lamond E.D. (W.A.): Give us some
specific facts, and we’ll get out the axe as requested.
Generalities are very unsatisfactory beasts to pursue
D. Blair: The excuse wasn’t wanted; we enjoyed the
gibe... L.H. P.: For the sub-editor Hell is paved with rolled
copy and other good intentions. Do fold your stuff....
L.E.0.: Unskilful work.... Tom Pepper: The castor is not
full enough. .Ching : ’Possum rhyme can’t quite scramble
up the tree.. ..A.T.C. (Transvaal): Sympathetically done;
but it is merely an ordinary tragedy, and the treatment
is not fine enough to make it worth print A.D.J.:
The mountain rhyme is merely promising; other is
rather lamentable Chim : Could get no satisfaction
out of “Dinner Hour.” You forgot to provide the food.
G.J.R.: “Doom” is a washy description of a large
disaster....W.M.B. : Pretty well anyone could build a
poem of that sort whilst leaning against the railings at
the Quay. Worthless Echo : The versification is poor
and the plot is foolish... Cy Rod: Proposed picture of
the local policeman helping to wash up the tea-things
after the Dutchmen’s visit is impossible. No Australian
artist is big enough for the subject... Sawdust King:
The tale of Monty has been told before, and it is hardly
worth while to tell it over again E.P.: “Silent Sing-
ing” to hand. Regret that, so far as this paper is con-
cerned, the melody will have to be wholly inaudible...
J.M.11. : Your sentiments are better than your verse
Pixie: Farming rhyme isn’t ploughed straight enough.
...,W.W. (Q.): Cannot use it ... G. B. A.: They don’t meet
with approval! Approval rushed up a side street when
it saw them coming.... E. 0.11. : Attempt unsuccessful.
No name or address on MS A. Primrose: Verses un-
suitable J.W.H.: Only one suggestion to make—when
you are about to do it again, don’t .. .B. McF. (Melb.):
Slew the man of arguments with the jawbone of the
basket Betsie : Not placed. The dismal fact that only
five favorites out of 24 got home during the recent meet-
ing at Randwick has produced some dismal horse-verse.
... .Timbuctoo :It is only a parti ally-tamed poem, and
containsatleasttwo wild rhymes.. ..L.H.(V.): Very spas-
modic and unconvincing... J.H.: Regret both unsuitable.
When the wowser says No License, what
he really means is No Liberty.
“ San Remo ” puts it thus :
After months of ructions and insinuations, Minister
Baines has granted another Wages Board for the Bris-
bane Gas Workers’industry. Which seems quite reason-
able until you go back over the trouble. When the
stokers’ unions of Brisbane and South Brisbane obtained
a Board to consider their claims, it was thought that the
Board would be given power to deal with every gas
employee. But that wasn’t the Phidston view.
The Board met, heard the evidence and settled
an award affecting only 38 men. Whereupon the
laborer and the lamplighter, at 15s. per week, hustled
round to Minister Barnes’s office with a petition asking for
an extension of the Board’s powers, so that it might hear
their case too. The North Brisbane Gas Go. (of which a
leading M.L.A. is an incandescent light) thought the
matter out, and the next thing Barnes knew was a
second petition from the same employees declaring, this
time, that they didn’t want any Wages Board. Many
people at once began to smell a dead whale some-
where. But Barnes didn’t; he merely professed to
be puzzled. The next move came from a deputa-
tion headed by Labor-leader Bowman, when some
things were explained—notably, that the second
petition, although it did not originate with the men,
had been signed by them on the gas co.’s premises.
That only Worried Barnes more ; and finally he made up
his mind, or had it made up for him, to grant a separate
Board for the laborers and lamplighters. Observe that
he did not extend the stokers’ Board to fit the whole
industry. Don’t ask me why, because I can’t tell you.
Hid I been in his place, I might have figured it out
this way: If these laborers and lamplighters have been
bluffed or cajoled into signing that second petition, it is
not likely they will produce strong representatives to sit
upon their Wages Board, whereas the stokers’ re-
presentatives are strong and emphatic, and would
certainly hold out against, and perhaps be seriously' in-
convenient to, this poor co. Therefore, let us have a
new Wages Board. I say, that is how I might have
figured it had I been in Barnes’s position; but I’m not,
and probably Barnes never thought of looking at it like
that. But it all goes to show what brilliant administra-
tors the Phidston gang are. If the Wages Board Act
were administered with common-sense, it would do much
good ; but the way the Phidstons are administering it
calls for the scorn of the reflective, and the dead cat of
the impetuous.
“ Caveat,” from the Coort: —
A case, recorded as Ware v. Cavanagh and another,
which occupied the attention of Justice Street forsome
days in N.S.W. Probate Court recently, seems to demand
some investigation now that the police have finished
making up the rolls and inquiring into the jury panel for
the Wade Government. The story as told in the evidence
was that one Campbell, a farmer at Morpeth, having no
family, had adopted his nephew and niece named Ware.
Subsequently, he drew up a will bequeathing them all his
property. He made no secret of it, and on March 13
last, before leaving for Sydney to seek medical treat-
ment, he sent for his lawyer to make sure that
his wishes had been made clear. His lawyer laughed
at his fears, but Campbell hinted that someone would
trv and get the money that he intended for
Lily Ware (or Campbell), and he wanted to make
dead sure that Lily was safe. On reaching Syd-
ney he was operated on for cancer of the
liver. On April 13 he died. On May 12 a will,
with one Cavanagh as executor, was granted pro-
bate. This document disinherited the Wares before they
knew of its existence ; but immediately afterwards they
sued for the probate to be cancelled and their will
admitted. The plaintiffs openly averred knavery, and
bluntly hinted at forgery. The witness of the will was a
man who seems to be entirely and definitely lost some-
where ; while Cavanagh bushed himself to such an
extent that no one in court could obtain a co-
herent account of how the dying man had
executed the will or why he had changed his
mind. The Judge unhesitatingly cancelled the will, de-
scribed Cavanagh as “ untrustworthy and unscrupulous,’’
and flatly declined to believe a word he said. Lily Ware
got her property, less her taxed costs (which come out of
the estate); Cavanagh is to pay his own. The Judge de-
clined to decide the issue of forgery ; but remarked that
Cavanagh had nothing to complain about in being mulct
in his own costs. After calling a man as many things as
Justice Street called Cavanagh, it seemed up to his Honor
to make him pay the costs of the aggrieved party as well
as his own. But apparently the habit of saying “ costs
out of the estate ” is too strong to be lightly broken.


This smart Tucked
Blouse, in Jap.
Silk, is some evi-
dence of what The
Big Block means
in the way of low
prices. Post free,
it is
911.
“O
•>-
■p
if
It is one of 800 illustrations in the
Big Spring Book.
Have you the book ? Would
you like a copy of it ?
Then write to-day. It’s a money
saver.
Finney, Isles & Co.
limited,
THE BIG BLOCK, BRISBANE.
Mention The Bulletin.
IN BANANA LAND
Queensland Labor-leader Bowman’s health
has been bad for some time, and although it is
now better than it was Dr. Hirschfeld has
strongly advised a long sea trip, preferably the
run round the Cape to Europe and back. Six or
eight months’ rest, with such a trip thrown in,
should, says the medicine man, restore Bowman
to full strength and working capacity. So a sub-
scription list has been opened, with the view' of
presenting him with a bag of sovereigns. And,
as Dave Bowman has been a very unselfish man,
it is to be hoped that the bag will be heavy.
“ Ravenshoe ” ; “C.S.A.” (B. 15/9/’10)
handles the truth carelessly when he says that
“John Moffat, mining magnate, purchased a
township, with saw-milling plant complete, for
£177.” The upset price of the block was cer-
tainly £1 an acre for the 177 acres; but the im-
provements, consisting of saw-mill, stables, barn,
four cottages and three humpies, were valued at
£1067, and the buyer had to pay up that lot
before he took over the township. As a matter,
of fact, they were John’s improvements already,
which explains why, when he bought the land, he
didn’t have to pay himself for the goods that
were on it.
“Bromide”: Since my arrival in the
State, eight weeks ago, I have been in nearly
every coastal town from Brisbane to Cairns, and
have stayed overnight in every place I have
visited. Being a thorough believer in a White
Australia, I barred colored-labor hotels. To my
first question : “Do you employ white cooks and
servants?” in many cases the answer is, “ Oh,
no ! I employ a Jap cook. But, then, you
see” And a long rigmarole follows in apology.
The lies are bad enough, but the thing that gets
on my nerves is the way the blighters insult the
white race. “ You can’t depend on ’em.” “ They
get drunk and leave you in the lurch.” “ They’re
not as clean as the Jap or the Chow.” “They’re
too cheeky”—and many other like reasons,
always concluding with “We tried hard, but we
can’t get’em.” The pub I’m writing from is a
“ white ” house, and a kitehenmaid was wanted.
One advt. in the local paper brought six white
girls before 7 a.m., and by 9 a.m. another half
dozen had applied. I’ll bet a quid if a visit was
paid to some of the colored-labor hotels here to-
day you’d be told: “Oh, yes, I’d like to have
whites, but I can’t cret 'em.” The liars !
President Manchester, of the Brisbane
Water and Sewerage Board, cheers the city up
with the news that, when the full drainage and
sewerage scheme of the Board has been carried
out, the northern capital will be the admiration
of the sanitary experts of the globe, and its death
rate will be something to marvel at. Even now,
with a water supply that would disgrace a third-
rate country town, and a sanitary system that is
an abomination, its death rate is lower than that
of any other capital city in the Commonwealth,
bar one—and it doesn’t always have to bar even
one. Last year Sydney only beat it by about half
a death per’ 1000 of the population.
Brisbane Courier recently published a
portrait of Atticus Tooth, who assisted at the
birth of two Bananaland towns—Bowen and
Burketown—and who, for nearly half a century,
has been defying the climate of North Queens-
land to do its worst. Judging by his appearance,
its worst doesn’t amount to much. As far back
as 1846 Atticus took cattle from the Murray
River to Widgee Widgee, in the Wide Bay (Q.)
district. For some years he squatted on the Dar-
ling Downs, but gradually got farther and farther
north until alligators, the Gulf and other obstacles
hinted that it was about time he tethered himself
for good.
From the report of the boiler inspector
for the Roma (Q.) district:— _
At Murweh station, where there is an 8-h.p. oil engine
driving pump, Miss Cameron, the manager’s daughter
(aged 22 years) manages the whole plant and does it well.
It is very encouraging for the young lady; but
the attendance on engines and pumps will never
become a habit among ladies if the inspector has
to coldly set out the age of the attendant.
RECOGNISED
THEM ALL.
CAPTAIN : “ The col-
lection, sir.”
PERSON IN HORRORS: “ Yes,
I can see 'em (hie). Two
pink toads an a yeller worm.
Better bury 'em.”
At the last Maryborough (Q.) show the
Queensland Forestry Department a
maul head turned out of a mangrove log. The
Department said that mangrove was better than
any other timber for the mauls used by boiler-
makers in beating red-hot plates into shape on
cast-iron templates. B. T. McKay, works man-
ager at the good Australian shops of Walkers
Limited, Maryborough, promptly put the matter
to the proof, and reports that the wood is quite
up to the Department s specifications. Hitherto,
Walkers have used rnauls made of mahogany,
clamped with iron ; but the mangrove maul can
do its job without the iron.
“B. Sticker” : It might pay Queensland
to do a bit of medical prospecting on the big
banana plantations along the Johnstone River. I
have lived and moved there, and can’t get rid of
the horrible suspicion that the expedition would
pan out a few cases of leprosy. John Chow is
aware that too frequent revelations of the disease
are not qalculated to make him any better loved
as a colonist and vegetable merchant; hence, as
the North well knows, he hides, if possible, those
of his countrymen who are falling to ruins. The
extensive Johnstone River banana-gardens are
ideal places of concealment. White men seldom,
if ever, meander that way, and those who do
don’t poke into the humpies. From personal
contact there would, then, be little to fear from
these people; but these unwashed Mongolians
handle the banana at harvest time ! The Saw-
bones brotherhood may differ as to whether the
curse is contagious or not; but the signifi-
cant fact remains that the father of the recently-
discovered Brisbane schoolboy-leper is an in-
mate of Peel Island lazarette, while the sad
case of the two Charters Towers white sister-
lepers makes it impossible to doubt that mere
than one person can be contaminated by the same
agent. It might prove useful to post up in sugar
and banana districts a plain, printed description
of the syihptoms of the scourge, with an invitation
to the public to at once report suspicious-looking
yellow subjects to the Health authorities.
“ San Remo ” : One of the worst misfor-
tunes of a Tory newspaper is a bad memory.
Quite recently, the Brisbane Courier assured the
ironmoulders who are on strike that their ill-
advised action was merely recoiling on their own
heads; that their places had been filled ; and that
the master founders weren’t a bit inconvenienced.
Last week the forgetful old dame chattered thus:
The moulders who have been on strike in Queensland
are not doing their industry any good, as employers are
rightly chary about tendering for work which they may
not be able to carry out, and it looks as if a good deal of
trade will be lost.
Now, is the Courier right, or wrong, or both, or
neither or what ?
That Aero Club of Ours.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Most interesting addresses were given by members of
the Aero Club on the science of flying, at our recent Ex-
hibition. The aeroplane in evidence was much admired,
but the public seemed very disappointed. They evidently
expected to see the thing fly.— Brisbane daily.
OUR Aero Club-men lectured on the science of the
Thing—
How all it wanted was a push, and then you’d see it
spring ;
How it was built on latest lines to lift a ready plane,
And then to cleave the snowy clouds or skim above the
main ;
How ten or twenty thousand feet ’twould mount without
a quiver,
And cross the Alps, or fly the sea, or glide above the
river;
And so they talked in learnfed style and drew the people
round
To gaze upon that aeroplane that rested on the ground ?
We gloated on these valiant men and inly wondered why
They kept theirfeet upon the earth and never did a fly ;
But Jones, who was the scientist that built the aero-
plane,
Explained the basic principles of motor, wing and vane ;
He told us how ’twas sudden death (we heard him with a
shudder)
To tangle up the flier’s tail inside her little rudder,
And how he always took the air with such a joyous
bound —
And all the time the aeroplane kept resting on the
ground.
And Brown, he told with bated breath and wildly
flourished limb,
Of how a deadly accident had nearly happened him ;
How once, in his dirigible, the motor wouldn’t gee,
And so he fell for half a mile and landed in a tree ;
And how he made a rope at last by ripping up his
clothes,
And dropped another 20 feet and landed on his nose ;
And how he soon got home again all whole and safe and
sound —
And as he spake the aeroplane kept resting on the
ground !
And Johnson, he dilated on the terrors of the ’plane—
How, in the wars of coming days, the flying man would
reign ;
How he would scoot above our heads with curious motor
hum,
And drop a bomb, and put us all to sleep in Kingdom
Come :
How ne’er a Dreadnought could escape this deadly air
machine,
Unless it learned to duck and dive just like a submarine ;
And, as he talked, his eye would glare on all the folk
around—
And all the time that aeroplane kept resting on the
ground.
And Brown and Jones and Johnson, then they spat upon
their hands
And said how it was their intent to visit other lands ;
How they would show the Eskimo some fun on his
horizon,
And give the muddy Mississipp. a sight to feed her
eyes on;
How they would see the Brig of Ayr, and skim the Banks
o’ Doon,
And camp a week contented on the Mountains of the
Moon :
And as they gassed we followed them, in admiration
drowned—
But all that time the aeroplane was safe upon the ground.
They are a noble lot of coves, this aero club, you know,
And Lord ! How they will hustle things if once they let
her go.
But yet, although they’ve got a craft that’s trim and taut
and steady,
They will not soar our city o’er until they’re sure they’re
ready
Their Duty (so they tell us when impatience makes us
burst)
Is plainly this, whate’er they miss, to Educate Us First;
Some day, no doubt, we’ll see them all with flying glory
crowned;
But, up to date, that aeroplane is resting on the ground !
QUEENSLAND.
F. BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane. October 15, 1910.
Mr Dear Thargomindah,—
For some reason unexplained, Wee Macgregor
did not hie to the North yesterday, as expected,
but the Morgan couple were hurried off instead.
Ah, well, what they loose in oratory they will
gain in avoirdupois.
There have been such goings-on in the House-
nasty tempers and papa Kidston spanking his
family into shape, and all over that £70,000
which has been put, rightly or wrongly, into a
trust fund for the new University. Such bitter
outbreaks and dirty-linen washings, unparlia-
mentary language and threats, and, finally,
nothing but smoke. To my simple mind, Thargo-
mindah, my dear, it doesn’t seem to matter
whether the little nest-egg is packed away in a
trust fund or in a savings bank, or in a hatbox,
as long as the infant Uni. gets it in the long run ;
but the differences of opinion produced what the
Premier said was “a deliberate attempt to oust
the Government,” and that, you know, is some-
thing pa Kidston will not put up with.
A fleeting message from Tittell Brune tells me
that she is putting in very hard work in the great
city. As the critics, it seems, are inclined to
closely watch her for slight slips, they evidently
think her worth attention, which is something.
Her latest picture shows a very rounded and well-
groomed and generally improved Tittell.
Next week there will be a flood of bishops for
the opening of St. John’s Cathedral. The altar
—bluish Devon stone, with wonderful pillars and
front panel, the gift of the Hopetoun family—has
arrived, and is, with the big rose window of
stained glass, the centre of attraction.
Police-Inspector Galbraith, who retires on pen-
sion, was originally connected with the Maoriland
“force.” He joined here in January, ’B2, and
has served with distinction for 28 years. Pro-
bably no other officer has had a wider experience ;
he has seen service in all parts of the State, in-
cluding the Gulf country, and latterly has been
in charge at Townsville.
In the new constitution of the local Creche and
Kindergarten Association, provision is made for a
modest council of 40, noless. Duringthe recent row
with the Institute of Social Service (which latter
was finally routed), a modest six made their
meows heard from Hamilton to Woolloongabba
Forty—think of it, ye tabby cats ! If anything of
a controversial nature happens in the future,
the squall will disturb the fish in the Gulf of
Carpentaria.
The engagement of Douglas Malcolm Corrie
and Miss Vera Baynes, eldest daughter of that
fine sportsman, Ernest Baynes, is now formally
announced ; and much congratulatory literature
is coming in to both of them.
After many months’ illness George Valentine
Helliear passed over the river on Thursday.
“Old George,” as he was affectionately called,
was almost a native. Born at Bristol in 1848, he
arrived in the Commonwealth in ’54. Having
got his education at the Church of England
Grammar School in Melbourne, he came to this
State in ’64, cultivated the ox awhile, and then
was articled to Mr. J. M. Thompson, at Ipswich,
being admitted by the Full Court as a solicitor in
’7l. Eight years later he was acting Master of
Titles, and became Crown Solicitor in 1903.
George Helliear, a confirmed Johnsonian Club
man, was a popular and companionable chap, of
whom few had anything but good to say. Judges
thought highly of his talents, and never had man
fewer enemies in the profession.
The Ipswich Champion Choir, still blushing
with Sydney Eisteddfod honors, raised a melodious
voice at the Brisbane Exhibition Hall last week ;
and, in spite of torrential rains, the big room
was full. Quite apart from the chorus work, the
fiddling of one Jacob Elkind and the mezzo
voice of Miss Hilda Reid were worth a ducking
to hear; while the smileful Francis and Miss
Josey Bytheway were heard in a Giovanni
number, and afterwards in the Butt specialty,
“ The Keys of Heaven.” *
A she-pal happened back from the Old World
last week, and her observations on continental
life are entertaining. She has come home with
the conviction that Australians are the cleanest
people on earth, and she chuckles at the kindly,
tolerant way in which the Viennese and others
received the Antipodean demand for a daily bath
as though it were an amiable fad. On the subject
of London women she waxes eloquent. There is,
she says, no one so provincial as the London —or,
for the matter of that, the English—house-dame
at large. She is so tied down by tradition that, if
one of the strings slips, she feels lost, and
has an immediate idea that the country is
going to the dogs or the Labor party. The
youthful Australian matron who dares to be
at home to her callers is regarded as
something strange and unheard of, and if she
follows up this enormity by an offer of 4 o’clock
tea she is labelled dangerous. In her travels my
pal discovered Mr. and Mrs. Carter Pickford in a
snug little home in Surrey, whence Mrs. C. P.
runs up to town nightly. Mr. C. P. has forsaken
the buskin for the motor business.
Brisbaneites combine in sympathy with Mrs.
Hall, a local croquet expert, who, while on the
warpath in Sydney armed with a mallet, managed
to smash her ankle, and so spoiled her chances of
trophies and fun.
The latest brand of surprise-visit lunacy in
southern Queensland is the “fowl” visitation.
A worthy citizen is observed putting the finishing
touches to a hen-house and his sympathetic
neighbors call round next convenient evening
each with a nervously clucking hen concealed
under the pinafore. The “surprised” citizen
welcomes the guests, collects the “ chooks,” serves
out refreshments, and retires to rest in the glad
knowledge that two dozen antique barn-door
warriors are roosting on his hospitable perches.
No sensible henwife ever keeps old fowls to run
up the corn-bill.
Yours affectionately,
MARDO.
The sort of tangle that the Queensland
land law has got into can be guessed from the fact
that the recently-introduced Land Bill repeals
provisions of no less than 32 existing Acts, some
of them dating back to 1837.
“ Ossian ” : That proposal to manufacture
alcohol from Bananaland’s overgrowth of prickly
pear has not the merit of novelty, if Gertrude
Atherton does not let loose her wild imagination in
“The Conqueror,” published in 1902, and profess-
ing to be the true and romantic story of Alexander
Hamilton, the mentor of Washington. The
authoress depicts Hugh Knox—the Presbyterian
parson, who did so much to fashion Hamilton’s
youthful mind—hurling advice at his 15-year-old
protege what time the pair sit in Knox’s library
“over two long glasses of ‘Miss Blyden,’ a
fashionable drink made of sugar, rum and the
juice of the prickly pear, which had been buried
in the divine’s garden (in St. Croix) for the
requisite number of months.” This is stated to
have happened in 1772. Presumably the object
of the burial was to permit the plant to ferment
or, at least, to acquire an alcoholic “bite.” Has
any Bulletin reader sipped alcohol decorated
with juice squeezed from the Australian variety
of the, pest? And, if so, what color were the
snakes ?
“Itan” : Nature was a generous lady the
day she fashioned the rich hinterlands of Cairns
(N.Q.). The Herberton plateau, besides possess-
ing a climate which will challenge any part of the
world as a health-producer, is a gallery of the
most beautiful natural scenes. The gulch known
as “ The Crater,” although no relation to any
ancient volcano, is a basin 500 ft. long, 300 ft.
broad and 300 ft. deep. The granite walls are
mostly sheer precipices, while upon the
floor is a cool lake 200 ft. deep. From
the summit, on a clear day, 40 miles of
mountain scenery may be swept with the
eye. The highest land-point lifts through clouds
at 4000 ft., and falls and cataracts jewel the ra-
vines and precipices. The great belt of surround-
ing country will carry an immense population, but
to-day it mostly lies lonely, with here and theie
a settler clearing scrub and jungle, or a mini r
scratching the surface for a handful of tin. Whnt
a country to be lying undefended under the bared
teeth of an Asiatic horde!


STYIISH TAILORING.
For the New Season Spring Suitings are now
showing in Worsted and Flannel Materials.
Our Suits are tailored in the most up-to-
date fashion, combined with good taste,
giving that touch of style that attracts
attention to the well dressed.
Sac Suits from 3 Guineas
to 5 Guineas.
PERFECT FIT GUARANTEED.
PATTERNS AND SEEF-MEASURMENT FORMS
FORWARDED ON APPLICATION.
All the very latest Mercery notions come for-
ward by each incoming steamer, in Ties, Hats,
Fancy Shirts, etc., and all things necessary for
the Summer.
BALL & WELCH
PTY., LTD..
180-188 Flinders St., Melbourne.
I!
Sydney's Largest Ferry Steamer on the Manly Service —The Bellubera in Commission,
4*
VTiTTim
- ----■*'- -8.-~ ~ ■.. ■ *" fc ‘ '*“'
r ; » I *3^ r ~
, m.
,
,«-■ •■• ■
*- . . * -~ ■ •
w&f-' - ■<■■■"'/.f/f;.-,, *•<>' ■ •
■Hi
BEU !
glfia**-
-w .' ■ '•
- .
15353
■ >
se
■-.'.. iassr* •
SBL
y*gap
~~
s
THE BELLUBERA is easily one of the finest ferry steamers south of the line, and the Port
Jackson Company has reaspn to feel satisfied with the manner in which the
travelling public and residents of Manly appreciate their enterprise. The Bellubera is
altogether an example of local production, having been designed and built by the Mort’s Dock and
Engineering Company. A beautifully-modelled, double-ended steel craft, 210 feet long (15 feet
longer than the last new steamer Burra Bra), she provides plenty of deck space, for she has a beam of
32 feet, and a depth moulded of 15 feet. There is thus ample accommodation, and although the
certificate authorises her to carry 1500, she has a floating capacity of at least 5 00 more. When the
Bellubera ran her official trial she averaged a speed of 15 knots over the measured mile, which gives
her the proud distinction of being the largest and fastest ferry steamer on the harbor. The vessel
attracted much attention during her trials.
The machinery of the Bellubera consists of a set of triple-expansion engines, having cylinders of
2Bj£in. and 48j£in. respectively, and a stroke of 27m., fitted with steam reversing gear.
Steam is provided by two navy-type boilers, with six furnaces, and give a working pressure of iBolb.
The auxiliaries include an independent circulating pump, automatic feed pumps, feed heater, filter,
etc. The indicated horse-power is 1350,’and the guaranteed speed is 14 knots in service. The
electric light installation is of the highest class, and from the firm of Messrs. Ernest Scott and
Mountain. A wheelhouse is provided each end, on specially-built bridges, each having an inde-
pendent set of Chadburn’s telegraph gear, and an independent set of Alley McLellan’s patent steam
steering gear ; also a complete installation of telephones to engine room—thus assuring the greatest
possible security against mishap.
The Bellubera makes the fleet of the Port Jackson Company up to seven passenger steamers,
which are capable of carrying 8500 passengers' to Manly on one trip, and the Company should have
no difficulty in coping with the largest crowd it may have the pleasure to handle during the present
season. The Port Jackson Company prides itself on the fact—and rightly so, too—that the fine
steamers comprising their fleet are constructed in Sydney. The vessels are striking evidence of
skilful shipbuilding ; and the Port Jackson Company, in thus encouraging local industry, keeps the
money in the country, and helps to show to the public at large what local artisans can do.


son we
HANDS
pans
r
De-
Assured by the Use of
CIJTICURA
Soap and Ointment
These pure, sweet and gentle
emollients preserve the hands,
prevent redness, roughness and
chapping, and impart in a single
night that velvety softness and
whiteness so much desired by
women. For those whose occupa-
tions tend to injure the hands or
who suffer from dry, fissured,
itching, feverish palms and shape-
less nails, with painful finger-ends,
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura
Ointment are wonderful.
Depots: London, 27. Charterhouse Sq.: Paris. 10,
Rue de la Chaussee d’Antin; Australia. R. Towns &
Co.. Sydney; India. B. K. Paul, Calcutta: China,
Hon? Kong Drug Co : Japan. Z. P Maruya. Lid.,
Tokio: So. Africa. Lennon, Ltd.. Cape Town, etc.;
U.S.A.. Potter Drug A Chem. Corp.. Sole Props.,
133 Columbus Ave., Boston.
03“ Post-free. 32-page Cuticura Book, an Author-
ity on the Care and Treatment ot Skin and Hair.
rtV\\V\l
ss
NET
G
BA
TYRES
@
231
ES
CLARENCE STREET
SYDNEY
DON’T
SUFFER
FROM
OBESITY
<314
Excess Fat makes your life miserable, des-
troys your vigor and vitality, weakens your
heart, absolutely obliterates your figure, and
makes you a laughing-stock for your friends.
" Fatcure”
is a scientific, successful and efficacious rem-
edy for the reduction of adipose tissue. It
is harmless, pleasant to take, and the fat
once removed by it does not come back.
It will, unaided by dieting cr exercise, re-
duce your weight by about 5 lbs. a week.
There is no faith-cure about “Fatcure.
The weighing machine shows you the results.
Send a 2d. stamp and let us post you a
FREE TRIAL sample and our Free Book.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
To PEARL Fishers, Dealers
in Pearls and Opal.
We have been continuously buying’ since 1880.
We pay the Highest Prices.
We buy the largest or smallest parcels.
We pay Spot Cash to all.
Send through any Bank for our Inspection.
P. RLEEMO & CO., Ltd.,
Pearl and Diamond Merchants,
q Wy ray ard Street. SYDNEY.
Ladies’ Stylish
Summer
Footwear
fd
PRICE,
16/6
Stylish Shoes give any woman a well-bred
and up-to-date appearance.
The Shoe illustrated is one of the finest im-
ported models, and is eminently suited to the
present fashions.
PRICE, 16/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/- extra.
Gazeka Shoe Paste, in Black and Brown,
large tin, 6d.
Write for our Booklet, “ Shoelight.”
LEMMING’S
BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne ;
257-259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, l'rahran;
1-3 Errol Street, North Melbourne. [2
ANTINEURASTHIN
is a Nerve Food only ; it feeds the nervous system inde-
pendently of the muscular system ; and whereas ordinary
food stays the appetite “ ANTINEURASTHIN ’’increases
the appetite.
The Effects of ANTINEURASTHIN
are-not only rapid, but, what is more important, lasting.
These are, indeed, immediately noticeable. The general
feeling of health increases, the patient becomes energetic
and experiences a renewed pleasure in life. Headaches
and neuralgic pains vanish, irritability disappears, phy-
sical and mental exertions are easily borne, while the
mental powers and memory quickly improve.
ANTINEURASTHIN cures by feeding the Brain and
Nerve Centres.
A sample of Antineurasthin and treatise on nerve
troubles will be posted to any address in Australia or
New Zealand on receipt of one shilling in postal note or
stamps by the Wholesale Distributor for Australia,
H. A. Goddard, Eagle Street, Brisbane. [1
“MAN TO MAN”
is the title of a Valuable BOOKLET explaining
the Causes and Cure of
NERVOUSNESS and ALLIED TROUBLES,
which embitter life, and cause premature decay.
A copy of this Booklet will be sent FREE
(sealed) to anyone interested.
London Specialities Agency,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
STOP
SMOKING!
MOST MEN would cure themselves of
the Tobacco habit if they knew they
could do so easily and without discomfort.
It takes but ten minutes for tobacco to
change the beats of the heart. To keep it
up is to tempt death by Heart Disease,
Nervous Collapse, Tobacco Cancer, and
Stomach, Liver or Kidney Disease.
TOBACCO SPECIFIC is a harmless,
vegetable remedy that will make the user
of tobacco in any form absolutely abandon
the habit for good. It not only destroys
the craving, the desire, the appetite for
tobacco, but restores to health the entire
nervous system, and aids nature in entirely
eliminating from the system the Nicotine
Poison.
You Can Try It FREE.
Send 2d. Stamp and we will post yon a FREE
SAMPLE, also our FREE BOOKLET— “The
Tobacco Habit and Its Consequences.”
H. SINCLAIR & CO., Dept. Q,
Victoria Arcade, Sydney. [i
Early Spring'
Suitings.
WE have made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest productions in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to us.
We have received the first two consign-
ments, find are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET -STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer’s).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
FROOTOIDS
Cure Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
otjier aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers: E. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
A HUGE SUCCESS !
BIRDS
Bird’s
Custard until Sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
m
MORRIS'S I
»ree Wtches
CIOABETTgS
10
for
londoir Wad®
HIGHEST GRADE.
5s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, sydney.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
The Inky Way.
Died on September 24, at Kenmore, near Goulburn
(N.S. W.), George Frederick Mason, youngest son of the
late Walter George Mason, engraver on wood, of the
original staff of the Illustrated London News, and after-
wards of London Punch, aged 59 years.
* * * *
“ Pressman” : The North Coast Daily News (N.S.W.),
on Monday, October 3, reproached the Lismore Rowing
Club for having got off some of its regatta heats on the
previous day. Said the Pious Editor :
“If certain sections of the Rowing Club are so en-
grossed in sport that they will not obey the behest:
‘ Remember thou keep holy the Sabbath Day,’ they
might at least pay a little deference to the religious
scruples of others and get away out of sight to transgress
one of the most uplifting tenets of Christianity—the ob-
servance of which is generally a proud trait in the char-
acter of even the most rugged Britisher.”
As a footnote to the article the following appeared
“ In order that the religious scruples of our subscribers
may not be further offended, the proprietors of the North
Coast Daily News have decided that there will be no
future Monday morning issue of the paper, ifhis will
prevent our staff continuing in their present desecration
of the Sabbath evening, and will enable our reporters to
attend that Divine Worship which is the inherent right
of the poorest Britisher, instead of working at this office
in order to swell our dividends.”
P.S.—On reading the News over again, I find the footnote
did not appear. Which is very inconsistent.
* * * *
“M. L. Pressman ” : It has been claimed that Tas-
mania is the last country in the world for the free-lance
writer to make a living in, but if its Inky Way is macada-
mised with harderflints than that of Maoriland it ought to
be put in a non-competitive class by itself. And Cohen’s
land has far less excuse than Tassy, for its leading papers
are bigger, and the bulk of them are wealthier. Nearly
all of them, particularly in the large towns, are paying
steady dividends; yet there is hardly a proprietor
who lias charit ible thoughts towards the starved litera-
ture of the Dominion. Adverse criticism to the contrary,
some good literary work has been done in M.L.; but the
men with the money-bags have hardly given a passing
thought to it. Half the proprietors do not know litera-
ture when they see it; a quarter are content to take it
from those standard writers whose copyrights have ex-
pired ; and a quarter would offer to publish it at
advertising rates. Most of them stand aghast at any
proposal to pay anything outside the wages (and not too
much of that, either) of the regular staffs. The scissors
are their standby and the paste-pot their foundation. As
a luxury, the syndicated English or American or (very
occasionally) Australian serial, at 10s., 155., and
£1 is ordered. C. W. Martin’s Australian story,
“ Übique, the Scientific Bushranger,” and J. H.
M. Abbott’s “The Sign of the Serpent” were re-
cently put on the syndicate market at £1 Is. each for
the complete copy. Another luxury is the syndicated
news-letter or series of special articles. A circular was
recently issued by a London publishing co. offering
Maoriland newspapers a senes of signed articles at 4s.
per article of about 1400 or 1500 words. The co. offered
six special and original articles for one pound sterling.
Against this sort of competition the local writer has little
chance, and against the paste-pot and the shears he has
none at all. It may be said that he lias the market of the
wide world, and that if the Maoriland writer can produce
the goods the money is safe. Which is true. But, as a
rule, the circumstances and present necessities of the
majority lead them to stay at home, reporting the re-
marks of the borough council, clerking in offices, whaling
on the gumtields, and praying that one day a patriotic
proprietor will arise and plaster on his front door :
“ Wanted, original manuscript. All copy accepted will
be paid for at fair rates.”
“Bookware”: The Cambridge University Press is to
issue the eleventh edition of the Encyclopedia Britan-
nica early in 1911. It is 140 years since the first edition.
Tne eleventh will come out all in one heap, after eight
years of preparation. The ninth edition was 14 years
toiling out, volume by volume, from 1875 to 1889. Then
the Times brought out a supplement up to li)02. The
whole was called the tenth edition. The Times then set
about preparing the eleventh ; but handed the job over
to the Cambridge University Press. The volumes of the
ninth edition took up 6ft. of book-shelf ; the eleventh
edition may be crowded into 2ft. India paper has done
the trick. “Upwards of 52,000 sets of the ninth were sold
in Great Britain, and probably over 400,000, if piracies in
America are included.
* * * A
“The Snake”: I never read the report of a big
“ mission ” or religious “revival” without a glad recol-
lection of a night when a hard-chivved reporter rose in a
big hall in Sydney and rammed anathema down the
throat of a boss missioner. The Shifter (which name
fits him as well as another) had to report a
“gathering.” But the Shifter went to get vaccinated
or something first, and only reached the hall as the
meeting was breaking up. Adopting the usual course,
he asked the head man of the show, who leaned
down from the stage to hear the request, for a para-
graph. “And what paper might you represent?” said
the bos3 with a look that a horse wears when it is going
to kick like the end-girl in the Tivoli first part. “ The
Morning Telegraph,” was the reply. Straightening him-
self suddenly, and raising his hands to stay the remainder
of the audience, the gaunt missioner cried: “Here
is a young man representing the Morning Tele-
graph, who comes here at this time of night,
after the great gathering we have had, after all that has
been vouchsafed us, and asks for a paragraph. A para-
graph ! Incidentally, lie » asking me to do his work.
But, friends, I can tell%inr that I will not. That, sir,”
he concluded, turning down towards the Shifter, “ is all
I have to say to you.” Then the Shifter pulled himself
up from the press-table with battle-blood in his eye, and
remarked in a loud, decisive voice: “And all I have to
say to you, sir, is that vou can go to II ! ”
* * * *
“ Not At All ” : Have interested myself for some time
past in carefully examining the pen-names which have
appeared in The Bulletin, and have come to the decision
that a great number of them are badly chosen. How
about some explanations from well-known owners as to
the why and the whaffor of their names? For the past
t hree months I have been engaged in keeping a list of
these pen-names in order to donate a prize for the most
humorous, and I unhesitatingly hand a hogshead of the
best (Ist prize) to “Drunk As a Cow” (B. 25/8/T0).
There is nothing more uproarious. I know, because I’ve
I been it.
THE W.P.B.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Perdu
Under the desk, by the Editor’s toe,
There yawoeth a foe ;
Waiting- for 3'ou
And for me,
When the fruits of our pen
Enter that horrible haven—the Editor’s Den.
It yawns,
But slumbers never, and never it sleeps,
But vigilant keeps ;
And fawns
At the knee
Of him serene in that den,
Who feeds it all day with the brains of second-rate
men.
He too,
The editor yawns at his horrible toil
Of flinging the spoil
To that mouth —
The sapless fruit of the pen,
Bastard and impotent sowing of impotent men.
I too
(Yawning is catching) yawn as I scribble,
Knowing no quibble,
No wit and no pathos
No eloquent bathos,
Will rescue these lines from that foe
Perdu by the editor’s toe ;
And so
I yawn for the deep of that den,
Which to reach is the goal of the most of us men
Who tilt at implacable Fate with the tip of a pen.
VICTORIA.
ALPENSTOCK.


FROM SOUTH AFRICA
gfd
TWO TIPS with
OSPREY.
Black, White,
Cream, and Black
ipped with WhiteJ
Length, 9 inches.
5/-
The Bunch,
Post Free.
We make this Special Offer to
advertise our Ostrich Tips. Write
to-day. Send Postal Note.
Catalogue Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [3
gfd
Fashionable
Favorite-Perfume
m hr nr ■* """"'a'"'!.
F.WOLFFiSOHN
F. Wolff &Sohn
PERFUMERS
KARLSRUHE
BERLIN * LONDON
Obtainable from all the Leading Stores.
P 3
n
YOU might just as well
enhance the charm of
your physique, Madam,
and be healthier with the
new D & A Directoire
Corset, as discount it and
injure your health with ill-
fitting and old-fashioned
Corsets.
Madam, you cannot rival the
“Chic” and“ Svelte” appear-
ance of French and American
women unless you wear a corset
that shapes gracefully and fits
comfortably.
At Paris the fountain head of
styles, our designer has sought
most carefully before, after
many experiments, we perfected
on living models our wonderful
new D & A Directoire Corset.
The result is a corset giving all
the “Chic” and “Svelte” appear-
ance of the leaders of fashion
in France; and moreover, by
holding the body in shape
without compressing unduly at
any point the D & A Directoire
is more healthful for you than
any other Corset. Don’t buy a
corset before first fitting on the
g
For Sale by all leading drapers. A-6
T’ne Dominion Corset Company, Quabec, Canada.
fdg
Department of Lands,
Sydney, 14th October, 1910.
CLOSER SETTLEMENT .
HARDWICKE ESTATE
(NEAR YASS) VASS LAND DISTRICT.
31 Farms will become available 14th November, 1910.
Applications lodged from 14th to 19th November, 1910, will be treated as simultaneous.
NANGUS ESTATE
(NEAR GUNDAGAI) GUNDAQAI LAND DISTRICT.
14 Farms will become available 21st November, 1910.
Applications lodged from 21st to 26th November, 1910, will be treated as simultaneous.
TUPPAL ESTATE
(NEAR FINLEY) COROWA LAND DISTRICT.
117 Farms will become available 28th November, 1910.
Applications lodged from 28th November to 3rd December, 1910, will be treated as simultaneous.
Full particulars, Lithographs, Application Forms, etc., may be obtained at the Information Bureau,
Department of Lands, Sydney, or any Crown Land Agent throughout the State.
5 K 4. ROBERT McDONALD, Under-Secretary.
TWO BEAUTIES
fnt oiuy'
TYRE /
built'or\
/cieiwic
PRII\CIPLW
I
&
v
m
DO
rrj
P
JS.
Cy
c>
o
'c
-at*
*6* m 01
s'r
m
/ILVEGTOWfi
GUBBEG C*
279GEOGGE / r
/YDftEY
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountains, N.S.ff.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season.
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours.
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office —or your own residence—direct
to the Majestic Hotel.
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds.
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Castlereagh Street.
W. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
AIX
WOOI,
Hosiery &
Underwear.
goods
will not wear for
ever. But they will wear
longer than other all-wool goods, because
they never shrink. You do not have to discard
them before they are half-worn because they have
shrunk so much that you cannot get them on. That is why
'J a re so much more economical. And they cost no
more than the ordinary.
"Jason" Stockings, Socks, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores.
If your dealer does not stock he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for "Jason” Booklet and name of nearest Agent, to
al Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England.
BUY A PLUM !
fd
The blade in it is the very finest Silver-Steel, tempered
just to a nicety. The edge is so keen it glides over
the lace and is scarcely felt, leaving the skin like velvet.
It keeps its edge, too—very little stropping required.
Used in the best hairdressing saloons.
PLUM Razor, in Strong Case, 10/6.
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case, 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Univ>" ~al Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo I ning Sharpener, 6d
ne above Post Free.
Price 10(6
Post Free
Anywhere.
We Grind and
Bet Razors,
1/- each.
CRAIG b
IKEN, 654 George St., Sydney
Established 30 Years.
&/>e BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN fid.
Auction Sale.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9,
At HalDpast Two O’clock.
TRUSTEES’ SALE.
IMPORTANT AUCTION OF
VALUABLE SHOP PROPERTY
i ituate in SWANSTON STREET, City ot
MELBOURNE,
Opposite St. Paul’s Cathedral and between FLINDERS
and LITTLE FLINDERS STREETS.
BEST SHOP POSITION IN THE CITY.
'T'UCKETT and STYLES, with C. J. and T. HAM
* and SYDNEY C. ARNOLD and CO., have received
instructions from the trustees of the Downing Estate to
SELL by PUBLIC AUCTION, at Tuckett and Styles’s
auction rooms, 359 Collins Street, Melbourne, on
Wednesday, 9th November, 1910—
All that piece of land being: part of Crown Allot-
ment 9, Section 5, city of Melbourne, having: a front-
age of 45ft. s}in. to the west side of SWANSTON
STREET, by the magnificent depth of 132 ft. 4in. back
to the PORT PHILLIP CLUB HOTEL, with a right-
of-way leading in from FLINDERS LANE, upon
which is erected THREE SHOPS, known as Nos.
21, 23 and 25, occupied by Messrs. R. G. Wilson and
Co., grocers ; Mr. A. Peppas, fruiterer; Mr. T. E.
Simpson, tobacconist; under leases all expiring on
31st July, 1914, producing a total rent of £2132.
(Messrs. R. G. Wilson also pay rates and insurance.)
This propertv is situated in the very best position in
SWANSTON STREET, being adjacent to both FLIN-
DERS STREET and PRINCES BRIDGE RAILWAY
STATIONS, and has never changed hands since 1848.
For title apply to Messrs. Madden, Drake and Candy,
solicitors, the Olderfleet, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Further particulars can be obtained from the
auctioneers, or from the trustees, care of Messrs.
Lewis and Lewis, solicitors, Universal Chambers, 325
Collins Street, Melbourne.
Business Announcements.
BARROWS
English Portable Engines
fdgfd
PASTORAL-
ISTS AND
FARMERS
USE NO
OTHER.
SOLE
AGENTS
J. H. YOONG 8 CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LONGREACH, CHARLEVILLE.
Magic Money Maker
Run a Little Mint of
Your Own.
One Shilling
complete with
full Directions.
Post free.
gvs£jra^
you will never be hard up while you have this Wonderful
Apparatus in your pocket. It will turn out Real Coins
one after another in a wuy that will make your friends
stare. You simply place a small piece of plain metal on the
stand (see engraving), put on the cover, tap it smartly, raise
the cover and there Is the money 1 A s good as you get from
the bank. You can do this repeatedly until your friends
think you are a millionaire. Complete with plain metal
pieces and full directions, only One Shilling, posted anywhere
The Union Manufacturing Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
m
Big G
Borated Golden teal
Compound
A cafe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of tho nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
Treatise with jach bottlo
or mailed on request.
Ike Etui Chemical Co.
Cincinnati, Ohio,
U.S.A.
** AWL-YOU-WANT."
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
j EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sews
2s. Posted.
(Awl, 2 needles,
z reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH,
gfd
It? immense value in repairs to Boots
and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
|is the “ Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one’s pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage.
apparent in Sevang Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain*
•d, Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—x bent, x straight—l reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post tree. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d.,
post free; 2 for 7d., set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO., 229 Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centunee
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
In use since 1596.
CURES
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Wealr |igbt
Ask your chemist for its history —the book is free —or write
S. GREEN. 210. Lambetli Road, London, Eng.


Amusements.
UER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
1 ■ Lessee ami Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
The Musical Success of our Generation,
OUll MISS GIBBS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual;
H E A T R E ROYAL, SYDNEY.
Lessee & Manager J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON presents
KATHERINE GREY,
Supported by WILLIAM DESMOND and a Brilliant
Company of Dramatic Artists, in Eugene Walter’s
Dramatic Play from American City Life of To-day,
PAID IN PULL.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
PALACE THE ATR E, SY D N E.Y.
Lessee .. ALLAN HAMILTON.
TO-NIGHT, AT S,
ALLAN HAMILTON and MAN MAXWELL'S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
in the Thrilling Sensational Drama of Indian Life,
WHY MEN LOVI3 WOMEN
(By arrangement with Rupert Clarke and Clyde Meynell).
Prices—3s., 25., Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE and CLYDE MEYNELL present
FOR A FEW MORE NIGHTS ONLY and at Wednesday
Matinees, GEORGE WILLOUGHBY and his NEW
ENGLISH FARCICAL COMEDY CO.
(including Mr. David James and Miss Mab Paul), in
THU NIGHT oe the PARTY.
This successful farce will shortly give way to a produc-
tion of R. C. Carton’s masterpiece, “ Mr. Preedy and the
Countess,” a perfect maelstrom of mirth. Box Plan at
Elvy’s. Day Sale White Rose. PRICES AS USUAL.
■TP H E GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
■ Opposite Railway Station —Where all Id. trams stop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER!
WEST’S PICT [IRES,
“ BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir.: T. J. West.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at. Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
L-EYERY evening at 8
M ati NEES -Wednesdays . Saturdays amd Holidays at 2 v5O.
gdf
ES
-» rfRE SUPERIOR TO PLL OTHERS. <9
Popular Prices —Plaw at Palings.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
* Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mit. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
THE INIMITABLE KREMO FAMILY OF 10 PER-
FORMERS, for Two Weeks only.
GRACEFUL MISS GRACIE GRAIIAME, Comedienne.
WOODS (Leslie) and FRASER (Hilda), Sketch Artists.
THE QUEALYS, in the Society Sketch, “ Oidv a Dream."
THE TWO DONNELLYS, and LITTLE KITTY.
TOM DAWSON. OLGA GREY.
New and Original First Part, HEIDELBERG.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Palmar's.
OPERA HOUSE, ME LBOU R N E~
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
WALTER C. KELLY, Monologue Entertainer.
MDME. LYDIA-YEAMANS-TITUS, Mimic Impersonator
Vocaliste.
FREDERICK J. TITUS, Composer and Accompanist.
NEWMAN AEROPLANE.
CHARLENE & CHARLENE, Piquant Musical Artists.
MR. & MRS. MEYMOTT, Society Sketch Artists.
Plan at Allan's. S3t PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager— -William Andkkson.
SATURDAY NEXT. OCTOBER 22,
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALIA,
William Anderson's Famous Dramatic Co.
in an Up-to-date Detective Drama,
BY WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY.
THE STORY OF A CELEBRATED CASE.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s, 2s and Is.
LIER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager :J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents his NEW LONDON
COMPANY in the Greatest of Drury Lane Dramas, in
THU WHIP. |
A SERIES OF SENSATIONAL SCENES, '
SUPERLATIVE SPECTACULAR EFFECTS.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
■J"HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
A CARNIVAL OF FUN AND FANCY.
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S NEW ENGLISH
COMIC OPERA CO. in
TOM JON b) S.
THE SCENERY AND COSTUMES THE FINEST EVljlß
SEEN ON AN AUSTRALIAN STAGE.
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
gy| ELBOURNE TOWN HAL^..
MR. BENNO SCHEREK announces
ONE FAREWELL CONCERT
CARRENO,
IN MELBOURNE on
SATURDAY EVENING NEXT, OCT. 22.
ABSOLUTELY FINAL CONCERT. Plan at Allan’s;
ADELAIDE TOWN HALL, , j
TUESDAY NEXT, OCTOBER 25.
Box Office at Marshall’s. Prices—6/-, 4/-, 3/- and 2/.-
UIEST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE,
THE BEST WEST’S PICTURES, THE BEST
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT S.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holiday's at 2.30.
The Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World;
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices —6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
Amusements.
Wl RTHS OETMPIA..
EVERY EVENING AT 8
M ati nees -Wednesdays . Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30.
gfdg
dg
sz
m
ST. KILDA
Mr. Edward Branscombe begs to
Opening Night of
ESPLANADE.
nnounce the
?F5
MONDAY NEXT, 24th inst., at 8.30.
Reserved Seats, 1/6 (Booking 6d. extra).
Admission 1/- and 6d. Cliildren Half-Price.
Seats may be reserved at Glen’s, Collins Street, and
Haber’s, St. Kilda.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
EVERY EVENING AT S.
J.&N.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices-2/-, 1/6,
1/-, 6d. Matinees —Wednesday, Saturday, All Holidays.
HALL, MELBOURNE.
CONTINUED AND UNABATED SUCCESS of
THE COR RICK ENTERTAINERS.
10 BRILLIANT ARTISTS 10
Assisted by MR. ERNEST LEATHLEY,
the Clever English Comedian, in conjunction with
LEONARD’S BEAUTIFUL PICTURES.
Prices—3s., 25., and Is. Box Plan at Allan’s.
SEASON CLOSES ON SATURDAY, OCT. 22.
J. & N TAIT’S
QPEN- AIR THEATRE, ST. HILDA.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.30.
THE POLLIES
NEW COSTUME COMEDY CO.
PRICES—I/6, 1/-, 6d.
wirth~bros7
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
OPENING NEXT SATURDAY, 8 p.m.,
in all its Opulent Glorious Splendors and Vastness in a
HUGE CITY OF NEW, SNOW-WHITE
WATERPROOF TENTS.
WIRTHS’ PARK, MELBOURNE.
AN AVALANCHE of INCOMPARABLE NOVELTIES,
including LIZZIE, LIZZIE,
THE ONLY LIVE HIPPO IN AUSTRALASIA.
fd
ESIISSSIIIII!!" 1111 !" 1111 ! 111 "iimiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiMiiiiMii'® 1 !!!
6ffl de ColocKiell
tQUIOIBII
FIDELITAS
wm
irWOLFFaSOHN
|i -Karlsruhe
Baden
Triumph of
Modem Science
VICTORIA RACING CLUB, FLEMINGTON.
GRAND , JUBILEE of the MELBOURNE CUP.
VISITORS FROM ALL PARTS OF THE WORLD HAVE BEEN INVITED.
CUP WEEK.
RECORD ENTRIES.
Derby Day, Saturday, 29th October; Cup Day, Tuesday, Ist November;
Oaks Day, Thursday, 3rd November; Steeplechase Day, Saturday, Sth Nov
ACCOMMODATION FOR’ THOUSANDS. H. Byron Moore, Secretary.
Hotelkeepers —Confectioners —Chemists
Soda
FotiptaipS
... and ...
Carbonators
that will do
you credit and
earn big profits
can be had on
Easy Terms.
WRITE FOR
PARTICULARS.
,/
W
NELSON CARBONATING CO. LTD.
167 GEORGE STREET NORTH, SYDNEY.
Queensland Agents : PAUL & CONNAN, QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE.
What You Ge|- Not wl,al Y »"
Try
the
EAGLE
Built by men who 1 now the
essentials of GOOD YVOPK.
The PERFECT PRODUCT of
practical experience.
Madei from Australian Materials
by Australians for Australians.
gfdg
Brandi
Footwear.
They meet the demand for STRICTLY RELIABLE
and UP-TO-DATE FOOTWEAR.
They Will Satisfy YOU!
Obtainable from Leading MERCHANTS everywhere.
Sole Manufacturers and Proprietors —
fdg
The Davey Halliday Company, Limited,
Wholesale Only.
BRISBANE.
iiiIPERWtAR
</j>
&
' Y,
n
{ £&m
XU.
•Hv/h-Wz;
3£?
fz*r,y.
Good Day Sir,
If you p/eese coy/t/you /efme
hafe some of your fme Woo /
for The Australian Knitting
- Mills 'pure Y/oollen
Under Wear.
Absolutely PURE
WOOL Underwear
for Australian Men,
Women 8 Children.
GUARANTEED UNSHRINKABLE.
“ MADE IN AUSTRALIA.”
See that our Registered Trade Mark, u GOLDEN FLEECE/' is on every garment.
STOCKED BY ALL REPUTABLE RETAIL HOUSES.
If not obtainable locally, communicate with us direct.
Made in our own Mills, Richmond, Victoria.
Sole Proprietors
AUSTRALIAN KNITTING MILLS, LTD.
The Bulletin Post Cards
NEW SERIES, IV., V., VI.
FORWARDED POST PREE TO ANY ADDRESS. Packet of TWELVE, 6d. Packet of TEN, 5d


“ The Waybacks Again.”
Another
stack of
joy and laughter about the famous family. Is.
4
A FOOD OF GREAT
NUTRITIVE VALUE
which can be made suitable for any
degree of digestive power by the simple
process of letting it stand for a longer or
shorter period at one stage of its preparation.
For INFANTS , INVALIDS and the AGED.
It is used mixed with fresh new milk, and forms a
delicate and nutritive cream, which is enjoyed and
assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely free from rough
and indigestible particles which produce irritation in delicate stomachs.
The Lancet describes it as “ Mr. Benger's admirable preparation."
The British Medical Journal says: “ Benger's Food has, by its excellence, established a reputation of its own.."
BENGERS FOOD, LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, Eng.
Benger's Food is sold m tins by Druggists , etc., everywhere.
8 33
'Are You a Bad Writer?
dfg
Many people imagine themselves “ Bad ” writers when the real
fact is that they have never succeeded in getting a pen which suits
them. Here are the pens for all so-called “Bad’' writers!
Ball-Pointed Pens
neither stick in the paper, scratch, nor spurt.
Why? Because you write on the face of a small Ball. Ball-
Pointed Pens can be had with fine or broad points. Ask your
stationer for a 6d. Sample Box. Commercial Men find them
wonderfully “easy.” Ladies say they are “just delightful.”
dfg
A
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
Price, 6d. The Bulletin Office.
riiHE
Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE SPRAY WATER PISTOL.
Durable, Reliable and Perfectly Safe.
W7T
e
Will stop the most vicious
dog or man without
permanent injury. In-
valuable for cyclists, un-
escorted ladies, cashiers,
night-watchmen, homes,
etc. Has more effect on
beggars and tramps than
a watch-dog. Reloading
unlimited. It creates great amusement for young
and old. Length 5 inches, nickel-plated and nicely
ornamented. Price 1/6 post free anywhere.
NICKEL-PLATED CHANCE PURSE.
Beautifully chased, and guaranteed to wear white
throughout. Will hold any of the coins, as illus-
trated, and will also take sovereigns and half-
sovereigns in the 1/- and 6d. compartments, and
pennies and half-pennies in the 2/6 and 2/- com-
partments. Split ring attached for affixing to watch
or key chain. Price, post free anywhere, i/2.
THE “JOKER” TRICK MATCHBOX.
The box can be filled with matches, and then closed,
and, to the amazement of your friends, upon re-
opening the box, the matches have completely dis-
appeared. A great joke on cadgers, who, upon
begging a match, are shown the empty box, and the
next moment, if the owner chooses, he may help
himself to a match from the same box. Strongly
made of polished nickel, and can be carried in the
vest pocket. Price with full directions, 7d. post free.
;
1
i
Wp,
CC
m
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
Schute, Bell & Go.
- LIMITED—
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices : 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow f etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
PQ
HwmfurWlwjg
JCMffIP
i?WninSOOCJI
«nia
A little of
Old
ORKNev
tbe Real Liqueur Scotch,
is betted tban a lot of an
inferior wbisKy. Our en-
tire output is reserved for
this, our own brand, whicb
we guarantee for its qua-
lity, age, and flavour.
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London.
Proprietors of Stromness Distillery,
Orkney, Scotland.
Agents :
MELBOURNE —T. R. .Tones & Co., 366 Bourke Street.
BRISBANE —Elliott, Donaldson & Douglas Ltd.,
108-110 Eagle Street.
ADELAIDE —Lord & Heseltine, 90 Pirie Street.
LAUNCESTON —John McKenzie & Co.
HOBART—John Ferguson & Co.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating tub
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s.
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc.. Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
dfg
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
EMBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
FRENCH ART STUDIES, SOO kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping,' 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. HowMcDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, ss.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
Don’t be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. SO~ Established 25 Fears.
SIR ROBERT BEAR.
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
Write for my .
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Bush Songs, is 3d Dost. Hr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made East, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About ls 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Bead Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s 6d posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappho, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness, and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
The Richmond railway slaughter has
apparently made Victoria’s weary Premier sit up,
or it has made the remaining Railway Com-
missioners sit up (Tait, Chief Commissioner
and principal cigar-burner, has handed in
his resignation). The announcement goes
forth that the lock and block system of
signalling is to be extended throughout the
crowded suburban railway area, and when this is
done there is reason to hope that another accident-
like that at Richmond will be practically im-
possible. Meanwhile, legal proceedings have
been started against one or two men who were
mixed up in the recent smash. So this is the
situation : (1) The Chief Commissioner has
dropped out, and Premier Murray has,
without investigation, given him a glorious
testimonial for first-class management and pub-
licly acquitted him in advance of all possible
blame. (2) The remaining Commissioners inti-
mate that, at long last, a safe signalling system is
Some to be extended throughout the dangerous
and congested suburban lines. And instead of
them (and Tait) being blamed for not doing it
before the smash, they seem to get special
credit for doing it after the smash. (3) The
men who, apparently, had to struggle along with
m ' efficient appliances bump up against the thick
end of the trouble, as usual.


MICK SIMMONS, LTD.
Haymarket, Sydney, N S W.,
Efie LEADING
HOUSE roR
CANT
B
BEAT
Sporting Goods,
Fishing Tackle and Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCO LISTS-FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on all parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 40s. or more.
dfg
fdgfdg
dfg
J3UNYIP -
Forest devil.
The Roots Must Come Out,
as well as the Trunk.
POSITIVELY the hardest work the Farmer, Settler or Squatter is called upon to do is
grubbing. The old method of uprooting dry or green stumps and trees is now entirely
revolutionised by the introduction on the market of the most marvellous labor-saving
device for Farmers, etc., ever invented. It is called "The Bunyip Forest
Devil.” This particular Forest Devil is far superior to any other Forest Devil in the market
in that it is the very essence of simplicity in adjusting and in manipulating. Ihe most
admirable features of “ The Bunyip Forest Devil ” are that it is not only light weight
and can be moved with the greatest ease from tree to tree, where it can be rapidly faxed ana
adjusted, but it is absolutely certain to accomplish almost any task set to .
The tremendous strain which can be brought to bear with ‘ The Bunyip ± orest
Devil ” makes it absolutely imperative for the tree or stump to leave the ground entirely
roots and all, no matter how big the tree or stump, how long it has been growing, or ow
firmly it be rooted in the ground. , „ . i j •
Many “land men,” once doubtful of the assertions claimed for it, are now loud in their
praises of the unbounded and entire satisfaction it has given in their case, and in many
instances they have paid for the cost Of the machine in a very short while by hiring it to
t^ el Convincing proof of its wonderful power and its durability, the quickness with which it
can be-adjusted, the labor and money it saves, will be found in a special and attractive
catalogue Messrs. John Cooper & Sons, 287-289 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, have just issued.
Copies will be sent free to every enquirer, together with any other information required.
When writing, please mention this paper.
John Cooper 8 Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth Street (opp, St.
Francis’s Church), MELBOURNE.
WATCH AND CHAIN AND RING
For Selling Our High Grade Art Post Cards
GIVEN
STEM
WIND)
JSTEM
SET
dfg
We eive absolutely FREE this handsome AMERICAN MADE, STEM WIND AND STEM
WATCH and CHAIN and RINgT V, e will refund the money if you are not perfectly
satisfied. Write today for the cards. , lumc . „ c .
PEERLESS WATCH COMPANY, 1137 East 63rd Street, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
Our SPECIAL SNAP
No. IF.-Best Quality Fishing Nets, well tanned, fitted ready for use,
with Leads, Corks and Ropes, 2£in. to sin. Mebh.
-Sparrow Catchers’ Nets, fitted complete with Ropes, Sticks
No. 12SC.-
and Pegs.
5 x 12 Clap
6 x 15 do.
5 x 20 do.
5 x 25 do.
5 x 30 do.
or Ground Nets, 22/6 each,
do. 27/6 each,
do. 32/6 ~
do. 40/- „
do. 43/6 ~
We also carry in stock Rabbi. Nets, Fruit
Tree Netting, and all Net Sundries.
:h
SEND FOR OUR NET PRICE LIST-POST FREE.
For the convenience of our numerous customers we have opened a
Branch Fishing Tackle Shop at 24 PITT STREET, corner Bulletin Lane.
Model “T” Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment Included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials:—
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
OONor?
NEVER.
LEAK.
RO OFING*
CONGO stands unrivaled as the most durable, complete and satisfactory Ready
Roofing for all kinds of buildings and for all purposes.
Its peculiar and special coating on both sides makes it absolutely non-decaying
Congo is unaffected by climatic changes, weather, heat or cold. It will not
leak nor rust, crack, shrink or swell.
It is as pliable after years of hard service on your building as when laid.
It is easy to lay, inexpensive and satisfactory.
A Sample will give you a good idea of what Congo Roofing is like.
We send it free on request.
Use Congo Damp Course to damp-proof foundations and cellar floors. Sample free.
G. C. DELMAR, Australian Representative, P.O. Box 1740, Sydney, N.S.W.
Agents Noyes Bros. (Sydney), Ltd., Sydney ; Noyes Bros. (Prop.), Ltd., Melbourne;
Brabant & Co., Brisbane ; Walter Reid & Co., Rockhampton; Harrold, Colton & Co., Ltd.,
Adelaide ; Millar’s Karri & Jarrah Co., Ltd., Perth ; William Hart & Sons, Launceston.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in allot the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S. A.
RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
When Mosquitoes annoy you j
remember how useful, either for pre- <
venting the attack of these and other i
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their )
bites, so many people have found J
Calvert’s
20 % Carbolic Soap.
It is also pleasant and refreshing for 5
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard <
against infectious diseases. j
Sold by all Chemists and Stores. <
Made by F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.j
Transformations, Puffs,
Pin Curls, Switches,
Coils, Plaits, Fringes
KEPT IN STOCK AND MADE TO ORDER.
Only the Best European Hair used in the
manufacture of our Goods.
WE DO NOT BSE ASIATIC HAIR.-»8
We receive by every mail from London and
Paris the Latest Hair Frames and Novelties.
MADAME EEIGH,
Ladies’ Hairdresser, Hair & Skin Specialist,
23 Block Arcade, Collins Street, Melbourne
Ladies’ and Gent’s Watches FREE.
ill
y=i
Solid Sterling Silver
i aiflE
0?
'in
iy
Test your Size.
Send us your Number.
N? 2
N°s
Rings FREE
IF THEY FIT YOU.
They are not made ? of brass, tin or! white metal, but are
Guaranteed to be I PURE STERLING SILVER through-
out, STAMPED and WARRANTED, and are sold retail
from 2s 6d to 4s 6d at ail jewellers. THESE RINGS ARE
FREE IF THEY FIT YOU.
HOW TO WIN ONE.
Cut out the inside of the Rings marked No. 1, N 0.2, and
No. 3, and try on any finger of either hand, forward us
the number of the one that fits your finger, and we will
immediately forward one of these SOLID SILVER RINGS
wm* KIA-ORA
FREE. With the ring we will send you also FREE 12 of our NAME or MOTTO BROOCHES (as
Distribution Among Your Friends. These Brooches, which are very strongly made (acid proof,. and
222 “Ssold Sydney Price 2s Uch, and WE GUARANTEE THEM to be the BEST VALUE IN BROOCHES
EVER PLACED ON THE MARKET.
All We Require You to Do
is to place these Brooches among your friends and collect Is. from
each. Return us the 12s. collected, and We Will Send YouFREE
A RELIABLE WATCH and CHAIN (Lady’s or Gent’s)
OR ANY OTHER PRESENT PROM OUR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST which we will send with the Brooches.
Remember, We Require No Money
in advance. Simply send us your Name and Full
Address, and we will send the Solid Silver Ring
,h™ W I ™i Sm„t “ ru; 0., ,„4 if youiire unable to sell the 12 wo •"''U*
to the number disposed of by you upon you returning us the balanoe unsold.
All letters must be
addressed direct to
the Sole Manufac-
turers,
Jewellery Supply Co
Pitt-st, Sydney,
N.S. Wales.


NURSES PRAISE BILE BEANS
I “THE STANDARD FAMILY MEDICINE.’]
Next to advice direct from a physician is that
of a thoroughly qualified Nurse. Not infrequently,
indeed, based as it is on long and careful
observation of innumerable cases, the
Nurse’s advice is equally to be relied upon.
The preference of nurses of long pro-
fessional training for Bile Beans as a
medicine not only eminently preferable for
their own private family use, but as a
remedy singularly suited for recom-
mendation to their patients, serves as
further proof of the purity and efficacy of
this great family medicine.
NURSE BALDWIN,
of 106 Bourke Street,
Sydney, says :—“ My
health broke up through overwork and worry. My
liver was sluggish in its action, and I suffered from
constipation and indigestion. Several doctors pre-
scribed for me, but I did not derive any benefit from
their treatment. Bile Beans were recommended by
a friend. Their effect was marvellous; from the
first few doses they made me feel better in every
way. Continuing with Bile Beans I was quickly
restored to health. I have recommended Bde Beans
to scores of my patients.”
NURSE LOMAX,
who resides at 3 Federal
Street, Footseray, Mel-
bourne, writes:—“For fully ten years I was a great
sufferer from biliousness. Many were the so-called , ,
remedies I tried without result. I gave Bile Beans a trial, and derived such benefit from
the first few doses that I determined to undergo a course of this splendid medicine.
Biliousness was soon a worry of the past, for which I am very thankful.”
A
'/
NURSE O’REILLY,
residing at No.
1 Walker Street,
Redfern, Sydney, says “ Some time ago I
was prostrated with biliousness, flatulency
and heartburn, and had to keep to my room.
Bile Beans were recommended, so I procured
a box and took two Bile Beans at bedtime.
The effect was really magical, and I was soon
cured. I keep Bile Beans on hand and
recommend them to others, and in every
instance they give complete satisfaction.'’
NURSE METCALFE,
of 32 Heydrin
Street, Auck-
land, says:—“Myself and my family have
derived great benefits from Bile Beans.
For the past five years they have been our
family medicine. Bile Beans cured me of
biliousness and indigestion, and, as a pro-
fessional nurse, I have recommended them
to patients with beneficial results.”
ile
n
G
eans
Bile Beans strengthen and tone-up the
system, regulate the bowels and stimu-
late the liver and stomach. Bile Beans
are a proved cure for constipation,
stomach disorder, piles, liver trouble,
bad breath, biliousness, sickness, indi-
gestion, headache, nervousness, loss of
energy, anaemia, that tired feeling, and
female ailments. Sold by all chemists
and stores at 1/U and 2/9 large box, or
direct from the Bile Bean Co., 39 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
Beauty’s Favourite,
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the skin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This Has been the
acknowledged and Honoured
position Held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and Has
maintained tHat position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by tHe
possession of tHose special emollient
properties which soften, refine,
and impart natural colour to tHe
skin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Young Australia by the Sea.
(Lady Robinson's Beach , Botany Bay.)
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
BEHIND me spreads a continent, before me
shines the sea,
With the sun that warms a nation looking
kindly down on me,
For the morning gleams with promise, and a
gladness fills the land
As I mark where young Australia goes a-romp-
ing on the sand.
For the little waves are running in with laughter,
And a long, long whisper of delight —
Oh, run, little feet, they’re coming after
With their quick foam-fingers creeping white.
Afar, by yonder greener cape, the dingy sails are
furled,
Where the ships of high adventure came a-sailing
round the world,
And the white man gazed in wonder at his last-
found ocean prize,
Looking landward through the sunshine into
bright Australia’s eyes.
For the little waves were running in with
laughter,
And a long, long whisper on the sand,
Where the white man’s feet would follow after,
And the white man’s child love the land.
The sand-built castle tumbles down before the
creeping tide,
With the white shells flung in triumph along the
ruins wide,
And though every little footprint will be cleanly
washed away,
With a happy heart the ocean joins Australia at
her play;
For the little waves are running in with laughter,
And a long, long whisper on the sand—
Oh, run, little feet, they’re coming after,
For the blue, blue sea loves the land.
The sea is hoar with wisdom. Oh, it marks the
coming days
When the hands of young Australia shall be
master of its ways,
When the castle shall not tumble, when the white
feet, firm to stand,
Shall not yield to any foeman one bright yard of
this wide land;
When the little waves are running red with slaugh-
ter,
And a long, long sigh upon the shore —
Oh, you love our bright Australia, shining water,
But the white man’s child loves her more.
N.S.W.
DAVID MCKEE WRIGHT.
The Scoot.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I STARTED business in the cold, wet,
windy city of Ahuriri, as a financial and
commission agent, on a capital of £l3 10s.,
and when the capital was eaten up in expenses I
managed to extract another £9 17s. 6d. out of the
Railway Commissioners for a bag of mine that I
said they had lost. Before that was spent
Williams happened along.
Williams was a solicitor, and, as the Scriptures
have it, it is easier to go through the eye of a
camel than for a solicitor to remain an honest
man. Williams’s intentions were sublime, but
his performances were not to be mentioned in
polite society. He brought no money into the
concern, but he had a “connection,” and on that
we boomed for a time. We became a recognised
firm for winding up bankrupt and intestate estates
—financial wreckers, in fact. Then we secured a
bicycle agency, and gradually worked our way
into the swim.
All of which, Williams frequently reminded
me, was due to his having brought along a con-
nection. Occasionally I retorted that, till he
brought it along to me, it had been of small value
to himself.
Then Buck came on the scene. Buck was a man
who was in a chronic state of being stone, mother-
less broke. He had thrown away more chances
than most men ever dream of, and just as a Loan
and Mortgage Co. was about to sell him up, he
rushed into our office and frantically begged for
an immediate loan of £550. I got him to write out
an application, giving full particulars of the
security, and was about to start out to interview
several money-lenders on the matter when
Williams returned unexpectedly. I lingered a
few minutes to give him details of the amazing
mess into which Buck had got his affairs, when
Williams was suddenly smitten with an in-
spiration.
“ By the Lord, the new Property and Chattels
Act came into force yesterday, and it strikes me
very forcibly that these blokes haven’t got the
hang of the thing somehow.”
“You mean that they are acting illegally under
the new Act?”
“ That’s it, sonny ; and if he points that out to
them they will have to give him nearly another
week, and during that time we can get the splosh
somewhere—l can see a tenner commission and
procuration fee sticking out.”
“A tenner be hanged—who’s fishing for ten-
ners? If these fellows are acting illegally we
must just string them into doing it, and then
come at ’em for damages. I can see hundreds
sticking out 1 ”
As I said before, Williams was a dishonest man,
and the glare of greed that came into his small,
rat-like eyes when I spoke of hundreds was not
pleasant to see. The idea took him where he
lived, and he clutched the copy of the new Act
that lay on the table and plunged right into a
hard consideration of its intricacies.
“We are right—right as the mail, old man.
We’ve got that blessed company by the wool and
the slack of its waistband. But it seems to me
that in order to establish a good case for damages
we must be in a position to tender the cash the
day of the sale—otherwise they will plead that
no harm or injury was done to Buck, as under no
circumstances could he have paid. They will
plead that in mitigation of damages. See? I
think that’s as clear as mud.”
“ And where are we to get the £5OO when the
blessed security’s sold ? ”
“That’s where we fall in —or, rather, it’s where
those hundreds you were fluting about disap-
pear.”
“Well, we must just tender the money at the
sale—that’s all.”
“ Balderdash ! They’d take it. No ; this is a
case in which honesty is, unfortunately, the
best policy. Just call round and point out the
error, and they will give the extension of tune
required by the new Act, hnd we’ll be £2O richer
by the end of the week, and the profits of the
firm will have been at the rate of £lOOO per
annum, for one week only.”
“ This is my affair,” I said, firmly. “ You just
sit tight, keep your mouth closed—that is till I
ask you for legal advice—and you’ll find the firm’s
profits will be at the rate of £21,000 per annum,
for one week only.”
“You’ll lose the blessed lot,” he growled as 1
went out of the door.
I strolled round and saw John Dorey, whom 1
found, fortunately, in a state of affable drunken-
ness. When John was affably drunk he would
go into any gamble, and when I mentioned
the name of the concern that was about to sell
Buck up, he burst out.
“Give you £500! Certainly, my boy. Id
give you £5OOO (if I had it) to get level with those
people. They took me down for £l5 some 25
years ago, and I’ve never got level with them yet;
but if ye can dish them over this ’twill be prin-
cipal and interest. I know Buck’s property. It
has doubled in value three times in the last 15
years, and this concern is anxious to get it.
They’ll not take the money when you tender it! ”
“ 1 don’t want them to ! ” I said.
“Exactly,” said John Dorey. “We’ll just
drop into the Central, and while you order
whisky I’ll write out a wee bit cheque.”
* * * *
Buck’s property stood on a little plateau,
deeply bowered in trees. A man stood at the
gate ringing a bell, a red flag hung over the car-
nation bed in the front garden, and as the sale
had been well advertised the ground was soon full
of a curious prying crowd. Buck’s own place vvas
a charming little villa, and there was a home-like
look about the pillared portico, the red-tiled roof
and the elegant chimneys from which the blue
smoke curled lazily.
The auctioneer had mounted the rostrum which
he had placed on the front verandah. Williams
and I walked up to him carrying between us a
leather Gladstone bag containing 500 sovereigns.
He was yelling something about a desirable pro-
perty, values going up by leaps and bounds, abso-
lutely no reserve, forced sale, and so forth, when
I thumped loudly on the front of his rostrum with
a walking stick. .
“ Heave to and give us a show, old This
sale’s off—l’ve got the money here for you.”
“ Er—l am afraid I don’t exactly understand,
sir,” said the auctioneer.
“This is a forced sale, and the mortgagor has
asked me to offer the money on his behalf. The
sum is, I understand, £470; and I have that
amount here in gold.”
And so saying, I opened the bag and showed
the gold.
“ Excuse me one moment till I consult my prin-
cipals. This seems somewhat complicated.”
He went into the house and rang up his princi-
pals. It seemed to take considerable time, as it
was nearly a quarter of an‘hour later when he
returned with a stiff-looking upper lip, and
announced that the sale would proceed. “The
company had foreclosed, and was now offering
the property for sale in accordance with the deed
of mortgage.”
“ Which means that the sharks are going to try
and buy it in ! ” I snorted in mock indignation to
hide my delight.
The sale went on ruthlessly. They sold the
land in one lot, and then sold the furniture in the
home. The sacrifices were appalling.
* * * *
When the company got the writ it squirmed.
Its legal advisers had been caught napping, and
the hole that yawned in front of the co. looked
very large and dirty. It offered to refund the
value of the furniture and buy back the property
from the purchaser, which was its own dummy.
The offer was refused.
Then came the trial, and a caustic Judge dealt
out powerful language to the Loan and Mortgage
Co. He told the jurymen to dismiss from their
minds all memory of the unjustifiable abuse
that had been directed at these two ener-
getic young men who had taken up the case.
He thought their action was commendable
in every way. He left the matter in the
hands of the jury with perfect confidence that
they would do their duty to their country, and
also to humanity. The jury performed both
duties nobly, and awarded £lOOO damages to
Buck and £3OO to his wife on some side issue.
Over and above this amount were other sums,
which represented the value of things that had
been destroyed, damaged and lost in the re-
moval. The sale was annulled, so Buck got his
property back. The whole business, including
costs, must have run the co. to every cent of
£3OOO.
When we came to settle up, having collected
under the extensive powers which Buck had given
us in his day of trouble, we found that fighting
cases for damages with borrowed money, even
when you win £l3OO, is more or less a fool’s game.
John Dorey reached out for his loan, his interest
and his profit. Then the Mortgage Co. had care-
fully deducted the amount of the mortgage from
the cheque. After that there were costs between
client and solicitor to be paid up, and what be-
tween costs, John Dorey and the original mort-
gage that money just melted away. At last, when
they had all gone, Williams and I stood looking at
a little heap of gold which panned out at £152.
This we carefully divided between us, and then
cordially invited one another to dinner and supper
respectively.
At dinner Williams looked up and inquired :
“ Good Lord—what about Buck ? ”
“Buck be hanged. He’s got his share—a fine,
valuable oroperty, clear of all encumbrances, and
REVENGE—R EVEN G E, my boy ; which
is sweeter than this Tokay.”
“ Well, I hope you can satisfy him, or convince
him that he is satisfied. I smell trouble, and
before it is all over I believe it will be just the
same as if we’d taken the com. and procuration
fee.”
“ Rubbish ! Anyhow', we’ve got it, and there’ll
be some awful fighting before they get it away
from us.” .
But Williams only dipped his face into the glass
and drank silently.
• » * *
Williams didn’t come down to the office next
morning, but a small boy arrived with a brief note
to the effect that he was ill—had the ’flu’. I sold
a couple of bicycles, and was busy getting parti-
culars of some property on which a man with
curly whiskers wanted to borrow £lOOO when
Buck arrived. I requested him to wait outside,
as I was engaged. But instead of going out he
stuck his hands into his pockets, leered and
remarked, coarsely, that as he couldn’t wait on
both stairs at once he’d stay where he was. He
then begged the client not to mind him. The
client’s curly whiskers didn’t shine quite so
brightly, and he seemed to suddenly freeze.
“When a man’s got thirteen hundred quid
(Continued on next page.)


IF WOMEN ONLY KNEW
Every Picture
tells a Story.
m,
5=
Itrni
r /
5P=
Ill'll
F
a
\
The Way to be Well is to
Keep the Kidneys Well
What a lot of backache there is among the women. And little wonder.
A woman’s work and care and worry are enough to break down a much
stronger constitution than is given to most women—or men either for that
matter. The kidneys are invariably the first to feel the strain. And they
let their needs be known, too, very promptly. Backache is the cry for help.
The cry of the sick kidneys.
DOAN’S KIDNEY PILLS
help the kidneys; they are made specially to act on the kidneys. Doan’s
Pills are for every ill of the kidneys and bladder, from common backache to
rheumatism, dropsy, urinary trouble, etc. Bead the following testimony:—
SYDNEY WOMEN CURED
The Genuine
DOAN'S
effected
these
Lasting
Cures—
“A Word
to the
Wise is
Enough/'
LEICHHARDT.
Mrs. John Lawson, Brennan Street, Leich-
hardt, Sydney, says:—“l, can strongly recom-
anend Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills for curing
pains in, the small of the back. A member of my
family was suffering severely, and it was difficult
to move about at all. I blame sitting too close at
work for causing the trouble. The pills effected a
permanent cure, for there is no sign of the ailment
now.”
Mrs. Lawson makes a second statement four
years later : —“ The above is quite true, and time
has proved that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills
not only cure, but cure permanently. There
would be less suffering in the world if people only
knew the value of this remedy.”
CITY*
Mrs. Hannali Davis, 97 Commonwealth Street,
Sydney, says : “ I Used Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills for aches and pains, in the limbs, which I
fancied were caused by kidney trouble. The pains
had troubled que for years, defying all treatment.
I found it very difficult to get up and down stairs,
and fits of giddiness which often came over
me made it more distressing. Sometimes I
would be laid up. Soon after I started using
Doan’s Pills relief came, and when I had taken
six boxes the aches and pains and giddiness had
disappeared.”
Three years later, Mrs. Davis says:—“Yes, I
am still quite well ; none of the distressing symp-
toms mentioned above have ever returned.”
HUNTER STREET,
Mrs. Mullins, 49 Hunter Street, Sydney, says :
—“For three years I suffered with kidney de-
rangement. The worst symptom was a constant
backache, which got worse whenever I stooped.
I tried many remedies for this complaint, but got
no ease. I am glad to say that I got a cure at
last. Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills cured me.
They are splendid pills, and have made a great
difference in my health.”
Eight years later, when asked about her cure,
Mrs. Mullins says:—“The above statement is
true, every word, and I can now add the import-
ant fact that my cure has lasted. Doan’s Back-
ache Kidney Pills deserve praise, and I will
always recommend them.”
Get Doan's
Backache
Kidney Pills,
Price 2/9 a
bottle (6
bottles 15/3).
Foster-
McClellan Co.
76 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
belonging to you, you’ve got to keep your eye on
him, haven’t you, boss?” he said to the man who
wanted the £1000.”
“ I guess so,” said the client, coldly.
“ Buck, you’ve been drinking again. Here I
save your home, get you out of your difficulties,
win you hundreds of pounds of damages, and you
requite me bv coming here and disturbing my
clients. Oh Buck, how could you?”
“Never mind that guyver. I want a settle-
ment —where’s the money ? ”
“Well, I’m engaged with this gentleman now,
and you can just wait for a .statement of accounts.
There’s a chair on the landing, and, if you don’t
go out quietly, I’ll throw you.”
“I’m afraid I’m in the way,” said the curly-
whiskered stranger, rising hastily. “ After all,
perhaps I’d better not borrow this money. ‘ Out
of debt, out of danger,’ sez the missus to me when
I gets into the dog-cart to drive to the station ; so
I'll just go back and plod away, buildin’ them
tanks as I can out of income, so to speak. Good-
day to you both.”
I heard him plod down the stairs, and a drunken
grin spread over the face of Buck. It roused me
to fury. Here was money snatched out of my
very fingers. I wanted to hit this ungrateful
wretch. But I didn’t. I just sat down and showed
him where the money had gone. I thought that
would hurt him more.
“And where do I come in? Where’s my
whack?” he bellowed, springing suddenly to his
feet and glaring at me across the table with his
top hat jammed firmly down on- the back of his
head.
“Strikes me you come in better than anybody.
Your property is clear, and you can make a fresh
start. It has increased in value to such an extent
that you can now subdivide, build cottages
through a building society, and live on the rents
thereof for the rest of your days.”
But he foamed at the mouth.
“Thirteen hundred quid—and not a shilling
for me. Oh, oh, oh, you robbers ! O God, tell
me if- these swine aren’t worse than the blanky
Mortgage Co. ?” And he lifted his arms drama-
tically to the ceiling.
Shortly afterwards Buck retired to a surgery to
get his wrist reset and his eye repaired, while
I ran for the hotel where I lived and bathed my
nose in the hottest water I could stand.
While I was bathing my nose the Official
Assignee came round—must see me at once.
While I went on bathing my nose he explained
that several people had called on him for full
receipts for money they had paid us in the intri-
cate process of Buck’s affairs—we were only
allowed to issue interim acknowledgments—and
he produced Williams’s signature for sums that
had not been accounted for in our statement of
collections. This was serious. I dried my nose,
and took the statement he handed me. Then we
went downstairs to a cab and drove to the office
where we turned up the books. There was no
denying Williams’s signature, and there was no
getting away from the fact that the money had not
been accounted for. I offered to send for
Williams at once, but the Assignee thought it had
better be settled up, right away, and then he
would not be under the necessity of reporting the
firm. He could go back and say that the money
was available when he asked for it, and would, no
doubt, have been accounted for in the next state-
ment.”
So I drew out what was left of my share of the
loot and paid over £3B. While the Assignee made
out a receipt he heard some blood-curdling threats
uttered against Williams.
I went down stairs with him, carrying the cash
book under my arm. At the street I hailed a
cab and drove to Williams’s address. The maid
told me he had left the day after the trial, ex-
plaining that he had made so much money that
lie would have to go and live in Tinakori-road.
Then I realised that Williams had bolted. I
drove back to the office, where I found, sitting in
the little ante-room, three unusually villainous-
looking young men. I knew they were law-
clerks instinctively. Outside on the landing a
little man in a shabby overcoat, out of the high
collar of which protruded a tuft of grey whisker,
was stumping up and down. I recognised him
also ; he was a bailiff.
“Well, what do you want ?” I inquired -in my
hardest tone.
“ Mr. Williams ! ”
“ I’ll give you £5 if you can let me know his
address within the next 48 hours,” I remarked,
fiercely.
“Then he’s mizzled, has he?” said the bailiff.
“He has,” I remarked, and the bailiff headed
for the staircase.
“ How many more of you are after Mr. Wil-
liams?” I inquired, gloomily.
They shook their heads.
“ We want you,” they said.
“Ah, bicycles, I suppose. Come this way;
one at a time, please. First come, first served.”
A tall, blue-eyed young man followed me in.
He closed the door impressively.
“ Awfully sorry to have to treat you with such
scant courtesy,” he explained, “ but instructions
are emphatic. This is a writ. The Mortgage Co.
wants damages for conspiracy.”
“But I thought conspiracy was a criminal
matter ? ”
“ The Crown may think so later on. All the
Mortgage Co. wants is its money back, and it
alleges that you, Williams, Buck, John Dorey and
a solicitor named Brown conspired together to
take advantage of certain actions to strike it for
damages. Williams has got out early; Brown is
offering to give evidence for the company if the
case against him is withdrawn ; and Buck, who
swears you have his £l3OO, is also offering to do
anything he can. Needless to say, he is very
drunk.”
I took the writ and bowed him out.
The next was a fair-haired youth with a bud-
ding moustache. His eyes lit up when they fell
on the bicycles ranged along the wall.
“Well, what’s your trouble ? ” I inquired, for I
felt, somehow, that he had not come to buy a
bicycle.
“ Writ for £lOOO, issued by us on behalf of Mr.
Buck. Mr. Buck was insistent that you should
be served here to-day.”
“Very well. Do you want to buy a bicycle? ”
“Well, I suppose you’ll be clearing out the
stockcheap? I’ll have a yarn with you about
that big roadster Humber any time you like to
cut the price a bit.”
“ I’m not cutting prices.”
As he went out, the third young man came in.
“ Well, after all these other people worrying
me, perhaps you want to buy a bike?” 1 re-
marked, cheerfully.
“No; Mrs. Buck and daughters want £3OO,
and I’ve come round to demand a settlement.”
“ Well, I haven’t got £3OO. They must know
they can’t fight cases for nothing. There were
costs to pay.”
“ They never authorised you to pay costs —and
we just regard you as a person who stepped in,
got hold of the money somehow, and disbursed it
without any legal authority to do so. Of course
these are my instructions, sir. I’m not making
any charges personally.”
And he smiled pleasantly.
“ And do you really expect a settlement ?
“ Of course not—so much so that the writ is in
my pocket. Who is your solicitor? ’
“I hardly know—Williams has bolted, and
Brown has thrown me over.”
“Looks blue, doesn’t it? Well, name anyone,
and I’ll drop round and serve this thing.”
“Well, I’ll take it myself.”
He passed it over pleasantly, and then fell to
looking at the bikes.
“ How much for the big Humber?” he inquired,
suddenly.
“ £26, cash down.”
He mounted the machine, and rode round the
room.
“ It’s a beauty !” he remarked, ecstatically.
“ Well, what do you think about it ?”
“It’s mine—l’ll send you round a cheque.”
“I’ll be here for the next two hours,” I said, as
he went out; “ after that I’ll be out for the rest
of the day.”
* * * *
I walked across the landing to where the Emi-
nent Lawyer sat among pyramids of papers.
He was a most untidy man, also a very busy one.
I had done a little business with him. He re-
ceived me kindly.
“ I hear you’ve struck trouble,” he said.
“Yes, I want your advice.”
“Very well.” He leaned back in his chair,
placed his hands behind his head, listened to my
story, and glanced through the writs, which were
very innocent looking slips of pale blue paper.
Then he stared at the ceiling.
“ How much money have you got ? ”
“ About £40.”
“Well, you’re a young man, and apparently an
energetic one. I never knew a man of your age
in so many holes simultaneously. You might win
all along the line, but it isn’t worth it. Under-
stand ?”
“ No. I don’t,” I said, in a dazed manner.
The Eminent Lawyer arose and walked to the
window.
“ Look there,” he said, pointing over a wilder-
ness of roofs towards the harbor. “Do you see
that funnel?”
“ Which—the Mararoa’s?”
“Yes. Well, she goes to Sydney. You’re a
young man, you have about £4O, and if you win
these cases you’ll be hundreds of pounds in debt.
Some of the most brilliant exploits in history have
been masterly retreats effected at the right time
in the face of great obstacles. If I were you I’d
retire in good order on Sydney.”
“ Scoot! ”
“ I believe that is the vulgar expression. I
admit the advice is somewhat unconventional, but
there is excellent precedent-nnost excellent.”
I thanked him and withdrew.
* * * *
Next day when mountainous seas hurled the
Mararoa sky-high, and then fell suddenly from
under her, causing her to dive down nose or stern
first with amazing irregularity, a miserable,
dejected specimen of humanity crept out of the
coal bunkers and asked the firemen to kindly drop
him overboard and end his misery.
But they didn’t. They washed the coal dust
off him, and after he was made presentable,
hauled him forward to interview the captain, to
whom he explained that he was doing it for a
bet, and, producing money, offered the price of
his passage. All he asked was to be allowed to
keep out of sight, and also out of mention, at
Auckland, so as not to lose his bet.
The captain smiled. Then he rubbed his
hands and chuckled.
“I don’t know what they want you for, but I
expect it is something to do with money,” he
said. “ Anyhow, a man who can spin one like
that deserves to get away. I’ll send you down to
the purser.”
It was Williams. He, too, was retiring in good
order on Sydney : and, like a genius, he was earn-
ing a salary during his retreat instead of paying
his passage.
HERMES.
Evanescence.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
latter children of the race
Who pore upon decaying shells,
Which speak of Egypt, Home and Thrace?
Or con the Sphinx, with stony face,,
Whose eyes are like unfathomed wells ;
The latter people say, “How deep
Humanity has gripped the past !
Our forebears sowed that we might reap
Above the soil wherein they sleep ;
How deep we reach, how long we last! ”
And yet those lives were but an hour;
The dynasties were but a day
With varying zones of art and power
That carved the stone, or built the tower ;
Then left the shells, and hied away.
These shells the antiquarians prize,
And sage, and archaeologist,
Whereof historians grow wise,
Remain when that which made them flies
Where all must go, and none may list.
The palace and the straw-roofed shed,
The picture scratched upon a bone,
The paintings of the gifted dead.
And Seti’s tomb and Nero’s bed,
The potter’s urn, the reaper’s hone—
All these, the relics which we scan,
Pertaining to that mighty past—
The dim receding wake of man—
Prove but a little space —a span
Betwixt the first thing and the last.
Sum the organic world thereby
From eozoons up to kings,
Through things that crawl to things that fly,
From worms to ships that sail the sky—
A span takes in the sum of things !
But ever the attendant moon,
The earth itself, the fervent sun,
The stars across the heavens strewn,
Swing to their’twilight or their noon,
And slow, unending courses run.
These have their long, wide way to tread
Cut in the void that has no shore ;
Before and after us whose bed
Shall be of earth whence we were bred,
And man shall know his home no more.
VICTORIA.
O. G. A. COLLES.


“Four years ago I had to stop shearing, as I suffered
SO with rheumatism, caused by the damp sheep. As the
X),
3
liniments and medicines I tried
did me no good, I thought seri-
ously of going to the hospital,
but was induced to try Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla. From the first bot-
tle I began to get better. I took
seven bottles in all, and I now am
free from pain, and can eat and
sleep grandly. I feel like a new
man.” A. H. Watson,
G-awler, S. A.
This is one of very many letters testifying to the value of Ayer’s
Sarsaparilla in cases of rheumatism. Keep your blood pure by using
AYER’S Sarsaparilla
As now made, it contains no alcohol. There are many
imitations that will do you no good. Get “AYER’S.”
Ayer’s Pills are Sugar-Coated. A Mild and Gentle Laxative
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U. S. A.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
''
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog: Head Stout. King:’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
i/ii, 2/9 & m
dfg
Checks and
arrests Fever
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
COUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm
DIARRHOEA, and is the onlyj
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibault. 230 pages, demy-octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. fid.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. fid.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
P. Danvers Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
AUi Prices Nett.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
dfg
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
Thsy Umar Fall.
Jhqg Always Ours.
dƒd
The only true and cafe remedy for Com and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at t/xJ4 2/9 per bos
Proprietors. PROUT ft- Co., asp. Strand.
London. England
GOUT
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
ALL SHAPES
J/-EACH POST FREE 1/2
' Quality Not Belter
in a
Guinea Pipe
F MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
STOREKEEPERS 4 roBACCOPfiTS
SHOULD SEED FOR OUR TRADE LIST
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock in the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees to bring this business
1 to a close, they have decided upon the compulsory
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following'
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Brice £3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns’, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding docks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £9. Sale Price ..£6 0 0
8 Single-Barrel Hammerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price £1 16 0
8 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 15 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders, excellentstock,
with cartridge machine andcleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price .. .. .. £2 17 6
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price . .. lg #
AH the above guns are complete with Oartridgs
Machines and Gleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or Post Office Order* moat be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS A 00.
AU orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
•ny address in Australasia.
Bend for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
SfcNT4£
M I D'fj
Superior to
. INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
I COPAIBA*
[ Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
gdf
Back Capsule bears the name
'Well Regulated fanjilies
are fully alive to the importance of being prepared for those troublesome
attacks of Indigestion and kindred ailments common to all, and of effectively
dealing with them in the early stages before they have become dangerous
or chronic. Well regulated families are careful to have always a sound
reliable remedy immediately available, and as experience has clearly proved
the undoubted superiority of Beecham’s Pills as a family medicine, a box of
this invaluable corrective is always kept at hand. For removing such
distressing disorders as Dyspepsia, Biliousness, Liver troubles in general,
and Constipation, it is ever the wisest and most satisfactory course to
Jake
Beecham’s Pills. The remedial properties of these pills, however, are not
limited to the cure of digestive troubles alone, but exercise a specific and
beneficial influence upon the nervous system. Well regulated families are
aware that there is no finer tonic, nor any more certain means of banishing
disease from the household than may be secured by a judicious and regular
use of
B«c(bam’s pills.
Sold everywhere la boxes, price IJH (56 pills) & 2/9 (168 pills).
gfdg
Other Models from 7/6 to 40b
Catalogues Sbnt Free.
MELBA
the ACCORD EON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds -which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
f sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 33/6, post free,
THE DANCE KING.
<S sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post fras.
THE PICNICMODEL.
taste Bell Metal Reeds, priee 15/-, post free.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melfo,
r-jpjsr jc* -rx ! :' -:: 5''
Dread of Indigestion
drives many men and women to a mistaken dietary regime,
and —chronic dyspepsia. It is the greatest mistake in the world.
Anybody who knows the supreme corrective value of Cockle’s Pills
can enjoy all the rational pleasures of the table with impunity. Cockle’s
Pills thoroughly purify, regulate, and strengthen the digestive system.
They ensure natural functional activity. Physicians have recognised
this for the last century.
Q
CKL
m
fdg
© »
*«
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your case
and I will advise you
honestly and without charge.
S.H. HENSHALL,
Rejsfd. Chemist,
'by Examination
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne.
J XMAS EDITION of 1
The Bulletin, 1910.
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 15.
It will contain the best Stories, Verse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), contributed
during the year by the foremost Australasian
writers.
The illustrations by “Hop,” Norman Lindsay
and other leading representative artists, will be
the finest Blaok and White work obtainable in
Australia, and will reflect the national humor.
Thx BnMixnir Xmas Number is the annual re*
flection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agrenta will bo supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence o*
the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be allowed
for. '
ORDERB FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 19th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of the
Commonwealth States sad Maoriland, ?d.;
.Foreign addresses, 9d. ,
dfgfd
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Herrons Concha,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GP.IMAULT & Co’s INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemitti.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors raoommend Port Win* for Invalids.
V.A.V.BtidgerreePort
Nature’s Gift.
riM
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap,
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brandß at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving yon middle*
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock ** Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0, for 18s. t
and we will forward you a
dozen properly paoked with*
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.B.W.
And at 19 MoKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.


Rubber-Soled Shoes.
%
Perdriau Rubber-Soled Shoes
will wear three times as long, are
much more comfortable and cer-
tainly better in appearance than
the ordinary sandshoes. Being
leather welted, these shoes do not
draw the feet, and they can be re-
soled when the rubber wears out.
A very popular line is supplied
with White Duck uppers (with or
without cap and strap), leather
welted and with best red
rubber soles. 12/6. The same
shoe, but fitted with White Buck-
skin cap and strap, 16/-.
Write for a Free Copy of our
new Summer Price List, which
gives details of all our Sporting
Footwear.
PERDR/AU RUBBER CO., LTD..
"The Best House for all Rubber Goods,*’
270 George Street, Sydney.
TELEPHONES.
House, Long-Distance and all kinds of Telephone
Equipment in stock—Low Prices.
Dynamos, Motors, Cables and Wires, and every-
thing in Electrical Supplies on hand.
WRITE FOR PRICE LISTS TO
T. K. STEANES, 37-43 Pitt Street, Sydney.
DICKS PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADiu
eiZ
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sruard against inferior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every "few feet.
. James Hardie & Co.,
r, Sydney, and at Melbourne.
Sole
Importers
West Circular
rjiHE
_ BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten. sd.
The
Seasons
Change
Just What the Doctor Ordered
At
Alt
Seasons
“SENTINEL
JUNIOR.”
BIMPLE
ENGINE.
DIRECT
DRIVING
A DYNAMO
FOR
ELECTRIC
LIGHTING
PURPOSES. /-
m 1
SENTINEL
AIR COMPRESSORS
Special Designs to meet all requirements.
HIGH-SPEED ENGINES
Economical in Steam Consumption and Thoroughly Reliable.
HIGH-PRESSURE STEAM TRAPS
The Best High-Pressure Trap now in use.
Feed Water Filter S Oil Separator
Simple and Efficient, with large Filtering Surface.
Highest Economy
and Efficiency.
&
82 Pitt Street, Sydney; Prell’s Buildings,
Melbourne; 8 A.M.P. Buildings, Brisbane.
. 1 n t.
ELECTRIC Sheep Shearing Machines
IMMMMMWiiIIiiiriIIIIIMHMBBaBMMBaMMa ,
Simple——Light Portable Economical.
May be suspended from any position inside or outside of shed.
No overhead shafting required. Same standard Woiseley Handpieces used.
»*
INFORMATION
DALGETY &
Sole Agents,
MILLER’S POINT, SYDNEY.
TEL.
f 3236
\5221
MINING
WARBURTON, FRANKI & CO.
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE.
Clarence Street,
SYDNEY
Strong
>
m
The PHILIPS
Pressed Steel Pulleys.
Perfectly Balanced and Always Run True.
Every Pulley Guaranteed. Large Stocks carried of all sizes.
fd
Sole
Agents,
Engineers and
Machinery Merchants,
60 Clarence St, Sydney,
N.S.W.
gdfgfd
WRITE FOR
CATALOGUES.
MINING SUPPLIES™ 01 "
Drill Steel, Oil, Candles,
Explosives,
etc.
m
TO
ROCK DRILLS,
AIR COMPRESSORS,
CONCENTRATORS, and the
World>Famed B. & HI. Agitating Tanks for Cyanide
KEROSENE HOIST.
