

THE WHISKY OF WHISKIES
r. <3r. wAtkins & 00.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
—FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
Removal Notice.
Our Sydney Office and Store have
been removed to
535 KENT STREET.
535 Kent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
S.fl. Agent: C. 0. DELANO, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide.
HOBART.
[jadleys Orient fjotel.
PIONEER
h
Guaranteed.
J. C. Ludowici & Son, Ld.
ll7 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
h
Take it back,
I must have
MUTTON’S
Fine-Apple Brand
*
CHUBB’S SAFES
for JEWELLERS.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
J
HANSENS
ft
Ik
TABLETS
For INDIGESTION
ana DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prize Medals.
djfa
cut. lOdlJ&X' && -zWt
$9 ltr&&\£v&Kj tyewdU UrfijU>/<Cy Co ffrCtL'.
s
V
0L V’>>> >
o
,v
A>'
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
MANNESMANN TUBES BRIDGES
, When these Weldless Steel Tubes are used for mains over bridges, there is no further expense for breaks or leaks.
Write for particulars and prices.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY) LTD. - - - 109 PITT STREET. [2
V. hZiZwmm
Hr^ffH
***• ,
■'s'^.-J
> -.-vl
“-\ "g a „- •".'! .'Sf. X t i*:
-V
_ ...
“M • - J.l’. L. _-L .'**A.jJ
Malthoid at the Federal Capital.
Our illustration shows the first buildings erected on the site of Australia’s future Capital.
The Government Survey Party made a good beginning by using MALTHOID the
highest quality roofing material procurable, suitable for the sides, roof and floor of any
building.
MALTHOID is a water and weather-proof, fire-retarding roofing—one that absolutely
defies the elements, remaining intact and uninjured under the most severe climatic conditions.
Why not select MALTHOID for your building ?
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER),
CfIALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY U°
ĥ
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L”
Locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES. '
CREAM COOLERS, FACTORY REQUISITES.
C. A. MACDONALD LTD.,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
ħ
Three reasons why HELIDON SPA triumphs ii a Perfect Table Water': * }
Ist—Rapid absorption. 2nd -Eacid circulation. 3rd - Rapid climinalinn. f
DEWHDRST g HALLORAN, Ltd.,
totals
The Bulletin
V01.31.—N0. 1604.]
[Thursday, November 10, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW
books
GEORGE
ROBERTSON AND CO. PROP., LTD.,
238 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
fflscox, 1 gT: Meehan "carAp^lianc’es 3
Roosevelt: African Game Trails, 18s, posted 18s 9d,
Masterpieces in Oolorf
ĥ
is 9d, posted 2s 2d.
Stephenson : Pricing of Quantities, 10s Id, posted 10s8d.
lennvson’s Suppressed Poems, 3s, posted 4s.
James G.: Joan of Arc, 9s, posted 9s Bd.
O’Donohue : Valuation of Mineral Property,, 9s, p. 9* Bd.
Marriott: Second Chambers, 6s, posted 6s 6d.
Gilbert: lolanthe and Other Operas, illustrated, 18s,
West ° Manufacture of Portland Cement, 15s, p. 18s 9d.
Lasar : Hints for Art Students, 4s, posted 4s 6d.
r » NEW LONG NOVEL, AILSA PAIGE, 3s. 6d., posted 4s
CHAMBERS
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumerithol Jujubes as an Antiseptic.
The Lancet says Proved to be as effective
baotericidally as is frfl- on recelpt of 1/8 stamps
w
d
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe.
a The BronohUl
Tabs* of » di»-
•noted Lung,
a A fcoto of one
•KttwLung*.
AgMdM in an
The RED PAGE
Captains Courageous
Emotion recollected in tranquillity was
Wordsworth’s ■' recipe for poetry, and the
sailor, after the voyage is over, remembers
the thrill of danger and the majesty ot storm,
and sees some of the romance of the sea,
however much he hated the life at the time.
Occasionally he gets poetical when talking
about it over pipe and glass; but few can
write well enough to impart the thrill to
landsmen readers. Marryat, Herman Mel-
ville, Conrad, Masefield and Clark Russell;
Dana in Two Years Before the Mast, and
Bullen in his first book —that’s about all.
Here are two more.
Maurice Drake is not so good a writer as
any of his forerunners; but he has lived
through adventures which are novel and
quite as exciting as any in sea books. Some
of these are told in Wrack and The Salving
of a Derelict (Duckworth). They are stories
of modern sailoring on iron ships, with the
reek of oil and steam and bilge, and, over
and above the usual dangers of the sea, the
peculiar risks of salvage work. The crews
are picked men ; but no insurance company
will take their “lives.” There is a chance
of rich reward, and they get “ the crowded
hour” pretty frequently. A shipowner in
Wrack states the case :
It’s living, yon—a man’s life... . Wanderin’ —
they never know where they’ll be ordered next.
p a y?—there’s fitters on the Electra drawin
twelve pounds a week when they’re workm iv ry
tide. Risk?—that shallow-draught wooden packet
joust skates around all th’ worst coasts in tn
world chook-a-block full of steam gear an high-
powered explosives. Wherever theer’s danger
tricky tides, or bad flaws o’ wind, or rock, or
shoal—wherever theer’s wrecks, theer lies her
work. ,
Drake gives the strength of this m parts
of both books, but Wrack is a story with a
love interest which ends unsatisfactorily.
. * * *
The Brassbounder, by David W. Bone
(Sydney Book Club) is an account of one
voyage from Glasgow, round the Horn to
’Frisco, and back again. r lher© is no plot,
no girl he left behind him, no secondary in-
terest. It is just an apprentice’s version of
life on a sailing ship of the present day, yet
it recalls the charm of the early voyages,
and is the best book about the ways of men
on “ a ship of sticks and strings ” that has
been written for many a year.
From the time of the first capstan chantey:
Blow, boy-s, blow—for Cahfor-ny , ok 1
For there's lots of gold, so I’ve been told
On the banks of Sa-oramen-to l
the voyage is described in episodes, the
talk of the men is given, each in his own
linoo, and you get to know most of them be-
fore they’re done with. One man stands
out—the Old Man, the canny, good-natured
Scotch captain, who loves his ship and looks
after the owner’s interests. When a sea-
man’s leg is broken, he sets it. When the
ship’s bow is smashed by an iceberg, he
mends it. He chaffers with the tugboat
captain off the Golden Gate, and beats him
down from 600 to 300 dollars for the tow,
all the time desperately hiding the fact that
the cargo is on fire; and, not till the ship is
I berthed, does the tug man find that he
missed 3000 dollars salvage. ■ In one fine
scene the old man smooths down a discon-
tented crew, who object to going back from
’Frisco three men short. ,
Almost at the journey’s end, the pilot
makes a mistake and the captain saves the
ship from the rocks:
A gallant fight l At theweather gangway
stood Old Joek, legs apart and sturdy, talking to
h '“ B Stand, good spars,” he would say, casting
longing eyes aloft. Or, patting the ta * al .l v^ h
his great sailor hands, Up tae it, ye bitch .
Un ' f Up 11!” as, raising her head, streamingm
cascade from a sail-pressed plunge, she turned to
meet the next great wall of water that set against
her .. . Obedient to the helm and the mate s
ready hand at the driver sheets—she flew off, free
of the wind and sea-tearing past tbe iower ng
rocks a cable’s length to leeward. ... And high
above the tumult of the waters and the loud, glad
cries of us, the hoarse choking voice of the man
who backed his ship. ... „ . n j
“Done it, ye bitch!”—a now trembling hand
at his old grey head. “Done it! Weathered, by
Goad!”
Bone’s method is objective; he makes you
see the thing described, and says little about
his own sensations —except that he says,
when at work in freezing, stormy weather,
he would have preferred a job as railway
porter. Why does a sailor go back, alter
vowing in sodden misery on many of the
nights described, that he will never go to sea
any more ?
Pride. Rotten pride! We come home from
our first vovage sick of it all. . . . Woudgiveup
hut for pride. . . . Afraid to be called stuck
sailors afraid of the sneers of our old school-
mates.’ So we come home in a great show of
braverv, and swagger about in our brass-bound
uniforms, and lie bravely about the fine times we
had . . . out there !
* * * *
Oh, leave ’r, Johnny, leave ’r like a man
(An’ leave V, Johnny, leave ’r);
Oh ! Leave ’r, Johnny, leave 'r when ye can
(An it’s time—for us—t’ leave ’rl)
There were a few fine times, and Bone does
justice to them. His style is simple and
direct,' rising fully to the occasion in some
descriptions of the old barque battling
through rough weather, and holding the
reader to the end,
7 * ■
Barkers , by E. Lacon Watson (Murray).
An old London publishing house which was
peacefully decaying is rushed into new ven-
tures—fiction and a magazine, by a light-
hearted young man. He draws his friends
into the concern, and though they do not
make the new business succeed, Barkers
makes them. The “ shop ” talk is interest-
ing, and one man touches on a fascinating
problem:
What does sell a novel ? After all these years,
I confess myself absolutely unable to decide this
knotty point. Assuredly the most flaring reviews
will often fail to do so, and the most expensive
advertisement. Some pin their faith to. the
chatter of women over the tea table ; but this is
more likelv to be the effect of popularity than the
cause. Stuart Mitchell had a theory some years
ago that big sales were due to some hitherto un-
discovered bacillus. Readers became infected
with a new book as with a disease, and when the
gallant microbes once obtained a footing they
spread with a rapidity impossible to forecast and
difficult to check. A mammoth fortune awaits
the gentleman who first isolates the micrococcus
of popularity, and retails specimens to needy or
ambitious authors.
“I always thought you were more than yon
seemed,” she murmured. Looking up at him mis-
ohievously, she added : “So you deceived ra® 1
marry a title after all ? ” He looked down proudly
at her as he replied with his frank smile: Hut i
wooed you as a poor man. You are mine by
right of conquest.”
As you may imagine, she is the daughter of
an American multi-millionaire; he is an
Englishman as beautiful as Apollo, lhey
survived the wreck and lived in idyllic but
perfectly proper conditions on a desert
island—so Arthur Hornblow says m By
Bight of Conquest (G. Robertson and Co.).
A book on fairies by one who does not
believe in them, or pretend to believe in
them, is not likely to be very attractive, nor
is an account of The Origins of Popular
Superstitions and Customs, by a man like 1.
Sharper Knowlson, whose name suggests
ultra-cuteness. He deals only with those
superstitions which are still in force, and
explains why people regard it as unlucky to
walk under a ladder on Friday the thirteenth
if the hodman happened to spill the salt at
breakfast.
G. B. Lancaster
There is much to admirb in G. B. Lan-
caster’s vigorous stories of strong men who
go through great emotional crises and do
small things in a big way. Jim of the
Ranges (Constable) is a shade better than its
predecessors. The action takes place in the
Australian bush—Gippsland, apparently—
and the reader views some bits of it as if
by flashlight. The characters are painted in
strong colors; they are human, all-too-
human some of them; but, occasionally,
they do and say things no bushman should
be made responsible for in print. One man
“ia now hoofing the pad for and
another goes to the bar and orders Three
star; yes, a long sleever.” Other details are
inaccurate, and betray the rapid impression-
ist. There is a tense, strained air about the
writing, which is G. B. Lancaster s worst
fault. There is no doubt, however, about
the force ‘and originality of her phrasing.
You get it in this description of the bush as
seen for the first time by a town boy :
The track slewed sharp round, bringing windy
I scents out of the distances and a sight that rushed
the Kid’s heart into his mouth. Half the world
lay at gaze below; aloof, sternly apart as are the
mountains of the moon. Deep down a torrent
shredded out its white flesh in the black rocks;
but across the chasm a riot of sunshine lay, golden
and glorious. And the distance was sheen of bush
and shimmer of rock. It was a network of spurs,
hazy as the purple bloom on ripe fruit. And last,
it was the pure snow ranges withdrawn among
their clouds as a young soul is withdrawn from the
careless touch.
Here are some other characteristic sen-
tences:
On the ranges the last rays paled to ash, and all
earth’s color was sucked up into the sky. The
fluttering pink in the bush-gully below was quick
come and quick gone as a young girl s blush ; but
in the western skv behind the farthest snow-cone
floods of strong crimson pumped up and down
like a man’s heart-blood.
The women are rather crude types— Roseen,
who knew that “to be in Jove is not a con-
dition but an art,” does not ring true. But,
with all faults, Jim of the Ranges is to be
read and valued.
♦
The miniature volumes in what is called
vest-pocket size ” are popular at Christmas
time, and are suitable for short specimens
of verse or little anthologies. Australians can
now get nuggets of their own verse to send
to friends abroad. At least, some of them
I are nuggets j others are quartz with a few
specks. There’s Victor J . Daley, for instance
pieces from At Dawn and Dusk, and his later
work —all gold. Bush Ballads, from Gordon
and others- —say 15 carat. Poems, by Bernard
O’Dowd, is an admirable selection from his
four books, and to any who know not
O’Dowd it will be a fine introduction. The
selection from Henry Kendall, in similar
form, is inadequate, though the readei gets
a taste of his quality in “ Orara, '‘Outre
Mer” and “To a Mountain.” The name of
the late Jennings Carmichael has been
brought before Australia lately in connec-
tion with her children, and a bundle of her
verses has a momentary interest. 11 illiam
Gay is represented by a few good sonnets,
and some other verses of slender value. The
breezy, salt-junk bard, Edwin J. Brady,
appears to disadvantage in Bushland Ballads,
reprinted for the first time. His Muse
wants a lot of room to kick about in ; but is
more at home on shipboard than in the
bush. The price of these at Angus and
Robertson’s is Is. 3d. each.
I Another Australian magazine has ventured
ut into the perilous seas. It was launched at
>erth in October, and is named TheLecumn
Lioness), after" the sturdy Dutch ship which
klited the south-western cape in 1G22, and turned
way north. The cover design, from a woodcut
iv A. G. Plate, is the most artistic part of INo. l.
t shows a hungry-looking lioness in a threatening
ttitude, which may be taken as a warning to
ontributors or to Fat. The verse and articles
.re only of moderate interest; but this is the first
Australian monthly magazine, and it may yet Jie
aden with the literary wealth which, like
)ther gold, awaits the bold and lucky prospector.
* * * *
Under the vague title of Cosmos and Common-
wealth, one Dominic Healy; of Maryborough (Q.),
ets loose some wild notions about immigration
rnd other matters. He has no time for lm-
□erialism, which is fostered in Australia by the
daily press—“or, rather, that reflex of London
opinion commonly called the Australian
and England’s security is not essential to Aus-
tralia. “The English bulldog is not the otdy
piece of meat in the universal sausage. Australia
should reach out beyond England to the cosmos.
It is the first duty of Australians to people their
country with a white race, “not white m the
narrow racial sense, but white in conscience, pure
of heart.” (Imagine a pure heart test for immi-
grants !) He views with equanimity a possible
infusion of “the noble Japanese,” under the white
C< Eventua'lly the amorous Australian youth might learn
to indite impassioned sonnets to his mistress s eyebrow
even were it possessed of a little Oriental slant.
Dominic dirige nos / 0 Lord, deliver us !
Nature in Meredith and Wordsworth by Archi-
bald T Strong (Literature Society of Melbourne).
A scholarly address of solid value. Strong lk an
admirer of" Meredith, but he dropped on to the
bad philosophy of his Nature poetry—its concep-
tion of the cruelty of Nature to the individual
man as beneficent to the #
Bush Songs qf Australia (G. Robertson and Co.)
The words, by Annie R. Rentoul, and music, by
Ixeorgette Peterson, are jolly good. It is a pity
hat Mrs. Outhwaite’s illustrations are stiff and
onvemional; for publications of this kind deserve
sncouragemeht. # *
Evolution Exploded, by R. Miller-Argue, “the
nan McCabe dare not debate (Commonwealth
Christian Evidence Ass.). With a mere prick of
he pen be has exploded the great bubble blown
by Darwin, Spencer, Haeckel and the rest! Have
you heard the noise ?
G-. K. Chesterton is fading in radiance as
he. gains in popularity. In his latest exploit
the writing of detective yarns for 1 he Story-
teller—be shows some evidence of failing
cleverness. In the first yarn—“ The Inno-
cence of. Father Brown ”-a marvellous
French detective chases a miraculous Frencfi
thief, who is pursuing an RC. priest with a,
valuable cross. The three rush about and
converse much in the manner of the beings
in The Man Who Was Thursday. And all
through the yarn are blinding paragraphs
that prod the reader with their audacious
irrelevance. Thus : , „ .
The most incredible thing about miracles is
that they happen. A few clouds in heaven do
come together in the staring shape of one human
eye. A tree does stand up in the landscape
of a doubtful journey in the exact and elabo-
rate shape of a note of interrogation. I have
seen both these things myself within the
last few days. Nelson does die in the in-
stant of victory; and a man named V\ imams
does quite accidentally murder a man named
Williamson ; it seems a sort of infanticide. In
short, there is in life an element of elfin coinci-
dence which people reckoning on the prosaic may
perpetually miss. As it has been well expressed
in the paradox of Poe, wisdom should reckon on
the unforeseen.
This remark seems absurdly superfluous to
this tale of adventure. But Chesterton
usually crowds his narratives with such
merciless reflections. In reading one of his
stories, one has always to wait every ten or
a dozen lines while he plays two-up with
truisms or starts a gavotte of Chestertonian
expressions.
JEAN SIBI.
There is a good shilling’s worth of broad
humor in The Adventures of Smiling Sam ,
oy R. R. Thorne (Worker Office, Sydney).
Sam, with “ a constitution like a lighthouse ”
and a wonderful smile, pranks amusingly,
while his father does those comical queer
things which the bush father is expected to
do in fiction. The father is a distant rela-
tion of Steele Rudd’s Dad, and his prepared
impromptu speech may have been suggested
by Mark Twain; still, Thorne’s work, on the
whole, is fresh and bright, his lively inci-
dents run into one another naturally, and
his style is unaffected. The illustrations, by
Claude Marquet and others, are appropriate,
save that in one a full-grown cow appears to
be no higher than the kitchen table.
The Lost Echo, by James Green (Book-
stall Co.), is not much of a story, but it gives
a good account of the life of the pioneer
cedar-getters on the Richmond Rivei, and
points a sound moral about the ruthless
destruction of timber.
Poems by James Stephens
TO THE FOUR COURTS, PLEASE.
The driver rubbed at his nettly chin
With a huge, loose forefinger, crooked ana black,
And his wobbly, violet lips sucked in,
And puffed out again and hung down slack:
One fang shone through his lop-sided smile.
In his little, pouched eye flickered years of guile.
And the horse, poor beast, it was ribbed and
forked, . ~
And its ears hung down, and its eyes were old,
And its knees were knucklyj, and as we talked
It swung the stiff neck that could scarcely hold
Its big, skinny head up-—then t stepped in.
And the driver climbed to his seat with a grin.
God help the horse and the driver, too,
And the people and beasts who have never a friend,
For the driver easily might have been you,
And the horse be me by a different end.
And nobody knows how their days will cease,
And the poor, when they’re old, have little of
peace.
I THE SHELL.
And then I pressed the shell
Close to my ear
And listened well.
And straightway like a bell
Came low and clear
The slow, sad murmur of far distant seas,
Whipped by an iey breeze
Upon a shore
Wind-swept and desolate.
It was a sunless strand that never bore
The footprints of a man,
Nor felt the weight
Since time began
Of any human quality or stir
Save what the dreary winds and waves incur.
And in the hush of waters was the sound
Of pebbles rolling round,
For ever rolling like a hollow sound.
And bubbling sea-weeds as the waters go
Swish to and fro
Their long, cold tentacles of slimy grey.
There was no day,
Nor ever came a night •
Setting the stars alight
To wonder at the moon :
Was twilight only, and the frightened croon,
Smitten to whimpers, of the dreary wind
And waves that journeyed blind—
And then I loosed my ear—Oh, it was sweet
To hear a cart go jolting down the street.
WINDY CORNER.
Here and there along the street
The lamps are dimly burning,
I And all is silent save the fleet
Footsteps of the winds that meet
To tattle at the turning. ' i,
Sleeping softly snug inside
Lie the people resting, ; \ .
Lip to cheek or side by side,
While I wander where the wide
Breezes go a-questing.
Oh, I can tell and I can know
What the wind rehearses :
“ A poet loved a lady so,
Loved her well, and let her go
While he wrote his verses.
Here he met the maiden fair, (
And here they parted madly, *
Though she’s wed, he still will wear
A shining, twining hoop of hair,
And sing about her sadly.” .
That’s the tale the winds relate
Soon as night is shady.
If it’s true, I’ll simply state
A poet is a fool to rate
His art above the lady.
(From Insurrections, published by Maunsel and Co.,
Dublin.)
WOMEN.
Listen, if but women were
Half as kind as they are fair,
There would be an end to all
Miseries that do appall.
Cloud and wind would fly together
In a dance of sunny weather :
And the happy trees would throw
Gifts to travellers below.
Then the lion, meek and mild,
I With the lamb would, side by side,
Couch him friendly and would be
Innocent of enmity.
Then the Frozen Pole would go
Shaking off his fields of snow
To a kinder clime and dance
Warmly with the girls of France.
These : if women only were
Half as kind as they are fair.
(From The English Review , Sept., 10.)


Jk
nee
EVERYTHING for EVERYONE
Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low
Carreras’ Special Double
Broad Cut Tobacco.
r«^
DO^
cm
m
41!
Carreras’ Special
Double Broad Cut.
This tobacco is specially manufactured by Carreras
Ltd., for ANTHONY HORDERN AND SONS,
and all discriminating smokers are recommended to
give it a trial. The new method of cutting and
mixing adopted for the CARRERAS SPECIAL
DOUBLE BROAD CUT ensures the exact blend
intended by the manufacturer. I
With CARRERAS’ SPECIAL DOUBLE
BROAD CUT the Natural Tobacco is in Large
Pieces, absolutely Free from Stalk, and Cut in such
a way that the Weight of the Different Particles is
Practically the Same. This evenness ensures the
Pipe being Filled with all the Different Tobaccos in
the Mixture in the precise proportions intended by
the blenders, consequently the Exact Flavor is at all
times maintained.
When the Pipe is lighted it will be found that
CARRERAS’ SPECIAL DOUBLE BROAD
CUT allows the AIR to PASS through the
TOBACCO as easily as through a DRY SPONGE,
and the SMOKE REACHES THE MOUTH
FILTERED OF ALL ITS HEAT.
The pipe always DRAWS FREELY and with a
DELICIOUS COOLNESS, because the tobacco CANNOT form into LUMPS,
such as most smokers have experienced with FINE-CUT MIXTURES.
CARRER A.S’ SPECIAL DOUBLE BROAD CUT TOBACCO smokes
PURE and SWEET to the BOTTOM of the PIPE, leaving a MINIMUM of
ASH, and the COMBUSTION is SO PERFECT that it ACTUALLY goes
TWICE AS FAR AS CHEAPER MIXTURES.
Packed in patent vacuumised tins, guaranteed to keep the tobacco in good
condition for any time in any climate :
MEDIUM STRENGTH—2cz., Is. 3d.
40z., 2s. 6d.
Perlb., 9s. 6d. ; Postage—N.S.W., 9d.
by post, Is. 6d
by post, 2s. lOd.
other States, Is. 2d.
GEM
JUNIOR
Safe t y Razor
ħ
r-^
1^
GE
SkS
flakes an
Ideal Present for any flan
For Easy and Luxurious Shaving the GEM JUNIOR SAFETY
RAZOR has no equal.
The Gem Junior Safety Razor provides a keen blade for every day
in the week.
The Gem Junior Razor complete, with six extra blades, is packed in
a neat leatherette case, with special handle for stropping.
The Gem Junior Razor is always ready for use. Every blade auto-
matically adjusts itself, assuring a clean, comfortable shave.
The Blade is the first thing to consider in a Razor ; it does the shaving.
The BLADES first made the FAME of the GEM JUNIOR. They are pro-
duced from the BEST RAZOR STEEL, tempered by a PROCESS that gives
a KEEN, LASTING EDGE. The STEEL is so SUPERIOR, the TEMPER
and EDGE so FINE; that STROPPING makes them as GOOD AS EVER.
A Feature of the GEM JUNIOR is the NEW BAR which SMOOTHES
out the creases of the SKIN, raises the BEARD just AHEAD of the
CUTTING EDGE, and makes SHAVING EASY and LUXURIOUS.
The Gem Junior Safety Razor is made and finished in the BEST
Style, of the FINEST Materials, and by the HIGHEST SKILLED LABOR.
It comprises NICKEL PLATED FRAME, extra HANDLE for stropping
BLADES, and SEVEN KEEN-EDGED BLADES. Complete in neat
Leatherette Case.
h
Anthony Horderns’
Price, CI
Posted Free all
over Australia,
513.
The
Perfect
ISOLA
Vacuum
Flask.
The ISOLA FLASKS keep their contents at nearly the same degree of heat or cold for
a considerable time, without chemicals, without preparation, and without trouble.
A NECESSITY IN EVERY
HOUSEHOLD.
PINT SIZE—
ENAMELLED CASE.
11/6
IMITATION LEATHER.
13/6
ALL NICKEL.
21 /-
REFILLS,
9/6
ĥ
INVALUABLE to MOTOR-
ISTS and SPORTSMEN.
QUART SIZE-
ENAMELLED CASE,
211-
IMITATION LEATHER,
231-
ALL NICKEL,
31|6
REFILLS,
ISOLA VACUUM FLASKS, JUGS and PICNIC JAKS may be obtained from any or the following
Australasian Agents:—
New South Wales, South anti West Australia—ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS,
Only Universal Providers, New Palace Emporium, Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
Queensland: PERRY BROS. LTD.. Queen & Elizabeth Streets, Brisbane.
Tasmania: CHARLES DAVIS, Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
New Zealand: MAN DEL HARRIS & CO., Grey Street, Wellington.
Victoria : McLEAN BROS. & RIGG PROPY., LTD., 147 Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
Anthony Hnrrtgmx' for Pipgs, Tobacco 8 Cigars
TRIUMPH EXTRA BRIAR PIPE.
London Made,
Silver Mounted.
26
2?
28
29
Hand Cut
Vulcanite Stems
BY
POST,
4/8
THE 4/8 TRIUMPH BRIAR is the finest Pipe made, and guaranteed to be of the finest materials. It is
London made, Sterling Silver-mounted, with Hand-Cut Vulcanite Push Mouthpiece, and will not crack
or burn. Shapes as illustrated. Shapes No. 26 and 28 can also be had with Silver Push at 6/6 each.
THE A. H. & S. BRIAR PIPE.
Selected Briar, Silver
Band, 2/g PoBt Froe
ss
Push Stems, Any Shape,
2jg Post Free.
7
Send for
Tobacco List,
Post Free.
THE A. H. & S. BRIAR at 2/6 (Posted 2/8) is the equal of Pipes
often sold at four times the price. It is First Quality Briar
Vulcanite Mouthpiece, Sterling- Silver Band, Push Stem', Shapes
as illustrate^.
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Andrade for BOOKS.
Plays,
Comedies,
Farces, etc.
The Largest Stock in
Australasia.
Write for new PLAY
CATALOGUE,
alto Supplementary Cata-
logue Of FREE- CTINC
EDITIONS.
SPECIAL AGENT for
Samuel Frenoh, London,
and Amerloan Publishers.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, 1/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3/6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
13&-AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
7 J
jp>
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing: Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
Thf Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post.freeiany.
where, with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2,6.
StamDS or Postal Notes of any State will do.
Above prices include postage to any address.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne -
The same blade
but a new edge every
morning
h
Don’t
confuse
the
Auto Strop
with any
other
Safety
Razor.
To strop the Auto Strop Safety Razor, insert the
strop through the razor itself-move the razor to and
fro—the blade reverses automatically at the end of each st ,
thus stropping itself—in an instant you have a keen edg .
Auio&trop
kAzoR
is far quicker, handier, and cheaper than a no-stropping razor
gives an easy and luxurious shave —obviates the continual expense
for new blades necessary with ordinary safety razors.
25/-
and no 1
further <
expense
The Standard Outfit consists of quadruple silver-plated, self-stropping razor
one dozen specially tested lancet-steel blades; one horsehide strop; the whole
one dozen in handsome leather case, size 2 in. by 3 J ui.
Sold by all high-claw dealer.. You .ee it everywhere.
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., LTD.,
The Rialto. Collins Street, Melbourne, and
222, Clarence Street, Sydney.
The Association of Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
When ordering from Agents please insist
upon every article of plate being stamped:
m
©©@@ll
tag
@)@©Sg
Mi
King’s, Queen’s, Piddle,
Rat-Tall, Old English. Albany,
Qadroonand Fancy Patterns.
Crests and
Monograms
Engraved,
to. per dozen.
1
We have the
finest
selection of
CANTEENS
in
LONDON,
prices from
£4 4s. Od.
£lOO.
Please write for
SPECIAL
ILLUSTRATED
BOOKLET.
W ft „ CAN buy FROM ENGLAND. Pay your Duty and purchase cheaper
better than you are now doing. Write lor our Illustrated Cata-
logue. 6,000 Illustrations Post Free to any part of the world.
6, Grand Hotel BuHdings, London, W.C.
Australian
Established 1849.
Mutual Provident Society.
For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONET TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pa ?*°^ a ‘ A JL r, Tpe^sm-y l "Bnis 8 *of the Aus-
of Government Debentures, /JjwesT CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST-
traIian States or New Zealand AT LOWES i . reDav in-
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during an> year wit Walker. Deputv-Chairman : Benjamin
Dirkctors— The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the •• • p.E. VVinchcombe, M.L.C.;
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C : The Hon. R. J. F.F.A., F.S.S.
Adrian Knox, Esq.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary . Richard e. A ppERLY, Secretary-
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ' '
POSTAL INSTRUCTION.
Are You Ambitious ?
ĥ
LET US PREPARE YOU BY POST
For any of the Following Positions.
Electrical Engineer
Mechanical Engineer
Sanitary Inspector
Architect
Mechanical Draughtsman
Surveyor
Mine Manager
Mine Engineer
Mine Electrician
Incorporated Accountant
Hospital Nurse
Shire or Municipal Clerk
Shire or Municipal Auditor
Public School Teacher
Commonwealth Official
State Official
Bank Official
Chemist
Engine Driver
Forest Guard
Station Bookkeeper
Let us know what subject you wish to learn, and
wo will give you Instruction by Correspondence.
SEND TO-DAY FOR DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET. “S.”
STOTT & HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE,
Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
STEVENS
FAVORITE RIFLE NO. 19
UNERRINGLY ACCURATE.
The Ideal Rifle for Miniature Rifle Clubs.
Same Specifications as Favorite No. 17, except fitted with Lyman Front,
Stevens Leaf and Lyman Rear Peep Sights.
Insist on
STEVENS
when ordering
from your Dealer.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues.
[6
KEEP YOUR HEALTH.
THIS MEDICINE LENGTHENS LIFE.
A WOMAN’S LIFE-STORY.
Women who suffer from the pangs of indigestion or dyspepsia should carefully readjEis
document, as it is true in every particular, and tells them how they can be also cured .
Clements Tonic, Ltd.
“ I think it my duty to inform you that tor seven
weeks in December, 1909, and a part of January, 1910, I
was so ill that 1 could not take anything hut biscuits and
milk-food, my appetite and digestion were so bad. I tried
several bottles of medicine from local chemists, and also
tried several standard remedies uselessly.
“ Mv husband, who is employed on one of the A.U.b.JN.
steamers, running to the South Sea Islands, was advised
bv one of the ship’s officers to induce me to try Clements
Tonic. Acting on the advice given, I did so, and lam glad
to say that I am so thoroughly cured that 1 can eat any-
thing and am in splendid health, lhe first bottle did me
o«ood but the second and third (I only had need to take
three) cave me such splendid health that all the neighbors
marvelled to see me walking about a healthy woman again.
I cannot praise it too highly ; in my opinion it is a wonder-
ful medicine. I did not think it was such a good tonic,
but I am satisfied by my health to-day it is worth its
weight in gold to women who suffer from indigestion and
nervous prostration as I did.
Witness :W. B»«, J.P., Balmain. (Signed) “ AGNES MORLOCK."
Mrs. Morlock lives a, No. Ann-Sttedj Balmain. &
this peat medicine. It is unequall d f h from deve lopinß into serious
U Sseases P Ad eheSts s£d stores sell Clements Tonic, send for it to-day.
A I


Wc Ask
“wnv
COUGH?”
ħ
h
ĥ
Q. What is good for my cough?
A. Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral.
Q. How long has it been used ?
A. Seventy years.
Q. Do doctors endorse it ?
A. If not,we would not make it.
Q. Do you publish the formula?
A. Yes. On every bottle.
Q. Any alcohol in it?
A. Not a single drop.
Q. How may I learn more of this?
A. Ask your doctor. He knows.
Ayer’s Cherry Pectoral
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U, S, A.
ħ
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every eyeln bought of us. Yonr
money in full refunded with> utqurstion
if L.ot perfectly Batisfactor,. Highebi grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten year', despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than loweso manufacturers' prices.
LATEST
MODE !.S
£3 aJO to £9
Coaster Hnbß, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Kim brakes, variable gears
and all lates improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
to anv port_in the worlij. We guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wauteu in eacn aiHtnct.
w .. . . __ Large profits easily made,
write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our * "ecuxl offer on sample machine. '
MEAD CYCLE CO ajf Dept. 280 Liverpool*
JAS. J. GILTINAN, A^ent,
157 Clarence Street. SYDNEY.
WINCHESTER
Always
Reliable !
As is the case with
all ‘ ELEY * Goods,
the accuracy of the
Eley *44 Winchester
Central Fire Car-
tridge is such as
should commend it
to the attention of
critical sportsmen.
* Eley Smokeless ’ — pop-
ular low-priced cartridge.
‘Eley 22 Rim Fire Car -
tridge’ - black and smoke-
less powder.
All Eley Cartridges
are made in London
Of Gunmakers
and Dealers
See the
name
‘Eley •
on all
car-
tridges
y+-
sr
Eley
Bros.,
Ltd.,
London
h
Po/ncj
fnventorj
LETTER. Reliable informa-
tion and advice on all matters con-
cerning- the obtaining of Patents,
and the best means of keeping the
titles thereof inviolate during the term of arrant.
If you have an invention arid wish to patent it, forward
an accurate description of it, and you will receive an
answer by return of post as to whether it is patentable,
and what will be the cost of completely protecting' it (in-
cluding drawings, etc.). No charge made for such report,
and all communications treated strictly confidentially.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
a
BE SURE YOU GET
BONNINGTON'S
IRISH MOSS.
Most chemists and retailers will give you
Bonnington’s Irish Moss directly you ask for it.
Here and there, however, you will find one who
does not maintain the dignity of the profession,
and who will try to sell you a substitute, on
which he makes a larger profit. You know the
insidious argument, “Yes, I stock
mixture ? It is ‘just as good.’”
Bonnington’s; but have you tried my own
Allow no one to deceive you.
Irish Moss.
There is no remedy so good as Bonnington’s
FOR THE CHEST, THROAT AND LUNGS.
Try it the next time you have a cola, ana you will be satlsfiea.
HEALTHFUL.
ECONOMICAL.
CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
OUR. JACK” Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS" Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOR IS
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Pitt St„ Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide ; Elizabeth St.. Melbourne.
<3*
'Z
7
ra
THE OLD
LINES
.
and
HOLLOW
PLACES
are
GONE FOR EVER
where formerly the mirror
reflected only hollow
cheeks and a scrawny, bony chest in evening
dress, after a course of
DR. FALLIERE’S
“ FLESH-FOOD”
It reflects a face and figure resplendent in
the acme of perfect development.
Flesh-Food . adds inches to the measure-
ments, and will increase your weight bv five
pounds a week. It is pleasant and harmless
to take, and will prove a wonderful benefit
to your health. Send 2d. stamp or call for
Free Trial Sample and Free Descriptive
Book. Send to-day. Hours, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
FALLIERE ‘•FLESH-FOOD” CO.
DEPT. 5i
Linden Court,
Castlereaoh St..
SYDNEY.
/V GLASS Q?
[HoruCK’Si
Halted mil*
IS AN
IDEAL FOOD BEVERAGE
both
Nourishing & Invigorating.
IjJ f? o .* Climates it makes a most
delicious drink for use in Soda
Fountains.
Horlick’s is on draught at
most Chemists in Australia, &c.
On sale by Chemists and Whole-
sale and Retail Stores, &c. Sam-
ples: 82- Pitt St.,Sydney, N.S.W.
HORLICK’S
MALTED MILK CO.
Slough, Eng. >
'ft.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new—is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease lrom the first day’s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pada or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
CTHEAP EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
J Price 2/6. Postage, N.S.W., 7d.; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
GOLCRYST
for all
BLOOD DISORDERS
RHEUMATISM
IS SOID EVERYWHERE, IN
3 ? 6"a I'Pkts
Agents in N.S.W.-ELLIOTT BROS., Ltd., Sydney.
Proprietors-ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO., Melbourne.
S. SMITH 8t SON’S
S' 30 35
25 40 '
S.SMITH&.SON
S. STRAND 45
IS CTOTOar
P# 7 ENT
From 5 Guineas.
Perfect
SPEED
INDICATORS
are fitted to
Over 20,000 Cars
AND HAVE COVERED
200,000,000 Miles.
IN USE ALL OVER THE WORLD.
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF
SPEED INDICATORS, MOTOR WATCHES, MILOMETERS
PETROL-METERS and MOTOR ACCESSORIES.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue. Special Terms to Shippers.
9 Strand, London.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Posilippo.
From Mosman’s sandstone look I down
On starlit shores of old Cremorne,
To shining lights of Sydney town,
West to the place where I was born.
Upon the wondrous haven’s tide,
Lights of the ships of all the seas,
Glimmer and wink in ripples wide,
Doubling a hundred argosies.
The wind-blown, sea-pressed sandstone heights,
High held from all the market noise ;
The infinitely-many lights ;
The sense of peace and equipoise.
Posilippo ! A rest from grief !
1 or trade and commerce pass us by ;
Only the tapping of the leaf
To tell us that a breeze is nigh.
Rest! Where the sandstone cliff invites
To lazy dreams by seas empearled ;
Rest ! in the glamor of the nights
And swift forgetting of the world.
But yonder city sweats and roars 1
I hear the calling of the sea !
I must sail out to stranger shores
To grip the prize that waits for me.
N.S.W.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.
At Dusk.
At dusk the sullen sunset faded out
The while a homeless wind sang its desire,
And left across the dim path of the west
A trace of sunset fire.
The racing breakers tumbled on the beach,
With hollow boornings filling all the night.
They flashed and disappeared and flashed again
In gleams of ghostly white.
Beneath the low’ring canopy of cloud,
The air was fresh with sudden summer rain ;
Then peeped beyond the flying Wind-torn veil
Faint glowing stars again.
A round, red moon sprang up beyond the great
Wet turmoil of the waters tossing cold.
And smote across the wide fields of the sea
A path of broken gold.
The winds sank low, the noisy tumult died,
To sleepy sighs and murmurs hoarse and deep ;
By rocky coast and shallow beach all earth
Sank softly into sleep.
There showed a wonderous mist of tangled cloud,
O’er which the moon stepped with its silver feet,
And there was peace on all the liquid ways
Where the great waters meet.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN WALKER.
Saturday Girls.
Under the flaring arc they go,
A Pageant of changing Girl.
Flirt of petticoat, flutter of lace,
Vision of ankle and smile-set face ;
Jostling, dallying, pushing for place—
Saturday's Pageant of Girl.
Where are the girls of yesteryear
Who used to smile on me?
The laughing lure of Lalage,
And Qhloe’s mockery.
The folly and the careless vow,
The thoughtless yea and nay,
The week-end revel after toil.
The Girls of Saturday.
For some are dead, and some are wed,
And some have flown afar.
And some who live have lived to wish
They, too, had crossed the bar.
Where are the maids of many moods
Who passed with laughing eye,
In twos and threes, with ready tongue,
Who cared not Whence or Why ?
They’re gone—and forth their daughters fare
To* walk their mothers’ way.
The years may die, but ever live
The Girls of Saturday.
And some have strayed and some, betrayed,
Have fled to save their name.
And some have stayed and stayed to stray
Along the Road of Shame.
And so they do their dreary round,
And seek their poor romance
Among the crowds where play about
The little gods of Chance,
Who laugh and sort the couples out
And send them on their way ;
Mary and Maud and Kate and Flo—
The Girls of Saturday.
And some are glad, and some are sad,
Who think of Saturday.
And some with tears and some with years
Have found the Better Way.
Under the flaring arc they go,
A Pageant of changing Girl.
Flirt of petticoat, flutter of lace,
Vision of ankle and smile-set face ;
Jostling, dallying, pushing for place—
Saturday's Pageant of Girl.
VICTORIA.
GORDON MASSEY.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. * 6ft. 7in.
< -i * * * ‘
v v \ *.' v n *{
■.)..*.*» 4 * VSJ
: |f'lin l rtl'' tl i ,^; "^^ l^ l f^
\\W\v\ •* \»\\ rtVvWi \V&iNt\2
**S3Ste
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get oat of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
SYDNEY. ——
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
ĥ
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It has a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
larpe bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Kotary Celeste Stop.
Price £1
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Eeeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
15-fold Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. od.;
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/-
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau*
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful coun y,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtaine on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
T C. TROEDSON,
Corner of Queen and * 1
„ . , General Director.
George Streets, Brisbane.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.-Local Director; A. MESTON.
mm
nit
IS
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
WAVERLEY FOUNTAIN PENS
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
:: FREE
DIFFER FROM ALL OTHERS BY REASON OF
THE ELASTICITY AND PERFECTION OF THE
GOLD WAVERLEY NIB. IT DOES NOT TIRE THE
HAND AS DO THE STUBBORN LIFELESS NIBS
IN ORDINARY FOUNTAIN PENS. THE FLOW OF
INK IS FAULTLESS. »
; SOLD BY ;
STATIONERS
AND
: DEALERS :
Wholesale Agent: ROBERT HUTTON, 321 Flinders Lane, Melbourne
MEDLOW BATH, Blue Mountain, N.S.W.
MAJESTIC HOTEL.
COMPLETE arrangements have been made by the new proprietor (Mr. W. H. Burgess), late of the Grand
Hotel, Melbourne, for the comfort of visitors during the forthcoming season. . .
Medlow Bath is an ideal resort. The crisp mountain air is a delight, and the mountains, in their
Spring garb, appeal to lovers of the picturesque. Arrangements can be made at the Hotel for motors,
carriages and riding tours. ~ .
Motor parties can be arranged any time to start from the City Office-or your own residence-direct
to the Majestic Hotel. . ,
To pedestrians Medlow offers ever-varying attractions. The views in the mountains are superb, and
hours can be spent in walks through the Hotel grounds. ■
Hot-air pipes are laid in many rooms. Daily Motor trips are made from the Hotel to Jenolan Caves.
Further particulars can be obtained from the Hotel, or from the Sydney Offices, 42 Castlereagh Street.
w. H. BURGESS, Proprietor.
Stewart DawsoiuCo.
Australia Ltd.
Strand Corner,
412 George St.. Sydney.
THE SUPERIORITY OF THE WATCHES manu-
factured by Stewart Dawson & Co. is due to
the fact that every modern appliance is used
in their production. The highest possible skill for
perfection of workmanship, using only the best
material and the best mechanism that knowledge
and capital can command in their construction.
EVERYTHING THE BEST, AND NOTHING
BUT THE BEST, IS THE MOTTO OF THE FI.<M.
For illustrations and details of our Watches
see Catalogue. It’s free on application.
Both the QUALITY and VALUE of
Stewart Dawson’s Watches
are famed throughout the
COMMONWEALTH.
w
Our Exoelslor Keyless English Lever is un-
surpassed by any Watch. It is a Model
Watch, compact, convenient, reliable and
efficient. The movement is a fine quality
••plate, full jewelled iii Rubies, and lireqUet
Hair Spring tocounteraor i be effect of violent
exercise, also a cap to protect it iroin d.iot.
Price, £4/4/-
“THE QUEEN LEVER.”
This is a high-grade Lady's Silver
Lever Watch. It is not an ex-
pensive Watch, hut it's one that
we can recommend to you as a
first-class timekeeper. It’s a Key-
less, Jewelled, {-Plate Lever, with
nicely engraved Sterling Silver
Casus. Hunting Cases, £2/10/-
Opeu Face, £2/5/-
The Watch as shown here is a f -Plate Keyless
English Lever. It has 7 Ruby Jewels, with
a hue quality adjusted Gold Screwed Com-
pensating Balance. It is fitted with a Special
Hair Spring, the essential advantage of which
is that the coils will not become displaced
rior catch in the regulator pins should the
watch receive a jar. Sterling Silver Cases,
and made extra strong. Special Price, £2/10/-
“THE PRINCESS.”
This shows a really dainty little
Watch, popularly known as “The
Princess.” Although we sell many
of these every year, we seldom
have a complaint reach us, and this
should be a good guarantee that it
is a reliable article. Made in 18ct.
Gold Engraved and Plain Cases.
The mo\ entent. is Keyless and
properl v jewelled, limiting Cases,
£5/10/- ; Open Face, £4/10/-
TERMS OF SALE.—A Written Guarantee with Every Watch. Every Wfctch sold in pe feet confidence, sl aiVudcrs!^ 1
will be exchanged if desired, or full price relumed if the least dissatisfaction. Postage cf a« M a " «“•
“THE BUSHMAN’S LEVER."
This is a Watch we can recommend for
country wear. We are sure it will (rive y#u
every sat isfaction. It iR a Keyless Koti-
M urnetie l.ever, Jewelled Movement, with
dust- and damp-proof Oxydised Steel
Cases. £1 Is.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 31.—N0. 1604.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1910.
Puicii 6d.
A NEW NATION.
AUSTRALIA : “ Congratulations ! And be thankful you have not been hobbled from the start as I have been,"


J XMAS EDITION of
The Bulletin, 1910.
A Special and Enlarged Issue
Published on DECEMBER 15.
It will contain the best Stories, Verfse and
Sketches, grave and gay (mostly gay), contributed
during the year by the foremost Australasian
writers.
The illustrations by “ Hop,” Alf Vincent, Norman
Lindsay and other leading representative artists,
will be the finest Black and White work obtainable
in Australia, and will reflect the national humor.
The Bulletin Xmas Number is the annual re-
flection of the life and thoughts of our country,
and therefore useful as well as interesting.
Agents will be supplied at the
usual rates, but, in consequence of
the heavy outlay on this Special
Edition, NO RETURNS will be allowed
for. ———
ORDERS FOR EXTRA COPIES should
reach us not later than the 19th
NOVEMBER to ensure supply.
Single copies post free to any part of J;he
Commonwealth States and Maoriland, id. ;
_ Foreign addresses, 9d. /
The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper,
“ Australia for the White Man.’
Printed and Published by William Macliood. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mositiui, for
The Bulletin Newspaper 00., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North.
Sydney. N.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SURSCRIRERS.
(In Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 &
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tun Bulletin Office- Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling yon can have Tint Bui.i.ktin posted
regularly to you every week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and all Business Communications
tube addressed to William Maci.koi), Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tint Bulletin would oblige the paver
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscript ions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bulletin, ” is the proper
superscription for “ copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. 'The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
'The Editor ivill carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submit f ed, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, $OOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Ncwspa.per Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tim Bulletin wif£ return all unsuitable MS. when the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tim Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS, to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be Pfffa
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
The Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at 4/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. — Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver , 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, 44 1 Hastings Street; Forman,
Cavle and Co., Stationers.
U. S. A.— lsseriisA., Seattle, Washington; International
News Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt.— The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. Brewer and Co., Ped-der-st., Dong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tim Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6fin. x lUin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can oe
supplied if desired
fiuT&i'xlMm,.
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1910.
THE BEGINNING OF THE NEW ERA.
The Northern Territory Acceptance Bill has at
last clambered through the Australian Parlia-
ment, so there is hope that this country will now
start doing the Larger Things. To this day some
three-fifths or more of inland Australia is unap-
proachable by railway, is beyond all reasonable
possibility of defence, and isn’t even effectively
occupied within the meaning of the Act. Until
a few years ago that mattered very little. There
was no probable enemy in view till a few years
ugo; and the Pacific Ocean was a mere
backwash, surrounded in great part by
dreaming comic-opera nations with absurd
hats and flagrant paper umbrellas; Australia
had no army or navy, and no visible need of
either; Britain was the unquestioned mistress of
the seas, and in a general way things didn’t
signify. In those days the time to look earnestly
after the neglected and empty and undefended
sections of Australia was next century, or in the
Greek Kalends, or when the cows came home, or
almost any other old date. Unfortunately,
the world has become more strenuous, and
the old, easy-going life is not likely to recur
any time during the next ten centuries. lhe
Federal decision to take over the Territory is one
evidence that Australia begins to realise this fact.
Unfortunately, eight precious years were wasted
before the transfer was seriously attempted, and
one more year has been fooled away by reason of
the insane clamor of certain folk in the eastern
States to have the transcontinental railway
brought at any cost to their own backyards, wi th
a station just at the family ash-barrel and a sid-
ing exactly alongside the cat and the coal-scuttle.
Now it is up to Australia to make the best of
what time remains to it, be the same long or short.
* ■*
To begin with, it is essential to realise that the
first transcontinental railway is not to be a squat-
ters’ line; that its main business is not the “ link-
ing up” of a number of non-paying sheep rail-
ways which end nowhere, so that it may be made
easy for any large, hot pastoralist to move his
jumbucks about in drought time ; and that, even
if south-western Queensland were the garden it
certainly isn’t, the,opening up of south-western
Queensland has nothing to do with the case. 1 he
first transcontinental line should be largely
strategic. It is wanted (1) to carry settlers to the
Northern Territory so that there may be a
strong white population to defend the place;
(2) to open up the Territory so as to enable
it to support a strong white population ; (3)
to provide for the defence of the Territory
by making it possible to send troops there in a
hurry in case of invasion. The Territory can’t be
developed by the building of a railway in Queens-
land any more than Canada can be opened up by
the construction of a tramline in Greece. More-
over, Queensland has its own State Government
to build its railways, while the Territory hasn’t.
And, as a further argument, the Australian
Government is in desperate need of revenue, and
it can get revenue by making available its own
land in the Territory, while a deviated railway
through Queensland and N.S.W. would only
make money for the State Treasuries at Brisbane
and Sydney. As for the question of defence, any
person save a fool or a knave must admit
that the first essential is to connect the Ter-
ritory with the nearest large city, and the
one which is most likely to have troops to
spare when the North requires them. Adelaide
is by a good many miles the’nearest big city to
Port Darwin by land, and Melbourne is not much
farther off. They are also the most remote of the
State capitals from Port Darwin by sea ; in other
words, when the North is attacked by sea, they
can spare troops from the local defences without
immediate danger to themselves, whereas all the
towns north of them will be busy looking to their
own security. To put it in another way, when
troubles are many and soldiers are altogether too
few, the garrisons of Port Darwin and Adelaide
will be practically the same body of men moving
on the shortest possible line of internal communi-
cation.
* * * *
Under the agreement which the Australian
Parliament has just ratified, the straight line
from north to south is, as a matter of obvious fact,
compulsory. Even a bushel of very inferior legal
opinions can’t alter that fact. Yet it is certain
that strenuous efforts will be made even now to
break faith and the law and the agreement; and
to drag the Port Darwin line round in a large,
foolish semi-circle through the eastern States. A
great deal of this effort arises from a curiously
deranged idea that there will only be one railway
from north to south, just as there is only one
Devil and one Day of judgment—that there can
never, under any circumstances, be another ; and
that the State which fails to get there now will
be for ever left. The people who reason in that
fashion have the same inability to realise the
possible future of Australia as had the old-time
potentate who altered Little Oollins-street and
Little Bourke-street, in Melbourne, from wide
thoroughfares to mere lanes, on the ground that
they would never be required for any more
crowded purpose than the admission of the
settler’s cow to his back gate. In the compara-
tively near future Australia will probably require
(1) a" great extension northward of the present
Melbourne-Rockhampton coastal railway; (2) a
line further west through western N.S.W. and
Queensland to some port on the Gulf ; (3) the
great midland line from Adelaide to Port
Darwin, a large part of which is already built;
(4) a north and south railway in some part of
Westralia; (5) a transcontinental railway con-
necting Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide with
Perth (most of this is already built); and (6) an-
other cross-country line from Townsville or there-
abouts to Kimberley or some other convenient
part of Westralia. All these should be cheap and
easy lines to construct, for they would lie mostly
in flat country ; there should be practically nothing
to pay for land resumptions, and the community
should get all the increased land values which
they would create. Hitherto Australia, under
a purely parish pump policy, has been so
busy building up six disconnected State
railway systems, and so much occupied with
its struggles to keep them as disconnected as
possible, that propositions like this seem strange
to its habit of mind. It has been impossible to
avoid having one railway connection between
Queensland and N.S.W., N.S.W. and Victoria,
and Victoria and S.A., in order that people may
get to the Melbourne Cup ; but anything beyond
that has generally been held accursed. Yet when
once the Commonwealth getsintoits strideasa rail-
way-builder on national principles, the idea of six
transcontinental railways will presently begin to
appear simple and obvious. Of course, the
beginning of Federal railway building will also
be the beginning of the end of railway manage-
ment by six separate States ; but that can t be
helped. Nor is it very easy to see why anybody
should desire to help it.
* * * *
Meanwhile, the first transcontinental line (that
to Port Darwin) and the second (the one to
Kalgoorlie and Perth) are calling for immediate
attention, and whatever may happen to the
parish spirit in the future, it is very much alive
in the immediate present. The struggle to sacri-
fice defence to sheep is evidently not ended yet.
Queensland is obsessed with the idea that it has
no future at all, that its railways will never go
any further out, and that if the transcontinental
line—the only one there will ever be, Australia,
according to the parish Jeremiahs, having no
future either —doesn’t come round in a great scram-
bling circle to connect the local railways where
they stand now, the whole State may as well go
down to the mud flats of Pinkenba, and there
solemnly cut its throat in the presence of a J-P-
-and two Commissioners of Affidavits. In the
struggle to bring the-only-railway-that-there-will-
ever-be around so that it will be agreeable to
everybody there will be a powerful effort to put
into it about enough metal for two railways. And
possibly by the time Queensland definitely fails
to drag the Adelaide-Port Darwin into its own
western country history will have already moved
on past the date when that State, under better
auspices, might, in the natural order of things,
have had its own western railway —the thud
transcontinental—well under way. In this con-
nection there is an ancient text which it is well
for the present Labor Government to remember :
“ What shall it profit a man if he shall gain the
whole world and lose his own soul ? ” The political
version of that is naturally: “What shall it
profit a man if he gets all the democratic
legislation that is going, and then lu® 6 ®, ' IIS
country and himself and everything else? ” Even
the best Arbitration Act ever devised is of no
value to a person when the Japanese have buried
him. Up to now the strategic element has never
been considered in Australian railway-building.
It has never been assumed that we would ever
want to send soldiers anywhere, or that we would
ever have any real soldiers to send anywhere.
The adoption of compulsory military training is
an acknowledgment that times have changed,
and it is essential to keep on remembering
how much they have changed. Nowadays
national safety must be considered as well
as sheep, and however handy the eastern
deviation would be as a means for shifting the
jumbuck of Middle Queensland to fresh grass, the
jumbuck is no longer the beginning and end of
all things.
ONE THING AND ANOTHER.
“ Henry Horsecollar writes about war
In a casual sort of fashion I noted the other day that the
Permanent Artillery force in N.S.VV. was ‘2O men short of
its proper complement, while that of Victoria was 1 5
short. It was mentioned that the latter State had re-
cently engaged two recruits to help fill the gap, hut as
one of them failed to turn up and hadn’t been seen since,
it really only secured one recruit, and one recruit isn’t
very much in a whole army. He hardly suggests the
gigantic operations of Alexander the Great, or Darius
the son of Gushtasp, nor even the doings of those raving
Spanish madmen who used to go forth from 12 to
100 strong to attack an empire, and who thought it
a fair thing if there were 25 of them and a dog against
20,000 Indians. They made a few recruits go a long way,
did the old Cortez and Pizarro push, but even they
didn’t enthuse much over a reinforcement of one indivi-
dual. It was further stated that the Victorian Per-
manent Force put up a stupendous effort some time ago
and gathered in 20 recruits, but as 12 of them promptly
resigned the army wasn’t much “forrarder.” The daily
paper which mentioned these facts said nothing about
the luck of N.S. W. in the recruiting line ; but unless it
had enlisted a cat it could hardly have done worse
than its neighbor. There was a further allusion to
the fact that there are now in the Common-
wealth 10,255 senior cadets or eldest armed infants, 334
mounted defensible infants with weapons, and 24,216
junior military infants. In Westralia, it seems, there
are seven schools furnished with racks for holding the
cadets’ toy rifles. A pair of small vessels are on their
way out here to serve as the nucleus of the Australian
fleet, and some more small craft are arriving in cases and
will he put together locally. It is announced that if they
are not put together in N.S.W. another wrong will have
been committed upon that State. The training of a
citizen soldiery is to commence next year or therea-
bouts, and it is believed that very soon some 80,060
men will have learned the rudiments or goose-sttp of
their business. More will follow till, in the slow pro-
cession of years, there will be some hundreds of thou-
sands of men who have put in a certain number of
days training, and acquired a certain amount, quantity
or heap of goose-step. And one little rifle factory is
starting, or nearly starting, or going to start. In addi-
tion to all this, tlie row about the naval base is still in
full blast. It is all very thrilling, and I feel with pride
that my native land is doing something at last. And
yet
* * * *
Then I picked up again the story of the last great war,
which was also the first great war fought at our doors.
It was the more interesting because the winner, even
though he oidy won by the skin of his teeth, was
that same brownish race which, openly and un-
disguisedly, looks upon Australia, Java, the Philip-
pines and the East Indies generally as its natu-
ral heritage, the hegemony of the Pacific as its
natural right, and the leadership of Asia as its natural
destiny. It was a strange sort of war, in which the
bumptious invader had to bring all his forces along by
sea even as he would have to do if the theatre of strife
was North Queensland or the Territory, and the bulk of
the defending army had to be conveyed to the scene by
land over a distance twice or three times that which
intervenes between Melbourne and Cooktown. There
was a scrambling series of naval encounters in which the
white man —ten times better prepared than Australia,
vet ten times too ill-prepared—saw his ironclads dissolve
like salt. He left behind him only a memory of useless
blundering and wonderful heroism, and the inspiring
final command of a doomed Admiral: “ Be brave, men ;
it is our last battle.” But it was the story of the land
fighting which especially interested me, when I recalled
the amazing luck of the Victorian Artillery in capturing
that fresh recruit, and when I looked back on the stun-
ning fact that there were in Westralia —a State contain-
ing- 900,000 square miles of country —seven schools with
racks to contain the cadets’ rifles. The fact that the
Japanese threw away the lives of 20,000 soldiers in one
single act while trying to storm Port Arthur was
a mere episode in the struggle. The battle of
Ch’iu-lien-oheng, though it lasted for some days
and spread over an area about as large as from
Sydney to Penrith, was also little more than an episode.
After that there were casual encounters about half the
size of the battle of Waterloo, followed by' the struggle at
Liao-yang, where for a week or more the biggest force
that had assembled in one place for 1400 years fought
with a wild disregard for consequences that has seldom
been equalled. If the whole male population of the two
Boer States, and every Imperial soldier that went
to South Africa during the Boer war had met on
one battlefield, and fought there for almost as long
a time as was occupied by all their battles put
together, it would have been the duplicate of Liao-
yang. In that one unpleasantness it is alleged that
more ammunition was expended than during the
whole Franco-German war, and it is also alleged that in
one single day, when the argument was at its height,
more ammunition was used than in the whole of the
Russo-Turkish war—all the battles, and the two great
sieges of Plevna and Kars thrown in. Sha-ho, where the
Russians were the assailants, was a comparatively moder-
ate disagreement lasting about nine days. Mukden was
a 14 days’ battle fought to the bitter end by the best part
of a million men, over a shifting line about as long as
from Sydney to Picton, and whether the losses were
50,000 or 100,000 or more on each side no man really
knows to this day. Reading these things over again, I
felt glad—darned glad—that the Victorian Artillery is
endeavoring to keep up its normal strength, whatever
that may be.
Nowadays it seems that the white nation which hap-
pens to live alongside the ambitious brown community of
Japan has to do things on a big scale, and requires to
keep its head. In all these stupendous proceedings—
proceedings which made Wellington and Blucher look
like ants, and the old one-day or half-day style of battle
appear like an infant skirmish in knickerbockers—a really
wonderful feature was the manner in which the defeated
army refused to be flurried. The old tradition, accord-
ing to which the losers naturally break their ranks, and
run for their lives, and scatter all over the landscape,
seems to have died out. Armies which do that sort of
thing are of little use as affairs go in this long-range,
high-explosive Twentieth Century. It is mentioned
casually that a Russian regiment at Mukden lost 1800
men out of 2400, and all its officers save two, yet it only
retreated on receiving the order to do so, and then it
stepped out tidily and without serious loss of discipline.
There were villages where the dead of the two armies lay
in heaps, their hands on each other’s throats, and their
bayonets in each other’s breasts —it was where the
Scrum of the Gods had been a little more intense than
usual for it was there that the Muscovites bad tried to
block Nooi’s great flank movement —and, even in places
like this, discipline didn’t get utterly lost. Out ot the
ruin—out of the smoke and flame of 25 burning
towns—the defeated army extricated itself some-
how, and was still an army. It is admitted
on all sides that superior generalship, arms and discip-
line carried the Japanese through. Yet the Russian
shooting was so good that there was at least one story ot
a Japanese regiment which lost all its officers save a. coi-
poral ; and the generalship which always rescued the
defeated force out of the trap wasn't the feeble kind
which led to the surrenders of Mets and Sedan m left)!
and the discipline w hich enabled a beaten host to retreat
in good order after upheavals like Liao-yang and Sha-no
w’as not to be regarded with utter contempt.
•: * * *
Apparently, war is going to be a high-pressure business
around the Pacific—nothing at all like the sort of small,
splashy conflict that Fitchktt used to describe, -these
two combatants put little nations in the field. *et as
already mentioned, one w'as fighting a few hundred mile-
from his main resources, and the other a few thousand
miles. Presumably, if the war had been outside Tokio
or outside Moscow’, where one party at least could bring
its available forces to bear in earnest, these angry folk
would have really wakened up and done things. ine
prospect looks so serious that I am really darned glad
I can’t help mentioning it again—that the Victorian
artillery got the recruit it was looking for, and I sin-
cerely hope the N.S.W. force did the same. The white
man has got to be wide-awake these days, if his flag and
his empire, and his glory and his religion, and his w "?J e
civilisation are not to go down in the dust. And, while
on this subject, I notice with pleasure that Britain
is also waking to a sense of its military responsi-
bilities. Recently it was decided to test the value
of the Boy Scout as a messenger in war time, so relays
of him, in uniform, ran a long distance across country
carrying an important despatch. Other Boy Scouts,
representing the enemy, lay for the messengers. When a
Scout, suspected of having the document about him, was
captured, the enemy wasn’t allowed to shoot or imprison
him, and itw'as only allow ed a certain number of minutes
in which to search him. The despatch got to its destina-
tion hidden in a red herring, and it is now felt that there
are no flies—or at least no vultures—on the Boy Scout,
regarded as an appreciable force in war time. Yet if a
Russian in uniform had tried to run at full speed with a
red herring in his pocket over the disturbed area in Man-
churia, he might have made very little difference in the
result. Things were done on a large scale there, and a
Boy Scout and a red herring seem very small. On the
other hand, if Goliath had been sent with a whale under
his arm and the Mitchell Library concealed inside the
w hale—well, he might have been more m keeping with
the circumstances, but he would have been much too
conspicuous.
SOME N.S.W. LAW ABUSES WHICH NO
ROYAL COMMISSION IS GOING
TO SCOTCH.
W. A. Holman, N.S.W.’s new Attorney-General,
remarked, last week, that “tl#poorer sections of
the community have, at the present time, very
great difficulty in either learning their rights
under the civil law or of enforcing them ” ; also,
he said, “ the vast number of cases never go into
court because the parties prefer to suffer in silence
rather than incur the expenses of a trial.”
Holman’s idea of coping with the trouble
is to appoint the usual Royal Commission.
Ninety per cent, of Royal Commissions are notori-
ously time- and money-wasting superfluities ; and
a body of the sort that sat down to worry out
measures to make law more accessible in N.S.W.
would be wasting its time in a particularly futile
fashion. The Law’s delays and expensiveness m
the Ma State are due, not to the processes that
obtain, but rather to the archaic ways to which
the Courts cling, and to the outrageous license
that is permitted to counsel. In certain aspects
the Law’s habits constitute a standing joke for
those members of the public who happen, for the
moment, to be unaffected by them. In almost any
given breach-of-promise, divorce, libel, slander or
other civil suit, it is easy for the man on the tram
to make a fairly accurate estimate of the mone-
tary resources of the parties concerned by noting
the number of hours, days or weeks that their
court trouble lasts. In spinning out these suits
to the limit of the litigants’ financial tether, coun-
sel enjoy the hearty co-operation of the attorneys
who instruct them, of the gentlemen who appear
for the other side, and even, in a sense, of the
Judge. As long as the ready cash is forthcoming
for Costs, out-of-pocket expenses, refreshers
and so forth, the legal warriors may be con-
fidently relied on to continue producing more or
less immaterial witnesses, examining, cross-
examining and re-examining them, chaffing them,
“objecting” affably, or with an impressive show
of passion, to utterly irrelevant or unimportant
questions, and in general playing the legal game
for all it is worth to their bank accounts. Nor do
the bulk of the Judges ever make more than a
half-hearted attempt to check the scandalous
business. This the populace observes, and it is
shy of the law in consequence.
The cumbrous and absurd rules of evidence
likewise do a vast deal in the way of scaring
people off the pursuit of legal redress. In
1901 the Commercial Causes Act was put on the
N.S.W. Statute Book with the object of miti-
gating this evil. It empowers a Judge to confer
with the parties if they so desire—or with the
latter’s legal representatives —in certain classes
of cases, for the purpose of getting as quickly as
possibly at the pith of the matter. To this end the
Judge may call on each side to make formal ad-
mission of such facts as are not in dispute. Thus,
assuming the case was one in which a claim was
made in connection with cargo alleged to have
been damaged at sea, counsel would, under the
old system, have had to formally “prove” the
bill of lading, the shipment of the goods, the
signatures of the parties, possibly even the
signatures of persons resident abroad, and
a host of other matters that no one
dreamed of questioning. The Commercial Causes
Act enables the Judge to sweep away the whole
of this absurd top-hamper and get down, either
alone or with a jury, to a consideration of the one
basic point at issue. In England a similar Act
has been made frequent use of during the past
dozen years by such great commercial Judges as
Walton, Matthew and Collins, to the infinite
cheapening of litigation. But in N. S.
litigants rarely avail thmselves of the Act. In
the past decade there have been no more than two
or three cases under it. A likely reason is that
the vast majority of business men are ignorant of
its existence, and attorneys are, for obvious
reasons, none too anxious to enlighten them. As
a leading solicitor put it to the writer : “ Legis-
lation on those lines is right enough for litigants;
but where do we come in ? ”
* * * *
Before it becomes safe for men of moderate
means to appeal to the Civil Law of N.S.W., the
Judges will have to deal in a square-jawed manner
with nrocrastinating counsel. The habit of hold-
ing up cases by the introduction of jokes, anec-
dotes, chaff, electioneering and parliamentary
gags, and personal reminiscences should have
been jumped on long ago. The outrageous
old convention that barristers who take a
brief must be paid, even if they omit to turn up
in court, should be passed the death-stroke.
Indeed, if the equities were considered, there


would he some legal redress provided against
barristers who put their clients in a hole by
engaging infereutially to be on hand when re-
quired, and then staying away because something
better offers. Counsel’s custom of interminably
arguing questions of evidence—a practice whereby
causes are immeasurably spun out, with profit to
none but the arguers—clamors for the axe.
The Judges alone can scotch this evil. Nine-
tenths of the evidence whose admissibility is so
strenuously advocated or opposed by counsel,
doesn’t matter a straw one way or the other, and
everyone in court, with the possible exception of
the victim who is paying through the nose for the
farcical uproar, knows it. In palpable cases of
this sort the Judge should step in, stifle the back-
talk of the legal persons, and either allow' or dis-
allow the futile testimony out of hand. Leading
questions ought to be more generally permitted
in the examination-in-chief of witnesses. Many
thousands of hours —at a good round sum in
guineas per hour—are lost each year, owing to
counsels’ intensely gradual steering of dunder-
headed witnesses up to points w'here business
really begins, by a system of interrogation which
is as unnecessary as it is elaborate and puzzling.
There are two big legal reforms which N.S.W.
needs so badly that no Royal Commission is re-
quired to report on them. One is the institution
of a Court of Criminal Appeal; the other the
granting to dissatisfied litigants of the right to go
direct to the High Court, without the expensive
gamble of a previous struggle before N.S.W.’s
Full Court. For the rest, the terrifying expense
and so forth that disfigure the Courts is less a
question of measures or processes than of methods
and men. Strong Judges are needed more than
new enactments; and counsel with an ambition
to do the work they are lavishly paid for, on other
than what anti-Laborites know as “ the Govern-
ment stroke” principle.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
The Isle of Jim-Jams.
Nkws of a case of proposed child-abandonment
comes from Tasmania. The author of it is Ewing,
M. H. A., one time a Tory Senator. Ewing has an
idea that Unification is coming, so he proposes that
Tasmania, with a population of less than 200,000,
should borrow another £1,500,000 in one big act
(which would be the same as if N.S.W. suddenly
borrowed about £12,000,000), and spend the money
on roads and bridges, and then, in his own words,
“we can hand the baby to the Unificationists.”
If the Commonwealth happens to be taking
over the State debts just about the time the
baby is ready, it will be all right; .if it isn’t
doing anything of the sort, Ewing’s idea,
possibly, is that his little State should serve
notice on the Commonwealth that it isn’t going
to meet its interest bill any longer, and ask the
Commonwealth in a cold, hard tone of voice what
it proposes doing about the matter. The theory
is startling, yet it has many good points
about it. It is fitting that it should be
a Tory who proposed such a thing, and the
fact ought to be remembered. If there is to be
any repudiation in Australasia it would be espe-
cially advisable that the most Tory of all the States
should do the deed. And so long as it was a Tory
State and a Tory Government that carried the dis-
grace of it, there wouldn’t be unmixed regret at
the deed being done. It would make the trans-
fer of the State debts to the Commonwealth
an immediate necessity. It would force the
Commonwealth to take control of future borrow-
ings lest some Tory should break out again in the
same place. And it would give the Unifica-
tion and Reconstruction movement a great
impetus. So far, Premier Lewis hasn’t
decided to rush things to the extent that
Ewing suggests, but he does propose to borrow
and spend £440,000 this year, which would be
about equal to £4,000,000 in N.S.W. For some years
prior to 1907 the Apple Isle spent on an average
£150,000 of Cohen’s money. Then thefigureleaped
to £350,000 ; and now it goes up £90,000 more.
Tassy’s borrowing policy, too, is a weirdly futile
business. No other State has so little in the way
of reproductive works to show for its loans, or
has used so much of its borrowed money for small
casual jobs and repairs—for the soling and heeling
of the public pants and the putting of a new
roof on the national boots. These are some recent
figures:—
Unproductive Unproductive
Debt. Debt per Head.
N. S. Wales .. ..£7,894,899 .. £4 19 0
Victoria .. .. 8,769,034 .. 219 0
Queensland .. .. 7,087,514 .. 12 17 0
S. Australia .. .. 5,404.372 ..' 13 5 0
W. Australia,. .. 3,320,081 .. 12 8 0
Tasmania .. .. 4,535,480 .. 24 8 0
A State with such a shocking record of Tory
finance might almost as well do what Ewing pro-
poses and put itself out of its misery. Thus it
would show, the absolutely essential character of
the Unification and Reconstruction policy. The
Commonwealth would take it over and pole-axe
its dreadful Upper House, either with or without
chloroform. The Isle would get a new and per-
fectly democratic Legislature of one House. Its
finances would be put straight, and its big landlords
would be chased down a steep place into political
oblivion. Its old Dodery legislators, out of poli-
tics for good, would sit gibbering in their clubs
about the good times that were gone and the
horrors that were coming. And a colossal figure
to represent Insolvency could be erected at
the entrance to the Derwent, even as the statue
of Liberty adorns the front gate of the United
States—a figure in a frock coat and helltopper,
that being the usual garb of Toryism, with a snake
sticking out of its pocket to suggest financial
intoxication, and a burning IO U in its hand to
indicate the light of a better day to come. This
suggestion is open to amendment, but as a rough
outline the writer respectfully submits that there
are features about it.
•
“The Times” on the Cornstalk Congestion
Policy.
The fame of the N.S.W. railway system has
spread even to far-off England, and the London
Times has heard of it, and decorated the subject
with a map and a leading article. Some of the.
paper’s observations are interesting—these, for
instance :
The railway problem necessarily affects the Common-
wealth as a whole, so long as Australia remains without
a single through trunk line from north to south, or from
east to west. It also affects every separate State in
greater or less degree ; but there is no single State where
the railway question is so immediate and urgent as in
New South Wales. Mr. Wade, the Premier of New South
Wales, is about to go to the polls upon a programme in
which railway reform and construction occupy a fore-
most place. He proposes gradually to expend an enor-
mous sum for these purposes. He contemplates the
duplication of main lines, the provision of further facili-
ties at Sydney, the creation of cross-connections, and—a
good deal more vaguely and tentatively—the opening up
of neglected ports along the coast of his State. ...
It is often said that the Australian railway system has
not been constructed upon any coherent and well-con-
sidered plan. That is certainly not true of the railways
of New South Wales. A glance at the useful map which
accompanies our correspondent’s letter will show that
the New South Wales railways have been made with one
fatally clear and deliberate purpose, the expansion of
Sydney to the largest possible proportions. Along the
whole coast of the State the railway emerges on the sea
at only one other point. Sydney Harbor has been at
once the pride and the bane of New South Wales. To
serve the interests of the capital and its harbor, the wel-
fare of the interior of the State has been persistently
sacrificed. All possible traffic has been diverted to
Sydney, while such useful harbors as Twofold Bay,
Jervis Bay, Port Stephens and Coff’s Harbor have
been wilfully neglected. It is not as though Syd-
ney Harbor were well placed for the handling of
the seaborne trade of the State. Magnificent and almost
incomparable though its faculties are, it remains an inlet
in the midst of mountains. The gradients approaching
it involve costly haulage, and, as our map indicates, a
long' distance has to be traversed before the fertile areas
of New South Wales are reached. .. . The undue worship
of the fetich of Sydney has contributed to produce de-
plorable results. ... A great deal of stress seems to be
laid upon the undoubtedly urgent necessity for the dupli-
cation of existing main lines, and there is no hesitation
about the creation of further facilities in and near Syd-
ney ; but the construction of cross-connexions is not
pressed with quite the same enthusiasm, and the disre-
garded out-ports, which might be easily linked up with
fei tile agricultural districts, appear to be an extremelv
secondary consideration. Sydney, in short, still dominates
the situation, and is very nearly as great an incubus as
ever. No one who examines the map, and notes the gaps,
duly marked, which have been deliberatelv left to draw
trade to Sydney, can doubt that New South Wales will
never rise to the fulness of its destinies until it is able lo
discard even State preoccupations in the matter of rail-
"; a -7. constructio »- Those ominous gaps are the most
vivid argument in favor of the Federal principle that we
have 4ver seen ; and they would have been stronglv rein-
forced, could we have illustrated the lamentable breaks
of gauge on the northern and southern boundaries of
New South Wales. There could be no more instructive
contrast than to compare the map of Argentina, grid-
ironed with well-devised railways, with the map we
publish to-day.
A New Phase of the Centralisation Lunacy.
Thk “Liberal ’’craze for dragging everything to
Sydney applies, seemingly, even to disease.
Nine months ago, a Sydney X-rays specialist sug-
gested to a member of the Wade Government
the ad visability of starting a State Radium Bank
in N.S. W. Health-officer Ashburton Thompson
endorsed the scheme. But the Wade Ministry
objected to it as “Socialistic”; so Ashburton
Thompson’s favorable report was shelved, and the
subject dropped. Early last June the Telegraph
got wind of the idea, reckoned there was a “scoop ”
in it, and set out in chase of subscriptions.
Ihe public, as is its habit tnese days, regarded
the Telegraph’s request for cash with a chill and
unresponsive eye. Things looked black for the
Radium Fund, when the ambition to do some-
thing for the poor and miserable invaded the
kindly heart of Miss Nellie Stewart. She
organised an amazingly successful matinee in aid
of the cause. Moneyed people got interested;
the CMsh rolled in. Iwo thousMnd three hundred
sterling was collected; the Wade Government
was prevailed on to promise a £ for £ subsidy, and
the total proceeds were handed over to the Sydney
Hospital. A medical man is proceeding to Europe
to buy £4600 worth of radium, and within a few
months he will be back with the goods. Now, a
thing the Vast majority of those who subscribed
the initial £2300 worth of radium-money didn’t
understand, and which the vast majority of
N.S.W. taxpayers who are to find the second
£2300 will most certainly resent, is that, under
the present arrangement, every cancer patient
who wants radium treatment, whether he lives at
distant Barringun or adjacent Balmain, will be
forced to go to the Sydney Hospital to get it.
Consider the case of a cancer-sinitten shearer,
cocky-farmer or other indigent citizen whose home
is in the neighborhood of Bourke or Young.
He must journey, at his own expense, to Sydney.
When he arrives he will have to find the money
for his board and lodging and so forth—the cancer
cases in which radium is of use being practically,
never the sort that entitle the sufferer to become
a hospital in-patient. For many weeks he will
need to visit the hospital daily, or at short, fixed
intervals, and undergo a treatment lasting from
one to three hours. That will debar him from
getting or holding a job while he is in Sydney.
And, even after he is discharged, his troubles will
not be ended. According, to Louis Wickham,
the world’s greatest authority on radium (British
Medical Journal, 18/12/’O9)
We can only assure the. patient of a cure on condition
that (even after the initial treatment) he binds himself to
come once a month for a long period to see the doctor
and enable the latter to catch the first trace of any
relapse. •
That is to say, for 18 months or more the afflicted
Wayback will ka"e to be continually dodging
between his distant home and Sydney. The
odds are that few of him will attempt the des-
perate task, and that thousands of cancer-subjects,
whose cases might have been ameliorated or
cured by radium, will never avail them-
selves of it. The Wade Government, had it con-
sidered the interests of N.S.W. instead of the con-
gestion of Sydney, was offered two alternatives.
It might have invested five or ten thousand pounds
in a Radium Bank, which if run on the lines of
the Paris Banque du Radium—where radium is
hired out to hospitals and private practitioners at
a fixed rate—might have been as self-supporting
as the State railways or tramways. Or, better
still, it might have gone the entire humanitarian
animal, and used the £lO,OOO it recently allocated
for the construction of an absurd new ballroom at
the State Governor’s residence, to purchase a
radium supply and loan it out to hospitals, free,
as required, for the benefit of the genuine poor all
over the State. The position at present is that
the radium for which N.S.W. has found the
money will be of use, (1) to Sydney and suburban
cancer patients, (2) to the few up-country sufferers
who can afford a Jong series of trips to Sydney, (3)
to those Sydney residents who are financially
benefited by the incursion of the afflicted ones.
And it will be of use to no one else.
♦
Cremation.
One of the few commendable acts of N.S.W. ’s
ex-Premier Wade was to promise a grant for the
construction of a crematorium—not a place in
which to burn the papers relating to the trial of
Petek Bowling, but an appliance for the decent
and sanitary obliteration of the dead. It is to be
hoped that his successor will see his way to honor
Wade’s p.n. Cremation is not only a system
which calls for encouragement; it is one which
ought to be made compulsory. Away far back in
pre-Christian times two of the features of decent
and enlightened pagan society were the crema-
torium and the bath. The bes't kind of heathen
believed in washing carefully while he was alive
and in being carefully burned when he had
no longer any use for himself. Then the new
religion came along, and its excited votaries made
hash of the clean old ways. They preached that
the body was a vile, ordinary, mi-account thing
compared with the soul—that it was something of
absolutely no importance—and to emphasise this
view they practically left off washing it. They left
off so utterly that the thousands and thousands of
public baths, which decorated some of the old
pagan cities, vanished, in time, almost utterly. It
is an unromantic fact, but Meucia in “ The Sign
of the Cross,” was probably an exceedingly insani-
tary girl, and so were the other members of her
sect; in fact, the lion in the Colisseum often had
to hold his nose with one paw while killing his
Christian with the other. But these same
Christians had a fixed idea that the body,
which was of no account now, would become of
great value later on. It was to appear again in im-
perishable form and complete repair; therefore,
instead of burning it, they laid it carefully in the
earth to be ready for future use. With strange
inconsistency they seemed to believe that, although
the Almighty could raise it again after it had
become a mere handful of dust by reason of slow
decay, He couldn’t raise it again if it became a
similar handful of dust through exposure for a few
minutes to the action of fire. So cremation went
out of fashion, and the dead were put not very far
underground, to pollute the water supply and pre-
serve the germs of disease. In the really strenu-
ous days of early Christianity these things didn’t
matter ; it was better to be dead than alive;
so it didn’t signify if the water was polluted.
Besides, the body, while living, was a thing to be
contemned and despitefully treated, and the pour-
ing of impure fluids into it was a mere episode
amid its troubled experiences. But after all,
burial failed of its chief purpose. Among the
original believers the end of the world was ex-
pected any day; in fact, it was a common impres-
sion that the first generation of Christians would
live to see it. It was calculated that, as there
was so short a time to wait, the dead would still
be found at the original address when the trumpet
blew. But centuries rolled on. Graveyards
filled and were abandoned and closed, “ and
then, because it was impossible to re-
serve indefinite areas of thickly peopled
lands for the tenancy of the very ancient dead,
they were often ploughed up and the bones and
4.11 st were effectually dispersed. Thus the saints
ceased to be find able at the old address. Then,
as the old, strenuous faith grew cold, the human
race re-discovered the almost lost art of washing,
and in a new passion for sanitation it began to
look askance at the cemetery. The,chief reason
for that institution vanished when the end of the
world was indefinitely postponed, and now things
are moving slowly towards its abolition. It is a
pity they are not moving much more rapidly ;
but the mournful burial place has become a habit
of at least 1875 years standing, and habits of that
age are not easily shaken off.
«
Bull's Army.
“ The Old Soldier ”; A cable message men-
tioned last Friday that Lieutenant Alan Sutor,
R- A-> had been removed from the army, the King
having “no further occasion for his services.”
His offence was that lie harshly criticised the
British army. How badly the army needed criti-
cism is indicated by French and German expert
reports that have been published of late. Thus a
German staff-officer with a European reputation:
The British army does not compare "with the French
German, Austrian or Japanese armies. By its present
training the British army is not fit for a conflict with a
continental army.
The raw material for an army is eminently good, and
would yield to no other in the world. But the com-
mandeis have lio idea'of handling troops in masses, and
the generals are unsound in their tactics.
Handling troops in masses” is a mechanical
business which must be learned by practice.
No British General ever sees—even at Aider-
shot, or an Indian camp* of exercise—
what a French or German soldier would call
“troops in masses.” The S’African Boer-chase
taught the British leaders nothing that is going
to be of service to them in a European war. The
German is not alone in his depreciation of the
British troops. The French General, Langlois
who has been inspecting Haldane’s territorial
army, has published a book, “The English Army
in European Conflict.” He says : J
England requires : (1) An army responsible for the pro-
tection of the colonies, to furnish them with garrisons
and supply them with men and material; (2) territorial
army, a force which would not be called on to leave the
country ; (3) national army, prepared to take the field in
Europe. England has shirked the construction of the
third army, which would involve the necessity of a con
siderable increase of the army estimates. Thus it is to
day that the regular army of the United Kingdom is
really the colonial army, and is forced to undertake the
double duty not only of protecting the colonies, but of
supporting the allies of England on the Continent in case
of need.
General Langlois was specially borrowed by the
War Office toinspectand report on Haldane’s Ter-
ritorials. He was feted and flattered, yet in the
end, he had to say that, without the support of regu-
lar troops, the Territorials would go down before a
iiiuropean invader. He says much the same to
his own countrymen in his book, and he sums up
the whole by giving his opinion, and also appar-
ently the opinion of the French Army Staff, on
the value of the Entente to France :
(1) The Entente between England and France is usefu.l
to the latter provided that the English expeditionary
force can be landed on the Continent on the 15th day at
the latest. Unless England is prepared to do this she
will lie too late unless the decisive battle should be pro-
longed beyond the expectations of the French strategists.
(A the Entente is even more useful to England than
to trance; for it protects England from any serious
danger on the side of Germany.
It is hard to say whether the French or German
opinion is the. less flattering to the British army.
E/ither way it makes cheerless reading for Aus-
tialians, have pledged themselves in some
' ague way to model their land-defence organisa-
tion on British principles.
-» .
P.M.” defines Labor-leader Prendergast’s
attitude on the Sunday-shows question :
O. K. s ’ attack (B. 27/10/’10) on Labor-leader Pren-
dkrgast on the Sunday Entertainments question shows a
bat-ej ed view of the surrounding circumstances. When
PitEN DERG AST was asked to present a petition of 10,500
signatures against Murray’s Bill, he immediately com-
Plied and he never said that “any interference with
tne Gay of Rest ’ ought to be deprecated by the working-
man. What he advocates is one and a-half days’ rest a
week, universal as far as practicable. What he protests
against is that some of those who have secured
this on Saturday afternoon and Sunday are will-
ing' to see the rule broken in order that they
may be provided with additional amusement, involv-
mg additional Sunday labor. “0.K.” talks foolishly
when he applies the “ logical conclusion ” arguments.
Ihe matter of Sunday labor is one for reasonable adjust-
ment, so that it will be kept at a rational minimum. He
also argues vainly w'hen he talks about public conveni-
ence. According to that argument, everything con-
venient to the people on a week-day would have to be
kept going on a Sunday, and so the boon would be lost
to all. In the particular case of these Sunday entertain-
ments, which are run entirely for the profit of certain
theatrical proprietors, those who have inquired know
that the good employers (from a Trades Union point of
view) do not open. The hands employed are mostly
against Sunday entertainments. They want their
leisure the same as ever.vliod3’ else, and are content with
BIX ‘ a >s work. Prkndkrgast knows this, and “0.K.”
should have been in the way of finding it out before writing
so cocksurely. Theatre legislation in Victoria is de-
plorable, inasmuch as it permits a man without a license
toi his house to open on Sunday, while it compels a
licensed house to keep closed. There is no compulsion to
license either. Admittedly, the churches are supporting
l lie Murray Bill all the way. But that is no sufficient
reason why the Labor party should not also support it as
far as it fits in with the party’s aspirations. Finally,
1 RENDERGAST is not foolish enough to support any legis-
lation which would place the permission to hold Sunday
public meetings—political or otherwise—in the hands o‘f
possible opponents ; nor is lie in any sense opposed io any
form of mutual entertainment. What he is absolutely
opposed to is the private-profit-making Sunday enter-
tainment.
A Melbourne man moans his grievance against
the committee of Henley-on-Yarra. The com-
plainant’s sad story is that on the afternoon of
“ Henley ” he paid Bs. for the admission of him-
self and family to the illegally-reserved space on
the south bank of the Yarra, with the intention of
leaving his family to picnic there till the evening,
when the mud-barge houseboats are illuminated
and a few fireworks are provided by the manage-
ment. But after the regatta in the afternoon
complainant’s family and all other people were
ejected from the reserve, and the poor man had
to pay another ss. to pass his family back to the
place whence it came. Legally, it seems, he was
an outraged citizen in being wired-off by an asso-
ciation of johnnies from any portion of the river
bank, the outrage being; aggravated by the fact
that some decorative bits of “public gardens 99
were included in the Henley reserve this year.
Socially, however, he and hundreds of others
deserved all the extortion they got. They didn’t
pay for a view of the regatta in the afternoon, or
for the best possible sight of the illuminations in
the evening. These advantages are obtainable
by the crowds who have free access to the
opposite bank of the Yarra. Admittedly, the
City Council has no legal right to grant the privi-
lege of enclosing either bank for one day, or for
one hour, to a mysterious party of Toorakians
who run the Henley show. Nominally the coun-
cil does it in the interests of boat-racing 1 , and on
the understanding that the profits are to be
expended by the council in beautifying the public
ground thereabouts. No luminous statement of
accounts is, however, ever issued. The whole
business is an extraordinary bluff, wrapped in
mystery. But it is a bluff which owes all its
success to social snobbery. The people who pay
for admission to the illegal reserve go there in the
afternoon to behold one another in their best
clothes, and in the evening thev go there to be
preserved from contact with the non-paying pub-
lic. Seeing, therefore, that the imposition is
suffered only by such as deliberately seek it, with
a full knowledge of the fact that they have
nothing but “social selectness ” to gain by choos-
ing the reserved side of the river, they can’t
fairly complain of being turned cut whenever the
management; feels so disposed, seeing that the
oftener the reserve is cleared, and the higher the
tar.ff is made, the more they will get of the snob-
bish “selectness” that they pay for.
»
“ 0. ” WRITES
When a person or paper or party is a very poor liar it
is almost as well to give up lying and tell the truth, or
else drop the subject. The N.S. W. “ Liberal ” partv and
its press representatives lied shamelessly and horribly
during the recent electoral campaign ; but they didn’t do
it plausibly It was crude, clumsy work, like 'the statue
which an aboriginal hacks out with a stone axe. Here
for instance, is a specimen of the naval or marine or salt!
horse lie as told in Sydney Telegraph ;
If the Labor party should get into power as a result
of the present election in New South Wales, Victorians
are confident that they will be able to exercise sufficient
pressure upon the Federal Government to squeeze it into
making Hobson’s Bay the headquarters of the fleet In
uv ? aBe > the station in Sydney could, of course be
abolished. A warship might occasionally be seen in Port
Jackson, probably during Show time, for a couple of
days, but all the advantages which Sydney now derives
from the Imperial squadron, with the employment that
it furnishes m supplies, in docking and in other wavs
would naturally pass to Melbourne.” J ’
The State Government, whether Labor or “Liberal ”
has no control at all over naval matters ; so the proposi-
tion that the continuance of Wade in office would keep
the Imperial squadron in Sydney harbor, while the up-
rising of McGowen would cause that squadron to be lost
was a pretty mean way of cadging for votes. The intima!
tiori that Victorians are confident”is an obvious lie as
the Telegraph couldn’t possibly have time to go round
and ask all Victorians whether they were confident or
not. And the statement that the advantages of “ the
Imperial squadron ” will “ naturally pass to Melbourne "
is fairly outrageous in view of the fact that the
same paper has announced that the local head-
quarters of that same squadron are to be at Auckland
Even a dangerously insane paper shouldn’t try to pass
on the public the yarn that a composite sea force niade
up of Maoriland ships and a few British vessels from the
Chinese station, is liable to be posted at Melbourne be
cause of the success of the N.S.W. State Labor party It
is more likely to be sent to Timbuctoo because of the
great rise in the price of slop clothes on the Goodwin
In Sweeping Curves.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
For some curious reason it is considered necessary in
Tory quarters to bring the very essential transcontinental
railway round by a long eastern circumbendibus.—
Bulletin (ZO/lOI’ 10).
The Tory person loves to dream
Of corkscrew railways curling round,
Where trains forlorn may gently steam
In circles over barren ground.
He loves to picture in his mind
A Puffing Billy, crawling slow,
Some outback bales of wool to find
By pads where camels come and go.
He wants to see the North express
Start out from Melbourne once a week,
And trail through every wilderness
’Twixt Esperanoe and Cooper’s Creek ;
And, taking Perth upon the way,
With Parramatta and Geelong,
Come round by Kimberley and Hay
To Alice Springs and Gerringong.
Passing Cape Otway on the right,
’Twould reach Port Darwin by-and-bye,
Keeping the South Coast well in sight,
And Brisbane always in its eye ;
And not forgetting Sydney town,
Nor Adelaide, nor Warrnambool,
’Twould run by grey Gulf waters down,
And up by Kosciusko cool.
Thus, when the footprints of the foe
Our northern valleys had debased,
Eor eighteen sudden weeks or so
Our troops would wander round in haste ;
And, waiting for our counter-stroke,
Each Pagan face would wreathe in smiles
To know our wrath and battle-smoke
Had gone on tour 12,000 miles.
N.S.W.
PAT O'MAORI.


Write to me, love, with CALDWELL’S
INK
No hand of time its mark effaces,
’Twixt loving hearts it forms a link
Useful in breach of promise cases.
Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
Moving: Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney—3B6 George Street; Melbourne—266 Collins
Street ; Brisbane—93-95 Queen Street; Adelaide—
Gawler Place ; Perth^-—lillys* Photo. Stores.
ZENOBIA
Perfumes
As supplied to H.M.
QUEEN ALEXANDRA.
Sweet Pea
Blossom.
Lily of the
Valley
Natural.
Nig'Ht-
Scented
Stock.
The Zenobia Per-
fumes charm
everyone by their
absolute fidelity
to Nature and
their Refreshing
and Lasting
Fragrance.
N
Manufactured at the Zenobia Laboratories, Lough-
borough, England. To be obtained from leading
Chemists and Stores.
Wholesale Agents for Australia:
THE AUSTRALIAN MFC. & IMPORTING CO. LTD.,
108 Pitt Straat, Bydnay
According to law, every Federal public servant
aged 21 or over, and with three years’ service, is
entitled to a minimum salary of £llO a year. It is
now proposed to grant the £llO minimum whether
the recipient has three years’ service or not,
which proposal may be reasonable enough
if the thing was done by an amendment
of the law—and a Bill of one clause would cover
all the necessary amendment. But the active—
not to say gymnastic—mind of Attorney-
General Hughes scorns the plain and simple
method. He proposes to leave the law as
it stands—for the present, anyway—and skip
airily round it by calling the extra payment
•‘bonus.” And by this mental agility Hughes
establishes a precedent by which every future
Government may override the decisions of the
Public Service Commissioner and proceed to “ be
good to its friends” by calling the thing “bonus.”
In N.S.W. State politics Attorney-General Hol-
man, who is in some ways the mental duplicate of
Hughes, has also been distinguishing himself. Two
months ago a Political Labor League secretary was
convicted of inciting a young lady to forge two
signatures to applications for enrolment as voters.
He didn’t even do his own forgery, but pushed
someone else into doing it. The Law said it was
an exceedingly bad case—and fined him £lO, with
355. Costs. Attorney-General Holman has now
reduced the penalty to 2s. fine and 355. Costs,
and after that the less Holman, at all events, has
to say about Wade’s action in the McKye case
the better. Even at the worst, Wade only cut
down McKye’s fine by one-half. These are
the sort of things that supply ammunition
to the enemy. The kind of member who
is most likely to prove the evil genius of the
Labor party is the voluble, fairly capable, shifty-
minded lawyer, with his clean shave and his fatal
ingenuity. That remark has been made before,
but it is plainly time to make it again.
♦
The S. M. Herald projected this dead cat at the
Wade Government as soon as it was defunct: —
Should the McGowen Government realise its responsi-
bility, the Minister in charge of the Lands Department
has plenty of scope for valuable work. If he can place
the Department in the position it is rightly entitled to
occupy, he will earn the gratitude of the producers of
the State. There is room for improvement, a necessity
for getting out of the rut, and breaking irksome bonds
of red tape, and, above all, extending the work of the
Department. . . . There has been no explanation of the
reason for fixing salaries so low as, for instance, £2OO per
year for a potato expert, an educated, scientific and prac-
tical man, able to instruct growers. It is certain that
the Department, to do good work, must have the aid of
first-class men, and to secure them must pay first-class
salaries.
Put otherwise, the Wade Government, so far as
its Lands administration was concerned,
(1) Failed to “ earn the gratitude of producers.”
(2) Was bogged in “ a rut.”
(3) Was leg-ironed by red tape.
(4) Sweated its employees.
It is all true, doubtless, but it is amazingly dif-
ferent from what the same paper was saying a
month ago.
♦
At last George Reid has attended something
besides a banquet. It was a meeting held in
London to consider the question of adopting a
standard trade mark for use on all goods manu-
factured in the British Empire. So far as can be
made out from the meagre information to hand (if
the item were about cricket it would have been
twice as large), the Empire Trade Mark is to be
somewhat similar in effect to the Commonwealth
Workers’ Mark, which was included in the Com-
monwealth Trade Mark Act of 1905, but was
hurriedly thrown out, at the instance of the
breweries, as being ultra, vires. This Empire
Trade Mark is to be governed by the British
Board of Trade; and, according to present infor-
mation, the Board will issue certificates to the
firms that employ white labor only. The pur-
chaser of any goods will know from the mark on
the wrapper that the article is not the result of
foreign labor, and was manufactured within the
British Empire. It won’t specify the labor con-
ditions under which the goods were produced, but
it will be something to know that it was white
labor, anyhow.
“W.C.M.”: The following item is starred in
Dalgety’s Review
Mr. William Officer, of Zara, Deniliquin (N.S.W.), has
sold the following stud sheep to South African buyers
during the present season :
To the Orange Kiver Colony: 18 stud rams, from
lOgns. to 90gns.; 116 stud ewes, from 3gns. to 20gns.
To the Transvaal Government: 1 stud ram.
To various buyers in the Cape and Orange River
colonies, Natal and the Transvaal: 54 stud rams, to
50gns.; 36 stud ewes, from sgns. to 75gns.
Total number of sheep sold, 325.
These extensive sales speak volumes for the reputation
of the Zara sheep in South Africa.
And they also speak volumes for the monumental
stupidity of Australian sheepbreeders. When
the question of importing stud angora goats and
stud ostriches from S’Africa was mooted,
S’African Governments temporised for a few
months, and used the time to rush through a
Bill forbidding, under heavy penalties, the expor-
tation of angora goats or of cock ostriches or
even of the eggs of the ostrich. S’Africa wanted
no competitor in the angora industry, and as little
as possible in the ostrich industry ; but the fool
Australian cheerfully sends away the best of his
sheep or horses or any other old thing that he may
possess, and thus adds another to the competitors
in the already-crowded markets of the world. It
is no use talking to the sheepbreeder ; like breeds
like to a certain extent, and the sheep is about
the silliest and at the same time most obstinate
animal on earth. But the Commonwealth
Government should step in and absolutely forbid
the exportation of the merino sheep, not in the
interests of the fool woolgrower, but in the in-
terests of the Australian sheep industry. The
habit of being a jolly good sort of a chap all
round and hang the expense is just as ruinous to
nations as it is to individuals.
«
“ Rooinek,” about some other people’s railways:
South Africa is rapidly acquiring the most up-to-date
Government railway service on earth. Its 7000 odd
miles of line are now under one management. All the
long-distance trains are corridors, and you can ramble
from the engine to the guard’s van. They are lit through-
out by electricity, and the lavatory accommodation is
very good. On the Cape-Jo'burg line coffee is served to the
sleepers first thing in the morning; then you can turn out,
have a shower-bath, dress and stroll along to the dining-
car for an excellent meal. There is a bar on the dining-
car, but you don’t necessarily have to go to it fora drink.
Afternoon tea is brought to your compartment without
your asking. From Jo’burg to Pretoria is only 45 miles,
but the 8 a.m., 1 p.m. and 6 p.m. trains have dining cars,
and serve tiptop meals on board. This seems like
carrying luxury too far ; but these trains are used daily
by hundreds of very busy men. The Cape-Jo’burg
trains have circulating libraries on board—a boon
and a blessing. The speed has improved tremendously.
You can run the 1011 miles from Jo’burg to Capetown in
35 hours, an average speed, including stoppages, of about
30 miles, notwithstanding that the travelling has to be
dead slow in parts, especially through the moun-
tains. In the Free State the trains purralongat between
50 and 60 miles an hour, and your liquor doesn’t spill out
of a brimming glass either. All this is done on a
3ft. 6in. gauge, and convinces me that that gauge
is good enough for any country. To change from
sundry broad gauges to one uniform narrow gauge is a
comparatively simple and inexpensive matter ; but to
change from narrow to broad is a Sheol of a job. No doubt
the inevitable fool will rise up and say that my remarks are
all rot —he knows, because he was in S. Africa farm-
burning some years ago ; so I get in first by telling him
that he is a back number already so far as S'Africa is con-
cerned.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “ Our Miss Gibbs.”
Royal “Salvation Nell.”
Criterion “ What Happened to Jones.
Palace “Revenge.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
ijYCEUM Spencer’s Pictures
Olympia “ The Squatter’s Daughter (Pic-
tures).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s Theatre. ... “A Knight for a Day.”
Her Majesty’s “The Whip.”
Royal “ The Arcadians.” „
King's “ The Shadows of a Great City.
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Arcadia, St. Kilda The Jesters.
Glaciarium Taits’ Pictures.
Esplanade, St. Kilda.. The Follies Comedy Co.
Wirths’ Park Wirths’ Circus.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
4.
“Salvation Nell,” the new show at Syd-
ney Royal, has evoked shocked protests from
the local daily press and other quarters
where the militant right-thinker abides. And
yet the piece is no more calculated to subvert
anyone’s morals than a visit to a police court. On
the contrary, it is a sort of dramatic tract, with
a mission to show the reformative power of re-
ligion. The name of the Creator is put to
free and frequent use, an inevitable feature
of a work which lays itself out to give
a faithful picture of Salvation Army methods.
The characters are outspoken ; but they say
nothing that could bring the blush of shame
to the cheek of one in the habit of studying,
say, the Old Testament. The finish, if trite
and unconvincing, is, at any rate, highly edifying.
Something—the purifying influence of a woman
who has been “saved,” the love of a child, the
Christian faith—comes between the chief evildoer
and his sinful habits; a smile of almost unearthly
holiness distorts his visage; he becomes as a
brand plucked from the burning. What is there
in this to shock the most puritanical ? The
answer is that the average citizen has but one or
two phrases to express many emotions, and that
he tends to confuse a shocked aesthetic sense with
outraged righteousness.
“ THE SPIDER AND THE FLY,” AT
SYDNEY PALACE.
The hair-raiser as seen from the back stalls.
Certainly, “ Salvation Nell ” is shocking—
as shocking as a couple of hours in a well-filled
morgue. All through it people are flying like
animals at each other’s throats, getting bestially
drunk, pummelling each other, flinging each other
into the street, howling curses, and, generally,
exposing human nature in its most elementary
aspects. There was a time when this sort of
thing would have appeared natural and seemly to
a theatre crowd. The patrons of the 16th century
cockpit used to revel in it. The burgher of medi-
eval times had no use for fine shades of feeling or
sentiment; he liked to see portrayed on the stage
the passions with which he was familiar in every-
day life; and he liked them served up hot and
strong. The modern playgoer has advanced
several steps beyond that. He recognises that the
primary passions still exist, but he doesn’t yearn
to see them depicted. What absorbs him are the
manifold shifts and concealments which, under a
complex civilisation, arise from those passions.
An isolated outbreak of brute-like rage—the fur-
niture-smashing frenzy of Maldonadoin “Iris,” for
example—the 20th century theatre enthusiast can
stand. “ Salvation Nell ”is over the odds in the
matter of crude unrestraint. It is one long pageant
of primal emotions, and the sophisticated modern
drifts away from it disgusted and resentful in
consequence.
* * * *
The depressing illusion of the piece is
driven home by some superb acting. Jim Platt,
as handled by William Desmond, is an outcast,
whose fidelity to type is unquestionable. Des-
mond even keeps Jim natural and almost likely
in the banal scene where, as the result of a few
crusted old Salv’army gags, that appalling
scoundrel is suddenly stampeded into the path
of virtue. The conversion of Platt is where
an otherwise sincere play slumps violently.
Miss Katherine Grey provides a fine study of the
sinner who “finds salvation,” and yet is in
danger of relapsing into her old ways at the call of
love. Her presence and her odd lack of sex-
appeal handicap her in a part which was
probably written round a full-blooded Bowery
lass. Miss Elsie Wilson’s startlingly realistic
portrait of a New York demi-mondaine is
the best thing she has done. Sydney Stirling’s
Salv’army Major is a beautiful but figure.
He suggests a cavalry officer more than he does
a mere Yankee Gospel-banger. It is hard to
credit that even a one-time “ Fifth Avenue aristo-
crat” would, after a decade in the slums, cling to
the unimpeachable patent-leather boots which the
Major affects.
** * *
“Mr. Preedy” is still at the Criterion
extending a hospitable hand to the very large be-
lated peeress and holding counsel with the peer
whose legs suggest a pair of compasses, but his
days are numbered. They add up to exactly two
—this one and to-morrow. On Saturday night
the old glad story of “What Happened
to Jones” will begin to fill in the last 12
nights of the season, and unless Johnson’s railway
and tramway system breaks down beyond all re-
pair, Sydney intends to be present. Its joy at
the prospect is tempered by a certain amount of
grief at the loss of Preedy, for whom it begins
to have a genuine affection. Three characters
in the departing drama who have left a steadily-
increasing footprint on the sands of applause are
Cornell’s Reginald Saunders, who is a dentist and
a springy sort of bounder ; the Hon. Jennerway,
done by Harold Parkes, who is a heavenly idiot;
and Hugh Buckler’s Earl of Rushmere. The
peerage comes off badly in modern comedy
—possibly because most of our modern comedy
comes from places where the peerage is
under personal observation. It may joe roughly
divided into nine classes : (1) Jumpy, idiotic and
without visible beans of support; (2) jumpy and
idiotic but solvent; (3) foolish and gone in the
legs; (4) drunk, with any of the above complica-
tions added ; (5) sleepy, fat, unwise and always
losing its eyeglass; (6) exceedingly swift on the
feet through long practice at ieading the fast
life and pursuing the fast girl (all the other kinds
lead the fast life also, but this species makes it his
one speciality); (7) elderly, mean, fat, ill-dressed
and grumpy; (8) just elderly and mean; (9) the
shrill sketchy boy peer who is preyed upon by the
bookmaker. These are the British aristocrats of
comedy. When there is added the peer of melo-
drama, who is a hardened girl-drowner and mfant-
smotherer, the Upper House appears as a very bad
lot.
** * *
Once more the common round or weekly
task devolves on this paper of mentioning that
“Our Miss Gibbs” continues to be firmly
anchored by the golden strands of popular
affection to Her Majesty’s, Sydney. So securely
is the lady chained down that there seems no
likelihood of her shifting her moorings before
Christmas.
*» * *
The bald-headed warder who kills the
villain with a blank cartridge in “The Spider
and the Fly,” which is being produced this week
at the Sydney Palace, is to be forcibly re-
moved to-morrow night. No explanation as
to the why or whaffor is forthcoming
from the Hamilton-Maxwell management.
The Bulletin has come to the decision, however,
that it is the blank cartridge that is at fault. If
ball cartridge were used, and one stage villain
shot per night, this publication makes bold to say
that even a warder 99| years of age, bald, blind,
splay-footed, spavined and hamstrung, would fill
the theatre every time he was billed to pull the
trigger. Unfortunately, this is an age when
realism must give way to economy, and the
supply of villain is limited by the demands of
politics. The only villain under engagement to
the Hamilton-Maxwell Co. is therefore being
saved up for “The Revenge,” which will be
staged on Saturday night by arrangement with
Bland’olt.
** * *
Dan, the Drunken Dog, and the rest of
Barnold’s wonderfully well-trained animal troupe
are drawing people with money in their garments
from all points of the compass to Sydney Tivoli
box-office. The hilarious turn advertises itself, and
the official notification that Dan is still drunk is a
superfluous noise like the Sunday church bell and
the barrel organ. The burlesque juggling act of
Howard and Foy is the most notable addition to
the bill this week. The Dancing Gilberts, Woods
and Fraser, Olga Grey and Brown and Robinson
remain as they were; and the beer-garden first
part is flourishing, apparently with the enthusi-
astic approval of Judkins.
** * *
This week West’s Pictures at Sydney
Glaciarium include a tinted “ Geisha.” It is, of
course, a Pathe film, and one of the firm’s master-
pieces. Writer does not remember seeing one in
which the color was laid on with a more dexter-
ous touch. It is the story of a love episode in old
Japan, in the days when the Samurai went
around armed with long swords and fought cheer-
fully over any ugly old subject or pretty young
geisha. The scenery is almost too elaborate in its
honey sweetness; but the general effect is^ de-
lightful, charming and hang-to-morrow. The
Pathe Gazette includes some fine cinematographic
snapshots of Chavez on his wild flight through
the Simplon Pass. Unfortunately, the flight
through the hideous pass is not shown, but the
beginning and the end are ; and the sight of that
frail monoplane gliding through the grey atmo-
sphere over the crags, pines and pinnacles of the
Alps is very fine. The revolution in Portugal is
also among the fearful deeds now being done at
the Glaciarium.
** * *
At Sydney Lyceum Spencer’s Theatre-
scope is showing the usual varied programme, of
which the best items are the “Sorrows of the
Unfaithful,” an American biograph film of in-
tensely dramatic quality, (some people like
it that way), “The Little Hero of H°l*
land ’’—the old, old story of the small boy
who stopped the leak in the dyke and nearly
died of sneezing as a result —is a fine film, and
presents little Peter in a new and rather interest-
ing light. Palermo makes a fine scenic series;
but, somehow, one always imagines that these
Dago cities are better on the screen than
in reality. To be absolutely realistic it
would be necessary for Spencer to lay on a
supply of sulphuretted hydrogen, or break
a few stale eggs. All this is missed by see-
ing the places on the film. King Manoel chases-
Gabriel of the White Lilies across the screen at
the Lyceum also ; and an excellent satire is poked,
between the ribs of the Wowser in Sunday
Rest.”
** * *
W. Anderson unwound “The Squatters-
Daughter ” at the new Olympia Theatre (Sydney)'
on Saturday night. He says that the lady is the
longest dramatic story ever cinematographed;
and, so far, the audiences at the new house have
matched the lady.
“MR. PREEDY AND THE COUNTESS,"
AT SYDNEY CRT.
Slippery Jim, a
burglar for one
act only ( Hugh
Buckler).
Geo. Willoughby
as Bounsall.
At the King’s (Melb.) a diversion from
the Andersonian course of things is provided by
the appearance of the Maggie Moore-H. R.
Roberts co. in “Shadows of a Great City.”
Speaking from dim recollections of how it looked
at the Royal a quarter of a century ago, one
would say that “The Shadows” is not
quite the drama it used to be; but, any-
way, it was even then the story of how
a bell-toppered villain had base designs on
a million dollars. A dejected lady in the first act
is lawful heiress to the dollars, and when she dies
her daughter ought to get them. Eventually she
does get them—ls years after the decease of her
sainted mother. In that long interval all the
adult people concerned in the matter have re-
mained much about the same as they were at first,
whilst the infant heiress who was saved from a
watery grave has become steadily enamored of
her preserver. At the end of the 15 years
which made so little difference to her friends
and enemies, Helen Standish is a sweet, pluni-
some girl, in a nice, cool, yachting costume, and
spends her days in rowing a small boat around the
rock wherefrom the villain’s chief myrmidon tried
to drown her long ago. The million dollars has
been lying dormant all this while, but one day the
myrmidon aforesaid drops casually into the
happy home of the unsuspecting heiress &na
identifies the innocent hero who formerly escaped
from prison, by discovering his convict garb in a
box conveniently placed in the middle of the
domicile. Then the plot is resumed, and some
more murderous attempts are frustrated ere the
dollars are sheeted home to their rightful owner.
* ■» * *
“ Shadows of a Great City ’ is neatly
staged and acted. Maggie Moore, surmounted
by a gaudy head of hair, appears as the motherly
Irishwoman of the drama, and when left alone
for five minutes she sings about Tip of
Tipperary. Roberts is the soft-spoken hero
who looks beauteous even in his prison suit.
Montgomery wears the black belltopper of a
blameful life. E. B. Russell asserts a sham nose
and runs a pawnshop in the interests of crime ;
and John Eorde is a rather sombre criminal
instead of a sprightly malefactor. Charles Stan-
ford is among the other seasoned performers who
figure as starters for this event. And although
there is room for more force and experience in the
acting of the long lost heiress (Ethel Bashford),
her personal appearance leaves nothing to be
desired.
m* * *
This is the eighth week of “ The Whip ”
at Her Majesty’s (Melb.), and the management
announces with much pleasure that it has “ ex-
ceeded the record ” of any previous drama staged
in Australia. It will continue to exceed the
record until further notice. '
*». * *
The most notable performer in “The
Whip the auburn small boy who adds a
new terror to the Chamber of Horrors—is mow
doing a “ turn ”at the Princess’s likewise. Bast
Saturday a crude travesty of the railway collision
scene in the J.C.W. hippodrama was dumped
among the other banalities of “ A Knight for a
Day.” The climax of this alleged provocation
to mirth was the voice of the small boy
crying, “ I want to see Charlie Peace ! Which
suggests the advisability of establishing a system
of exchange and barter between the drama at
Her Majesty’s and the cheerful hotchpotch at the
Princess’s. For instance, the ballet from the
variety show might go and shake up the last
mights of “The Whip,” whilst the hysterical
parson was borrowed from Her Majesty s to
solemnise the nuptials of Bert Gilbert and the
lady who helps him to be funny.


JERDAN’S, the big Cinematograph people at
393 George Street, Sydney, have just got out
a Catalogue for Picture Showmen that’s just it.
If you’ve leanings that way you’d better write for
a copy. It’s free.*
Laxo-Tonic Pills
Are a safe and certain remedy for biliousness,
constipation, liver troubles, flatulence, anaemia,
etc. Sold at and Is. 6d.*
The attention of manufacturers and importers
is directed to an announcement in to-day’s issue from the
West Australian Sunday Times.*
A revival of “The Arcadians ” is impending
at Melbourne Royal. ‘ ‘ Tom Jones ” will be cursed
and blessed by the squire of the lobster counten-
ance for the last time on Friday, and next night
the guileless spinster from Arcadia will preach
the Simple Life to the monsters. This time Miss
Winifred O’Connor will be Sombra, and the new
dancer—Cristie Mulniah—is to make her first
appearance. Also, Cromwell will be reincar-
nated as before, but the end of Cromwell’s long
engagement is in sight, and his complimentary
benefit is dated December 1.
*# * *
Wirths’ Circus, which talks of going away
in a week or two, is inviting everybody who loves
a hippopotamus to come and see Lizzie bathe in
the waters of the deserted chute ere she retires
for the night. There are many things beside
Lizzie at the Circus, but these are as naught in
the advt. compared with the lumbering quadruped
that oozes gore from her hide.
** # *
Judge Kelly is leaving the Opera House
to-night (Thursday), and another star item is
to shine in his stead. Otherwise the Opera House
bill will remain unchanged, the Quealys being the
latest addition.
** * *
Now that the Horse Carnival is disposed
of, Melbourne is expected to lapse into a musical
mood. A popular concert will transpire at the
Athenaeum Hall on Saturday night, and in the
meantime the Town Hall will be busy. To-night
(Thursday) the usual organ recital has two singers
and a trombone soloist on the programme; to-
morrow Walter Kirby will warble in a farewell
strain to the most fashionable audience Melbourne
can raise for the occasion ; and on Saturday after-
noon the Y.P.O. will give a symphony concert —
the sixth and last of the series. W. A. Laver is
to conduct the orchestra.
** * *
The Melbourne Cup, as pictured at the
Melbourne Glaciarium, looks a duller sort of
function than it is, since the multitudinous tints
of frocks, faces, earth and sky are reduced to a
.monotone. The blessings of the sentimental,
however, will fall on “Discipline and a Gener-
ous Act,” a tearful story of filial love; and on
“The Usurer,” a fanciful tale of a grasping Jew.
The loudest laughter follows “An Enemy of the
Dust,” which shows a man getting himself fear-
fully and weirdly soiled. Eventually he becomes
so encumbered with dirt that he could cut up his
clothes for closer settlement.
.** * *
People will not be impressed by the last
British Army manoeuvres as unfolded at Mel-
bourne Olympia on Saturday. To the layman
the picture is technical and almost tedious, for it
affords no glimpses of imitation Jenas or mimic
Waterloos. The tale of “Wilful Peggy” is, how-
ever, excellent for its cute plot, comely women
and natural gaiety ; while “The Glove” is thick
with a realism that excuses its ancient story. As
for the innocent yarn of “ The Cowboy’s Strata-
gem,” this paper is doubtful whether to love it for
its love or loathe it for its length.
* #• # *
In a quiet week, the Appendreena Society
of Adelaide has given a clever and well-balanced
rendering of “Mrs. Gorringe’s Necklace.”
Branscombe has started a season of “Dandies”
on the terraces below the Jubilee Exhibition.
They are much the same thing as the Pierrots
and Follies who disport themselves on the beaches.
Summer, however, hangs fire in Adelaide this
year, and out-of-doors shows are suffering. The
Royal has re-opened with “ The Winning Ticket,”
which is rather a tight fit for the small stage when
the Cup is run. The play is pleasantly free from
bushrangers and even murders, and shows the
city side of Australian life right up to date. The
Melbourne Cup is at the Empire, too, per
picture. This house has also revived the
gentle convict who repents to organ accom-
paniment, with a real vocalist singing a real
hymn. West’s Pictures are starring a hasty
glimpse of the revolution in Portugal. The
Tivoli is rather various these times. Powell and
Miss Vesey have left for England, much re-
gretted, but the Meymotts adequately replace
them, while Hughes and Prior run a bit of every-
thing into their brisk turn. Larry Lewis is
popular, but might be more so if he had fewer
mannerisms—or less of one mannerism. Alex-
ander Prince is an Englishman who squeezes
wonders out of the concertina. He can make it
resemble anything from the organ to the bagpipes,
but—as generally happens in Adelaide—he gets
quite as much enthusiasm for the masterly play-
ing of a simple air as for his whole bag of showier
tricks.
HUGH WARD, THE NEW MEMBER OF
THE J. C. WILLIAMSON FIRM.
The thirteenth Federal picture-show in
Adelaide has not sold any pictures to the S.A.
Gallery yet; but the trustees are to come round
later. There is nothing actually crying out to be
bought. Many of the inter-State men already re-
presented in the Australian Room at Adelaide
have stayed away this year. From Sydney,
Albert Hanson sends a “ Bush Smithy ” and some
smaller things. Norman Carter dominates the
big room with his “Low-toned Harmony.” Dattilo
Rubbo has some of his characteristic heads; Nicho-
las Shiels, an ambitious but curiously hard domestic
scene, and A. E. Rosebray some clever native
beasts. Of the Victorians, Bernard Haft scores
with “ Under the Colosseum,” a semi-nude figure
on the sands of the arena; it makes technical dif-
ficulties only to triumph over them. Ford Pater-
son sends ordinary landscapes. E. W. Christmas,
who is a cosmopolitan, has trucked in a great
Maoriland snow-topped valley, his diploma work
of last year for the Royal British Artists’ Society
in London. The S.A. men have been (and
some still are) in London. H. S. Power
has got away from his animal studies
with a strong picture of the Thames and
the Houses of Parliament alongside ; and Gustave
Barnes contrasts an Australian summer sketch with
“A Suffolk Pasture,” all pale-green and mist.
James and Will Ashton (father and son) need not
sign their seascapes, their respective styles being
beyond mistake. George Webb has deserted
portraits for landscape. The Hambidge sisters
contribute the usual highly-finished figures, and
Rose Macpherson some careful still-life studies
which compete with Bernard Hall’s studio-
sketches. Hans Heysen and Hayley Lever are
missing—and badly missed.
The Sydney morning papers published
three columns of the heroic guff of Wade and
Oarruthers at the Town Hall banquet of last
Monday. And in all the speeches there wasn’t a
hint of how the Wade Ministry proposed to find
the money for these amazing, not to say impos-
sible, railway and tramway pensions.
Tait’s retirement from the Victorian Rail-
ways is creating a vacancy for a third Commis-
sioner, which gossip is endeavoring to fill. So far
it especially favors the chances of L. McClelland
and E. B. Jones. McClelland is Secretary of the
Railways, while Jones is General Passenger and
Freights Agent, and, moreover, is alleged to
possess a grip of the fashionable business of elec-
trification.
“A KNIGHT FOR A DAY,” AT MEL-
BOURNE PRINCESS’S.
Toby Claude as Tilly
Day, a servant
lady (after
being
scorned).
Bert Gilbert (Jeremy
Joy), among other
things, does some
conjuring.
Discussing the second ballot result in
Hastings and Macleay, Sydney Telegraph pro-
pounded the following :
If Mr. Morton decides to throw over the larger section
of those who elected him and join the ranks of Mr.
McGowen’s followers, there is nothin? to prevent him ;
or if he eleets to ignore the smaller section and support
the Opposition, he is free to take that course.
Had any of the 3300 who voted for Morton ap-
proved of “Liberalism,” the opportunity of
proving the fact lay ready to hand. Davidson,
and his friends and canvassers, the Sydney press,
and all sorts of other strident folks, were yelling
for support. The paper that is capable of sug-
gesting that the Hastings electors who deliber-
ately voted against “Liberalism” were for the
most part “Liberals,” is capable of arguing that
when Judkins asks for milk he expects beer.
The Gr.P.O. at Sydney isn’t an old build-
ing, and it has already been enlarged sideways
and enlarged upwards, and one department has
been turned out and sent to house itself elsewhere,
in order to make more room for the others. Yet the
complaint of hopeless overcrowding grows worse
every day. The G.P.0., in fact, is like the in-
sufficient Owe’Sullivan railway station, and the
narrow streets of the city, and the wretched
Federal capital site—the result of utter inability
to look ahead and see the greatness that is coming.
A little while ago the disgusted municipal fathers
tried to sell theirwhiteelephant, the Queen Victoria
Markets, to the Government as a new post-office
site, and offered it amazingly cheap as elephants
go; but, again, nobody looked far enough ahead,
and the offer was rejected. The place seemed
too big. Probably, some years hence, it will be
bought at 500 per cent, advance just when it is
about,to become too small.
“The Snake”: The woodener which
N.S.W. has given to the wowsers ought to
hearten up Maoriland a bit. That unfortunate
country has for years past been bridled and
curbed by snufflebusters, until a moral gloom has
settled on the inhabitants like a wet Sunday on
Dunedin. The worst part of it is, there is hardly
a paper of any influence that will take the kill-
joys in hand, and speak advisedly to them regard-
ing the necessity for obtaining work. On the
contrary, every encouragement is given them by
free advts. to continue in their mournful tracks.
Let me quote the Wellington Dominion as an ex-
ample. On a rece'nt Wednesday, the issue con-
tained just on six columns of Snuffle news, in-
cluding articles, reports and paragraphs concern-
ing :
Suggestions “ to win the town for God.”
Anglican Canon’s message to the weary and heavy-
laden.
Street processions of clergy and choir.
Presentations to Sunday scholars.
Deputation to Premier to promote the cause of total
abstinence.
Mid-day meetings for men.
Mission services, in-door and out-door.
Missioners’ descent upon railway workshops and
woollen mill in pursuit of Satar,.
Objectionable forms of worship in China, India and
Africa.
Need of pure language in public baths.
Sunday swimming restrictions.
Pen-picture of Joe Harris, sometime miner, now mis-
sioner and social worker, addressing wharf-lumpers on
Sin.
These are only a few items in one issue of one
paper out of hundreds; but it gives a reasonable
idea of the grip the wowser’s ice-cold hand has on
the national heart.
AT POVERTY POINT.
Hugh J. Ward, the new member of the J. C. William-
son firm, will retire from the rush of the road on June 19
next, after a farewell Australian and Maoriland tour.
His first trip to this country was with Harry Connor's
“Trip to Chinatown” co., where his dancing- brought
him into immediate prominence. An engagement
with the Royal Comic Opera Co. followed ; and it was
then he started to dream of the time when his name,
instead of being on J. C. Williamson’s salary list,
would appear on the bottom of the firm’s cheque.
After fulfilling his engagement with the Royal Comics,
Ward went on to London, where he made another hit
with a man-ape or ape-man dance in Drury Lane pantp-
mime. After that he joined George Willoughby, played
comedy through Australia, returned to London, toured
America with his own co., and has been roving over the
planet ever since. He has been, and is, one of the best
employers on the road, and one of the most conscientious
showmen in his dealing with the public ; it is a fair thing
to say that he is on the good books of every actor or actress
who has been associated with him. His business
abilities need no farther guarantee than that given by
the invitation of J. C. Williamson to come into partner-
ship ; and his personal popularity is vouched by the unani-
mous hooray of Australasian pressmen. Ward will have
charge at the Sydney end of the Williamson operations.
Though the changes in the J. C. Williamson firm, men-
tioned last week, are pending, J.C.W. himself isn’t, of
course, retiring from the business ; and it seemed quite
unnecessary to say that much at the time. All that is
expected is that he will ease off a trifle. No hand, cer-
tainly, has yet been found strong enough to restrain him ;
but there are hopes that he will some day be persuaded
that he can’t be such a furious, incessant worker for ever.
“Henry Horsecollar”: I regard with bitter contempt
the oration of Salvation Nell in the play of that
name, now being performed in Sydney. I look upon it
as the limit. The heroine has spent her soul and her
weary days and her boundless affection in trying to drag
a certain slouchy brand from the burning. He hasn’t
dragged worth a copper, though he has slouched a great
deal. He has only soaked himself with rum so that he may
burn better. He is an evidence that figs don’t grow on
thistles or oranges flourish in Greenland, and that no one
ever saw a monkey sitting on the roof of the forest reading
the masterpieces of Greek prose. No ordinary methods
are likely to apply in his case. Yet the Salvation heroine,
standing on an inverted egg-cup in the street, speaks a
few sentences of the old, weak, foolish, conventional big-
drum language, and, behold, the incurable one is saved.
Now, that kind of sinner requires strenuous treatment.
This is the sort of oration that I should try on him :
“ Dear brethren andsistern, also lectern, slattern, bittern,
tavern and cithern. If you don’t repent you will be biled
forever. You will bile inwardly. When you open your
mouth to breathe, a cloud of steam will come out like
washing day. Flame will spread out from your ears for
a distance of two yards. Your head will be a voleano.
You will dwell for ever in a pitch-black cell. There will
be no meal times—only flames. Your bedstead will be
flames. You will have a red-hot mosquito-curtain
to keep out the vampires, and they won’t be kept out.
When you hear a passing footstep in the dark once every
billion years you will call out and say : ‘ What time is it?’
and a hoarse voice will answer: ‘Eternity.’ My friends,
among the Norse heathen there was a legend about the
Queen of Hell. It ran something like this:—
‘ Famine was her knife,
Hunger the table she laid,
Delay was her serving man
And Slowness her serving maid ;
Precipice was her threshold,
Care was her thorny bed,
And the tapestry of her chamber
Was Anguish burning red.’
And that, my friends, was nothing to what is going
to happen to you. The best you can hope for is to spend
eternity cleaning the boots of that heathen serving-maid,
and these boots will be three miles long, and you will
clean them with a red-hot brush and bilin' blacking.
And while you are cleaning these boots a moment will be
as 1000 years, and it will take a million years to each
boot.” That is the way I would attack the dreadfulsinner
in “Salvation Nell.” He is a bad lot, and requires to be
spoken to firmly.
A new voice, a mezzo-soprano, which has been classed
high by those whose qualifications justify a respectful
attitude towards their opinion, is to be heard this week
in Sydney. The owner is Miss Ida Moran, a young Maori-
lander, who arrived in Sydney three or four years ag-o.
Shortly afterwards she toured the North Coast of N.S.W.
as the "elocutionist in a concert co. with creditable success.
But reciting is a waste of good voice if the singing quality
is there, and Miss Moran has it on good authority that it
is there. Steffani has recently been polishing it, and to-
night at the Y.M.C.A. Hall it will be offered for criticism
ait an invitation concert. Another feature of the pro-
gramme will be the playing of Alfred Hill’s “Maori
Sonata.”
West’s Pictures put up a cinematograph record in con-
nection with the Melbourne Cup. Immediately after the
race the undeveloped film was carried from Flemington
by special train, brought on to Sydney by express, put
on board the Maheno leaving for Auckland (M.L.) the
same morning, transferred to train there, and wheeled
over the main trunk line to Wellington, where it arrived
on Tuesday morning, and was shown on the screen at the
firm’s theatre the same night.
Emil Greder, of the line, tragic presence, soulful eyes
and rich baritone voice, who came to Australia with Mus-
grove’s German Opera co.,and remained for some time
teaching, was at latest accounts in N’York singing to 10
cent audiences at moving-picture shows. Six years back
he was singing all the leading baritone grand opera r6les
at the Metropolitan Opera House. That was before he
made Australia’s acquaintance and took away a bunch of
Australian .singers, his pupils, to N’York. Four columns
of explanation in an American paper fail to make clear
the reason of the baritone’s slide into 10 centdom. His
voice is said to be as good as it was when he was Wolfram,
Don Juan and others.
The everlasting war between theatres and music halls
in England has been carried a step further by the en-
gagement of Sara Bernhardt for a half-hour’s turn at
London Coliseum. She takes along her co. and plays the
second act of “ L’Aiglon.”
Once off the regular track of show towns even such
names as J. C. Williamson and Path 6 Frferes cut no ice,
so to speak. T’other day M. P. Adams dropped into
Amphitheatre (Vic.), a one-horse hamlet, with Path 6
Fr&res “ Australia at Work ” enterprise. Before the
pianist could obtain the key of the piano the caretaker
requested the rent, and also informed the management
that, having given its performance, the co. would not be
permitted to camp in the hall—no, not even for one
night!
The haughty and beautiful mummer of Australia pro-
poses to drown his pride and go in for unionism. The
following are the chief objects he sets before himself :
(1) Legislation to control the wholesale importation of
theatrical companies from England and elsewhere; (2)
steps to prevent the introduction of Sunday shows, which
mean that the actor would be obliged to work seven days
a week for six days’pay ; (3) a minimum wage ; (4) Better
conditions as to loss of time, payment for matinees
and other matters. When 100 mimes have thus banded
together, they will be registered under the Trades Union
Act, and set out in chase of a living wage and a fair thing
generally.
“Stargazer”: Walter C. Kelly, from America, now
pitching yarns for Rickards, demonstrates the superiority
of talent over traps. He flies so light in the matter of
professional baggage that, after picking up a stick and
borrowing a penny exercise book from the nearest school
kid, he could set up his turn on a stump. He could even do
without the book and the stick and the stump. Walter
has just the easiest gift imaginable. He talks his charac-
ters, throwing in a touch of ventriloquism and trifles of
facial adjustment, and the people live. His stuff is all
good, it is touched with our common human cussedness,
and it goes with a music-hall audience as well as the most
uproarious kind of knock-about extravaganza. There’s
literary talent behind W. C. Kelly—whose?
Sydney s northern suburbs have a musical society
which, under the stick of H. H. Rice, the other evening
reproduced the harmonies of blade's “ Spring’s Message ”
and “The Erl Kinf-’s Daughter.” The principals, Mr.
Beattie (baritone), Miss Sheath (soprano) and Miss .Rosen-
wax (mezzo), did pretty well what the composer meant
<<* > an .d an orchestral rendering of the old
Faust selection was very well done indeed; the
trumpeter in particular doing himself, the society and
his brazen instrument proud.
Arnbrose Kyte, who gave £lOOO to the Burke and Wills
expedition, and whose Lane is threatened with the new
name of Payne Place, owned the Theatre Royal in Barry
Sullivan s time. They disagreed over a lady. Later on,
George Fawcett “ took off ” Sullivan in a burlesque called
the Chamber of Horrors, something like the Waxworks
scene in “The Whip”; but Fawcett’s lampoon was en-
tirely outclassed by a burlesque of Kyte, given by Jack
Edouin, brother of Charles, Rose, Willie and Julia. Kyte
wedded the once well-known Tilly Earl, who afterwards
married one Newton.
“P. Prink”: George Musgrove reckons that Austral-
asians don’t realise what a good grand-opera orchestra
is. He told his old partner, Williamson, a while ago
that he wouldn’t touch a proposed grand-opera scheme
without an orchestra, and that would cokt too
much money. “We haven’t got the people,” said
Musgrove. “ Most of the few players in Aus-
tralia who would be good enough to play in a
grand opera orchestra in Europe are teaching, and it
would not pay them to sacrifice their connections.”
Talking of the Royal Opera in Berlin, Musgrove says that
the orchestra is composed of 120 finished instrumentalists,
80 of whom play while 40 rest. These musicians are paid
£2 or £2 10s. a week, but money is not so much the con-
sideration—it is the honor. And they are entitled to a
State pension after 10 years—as is everybody else in the
theatre, from the footlights to the stage door. “When
the orchestra is at work,” said Musgrove enthusiastically,
“ it is like one man playing—perfect to the finest point.
Opera is not an amusement in Berlin ; it is a serious busi-
ness—the embodiment of high musical art. In Australia
one can only give a suggestion of the real thing—joinery,
not cabinet-making.’’
An appeal is being made in London Referee for the
widow and daughter of the late Mel B. Spurr. They are
said to be “ absolutely destitute.”
Irene Dillon, says a N’Yark report, has married her
manager, Claude W. Bostock, of Bostock and Hennesey,
Longacre Buildings, N’Yark city. Irene, who has been
trudging on an Amurkan vaudeville circuit of minor cir-
cumference, will be remembered by Melbourne theatre-
goers. She once appeared in aJ. C. Williamson panto,
and claimed attention for her sweet stub nose and un-
doubted gift of getting in the front row.
Lempriere Pringle, who is well known on this side of
the whirling marble, has made a success of the part of
Massakroff in “The Chocolate Soldier" at the London
Lyric. Another man who is playing brightly in the same
production is Roland Cunningham, brother of the Argus
editor.
Bernhardt shortly essays the rdle of Mephistopheles in
a Gallic version of “ Faust,” written by the obliging
Edmond Rostand. “My conception of the part,” said
the lady recently, “ will, of course, be somewhat differ-
ent from that of a German artiste. Art, it has been said,
is life seen through a temperament. lam essentially
Latin in temperament, and therefore this, no doubt, will
appear in my interpretation of the rdle. To put it
broadly, I imagine Mephistopheles as a fallen angel, with
something of his former self still left in him. It is this
trait of his psychology which I shall attempt to repro-
duce on the stage.” Bernhardt, who is securing an
eminent array of talent for this production, has caught
the distinguished Le Bargy, of the Comedie to
enact the part of the trusting Faust.
“Busk”: “ The Shadows of a Great City,” due for re-
vival by Maggie Moore and Roberts- in Melbourne, was
first acted in that city with a cast including : Jim Farren,
J. C. Williamson ; Benson, F. Cates ; Cooper, H. H. Vin-
cent ; Abe Nathan, A. Redwood ; Biddy Roonan, Maggie
Moore. Afterwards Grattan Riggs used to act Biddy
Roonan.
“Scene-shifter”: Lewis Waller, booked for Australia
in 1912, will find that Ju Knight has made us familiar
with some of his crack pieces—including “Beaucaire” and
“ Robin Hood.” “ Beaucaire ”he put on as a stopgap ;it
ran 400 nights. Waller first “ went on ”at Toole’s theatre,
under Toole’s management, in the early ’Bo’s, as a
youthful Orlando, and in similar roles. He*gained much
useful experience round “the provinces” with Modjeska.
He first attracted Big Smoke attention in 1887 in
Kate Vaughan’s production of “Masks and Faces."
Susie Vaughan, now one of us, was the Kitty Clive of
that show. At the Gaiety, Waller played with Mrs.
Brown-Potter and Kyrle Bellew ; then followed jobs with
Wilson Barrett, the Kendals and Tree; and from 1899 on
he has mostly been making his own jobs. He has accu-
mulated an extensive Shakespook repertoire, which he
may unpack in Australia. His wife, who tours under
hubby’s name, and generally with her own co., created a
sensation in 1901 as Zaza, a piece associated here with
Nellie Stewart.
THE BETTER PART.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
No difficulty should be experienced by the J. C.
Williamson management in securing: “supers” for
“Salvation Nell.” Real beer is handed out in the first
act.
One r6le there is for which the mime
Asks little salary—
At which he labors overtime
With keen alacrity ;
It is, in plain brief terms, a part
Designed to warm a mummer’s heart.
No wearisome rehearsals are
Gone through to get it right;
And yet he acts it like a star
On the eventful night.
(It’s not, I might remark, his will
There’s no preliminary drill.)
The artist who sustains this role
Dreads not the critic’s jeer.
No nervousness disturbs his soul;
His heart is free from fear.
He knows he cannot help but play
In lifelike fashion, come what may.
Hard is the row the actor hoes ;
Few boons or joys are his ;
Still, perfect happiness he knows,
Not to say frantic bliss,
When the glad words impact his ear :
“ You’ll play a bloke that’s mad on beer.”
N.S.W.
H. S.
RIME OF A JOYSTER.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nowadays, the Melbourne Temperance Hall is used for
vaudeville “ pops.”—“ Poverty Point” fact.
A crayfish in each hand he held ;
With prawns his pockets bulged and brimmed,
And as he rolled along he yelled
With laughter. Life and joy he hymned,
And he told the world in a loud, wild bawl,
“ See, I’ve bin up at th’ Temp’rinsh ’All 1 ”
He sang gay songs of a breezy kind ;
His rollicking voice was rich with beer;
And beer and crays and prawns combined
To spur him on to hooray and cheer,
And bellow a hint to the Law, “ Sorright—
Bin up to—hup !—Temp’rinsh ’All, to-night!”
He swept along on a long-beer jag,
And as he mafficked he did not cease
To shout “ ’Ooray! ” —with a cray-tail flag
Uplifted to wave at the shocked police.
“ ’Ooray ! ” he hollered, a fount of sound,
“For th’ Temp’rinsh ’All an’ th’pubsh all round ! ”
The night was loud with his joyful voice
As he drank his beer and he blewed his “ dough,”
As he bellowed and bid the world rejoice,
And nibbled his prawns and his cray-claws... no,
You’d never have guessed from his style, at all,
That he’d spent the night at the Temperance Hall!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


The Klngsway.
COLLARS and TIES.
The KINQSWAY Shape
Tie for 2s. 6d.
To keep in touch with the latest
Fashions in Men’s Ties we import
by every boat a large assortment of
the newest colors, shapes and
designs. Thus we are able to show
ties just as men were wearing them
in London six weeks ago.
Illustrated here is the Kingswa.v
shape, the most popular this season,
which we stock in various silks, . , ,
including Poplin, Crepe-de-Chine, Corded Silk etc., in numbers of Plain and bancy
Striped effects and beautiful colorings, 2s. 6d.
MEN’S LINEN COLLARS, lid. each, or 10s. 6d. dozen.
The Best Quality Obtainable.
To obtain better value at the price is absolutely impossible. They are expressly
made for us in enormous quantities by one of the largest and most reliable
factories in the world. . , , , . ,
Illustrated here is one of the many Shapes included in our well-known
D. J. LINEN COLLARS at lid. each or 10s. 6d. doz.
These Goods we send Carriage Paid.
The “Marmora.”
DAVID JONES LTD.
Opp* G.P.0.,
... SYDNEY.
MELBOURNE—266 Collins Street.
BRISBANE—93 to 95 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE—CawIer Place.
ENJOY YOUR . . .
Saturday Half Holiday
WITH ONE OF
Harringtons’ Cameras
You should not fail to see our selection of Magazine
Cameras, ranging from 5/- upwards.
EACH CAMERA IS SIMPLICITY ITSELF.
To those requiring a Camera to put in a Vest Pocket or
Lady’s Handbag, we specially recommend the Fold-
ing Ensignette, closes like a purse, take photos
2jin. x and is DAYLIGHT LOADING.
PRICE, COMPLETE IN CASE, 35/-
HARRINGTONS Ltd.
386 George St. (near G.P.0.), SYDNEY, j
SOCIETY
PENEOLDS
WINES
BETWEEN THE ACTS.
She: “ Waste is sinful"
HE: “Not always. I know one which is anyelic.”
REDUCED FOR CASH.
IRATE HORSERYER (to auctioneer): “ You
swindled me over that horse deal.
You said he could trot a mile in two minutes , and the best I can make him do is a
mite in four minutes."
AUCTIONEER: “ Vell the other two minutes is discount."
The second reading of the Bill to prohibit
certain classes of Sunday entertainment has ill all
solemnity been carried by the Victorian Assembly.
Premier Weary announced in a pained tone that
the breaking of the day of rest was rapidly becom-
ing a scandal. Britishers, Bernard Shaw tells us,
think they are moral when they are only uncom-
fortable, and opine, therefore, that a day of roast
beef and bad sermons is a day of rest. The
average sensual citizen eats enormously on Sun-
day because he has nothing else to do, drowses
with relaxed buttons during the warm afternoon,
turns and snores all night in his sleep, and goes to
graftonMondav morning biliousand bad-tempered.
This is the British ideal of a well-spent Sabbath,
an ideal adopted with enthusiasm by a large
number of otherwise normal Australians, A
day of rest means simply a day of
cracked church bells and Salvation Army cor-
nets, masterful inaction, lassitude and indigestion.
As to the economic or industrial side, Murray’s
Bill is, of course, horrible hypocrisy. In France,
where they don’t have this dead Sabbath, a
weekly rest has been established. There even
domestic servants have 24 hours’ complete rest in
every seven days. But when a deputation
recently waited on the good Victorian Premier to
ask for one day off in every seven for all workers,
the Wowsers’ Friend (who thinks the way Sunday
is broken is a scandal) sent them away empty.
* * * *
“ Gent One ” has long been a synonym for
rapacity, low cunning and double dealing ; in a
thousand melodramas and on a thousand music-hall
stages the solicitor has been held up to execration
as a sly, unscrupulous hound; and literature
teems with stories of the unworthy ways of the
“ pettifogging attorney.” But, perhaps, the
shrewdest stab a maligned profession has ever
endured was inflicted on it last week, when the
land agents foregathered in Sydney and decided
unanimously not to allow solicitors into their ranks.
Banned by the land agency profession ! It is
enough to make a sensitive solicitor, if such there
lie, take to polities. There are exceptions, no
doubt; but, as a general thing, land, house and
estate agents are about as hot propositions as
you will find outside Parramatta Gaol, where the
second and third-timers are. Their job is the
last resort of (1) rejected Parliamentarians, (2)
solicitors who have been struck off the rolls. (3)
unfrocked clerics, (4) Wowsers who have fallen
beneath the spell of Beer and been found out, (5)
ex-gaol-birds possessed of “a manner and ad-
dress.” Of course, there are respectable land
agents. Anyhow, it was scarcely for land agents
to propel the first brick —not even at the Ma
State’s solicitors.
A recent advt.:—
WANTED, at once, CARETAKER, with Wife (with-
out family) for Central Methodist Mission, New-
castle. Duties require whole tin.e, with residence
on premises (3 rooms). Salary equal to *l3. Apply by
letter, giving full pars, as to age, qualifications, etc.,
with copies references, to the SECRETARY,.O.M.M.,
Newcastle.
“ Equal to ” £2 a week, no “ encumbrances,” and
no leisure time; arid the aspirants for the price-
less job are expected to give documentary proof of
sinlessness to boot. How typical of the average
“Mission ” !
How they brought the good news to Mel-
bourne :
The first word about the Eureka Stockade appears to
have been taken to the Geelong Advkrtiskr by one
McElwaine. Another messenger went direct to Mel-
bourne and told Attorney-General Stawell, who was at
St. James’s Church, the battle having been fought at
dawn on Sunday, December 3. Thus far history. The
writer of an impracticable yarn about Eureka, which I
bought the other day, adds some trimmings to the story.
He-says the Chief Commissioner picked out Gore, a smart
officer, and sent him off full tear on a horse named
Inkerman, out of Cobb’s coach. Inkerman pounded on
to the first Cobb change—Puddy’s wayside inn. “ Here,”
says Gore, “give me the best of Cobb’s horses and take
this one”; and the best was a roan mare (Jeanette), a
racer. Jeanette carried Gore over a bad patch of road from
Gordon’s towards Ballan. He thought she was down once.
At Ballan he didn’t try Cobb, knowing that his horses de-
teriorated getting away from Ballarat and Melbourne
(always the bloods for the start and the finish). But
he had the luck to meet Fisken, with a splen-
did fresh horse, and swapped. The fifth horse was
got at Melton; the sixth took him to Melbourne.
Gore made straight for St. James’s, with a conviction
that Stawell would be there. The congregation was sing-
ing the Te Deum. Says Gore to the verger: “Please
call Mr. Stawell out. News of the most urgent im-
portance.” Out comes Stawell, bareheaded, to get the
first news of Eureka.
A bakers’ deputation which waited on
N.S.W. Premier McGowen the other day, told
him that fresh bread, hot from the oven, was a
discredited old image with clay feet. The depu-
tation wanted McGowen to pass a law prohibiting
night work in bakeries, the idea being that a
Wages Board can’t successfully do the trick
because of the number of small bread-mills which
don’t employ any baking-labor except the boss’s.
Pre&ty well everyone admits that it is better
for men to work by day than by night—
better for their health and better socially—
but in this matter the fresh-bread fetich has got
the public by the throat, and even the sym-
pathetic McGowen wants to be assured that there
will be no public inconvenience before he goes
ahead. The best assurance available, so far, is
that 11 years ago Liverpool abolished night work
in its bakeries, and nothing dreadful has hap-
pened to it, and it isn’t proposing to go back on
its tracks; and Cork and other sizeable cities have
been for years eating bread that was brewed the
day before.
About an old-established, washing-place :
The time-worn question of shifting Kenny’s Baths from
their ancient site at St. Kilda (Melbourne) cropped up in
the Victorian Assembly the other day, when a Harbor
Trust Land Resumption Bill was being pushed through.
This is practically a Bill for removing the old baths to
make way for a sea-wall, whereby Melbourne’s populous
marine suburb will be robbed of a long stretch of sea
beach. This sea-wall is part of a plan devised for the
purpose of limiting St. Hilda’s sea beach to the length of
the present Esplanade in the interests of property-owners
and showmen thereabouts. The sea-wall will call
for the abolition of Kenny’s ancient stronghold,
though it will leave the St. Kilda Yacht Club johnnies
in undisturbed possession of their bit of beach adjoining
the baths. And the question, voiced by Maekinnon in
the House, is: “What is the public to do for bathing
facilities at St. Kilda?” Premier Murray replied with
the old statement that the proprietor has been offered a
suitable site for new baths, but this is denied by the man
who is now under notice to quit. He seems bound to be
a loser, whereas the syndicate that owns the only other
baths in the vicinity is bound to be a gainer. And the
public, anyway, will lose an easy means of getting washed.
If a change of site is inevitable, the public, just as much
as Kenny, wants it to be arranged with all possible regard
for bathing facilities. Premier Murray, seemingly, has
only considered the arguments of certain persons who
have the loan of his ear.
* * * *
Randolph Bedford —back once more from
his travels :
I’ve heard a good deal about a combine in Australian
coastal shipping, and it seems to me that a combine is
not always the worst form of business operation. Any-
how, this one doesn’t stop the Australian getting more
value for his money than any other man on earth—as be
should in a country so marvellously productive. At
Yokohama, some months ago, I booked by a Pacific mail
liner, the Korea, to Honolulu and San Francisco. The
Korea is owned by Mr. Harriman, and he ate my meal all
the way, and charged me £3 a day for a shocking menu ;
and thousands of tip-hunters lay privily in wait for me
everywhere. Returning, I had a service twice as good on
a Union (M.L.) boat from Vancouver to Sydney at
£1 a day. And before I left Australia I had
the perfection of ship and service on an Australian
liner —Melbourne to Cairns and back again for £l5;
roughly, 28 days of perfect travelling and accommodation
at 10s. Od. a day. If they had that sort of combine in the
United States they’d canonise it, and put up stained glass
windows to the directors. When I hear some of these
new-chum Australians talking of high prices and cursing
the Labor party, I think of my dollar steak in New York,
and £3 a day for fish and worms to Mr. Harriman, and
4s. 2d. for a telegraph message which would cost me in
Australia one shilling. This is the cheapest land on earth
and the best; even its Shipping Combine oppresses
travellers at 10s. 9d. a day.
A STERN
ADMONITION.
THE BOY: “My word! She's lairin' into 'im all
right."
MUMS: "Come away from there this minute!
When'll I learn you to stop pry in into other
folk's business?" (A pause.) " Whats she
hittin’ him with?”
“ Snell ” : Toby Claude, the tiniest Ameri-
can actress on any stage, has been criticising the
Australian young man so far as she has seen him.
She objects that he is nothing of a brick in the
matter of glorious raiment. He seems to forget
that he is the most important thing in life, and
that his clothes come next to him. No smart
Murkan youth ever forgets that, says Miss Toby.
He has eight suits of clothes, and four of them
are always away being pressed, so that the wearer
may look just It—the perfect It, without wrinkles
and creases. It’s a comfort to hear we are not
quite as tailor-made as our neighbors. Still, Miss
Claude may live to find that the young Aus-
tralian johnnie is more pressed by his tailor than
appears on first sight.
THE GRASS IN THE GLOAM.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Rev. related how he had seen numerous
\ oung couples seated on the grass and benches in the
park whose conduct, etc., etc. He could give names.”
Another clergyman : “0, Don’t! ” — Recent Bulletin.
As I walked through the grass in the gloam
I saw how the wicked do seek
To find a dear, stolen delight
In nibbling a she-sinner’s cheek ;
I heard in the hush of the night
The sound of a word which was “ Nyum ” ;
’Twas breathed from the lips of a wight
Whose scandalous ways struck me dumb,
And showed me how Satan doth roam
And lurk in the grass in the gloam !
As T stole through the grass in the gloatn,
The cuddlesome couples I noted ;
I saw how their arms would entwine,
And how on each other they doted.
Gnwrapt in oblivion divine,
They cared not a pin for inspection ;
And the more that I peeped and I peered
The deeper became their infection !
Yea! Just as I sadly had feared,
They hugged and they mugged in the gloam,
As I stole through the grass in the gloam.
Oh! Dear brethren—the grass in the gloam—
Right down from the garden primeval,
Has teemed with the Creatures of Sin,
And swarmed with the Children of Evil.
I cannot see how we can win
Our way to the gates of our yearning
Unless we set fire to the grass,
And smoke out the Lost in the burning.
Yea- smoke out the lad and the lass,
Who laugh on the grass in the gloam,
The glamorous grass in the gloam !
As I stole through the grass in the gloam,
There smote me a bibulous sinner—
Yea ! full in the rear with his boot
(O ! grievous it felt after dinner).
He called me a skunk and a coot,
And likewise a meddlesome vermin.
Oh ! children of Wrath such as he
They scoff at the church and the sermon,
And they fall on the Righteous like Me
Full oft in the gloom of the gloam ;
As we steal through the grass in the gloam !
This Tale of the Grass and the Gloam
I tell it to all who may need it.
I hid them beware of the snare ;
And, brethren, I hope you will heed it.
Ye maidens with gold in your hair
Fight shy of the park and its benches,
For I, even I, have been there
And heard the loud giggle of wenches ;
And have groaned in a deadly despair
At the wickedness there in the gloam,
As I crept through the grass in the gloam !
S. AUSTRALIA.
S. STIGGINS.
RETURN THANKS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When on the shy and blushing rose
The clear, teetotal fluid flows
From out the leaky garden hose,
No fulsome compliments it blows
In payment of the debt it owes—
Its fragrant thanks delights my nose.
So, when in some great luncheon tent
The full-fed banqueters give vent
To ev’ry stale, old sentiment,
I mutter as each fossil proses,
“ Would that his thanks were like the Rose’s !”
N.s.w.
THE INATTENTIVE WAITER


M
rm,
vww
□
ħ
r, WON’T YOU USE
what is good and pure?
Those common soaps that
do as much injury as cleans-
ing are never tolerated where
Sunlight Soap has once
been tried.
No. 57. GUARANTEED UNDER THC
“PURE FOOD ACT, 1908,"
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED.
SYDNEY. N.S.W. No. 57.
By Special
Appointment
h
to
Lord Brassey.
OVENS, M 0(
THE CATERER, Tel. No. 2, Ascot.
Wedding 1 Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Ring: up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
m PONDS,
VICTORIA.
ROBERT
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
ĥ
New Shipments of
CREPE, SHIRTS.
SO popular have these Shirts become that we entirely
sold out and had to withdraw them from our
advertisement.
Fresh supplies, however, have come to hand, and
you have the advantage of buying now from an unbroken
range of patterns.
This Cr&pe is a grand wearing material, has a nice
appearance and is so pleasantly cool.
We have these Shirts with soft fronts and stiff cuffs
and neckbands, or with soft, loose collar and turned-
back cuffs.
Price 5/6 each. Postage 6d. extra.
Please state size of collar when ordering, also style
required.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE—just out
and illustrating MEN’S WEAR FULLY.
PEAPES & CO. LTD.
“Men’s Outfitters.”
309-311 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
*
The Boy Scouts, the famous Red Herring
organisation, seized an advt. for itself out of the
disappearance of Bessie Gibson, a girl who was
last seen reading one of Anthony Hope’s novels
on the rocks at Manly (N.S.W.). The Scouts
who crawl about on their stomachs in the vicinity
of that seaside resort, volunteered to help in the
systematic search which was being carried out
quietly by the police and private sympathisers.
None of these yearned to be photographed in
the act of searching; or, if they did, they
suppressed the yearn and kept strictly to
business. The Kid Scouts, though, were not
that kind of searcher. Last Saturday’s paper
contained two pictures dedicated to their
glorification. The first showed two young-
sters breast-high in scrub; underneath it
appeared the label “On the Trail.” As a matter
of cold fact, there was no trail to be on. The other
illustration was of two lads saluting a youth with
an open note-book who was standing beside a
flagstaff and an immense Union Jack. The
smaller of the saluting pair had rope festooned
about his person as if he had just returned |from a
lynching. The hopeful reader searching for an
explanation of the triumphant tableau, found
beneath it these fateful words: “ The First Re-
port : Nothing.” This country is going to be Hull
of inferior actors presently, when the Boy Scouts
grow up.
“ The Religious Editor ” is dissatisfied :
One of these nights the glittering substance which
climbs up the thermometer steadily from 9 till 3, then
turns with a windy shriek and slithers down the banis-
ters, will fall and break its neck. I was very disap-
pointed when the fatal accident failed to happen on a
recent Tuesday. That morning, when I roamed out to
get the paper, a breath of hot wind stroked my cheek like
a kitten’s paw. As I went in I looked at the thermome-
ter, and saw that the mountaineering fluid had started
for a day’s climb. At 9 o’clock it was scooting past 72'0;
at 11, it had left 88’0 behind ; and at 12.45 it was totter-
ing dizzily at 93'9. A demand for long beers, lemon
squashes, fans, ice, draughts, shade, brevity and
quietness set in and raged in the dusty city, where
the wind at every corner poured itself at you like the
breath of a well-stokeddragon. Restaurantcookswho had
not reckoned on a hot day, cried bitterly into cauldrons of
Irish stew and heaped curry on their heads ; drapers,
with anything warm-looking in their windows, perspired
at the window-dresser and told him puftily that it must
never happen again ; people with immense stocks of hot-
water bottles drank steadily; and hot-pie merchants
went and devoured their own stocks. All clocks seemed
to stop dead, barrel organists were silenced, German
bands became extinct, policemen ran down, fish-shops
screamed, and pints of prawns held indignation meetings
and threatened to leave the country. Miserable Dagoes
sat behind fly-spotted cash registers, and snarled in cray-
fish at one another. Nobody talked ; the art of
gossip blew up with a bang and the populace sat
stunned, taking the count. Suddenly a puff of dust
and a reviving whiff of cool sea-wind hit the nerveless,
panting city, and it sat up and found that 4 o’clock had
stolen upon it. A whirling squadron of ragged grey-
black clouds came galloping up the sky, and on every
road a column of dust raced north. Then the mercury
leaped on the banisters, and flashed downstairs till at
9 o’clock it was at 60'0 —a drop of 33 degrees in five
hours. Out of doors the wind flowed swiftly by at about
30 miles an hour, not like dragon’s breath, but like a
mountain creek after a snow-melting carnival. I sneezed
35 times, slammed the door, kicked the thermometer and
tried to warm myself with whisky and bad language.
Ours is a versatile climate.
* # * #
“Billy B.” ; It is always profitable to
study woman ; but it is most profitable when the
circumstances betray her into removing her mask.
The girl nearest me at the Stadium the other
night was about 20 or 22, well-dressed and evi-
dently of “ the better class.” She and her girl-
companion had arrived early, and were in the
reserved chairs. They spoke very little to
each other, kept their eyes glued upon the
fighting stage, and invited no attention to
themselves. The younger girl was anxious;
her mouth had the dryness which accom-
panies nervous anticipation ; and she swal-
lowed with little gulps that twitched her
throat repeatedly. But when the seconds
ha.d stripped the men, leaving them all skin-
glistening and muscle-rippling beneath the
great electric globes, she smiled softly, and
the two trained animals were unslipped. It
was short and sudden and nasty, that fight;
after the first two rounds, it was not a fight
at all, but was merely one'man throwing all
his science and strength and brutality of
mind-direction to batter his fellow to insen-
sibility. And, as the heavy blows flashed to
the unguarded face, the “hiss” of the
striker’s breath was doubled by the “hiss”
of the girl beside me, who was giving
blow for blow as surely as if she were
within the ropes. Her arms folded, her
body leaning forward, the fingers of the
band nearest me tightened in a clutch of
white blouse ; she hardly moved except when
the failing man reeled beneath his punish-
ment, or dropped to stagger up again.
Then her head moved from side to side as
if she, too, had been stricken, and was
fighting hard to keep the mist back from
her senses. But she was not hurt at what
she saw ; even in the fourth round, before
the referee sensibly and decently stopped
the slogging of a beaten man, she seemed
fascinated with the crude trial of animalism.
As the cheers for the victor died, and the
washing sponges played red in the electric glare,
she rose and passed out with the crowd—the
mother and custodian of the Eternal Savage.
HIGHFLOWN.
KATE: “She boasts of his descent.”
JESSICA: “ Yes. He's an aeronaut, you know.”
From The Bulletin’s chained Anarchist:
To the unthinking it would appear as if the Fat Man
was the same brand of inhumanity wherever he was
located, but a study of the species will show this to be an
error. I do not mean that he is any less inhuman any-
where, for by his works you shall know him in all
lands and localities. But there are some distinct
differences, which may be observed by even the
dullest and most mentail.v-blind person—always except-
ng a Tory editor and a Chamber of Commerce. Take
the Commonwealth and Maoriland, for instance, and let
us start with New South Wails. Here you have a
prime rascal, with a furtive eye that suggests
the fear of the gaoler. Work is his abhorrence. He
would rather swindle the Customs of 10s. than
build up a bed in Heaven ; he would allow a nation to rot
at his back door rather than bear a hand except to lift its
small change. This next sample is from Victoria. Ob-
serve the enlarged ear (developed through hearing his
banks bursting) and up-turned eye (caused by dodging
falling- securities). Westralia and Queensland produce
Fatmen of perhaps the most dangerous type of all—the
hearty, good-fellow type. But for myself I detest
the Tasmanian type most. You can tell him easily by his
habit of mopping himself with a handkerchief; he is a
vile sweater. South Australia and Maoriland Fats are
almost identical in their apparent Respectability' and
actual mealinesses. They are most commonly found at
the rail of the altar, where the sound of the loud Amen
is, as often as not, the sign of the unrepentant Thief.
SUBURBAN TYPES.
Father shows the visitor the pictures Pauline
painted all by herself.
William Leonard, one of the No License
candidates at last N.S.W. elections, and a fervent
assailant of the Drink Horror, was fined £3O last
week for selling beer in a private house—thus
demonstrating, yet again, the immemorial con-
nection between cold tea and sly grog. It
is cases such as William’s which hearten up
beer-lovers, and cause them to realise that, even
when the licensed publicans are exterminated, the
unlicensed Pharisees will still be there with the
alcoholic goods.
Ihe ravages of timber-getters on the north
coast of N. S. Wales are making sizeable
a, wo °d more and more difficult to obtain
in large quantities, and a heated argu-
ment with “the Crown” on the ques-
tion of supplies is raging. The tree-
hunters have made envious remarks,
concerning the reserves, and it is in
regard to one of these that matters
recently reached a crisis at Bellingen.
This particular reserve was applied
for by a well-to-do syndicate, and it
was whispered into the ear of the
vicinity that the application would be
granted, on the ground that, as
the reserve was
inaccessible, con-
siderable capital
would be required
to work it. The
timber-getters
promptly held an
indignation meet-
ing, and one of
the party under-
took to disprove
the inaccessibility
argument. Yoking up his bul-
locks, he set off for the highest
part of the reserve, hewed down
an immense vegetable and started
back. To his surprise, he found
that a mysterious party had tried
to block his return by felling adult
trees right across his track. How-
ever, with the help of an axe and
some double-edged blasphemy, he
carved his triumphant wav home,
and presented his proof that the
reserve was accessible even to one
r man and a bullock dray. In the
middle of the applau? from his mates,
the Grown arrived and cnarged him with
trespass. But, so far, it hasn’t charged
the other person who chopped down the other
vegetables. In fact, it hasn’t even asked the
other person what his sinful game was.
There were razors flying in the air last
week when the N.S.VV. Chief Secretary instructed
the police not to prosecute Sunday sellers of soft
drinks and fruit. The mildest things that were
said of the new Government were that it was a*
law-breaker, a Sabbath-breaker, a public enemy
and an institution which had sold its soul to the
Devil. As a matter of fact, it is difficult to see
that the situation is very much changed. There
is a rigid law against all Sunday trading. Yet it
is a well-known fact that certain shops have
for a long time had permission to trade on
Sunday, while others haven’t. How one lot
came to be selected in preference to another
was apparently arranged on the same prin-
ciple as the falling of the tower of Siloam—that
famous structure dropped on the people who
happened to be there, and those who weren’t
there it didn’t drop on. When the late Sunday
Brunker was left in charge for a short time
during Premier Reid’s absence he fell like an
avalanche on the Sabbath refreshment; but his
great “reform” only lasted about two weeks.
Apparently, Chief Secretary Macdonell is simply
going to disregard the Sabbatarian law a little more
openly than his predecessors. Probably the
simplest idea would be to get Parliament to
authorise the issue of licenses for Sunday trading
in the light refreshment business, and charge for
them.
The shirt of the late Edward VII. caused
many fervent loyalists to stampede to a church
fair in Launceston (Tas.) last week. The posses-
sion of another person’s shirt entails endless ex-
planation, especially if one wishes to publicly
exhibit it; therefore the advt. that called the
faithful together was careful to explain that the
garment once formed part of the dead Peace-
maker’s first trousseau, and that it was presented
to a cousin of the owner by one of the ladies-in-
waiting. How the lady-in-waiting got it wasn’t
explained ; the pedigree or explanation stopped
short at the threshold or back gate of the palace,
leaving one in an agony of .doubt. The last time
this writer lost a garment, he suspects that it was
taken by a lady-in-washing with pegs in her
mouth ; but there are probably other ways of
moulting a wardrobe.
* * * *
Adelaide’s mayor has been asking Premier
Verran to see if he can’t bring the importance of
the office under the notice of Ring George, so that
the city may in future have a gaud mayor ; and
Verran seems to have promised to tell the Agent-
General to abase himself before the throne and
pray George to be kind. This paper is beginning
to suspect that a set of rules ought to be drafted
on this subject of gaud mayors. There ought
to be, to begin with, an official smeller,
whose job it should be to go round and
sniff drains, etc. Three unsatisfactory sniffs
should disqualify that city for 12 months from
having a lord mayor. Or a scale of points should
be drawn up after the manner of the show-ring.
Twenty-five points might be allowed for the com-
plete absence of perfumery, 10 for the absence of
garbage in the streets, 20 for the presence of
decent pavements, 15 for traffic supervision,
and 50 for public utilities. Or, if that is too
elaborate, every city or town might be en-
titled to have a lord mayor whose inhabitants
had been broken of the habit of spitting on the
footpaths. A city with a lord in the town hall
and 10 miles of spittoons outside seems to this
paper to have a perverted idea of modern reform,
not to speak of civic dignity.
A SOUL WITHOUT
HARMONY.
ST. PETER (to applicant): “ We have plenty of
room in the orchestra—can you play!”
APPLICANT : “I don't know a note -of music, but
I am williny to learn."
ST. PETER: “ That is impossible—we hate no
music professors here."
Robert McNab, Maoriland’s ex-Minister
of Lands and foremost historical student, has just
damaged beyond repair the old yarn of a race
between French and English ships for the
sovereignty of the South Island. The yarn was
very circumstantial, too; it told how Governor
Hobson detained the French captain with enter-
tainments, while Stanley, of the British ship
Britomart, slipped off to Akaroa and hoisted the
flag. There is a monument at Akaroa telling all
about it; but now it seems that this monument,
like many others, is a base perverter. Stanley’s
log, Hobson’s despatches, and Lavelli’s despatches
to the French King have all been inspected by the
industrious McNab, and the pretty tale flies off
howling ; for, among other things, it is proved
that British sovereignty had previously been pro-
claimed at Cloudy Bay.
“MY LAWD!”
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Mayor of Adelaide (Mr. L. Cohen) waited upon the
Premier (Mr. Verran) to-da3’, to discuss certain details in
connection with the proposal to move the Imperial
authorities to issue letters patent to elevate the status of
Mayor of Adelaide to that of Lord Mayor, similar to Mel-
bourne and Sydney.
The Mayor pointed out that the proposal not only con-
cerned the status of the city but even more largely
affected the prestige of the whole State.
Mr. Verran expressed himself in entire sympathy.
“ My Lord ’’—good Lord !
And wot 'as Hadelaide hever done that she
Should lag be’ind them other cappitawls?
And hain’t she just as ripe for dignitee
As Melbing is, or Sydney’s tnorble ’alls ?
W’ere’er great names are writ in bankwit gravy,
Hain’t Cohen as good as ’Arris, or as Davey ?
Hindeed, yes !
“ My Lord ” —oh Lord !
But w’y, I arsk you—nay, demawnd you—w’y
Should Jeameses hin them sister cities stare
Hat a Lord Mayor, while Hadelaide stands by
With nothink better than a common Mayor?
I 'ope the Honnerable Mister Verran
Will see that Hadelaide, too, can go Lord-Mayorin’!
It’s hup to ’im !
“My Lord ! ” “My Lady !”
W’ich, with a Lady Mayoress, Hadelaide
Could shine a brighter jool in Brilting’s crown,
And hevery flunkey would be gladder made
With a reel live Lord Mayor around the town !
Clem ’lll is capting of this year’s Eleving,
But with a Lord, this city would b“ ’Eving !
Down on yer stummicks !
VICTORIA.
V.


totalisator condemned.
The Rev. Dr. Bevan said: *• Person-
1 respect the 1 bookies * more than
1 do the totalisator.”
SELF-DENIAL APPEAL.
SALVATION ARMY SERVICES.
The Salvation Army held three ser-
vices yesterday In the Independent
Church, Colllns-street. In the morn-
lag the total amount of money ob-
tained by the self-denial movement
was made known. The grand total for
Australasia amounted to £39,350, or
an increase over last year ol £3400.
fcle (f<,Jcv«lKr):-'Xow
f 1 We d<s °r I
ofen locKer* HJSX'UOVO
h tnm ' K ! L
]Wb
•A«lu ,
D °t\r*iec
We e K Of
"'V.-r
6 “y“ S |>r.«M£
A<> u S u a' -iO
\f\
o«wKb*y/*w7.
I m u$f BaJmojLife r r
Sewed by some After- on %£
. O loritl wilfi Ho|>* of Some D.vmer DnnK
i Jo fill -fee C«f> -v*her» crumbled mlo V*s .
Mr. O'Malley denied that he had said
that the system of taking the census
should not be altered. He had found that
the expression “ Ministerial responsi-
bility ” was a fiction. He felt like Gulli-
ver when he was bound
by the Lilliputians. He
was roped head, feet,
hands and
'"° M Ti y ° norb trom
in&'iy//* s of ridiculous serenity J
, .t there was nothing on God's
Mr. J- B- Willis lelt there w the , ar mer.
earth that would or cou man t 0 work lor
There was no inducemen five would
turn up; they would then g anythiogl He had
about It. No Jnduce *"® [bit the land tax would come
warned them years alter themselves.
If thev did not take action and
and It had.
I IKM-
MoRpW II h 4
P \
IMJOY
Time-
TR»P
oj-
/Af" Sv*e .
-time
begs. -to
li-tfte I
UKKtls n
I>JA6 0t
r "D — 1
WmKT O^Uef*
Mr- Talt said that there was do railway service Inthe
world Ci’hleb possessed such a good equipment or organisa-
tion for ambulance work as that of Victoria.
TRIALS AND TRIBULATIONS IN VICTORIA.


LEWIS & WHITTY’S OLIVE OIL.
Guaranteed in conformity with the PURE
FOOD REGULATIONS of the Australian States.
LEWIS & WHITTY,
Melbourne and Sydney. n
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
PLAQUE PENDANTS
are the latest fashion in Europe. Flat, elegant
and of the most exquisite, refined workman-
ship, they are an artistic pleasure to see.
We receive the latest designs each mail, and
then make them here. We thus save all duties
(viz., 27J4 per cent.) and importing expenses,
and are able to sell at London Prices.
The Plaque shown forms a Pendant and
also a Neck-Slide.
FAIRFAX &l ROBERTS
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street,
Pearls and Peridot*-, £4/4/-
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
THE COLLISION.
“ Gor'blime, Ginger, I'll—l’ll—I'll pull yer fer
damiges! ”
In Memoriam advt. from the Barrier
Miner :
GOLAM MAHOMED, known here as GOLAM JOHN
aged about 33 years, passed away on Saturday, September
17, this year, at his own camel camp, North Broken Hill
after a short illness, from inflammation of the bowels!
Two doctors attended him, and the deceased received
best possible medical treatment; but at last he was called
away to his last resting-place, leaving his large number
of friends and relations to mourn the sad loss. By his
courteous manners and good disposition and honest and
straightforward conduct he made himself very popular
and well liked wherever he went ; and particu-
larly in this district he was idolised by his
countrymen and other friends, as he was known’ to be
a man of great strength and powerful muscles, and a
strong wrestler, although he spent most of his time in
attending to his large camel business here. Up to the.
last moments he was conscious, and conversed freely with
those around him, bearing very patiently the severe pain
he was suffering. He took ill on the road at Euriowie
coming to Broken Hill, where the writer met him. The
writer feels the loss and bereavement very keenly as he
loved him more than a brother. But we are ail’God’s
and must return to Him ; we must resign and submit to
His will. Gone, but never forgotten. Kassim. North
Broken Hill, October 20, 1910.
A LOT TO DO YET.
MR. WAYBACK (looking over the moated grange): “ Well, you've got a flash house all right,
but I don t see where the money you’ve spent on the grounds comes in. Why, ’ere's a
whole lot of live timber, and you haven’t started to ringbark it yet."
“ Miner”: Very little is heard of the
dingo nowadays; yet it is not so long since he
was a very real terror. Although neither so
strong nor so daring as the wolf, he was still
daring enough, sometimes, to attack man himself.
I remember once, during a severe winter in the
early ’6o’s, when the mounted mailman between
Wood’s Point and the Jamieson, ij» Gippsland
(Vic,),; was chased over the snowy ranges by a
pack of dingoes, made desperate by hunger.
Although he was armed, and repeatedly fired his
revolver amongst them, they followed him until
he arrived at the mining camp. On another occa-
sion—outside Coolgardie, in ’94—another mail-
man, this time on a bicycle, was chased for many
miles ; and the rider had the run of his life in
keeping at the head of the starving procession.
* * * *
“ Leo Lear ” : The Victorian Closer
Settlement Board has pushed its spade into the
empty Western District, and dug out two estates,
which it will proceed to portion out to the earth-
hungry, Eumeralla East, of .10,000 acres, was
part of the vast Staughton heritage. The station
hedges in one side of the land-locked township of
Macarthur, the streets whereof show multitudes of
trees but dashed few inhabitants. Morvan,
8250 acres, close to Branxholme on the Port!
land line, was for years held by a bank ;
then the Phillips family bought it, and
raised a flukey hole to a healthy run,
and not many people will grudge them
the cash they made out of it. Branx-
holme is another of Vic.’s wilting
townships. Both Cumeralla and Mor-
van are within 50 miles of the waiting
piers of Portland, and under a common-
sense railway system the future produce
from them should move thither- wards.
But the chances are that until the
Commonwealth takes over the rail-
ways, or the State decides to charge
equitable rates on them, the produce will
go on moving in the old direction.
*.*.*..„
“ Williecan” employs a scientist:—
Australia for the white race ? No good to me ! “ Aus-
tralia for Australians ”is my motto now. I was adding- a
little to my currency on a shallow gold lead. Very soon
I found that being underground boss and winding engine
alternately was almost as strenuous as battling for a block
of earth in a Murray land-consultation ; so’l decided to
look around for a partner. The lead had a poor reputa-
tion locally, I found, so f had to fall back on an assisted
immigrant, who was journeying to.nowhere in particular.
Now, I’ve found most “importeds” have a failing,
and mine had his. He was an enthusiastic bug*
hunter, and hunted valiantly and consistently in
between buckets. (I had installed him as the winding
plant.) He soon acquired an extensive collection of the
small game of the neighborhood, but finally, having ex-
hausted the supply, settled down so well to graft that I
was beginning to think I had collected a first prize. Then
one afternoon I fouqd a loaded bucket returning to me
in great haste and without explanation. I managed to,
sidestep instantaneous destruction by l-16th of an inch
after which I clambered upstairs to ascertain the trouble.’
The trouble was careering across country in pursuit
apparently, of his fleeing sanity. He returned excited
and speechless; but presently, in reply to my abrupt
query: “Did he think he was a motor engine instead of
a winding winch? ”he gasped out: “ So’d you chase it,
too, if you’d seen the lovely grasshopper I was after.” I
went straight away and collected my rifle. When I came
back he had gone.
“0.K.”: The latest addition to Wirths’
menagerie impresses one with the utter absurdity
of the hippopotamus as a' zoological specimen.
An elephant in a zoo. or a circus is always turned
to useful account; but a hippo, is a ridiculous
creature. Its head is like unto a huge deformed
coal-scuttle, and its mouth, when open,
seems a wicked waste of space, considering
that the monster is only a moderate eater
of soft stuff—corn food, potatoes, etc. Its
molars may be necessary for grinding vege-
table tucker, but its terrible incisors and
curved tusky teeth are quite superfluous.
They are intended for rooting up long
grass from the ground, and devil a bit of
ground does a circus-bred hippo, ever get a
chance to tear at. Being a preposterous
beast, it sweats blood instead of water.
Anyway, the Wirths’ exhibit breaks out
in gory perspiration during the night and
after she awakes in the morning. The
prospect of a bath excites her to a profuse
perspiration ; then she wades into the water
and washes herself, free of . blood for the
rest of the day. This hippo, will be a trouble- .
some handful to the'Wirths, for she needs
a mighty big tank to be carried around with
her, and the instructions from Germany re
feeding her and driving her into the water
every morning cover two sheets of paper.
Her age is only three years (hippos, can live
fully 30 years in captivity), and she may
grow to be at least 12ft. long and sft. tall
at the shoulders. Thusfar she hasn’t been
tamed to even walk around the circus. She
can do nothing but loaf in .a big cage'and
look impossible. Luckily, her name—Lizzie
—has a special value for Melbourne advt.
purposes. For weeks before her arrival the
Clarke-Meynell advertisements of “Tom
Jones ’’ included a “gag”—“ Has anybody
seen Lizzie?’’—referring to an apochryphal
leech which Cromwell, as Benjamin Part-
ridge, professes to have lost from a bottle.
Wirths’ agent came along and jumped the
claim, so to speak, and now the hippo,
figures as the Lizzie who was originally men
tioned as missing.
“ C.A.8.” : Most people are of opinion
that “ bulldog ” ants attack immediately they" are
disturbed. But—well, this is a true story of a
honeymoon. The newly-married couple, travelling
to Sydney from Carcoar on their honeymoon,
arrived at Blayney to find they had about three-
quarters of an hour to wait for the through train
for Sydney. To fill in time they went for a walk
on the outskirts of the town, and sat down on a
log. Later, they returned to the railway station
and caught the Sydney express. Five minutes
afterwards the bridegroom felt ants biting for a,
wager under his leg-overcoats. He knew the breed
at once, and that they’d see it through unless they
were hauled off. Fortunately, he and his bride
had a compartment to themselves . . . but when he
was shaking the habitations of the ants out of the
window he dropped Them. Worse still, all the
luggage had been sent on ahead. It was the bride
who saved the situation. She rigged him out
in her underskirt, and when the train reached
Bathurst an excited individual dressed in a black
vest and frock coat on the upper decks, and an
old-gold petticoat beneath the loadline, streaked
for the nearest waiting-room in the station. There
he barricaded himself until his distracted and
confused bride went up town, and returned with
the nearest guess size to the Lost Trousers.
* * * *•
“F.G.,” concerning our black brother
Cain :
“Sammy" Mitchell, the new Judge of the Northern
Territory, had, at his first sessions, two cases of murder
which illustrate “ how the dead, men die ’’ in the Never-
never. In one case a white man’s harshness to a luhra
servant had roused her resentment to such an extent
that she appealed to the men of her tribe to kill him.
The plot vvas then and there formed. The lubra was to
secure the white man’s revolver, and this she did by
bringing it away in a billycan. The niggers then started
to round up the victim, and found him near his humpy.
Scenting mischief, he ran into the hut for his revolver.
It was gone. A minute later the pack was on him. One
of the murderers was shot while evading arrest, one es-
caped after arrest, two or three others are still wanted,
and two were sentenced to death. The other case was even
more cold-blooded. A poor devil, whose name is supposed
to be Egan, lost his way while journeying with two horses
from the Queensland border to Borroloola, and got 40
miles off the track into rough ranges. There-he was met
by a buck nigger and two gins, to whom he explained his
position. He showed them that he had ho gun, toma-
hawk or any other weapon, excepting a jagged and
handless razor-blade. He shook his tucker-bags and
billy to show their emptiness ; he begged for succor.
Patting the niggers on head and breast, he said-: “We
be all good friends," and asked them to take him to
Borroloola, where he would repay them. They pro-
mised. But, instead, they took him six miles further
away from the track, and there the buck speared him to
death. It was a difficult crime to trace, but Constables
Holland and Stott collected the murderer, and the Judge
ordered them a special reward for their fine bit of bush-
work.
* * * *.
“Machete”: “To Babarantiko ” (B.
22/9/’10) denounces the Kanaka as dishonest,
untruthful, treacherous, etc. In the obsolete
term Kanaka he presumably includes all the
varying native races of the Pacific. His wail is
the ordinary agonised yowl of that type of white
who has invariably himself to blame for his
troubles as regards native races. The Pacific nig
is not at all worse than his white brother at pay-
ing his debts. The Chow, it may be remarked, is
an excellent “ pay ”; but this does not endear hirn
to us. As to Cocoanut’s truthfdlness, much de-
pends on how one goes about getting the informa-
tion. The practice, popular with, some people, of
“ belting it out of him,” is not conducive to good
results. Writer has examined hundreds of native
witnesses, and found them, if properly handled,
exceedingly truthful, even when' truth meant
trouble. Theinstances of devotion to white masters
by nativesubordinatesaresomanyand well authen-
ticated that there is no need to refer to Louis
Becke or William Macgregor for endorsement.
At the same time it may be generalised that the
wilder and less civilised our brown brother is the
closer he abides by.the elementary virtues. Homi-
cide is usually his besetting sin. It might lie
worse even than that. All I complain of is that
he occasionally kills the wrong man.
HARMONY IN THE BACKBLOCKS.
DAD: “Blast it, Joe, what's ther good of trying
to ’are a bit of good music when the blessed
birds spoil all the ’armony?"
“ Pick ” : If “ Gil ” really wants to know
how long a rabbit can live without water I re-
ply—any time between three days and a week.
Rabbits cannot live without moisture, but, like
sheep and goats, they get enough from the dew
on the grass at night time. I have known sheep
to live for months in unwatered paddocks, and in
Wallaga inlet—a N.S.W. South .Coast arm of the
sea—there is a waterless island on which goats
have lived for years.
DINGO CREEK.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Because we live at Dingo Greek, where bears and him yip
grow,
Where life is e’er the same old thing—processionally
slow,
They think, the folk who live in streets, we next to
nothing know.
Because our manners lack the grace otpeople we have
met ;
Because our potent energies in other paths.are set,
Beau Brummel speaks, us harshly re our “ lack of
etiquette.”
But we (that’s Bill and Jim and me, and Mary Jane and
Liz),
Although we’re not Superior we know the Bush’s biz—'
And if our ways are curious ways, thev’re quite as good
as his 1
We do not stride the Block all day, the Corso after tea,
take some other fellow’s goods—and treat them
shamelessly,
Nor do we talk the scandal-talk of Aristocracy.
We do not have to dodge all day from motor-cars and
trams,
Nor step aside at every stride for baby -laden prams,
Nor do we hear the pedants flaunt their polished
epigrams.
We do not have to hurt our eyes surveying dolls and
dudes; •
We do not have to close our doors, lest Babylon intrudes—
With politicians grinding out their dreary platitudes.
We do not live our lives in gasps, nor do we hear the hum
■Of myriad voices in our ears till we ourselves are dumb,
And wonder what this life is worth in Pandemonium.
We do not see the business man with breathless haste go
by,
As though he hadn’t time to live and hardly time to die,
When unsophisticated folk speak up and ask him why.
Ah, no, our lives are loitered out in havens far from
these—
t rom masculines in purple hose and peroxided shes,
-Remote from all the city’s strange and grim philosophies.
But we have time and space to see the world in which
we live ;
We’ve time and space and heart enough to borrow, lend
and give—
And breathe a prayer of pity for the city’s fugitive.
We’ve time to view the spacious skies and walk amidst
the miles
Of giant trees—the forest troops that guard the Bushlaiid
aisles,
Where scarce a thing obstructs our way, and Commerce
ne’er defiles.
Our lives are humdrum lives? They are—and humdrum
folk are we ;
But morn and eve and night and noon the gift is ours to
see
The giving Drama of the Barth with all its pageantry.
We’ve time at night to watch the stars, as did the ancient
seers ;
We’ve time enough to note their grand, illuminous
careers,
Pale flickering specks of light that are high Heaven’s
chandeliers.
Aye, distant from the trams and trains and vehicles that
roar,
Like breakers beating on some bleak and God-forgotten
shore,
Our souls have room to spread their wings ; our dreams
have room to soar.
N.S.W.
GILROONEY.


*V3-Jnqu
The Old Blend
wiusky
Horse
WHi
OIVteCT FROM DISTILLERS.
Cellar.
niSTIf.l FRK. ▼
ATTACKED WHILE WORKING.
“While at my work one morning, I was attacked
with severe griping pains in the stomach,” writes
Mr. David Howard, Sale, Vic. “I tried Cham-
berlain’s Colic, Cholera and Diarrhoea Remedy,
and am pleased to say that it cured me in a few
minutes. Since then I have had several attacks,
and have always used Chamberlain’s Colic and
Diarrhoea Remedy with good results.”*
Gout and Rheumatism.
These complaints arise from the poisonous
waste matters accumulated in the blood conse-
queiitou the kidneys, through temporary disorder
or through some disease, being unable to carry out
their work. Dr. Sheldon’s Grin Pills rapidly reach
the root of the trouble and soon alford relief. Price
Is. Gd. and 2s. Gd..* • ' J
Seasons change, Spring, Summer, Autumn,
Winter. Wolfe’s Schnapps at all seasons.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
“A. William Cann ” disinters some old
memories :
I have been divagating back o’ Barringun, and hence
failed till to-day to see “ Jimmie Pannikin’s "impassioned
protest (B. 6/10/’10) against the scurvy attacks on the
bugle-blowing habits of Sunsetlanders. Says my old pal:
“ Many a weary hour is solaced by bugle-blowing.” So it
is. And they are no purloined, purchased, pawned or
pinched instruments that we big-boned, broad-beamed,
bullock-brained, backblocks battlers are accustomed to
sound. No sir. In the vast majority of cases the bugles are
the musicians’ own property. I wonder if James recalls a
pasear he took with mesome three yearsago. Imay men-
tion that the itinerary was from Crowl Creek by Nymagee
(N.S.W.), thence over Mt. Hopeless to Brewarrina, to
Milparinka and on to Mt. Hogarth (Vic.), to Kyabra (Q.),
and so to ltoma. A slightly divigatious journey, you may
say, and suggestive somewhat of a State Frighter’s ideal
transcontinental railway route ; but we were on a
wattle-forage at the time, and the golden glory of the
bush imposes on its pursuers, all too often, the winding,
uncertain-looking track of one in whom the liquor has
gone to the legs.
To get back to bugle-blowing. In every pub we visited
en route —and they were many—“ Pannikin " and I
blew our bugles deafeningly. Often and often did
we trail into the bar-parlor of some wayback
hostelry and find the locals discoursing on chest-
measurements, bush-lore or what not; and always we
butted into the conversation, produced our trumpets
and blew the comparatively-speaking inarticulate yokels
speechless. It was somewhere in the neighborhood of
Innamincka (Vic.), so far as I remember, that a horde of
beer-fanciers arose in exasperation, while “ Pannikin ”
and I were competing, one with the other, at this sport,
and flung us violently into the street; “for,” as they
vulgarly expressed it, “a brace of blowing, blanky
nuisances.”
After that we arranged to blow not our own, but each
other's bugles. A subtle plan, i’faith ; and it worked like
a charm. Thenceforth, in any centre where the appear-
ance of the inhabitants seemed to warrant it, I used to
sound James’s trumpet and he performed on mine ;
whereby immense kudos and public veneration
accrued to both. “By all means,” as my whilom travel-
mate happily puts it, “ let Sunsetlanders blow their
bugles to the last.” Indeed, it were not merely inhuman
but insanitary to cheek them. There are some I know
who must blow their bugles or burst; and exploded Out-
backers are notoriously unwholesome things to have
lying about the landscape.
i * * *
“ Giddap ” : In the early days of the
Westralian goldfields, the railway people showed
a worthy consideration for their patrons. I was
travelling from Menzies to Leonora one cold
winter’s night, the kind of night on which a whisky'
hot is not hard to take, when the train stopped
with a jerk. I looked out, but could see no
station, not even a shed—only a little light glim-
mering away off in the darkness. The doors of
neighboring carriages flew open, and pell-mell
A PRECARIOUS OUTLOOK.
THE BREAKER: “A man 'd get cross-eyed tryin ’
to watch both ends, an’ the middle ain’t too
promisin’! ”
the occupants made for the light I knew
there was only one thing that could produce
such an exodus, so I turned and addressed
my solitary fellow-passenger. “Could you keep
one down?” I asked. “I’ll try,” he said. We
were the last to reach the light, consequently we
™™ erV i \ My had r de i! 8
P°f re mark when a whistle sounded from the
* V ; le -. b r S 0f th i
hght stopped us No hurry, gents, ’he assured
f°> fe bt lu Jld f’> Dl A° k {
there s a couple ere’aven t had theirs yet. And
Dick obligingly held her while we had another
glass of soup and secured a bottle of diluted
* * . y ■r. 7 n.i -
snakes to see us through the night. I call that
the proper way to run a railway.
CRITICISM OF FATHER.
VISITOR: “ Father at home, sonny!”
SONNY : "You bet! He's down the yard
feedin’ the pigs.”
“ J. 5.8.” : Be Ambrose Dyson’s swagman
and “Bridge-dwellers” remarks thereon (B.
6/10/’10). There are different styles of helping
Matilda on her way. A strap over each shoulder,
with the swag straight up and down the back, is
the Maoriland style, in spite of what “Bridge-
dweller” says. Horsecollar fashion, namely,
swag rolled long and small in circumference, with
the ends brought round and tied together so that
it resembles a large horsecollar, is the Queensland
style. (N.B. —This requires at least six saddle-
straps.) Two swags, lying horizontally, the one
in front somewhat smaller than the one behind
(S. A. style). The Matilda depicted by Ambrose
(B. l/9/’10) is done up in the N.S.W. fashion. But
there is one defect in the picture : the nose-
bag should hang over the opposite shoulder to
the one which the shoulder-strap crosses. If
Ambrose doubts my word, I’ll lay him three full
sets of ration-bags to two that he can’t carry his
swag in the N.S.W. style as drawn by himself
The nosebag must be tied to the strap encircling
the top of the swag, and come from there across
the back of the neck and over the opposite shoulder,
otherwise the whole contraption falls off as soon
as the owner commences to walk. A well-known
squatter was once accosted by a swaggie with a
request for rations. “If I gave rations to all you
fellows that come along, I’d soon be pushing
the knot myself,” he said. “ Well, take my tip,”
replied Swaggie, “when you make a start, carry
it horse-collar fashion. That’s the easiest way.”
And it is.
* * * *
“Jimmie Pannikin”: Be “The Scape-
goat” and the thrush as the friendliest bird in
the bush (B. 20/10/T0). For the last three
years a thrush (Australian mavis) has built
its nest and hatched its brood in a biscuit
tin (used as a flower-pot) on a bench, at
the door of the Provisional School, Rugby,
Back-o’-Burrowa. So friendly and so
utterly unafraid is the bird, that it does
not leave the nest when the school-
children march in and out, nor when
the little Nature-students stand at the
door and watch and discuss its color,
plumage, habits, etc. If the children
put their hands too often on the edge
of the tin, the sitting-bird gives a quiet
little peck, to show that it does not ap-
prove of too much familiarity. I have
seen the children feeding the bird while
it sat on the nest. I threatened to take
the bird, nest and eggs away with me, just
to see what the bush bairnies would say.
They did not say anything. The horror of
.the thing made them silence-stricken; but
they looked murder.
“Werri”: Nothing disgusts the bush
fisherman more than to be fooled by a turtle*
The amphibian is cunning ; he is an aggravating
nibbler ; he bites slowly and cautiously, cleaning
hook after hook without getting pricked. Some-
times he allows himself to be drawn nearly to the
surface, by way of encouraging the angler to feed
him ; then gives three cheers with his tail and
returns to his lodgings. If the line is cast in a
different spot to dodge him, turtle hunts round
until he finds its address, and presently he is
scratching at the front hook again. He loves
raw meat; he fairly revels in dead cow. I once
counted 45 perched on a carcase floating down the
Richmond (N.S.W.), and the water immediately
around was thick with them. Another time—l
think it was about midsummer—l counted 117
travelling overland, one behind the other, and
miles away from water. They had come from the
river, and were making for the inland lagoons.
There were dead cattle on the way, but none of
the travellers, so far as I could ascertain, stopped
for refreshments. Did anyone ever see a turtle
feeding while on hind ?
• . *.„ m „ tvt_ur.„f
Society items fiom the wild Nor- ,
where the “ East ” and “ West” meet; —
A Chinaman came into my pub at Broome with a piece
of string in one hand and a stick in the other, and called
for a dozen bottled beer. He tied six of the bottles by
the necks to one end of the pole and the other half-
dozen to the other end, and trotted off with the lot on
his shoulder. Watched him along to see if he would
, ~ . .. ... , ...
drop one unul he disappeared mto a shop with he
name of Ah Good over the door. Tim remark over the
door was probably sarcastic.
In a Chow’s supper-room I was waited upon by a Jap
girl. There was no ordinary bill of fare, but the menu
was on her cuff. This necessitated her putting her arm
around you while you picked out your dainty. It knows
more ihanone trick, does the Monkey race.
A HALF-MINUTE JOB.
COUNTRY JOHN HOP: "Ere , I'll yive
yer half an hour to yet outside
th ’ town bound'vies.”
CONTEMPTUOUS SWAGGIE (his eye roving over the “ town"): “Half an hour! Good Gord!
D'ye take me for a cattypillar! ”
“R. 0. Dent”: Sometimes the country-
bred animal gets confidence-tricked just as badly
as the confiding bushman. A friend of ours in
the backblox once sent us a half-grown kitten,
which, as soon as it got acclimatised to the house,
started to haunt the pantry in a business-like way.
One night it met the mouse it was looking for, and
took it into the hall to play pool with it—or per-
haps the mouse took the cat, I’m not sure which.
The city inou«e humored the country cat cautiously
for a while; then started to edge towards the
drawing-room. By degrees the paw-billiard match
got close to the piano. The guileless cat couldn’t
see what was coming on, so it didn’t head the
mouse off. When the little grey spieler got close
enough, he dived under the piano, slid out the
other side and streaked for home. The country
cat sat by the piano and waited for the mouse to
come out again with the money it had borrowed.
It waited there doggedly until it was put out for
the night, and it was in with the milk in the
morning. For a whole week it hung round that
musical instrument exactly as the swindled bush-
man hangs round the pub through which the
trickster escaped with his savings. I felt darned
sorry for the cat; but as I didn’t know the cat
language I couldn’t explain to it that it had been
done, and that it was no use waiting for the brute
to come back. I’m sure that cat still thinks the
mouse will return some day by the hopeful way
he looks at the piano.
“ Giddap’s ” missing friends :
Anyone seen or heard anything- of “The Pebble ” lately
“ The Pebble ” and his dog, Huek Finn ? “ The Pebble,""
a few years back, was a Gentleman of the Road in South
Australia. The Peninsular copper towns—Moonta, Wal-
laroo and Kadina —were on his visiting list; but he some-
times drifted as far out as Petersburg and Port Augusta.
I’m not so anxious for information re “ The Peb.” as I am
about the dog. I covet that dog. “ The Pebble ” namedi
him Huck Finn partly for brevity and partly because he
was a street waif with no settled abode when he lassoed)
him. Huck’s owner was never troubled with a slack waist-
band whilst the dog was on deck. “The Peb.” would-
stand and gaze pensively in at the open window of a.
butcher’s shop with Huck at his heels, and then the
twain would wander off in search of a camp. Whilst the-
old man was getting the fire going, the dog would return,
to the butcher’s, carefully remove a joirit from a-book
and then scratch gravel back to his master. He never re-
turned empty-mouthed, and always showed a nice dis-
crimination in his choice of joints. Besides a large appe-
tite “ the Peb.” was afflicted with cold feet; so at night
Huck would stretch his woolly body over his master’s
daisy-roots, and all would be bliss. I want that dog—one
that looks after the commissariat by day and acts as a
foot-warmer by night is no slouch of a companion.
* * * *
“ The Second ” : I was taken to a fight,
lately. At least my friend, the Enthusiast, called
it that. There was a square, roped-in platform,,
with a sizzling electric light at each corner, set in.
the middle of a saucer of seats, tenanted by glum
sports, placid philosophers, and an occasional
blood-hungry dervish. About 10 minutes after
the time fixed for the disturbance, a man furtively
approached the platform and threw in four black
puddings. A glad howl went up from the der-
vishes, and a few chilled men clapped. Some
time after this stirring event a fire of applause
broke out; but it was suppressed without the fire
brigade. Four men with battered countenances,,
garbed in red sweaters, pants and braces, and>
bearing towels, bottles, buckets and sundries,,
walked through the crowd. In their wake-
came a fair young man in an old, old dress-
ing-gown. They clambered on to the plat-
form, and a man near me breathed hard
through his nose, as if laboring under strong ex-
citement. The young man took a chair in one
corner, and his attendants hung the wash-
ing on the line. A painful interval fol-
lowed ; then another burst of applause, and
the other competitor approached the square. He,
also, was garbed in an elderly bath-robe, and had.
four followers encumbered with washing and
bottled refreshment. The party ascended the-
platform and took a lease of the opposite corner.
The preparations for the fearful business were-
gone through as slowly as possible, including the
set-to-corners figure and the usual wrangle about
one of the young men’s stays. There was a.
faint flash of interest when one of the red-sweater-
men of the first contingent strolled over and-
thoughtfully stroked the hare, gleaming chest of
his boss’s adversary. Three dervishes howled
together, “Take that oil off !” After much ex-
postulation, one of the gentlemen with the vvash-
lng vigorously rubbed his principal’s shining-
bosom—and Honor was satisfied, or words-
to that effect. A spruce young man with
his hair parted in the middle and American-
magazine shoulders, called the rivals to
him, put his arms round them, dragged
them together, pushed them apart, shook his-
head, gave them his benediction and stepped
back. Someone hit a tea-tray and—the dreadful'
thing began. It turned out to be a family re-
union. The young man who had had his chest
rubbed rushed at the other, fell on his neck, and
put his arms round him. The spruce young man
rushed in and jealously pushed them apart. They
danced joyously awhile, played tiggy, flung their
arms abroad in ecstasy, then rushed together again
and waltzed like Sonia, the Alarm-clock Widow,
with Prince Dan Leno. Nothing was lacking but
the music. I got tired of watching it and looked
round indignantly for the band. There wasn’t any-
Suddenly I heard the dervishes howl. I looked
up and found that the taller young man had
fallen asleep on the floor. Someone counted as
high as “ Eight ” ; then a bit of washing was flung
into the square. The Enthusiast got up and said,
sadly, “Ah, well! better luck next time.” Next,
morning I read in my morning paper that I had
been watching a Thunderbolt. lam not going to
see any more Thunderbolts. If there is a Pork
Pie or a Pillowslip, and it comes out here, may I.
go to see it, But I won’t promise.
SUCH STUFF AS DREAMS ARE MADE OF.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
To-night I’ll dream because the night is mine
(I spend my nights and money as 1 please),
I’ve just consumed a glass or two of wine ;
I sniff the smell of lobsters on the breeze—
To-night I’ll dream !
To-night is mine and I am out for sport
(Much beer the doctors say induces gout).
But what of that? Have I not drunk a quart?
Also a pint or two of bottled stout ?
To-night rU dream!
The hour is late ; the pubs will soon close up.
And from their gleaming portals will be led
The last few joyous drainers of the Cup,
To gaily prance with lobsters home to bed.
They, too, will dream 1
I spy a Dago fish-shop ’cross the street,
Wherein sad, greenish oysters lie instate.
Ah, now indeed, I feel that I must eat!
A brick-red lobster sprawls upon a plate—
A perfect dream 1
I’ve got that lobster underneath my arm.
I feel him squirming ! He is not yet dead 1
I’ll have a whisky—it will do no harm 1
Then home by undulating streets to bed,
To dream my dream 1
VICTORIA.
BEN J. LEE.


A movement has been started in Victoria to change the name of the
“Liberal party,” which was formerly known as the “Reform party.” It is nov
proposed to call it the “People’s party.”—A'ews Item.
The Liberal party ought to be known as “ The Happy Homes Party.”—■
w - B. Johnson, at Marrlckville.
Great precautions have been taken to
secure the safety of tbe Czar and
Kaiser at their meeting at Potsdam.
The police are alert, and the head-
pieces of the two potentates bristle
with the deadly hatpin.
Rev. Professor Adam, speaking
at the annual Grand Lodge dinner
of the Melbourne District Lodge
of Orangemen, incidentally ob-
served that he had vi ited the
proposed capital site
at Yass-Canberra,
and found it a
pleasant place,
. “ a fit home for
a poetic soul.” (
F.M. ( dubiously): “They don’t fit by
yards ; but they can’t be a worse
disguise than the old lot, anyhow.
Bulletin’s Religious Editor (who went up
there to investigate): “ Fit home for
a poetic soul! Why, there ain’t a
pub within miles of the place!”
Ex-Premier Wade declares that he has had three sharp shocks from the N.S.W.
Labor Government: There may be others to follpw-
BAD CASE OF SWELLED HEAD.
Here, if you like, is Peter Bowling try-
ing to get his halo on with a shoe-
horn.
A BOOM IN WILD CATS.
Man in the Street: “ Wotever are you
going to do with all them cats ? ”
Mining Sharp: “Make Finch pies of 'em!”
Man In the Street: “ What l Finch pies
out o’ cats! ” v *
Mining Sharp: “Certain; it’s the seasonin’ as does it 1”
KINGS, CATS, CLOUTS AND CLOTHES.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
The Insurance Office
of Australia Ltd.
FIRE and ACCIDENT.
The Company with Australian Shareholders,
Australian Ideals, and all its funds invested
in Australia.
APPLICATIONS FOR AGENCIES INVITED.
Head Office: 263 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
The peace of the world is assured, says
Captain Mahan, so long as England maintains
her lead in Dreadnoughts. And the power to
preserve the peace will never be relinquished so
long as the brand which leads the leaders of the
British Nations to their best wisdom continues to
be D.C.L., the Whisky of the Wise.*
Cooling, Thirst Quenching,
and Sustaining,
\\3
Try It Yourself with
Lemonade, Soda, or Water.
Beware of ‘‘lmitations.’
PERSONAL
ITEMS
John Logan Campbell, Auckland’s benefi-
cent brewer, has just added another gift to the
many for which the city has to thank him. A
site was secured by public subscription for a
central kindergarten, and Campbell and his wife
have put up the building and furnished it. The
old gentleman is well into his nineties; yet it is
only his partially-lost eyesight that has latterly
caused him to drop his annual birthday jaunt to
the top of Rangitoto, the harbor’s extinct volcano.
John M. Me Lachlan, formerly a draper
of Auckland (M.L.), has by his will left the
Cornwallis estate, of about 1800 acres, as an
addition to the Waitakerei national park. It was
on this property that one of the first North Island
settlements was established; and here the
McLachlans landed in 1841. The settlement was,
however, a failure. The land had been purchased
by one Mitchell, a missionary, from the Maoris
for some tobacco ; but the tobacco was so bad they
couldn’t smoke it. They repudiated the sale
owing to the vileness of the tobacco, and long dis-
putes followed over the ownership. J. M.
McLachlan finally secured the main part of it,
and has now added his name to those of Hori
Grey, J. L. Campbell, Muckelvie, Knox, Costley
and other Auckland benefactors.
Conan Doyle, the novelist, has made pub-
lic announcement that George V. is, in his
opinion, “the strongest and big-
gest man mentally who ever
ascended the throne of England.”
It is wonderful how the breed
of sovereigns keeps improving.
Alfred the Gieat was some
pumpkins in his wav.
Harold 11. was described
as a man who kept up his
end ofascrap with energy,
and it required more than
two policemen to run
him in. William I. was
spoken of as the greatest
soldier and statesman of
Europe, if not the world.
Henry 11. reconstructed
England, and some items
of his system were so
good that they survive
to this day. Elizabeth
was a red-headed female
who shook things up.
and William 111. didn’t
let the grass grow under
his feet. The late Vic-
toria was described by
a frenzied admirer sis “the
greatest personality the
world has seen since the days
of Jesus Christ,” though
she is hardly ever mentioned
now. Then came Edward
VII., who was understood to
beat the band ; and finally, George
V. bangs Bannagher. If the
royal family keeps improving at)
this rate, it will presently develop
wings, and the second or third
monarch from now will be tin
aeroplane or a condor or a sky-
scraper or something too elevated
to be perceived by the naked eye.
Randolph Bedford’s M.L. lecturing tour is
temporarily off. The call of the Bullfinch sounded
so alluringly in his ears that he betook himself, his
umbrageous hat and his gentle voice to W. A.
with promptitude and a sanguine spirit.
“Kaitangata ” introduces a friend :
The writer of that hangman par (B. 27/10/’iO) errs as to
the late “Nosey Bob’s” aversion to pubs. The bars at
Darlinghurst knew him well, and at the Bondi Cliff
House, when Dunlop kept it, he was a frequent and
favored guest. Many were the marrow-chilling reminis-
cences I heard him indulge in at Bondi over a friendly
beer. He did gloat over the turning-off of murderer Archer,
for the Burton-street outrage ; but in me, who knew the
hideous details of the case, he found a sympathetic spirit.
Robert’s noseless condition was occasioned by a kick from
his favorite cab mare ; and it was the gibes of his fellow
jarvies that drove him to the drop. A kindly soul was
Robert, despite his trade, and an ardent lover of flowers,
and the joy of growing them.
The last chaplain of the awful penal settle-
ment of Port Arthur, Van Diemen’s Land, died
in Victoria on Saturday. He was the Rev.
Roland Haywood, and he carried some grim
memories along with him to the age of 75.
The death of Harry Rawson leaves five ex-
Governors of N. S. Wales living. Belmore, who
served from 1868 to 1872, is now 75 years of age ;
Loftus, with over six years’ service (1879-85), is
93; and Jersey, who found two years quite
enough (1891-93), is 65. Carrington (1885-90) is
in his 68th year. The fifth is the youngster
Beauchamp.
Sol Green, the big bookmaker, admits to
winning a modest £30,000 over Comedy King’s
victory in the Melbourne Cup ; but the long-
suffering army of punters prefers to call it £50,000.
Solomon was not always arrayed in so much glory.
Not so many years ago he was a carter for a
brother-Jew \yho ran a new and second-hand furni-
ture business. And, to his credit, he isn’t ashamed
of his battling either.
Sydney’s gaud-Mayorship comes up for
its annual discussion on December 9. Retiring
Mayor Allen Taylor is being pressed to re-
nominate, and his re-election is a possibility.
R. D. Meagher is known to cast longing eyes at
the chair as a step towards hislife’s work—the re-
storation of his name on the roll of Gents One ;
while A. C. Cocks, who lately won the St.
Leonards Parliamentary seat on the second
ballot, will be an early bidder for the chain and
the rabbit-skin.
Byron Moore, Secretary of the V.R.C., is
likely to retire. Both Bagot and the present
double-barrelled poet (he has also dabbled in fairy
tales) were ignorant of racing. When Bagot
passed out, the turfites—the grand old gamblers
and the last-leggers—came with a rush for the
billet. But they were quickly turned down;
“no racing man need apply.” (Judkins is enter-
ing that up.) This is reckoned as so well-estab-
lished a rule that when Byron Moore retires the
horsey will hardly dare to ask.
Men get their thrills all sorts of ways.
There isone in Gippsland, named Irons, who finds
his delirious joy in coming down with felled trees.
He insists that falling with a high gum is much
more delightful than tumbling out of an airship,
and presents fewer risks. He selects a suitable
limb on the side opposite to the direction in which
the tree is to fall, swings from the lithe branch,
and comes down with obvious enjoyment and so
far without a scratch. But his friends have great
expectations.
F. A. Coghlan is the new Under-Secretary
to the Chief Secretary in Ma State, the clumsily-
worded billet being the old Principal Under-
Secretaryship, in which Critchett Walker formerly
ruled the service with a rod of iron. Nowadays,
the holder of the office has a couple of other billets
thrown in to make him of the requisite weight to
draw his £lOOO a year. F. A. Coghlan is not
T. A. Coghlan, the Agent-General, and is not
even a relation; yet he cannot persuade the
general public that he isn’t in London at the
present moment. The new Under-Secretary
joined the service in 1875, and, judging by his
appearance to-day, must have been about five
years old at the time. .., y.
THE RETURN OF THE LEG-IRONS.
H. D. Morton, the new Independent
member for the Hastings (N.S.W.), is the sort of
man to take the fancy of a country constituency.
He is au excellent speaker, and has forgotten
more about the farmer, his wants and liis ways,
than the average country representative ever
learned. He was the first to make a good financial
tiling out of show jumpers. Desmond and a
dozen mote wonders were secured by him in their
prime, and sent round to scoop up every A. H.
and P. show prize that was going. In his spare
time, he helps to manage Coolnngatta, the Hays’
big place near Berry. Mark Morton, M.L.A., is
a brother; another is Phillip, one-time city
alderman.
A MEMORY OF THE RACING CARNIVAL.
WAITRESS (in all good faith, and without the slightest desire to awaken unpleasant memories):
“ Apple-pie won."
Died in Adelaide Captain “Jack” War-
ren, whose white beard and vigorous language
were known on most mining fields of Australia.
The best mine he ever managed was Broken Hill
Block 10: it paid about a .million in di vs. in his
day. on a paid capital of fewer ha’pence. “ Captain
Jack ” had a rough tongue and a hard fist; but if
you prospected in the right place, you could find
a very soft heart somewhere in that big body of
his.
Melbourne had its Judkins in the genera-
tion before last. His name was Milton. In
1855 he went to Sturt, P.M., and says he : “ Your
Worship, there is a horrible exhibition, called a
Spider Dance, given by a female named Monte/.,
at the Theatre Royal.” Sturt: “Indeed!”
(Judges and magistrates never know anything.)
Milton: “Oh, yes!” Sturt: “Please describe
what you saw.” Milton: “I never saw any-
thing.” Sturt: “ What is your complaint, then ? ”
Milton: “I am informed ” . Sturt: “Oh,
you know, that won’t do in this court. You
must see her.” The agonised Milton went away
streaming with perspiration, and Lola was left in
peace. Coppin seized on the advt. He put on
a burlesque, and impersonated Lola Monte/, in
the Spider Dance. Boys shied pennies at him,
for which he “ pulled ” some in the police court.
The Hon. George Coppin was as touchy over
this reminiscence as Irving was over his having
once acted an Old Woman Witch in an Edin-
burgh pantomine.
Cup Week was the opportunity for a
number of ancients to foregather at a Melbourne
cafe and tell what wild dogs they were in the
“Golden ’Fifties.” The finger of Time tickled
them to happy reminiscences of the adventures
that befell them when rushing for gold, or the
adventures of other people which they had now
commandeered as their own. One old gentleman
spoke of Julia Matthews, the comic-opera lady
(who doesn’t date back more than 40 years, by the
way), whereat several other old gentleman
smacked their lips. Everything in the garden
was lovely when those pioneers were dawgs.
Even “lynching” was a gay joke. The victims
were “ merely run up a gum-tree branch and let
down again.” One venerable raconteur heaved a
sigh of admiration for a bushranger who once
robbed him of £3 12s. 6d. and gave the money
back. This was the reminiscence of parson H. F.
Scott, the present vicar of old St. James’s, in
Little Collins-street, who remembers Melbourne’s
historic tabernacle when all the land thereabouts
was bush, and trained jackasses rang a merry peal
of laughter on Sunday morning by way of sum-
moning worshippers to church.
“Pressman’s” reminiscence :
In spite of his years, the late Gov. Rawson never
owned up to the weaknesses of old age. He had
strong nerves, and I think he often brooded over the
fact that opening Parliament and other soirees was
no way to use them. Shortly before Gov.-General
Northcote left Australia he was anxious to have a
look at the big Barren Jack irrigation dam, and
Rawson was one of a party, arranged by Solemn Lee (then
Minister for Works), for the trip. The morning of arrival
was clear and cold, and I do not remember having seen
the old Admiral looking so fresh as he did when he stood
beside the electric machinery high up on the side of the
precipice. Across the gulch a cable was stretched, from
which swung a box-lift, and when the old mariner was
told that Solemn and De Burgh (the engineer) and one
or two others were going in that box down to where
the workmen looked no bigger than lobsters, he wanted
to go too —wanted it more than anything else he could
think of just at the time. But Solemn and De Burgh
wouldn’t think of it; and when I heard them urging the
responsibility on their shoulders to return to Sydney
with the King’s representative intact, I began to
feel that / didn’t want to go aeroplaning at that height
above sea-level, anyhow. But the old Viking wanted
a thrill real bad, and Solemn sang out, “Let her go,”
just in time to prevent the old man from scrambling
over the tail end of the wooden balloon. The last thing
I observed on the shore platform was the disappointed
look on his face, and the first words we heard as we
soared again to the top was his eager inquiry : “ What
was it like? Did you enjoy it?” Of course, we all said
it was a dandy trip—a feilow couldn’t make weak admis-
sions to that granite-nerved old gentleman—but next
time there is a vacancy in that swooping box-kite it
won’t be me who will fill it up. When we started to
ascend I looked aloft at the cable — and it wasn’t there!
Somebody had replaced it with a cobweb.
Acting Prime Minister W. M. Hughes gets
more of the adventitious advt. than an operatic
star. If his brown cow hasn’t calved, somebody
has fired a writ at him*for assault; and when he
isn’t being sarcastic in Parliament he is defending
a ludicrous police-court action for alleged damage
to a sofa. Only one person reported that his pocket
was picked at Fleminarton ; and, of course, that
one was Hughes. Still, all he lost was a cheque
signed by Frank Tudor ; and he didn’t lose even
that, as somebody picked it up and restored it.
England is getting, or thinks it is getting,
a new view of its George V. A dramatist wrote
a play which was accepted by a London manager.
It was duly forwarded to the Chamberlain, but
that functionary refused his approval, because the
play had references to George IY. in it. The
references do not seem to have been uncompli-
mentary, but the Chamberlain holds that there
can be no mention of George IV. on the stage
while George V. reigns. Harcourt, M. P., has
written to the Times, in a beautifiilly-sarcastic
tone, backing up the dramatist; but the absurd
embargo remains. Apparently it is a nervous fad
of George V., who knows what an infernally bad
egg the previous George was and wants to
smother him up.
A man of small things was one Smith, of
Sydney, who was recently examined in bank-
ruptcy. He was a small man, aged 22. He was
living with his mother—presumably a small
woman. He was out of a job, though he said he
could get work at 15s. or 20s. a week, which sug-
gested that he put a small estimate on his own
value. His wife, from whom he was separated,
was suing him for the small amount of 15s.- He
had gone bankrupt over the very obscure sum of
275. fid., balance due on a suit of clothes. And
almost alongside the tale of these small doings of
Smith’s was a Cablegram about a £40,000,000 job
or monetary shortage in America. They sug-
gested an ant and an Alp;
The less a high official has to do the more
he gets for doing it. Compare Chelmsford, of
N.S.W., with Macquarie, of the same State. One
draws £5OOO a year; the other drew £2OOO. Yet
Macquarie had all Australia on his shoulders. He
was Captain-General of the country and its
dependencies. He was the Parliament, the Land
Board, the Marine Board and the Board of
Health. He managed public works, roads and
bridges, was stock and traffic commissioner, and
architect and street engineer. He was bead of the
police. It was he who rode over and marked out
the streets from Charlotte Place to Dawes Point,
and from Wynvard Square to Darling Harbor. -He
fixed up markets for the pumpkin and cabbage
growers, and personally tested their scales and
prices. For 10 hours a day his work was arduous.
Affixing bis signature to documents he regarded
as the recreation of “off-time.” On the other
hand Chelmsford, with £5OOO, is not the Parlia-
ment or municipal council or health board, or
anything else useful. Advising young girls to
learn cooking, and old girls to avoid putting dead
poultry in their hats, comprises his round of ser-
vices. Affixing his signature cons, nes a little
time, though the Speaker or Chief Justice could
do that part of the business in a few minutes of
each day, and do it just as well.
THE DEAD ADMIRAL.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Where are the wooden ships of ’Fifty-seven V
Where are their shotted guns?
Maybe, O Shipmate, in some sea of Heaven
Their sullen thunder runs.
Never again shall mortal seamen cheer them,
Or watch their topsails sink,
Wond’ring the while to what far fight they steer them
Over the great world’s brink.
The dust lies thick upon the yellow pages
That count their victories ;
With newer ships and guns the struggle rages
On the eternal seas.
He worked them all—from frigate to destroyer ;
Both sail and steam he knew ;
He served all well—the nation, his employer,
His foemen and his crew.
O Ships and Guns ! Like springtime grasses vernal
Ere you can turn again
Time claims them all. This is alone eternal—
The spirit of such men.
N.S.W.
THE GUNNER.


0
0
GIFT SCHEME
—the Tobacco which men who never could smoke a pipe
before will enjoy to the full —and yet have no aftermath.
(Read this Circular carefully to avoid mistakes.)
an inducement to the smoking public to give “ CHAMPION ” TOBACCO
(Aromatic and Dark) a trial, for the purpose of securing their patronage, the
Manufacturers have formulated the following FREE GIFT SCHEME, to be operative
for period ending 30th June, 1911.
Celebrated “L.M.N.” Sterling
Silver-mounted Briars.
I
Manufactured from the finest and
Specially Selected Briar Root.
Value 2/6 for
25 2oz. “Champion” Tin Bands.
50 ioz. “Champion” Tin Bands.
7
10
3
a^P
Round Tobacco Pouch
(Aluminium).
Value 1/6 for
15 2oz. “ Champion ” Tin Bands.
30 ioz. “ Champion ” Tin Bands.
Buckskin Pouch
Value 3/6 for
35 2oz. “ Champion ” Tin Bands.
70 ioz. “ Champion ” Tin Bands.
Oval Metal Pouch
Value 1/9 for
17 20Z. “ Champion ” Tin Bands.
35 ioz. “Champion” Tin Bands.
The above articles, including Pipe, may be purchased by any retailer from Messrs. Kronheimer Ltd.,
either Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane or Perth.
Hair Brush (Ebonised)
Hygienic, Aluminium Bristle Bed.
For
45 20 7. “Champion” Tin Bands.
qo ioz. “ Champion ” Tin Bands.
22 “ Champion ” Plug Coupons.
33 “Champion” 6 to lb. Plug Coupons.
50 “Champion” 9 to lb. Plug Coupons.
66 “Champion” 12 to lb. Plug Coupons.
(Morocco
Leather).
Lady’s Bag
For
Laws Morocco Luther Bag
75 2oz. “Champion” Tin Bands.
150 ioz. “ Champion ” Tin Bands.
37 “Champion” Plug Coupons.
56 “Champion” 6to lb. Plug Coupons.
84 “Champion” 9to lb. Plug Coupons.
112 “Champion” 12 to lb. Plug Coupons.
Gent.’s Nickel Watch
%
75 2oz. “Champion” Tin Bands.
150 ioz. “ Champion ” Tin Bands.
37 “ Champion ” Plug Coupons.
56 “Champion” 6to lh. Plug Coupons.
84 “ Champion” 9to lb. Plug Coupons.
112 “Champion” 12 to lb. Plug Coupons.
Gent.’s Hair Brushes
(Military-Ebonised).
Hygienic, Aluminium Bristle Bed.
IS
V*
For
86 2oz. “ Champion ” Tin Bands.
172 loz. “ Champion ” Tin Bands.
43 “ Champion ” Plug Coupons.
65 “Champion” 6to lb. Plug Coupons.
98 “Champion” 9to lb. Plug Coupons.
130 “Champion” 12 to lb. Plug Coupons.
(Sterling
Silver).
Sovereign Purse
For
90 2oz. “Champion” Tin Bands.
ISo ioz. “ Champion ” Tin Bands.
45 “Champion” X^ 3, Plug Coupons.
67 “Champion” 6 to lb. Plug Coupons.
100 “Champion” 9 to lb. Plug Coupons.
135 “Champion” 12 to lb. Plug Coupons.
Cold Brooch
(Guaranteed).
No. i.
For
90 20z. “ Champion ” Tin Bands.
180 ioz. “ Champion ” Tin Bands.
45 “ Champion ” lb. Plug Coupons.
68 “Champion” 6 to lb. Plug Coupons.
102 “Champion” 9to lb. Plug Coupons.
136 “Champion” 12 to lb. Plug Coupons.
Gold Brooch
(Guaranteed).
No. 2.
For
no 2oz. “ Champion ” Tin Bands.
220 ioz. “ Champion ” Tin Bands.
55 “Champion” }£\b. Plug Coupons.
82 “Champion” 6to lb. Plug Coupons.
123 “Champion” 9to lb. Plug Coupons.
165 “Champion” 12 to lb. Plug Coupons.
Lady’s Gunmetal Watch
For
ioo 2oz. “Champion” Tin Bands.
200 ioz. “Champion ” Tin Bands.
50 “Champion” Plug Coupons.
75 “Champion” 6to lb. Plug Coupons.
112 “Champion” 9to lb. Plug Coupons.
150 “Champion” 12 to lb. Plug Coupons.
DIRECTIONS —x. Address the Bands or Coupons, securely fastened, to Messrs. Kronheimer Ltd., Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide or Perth, and write your name
and address distinctly on the outside of the package.
2. On posting or sending the package, write stating the number of Bands or Coupons contained therein, also the gift you desire.
3. For any one of the first four articles Messrs. Kronheimer Ltd. will forward an order on any Tobacconist or Storekeeper the sender may name,
which order will be accepted by Messrs. Kronheimer Ltd. as cash.
4. Other gifts can be obtained on personal application, or will be mailed free of charge to anyone complying with these directions.
N.B.—The BANDS to be returned are those with the words, “Keep this Band-see Gift Scheme,”
and which go round the outside of the tins .


“National” Gas Engines and Suction Plants
Known as the “Royal ” Gold Medal Engines and Plants, bea*t all comers
in England after exhaustive trials.
EXCELLENT RESULTS FROM EITHER COKE OR CHARCOAL.
SOLE ACENTS, with experts from the English Works:—
ARTHUR LEPLASTRIER 8 CO., 2 Circular Quay East, Sydney; 34 Queen St., Melbourne.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
“NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE
: Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
the WILD CAT
COUMN
The States have gone through four months of
their new financial year, and, though the Commonwealth
owes them a bit on account of the Braddon clause, they
ean still show bigger revenue figures than for the cor-
responding months of 1909. For October the record, ran
this way :
Oct., 1909. Oct., 1910.
N. S. Wales .. £1,229,450 £1,286,799 Inc. £57,349
Victoria .. 676,564 814,285 Inc. 137,721
Queensland .. 830,378 393,143 Inc. 62,765
VVestralia .. 240,005 278,841 Inc. 38,836
Tasmania .. 77,425 95,394 Inc. 17,969
The States are still entitled to three-fourths of the net
revenue from Customs and Excise. So far, the Common-
wealth has paid £1,985,957, and has left £1,280,271 to be
made up later on, when the money is available. Until
this payment is made a comparison of the States’ revenues
with those of last year is not worth very much.
Even without this deferred payment N.S.W.
has scored £149,843 more in total revenue this year, Vic-
toria £268,309 more, and Queensland £197,480 more. In
every case the railways are very largely responsible for
the booming revenue. On the one month’s figures the
railway situation is as follows :
N. S. Wales .. £588,243 Inc. £38,403
Victoria .. 394,123 Inc. 29,614
Queensland .. 242,044 Inc. 36,730
Tasmania.. .. 24,342 Inc. 4,000
But though that makes the revenue figures look as
though they were wearing a halo, all the glitter isn’t
gold ; for there has been a big addition to the interest
burden on account of new lines, and, generally, working'
expenses are heavier. While, therefore, the total
revenue from all sources in N. S. Wales in the four
months is £149,843 greater, the ordinary expenditure
has been £256,547 greater than it was in the correspond-
ing four months of last year. What the loan expendi-
ture has been it is impossible to say. In all £581.662 has
been charged to the account, as against £585,196 last
year; but the Wade Government rushed on numerous
works, and, though progress payments have actually been
made, they are not debited to the loan account until the
works have been formally authorised by Parliament.
Victoria, as usual, only shows what is coming in. Queens-
land, which at this time last year, had £55.7,279
saved up towards the year’s interest, has this
year got £791,384 in the stocking. Its loan
expenditure is, however, still booming along. ~~ln four
months last year it was £469,181 ; this year, £563,600,- or
at the shocking rate of £1,690,800 a year. Westralia,
which had been doing a bit better, fell back again list
month ; with an income of £278,841, it paid out £309,982,
and thus brought its accumulated deficit up to £115,236
—not all, however, this year’s. It wants a few Bull-
finches badly.
* ■* * *
The Bank of Australasia :
Written Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £
Oct., 1902.. 136,943 llp.c.= 88,000 14,000 1,084,648
Apl., 1903..157,705 12 „ „ 96,000 30,000 1,116,353
Oct., 1903..151,598 12 „ „ 96,000 25,000 1,146,951
Apl., 1904..150,934 12 ~ „ 96,000 25,000 1,176,885
Oct., 1904.. 140,066 12,, ~ 96,000 14,000 1,206,951
Apl., 1905.. 136,153 12 ~ ~ 96,000 10,000 1,237,104
Oct., 1905..137,451 12 ~ ~ 96,000 11.000 1,267,555
Apl., 1906.. 137,795 12 ~ ~ 96.000 12,000 1,297,350
Oct., 1906..153,512 14 ~ ~ 112,000 12,000 1,326,862
Apl., 1907..227,463 14 „ ~ 112,000 15,000 1,427,325
Oct., 1907.. 188,750 14 ~ ~ 112,000 18,000 1,486,075
Apl., 1908.. 212,029 14,, ~112,000 20,000 1,566,104
Oct., 1908..187,691 14 ~ ~ 112,000 15,000 1,626,795
Apl., 1909..174,111 14 „ ~112,000 12,000 1,676,906
Oct., 1909.. 177,566 14 „ ~ 112,000 15,000 1,727,472
Apl., 1910.. 193,722 16 „ „ 128,000 18,000 1,775,194
Sixteen per cent. ! Not even in the boom-time round
about 1890 did the Bank of Australasia do such a thing
as that. In 1889 and 1890 the div. went to 15 per cent. ;
and we have to go right back to 1859 to find anything
better. There has been an amazing recovery in the past
15 years. In 1895 the shareholder’s little bite got down to
5 per cent., and stayed there for three ye.yrs ; then it began
to grow, and it has gone on growing until the present
16 per cent, is reached. There is a little uneasiness about
this matter, by the way ; bankers who believe they know
Australian conditions better than the London directors
of the ’Asia and the Union have an uncomfortable feel-
ing with regard to dividends in excess of 10 per cent.
Australian banks which might have paid more on the old
capital have therefore strengthened their position by
issuing new capital, and paying the full 10 per
cent, dividend upon new capital and old alike.
The ’Asia has, on the contrary, got in no new
capital since 1884. Not, of course, that its posi-
tion has not been strengthened during that period.
The formal reserve fund then was £750,000 ; to-day it is
£1,760,000. And the bank has been building up reserves
which don’t appear as such. Its premises account stands
now at only £150,843 ; the real value of the properties is,
no doubt, a million, for in many cases the premises in-
clude offices hired to the public. And there probably is
an internal reserve as well. There certainly was a few
years ago. Out of it the new Sydney premises were paid
for ; it is said that not a penny of that valuable asset was
charged to premises account or shown otherwise in the
balance-sheet.
Naturally, in view of the excellence of Aus-
tralian conditions, there has been no break in the pro-
gress during the past 12 months. This shows the
movement of the chief items :
April, 1909. April, 1910.
Notes .. .. £552,741 £514,008 Dec. £38,733
Bills, etc. .. 2,173,217 2,589,632 Inc. 416,415
Deposits .. 16,179,907 17,000,503 Inc. 820,596
Liquid Assets .. 7,105,402 8,435,058 Inc. 1,329,656
Advances .. 15.005.992 15,021,437-. Inc. 12,445
Premises .. 180,378 150,843 , Dec. 29,535
The least satisfactory feature from the profit-earning
point of view is the very small growth of advances :
the bank has had over £1,300,000 more of the
public’s money and its own accumulated profits
to dispose of, but it has only lent out £12,445.
Evidently it hasn’t been able to find suitable securities.
It might possibly be able to lend out more money on
land ; but most prudent Australian bankers don’t feel too
comfortable about the present price of Australian land.
Anyway, the ’Asia has either kept the bulk of the new
money in the safe, or put it into Government securities,
so that it has no less than 42 per cent, of all its liabilities
represented by these liquid assets. Further, its own
capital and visible assets represent slightly over £1 for
every £6 of the public’s money in the business. Under
those circumstances, the rate of earnings on capital and
reserves.shouldn’t be very.large. Yet it is :
Oct., 1906 ..£l9 11 11 p.c. Oct., 1908 ..£ll 16 9 p.c.
Apl., 1907 .. 15 10 10 „ Apl., 1909 .. 10 15 10 ~
Oct., 1907 .. 12 9 5 ~ Oct., 1909 .. 10 16 9 ~
Apl., 1908 .. 13 4 10 ~ Apl., 1910 .. 11 12 10 „
That means that every £lOO of its own money, aided by
rather less than £6OO of the public’s money (42 per cent,
of which is in liquid assets), is earning £lll2§. lOd. a year.
If, all round, it makes § per cent, clear on the public’s
money, this means again that its Own money is 'eaTiltng
£7 2s. lOd. per cent. Part of the explanation of this very
high return, no doubt, is that the bank has a quantity of
remunerative reserves which are not- visible ; and, more-
over, on account of the undoubted strength of its posi-
tion, it is helped to a very liberal plateful of the cream of
the Australian banking business.
* * * *
The Mutual Fire Insurance Co. of Tasmania
(Launceston, Tasmania): —.
Net Dividends and Added to Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves, serves.
1900.. £4403 7 per cent. = £2756 £1647 £21,286
1901 .. 3793 7 ~ „ 2756) 1037 22,323
1902 .. 4541 7 ~ ~ 2756 1785 24.T08
1903 .. 5894 8 ~ ~ 3150 2744 26,852
1904 .. 5474 8 „ ~ 3150 2324 29,176
1905 .. 3876 8 3150 726 • 29,902
1906 ..' 3781 8 „ ~ 3150 631 30,533
1907 .. 5697 8 ~ ~ 3150 2547 33,080
1908 .. 4968 9 „ ~ 3544 1424 34,504
1909 .. 5520 10 ~ ~ 3937 1583 36,087
1910 .. 4531 10 ~ ~ 3984 547 36,634
This is a case in which one or two fires more or less make
the profits look bad or good : the co. isn’t big enough to
let the law of averages assert itself properly in so
short a space as a year. The thing that should
give most comfort to shareholders is that, even in
the worst of the past 10 years, a very fair profit has
been left to lay by after paying the dividend. This isn’t,
of course, all due to underwriting. One of the advantages
of the fire-insurance business,is that you don’t hay,e to
invest your capital in goods and pack them on shelves'
where they go on earning nothing while they get eaten
by moths. This co., for instance, has £37,500 of
capital and £36,634 of reserves, or a total of
£74,134 ; and of that lot £69,856 is out on mort-
gage, and last year’s interest was £3553, or very
nearly enough to pay the 10 per cent, dividend. True,
there oughtn’t to be that much out' on .mortgage ; ior jf
the co. were hit hard by a big disaster, it might be very
troublesome to get the money in fast enough to pay the
claims. For the reason mentioned above, the loss rate is
very uneven ; yet, in the worst of the past 10 years, an
underwriting profit has been shown —that is to say, pre-
miums have been more than enough to pay losses and
expenses;—
Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. ’ Rate.
1900 .. £4785 £1774 £2143 37'1 p.c. 44'8 p.c.
1905 .. 5844 2959 2248 50'6 „ 38'4 ~
1907 .. 6043 1043“ 2398 17 2 „ 397 „
1908 .. 6233 2263 2401 36 ’3 „ 38‘5 ~
1909 .. 6352 1651 2496 25‘9 ~ 39'3 „
1910 .. 6220 2206 2576 35'4 „ 41'4 „
The paid capital is £37,500, in shares paid to £l, with a lia-
bility of £4 per share—which last ought to give the in-
surers a still greater feeling of security. Incidentally,
also, it ought tq make the shareholders look in occasioii-.
ally to see how the business is being managed.
*■ * * ■*
St. Joseph’s Investment and Building Society
(Sydney) :
Depre-
ciation-
Profit Divi- Writ- Nomi-
Business on dend ten nal Re-
Sept., Profits. Sales. (5 p.c.). Off._ . .serves..
1899 .. £2617 £2600 £279
1900 .. 2985 3000 264
1901 .. 2473 .251)0 237
1902 .. 3544 3500 281
5 1903 .. 3341 —• 3500 122
1?04 .. 3496 3500 118
1905 .. 3601 3500 219
1906 .. 3575 —“ 3500 294
Assets written up £28,588, which amount
was transferred to capital.
1907 .. 3978 4000 272
1908 .. 4438 £6654 £2809 8,555
1909 ... 5071 1420 2858 —' -12,1 b"S
1910 .. 5015 367 2858 14,712
When Sydney’s last land boom raged, nearly 20 years
ago, this society’s shares were £lO paid. There was a
fine air of prosperity about the premises at that time.
Besides its own money the society had lent out about
£330,000 of other people’s. When the other people
—inconsiderate after the manner of other people-
called for their money, it wasn’t there. They asked for
cash, and all they could be offered was a stone —several
stones. These heaps of stones, and lands upon which
other heaps of stones might be put, fell in upon the
society wholesale. The borrowers who had pledged them
as security couldn’t pay what they still owed, and the
society had to take over the depreciated securities. \ The
society had no uncalled capital to get in, so shareholders
were spared the pain of paying up. But they had to agree
to write off £7 of every £lO share; that much was sup-
posed to be lost. Meantime depositors agreed to put
up with 3 p.c. interest. On the whole, things turned out
very well. The country has, of course, been going to the
dogs for years; yet, somehow, people with money have
been giving steadily' increasing prices for properties.
Apparently they reckon that, the Jcennel is a very good
place for a country to go to. In time, therefore—three
years ago, to be more exact—there was a revaluation of
the remaining assets ; and it was found they were under-
valued so much that the shares could be, it was
believed, safely written up £3. So the capital was
restored from £28,588 to £57,175. At'yhat time the de-
posits had all been paid, off except about £70,000. On
the increased capital the average profit', from ordinary
business during the past three years has been an almost
exact 8J per cent.—a pretty good indication that the re-
valuation was not beyond tbbmark. To further support
the same idea, there has beep a steady surplus on the
realisation of properties. Last year’s ordinary trading
profits, as shown by the table, are rather less than those
for the preceding year ; but that is explained by a trans-
fer of £524 to an accrued interest account. This is the
outcome of a stricter system of accounting.
The directors point out now that the reserves
would allow of another 30s. per share being added to the
capital. They are very wise, though, not to do any more
writing-up of that kind just now. It will be time enough
when Sydney has passed through thesluhip that is bound
to follow the present run of good seasons, high prices,
and plethoraof money. If thesociety escapes trouble then,
well and good. If it doesn’t, it will look better to write
off reserves than capital. And, anyhow, there probably
isn’t going to be any great future for building societies of
this pattern, enabling them to pay substantial dividends
on big capital. Starr-Bowketts are cutting in on one
side, and the extension of the functions of the State Bank
is cutting in on the other side ; and the ordinary build-
ing society will not get fat in competing with these two.
* * * *
Wickham and Bullock Island Coal Co.
Mine Writ-
Development ten
Loss. Expenditure*;?;*'Off. .Deficit.
Mar., 1904.. £1,214 ( J £2,702
Profit.
Sept., 1904.. 353 2,349
Mar., 1905.. 105 2 244
Sept., 1905.. 289 £221 £ISS6 4,032
Mar., 1906.. 577 751 4,206
Loss.
Sept., 1906.. 2 2974 7,182
Profit.
Mar., 1907.. 441 ,4274 1280 12,295
Loss."
Sept., 1907.. 17 v 1010 984 14,306
Profit.
Mar., 1908’. 5,377 2447 3021 14,397
Sept., 1908.. 8,094 1605 ' 6103 14,011
Mar., 1909.. 8,061 684 6557 13,191
Sept., 1909.. 8,655 147 3713 8,396
Mar., 1910.. 538 193 301 8,35.2
Nominal
Reserves.
Sept., 1910.. 13,716 3666 1,698
In 1903 this co. decided that it had been a short-sighted
ass. All the available coal it had left in the mine was
80,000 tons; and its financial position was as follows:
Liabilities, £5050 ; liquid assets, £6823. Opinion was
divided as to What should be done. There were pref.
shareholders as well as ordinaries ; and, curiously enough,
that saved the situation, for the ordinaries saw that if
the thing were woundup they wouldn’t get anything at all.
They- therefore urged the directors to get busy ; and the
directors did. A new mine was secured at Cessnock ;
and the profit on the old one and from the hire of trucks
was put into-the new one—the Neath. Developments
were very satisfactory, and, by transferring the plant
from the old mine, the new one was equipped without
running far intodebt, On Sept, 90 the position was—Lia-
bilities, £22,085 ■; liquid assets, £25,132. The new mine has
thus been bought, equipped and developed, and a short
branch railway put in, and the financial position is better
than it was when the horrible disclosure Was made in 1903.
Of course, no dividends have been paid meantime ; more-
over £5170 has been received in calls. But, even so, it is
an extraordinary performance. A question has now
arisen regarding dividends; and as counsel couldn’t
answer it, “ friendly proceedings in Equity have now
been commenced By a holder of ordinary shares to
restrain the distribution of these nett profits entirely
amongst the pref. shareholders, and the directors are,
therefore, obliged to carry the amount forward.” As a
matter of fact, the credit balance at profit and loss is
.only £I69S, as. shown above ; while the actual cash in
hand is £1 4s. Bd. It wouldn’t do any harm, therefore,
if the amount were carried forward for a year or two,
especially as the Northern coalfield isn’t at all likely to
have for many a day as thriving a half-year as it has
just passed through ;for in this half-year reserves have
had to be built up after the long strike, in addition to
the supply of current needs. The co. surely doesn’t want
to be a short-sighted ass twice.
The Langridge Mutual Permanent Building
Society (Melbourne): —
Writ- Added Nomi-
ten to Be- nal Re-
Sept., Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
1900 .. £2918 2£ p.c. = £2024 £283 £6ll £31,612
1901 .. 3149 3 ~ ~ 2382 1924 30,455
1902 .. 3962 3£ ~ „ 2703 2729 28,985
1903 .. 3981 3| „ „ 2665 853 463 29,448
1904 .. 4225 4 ~ ~ 3042 1378 29,253
1905 .. 4335 4 ~ „ 3012 5401 25,175
1906 .. 4404 4 „ „ 2966 2514 24,099
1907 .. 4724 4l „ „ 3323 1424 24,076
1908 .. 4838 5 „ „ 3667 2810 22,437
1909 .. 5336 5 „ „ 3662 3462 20,649
1910 .. 5643 5 „ „ 3676 664 1303 21,952
The Langridge lost less of its head in the Melbourne boom
than any other building society, and it stands out con-
spicuously for having kept no depositor waiting on the
mat. All things considered, that was a really remark-
able record ; for, of course, this society couldn’t carry
along on ’normal lines with banks, etc., tumbling
all around it, and thousands of properties flung
on the market. Still, it only hid to drop dividends and
make an arrangement with its investing shareholders—a
species of long-term depositors. When the trouble
occurred in 1893 it had £-i1,2690f reserves : it transferred
the lot to a contingency fund, and as losses have been
made on the sale of foreclosed securities, old and new, it
has written the amount off this fund. To-day the fund
stands at £8474 ; but it has been fed to a small extent by
the appropriation of current profits. The reserves in the
table are described as nominal: that is because this con-
tingency fund is included. Without that the reserves
total £13,478. And quite likely some of the contingency
fund is solid too; for the foreclosed properties now amount
to only £24,997, and £8474 looks a good deal more then
enough to provide for any loss on that lot. As the old
assets have been realised the money has been put out in
new advances on building-society terms. This shows the
history since the accounts were presented in their present
form :
■i; rDeposifs, Fore- Other
»*■ f : x , etc.b Advances. closures. Assets.
1902 .. .£12,616 £51,854 £68,857 £lBOB
1905 12,229 59,172 54,245 3678
1906 i. .12,545 67,007 48,189 964
1907 Li’' 16,399 73,473 44,105 1087
1908 19,294 81,587 36,797 859
1909' jr :. 18,087 86,209 28,084 1814
,1910 .. 21,351 96,143 24,997 Nil
-The modesty of the liabilities is still a striking feature of
the accounts. The capital in permanent arid paid shares
is £69,587 ; and the total of all liabilities to the public and
to investing shareholders is only £25,923. Under those
circumstances, the society ought to be able to command
very cheap money. The dividend is not big ; and with
such comparatively little risk as the shareholder has to
take, he can’t expect it otherwise. The society is, how-
ever, working itself into a position to be able to comfort-
ably pay another 1 per cent., unless something very bad
happens to Melbourne.
The City op Brisbane Building Society
Dividends and Carried to
Sept., Profits. Dividend Tax. Reserves. Deficit.
1899 .. £6O 5 per cent. = £36 £24 £lB
1900 .. 123 5 „ „ 108 15 3
Reserves.
1901 .. 188 -5 „ ' ,-, 167 ' 21 18
1902 .. 206 5 „ ~ 199 7 25
1903 ..275 5 „ ~ 255 20 45
1904 .. 260 5 „ ~ 241 19 64
1905 ..240 5 „ ~ 242 62
1906 .. 242 5 „ ~ 239 3 65
1907 .. 290 5 ■ y, , , 261 29 94
1908 .. 314 . 5 ~ ~ 296 „ 18 112
1909 .. 360 '5 - -332 ’ 28 140
1910 .. 427 ! 5 ~ 404 23 163
This little society isn’t to be recommended to anybody
who wants to get rich in 24 hours ; but the small Bris-
bane capitalist-rthe few shillings a man—who
wants a reasonable return with little risk might do many
worse things than give it consideration. The risks are
small because it is not bovpowingrat all on deposit. The
investor’s share is its only form of borrowing ; and that
is the form of investment that was mentioned just now
in the ear of the little man. The society has no foreclosed
properties in hand ; and, though its reserves are hot big,
they are mounting steadily. Business is also moving
along steadily ; advances have shown these progressive
totals—l9oB,'£6s7l ; 1909, £7553 ; 1910, £8457. On its
present appearance and past record, the modest little
thrift-promoter deserves well.
* * * *
The Tasmanian Permanent Executors and
Trustees’ Association (Launceston) :
Dividends and To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividend Tax. serves, serves.
Sept., 1903.. £470 6 per cent. = £315 £155 £2631
Mar., 1904.. 815 6 „ ~ 315 500 3131
Sept., 1904.. 667 6 „ ~ 315 352 3483
Mar., 1905 .. 696 6 ~ ~315 381 3864
Sept., 1905.. 1148 6 „ ~ 315 833 4697
Mar., 1906 .. 1040 8 „ „ 420 620 5317
Sept., 1906 .. 818 8 • „ ~ 420 398 5715
Mar., 1907.. 714 8 „ ~ 420 294 6009
5ept.,1907 .. 827 8 „ ~ 420 407 6416
Mar., 1908 .. 841 8 „ ~ 420 421 6837
Sept., 1908.. 863 9 ~ ~ 472 : 391 7228
Mar., 1909.. '666 9 „ ~ 7422
Sept., 1909 .. 605 9 ~ 7555
Mar., 1910.. 648 9 „ „ 478 170 7725
Sept., 1910.. 968 9 „ „ 472 496 8221
The co. doesn’t tell much about itself ; among other
things, the value of estates in hand isn’t disclosed.
Like practically all trustee cos., it makes one charge on
the capital value or corpus of an estate (from 1 to 2J per
cent.), and an annual charge of 2£ per cent, on income.
Some cos. spread out the corpus commission • over
many years, and thus make the profits look fairly
uniform ; others drop in the big commission in
lumps. Apparently the Tasmanian Permanent is one
of the latter ; hence a single year’s figures are
nothing to go by. The paid capital is £10,000; clients’
interests are protected not only by that and the reserves,
but also by £40,000 of uncalled capital; and of that
£25,000 cannot be called up by the co., but must
as a reserve liability for the special protection of
clients. Of the capital and reserves £5OOO is on deposit
with the Treasury ; and £12,381 is on mortgage. Interest
now very nearly pays the dividend, leaving the profit
from the business to go to reserves. The co. has two
risks—(l) from the misinterpretation of a will or other
instructions; (2) from a slump in its own investments. If
- it escapes these, the steadily increasing reserves.should
assure, at least, the present dividend.
Gordon House, Ltd. (Melbourhu), tvhiehbegah
With a deficit of £178; preliminary expenses :
To Be- Re-
gent., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1904 .. £1332 5 per cent. = £773 £559 £3Bl
1905 .. 1242 5J ,; „ 851 391 772
1906 .. 1511 6i „ „ 1005 506 1278
1907 1698 8 „ ~ 1237 461 1739
1908 .. 1906 10 ~ ~ 1547 359 2098
1909 .. 1671' 10 „ ~1547 124 2222
1910 ... 1852 10 „ „ 1547 305 2527
Gordon House is a “ model lodging-house ” property,
which this co. took over from another co. that tried to
mix business and philanthropy. The present co. is only
philanthropic after business hours, so to speak. Cer-
tainly it made a much better start than the old co., for it
took over the property at a low valuation, and the money
it couldn’t pay it got on easy terms from the Savings Bank.
That part of its profits which the co. is not spending on
the premises or dividing among shareholders, it is using
to pay off the mortgage. The following shows the pro-
gress it has made :
1904. 1909. 1910.
Liabilities .. £11,794 £BB7O £B6lO
Cash, etc. .. 32 73 119
Deficit .. £11,762 £8797 £8491
That is an improvement of £3271 in six years, which lifts
(say) £125 of interest off the co.’s shoulders. Dividends
have been rushed along too fast; but if they are not put
any higher, and if Melbourne has a few more good years,
the growth of the reserves and the further disappearance
of debt should put the co. in a position to go on paying a
fair dividend. In view of the probable depreciation of
the property it is a pity, though, that more was not paid
off the mortgage before the dividend was put past 8 per
cent.; for a mortgage, though its appetite may not
attract attention in ordinary times, seems a most vora-
cious lodger when the slump-time comes and there isn’t
much in the cupboard.
* * * *
Broken Hill Junction North Silver Mining
Co. :
Written
Loss. Dividend. Off. Deficit.
Sept., 1905 .. £523 Nil £20,290
(£50,000 new capital issued : deficit written off)
Profit.
Mar., 1906 .. 2,939 Nil £5OOO 2,061
Loss.
Sept., 1906 .. 3,065 Nil 5,126
Mar., 1907 .. 3,039 Nil 7208 15,373
Profit.
Sept., 1907 .. 17,726 Nil 7891 5,538
Mar., 1908 .. 7,376 Nil 7629 5,791
Sent., 1908 .. 12,418 Nil 7263 63fi
Reserves.
Mar., 1909 .. 11,024 Nil 3618 6,770
Sept., 1909 .. 16,821 Nil 7589 16,002
Mar., 1910 ... 20,357 Nil 7840 28,519
Sept., 1910' .. 7,620 £9OOO 8098 19,041
Four days after the accounts .closed on March 31, a div.
at the rate of 10 per cent, per annum was paid—the first
this co. ever scored. And even that orphan was a mis-
take. The management is an apparently incurable opti-
mist. “During the period under review the mine has
been hampered in its operations in the first place for
want of miners, and then by ventilation troubles.”
This is putting the vehicle in front of the quadruped.
The ventilation was bad ; hence the miners preferred to
work somewhere else. Some improvement has been made ;
but still the mine isn’t rushed. There is another factor at
work:, however. A practice has grown up at Broken Hill
of shutting down some properties in times when metals
£re cheap and profits poor ; and the cos. will have to pay
for it. Miners will give that kind of field a wide berth ;
and they would be fools if they didn’t. It costs a good
’ few pounds for a man to go and take his family and
chattels to an out-of-the-way mining field ; and if he is
liable to be thrown out of work at every downward plunge
of the metal market, the more prudent the man —and,
generally speaking, the better, the miner—the less dis-
posed he will be to go to the expense. Unfortunately,
other cos. which do struggle on whether the markets be
good or bad, suffer for the delinquencies of the rest.
To get back to the Junction North. When it
isn’t men and ventilation, it is something else. It always
has been something for the last 20 years. The truth is
rarely told. That truth is that the ore, of which there is
a very moderate reserve, is hard and fractious. The mill
recoveries for the past half-year, compared with those of
12 months ago, have been as follows :
Lead. Silver.
Sept., 1909 .. 67 - 0 per cent. 48’0 per cent.
Sept., 1910 .. 70-2 „ 49’7
That is better. But now consider the costs per ton of
ore :
Mining. Milling.
Sept., 1909 .. .. 12s. 3d. ss. Id.
Sept., 1910 .. .. 13s. 7d. 6s. Id.
Thus less than half the silver and but little more than
two-thirds of the lead are recovered at a milling cost of
over 65., as against (say) 3s. 9d. at the South, where the
recoveries are better. Further, on account of the
peculiarly intractable nature of the Junction North ore,
the wear and tear of the plant is exceedingly heavy ; and
this extra cost is riot taken into account in the foregoing-
figures.
The ore treated last “Ijalf-year amounted to
68,584 tons. The manager estimates that there are
322,000 tons standing in the Nos. 9, 10 and 11 levels.
“Below No. 11 a large tonnage of ore will be mined,
but there is not enough information to calculate
it in the reserves.” Twelve months ago it was
said: “The new level at 1334 ft. may be ex-
pected to open up at least 700,000 tons.” The
management has since learned the old lesson about
counting chickens. So a remark drops in casually : “The
main western crosscut advanced from 202 ft. to 308 ft. in
schist, but did not prove the expected ore body.” Then
they went up to 1 the 1134 ft. level and started stabbing
the country with the drill; and if shareholders will turn
to the published plans (section 15) they will see what has
happened. And it w on’t give them any comfort.
* * * *
The Hydro Electric and Metals, Ltd., with a
capital of £500,000, is being formed by its parent, the
Complex Ore Co., which has been doing a lot of experi-
mental work, on a large test plant in Melbourne, in zinc
electrolysis. The alleged result of these experiments is
that one h.p. produces two tons zinc per annum ; and, if
it’s only a question of horse-power, the export of con-
centrates to foreign smelters—it was nearly 350,000 tons
last year—should see a healthy decrease. For the co. has
rights under a Tasmanian Act to the sole use of the
Great Lake and the waters of the Ouse and Shannon
down to their junction, and the Great Lake is
said to have a potentiality of 100,000 h.p. There
are 25,000 h.p. in use within 75 miles of the generating
station, and the co. says the cost of h.p. in Tas. (mostly
from wood, coal and oil) is £3O to £35 per h.p. per
annum, and that it can sell power'at from £8 to £lO
and make a big profit; Realty, h.p. cost varies according
to its use. Thfe Tasmania mine, at Beaconsfield, for in-
stance, uses 1500 h.p., derived from Newcastle coal, at a
cost of £27 per h.p. per'annUm. But, then, it works all
the way round the clock. The less continuous the load
the greater the proportionate cost.
The co. has contracts for public lighting of
Hobart, Glenorchy, Newtown and Qneenborough, and
with private light and power provided for out of the first
unit of 5000 h.p., there will be only 2000 h.p. left for the
co.’s metallurgical work, at Nor’-West Bay. Capital cost
of the first unit is put at £164,200. The 2000 h.p. thus
available would only treat 200 tons or so of zinc concen-
trates per week. On a basis of 600 tons a week—which
would call for all the power available from the first unit—
the co.’s figures show a return of £178,000 per
annum, allowing for 80 per cent, recovery of
zinc, but not deducting management costs, in-
terest, depreciation, sinking fund, or realisation
costs, which are sizeable items. On the other
hand, lead and silver recoveries should also be sizeable.
The cost of zinc concentrates is taken at £4 per ton at
the works, allowing for a crude concentrate worth from
42 to 45 per cent. 8 per cent, lead, and 15oz. silver.


GREENING’S
SCREENING-
Agate Steel, Phosphor
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER * CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building;,, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie.
13
Every engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save 20 per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents,. W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne ; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
* • • *
“Ferrodor” Paint.—Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used oh Mort's
Dock and Mt. Lvell buildings; Hawkesburv, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. &O. and N.D..L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * » *.
THE LOSS of LIVE Steam in generating
steam power through faulty joints, badly packed piston
glands and leaky boiler mountings and stop valves causes
waste of fuel which can be prevented by using Bell’s
Asbestos “Bellite” Jointing, “Dagger” Packing and
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Water Gauges, Blow-Off Cocks
and Stop Valves. Permanent economy is also ensured
by protecting steam pipesand boilers with Bell’s Asbes'os
Non-Conducting Composition or Flexible Rope Lagging.
Send for illustrated catalogue of engineering specialties to
BELL’S ASBESTOS AUSTRALIAN AGENCY LIMITED
(A. J. Borchert, General Manager), 315 Kent Street,
Svdney.*
’** * *
The most modern, simple and effective Vacuum
Slimes Table is the “ Wilfle.v.” It is continuous, and con-
sists of a revolving drum which is partly submerged in a
tank of slimes or material to be filtered. The drum is
covered with a filter cloth supported on grooves on the
drum, which are connected by means of holes to the
interior to allow the liquid to be withdrawn. Through
the trunnions at the ends of the drum the vacuum pipe
passes to the interior. This pipe connects with the
interior of the drum, through which the liquid and air
are withdrawn by .means of a vacuum pump. The filtered
slime is removed by a simple apparatus placed at or
below the level of the pulp in the tank. So that directly
the cake is removed the surface of the filter cloth as it
revolVes is immediately re-immersed in the pulp ready to
receive a fresh cake, thereby preventing the sucking in
of air, and consequent loss of vacuum between the time
the cake is removed and a fresh one is forming. The
residual liquid in the slime cake is removed by distribu-
ting water over the surface of the semi-dried cake. Owing
to the fact that the filter is circular in form, it will be
seen that it is continuous in operation, and has no com-
plication of valves to. get out of order ; furthermore,
work is being done continuously during the 'whole revolu-
tion of the filter drum. The Austral Otis Engineering
Company, of Squth Melbourne, have the sole manufactu-
ring rights of this filter.* [2
' ' * * * *
The original “Balata’ Belting, patented by
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its high standard
of excellence, and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand on every few feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* [4
* * * *
The Policy Holder, Manchester, in its issue of
30/9/’OB writes regarding The Colonial Mutual Life Assur-
ance Society, Limited ; “ The Colonial Mutual typifies to a
great extent the Australian spirit, the keynotes of which
are ambition and enterprise. This Society has much
which commends it for acceptance to our countrymen,
while its reputation for straightforward dealings largely
explains its success in the other countries in which it
operates.”*
.■*. ' * * *
“WOOD PIPE has proved very satisfactory
in the past, and we are disposed to use it now to the
exclusion of iron pipe.”—The verdict of a leading G. &
C. Mg. Co. in W.A. The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd.,
Balmain, Svdney.
'* * * ■*
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If s.o,
write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney ; and
9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [2
* * * *
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers, Agents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street,. Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
* * * *
Mine managers will be largely guided by the
wide experience of the N.S.W. Government Railways.
Half this year’s contract has been placed with Messrs.
Win. Adams & Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, for
their Genuine Nobels Explosives. Large stocks of high
explosives on hand. Write for contract forms and
quotations.”*
* * * *
Mine managers when requiring air compressors
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not fail
to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they will be
impressed by its simplicity, compactness and portability.
Owing to the working parts being entirely enclosed it can
be placed to work on any part of the mine, either on the
surface or underground. The number of repeat orders
which Messrs. Reavell have received from the mining
community proves how greatly their compressor is
appreciated. The representatives for Australia are
Messrs.' Babcock and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
* * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
eneineer, iron founder, boiler, maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Com.ison & Co., 453 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
* • *
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbp.rg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits ;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan's crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine bynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dyn.amite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Roasting, it is reckoned, will cost 10s., dissolving 55.,
labor 55., smelting residues os., smelting zinc 2s. , refining
bullion 55., electrical energy 6s. and contingencies 3s. 6d.
per ton of concentrates. A plant to treat 600 tons a
week will cost £75,000; and a beginning is to be made
with a 200-ton plant at a cost of £30,000.
The co. has other things in vjew ; in fact, the
uses to which electrical power can be put are unlimited.
Thus, Australia consumes over 5000 tons calcium carbide
a year and 4000 h.p. is required for its manufacture. In
the countries of its origin it costs £6 per ton, and one
h.p. per annum will make lj tons carbide, which sells
wholesale at about £l4 a ton. Every State of Australia
has deposits of high-grade iron ore ; one h.p. produces
three tons pig, and electrical furnace pig is equal
to the best Swedish charcoal product. Converted
to mild steel or rails it is worth (say) £8 10s.
a ton. Ten tons of swamp gum tested at British paper
mills produced high-grade writing paper, and wood suit-
able for pulp for newspaper work exists in large quanti-
ties in Tasmania. A Bull co. is to start manufacture
at Nor’-VVest Bay, and has signed a contract for electric
po\ver. The Hydro Electric and Metals will, it is said,
begin life with £225,000 underwritten, in an issue of
100,000 shares and £125,000 5 per cent, debentures.
* * * *
Some policyholders of the Colonial Mutual Life
have started an agitation for a committee to examine the
society’s affairs. The Colonial Mutual has been in a very
poor way for years ; and it; recently bought the business
of the Standard at a price which must have given the
shareholders a shock. Apparently the deal
was carried through by the Colonial Mutual on the
principle that two bad eggs will make one good chicken
“Which they won’t; not this setting season, anyway.
The weakness of the “mutual” system of life assurance
is that in the case of a wildly careless society like the
Colonial Mutual, everybody’s business is nobody’s busi-
ness ; the policyholder doesn’t feel that he is a share-
holder, because his dividends are not payable before
death ; and management sinks into the hands of careless
nonentities with good names, or old women, or the noisy
minority that always wants a job. And the Colonial
Mutual, having got into a bad way 20 years ago, could
stand that sort of management less even than an office
can usually stand it. An inquiry can’t therefore come
too soon.
Having got the contract for refining the Lyell
blister-copper output, the Electrolytic Smelting and Re-
fining Co. at Port Kembla (N.S. W.) is just-about doubling
part of its plant. Until thisco. started the only people who
refined copper in Australia were the Oobar and Wallaroo
cos., and they only did it for themselves. All the copper-
gold product from Mount Morgan, Mount Lyell, Chillagoe,
Cloncurry and other Australian mines went to foreign
works, mostly American. Even now more than two-
thirds of it goes abroad ; but the proportion will be a good
deal less when the Lyell product goes to the right
place. At the start the yarn was that the work, which
calls for a good deal of skill, couldn’t be done in Australia.
The work not only is being done in Australia, but it is
also being done so well that the refin'ed product is classed
with the world’s best. In fact, there are only two or
three brands which some very particular German electri-
cal works will use ; and the E. S. and It. is one of them.
Nor has there been any wholesale importation either of
men or of machinery. General-manager Magnus was
brought from the'other side ; and, so far as men are con-
cerned, that is about the lot. Foremen are almost
without exception young Australians ; and other
young Australians are being trained. There is a tech-
nical college alongside the works, arid Magnus is said to
be as proud of it as he is of his refinery. Practically
every lad in the works is a student, and youngsters who
saw a .navvy’s life looming ahead of them now see lucra-
tive billets opening up. And the co. helps them to get
those billets by paying their school-fees and looking
kindly on the foremen, etc., who come along and give in-
struction. The fact that the foremen have mostly
climbed up that way is a further incentive.
Up to now there probably hasn’t been much in
the business for the co. But there has been a good deal in
it for Australia. Roughly, every ton of blister copper that
goes out of Australia to be refined does'nirm Australians
out ofw job—‘six directly and three (coal miners, railway
men, etc.) indirectly. The cost of the process is probably
from £4 to £5 per ton. The cos. in the old days paid a
great deal more than that, though. In fact, it is alleged
that, in the old days of the Great Oobar 00., before the
syndicate took over the property, the gold wasn’t paid
for at all. That plum helped to fatten Germany.
And down till quite lately very much larger lumps than
£5 were lopped off the value of Australian gold-copper
bullion by the foreign refiner. The usual thing hap-
pened, however, when Australian works arrived : down
dropped the foreigners’ charges. In other words, up
went the net price realised by the Australian mining cos.
When the Mount Kembla people recently got the Lyell
contract, the representatives of foreign refiners said that
the Australian co. must lose money on it. They admit
that to get that contract they themselves cut right to
the bone. They probably cut deeper even than that.
There are two sorts of “ dumping.” The foreigner can
kill a baby Australian industry by pouring in goods at
under-cost price, expecting to make up the loss when the
baby is dead ; or he can kill it by outbidding the
baby industry for its raw products. The latter
isn’t a scheme that can always be worked ; but when it
can be worked it is dangerous, because the producer
isn’t always a patriot—he believes in selling to the
foreigner if the foreigner will pay a better price, and he
won’t see why the foreigner sometimes pays the better
price. There are, no doubt, a few who would sell to the
foreigner, anyhow, even if the Australian offer was as
good. That sort of man or co. is beyond argument; the
only way to talk to him is with an export duty on his
unfinished products.
•Jf * * *
The East Greta (N.S.W.) coal shareholders had
some of the trouble they expected at their meeting last
week. The convention lasted from 3 to 7. Ralston,
K. 0., was on hand to do some special pleading for the
directors and others whose proposed deal with the co.
had caused all the trouble; and there was relief all
round when it was whispered that “the Reformers”
hadn’t a criminal prosecution in their mind. Three
directors had to be elected : the ballot resulted in the
choice of Earp, Yuill and Clift; the last two are new men.
* * * *
As far as the Kyloe (N.S.W.) has gone, the lode
in the bottom level isn’t keeping up to its value in the
levels above. The first 45 tons broken out assayed only
5 - l per cent.; and at Kyloe that is perilously close to the
non-paying line.
* * * *
The Grafton copper mine, Cangai (N.S.W.), is
going in for tramway equipment. The tram will supply
the smelter with firewood at (it is hoped) a lower cost,
besides avoiding the constant stoppage of supplies when
the roads become heavy. During September the Cangai
reverbs treated 330 tons ore for 91 tons matte, containing
37 tons copper. Most of the ore was obtained-—nomin-
ally at least —in the course of development work.
* * * *
Main Ridge Deep Lead, Rockley (N.S.W.), has
treated 65 fathoms of wash dirt for 61oz. gold. If that
return represented an average for a large area there
vvould be some froth on the beer ; but unfortunately the
gold is very unevenly distrimited, and the various engi-
neers who have reported on the property agree that costs
are likely to be high. So the beer is flat as Sahara.
Various estimates have been made about the future cost
of mining and treatment if certain alterations are made
to the plant ; but none of these estimates encourage the
hope that the wide areas of poor gravel can be.made to
give a profit. Only the best portions of the lead will pay
to work, even if costs are reduced to Blakemore’s estimate
of 325. per fathom.
* * * *
Queen Bee (N.S.W.) is at last'to get some of
the capital it has been long in need of. The necessary
resolutions have been passed ; and underwriters are at
the back of the issue.
* * * *
Balmain (Sydney Harbor) colliery will be a good
deal heard of before long. It is now in a position to
make a big output, and there probably isn’t better
bunkering coal in Australia.
* * * *
Mount Morgan has got through its change-over
troubles ; and it will now begin to show the value of the
Manj’ Peaks flux. The last three months’ record has been
as follows, taking copper at £5O per ton August,
£49,386 ; Sept., £79,113 ; Oct., £39,918. The quantity of
gold-copper ore put into the furnaces during the month
was 18,644 tons, the best for the half-year. The copper
product was 670 tons ; next month should pass 700 tons ;
and by December the co. should settle down to a steady
800 tons or thereabouts. Hitherto Morgan’s costs have
been high ; but, unless the calculations are all wrong, the
use of Many Peaks metal-bearing flux should pull them
down considerably. Apart from the fact that the co.
will no longer be putting through barren ironstone, the
Peaks stuff contains some sulphur, and that ought to
reduce the hitherto heavy coke bill.
* * * *
Brilliant Deep, Charters Towers, continues to
prospect its section of the Brilliant reef above and below
the 2413 ft. level. Last half-year 953 tons crushed for
£4437. The returns averaged £4 10s. 2d. ; but the last
crushing of 205 tpns only gave £3 12s. 2d. per ton. This
won’t brighten up the situation very milch ; and it wants
brightening, for the co. is in debt.
* * * *
East Mexican, Charters Towers, is developing
well on tbe eastern Day Dawn reef. So far the rise above
No. 6, near the Freehold boundary, has proved 220 ft. of
backs, mostly very payable stone. Mills’ Unit'ed was the
first to pick up this eastern section of the Day Dawn.
But, though the reef has been worked so extensively,
the levels below 1600 ft. vertical give little sup-
port to the theory that this reef is pitching rapidly
to the east, which was the opinion put forward some
time since by supporters of the N. B. Freehold.
Recent developments in the Mexican indicate that this
somewhat erratic Day Dawn shoot is pitching to the west,
which was the case with the original Day Dawn reef
(discovered in the Day Dawn P. 0.). The strengthening
of the market for Mexican shares is undoubtedly due to
the opinion that the reef is pitching westwards, and that
No. 4 will open up satisfcictorily. Between the shaft and
the boundary there is a reasonable chance of picking up
this heavily mineralised shoot of stone above No. 4 level.
Whether the Victory or any other lease will get the shoot
beyond the Mexican’s boundary remains to be seen.
* * . * , *
Blucher’s Victory, at the Broughton, Charters
Towers, is in 30,000 shares, all contributing. The last
return from 117 tons gave a good-looking £6 15s. 9d. per
ton. At the third half-yearly meeting there was'£73o in
the till and 30 tons of stone in hand. The recent crush-
ings have come from No. 3 level ; but the reef there has
been erratic and patchy, with a tendency to split up into
leaders. Still, a winze below No. 3 shows a strong reef in
the sink ; so the opening of No. 4 level is being watched
with a good deal of hopefulness. The'Cumberland reef,
in the same locality, has given a small fortune to its
owners. 1
* * * * ,
East Oriental, Gvmpie (Q.), crushed 1125 tons
for 13630z.,' making the third good return on end. A
dividend of 4d. follows. At the mine a tyrge body of
crushing stuff is showing in the intermediate level above
2025 ft. The rich patches of coarse gold and specimens
make in close proximity to slides or crosscourses. The
East Oriental and Scottish Gym,pie are the deepest mines
on the field, but No. 2 S. Great Eastern is sinking its
main shaft to try its luck on the Inglewood reef at depth.
The latest return from South Glanmire and Monkland
was 658 tons for 3280 z. This co. is opening the Inglewood
reef at the9lsft. level, with fairlygood results. It is, how-
ever, a mullocky showat times, so that the stone requires
picking. Work has also been started again pn the Ingle-
wood from the western shaft. The South Glanmir.e is
next to No. 2’S. Great 1 Eastern, so it is naturally in-
terested in the prospecting of the deeper levels. Alto-
gether there is a more hopeful feeling about Gympie,
which latterly )iap. bqen doing a lop, ,of valuable prospect-
ing and development work.
* * * *
Hampden (Q.) has impressed the Baillieus, the
reports from both the cos.’ mines having lately been very
cheerful, and they have either underwritten orgot-under-
writing for the debenture issue to pay for the Duchess
railway. The co.’s financial position is therefore assured.
The Queensland Government has not yet taken
over the management of the Etheridge line (147 miles),
but will shortly do so. This line cost £414,843, or under
£3OOO per mile ; so if Einasleigh and Etheridge go ahead,
the railway should for a time at least show very good re-
sults. The Chillagoe Co. has acquired some lead mines
at Mosquito Creek, and a number of men are now raising
ore for the Chillagoe smelter, which, by,the way, has also
put on more hands to deal with the bigger ship-
ments from Mungana, Einasleigh, etc. Chillagoe has
had such a bad time all these years, and has ac-
cumulated such a pile of debt, that it Can do
very well with more cheerful surroundings. Its
trouble is that the cheerful surroundings have hitherto
only lasted long enough to allow the insiders to get out
on a rise, to come in again later on when Gloom has once
more descended on the co.’s affairs.
* * * *■
Philip Charley, who has been poking holes into
Queensland at Trvphinia, 70 or 80 miles from Rock-
hampton, has put his coal prospects there into a co. It
is to be called the Charley Coal Mines Proprietary,
Ltd. A good slice of the State has been taken over—23
coal-prospecting blocks of a square mile each, and four
mineral leases of 320 acres each. Near by a small co. has
been probing for coal at, Stanley, and has struck it at a
shallow depth. The combustible is believed to be a con-
tinuation of Philip Charley’s finds. Hitherto Rockhamp-
ton has only had sheep-runs in its big back yard ; but it
threatens to some day grow as much coal as wool.
* * * *
The George Syndicate, which holds an option
over some tin properties .about 80 miles north of Charters
Towers, appears to be on a pretty good thing, A condi-
tion of the option is that operations are to be confined to
development work. So far, 150 tons of ore have been
raised ; 50 tons will go 10 per cent., and the whole will
average over-6 per cent. The ore-buying Lemprieres
are largely interested in the option, There is a mill
about eight miles away, on Stockyard Creek, owned by
the late tributor of the mine. He cleaned up about 100
tons the other day for eight tons of tin oxide, which was
sold in the Towers for £lOO per ton. The metal appears
to be carried by an intrusive dyke in granitei
Bananaland’.s Agent-General, reporting from
the Great Fog, advises senders of opal to supply the
stones in matrix form, as “the exporters don’t always
cut opals to meet the ideas of London buyers.'’ Queens-
land sapphires, especially if of light and uniform shades,
are, he says, always picked up at good prices. From
March to the end of July is the best time to hit J. Bull’s
market, as then the dollar-covered American is poking
about with his own • and other 1 people’s expensive
daughters.
* * * *
Things are not as bright on the Central Queens-
land sapphire fields as they might be. Miners are quitting
Sapphiretown, as the old ,surface ground is getting ex-
hausted ; and at Ruby Vale the sinking becomes deeper,
and the output is uneven. The Mines Department has
agreed to help’ to test deeper ground at Sapphiretown,
where hitherto most gems have been got on a false
bottom. The strata beneath is composed of large water-
worn boulders, which require blasting; and tbe gouger’s
private banking account won’t run to that expense.
* * * *
The Bullfinch has got a perch in London. The
new co. is in 500,000 shares, of which 450,000 are issued ;
the other 50,000 are apparently reserved, and it will pro-
bably turn out that some sort ’of option has been given
over them. The little Doolette-Shallcross-Jones syndi-
cate takes 300,000 shares and £lOO,OOO cash ; and that
leaves £50,000 for working capital. The business was
fixed up in London on Wednesday and Thursday, arid
there were some wild dealings in the shares on those
days. Two vyires quoted £5 and £3 ; but when things
settled down on Friday, shares found their level at 355.,
which meant £787,500 for what, after all, is no more than
a surface show. But even that wasn’t enough ;so the
quote was swiftly lashed along to 555.
From Southern Cross : “Such a re-union of the
old Coolgardie deadbeats ! I thought they were gone
for good, most of them, long since. Heaven only knows
where they’ve been dossing. They haven’t had the
chance of'Such a gold-brick flutter for 18 years. Don’t
take it from this that it’s all gold-brick. Two or three
very decent mining centres may get a start.”
. * * * *
This is a fair sample of the Bullfinch madness :
A Melbourne syndicate was formed. The boss prospector
left. Shares rose £l. He wired that he was at Perth.
Another £1 rise. Arrived at Southern Cross. Quoted
£2 higher. The Bulletin hasn’t heard what happened
after that. Most likely the man wired that he was too
late to get anything.
* * * *
Gordon Dickson retires from the Cassilis (Vic.)
with honors, to take up £l2OO a year and, incidentally,
chase gold shows round Rhodesia for a fatman crowd.
His benediction is in the form of a discourse on the Cas-
silis, and it is so inspiring that every shareholder takes it
into his closet to commune over in secret. Dickson, while
at the Cassilis, went for costs-saving as well as gold-savings.
One idea he brought from the West was the Murphy stope
drill to bring into service stone that had been left in the
stopes. He also pitched in the filter press that 8., M.
and Co. use to handle slimes. One way and another, he
reckons up ore reserves in the Cassilfs at 15,000 tons,
from which the co. is to net £7500. Then £ll,OOO is to
come from the slimes and £BOOO from the chlorination
residues. Total £26,500. And profits! ’Ye gods, no
wonder the Dickson boat was blazing in rainbow colors
when the Henley ffite was on! The £26,500 is badly
wanted, for the co. has never got its financial balance
right since the time it struck its electrical scheme.
Nicholas and Coote will both want to see how Gordon’s
figures pan out in the chlorine vat. His successor is
A. M. Drummond, of the Northern Mines (W.A.), so the
B. influence is still felt in the Cassilis parlor.
* * * *
Lansell interests in Bendigo are being shaken
up. The jumping of the Sheepshead block is being
followed up by an application for the forfeiture of
the eastern lease of the Virginia Co., in which the
estate is a big holder, along with another half-
dozen of Bendigo’s magnates.' The co. got the lease
in 1906, and has done little or no work on it since,
though during that time many a good shilling has gone
into the Fatmen’s pockets from the other workings. See-
ing that the block covers the Paddy’s Gully and some of
the Derby side-lines, a bit of the cash surplus ought to
have been used to open up the neglected area. First the
A.M.A. went on the warpath, and now the pegs are in on
behalf of some one else. The co. asks Minister Mcßride
for another chance. The story is that it can’t pick up a
shaft site. Um ! If the co. is shot off the lease it will have
its own supineness to thank for the loss.
**. * *
A. 1., Gaffney’s, up in the Vie. mountains, has
hit a floor just when, by the oddest coincidence, its pro-
moter, Georgy Dickenson, had pulled off a pot on-the
Diamond King, and the Bullfinch had struck it rich at
Yilgarn. Dickenson’s chest is out to the breeze, for to
hit a floor at the A.I. may mean more than a
patch. Talk of assays ! In the old days thfe
A. 1., Rose of Denmark and Dempsey’s were so rich
that the whole district had a very good time. The
stroke of a pick may expose another jeweller’s shop. Of
course, it is frightfully patchy. A.I. got on to the rocks
after Field and the Millers raked out the last floor, and
it took a lot.of push to make a Melbourne crowd think
that there was more than machinery leavings on 'the
claim. To hit on another niche of gold in a few months
gives hopes for the other abandoned Woods Point minqs
that once showed more dazzling riches than half a dozen
Bullfinches. ,
* ' * « *
The latest shove-off at Bendigo is the New Red,
White and Blue United to work the Sheepshead Extended
lease. The co. is in 40,000 shares of Is. each, and the
promoters take the whole of them. Now, ’tis said that a
favored few are to be let in at 10s. At this point the
Bendigo Stock Exchange pops . up with a pro-
posal to treat the whole lot 'as vendors’ scrip and
prohibit dealing in ; them for six months. If the pro-
moters made them 10s. shares, and issued (say.) 24,000
shares to the public at 10s., and took £lO,OOO-in cash,
the Exchange wouldn’t hang those 24,000 shares up. Yet
there doesn’t seen) much difference between the two cases.
As to the show itself: It has a shaft 1400 ft. deep to tell a
tale of past disappointment. But it also has a Chance of
picking up the continuation of the Central Blue’s shallow
shoot, and with more sinking it may hit the North Blue’s
shoot. So it is a double-barrelled gamble. ■
* * , * *
Maori Queen,-one of the first of Ovens River
(Vic.) dredging cos., paid £2 on its £2O shares last half-
year; and half of the time only'one dredge was working.
The old original No. 1 dredge has been dismantled, and
the machinery has been put on to a new No. 1. Besides
paying the dividends (£3300), the half-year’s operations
allowed £3251 to be,written off the old plant; and even
then there still remained an extra £5O to add to the
profit and loss balance. The net liabilities on September
30 were £1959.
**• * * r
The Tasmanian mining tip of the hour is North
Dundas, where Sligo has been hatching tin eggs for 10
years .past without bringing out a brood till now. The
very latest from London is that John Henry, of Mount
Lyell fame, has planted the Dreadnought sections in the
lap of J. Bull) and that, the hard -stuff is put up for
plant. Bull is said to have jumped at the chance to get
in on bedrock. He only had to put up 10 thou,
to the credit of working capital to rope in 60,000 shares
out of the 80,000 that comprise the bag of tricks. The
market wonders if Bowes Kelly got a hint of Henry’s
luck, or probable luck, for he acquired an option over
Sligo’s blocks. Should Bull be on the feed, will he too try
to fill the British paunch—in return for a nice little cash
consideration and share interest?
* * * *
Mt. Lyell cannp.tafford a sixpenny bonus this
year ; the thing would cost £30,009, for every penny
added to the dividend mops up £5OOO, so that the Is. 3d.
the shareholders get calls for £75,000. For the six
months the furnaces used up 198,000 tons of ore in the
production of 4080 tons of blister. It required an aver-
age of approximately 481 tons of ore to produce a ton of
blister, which shows that the stuff handled has been of
lower grade than usual. It is also probable that the
raising of pyritic ore from underground is proving more
expensive than quarrying from the open cut. Nominally
the big blow still contains a large tonnage of ore, but it
is| not so accessible as it used to be. And the copper
market is sick.
+■ * * ’ -,i
Captain “Teddy” Miles, the Tasmanian, is
having a game with the Tongkah bears. After Currie
and Wharton had dropped in their little pill, Tongkahs
shrivelled to under half a sovereign ; and Captain Teddy
let them shrivel. Then he went along to Siam and
Singapore. The bears were (and fqr that matter still are)
so sure of the reports made for the Baillieus, the Lem-
prieres and other people that they' went on selling shares
gaily. Some of the strongest Tasmanians lost heart and
wouldn’t support the market any more. The puzzle after
that was who was buying? Miles seems: to have given
the tip to two lots of friends—some in Tasmania, the
others in Singapore ; and through the latter there have
been' some solid purchases on Chinese account. -Then
came the new dredges, and with Captain Teddy on the
spot the month’s output of tin was brushed up to 110
tops. Jus,t about that time Captain Ted and his friends
wanted the overdue scrip badly ; and the bears have had
a cold time finding it. From a few shillings the price
was pushed up to 355.' But nothing more seems to be
known of the extent of-the tin-deposit than was the case
when Currie and Wharton compounded their pill. There
never was a doubt that some tin could be got, and got
quickly. The point that still remains unsettled is, What
area is there of it?
* . . . * f ' df [ *
Waihi’Gtand Junction is hunting'for the miss-
ing Royal reef, which has been cut Off by the'same fault
that cut off the Empire reef about 800 ft. east of the main
N. and S. crosscut. They picked up the Empire all right,
and have little doubt of succeeding with the Royal. The
Empire, in fact, was a better reef after the fault.
* * * *
Reported in Waihi (M.L.) that “Long Drive”
Walker, now in London, has floated a £lOO,OOO co. to
prospect a biff patch of the Waihi field extendinff east
from the Waihi Reef.s and Komnlus to the sea. Walker's
idea is to put down a shaft 1200 ft. or 1500 ft. and then
crosscut. It is a, modification of an old scheme of his.
Doubts are expressed as to whether Walker actually has
the capital. Still, “Lonff Drive” has a good name in
connection with Waihi Grand Junction, and he may have
charmed London.
* * *
Maoriland dredging doesn’t boom as it did a
few years ago ; there are now no phenomenal Hartley and
Riley returns. But a good number of dredges are still at
work, with weekly returns ranging from oOoz. down to
12oz: and 15oz. These are chiefly in Otago and Southland.
Few of the West Coast dredges remain alive.
*■** *■
The coal centre of Blair Athol, near Cler-
mont (Q.), is gradually shaping- itself. About 40
miners are on the field, and.about 1200 tons a week are
being raised. One co. has visions of an electric plant,
and an output of 1000 tons a day. The railway people
use Blair Athol coal along the Central and Mount Morgan
lines, while Rockhampton is already developing a habit
of grilling the family' sausage with it.


1904
A Favorite Vintage. v ?
Charles Heidsieck
Champagne
Can still be procured
from all Agents.
A. C. Rowlandson, of the N.S.W. Bookstalls,
whose “ Bookstall ” series now runs to over three dozen
volumes, has the joy of announcing that up to date he
has put off more than 500,000 copies of these “written,
illustrated and printed in Australia ” books. Steele Rudd
is the most prolific contributor to the series with 10
pieces dropped on to Rowlandson’s collection plate. T. E.
Spencer, who is kept pretty busy these days
presiding over N.S.W. Wages Boards, has found
time to add three to his original “How McDougall
Topped the Score.” A. C. Rowlandson doesn’t pretend
to have any abnormal scent for literature; but he is
making an Australian market for good, honest, interesting
and mostly bright Australian stuff ; and dozens of Aus-
tralian writers give him three cheers for offering them the
chance to supply it.
q
n
*s>
NS
F
T*.
RORUR
Bless your soul, l don’t mind
how many meals a day 1 cook
so long as the missus isn’t stingy
with the tea —1 must have a cup
first thing in the mornin’, at
eleven o’clock, and another about
three. You’ve no idea what a lot
of work there is in a kitchen —»
there’s hardly a break in the
day, for as soon as one lot’s
cleared away you have to start
gettin’ ready for the next, and
so it goes on from mornin’
* to night.
The meanest thing t know Is
for a missus to get two sorts of
tea —rubbish for the kitchen and
another for inside. Kitchen tea
is nearly always the sort that
leaves a nasty taste in your
mouth, or else it’s no better
than chopped-up straw —no use
to anyone, much less a woman
who has to stand over a stove
all day like me.
1 don’t stand any nonsense
when 1 goes to a new place,
l tells the missus straight l won’t
drink any other tea but R o b u r
No. 1 Grade, and if she doesn’t
agree to get it 1 don’t go —and
do you know after a bit they
all gets to like it just as much
as l do, and lots of them
has said how much obliged they
are to me for introducing such
good tea to ’em, and most of
’em has 'told me it’s the best
they’ve ever had. And you’ll
say so too if ever you make up
your mind to use it.
The Cook.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
“BLACK & WHITE
A WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, November 8, 1910.
My Dear Artni,—
Our late and well-beloved Sir Harry Raw3on
has heard the trumpet sound “from tne hid
battlements of Eternity.” A fortnight since a
Sydney man had a letter from him saying he had
just returned from a trip, and was feeling “never
better in his life.” The only official link between
the late Excellency and Sydney was his honorary
colonelship of the Second Australian Infantry
Regiment. That body has been consequently put
into mourning by its colonel, Ramaciotti.
Mr. Harry Morton, the new member for Hast-
ings and Macleay, is a brother of Mr. Phillip
Morton and one of the trustees of the vast Berry
estate. He used to be a bank manager in the
constituency he now represents, and in that
capacity met his wife, who was one of the Dangars
of Kempsey. I see that Mr. Morton has frankly
informed the Sydney daily papers that he will do
nothing to put the present N.S.W. Labor Govern-
ment out of office —provided it doesn’t do what
there isn’t the slightest chance of it attempt-
ing to do in his time. Truly, the world is
changing. Who, even as recently as five years
back, would have visualised an ex-bank manager,
a Berry estate trustee, openly announcing that he
meant to give his sympathetic support in Parlia-
ment to a Labor Government ?
Nothing like “Salvation Nell” has been seen
at a .T.C. W. theatre in the recollection of your
Akenehi. The chances are that nothing like it
will be seen again after the rags of the naturalistic,
muse are taken off the stage of the Royal. Not,
at any rate, until Sydney grows an equivalent to
the American Bowery or London Whitechapel.
For box-office reasons. Salvation Nell and la bite
humaine she so blindly loves will no doubt depart
hurriedly. Not even the splendid acting of Miss
Grey and Mr. Desmond will keep them going. The
play is a commonplace study of a lot of common-
place, ugly, narrow lives. Salvation Army officers
shine as doers of good deeds in the naughty
under-world. At the close of the play the
audience saw the beast on the edge of his reform-
ation, but it really did not care whether his soul
was saved or not. Is the soul of a carrion crow
worth saving ? And it was exasperating to see
a lovable, good, pretty little woman fairly exuding
love and loyalty to such a mean, insanitary loafer
as the Jim Platt of Mr. Desmond.
It is a singularly humorless play. One would
think that the long bar-room scene would give
chances for humor. The Mr. Dooley with whom
half the world was laughing a few years ago, was
an American saloon-keeper; and Norman Lindsay’s
topers are humorous dogs. Miss Elsie Wilson
as Muriel Odell, an avowed and blatant
Scarlet Woman, is the nearest approach to the
humorous, but of the most grotesque type. “ Oh,
them pants ! ” she exclaims, recalling the days
when she and Nell were sweated workers in
noisome surroundings. “Oh, them pants! Fifteen
buttons up the side and the tape on the ba#k
seam, and all for a few cents a pair.” Then
she hitches up her crimson satin, perfectly-
fitting frock and reveals a crimson-hosed leg
with a gold garter. Another of her gowns is a
black and white stripe with horizontal screams of
emerald satin, a huge emerald and black yell of a
hat and emerald gloves. Her gait is always a
cake-walk, and she remains unconverted and
cheerful, and dressed like a tropical parrot to the
end of the consistently dismal play.
Miss Grey, as the drudge of the saloon-keeper,
is garbed in rags, and carries a pail and scrubbing-
brush. She lodges a grief that “burns worse
than tears drown,” and conveys a sense of physical
and spiritual exhaustion. A wonderful piece of
acting; but, as the actress fainted on the fall of
the curtain, perhaps not all acting.
Some of us were talking of the advisability of
forming a Pessimists’ Club. Presently that stately,
Eiffel Tower actress. Miss Mab Paul, passed by,
and one of the mildest of the pessimists re-
marked : “I do not admire very tall women.”
“No,” agreed the most virulent of the pessim-
ists; “ the less of any of them the better.” Just
as we were about to separate amidst forgings and
utterings of false things about the weather, a
mutual friend heaved up to us; and in reply to
queries about his health replied : “I feel so well
that I don’t know what the deuce is the matter
with me.” Him will we elect vice-president of
the nil admirari club.
Mention of Miss Mab Paid reminds that as the
Countess in the play at the Criterion she is
wearing the most gorgeous stage gowns in Syd-
ney. They are a trifle over the speed-limit; but
the Countess herself is just a little on the swift
side. She is qualifying for putting a hole
through the Decalogue, when her amusing,
improper husband comes back from hav-
ing done so on his own account, and she is
saved. Her first frock is a pale amethyst cloth,
with a hat of a darker shade in velvet. Her
handsomest creation is a ninon in a young shade
of old rose, if you can imagine such a tone, with
bands and pipings of pink satin. It fits the
wearer as if it were painted on her, and
you can see a good deal of Miss Paul
through the transparency of the shoulders. She
wears this caramel of a frock at breakfast. It’s
as bad as being brilliant at the morning meal.
When she goes out to lunch with Preedy, the un-
fortunate buffer or scapegoat, she puts on a black
hat with pink feathers. Her third and last frock
is of pale green satin, with a tunic embroidered
with gold and silver corn cobs, and edged with a
Bullfinch lode of gold in fringe formation.
Two characters in “Mr. Preedy and the Coun-
tess” would break up a pessimists’ club by
preventing the members enjoying their misery.
They are a suburban dentist and a young aristo-
crat, the husband of the Countess. One is such a
humorous bounder, and the other such an inspired
idiot.
Mr. W. K. D’Arey, the Queensland millionaire
—he who owns a private grandstand on Epsom
racecourse, and there entertains dukes and earls
for the Derby, City and Suburban and other im-
portant meetings—has arrived in Australia on a
visit. He is a sort of uncle, by the way, of Mr.
Langford Kirby, one of the main factors in the
success of “Miss Gibbs.” That is to say, Mrs.
D’Arcy, who was Miss Nina Boucicault, of Bris-
bane, is Mr. Kirby’s aunt. Before Mount Morgan
made him very rich Mr. D’Arcy was a Rock-
hampton solicitor.
A fair young stranger within our gates is Lady
Beatrice Clark, wife of Captain Robertson
Clark, whom Sydney knew as private secretary to
the late Sir Harry Rawson. She is a slender girl
of medium height, dark-haired and with a flower-
petal complexion and an uncommon type of face.
Reminiscent of some Tennyson girl’s face—per-
haps his Margaret, as the poet imagined her look-
ing at him through the jasmine leaves. The
newly-weds (fairly newly-weds) have gone up to
the Clark station.
Our friend Lord Kitchener has been helping a
one-time brother officer to do what he himself has
refrained from doing. General Sir Archibald
Hunter, Governor and Commander-in-Chief of
Gibraltar, is the better man for whom the great
best man carried the wedding ring. The lady, on
the face value of her portraits, is a handsome
woman. Lord Inverclyde, her late husband, whom
she married in 1885, was chairman of the Cunard
steamshipco. She has been a widow five years. The
winning widow again I I have a wager of the two
front paws of a monkey (as the delightful British
aristocrat in “Mr. Preedy and the Countess”
says) that Lord Kitchener himself will be har-
pooned by a widow.
Miss Phyllis Hopwood Foldi, the musical mono-
loguist who made a roohiy and secure niche for
herself in London, is back in Sydney after an ab-
sence of three years. She is a fine-looking girl, rosy
as to complexion, with a lot of the ruddy—not to
say red —hair that goes with vivid coloring. She
has nothing but good to say of England as a place
for artistic niche-making, but adds that the artiste
must give the English plenty of time. They
won’t be hurried into accepting the stranger, any
more than they could be induced to drop their
own old favorites even when these have little to
give but wheezings and dodderings. Miss Hop-
wood Foldi’s own success she ascribes mainly to
the Italian following she secured in London. In
a few weeks’ time she will give a recital in
Sydney.
“ Lord Kitchener has at last got a home of his
own in England,” says a friend writing to me.
One would think he’d had to doss on the Embank-
ment up to the time of scouting this home. It
turns out to be Broome Park, a beautiful place
near Folkestone.
The red or fair-haired girl finds a certain con-
solation in the wearing of black. She’s ruddier
than the cherry, or fairer than the lily, by the con-
trast. Miss Mary Laing-Meason. the Maorilander,
now playing in “By Wireless Telegraphy” at
the King’s Theatre in Melbourne* tells that she
has to die in the part, “It is most objectionable
to die in sight of an audience,” ene says,
“especially if you are quite sure that you are
dying after the manner of a cat that has been
shot (by a bad marksman) for chicken-stealing.
‘Passing into the infinite azure of the past’ sug-
gests graceful dying, but I don’t do that. I
just peg out. My consolation is that, being red-
haired, I wear black and plenty of diamonds —the
last loaned me by Beatrice Day.”
Lately someone sent me an English paper with
a musical item marked. As it was unimportant,
I looked through the rest of the journal for in-
teresting items, but got only two heartaches. A
coster, with tears running down his face, pleaded
guilty at the London Sessions to stealing a crate
of bananas. “ One of my children,” he said, “is
dying, and another at home kept crying ‘ Daddy,
I want buppy—l want buppy ’ (bread and
butter). That drove me to do it. Don’t send
me to prison. It will kill my wife if you do.”
Police gave the man a good character, and he
was bound over, and left the dock exclaiming,
“ Thank you kindly, sir.”
Over the page was the tale of a clerk who had
been out of work since January. He was
arraigned for stealing one block of wood from a
lot placed ready for the paving of a suburban
road. The young man pleaded that he had had
nothing to eat since Thursday, and on Saturday
night he went to Barking to see if he could get
some food. A friend gave him 2|d. to buy a loaf,
and he took the block to boil the kettle. He
added :
For days and days I have been without food, and for
weeks and weeks i have had insufficient food. During
the time I was out of work I suffered with rheumatism,
and had only bread and water, and whilst I had con-
tracted fingers I had to walk to the London Hospital,
undergo an operation, and walk back home without a
bite of food. I have applied at the Labor Exchange, and
I have also been to the docks, and have failed to get
work. I have a wife and child.
The unlucky clerk was bound over under the Pro-
bation Act.
Ten years ago those men would have got, pro-
bably, several years’ hard, so I suppose “we are
living into a gentler time” as the late Gladstone
said. Such reading makes one glad that one lives
so far from the place where it is published.
The one unintentionally humorous item in the
paper was the announcement that a number of
Boer war medals and clasps remained unclaimed
at the Royal Arsenal, Woolwich. The authorities
are surprised that these King’s and Queen’s South
African honors should have to seek claimants.
A correspondent mentions that the will has
just been proved in London of “ Madame Jacua-
nita, milliner, of 35 Duke-street, Manchester
Square,” and that Madame J. was in private
life, Lady Mary Graham Montgomery, a daughter
of the late Baronet Moncreiffe and sister of our
Governor-General’s mother. Her estate panned
out at over £26,000. There’s more money in hats
than in rubber.
Professor and Miss David are off for a trip to
Europe next month. The Dr. Welby-Fishers, of
“Strathkyle” Flats —the lady’s hat created a
sensation at the recent races—are also announced
as near departers for foreign parts.
Early trippers to England, where they propose
to stay a good deal longer time than it will take
to fix the crown on George V., are the Austins,
of Austinlee, one of the old wooded estates
on the Liver pool-road, which the motor-cars
churn up nowadays. The Austins and the
Lees of Bathurst have gob themselves related to
about half a thousand of the oldest families
mostly families that run to wool or prize oxen,
with side-lines branching into the Church.
Cable brings the sad news of the death in Lon-
don of Mrs. de la Poer Nugent at the age of 24
years. She was a Miss Smith, daughter of Cap-
tain Smith, of Goderich, and a sister of Captain
Leslie Wilson’s wife. Mr. Nugent is a naval man.
Miss Bertha Brady, one of the acknowledged
belles of Sydney, and daughter of Dr. Brady,
is amongst the latest to be offered the orange
blossom. Her fiance is Captain Prowse, one of
our men-of-war.
From an English exchange
The stewards of the Jockey Club have issued a circular
letter to the clerks of courses of the various race meet-
ings under their jurisdiction, requesting them to pro-
hibit in future the use of the camera in all racecourse
enclosures.
The following supplies the reason :
Lord , a member of the Jockey Club, whilst con-
versing in the paddock with a lady at a Northern race
meeting, was snapshotted, but when reproduced the lady
was described as Lord ’s wife. The real Lady saw
the picture, and was extremely annoyed. So was her
husband, who lodged a complaint with the Jockey Club.
In another case a Colonial lady on a visit to England
was mistaken for the wife of a baronet whose reputation
as a husband was not exactly all it might have been.
We do these things better in Australia. Our
papers which purvey racecourse snapshots care-
fully refrain from labelling their victims, unless
the same are so well known as not to be worth
labelling. ‘‘A Beauteous Trio” (three hobble-
skirts surmounted by as many bee-hives); “The
Favorite Wins ” (picture of two elderly females and
something vaguely resembling a man, peering in-
tently at the Governor’s box); “Society s’Amuse ”
(view of prominent usurer arguing passionately
with his wife and daughter anent the criminal
extravagance of driving to the course in a cab) —
these are the only that a hungry popu-
lace gets of the identities of our sporting folk. It
saves a lot of trouble to snapshotters, editors,
sub-editors and so forth, and brings into pro-
minence, to their vast satisfaction, hosts of
worthy burgesses who would otherwise languish
unknown to fame.
From Freddie Shipman comes a bundle of pic-
tures and press-cuttings to show that Melba is a
boom in Canada. A Halifax photo, shows a
queue stretching back from the Academy of Music
to what looks like forest; and a Toronto paper
says there never has been so much enthusiasm
over any other songbird.
Miss Rosina Buckmann’s work in the Grand
Opera Co. just disbanded ha smade secure her perch
in the professional aviary. She joins the Royal
Comics to sing the Princess part in “The Waltz
Dream ” when the R.C.’s start to waltz their
dream through M.L. Judging by the way
“ Miss Gibbs ” continues to obstruct the traffic,
the tour will not start much this side of Christ-
mas.
Miss Nellie Stewart will have Mr. Harcourt
Beatty with her on her forthcoming small-towns’
tour. Mr. G. Musgrove will take along a dynamo,
and light up the country halls where Sweet Nell
will hawk oranges and subjugate a king.
Miss Lizette Parkes, who is with the Hamilton-
Plimmer co. in Maoriland, has won a beauty prize
in a looks competition. No particulars are to pen,
so one does not know to what extent the youngster
has scored.
One of the characters in “ Our Miss Gibbs ” has
gone to the dogs. At the Ladies’ Kennel Club
show, held at the end of last week, Miss Vera
Ramaciotti got first prize in the Pomeranian pups
section with “Timothy Gibbs,” a bark of great
beauty and yelp power. Tim is pleasanter than
his name-giver at Her Majesty’s, inasmuch as he
does not play the trombone.
There are some subjects—the transcendent
personal virtues of Mr. Wade, the leg-irons of
Mr. Peter Bowling, the hopelessness of backing
horses as a means to wealth, and so on—that con-
stant reiteration has rendered as flat, stale and
unprofitable as a Good Friday bun which has
been held over for a month. Into this class I here
and now relegate the Abruzzi-Elkins engagement.
It is off again. Everything had been fixed
up. Miss Elkins had arranged to forego the
Primitive Methody faith, or whatever it is
they favor in her part of the TJ.S.; and the family
pew had been removed from the Abernethy
Chapel, ready for installation in the R.C. taber-
nacle as soon as word should arrive from
Rome that the Elkins’s claims to enter the Church
had been audited and found correct. When all
that had been done there arrived the sickening
news that the King of Italy proposed to withhold
princely rank from Senator Elkins. It was more
than any self-respecting democratic Yank could
stand. So the slighted parent intimated to his
daughter that if she wedded the Duke she should
do it over a vacant bank-account. Thus the
parties are, once more, where they were two
years ago. When the Duke and Miss Elkins get
engaged again, next month, I shall not notice it.
It is getting on my nerves.
A family complication is threatened in Wes-
tralia; but one of the gentlemen concerned writes
to the local paper to say that it isn’t as bad as the
neighbors said it was going to be :
Hearing that rumor has it that my daughter intends to
marry her grandfather, I wisli to inform your readers,
through your valuable paper, that this statement is abso-
lutely false. The gentleman whom she intends to marry
is no relation by blood. He is my uncle, through marry-
ing my mother’s sister. No doubt this mistake has arisen
through my bringing my family up to call him “Grand-
pa.”
So he isn’t grandpa really; he is only grand-
uncle.
Yours affectionately,
AKENKHI.
The Adelaide police are looking into a
strange case, and don’t know what to make of it.
Between a Saturday and Monday, two rungs in
a ladder on the new Museum wing were sawn
nearly through, three storeys up. The first man
to mount happened to be one with the habit of
gripping the sides, and not the rungs, or it is
pretty certain there would have been a death
in that family. As it was, he escaped with a
scramble and a fright. So far the strange
creature who laid the murderous trap for a chance
comer has escaped altogether.
Monopoly now proposes in Victoria to call
itself the People’s Party. It is an old rule of the
gold-brick profession —after every conviction a
new alias.
Amid the torrents of platitude that flowed
at the recent conference of Women’s “Liberal"’
Associations at Adelaide, this splash of sense and
truth, which occurred in a paper read by a Mrs.
Sorrell, was as welcome as the doxology after a
bad sermon:—
It (the Labor platform) was an appeal to an instinct
they all had, to hetter their condition. She was firmly
convinced that, if a referendum were taken to-morrow on
the Federal Land Tax, with all its iniquitous provisions,
there would be a large majority in favor of it. .. . Those
who voted for Labor candidates were not necessarily
ignorant working" men and women, but amongst the most
intelligent people in the community. To have a chance
of success they must meet intelligence with intelligence.
The Tory Women’s League often lets slip admis-
sions that wild horses would not drag out of a
men’s league. The above is a case in point.
Another was the remark made at a Queensland
conference deploring the deportation of Kanakas—
the unfortunate remark which has kept Senators
St. Cash-book and Sayers explaining ever since.


HARDY
BROTHERS
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
LIMITED
6Y appointment
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
SOMETHING DAINTY IN PENDANTS
ip
NEW PLAQUE PENDANT.
Diamonds and Pearls mounted entirely in Platinum. A variety
of choice designs in stock to select from.
New Illustrated Booklet,
with suggestions for Christmas Presents and New Year Gifts, sent Post Free
to any address in the Commonwealth.
GOODS FORWARDED ON APPROVAL.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
116 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
tmiiiiiiMttntii’
®St
for Christmas
Presents.
The Xmas box of hosiery
contains three pairs of men’s socks or
three pairs of ladies' stockings, in the latest art shades
and vertical stripes, guaranteed all-wool and absolutely
unshrinkable.
There is no present more suitable for Xmas, or one that is
more appropriate for father, mother, brother, sister, or friend.
If you know the comforts of wearing all-
Australian Vool hosiery and have experienced the soft
[ silkiness of its finish, you will realise that your Xmas
oresent will be one that is sure to be appreciated.
Of Men s Outfitters. Drapers, and Stores
In case of difficulty, write for
Booklet and name of nearest agent, to
*rr.
JASON HOSIERY CO.
Leicester, England.
Ac] _
Jpl;
h
-1388
'*ar
John
Strange
Winter
Laßshmi Cream.
/// Lakshmi Cream is the invention of that world-famous writer, John Strange
f Winter, authoress of “Bootle’s Baby,” and is made under her personal
direction. It is a delicious compound of ingredients which soften, cleanse,
stimulate and feed the skin.
The Countess Cowley writes: “I cannot tell you what a comfort it was.”
Miss Nellie Stewart writes : “Lakshmi is really marvellous for keeping the
complexion clear and free from lines and wrinkles. Henceforth I shall
use no other.”
Kitty Mason writes: “Lakshmi is glorious.”
Price 35.; Post Free, 3s. 6d.
Sold by all Chemists and Stores, and at John Strange Winter’s Toilet Rooms,
24 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, where practical advice as to the use of
John Strange Winter Toilet Specialties will be given to anyone interested.
JOHN STRANGE WINTER.
(Australia), Ltd.,
82 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
And at Melbourne, Adelaide and (London.
THE PLUM RAZOR 10|6.
Greatest shaver ever ringing silver-steel blade, that keeps its edge splendidly and
wants little stropping. We use it in our own hairdressing business.
We guarantee to keep it in order free of cost for two years.
ĥ
PLUM Razor, in Case, 70/6.
Pair in Case, 21/
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
The
“Plum,”
10/6
Post Free
Anywhere.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Send for our Free Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG Sc AITKEN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established
30 Years.
11131%
tnntuf
assn**
<ollhnniiiiiiraflllji|hagmnmrf
jj&yTmmn
siSSII!
mmmsm
:*
THE Banquet held at Sargents’ is invariably a success, because of the
thoroughly efficient manner in which everything is carried out. Nothing
is left to be desired. The repasts are the very choicest in season, daintily
prepared by a highly proficient chef, and courteously served by competent
waiters and waitresses.
Sargents’ Banqueting Halls can also be engaged for Wedding Breakfasts or
other private functions, with or without catering service.
For Terms, write or telephone the Manager.
Sargents’ Ltd.,
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High-Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
(’Phone—Office, 3559;
Cafe, 1876; Catering-, 4250).
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St.


A swagger garden party was held at the
Melbourne Government House during the great
Cup Carnival. Nearly 2500 culinary connoisseurs
partook of the good things provided And the
catering, which was in the hands of Mr. W. *).
Holder, of Glenferrie, was considered quite the
best to date. Another triumph of Mr. Holders
art was the Bohemia Club lunch on the lawn at
Flenaingtori on Oaks Day. But the Government
House affair aforesaid is the Grand Prix of il •
Holder’s profession. And he was congratulated
on all sides for having so brilliant
ħ
Tailor-Made
I - 1
Costumes.
The distinguished
“ air ” of the tailor-
dressed woman who
invariably has her
costumes fitted over
“ P.D.” Corsets Is a
matter of envy to
those of her sisters
who have not as yet
learned this secret
of all true success in
the wearing of the
Tailor-made.
Royal
P.D.
Rustless Corsets
are famous the world over for their beauty
of design, the excellence of their manufac=
ture, and the readiness with which one may
select the model best suited to bring out the
beauty of form and figure. “ P.D.” Corsets
are stocked in almost every conceivable
shape, and impart to every figure a
graceful symmetry that can be realised in
no other way.
SEE THE NEWEST
.< p.D.” CORSET MODELS.
SQVI&RE TREAD
*w*»*y-
we,#* !»*•■
•«»*«iK4
fell
V 't •
llillflllltl
*9K
"\
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, November 7,1910.
My Dear Yarrie,—
Cup Day ! When almost every person on the
upper surface of a continent is thinking hard
about one horse-race. There is an electric tingle
in the air, as if a full-powered thunderstorm were
hanging round ; but .when a. hundred and fif tj
thousand odd Cup-gazers crowd together in.one
place, at the one time, it amounts to a cloud-
burst and three earthquakes. Visitors from
well-packed corners of the world are filled with
amazement when they are taken to I’lemington on
Cup Day and shown the Hill. They almost
invariably remark that they are used to a lot of
people, but nowhere have ,they seen such a well-
dressed lot. If the intelligent foreigner neglects
to make this remark, he is written off as a person
of no discernment. More than usual we looked for
the remark this year, Bor it was a blue day, and
there was much pink parasol and scarlet deco-
ration about.
Few bothered about their Cup dresses—the talk
of months—once they had arrived at Flemington.
To get a corner to pack into was the one idea.
Unhappy husbands put general’s work into get-
ting their women folk “ fixed ” before going off to
place their combined half-crowns. If women be-
come such sports the betting paddock will have
to be enlarged. Those unlucky women who had
no imrhediate claim on a man cheerfully bailed
up male acquaintances to carry cash to Patrick
Moses: for them. Four women gave a handful of
half-crowns for one bet to a man familiar to them
at their swaggah tavern. They never saw a
ticket nor a sight of the male creature after.
Now they wail for the tote.
Comedy King was the most conspicuous horse
before the event because of McLachlan’s chess-
board jacket and crimson sleeves and cap. Ira-
falgar—Australian and the favorite—would have
been the popular win, of course; but the gallop
wherein he was just beaten was worth a year of
dulness. To see the two rivals whipping out
from the ruck and thundering together half the
length"of the straight was enough to rouse the
sporting instinct of a hedgehog.
Yet to many people the race doesn’t count.
Just after the finish, in the relaxed wriggling of
the immense crowd* scrambling toward tea, one
woman—she lives in.asporting-Sassiety circle, too
—exultantly remarked : “I had my tea in com-
fort while the race was being run. One Cup is the
same as another —I’ve seen 13.”
Governor Carmichael was too ill, as the result
of a Derby Day chill, to go out to Flemington for
the two-a,nd-a-half minute Cup gallop. Lord
Dick/Nevill is up and about again after his bout
of influenza. He came over to Melbourne early,
intending to do advance-guard work for the .on-
coming army of vice-royalty ; but as soon as he
arrived he acquired a sneeze, and was forced to
go into retirement until the horses were going to
the post for the first race.
Coming back from the course, the flocks of
people ~had a wearisome time. The railways
could pnlv take as many as filled a continuous
line of trains; and on the roads every kind of
cart arid ’bus supplemented the hooting motor.
In the crowds penned up in sections outside the
railway' gates there was endless lamentation.
Thousands of engagements Had perforce* to be
broken, and there was no earthly chance
of telephoning. Prudent people who had de-
parted before the last race, danced with impa-
tience in town waiting, .for guests who never
turned up—or, worse still, raged at the con-
tinued absence of hosts.
The afterglow of Cup Day was the most tired
spectacle imaginable. People thronged the
theatres and flopped into seats booked long ahead;
but they were too tired to speak and too tired to
applaud. Even “The Whip,” full of local color,
could not rouse a band until the end, when the
Whip's jockey, suddenly pulled off his coat and
displayed Comedy King’s colors. Then the dog-
tired racers roared appreciation. All the im-
ported mummers in Melbourne went out, and it
seemed to take the snap out of their evening’s
work. Possibly, though, it was merely the effect
of the yawning audiences.
“I shall wear that for the Oaks,” said the uni-
versal She, proposing. “That” was her very
best frock—her loveliest garment of rejoicing.
“I bet you won’t!” said the falling rain, dis-
posing.' I -translated the subsequent downpour
and uproar this way: “ Confound your Oaks
dress —rilso your dressmaker’s bill ! Ruin your
poor husband, would you ! You’ll just wear your
old coat and skirt; the one you’ve been wearing
to Chapel-street.” But there are She’s who say
“Won’t!” even to the rain. They got them-
selves into their garments of delight, huddled into
cabsandfled tothetrain. “It may clear up!” cried
the optimists. “Do see how that black lace is
running into the peach-colored silk ! ” waned
the pessimists. Many women got as far as Flem-
ington ; then turned back hopelessly. * The sport
was nothing to them. The lift-attendants at the
swagger taverns took many scowling souls toward
Heaven. But as fast as they went aloft, motors,
taxis and kebs rolled back to the taverns and
deposited more at the front door. The brutal
men stayed out in the wet. “They don t care
how my dress is ruined! ” cried the average heart-
broken woman into her consoling cup of after-
noon tea.
Steeplechase Saturday—with a fine assortment
of weather samples—was filled with the hurried
spirit of the Last Day. Most people, neverthe-
less, took a business-like view of things. ‘ Must
wipe out ray other losses” was a sort of motto
everywhere. Women who had moaned about
clothes forgot them. All the other cats had
by this time seen their best frocks either on the
lawn or at garden parties, or in the privacy of
the hotel'bedroom. So they got themselves into
comfortable- gear, and were happy, ordinary
human beings again.
Governor Carmichael has been very ill and
shut up at home. His lady came out. alone .on
Saturday looking distinguished in black. Ihe
Countess wore her favorite white but such a
white ! It was a smart little linen frock, pleated,
with a- cheeky little belt of black patent leather
and white kid. The dress was short, and she was
perfectly shod. Everything thcHonses own m the
shape of an aide came along. The gentlemen
helps don’t mind doing their duty on a race day.
The weather behaved sufficiently well for cosy
little snacks under the Elms, both at lunch-time
and for afternoon tea. The Tom Paynes came
out in a four-horse drag, with horn, and footmen
complete. It was a joyous turnout. Mrs.; Payne
never falters in her worship of the . Horse.
She drives through town with a small
tiger glued on at the back when everyone
else is saying “ Please” most humbly to his Lord-
ship the Shover. This was the only drag I could
see at Fletnington. There was scarcely a carriage.
Motors in neat layers filled the carriage paddock,
which will obviously soon have to be re-christened
the garage grass, or some such thing.
There were a few of the John Madden family in
sight, looking rather cold. The Frank Madden
girls are pretty, but of a different type, and they
dress with the splendor of the stage. One Frank
Madden maiden wore a coolie hat.; This brand of
headgear makes one. look round for a rick-
shaw. Mrs. Duffy got cerise, with brilliant
effect, into her trappings. Mrs. Railway Pait
looked extremely youthful alongside her daughter,
who struck an original note with yellow roses in a
feather boa. Mrs. Charlie Tait (of Allan’s) gained
much subdued applause all over the lawn by the
dainty prettiness of her costume. Mrs. Miller
had a great bun or chignon of fair hair under a
black hat, and a dazzling white linen frock.
Sister Mrs. Kelly hung a black ninon veil over a
Paisley frock. . Your Enid Whiting-Waters flung
the very newest colors —-a royal blue and a deep
rose-crimson—into her hat. Mrs. Adamson had
one pretty blue-eyed daughter along all in blue,
and nibbled food under the vines.
The frocker pure and simple flung on her flim-
siest finery regardless of the weather, then pre-
pared for the possible worst by winding a rubber-
ised grey cloak about her. When the sun shone
she emerged; when the rain threatened she
donned her weather armor and merely showed
summery ankles and the hem of a summer frock.
A man—a mere man—said he has never in his
life seen so many stockings except at an auction
in a softgoods warehouse. Stockings are stockings
nowadays, and the rainy spells of Steeplechase
Day and the deluge of the Oaks brought out the
best of the show. There are legs, too, that one
does not suspect in ordinary, discreet weather.
Garden parties are a natural adjunct of race
week—a necessary safety-valve to let off froeking
steam. Women break their hearts and their
men’s pockets in a wild outburst of glad rags for
Cup time, and, as a general thing, the dresses are
more numerous than the race days. Often the
weather refuses to smile; then there is one
more creation left over. Hence garden parties.
The Governors have been giving them at the rate
of two a week, as hard as they could go. Last
week Stonington got in early with its strawberry
festival and everybody went. There had been
two itemized, garden parties the week before;
then one great outburst in which the visitors from
other States were included. This last happened
on Monday.
Then the G.-G- Dudleys asked all and sundry
to walk on the grass on Friday; but the rain
descended and the winds blew the function to
shreds, and the shreds took refuge in the drawing-
rooms and afternoon-tea-tabled ballroom. Super-
cilious serving-men in purple livery moved
about on plump white-stockinged props, and
gazed from a height upon the rush of those
ravening guests. The elect wore their Oaks
dresses —beautiful things of soft veiled colors.
They trailed these beauty drapings out on to the
terrace, in the one sunshiny interval of the after-
noon, and looked at the water-lilies in the foun-
tain pond.
A lily-of-the-valley type of girl, small and
fair, came south from Sydney to break the
shell of flapperhood and burst into society.
She is Miss Dagmar Koefoed, a Darling
Pointer; and her entrance into the great, big
wonderful world was effected in white satin and
pearls—at the Australian Club Ball. Another
Sydneysider who took the eye elsewhere was Mrs.
Dr.) Dan Kelly, who Cupped in white, with pink
ntroductions and a white hat with ostrich plumes.
The other day Lord Dicky Nevill took all the
Dudley’s house party down the hill to the Botani-
cal Gardens kiosk for lunch. Possibly the Dudleys
just sent the visitors out of the way for feeding
time while the house was being swept for the
party. The visitors’ luck was in, anyhow, for
lunch on the verandah of that house amid the
trees is better than six banquets in the whitest of
marble halls.
Anew little bride who fluttered round.the Cup
in fascinating frocks was Mrs. McMeikan. She
was Miss St. John before she married one of the
well-known Warrnambool clan.
Geach, of the picture shows, swept through
Melbourne like a meteor this race-time. First he
backed Trafalgar for the Cup, and watched him
just miss it; then he shot off to Inverloch, in the
wilds of Gippsland, to look at coal and his old
friend Daddy Lohr. He tyas next sighted watch-
ing the Steeplechase on Saturday, after which lie.
is understood to have whirled back to Sydney.
Sounds rather like the programme’s description ot
a humorous film, “ The Busy Mans Holiday.
An engagement of race week was that of
Miss O’Dell Fawcett, the handsome sister of the
“Ronalds” Fawcetts, to Mr. Newton, a Banana-
lander.
One always looks for the French woolbuyers at
the Cup, and finds them, as a rule. Apparently,
their trips back to their native land are partly tor
business and partly for the purpose of revisiting
the tailor. Two of the contingent have resumed
housekeeping at St. Kilda, under the same blonde
management as previously, and three of them
are partners in a furnished villa at Tooralt. I he
handsome Lhoest, from Belgium or thereabouts
has not been back to Europe this year, but will
return when the wool season is over. As an exile
from home he seems to make the best of Ine in
irreproachable clothes. He drives a smart motor ;
and a motor, of course, Carries consolation with it.
Quaint restaurant stories are rife at carnival
time. There was the case of the artless brother
and sister, of the squattocracy, who dropped into
a costly refreshment house one afternoon
when it was crowded, and were asked it
they would like a room upstairs, bo they took
their tea and scone tete-a-tete, though they
would have preferred to mingle with the chattering
throng downstairs. Naturally, the gentleman
looked pensive when he found that his' sister s
craving for tea had cost him 10s. extra for the
private room. Another story is of a lady who did
want an apartment upstairs for herself and escort,
and specified “the room that Mr. So-and-so
always has.” The courteous waiter replied:
“ Which Mr.* So-and-so, Miss—the father or the
son? ” She had to explain that the elder gallant
was the one she was thinking of.
Still talking of departed Henley-cum-Yarra,
the pretty wattle houseboat that raked in second
prize was the work of a number of girls employed
at a South Melbourne drapers. Their wattle
was the right yellow. “ Oh, yes, said one of the
girls trimming the- boat, “I matched it with
real bloom,; we hitve been making this wattle, in
the lunch hour for’ weeks. Tlfere has-Keen n
slump in novel reading, I can tell you. J ne
most futile attempt at decoration on the river wa
an old boat massed with the flower that toils not,
neither does it spin; but how pathetic those mtf
lilies looked !
There is a Maori Village-in the Exhibition
Arena, where the dusky ladies and gentlemen go
through a programme of native dances. Maggie
Papakura announces each turn in a plaintive
contralto. Some of the graceful girls dance-to
the familiar strains of a concertina, and keep the
most wonderful time. But when a fat brown la y
seated herself at a wobbling piano, and p anting
her bare foot carefully on the soft pedal, com-
menced to play a hackneyed song, I nearly asked
for my shilling back. The singer was a P ret >’
girl with wonderful dark eyes, and she could
sing. But (Oh, shades of an ancient nice .)
she sang from a bulky bound copy, which she
held tenderly on her hip. Some of the men aie
really very fine, with soft voices and melting
brown eyes—and don’t they know it? I never
had such practised eyes made at me before, lhe
glances were so killing that I wonder I'm alive to
tell the tale. All the whares are thrown open to
the public, and you can inspect the nice little
white beds of the savage brown men ! One or
them—who told me in a soft whisper that his
name was Hera —showed with pride a pale-blue
satin case. I opened it and discovered it con-
tained his sleeping suit.
The Mayoress, in a cunningly embroidered
white linen frock, went, the other hot morning,
to have tea at the new Swastika Club. The club
decoration scheme is all golden browns and rest-
ful lights. Mrs. Malcolm, the club’s president, is
matron of the Nurses’ Association in Melbourne ;
so she has her time filled up. Her brother, Mr.
.T. A. B. Smith, came to help the party along.
Mrs. J. A. B. is the president of the Austral
Salon. Some Sydney visitors, including Mrs.
Rouse, also dropped in for a nibble at the morn-
ing muffin. The club’s membership list is swell-
ing visibly, and there is some prospect of new
rooms being added even at this early stage of its
career.
According to Gaston Cugnet, the I rench air-
man, who lias come to teach Australia how to fly,
the simplicity of an ascent on a monoplane is
astonishing to anyone who tries it for the first
time, and an instructor’s first care is to warn the
novice against losing his head in a shock of sur-
prise. The difficulty comes in guiding the new
animal downwards by degrees to a suitable land-
ing stage, and that can only be overcome by
a strong nerve-effort, seemingly. Timidity, by
making for safety, may lead to .confidence in
motoring, whereas it leads to catastrophe in aero-
planing. Thusfar, the flying machine is only for
the adventurous ; the family aeroplane, built to
carry six passengers beside the driver on an
ordinary picnic excursion, is almost as far from
realisation as ever it was. Cugnet talks buoy-
antly of commercial men flying around in pursuit
of business, but says nothing about the prospects
of pleasure-seekers scooting to the races or taking
week-end trips through the air. To that extent
the flying machine is the least progressive of all
modern marvels. It has been going on for years
without approaching the sphere of practical
picnics.
By the death of Robert Lancelot levers on
Tuesday last, several charitable committees, in-
cluding that of the Women’s Hospital, lost a
valuable member. He was wealthy, and was
always willing to help a subscription list ; but
the mere giving of money did not content him
he supplemented his donations with hard work.
Also, he was an enthusiastic Shakspeanan
student, but kept a corner'nf-his heart for Aus-
tralian literature.
There is to be a Grand Juvenile Ball which,
being translated, possibly means a big lads’ spree,
in the Richmond Skating Rink on Monday,
November 21. under the supervision of James
Madden. The handsome feminine halves of
McGillicuddy, Curran and Fitzgerald are helping
the projected festivity as hon. secs, and hon.
treasurer respectively.
At. latest advices the Carlyle Smythes dropped
into the fire-haunted Brussels Exhibition, and
found the German Crown Prince and his wife
visiting the show incognito.
The company that bought “Cliveden,’’ the
huge town house of the late Baronet Claike, is
thinking bard. The idea was to build two more
storeys on to the present mansion, arjd: let the
whole place out in flats. Now experts declare
that the foundations won’t carry two more storeys.
From “ Rosna,” of Adelaide
Premier Verran was invited from his political fastnesses
last week to open the Federal Art Exhibition. Which
reminds rile that it is up to Australian artists to bestir
themselves. Here is our Library Board thirsting to put
pence in their pockets and hang their works in the Gal-
lery and the sole encouragement the body gets is an
offerin'-- of hackneyed old landscapes, seascapes and
horrorscapes that have figured in every capital
in Australia. The most interesting thing in the show is
Norman Carter’s “ Low-toned Harmony,” a live study of
a serious damsel, who may be expected to walk out of the
frame at any minute. Bernard Hall’s ‘ Under the Colos-
seum”—a tragic and half-clad lady lying in a dead faintand
a crunched-up attitude—is impressive, and he ha& also a
fine study of brass and china. Dattilo Rubbo s Dere-
licts” is vigorously managed ; and our own Will Ashton
has half a dozen desirable canvases, chief being Spring
Tide and Full Moon,” a seascape full of force and move-
ment. Rose Macpherson shows a gargoyle and Dutch
pot against a china-filled cabinet that is a wonderful bit
of technique ; also several other clever still-life pictures,
and a portrait with some tone virtues. One Hambidge
sister has an ethereal-looking damsel brooding over a
piano in the dusk ; Gustav Barnes, some sheep in a
pleasant British pasture, and a weird, conventional, pale-
blue gentleman, named Sir Gawain, presiding over the
fountain of tfie Holy Grail. Ford Patterson has painted
us the Gippsland Lakes, for which we hasten to be grate-
ful • Albert Hanson has done various portions of N.b.W. ,
and Edward Davies our own much-vgunted hills.
George Webb commits an exhibition on his own account
this week.
The South Park Bowling Club had a birthday party thp
other dav. It wore its best green-grass clothes w-ith
blue-sky'trimmings. The Alec Buchanans hosted the
affair, and he, being.presidenc declared the season open.
The same day some other kind person performed a like
office for-the Gienelg Clubr , ,
The Appendreena Amateur Dramatic Club plaj ea
“•Mrs. Gorrihge’s Necklace ” at the Walkerville Hall on
the 29th ult., in the presence of a packed house and the
utmost enthusiasm. Bouquets were numerous the
finish of the famous robbery. At lesist Id were handed t
Ethelwyn Robin for her smart frocking and clever lepre-
sentation of Mrs. Gorringe. Rita Gardner as a P, re
schoolgirl, Maud Plunkettas the angel heroine who was
really much too good to live, and Kathleen Sutherland as
the bored and snobbish hostess, each scored much garden
plunder from admiring friends, while the deeplv
tual in the audience sneered their disapprova Still, the
Appendreena doesn’t pretend to be heavily int e''ectua 1 1.
It doesn’t even pretend, to be shocking , .so the peop
who require that sort of thing should stay awaj
Invitations are out for something quite new in revel,.
It is called a go-as-you-please party; )
mustn’t go as you please, because you are rXnetrator
go dressed either as a little girl or boy.
is Doris Egerton Jones, who successfully salted the tail
of a B.A. degree the other day. ,
A magazinelet has reached me from an unknown phd-
anthropist in Chicago. ’Tis called the Union Labor
Advocate is the organ of the National Women s Iraae
Union beanie and is edited by the Australian scr be
Alice Henry. She was a friend and
the late Catherine Helen Spence, and shaied th at ”00d
Australian’s disregard for Sassiety. On one occasion the
twain were engaged to lunch with, some scientific nabob
or other, and, in the frenzy of important work, miss
the onlv available tram. There was no vehicle on the
horizon'but an aged fish-cart with
sides. This they boarded and in it reached their desuna
tion. The humor of the incident resides in the fact.that,
in Adelaide, we rarely pay Sassiety calls in f ' s h-carts
““The U L Advocate publishes, by the wav, a „idd> por
Sait of Stella Miles Franklin National Officeufonihant
which looks as though the lady had dropped the Brilliant
Career comes from the Doubleday maiden in
Berlin, where she and her mother have been
holiday. The fiddle was at home taking a rest-cure ,
and its owner had been consoling herself by attending
the Passion Play at Oberammergau, and \isiting the
birth and death places of sundry musical giants.
This city has developed a sudden Jearn for a Lo d
Mavor Kins- George is to be spoken to fiimly on tne
subiect A powerful argument in favor of the extra cat s
skin/horsehair and frill is the fact that Ade mde was the
first Australian city to have its own little chaiter of
municipal government. .
The Arnold Davevs and their boys are back from cir
cumnavigating the globe ; likewise, the Percy Magaiejs
and,the Storries of Glenelg. . ,, r , ,
The Players start a two nights season of Charlie s
Aunt,” at the Theatre Royal, in December
The Yacht Squadron opened its season on Port
River last Saturday in rotten weather. ‘ tied
guests pursued the yachlets, and were eventually emptie 1
on to an island for afternoon tea.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.
THE HOBBLE SKIRT.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
On trousers woman’s set her heart,
Her sex’s rights to win with,
And so she makes a plucky start
Tries one leg' to begin with !
VICTORIA.
S. S.


WHNKtMH
ART-METAL
CEILINGS
• :. i
XL
lft
€>
fcTTj
CH3X
CO
WIT,
nm
&
57
\
v/
ea
\/\
B
1 1
ITtA
ui
;/ V
/
m
Look for the
Wunderlich Trade Mark
It is easy to' obtain Metal Ceilings if yon do not mind what yott are buying,
but it is safer in the long run to be particular, and see you have the real thing —
the Wunderlich Art Metal Ceilings. To do this, look for the Wunderlich Trade
Mark impressed on every sheet.
When a man fixes Wunderlich Ceilings in his home he shows an unmistakable
appreciation for the artistic, and a desire to add in every way to the beauty and utility
of his dwelling; for these ceilings are not only beautiful in design, but are sanitary,
fire-resisting, safer and more dependable. The highest grade sheet steel is used; they
do not crack nor shrink; they remain fresh and clean for a long period, and can be
easily renovated. The cost is low, and they can Jbe fixed by your local tradesman.
A fair-sized ceiling may be completed in a day.
The rare excellence of the designs in the Wunderlich Ceilings will please every
man and woman, even the most particular. They are a safe and profitable investment,
for time and the seasons have little effect on them. Their beauty of design and their
lasting qualities make them the best of all Ceilings.
Nothing that you can buy will add so much to the appearance of your house as
Wunderlich Ceilings. There is no doubt about that, and we can convince you if you
will call at any of our Metropolitan Showrooms. Failing this, send for our Illustrated
Catalogue L 5. All Wunderlich Art Metal Ceilings are Australian made.
A pleasing effect may be obtained for the exterior of your house by roofing
with MARSEILLES TILES. They form an ideal roof for warm climates, allowing
a free current of air beneath. Full particulars on Application.
Wunderlich Limited
SYDNEY : 56 Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE: 243 Collins Street,
ADELAIDE : King William Street.
BRISBANE : 363=365 Queen Street.
LAUNCESTON : St. John’s Street. ,
HOBART: Collins Street.
PERTH : Lord and Short Streets. 4
NEW ZEALAND Agents: Messrs. Briscoe
& Co. Ltd.
l_ i
11l
r o '


BEAUTY’S BANE.
Immense Success of New Recife for Cure
of Obesitt.
1 Ladies who suffer from a seemingly constitu-
tional tendency to store up fat in excess often
:ldopt repressive measures little short of the
heroic; they fast to the point of exhaustion and
perform prodigies of physical self-torture. Obesity
is not to be conquered by such means, from which
Nothing but discomfort, weakness and,’ very often,
much graver evils can be expected, not to speak of
loss of beauty, energy and good spirits. Stout
readers are offered the following valuable pre-
scription. They can get the ingredients and make
it up themselves, or ask the chemist to do so. It
is simplicity itself: One ounce of fluid Extract of
Glycyrrhiza 8.P., one ounce of Pure Glycerine
8.P., one half-ounce of Marmola, and peppermint
water to make six ounces in all. Take a dose of
|wo teaspoonfuls after each meal. This simple
and harmless remedy will soon take away all the
disfiguring and distressing fat deposits and restore
you to your normal weight. You may eat what
f-ou fancy, and take, plenty of rest.*
I A
MEN who appreciate a smart
appearance always pay par-
ticul ir attention to their
hoots. 1!v using CHERRY BLOS-
SOM you yet the finest shine with-
out much trouble. It is very easy
to apply and quick in action—a
polish that need be used only occa-
sionallv. The shine stays.
CHERRY BLOSSOM is sold in
the largest tins on the market at
,3d. and 6d. each—Black or Tan. If
yOur storekeeper does not stock it,
fiend us his name and we will see that you are supplied.
Managing Agents for Australia:
SWIFT & COMPANY. 32 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
THIS TIME OF THE YEAR.
This is the time of the year when you catch
cold the easiest. Take home a bottle of Chamber-
ban’s Cough Remedy and be prepared to stop
any cough or cold at once. Every bottle is
guaranteed to give results.*
NOTICE is hereby given by the Fine Art Post
Card Co., 39 Hunter Street, Sydney, that the competition
published in this newspaper of a problem or solution in
respect of 10 words beginning with “ Australia ” is closed
the day after the publication of this notice.*
Dr. Sheldon’s New Discovery
Is the most wonderful remedy ever discovered
for coughs and colds. It will relieve you when
all others have failed. Is. Gd. and 3s.*
Mr. D. Y. Renn e, the Australasian manager
for tile B.S.A. Co., lias just received the following
telegram from Francis Birtles, who is now approaching
the completion of his extraordinary task of making a
complete circle of Australia upon an Australian-made
bicycle- “Have completed ten thousand mile bicycle
journey around Australia with B.S.A. parts and Eadie
Two-Speed Coaster, Perfection, using same machine on
return trip Sydney.”*
In order to'still further heighten the reputation
of their cartridges, Eley Bros, recently erected a lofty
shot-tower in London, and the firm now advises ns
customers that the hew goods are first-class. And, with
the Elt-ys, that recommendation counts for a great deal.
OCCASIONAL CONSTIPATION is a fertile source of
manv of tlie minor ills that flesh is heir to. The best way
of restoring 1 a state of healthy activity to stomach ami
bowels is by taking a wineglassful of “ Hunyadi Janos
natural aperient water every alternate day before break'
fast..*
HEART TROUBLE.
Distressing Symptoms that
Cause a lot of Worry
and Anxiety.
Symptoms of heart trouble are frequent in
anaemia and indigestion. “I cant hurry, my
heart thumps so,” is the common expression ot
every anaemic person. In indigestion there are
wind spasms that send darting pains about the
heart, which make the victims often think they
have heart disease. When the blood supply is
built up, or the indigestion cured, the heart symp-
toms naturallv disappear, as there is nothing to
cause them. Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills have cured
a great many cases of anaemia and indigestion and
have given sufferers relief from distressing heart
symptoms that caused a lot of worry and anxiety.
They actually make new blood. The following
case shows how valuable they are in heart trouble.
Mrs. Helene Warnock, 75 Mason Street, S.
Yarra, Melbourne, tells how Dr. Williams’ Pink
Pills built up her health, and her experience
should prove of interest to other sufferers. Mrs.
Warnock’s own words are : “ Some time back my
health began to fail. My heart began to give me
a great deal of trouble. I had always had a good
constitution previously, but now I noticed my
heart would flutter nearly all the time, and with
any exertion it would begin to thump furiously,
especially if I walked up a hill, and I’d get such a
gone sort of feeling, as if I were going to die. 1
dare not hurry for a tram. Mv heart would pal-
pitate, as if it were going to jump out of its place.
I’d get out of breath at once, and have to stop
every few yards to rest. My breathing would be
so quick and hurried I'd have to gasp. I used to
feel sure my heart was seriously affected. I always
had a cough, apparently from the stomach, and I
was devoid of my strength. My face was always
flushed, without cause. I’d have to take a rest
now and then in the day, I felt so fagged and
tired out. I slept and ate pretty well, but really
the food didn’t seem td do me any good, or nourish
me, and I fell away Considerably. Even a little
bit of housework Was a trouble, I #ot so easily
knocked up. My heart was rrtrfely free from pal-
pitation. My nerves Were so weak, and my blood
so thiti. I was very easily startled, and at times
would feel very worried and irritable. But I
found Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills a perfect tonic.
They began to tone me up from the start. My
nerves steadied down, and my heart began to beat
less irregularly. I bought another box, and felt
better still, so I kept on with four boxes. My
health was quite restored, and I have kept well
ever since. My strength and energy gradually
came back, and I feel better than I have done
for years.” ... f
You can judge the shopman s opinion of you it
he tries to' sell you anything else when you ask
for Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. Those "just as
good ” remedies are never offered unless he thinks
the customer easy to gull. The price is 2s. 9d.
per box, six boxes 15s. 3d., of all dealers or from
the Dr. Williams’ Medicine Co. of Australasia,
Ltd., Sydney.*
M IPTOREI
nCNYtw
Denyer’s
Special
Elastic
Truss
wears long-
est and m<?st
sat isfactor-
ilv. Cool, Comfortable. No
chafing-. We fit you exactly.
17/6 Single ; 22/6 Double.
Call or Write.
Makers of Trusses and
Abdominal Belts,
DENYER BROS.,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp- Hunter St.). SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
WORMS.
The people whom we are trying to benefit are continu-
ally throwing, obstacles in our way. There is the man
who doesn’t want any land, the warehouse assistant who
doesn’t, want, a Wages Board, the clerk who would have a
fit, if his wages were raised, and the laborer who doesn’t
want to join a union. —Labor News
THE FAT FOWL: “Thank Heaven, there are
always some worms waiting around to he
eaten.”
The new “ People’s” party in Vic. thanks
Heaven that it isn’t like the Labor crowd, which
is governed by a caucus. Then, having snuffled
this pious reflection, it proceeds to state that “all
electors who are not pledged to the Labor party
should enter into a covenant of union binding
them to abide by the decision of the majority
of the new organisation.” There should be a great
career ahead of a party that gives such a fine
demonstration of logic and consistency—and
sfndffle.
' When Labor came in, Capital was, of
course, going to clear out from N. S. Wales.
After waiting for a fortnight, however, the
Government saw that there was still so much of
it 'on the premises that, acting on advice, the
Treasury reduced the rate of interest from 3J
to 3tj per cent. If Capital were flying away, the
Treasury would naturally have to offer better
terms to induce it to stay ; but evidently Capital
wants to stay so badly that the Treasury reckons
it can get all it wants even if it offers less induce-
fnent than the old Government offered.
Last Monday the papers contained seven
consecutive cablegrams about strikes in England,
Wales, France, Spain and the United States;
also about fights, shootings, curses and sundries
connected therewith. Two of the strikes involve
190,000 men. It really looks as if capital will yet
be driven to Australia—the land where strikes are
almost unknown—by these ill-judged doings.
An interesting return was lately issued by
the American Labor Department. It sets forth
that wholesale prices, as measured by the
cost of 257 commodities, have increased
by 7'5 per cent, in 12 months, by 21T
per cent, in 10 years, and by 33‘8 per
cent, in 20 years. From March,
1909, to March, 1910, farm products
increased by 15 per cent., food by
3‘4, clothing by 2’3, drugs and
chemicals by I’B. The significant
point about the figures is that
where the labor cost is greatest—
i.e., where the process of manufac-
ture is most intricate—the increased
cost is least. It is greatest where
the primary industries are con-
cerned. Raw material increased in the
last 12 months by 9 per cent., whereas
manufactured goods only went up by 14
per cent. In America, as elsewhere, the
wage standard in the primary industries
is lowest; so the obvious conclusion is
that the increase is due almost wholly
.to the higher price of lands and the
inflation of rents. Which is a hint to
Australia not to make itself ill with
worry, even when it is told with awful
impressiveness that current legislation will
clip a trifle off the heights to which Aus-
tralian land values are climbing.
An enraged “Liberal” wrote to S. M.
Herald last week, as follows :
Can you tell me whether Mr. G. B. Edwards, Federal
member for North Sydney, was elected as a Liberal or a
Labor supporter ? I was under the impression that it
was as the former, but he is apparently so confused with
national ideas that he cannot remember on which side lie
was elected. lam led to nslr this question by his atti-
tude, first, on the Federal Notes Bill, and recently on
the proposal to amend the Constitution with regard to
trade, commerce, etc.
It is the frankest admission that any “ Liberal ”
has yet made of the fact that Labor stands for
National ideas, and “Liberalism” for parochial
ones.
A number of Sydney “Liberals” are
chasing round after subscriptions towards a
£lO.OOO gratuity which it is proposed to donate
to ex-Premier Wade. The idea is, partly that he
should he recompensed for the alleged financial
loss he has suffered by dropping his Bar work and
taking to politics, partly that he should be placed
in a position to forego the law and fight the Labor
Devil unhampered, even unto the ultimate ditch.
True, they haven’t raised the £lO,OOO yet, and
they are continually bumping against people
who don’t believe Wade is;worth the money as a
leader. They find that there are earnest anti-
Laborites who hold him dear, in fact, at a ten-
pound note. The “Liberals” who are conducting
this campaign are big business men—merchants,
solicitors and the like. They would show their
gratitude to Wade more convincingly for the
spirited battle he put up against the S’osh Menace—
or whatever it was he was supposed to be assailing
—if such of them as are solicitors pledged them-
selves to brief him in every available case, while
such as are potential litigants agreed to give him
first chance to represent their interests in court.
That would be putting their admiration for their
hero’s ability, character and so forth on a really
practical basis.
One of the planks of the new “ People’s ”
party in Victoria runs this way :
(d) Resistance to all attempts by the Federal Legisla-
ture to assume control (through any system of taxation,
penalty, or bonus) of matters left by the Constitution to
the States.
The States have two Houses, and in nearly every
case one of those Houses stands for Propputy.
On the other hand, the Federal Legislature con-
sists of two Houses, both elected by the people.
So, quite naturally, the Victorian “People’s”
party barracks for the system where Propputy
has the pull, and will resist all attempts to give
the people any of the power that Propputy now
possesses.
The Tory minority in the Senate rose Ikst
week and stated with tremendous dignity that, as
the Democratic majority insisted on running
things its own way, it (the Tory minority) would
decline to hold further discussion. It proposed,
in fact, to wrap its mantle round its head, and
sit on the dignified retirement of its tail among
the back seats. There it will say nothing,
but will wear a prophetic expression symboli-
cal of the evil to come. The Tory papers spoke
of this calamity with bated breath. They implied
that the stupendous catastrophe which was bound
to happen through Labor fooling with the thick
end of the gun really had happened. And they
implied that the Government was stunned to dis-
cover what its folly had led to. As a matter of
fact, however, the news that in future Millen
won’t talk so much as he used to do doesn’t seem
to grieve anybody to any great extent.
The Pumpkin Smiths and other ancient
war-horses of the N.S.W. “Liberal” party got
all that was coming to them one recent day when
a certain “ S. Peters” wrote to the S. M. Herald.
“S. Peters” reckoned that it was the old brigade
which brought about Wade’s downfall, and he
spoke with the unobtrusive frankness of a mad
dog:—
Beyond the blatant blast of a few peripatetic political
bvgones and puerile upstarts, nothing was ever done in
the way of organising the Liberals in the country dis-
tricts. ...
The Central League in Sydney seemed to he more like a
mutual admiration society where old Parliamentary dere-
licts were wont to meet and recount their deeds of valor
during contests of years gone by. These worn-out old
veterans were sent out campaigning throughout the
State, and were inherently feeble in every respect. . . .
It is necessary that the Augean stable now exist-
ing should be purified by unceremoniously excluding
the present crowd of political deadbeats, sundowners
and hangers-on, who now infest the cellar headquarters
of the league.
He also threw other bricks and boiling waters at
the dreary “ Liberal ” organisation, and then be
kicked it hard, and dropped a boulder on it, and
buried it and poured asafoetida on its grave.
The voting returns of most of the 90
N.S.W. State electorates have now been officially
analysed. In Annandale, Gordon, Leichhardt,
Middle Harbor, Paddington, Parramatta, St.
Leonards, Waverleyand Woollahra —all suburban
electorates—the women’s vote out-numbered the
men’s. The gallant Col. Onslow’s constituency
polled the biggest hobble-skirt majority 5 *“®
little Dr. Arthur received most she-votes—s/00,
in Middle Harbor. Still, even these things won t
stop the suffragette movement.
A SUGGESTION FOR CHURCH
COMMITTEES.
At the Bowraville (N.S.W.) Church, Rev. Father Dur-
kin, when announcing’ the holding of a ball in aid of the
church funds, took exception to what he described as
the cheek to cheek style of dancing, which he stated was
gaining favor in the district.
N.S.W. Works Minister Griffith’s idea of
State brickyards gets more support the longer it
lives. While he was giving his views, the pros-
pectus of a new brick co. was actually being pre-
pared ; and since then the document has been
issued. The directors—including a leading archi-
tect, a builder and a contractor—estimate the cost
of production at 18s. 6d. per 1000; and the pre-
sent price of bricks at the kilns is quoted at 425. !
Moreover, it seems that the State doesn’t get any
concession; though it could comfortably keep a
Vug yard going, it pays Private Enterprise 425.
for goods which experts say they can produce for
18s. 6d. It’s obviously another case in which
Private Enterprise spells Public Hindrance.
Premier Joseph Ward’s compulsory train-
ing scheme for Maoriland followed the tracks of
Kitchener fairly closely until they reached the
proposed scale of pay for citizen officers at the
training camps. Here Joseph came to a full stop,
and reluctantly made a few alterations as follows :
Kitchener’s Scale Ward’s Scale
(per day). (per day).
Lieutenant-Colonels .. £2 10 0 015 0
Majors 2 0 0 0120
Captains .. .. .. 110 0 010 0
Lieutenants .. .. 1 0 0 0 8 0
With all the politically-appointed colonels and
captains and lieutenants and majors-domo and
things, the Bullfinch mine would go broke on the
Kitch. scale. If the money could Vie borrowed,
now 1 But even with his best customers
Uncle is becoming mean and sordid.
THE NEW BURGLAR.
Reginald Augustus Anwyl, who had pleaded guilty to
housebreaking and stealing’ at K[?], three months’
imprisonment. —A country criminal court report.
PERCY-THE PUB-PINCHER: “ P-p-pardon me, lady
— nun-no nonsense, or I'll blow your bally—
haw —bwains out!”
THE LADY: “ Oh, go hon, Willie!”
Hear this typical “Liberal” statement
(Argus, 1/11/10) regarding the People’s Party—a
sort of mild political measles that has broken out
in a country town in Victoria :
The draft “ platform ” of the People’s Party, as de-
clared before the Inaugural meeting at Horsham on
Saturday, is really of less importance than the fact that
the organisation itself has been duly formed and sets out
on its career.
Policy, you see, is an unimportant thing. The
“platform” may he as barren as the Sahara;
but so long as there is some sort of “ organisa-
tion ”to whoop for the newspaper is satisfied. It
is merely keeping up appearances, like the bank-
rupt grocer who stocks his window with empty
biscuit tins.
The arduous toil of assisting at a record
Cup carnival proved too much for Premier Weary,
wherefore that fatigued person last week an-
nounced that his Main Roads Board Bill was
postponed sine die . and the usual municipal sub-
sidy would be parcelled out as heretofore the
sturdiest cadgers mostly getting the biggest
whack also, as heretofore,/ The subsidy will
amount to £267,292 this time, and will mostly go
in fattening the value of the property of those
who are fattest already.
Weary's Minister, Baillieu, has the
notion that it would be a good thing to borrow
£5OO 000 and spend it in one large splash on
“roads that would enormously increase the pro-
duetiveness of the adjacent properties.’ Accord-
ing to Baillieu, the annual value of properties in
shires is £7,332.397, and a Id. rate on this amount
would yield £30,550, which is enough to pay
interest and wipe out the loan in 31% years. Well,
if the shires like to raise £30,550 a year for 31%
years they can have £962,325 to spend on their
roads. Baillieu’s idea is that they shrill put
£500,000 on their roads and £462,325 into the
pockets of certain Fat gentlemen who will lend the
money; and £462,325 seems to be a good deal to
pay certain Fat gentlemen for the uncertain joy of
making a splash.
Victorian Treasurer Watt, who struggles
in vain against Tory strangulation of the alleged
“ Liberal ” party, has proposed a flat land-tax of
three farthings, to raise revenue. So the
“Country Party” is on its hind legs once again.
According to the Abgcs :
Each member has his own ideas, but a majority seem
to be agreed that, before there is any large increase in
taxation, the Treasurer should be able to prove to Par-
liament that the revenue is not being charged with
various expenditure of a developmental nature, which
could fairly be met—as it was in the past—out of loan
money, and that the State public service is being ad-
ministered in as effective and economical a manner as
possible.
It is the same old Toryism. Anything rather
than honest taxation. If the State is hard up,
sack the poor devils who work in State employ-
ment ; starve the schools, and let the children go
half educated. If money is needed, go to Cohen
for it, and let the children and the children s
children pay interest for ever. Anything rather
than a tax. " And anything rather than a land tax.
Yet this is the party which was “ going to put
the progressive land tax into force if the federal
Labor party hadn’t gripped the situation !
THE POLICY OF THE STOP-WATCH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Argos, in a recent leading article bitterly de-
ploring hasty legist ition in the Federal Parliament,
(Hinted out that the man who drives a motor above the
speed limit is dealt with by the law. “Yet in the fur
more serious matter of furious driving in Parliament
there is no constable with a stop-watch.”
There was no haste when Tories ran
The legislative shandrydan.
■Twas rickettv and very slow,
And went where they would have it go ;
It crept, ahead three feet with pain,
And rolled a full yard back again,
In those good times the Council “ cop ”
| Would take his ticker out of pop
(A stop-watch this, as you might call
A watch that, never went at all);
Or, softly drowsing on a rail,
He timed the motor with a snail.
And so that shandrydan of theirs
Went nowhere much in fifty years !
But now the Labor crowd has been
• - And furbished up the old machine,
A stronger power the villains found
Behold, ye gods, the wheels go round !
And all apostles grey of Shirk
f Shriek horribly to see it work ;
For wise and wary Fat Men know
A legislature should not go
Except when rich men, parsons, kings,
Contented are to pull the strings !
VICTORIA.
EDDYSON.


THE
CLAVIOLA
PIANO PLAYER
Is the latest and
best of all piano
players.
It has improve-
ments found in no
other make.
We have a
beautifully illus-
trated catalogue
describing these
improvements,
which we forward
post free on
application.
PALING’S,
338 George St. t
Sydney.
no
Victor Pianos.
m
Victor Pianos are manufac-
tured for us and embody our
balf century’s experience.
They are grand wear resisters,
and we specially recommend
them where work is heavy
they will last a lifetime.
Every Victor Piano is sold fully
guaranteed.
We sell on easy terms, and
catalogues are free for the
asKing.
W. H. PALING <a Co.
338 George Street, Sydney.
I
spwTTi*
000000000&060
No better Organs
than the Estey
are manufac-
tured.
They are the
result of over
60 years experi-
ence.
We sell them at
all prices from
£lO s O : O.
Catalogue and
price list shew-
ing easy terms
on application.
PALINGS,
338 GEORGE ST.,
SYDNEY.
10G
ĥ
The Right
Entertainer
for the Home
The EDISON PHONOGRAPH.
BEAU 1 Y and sweetness of tone, clearness of enunciation, and
the correct volume of sound, together with perfection of
mechanism, elegance of finish and undoubted durability,
make the Edison Phonograph the best sound-reproducing machine
ever offered to a discriminating public. But its real value lies in its
instant readiness to provide any form of entertainment anywhere
and at any time. The songs you like best, the dance music most
popular, the best efforts of the best instrumentalists, bands and
entertainers, and perfect rendering of excerpts from famous grand
opera by renowned artists—all these are at your command, if you
own an Edison Phonograph.
The “Fireside” Combination is a popular model of the
Edison Phonograph, and it plays both Pwo- and Four-minute
Records. You can purchase one complete with Five Amberol
(Four-minute) Records and Four Standard (Two-minute) Records
f° r 5 lOS * Any Edison dealer in Australia will supply you, and
you can make your own choice of Records from the thousands
included in our lists.
We will send complete lists of Machines and Records on
application, and supply the address of your nearest dealer if
you do not know it.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA, LTD.,
Dept. B, KENT STREET, SYDNEY.
FARMER’S Re-Building Sale.
Furniture, Carpets, Furnishing's
at Rigorously Reduced Prices.
3*
' <
THE “ RAWSON ” OAK DINING-ROOfl SUITE.
Oak Sideboard, bevelled plate glass at back, copper enrichments, sft. long, / s. d.
6ft. 6in. high - - - - . . . . - 15 o o
Six Small Chairs and Two Carving Chairs, oak frames, upholstered in Rexine - 10 o o
Oak Dinner Waggon, 3ft. 6in. wide - - . . . - I c o
Extension Oak Dining Table, 6ft. x 3ft. 6in. - - . _ Q
Price, Complete
£32 0 0
A Handsome and Artistic Suite, faithfully made, an ornament to any Dining-room,
and WILL LAST A LIFETIME.
Furniture Catalogue sent Post Free.
COMP.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland's
MACASSAR 08L.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scut* /s the Des,
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, &A. Rowland'& Sons, Hatton Garden,
I/'idon.
Mount Larcombe Estate.
THE Lease of this well-known Estate having- expired,
the Trustees have been instructed by the bene-
ficiaries, who live in Scotland, to make an early
realisation of the Estate, with a view to a division of the
proceeds. , . , . , .
The property has an area of 14,484 acres, and is highly
improved. It was for many years used as a fattening
propery, but the advent of the Gladstone to Rock-
hampton Railway, which runs right through the Estate,
has brought it within about 14 miles of Gladstone at the
nearest point, and this makes the property very suitable
for dairy farming and other close settlement.
A handsome profit should be available from sub-
division.
For further particulars apply to
The Trustees, Mount Larcombe Estate,
c/o David Stirrat, Esq.,
Mount Alma, via Gladstone :
or J. F. Fitz Gerald & Power,
Solicitors, Brisbane.
M iasing Friends. _____
WANTED to know the whereabouts of
BARTLY CALLAGHAN. Left Aclare,
Co. Sligo, Ireland, in 1888. Sought for by his
brother, Andrew Callaghan, of Goldensbridge,
Westchester Co., New York, U.S.A.
Other papers please copy.
Legal Notice.
I N THE SUPREME. COURT OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
L MATRIMONIAL CAUSES JURISDICTION.
No. 7456.
Between ELIZABETH ANN HEWITT Petitioner and
JAMES HENRY HEWITT Respondent.
To JAMES HENRY HEWITT late of Petersham in the
State of New South Wales. ~n T
TAKE NOTICE that the said ELIZABETH ANN
HEWITT has commenced a suit against you in this
Honorable Court and is applying for a dissolution of
marriage on the grounds of desertion without just cause
and excuse during three years and upwards. AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter an appear-
ance to the said suit at the proper office of this Honor-
able Court on or before the fourteenth day'of February
one thousand nine hundred and eleven and in the event
of your not doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the suit be
heard and determined your absence notwithstanding.
A copy of the Petition filed herein may be had on
application to the undersigned free of charge.
Dated this first dav of November a.d. 1910.
WILLIAM CHARLES MOSELEY,
Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Mutual Life of New York Building,
Martin Place, Sydney.
For the Registrar,
JOHN GEO. LEARY, (D.s.)
Chief Clerk.
(A
CA
fij
(A
m
*>
£
c\
rr\
70
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALQOORLIE and COOLOAROIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
“0.K.”: Now that the quality of imported
English thoroughbreds has been proved in the principal
w.f.a. race and the great test handicap of the V.It.C.
Spring meeting, it seems permissible for once to adopt
the stinking-fish prejudice, and look for comparative
excellence in the blood that is not native-born. Son-of-
the-Marsh, the Melbourne Stakes winner, is an imported
horse. He was bought for £550 in England, after win-
ning a petty event —a selling race. In this country he
has proved himself the fastest of 10-furlong gallopers,
having beaten the record for that distance ere he took
the Melbourne Stakes. Comedy King was bought as a
yearling in England, together with his dam, and
although he counts as a four-year-old in Australia,
he is about six months younger than the four-
year-olds locally bred. Consequently, the Mel-
bourne Cup victory of'Comedy King, even with only
7st. 111 b. in the saddle, was a fine performance. There
have been other imported horses that didn’t win the
Cup, but none of them were cracks, or nearly cracks, in
their own country. Nevertheless there was one of them
—Voyou, the runner-up to Merriwee in 1899—who would
have" won had he been quite fit for the long journey.
Four days later Voyou won the V.R.C. Handicap in
Smashing style. In the light of the performances of
Comedy King and Voyou it cannot be denied thjit Eng-
lish-bred horses, although lighter-boned and more sprint-
like in appearance, as a rule, than their competitors over
here, are able to stay with the best of them. The
harder ground seems to knock them out more quickly
. than it knocks out the old Australian stock ; but that is •
beside the point. Imported horses have been better-
class performers, on the average, than those of Aus-
tralian pedigree. Sir Foote, an English sprinter, holds the
record for the Newmarket Handicap distance (6 furlongs).
Mention of Sir Foote brings me to the crux of my
argument. He was the sire of Prince Foote, last year’s
Cup winner, and his countryman, Positano, another im-
ported horse, was the sire of three Cup winners in Lord
Nolan, Poseidon and Lord Cardigan. Apologue, who
scored in 1907, was bred in Maoriland ; so the last five
winners of the Melbourne Cup have been sons of horses
born out of this country. The moral is obvious. For
a combination of first-class speed with stamina,
look to the new blood in racing stock. It will
be said that such notable good ones as Trafalgar
and Alawa have an Australian pedigree, but
the pedigree is short in both cases. Alawa is a
grandson of Bill of Portland, an imported sire, and
Trafalgar is a grandson of Carbine, born in Maoriland, of
English parents. The long Australian pedigree is not
worth backing for Cup races nowadays. Sporting re-
porters enthuse over horses that are in a direct line of
descent from Malua or Grand Flaneur, or Chester or what
not; but the punter who wants to enthuse over a win on
Melbourne Cup Day must cultivate a prejudice against
animals whose grandfathers and grandmothers were
mighty performers on the Australian turf.
* * * *
The racing touts of Melbourne, if they had a
sense of the eternal fitness of things, would have drowned
themselves in a tank of beer after Comedy King’s capture
of the Cup. The one thing on which they all agreed was
the insufficiency of Comedy King’s preparation. They
saw the horse doing only ordinary work on the Fleming-
ton track, and never noticed that he was getting harder
every day as the result of the really good gallops l|e was
putting in. Although there had been a hitch in the
preparation of Comedy King whilst he suffered from a
cold, it was 1 always a Cup preparation ; yet the touts
gave the public and the bookmakers to understand that
the, all-important favorite was not being “ strung up ”
sufficiently to justify his position in the unpublished
betting-market. The fact that he ran like a stayer in
Sydney, and had been pronounced a stayer by ofvner and
trainer, weighed nothing with the cocksure toifts as
against the fact that they didn’t see the convalescent
horse being taxed to the utmost Over a long distance or
in sprints. They persistently underrated the value of his
track work untii he had run nowhere in the Melbourne
Stakes, and then on the intervening Monday before the Cup
they noticed that he was “ going strong at the end of a
mile,” or words to that effect. Neither they nor the
newspaper reporters ever gave the hardy-looking horse
credit for being one of the clear-winded sort that doesn’t
take long to recover from a cold, and is better over two
miles than a mile and a half in comparison with the
average high-class racer. The victory of Sol Green's
champion under the circumstances is an object-lesson to
trainers who think that a horse can be quickly converted
from a “miler” into a stayer. Comedy King got an
early start in his Cup preparation, and when he went
amiss he was not thrown right out of condition. He
merely went back a little, and, having recovered what
vital strength he had lost, the muscular animal resumed
his improvement at the point where it had stopped.
Think of the “ good things ” for the Cup that
didn’t finish in the first six ! Tnink of the combination
of circumstances required to make the “good thing”
that actually wins easily. The horse must be a very good
one over two miles, with at least a stone weight in hand,
trained to its best possible condition; it must be fairly
lucky in the avoidance of serious bumps and other inter-
ference, not to mention the risk of an unavoidable fall
through other horses falling immediately in front
of it. t And the jockey must be clever enough to
make things “fairly lucky” for the horse in an
ordinary way. These are essentials to a “dead bird,”
such as Revenue was of yore. This year there
was positively no “dead bird” for the Cup, though it is
practically certain that either of the first two horses
would have won easliy had the other been out of the
race. Comedy King had fully a stone in hand as regards
the handicap, but he was not in the very best of health
and condition. A horse that coughs before and after a
Cup race cannot win without the advantage of a favor-
able handicap. Trafalgar, as the race was run, had bad
luck in losing it. Cyril Bolton, who rode Mutilator, states
that his mount, being quite spun out, rolled against
Trafalgar at a critical point of the struggle, and seri-
ously checked the heavyweight’s effort to overtake the
winner ; yet Trafalgar was only half a neck to the bad at
the finish. Given as clear a run as Comedy King got, the
less favorably weighted horse, being in_the pink of con-
dition, would probably have the race was run.
On the other hand, it is possible that if Comedy King had
not been rushed to the front so soon, the same result
might have been attained in a different way. There was
so little to choose between the winner and runner-up,
that the best judges of racing are equally divided in their
opinions as to whether McLachlan, on Comedy King,
won the Cup by wisejockeyship, or nearly lost it by not
delaying his rush. ” #
What have the V.R.C. and A.J.C. stewards
been thinking of all these years, since the silly old weighing
apparatus was found to be open to fraudulent manipula-
tion ? Any sort of automatic weighing-machine is be-
yond the possibility of being faked by a person secreted
under the platform where it is placed ; nevertheless the
idea of substituting a,n unfakable “scale” was never
entertained by the conservative aldermen of the Turf
until it was thrust upon them by a pony racecourse pro-
prietor. Lord only knows whether there has been any
fraudulent weighing-in at Flemington of recent years,
but a lot of people seem to know that the scales were
worked bv the late Frank Kuhn and his accomplices
within the present century. But that reckless young
rascal was spared out of consideration for the “ respect-
able ” rogues who palpably profited by their knowledge
of the fraud he originated, and the whole thing was
hushed up. _
A coincidence tip for Melbourne Cup is credited'
to a girl in one of the Vic. up-country towns. She re-
marked that a Lord (Nolan) won it in 1908, a Prince
(Foote) in 1909, and nothing less than a King (Comedy)
could be expected to do the trick this year. What price
The Emperor for next year? Owners of unnamed two-
year-olds are advised to rush for the available title. First
come, first served.
* * * *
The sultry, stormy Oaks Day at Flemington
had its only virtue in its vindication of form. Two-year-
old Woolerina (who had finished third for theMaribyrnong
Stakes) won his second race at the meeting, and Beverage
did likewise, whilst Styria confirmed the truth of the
Derby running. Styria’’s victory in the Oaks was only
what punters had a right to expect, but Beverage’s cap-
ture of the Linlithgow Stakes was surprisingly meri-
torious. The best of Derby winners could have done no
more than carry a 101 b. penalty through the mud and
rain and win easily. Beverage gave 171 b. to Hartfell and
241 b. to Indiscreet, and beat them out of sight. Two
Caulfield Cnp winners in Aborigine and Flavinius followed
the Derby colt home. #
Punters had" what" "the horse reporters Call a
“ great” time on Oaks day, inasmuch as five first favor-
ites won. This amounts —on paper—to a terrible doing
for the books ; but it pans out thus for the backer of first
favorite at starting price. For the first race there were
three favorites at 5 to 1, and one of them won. If a
punter backed each of them for £1 he netted k 3 on the;
race. The next winner was a 6 to 4 on chance-; so the
punter won 13s. 4d. For the third race the favorite was;
beaten. The fourth winner was favorite at 9 to 4 against,
so the gain was £2 ss. Next winner (at 2 to 1 on)brought
10 “ bob ” to the lucky man ; and the last favorite was at'
6 to 4 against, so the punter added another 30s. to hisl
total. He thus won £7 18s. 4d., less £l, on the day. Had
all the favorites been beaten he would have lost £B/
What risks these bookmakers take !
* * * *
The first Sheffield Shield match of the season!
had a champagney finish. S. Aus., playing against Vic.,:
wanted 197 to win. Armstrong got three men cheap ;i
and then Clem Hill and Gehrs settled the question. Hilli
left just as the end was in sight. Gehrs wanted 10 tol
make his “century.” But only five were wanted to win,,
and when they were scored the game would stop. Therel
was just one possible chance for his century—and he tookj
it. With a four he made ithe scores a tie. and, with a
clean square-leg sixer into ithe pavilion, he made himself
100 not out. To judge'ifrom this game, Australia has
any quantity of but—allowing Crawford to be
not eligible—most of the test match bowling, except for
Armstrong and Whitty, will have to be supplied by
N.S.W. #
The Afrikander cricketers made their first land-;
ing at Adelaide just as the Victorian XI. arrived. Therd
were other casual visitors, too, so strange combinations
might be seen at the practice-nets : Alan Marshal, of Bris-
bane and Surrey, bowling to Llewellyn, of Hampshire and
Africa ; and Kelleway, of Sydney, to all-comers. Also old
George Giffen stripped, and his famous hanging ball
played havoc with good men 30 years his junior. Mayor
Cohen and E. T. Smith, the 80-year-old &A.C.A. presi-
dent, entertained and welcomed the visitors, and Sher-
well, the African captain, became thoughtful. He had
been told that Melbourne and Sydney would even exceed
Adelaide in hospitality; and, if so, “Please God, vye’ll
never get there ! ” he remarked piously. The 14 business-
like strangers can soon be sorted out. Faulkner, the
crack all-rounder, has a;keen,"shrewd face of the Braund
type. Llewellyn is short and dark ; Schwarz slight and
dark. Vogler has the figure of Hirst and the humor of
Briggs; he, is at. first glance the most dangerous
of '’the bowlers. But the change from matting to
Australian turf is trying. One, at least, of the team
had never,- been on a grass wicket before, so
hard practice has been prescribed. The preliminary
batting was naturally of a shoulder-opening order. There
are some hard hitters, and the tendency to pull every-
thing possible round to square-leg will give Australians
some brisk fielding in that neighborhood. Fitzgerald,
the manager, is a Victorian, a son of the late Nicholas
Fitzgerald, director of breweries and other things.
"*..* * * ;
Whatever interest remains in cricket was con-
centrated on the first appearance of the African “ Spring 1 -
boks ” at Adelaide, and the struggle between Queensland
and N. S. Wales was quite overlooked. Yet it was a closfc
match, Queensland crawling out with a majority of 19
after an especially good display of bowling. It was
a trundlers’ match, and not a century was made by
any batsman. In fact, the highest scores were 67 for
N.S.W. by Gow;, and, 64 by Hufcqheon for Queensland,.
N.S.W. smacked up 21'2 in the first attempt against
Queensland’s 163; but in the second effort the Ma
State could show only 135 to Queensland’s 203. Result, a
win for Bananaland by 19 runs.
S’Africa made a had start at Adelaide against
the State team. The wicket being far from a velvet road,
Hill, who won. the toss, sent the Afrikanders to the
wickets, and there got them down and fell on them.
The first wicket went for three, the second for four, and
the third for 19. It was a rot, and the case of the
strangers looked hopeless. The outlook did not improve
when the whole side vanished for 133. But at the end of
the day, when the South Aus. team had piled up 169 for
nine wickets, the African captain declined to feel crushed.
“ We’re bv no means beaten yet!” he remarked, dog-
gedly. And he wasn’t. The googley bowling was telling,
and Africa was getting more and more accustomed to the
turf wickets. Monday saw the S. Australians add only 14,
and pass out for IS3. The second innings of- the Dark
Continent was a revelation. The bowling was collared
by the scruff of the neck and the slack of the pants.
Strieker smote up 146, and Nourse carried his bat for 136,
and the day ended for 371 for the loss of six wickets.
* ■* * *
With inter-State and international matches
raging and Melbourne horse madness in full blast, local
Sydney cricket is a small, unimportant business just
now—except to the players. On Saturday, the batsmen
took a revenge on the bowlers who had played skittles
with them the two previous Saturdays. No less than
four centuries were recorded —Macartney, P. F. McElhone,
Thomas and Foster putting up 186, 148, 124 and
115 respectively. Two men smacked up 90 and over,
three over 80, six 70 and over, and two 50 and
over. And yet two of the bowlers managed to leave
decent figures on the sands of time. Sivyer, of Mr.
O'Hara’s team, dropped three Petersham wickets for 11
runs, and Andrews, of Petersham, laid out six of Mr.
O’Hara’s merry men for 57 runs. But the name of the
rest was Mud, and their tallies slush. It was the be-
ginning of a round, so there were no results to chronicle.
But the team scores were fairly staggering. Redfern
made 450 against Central Cumberland, Gordon smacked
393 for four against redoubtable Glebe, and YVaverleyput
up 340 against Paddington.
*** * *
Apparently, what the Australians require to
bustle these visitors is an uncommonly fast bowler, and
the question is, where shall he be found? The sudden-
ness and extent of the African improvement was a fearful
thing to contemplate. But it is their bowling that is
going tcv cover this country with woe. The little
band includes no less than seven googley bowlers,
and when last the English were here we found
Bosanquet quite enough trouble. He butchered some
fine young batsmen. With seven devils like these run-
ning loose on the cricket fields thi4 country looks likely
to go to the dogs. For it must be remembered that what
we have seen of. the African bowling has been on a slow
wicket. On a fast one these googley bowlers will be ter-
rific $ and there are, as said before, seven of them, and
they can all make the ball break at about 14 different
angles. Takes some thinking over.
•* * * *
Sherwell’s wicket-keeping is a feature of the
Springboks. In S. Australia's first innings he caught
two, stumped two more, and narrowly missed some
others. This nimbleness, combined with tricky bowling,
is likely to give trouble.
* * * *
The recent city v. country cricket match in
Brisbane was a dreary affair, which the former, although
represented by a weak eleven, won by 10 wickets. The
only bright spots in it were the batting of city-man
Hutcheon, who knocked up 85 runs in 75 minutes, and
the bowling of countryman McCloy, formerly of Padding-
ton (Sydney), but now of Ipswich, who took five wickets
for 86 runs.
* * * *
The Wtfetralian bowling tourists are having a
frightful time. At Melbourne the rubber went against
them by 73, 66 and 54 points; and at Sydney the team
was blown out by 126 to 71, 117 to 89, and 122 to 76 in
one rubber, and forfeited another. Still, they can hunt
Bullfinches, and that’s where they score over the East.
* * * *
South Aus. bowling lords are getting ready for
a high kick this Christmas. Teams from all Australia
and Maoriland will gather in Adelaide, which will
become an Armageddon of the trundlers,in which cham-
pions shall encounter champions, and the kings of the
game will be trampled on in the imsh. *
So Dr. Poidevin is coming home to settle in
Australia, and at time of writing had been talking to the
reporters at Fremantle. He condemned the Australian
tennis people for withdrawing their guarantee because
they ~did- mot; ~ consider the -English players of
international class. If this is correct, the Aus-
tralian tennis crowd deserves to be soundly kicked.
Sport is like diplomacy, and it is England’s funeral if it
sends along indifferent players. Thie Australian tennis
people were not likely to lose the deal, anyhow. Of
course, if the Australian Association objected to any
guarantees, the case would be different; but, to set
one’s self up in judgment on the team-selection of another
nation is too strong.
* * * *
Dr. Poidevin is pessimistic regarding English
cricket. The form is not up to the standard of a few
years ago, he declares, and judging by general appear-
ances, the doctor is right. “They play six days a
week, and only very wealthy men can afford
to play county cricket. There are too many
professionals.” In fact, the gold rot is going to
destroy' English cricket, £ven as it has ruined English
Rugby, and.-aa it rums everything it gets into. The
haughty gold-bug will not associate with the men who
work with either hand or brain, and, being left entirely
to himself and his brainless peers, deterioration sets in,
fatty degeneration supervenes, and the sport passes out.
Looks as if English regeneration will never be possible
till the nation kills off its gold-bugs.
*** . *
After much talk a match between Australian
rower Harry Pearce and William Webb, of Maoriland,
will take place on the Wanganui River on Boxing Day.
Palmerston sport Serpert is putting up £2OO on Pearce,
and £4O is to be allowed for exes. So everything in the
garden is blooming, especially as it is almost certain that
enough cash will be forthcoming after the j\ace to back
the winner against Arnst. Which is good news for big
Dick.
But Maoriland is howling that it has discovered
a new wonder in Arthur Jackson, of Blenheim, who will
one day wipe the floor with Arnst, and all the rest of
them, and reijrn as champion sculler of the world. They
are sanguine, these #
While he was in South Africa, big Jack Arnst
gave ’em a taste of the quality of his hind legs. In a
half-mile sprint and an unpaced pursuit race with the
African crack, F. Venter, Arnst came on top.
* * * *
There is war in Victoria, and the Cyclists’
Union is making frantic attacks on the Victorian League
of Wheelmen. Time was when the League was a badly-
managed affair ; but it has changed its executive, cleaned
out the stable, and set to work to pull things out of the
mud generally. But the Union will have none of its
reforms. It says the League is dead, and calls on it to
submit quietly and decently to burial. The League snorts
that it isn’t dead, and will, if necessary, crush the upstart.
The League represents 600 registered racing cyclists, while
the Union can scrape together barely 100. But, in the ful-
ness of its wisdom, N.S.W. League of Wheelmen has cast in
its lot with the usurping Union, and the fight grows thick.
Also, it grows inconvenient. As the N.S.W. League is
supporting the Union, its members cannot take part in
races held under the auspices of the Victorian League,
neither can Victorian Leaguemen race in N.S.W. unless
they first join the N.S.W. body as new members. The
result is chaos—and professional cycling is in such a
parlous state just now that a little touch of chaos is
likely to kill the whole hog stone-dead.
Guippone, a French motor-cyclist of credit,
renown and derring-do, and master of many records, is
dead smashed through the carelessness or idiocy of a fool
cyclist The fool rode round a training track on the
wrong side, and suddenly recognising his mistake, cut
across the front of Guippone’s car in which the crack
was training for a big race. Rather than kill this blun-
derer, Guippone took a header down the bank, and
found death waiting at the bottom.
Luck is a cynical demon, and the man who uses
a pistol loaded with ball cartridge to start a race is a
William animal. But at North Sydney, on Saturday, a
man fired a “gun” to start a race, and just as he
did so another johnnie popped his face over the
fence, about 50 yards away, and very consider-
ately prevented the bullet going any further,
where it might have done some damage. It is a most,
dangerous thing to use ball cartridges for starting pur-
poses, because it is only once in a thousand shots a man
will be found kind enough to put his face injrontand
prevent a window getting smashed or a girl's “art hat”
being ripped to shreds. But for this “ obstruction ”
something serious might have happened.
* * * *
The Mclntosh would appear to have England
by the scruff of the neck and the hip-pocket, with that
famous gag of his about finding a white champion to lay
out Jack Johnson. So far there is no sign of the encour-
agement bringing out any likely walloper for the big black.
Still, if there is a champion lying around in concealment,
the Mclntosh’s methods are those which will give him a
chance to come out and seize his chance of wrecking the
golden temple Johnson calls his mouth. There is more
than a dark suspicion that England has given up breeding
heavyweight fighters; and by the time the Mclntosh , is
through with his search, that suspicion promises to
develop into a certainty.
* * * *
Kid McCoy, the Melbourne “feather” who was
expected to develop into an Australian destroyer, demon-
strated the gfreafc lack of stopping quality in his method
of assault when he met Sailor Duffy at Melbourne Sport*
Club’s room on Cup eve. Duffy is the best thing pos-
sessed by that section of the British navy which was in
Victorian waters for the spring season ; but the man-of-
war was no class against the professional glove-wielder.
McCoy could jut a stiff left into his dial 15 times a
minute ; but still he failed to stop ye mariner of England
in less than 18. He did not bring Duffv to a aead end
even then ; but the referee called him off his victim, and
declared that the son of the sea had had what any reason-
able man would consider enough, and something over.
Kid McCoy, the winner, is a bright lad, but need not bo
labelled dangerous till he puts about 471 b. of extra
vehemence into each fist.
* * * *
The meeting between Jimmy Clubby (America)
and Bob Bryant (Australia), at the Sydney Stadium last,
week, left nothing to be complained about—except that,
it was billed as a fight or boxing contest. It was neithei
one nor the other; it was merely an exhibition of spar-
ring oh the part of Clabby. And taken as that, it was
worth the journey and the price of admission. There
is no doubt of the Yankee welter-weight’s cleverness.
His extraordinary length or sinuosity of arm con-
trolled by a judgment that appears to be kept on the
ice, enables him to bring off many freak wallops. At
least, that was the case against Bryant. But Brya,nt
doesn’t count. A more intelligent and less deplorably
rattled man would have taken overwhelming advantage
of the ridiculous positions into which this freak-sparring"
frequently brought Clabby ; on the other hand, a more
intelligent and less rattled man would probably not have
been given the generous invitations that were offered by
the Yankee. In the seventh round he went down and
took the count.
It will be a great disappointment if Clabby is
not extended while he is in this country. He certainly
showed at the Stadium ttiat he has a stock of remarkable
fight-goods if anybody demands them. Unfortunately
the very names of the Americans forwarded by the
Mclnsplosh seem to have inspired such reverence
amongst the poor string Australia has produced re-
cently, that fight-paralysis has frozen their joints.
* * * *
An explorer’s story which appeared recently in
the Journal, Alberta (Canada) When we reached
Grouard the telegraph construction gang was putting the
finishing touches on the line to that point. Working
with an axe in advance of this construction gang was all
that remained of Frank Slavin, rival of Sullivan and
other old-time idols of the ring. When interviewed,
Slavin did not say he was training to get back into shajpe
to tear the laurels from black Jack Johnson. He was just
working to get a living.” The busy stoush-merchant
who thinks It will Last For Ever is counselled to nail the
above excerpt over the prie-dieu in his boudoir.
* * * *
N.S.W. Motor Boat Club’s bouse at Rose Bay,
Sydney, will be opened on November 26. The finishing
touches are now being laid on, and a sub-cominittee has
been authorised to wander round and splash much
wealth in furniture. The same committee will also
attend to the laying out of the grounds, the storage for
petrol, and the arrangement of the lockers that will be
let for a merely nominal sum.
THE COMEDY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I’ve a golden lining within my vest,
And a tenner’s a dainty toy,
For a Comedy King has played his jest
And the end thereof is joy.
There were lashins of laughter and heaps of glee
When the fiftieth Cup was run,
But the cream of the comedy was, for me,
That I got twenty to one !
We watched the neddy with doubts and fears,
And his price was unco short ;
We turned our money, and lent our ears
To this and to that report.
“ He’s got rheumatics ! ” (the punter quak,es);
“ He’s coughing ! ” (and hopes are-done);
He ran in the ruck in the Melbourne Stakes—
And I got twenty to one !
The day of the Comedy dawns serene
With a blazing- sky above,
And I am the millionth packed sardine
In the Ring where the punters shove.
Now hark ! the children of Moses roar
The odds for this horse of fun,
Fourteens —then twelves —then tens—no more !
And I got twenty to one !
The yell of a hundred thousand throats
Goes up to the smitten skj r ;
There’s the sudden flashing of silken coats,
And the king of the joke sweeps by.
Though some their Gargantuan stakes will mete
By the quarter, cental and ton,
My joy in the comedy’s just as sweet,
For I GOT TWKNTY TO ONB !
VICTORIA.
L.


The “ MOTA” (RegdJ.
rtrr
£
The “ Mota ” Hat is conceded everywhere to be
Che standard in style, quality and workmanship.
It is easily the most comfortable of hats, and
equally suitable for town or country wear, for busi-
ness or holidays, for walking, driving- or riding, for
week days or Sundays, for wet days or fine days,
for warm weather or cold weather.
The “ Mota ” is the bat that suits every head and
every occasion. Stocked by leading houses through-
out Australia, in all fashionable colors. Prices,
7/6 to 12/6. If unobtainable in your district,
write us direct. :
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS, LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
T™kTr a -*S TAR R ETT
thouma'A.Vs
o
r
It’s too risky to
guess the amount
of fall for drains!
or when finding the height of
springs, building dams, etc.
LEVELLING INSTRUMENT and
TRANSIT No. 998
has been designed to obviate guesswork
on the above-mentioned Wotk An
accurate job is assured where this instru-
ment is used, and the cost is 80/-
complete with extension legs, which is
but a fraction of that charged for a
surveyors’ or engineers’ transit. ,
No. 99F, with telescope, long legs,
ground and graduated level glass, £7 1 Os.
Full particulars are given in our 256-
Page Catalogue of Farm and Workshop
Tools and Appliances. Write for it!
Thomas McPherson s Son
Established 50 Years,
582-588 Collins St«, Melbourne.
Public Notice.
COMMONWEALTH OE AUSTRALIA.
Department of the Treasury,
Melbourne, 30th September, 1910.
COUNTERFEIT COINAGE PLANT.
£2OO Reward.
HEREAS certain imitations of gold coins have
.recently been passed into circulation at Broken
Hill, in the State of New South Wales, NOTICE is hereby
Sfiven that a Reward of Two hundred pounds will be paid
by the Government of the Commonwealth for information
leading to the apprehension of the coiners and the dis-
covery of the plant used in the manufacture of the coins
referred to. The Commonwealth Government will request
the State Government to extend a full pardon to any
accomplice who will give the desired information. This
offer will remain open for three months from this date.
(Sgd.) ANDREW FISHER, Treasurer.
MANUFACTURERS U
IMPORTERS
Are invited to participate in the growing trade
of Western Australia.
Business is now very good in almost every
department, and things generally are booming.
The coming harvest is a certainty to eclipse all
records.
The Sunday Times, published in Perth, and
The Sun, in Kalgoorlie, are the two leading
papers in the State. By advertising in these
journals you can reach all classes.
Listen to this unsolicited commendation from
Cowan’s Magazine, of Melbourne, a leading
trade journal:—“ln many respects The Sunday
Times of Western Australia is a wonderful paper,
and it claims to be the largest Sunday publication
in the British Empire. Amongst advertisei'3 it
has a marvellous reputation, and no doubt the
excellence of the display and the novelty of type-
faces account in a measure for this.”
“Amongst advertisers it has a MARVELLOUS
REPUTATION!”
And again. A. G. Stephens, Australia’s fore-
most critic, says the Perth Sunday Times is the
best Australian Sunday newspaper.
MAKE A NOISE LIKE AN ORDER.
CADILLAC,
25-30 £,500.
450 in Australasia*
35,000 in the World.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., Brisbane.
SAUL’S MOTOR CO., Launceston.
mm
mil
a
A little thing that
goes a long way.
That's wFrrt its PERFECT PURITY.corts.
ON THE HOP ” —Cheap Edition Now On
Sale— 2/6; Postage, N.S.W., 7d. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 Geogre
Street, Sydney.
h
Ride a Reliable Racer
B. &B. Models are reliable. At the Goulburn 8-Hour Sports,
held at Breadalbane, oh the 17th October, they won all the
prizes in the two bicycle events.
Your machine should be one of this sort. Send for catalogue,
or call and inspect.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Largest Cycle Building House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
RIQNEY SHOES Will Please You!
If you want serviceability and real character in your
footwear, the Rigney Shoes will undoubtedly please you.
Rigney Shoes fit accurately—they do not gape at the
sides or slip at the heels. Thev are made to fit the foot,
instead of the foot to fit the shoe.
The Shoe illustrated is a Black Phoenix Calf Derby Shoe.
21/-, 22/6, 2 51-
Also in Tan, 23/6 and 25/-
Ditto in Boots. Postage 9d. extra.
Write for Booklet, “ The Rigney Shoe for Men."
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ Th e Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,’’
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
ST'
mm
A. M. L. 8 F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863) .. .
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stock and Station Agents.
CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND £300.000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral Pro-
perties and Stock, and on the Growing Wool Clip and Wheat Crop.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in Australia, being all
recently constructed.
Australian Mortgage, Land & Finance Co.
LIMITED,
William Street, MELBOURNE;
BligH Street, SYDNEY ;
Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
MOTORISTS
CAN LEAVE ALL
TYRE TROUBLES
AH f HE REAJ
v. BY ~
/USING
■* £q)
are used by all Motorists who want the best.
Their quality and construction ensures a big mileage, and more
satisfaction than you can get from any other tyre.
It will pay you to specify “ Dunlops.”
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide* Perth, Brisbane, Christchurch, N.Z.
L
a)
-o A
m
h
DUNLOP GARDEN HOSE
Is now acknowledged to be the best suited to Australian Conditions. It
lasts for years, and does not kink or burst,
bast season we sold MILbIONS OF FEET of this FINE HOSE, and can
guarantee satisfaction. If you cannot obtain "DUNLOP” Brand from
your Storekeeper, kindly forward your order direct.
lllWMratad Ravtoad PHM UU THE DUNLOP RUBBER CO. Of Auot. Ltd.
sn Application. Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane and Ohrlstchurch, M.Z.
Sydney General Hospital will be 100 years
old next year. The building contract was made
by Governor Macquarie with D’Arcy Went-
worth, Blaxcell and Riley,' and the price was
paid in rum; hence for many years the institu-
tion was known as the Rum Hospital. Two of
the buildings erected a hundred years ago still
Stand—the Parliament Houses, which were sur-
geons’ quarters, and the Mint, in which the
coroner, as well as the hospital officials, had
J officeS and quarters. The main hospital was the
centre building of the,.three. —Before the erec-
tion of the hospital buildings .John Blaxland
owned an acre there. Mrs. Macquarie wanted
the land badly for hospital purposes. Blaxland
was in England at the time, in connection with
the- Johnston court-martial, and Mrs. Blaxland
was induced to part with the ground on the pro-
mise that Mr. Blaxland should have a g ood ex-
change on his return. Mrs. Macquarie had men-
tioned “the whole of Miller’s Point” as a fair
■thing to give; but Blaxland complained bitterly
afterwards that all he did get was “a paltry £4OO
for the finest acre in the city.”
“ Waihora ” begs to differ :
“ Henry H.” has some kind things to say about Auck-
land Harbor, and incidentally remarks : “ It is deeper
and more spacious than Sydney’s.” Well, if that is so, it
does not say much for Sydney’s cherished possession.
Auckland Harbor is beautiful to look at —high tide pre-
ferred—but, as a site for a naval base, is not in it with
some ocher Maoriland harbors. The approach channel,
Rangitoto, has an average depth of 31ft. at low watgr,
and this shallow area stretches for three miles. The.
anchorage ground shows 42ft. at low tide ; but at the'
wharves only 28ft. can be discovered. Nine months ago
the big liner Kaipara, drawing 27ft., struck heavily in
mid-channel whilst clearing the Heads, and was badly
ripped. Several other vessels have also touched in the
same locality. Auckland’s big dock—the Calliope—is not
capable of taking a modern battleship ; therefore,
the local authority is debating whether to enlarge
it, or ask the Admiralty to build smaller ships.
The deepest-draught vessel that ever sailed out
of Auckland was the Powerful, drawing 29ft., and she
felt her way out carefully at high water. (The rise and
fall of the tide is approximately 10ft.) The fault of Auck-
land harbor is that it is flat-bottomed, and resembles a
lagoon on a large scale. In the Hauraki Gulf, and within
50 miles of Auckland, there are, however, two magnificent
harbors—Bon Accord, at' Kawau Island (the islartd homo
of the late Hori Grey), and Port Fitzroy, at the Great
Barrier Island. PorO Fitzroy is landlocked, and they
measure the depth there by fathoms, not by feet
Whangaroa, bn the north-east coast, has also a claim
All of them, anyway, are ahead of Auckland.


YULETIDE GIFTS AT A. SAUNDERS.
OUR FREE CATALOGUE IS CRAMMED WITH OTHER SUGGESTIONS.
mam
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BRACELET, set Fine Opals,
£5/10/-
15ct Gold, £B/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set
Green Tourmalines or Rubies,
211.
A. SAUNDKRS.
loct Cold PIN
and STUD,
Pearls and
lluby or Sap-
A. SAUNDERS.
Isct Gold PENDANT
or BROOCH, set Fine
White Pearls and
Amethysts,
£4/4/.
With Tourmalines and
Peridot, £5/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Spray BROOCH, set Fine Pure White Double
cut Diamonds and Sapphires,
£lO/10/-
All Diamonds, £l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Sun-Burst BROOCH, set Fine White Pure
Double-cut Diamonds,
£65-
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Pendant, set
Pearls and Turquoise,
Rubies, or Amethysts,
ĥ
A. SAUNDERS
15ct Gold, set
Diamonds and
Ruby and Sap-
nMre,
21/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BRACELET, set
Diamonds and Rubies
or Turquoise Centre,
or Sapphires, with Opal
£2O-
- SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Crescent BROOCH, Pearl-
ettes, Red or Blue Stones,
25/-
15ct Gold, £2.
A. SAU.NmiRS.
9ct Gold 2-Bar Floral BROOCH, set
Red, Green Stones, or Turquoise,
S/ft.
A. SAUNDERS.
‘jet Gold LINKS,
20/
15ct Gold, .£2/10/.
Plain, with Initials En
graved, Same Pi ice.
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Gold Double
Sovereign PURSE,
£5/5/-
Plain if desired.
ħ
Oct. Gold Double
Albert, £2/15/,
£3, £3/10/,
£4/10/.
let. Gold, £5/15/ ;
£6/10/, £7/10/,
£B/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold ARTIST’S
PAU T
CHARM,
stone bci,,
A. SAUNDERS.
9c t Gold SIG
NET RING,
17/6-
15ct Gold, 35/.
18ct Gold, £4.
A. SAUNDERS.
18et Gold, set 5
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£5-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
pure double-cut
diamond,
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold. Dia-
mond and Pearl,
or Ruby, Sap-
phire, or Opal,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ft Gold, set 8
Diamonds and
Ruby, Sapphire,
or Black Opal,
£lO
rj
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set
Special Quality,
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£l7/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Dia-
monds, Rubies,
or Sapphires,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold PENDANT or
BROOCH, Combination, set
Fine Pure Double-cut
Diamonds, £2O-
- SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, 15
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£l5.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set 21
l’ure Double-cut
Diamonds,
£2O-
- SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, set.
Pure Double-cut
Diamonds, Ru-
bies, or Sap-
phires, £3/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18 ct Gold, 3-
stone RING, set
Five Pure Double
Cut Diamonds,
A. SAUNDERS.
18et Gold, Dia-
monds and Ruby
or Sapphire,
£lO-
- Centre,
£l2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold, Dia-
monds and Ru-
bies or Sapphires,
£l2/10/-
A. SAUNDERS.
18ct Gold 2-Heart
RING, set Pure
Double-cut Dia-
monds,
£l7/10/
h
A. SAUNDEBS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, set Pearls and
Tourmalines or Peridots,
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Gold Bird, Heart, and Spray
BROOCH,
5/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold BROOCH, set Pearls and
Coloured Stones,
10/6
9ct Gold
“Prince of
Wales” MUFF
CHAIN, a neat
Design.
£2/10/,
£3, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Ame-
thyst Pearl-set.
Heart CHARM,
10/6-
A. SAUNDERS,
loot Gold CROSS,
set Rose Diamonds and
Rubies, Sapphires or
Turquoise,
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold, Set Pearls,
Turquoise, red or blue
stones, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct. Gold Seal
PENDANT, Set Bloodstone
or Sardonyx
20/.
A. SAUNDERS,
loot Gold and Bar
Buckle BROOCH, set
pure white Pearls,
25/-
A. SAUNDERS.
9et Chased Double Bamboo BRACELET, strong Safetj'
Chain attached, £3-
WE PAY
POSTAGE
ON ALL
THESE
GOODS.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold LOC-
KET, Pure Dia-
mond,
£2/15/-
Ruby or Sap-
phire, £2/7/6.
ĥ
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold Boot
CHAKM,
5/C.
m
&
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold Fancy
Chain Padlock
Bracelet, £2-
Heavier, £2/10/,
Strong Safety
Chain attached.
These are beauti-
ful Gifts—Unsur-
passed for Quality
and Value.
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold Spray BROOCH, Pure White
Pearls, £3/5/-
Do write for our
Free Catalogue—
It’s well worth
seeing.
£4/4/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s 20 years guaranteed, lOct
Gold-filled Hunting (Keyless Waltham
WATCH, Chronometer Balance, Full
Jewelled, dust and water proof Cases,
an exact Timekeeper, giving the great-
est satisfaction, £4/4.
14ct Gold, £5/5/. Works kept in free
repair for three years.
£5/5/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold CHARM,
set Pearls and
Red or . Blue
Stones,
12/6.
ħ
A. SAUNDERS.
Gold PERFUME
CHARM, Gold
Knob Chain and
Metal Pin,
8/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid Gold EAR-
RINGS, set Pearls
and any colour
Stones, *
25/-
Extra Quality,
£
A. SAUNDERS.
9ct Gold En-
graved COLLAR
STUD,
5/C.
15ct. Gold. 8/6,. 10/.
£2/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Oct Go]d Bar BROOCH, any
name engraved, fj/6-
A. SAUNDERS.
15ct Gold BROOCH, Diamond and
Rubies or Sapphires,
£2/10/.
Three Diamonds, £3/10/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Solid 9ct Gold .WRISTLET WATCHES, with solid
Gold Buckle, set in Morocco Leather Straps in all the
newest shades; an accurate, reliable little timekeeper,
guaranteed a lifetime,
£3/10/.
15ct Gold, £5/10/. >
JEWELLER,'
UtfCHs ClOc/fj
sL"sm
SAUNTERS
a*- "SYDNEYS LEADING JEWELLERS
807.809.811.815.815.817- GEORGE ST. ( ODDOSIte Railway SlaHon) SYDNEY, NSW.
SILVERSMITH


WIER
V*
n
n\M®
LemonSm
REGDTCREDTBfIDE-rMfIU LEIIOS
1,500,000 lemons will
be used this year in
making the necessary
supply of Brooke’s
Lemon Squash for the
Australian market.
The care we exercise
in selecting these
lemons plays a promin-
ent part in making
Brooke’s Lemon Squash
a pure and wholesome
beverage.
Made from Lemons
only
WHY IS
BERKEL’S
Patent Bacon, B/ead and
Meat Slicing Machine the
only one worth buying?
Because it will not only do work that
no other machine will do, but will last
longer, and not waste your time,
money or goods.
A. WOODHEAD, Sole Agent,
50 Market Street, Melbourne.
or C. H. WOODHEAD,
Commercial Travellers’ Club, Sydney
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDS
&JSTARP
Bird’s
Custard with Sruit
The delicious Fruits ot New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
h
POLKEY MOTOR LAMPS
ALL BRITISH.
ACETYLENE and ELECTRIC.
Write for Catalogue.,
Supplied from stock.
SCHEELE 8 GIBBES, 2 Hunter Street, Sydney.
Tel. 864
City.
The FAMILY TINKER
Ju
PATCHING PLATE
Mends a Leak in a Minute without Solder
or Soldering Iron.
Any child can repair POTS, PACTS'
KETTLES and all TINWARE.
With full Directions, 6d.
The Union Mfg. Co.,
299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
“ fTIHE Australian thinks in Continents, because
he is tlie only man who has a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the on y
Magazine that caters for a Continent.
Every Farmer His Own
Thresherman.
m
'ltijilj
Without a “Staling” Threshing Outfit, you get your grain threshed when it suits
your local Thresherman.
With one of these handy Outfits you thresh when it suits uou.
Threshes up to 25 bushels wheat, or 50 bushels oats per hour.
“Gets to business” inside 30 seconds, saves all hauling of wood and water, and
does away with all fire risk.
Dispenses with the horde of men that have to be employed and fed while working
the steam outfits.
Enables you to market your grain whenever you see fit, and thereby realize the
best price of the season.
Costs you £205 cash—You’ve sometimes lest a larger sum through missing the
market by wailing for the Threshing Gang.
If you can’t spare the cash we will sell you a “Sterling” Outfit on such Easy
Terms that the money you would otherwise pay the Thresherman will cover your instal-
ment, and, at the completion of your payments, you will not only have the Outfit to
show for the money invested, but will have made a substantial sum, quite apart from
your Threshing Profits, by the use of the 6h.p. “1.H.C.” Engine for such jobs as chaff-
cutting, pumping, wood sawing, etc.
Owners of “Sterling ” Outfits often thresh enough for their neighbours to repay
their entire investment.
GET POSTED NOW—PAMPHLET FREE.
Cut this
Advertise-
ment out.
It will not
appear
again.
International Harvester Company of America
(Incorporated)
200 Roma Street, Brisbane. 37 Broadway, Sydney. 545 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
18-20 North Terrace, Adelaide. 75 York Street, Launceston.
GEO. WILLS & CO., Perth, General Agents for Western Australia.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, Hobart, General Agents for Southern Tasmania.
Send in your Application |
NOW. '
Absolutely FREE
VtPXON
c
(Drawn from Photo)
“ The
Champion
Senior
Phonograph
List Price,
£6/10/-.
A FREE PHONOGRAPH
FOR— YOU!
Owing to the enormously increased demand for our Records
as the result of our last Distribution of Free Phono-
graphs, we have decided to GIVE 3WHY a further
ONE THODSHNO PHONOGRMHS FREE.
You may choose the machine you prefer from onr various
styles, including our latest and best,
“ The Champion Senior,”
exactly as illustrated, which is listed at and Guaranteed
for 5 years.
How can we afford to give away these expensive
machines without charge ? The explanation is a
simple one. We hold and control enormous
stocks of Records. Now, we propose to give
you the Phonograph to create an increased demand for our Records. Do you see our reason Now ?
We will send one of our “ Champion Senior” Phonographs Free of any charge
whatever to any respectable and approved person applying if you agree to give a practical de-
monstration among your friends and comply with the conditions we send in response to
your application, in respect to the distributing of our Circulars and Price lyists, and
the use of our Records. &c. Full particulars of our method of Free Distribution sent
to each applicant. Write at once to
Anglo-Australian Importing Co.,
Opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY, New South Wales.
No. 2
CUT THIS OUT
and Mel to the
ANGLO-AUSTRALIAN
IMPORTING CO, SYDNE\
1 hereby make application to.
fuli particulars of ”Our FREL
PHONOGRAPH DIST-coUBUTION a*
advertised by your Company.
Name
.Street
Town
State


Loss of appetite
can be cured
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
which is not a medicine that
merely gives temporary re-
lief, Scott’s Emulsion per-
manently restores appetite.
Hundreds of people have
written to say that appetite
has been restored by Sc o t t-’s
Emulsion. For example,
Mrs. J. Mclntosh wrote, 3rd
May, 1909, from 52, Cowper
Street, Waverley, Sydney,
■N.S.W.:
“My daughter, aged two years, would
barely eat enough to keep her alive. She
became almost too weak to stand, and
ĥ
her vitality was so low that she
wanted to do nothing but
sleep. After taking Scott’s
Emulsion for two days, her
appetite came back quite sud-
denly, and she is now run-
ning about with a healthy
colour in her cheeks. This
trademark was on the emul-
sion I bought. ”
If you wish to get back ap-
petite and decide to buy
Scott’s Emulsion, decide
also to GET SCOTT’S
EMULSION. You may be
asked to buy another emul-
sion and told it is “just as
good as Scott’s.” Substitute
emulsions can only be sold
on the reputation of Sc ott ’ s
Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion cures the disease-
no matter the age of the patient—and
will be approved by your Doctor for
Lost Appetite if you ask him.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
HEALTH AND
HAPPINESS!
ħ
Electricity is a remedy provided by Nature.
If you are drugging arid dosing yourself
STOP! and give Nature a chance to cure you.
If you suffer from Nervousness, Debility,
Rheumatism, Lumbago, Sciatica, Indiges-
tion, Constipation, or any Chronic Ailment
or Weakness, ELECTRICITY, as applied by
Dp. McLaughlin's Electric Belt,
will cure you —if you are curable.
Free Book.
Write at once for our free
Book which tells all about
our Belt —how it cures and what it costs.
THE MeLAUGHLIN CO.,
12 Linden Court, Sydney.
The Tie
that
Swill not
'Crease
IRIS M
Real Poplin Ties;
Genuine
without'
thij
Tab.
IRI
REAL POPLIN
5//k&Woo/.
REC?
Obtainable All Mercers
YOUNG AUSTRALIA, and Boys and Girls’ own
■ Newspaper, invites the submission of STORIES
VERSE, suitable PARAGRAPHS and ILLUSTRA-
TIONS; Australian and General. “FARMER AND
SETTLER ” OFFICE, 435 Kent Street, Sydney;
Helping Nature
in Nature’s Way.
« All things which are done according to Nature
are to be accounted for good.”— Cicero.
Constipation, sluggish liver, biliousness, indigestion, depression,
feverishness, loss of appetite, headache; and _ kindred com-
plaints, whether in the robust man or the delicate child, can only
be overcome by the gentle means which are akin to Nature.
California Syrup of Figs fulfils
every requirement that can be
demanded .of a corrective
remedy, being not only perfectly
natural in its action, but prompt
and pleasant as well.
w
Of
California Syrup of
Figs cleanses the
system of all im-
purities, and leaves
the liver, stomach,
bowels and kid-
neys corrected,
strengthened, and permanently
benefited. The genuine Cali-
fornia Syrup of Figs is an
ethical product which has met
with the approval of the most
eminent physicians and given
universal satisfaction. It is
the first and best of family
laxatives, and may be given
with perfect confidence in
every case where the symp-
toms indicate a constipated
condition.
You must ask for*
CALIFORNIA
SYRUP of FIGS
“ Nature’s Pleasant Laxative.”
Of Chemists, in two sizes.
An Interesting
Experiment.
If. you would-like to see the alteration Grey
Hairs make, just lay a piece of paper over each of
the two halves of the above portrait. The Grey
“ half ” will then be seen to have the appearance
of 45 years of age, whereas the other half looks
only 30. Dr. B. Allen’s (U.S.A.) Mexican Walnut
Stain will make all those, of. difference if you
are grey or prematurely grey. It is perfectly
harmless, easy to apply, and will quickly restore
the hair to the natural shade of youth, or younger
years.
Dr. B. Allen’s (u.s.a.)
Mexican
Walnut Stain
is offered as a Superior Stain. It contains no lead,
mercury, silver, sulphur, etc., and is equally suit-
able for Ladies’ Hair, or Hair of the Beard or
Moustache. None genuine without the signature
of— Alfred Ardley (Registered in the Pateiits
Office of the Commonwealth).
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
“MAN TO MAN”
is the title of a Valuable BOOKLET explaining
the Causes and Cure of
NERVOUSNESS and ALLIED TROUBLES,
which embitter life, and cause premature decay.
A copy of this Booklet will be sent FREE
(sealed) to anyone interested.
London Specialities Agency,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
,\v\\Vv
ss
G
ARNET
e
ft-p
STREE
231
CLARENCE
sm.
SYDNEY
1\
milE LONE HAND offers you the Glad
X Hand. It’s the-Right Hand, and a week
.After publication there are none left. ,
FROOTOIDS
Cuj-e' Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-J
tio'n, and Biliousness. They are elegants
in appearance and pleasant to take ;*
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and interna) organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and chqking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion ■ of the Brain or
Apopleifyds present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved;
to afford quick relief in such cases when :
other aperients have not done any good:
at all. FrootoidA are absolutely un-j
rivalled for
FAMILY |
use; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache —a
bright cheery bense' of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being prqperly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDICINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
ora the, Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when!
suffering, take a 'dose of Frootoids in--
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
h
“ THE HEART OF THE AUTOMOBILE
Famous Schebler Carburetor
The best Vaporising Device for ALL PETROL
ENGlNES—either Land or Marine, Stationary
or Moving. If you want to get more HORSE- !
POWER from your Engine or a GREATER :
NUMBER OF MILES PER GALLON use
“THE SCHEBLER.” Booklet and all Infor- tj
mation Free. Correspondence Invited. ( -
ROBERT C. SWAN & CO. LTD.f
304 PITT STREET, SYDNEY l
(The Acetylene Burner House).
The Inky Way.
“ N.0.T.0.N. Lines ”: The uninitiated; reading “ O.N.
Lines’s ” recent remarks on the Sydney Inky Way and the
cheap reporter trouble, might think that Sydney press-
men are not well off compared with scribes in other
centres. If “O.N. Lines” is “onlines” he is at least paid
for whatever he can get past the sub. ; but if Tasmanian
scribblers were on the same footing the newspaper pro-
prietor would think seriously of putting up the shutters.
Onlines! Why, there are juniors in Tasmania—juniors
who take senior engagements too —existing on from £1
to 30s. a week. One daily paper has been known to
pay a so-called “ cadet ” 10s. When one of these wretched
youths asked for a rise some time ago, he received a
reply that drove him to the alternative of punching
tickets on the trams. One daily recently had three
reporters receiving less than 30s. per week. Senior men
are paid a living wage of a kind ; none the less, it is a
fact that a Parliamentary staff man on one paper
was so poorly paid that a rival sheet thought
to buy his services for £2 10s. a week. Fortu-
nately, shorthand pressmen who are well in with
the Parliamentary powers, make an occasional haul out
of Select Committee and Commission work—hard graft
and money well earned. But now, even that source of
revenue has been cut into ; for When a man puts in an
hour or two at a select committee meeting in the morn-
ing, for which a guinea sitting fee and the usual transcript
rates are paid, at least one paper firm collects half the
guinea. And after earning this for his employer, the
reporter takes his turn at the afternoon and evening
sessions of Parliament, and does the fair day’s work that
is invariably insisted on.
* * * *
The Australasian Traveller is a sarcastic drummer.
In.its October issue it published a half-page eulogy of
Tait, chief cigar of the Victorian railways, in.view of his
early retirement. . “The legacy he leaves behind him,”
says the Traveller, “is of inestimable value.” And
right across the page are a couple of graphic pictures of
part of the legacy—two derailed and wrecked trains, one
at Bochara and one about four miles on the Maryborough
side of Clunes. “Nothing more unmistakable, short of
entire demolition," it is explained, “ could be imagined.”
The illustrations are published as “ two powerful adver-
tisements for the U.C.T.A.A.’s accident insurance policy,"
but as an illuminated address of farewell to Tait nothing
could be half as powerful or more exasperating.
* * * • *
“Martin”: Re “M. L. Cressman’s ” remarks (B.
20/10/’10) anent freelance writers, I see he has mentioned
my story, “Übique, the Scientific Bushranger,” in con-
nection with the M.L. syndicate market. If he considers
the stony tracks of Sydney any easier for the freelance
writer to travel than those of M.L. and Tasmania, he had
belter forget it. Since perpetrating “ Übique” (a matter
of 12 months or so ago) I have earned about £2 journal-
istically. The irony of the position (in my case) is, that
a well-known Labor organ that skites about encouraging
and developing Australian industry is at present pur-
chasing articles from the English and American” syndi-
cates referred to by “ Pressman.” There is no excuse for
side-stepping local' talent; for, apart from my unworthy-
self, I could mention dozens of better writers than the
much-lauded Americans who (to me) seem to be able to
do nothing except the U.S. Civil War, or the orthodox
slang yarn, which is Greek to anyone unversed in the
fried-coon slang dictionary.
* * * *
“Riverina” : I have solved the problem of the editorial
“we”! Lately I went through several snippet publica-
tions, and it suddenly became clear to me. The word
means a pair of scissors.
**. * *
A tripe merchant who died in Manchester (Eng.) the
other day left a fortune of- close upon a million. There is
money in tripe. Still, none of the successful London
■ dramatists are quite so well off.
THE FRESH-BAKED DAILIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A newspaper for hungry people, which can be eaten
after being read, thus affording nourishment for the
body as well as the mind, is published in Paris, and is
called The Regal. It is printed with an ink guaranteed
non-poisonous, on thin sheets of dough.—News item.
Ev’ry morning in the tramcar, as my paper I peruse,
I keep asking in my whiskers, “Where the blazes is the
news ?
Ev’ry second cable-item in this weary' rag I read
In last evening’s penny Bloodstain ere I tottered off to
bed ! „
Then its politics are drivel and its humor is a sham ;
All the sporting information isn’t worth a tinker’s d —n !
Where’s the value of my penny in this lump of paste and
type?.
Absolutely'nothing in it but a lot of mouldy tripe?”
There’s a cupboard in our cottage full of daily papers
old;
Years ago they were an asset, for they could be saved
and sold;
But the refuse of the printer finds no ready market npw,
For the butcher cannot use it for concealing murdered
cow; ...
And the customer no longer likes to read upon the steak
That “staunch Liberals are paying this fair land must
soon awake
To the fact that Pitt and Hampden were inferior to
Wade.”
People will not eat these statements—of infection they’re
afraid.
Why in thunder can’t the D.T. and the Argus and the
N KWS
Print on dough instead of paper? We could make them
into stews
When we’d finished hunting through them for the facts
they don’t contain !
They might feed the reader’s waistcoat, if they cannot
feed his brain,
And give value for the penny that we fling them as we go
For the morning train or ferry in a pallid lump of dough.
We would not feel quite defrauded if, insteadof putting
by
One by one the Advertiser, we could with it make a pie !
In these whizzing days of hustle and these nights of
vicious haste
Ev’ry blessed soul is wmrking for the wiping out of waste;
Yet each day' the greedy sawmills of the forests take a
ffnlp,
And the logs go pouring pressvvard as a cataract of pulp ;
Frothy novels, dreary dailies from the bookstall stare at
me,
Ev’ry page of them a fragment of some noble murdered
tree!
See.that pile of doubtful grammar and that ghastly pile
of words ?
Half a year ago it flourished as a home of singing-birds !
Is it seemlv, think you, reader, that an ancient, useful
tree
Should be turned into a Herald or an Age or a D.T. ?
NO! (Let’s shout it all together in one frantic chorus !)
NO.' ! !
Friends, the time is ripe for printing these excrescences
on dough !
Let us keep our primal forests, for they bring the useful
• rain - - •
And extract our morning daily from the yearly crop of
grain !
It will help to save the country, and to all ’twill be a
, boon
From the Premier to the dosser in his printed dough
cocoon.
Nevermore need I go hungry when, for fear of being'late,
I desert the breakfast table and my bacon-laden plate ;
At the bookstall 1 will get a Daily Blither, from the boy
With a little pat of butter or a steaming saveloy ;
Then upon it gaily browsing to my waiting toil I’ll go
Mumbling, “Yes, it’s worth the money now they’re
printing it on dough ! ”
Can’t you hear the runners shouting “Fresh-baked
’Erald ! ” “’Ot D.T.! ” ?
Brothers, let us eat our dailies ! Spare the Brain and
save the Tree !
N.S.W.
HORATIO BREATHLESS


BCSIIC G (Loifdon* X Pianos
TO INTENDING PIANO BUYERS.
Having discovered a piano with the essential qualifications of pure tone and durability
of construction, and with the added advantage of a practical scientific tuning system, you
naturally begin to consider the question of the appearance of the instrument.
You want one that gives some outside indication of its value. There are plenty of
showy pianos to be had, but in our whole range of twenty-four designs we have nothing of
the kind. We have aimed at a high standard of excellence in case designing, and our
models are absolutely correct in detail, whatever the style, whether Renaissance, Rococo,
Empire, or other period. The Beale pianos are art productions as well as first-class
musical instruments. They were awarded a Gold Medal at the Franco-British
Exhibition by the first furniture experts of Europe for the excellence of the cabinet-work,
and the high quality of workmanship which it showed. A Gold Medal was also
awarded for the factory organisation under which such work was produced. With the
exceptional distinction of the Grand Prix (for tonal qualities), and the next highest award,
Diploma of Honor (for patent frame and tuning system), these coveted prizes are a
greater number of awards than were ever made to one piano manufacturer at any exhibition.
BEALE C a CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
378 George Street, Sydney
(3 Doors from
G.P.0.)
107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 Q1166n Street, Brisbane (next G. P.O. —our Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Rundle Street, Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Qoulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Mackay and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. Write for Catalogue, or for Representative to call.
Head Offices & Factories : Trafalgar Street, Annanda/e, Sydney.
Cash or Easy Terms. 25 Years' Guarantee. Repairs and Tuning.
Old Pianos Allowed For. Direct from Factory to Family.
Save Importers' Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


iiiiill
S 3
m
91
■■
k
*
i
SI
||j
9
m
I
i
m
/
i s% :
w
.
■
V
51
v': ,:■'
m
■
PORTS
OFFICES
AGENTS
ALL


Amusements.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING at 7.45,
Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON presents
the royal comic opera company
The Musical Success of our Generation,
OUR MISS GIBBS.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
T heatre royal, Sydney.
Lessee & Manager .. J. C. WILLIAMSON, Ltd.
„ EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents
Katherine grey,
Supported by WILLIAM DESMOND and a Brilliant
Company of Dramatic Artists, in the Play that swept
America, from New York to San Francisco,
SALVATION NELL.
PLAN AT PALING’S.
DALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee .. ALLAN HAMILTON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS of THE SPIDER AND THE FLY.
NEXT SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 12,
ALLAN HAMILTON and MAX MAXWELL'S
DRAMATIC COMPANY
in the Grand Spectacular Military Drama,
REVENGE.
Presented by Arrangement with Bland Holt, Esq.
Prices—3s., 25.. Is. Box Plan at Elvy’s.
{CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
w Lessee .. FRANK MUSGROVE.
RUPERT CLARKE and CLYDE MEYNELL SEASON.
LAST NIGHTS of MR. PREEDY AND THE COUNTESS.
On SATURDAY NEXT', Rupert Clarke and Clyde
.Meynell, by special request, introduce for 12 Nights and
two Wednesday Matinees only, GEORGE WILLOUGHBY
and his ENGLISH FARCICAL COMEDY CO.
(including Mr. David Janies and Miss Mab Paul), in
What HAPPENED to JONES
with GEORGE WILLOUGHBY as JONES.
This Funniest of Farce Makers will be preceded at each
performance by “ THE GREY PARROT.” Box Plan at
Elvy’s. Day Sale White Rose. PRICES AS USUAL.
THE NEW OLYMPIA THEATRE, SYDNEY,
■ Located Corner of Elizabeth St. & Wentworth Avenue.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
WILLIAM ANDERSON
Presents THE GREAT PICTORIAL REPRESENTATION
OF THE FAMOUS PLAY,
THE SQUATTER’S DAUGHTER,
The Film taken by Messrs. Johnson & Gibson.
Popular Prices—ls. 6d., Is. and 6d. Plan at Elvy’s.
THE GLACIARIUM, SYDNEY.
■ Opposite Railway Station—Where all Id. trams stop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER!
Wli ST’S PIC TUII E S,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. :T. J. West.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
T
M
E.
LYCEUM
EYENINO AT 8
EVERY
Matinees-Wednesdays. Saturdays and Holidays at 2 30
©
SVPCfiiIOR ro /fLL OTffEfZS,
Popular Prices —t. Pi,api at Palings.
TIVOLI THEATRE, SYDNEY.
■ Sole Proprietor & Manager —Mr. Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
BARNOLD’S ANIMAL ACTORS, consisting' of 13 Dogs,
8 Monkeys and 1 Cnt, headed by the Canine Wonder,
DAN, THE DRUNKEN DOG.
CARL HOWARD and LILY FOY, Comedy Artists.
THE DANCING GILBERTS, Premier Dance Duettists.
BROWN and ROBINSON, Specialty Artists.
WOODS (Leslie) and FRASER (Hilda). Sketch Artists.
And a GREAT COMPANY of Established Favorites. •
PRICES—3s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
APERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
THE QUEALYS, Musical Sketch Artists.
BARNES and WEST, Fashion Plates of Vaudeville.
MDME. LYDIA-YEAMANS-TITUS, Mimic Impersonator
Vocaliste.
FREDERICK J. TITUS, Composer and Accompanist.
LES MARBAS, Humorists and Acrobatic Dancers.
Plan at Allan's. PRICES—3s., 25., Is.
THE KING’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ Sole Lessee and Manager —William Andhrson.
EVERY EVENING.
AUSTRALIA’S TWO FAVORITE ARTISTS.
RETURN OF THE EVER POPULAR FAVORITES,
MAGGIE MOORE and H. R. ROBERTS
in
THE SHADOWS of A GREAT CITY
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is.
|_|ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
■ ■ Lessee and Manager :J. 0. Williamson, Ltd.
EVERY EVENING.
Mr. J. 0. WILLIAMSON presents his NEW LONDON
COMPANY in the Greatest of Drury Lane Dramas, in
THE WHIP.
A SERIES OF SENSATIONAL SCENES,
SUPERLATIVE SPECTACULAR EFFECTS.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss., 35., 25., Is.
■pHEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE!
A POPULAR REVIVAL.
CLARKE & MEYNELL’S NEW ENGLISH
COMIC OPERA CO. in
TPlti ARCADIANS.
FIRST APPEARANCE OF THE CONTINENTAL
DANCER, CHISTIE MULNIAH.
Plans at Allan’s. t*r- PRICKS AS USUAL.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
THE JOYBELL OF GLADNESS.
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON’S NEYV COMIC OPERA CO.
A KNIGHT mil A DAY.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN AUSTRALIA.
MISS TOBY CLAUDE as TILLY DAY.
MR. BERT GILBERT as JEREMY JOY.
Prices as usual. Plan at Allan’s.
yy E ST’S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
THE BEST
OF ALL.
WEST’S PICTURES,
LIMITED.
THE BEST
OF ALL.
Managing Director: Mr. T. J. West. .
, NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
Tue Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT JN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving Picture Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box Plan at Glen’s.
BY PURCHASING The Lone Hand each
month you encourage Australian Art and
Literature. It costs Sixpence.
Amusements.
A
RCADIA,” ST. HILDA ESPLANADE.
EVERY evening; AT 8 30.
mmm
Reserved Seats, 1/6 (Booking' 6d. extra) ; Admission 1/-
and 6d. Cliildren Half-Price. Plans and Day Sales at
Glen’s, Ronald’s Central, and Haber’s, St. Kilda. Seats
may also be reserved bv ’phone, Windsor 105. COM-
PLETE CHANGE OF PROGRAMME EVERY MONDAY.
The glaciarium, Melbourne.
EVER'Y EVENING AT S.
ĥ
ALL THE LATEST PICTURES from Europe & America.
A COMPLETE CHANGE WEEKLY. Prices—2/-, 1/6,
1/-, 6d. Matinees —Wednesday, Saturday, All Holidays.
J. & N. TAIT’S
Q PEN-AIR THEATRE, ST. KILDA.
EVERY EVENING AT 8,30.
THE POLLI E S
NEW COSTUME COMEDY CO.
PRICES—I/6, 1/-, 6d.
Wl RTHS OLYMPIA.
EVERY EYENING AT 8
M ATINEES-V/EDNtSDAYS, SATURDAYS AND HOLIDAYS AT 2 30.
CPENCERSIHEATRESCOPE<?.
J PICTURES
■w HRE SUPERIOR TO PLL OTHERS.
Popular Prices —Plan as Usual-k
Amusements
PICTURES,
St. George’s Hall, Melbourne
(Next Theatre Royal).
THE PICK OF
THE PICTURES.
FLICKERLESS AND FLAWLESS.
PROJECTED BY THE BEST APPARATUS
IN MELBOURNE.
THE PICKED PICTURES ARE PROJECTED ONLY
AT HOYT’S,
ST. GEORGE’S HALL, MELBOURNE
(NEXT TO THEATRE ROYAL).
PRICES .-—SIXPENCE, ONE SHILLING,
EIGHTEENPENCE and TWO SHILLINGS.
WIRTH BROS.’
GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH.
EVERY EVENING, AT 8 p.m.
HUGE CITY OF NEW, SNOW-WHITE
WATERPROOF TENTS.
WIRTHS’ PARK, MELBOURNE.
AN AVALANCHE of INCOMPARABLE NOVELTIES,
inoludinsr LIZZIE, LIZZIE,
THE ONLY LIVE HIPPO IN AUSTRALASIA.
Matinees —Wednesdays, Saturdays, and all Holidays.
rjIHE BEST STORIES written in Australia
I appear in The Lone Hand each month.
Price sixpence.
I
I
A Gift “He” will
Appreciate
An L. & Co. Gold Mounted Pipe or a S.M. Barling. Made
from the finest selected French Briar Root—briar that
won’t crack or burn, and finished in the highest grade—
no more appropriate gift for a gentleman could be
imagined.
My stock is thoroughly complete with all the old and new
shapes.
L. & Co.’s G.M. Pipes (as illustrated), 14/-; in handsome
case, 18/6. Bent stem, 16/6; in handsome case, 21/-
Barling’s S.M. Pipes (as illustrated), solid block amber
mouthpieces, 21/- ; and in handsome cases, 22/6.
Postage 3d. extra.
ANDREW McGEE
Sydney’s Leading
Tobacconist,
5 and 7 CASTLEREAGH ST., corner Hunter St., SYDNEY.
FOR PERFECT HEALTH EVERYONE NEEDS
GOLCRYST
u. ~
% v :
, v. - v
' ( C A. '•'-
/• ’ (
J^O, v .
/3.~-^c*#'
:
GOLCBYST,
A. Health s(klt for '
Rheumatism and all
Blood Disorders,
consists Of Epsom
Salts, Senna, Sarsa-
parilla, Dandelion,
Liquorice & Gingqr,'
y/
V *'
v/
S old Everywhere, i
3d., Gd. ®. 1/- PacKets
Proprietors : Rockc, Tompsllt A Co.j
m
1
/Wt
“THE ‘GOLCRYST’ GIRL.”
AGENTS (Wholesale Only)-
QUEENSLAND: TAYLOR &COLLEDQE
S. AUSTRALIA: “ BIRKS=CHEMISTS.”
NEW SOUTH WALES: ELLIOTT BROS. LTD.
W AUSTRALIA: NEALE, CONSTABLE & CO.
TASMANIA : L. J. ABRA, Launceston; R. H. OVERELL, Hobart.
ħ
QIVEN AWAY,
To Advertise
our
OSTRICH
TIPS.
2/6
the Bunch
post free.
Three Black Tips,
or Black Tipped
with White.
Write to-day. Send
Postal Notes.
Catalogues Free.
Miller’s Fea.tb.er Sbop,
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourke and Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention The Bulletin.] [6
Early Spring;
Suiting's.
WE have made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest Deductions in the
newest patterns, rest rv 'd exclusively to us,
and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in. Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer’s).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
A good example is set
by those who use
Calvert’s
Carbolic Tooth Powder
Evidently they understand the
hygienic importance of brushing
their teeth regularly.
Obviously, too, they are well
satisfied with the result of using
this pleasant antiseptic dentifrice.
Of Chemists and Stores throughout Australasia.
Makers :■ F. C. Calvert & Co., Manchester, Eng.
*' AWL-YOU-WANT."
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sew*
2s • Posted.
(Awl, 2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
h
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
f Its immense value in repairs to Boots
'and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
[is the ** Awl-you-want.” Thread from the
reel (which maybe kept in ones pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sev'ing Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Need es are interchangeable, extra ones can always be obtain-
ed. Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—1 bent, 1 straight—1 reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post tree. Extras: Cotton,
5d., post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d. t
post free; 2 for jd., set of 8 for 2s. Send postal note to
STAR NOVELTY CO , 229 Collins Street. Melbourne.
*
* w *
%
■wi/iri
fy fs
fllarvel Leather Stitcher
Complete 1/6,
CARRIAGE
PAID.
Anyone can sole boots,
mend harness, sew leather,
rubber, canvas, &c., equal
to the best tradesmen.
ĥ
FtfiL DIRECTIONS WITH EACH OUTFIT.
ONION MFG. CO. 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
THIS FREE BOOK TELLS HOW
ħ
CAN BE CURED,
even after the attacks have lasted for years.
Dr. Niblett’s Remedy Cures
the Disease Permanently,
It is the result of the most exhaustive research
by a London physician, who for 35 years made
epilepsy his special study.
CONFIDENCE may be placed in this remedy,
which for nearly 40 years has been used with the
greatest success. Letters of rt commendation from
Doctors, Clergymen and other persons of the
highest standing.
THE ONE REMEDY THAT CURES.
FREE.—Send for very interesting booklet, giving
particulars of cures, etc., post free. Rocke,
Tompsitt & Co., 292 to 298 Flinders St.., Melbourne.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
(la-te Lund’s Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
... uu jrij inour.n.
LONDON £lfi r .
CAPETOWN and NAtXl &]° S £31 10g .
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by this Steamer.
ROUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £1«6 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS
SPECIAL ROUND TICKETS for return by P.O. Com-
pany s Mail Steamers, First-class both ways, £111 2s •
Second-class, Mail Steamer, £84 6s. ’
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St
MBLBO'JRNg Agknts: JOHN SANDERSON & CO
111 William-street. ’
Arm,aids & Frkmanti.k Aoknts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
AUSTRALIA ENGLAN D.
12,130 Regd. Tons.’-
12,129
12,124
12,077
12,036
9,023
8,282
6,814
ORVIETO .. Twin-Screw
OSTERLEY
OTRANTO..
OTWAY .
ORSOVA ..”
ORONTES..
omrah .. ,’
OPHIR .. „ ”
loTinn "'o, h Wire >ess Telegraphy. New and luxurious
hpdsuindo « ea,Tl f r8 V> Ca bmes-de-'uxe ; State-rooms, with
Be “ h . R ° Private Bathrooms;
Llectiic Lifts and Laundries.
fortni f- rht from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of north Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. £700 000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J p. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp k On., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. R. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND ' and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
Bank of fjeui /ealand.
SYDNEV BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING. GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £864,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, Jiew Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixer! nerinris nnH
transacts all other usual Rankinir busine c s.
Trtic
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL -
SUBSCRIBED
PAID-UP . .
£2,000,000
£1,042.960
£958,172
HEAP OFFICE—George and King Streets, Sydney.
LON* ON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRI JTORS—PuiLir H. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Ciias.
H. Myles, Esq. ; Sir William P. Manning, Kt. ; Hon.
Sir Francis B. Suttor, Kt., M.L.C. ; Rowland H.
Ducker, Esq. ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian C minion wealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The ...
Queensland National Bank,
Limited
Incorporated under the Companies Act 1863.
Bankers to the Government of Queensland, under
agreement extending to June 30, 1921.
Subscribed Capital £800,000 p 0
Capital Paid Up 413,368 18 10
Reserve (in Gov. Stock) 89,000 0 0
Interminable Inscribed Deposit Stock . 3,09l’,669 4 5
. -.UNDER GOVERNMENT AUDIT.
All New Business since 1893 Specially Protected.
Directors: J AS. MILNE, Esq., Chairman; JAMES
MUNRO. Esq. ; Hon. A. J. CALLAN, Esq., M.L.C •
JOHN CAMERON, Esq. ; F. LORD. E-q.
General Manager —W. V. RALSTON.
Branches—London, Sydney & throughout Queensland.
Agents throughout Australasia, Scotland, Ireland,
America, Canada, South Africa, China, the East.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up v .. £513,632 0 0
Reserve Liability,of Shareholders .. .. 162,449 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 74,500 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
£750,581 0 0
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. Asst. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C. ’
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Colonial fflutual Qife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds. £3,000,000.
Policies Issued 116.154 —Assuring £33.888.510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitably distributed.
Chief Office for New South Walks :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
Ttie Hor,. C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., AI.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
Shipping;.
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
Nord D
eutscher
'loyd.
FARES TO LONDON.
SINGLE .. 1., £66 11., £3B 10s. 111., £l5 to £l7
RETURN.. 1., 99 II.; 57 15s. 111., 27 td 30125.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
tv Fitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Arriving in London in irood time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
T HE TRUSTEES, executors
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 CollinS'St., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £9O 000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £37,500 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Ohairnmn •
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt \ J. 11.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Cracken.
JAMES BORROWAi AN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
TH€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban. Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
t New Steamer. * Twin Screw, a One class only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. „ From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Oape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Branch Service.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line —£112 (First-class each way); £B5
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
h
Twin-screw Steamers.
SUEVIC, 12.500 tons, to sail about
November 23.
rERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
December 21.
'RUNIC, MEDIC and AFRIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Signalling' Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to *24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
New fork, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 24 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
mHE BULLETIN POST CARDS-New
± Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
ĥ
HOLIDAY CRUISES <
to Papua and the Pacific islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Dec. 16, Jan. 27 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Dec. 2, Jan. 13 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PH/LP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT.— INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.— CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
Pull particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
BANK OF
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability of
Proprietors - ,
DIRECTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES.
Established 1817.
i ’
£2,726,880
£1,806,720
£2,726,880
£7,260,480
The Hon. O. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sir Normand MacLaurin, Kt., M.L.C
Senator The Hon. James Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald Janies Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
. A,,d,tors '■ Shepheard Edgeeliff Laidlei-, Esq. ; Alfred George Milson, Esq
« M e o^„ of^Ce_G^rse St ’ Sydney. London Office-64 Old Broad St., EC
V\ 3 / Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua (New South Wales 159 Victoria 37
Queensland 4b, S >uth Australia 5, West Australia 10, New Zealand 54, Fiji 3, Papua 2, London 1) and
Agents and Correspondents throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China Janan and
the East, Africa, Canada, the.. United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies ’ ' ’
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bill’s negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
_ _ J* RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
FURS, CURIOS,
The Largest Store in Aus-
tralasia. Established 1860.
TOST & ROHU,
Taxidermists, Furriers,
Tanners and Island
Curij Dealers,
10, 12 & 14 MOORE ST.,
Opp. C.P.0., SYDNEY
Central 2196.
And 605 GEORCE ST.,
SYDNEY. City 2374.
ħ
iShells & Opals
Large Showrooms and Museum, containing' thousands
of Australian Souvenirs. Inspection invited.
Returning Boomerangs from 1/6 each. Carved Emu
Eggs, 4/6 each. Native Grass Dresses, 4/6. Bow and
Six Arrows, 2/6 the set. Spears, Clubs, Idols, Kava and
Food Bowls, Shields, Masks, Stone Axes, Bark Beits
Tappa and Matting. Pet Snakes, 20/- Snake Skin Ties
a " d a . tch Guards * 2/-each ; Snake Skin Belts and Braces,
7/6 Slippers, 12/6 ; Boots, £l/2/6 per pair. Skins made
up into Ladies’ Furs, Mats, Rugs and Foot Warmers.
Stuffed Birds and Animals in Large Variety.
All Purchases Packed Free axd Labelled.
Collections of Genuine Curios from £3.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
lousiness Announcements.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn. in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood. Esq. ; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.) ;’Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L.A.; E. Owen Cox (Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia: JOHN COODWYN, A.I.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St.. SYDNEY.
DRUNKENNESS CURED.
It is now generally admitted that Drunkenness is
not a. vice, but a disease—happily one that is curable.
DR. SHAW’S ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered by the
uoyts. Vic. and N.S.W.) is acertain cure—is harmless
and can be given secretly or taken voluntarily.
Advice Free. Write or Call. ' ,
DR. SHAW’S ESTABLISHMENTS : 51 Russell Street
Melbourne; 1161 Hay Street, Perth,W. A. [1
Millars’ Karri 8 Jarrah
Co. (1902), Ltd.
We Supply—
JARRAH Piles, Beams, Sleepers,
Paving Blocks, Builders’ Scant=
ling, Seasoned Flooring and
Weatherboards, Etc.
72 BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN
LONDON, E.O.
LORD STREET, PERTH, W.A.
QUEEN’S BRIDGE, MELBOURNE, VIC.
6SJ PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches in all parts of the world.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Queensland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhipping- at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON <W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, Nov. 12
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
ini' 1 with Kootnbana,
leavin<r Fremantle Nov.
26 for North-West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Grantala, Nov. 19.
S.S. Yong:ala, Nov. 26.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
saloon Passage Tjckets are interchangeable after the
first Port of call with other inter-Sbate Companies on al
services subject to conditions, *vhich can be ascertained
on application at the Company 's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Agents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
t Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Laundry on board.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
-Managing Agents, 259 Oeorge-street, Sydney.
F.— H.
F ederal -1* oulder-Shire Lines.
thr London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “AYRSHIRE.”
Hr?i°i° T ” ns ’ ~ , W. OIIICKKN, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE about 15th Nov.
•> •> .. SYDNEY „ 22nd Nov!
>• >• .. MELBOURNE,. 29th Nov.
>• » .. ADELAIDE „ 6th Dec.
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
,- al £ j hips ,’ Wlth . dinin «' foom on the upper deck,
'd'u and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Hurd-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
T ~ Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and
LIVERPOOL.. ( £49 10s - £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO.. Ltd., Sydney;
B. I. and Q. A. Co., Ltd., Brisbane :
H. JONES & CO.. Ltd., Hobart;
& Co “ Ltd ” Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH &> Co., Ltd., Adelaide.
Hotels, &c.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
QEORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
AN Australian’s Two Hands—THE LONE
HAND and THE BULLETIN. You can’t
do without either, and they both cost the same.
CARBIDE.
For First*class Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing’it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pin
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.


THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
MORRIS S I
hree Witches
b cipAßtrrea
w/i
for
Hade
London
HIGHEST GRATIS.
6s per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
I¥/hen Mosquitoes annoy you j
remember how useful, either for pre- <
venting the attack of these and other *
insects, or antiseptically cleansing their j
bites, so many people have found |
Calvert’s j
20 % Carbolic Soap. j
It is also pleasant and refreshing for |
bath or toilet, and a good safeguard <
against infectious diseases. <
Sold by all Chemists and Stores. j
Made by F.C. Calvert & Co., Manchester,Eng.j
Pi
\®a
G
Borated Goldenseal
Compound
r A cafe and simple remedy for
Bronchitis, Cafarrh, Hay Fever
Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of tho nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organa.
AT CHEMISTS
Why not cure yourself
, Treatise wlth jachbottle
or mailed on request,
, The Evans Chemical Co.
Cmrinnati, Ohio,
U.S. A.
The Elite
Eau deColoane
■Karlsruhe
Baden
Triumph of
Modern Science
IMPORTANT SUBDIVISIONS SALE
OF THE WELL-KNOWN
WOLAROI ESTATE,
Orange District, N.S.W.
Magnificent Orchard, Vineyard, Dairying and Market Garden Lands, within two miles of
Orange Railway Station, accessible by good roads.
Adjoining East Orange, and in close proximity to Well wood, Suma Park and Rosehill Estates.
TITLE TORRENS. NO SURVEY FEES.
Almost the last opportunity for acquiring rich agricultural land close to the thriving town of Orange,
the Metropolis of the West.
1553 ACRES, Subdivided into 29 Blocks.
AREAS 23 to 119 ACRES. Highly Improved, Nearly All Cleared.
FOR AUCTION SALE AT THE FORESTERS’ HALL, ORANGE,
Thursday November 24, 1910, at 2 p.m.
The soil is a rich volcanic and black loam, capable of intense cultivation, yielding a high return
to the farmer. The town of Orange furnishes a permanent market for all produce grown in the
vicinity, while as an important Railway Junction it commands the towns east and west, and also
the branch lines to Condobolin and Forbes.
Average rainfall 40 inches annually, ensuring certain crops.
The climate is regarded as the most perfect in Australia, the elevation above sea level being
3000 feet.
MAin road to Iceley runs through the centre of the property, and some of the blocks are
approached from the Bathurst Road.
Permanent water in the Summer Hill Creek running through the subdivision, and otherwise
permanently watered.
The proper ty is offered by the Vendors (The Orange Freehold Land Company, Ltd., Registered
Office, 35 Paling's Buildings, Ash Street, Sydney).
TERMS :10 per cent, deposit; no further payment for 12 months. Balance in six equal annual
payments, with interest at per cent, per annum.
The Auctioneers strongly recommend the subdivision to the attention of those desirous of
securing a small, rich, agricultural property in a progressive and reliable district, and with an
assured market close at hand. Inspection particularly invited. Wolaroi affords an almost last
opportunity of acquiring a farming property near to Orange.
Solicitors : McLACHLAN & MURRAY, Sydney and Orange.
PLANS and ALL PARTICULARS FROM THE AUCTIONEERS,
J. S. LEEDS & CO., Orange.
ABRIDGED PROSPECTUS
OF THE
Bodaivgora Gold Mines
NO LIABILITY.
To be Registered under the Companies Act, 1899-1900.
Capital: £25,000, in 25,000 SHARES OF £1 EACH.
12,500 Shares fully paid up are to be issued to the Vendors as part payment for
their interest in the property.
12,500 Shares are available for issue, payable Two Shillings and Sixpence on
Application, Two Shillings and Sixpence on Allotment, and the balance
in calls as and when required, but not exceeding Two Shillings per
share per month.
(The whole of these Shares have been underwritten before the issue of this Prospectus.)
Directors (not more than FIVE or less than THREE):
Provisional: A. E. SAVAGE, Esq.; O. H. KERRY, Esq.;
H. MONTGOMERIE HAMILTON, Esq. ; and E. 11. ALCOCK, E q.
Bankers: BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES at SYDNEY and WELLINGTON.
Solicitors: A. j. TAYLOR and GREENWELL, Citizens’ Chambers, Moore Street, Sydney.
Consulting Engineers: SAVAGE & ASHCROFT, Castlereagh House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Brokers: <T. E. DUCKER, 135 Pitt Street, Sydney; R. CRAN, Yaralla Chambeis,
Pitt Street, Sydney ; W. SOUTAR, Post Office Chambers, Pitt Street, Sydney.
Seerctarit and Office: R. D. HARTWELL, Castlereagh House, Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The Company is being formed to acquire a gold-mining property containing about 154 acres,
known as the “Dick’s Reef,’’ at Bodangora, near Wellington, N.S.W., together with a 20-head
battery already erected in a situation convenient to the mine.
The Dick’s Reef mine has been worked down to the 500 ft, level, but was closed down owing to
the death of the late owner. After being idle for some considerable time the present owners acquired
the property, had the mine unwatered, sampled and reported upon by Messrs. Savage and Ashcroft,
whose report and assay plan are printed in the prospectus.
These reports show that 6000 tons of payable stone have been left standing above the 500 ft. level,
while the reef is exposed on the bottom levels for 1060 ft. in length, the whole of which is of payable
size and value, while there is every indication that payable stone will extend beyond these measure-
ments.
Taking into consideration the great depth and extent of the adjoining Mitchell's Creek Mine,
there is every prospect of the Dick’s Reef property being profitably worked for a long time to come.
Copies of the prospectus, giving further particulars, may be obtained from the Brokers, or from
the Secretary.
\Xm\QUS WRITING
and isn’t it a treat ?
Whether one writes much or little, it’s a delight to enjoy the ease of a
pen that suits. The
Balh'Pointed Pens
Glide smoothly—Don’t spurt or stick—Write in any position.
Ask for a 6d. Sample Box of “BALL-POINTED” Pens, pick the one that suits
you best, and then get a supply. This will ensure you real luxury in writing. n
ICAPTLLARINF THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
\
WILL GROW YOU A MOUSTACHE !
It’s simply wonderful the way “CAPILLARINE ” Will force the
finest, softest down on the upper lip into a luxurious, flowing
moustache. No one cm notice it’s been used, and it only wants
. applying at night before you retire. Has been on the market for
30 years, and proved its value to thousands.
Prices 10/6 a Jar
to any address in the World,
in Plain Package.
Craig & Ait ken, 654 George St., Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
s
r
A
Macmillan’s
NEW BOOKS
Dr. Sven Hedin s
New Book
OVERLAND TO INDIA. A popular
narrative of a journey from Trebizond to
Quetta. By Dr. Sven Hbdin, author of
Trans-Himalaya: Discoveries and Ad-
ventures in Tibet. With Maps and
about 300 Illustrations. 2 vols. Bvo.
30s. net.
THE BROAD STONE OF EMPIRE.
An Account of Crown Colony Administra-
tion in the Tropics. With Records of
Personal Experience. By Sir Charles
Bruce, G.C.M.G. With Maps. 2 vols.
Bvo. 30s. net.
GREEN WILLOW AND OTHER
JAPANESE FAIRY TALES. By
Grace James. With 40 Illustrations in
Color by Warwick Goble. Crown 4to.
15s. net. Edition de Luxe. Demy 4to.
425. net.
IN LOTUS-LAND JAPAN. By Her-
isert G. Ponting, F.R.G.S. With 8
Illustrations in Color and 96 in Mono-
chrome from Photographs by the Author.
Crown 4to. 2is. net.
CHRONICLES OF PHARMACY. By
A. C. Wootton. Illustrated. 2 vols.
Bvo. 2is. net.
MELANESIANS & POLYNESIANS :
Their Life=Histories Described and
Compared. By George Brown, D.D.
With Illustrations. Svo. 12s. net.
THE CONFLICT OF COLOR. By B.
L. Putnam Weale. Svo. 10s. net.
111 this volume Mr. Putnam Weale, already
well known as an authority on all Far
Eastern questions, discusses the relation
between the white and the colored races at
the chief points of contact on the face of the
globe.
Record Edition of Volume VII Just Published.
Volume VIII Shortly.
A NEW SYSTEM OF MEDICINE,
by Many Writers.
.1 Second Edition, edited by SIR CLIFFORD
A LLIiUTT, K.C.8., and HUMPHRY DAVY
ROLLESTON, M.A., M.D.
Vol. VII, Second Edition.— Diseases of
the Muscles, the Trophoneuroses,
Diseases of the Nerves, Vertebral
Column and Spinal Cord. 255. net.
Vol. VIII, Second Edition. — Diseases of
the Brain. Mental Diseases. 255.
net (shortly).
LATEST ADDITIONS TO
MACMILLAN’S
Colonial LIBRARY.
Issued in Paper Covers 8 in Cloth Boards.
RUDYARD KIPLING’S
NEW BOOK-
-577 REWARDS AND FAIRIES. With
Illustrations by Frank Craig.
DR. SVEN HEDIN—
-560 and 561 TRANS=HIMALAYA :
Discoveries and Adventures in
Tibet. By Sven Hedin. With Map
and Illustrations. 2 vols.
SSO REST HARROW. A Comedy of
Resolution. By Maurice Hewlett.
A sequel to “ Open Country, ” which con-
tinues the history of Sanchia Percival and
John Senhouse.
583 THE DEVIL AND THE DEEP
SEA. By Rhoda Broughton.
581 TALES OF MEN and OTHERS.
By Edith Wharton.
582 THE HUMAN CHORD. By
Algernon Blackwood.
579 HEARTS AND CORONETS. By
Alice Wilson Fox.
578 A SNAIL’S WOOING. The Story
•of An Alpine Courtship. By E. M.
Sneyd-Kynnersley, Author of //. M. /.
586 ALONGSHORE: Where Man and
the Sea are Face to Face. By
Stephen Reynolds, With Illustrations.
584 THE LITTLE KING. By Charles
Major, Author of When Knighthood
was in Ploiver.
585 PRINCESS FLOWER HAT. By
Mabel Osgood Wright, Author of
Poppea of the Post Office.
573 A GENTLEMAN OF VIRGINIA,.
By Percy James Brebner, Author of
Princess Maritza.
576 NATHAN BURKE. By Mary S.
Watts, Author of The Tenants , etc.
574 A LIFE FOR A LIFE. By Robert
Herrick, Author of Together.
Macmillan 8 Co. L*
LONDON and MELBOURNE.


h
PIKE BROTHERS, LIMITED,
AUSTRALASIAN EMPORIUM FOR MEN’S WEAR.
25>6e . . .
Wonderful
“PRIMAS FLASK.”
Pint Size, 10/6, Larger Size, 16/6.
A vast improvement on W other Flask at present on the market at a far less
cost. Will keep liquids HOT for 24 hours, and ICY COLD for many days.
In case of breakage, Refills can be obtained from us for 5/- and 6/6 respectively.
Write for our large Illustrated Catalogue.
BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE, TOOWOOMBA & LONDON.
HOTEL DAN I ELL
(Late Imperial), Brisbane, Queensland.
AND royal hotel,
Maryborough, Queensland.
A Home for Commercials and Others. - *!
ĥ
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
Sr.
TO
h.m. the king.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
Hone Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
ħ
IN
BANANA LAND
Mick Woods, who battled for the Her-
Vnnli ai Way f Wh i en he s , at in the Assembly for
VoothakoU, stood on the footplates as driver
otherday St tra ‘ n at th ® openin S ceremony the
Kanaka has gone, but the taint re-
mains. Bundaberg was the Tommy Tanna metro
?t° Pu ü bh ? Health Commissioner 1 says
it ts the States chief epidemic centre. He has
investigated every case in the Bananalandleper
lazaretto, and finds that a very large proportion
in Vl , ctlrn ® * l;lve lived, at some time or other
Blunder berg ? toUChed pit ° h and was defiled -
The Croc.” : North Queensland towns
are in shameful need of a society for the preven
K* Craelty to arnma ls. In the back Country
I,nl r’° n See t ? ams In which almost every
horse has sore or bleeding shoulders. These
things are seen daily by the local police, who take
no notice of them. In Cairns I saw a crate of
a f a ££ on at the railway station at 8 a.m
° H J lGlp th,nkln g how the poor beggars
must be suffering, as it was getting hot as Shenl •
but it took the wind out of my canvas when I saw
them still in the same place at 5 p.m. They 1 had
been huddled together all day long wfthout
not \. e i 10U , gh room to stand up.
Yet, if a youth says Strike me fat ”in the hear-
of the Law it costs him 40s.
20 /innni Brodigal ” ; “ Bromide ” (B.
»n , d ',f courses on colored labor hotels
Bromide s experience extends to Queensland’s
coastal towns, where he found everywhere
Chinese and Japs as hotel servants. I have wan-
dered through both Coastal and Western Queens-
“Bmrddd V ” ry T here my experience fits in with
Bromides. In most hotels in Western
Queensland the Chow is cook. He gets £3 10s. to
£4 per week, and out of this he pays an off-sider.
K n ?. v y, one h° te l where a Chinese gets £5 a week
and the other fellow ” does the greater part of
d iotZ hT a Week ' y pou , nd - The curious contra-
diction between principle and practice comes
more strongly from the violent Labor centres in
Western Queensland, where Chow and Jap have
almost monopolised the cookery billets in hotels
It behoves every “white Australian” to act as
Bromide has done, and avoid Chinese and
Japanese hotels in Queensland. If that were
made a rule, there would be more emplovment for
respectable whites, and fewer cases of leprosy
which, on recent experiences, appears to be the
coming curse of Bananaland.
. , )bbi , ' Bananaland has a law dealing
with the sale of land on which rates have been
ever^ U timL ng fh 01 ' S6Ven yea , rs or more - and nearly
every time there is a sale there is also a big
bother. It isn’t a bad law in the main • the
trouble is that the land is advertised so poorly-
merely as subdivision so-and-so, of allotment
ves-do, of section 617.” The average cottage
ver^m/T 1 fc v educat f d U P to plan-reading, and
ery likely he hasn t got a plan, anyhow. Con-
sequently one or two sharps in the know, with
maps at their disposal, pick out the “eyes”
attend the sale, and buy at a price that wouldn't
feed a cat. As an instance, a piece of land in the
heart of a Central Queensland seaside town was
recently bought at the over-due rate sale for £4
re-sold to the clerk of the Board for £2O, and sold
by him for £4O ; and even that was only equal to
50 per cent, of the council’s valuation. As an
amendment, I propose that the council’s valuation
be the reserve; and if the allotment doesn’t fetch
the money, then it must pass automatically into
the possession of the Council.
Died at Gatton, aged 80, W. A. Cross,
who was one of Brassey’s engineers during the
building of the railway line from Grandchester to
Toowoomba in the middle Ws. After that
and a few other jobs had been finished he joined
the Queensland Railway Department, and stayed
there till, in his old age, he settled down to the
cultivation of the cow and the cucumber at
(jratton.
Another much-boomed mission enterprise
has had some hard clods of truth thrown at it in
Queensland. A while ago the P.M. at Cairns
v , ,sl . ted Yarrabah and threw the first lot of
clods, there was a howl of indignation, where-
e Bananaland Government instructed
Ohief Protector of Aborigines Howard to go and
make a full and exhaustive report on the place,
the report was given to the Assembly the other
day, and it amounts to a still larger shower of
clods, including these: The blacks are not
satisfied with the food and clothing, and are anxious
to get away; there has been woeful mismanagement
from an industrial point of view during the 18
years the mission has been in existence ; an air of
indolence pervades the place; no real effort has
been made to produce even enough food for the
inmates; there has been want of efficient super-
vision ; several boats have been lost through care-
lessness ; and there should be a large income
instead of an annual deficit of about £lBOO a year.
After which, it is about up to the Government to
decide on looking after Black Brother itself.
“ HOORA Y!"
PASSING PARSON: “ Tut-tut , what an awful condition to come home to your pore wife in!”
SHOCKING OLD PARTY: “ Gerrout! I (hie) jus' come back from her (hie) funeral."
Minister for Public Instruction Barnes has
issued a set of 10 maxims or commandments to be
hung on the walls of schools in Bananaland for
the guidance of the young. The Decalogue of
oinai was getting a bit out of date, so Barnes, who
is a pumpkin and potato merchant, has issued a
Decalogue of his own. It was Barnes who in-
formed the Assembly some time ago that William
Kidston had been drummed out of his native
town of Falkirk—a statement without a shadow
of foundation. In the old Decalogue there was
a certain injunction against “bearing false witness
against thy neighbor.” This is probably whv
Barnes doesn’t like the old Decalogue.
Private Enterprise doesn’t run much to
lighthouses and such-like useful but unproductive
goods; still Queensland has had one sample
for 20 years past. The light is at Canaipa, on
Russell Island, near the southern end of Moreton
Bay, and belongs to Mrs. Wills. For most of the
time Mrs. Wills has supplied the oil at her own
expense, but within the last few years the Queens-
land Marine Department has furnished it. A
week or so ago a number of shipping people who
i* part Ba y reckoned that Mrs.
Wills had at least earned a formal thank-you ; so
the lady has now an illuminated address to hang
in the parlor.
“San Remo”: Not long ago, when an
extra wallop was being given the immigration
drum, considerable dust was raised concerning the
prevalence of the married-couple-without-encum-
brance evil. Remember that ? Very well. Now,
the Springsure Hospital is a Government-subsi*
dised institution, and the other day it advertised
as follows: —
Applications, with testimonials, will be received from
Married Couples (without encumbrance), the woman to
undertake the duties of cook and laundress, the man to
undertake the duties of general servant, to the above
institution, at a joint salary of £ll7 per annum and keep.
I want to know what Kidston is going to do about
this, and I don’t think I ought to be kept waiting
. more than seven daj r s for an answer.
They don’t beat about the bush in the
woolly West. Recently a Winton (Q.) man adver-
tised that his wife had left him, and that he
would not be responsible for any debts contracted
by her. Hereupon madame promptly retaliated
(also per ad vt.) that she had never yet been able
to get a bob’s worth of credit in his name any-
where. This is the kind of thing that makes the
country press quite readable at times.
Moore, P.M., of Brisbane, was rather
astounded recently to hear a young scamp of 17
beg to be kindly awarded six months in prison,
inasmuch as he, the scamp aforesaid, “ was afraid
of getting a bad name on the streets, and wanted
a chance of getting a good fresh character in
gaol.” The Bananaland ex-prisoner, advertising
for a job in future, is evidently going to mention
proudly: “ Highest references from Boggo-road
and St. Helena.”
The new Anglican cathedral in Brisbane has
its foundations in a State endowment. This way.
Many years ago the Church of England received
from the State a grant of land (then of trifling
value) in George-street. On this a pro-cathedral
was erected, and when the Morgan Government
wanted the land for a public purpose the Angli-
cans scooped in over £30,000 from the sale—a
handsome contribution towards the new taber-
nacle. Unearned increment and the late Bishop
Webber have been mighty cathedral builders in
Brisbane.
“ If ever you raise memorials in this great
State, let it be to the memory of your pioneers.”
So said Sinclair, one of the Scottish Commis-
sioners, at Brisbane recently. Already a
“scheme ” is “ understood to be under considera-
tion and, as might have been expected, the
scheme is “to erect some suitable memorial
near the entrance to the University.” The
Britisher is hidebound on the subject of “monu-
ments.” Mention the subject, and his instant
idea is a big piece of stone with a figure on it
beckoning to some prickly pear or other object on
a distant hill. Occasionally someone battles for a
scholarship or a fund to give education, art or
medicine a lift; but for astart it is always the lump
of stone and the bit of lettering and the cartload
of palaver.
Mrs. Rumor says that both Bob Philp
and Joe Lesina will not be starters for the next
Parliament. In each case there are solid reasons
for scratching. Philp’s Townsville majority has
been dwindling these many elections ; and the
whirling Lesina is a party of one now. Philp is
the lather of the House; also the parent of
many deficits.
A Matter of Habit.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Your m°r a l s a re only your habits; do not call other
Shaw lmn ' oral because they have other habits.-©. £.
THE Banker who makes for Japan with the
Loot,
And runs like a fear-stricken rabbit;
Z\' G Wh ° behaves t 0 “ gal” like a brute,
I he Collier who punches his wife with his boot
Are only the Victims of Habit!
L’he Statesman whose “ graft” has built up a big
i Whose motto is “ Hustle—and grab it ! ”
1 he Artist who boiled up his puppy “in ile ”
The Man who walked off with your brolly and
Are only the Creatures of Habit.
The Hero who hastens the nation to sell,
The Traitor who hurries to stab it;
The Tyrant who makes of his country a hell,
£he Ketches and Kellys, so deadly and fell,
What are they but Bundles of Habit ?
The Lady who spies a sweet brooch in the mart
And thievishly ventures to nab it;
The Hoodlum who bashes the face of’ his “ tart ”
I he Dauber whose life is a libel on Art,
Are only the Victims of Habit.
The Gossips who gloat o’er a poor woman’s shame,
lheir fellows who hasten to blab it
The Neros who fiddle while Rome is a’-flame,
The Cadgers who spit on a brother’s fair fame,
Are nothing but Creatures of Habit.
QUEENSLAND.
FURNESS BORN.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP
Brisbane, November 5, 1910.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
The Brisbane Liedertafel is suffering from tired
feeling. At its final concert last Wednesday, in
the very faded and untidy Centennial Hall, it sang
upon a stage much in need of a polish, and without
so much as a palm to hide its dinginess. The
chorus was a trifle dingy, too, at times; and the
audience—well, as the society columns say, it
was en suite. Why this very excellent society
should be falling off I don’t know, but
hope the malady is only temporary. There
were redeeming features in the programme,
mind you. “ The Red King ” by the choir,
with Mr. Crisp and Secretary Harris as
soloists, went finely. Mrs. Gilbert Wilson sang
with all her old seductiveness, and Percy Brier’s
concerto with the orchestra was a thing to
dream of. Percy is worthy of larger honors than
Brisbane has to give.
Andrew Black will assist the Brisbane Musical
Union at its final song recital next week.
There’s heen trouble in the Amen Corner. Last
week the Bible in State Schools Bill was being
mauled in the Uppercut House (which, by the
way, achieved a record by sitting from 3.30
p.m. to 6.45 next morning), and the gal-
leries were filled by Judkinses and Mrs. J.’s.
These strange people, not content with listening,
insisted upon interjecting, and at last Clerk
Costin hailed a bobby. “See here, constable,”
hissed that usually mild little man, “you must
not let those women, or the men either, say ‘Lord,
love him ! ’ when Mr. Brentnall favors the Bill, or
‘ Lord, have mercy on him ! ’ when Mr. T. C.
Bierne condemns it; and they must' not talk, and
must sit down and not hang (ve the rail. It’s
very disconcerting to members.” So the boy in
blue padded up the stairs, where his presence
chilled the godly, and Mr. Bierne didn’t get
prayed for any more. But he and Peter Murphy,
A. J. Thynne and F. McDonnell put up a rattling
fight before the thing went through its second
reading. There is still hope that a lot of amend-
ing will be done in committee.
One of the most popular officers in the Educa-
tion office nearly found himself at Charon’s ford a
few days ago. He is a cheerful, kindly soul, with
no affection for red tape; so why an infuriated
female should have selected him as a victim of
unsatisfied wrath I don’t know. Anyway, she
trotted into his office, and, after an affable “good
day,” pulled out a gun and fired. The bullet
missed his eye, but made a gaping hole in
the wall. The suffering lady is now being taken
care of.
Mrs. E. A. Cullen, back again from Europe,
tells startling tales of hobble skirts and of hats that
hide you to the waist; but she seems to have dis-
covered a rag or two of a far less objectionable
cut.
A native of Papua, brought down for a holiday
by his boss, was asked last week what he liked
most in Australia. Without a moment’s hesita-
tion, he plumped for the bagpipes that welcomed
the Scotch Commission. Now, I wonder if that’s
the influence of Papua’s old Governor, our Wee
Macgregor, coming out ?
Billanderson’s co. has been starting five horses
in what looks like a trotting event on the boards
of His Majesty’s Theatre this week, to the peril
of the stalls and the big drum. No equine has
come over to date, but some of the escapes have
looked so narrow that an ant couldn’t have
crawled over them. Harrie Ireland, reformed in
character since last here, now makes a hobble-
skirted and most attractive heroine.
The Anglican Church here is in for a row some-
thing like the one the Presbyterians had over the
Frackelton business. The cause of the trouble
is a small person of advanced views and an uncon-
ventional way of expressing them. Perhaps that
wouldn’t matter much ; but he gets a full church
to listen to him, and it isn’t far from the new
cathedral either. Anyhow, the powers that be
declare that, in spite of the congregation, he must
go. The curious part of the business is that he is
to be allowed to continue in office until June next.
Evidently they haven’t considered what a power
of harm may be done to the sheep before then.
Mrs. Claud Munro (she was pretty Kitty More-
liead) is down from her Ingham home with a
bouncing boy. Talk about the dreadful North,
where the white woman cannot live! Mrs.
Munro has her matchless skin and color quite
unimpaired, as you will be able to see for your-
self, as she flees to the Blue Mountains with this
epistle. Baby has had the prevailing whoop,
and calls for a little bracing up.
The first outpouring of the Voice in the new
Cathedral occurred when Miss Townshend took
the Rev. Bertie Peregrine Walker, rector of
Gayndah,. for better or worse. Dr. Donaldson
put on his red robes, and Archdeacon Rivers
assisted, while Mr. Sampson made the new organ
swell out into the wedding-march. The bridal
gown was a simple satin, adorned with some nice
diamonds and emeralds.
_ fo geydom is much put out. Young
I. W. McCawley, “ a mere boy of 28,” has been
appointed Crown Solicitor, in succession to the
late George Hellicar. Old fogeydom can’t, how-
ever, say that McCawley’s feet have not grown
big enough for the boots, because he has been
acting-C.b. for six months. The brainy young
man, who is a barrister, has been in the Govern
ment service almost since his infancy.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.


■* '*•
.
VI
1
D*
m
m
MISS KITTY MASON,
In Our Miss Gibbs' Gaiety Theatre, London
COPYRIGHT
THE CHILDREN’S ENEMY.
A Safe, Sure and Reliable Specific for WORMS in CHILDREN and ADULTS.
THE symptoms of the presence of worms are very pronounced ; but should the indications prove incorrect, a course of COMSTOCK’S “ DEAD SHOT ”
WORM PELLETS will do no harm whatever. An examination of the stools is the surest way to determine the presence of worms, and when found
treatment should start at once to rid the system of the parasites.
The Long Thread Worm measures from one inch to two inches in length, the upper portion being thin and the lower two-thirds about twice as thick.
This variety also infests the large intestines and the rectum.
The common Thread Worm derives its name from its thread-like appearance. The average length is about one-third ot an inch, this description
applying to the female worm. The male worms are much smaller, and do not exhibit half the length of the females. The favorite situation of the Thread Worm
is the large bowel which forms the terminal portion of the intestines. These worms cause severe itching at the lower passage and picking at the nose. Ansemia,
restlessness, irritability r md loss of appetite are also frequent symptoms.
The Round ’VVwrrn in its appearance, save in color, of course, somewhat resembles the earth worm in shape. As in the case of the Thread Worms, the
female worm very much exceeds the male worm in size. Whilst the Thread Worm inhabits the large intestine of children, the Round Worm is found in the small
bowel, or that portion of the vq-estine which immediately comes off from the stomach and makes up the succeeding 20 feet in length of the digestive tube.
Adults, of course, are frequent! Iso affected with Round Worms, and it may be added that they are also subject to be troubled with Thread Worms.
COMSTOCK’S “ DEAD v SHOT ” WORM PELLETS are a purely vegetable preparation compounded on a scientific principle for the eradication of
worms which infest the intestines. They contain specific properties which destroy the worms, but cause no injury to the stomach or bowels, and do not
weaken the system. The pellets arej prepared in the form of a confection or lolly, have no disagreeable taste or smell; but, on the contrary, inspire children to
take them as they would an ordinary lozenge. Obtainable from all chemists, or direct from The W. H. Comstock Co. Ltd., 23 Lang Street, Church Hill, Sydney;
and Farish Street, Wellington, N.Z. Post free on receipt of price, is. 6d. per packetsix packets, Bs. 6d.


Till It Got to be Second Nature
Shed Scales Constantly—Suffer-
ing Endless and Without Relief
—Threw £4O Away on Useless
Treatments—Over 22 Years Ago
CUTICURA MADE SKIN
CLEAR AS A BABY’S
“If I had known of the Cuticura
Remedies fifty shears ago it would have
saved .me two hundred dollars (forty
pounds) and an immense amount of
suffering. My disease (psoriasis) com-
menced on my head in a spot not larger
than a cent. It spread rapidly over my
body and got under my nails. The
scales would drop off of me all the time
and my suffering was endless and with-
out relief. A thousand dollars would
not tempt me to have this disease over
again. I am a poor man but feel rich
to be free of what some of the doctors
called leprosy, some ringworm, psoriasis,
etc. I took and sarsa-
parillas over a year and a half but got
no cure. I cannot praise the Cuticura
Remedies too much. They made my
skin as clear and free from scales as a
baby’s. All I used of them was two
cakes of Cuticura Soap, three boxes of
Cuticura Ointment and three bottles of
Cuticura Resolvent. If you had been
there and said vou would have cured
me for two hundred dollars, you would
have had the money. I was covered
with the scales but by using Cuticura
I was soon as clear as any person ever
was. This was over twenty-two years
ago and for a long time, through force
of habit, I used to rub my hands over
my arms and legs to scratch, but to no
purpose I was well. I had scratched
twenty-eight years and it got to be a
kind of second nature to me. Dennis
Downing, Waterbury, Vt., U. S. A.,
Nov. 27, 1909.”
Reference: R. Towns <fe Co., Sydney.
For the prevention and treatment of
itching, burning, scaling eruptions and
the promotion of permanent skin and
hair health, Cuticura Soap and Cuticura
Ointment are absolutely unrivaled in
purity, efficacy and economy.
A single tablet of Cuticura Soap and box of Cuti-
cura Ointment are often sufficient to cure. Sold
throughout the world. Depots: Condon, 27, Charter-
house Sq.; Paris. 10, Rue de la Chaussee d’Antin;
Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney: So. Africa.
Lennon, Ltd., Cape Town, etc.: U. S. A., Potter
Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole Props , Boston.
j6£g“Post-free, 32-page Cuticura Book on the Skin.
ANTINEURASTHIN
is a nerve food. It cures bj ? feeding; and strengthening
the nerves, and not —as in the case of drugs—ln' stimu-
lating or deadening. Let this point be clearly under-
stood. Antineurasthin is a food- —not a drug. The
sufferer from hysteria, from languor, headache, melan-
cholia, insomnia, nervous dyspepsia, neuralgia, or any of
the troubles coming under the head of Neurasthenia,
are each and every one suffering from a lack of the
material of which the brain and nerve system are
nourished and built up, and that material is Lecithin,
which alone can supply the nerves with their indispen-
sable nourishment.
Antineurasthin feeds the bra n and brain centres with
Lecithin in an active organic state, and is the only means
known to science of doing this.
A sample of Antineurasthin and treatise on nerve
t roubles wi}l be posted to any address in Australia or
New Zealand on receipt of ninepence in stamps by the
Wholesale Distributor for Australia, H. A. GODDARD,
Eagle Street, Brisbane. [2
HEART
TROUBLE ,
Caused
By
FAT!
son who feels
any uneasiness
or weakness
about the heart
should lose no
time in securing
h
GIG
relief from their condition. Fatty degenera-
tion of the heart is the cause of many deaths.
“Fatcure”
prevents any possibility of heart disease. It
removes the fat that surrounds the heart and
liver, and gives these organs a chance to do
their work. It cures Obesity quickly, safely
and permanently. It is non-poisonous and
harmless. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE and our Free Book.
Watworth Co., Suite
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
To PEARL Fishers, Dealers
in Pearls and Opal.
We have been continuously buying: since 1880.
We pay the Highest Prices.
We buy the largrest or smallest parcels.
We pay Spot Cash to all.
Send through any Bank for our Inspection.
P. RLEEMO & CO., Ltd.,
Pearl and Diamond Merchants,
3 Wynyard Street, SYDNEY.
'X
THE FRIEND
OF THE
FAMILY
<V
c>
Mother Seigel’s Syrup is the friend of all who suffer.
after meals, because it aids digestion I It is the friend
of all who have headaches, biliousness, constipation
or dizziness, because it banishes such ailments, root
and branch ! It is the friend of all who feel “seedy,”
because it clears away the poisonous products of in-
digestion, which clog the system and make you feel
run down, brain-fagged, out of sorts! Better still, it
tones and strengthens your stomach and liver, regu-
lates your bowels, makes food nourish you, and thus
prevents, as well as cures, all stomach and liver dis-
orders. Mother Seigel’s Syrup is the standard
household remedy, “the friend in the cupboard ’’ in
hundreds of thousands of British homes, afid is un-
equalled as a digestive tonic and stomachic remedy.
MOTHER
SEigeCS
SYRUP
“ Six months ago, my life was a burden to me.
Food was always distasteful, and what little I
ate caused me to vomit. I also had violent pain, after
eating, which would often make me double up with
agony. I tried many medicines, but got no better.
Then I turned to Mother Seigel’s Syrup. My pains
grew less and I could sleep at night. Five bottles
3
*
S 3
4 A
f $
of Mother Seigel’s Syrup
cured me completely,” Mrs.
Margaret Finlay, 21, Burton
Street, Camperdown, New
South Wales. Aug. 13, ’O9.
CURES
CONSTIPATION
BILIOUSNESS
HEADACHES
/s
<3
n
INDIGESTION
TAKE IT DAILY AFTER MEALS.
ĥ
The ideal Summer
Shoe for Ladies.
Beauty, daintiness, adaptability and ease of fit
were never better exemplified than in tlie line
Shoe here illustrated—it is one of the latest and
most fashionable models.
Pricc 16/6
PRICE 16/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, l/= extra.
GAZEKA SHOE PASTE, in Black and
Brown, large tin, 6d. _
Write for Booklet, “ Shoelight.”
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 257=259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran; I=3 Errol Street, North Melbourne. T ]
ħ
Colds and chills
require prompt treatment.
wp Freeman’s —the Original—Chlorodyne, taken at the first
'symptom, quickly cures, and prevents more serious complications.
Freeman’sis also excellent in Asthma, Bronchitis,Neuralgia,and Dysentry.
Highly recommended and used by Doctors for sixty-five years.
See ‘ELEPHANT’ on every bottle, your safeguard against imitations
1/Is, 2/9 and 4/6 per bottle.
St
ions.
sentry.
s.
itations
K
TRADE
If your Chemist
is out of stock,
order a bottle
he can quickly
get it
FREEMANS
CHLORODYNE
h
UNDER VICE-REGAL, PATRONAGE.
For the Latest Style of Head-Dress, Puffs and Swathings, £2/10/=
Very Light a.id Easily Adjusted. Obtainable only at v#
The Missejs Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hair-
workers & Dermatologists,
161 KING STREET, SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Streets.
Telephone 2138 Central.*
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
o notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insniiiciently stamped. Name and
address must appear on 1/ S'.S. .Vo liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. ivill be
1 etinxifjl unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
A. G. Fox : The story of the female chain-
makers in England is absolutely true, and there are
dozens of other sweated industries, some even worse,
there was an Exhibition of Sweated Industries in London
a few years ago, and the catalogue was a horror. As to
why the Cradley Heath women “don’t come to Australia
as immigrants ” : (I) They haven’t the money. (2) Even
if their passages were paid from London they couldn’t
get to London, nor feed themselves for a day there—they
haven’t the means to get to the next town. (3) They
haven’t clothes for the voyage—practically their whole
wardrobe is what they stand up in. (4) They haven’t the
spare pennj’ with which to write to the Agent-General
for information about Australia, and many of them can’t
write. (5) They haven’t the spare penny to buv the paper
with the Agent-General’s advertisementin it so that they
may learn about Australia—besides, many of them can’t
read. (6) They are difficult people to approach by lec-
tures, for they are too busy making chains to attend
lectures. (7) They hardly know that there is such a
place as Australia ; as a rule, they have never seen the
sea, and all the world outside theiT little circle is a mist.
(8) If they came here, landing in rags and penniless—
what would happen next ? They know nothing of country
life in any shape or form. They know just about nothing
of domestic service ; life in a practically unfurnished
hovel, and the habit of sleeping on straw, and the
cookery which consists of getting meals of weak tea,
bread, dripping and a casual bacon-rind, doesn’t teach
domestic economy. In fact, most of them only know
how to make chains H.D.McP. : No, the Federal Con-
stitution doesn’t prescribe any fiscal policy for the Com-
monwealth—neither Freetrade, Protection nor Revenue
Tariffism.... Bellerive : A fine example of aNo License
poet’s frenzy. Here it is :
IN THE HORRORS OF DRINK.
Back, ye fierce reptiles
Glide back to thy lair
Shrieked a wretched drunkard
In Frenzied Despair
Forsaken by his once
Loving children and wife
Left to die in the horrors
In the prime of life
He whirled a beer bottle
And with an hideous yell
Shattered it to pieces
And prostrate fell
The unfortunate drunkard’s
Grim sufferings were o’er <
His pallid corpse was discovered
Outstretched on the floor.
Victor B. : Sorry we can’t take up your selection,
even though there is a house on it. Much burning off
and grubbing hasstill to be done... . L.K. : Not sufficient
skill Alice (V.): “ Revelations ”is too sluieky, and the
sketchy plot is not new. Evelyn is the most hysterically
furious female that ever crawled through a typewriter on
to a white and trembling scrap of paper. At the end she
d——d her husband and vanished through the door.
Can’t understand why he neglected to give three cheers
and take himself out for a long cool drink... liaby :It is
a dark, windy poem G.P. (M.L.): You are not our
humble servant. If any servant of ours rhymed as you
have done something serious would happen to him
Monica: Unskilful work. Guess your pen is hardly sea-
soned yet... .L.L.L. : Specially written for the basket....
F.W. : “ Tattsipania ” doesn’t possess much sparkle, and
one or two of the rhymes you have put into double-
harness kick eaqh other almost to death... .Trix : Both
weak W.W.R.: Rather a dull wail for home and sun-
shine G..J.M. (V.): Ghost very uninteresting....
H.R.K. : One verse of “ A Reverie ” :
As I watch the fleecy breakers
Rolling on the sandy shore
Sweet inemory steals upon me
While f dream of days of yore.
The basket is crammed with mournful, indefinite verse of
that description. Almost anyone with time to burn can
brew it. Asa matter of cold fact, if you stop to watch
the fleecy breakers on most beaches, some degraded per-
son steals upon you and whines for thrippence where-
with to buy beer... .O.G. (M.L.): Commonplace rhymes.
... .E.R.S. P.: We do not, consider them worthy....
A.S.K. (Q.): Crude stuff.. . .Hopscotch : No, thank you !
J.B.H. (Q.): Badly t01d... .Leslie G. : Can’t use
“ Beef.” No mustard with it Hugh R.: No room for the
pioneers or their whiskers.. H. D.: It is a toothless curse...
L.K.G. : Sentenced it to death in a friendly way Eun-
gella : Flabby idea, indifferently treatea'N.,. Cuthbert F. :
You might work off that limerick elsewhere. Other is
poor stuff... .J.W. : Point too small. Verses fairly un-
even J.E.M. : Idea is clumsily expressed.... J. S.
Hardee : It would be cruelty to hurl the brick of criticism
at the children’s song. Other is merely feeble. Go in
peace Percy F. : Theme is gruesome and the verses
are gone in the knees.. J.G.D.: Commendable, but a
little below par Some Unbratided Poet: “ Plain Jane ”
is an unaccountable female and will not be admitted to
the Inky Wav.... J.B.T. (V.): Three heavy-weight poems,
written in faint ink on greasy paper. Try some welter-
weight verses in clear ink on paper which" is not greasy.
...Eungella: “The Blot” is a poem of many yaps...
Hugh R. : Wowser rhyme much too serious H.F. I’. :
Chopping rhyme is a mass of literary splinters B.J. :
We will take the first verse :
With brown upraised she drew my soul
From its young peace throne above
With red-lipped kisses she bound it fast
Oh my ! but it seemed like love.
Did her kisses taste like raspberry jam?... J. Rudd:
Unskilfully handled and too long for the interest.
. ...J.W.H.: Thanks; but that self-sufficient young Aus-
tralian is too small asprat tofry G.P. : Address toMiss
W. is as dull as Miss W.’s life seems to be ...A.A.F. :
Sketch suggestions didn’t strike us with much vigor
John O’K. : Not only do you misappropriate another
man’s pen-name, but you attach it to the wretched old
yarn of the school-child who was no violet. Two years
ago we warned contributors of the risk they ran in send-
ing us this infuriating chestnut Slate Socialist: Know
nothing of the Masonic game, but decline to believe it
has the contempt for the law that you make out.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
J. Murphy: Please send address to accountant
W.8.A.: Not much to go on ; but what there is seems
promising.
J. Weary (of Vie.) is progressing happily
along the line of least resistance. The likelihood of
Upper House hostility to his Housing Bill has
led him to shelve that useful measure. Nowa-
days, Weary is always taking that way out of a
possible scrap.
“Miles”: Contrast the German style of
preparing for war with the British. A few
weeks ago the Emperor sent to the Burgomaster
of Danzig; informing him that the city must
billet 500 officers and 15,000 soldiers for the
manoeuvres. The response was joyful, both by
burgomaster and citizens. No less than 90,000
soldiers were altogether billeted in Danzig and
the region about. The people like it. Their sons
will have a picnic another time. No rowdies.
Then turn to England—afraid to quarter soldiers
on anybody! Which means, biz ? At those
manoeuvres, by the way, aeroplanes and airships
totally failed in reconnoitring. The occupants
were too easily deceived by bogus works. The
machines always failed to discover a line of
attack, being necessarily too high up. So far the
aeroplane, heavier than air, beats the airship,
lighter than air. The aeroplane can mount the
highest, and thus destroy an airship, as things go.


Arnott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
“THE, CHILDREN'S FOOD.”
HEARNE’S
Bronchitis Cure
The Grandest Remedy in the World for
COUGHS & COLDS
ONE DOSE IS GENERALLY SUFFICIENT.
THOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at
its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bron-
chitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, Difficulty
of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience
delightful and rapid relief; and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a
complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irrita-
tion in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice,
and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is
not known where “ Coughs ” have, on their first appear-
ance, been properly treated with this
SMALL medicine. No house should be without LARGE
SIZE! it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or SIZE:
2 16
two is generally sufficient, and a com-
plete cure is certain.
4/6
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE VENDORS, and
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
N- S.W . Branch Office : 522 George Street, Sydney.
A
V
A
s.
V* * % <>
%*£
<1
?>yv^
Cw
r>>
Jh*
SV. V , J
Cy
i :
/
<<>
UTIES
*£>
s?
m onLY
TYRE / I
built: oil
/cimTiric
FRIftCIPLE,
THE
I /ILVERTOWfi
/ RUBBER C
?79 GEORGE/ r
j /YDftEY
What You Get-!" 01 What You
TRY
THE
EAGLE
Built hy men who know the
essentials of GOOD WORK.
The PERFECT PRODUCT of
practical experience.
K
IB
Brand
Footwear
Made from Australian Materials by Australians for Australians.
They meet the demand for STRICTLY RELIABLE and UP-TO-DATE FOOTWEAR.
They Will Satisfy YOU!
Obtainable.from Leading MERCHANTS-everywhere.
Sole Manufacturers and Proprietors —
The Davey Halliday Company, Limited
Wholesale Only. BRISBANE.
ON THE HOP!
A superb library, volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing- upwards of Three hundred
of “ Hop’s ’’ best drawings. Full Bulletin size
Price, 21s. „
A PHENOMENAL BREAK
it 9*
836
i
y
jzn
on an
4s*:
YJ
NO more positive proof of the worthiness of an ‘•Alcock” billiard table could
be given than by the splendid performance of George Gray, the young
Queensland player, in his match with Fred Lindrum, jun.
A Standard “Alcock” Billiard Table was used, and certified to by the
Amateur Billiard Association of Victoria (which is affiliated with the Billiard
Association of Great Britain and Ireland).
Gray, who made 836—831 coming off the red, and thus made two world’s
records use.d Crystallite balls, and the marvellous accuracy with which they came
off the cushions, the ease with which the most difficult shots were accomplished,
speaks for itself of the merit and superiority of “ Alcock ” Billiard Tables.
Write for illustrated catalogue—it’s full of information.
ĥ
Pty.
Ltd.
397 George St., Sydney. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 114 Edward St., Brisbane. Murray St., Perth. [3.
A GE-NUINE. Rupture Cure !
DON’T WEAR A TRUSS ANY LONGER.
Reverend Gentleman
Grateful.
“ Stonyhurst College,
Blackburn.
“ O. E. BROOKS, Ksq.
“ Dear Sir, —After a year’s
wearing' of your famous Rup-
ture Appliance, I can find no
words to express my admira-
tion of such an excellent in-
vention, and the benefit I
have derived from its use.
All that you claim for it
in your book, and all that
your clients have said in its
favor in their printed testi-
monials I can fully bear out
and confirm from personal
experience. lam sure that
hundreds of your Appliances
would be instantly ordered if
the unfortunate sufferers
only knew of its existence.
For my part, I feel that you
deserve the universal grati-
tude of mankind for invent-
ing such a cheap and in-
fallible remedy for so wide-
spread a complaint, and you
are perfectly free to make
what use you please of what
I say in this letter.
“ Yours faithfully,
“P.O CONNOR (Rev.).”
After 30 years’ experience, I have produced an appliance for Men,
Women and Children, that ACTUALLY CURES RUPTURE!
BEWARE OF
IMITATIONS
Certain crude appliances
have been placed on the
Australian Market roughly
modelled after my speciali-
ties, and my very advertise-
ments and literature have
been copied.
If you have been misled
by these, come to me. Where
imitators have failed, there
I have my greatest success.
WRITE TO ME
TO=DAY.
Let me send you my Illus-
trated Book, free, showing
the Brooks’ Appliances and
Prices. I have thousands of
satisfied patients on my
Books.
The above is G. E. BROOKS, the Inventor,
n-ho has been curing rupture for over 30 years.
The Brooks’ Appliance is a new scientific discovery, with automatic air cushions, that
draws the broken parts together, and binds them as you would bind a broken limb.
It absolutely holds firmly and comfortably, and never slips. Always light and cool,"
and conforms to every movement of the body without chafing or hurting. I make it
to your measure, and send it to you on a strict guarantee of satisfaction or money
refunded, and I have put my price so low that anybody, rich or poor, can buy it.
Saved His Life.
“No. 2 Galley End, Galleywood,
“ Near Chelmsford, Essex.
“ O. E. BROOKS, Esq.
“ Dear Sir, —Having worn your Appli-
ance from the time it arrived, I think it
my duty to acknowledge that your
Appliance saved my life. By wearing a
common steel truss I fell back under 10
stone in weight, and since wearing your
Appliance for the past two months, I
have increased to the weight of 13 stone.
I can now do my heavy work wit h ease,,
and must thank you for your kindness
and the straightforward manner you
dealt with me. I shall do all in my
power to recommend your Appliance to
friends around who suffer from this
terrible complaint. You can make what
use you like of this letter, and I will an-
swer with pleasure any letters from those
who would like to know about the
Appliance. Yours truly, S. J.' KlifG.”
HUNDREDS of
TESTIMONIALS
Like this from
all parts of
the EMPIRE
Free Information Coupon
C. E. BROOKS, 115 Bank Building's,
Kingsway, London, England.
Please send me by post in plain wrap-
per your Illustrated Book and full
information about your Appliance for
the cure of rupture.
Name •
Address.


THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA.
(INCORPORATED BY ROYAL CHARTER, 1835.)
PAID UP CAPITAL £1,600,000
RESERVE FUND (£500,000 is invested in 2£ per cent. Consols at 80, the
remainder being-used in the business of the Bank) .. 1 760 000
RESERVE LIABILITY OF PROPRIETORS UNDER THE CHARTER !! R600’,000
£4,960,000
HALF-YEARLY REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS OF THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA,
With the Accounts for the Half-year to April 11,1910.
Presented to the Proprietors at the Half-yearly General Meeting held on Thursday, October 6,1910.
REPORT,
THE Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance-Sheet as at 11th April last, with the Profit Account for
the half-year to that date. After providing for rebate on bills current, for British and Colonial rates a,nd taxes,
for all bad and doubtful debts, and for a 10 per cent, bonus to the Staff, the net profit for the half-year
amounted to £193,722 16s. lOd.
To this sum must he added £17,471 11s 4d. brought forward from the previous half-year, making a total of
£211,194 Bs. 2d., out of which the Directors have declared a Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 12 per cent,
per annum, or £2 Bs. per share, and a Bonus of 16s. per share, free of income tax.
The Dividend and Bonus will absorb £128,000, and the Directors have further appropriated £50,000 to the
Reserve Fund, and £lB,OOO in reduction of the cost of Bank Premises. There will then remain £15,194 Bs. 2d. to be
carried forward to the next account.
The Dividend and Bonus will be payable, in London and in the Colonies, on 7th October.
Since the date of the last Report new Branches have been opened at VValwa, in Victoria ; Junee, in New South
Wales ; Charleston, in Queensland ; Wirrabara, in South Australia; Beverley, Gnowangerup and Northam, in
Western Australia ; and Dannevirke, Te Aroha, Te Kuiti and Whangamomona, in New Zealand. Agencies have also
been opened at Fish Creek, Kiewa and Stony Creek, in Victoria ; and the Branches at Davyhurst and Peak Hill, in
Western Australia, have been closed. ANDREW R. SCOBLE, Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street, London, 26th September, 1910.
PROFIT ACCOUNT, from October 11,1909, to April 11,1910.
£129,471 11 4
112,000 0 0
£17,471 11 4
Profit for the half-year to April 11, 1910, after deducting rebate on bills current at
balance date (£14,691 19s. 7d.), and making provision for all bad and doubtful debts,
and for alO per cent, bonus to the staff £364,821 6 1
LESS :
I. Charges of Management—
Colonial—
Salaries and allowances to the colonial staff, including the Superin-
tendent’s department and 17Sbranches and agencies .. ..£103,249 3 10
General expenses, including rent, repairs, stationery, travelling, etc. 26,276 18 4
London —
Salaries 9,661 12 6
General expenses 3,351 13 9
Undivided profit, October 11, 1909
Less: Dividend and bonus, March 18, 1910
11. Rates and Taxes—
Colonial ..
London
Total amount of unappropriated profit..
From which deduct — .
For transfer to Reserve Fund
For reduction in cost of bank premises
£142,539 8 5
£13,248 16 1
15,310 4 9
28,559 0 10
171,098 9 3
193,722 16 10
211,194 8 2
£50,000 0 0
lB,OOO 0 0
68,000 0 0
Leaving available for dividend
£143,194 8 2
Dr.
BALANCE-SHEET, April 11,1910,
Cr.
LIABILITIES.
Circulation .. .. .. £514,008
Deposits .. .. .. .. .. 17,000,503
Bills payable and other liabilities .. 2,589,632
20,104,143
Capital ... .. ..£1,600,000 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 1,760,000 0 0
(Of which i'500,000 is
invested in 2$ per cent.
Consols at 1 80, the
remainder being' used
in the business of the’
Bank.)
Profit Account, undi-
vided balance .. .. 143,194 8 2
0 0
7 8
2 2
9 10
3,503,194 8 2
assets:
Specie, bullion and cash balances.. ..£3,848,994 0 3
Loans at call and at short notice.. .. 3,025,000 0 0
British Government securities .. .. 1,069,728 2 0
India and Colonial Governments’ secur-
ities and other investments .. .. 491,33513 0
Bills receivable, advances on securities,
and other assets.. .. .15,021,436 18 11
Bank premises in Australia, New Zealand
and London 150,843 3 4
£23,607,337 18 0
It. W. JEANS, Manager. F. H. BLOGG, Accountant.
We have examined the casli and securities in London, and the Lond >n books, and have'verified the transfers
from the several branches in the Commonwealth and New Zealand, and we beg- to report that, in our opinion, the
foregoing is a full and fair balance-sheet of the bank, and that it exhibits a true and correct view of the state of the
bank’s affairs as shown by the hooks. The investments are valued at market price or under.
London, 21st September, 1910. WELTON, JONES & 00., Auditors.
The Royal Bank of Queensland Limited.
FIFTIETH REPORT
Adopted by the Ordinary General Meeting of the Shareholders held at the
Banking House, Queen Street, Brisbane, on Tuesday, October 18, 1910.
The Net Profits for the half-year, after deducting Rebate on Bills, Interest on Deposits,
providing for Contingencies, payment of all charges, and reducing valuation of Bank
Furniture and Fittings, amounted to .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..£13,338 9 6
To which is added the amount carried forward from last half-year 937 19 2
Giving an available balance of .. .. .. .. .. .. .. £14,276 8 8
Which has been distributed as follows
To Dividend for the half-year at the rate of 4J per cent, per annum on all Shares..
~ Interest on Capital prepaid (at the rate of the dividend)
~ Income Tax
~ Reserve Fund
~ Balance carried forward
£11,311 5 7
293 2 9
623 11 6
1,000 0 0
1,048 8 10
— £14,276 8 8
During the half-year a branch has been opened at Helidon.
By order of the Board,
EDWD. D. DAY, General Manager.
Aggregate Balance-Sheet of The Royal Bank of Queensland limited, September 50,1910.
LIABILITIES.
Capital—
-69,999 £9 Ordinary
Shares .. .. ..£629,991 0 0
Less uncalled liability of
£2 10s. per Share .. 174,997 10 0
£454,993 10 0
Capital prepaid, being-
uncalled liability on
Ordinary Shares .. 13,613 10 0
5063 £lO Pref e r e nee
Shares fully paid .. 50,630 0 0
£519,237 0 0
Reserve Fund .. .. 74,500 0 0
Profit and Loss .. .. 14,276 8 8
£608,013 8 8
Bills Payable .. .. .. .. 8,589 16 10
Liability to Treasury for Notes held in
reserve ..- •• •• .. * ... 33,500 0 0
Deposits and other Liabilities .. .. 1,398,151 12 10
£2,048,254 18 4
ASSETS.
Coin on hand and Cash at
Bankers .. £493,792 13 10
Bullion 18,378 15 0
Treasury Notes on hand.. 56,635 0 0
Government. Stock .. 76,977 0 3
Bank Premises, Furniture, etc. ..
Bills discounted and all other debts due
to the Bank
£645,783 9 1
69,180 8 2
1,333,291 1 1
£2,048,254 18 4
Dr.
Profit and Loss Account, September 30,1910.
Cr.
To Salaries, Rent and other Ex-
penses at Head Office and
23 Branches.. .. ..£12,540 3 0
~ Interest paid and accrued on
Fixed Deposits, Rebate and
Exchange Paid .. .. 19,026 15 6
, -£32,166 18 6
..Balance .. ..14,276 8 8
£46,443 7 2
Bv balance brought forward £937 19 2
~ Gross Profit for the half-year .. .. 45,505 8 0
£46,443 7 2
Reserve Fund.
To balance.. . .. .. •• ..£75,500 0 0
if
£75,500 0 0
By Balance invested in Government Stock £74,500 0 0
~ Transfer from Profit and Loss Account.. 1,000 0 0
£75,500 0 0
Audited and found correct. —
Brisbane, October 5, 1010.
THOS. YVELSBY, F.I.A.Q.
GEO. FBED. SCOTT, B.A. (London)
Auditors.
P. L. OARDEVV, Chairman.
EDWD. D. DAY, General Manager.
"A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH.”
Post Free 6di from “The
Bulletin** Office
■ vV- ]
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
non-explosive.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by the Rail y Hosoitals and Hotels
and Victoria. Thousands already in use in Country Hou s, p * >
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small °r Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant tha
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN g CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
PICTURE SHOWMEN !
Send for a copy of our
complete Cinematograph
Catalogue.-
There’s no local work published
, that gives' so full particulars of all
goods needed by the Picture Show-
man.
It illustrates and describes all the
latest Projectors, and gives detailed
information about Lenses, Arc Lamps, Switchboards, Rheostats, Caibons,
Generators, etc., and gives valuable hints on ; operating, that even the
can pick up something from.
We will send this Book to you Free—on your asking.
Switches,
old hand ”
REPAIRS.
We repair Bioscopes, Lanterns, Arcs,
Jets, etc., thoroughly and promptly—
we’ve a special staff engaged for this.
SHOW POSTERS.
We’ve just landed a big lot of English
Picture Show Posters—just what you want
to pull full houses. Ask us about them.
Send for our Illustrated Lists and New Programmes.
JERDAN'S,
“ The Cine-
matograph
House,”
393 George St.
(facing
Royal
Hotel),
Sydney
o
THE
ħ
it British-made of British material, and in design, construc-
tion, and finish possesses those distinctive quaiides which have
caused millions of Cyclists to stamp it as BEST. It is
The Hub with the Never-Failing Brake
a brake which answers to the slightest backward pressure of the
pedals, and which always keeps the bicycle under perfect control.
The EADIE TWO-SPEED COASTER combines all the efficiency
of the Eadie Coaster with the additional advantage of a variable
gear- Full descriptions of both Hubs, and details of the famous
B.S.A. Fittings will be found in the B.S.A. Handbook, free copy
of which can be obtained from
D. Y. RENNIE
representing; B.S.A. Co- Ltd.
5 Stock Exchange Building
MELBOURNE
CAOIC
COASTER
Q.& Q.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts with EADIE Two=speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
WATCH AND CHAIN AND RING
STEM
GIVEN
m
STEM
I SET
for Selling Our High Grade Art Post Cards
We give absolutely FREK this handsome AMERICAN MADE, STEM WIND AND Watch, care-
fully tested and fully guaranteed for selling only twenty packages of our HIGH GKAIJ
ART POST CAROS at 5d a package. Send us your name and address (no money) and we
will send you the twenty packages of Beautiful Post Cards to sell at 5d per package.
When sold send us the 8 shillings and we will positively send you at once this beautl d
WATCH and CHAIN and RING. We will refund the money if you are not perfectly
satisfied. Write today for the cards. .
PEERLESS WATCH COMPANY, 1137 East 63rd Street, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS, U. S. A.
The NEW CENTURY DA 11NEli
2/6
CA.UUI age
PAID
h
ĥ
ON ANY SEWING MACHINE
Our labor saving attachment
weaves a new heel or toe in
stocking in 3 minutes. Simple, Swift.
Send for 350 Page Illustrated Catalogue, post free anywhere.
UNION MFG. CO., 299 Elizabeth Street, Melb.
LADIES, SEW NO MORE
ħ
MYSTIC MENDING TISSUE
) Packet, Niue Pence,
Including Postage.
Mends Itip<. Tears, Cuts and Wears in any
fabric, cloth, silk, leather, <fco Done in a
moment. Stronger, neater, better than
sewing.
iThe Union Mfjg-. 00.,
* 299 Elizabeth Street. Melb.


“ The Waybacks Again.”
Another
stack of
joy and laughter about the famous family. Is.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
a
I
The Milk Foods closely approximate in composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys” Foods. ' 1
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys" Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBLJRYS Ltd., LONDON. * «-17 Market Street, Sydney
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.C. A.
‘RICHARDSON’’
CHICAGO
Cooling—Satisfying
‘Montserrat’
Lime Juice
A healthy drink for hot days and all days. Good for the
youngsters. It communicates its own delightful purity
and coolness to the blood, and it quenches thirst better
than stimulants. Its delicious flavour appeals to evervone
Made in two kinds : Unsweetened, t,e„ Plain Lime Juice
Sweetened, i.e.. Lime Juice Cordial, Sold everywhere.
•. "V,
3/m
POLICY for the COMMON WEALTH
Price, Gd. The Bulletin Office.
L.HK Australian Magazine. THE LONE
HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE SPRAY WATER PISTOL.
Durable, Reliable and Perfectly Safe.
h
! Will stop the most vicious
! dog or man without
permanent injury. In-
valuable for cyclists, un-
escorted ladies, cashiers,
;night-watchmen, homes,
etc. Has more effect on
'beggars and tramps than
a watch-dog. Reloading
lunlimited. It creates great amusement for young
and old. Length 5 inches, nickel-plated and .nicely
ornamented. Price 1/6 post free any where.
NICKEL-PLATED CHANGE PURSE.
Beautifully chased, and guaranteed to wear white
i throughout. Will hold any of the coins, as illus-
trated, and will also take sovereigns and half-
sovereigns in the 1/- and 6d. compartments, and
pennies and half-pennies in the 2/6 and 2/- com-
partments. Split ring attached for affixing to watch
or key chain. Price, post free anywhere, 1/2.
THE “JOKER” TRICK MATCHBOX.
The box can be filled with matches, and then closed,
and, to the amazement of your friends, upon re-
opening the box, the matches have completely dis-
appeared. A great joke on cadgers, who,, upon
begging a match, are shown the empty’box, and the
next moment, if the owner chooses, he may’ help
himself to a match from the same box. Strongly
made of polished nickel, and can be carried in the
vest.pocket. Price with full directions, 7H. post free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Hay market, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street) Sydney.
No. 2 Branch i 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
WOOL,
Grain, Hides, Furskins,
Fat Stock or Store Stock
WILL BRING GOOD PRICES ALWAYS
WHEN THE SALE IS ENTRUSTED TO
New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY
.small Lots and Large Lots receive the same careful attention.
12
93 §
fenllNKifurWlwft
arnmp
‘ h wnr>sa«CJi
A little of
Old
ORKNEV
tbe Real Liqueur Scotch,
is better tban a lot of an
inferior wbisKy. Our en-
tire output is reserved for
tbis, our own brand,wbicK
we guarantee for its qua-
lity, age, and flavour.
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London.
Proprietors of Stromness Distillery,
Orkney, Scotland.
Agents :
MELBOURNE —T. R. Jones & Co., 366 Bourke Street.
BRISBANE —Elliott, Donaldson & Douglas Ltd.,
108-110 Eagle Street.
ADELAIDE—Lord & Heseltine, 90 Pirie.Street.
LAUNCESTON-John McKenzie & Co.
HOBART—John Ferguson & Co.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, 2s 6d posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is 6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up-to-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Ridple of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s : Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, Is 3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Hall Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. \ Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d- How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of tiie Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, Us. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photogr vphy Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
ĥ
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS—LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblf.es’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Braising, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How-to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, os 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The, Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3tl posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Easy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
F.MRRACIN'G
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248. Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping,- 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. HowMcDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
ss'6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of the First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve grot it.
Don’t be fooled into paying: more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. Kstabli&hed 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only)
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FRO/t THIS A D VT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. DR. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the King,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. 6d. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. 'Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology; 7s: 6d post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Ciievasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s (id posted. Wonderful: Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Puilosopiiy, Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d' posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather,
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth -
hound, 10s 6d posted. Tub Secrets of Clairvoyance, .
Is post. . 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE. TO-DAY.
“ J. 5.8.” on the Polite Inventor :
The politest squatter who ever addressed a crowd of
shearers was the late Wolseley, of shearing: machine fame,
a nd onetime owner of Euroka, Walgett (N.S.W.). When
engaging his shearers he used to say : “Now, njen, I
want all the wool and no skin. They won’t buy skin in
England.” He used to insist upon the penner-up giving
a Preliminary performance of his “barking” abilities,
■Tin unless he considered the “ bark ” to be of first-rate
would dismiss the aspirant with the remark :
Oh, my good man, you can’t ‘ bark.’ One of you men
eoine here who can ‘ baric.’ ” Over each man’s stand was
a concern like a billiard-marking board to show how many
times a man has “ starred ”at Devil’s Pool. When the slide
disclosed the third star, it was good enough to go up and
get your money. It was the troubles Wolseley met with at
shearing times that produced the shearing machine. He
invented it with the idea of reducing the price of shear-
ing, but the shearer of to-day, instead of cursing, blesses
■ it. Wolseley—a brother of" Garnet, by the way—once
sacked the famous Jerry Gerard ; but, on finding he
owed the station store £l, wanted him to go back and
work it out. “Oh, never mind,” said Jerry, “you can
give it to the hospital,” “But,” quoth Wolseley, “you
owe me a pound.” “Yes, yes, I understand,” replied
Jerry ; “ but I never trouble about these small amounts.
Give it to the hospital.” It took Wolseley about half an
hour to think the problem out.


©
itl
National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks, Greener cross
bolt, extension rib, left full, right modified choke, 30in. special steel barrels, pistol grip,
walnut stock, engraved, weigh
of 16-gauge 6Jlb. to 6-Jslb.
of 12-gauge about Gflb. to 71b.,
DELIVERED,
67/6
We can supply this Gun in 20-gauge, at /4/- extra. 1
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above Gun, which has been made to our own specifica-
tions, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a r*heap, reliable weapon.
Harrington § Richardson’s
ħ
S.B.B.L. Gun,
12-gauge, top
action, solid case
hardened locks,
decarbonised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about 6ilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary Double
Barrel Gun. Noi\-EjeCtOl\ 23/0 J EjcCtOf, 25/-
Postage—2/6 N.S.W. ;
4/8 Inter-State.
Our
Special
Snaps.
Send for our Illustrated
Sports, Fishing and
Tobacco Lists, FREE.
"THE MAINE"
Pifie
c Shewing Pifie A parr.
“THE MAINE” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim Fire. It
is a take-down, and can be taken apart easily and quic y>_ y Slll 'P y
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore arm* Ihe action
used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is exceedingly simp e, con-
sisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18m. long, bored and rifled
with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate to 300yds. ; weight 31b., fitted with plain V back
sight ... ... ... ... ••• ••• r*
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300yds.
Postage on one Riffle —1/3 N.S.W. ; 2/2 Inter-State.
12/6
15 1-
h
REMINGTON RIFLES, No. 6 Model,
22 Calibre R.F., 20in. round blued
steel barrel, weight 3|lb.,
Or with Sliding Sights
16/6
21-
Postage—l/6 N.S.VV.
2/8 Inter-State
MICK SIMMONS, Ltd.
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Branches Hunter St., Newcastle ; 273 Darling St., Balmain ; 197 Oxford St,
Sydney ; Church St., Parramatta ; 113 King St., Newtown.
An Ideal Wine Tonic —a Combination of Choice Wine, Extract of Meat and Extract of Malt.
WINCARNIS
V
ti
Si'Ji
u
\J\m
rfa»*
HID!
&mam SJdflOw
Health and Strength.
To be strong in body, forceful, energetic —to be in perfect health, “ Wincarnis ” is a powerful assistant*
To the mighty millions of our Empire, to the wage-earners of the nation, whose capital is their health,
it is a veritable “ stand-by*” In cases of weakness, caused by over-pressure in the battle of life, feelings
of lassitude, lack of energy, for general breakdown of the nervous system, “ Wmcarnis ** is unapproachable*
POWERFUL TESTIMONY.
13a Inglethorpe Street, London,
S.W.,
Dear Sirs, —Just a few lines to thank you
for the great benefit I have derived from
taking “ Wincarnis.” I was once a great
sufferer from 'lndigestion, also Bad Nerves
and General Weakness; but now, thanks
to “ Wincarnis,” I am a different person. It
has braced me up marvellously. I would never
be without it in the house, for it is a grand
pick-me-up. Thanking you for all the good it
has done me.
Yours faithfully,
E. HILL.
Grand Theatre, Chatham.
Dear Sirs, —I really must write to thank you
for the good “ Wincarnis” has done me, as I really
think, without its help, I should have been quite
unable to have followed my profession. Some
two years ago I went under a very serious oper-
ation, and never seemed to have any strength to
do anything; my voice would leave me, and I was
unable to fulfil my engagements, and I looked so
bad I really thought 1 was going into consump-
tion. I was greatly surprised at the good it did
me, and I have never been without it since, and
I always recommend it as the Tonic of Tonics.
Yours truly, LILY WOOD.
The Supreme Test of Merit is the Benefit you will derive from “Wincarnis.”
Buy a Bottle to-day ! You can get It from your Wine Merchant or any Licensed Chemist or Grocer.
COLEMAN (8b CO., LTD., “Wincarnis” Works, NORWICH, ENG.
Australasian Depot: FASSETT (Kb JOHNSON, 5 and 7 BarracK Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Model “T” Touring Car, 4-cyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials :
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Cheap Edition of “ON THE HOP!’’
pmch 2/6.
Postage —N.S.W., 7d. ; other States, 1/2.
THE BULLETIN Office,- 214 George Street, Sydney.
COOLS AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
LAt T LARQLA
Invaluable
forfheSKlN
In HOT
orCOLD
climafes.
Removes all
IRRITATION
and TAN.
Reg?i
yj LAIT
wro^
Sole;
Makers
M.BEETHAM &SON.
CHELTENHAM,ENGLAND,
Gives a
Perfect
Complexion
Soft
as
Velvet.
LAIT LAROLA
VERY SOOTHING AFTER SHAVING
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED.
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quav. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stoolc,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow f etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
Xshe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PAC*S?T M r TEN sd.


ĥ
REXONA, the Rapid Healer, is an Ointment which is specially
prepared for Burns and Scalds.
If applied promptly it eases the pain at once.
For a common burn, simply rub on a little Rexona, and repeat
again at night, and after a few applications you will find it quite
healed.
If a burn is more severe, use Rexona freely. Spread it on clean
O
linen, and wrap round the in-
jured part in such a way as
to fully exclude the air.
This dressing should he
changed frequently, and the
Rexona applied directly to
the burn or scald.
Not only does Rexona ease
the pain and cause the sore to
heal, but, being an antiseptic
and germicide of the highest
order, it keeps the wound
healthy, and prevents all
danger of blood-poisoning.
Burns and scalds are acci-
dents which are liable to
happen in every household.
Unless you have a tin of
Rexona in your home now
at the present time, you are not prepared against such dangers.
Be wise, be prepared. Get a tin to-day.
The little 12-months-old baby of Mrs. Ella Halliday, Margaret Street,
Norwood, S.A., had a wonderful recovery from a severe burn by the use of
Rexona. Mrs. Halliday writes as follows:
“My little baby, aged 12 months, burnt his arm to the bone. He fell on the
stove and got a terrible burn. The poor little dear cried for hours, the pain was so
bad. It had been bad for three weeks. I had tried all kinds of Ointments, but
none seemed to do him any good, and he seemed to be getting worse every day. I
• did not know what to do with him until I heard of this new Ointment called
Rexona. I tried it, and the first application did him a lot of good. After two
more applications baby's burn was quite cured without leaving a mark. It seemed
to draw the pain out, and had a great soothing effect.”
Rexona is a tried and proved specific for Burns, Scalds, Running Sores,
Bad Legs, Eczema, Piles, Chilblains, Varicose Veins, Chapped Hands, Sore
Peet, Scabs on the Head, Pimples, Blackheads, Ringworms, Erysipelas and
all Skin Diseases.
Rexona Is sold everywhere in triangular pots at ts. 6d., and in large pots at 35., holding
nearly four times the quantity, or will be sent post free upon receipt of the price by the
Laxo-Tonic Pill Co., 15 0 Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE RAPID HEALER
HORROCKSES’
GRAND PRIZE
FRANCO - BRITISH
EXHIBITION, 1908
G. & G. 603
LONGCLOTHS and
MADAPOLAMS
have a guarantee if HORROCKSES*
name is on the Selvedges, that they
are getting the very best that the
Old Country Produces.
Decline all Substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
Use the
“NUGGET” POLISHES.
WATERPROOF x
was
TRADE
REGIS
MARK
TEREO
Ifather
rsDfi**
FRO*
for Patent. Glace Kid,Box
Calf and other Leathers.
Melbourne
DOUBLE THE LIFE OF YOUR BOOTS
“A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH”
Post Free 6d. from “The
Bulletin ” Office
The Gamblers.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
PETER was seated on the stable roof,
eating bread and jam. By this you
would know it was the time of afternoon.
From that lofty position he could command an
admirable view of his world, and fling stones at
most of it with considerable accuracy.
Just over the roof to the right was the Wes-
leyan Chapel, so near that it was mere boredom
to lob stones on it, and so high that it formed a
standard of comparison by which Peter measured
such minor things as fowl-sheds or fences, or any
other things which a Humane Society erects for
small boys to climb upon.
From the roof he could look down upon the
yard, and suffer sore temptation to pelt at fowls.
He could look upon his father’s house and the
groom’s room alike, the groom’s room being
eminently the more desirable dwelling of the two.
There was the kitchen garden to speculate upon,
and the front garden—valuable because of several
good climbing trees. And beyond that lay the
less important portion of Peter’s world comprised
in the township of Redheap.
Peter finished off his piece, and looked about
for an excuse to become active again. There was
a stone on the roof, so he threw that at the parson’s
horse, in a perfunctory manner, as though it were
a trifling duty which he had overlooked; and
then, finding no other sins of omission in the way
of stones, he had a look through the spy-hole.
The spy-hole was a small orifice cut in the roof to
look at robbers through. At present it merely
commanded a very dim view of the loft, but there
was a certain exhilaration in knowing that, if
robbers were to come into the loft, he could see
them easily through that hole. He had a very
thin shingle, nailed by a very small nail, sticking
•out into the yard, and this he dignified in his
mind as “ the plank.’’ It was for pirates to walk
on, it being a fact well known to Peter that
walking the plank was one of the invariable
habits of pirates. There was also an iron bolt
tied to a piece of string to swing round the head,
a bottle with the end knocked out to make loud
sounds with, and a tin tobacco box containing
two screws, a piece of lead, a chop bone, a dead
lizard, and a piece of soap, though what they
were doing on the roof was rather a mystery.
No doubt, there were occasions when any boy
might find a screw, or a piece of lead, or a chop
bone, or even a putrifying lizard handy to have
about him ; but the presence of the soap was
wholly inexplicable.
However, there being no signs of robbers about,
Peter took a tour round the roof and discovered
another hole that looked into the buggy sued.
The groom was in there piucking a towl, so
Peter was enabled to spit on his friend’s hat
without difficulty.
The groom endured this passing office of friend-
ship with an agreeable humor till he had occasion
to remove his hat to scratch his head, upon which
he saw tit to become a trifle dignified about it.
“Drop gobbin’on a bloke, d’yer see, or I’ll
take an’ warm yer,” he said ; so Peter obligingly
desisted and fell to practising a complicated
whistle that involved the aid of two rather grimy
fingers.
He was deeply absorbed in this business when he
was disturbed by a shrill yodelling sound, about as
difficult to locate as the chirp of a locust. Peter
instantly set up a piercing yodel in answer, and a
small boy of about Peter’s age, in an Eton suit
and a large straw hat, darted into the lane and
anxiously searched the landscape.
“ What-o, Jo-ho ! ” yelled Peter.
After a vacant period J o located his friend, and
gave a howl of recognition.
“Peto, what-o!” he screamed.
“ Come up,” shouted Peter.
Jo shook his head violently, and holding up
three fingers pointed down the flat and yodelled
exultantly.
Peter, to whom this pantomime was evidently
intelligible, ran straight at the edge of the roof,
cast his legs over, found a projecting nail with
one toe, and came down with a rush on the
fowlhouse.
‘“How much?” he asked, breathlessly, scram-
. bling over the fence.
“Thrummer,” said Joe, showing the coin, and
; the two small boys ran off together, in such evi-
*dent concord as clearly showed that there was
regarding the question of ‘‘thrummers.”
The flat ran down by the local gasworus, and
i. beyond that to the Chinese camp. Half-way
down there was a house with a high hedge and a
. white gate, and from behind the white gate, for
;>;all the world as if he had been waiting for the
imprecise moment, there darted a small tubby lad in
long trousers, who bolted straight across with the
evident intention of cutting off Peter and Jo be-
fore they reached the corner.
Peter and Jo pulled up instantly. Peter gave
an exhibition of passion on the spot, by snatching
up a rock and dashing it into the gutter.
‘‘Three cakes of Fyshang ain’t enough for
three,” he said ferociously. ** They’reon’y enough
for one and a half.”
“ ’Nless we chuck for it,” said Jo doubtfully.
“’N’ then we might on’y get two, or one,” said
Peter, in anguish at the idea.
The situation was certainly desperate, and they
conferred anxiously. Then they set off briskly
and met the tubby lad at the corner with well-
acted astonishment. Peter was particularly
effusive in the warmth of his greeting.
“Good old Bill-o,’’ he said, patting the tubby
lad repeatedly on the back.
Bill was evidently too keen a diplomat to be
deceived by a mere pat on the back. He had the
brow of a logician, and he appeared to be endowed
with the faculty of profound contemplation.
In Peter and Jo’s attitude before him there was
something clearly deprecatory, as it might be of
two laymen in the presence of an astute lawyer.
Bill eyed them up and down, as though arrang-
ing in his mind the various heads of his impend-
ing cross-examination, and then put a leading
• question.
“ Where yer going ? ”
“ Peter’s goin’ for their cow,” said Jo.
Bill turned to Peter, and waited for him to con-
firm this statement.
“I’m goin’ for our cow,” said Peter, without
looking at Bill.
It s a bit off having to look for cows,” added
• Jo, without looking at anybody.
It s a bit off if he’s fell, down a hole,” said
Peter to Jo.
“He’s a fair terror for failin’down holes, vour
• ■cow, said Jo to Peter.
They paused and looked nnxioudy at Bill. Bill
looked particularly profoundjand.made a chirrup-
ing sound. , . , -r, ,
He looked so verv profound that Peter was im-
pelled to try and put the whole responsibility of
the affair on to the cow.
“ He’s-the rottenest cow out, our cow, he said.
“ I suppose he’s about five miles up the diggings,
or lost, or something. Me an’ Jo 11 have to find
him. On’y, don’t you come, Bill, he added,
generously, “because, you know, it am t up to
much fun lookin’for cows.”
At this, Bill livened up. He laughed subtly.
He came close up to Peter and chirruped in his
fa< “ Your cow’s up the paddock,” he said.
“ He ain’t,” roared Peter, enraged.
Bill chirruped like a fruit garden full of spar-
rows, and there was quite an uproar for a moment,
because Peter had to hoot for all he was worth to
cover his confusion.
But Bill refused to allow Peter’s hoots to mate-
rially affect the situation.
“ You can’t kid me about your cow, he said;
and he kept that obvious fact so persistently before
the company that Peter was utterly unable to con-
trol his passion.
“All right !” he roared. “ You won t get none
of our toffee—y’ see ! ”
At that magic word there was an instant change
in Bill’s attitude.
He stopped chirruping and looked perturbed,
and Peter, having fatally put his own pot on,
looked perturbed too.
But Bill was equal to the emergency, and the
first indication of his profound powers of diplo-
macy was a distinctly conciliatory note in his
chirrup.
His next move was to pat Peter on the back.
This was so far successful as to remove Peter’s
scowl and cause an expression of doubt to take
possession of his countenance.
His next was to produce from his pocket a half-
eaten pear, which he held up in an inviting
manner before the company.
Peter and Joe regarded the pear, and an in-
voluntary movement of their lips showed that
they were deeply interested. Peter, however,
did his best to maintain a firm and dignified
attitude.
“Pears ain’t up to much,” he said.
Bill laughed in a manner that insinuated that
there were pears and pears, and that this pear in
particular was one of the rarest. Then he took a
bite of that pear, and munched with such an ex-
pression of enjoyment that Peter’s dignity melted
away like butter in the sun.
“Sharin’s, Bill,” he suggested humbly.
Bill thoughtfully took a few bites while con-
sidering this proposition, and then showed his
appreciation of the delicacy of the situation by a
hint.
“ What price toffee? ” he said.
At this Peter and Joe hurriedly explained that
the toffee was as yet a mere delightful prospect,
but Bill was disposed to speculate on the strength
of the threepence.
So the pear was shared and the small boys ate
it, and then ran off amicably to the camp, yodel-
ling and prancing and jumping all the gutters.
The Chinese camp was a miserable collection of
shanties in the last stages of decay. The roofs
bulged in and the walls bulged out, and where the
whole affair threatened to collapse the sides were
propped up with saplings.
The roofs were piled up with rocks to keep the
wind from blowing them off, the general rule
being that the more decrepit the roof, the more
enormous the rocks required to keep it on. There
were holes in all the shanties, some of which
were patched with tin, while some were not.
Some of the doors owned enormous padlocks,
while the house was entered by a hole in the wall.
There were some old Chinamen so infatuated in
their perversity as to prefer dwelling in a desper-
ate ruin with half a roof and two walls, while
houses in comparatively good repair were utterly
deserted.
A number of old Chinamen were seated in the
roadway, nursing little half-caste children. They
appeared to be entirely at the command of a
shock-headed lady in deshabille, who was smoking
a short pipe in the doorway of the only prosper-
ous-looking shanty in the camp.
Bestowing familiar greeting on the old nursing
Chinamen by name, the three small boys pushed
open the door of an aged shanty and called loudly
on the name of Sin Kum.
“ Wha’ for?” roared a voice from somewhere in
the rear of the premises.
“ He’s cookin’,” said Peter, hurriedly. “ See if
his tin’s about anywhere.”
There was a simultaneous rush for Sin Kum’s
bedroom —a dank, evil-smelling kennel almost in
total darkness, containing a dungheap of a mat-
tress and an opium tray. They found an old,
rusty meat-saw and a basket; but nothing in the
shape of food except a jar containing an evil-
looking preserve, the aroma of which justified a
suspicion that it might be poisoned and conse-
quently unsafe to eat.
Disappointed in this matter, they trailed in
procession to tne back yard, where they found Sin
Kum, a morose old Chinaman—if the word may
be applied to any old Chinaman by way of dis-
tinction —holding a post-mortem on the remains of
a fowl.
“ What-o, Sin Kum. How yer popping?”
said the small boys with brotherly familiarity.
Sin Kum dissected a portion of the fowl’s in-
terior, and then indicated Peter imperatively
with the chopper.
“You buy?” he demanded.
“No, him buy,” said Peter, indicating Jo.
“ How muchee you buy?” inquired Sin Kum
of Jo.
“Tee lee pen,” said Joe, showing the three-
pence.
Sin Kum was apparently satisfied, by the sight
of this wealth, that the object of the visit was
honorable.
“ All li—bim-bye,” he said, and returned to his
post-mortem, the small boys squatting round him
to watch the operation at their ease. They were
very soon interested, and anxious for information
regarding the fowl.
“ What you do with him, Sin Kum?” inquired
Bill, indicating an unseemly mess of fowl’s in-
nards, which Sin Kum had preserved in a pot —
“ You eat him?”
“ Eat him—all li—welly ni,” said Sin Kum.
Peter esteemed this reply a matter for humor,
and laughed heartily.
“By cripes! I wouldn’t like to have to eat
him,” he said, hilariously.
“Chows’ll eat anything,” remarked Joe, as a
piece of general information.
“ They’ll eat cats any day,” said'Peter.
“They’ll eat dogs, too, when they’re handy,”
said Bill.
Peter took exception to this statement as being
improbable, and instantly he and Bill were
involved in a frantic argument.
“It’s the known fact that they do eat dogs,”
shouted Bill. “It can be proved.”
“Prove it.”
“ Prove it yerself.”
(Continued on next page.)


Piles
MANY
YEARS.
Could Hot Sleep—ltching and Irritation Unbearable.
Many Treatments Prove Useless. | “
Mr. D. JONES,
Cab and Coach Proprietor.
CONVINCING evidence of the great curative
virtues of Bile Beans for piles—that most
weakening and distressing of the many
painful complaints that afflict mankind —comes
from Mr. D. Jones, a well-known cab and coach
proprietor, of Barker Street, Casino, N.S.W.
He says: “I have much pleasure in testifying, for
the benefit of fellow sufferers, to the excellent results
obtained from Bile Beans.
“ For some years I suffered from piles in its‘itching’
form, brought on through working in wet mines. The
extreme itching and irritation caused me intense suffer-
ing, and deprived me of many hours of rest.
“ I tried numerous so-called remedies in my en-
deavors to obtain relief, but they did me no good. I was
about sick of trying first one thing and then another
when Bile Beans were recommended to me by a friend
as a proved cure for my complaint. I acted on the advice and tried Bile Beans,
and after using them for a little while I was pleased to find they had effected a
complete cure. This having been about twelve months ago, and the piles not
having returned, I am perfectly satisfied that the cure is a permanent one- I
always keep a box of Bile Beans on hand, and can confidently recommend them.”
NATURE’S REMEDY PURELY VEGETABLE.
When at all run down a short course of Bile Beans will soon restore good
health and strength. Bile Beans remove all impurities from the body
and tone up the liver and digestive organs, and make life worth living.
A dose or two of Bile Beans in time may save pounds in doctors’ bills
and prevent a long and serious illness. Bile Beans banish headache]
liver trouble, biliousness, constipation, bad breath, nervousness, that tired
ile
eans
FOR
'sness
feeling, debility,
heat fag, anaemia,
female a i 1-
ments, etc. Sold
by all chemists
and stores at 1/1!
per box, or 2/9
special family
size (containing
three times the
1/1| box), or post
free from the Bile
Bean Co., 39 Pitt
Street, Sydney.
THE.
QUESTION of the DAY.
Xhe question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on tbe otber Hand
tHat is, on botH Hands, and on the
face, and on ihe skin generally-you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tbe skin’s HealtH and beauty. There
can be no question about that.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
“ Ah Foo’s got a dog, and so’s Jimmy Ah Wah,
and they don’t eat them,” roared Peter. “So
that proves it.’’
“Old Monkey John’s gotter dog—on’y he’s
dead,” remarked Jo, as an additional piece of
evidence for the defence.
But as Bill persisted m refusing to accept Peter
or Jo as authority on the habits of Chinamen, the
matter was put before Sin Kum as an expert.
“You eatem dogs, any day?” demanded Peter
of Sin Kum.
“You likee welly ni dogs, Sin Kum?” said
Bill, persuasively.
“ No fee—no likee dlogs,” remarked Sin Kum,
absorbed in his post-mortem.
“Narked yer,” roared Peter to Bill in an
ecstasy of self-congratulation.
“ He does eat dogs—he eats them any day he
likes,” shouted Bill. “loughter know, because
I read it in a book.”
“ I reckon Sin Kum ougliter know a bit more
about Chows than you,” said Peter, contemptu-
ously.
“ You think yer know a fat lot about Chows,”
said Bill. “You must be a Chow.”
Fortunately. Jo caused a diversion as Bill
raised this delicate point of discussion. He had
wandered into a small outhouse and evidently
found something of an interesting nature. Bill
and Peter hastily entered the outhouse, and found
Jo trying to secrete a small melon up his waist-
coat.
With their assistance he got it mostly up, where
it protruded in a most enormous and undignified
bulge, refusing to admit of more than two buttons
fastening.
“ No one’d notice it,” said Peter, looking side-
ways at the melon, to see if it appeared smaller
that way.
“ By cripes, it feels a bit tight,” said Jo, whose
countenance was almost purple in his effort to
breathe with facility under the melon.
“See if it fits me better,” said Bill. So the
melon was tried in Bill’s waistcoat with even less
success. They tried it in Peter’s, and burst two
buttons. They tried it up the backs of their
coats, and it merely fell out again. Then Bill
conceived a brilliant idea.
"Cut it in half,” he said. It was done, and
the melon was disposed of—half under Jo’s and
half under Bill’s waistcoat.
They found some incense sticks which they took
to light crackers with. They took some tinsel off
a dilapidated Joss, who seemed to scowl in im-
potent indignation over the state of his shrine ;
and they took a carrot. They would have taken
a pumpkin but for the utter impossibility of
secreting it with any hope of success.
This eminently satisfactory business finished,
they sallied out and found Sin Kum, for reasons
doubtless known to himself, pushing pieces of
cane into the fowl. He put the fowl into a pan,
and the pan into the outhouse, and was then free
to attend to business.
“ How muchee you buy ? ” he demanded.
“ No buy—shake, Sin Kum,” said Jo.
“Shake—all li’,” said Sin Kum, with evident
approval, and led the way inside. In the palmy
days of the diggings, when even Chinamen had
money to burn, Sin Kum’s house had been a cook-
shop in rather a large way. There were still the
ruins of numerous benches and tables, and on one of
these Sin Kum placed a china bowl containing
three dice.
“Tee lee shot, Sin Kum,” said Joe, putting
down the threepence.
“ Tee lee shot—tee lee pen—all li,” chanted Sin
Kum.
He changed the threepenny piece for three cop-
pers, and retired to the back, whence, after a
mysterious absence, he returned with a biscuit
tin, which was hailed exultantly.
“ Let’s see how much there’s in him, Sin Kum,
old bloke,” said Bill, affectionately.
Sin Kum saw fit to refuse the request, and also,
for reasons probably known to himself, kept a
tight hold of the tin during the whole of the
business.
It was adjudged that Peter should try his luck
first, he having commanded Fortune on the last
occasion, and there was a breathless pause while
Sin Kum threw.
“Thirteen,” counted Bill. “Pete ought to
beat thirteen.”
Peter frowned portentously, picked up the dice,
and threw eighteen. Instantly the three small
boys set up a terrific shouting.
“ Sudden death, Sin Kum—sudden death!” they
yelled, and Bill made a desperate effort to get at
the tin.
“No fee—tee lee shot,” protested Sin Kum,
indignantly.
“Itelfyou sudden death,” yelled Peter. “I
said it—gimme me cake.”
"Give him his cake,” chanted Bill and Jo in
chorus.
“ All li,” said Sin Kum, stolidly, taking up the
basin. “Nothlow.”
This strategic decision at once quelled the dis-
turbance.
“ All right,” said Peter indignantly, “we give
in,” and the business was resumed.
“Fourteen,” counted Bill anxiously, when Sin
Kum had thrown.
Peter drew a deep breath, and encouraged by
his friend to “go it,” at length went it, with a
most satisfactory result.
“Fifteen,” howled Bill ecstatically. “Done
him easy.”
There was a great deal of undignified triumph
a t Sin Kum’s expense, while he produced a. cake
of peanut toffee, dusted the flour from it into the
tin, and deposited it on the table, where the three
small boys exulted over it.
They were jubilant when the throwing began
again, and Sin Kum stolid. At the end of the
throw he was still stolid, but the small boys were
not so jubilant.
“That’ll show yer what luck is,” said Bill dis-
gustedly, as Sin Kum pouched the copper.
“ Anyhow, I got oneouter him,” said Peter.
“ He ain|t a very big one,” said Bill, measuring
the cake with his thumb.
“ I suppose you kid yourself yer could get one
as big as a house,” sneered Peter; and after they
had left that question still unsettled, there was a
fresh wrangle over who should throw next.
“ I ain’t goin’ to chance it,” remarked Jo firmly.
“ I killed a robin Thursday week.”
Bill and Peter quite agreed that it would be
mere recklessness to tempt Fortune after such a
mishap ; but there was a prolonged and heated
argument before they could settle who was
best qualified to risk the second penny.
“Oh, all right, then,” said Peter at length;
“you reckon you know a bit about the game.
Beat him —that’s all I say ! Beat him ! ”
Bill clearly felt that the responsibility was on
him to accomplish that desirable end. It was
clear, also, that he was not going to take any un-
necessary risks. He spat over both shoulders,
and then on both his boots. He made a great
fuss about cleaning some flour out of the bowl,
and when at length he took up the dice in his
hand, delayed such an unconscionable time before
he could bring himself to make the plunge that
Peter’s patience was exhausted.
“ Throw 1 Why don’t yer throw ? ” he yelled
suddenly, and so upset the serious nature of Bill’s
calculations that he promptly fell into a passion.
“ Yer’ve put me clean off now,” he said ; and,
just to prove it, he went through the whole per-
formance again, with a few additions. But the
result clearly justified a little extra trouble of that
sort, for he threw 16, and nearly went out of his
mind with satisfaction.
“It on’y shows yer,” he said warningly to
Peter; and Peter, having handsomely acknow-
ledged his error, they requested Sin Kum to have
a throw.
He threw 16, and a perfect howl of anguish
greeted his performance.
“ It on’y shows you what luck Chows have got,”
said Peter; and Bill’s preparations before he could
be induced to throw again were unending. But
all he turned up was a miserable five, while Sin
Kum threw 16 without an effort.
There was a mighty fuss between Bill and
Peter over this, and Bill suggested that, as Peter
seemed to think he knew everything, he’d better
have a try himself. Having failed to induce
Peter to take his place, B 11 insisted on Sin Kum
throwing first, and there was a breathless silence
while he threw.
“ Seve.n,”said Bill, greatly relieved ; “lougliter
beat that easy.”
As one assured of Fortune, he threw carelessly,
and Fortune, with a fiendish grin, turned him up
a despicable four.
“Now, I hope yer think yer funny,” said
Peter, enraged. “Yer can’t beat seven.”
Bill was furious. He fell on the penny, and
made a desperate effort to balance with Fate by
knocking over the bowl, and then protesting to
Heaven that Sin Kum had only thrown four.
“Sevum—by Cli ! ” roared Sin Kum, enraged
at this base deception. “ Wha’for vou call’em
fo’ ? ”
“Ep—gee—som—say!—Four!” shouted Bill,
counting on his fingers. “ You throwem four, me
throwem four, so throw again, or you won’t get
yer penny.”
“You cheatem, by Cli!” yelled Sin Kum.
“Four—no fee—sevum, by Cli ! Wlia’ for you
cheat?”
“ Wha’ for—l never,” shouted Bill. “It was a
tie.”
Sin Kum spread out the dice in a fury and
burst into impassioned oration.
“One shot — sixeyteen, tie, all li. Two shot,
sixeyteen, fi, all li. Tee lee shot, Severn, four—
you knockein d’lice — you takem pen —wha’ for ? ”
Bill tried so desperately to howl down this
lucid conception of the affair that Sin Kum, as
the saying goes, did his block in.
He aimed a frantic blow at Bill and missed (
him, and then he turned on Peter, who
was trying to get at the tin, and gave him
a sharp rap on his head with his fist. Such
was the pandemonium at this—Peter and Bill
sparring away like clockwork just out of Sin
Kum’s reach, and Jo making offers at Sin Kum’s
skull with a piece of board—that one old China-
man looked in at the door and said “ Wha’ for? ”
Then, seeing it was merely a business affair of
Sin Kum’s, he went away again, and several
voices said “ Wha’ for?” from various parts of the
camp in tones of indignant remonstrance.
“ All li,” roared Sin Kum at last, in despera-
tion. “You allee same lallikin—you dam’ bad
feller —you cheat, by Cli! No thlow, by Cli ! ”
and he banged the basin recklessly into the tin,
banged down the lid and glared ferociously at
Bill, as though he contemplated banging the lot
at his head.
At this ultimatum Bill and Peter ceased spar-
ring and Jo lowered the board.
“All right, then,” said Jo. “Give him his
bloomin’ penny.” So the penny was handed to
Sin Kum, who took it without thanks for such
tardy justice, and produced the basin again.
“Bill’s luck’s out,” said Peter. “it ain’t any
use hiin.thr.owin’ again.”
“I was just gettiu’ me hand in,” said Bill.
“If he hadn’t got that last shot-Fd a won him
easy.”
Peter forbore to suggest that this statement
verged on the platitude.
“The fact is, your Ihck’sout,” he said, deci-
sively, and the case being too desperate for argu-
ment, it was decided best for Peter to throw.
He spat on his hands and made a great show of
resolution. There was no humble propitiation of
the gods of Chance about his attitude. There
was defiance and contempt in it, both for those
ungracious deities and for Sin Kum, their officiat-
ing High Priest. ; Such behavior marks the
desperate gambler.
“ Sudden death,” he said, arrogantly. “ None
of yer blooming old tee lee shots this time.”
Sin Kum merely assured himself that the
penny was in position, and threw.
“Seven,” said Peter, derisively. “I always
beat seven.”
He threw six !! !
Exactly at the same moment Sin Kum grabbed
at the penny, and Bill made a frenzied rush at the
tin. Sin Kum got the penny, and Bill got a
handful of flour. He might just as well have got
a handful of cakes while he was about it, for in
addition to the flour, he got a swinging punch on
the head from Sin Kum’s bony fist.
For a moment things were so busy that Sin
Kum had hardly time to yell. Before lie had
quite finished dealing with Bill, Peter had fas-
tened his clutches on the tin, and while Sin Kum
was attending to him, Jo got the board into posi-
tion and hit him a sounding crack on the skull
with it.
Tne ear-splitting yell that greeted this piece of
strategy aroused a mighty chorus of “ Wha’ for ?”
from all over the camp, and Sin Kum ran down
the passage with the tin shouting “Wlia’ for?”
himself.
When he ran back again he was still shouting
“Wha’for?” but the urgency of his desire for
information was considerably emphasised by the
addition of a long bamboo.
This was the signal for the visitors to depart,
and they departed in a mighty hurry, and Bill,
who had not quite finished his fandango over Sin
Kum’s punch, got pushed in the back as he ran
out at the door.
Sin Kum chased them well out of the camp,
and they ran all the way to the Bed Bridge! on'
their own account. It was about a mile away
and they ran there, partly because of the bamboo
and partly because the deafening transit of occa-
sional trains was considered greatly exhilarating
to the enjoyment of food.
But the melon proved to be unripe, and the pro-
cess of dividing the cake of toffee into three parts
of mathematical equality, and the exceeding
smallness of the parts when divided, caused mis-
anthropy to distinguish the proceedings under
the Red Bridge. But they ate the one
cake of toffee, and they ate the melon, and
then they ate the carrot. Then, there being
nothing else to eat, they sat under the
bridge till the five o’clock train went overhead,
and though the passing of the five o’clock train
was deafening to an extreme degree, it hardly
compensated for the lack of those cakes of Fy-
Shang toffee squandered at the altar of the gods
of Chance.
NOBMAN LINDSAY.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
ħ
If so, Why not purchase a musical
instrument that is easy to learn, has a
wonderful VOLUME OF TONE
Melba
are just perfection for song accompan-
iment, dance and picnic music, grand
organ-like tone. 3 popular models.
The organ-toned Melba, 3 sets Bell
Metal Reeds, price 22/6 post free.
The Accordeon
with
The Silver Tone
The Dance King, 4 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 30/- post free.
The Picnic Model, 2 sets Bell Metal
Reeds, price 15/- post free.
OTHER MODELS—ALL PRICES—ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE POST FREE.
Sole Agents, ALLAN V CO., P'ty. Ltd., 276-8 Collins St., Melb., Bendigo, Geelong.
I
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections*
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DIUNEFORDSI
MAGNESIA,
▲
EVERY MAN AND WOMAN
no matter how good their general health and constitution may be,
must honestly admit that occasionally, at any rate, they feel rather
run down, and in need of something to correct wrong conditions and
bring them up to the mark. In such cases there is nothing better
than BEECHAM’S PILLS. A single dose will often be found
sufficient to remove the trouble and restore health and buoyancy of
spirits. Compounded with the utmost care from the purest in-
gredients, these pills are specially prepared for the relief and cure of
those stomachic ailments which, when neglected, may become serious.
BEECHAM’S PILLS are the finest tonic aperients in the world,
and enjoy the greatest popularity amongst men and women in all
ranks of society. Under the stress and strain of modern life everyone
SOMETIMES NEEDS
a little medicine. If you keep a box of BEECHAM’S PILLS
by you, in the home or in your travelling bag, you have at
hand a convenient, well-tried remedy which will quickly relieve
any derangement of the digestive organs. Disorders arising from
errors of diet, impure state of the blood, sluggish liver and kidneys,
sedentary occupation, and so forth, are easily remedied by the use of
BEECHAM’S
PILLS.
Many people find a periodical dose of this medicine of the utmost value
in keeping them “Fit,” clear-headed, alert and bright for the business
and pleasure of life. It is no exaggeration to say that everyone
would be the better for an occasional dose of BEECHAM’S PILLS.
THE WORLD’S FAMILY MEDICINE.
Sold in boxes labelled, price (36 pills), Is. (56 pills)
and 2s. 9d. (68 pills).
WOLFE’
'-'M- ' -
The Family Stimulant.
FOR MEN
FOR WOMEN
SCHNAPPS
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
Blairs
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Neuer Faff.
They Always Cure.
Pills
Rheumatism that has stood the test Of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box
, PROUT ft Co.) 229. Strand,
'London. England
GO U T
© S
honestly and without charge
CONSULT
Me on AH
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending all over Aus-
tra/a as a Consultant
Chen ist. Write to me!
fully ! bout your case
and I will advise you
S.H.HENSHALL,
Reprd. Chemist,
by Examination
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne.
fXIHE BULLETIN POST CARDS.-New
| Series. IV.. V.. VI. Packet of Twelve, (id;
Packet of Ten, sd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Offioe,
214 George Street, Sydney.
DR. J. COLDS BROWNE’S
The Original and Only Genuine
Convincing
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
-1/I*, 2/9 & 4/6
h
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
Best
Remedy
known for
GOUGHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
BRONCHITIS.
Acts like a charm in
t and is the only
apeoifio in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
C. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd
Circular Pointed
ĥ
Seven
Prize Medals.
Works: Birmingham, England
ħ
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention 's also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
- _ jpi) V
3
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
Strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEiRNE & BREAKSPEAR,
290 SUSSEX STREET,
Tin Standard itemedy which has outlived the Centime#
SINGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT.
Australian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak,Sight
Ask your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210, Lambeth Koad. Loudon, Eng.
I> use since ISM.
“ MjsSisijf
CURES
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
l/- EACH POST FREE \/Z
i Quality Not Better
I in a
I Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
y TOREKSEPfRS a, TrmACCOM.STS
SHOULO SCAB FM 01/R TRADE UST\
ASTHMA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES I
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Nerrsns Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
relieved by GItIMAOT/C A Co's INDIAN CIGAII-
ETTES. Sold tw #ll Chemist*.
h
Superior to
INJECTIONS
kCUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases •without
Inconvenience
in
48 hours.
ĥ
lath Capsule bears the name
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recommend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V.BudgerreePoFt
Nature’s Gift.
PORT
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is —we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0. for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 MoKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.
"VXTHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
W tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.


Perdriau Rubber
Garden Hose.
Sf\
We produce four distinct grades
of Hobo at our Drummoyne
factory, under registered trade
marks, as follows:
The “Prospect” Is the best
hose that can be made at a low
price. The “ Barren «laok ”is a
strong hose, and will give excel-
lent wear with ordinary service.
The “ Cataract ” is a high-grade
black hose of best quality, suit-
able for high pressure and con-
stant service. The “ Watershed ”
is the very best hose obtainable,
and is made with pure red rubber
covering. Resists sunburn, perish, kinking, splitting
and bursting, better than any other kind.
Call and inspect our stock, or write for free samples
and price list.
PERDRIAU RUBBER CO., LTD.,
“Xhe Best House for all Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
Willans & Robinson, Limited,
Electrical Generators,
Blowers, Fans,
etc., etc.
Ajvtvg
\tsv^
For. . •
High Pressure
and
Mixed Pressure Steam.
AUSTRALIAN
AGENCY:
T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.„
Fibro-Cement
WHAT IS IT? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with Asbestos. It has the strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
light, durable, cool, ant- and fire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made in Slates for roofing, Red, Grey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2£ln. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “ B ” to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY ; and
581-583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
The bulletin post cards-now
Series. IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten, sd.
o
UP-TO-DATE AND
THE
USE
&
Electric Shearing Machines.
British Made. Therefore Reliable.
Write tor Information to
~ DALGETY & CO. LTD.,
\ SOLE AGENTS.
r/ o
o
X
o
Reliable Motive Power
h
to drive Shearing Machines, Chaffcutters,
Saws, Pumps, etc.
TANGYES Oil Engines
Stationary or Portable Types. All Sizes. Very
simple to Operate. Require practically no attention.
Where a PORTABLE STEAH ENGINE
is required we strongly recommend
The Clayton ff Shuttleworlh"
WELL KNOWN AMONGST AGRICULTURISTS!
ĥ
ħ
h
Miller’s Point,
SYDNEY.
ĥ
ħ
A
C
E
h
ĥ
ħ
mm
Q
AMP
A SPECIALTY.
STAERKER & FISCHER,
40 Clarence St, Sydney. 172 William St., Melbourne.
< A
h
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers,
St. George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
7 Pirie Street, ADELAIDE.
MANNESMANN WELDLESS
STEEL PIPES.
A Perfect Substitute for Cast Iron.
DRINK
BECK’S LAGER
Laidlaw-Dunn Cordon Air Compressors
STEAM and BELT-DRIVEN MACHINES on show.
CHERSEN ROCK DRILLS.
Inspection to our Showrooms invited.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD..
263 George St., Sydney;
525 Gollins St., Melbourne.
k*
5.=
WH
