

;WAR'S THE whisky of whiskies
R. Gr. WATKINS SZ CO.,
107 Kent street, Sydney,
' - - -FOR—
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
_______ EXPLOSIVES,* BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
ĥ
Diesel
Oil Engines.
Very Economical.
The only Engines using Crude Oil.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne,
S.A. Agent: C. C. DELANO, Bowman’s Bldgs., Adelaide.
—aH#s—i-
fiadleys Orient Ijotel.
lONEE
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
«/. C. Ludow/ci & Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY.
~=\
Take it back.
I must have
HUTTON’S
Pine-Appk Brand
HAMS S
BACON.
WITH PATENT ASBESTOS INNER DOORS
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
USE
ħ
h
For INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these speoially-prepared Tablets acts most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prise Medals.
1
&
,v?»
*«/
THE SECRET OF IT’S POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
//V x/*
V ,V
S «r
9
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
MANNESMANN SPIGOT & FAUCET TUBES
The light weight of these Tubes makes transport easy .
AGENTS - NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY) LTD., 109 PITT STREET.
rmm
wmmm’ ■
m
r. tv , y
' 'mm
wSmJ-i-M
«
'*N!OtQi
ES&?
rHifti
Illustration of the Federal Capital and Malthoid.
"A good beginning is half the battle.” MALTHOID has been
used on the first buildings of the Federal Capital, so the Government
began well.
There is no doubt that MALTHOID ROOFING will give abso-
lute satisfaction. It has been used on thousands of buildings of
all classes throughout the world.
Write us for further particulars.
THE PARAFFINE PAINT COMPANY (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER),
OHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN PLAGE, SYDNEY.
HOPPER WAGGONS.
ROAD-MAKING PLANTS
A SPECIALTY.
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T -
ĥ
THE CLYDE
ENGINEERING
COMPANY L T ?
locomotive Builders,
General, Mining and
Agricultural
Engineers.
Bridge Builders.
FRICTION CLUTCHES and CLUTCH PULLEYS.
MANURE DRYERS, STEAM ENGINES.
C. 4. MACDONALD LTD.,
63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
CREAM
BUTTER FACTORY REQUISITES.
HELIDON SPA WATER
The Helidon Spa Water Co., in its extensive distribution, has
placed “'the rational water cure ” within reach of all.
i
DEWHURST 8 HAILORAN. Itl
A*™**
The Bulletin
Vol. 31.—N0. 1596.]
[Thursday, September 15, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


NEW BOORS.
■ - -
ROBERTSON'S, 238 PITT STREET
(Opposite Sydney School op Arts). A
DAVID GRAHAM PHILLIP’S WHITE MAGIC, 3s. 6d., posted 4s.
A story of a persistent young' woman who falls deeply in love.
NEW AUSTRALIAN BOOKS.
Some Children’s Songs, by Marion Aisop, words by Dorothy P. Macrae, designed by Edith Alsop, cloth 6s, paper
cover 3s 6d, postage Sd.
The Hio-h Li"-ht: A Souvenir Volume, by the Adelaide Drawing and Sketch Club, Is, posted Is 3d.
Emerson E. S.: A Shanty Entertainment, Is, posted Is 2d.
Halstead, J. : Notes on Gardening and Elementary Agriculture, 3s 6d, posted 3s lOd.
CEO ROBERTSON & CO., PROP. LTD., Booksellers and Stationers, 238 PITT, STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“ EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic
suited for Old and Young.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Medical
Press and Cir-
cular says
“These -Jujubes
should be of
special service
to L e c t u r e r s,
Public Singers
and Speakers,
and indeed to
all who are
called upon to
use their voices
frequently for
prolonged
periods.”
The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
The Trachea or
Windpipe.
D P
< fa
The Bronchial
Tubes of a dis-
sected Lung-.
The Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by Chemists, tins 1/6 post free on receipt of
stamps from HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL
COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
The RED PAGE
Life and Romance
One of the Vises of great men which Emer-
son did not dwell upon is that of drawing
attention to the merits of less great men
who might otherwise fail to catch the public
eye. The flashlight of Notoriety resting for
a moment on an Obscurity gives the latter
a chance to let his own light be seen, even if
only equal to that of one small candle. Shaw
and Wells, who, if not entirely great, are on
the great stage for the moment, have rendered
service in this way with regard to two men
of merit. W. H. Davies, author of The
Aidobioyrapihy of a Super-Tramp and some
tine poetry, might possibly have struggled
into notice without Shaw’s help ; but it is
not likely that George Meek would ever
have written his autobiography but for the
encouragement of Wells.
The story of George Meek, Bath-chair-man,
by Himself (Angus and Robertson), is a docu-
ment of human interest by virtue of the
quality which makes Pepys immortal, that
of frankness. Meek is a man of humble
origin who lost the sight of one eye in child-
hood, and whose battered career, as hop-
picker, baker’s assistant, and pusher of
a bath-chair often saw him on the
verge of starvation. Yet he contrived
to live a full life. Meek’s views on women,
politics, books, casual employment and going
'to the devil are well worth reading. He does
not attempt to startle his reader, but sets
down his immoralities, weaknesses and mis-
takes-as he remembers them. He writes :
“I and Walter,” or ‘■'Mein Gobi , if I only
had a chance to live a decent life, how I
should live ! ” ; but otherwise his English is
fairly good.
* * * *
Meek drew upon his memory for his
material. In setting it forth he became an
artist in the broad sense of the term ; but
there is not enough art in the story to make
it live. It has more value than a work of
fiction such as James Oppenheim’s Doctor
Bad, because the latter, though well stocked
with humor and sentiment, fails to create
the illusion of reality. The large-hearted
Jew doctor and some of his patients might
have their prototypes in the Ghetto, but
tney don’t ring true in the book.
A. Neil Lyons, biographer of Robert
Blatchford, has done that kind of fiction
better in Arthur’s and Sixpenny Pieces. He
has selected his material from life, and com-
posed it with greater skill. The reader sees
the London poor in specimens and episodes
without the rough edges and dull intervals
of an autobiography such as Meek’s, which
is a contribution to sociology rather than to
literature.
*- * * *
The charm of O. Henry’s stories is mainly
due to the essence of romance which he got
from life to put into them. The slang and
snappy endings are meretricious additions
which excite the jaded reader and surprise
the ignorant. Just before his sudden death
0.H., alias William Sidney Porter, wi'ote
portion of a letter which has been printed in
the American Bookman. He described the
kind of novel which he wanted to write and
actually began :
My idea is to write the story of a man—.an indivi-
dual, not a type—but a man who, at the same time,
I want to represent as a “human-nature type,”
if such a person could exist. The story will teach
no lesson, inculcate no moral, advance no theory.
I want it to be something that it won’t or can’t
be—but as near as I can make it—the true record
of a man’s thoughts, his description of his mis-
chances and adventures, his true opinions of life
as he has seen it, and his absolute!,!/ honest deduc-
tions, comments and views upon the different
phases of life that he passes through.
I do not remember ever having read an auto-
biography, a biography, or a piece of fiction that
told the truth. Of course, I have read stuff such
as Rousseau and Zola and George Moore, and
various memoirs that were supposed to be window
panes in their respective breasts; but, mostly, all
of them were either liars, actors or posers. (Of
course, I’m not trying to belittle the greatness of
their literary expression.)
All of us Pave to be prevaricators, hypocrites
and liars every day of our lives; otherwise the
social structure would fall into pieces the first
day. We must act in one another’s presence just
as we must wear clothes. It is for the best.
The trouble about writing the truth has been
that the writers have kept in their minds one or
another or all of three thoughts that made a
handicap—they were trying either to do a piece
of immortal literature, or to shock the public, or
to please editors. Some of them succeeded in all
three, but they did not write the truth. Most
autobiographies are insincere? from beginning to
end, and about the only chance for the truth to
be told is in fiction.
It is well understood that “all the truth” can
not be told in print—but how about “nothingbut
the truth ? ” That’s what I want to do.
“Nothing but the truth ’’—and Prof. William
James, of Boston, .died before settling the
question of what, after all, is Truth !
Facts are ugly things, as the hustings’
fraud is fond of saying, and bald facts in
print do not make for literature. Art is a
lie, of course, but the difference between
art and statistics is that art is or tries to be
a beautiful lie.
* *• * *
Every man can tell his own story ; the
degree of reticence is a matter of taste.
Arthur H. Adams has done a much more
difficult thing in Galahad Jones (Dymock’s),
for he has created an apparently common-
place bank clerk—“one of those negative
figures that Nature apparently produces when
she is not looking,” “the sort of man that
any stranger would ask for a match ” —has
thrown x-omantic opportunity in his way,
and caused the Galahad element in the
nature of Jones to carry him through
some astonishing adventures in a convincing
fashion.
It is more of a fantasy than a novel ; a
fairy tale in terms of Sydney life of to-day.
The difficulty in a fairy tale of this sort is to
make the characters and events consistent
with their setting. Adams has done this.
The poignant note in George Meek’s story
is the pathos of opportunity denied to a
potentially romantic soul. Such adventures
as Galahad’s do not happen, maybe, to the
Meeks and Joneses of real life. It is the
artist’s privilege to create the opportunity
which lets loose the latent chivalry in a
nature which was mostly Jones. The pathos
of Galahad’s discovery of the virtues of his
rotund Em is just as true as anything in
Meek’s life, for it is true to human nature.
And Adams tells the story without a dull
page. The illustrations by Norman Lindsay
fit the characters perfectly.
Meredith and Some Minors
George Meredith was not at his best when
he wrote Celt and Saxon (Angus and Robert-
son). The fact that the story was left un-
finished will not seriously affect its value to
the Meredithian, because the plot is of less
account than the incidental contrasts between
the two races. John Bull came in for fullest
treatment, and these passages touch him on
the raw:
Ideal of his country Bull has none—he hates
the word ; it smells of heresy, opposition to his
image. It is an exercise of imagination to accept
an ideal, and his digestive organs reject it, after
the manner of tbp most beautifnl likeness of him
eonj arable to the mind—that flowering stomach,
the sea-anemone, which opens to anything and
speedily.casts out What it cannot consume. • . .
He well-nigh loves his poets, can almost under-
stand what poetry means. If it does not pay, it
brings him fame, respectfulness in times of re-
verse. Brains, he is reduced to apprehend, brains
are the generators of the conquering energies.
He is now for brains at all costs, he has gained a
conception of them. He is ready to knock knight-
hood on the heads of men of brains—even literary
brains. They shall be knights, an ornamental
body. To make them peers, and a legislative,
has not struck him, for he has not yet imagined
them a stable body. They require petting, to
persuade them to flourish and bring him esteem.
Here, in a reference to one of the characters,
is the secret of Meredith’s art, the secret of
all powerful writing :
But, after all, the main secret was his art of
writing round English, instead of laborious Latin-
ised periods ; and the secret of the art was his
meaning what he s'aid. It was the personal
throb. The fire of a mind was translucent in
press columns where our public bad been accus-
tomed the rhetoric of primed scribes. He did
dway with the Biscay billow of the leading article
—Bull’s favorite prose-bardic construction of sen-
tences that roll to the antithetical climax, whose
foamy top is offered and gulped as equivalent to
an idea.
* * * *
Things That No One Tells, by Ethel C.
Mayne (Dymock’s). In most of the short
stories in this volume the “things that no
one tells” are what every woman knows a
man would never understand. They are
delicate and subtle studies of women written
by one who has read Henry James but does
not imitate him. There is a touch of the
supernatural in one of the stories ; but the
rest are little dramas, tragedies mostly, of
unfulfilled hopes and chances missed ; of the
beatings about the bush and the baffling
interplay of emotions.
Madeline Annesley, while talking to one
man about another who had failed her after
an emotional crisis, cried out passionately :
Just a breath of life—that was what I wanted.
I get so tired of that lukewarm flapping.
She prepared an epitaph for herself which
summed up her life—just the words, “My
Mistake.”
This from another girl gives a fair idea of
Mrs. (presume it’s “ Mrs.”) Mayne’s style :
“Ah, you’re like one of my ‘young men.’”
(She never used a more elegant term for her
admirers ; and there was an absurd piquancy in
her soft utterance of the vulgarism.) “He says I
look mv best in the winter. But,” she sighed,
“ lie’s English ; so, of course, he chose a summer’s
day to say it on.” She buttoned her gloves with
ferocity. “ Doesn’t one get angry with the ways
of Englishmen ? Oh,, they’re as nice a 3 possible—
any degree of niceness—only one has to ‘pursue it
with forks and hope.’ If they’d do it spontane-
ously ! But I dare say the surprise would kill
one.’’
* * * *
F. Berkeley Smith, an American painter’,
writes pleasantly about some characters and
episodes in A Village of I' ogubonds (Angus
and Robertson). The sleepy little fishing
village on the coast of Normandy is very
well drawn, and the stories are told in better
style than Smith’s account of The Real Latin
Quarter. He has provided a few line diaw-
ings as head and tail pieces, and there aie
colored illustrations by another of the great
family, F. Hopkinson Smith, who is also an
author.
That other and far more popular American
writer, Robert Chambers, was an art student
in Paris for some years, and his first book is
a story of life In the Quarter. Since then he
has written some nature-books for children,
the remarkable fantasies of The King in
Yellow, and at least four other kinds of fic-
tion—the semi-historical romance ( Cardigan ,
etc.), the society-novel-with-a-purpose ( The
Firing Line, etc.), the satirical romance
(dole), and the purely frivolous, such as Some
Ladies in Haste —most of which have
been “ best sellers.” His latest, The Green
Mouse (Geo. Robertson & Co.) belongs to the
frivolous class, and is the best so far. The
whimsical idea of a mechanism which will
connect the psychic personalities of any two
people of opposite sex who are destined for
one another, is one that Chambers can work
with ease, and, in this case, the humor does
not run out before the story ends.
The Cheerful Knave, by Ruble Howard
(Dymock's) has been written round a
comedy, and is a weaker specimen of light,
fantastic fiction. The cheerful knave is an
unconvincing burglar who unwittingly acts
as a good fairy in a very unreal love affair.
ink inbar, by H. MacTlwaine, is re-issued hy
Constable at Gif. It is a moderately interesting
Story of an Australian stockrider. In it “a
wide-throated bird comm lined with the night by
calling solemnly ‘hot pork, hot pork.’” Is this
a variant of the morepork’s note, or a case of de-
fective hearing? . . . Macllwaine says that “ if a
man happens to be a forty he finds decent com-
pany in England a bit too hot to hold him.” A
footnote gives—“ forty—a professional sharper,”
and suggests that it may be derived from the
Forty Thieves !
Les Millc Naur dies Nouvellcs, an excellent col-
lection of short stories by ‘‘tons les ecrivains
cejebres de tons les pays dii montle,” is pub-
lished in Paris by “La Renaissance duLivre”
(Jean Gillequin & Cie, editors). Each nunv
ber contains 10 stoties, in French, from 10
different countries, and in No. 5 appears a
translation of Henry Lawson’s “ His Father’s
Mate.” It is introduced by a brief note on Law-
son and his work. Lawson’s style is said to be
characterised by its speed, condensation of thought
and'images, its vigor and precision.
* * * *
The great Shakespeare case still drags on in the
literary courts. Dr. C. W. Wallace'prints in the
August Century some more extracts from the
records in which the well-known author is men-
tioned, They relate to transactions in connection
with the shares in the Globe Theatre. (William’s
name is spelt in the deeds “ Shakespeare.” though
Wallace sticks to “ Shakspeare.”) When W.S.
died, a fellow-player, John Heminges, became
sole survivor of the joint tenants in the Globe.
He had been custodian and business agent of the
company, and on that account came into
possession of the manuscripts of the plays, which
he and Oondell collected and published in 1023 as
William Shakespeare’s. Wallace promises more
evidence in the next number.
The Byron case is still proceeding. A. Lang
appears in the August Fortnightly with a brief
for Mary Chaworth, who was charged by Edg-
e'nmbe, in Bvron: The Last Phase, as being
responsible for “the Byron mystery,” by her
intrigue with the poet in 1813.
Fisher Unwin has issued a new, revised and en-
larged edition of “The Canadian Kipling’s”
Songs’of. a Sourdough. The thumb-mark of popu-
lar approval appears on the cover in a statement/
that this is the 22nd impression. An'"impression”
may he only a thousand copies. Of Service’s
second volume, Ballads of a Cheeefako, it is said
that over fifty thousand copies have been sold.
“ Banjo ” Paterson’s Man from Snowy River is
still going strong in the forty thousands, and the
tenth thousand of his Rio Grande's Last Race has
just been printed.
“Quan ”: I was recently looking, for the first
time, at the “Exploration Map of the Common-
wealth of Australia,” published by Whitcoinbe
and Tombs, of Melbourne and other places. The
“ References to Explorers’ Routes,” in the left-
hand bottom corner of it, contains a remarkable
error. The men who first crossed the Bine
Mountains (N.S.W.) are given as Lawson,
Gregory and Wentworth. How the mistake got
there is incomprehensible. Presumably jt got in
as errors get into newspapers—it crept in. Any-
how. it’s a pity, for the map is otherwise an
excellent production.
The Aborigines
Gerald C.. Wheeler’s monograph on The
Tribe, and Intertribal Relation .s in Australia
(Murray, per Dymock’s), is an index to other
men’s observations, a digest of passages in
various books relating to the municipal and
State laws of the aborigines, and, like most
digests, it is dry ; in fact, drier than a baked
ship’s biscuit. Wheeler’s conclusions from
his reading are that many ideas of inter-
national law are clearly developed amongst
the blacks, and that peace, not war, is the
normal condition of the tribes.
A list of his sources is given at the end of
the book, and in a note Wheeler states his
opinion of thgm :
The works of Fraser, Fison, Spencer 'and
Gillen, and W. E. Roth stand alone for then-
scientific method. Curt’s Australian Rare is
wanting in exactness. . . but this writers Recol-
lections are valuable, as- they represent the long
observation of a limited area. . , .. lhe ethnologi-
cal contributions to the Journals of the Royal
Society of N.S. W. and to t\w Science of Man are
on the whole not very trustworthy, nor carefully
written. . . . Bonwiek’s work on Tasmania is use-
less ; for this area Ling Roth is indispensable.
Prof. E. Westermarck commends the book
in a prefatory note as the first monograph
on intertribal relations among uncivilised
people. That is the most that can oe said
for it., Wheeler’s conclusions on marriage,
for instance, are discounted by his ignorance
of J. G. Frazer’s work (of appalling size) on
Totemism and Exogamy, which appeared at
about the same time as his little book.
Frazer has covered the whole ground in this
comparative study in which the Australian
tribes figure very largely. To those who
like that sort of thing it may be as good
reading as The Arabian Nights, but—four
thundering big volumes —life’s too short.
Although Wheeler refers in his footnotes
to J. Mathew’s contribution to Curr’s Aus-
tralian Race and the Journal of theß. Society
of N.S.W., he does not mention in his list
Mathew’s later and more important work—
Eaglehawk and Crow. On the philological
side, this book ranks amongst the best studies
of our dusky brethren. In it Mathew ad-
vanced the theory that the ancestors of the
now extinct Tasmanians were the genuine
autochthones, the original inhabitants of Aus-
tralia. They were a short, black or very
dark-brown curly-haired race. After the
separation of Tasmania from the mainland,
the blacks left on the island remained physic-
ally and mentally in their primitive condition.
A superior race, akin to the Dravidian, mi-
grated into Australia from the north-east, a
straight-haired, lighter-colored crowd, and
they absorbed, or exterminated the earlier
inhabitants. (Eaglehawk stands for the
latter, and crow for the former elements in
the fusion.) Later on there was a slight
addition of Malay blood in the northern half
of Australia.
In a new book— Two Representative Tribes
of Queensland (Melville and Mullen),
Mathew' continues his argument, and pro-
duces further proof that the Australians are
of hybrid origin, the basal element being
Papuasian. The well-known ethnologist,
Prof. A. H. Keane, contributes an intro-
duction, in which lie endorses Mathew’s
theory of the origins, and says a good word
for the author, to whom aboriginal lore has
been a lifelong study.
One great advantage of this book over
such a one as Wheeler’s is that it is alive.
Mathew has lived amongst the blacks, and
speaks the language of, at any rate, one large
group. He lays great stress on philological
evidence. On this pc>int A. H. Keane says :
Unless used cautiously, and with some know-
ledge of philological principles, language is a
dangerous pitfall, and into that pitfall Mr. Curr
hopelessly fell when he tried to establish a kinship
between the Australian and the African tongues.
It is much to the credit of Mr. Mathew that,
at first following in the wake of Mr. Curr, he
stopped short in time, avoided the pitfall, and
arrived at sane cbnclosions regarding the true
relations of the Austro-Tasmanian tongues.
The two tribes dealt with are those known
as the Kalvi (about Gympie and Mary borough)
and the Wdjehu (spread over a district whose
centre is Gayndali). Their physical charac-
teristics, habits 'of daily life, ceremonies,
social organisation, myths, religion, etc., are
described, and as in the previous book, the
language is treated fully. This is done in a
way that makes interesting reading, even for
one who i,s not a specialist. (The late Tom
Petrie’s Reminiscences have the value of first-
hand information about a new country.
Petrie knew a good deal about the blacks,
and had an adventurous career in Q.)
Mathew holds that in Australia “nodefinite
aboriginal custom is confined to one locality.
It will crop up. perhaps slightly varied, five
hundred ora thousandmilesaway.” He thinks
the central and north-central tribes described
by Spencer find Gillen are more highly ad-
vanced than the tribes on the eastern coast.
Amongst the Kabi and Wakka blacks the
classes are exogamous, but not necessarily
the tribes.
The relationship of mother-in-law and son-in-
law entailed the same kind of mutual avoidance
as in other Australian tribes. ... If a man saw
his wife's mother approaching he turned his back
upon her to avoid seeing her, or one or other of
them would cover the head with a ’possum rug.
A fact that shows out with remarkable
prominence is the greater vitality of the half-
castes. ... The Australian race is doomed to
perish rapidly by contact with European civilisa-
tion and vice. . . . The pure-bred blacks of the
Kabi and Wakka tribes will probably have dis-
appeared within, at most, 20 years.


it
a
“FLORAL AID.”
“FLORAL AID,” the new Flexible Wire
Flower Holder, has revolutionised home FLORAL
DECORATIONS. The Flexible Wire Flower Holder
may He bent to any shape and placed in anv
position. The base is solid composition metal, and
the weight is so regulated that it is practically im-
possible to overturn it.
n
i
Oi
Made in six sizes.
Height—3. Vin. sin. 6£in. Bin. iin. lOAin
Price— 7d. 1/2 1/9 3/- 4/- 5/9
m
The “FLORAL AID” FLOWER HOLDER i<
lacquered Green and strongly made, and will not
rust or affect the water in the vessels used. It is
specially made for use in open bowls, and is in-
visible when in use.
“FLORAL AID” may oe seen in our Crockery
Department. Country patrons should write for
illustrated “ Floral Aid ” leaflet.
“DOMES of SILENCE,” or INVISIBLE CASTORS,
may be applied in a few seconds, even by a
child, to ordinary chairs and tables to
which Castors are not usually fitted. They
are easily fitted. Cently knock the Steel
Dome into the centre of the Chair or Table
Leg. Wardrobes, Sideboards and other
heavy articles of Furniture, when fitted
with the INVISIBLE CASTOR, may be easily
moved, and the accumulation of Bacteria-
breeding Dust prevented.
Price Gd. per SET OF FOUR.
THE FENCHURCH Non-Magnetlc Lever.
Hinged Case open showing Lever Movement.
DOMES OF SILENCE.
/
* - far
\ - Mi
a**?*
r*2&#V
?S3J
<
b'S
Pi
AMD
rs
tif
iIU
«*<
ww-
"T-i-
-■vVt
53
%
•vste
r rli? *
TCSgtir&’tfefc
%
ft
■^K-vr
a?*A
?!
3?
;r .
u
1 /
u ’*•
? ;M
• n
First Workman: ‘ I’ve just bin buying' some o’ them Domes of Silence.”
Second Workman: “Wot are you going to do with ’em ?”
First Workman: “Fix 'em on the Missis!”
'“London Opinion.”
Domes of Silence, the invisible castors that make chairs, tables, wardrobes and all furniture
glide with a velvety smoothness over all floor coverings, are sold by ANTHONY HORDERNS’.
In three sizes—small, medium and large.
Price, 6d. per Set of Four.
FENCHURCH WRISTLET WATCH, Tan or Black Leather.
The Watch is the reliable Fenchureh Ison-Magnetic Movement.
Quit Metal Case, 23/6 ; Silver Case, £2/12/6.
h
The FENCHURCH Lever
at Anthony Horderns’ Famous Low Prices.
THE FENCHURCH NON-MAGNETIC LEVER is a
HIGH-GRADE Open-Face KEYLESS WATCH for
men, and one that will stand HARD WEAR and
ROUGH USAGE.
THE FENCHURCH is an ACCURATE TIMEKEEPER,
lias Compensation Balance, is fully Jewelled, and Well-
Finished.
THE FENCHURCH is a SHORT-WIND KEYLESS
WATCH, in DUST and WATER PROOF CASE,
fitted either with Screw Bezel and Back, or Hinge and
Snap Cases.
Nickel Silver Case, 14s. Gun Metal, 15s.
By Registered Post, 6d. extra.
| ;
Many other Watches are illustrated in our Price List of
Presents to suit every putse. Write for a copy, p scd
free on application;
=1
“FLORAL AID.”
“FLORAL AID” lias been most cordially re-
ceived by all lovers of flowers, its advantages being
at once gr.asped and appreciated by all who are
interested in the tasteful arrangement of flowers in
open bowls. Flowers of every description, par-
ticularly those with long stems, can be arranged in
bold, free, artistic groups, with due regard to their
natural pose and charm.
«=*»
Jt>
Height—3£in.
7d.
Made in six sizes.
sin. 6&in. Bin.
1/2 1/9 31-
din.
41-
10£in.
5/9
“FLORAL AID” can . lie removed from the
bowl or vase without disarranging the flowers, thus
enabling' the water to be changed daily and pro-
longing the life of the flowers.
The HEAVY BASE of “FLORAL AID” en-
sures absolute steadiness.
When DOMES OF SILENCE are fitted to Dining and
Drawing Room Furniture, the extra comfort ob-
tained is most marked, and the smaller chairs and
tables glide with a velvety smoothness that has to
be experienced to be understood. The Invisible
Castors double the life of Carpets and Floor Cover-
ings, and render Chairs and Tables almost indes-
tructible by saving the strain on the legs.
Price Od. per SET OF FOUR.
GUN METAL ALARM WATCH, with Luminous
Hands. The Alarm, which can be set for any hour, has
a powerful ring. The hands are illuminated, and the
“ time o’ day ” is visible day or night.
Gun Metal Case, 35/-, 40/- Nickel Case, 47/-
HORDERN & SONS
9
Only Universal
Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH & CO. Ltd.
Proprietors
Auld Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Anprape ™ BOOKS.
Plays,
Comedies,
Farces, etc.
The Largest Stock in
Australasia.
Write for new PLAY
CATALOGUE,
also Supplementary Cata-
logue Of FREE-ACTING
EDITIONS.
SPECIAL AGENT for
Samuel French, London,
and American Publishers.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book of Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Frank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Better Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
iledia, latest edition, 1248
pages, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3'6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1/-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
ĥ
7 J
Marvellously Simple !
Simfly Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing' Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d. ; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. wit h Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2,6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State.will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne
COUGHS
r Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELL’S
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
ħ
Of All Stores
*«ADE MA**' 4 *
and Chemists,
Wholesale Ajrents for Victoria: DUERDEN & SAHSBURV, Melbourne.
A GENEROUS OFFER.
To Prove (hat
Har -ene Hair Drill grows hair.
MILLION FREE OUTFITS to bz DISTRIBUTED?
r If yon would like to make your hair grow in healthy and
profusion you ran receive free for the mere asking a complete "Harlene
Hair Drill” outfl\
Let any woman conjure up the vision of how much younger aid how much 1
more attractive she would be if her hair was as it was, say, five to teu or fifteen ’
r year 3 back. ™ u
Let any man simi'arly summon before his mind's eye the picture of the differ-
enc ? bnab rus n a i r a.s id was five to fifteen years previous would make to him to-day
And it is great difference that it is possible to restore. No woman’s—or man’s
we
promise;
Your hair will stop falling out by the.end of the week.
dry lp * eel * al ‘ ve ” iustea/1 of dead, hot, hard, scurfy, greasy, sticky,
th a acce3S( ? nes required will be sent you without a penny cost. It costs
threepence to send you the package, and it is suggested that you do Me-srs. Edwards
(Vin^?,n l fnf y Jh- S h niJl " S thr “ e^i ,uce for P° sta £ e or carriage mentioned on the following
COUDOn (01 which VOll ransmirl U Ot\r*Xr iF wrrvr. umnlrl .. X u
v 7 uijiy oe oDiamea or ;..1 chemists and stores throughout
1 receipt of postal order' aUd ** &d ‘ b ° Uie ’ ° r 6ent ' direct aad P°« P a * d on
COUPON for Free Trial Outfit.
'■o Messrs. EDWARDS’ HARLENE CO.,
95 and 96, High Holborn, London. England.
Sirs,—l wish to try “ Harlene Hair Drill ” for one week in accordance
with your offer to readers of this piper, and shall be glad if
you will send me the “ Hariene Hair-Drill” Outfit, with in-
structhms, free of charge.
I enclose 3d. stamps for postage to any part of the world.
Name A
Address
106
CHEAP COITION of ON TNE HOP!
Price
2/6.
Postage—N.S.W., 7d. ; other States, 1/2.
THE BULLETIN Office, 214 George Street, Sydney.
Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or o~i
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing Borrowers the privilege of repaving
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during anv year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Directors— The Hon. A. \V. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F .E. VVinchcombe, M.L.C.;
Adrian Knox, Esq.. K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. 11. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
POSTAL INSTRUCTION.
Are You Ambitious?
h
LET US PREPARE YOU BY POST
For any of the Following Positions.
Electrical Engineer
Mechanical Engineer
Sanitary Inspector
Architect
Mechanical Draughtsman
Surveyor
Mine Manager
Mine Engineer
Mine Electrician
Incorporated Accountant
Hospital Nurse
Shire or Municipal Clerk
Shire or Municipal Audito
Public School Teacher
Commonwealth Official
State Official
Bank Official
Chemist
Engine Driver
Forest Guard
Station Bookkeeper
Let us know what subject you wish to learn, and
we will give you Instruction by Correspondence.
SEND TO-DAY FOR DESCRIPTIVE PAMPHLET. “S.”
STOTT & HOARE’S BUSINESS COLLEGE,
Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
STEVENS
FAVORITE RIFLE NO. 19
ĥ
UNERRINGLY ACCURATE.
The Ideal Rifle for Miniature Rifle Clubs.
Same Specifications as Favorite No. J 7, except fitted with Lyman Front,
Stevens Leaf and Lyman Rear Peep Sights.
Insist on
STEVENS
when ordering
from your Dealer.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues.
[5
Weak, Sickly Men and Women should use Clements Tonic*
THIS
MEDICINE
GIVES
VITAL
POWER
AND
STRENGTH.
ħ
IT
GIVES
APPETITE
AND
RELIEVES
NERVOUS
FEARS.
Mrs. Parkinson, of the Bundemar Hotel, Trangie, writes
about this great Nerve Remedy, Clements Tonic, thus:
“I wish to inform you of benefits derived. I suffered much from
indigestion. No medicines did me good. Your tonic, of which I
took a course of eight bottles, cured my ailments. I was run down,
could not eat or sleep, had pains all over, did not care if I lived or
died. I could not sit behind a horse for nervous fears. Now I
can drive a trap and pair. We keep an hotel, and my customers
remark what a DIFFERENT WOMAN I AM, and I tell them I
have to thank Clements Tonic for the good it did me.
“(Signed) FRANCES N. PARKINSON.”
Various professional persons recommend this tonic because it is pregnant with
those properties which rebuild the constitution. Nurses associated with some of the
largest institutions in the Commonwealth have written in terms of appreciation of its
beneficial effects upon convalescent patients. That it helps Nature to regain her
strength is undoubted.
This testimony shows what a health-restorer this medicine is, and what years of strength and
health anaemic women may enjoy through its use. It relieves biliousness, sick headache, weakness,
low spirits, loss of appetite, poor blood, wasting diseases, constipation and indigestion. It lengthens
women’s lives, and gives them years of happiness. All chemists and stores sell it in Australia.


Sounding the praises of
Ayer’s Hair Vigor. That’s
what every one does who uses
rS>
i
w>
TO
this splendid
preparation
for the hair.
If you don’t
want to
praise it, then
you must not
use it. You see,
you will be so pleased
with it that you will
just have to tell your
friends all about it.
Ziifer’s
2tair Vigor
removes dandruff, makes the
hair grow thick and heavy.
Handsome hair, rich, glossy
hair, always attracts. You
may have just such hair if
you will use Ayer’s Hair
Vigor. Accept no substitute.
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Lowell, Mass., U-S.A.
h
TEN DAYS’ FREE TRIAL
is allowed on every cvcle bought of us. Your
money in fult refunded without qur stion
if uot perfectly satisfactory. Highest grade
Coventry Cycles,
warranted five to ten year-*, despatched
direct from the factory to anyone on approval
at less than lowest manufacturers' prices.
LATEST
MODELS
£3 alO to £9
Coaster Hubs, best makes of Tyres, Crabbe
Inverted Lever Rim brakes, variable gears
audalllates Improvements.
Packed & Delivered Free
io any port In the world- We guarantee safe delivery.
ACTIVE AGENTS
wanted in each district.
Large proflta easily made.
Write at once, using sufficient postage, for free art catalogues
and our snectal offer oh sample machine.
MEAD CYCLE CO a, Dept. 280 Liverpool.
JAS. J. GILTINAN, Agent,
157 Clarence Street, SYDNEY,
WINCHESTER
Always
Reliable !
As is the case with
all ‘ELEY' Goods,
the accuracy ot the
Eley -44 Winchester
Central Fire Car-
tridge is such as
should commend it
to the attention of
critical sportsmen.
* Eley Smokeless pop-
ular low-priced cartridge.
’Eley 22 Rim Fire Car -
tridge’ - black and smoke-
less powder.
All Eley Cartridges
are made in London
Of Gumnakers
and Dealers
bee« ho
name
•Eley
on all
car-
tridges
v*f
-1 1
'il 1 w
. m
filey
Bros.,
Ltd..
London
ĥ
H.Hillier,
161 George St. West,
Sydney, N.S.W.,
Manufacturer, Importer.
Sporting Sulkies, £9 10s. Abbott Buggies, solid
leather trimmed, £3l 10s. Buggies, from £ll 10s.
Governess Carts, Phaetons, etc. Send for illustrated
catalogue. Harness, per set, £3 11s. Double Harness,
£fr 10s. Stock Saddles, £2 10s. to £4 10s.
h
Good for -
The Children
Every mother knows that there is
no better Cough Medicine for the
little ones than “Bonnington’s Irish
Moss.” Its soothing and healing
properties are at once noticeable. It
is pleasant to take and affords relief
from the first dose.
Guaranteed entirely free from harmful narcotics
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
gained its place in public favor by sterling worth, and keeps it by the same
unchanged efficiency. For the relief and cure of Coughs and Colds, Bronchitis,
Whooping Cough, Croup, this remedy is unsurpassed.
BEWARE OF SUBSTITUTES.
Always ask for "BONN INGTON’S”
1/6 & 2/6.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
“OUR JACK’* Brand
Obtainable Everywhere.
Fulfils the requirements of the “ PURE FOODS" Act.
100 CUPS FOR 1/6.
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD., Fitt St„ Sydney; Currie St„ Adelaide ; Elizabeth St„ Melbourne.
H
ORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, Horlic k’s
Malted Milk is an
ideal food-beverage,
easily digested, nour-
ishing, invigorating.
It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and prov-
ides a full
diet in
sick-
ness
*
FOR
ALL
TIMES
AND
ALL
\ CLIMES
At
break-
fa s t
time or
supper time
Hoplj c k ’ s.
Malted Milk is
a delicious substitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute
and requires no cooking.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c. r &c. Samples: 82“, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co. Slough, Eng.
VARICOSE
VEINS
CURED
For centuries, man —and woman also, unfor-
tunately—have been sorely afflicted with
Varicose Veins in the legs, and until the last
few years the only means of affording even
temporary, if painful, relief has been the
surgeon’s knife.
Now all is changed, the old methods give
way to the new, and the Vecsey Method
of Treatment, by external application
only, painlessly and rapidly cures even the
worst cases. The success of this method
has startled the medical world and is being
applauded on every side. Cures without
laying up.
SEND 2d. STAMP to pay postage on our
Free Hook, which carefully explains in full detail
all features of this wonderful remedy.
CONSULTATION FREE. Call if possible.
The Vecsey Varix-arium,
104 LINDEN COURT, SYDNEY.
605
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ol
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirelv new —is in fact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease trom the first day’s use. No
ste<=l bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Part'culars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
™ “TYPHOID FLY”
DANGEROUS DOMESTIC PEST.
This is our well-known domestic pest—the
common house fly. Inaddition to being a typhoid
carrier, the fly may carry nearly all the intestinal
diseases and is the prime agent in the spread of
summer dysehtery, being in this way unquestion-
ably responsible for the death of many children
in summer. The fly also possesses importance as
a disseminator of the bacilli of tuberculosis, the
danger of human infection from tubercular flv
specks being by the ingestion of the specks
on food.
It is a startling thought that a person who
drinks a cup of tea or a glass of milk into which a
fly has fallen may take into bis system 1,250,000
bacilli of typhoid, dysentery or tuberculosis.
Summing up the position, the typhoid or house
fly is a general or common carrier of pathogenic
bacteria. It may carry typhoid fever, Asiatic
cholera, dysentery, cholera morbus and other
intestinal diseases. It may carry the bacilli
of tuberculosis and certain eye diseases. It
is everywhere present, and it is disposed
of with comparative ease by the use of
IN SECTIBANE.
INSECTIBANE is sold everywhere, but it
is necessary to be careful to observe the spelling
of the name, as no other insect powder possesses
the qualities which render INSECTIBANE so
peculiarly efficacious.
Sole Proprietors :
ROCKE, TOMPSITT & CO.
Uhe BULLETIN POST CARDS
PACKET OF TWELVE 6d. PACKET CF TEN sd.
The Association of Diamond Merchants, Ltd.
Cable Address : RUSPOLI, LONDON.
Amethyst and Pearl Ear-
rings, £2 per pair.
Gold Art Locket, set
4 Diamonds, £1 Is.
Peart and Amethyst
Brooch, £3 ?s.
Amethyst & Pearl or Coral
and Pearl Brooch, £1 Is.
Amethyst & Diamond!
Pendant, £lO 10».
Same price with
Opals or Peridots.
Ruby or
Sapphire &
Diamond
Scarf Pin,
New Pearl
and Peridot
Earrings,
£2 15s.
per pair.
Gold Charm Crystal
Bowl, 12s. 6d.
IYOU CAN BUY FROM ENGLAND. Pay your Duty and purclirse Cheaper and
Belter than you are now doing. Write for Catalogue containing 6.000
Illustrations, Post Free to any part ol the world.
6, Grand Hotel Buildings, London, W.C.
VARIOVS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The House of Trees.
A giant has builded a great slab hut —
A giant with clumsy fingers,
Green-crowned tallow gum, tall blnckbutt,
With a roof of blue are the trunk-walls shut,
Where a mist’s cloud-spinning lingers.
’Tis bordered with scatter of wind-loosed twig,
Ant-tracks through a sandy flooring ;
And a vine astray from a slim tree’s rig,
Or an up-thrust root that is brown and big
Where a ficus clings adoring.
Mine ... it is mine, from the sapling patch
To myst’ry of fuller greening—
To its blue roof threaded with sunbeam thatch,
Where at night the shreds of the daylight catch
To spell to the skies their meaning.
It is mine ; to crouch by the lichened stone
To rest on a box-leaf pillow,
My nook, my haven and mine alone,
To hear my laughter, to hide my moan,
Where crests of the gum trees billow.
So, secure where the cool gold morning sun
Makes pattern on printed pages,
I can count the minutes that idly run
While my book tells me of the fine deeds done
By men in the vanished ages.
Never rise, O Past, from your hallowed nest,
The flute in the trees has drowned you,
And I love my peace and my tree-house best;
So, you red-lipped passion, take stirless rest
With your grave-clothes huddled round you.
I have crushed a fern where I set my hand
And, swift from a crevice starting,
Of the bark-stripped stump in the glitt’ring sand
As though human fingers were ever banned
Comes a grey-skinned lizard darting. . .
Leaf work on the blue, dear Heaven, how fair !
Fern-work on the ground below me,
And a wild white blossom that fills the air
With the hint of a secret perfume rare
Some will-o’-the-wisp might show me !
How near should I grow to the flower heart?
How near to the veined leaf’s story,
If I dwelt from men in my house apart
Where the lime flowers swing and the mosses start
And the sun and stars make glory. , .
0 ! I could forget all the bygone bliss
(The bliss that means always sorrow !),
And my lips would seek but the spring-bud’s kiss,
And my heart take toll of the winds for this,
And rny soul a sun-shaft borrow !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
Eyes of Gold.
Strange eyes, mysterious as fate, wherein
There lie dire threats of new conspiracies
And many a shadow of some ancient sin !
Though you yield not, in your caress there is
A something tender, venomous and sweet,
A taint of old dishonored promises
That makes you quite alluring. These white feet
Know all the secret places of the day
And all the by-ways of the midnight street.
Here as I sit, your face against my cheek,
Your amorous murmurings crooning through
my blood,
You’re modern, sinister, docile and antique.
Such eyes had Berenice when she stood
Superb, and cooed strong lovers to their death.
Ah, fortunate lovers to such glad death wooed 1
You are a lissom lady, and, i’ faith,
Should know all languorous subtleties of love
And all strange ecstasies of love’s pulsing breath...
0, fierce and tender ! Harpy, vulture, dove !
Angelic comrade ! (Monster ! Vampire ! Bat!)
The heavens are clear, Arcturus beams above—
’Tis midnight. Get you to your roofs, lithe cat!
MAORILAND.
FRANK MORTON.
A Psalm of Fortitude.
Are you, like me, a peevish brat.
With feelings extra fine?
Are you disposed to whip the cat
When misadventure lays you flat?
Then paste this memo, in your hat:
A Man should Never Whine.
Should Gladys freeze you from her sight,
Don’t languish or repine ;
But let her know, in terms polite,
That she has made your future bright;
Then marry Ermyntrude for spite—
A Bloque should Never Whine.
A killing frost may nip your buds
(There’s Wolsey as a sign);
You may forego your stylish duds,
And trade away your pins and studs,
To live on bandicoots and spuds—
A Cove ought not to Whine.
Religiously, your cake is dough—
You haven’t walked the line ;
Peter won’t know you from a crow ;
So your address must be “Below,”
Where Socialists and such-like go—
A Devil shouldn’t Whine,
But even should repentance come,
Don’t supplicate and pine—
Seek out the corybantic scrum,
And caper round the mighty drum,
And make salvation fairly hum—
A Saint should Never Whine.
GROPERLAND.
TOM COLLINS.


Combination Couch and Bed
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft, x 6ft. 7in.
< < » ' * .'ll- i\~
tesfcV V- •» ' '■* V » V *f.'v ff t
||§i|lb3fc,A- f. ■■ i- y. A A a V }
S\yV*.\\\w
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, hoarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted, with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
cf furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
T apestry or American Leather,
£4 15s •; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd
SYDNEY, ——
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau.
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Crown Land suitable for Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on
Better Terms than elsewhere in Australia.
Corner of Queen and
George Streets* Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.-—Local Director: A. MESTON.
lOTtni-PjE
O
race
leniiiDliffi
ilWlllEl
ill II
fmn
. s !!
M
ILL'
Re
U-Mi-waR
a
m
HOTEL
METROPOLE,
. . . SYDNEY.
Opposite Union Club and Two Minutes from
Entrance to Domain and Circular Quay.
TARIFF, from 11s. per day, or apartments
may he secured separately by the day from 3s. 6d. and
upwards. Cards of Tariff and all Particulars posted
on application to The Manager.
UNDER VICE-REGAL
PATRONAGE.
The Misses Isaacs,
Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hairworkers and Dermatologists,
161 KING ST., SYDNEY, between Elizabeth & Castlereagh Sts.
Transformations, from £4 4s. Tails, from 7s. 6d. Natural Hair Pads, from 21s. Fringes, from 7s. 6d.
TRY OUR GLORIA HAIR TONIC. COMBINGS MADE UP.
Telephone 2138 Central. Country Orders Promptly Attended To.
Welsbach
Trade Mark
on each
lamp.
m
m
Welsbaeh Electric Light.
Long life—high candle power—low consumption and the strongest filament, are the
CARDINAL POINTS
of the Welsbaeh Filament Lamps—the only perfect Metallic Filament Lamp. Always
reliable, they do not blacken, burn in anv position—pendant, upright, angle or hori-
zontal—and give a perfect, white light.
Welsl ach k ilament Lamps outlast the ordinary Carbon Lamps, give a far better
hght, and lessen the monthly current bill by 70 per cent.
Every L Metric Current user'should immediately instal Welsbaeh Filament Lamps—
you II be astonished at the saving in cost'of current and the improvement in light.
Your Electrician can supply you, and see that you get WELSBACH Lamps, for
there are many so-called ‘‘cheap ” Metallic Filament Lamps sold without any trade-
mark. Lamps and all particulars also supplied by the Welsbaeh Light Co. direct.
h
Write for
particulars
and prices.
Electric Light Dept., Welsbach House,
Pitt Street, Sydney; Lonsdale Street, Melbourne; Victoria Street, Wellington, New Zealand.
Stewart Dawson« Co
Australia Ltd.
Strand Corner,
412 George St., Sydney.
THE SUPERIORITY OF THE WATCHES manu=
factured by Stewart Dawson & Co. is due to
the fact that every modern appliance is used
in their production. The highest possible skill for
perfection of workmanship, using only the best
material and the best mechanism that knowledge
and capital can command in their construction.
EVERYTHING THE BEST, AND NOTHING
BUT THE BEST, IS THE MJTTO OF THE Fl.<M.
For illustrations and details of our Watches
see Catalogue. It’s free on application.
M
m
Both the QUALITY and VALUE of
Stewart Dawson’s Watches
are famed throughout the
COMMONWEALTH.
1
kS " w@
Our Excelsior Keyless English Lever is un-
surpassed by any Watch. It is a Model
Watch, compact, convenient, reliable and
efficient. The movement is.a fine quality
}-plate, full jewelled in Rubies, and Brequet
Hair Spring- to counteract the effect of violent
exercise, also a cap to protect it from dust.
Price, £4/4/-
“THE QUEEN LEVZR.”
This is a high-grade Lady’s Silver
Lever Watch. It is not an ex-
pensive Watch, but it's one that
we can recommend to you as a
first-class timekeeper. It’s a Key-
less, Jewelled, f-Plate Lever, with
nicely engraved Sterling Silver
Cases. Hunting Cases, £2/10/-
Open Face, £2/5/-
The Watch as shown here is a |- Plate Keyless
■ English Lever. It has 7 Ruby Jewels, with
a fine quality adjusted Gold Screwed Com-
pensating: Balance. It is fitted with a Special
Hair Spring, the essential advantage of which
is that the coils will not become displaced
nor catch in the regulator pins should the
watch receive a jar. Sterling Silver Cases,
and made extra strong. Special Price, £2/10/-
mm
mm
mm
■
TiC' m 3jrß
MBmSmSk
“THE PRINCESS.”
This shows a really dainty little
Watch, popularly known as “ The
Princess.” Although we sell many
of these every year, we seldom
have a complaint reach us, and this
should be a good guarantee that it
is a reliable article. Made in 18ct.
Gold Engraved and Plain Cases.
The movement is Keyless and
properly jewelled. Hunting Oases,
£5/10/- j’Open Face, £4/10/-
TERMS OF SALE.—A Written Guarantee wiith Every Watch. Every Watch sold in perfect confidence, and on a week’s trial;
will be exchanged if desired, or full price returned if the least dissatisfaction. Postage paid on all Mail Orders.
“THE BUSHMAN’S LEVER.”
This is a Watch we can recommend for
country wear. We are sure it will give you
every satisfaction. It is a Keyless Non-
Magnetic Lever, Jewelled Movement, with
dust- and damp-proof Oxydised Steel
Cases. £1 Is.


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
v0„,,.-n„,«.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1910.
Prick 60.
The Doomed
Muddy CAMPAIGNER.
AN ELECTION STORY.
FOR the B.
By The DAGO.
s
tiV " y
pftfij jW Wife/- life frUfd ;
fthj mm u l rm fih afloat;
l "lie (Lej mt ,
ms fcetwcj kliftilij WU( wW! "
’oft*!
did'tyweihr tnjio tyw
[mn tkiojs? £w <jhouli We
lv»w mut ij fek ftarf ait jj dm 1
( we
'ldftdwd! /W fltui yaw?
ifv 3 ipneiffl'Jdfo'cd
pdfe (kijtli[ Ward W ftujt ! /(
y Kw* 1 death od «-
flnct Seed a msr jmthttU fyhf-
, Ittrlk 01^1%
%kde§U " li/Rtlf cSouP To-(\ll(jHr)'
<S Ij-c doomed one fymtikd mjj w »sUk
ymfij (peek tilth feuflifU egef
'hmnf om a- ttfah
fiejf tid JwajiU frowttw jidte.
ISdwMle dtufe&ktf wmdtf d’ovif
hif mctid jMiy tint-
'd viowiwetl if he it bore
temkk odhxtiiiimdC-
'ffiwti' l'vied- a ' • '*?
. .jt# heurt-tewlittj fykf—'
y rtmifr beamy owUj bmH'
" TURTLE s'ol/P 10-|\ll(i^T'"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published by William Maclkod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. N.S. Wales. Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES : Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
TERMS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
(in Advance, Only)
Per Annum ... ... ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... OIS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By sending direct to Tun Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling yon can have. Tim Bulletin posted
regularly to you. every ireek for a . year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., and. all Business Communications
to he addressed to William Maclkod. Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tim Bullktin would oblige the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard to subscriptions, ad vertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case he addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them, to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a good thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor, Bullktin,” is the proper
superscription for “copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
Insufficiently stamped, letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paver are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence" column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short Tales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, and not exceeding
twi columns in length, or, say, fSOOO words, are specially
acceptable), Paragraphs, Letters, or Neivsvaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tim, Bijli.ktin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. will be returned, or preserved, unless these conditions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiik Bullktin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs in Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tim Bullktin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or ivash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for dirkct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn—will be, paid
for as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Tim Bullktin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (ivholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand ; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at U/6 per doz. nett.
Copies of Tub Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Ludgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High llolborn, London, W.C.
South A erica.— The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver.— Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver, 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, !M Hastings Street; Norman,
Cavle and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.'— lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington; International
Neivs Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and Neivs Stores, Port Said.
HongKong. —Brewer and Co., Pedder-st., Hong Kong.
Singapore.— Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
Tim. Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6 jin. x lkin.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
T^e'^rillelx/n.
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1910.
THE N.S.W. CONGESTION POLICY.
At no distant date the whole of the wharfage accom-
modation on the southern side of the harbor will be re-
quired for the export of the produce of the southern por-
tion of this State, which must come to Sydney , our one
deep ska port. It will therefore be necessary to make
similar provision on the north side of the harbor at
Ball’s Head for the rapidly increasing produce from
the northern part of the State. —From a report of
Premier Wade’s speech at Hornsby (N.S. W.).
If there is any person in N.S.W. who can define
with certainty the position of the State Ministry
towards the Closed Ports of N.S.W. it is time
for that person to speak and tell all he knows, or
for ever hold his peace. On the evidence it
would seem that the most prominent' feature of
the Wadf. Government’s policy is the desire to
get safely over the elections. Apart from that, it
apparently regards decentralisation as an academic
sort of question, like Heaven, or the millennium,
or the Devil, or the disappearance of King
Sebastian of Portugal or the Fourth Dimen-
sion—a good subject on which to hang a
quantity of loose eloquence and theoretical in-
vestigation, but not a matter which leads any-
where or is supposed to be taken seriously by any-
body. To all appearance, Gregory Wade still
.accepts it as a foregone conclusion, or as an act of
Providence, that all the trade of the great State
which he infests must be dragged to Sydney, no
matter how much needless haulage or needless
cost or needless waste of time that operation may
involve. Also, he seems to take it as a
foregone conclusion that there shall never be
any great city in N.S.W. save Sydney. And,
on top of all, it appears to be his idea that
everybody else really thinks the same way—that
everybody else, in fact, must think the same
way because it is the only way to think
—and that the question of the Closed Ports is a
sort of amiable lunacy or unaccountable case of
second childhood that has somehow arisen in his
path—a thing to Vie spoken to kindly as if it were
a lost infant or a stray dog or anything of that
sort. So he buys the infant a doll in the shape of
a commission of inquiry, and he speaks kindly to
the dog and calls it “Towzer,” and tells it to
run home and he will get it a railway or a dredge
or a wharf or a sausage by-and-bye. But when he
gets back to real public affairs, Sydney is to him
the “one deep-sea port of N.S.W.” and all the
trade of N.S.W. must come there for all time, and
the idea of the State having a second Liverpool at
Port Stephens, or a second Glasgow beside
Twofold Bay is a mere jest.
* * * *
It is said that no white missionary ever really
teaches Christianity to a Chinaman, because the
white man find the Chow think along different
lines, and no more understand each other, how-
ever laboriously they may explain things to each
other, than a horse understands logarithms. It
is much the same when the purely' city politician
is asked to take a national view of a big subject ;
he is the horse, and however polite he may be
towards the logarithm, he doesn’t regard it
seriously. Yet the case of the Closed Ports is
one which ought to be fairly understandable. The
present arrangement means, to begin with, a vast,
needless wear and tear of rails, bridges, rolling-
stock, etc. ; and a great needless expenditure on
coal, and drivers’ and firemen’s and guards’
wages; and a great waste of time in dragging
the exports of the Far North find Far South
some useless centuries of miles to a place that
they don’t especially want to go to. It
means needless deterioration of the goods through
delay on the road. It means that the railways
don’t pay as they should do, because it is neces-
sary to give an absurdly large discount on the
very long distance traffic—the traffic that is
foolishly dragged past good empty ports, close at
hand, in order that it may reach a good but hope-
lessly-congested port a very long way off. At the
same time it implies the stagnation—if not the
depopulation—of the districts from which that
long-distance traffic comes, for even after they
have been allowed, at the country’s expense, a
heavy discount off their bill for superfluous haul-
age the bill which remains is absurdly and ruin-
ously large. The policy makes foolish trouble for
Sydney ; when freight has been hustled 200
or 300 unnecessary miles in order that it
may be jammed into a narrow city that
can’t hold it, then a whole stack of millions
has to be spent—partly at the cost of the people
who are already almost ruined by the supererog-
atory haulage—to provide extra railway and
wharf facilities at that narrow city. It is for
' this reason that heaps of money are now being
shovelled out to duplicate the rail ways around Syd-
ney, and that more heaps of money are to be spent
on a new city goods line, and more and more and
still more money on a great series of wharves on
the north side of the harbor. For if the goods of
the towns right up at the Queensland border are
to be dragged to Sydney regardless of expense,
wharves and railways must be built regardless of
expense to accommodate the goods.
* * •* *
Probably Sydney loses more than any other
place by this curious policy. It grabs at all the
wealth of the State, but it chiefly catches
the atmosphere. There ought to be four or
five other great cities on the deep-water
harbors of the N.S.W. coast, each with a railway
system running into the far interior, and ail
connected with each other and with Sydney.
In these cities every Sydney bank, insurance
office, trustee company, shipping company, mer-
chant and manufacturer should do a highly
profitable business, and they should be cities
which the Sydney bagman could infest, and in
which the Sydney theatrical manager could
build a theatre and play, at great pecuniary
advantage, the melodrama with the six dead
bodies in the first act. Unfortunately it has been
the policy of the parish-pump politicians who run
things at the old settlement beside Port Jackson,
to lay the surrounding country waste, as far as
their congestion policy could do it, and make it
of no great value to anybody. It is their absurd
opinion that there should be no big city
within 600 miles where the Sydney bank, insurance
office, trustee company, shipping company, mer-
chant or manufacturer can do a big business and
realise large profits. They have tried, as far as
possible, to surround Sydney with a belt of dead
and ruined wilderness—not an area in which in-
dustry was wiped out with fire and sword after
the crude old Chinese or Turkish method, but one
in which it was wiped out quite as effectually by
the policy of premeditated isolation. Thus it has
come to pass that the county of Cumberland, in
which Sydney is situated, had at the date of last
census 358 people to the square mile. The county of
Auckland, in which the equally good harbor of
Twofold Bay is located, had less than six people
to the square mile. Gloucester, which includes
the splendid inlet of Port Stephens, had less than
jive people to the square mile. St. Vincent,
though it takes in all the deep, sheltered waters
of Jervis Bay, a harbor that is less than 90 miles
from Sydney, had 5J people to the square mile—
in other words, it ranked in the same class with
Lapland, Siberia or the Great African Desert.
Coff’s Harbor is another port with great possi-
bilities, but it is so carefully shut off, by
denial of railway and other facilities, that the
county in which it stands had about two persons
to the square mile, which is just the same as Ice-
land and rather better than Greenland. These
figures are not wildly creditable to N.S.W. They
represent an effort in the way of congestion and
centralisation which is something above the
average.
* * * •*
Unfortunately the old Tory brigade is imper-
vious to reason. It consists mostly of persons
who were born in Sydney or Parramatta,
and never saw much of the world outside
—who grew up under the congestion or
centralisation policy, and who can’t realise
that the idea of dragging everything to one
port, and compressing as much as possible of
the nation into one city, and making the outlying
parts of the country an empty misery, is the un-
fortunate madness of two or three Australian
States, and is known in no other part of the
civilised world. Having assumed that congestion
and complete centralisation are the natural order
of things, the politicians of the old gang speak
kindly to those who suggest opening the Closed
Ports, as one might speak kindly to a maniac,
and pay for ice to be put on his head. They
make large, vague promises to soothe the
poor decentralised creature, it being understood
that promises made to a person of deficient
intellect are not binding in the ordinary sense of
the term. He is given a commission of inquiry to
pacify him, and the Sydney Telegraph explains
that there may one day be a few cockspur lines to
the Closed Ports, and there may be little wharves
and other facilities so that little boats may come
in and carry away the cabbages and other green
stuff for sale or transhipment at Sydney. But
the idea of any real commerce, as commerce is
understood by the people of Hamburg, Mar-
seilles, Liverpool, Odessa or Glasgow, ever
existing at the N.S.W. Closed Ports, is
evidently regarded by the Old Brigade as
an absurdity, and when the old Wade style
of politician is addressing a Sydney constitu-
ency he makes no disguise of the fact. In and
around the N.S.W. capital he talks congestion
and centralisation openly and without shame. In
fact, the only thing that seems to trouble him is
the idea that things aren’t congested enough.
THE N.S.W. RAILWAY SUPERANNUA-
TION JOKE.
Although the N.S.W. Premier and his friends
have professed to explain many things during the
past few weeks, the gloom that enshrouds the rail-
way and tramway superannuation scheme hasn’t
been dissipated worth ninepence. The Walls of
Derry and the Flames of Smithfield and the
machinations of Rome have been heard of, like-
wise the leg-irons of Peter Bowling and the fact
that Mr. C. G. Wade will decline in future to
take notice of any awkward remarks made about
him by Mr. B. R. Wise. In fact, if he can’t
answer Mr. B. R. Wise he will disqualify him, or
take no notice of him, or regard him as dead,
or something. But the question of the blessed
superannuation fund is avoided as if it
were a mad serpent.' Yet, it is a most
interesting arithmetical problem, and there is
more humor in it than in many a farce which has
run for 156 consecutive nights. For the future all
N.S.W. railway and tramway officials (a numerous
body now, and likely to be 10 times as numerous
one of these days) are to contribute to the super-
annuation fund £1 10s. out of each £lOO of salary.
At the age of 60, or earlier in case of disablement,
each official will qualify for a pension. After 40
years’service he will be entitled todraweach year
two-thirds of his average pay while he was in the
service ; after 30 years he will be entitled to one-
half ; after 20 years to one-third, and so on. So
this is the remarkable situation :
(1) If a man contributes to the Fund during 40 yi arsof
service, and his average pay during that period lias been
£2OO a year, be will have paid £l2O.
(2) Compound interest would probably raise the value
of his total contribution to about £2OO if there was any
compound interest. (It must be remembered that to
make an average salary, of £2OO the candidate for a pen-
sion probably started at £5O and gradually' worked up to
£4OO, therefore the contributions which ought tocarry 40
years’ interest would be very' small, while the largest ones
would only carry a year or two’s interest.) But, as a
matter of fact, the fund will be spending its money as
fast as it is received, and there will be practically no in-
vestments to earn interest.
(3) At GO the railway' or tramway'servant who contri-
buted £l2O is to start to draw a pension of £133 6s. lid.
per annum.
(4) As the average expectation of life at 60 is 13 years
and rather over one-seventh, he will, on the average,
collect from the State £1733 6s. Bd. before he retires to
the bosom of Abraiia.m or some other party who need not
be specified.
(5) This will leave the general taxpayer in the lurch
over one pensioner to the extent of perhaps £l6OO.
When the taxpayer has about 30,000 pensioners on his
hands (and the almost unlimited possibilities of expan-
sion in the service make it pretty certain that he will
have them one of these days) his bill for pensions will be
some £2,000,000 or £3,000,000 per annum. And even then
it will be still rising.
* * * *
There are to be other benefits —refunds to the
relatives of officers who die early, provision for
officers who are crippled and invalided and the
like—so the above, bad as it looks, is really a
rather favorable view of the case. But even this
isn’t all. If the Wade Government gets back to
power it is pledged to provide a superannuation
fund for all other public servants. It can’t well
make them pay £9 per £lOO of salary for the same
benefits which it promises to the railway and
tramway men for £1 10s. It can’t, after the
awful exposure that has taken place, put them
also on the £1 10s. basis; that would be incurring
such a reckless liability that foven Wade’s faithful
satellites, Hogue and Moore, would have to
buck. It can’t explain that the railway super-
annuation scheme was a gigantic and impossible
trick for the capture of votes, and proceed to
repeal the Act and repudiate all its promises
when once the votes are captured ; no Government
could look so unspeakably mean as that. It
can’t very well say that it did the deed because
it thought it was going out of office and it
meant to leave its successors in a hole; that
would be “ over the odds.” It can hardly
tell what is, apparently, the simple truth—
that the business was all an incredible blunder ;
by doing so it would advertise itself as about the
last possibility in the way of an ass in human
guise. It may try to let the subject drop, by
saying nothing more about the superannuation
fund that has been promised to the other public
servants, but that kind of subject won’t drop.
The leg-ironing of Bowling and the reduction of
McKye’s fine are small things by comparison with
thistrouble. Theyare matters that can be met with
loose assertion, and clouded by vituperation, and
veiled by whirling argument, and upon them it is
always possible to appeal for the support of class
prejudice or to vaguely shift the blame on to some
more or less unspecified subordinate. But the
superannuation business is a matter of plain
figures. No actuary dare support the Wade
Government’s calculations, for fear of earning a
reputation for incompetence which would wreck
his business. No political party hack dare bice
the figures, for fear of being told to go back to
school and start afresh at the multiplication table.
What is a Government to do when it has got into
such a hole? Possibly the best thing would be to
cut its throat.
•* * * fr
Whether the railway or tramway servantshould
also cut his throat is another matter. The young
man in the service will find himself in an especi-
ally difficult situation. He must start paying
into the fund at once, yet he will know that he
has some 30 or 40 years to wait before he can hope
to get anything out of the fund. That would be
right enough if there was any fund, but there
will be none. As fast as the young man pays in
his money it will be swallowed up—and an ever-
increasing subsidy from the Treasury will be
swallowed up also—in paying the pension claims
of the older men. The only hope that the young
man will have of getting anything when his pen-
sion falls due, say about 1940 or 1950, is that the
Parliament of 1940 or 1950 will feel good
and charitable and vote the money. It may
do so or it may not. The Wade Government
assumes that it will, but the Wade Government
has no power to bind the people of 1950 to meet
vast responsibilities which were incurred in a reck-
less chase after popularity by forgotten politicians
of their grandfathers’ day. In a general way pos-
terity recognises the political responsibilities that
are handed down to it, but it is possible to
overdo the thing. Posterity, like a pint-pot or
any other vessel, has only a certain carrying
capacity. It is easy for any set of men to-day to
give theirsupport bo the Government of to-day in
return for that Government’s solemn guarantee
that when these men are old other people, many
of them yet unborn, will pay them very large
sums of money out of the general taxes. The
people yet unborn will stand a certain amount of
plundering, even of a very brazen kind, and even
when it is on record that the men who planned
the act of spoliation were clearly warned that they
were payingls. 6d. and voting themselves in return
their children’s and grandchildren's I O U for
17s. But there is a point at which an infuriated
future generation will tear up the contract, and
bid the old man who made it go and collect his
money from Wade’s ghost. No one knows
exactly where that point is, but it may be guessed
that if the present railway and tramwuy genera-
tion voted itself pensions of £2O per man per
annum (£2 10s. to be paid out of its own subscrip-
tions and £l7 10s. to be charged to posterity),
posterity would stand it; while, if it voted Hself
pensions of £2OOO per man per to
come out of its own savings and £1750 to be
charged to posterity), posterity would fly off the
handle and refuse to pay one single copper. And
somewhere between these two figures is the
point at which posterity’s patience will give out.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
A Request for Details.
The answer supplied to carpers, doubters and un-
godly cynics generally by the No License persons
who said they saw a band of male children raging
bibulously outside “one of the most brilliantly
lighted bars in Sydney” the other night, was a
veritable masterpiece of shifty inconclusiveness.
Here it is, as it appeared in the S.M. Herald last
week :
We do not wish to labor this painful subject. It is
as painful to us as it is to all who wish the youth of this
State to grow up a credit to Australia.
It is within the power of all who doubt our statement
to test it themselves. All we ask is that those ivho really
want to know should spend an evening from 10 to 12 find-
ing out. They will be sadder but wiser after the experi-
ment. We are, etc.,
G. B. Niciiolls, Dunedin.
E. J. F. King, Melbourne.
W. J. Boyer, Newcastle.
Sept, 3.
It is about as satisfying to the mere sifter-of-evi-
dence as if these same smellers-out of iniquity told
a trusting husband that his wife was carrying on
with an unnamed party wearing a moustache and
a black hat and, on the husband showing signs of
restiveness, edged off with the darksome counsel
that the allegedly injured one should watch out
hard and see for himself. The scandal-mongers
are on velvet whichever way the thing goes. If
the husband transforms himself into a detective
and discovers nothing, their sympathies are with
him (1) for his blindness; (2) for the misfortune
of possessing a wife who is a devilishly subtle in-
triguer. If, on the other hand, the husband
observes the lady parleying with a rnoustachiod
person in black headgear, whether she happens to
be making an assignation with him or merely
ordering the next morning’s milk, her guilt is
established that is in the eyes of her
accusers. It is a serious allegation this, that
the streets of Sydney are seething with
children who get riotously drunk as ,a matter of
habit, and are so fatuously proud of their illegal
conduct that they are impelled to brag about it to
total strangers. It means that numbers of our
small boys are not merely dipsomaniacs but con-
genital criminals, whose pride in the fracture of
tiieir country’s laws is so monstrous that it must
have verbal vent at any cost. ' It means that our
big hotelkeepers are, at the same time, evil-
disposed ruffians and idiots—people who load
children up with intoxicants for the mere
pleasure of imperilling their valuable licenses.
According to Sydney’s three sainted visitors,
anyone may verify their allegations as to
the drunken habits of the local children by
“spending an evening from 10 to 12 finding
out.” The eminent safety of this statement lies
in its tremendous vagueness. Sydney is a city of
some 560,000 inhabitants, and it is not under-
pubbed. A man might put in years and
years exploring “brilliantly - lighted bars”
between 10 and 11 p.m. (“ brilliantly-
lighted bars ” in Sydney don’t keep open
till 12, and if the Three Good Men had r-eally
investigated the matter they should know
that), and not find anything to substantiate the
thrilling yarn of these liquor-campaigners. And
yet the campaigners could, and undoubtedly
would, contend that their charges remained ume-
buttecl. Which is an unsatisfactory position all
round. The Bulletin hereby offers a few sug-
gestions in the matter. The next time any
three holy men discern a herd of small boys
staggering, riotously tight, out of a bar, let
them not amble home and write to the papers
about it, suppressing the while all detai Isas to where
the outrage occurred. Rather let them proceed
against the pub, as the law allows. If the facts
are as stated they will, almost certainly, get a
conviction. The bar-keeper with the towel on
his shoulder and the unfeeling grin on his face
will probably not swear they are lying—assuming
they are not lying. A bar-keeper’s wages don’t
include the risk of a conviction for perjury. In
any event, their words as disinterested parties of
good repute will, doubtless, be taken. And then
the pub will be ruined and put out of its depraved
business for life. Even assuming the righteous
ones are defeated on some technical point, such as
that they didn’t actually see the inebriated infants
swallowing the liquor, the offending bar will get a
horribly bad advertisement. The police will be set
to watch it, and further illegal trade, of any sort,
will become an impossibility, so far as it is con-
cerned. The No License people are spending a lot
of money just now on practically useless lecturers.
A No License lecturer, beyond earning a salary
for himself, ploughs the sand most of his time, for
the reason that hardly anyone goes to hear him
tell of the horrors of drink who isn’t already a con-
firmed blue-ribbonite. But drunks and Rechabites
alike read the newspapers. The appearance in
the press of reports of half a dozen cases where
citizens were able to go to a court of law and
swear that they had seen small boys emerging
horribly drunk from large pubs—the names and
addresses of the pubs being given in each instance
—would do more to wipe out alleged “youth-
slaughterers ” and boom the No License move-
ment than all the vague, grandiose chat of 750
Bruntnells. The sooner professional cold-tea
enthusiasts get busy at this unimpeachably
worthy job the sooner the populace will credit
that they are other than wild slanderers for purely
business purposes.
A Preposterous Suggestion.
This is the finish of a leading article which
appeared in Sydney’s anti-Rome sheet the other
day :
Loyal Protestants will vote the Liberal ticket every-
where. To loyal Orangemen this does not need pointing
out. They will, as the Doctor put it, “ vote, or take off
their collars,” in effect if not in reality. And their allies
in the A.P.D.A. will do the same.
And after loyal Protestants have done voting
“the‘Liberal’ticket,” what then? They will have
returned to power the party of land monopoly
and low wages ; they will have given a new lease
of political life to the frauds who got office on the
plea that they were rigid economists and have
since blewed loan-money in a fashion to make the
ghosts of the See-O’Sullivan Administration


weep; and they will have kept in office
the blunderers who are responsible for
dear coal, Railway Commissioner JOHNSON,
the Coercion Act, the McMyLer Hoist and
enough similar catastrophes to fill several tanks.
But it is hard, not to say impossible, to see where
the cause of Protestantism is going to benefit.
One ofthe standbys of the “Liberal” party is
that loyal Romanist John Hughes. He is a sym-
bol, as it were, in the Wade Cabinet of the shoals
of wealthy R.C. land monopolists, merchants,
pastoralists, lawyers, mine-owners and so forth,
who hate Labor like 470 devils, and who vote
hard for Reaction whenever they get a chance.
The Wade party values its Hughes, and his
wealthy following just as the DEAKOOK-ites
value their Paddy McMahon Glynn. When
it is suggested that Protestant Laborites
should vote the auti-Labor ticket to “save
the situation for Protestantism,” the ques-
tion that naturally arises is: “What is Anti-
Labor willing and able to do to Rome in recom-
pense?”. And the inevitable answer—taking into
consideration the state of our laws and the pre-
sence in the councils of Anti-Labor of prominent
Catholics—is: “Absolutely Nothing.” Even if the
Government which Protestant Laborites are urged
t0 s vqte for in order to hamper Rome, didn’t take
particular care to find places for R.C.’s in its
ranks, there is notin'.,g it could achieve to the
detriment of Rome. If it were composed ex-
clusively of Dill Mackys, it couldn’t prevent
a, single priest, bishop, or cardinal from doing
the identical tilings their sort have been
doing here for the past century. On the
other hand, the Protestant workers, by return-
ing a Labor Government to power, can effect
a lot of very material and, from their point
of view, valuable changes. If they are the sort
of Protestant workers who own a hit of land, they
can do good for themselves by assisting to put an
end to the centralisation curse, as a result of
which their perishable produce is dragged over
r.ue Sydney-bossed railway-system hundreds of
needless miles, instead of going to the nearest port
of shipment. This superfluous haulage is good
business for the Romisli merchant or middle-
man in Sydney, but hopelessly prejudicial to the
Protestant outbacker. The Protestant workers
who_ happen to live in Sydney may, by sup-
porting Labor, do something in the direc-
tion of State-owned coal mines (which is to
say cheap coal), State-owned gas (which means
cheap gas), a nationalised sugar industry (which
is equivalent to reasonable-priced sugar), State-
run ferry companies (which is calculated to pro-
duce better and cheaper ferry services), and so 011.
A private (Sydney) company used to do the
transport business between the city and Darling
Point—even as a private company now does the
transport business between Circular Quay and
Milson’s Point ? In very far-back ’ndividualistic
days it cost a shilling to travel from George-
street to Edgecliffe, and occupied anything up to
an hour or even more. . To-day a State-run tram
carries all and sundry over tie route for 2d., and
takes about 10 minutes to do it. Would any
r itional Protestant, resident in the eastern sub-
urbs, vote for a return to the old state of things
—even if he were assured that Rome would
he exasperated thereby to a tremendous extent ?
And yet the absurd Dill party is asking Pro-
testant workers to do a no less preposterous
tiling when it urges them to support “ Liberalism”
and private monopolies next October —all to annoy
the Pope. That the return to power of N.S.W.
"Liberalism” means the indefinite hanging-up
of a lot of pro-worker legislation is quite certain.
That the triumph of Wade and his wealthy R.C.
supporters and colleagues is going to exasperate
Rome one iota is so unlikely as to he unworthy of
discussion. Unless the Protestant worker is also
a demented worker, lie should he able to grasp
these points with some ease. The Dill Macky-
ite theory that Rome is the only really progressive
institution in Australia is too thin.
The Shirt-tail on the Hurricane Deck.
Premier Ward, of Maoriland, is beginning to
find that quite a number of people of some im-
portance object to Ram Bux. A. 8., whose sliirt-
tail was recently unfurled in the inter-State
steamship service between Australia and Maori-
lahd by the P. and O. company. When the first
Lascar-manned vessel steamed into Auckland
from Sj'dney some little time back, large numbers
of citizens of tonnage gathered together and
remarked upon the increasing importance of the
Dominion, and said how the trade of the port
had grown, as compared to the time when
the only imports were a few missionaries con-
signed to Hon ; and the only exports theyellsof the
half-boiled parson travelling seaward on the even-
ing breeze. A strong point was made of the fact
that Britons never would be niggers, but that
niggers made splendid Britons. Also, the citizen
who arose and explained that the appearance of
the hob-tailed Lascar on the M.L. coast was the
forerunner of wage disaster and freight wars, and
perhaps meant the ultimate extermination of the
sturdy coastal marine service of M.L. was howled
down and chased overboard by the serang —at
least that’s what would have happened to him if
he had been there, but he wasn’t. Finally three
hearty British cheers were given for the P. and O.
steamers, and the toast of the “ new era” floated
in on a flood tide of Monopole. But just about
there several unpatriotic persons—all persons who
do not belong to the Chamber of Commerce are
unpatriotic—began to cast aspersions on Ram
Bux, A.B. One William Belcher, secretary of
the Seamen’s Union, made remarks calculated to
enrage a whole bilin’ of Chambers. Said he,
speaking as one who had been a delegate to the
Imperial Shipping Conference, in London :
It may be fairly assumed that if the P. and O.’s experi-
ment in coming to Maoriland is successful, it will be only
a matter of time when other companies that trade from
Great Britain and the Continent to Australia--the Nord
Deutscher Lloyd, the Messageries Maritimes, etc.—will
also he seeking a share of Maoriland’s growing passenger
and cargo trade, and if these concerns are all permitted
t.o voyage hither with their cheap crews, it must obviously
result in the killing of our present intercolonial com-
merce as now conducted by our intercolonial companies.
Given unrestricted license to “cut” as much as they
like, without responsibility for the pay or the treatment of
the men, or any care about national interests, the com-
pany that can do the business the cheapest must win,
and where will we be then ?.. . Maoriland has gone to
a lot of trouble to try to establish a Naval Reserve. . . .
Our branches of the Navy League are in existence for the
purpose of stimulating the reserve for our navy. But
every-effort thus put forth threatens to he nullified by
those foreign-manned ships which are likely to displace
the Maoriland vessels.
Since then the Seamen’s Unions of M.L. and
Australia have given serious attention to the
flutter of the nigger’s shirt in the inter-State
fairway, and apparently the alternatives arrived
at ' are that the shirt should he heavily
taxed, or that subsidies should he paid to local
shipping. On Monday (September 5. 1910) the
M.L. Merchant Service Guild and Marine
Engineers’ Institute took a baud, and put before
Joseph Ward the case for the white A.B. Joseph
was informed that on board the M.L. Union
Steamship Company’s Mnbeno the wages of the
i engine-room staff were £ll6 10s. per month;
Omrah, £7O; and Frederich der Grosse £5l 14s.
If such ships, to say nothing of the R. and 0., were
allowed to enter the M.L. trade without altera-
tion of existing conditions, it was only a matter
of time, said the deputation, when the local com-
panies must haul down their flags. Ward said he
sympathised with the Institute, and that it would
he a proper thing to bring the question up at the
next Imperial Conference. Which is another way
of saying: "Gentlemen, to-morrow is the best
day for doing things—probably we will all he dead
then and won’t have to do them.”
The Song of the Oppressed Landowner.
The opponents of the Progressive Land Tax are
toiling hard at the collection of amazing instances
of hardship which are to happen under the Fisher
Government’s Bill, when it becomes law. These
instances are mostly of one sort. The complain-
ants prove by figures and good evidence that a
great number of people have a very great deal of
land apiece, and this land is worth a devil of a lot
of money ; yet the cash return from it is so small
that the Progressive Land Tax, it is alleged, will
eat up half the Income, or the whole income, or
more than the income. Plain, ordinary people
listen to these tales and find it hard to‘decide
where the objection comes in. As a matter
of fact, the cases seem to he just the sort
that the Land Tax Bill was specially de-
vised to meet. The Loafing and Incapable
Landlord is a well-known institution. He
lias an amazing province of grass ; in fact, there is
so much of it that he can’t supervise it, or even
half supervise it. It yields a mere fraction of
what it could easily yield under vigorous manage-
ment, hut the proprietor is immensely rich by
reason of the mere capital value of his land. His
cash income, though absurdly small in proportion
to bis capital, is more than he needs, and he
doesn’t see why he should kill himself with over-
work in the struggle to do intense cultivation on
100,000 or 200,000 acres. Besides, he couldn’t do
it; intense cultivation only succeeds in a land of
small farms like Denmark, or a country of mere
kitchen gardens like Belgium. That kind of land-
owner is partly a waiter on the unearned incre-
ment and partly a proud and slothful loafer whom
ispleasedtobe monarchofall hesurveys, and if itis
true, ashe alleges, that he isoften only making lor
2 or 24 percent, on the capital value of his land
who could expect him, with 1 1 is methods, to make
more? Of course, the Progressive Land Tax will
' hit him hard, and compel him to either sell in
haste or get to work in haste. If the Progressive
Land Tax doesn’t hit him hard, what on earth is
the use of it? When a man keeps his fellow-
creatures off the soil, so that he may linger on it
and make it yield about per cent, on its value,
he deserves to have that per cent, taken from
him. It was for the same reason that the abori-
ginal had his land taken from him ; he was a
monopolist owning a continent and using two
acres of rich soil to grow one ’possum, and lie had
to go because the world has neither time nor
space for that kind of monopolist. The Pro-
gressive Land Tax Bill charges a small percentage
on the capital value of an estate—even a big
estate. If the property is under such rotten
management that it can’t earn the small percent-
age several times over, it is plainly time that the
management was pole-axed, or something of the
sort.
O
The Economy that Costs so Dear.
The case for the Victorian Railway Commis-
sioners (whose name practically is Tait), and the
case for the public who use the railways, were
set forth plainly enough in the Melbourne Argus
and Age readings of the Inquiry Board’s report
on the Richmond accident. The Argus, holding
always a brief for the powers that be, said :
It will be learned with feelings of profound relief that
the. tragic collision was not due to any want of fore-
t'/ought or to any laxity of control on the part of those
responsible for the administration or the department...
Hitppily no fault is found with the management... The
public has the fullest confidence in the will and c;ipacit3'
of the Commissioners to remedy any defects of principle
ordetail which have been pointed out by the Special Board
and be within their power. They have not hesitated
to spend money freely in bringing the service to a high
standard of efficiency . . . With regard to its signalling
system Victoria is in advance of any other Australian
State, or of Great Britain itself.
The TAiT-defending Argos, from beginning to
end of its speech, said not a word about the one
unimpeachable system of safeguarding the public
which had not been introduced on the section of
metropolitan railway line where the tragic col-
lision occurred. On the other hand, the Age
said :
Railway managers have been taught by the crushing
logic of facts that regulations are inadequate safeguards
to protect the lives of railway passengers. . . . The
report ofthe Board teaches us the enormous importance
of procuring our metropolitan railway service to be
operated by a system of blocking' and signalling that will
reduce to a minimum the risks arising from human falli-
bility'. In that regard the Board, after exhaustively
examining a number of rival systems, became convinced
that the electric lock and block system has super-eminent
advantages. It was invented several years ago. It is'
now very widely used abroad, especially in America and
Britain, and our own railway authorities introduced it,
some time since, into some sections of the Vic. railways.
Unfortunately its use was not extended to the section in
which the Richmond tragedy occurred. Had that been
done prior to the date of the disaster, the Board unequi-
vocally assures us “the accident would have been
averted.”. . For some years past it lias been open to
our Railway Department to bring this system into
universal use. it is not an expensive system, and
it would have cost no more than a few thousands
sterling to establish it in every section of our suburban
service. The Department did not establish it. The Com-
missioners may or may not have had good reason for
their neglect. That point rather affects them than the
public.. . . The public want t heir lives to besufeguarded,
and they demand an instant assurance that the electric
lock and block system shall be promptly and universally
installed. . . . No man dare say that the Commissioners
are responsible for the lives of the citizens lost at Rich-
mond ; but none the less they will bear the knowledge
heavily that they were in a position to save, and did not
save.
That is the case for the public as against the case
for the Commissioners voiced by the anti-
democratic Argus, regardless of the fact that
the numerous little sins of omission chargeable to
a number of railway employees and petty of-
ficials could not have occurred, or could not
have seriously mattered if they did occur,
had Tait and his colleagues been guiltless of the
great original sin of omission which made the
Richmond accident possible. The Melbourne
public, being the most immediately concerned in
the recent killing and injuring of its relatives and
friends, will not share in the Argus’s “ feelings of
profound relief” on learning that the Richmond
accident would have been averted if the Com-
missioners had done something which they didn’t.
On the contrary, the public will want to know
how it happened that the introduction of the
electric lock and block system on the South
Yarra to Richmond railway section, definitely
promised 18 months before the recent accident
came to pass, was not put into operation. What
were the considerations which influenced Tait
and co. in delaying the promised reform ? The
lock and block could be substituted at compara-
tively small cost for the present system—a system
so dangerous that when one train dashes into
another from the rear the blame is said to be
divisible among quite a number of not culpably-
negligent persons. And because the Argus’s
statement, that the Commissioners "hare not hesi-
tated to spend money freely in bringing the service to
a high standard of efficiency, ” is flatly contradic-
tory of the truth, scores of people in Melbourne
are now lamenting the death, or lasting hurt, of
scores of railway victims. The policy of the
Commissioners was a money-making policy, other-
wise their service of rolling stock would have
been more efficient, and the old lock and block
invention would have been applied to every line
where there is a reasonable possibility of a
collision. The victims of the Sunshine and Rich-
mond accidents testify to the fact that T ait’s
standard of efficiency in the Victorian railway
service is not high enough. A freer expendi-
ture of money—a keener foresight, and a wiser
disregard for immediate profits in the working of
the railways—would have raised the standard of
efficiency. The policy of economy has been re-
sponsible for the mishaps. Is Tait responsible
for the policy, or has it been forced upon him ;
and, if so, is he as strong as the head of a rail-
way department should he?
■ ? ♦
Some Language by a Judge.
Acting-Justice Fitzhardinge (of N.S.W.)
handed a jolt to a solicitor, last week, as follows :
He was very sorry to see that, when the young lady
was in the witness-box, an attack without any foundation
had been made on her character. . . . The attack was
made upon an unfortunate girl who was trying to do her
duty in bringing a miscreant to justice. She was
attacked in a highly improper manner. ... It was with
great regret that he had had to listen to the attack made
upon an honest, upright and decent girl, etc.
A few days ago a N.S.W. District Court Judge
was moved to turn down another attorney in
similar fashion. The Bench, on this occasion,
liriskly-checked the Gentleman One in the midst
of his mud-slinging, and confided to him that “ if
he was allowed to conduct himself in that fashion in
the police courts he must understand that nothing
of the sbrt would he allowed in the higher courts.”
What the public which is liable to he called
before other than the “ higher courts ” would be
interested to know is: Why, in the name of
decency, is questionable behavior on the part of
officers of thq Court condoned anywhere ! Owing
to what looks like a tacit assumption by the
authorities that low conduct is all right so long as
it occurs in a low court, the police courts of
Sydney possess a fame which smells downwards
to the centre of the earth. They are exploited
by a class of attorney, one of whose main assets
is the reputation of being “game to ask a witness
anything.” A self-respecting barrister or solicitor
is not accustomed to propound to obviously repu-
table witnesses every liair-raising query that is
hissed into bis ear by bis infuriated client.
He regards himself as something more ele-
vated than a mere garbage-distributor. He
sifts the allegations of liis client, and acts accord-
ingly. And so, in the higher Courts, where the
better sort of legal sharks practise, an elderly
feminine witness, who has lived a life of strict
probity, is not liable to he suddenly asked where
she hid the body of her illegitimate child, mur-
dered by her in the early ’Bo’s ; nor do blameless
churchwardens stand to be accused, inferentially,
of arson, assault, conspiracy and such-like serious
offences, as ,some slight recompense for coming
forward and doing their duty to the public in the
witness-box. As a result of the insane license
that is permitted to Sydney’s police court attor-
neys many undesirable practices are growing up.
People who are not sufficiently hardened to face a
mass of public charges, no less humiliating and
damagingforthe reason thatthey are baseless, shun
the police courts as though they were leprosy-
centres. Moral leprosy-centres these places cer-
tainly are. Few visit them and emerge without
characters so begrimed that the cleanly living of
years does not avail to disinfect them. A section
of the public, realising the possibilities latent in
•this condition of affairs, has taken to using the
police courts as instruments of revenge. To many,
the prospect of being dragged to one of these
places has become as horrible as would be the pro-
spect, to a person in the habit of washing regularly,
of being trailed through the Bondi sewer. There
is nothing more calculated to defeat the ends
of justice than a conviction that honest
people, who go to court through no fault of their
own, have no hope of getting adequate protection
there. The case, alluded to above, of the female
witness whose character was attacked “ without
any foundation represents an everyday occur-
rence in a jurisdiction of which Acting-Justice
Fitzhardinge seemingly knows little or nothing.
Those primarily responsible are the mostly weak
and foolish magistrates with whom Sydney is
afflicted. The Law Society might long ago have
scotched this evil if it had the honor of the legal
profession as deeply at heart as it claims. Failing
reform from either of these sources, the State
Parliament should take a hand. Assuming they
all continue, as before, to do nothing, the form of
a police-court attorney, noisome in death, will
probably he laid at one of their doors by a
maddened police-court witness, as a sort of hint,
just as the Burgomaster of Leyden found a
cadaver remonstrating outside his keyhole at the
time of the Spanish siege.
Maoriland’s Crop of Lunatics.
Two small cablegrams which reached Australian
neck and neck last week from M.L. deserve more
attention than was given them in the daily press.
No. 1 read as follows :
Wellington, Sept. I.—Mr. V. G. Day, police magistrate
at Timaru, sajs his experience is that there are more
temptations to drink in No License districts than in dis-
tricts having licenses. Liquor is kept in practically every
house, dipsomaniacs thus having many opportunities for
secret drinking.
No. 2 conveyed the following information :
Wellington, Sept. I.—The annual report of the In-
spector-General of Mental Hospitals states that the
number of patients on the registers was 3549 at the end
of the year.
One person out of every 290 of the whole population
was registered as insane.
Now, there are several explanations for an in-
crease in a country’s output of lunatics, but the
Maoriland authorities are apparently convinced
that the spread of the No License craze is in some
way related to the spread of the people with
straws in their hair. This is shown by the fact
that, although the Inspector-General of Mental
Hospitals sends in his report annually, the official
“ Year Book ” publishes the records only in those
years which have a direct association with the
taking of local option polls, and the exact position
is shown thus :
Lunatics to
Year. Population.
1894 .. lin 316 .. Poll—first No License district.
1896 .. lin 308 .. Poll.
1898 .. lin 300 .. Eve of poll.
1899 .. lin 296 .. Poll.
1901 .. lin 286 .. Eve of poll.
1903 .. lin 284 .. Poll—two additional “ dry ” dis-
tricts in operation.
1905 .. lin 286 .. Poll.
1907 .. lin 290 .. Eve of poll.
1908 .. lin 285 .. Poll—six additional “dry" dis-
tricts.
In 1908, with six “dry” districts in operation,
there were 3367 lunatics registered (221,471 others
voted for No License), and in 1909, with six more
“ dry ” districts added to the list, there were 3549
deranged inhabitants on the hooks; also, from
1896, with one registered maniac per 308 of popu-
lation, to 1908, with one recorded madman per
285 of the population, the drink bill climbed up
from £2,265,900 (£2 19s. BJd. per head) to
£3,751,968 (£3 15s. per head). So that No
License, increased consumption of alcohol and
increased lunacy have careered through the
Dominion for the past 15 years like a three-
headed curse chasing fantods with a straight-
jacket and singing. in a hiccupy voice Strike
out the top line 1 ”
Wade’s Workers’ Compensation Act (N.S.W.)
has got its assent and been gazetted. As is usual
with Wade’s contraptions, there is a screw loose.
The men who are in the accident and insurance
business, and who know where the accidents
happen, had no doubt whatever that pastoral, and
probably agricultural, employees would he in-
cluded. In fact, some of them made so sure of it
that they circularised the jumhuck people. But
the Act only applies to employment “ on, in or
about —
(a) Any railway, tramway, factory, workshop, mine,
quarry, wharf, vessel, engineering or building work, any
building used for dumping or storing wool ... or
(b) Any other employment. .. which is declared by
proclamation to be dangerous, provided that no such
proclamatioh shall be made except pursuant to resolution
of both Houses of Parliament.
Carting wool to a station over bush tracks is quite
as dangerous a job as handling it on the level floor
of a city wool-store; but the man who is injured
in the store has the benefit of the Act, while.
The City of Thirst.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
This is a song of the pump that failed,
A song of the well run dry,
Of a time when the Asian bullets hailed,
And the war-smoke dimmed the sky,
When history dipped her pen in fire,
And blotted her scroll with death,
And the strong, clear light of a land’s desire
Was scorched with the red drought’s breath.
Of the city that rose with spire and dome,
With arch and portal wide,
The free man’s boast and the whiteman’s home
And a strong j'oung nation’s pride.
It stood four-square to the winds that blew
And shone in the glowing sun,
E’er the fields were wet with the battle-dew,
Or loud with the rending gun.
But dark from the North the war-smoke rose,
And the white man, battling sore,
From a raging tumult of Asian blows
His legions backward bore ;
Ay, buck to the city liis hands had built,
To the place where the pump went dry,
To'the-walls that were red with a statesman’s
guilt
And black with a traitor’s lie. .
Oh, not through the shock of the flying steel,
And not from the foeman’s hand
The death-stroke fell; but th„ rire-red heel
Of drought was on all the land ;
And facing the smoke and the bursting shell,
In a lingering pain accurs'd,
The white man bowed to the hosts of Hell
By the City of Dreadful Thirst.
Grim is the tale of the pump that failed.
The song of the well run dry,
When the hell-winged bullets of Asia hailed.
And the wrath-smoke dimmed the sky.
(In another land it chanced, he sure,
Where the people were dull and blind,
Where none at all were possessed of your
Extensive and open mind.)
For never, I ween, ’neath Australia’s sky
Shall a city be planned and built
111 the dreary place of a traitor’s lie,
To tell of a statesman’s guilt ;
B.it by living waters that swiftly flow —
Untouched by hate or greed—
Clean to the heart, shall its greatness grow
Attuned to the people’s need.
N.S.W.
PATRICK M.
The Old Men.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The State of Victoria has the largest share of people
who are over 65 years of age.— Foster Fraser.
Hoar as the gum-trees, weary as the rocks,
The old men wait
Amid the lowing herds and bleating flocks
Of Fat’s estate.
Their children west and north are scattered far,
While aged eyes
Look for the glowing of Victoria’s star
That yet shall rise.
Patient and mute, the ancient pioneers
Stand at their post,
Unwilling, in despite of all their years,
To yield the ghost.
Bound by their dreams of what the land might be
Through tilth and toil,
In no unseemly haste they wait to see
Enfranchised soil,
To see their own strong sons come home at last
With hope re-horn,
To see the sheep-wastes of the fettered past
Waving with corn,
To hear again the children at their play
Around the door;
Until that dream comes true they needs must stay,
Saddened and hoar.
Oh, Weary John, get moving ! Wake, arise !
And hear their cry.
Do something. Let the shock of glad surprise
Help them to die.
N.S.W.
MARY McCOMMONWEALTH.


t
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
&
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ARAMS' CAFE.
Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
IMF** Moving Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney—386 George Street; Melbourne—266 Collins
Street; Brisbane—93-95 Queen Street; Adelaide—
Gawler Place ; Perth—Tillys’ Photo. Stores.
A SLUGGISH CIRCULATION, begotten of sedentary
habits, leads to congestion of the brain, liver and other
organs. The best remedy for this undesirable state of
affairs is to stimulate the activity of the whole bodily
economy by taking a wineglassful of “ Hunyadi Jakos ”
natural aperient water every morning.*
the man who is injured on the bush-track is
shut out from its benefits. Only Wade knows
why it should be necessary to specify any trades
or callings at all. The man who is killed at one
job is just as dead as the man who is killed at
another, and his widow gets just as cold if she
isn’t clothed and his youngsters get just as hun-
gry if they are not fed. It isn’t much use
telling the farm-laborer’s widow to buck up
when her bread-winner has been slaughtered
in the chaff-cutter, or to tell her that
the injuries which killed her husband couldn’t
have, been serious because his occupation
wasn’t dangerous. If an occupation isn’t dan-
gerous, and if a man can’t be hurt in following it,
then nobody would suffer by giving the em-
ployees the protection of the Act; on the other
hand, if the man in that calling is hurt or killed,
all the Acts in the world won’t alter the fact that
it is dangerous.
Andrew Fisher and His Hew Allies.
It was an obviously worried Federal Government
which last week rallied up a new set of allies to
helpit bludgeon its Yass-Canberrainiquity through
the House of Reps. With a gallant array of Tories
bearing a hand, it carried the preliminary vote
for the building of the capital bv a solid
majority, and doubtless it heaved a sigh of relief
as it got the dingy matter out of sight—for the
time, at all events. Yet, with all its anxiety to
end the discussion, the Fisher Government never
once raised the courage to say, plainly and
definitely, that it was supporting Yassberra be-
cause it regarded Yassberra as the best possible
site that could be selected in the public interest.
If it didn't regard the place in that light*
then its action was a piece of shameless
political villainy, cowardice, treachery and
double-dealing; but, even to save itself from
a very unpleasant suspicion, it uever once abso-
lutely declared that it did regard the place in that
light. In fact, a year or so ago, the previous
Fisher Government, which was almost the same
as the present one, was against Yassberra almost
to a man ; and even when it gave up the fight one
of its members declared that it was accepting a
second-best sort of place because the best one
wasn’t then obtainable. It was a curious, shabby,
disreputable chain of circumstances altogether.
The old Fisher Ministry was mostly tor a
capital on Monaro, which the eminent N.S.W.
expert, appointed to report on possible locali-
ties, had declared to be the best. It was
defeated by an almost invisible majority, through
the scheming of its own Attorney-General,
the shifty, narrow, parish-minded Hughes, whose
one idea of a suitable capital is apparently a
capital as near as possible to his own electorate in
Sydney. Rather than lose its job, the Fisher
Government promptly accepted the decision of
Hughes and the hostile Tory majority, just as it
might have accepted their decision in favor of black
labor or on any other small matter, and it became
Yassberra-ite. After that, complications set in.
It lost its job, despite the sacrifice it had made for
the job’s preservation. Then, after a cold spell in
Opposition, there came a general election ; and
the people made a remarkably clean sweep
of the original Yassberra push, and put the
Fisher Government back into office with such a
majority that it could afford to follow the dic-
tates of its conscience in this matter, as in all
other matters —assuming that it had a conscience.
But, by the time the opportunity came to hand,
the Fisher Government had muddled itself into
a very difficult position. If it voted again for the
site which most. of its members had pre-
viously declared to be the one which should
be chosen in the public interest, that fact
would be a glaring admission that, in pre-
viously abandoning that same site, it had turned
its coat and thrown the public interest overboard
in order that it might keep its billet and salary a
few months longer. Every Tory member and Tory
paper would remind it of the fact. Also, such a
course of action would annoy Hughes, the man who
politically “runs” the much less adroit Fisher.
A Government which had sold its principles for
office as a regular thing might at this point have
cheerfully turned a fresh somersault and started
anew ; but the Fisher crowd was rather unprac-
tised at the Judas business, and didn’t know how
to get round the corner gracefully. Id didn’t say
that it was either a fool or a liar in the old days
when it used to declare that Yassberra wasn't the
best available place; nor did it say that it is a
gang of traitors in these present days, and that in
its new Yassberra enthusiasm it is sacrificing the
country to its own convenience. It dodged the
issue by the thin device of remarking that it
“ regarded the question as settled.” In other
words, it hid behind the proposition that an act
done by an old Tory Parliament, which the people
afterwards completely repudiated at the polls,
should still be held sacred, and not repealed or
even called in question upon any account whatso-
ever. And at the very same moment it was
giving the lie to its own silly plea, by repealing
the Naval Loan Act of that same allegedly sacred
but defunct Parliament. It even turned dog on
the referendum principle in its haste to force on
the people a capital which, unless some of its own
members burst up the truth very recklessly in
other days, it doesn’t believe in ; and Australia
saw the amazing spectacle of that eminent demo-
crat, Attorney-General Hughes, explaining the
utter unfitness of the common herd to decide a
great question like that. The vote was
got through the House of Reps, chiefly by Minis-
ter O’Malley, the American humorist with the
Buffalo Bill hat, and if his jests were fairly
awful they at least helped the Ministry to dodge
the serious aspects of a question which couldn’t
stand close inspection. The Tories, the old Free-
traders, the old nigger-labor and pro-Chinese
push, the land monopoly advocates, the anti-
defence crowd and the wreckage of the bygone
Fuse gave much support. And so far as the
House of Reps, was concerned, Yassberra became
an accepted fact—bar accidents.
«
Whitewash.
“Railway Porter” writes :
The finding of the Special Board of Inquiry into the
Richmond (Vic.) railway smash is about as whitewash}'
as it was expected to be, and that is saying a lot. The
Board couldn’t bring itself to fasten the blame on to the
overworked, regulation-harassed employees, and it evi-
dently wasn't game to lay it on the Department, whose
all-embracing regulations were found wanting ; so it just
said that, owing to a concatenation of circumstances
over which nobody had any control, and through a series
of minor lapses which were quite excusable, the whole
infallible system broke down, but that, nevertheless, the
system wasn’t in fault. In fact, the thing just happened
because it was kismet. Coming to details the Board found
that the smash was due to successive contraventions of
the regulations. One signalman, however,, kept a regu-
lation too well, and interpreted it so literally that he
primarily made the disaster possible. Some contraven-
tions were excusable, the Board says, because of con-
comitant circumstances, while others were pardonable
because “ the practice had been to ignore them.” Also,
the fact of certain Richmond signals not being manned
by fog signalmen caused a contributory misunderstand-
ing ; nevertheless, the stationmaster at Richmond was
not to blame. The Board didn’t say who was to blame ;
neither did it state whose fault it was that “the
practice is to ignore certain regulations”; in fact,
the remarks it didn’t make are more numerous and elo-
quent than the remarks it did make. As a matter of
cold fact, the Board, having discovered that regulations
had been broken and that such breaches had become the
practice, should have set itself earnestly to learn why
this was so, and if the regulations, when drawn up, were
ever meant to be fully carried out. The evidence showed
that most of the employees are so overworked that they
cannot possibly do their duties properly, wherefore they
struggle along and “chance it.” And the results of
chancing it are becoming too frequent and too obvious
except for the undertakers. Apparently the Board
wasn't game to say this ; neither was it game to say that
the necessity to “make the railways pay” forces the
Commissioners to starve the system and run the
suburban lines at a risk to counterbalance the loss
on the country lines which pass through the empty
lands of the great land grabber. That and the eternal
demand for cheap freights have compelled the de-
partinental chiefs to protect ihemselves by multifarious
regulations. And the regulations are ignored, as it is
well known they must be. Tiien comes the inevitable
“ accident ” ; and after the accident the inevitable white-
washing. And when the whitewashing is finished, the
pot of pale wash is put by in a handv place to be ready
for the next breakdown of the regulations and the next
crop of corpses. Meantime, the person who is quite liable
to ne a corpse next time, heaves clods at the Australian
Government when it makes an effort to fill the empt y
spaces in the country, and thus abolish the cause of ail
the trouble.
The System.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“This is the best of all Possible Railway
Systems,”
Thus, with his hand on his heart, the Victorian
Person,
Having been given a brush and a bucket of white-
wash,
(An accurate way of describing a Board of
Inquiry),
And having inspected the corpses assembled at
Richmond,
And having (you’ll pardon this series of moods
participial),
Examined with tenderest care the stammering
witness.
The guard and the driver, and likewise the expert,
JohnJinkins—
I pause for a breath and go backward in search of
my subject-
just thus, with his hand on his heart, the Vic-
torian Person
Delivers the verdict desired of the Board of
Inquiry,
Most hesitant, watery, mild, inoffensive of ver-
dicts,
Where nobody’s blamed, and nobody’s truly
responsible;
But everyone’s clad with a generous coating of
whitewash.
But lo ! on the heels of this most inoffensive of
verdicts,
A train in this best of all possible railway systems
Is crossing the bridge of a creek neat Hamilton
city;
Bang goes a spring, and flop do the carriages
tumble
Over the bridge, with the shuddering passengers
in them !
And nobody’s killed (by a fluke) but everyone’s
injured.
There isn’t an axe on the train, nor even a chisel:
You see the weird sight of a platelayer armed
with a penknife,
Attempting to rescue Miss Wheeler (aged four)
from a carriage,
While under the car uncomplaining lies Maurice
P. Boland,
Stuck in the mud, till they lever him out with a
shovel.
The ground wasn’t hard, or Boland had made
his last exit,
And the fact that the train picked the muddiest
section to fall on
Is proof of Commissioner Tait’s super-excellent
management.
And thus it is ever the case in the State of Vic-
toria,
The home of the best of all possible railway
systems,
Where the profit is reckoned to be twelve-and-
sixpence a minute,
Though whitewash is constantly needed to cover
misfortunes.
It always occurs in his wondrous Victorian
system,
That just when inquiry is closed, and the white-
wash is drying,
A train goe3 and tumbles most stupidly into a
river,
Or an unrepaired brake will collapse, and a crew
go to glory,
Or a yow of immutable Dead lies accusing at
Richmond,
Or a Sunshine Disaster makes all the community
shiver.
•Just when the corpulent person, the dividend-
monger,
Is saying: “No fault can be found with this
excellent system.
And Tait is the victim of very unscrupulous
slander,”
Behold, there descends on the system a logic
relentless,
The Smash is repeated, the Smash that is due to
cheap working ;
And the corpulent person his sentence has scarcely
completed
When the bodies of Victims refute him, and
dozens of injured
Stand forth with heads bloodied and bandaged to
prove him a liar.
VICTORIA.
W.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Orchid.”
Royal “ Lovers’Lane.”
Criterion “ The Arcadians.”
Palace “ A Woman’s Revenge.”
Tivoli Rickards’Co.
Glaciarium West’s Pictures.
nYCRUM Spencer’s Pictures.
Town Hall Carreno
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Princess’s “Henry of Navarre.”
Her Majesty’s “The Whip."
Royal “Pete.”
King’s “The Winning Ticket.”
Opera House Rickards’Vaudeville Co.
AthrNjEUm Hall Taits’ Pictures.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Glaciarium.. -. Ice Skating.
Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
“ The Orchid ” will go back into J.C.W.’s
cold storage at the end of next week, and “Our
Miss Gibbs” will reign at Her Majesty’s (the
Sydney one) in the place of the popular old vege-
table. To give Miss Gibbs a proper start in Aus-
tralian life, .J.C.W. has imported Miss Blanche
Browne. The lady arrived early this week and
explained at once that she was just 2L The Bul-
letin welcomes Miss Browne, and has hopes that,
the fashion having been set, it will soon also wel-
come Miss Jones and Mrs. Smith. Considering
the vast number of Browns and Joneses and Smiths
in the Directory, their complete absence from the
stage has been one of the mysteries that have kept
this paper awake at nights, and spoilt its appetite
for tne other mystery that arrives on the break-
fast plate in the mornings.
* * * ■*
After a long course of mixed opera, Shak-
speare omelettes, fried comedy, boiled farce with
caper sauce and cinematograph chips, Sydney sat
back at the Palace on Saturday night and
took a big draught of drama with a dash
in the shape of “ A Woman’s Revenge.” The
piece was staged under arrangement with
Bland Holt, the original producer in Aus-
tralia. As drama goes or staggers, “ A Woman’s
Revenge ” pursues an even course, neither
mooning away to the turnip-fields of banality,
nor whirling over the entire country accompanied
by a blood-splash on the Axe That Did Not Kill
the Hero, a Ship on Fire, a Dago with a Deformed
Hand (Hireling of the Man Who Betrayed Her,
and left Her out in the Snow with the Che-ild so
that it could catch pneumonia and die, thereby
proving that the missing will, which was doped the
night before the race, was a forgery), a Mother’s
Curse and a Shot in the Dark or the Neck or some-
where. In this case the woman’s revenge is fairly
sane, and, as a matter of fact, is nothing to speak of
in the way of vengeance. A revenge that aims at
separating man and wife doesn’t raise tuppence
worth of shudder these days. All the same, the
lady at the Palace suffers some inconvenience.
Jealousy of her husband being instilled into her
bosom by the Woman Scorned, the young wife
starts out with a Broken Heart, and takes the
Wrong Turning. This leads her to the vicinity of
a Murder, a Wreck or two, a £5O note, a Vile
Accusation and the Felon’s Dock, where she is
placed on trial for her life. With the exception
of those trifling matters, nothing unusual happens,
and the Lost Husband turns up and saves his
wife from the Hangman’s Paw in time for the
audience to secure a whisky-and-soda before the
dram-shops close. “A Woman’s Revenge” can
be recommended as an interesting play, and the
company is producing it as well as it deserves.
Beatrice Holloway stood out from a fairly even
cast on Saturday night, and The Bulletin hereby
gives her two and a-half cheers. The “ Revenge ”
will stalk at the Palace until further notice.
“THE ARCADIANS ,” AT SYDNEY CRI.
Arcadian lovers —
Sombra (Maie
Sydney) and
Astrophel (Phil
Carlton).
“Lovers’ Lane,” which was staged at
Sydney Royal last Saturday night, by the
Plimmer-Denniston Go., is a production without
an atmosphere. It carries no more conviction of
actual life, anywhere, than a hastily-done adapta-
tion from the French or German. As a matter of
fact, it is a sort of adaptation—from the
American into English. The action is re-
presented as taking place at Brentford—
which thriving place, with its boiling-down
establishments, its soap factories and its highly-
flavored market-gardens, has always appealed to
the writer as the Botany of London. The
cunning hand of the scene-painter trans-
forms the big town’s flat and grimy hideous-
ness into a dream of sylvan beauty. Here
a delightful parson ministers to a freakish con-
gregation of American bucolics—familiar figures
who dress in the fashion of the “ Cabbage Patch,”
and who possess the intolerantly upright moral
outlook which would seem to have gone to
America on the Mayflower, and to have imme-
diately fled into the interior, and stayed there
ever since, concealed from the gaze of all but a few
lynx-eyed U.S playwrights and novelists. The
“ minister” is of as much importance in Brentford,
as if he were the only pebble on the clerical beach
of Dushore, Sullivan, Penn., U.S.A. His little
indiscretions, arising from an almost insanely
generous disposition, throw the locality into a
ferment. His congregation, led by a criminal-
looking “deacon,” deputationises him in the public
market-place and urges him to desist. He
shouts defiance, so that the deacon is fain to
cower beneath his strangely-fashioned silk hat,
while his horrible-looking women supporters
tremble with shock and fury and the Puritan
spirit of New England. The business is all as
American as Mrs. Herbert Woodbridge, who has
divorced her husband in London “for drunken-
ness ” ; but the fact that it is put through in the
different dialects of Britain interferes with the
illusion. On the other hand,, the dialogue is
bright and humorous,, and the sentimental
passages are not banal.
* * * *■
The chief interest of the play is the love-
story' of the clergyman, Thomas Singleton, whose
kindly whim it is to fill his vicarage with derelicts
lacking any visible means of support. He instals
among them Mrs. Woodbridge, whom the Brad-
fordites have refused to allow in their church choir,
owing to her matrimonial trouble. Shortly after-
wards, the erring Woodbridge calls at the vicarage
with sweet Mary Larkin. They wish to be
married. Mrs. Woodbridge is called into witness
the ceremony, and when she recognises her
dipsomaniacal ex-hnsband there is trouble.
Mary waves Woodbridge aside ; so does the par-
son ; so does Mrs. Woodbridge. He retires,
looking as though something had struck him.
Mary leaves her gloves behind her. Later on, the
Rev. Thomas picks them up, gazes at them and
places them next his heart. Those of the audi-
ence who know stage-conventions murmur sagely
to one another that he is not long for the
celibate state. Woodbridge is not all bad.
He is persuaded to go away and wrestle
with the drink-fiend in solitude. Meanwhile,
Mary stays behind and teaches the chil-
dren at the Brentford school. Woodbridge
comes back, after a six months’ wrestle with
alcohol, from which he has emerged a winner, to
find the Brentford orchards a-bloom and Mary in
love with the parson. He is reconciled to his wife
and child. The infuriated parishioners are recon-
ciled to the Rev. Thomas. All is peace.
* * * *
Harry Plimmer makes a capital parson—a
divine who is as good and manly as he is beauti-
ful. Miss Winifred Austin acts soundly and looks
charming as Mary Larkin. Mary’s scenes with
the Rev. Thomas are among the most convincing
in the play. Lizette Parkes scores hard and often
in the trying part of Simplicity Johnson, an
orphan child. Some years back The Bulletin
prophesied a big future for this clever local
product, and it looks like materialising quite
soon now. Mrs. Brough handles the r6le of the
divorced wife with all her old distinction and art,
and Reynolds Denniston is good as the husband
who reforms. There are some excellently drawn
character-parts, and the staging is beyond cavil.
** * *
“The Arcadians” enters on its last week
to-night (Thursday), and, incidentally, Miss
Essie Perrin enters on her last seven performances
in Australia. If only because the day will surely
dawn when it will be regarded as a reproach and
a humiliation not to have seen Essie Perrin in
“The Arcadians,” those few who haven’t yet
visited the Criterion show are counselled to hurry
up and do so, at the usual, or any price.
» * * =»
A catchy title is an excellent thing to have
about the premises, and when the Wests decided
to call the Sydney Glaeiarium, to which the pic-
tures have now moved from the Palace, “The
Window of the World,” there was a suspicion of
genius about the proceeding. It fits extra well,
because just now the Wests are putting on a
cinematographic journal of local events, which
will one day cause trouble. The subjects for the
week are the lacrosse final, the Nellie Stewart
radium matinee crowd, and the Powerful leav-
ing Cockatoo Dock. They are interesting, but
the trouble is that the faces of the people are
seen too clearly, and one of these days there will
be a divorce case started on the evidence of those
pictures. The thing is full of possibilities.
For the rest, the programme includes a fine
dramatic piece, “TheTyrantof Jerusalem,” and a
variety of wild comics. The best item in the
show is one which reveals how two boy friends
find themselves on opposite sides in the U.S.
Civil War ; but are reconciled many years after
by the small baby that their son and daughter
have perpetrated between them. The spectacle
of the Southerner saluting Old Glory, and the
Northerner paying reverence to the Stars and
Bars of the Confederacy, is an artistic theme.
#* * *
At Sydney Lyceum “Uncle Tom’s Cabin,”
the story with which Harriet Beecher Stowe
raised such a rumpus in the United States the
century before yesterday, is going with lurid
realism. One wonders what salaries the mum-
mers who pose for these pictures get. Probably
the bill reads : “To fallingdownchimney through
kerosene blaze, 25 dollars; to doing ‘Eliza act’
over frozen river, 100 dollars ; to having throat cut
and Indian tortures inflicted. 500 dollars.”
If one is interested in color photography Venice
seems to be a good place to indulge the taste.
Judging by some views at the Lyceum, they have
fine sunsets in Venice. But the writer, being a
rheumatic subject, has decided that Venice is no
place for him. Those beautiful marble palaces
must be damp. Another good film that rouses
one to some enthusiasm is that of the five-year-old
baby girl who discovers a man in a mask carrying
off her savings bank and the whole contents, 29
cents. The kid takes it badly and refuses to sleep
or anything else till the bank is recovered. The
police are informed and greet the information
with derisive laughter; but later the kiddy
comes along and lays her own information.
Sundry suspects are brought before her; but she
declines to identify. Then she says she will get
the criminal herself, and the traps provide a
whistle which she is to blow when she sees him.
She goes out and pots an organ-grinder; anc) as
the missing bank is discovered in his clothes no
Third Degree work is necessary. It’s an enter-
taining farce, and makes a man profoundly thank-
ful that his children are not precocious.
*# * *
At time of writing, the 10 members of the
acrobatic Kremo Family are getting ready to
dive out of the firmament of Sydney Tivoli.
The display of shooting stars is due to happen


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
*
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Pho ne No. 236 Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
ĥ
GREY «
Dr. B- Allen’s (0.5. A.)
Mexican Walnut Stain
is guaranteed Washab:e
and absolutely harmless.
None genuine without the sig-
nature of Alfred Ardley
* (Registered).
before this Bulletin leaps blushing on to the
bookstalls. The star that is to replace the
Kremos has not yet risen above the theatrical
horizon ; but he will have to twinkle with con-
siderable candle-power to make np for the
vanished constellation. The three youthful Ray-
monds are timed to pack up their banjos and
fine raiment on Friday evening; their departure
will also make for more gloom. Mrs. Yeamans
Titus is the most notable of the remaining per-
formers, who include the Quealys, the singing
Australian Gold Diggers, Tom Dawson, Olga
Grey and Bert Terrell.
** * *
Any notice of “The Winning Ticket,” at
the King’s (Melbourne), needs to suppose a subse-
quent removal of much superfluous dialogue and
a satisfactory staging of certain mechanical effects
which failed direfully last Saturday night.
Anderson’s Australian sporting drama, when
properly pruned and lubricated, and refurnished
with sturdier gee-gees, should prove a welcome
change from the monotony of imported balder-
dash. “ The Winning Ticket,” to give it its fair
due, is not all bellowdrama in the full sense of the
term. Some of it is very tolerable hollowdrama.
The dialogue is mostly rational and often
amusing. The make-weight characterisation has
touches of Australian color quite as convincing
as the bits of Cockney color that G. R.
Sims, say, introduced into “ Lights o’ Lon-
don.” Although the plot is thin and straggling,
its horsey interest sufficed to keep Ander-
son’s devoted supporters in their places until
11.40 p.m. on Saturday, when the sensation-
scene achieved a fiasco, and the multitude burst
into silence where tumults of applause had been
expected. Up to that time, therefore, the enter-
tainment must have contained the elements of
success—success of the sort that gladdens the
treasury and makes the judicious kick themselves.
* * * *
George Cross, at the outset, marries Miss
Duggan and buys a ticket in Tatt.’s. The
lady, it seems, had previously married Roy Red-
grave, in France, but left him muttering “ Sacrt
bleu /” at the church door, since when she had
hoped that the bad, bold Frenchman was dead.
Also, a comic turf tout (Temple Harrison)
steals the Tatt. ticket. The trouble about the
ticket is of longer duration than the diffi-
culty about Miss D.’s bigamous marriage.
This blows over in the third act, whereas the
ticket flies around to the finish, and assumes all
the importance of the stolen will in ordinary
British bellowdrama. Meanwhile, Cross has been
chastened by his experiences in a two-up school,
and Redgrave, the man of evil, has thrown a pre-
cocious kiddy into a river of real water with a
view to wrecking the train that bears the Mel-
bourne Cup favorite to Flemington. A lady who
purports to be Miss Duggan dives beautifully into
the water after the kiddy, and when the swing
railway bridge consents to swing instead of
remaining always stationary, as on Saturday, this
situation will be doubly thrilling. The Melbourne
Cup race comes later. It should have been the
old familiar illusion of a few horses working their
respective treadmills whilst a racecourse panorama
flitted past them in the background, but on Satur-
day the panorama refused to budge an inch,
although the machinery was roaring like Niagara
Falls. Worse than that, one of the unhappy Cup
candidates lost his foothold and fell, and what
time the upstanding animals were moving their
legs rapidly the fallen one retained his position in
the race. It reminded the writer of gallant John
Brown in the American war song, who continued
to go marching on after he was dead.
“ LOVERS’ LANE,"
AT SYDNEY
ROYAL.
Rev. Harry Plimmer
as Boss Cocky of
the Lane.
Reynolds Denniston as
Herbert Woodbridge
(Mrs. Woodbridge's
husband).
Still, there is hope for Anderson’s cheerful
hippodratna, in spite of its early fiascos. It was
constructed to suit the company, and the com-
pany, with the exception of Edwin Campbell and
Miss Erris, both of whom are habitually over-
assertive, fill their places. A long dream-story of
the Melbourne Cup, which falls to Eugenie Dug-
gan’s lot, ought to go out, along with a lot of
irrelevant matter in the first and second acts.
After being relieved of its heaviest lumber, “The
Winning Ticket” will deserve more consideration
than many foreign products of its kind.
*# * *
The supremely lucky season of serious
opera at Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) closed early
on Saturday night, the company having to catch
a special train for Adelaide. After the music had
gone out, at quarter past 10 or earlier, manager
Bracy informed the audience that the Melbourne
run of “Madam Butterfly”—24 consecutive
nights followed by four revivals —was a record
which would lead the management to expect
great things of . the Melba opera season, com-
mencing in September next year. Then the
theatre lapsed into privacy for six days, prepara-
tory to the production of “The Whip.”
“The Whip” is unquestionably the biggest
and most effective Drury Lane drama that ever
was, and its appearance at Her Majes y
Melbourne’s most amazing exjpenenee up-to-da j.
A company has been imported to play the prmci
paf paKlnd an army of human “extras in
expensive raiment will be supported by a stud of
racehorses, a pack of hounds and some convincing
imitations of railway rolling stock In fact the
advt. cannot do comparative justice ta
Whip,” owing to the awful mendacity of previous
advts. in general.
FREDERICK BLAMEY , the fat tenor of
Williamson's Opera Co., Melbourne .
In some of the London theatre-programme *
the list of mummers who supply the acting is
hardly longer than the list of shopkeepers who
decorate the mummers, the stage and the theatre.
The sweet uses of advertisement were elaborately
set forth in the Drury Lane bill of “The Whip,”
for instance. The cast in that case was exception-
ally long ; but the managerial puff particulars in-
cluded almost as qiany names as the cast. How
is this for a postscript ?
Miss Fanny Brough’s Dresses and Hats by Redfern,
Ltd. Miss Bateman’s Riding Habits by Thomas and Sons.
All other Dresses by Ludlow and Cockburn. Millinery
by Gainsborough.
Gentlemen’s Dresses by Morris Angel and Son.
Furniture by Oetzmann and Co., Ltd., Hampstead
Road, W. ...
Artificial Flowers by W. Kilhngbuck and Messrs. Gatti.
Animals supplied by T. G. Hales.
Wigs by Clark-ion.
Floral Decorations by Bellgroves, Ltd.
Chappells’ pianos used in this Theatre.
The proof Engravings and Etchings in the Corridors
are supplied by Messrs. So-and-So, of Such-and-Such.
Toilet Table appointments throughout the Theatre by
Hinde’s, Ltd., London and Birmingham.
Silver by the Goldsmiths and Silversmiths’ Co.
The Hounds are fed on Spratt’s Patent Dog Food.
The Horses are fed on Molassine Meal.
Motor-car used irt Act I. by the So-and-So Co.
Nothing seems to have been omitted save the
names of the bootmakers who supplied the hoof-
wear and the boot-cream manufacturers who fur-
nished the gloss. These people must have failed
to come to satisfactory terms with the manage-
ment.
** * *
“ Henry of Navarre,” now happening for
the first time in Melbourne, at the Princess s, is
a production which is not calculated to do any
serious harm. Its plot is orthodox—not too ortho-
dox, but orthodox enough to pull through. Its
scenery is quite respectable. As regards its
characters, if they are not glaringly human,
they are at least well-dressed phantoms.
The Due de Guise and the Due d’
Anjou, for instance, are merely _ romantic
suggestions, but they are romantic; while
Cosmo Ruggieri, the astrologer, is something in
the nature of a gloomy guy. Catherine de Medici
is disappointing. She had some reputation in
history as a.plotter and schemer, a dodger round
the corner, and a long distance homicide. But
the dramatist has made her a fatuous assassin,
who seldom assassinates anybody. Twice she
attempts the life of Henry of Navarre, first by
poisoning his liquor, and second by sprinkling a
powder on the fire in his room. Both of these
deeds are unworthy of Catherine. Bill Sikes
would have done as well.
* * * *
The drama gambols, frisks or plods about
Navarre’s chase of Marguerite de Yalois and
Catherine’s infamous designs on the King of
Bearn. Miss Ethel Warwick, as Marguerite, does
not illumine her part with the fire of personality.
Miss Susie Vaughan, as Catherine, does as wisely
as the stupid conditions permit. Julius Knight
plays Henry with his usual ease. Sydney Stir-
ling’s Charles IX. is something refined in drama-
tic portraiture. Cyril Mackay, as the Due de
Guise, has no chance worth mentioning; and
George Bryant, as Ruggieri, is a pathetic figure
of self-suppression. Costumes loom gaudily in
the production, and a few yards of good material
in clothing go a long way towards covering the
same length of bad material in historical melo-
drama.
** * *
“ Pete ’’and the baby have only six more
nights to put in at Melbourne Royal. The return
of the Clarke and Meynell Comic Opera Co. is
promised for the 24th, when “Sergeant Brue ”
will clear the way for the arrival of “ Tom Jones”
a week later.
** * *
Carreno, brilliant as ever, or even more so,
has finished her four piano recitals at Melbourne
Town Hall, and is off to Sydney to-day (Thurs-
day). In a better constructed building Carrefio
might give performances more delightful; but
she is the same great artist wherever she plays,
and the.city must make the best of its Town
in the meantime. Dolores is due there on the
24th; also Gertrude Alger, the violinist, will give
a concert on one of the September dates which
haven’t been booked for the well-beloved songstress
aforementioned. On Saturday afternoon (1/th)
the Vic. Professional Union Orchestra gives its
fifth concert, with Hermann Schrader as con-
ductor.
*# * *
Wowsers will be shocked to hear that Jim
Corbett, the distinguished ex-champion of stoush,
is boxing on the screen at Hoyt’s Pictures (Mel-
bourne) this week. Corbett and his sparring
partner give illustrations of knockouts, and finally
box three educational rounds with the avowed pur-
pose of causing the fighting blood of the audience
to tingle with love of conquest. Also Corbett—on
the screen —inspires Miss Turner, the “Vitagraph
Girl,” in the noble art of improving her figure
by muscular exercise, and teaches her to so put
up her fair young “ dooks ” that she eventually
taps him on the jaw in the most refined manner.
The romantic pictorial story of Corbett and the
Girl—how he persuaded her to physical culture
after she had fainted in his arms whilst waltzing
—is calculated to make the blood of even a curate
tingle with love of conquest.
** * *
Managerial negotiations to handle Ran-
dolph Bedford’s lecture tour are nigh a conclusion,
and the bear-leader will be selected this week.
The job of leading this particular bear should be
a fairly easy one, as Bedford has roughed it too
much to be as exigent as a prima donna regarding
travelling arrangements. Already a press agent
is engaged digging up Bedford’s doings while
floating, or attempting to float, mines in Glasgow,
and books in London, and plays in New York, or
selecting a principality in the Northern leiri-
tory, or making a piratical descent on the Vatican
and forcing a special audience with Popebaito.
Also, the stories of Martin Walsh in Morocco
and Coolgardie, and of Billy Gow and the camel
are taking their proper places among the tales of
Canton and Broadway.
** * *
At Melbourne Athenaeum, the Taits are
showing Wong Toy Sun, in conjunction with the
usual pictures. Wong Toy is an allegedly Chinese
conjurer, and he performs a series of illusions in
a beautiful robe. Of the films, there is the
“Castle of St. Angelo, Rome,” which gives
glimpses of the place that Time has marred and
History mentioned. Also, there is “One of the
Finest,” which is the epic of a policeman, ihe
bobby is a heroic being. He saves a girl from a
crowd of Dago miscreants, and subsequently
effects the arrest of the whole gang with a genius
that recalls Melbourne’s own O’Callaghan.
** * *
“Uncle Tom’s Cabin” is one of the un-
easy flickers at Melbourne Olympia this week.
The film, being even more grotesque than the
book, does not impress this family publication.
Uncle Tom is an affecting black character, but
his ways are unearthly. “May and December
is a comedy of love, with some flashes that are
almost brilliant. “ Jephthah’s Daughter ”is also
excellent, and some of its scenes have been
arranged by a man with the eye of an artist.
** * *
At the Opera House the present old-
established bill is about to lose its centrepiece,
Morris Cronin and party are leaving to-night
(Thursday), and the gap in the proceedings has
got to be filled forthwith.
** * *
Adelaide shows have been quiet. Pic-
tures compete keenly, yet somehow in their
batches of new goods they often duplicate each
other’s attractions. Prince’s films have engaged
the Town Hall so steadily that Mrs. Carreno was
forced to play at the Exhibition ; and that build-
ing hardly gives a pianist a fair chance. Still, she
was able to get in one afternoon at the other pre-
mises before she left. The Literary Theatre has
finished its Unley season with Arnold Bennett’s
brilliantly satirical “What the Public Wants.”
It lived up to its name rather more than other
recent productions. This band of enthusiasts
headed by Bryceson Treharne, of the University
Conservatorium—finds some difficulty in reconcil-
ing its popular audiences with the unpopular play
which it exists to deal with. Other things
theatrical have been mostly tearful. Mabel
Harding’s co. has been playing “Uncle Tom’s
Cabin,” while the George Marlow co. put up
“East Lynne” at the Royal, with “Madam
Butterfly ” to follow early in the week. At the
Tivoli are Keeton and also Kalman, contrasted
comedians; and Mendel, whose audiences (as
generally happens in Adelaide) applaud the
simple playing of a simple air quite as much as
any of his brilliant musical feats; and the Char-
lenes, clever and comical. These latter players
do not talk, but as the lady shows all her teeth in
her frequent smile, and the men smash plates, a
Sherlock Holmes might deduce that if they did
talk they would guess and calc’late a good deal.
“0.K.”: Now that the new Victorian Professional
Orchestra is taking a natural lead in . Melbourne’s
musical culchaw, people are considering the ques-
tion of the “ Permanent Orchestra Trust Fund ”
—which is hitched to the name of Lady
Northcote and is under the control of a board of
“ toffs,” whereof Dr. Barrett appears to be the moving
spirit. This fund was initiated by Mr. A. E. Lee, who
has since gone to England to spend his remaining days
and his private means. Lee, a very retiring citizen
.whose interest in music was based on a large library of
scores, seems to have taken it for granted that Mel-
bourne had no hope of culchaw apart front Marshall
Hall. He started the Permanent Orchestra Fund
by giving a cheque for £lOOO into the custody
of that demonstrative professor of music. , Then
Lady Northcote was introduced into the matter,
and Sassiety became deeply interested. Two or three
people gave £lOO apiece, and so on down to the mild half-
guinea. Melba gave a set of instruments, and these
passed into the control of Marshall Hall, with the ap-
proval of the committee. At the present time the Per-
manent Orchestra Fund amounts to about £2OOO, but
the impossibility of forming a powerful organisation of
non-unionists and amateurs is apparent. The unionists
have established their Vic. Professional Orchestra with a
resolve to go ahead. Their policy of varying the con-
ductors and calling public attention to the fact that the
sun of orchestral music doesn’t shine from the coat-tail
pocket of Marshall Hall has practically “ blown out ” the
pretensions of the P.O.F. Board of management. As the
matter stands, a small clique of conservatorial quidnuncs
are nursing their money whilst the associated instrumen-
talists nurse their ambition to become a permanent pro-
fessi nal orchestra. Co-operative unionism is at logger-
heads with a maimed monopoly, and sassiety meanwhile
is hopelessly hanging on to the one-man show.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“ 0.K.”: Has anyone commented on the recent decease
of Delphine Ugalde, the original French queen of comic
opera? Long before Offenbach and Miss Schneider were
thought of, Delphine Ugalde was the talk of the caf6s
and the toast of the town. She is said to have been the
first French actress who went on tour to “ star ” outside of
her own country. She lent money to the first Dumas,
and “ assisted at the d6but” of Adelina Patti. The only
time she kissed the late King Edward was when he was a
“ beautiful, fat baby,” for ere he was old enough to go
behind the scenes in Paris, the famous Delphine had re-
tired on her laurels and a fortune. She was 86 at the
time of her death, and a long procession of lovers had
preceded her to the grave.
Marshall Hall, orating to his mixed Orchestra people
during the interval in their recent concert at Melbourne
Town Hall, advised them not to be influenced by the new
organisation of professional musicians, who took “little
or no interest in concerts, and added very little to their
income by playing in them.” Perhaps it occurred to him
at this point that the Unionists who make very little
money out of their concerts are not showing any want of
interest in music, as compared with his own crowd.
Anyway, he went on to remark that orchestral playing
should not be “merely a business transaction of getting
ss. for three hours’ rehearsal, just as a grocer gets pay-
ment for cheese.” After which Marshall Hall thickened
the confusion of hisargumentby saying : “ We, of course,
want to make money, but not exactly in the butcher and
grocer spirit.” As a matter of fact, Hall and his orches-
tra, drawing pay from a Board, can’t pretend to be culti-
vating Art for Art’s sake, whereas the V.P.O. men could
make the pretence, if they were not admittedly battling,
on unionist principles, to increase the Melbourne demand
for the article they supply (which is music) whilst gain-
ing more proficiency in the making of it. Marshall Hall,
who conducts an orchestra of non-unionist professionals,
amateurs and Conservatorium pupils (including 20 or
more girls) receives £2O a time for his job, and if he
doesn’t receive the money in a butcher or baker or even
bricklayer spirit, he needn’t let it be a spirit of animosity
to the V.P.O. artists who conduct their concerts for a
much smaller remuneration.
“Myee”: Nowadays, at the Town Hall, the Sydney
Professional Musicians, under the stick of Alfred O’Brien,
are giving Sunday afternoon concerts which deserve a
helping hand—and all the better if there’s a piece of
silver inside it. Last Sabbath we had “ The Poet and the
Peasant,”-so ill-treated by the foreign street bandfe;
“The Phantom Brigade,” a superb tone-picture of
ghostly horses galloping; and some of Tschaikowsky’s
fireworks illustrating Napoleon’s attack on Moscow (a
mixture of Russian hymns, “The Marseillaise,” church
bells, bursting cannon, clashing sabres, shrieks and
general pandemonium); after which Torzillo calmed us
down with “ Nearer, my God, toThee” on the harp. Then
came a glorious selection from “Faust,” with “Marche
aux Flambeaux” for the finale. Now the band is
rehearsing “ Samson and Delilah,” and I’m going to have
another sixpenn’orth.
“J.R.”: What of George Reid? Has the inevitable
slump set in so soon ? The other day he told the British
Ass. that “turning children into gramophones will not
help them in the battle of life.” An aged platitude, if
ever there was one. And the faithful cable-man said :
“The consensus of opinion is that the speech was
original and sprightly, and will serve as a useful re-
minder on the futility of cramming.” When the clam-
orous papers of England are so silent on the subject of
any given oratorical effort that the alleged “consensus
of public opinion ” has to be dragged in, things are in a
bad way with the earnest limelight-chaser.
The inquest on young handsome Emile Jandeschewsky,
killed by a freakish lift at the Palace Hotel, Melbourne,
brought out some extraordinary allegations. One witness
stated that twice the lift dropped fully 6ft. of its own ac-
cord ; and two other witnesses, speaking of two different
occasions, declared that the eccentric cage had “ started
jumping up and down.” Which reminds the present
writer of a farcical-comedy staged by Brough and Bouci-
cault at the Bijou, adjoining the Palace Hotel, in the
days when lifts were coming into \pgue. Tom Cannam,
just imported, was making his first Australian appear-
ance, and the most farcical scene showed him as a
prisoner in a lift that travelled frantically up and down
the well. From time to time the audience got a glimpse
of the passing Cannam with his hair standing on end.
But in that case there was dramatic license for the
strange proceeding. It is hard to believe that the lift at
the Palace Hotel was a self-raiser as well as a sudden-
dropper. The death of Jandeschewsky was due to the
fact that the cage fell a few feet whilst he was getting
into it, and remained immovable whilst his entrapped
body was being crushed to death. The poor fellow spent
his iast breath in moaning “ Up ! Up ! ” but the accursed
thing wouldn’t rise when called upon.
’Tilda Brune, the explosive young actress with the out-
of-breath manner, is rising to recognition in the English
capital. She is to be leading lady in a new play by Hall
Caine, to be produced at the Garrick Theatre, L ndon,
at an early date. The drama is entitled “The Eternal
Question,’” and touches the subject of divorce, upon
which the author is entitled to speak from experience;
for Caine is a divorce himself of long standing. He was
divorced bv Reason at a very early age, and Oof was
joined as co-respondent. ’Tilda herself is not divorced.
She and her husband, Clarence, came out to Australia
together in the first place. ’Tilda went with J.C.W.;
Clarence, aiming at being a dark beauty actor, put on
the coldest romanto-historical frost that Sydney has
shivered under these l ist seven years. His season at the
Cri. last d four nights or thereabouts, and then Clarence
faded out.
THE MILLENNIUM STRIKES MELBOURNE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The inauguration of a series of orchestral concerts by
the Victorian Professional Orchestra at Wirths’ Skating
Eink on Sunday night cannot be too highly praised. The
result of thoroughly first-class music on an audience of
young people, who otherwise would be walking the
streets, cannot be overrated. If there be any truth in
the quotation, “ There is more joy over one sinner that
is saved,” etc., then the V.P.O. will have an enormous
score to its credit.— Melbourne Sporting and Dramatic
New*.
Judkins, his occupation gone,
Wanders disconsolate;
Worrall absorbs his milk and scone
In brooding dread. The Plate
Lies like some wayside brick or stone,
In an unheeded state.
The Social Purger scours the parks,
With haggard, hopeless eye ;
No Moral Horror he remarks ;
These crime-stained spaces lie
As void of sinners and their larks
As the unclouded sky.
No drunken children stagger from
The door of any pub ;
No spirit-u-al hecatomb
Occurs in home Or club ;
The Righteous cannot find one bomb
To hurl at Beelzebub.
The drone of saints in long, black coats
Is heard where cards and pool
Were erstwhile played ; soft hymnal notes
Fill ev’ry two-up school;
There is no room for “ books” or “ totes”
Or other devil’s tool.
A vast and blessed change to-day
Has come o’er high ail'd low.
The ultra-Holy and the Oay
In sweet communion go.
And all of it is due, they say,
To Melbourne’s V.P.O.
N.S.W.
BLOGGS.


By Special
Appointment
h
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS, MOOBEE PONDS '
. i-JE'CATERER. Tel. No. 2, Ascot. VICTORIA,
edding; Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE,
Ring- up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
Cough for a day, a week, a month,
A great mistake you’ll find it;
It means there’s danger drawing near,
You certainly should mind it.
Because.no person seems to know
However you endure it ;
But surely every woman knows
Woods' Peppermint Cure will cure it.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
ĥ
IN CASH.
A SPLENDID OPPORTUNITY
TO USERS OF ...
ENSIGN ROLL FILMS
FOR AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHERS ONLY*
Competition Closes on October Ist, 1910.
“ ENSIGN ” FILMS fit All Cameras.
With one spool of 4
Films you can
win a prize of
ENSIGN ”
£5O
Full Particulars on application to
HARRINGTONS LTD.
Photographic
Merchants,
SYDNEY —386 George Street (near G.P.0.).
MELBOURNE —266 Collins Street.
BRISBANE —93-95 Queen Street.
ADELAIDE—GawIer Place.
Society
Subscriptions are now flowing in, more or
l( j ss, for the non-unionists who helped to run the
Perth (W.A.) tramcars during the recent strike.
Some of the letters are touching. Here is one,
published in the West Australian
Sir,—Enclosed please find my humble mite (4d.) for the
brave fellows who have manned the cars under such ad-
verse circumstances—rotten eggs, etc. The poor fellows
have my sympathy, for they can get work only in time of
a strike. I wish I could send more—in fact, I would like
to give them a lot more.—Yours, etc.,
Perth, August 27. LUNATIC
ELOPEMENT UP TO DATE.
sHE: “ You don't think father will catch up to
us? ”
HE: “ Impossible! I hamstrung his machine
before we started.”
By the lawyer whom The Bulletin keeps
chained up on the premises :
International law is a fearful and wonderful thing, as
I he case of Savarkar proves. Savarkar was an Indian
student in London, and got himself accused of hi"-h
treason and plotting assassination. The British Govern-
ment decided not to try him, but to deport him to India
on his good behavior. He was sent bv the steamer
Morea, in charge of one London and two Indian detec-
tives. While the vessel stopped at Marseilles he took a
bath, the officers remaining outside the door. He
squeezed through a porthole, plunged into the sea and
swam for shore. The alarm was given, and a boat fol-
lowed, with shouts for the gendarmes on the pier to
stop him. A gendarme hauled him out of the water
and handed him to the officers, who took him back to the
steamer, which bore him away to India. The incident
got into the papers, and a member for Marseilles com-
plained about it in the Legislature. James denounced
the giving up of Savarkar as wholly illegal ; International
Law required that notice should be given of any prisoners
conveyed by a Foreign Power within French terri-
tory. No notice had been given in this case so
the man must be returned to France; and, once
in France, he cannot, it is argued, be demanded’ being
a political prisoner. The question was still bein'*-
thrashed furiously when last advices left, and inter-
nationalists of other countries were whipping in - while
Britain, having its man, was lying low and say inn-
nothing with great energy. “
The old Scots Church of St. Andrew,
which stands behind St. Andrew’s Anglican
Cathedral in Sydney, had its 75th anniversary on
a recent Sunday. It was announced, as an Aus-
tralian church record, that one old Balmain lady
saving her soul at the same tabernacle
for 72 years. The foundation-stone of the building
was laid by Colonel Kenneth Snodgrass. He
then lived in a house, which is still standing, on
the corner of Kent and Bathurst streets. The
?Qo- C *k' V;IS °l ,ene d f° r service on September 1.3,
l«3o, Hr. McGarvie, Hr. Lang’s rival, being the
first minister.
* * * *
A cabin door, a lifebuoy and a bit of a
paddle with the ship’s name on it have brought to
King Island the last news of the Prinsesse Marie
-the sailing ship that blew -into Sydney Heads
away back in February, and asked for a chart of
Smoky Bay, South Australia, but was rushed
away south by a strong current whilst a tug was
away getting the document. “Somewhere in the
vicinity of Bass Straits” is thought to be the
address of the Prinsesse now, so the undertaker
need not call. The door, the lifebuoy and the
broken paddle have taken nearly eight months to
deliver the bad news; but no doubt thev will enable
one or two lawyers in far Henmark to” start wind-
ing up a bucket of Costs sooner than if the Prin-
sesse, like the Waratah, had neglected to notify
that it had retired to the basement of the sea.
Challenged, the other day, with working
railway guards, drivers and firemen excessive
hours, a case of a train crew having worked for 25
hours at a stretch on Aug. 31 being specified, the
Vic. Railway Bepartment replied, through its
secretary, that “the Commissioners deprecate the
working of long hours. It is the duty of the
branches concerned to investigate every instance
in which an employee has been obliged to work
i° r On o er period than 13 hours on any one
day. * After that, what base miscreant will dare
to accuse Tait of being a sweater ?
* * * *
“ Basher” delivers a right hook
The disturbance in the churchyard used to be a rare
occurrence, but nowadays the papers are full of flat-
hatted trouble. I never read much outside the sport,ing
column ; hut I notice that the morning paper rarely falls
on the lawn without a description of the latest instal-
ment of the 105-round go between Bill Mitre, of Bishops-
court, and Jack Shepherd, of the Rectory. The rows
seem to reverse the usual order of things, and commence
with the skying of a hymn-hook by the challenger The
sign of surrender is the signal' for the reporters to
hunt up Mitre, the challenged man, and give him the
news that Shepherd is in the ring, waiting to fßht
him for a dozen lighted candles, and that he has
already given in. Mitre then allows himself to be taken
to the scene and pushed tovvards his adversary. After
several months of long-range sparring,Shepherd is either
a lowed to remain with merely his household candles - or
else is ceremoniously pushed over the tombstones towards
another place, where he is given 24 lighted candles for
losmg. The dust of the St. James’s (Sydney) mill has
hardly settled ; yet another hymn-hook lias bun led like
a firework bomb into the blue amid an apprehensive
murmur of parishioners. The reverend to whom it be-
longs admits firing it up, but says “ it is not in any way
due to any action on the part of Archbishop Wright with
regard to matters of ritual,” One of the ringside specta-
tors, however, is said to have muttered an aside to the
effect that “St. James’s trouble will be nothing to this.”
From which it may he inferred that the stake is some-
thing of even greater value than a dozen lighted candles
according to the standard of ecclesiastical pugilism. ’
* * * *
Tenner ” : The poorly-paid N.S.W. pub-
lic servant heaved a grateful sigh when he
beard that Wade and the Board had agreed not
to gazette the increases given to the Service out
of the Premier’s promised £70,000. Previously,
at intervals of a decade or so, the Board used to
fling round its £lO rise
regardless of expense,
and the fact would be
announced in the Gov-
ernment Gazette with
painful exactness. Few
people read the Ga-
zette, but in 1907 the
newspapers published
the full list, and the
sound of financial re-
putations cracking up
the middle deafened
the habitues of the
Block. Fancy Algy’s
feelings in the stalls,
at His Majesty’s, with
Miss Hygh Steper—
offers her the evening
paper—first thing she
sees is his humble,
tenth-rate remunera-
tion—and he doing the
heavy-" practically
Under-Secretarv, you
know!” Imagine, too,
the frigid change in the
attitude of the suburban grocer towards .Tobbins,
Esq., who owes £15 and is suddenly and shame-
lessly exhibited as receiving a plain wage of
£2 15s. a week instead of a salary of £400 a year.
It would make a man feel like the girl in George
Moore’s book who confided to her friend that
when the cold, hard man of the world gazed at
her, she felt as if she were naked.
* * * *
The charge of “insulting behavior,” which
the law keeps as a sort of stand-by or spare lasso,
was strained almost to snapping point at Ballarat
(Vic.) lately, when it was used to rope in a lady
who persisted in performing her devotions in the
street. Ballarat, like other places, allows
the balv’army to offer up petitions when kneeling
on the macadam ; but possibly the arrested lady
wasn’t fervent enough, or her past may have been
insufficiently lurid. Anyhow, it is suggestive to
leai n that Ballarat stigmatises public worship as
insulting behavior.
AS IT WILL BE.
MISTRESS (irritably): “Mary, Mary, come here directly and take the baby away. It's
disturbiny Fido."
The authorities having charge of public
reserves in Melbourne have promised to do some-
thing to meet the wishes of Judkins. They will
appoint more police to look after parks and
gardens, and the police are to be armed with
lanterns.
“ M °re light! ” they cry, the saints unkind ;
For, though ’bis true that Love is blind,
The wowser is not, and ’tis he
Who ever eager is to see !
An immense amount of,building goes on
in the city of Sydney these days, and it is rather
disheartening to consider that probably half these
fine new structures will have to
come down again, in a year or
two, when the huge, inevitable
job of street-widening and
general reconstruction can no
longer be postponed. Even
when the railway is carried
through the city and across to
North Sydney, and branch lines
are built to all the principal
suburbs, the reconstruction
problem will still be there. But
the immediate question is,
what in thunder Sydney is to
do while it is waiting for its
city railway ? A few days ago,
the Tramway Department made
the usual remark that it couldn’t
supply facilities to any new
suburbs, because it was im-
possible to run even one extra
car into the congested city
with reasonable safety. The de-
terioration of the suburban rail-
way service, due to excessive
pressure, also becomes more
and more obvious. It is now
m rare circumstance for a train to cover Hip
distance from Sydney to Homebush, at the
bu.sy hours of the day, without being blocked
who^°tram r had S taken 3?“Tnui to JriSt
three miles (his Honor abandoned it then
and took to hoofing it along the road) nearly
committed contempt of his own court, recently,
jgtt&gttX&f&'SSs
difference in the desperate resolve of the Old
to prowd all the trade of the Federal
capital into Sydney, and to put the naval base and
the school of tropical medicine there also. And
the Telegraph recently explained that'decen-
tralisation was really some kind of a joke, and
that every old thing was to he always shoved into
Sydney just as heretofore.
A Ballarat blacksmith has happened upon
a shining reminiscence of the days when gold
mining was gold mining, and the crumbs that
fell from a rich company’s table lay neglected
for want of Lazaruses to devour them. Walking
along the Daylesford-road he spotted a bit of
quartz loaded with an ounce of gold. Next day
he prospected the road thereabouts and found
fragments of quartz worth £3O in all. They are
supposed to have dropped from the cartings, from
some of the old mines at the Little Bendigo field,
and to have been crushed by the passing traffic of
many intervening years.
SUBUREAN MELODRAMA. (N. B. —THE
ROOF LEAKED.)
ALINE DE LURLINE (the white stare): “ Oh.
hevi[?]s, this thirst is intolerable. I can
struggle no farther. This frantic flight across
these sun-parched plains will kill me. Drink.
drink! For pity's sake, give me a drop of
water. ”
JACK TAR (a British sailor): “Courage, fair
lady! We will yet elude the claw-like clutches
of Don Diable de Santander of Trinidad.
and prove to a wondering world that a
British sailor will NOT die of thirst.”
(Thunders of applause.)
THE REDS ARE IN TO-DAY!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Government’s Land Tax proposals hear the brand
of the extreme Red section of the party. —Brisbane daily.
God help our hapless Parliament
In this extremitee,
And grant in twain it be not rent
To make a Labor spree ;
Let not the foe destroy us quite
Before our time, we pray,
Nor curse our land beneath a blight—
The Reds are in to-day !
Why doth the Cove who owns a Pile
Tie up his little bag?
And he who wears a glossy Tile
Prepare to hump his swag ?
Why doth the Marriage Tie look queer.
And Bullion holt away,
And Portly Buffers take to Beer?—
The Reds are in to-day !
Why doth the Tribe of Ikey Mo
Refuse the land a loan ?
Why doth the House of Bull & Co.
Gaze on us with a groan ?
Why doth the Asian bare a claw
And lust to start a fray' ?
Why doth the Russ his weapon draw?—
The Reds are in to-day.
Why is the Price of Sossage up ?
The Rate per Centum down?
Why may we neither bite nor sup
Without a bitter frown ?
Why is the gloaming bleak and black ?
Why are we growing grey ?
Why has our Voice a crazy crack?—
The Reds are in to-day 1
Where are the wights that once we knew,
Who shone with oil and wine?
Who wore with pride their Tory blue,
Their broadcloth superfine ?
In vain we weep their tragic fall
And mourn their vanished sway;
The Writing stands upon the Wall—
The Reds are in To-day !!
QUKENSLAXD.
F. B.


riWIIS
utiniß
G
\f For all
r domestic uses. >
Half the toil of
household work is
done away with
when Sunlight
Soap enters
home.
No. 67. GUARANTEED UNDER THE
" PURE FOOD ACT, ISCe.** N
BY LEVER BROTHERS LIMITED,
SYDNEY, N.S.W. No. 67.
LACK OF ENERGY.
If you lack energy, don’t relish your food, feel
dull and constipated, all you need is a dose of
Chamberlain's Tablets. They will make you feel
like a new man and give you a healthy appetite.
They will do you more good than a ss. bottle of
tonic.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
ONE OF OUR NEW PANAMA STOCK.
AMONG our new Panamas is the
Serviceable Shape we illustrate
here. If when you buy a Panama
you want a good shade-giver, of reliable
quality, crown all in one piece, and at a
moderate price, you will receive great
satisfaction in investing in one of this style.
It is clean in color, smartly shaped, has
generous width of brim, and is well finished
and blocked and of first quality straw.
V
..
S'
Moderately Priced
15|6.
Posted 9d. Extra
Inter-State, 1/-
Peapes & Co., Ltd.
“ Men’s Outfitters,”
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
The race is not always to the fleet, hut
when Costs get a move on you need to oil your
stop-watch—a saying which is made good by liti-
gation now in progress in Sydney. Some time
ago A sued B, and was awarded a verdict of £144
with Costs. His taxed Costs worked out at
£444 18s. 2d., and, on appeal, the Registrar refused
to even knock off the odd tuppence. A there-
upon got the money from B’s bankers, B mean-
while appealing against the Registrar’s decision.
The appeal resulted in the bill of Costs being re-
duced to £270 3s. Bd. ; and, as A showed no sign
of a desire to hand any money back, B weighed in
with an action to recover £165. He won his action,
and got a verdict for £165 and £330 Costs. Now A
is going to appeal some more, and Costs is merely
waiting for the pistol before tearing round with
the hat again at a gait of three miles 10s. a
minute.
* * ■*' ■*
An ancient trouble has culminated in the
utter rout of an old woman who, for 25 years,
struggled with the land laws of N.S. W.
In 1885 she bought from the Govern-
ment 160 acres on the Blue Moun-
t tins. On three sides access was
impossible, because the block
was surrounded by precipices.
On the only side by which
access could be obtained the
Government sold the land with-
out reserving a road. For
years a right-of-way was
allowed the enveloped settler;
but lately a new and cantauk-
e.ous owner came into posses-
sion. and he closed this out-
let. Fortunately, permission
was given the old lady and
her family to escape to the
public road, or they might
have remained in their isola-
tion until death or a friendly
airship broke the monotony.
The muddling Lands De-
partment, on being ap-
p aled to, informed the
settler that it would make
a road provided she paid
£15 in fees and compensated
the blockading owner for
the land resumed. As she
cannot afford to do this,
the property had to be
abandoned, and 160 acres
of good farm land, for
which the Department re-
ceived hard cash, are
locked up for ever, or until
such time as the man who
holds the power of en-
trance chooses to buy the
property on his own terms,
or the Department pays
the compensation money
out of its own tiiil pocket.
In any case the unfortunate
old woman seems to have a
poor show.
The Victorian Railway Department is still
going the pace. Even before the Murray Govern-
ment had time to consider its special Board’s
report, and decide whether it was necessary to
speak firmly about the Richmond disaster, the
Department ran an Agricultural Show train
almost on top of another at Spencer-street, and
four days later a sensational smash happened near
Hamilton, out in the Western District, where the
land monopolists abide and the trains run half
empty. The usual daily “ mixed ” train was pro-
ceeding along the branch line to Coleraine when,
just before reaching a bridge over McKinnon’s
Creek, one of the trucks left the rails. It ploughed
along till the bridge was almost passed, then
toppled over, carrying with it more trucks
and the only carriage on the train. This
conveyance was built for 50 passengers ;
but there were fortunately only 16 aboard
—and, of them, 15 were more or less in-
jured. They dropped 15ft. on to some thick scrub;
five yards further back the fall would have been
30ft. on to rocks ! The Department immediately
rushed into print to assure the public that it
needn’t be alarmed—“there was no weakness in
the bridge.” But it isn’t the bridges that cause
the alarm. It is the horrible habit Tait’s rolling-
stock has got into of leaving the rails—sometimes
of its own accord, and at other times because other
rolling-stock gets misplaced and bumps it.
According to Reuter :
The Earl of Plymouth suggests that the Crystal
Palace should be preserved as a memorial to King Edward
VII., as a huge Imperial Club.
The dead kihg'who was artist enough to hate
hideousness wherever he encountered it, must
have sat up suddenly in his grave at that banal
suggestion. The Londoner can stand a lot in the
way of ugliness, but even his hardened eye revolts
at such spectacles at the Buckingham Palace
fagade, the wax statuary inside Madame Tussaud’s
and the Crystal Palace. For years and years the
horrible structure at Sydenham tottered on the
brink of insolvency. The other day it slipped
gently over the edge and filed its big, inartistic
schedule. No one can find any use for it. Panto-
mimes have been staged in the bowels of its vast
inside, but they did no good. The local patronage
was scant, and metropolitan playgoers refused to
journey seven miles to be half-frozen in a glass
barn. Eisteddfods have occurred there, but
there is no profit in Eisteddfods. The only
money the Crystal Palace has made since the ’sl
Exhibition has been in connection with football
matches and horse shows, and they took place in
the grounds outside the Palace proper. And now
it is proposed to give the bankrupt and repellent-
looking edifice anew lease of life in honor of one
of the few eclectic sovereigns Britain has known.
A more sincere and certain means of placing a
laurel on the memory of Edward VII. would be
to deposit a keg of dynamite amid this wilderness
of dingy glass and rusty iron, and touch it off in
the name of Art.
BLUFF.
JACK: “Look at the lydy's beautiful ’air!”
MILLY : "It’s mine—what my mothet sold last
year when I had to ’are it off for the measles!
I reckernized it d'rcckly !”
One of the land-marks of Old Sydney
will be auctioned on Oct. 12—the pile on the
coiner of, George-strget and Grosvenor-street,
built in 1833 by Samuel Lyons. Originally the
ground belonged to John Jamison, the extrava-
gantly hospitable knight with whom the late
Henry Parkes had his first job as a laborer
in Sydney. Jamison cut up the estate in
1831, gild Lyons purchased a slice of it, and built
what for many years was the most commodious
auction mart in Australia.
The lightship Bramble is to go from its
ancient stand just inside Sydney Heads, the
Harbor Trust having decided to give the old Sow
rock a pile light. The vessel was built at New-
castle for the coastal trade, and has held its
present job for nearly 40 years. There is still to
be seen on board a grindstone branded with the
broad arrow, a relic of the days when a good part
of the population of Sydney would have had
difficulty in bounding out of the way of motor-
cars, supposing motor-cars had been prevalent at
that far-baclc date.
STILL ANOTHER RAILWAY MISHAP.
“Hear about Broom In my in the railway accident?
Badly hurt, too.” “Is he expected to recover! "
“ Well, I dunno. His lawyer says he can, but his doctor says he can’t.”
Said Rogers, J.P., while hearing a case
against certain fruit-hawkers in Melbourne Dis-
trict Court the other day: “These men should
be on the land, not loafing away their lives hawk-
ing fruit.” The man Rogers spoke the sentiments
of a large section of corpulent citizens who culti-
vate contempt and loathing for the man who
pays no rent. It is harder to push a barrow-load
of apples and oranges than to sell the fruit over
the counter; yet no sane magistrate ever dreams
of calling the shopman a loafer. There is another
point that should be thrust into the fleshy part of
Rogers, J.P.—the man already on the land
wants to make a living, if he can, and the barrow-
man helps him by shoving his fruit under the nose
of the consumer. Does Rogers think all the fish-
hawkers should be at sea, or the rag-merchants of
Flinders-lane be out growing cotton in the
Northern Territory ?
“ Vic.” drops some grains of information
promiscuously :
Complaints are made that the new additions to Mel-
bourne Town Hall, doubling its size by swallowing the
Police Court, did not open with a fancy ball like that of
1870. Somebody wrote that “ anybody could write one
novel.” Goodrich, the Melbourne pawnbroker of the
generation before last, wrote one; also a volume of
poems :
“ My muse’s car begins to trundle
As f untie the pledge in bundle.”
His genius blazed in a record of the Melbourne Mayor’s
ball in 1856. Jacky Tommy Smith, Melbourne’s Whit-
tington, seven times mayor, was mayor that time. His
frilled shirt, in portrait and bust, duly appears in the
Towh Hall. The fancy ball was in the Old Exhibition
building, where the first number of the Age was printed.
It was a domed edifice of wood and glass, a miniature
imitation of the Sydenham Crystal Palace. The Mint
now occupies this site, and the Law Courts are on that
of Government House. Goodrich did a vivid description
of the Melbourne City Council meeting on the day of the
fancy ball: —
“ Hilarity infused that old Town Hall,
The minds were so agog about the ball.”
This bluestone Town Hall was built in 1851.
“ The ball of 1870 went for Nix
Beside the glorious one of ’56 ;
Melbourne believed it would expand
To the size of London grand.”
O’Shanassy said the Victorian p°imlarion would be
6,000,000 by 1900 a.d. So the imagination of ’56 was
focussed on the fancy ball. The exhibition that night
was brilliantly illumined from its thousand elongated
glass panes, and' suggested the Kohinoor diamond.
Surging crowd. Endless-looking array of carriages
rattling up. Rapturous inside. The strains of Denning’s
great orchestra infused the spirits of the waltz, polka and
quadrille. As our poet put it: —
“ All of Poetry and the Drama
Seemed tumbled in one Cyclorama.”
A bright light was lately cast upon the
“sportof kings” in the case of Stoddart v. the Lon-
don Daily Mail —bright enough to permanently
choke any rational citizen off risking his money
at this particular sport. Stoddart was a horse-
owner. Also, he was a turf tipster and commis-
sion agent. In his capacity of tipster he in-
structed the public to help itself to affluence by
backing his horse, Red Rube; as commission
agent he received the public’s money; as owner
he had Red Rube pulled, and added the public’s
money to his banking account. It is estimated
that Stoddart cleared £lO,OOO over this one coup.
But the chief sensations in the case arose from
incidental disclosures. This is a slab from the
evidence of Teague, the jockey who rode Red
Rube :
Mr. Stoddart told you to pull Red Rube?—He told me
twice. He said, “ I don’t want the horse to win,” and
the second time he said, “ Be sure and don’t win.”
He was asking you to do a blackguardly thing ?—Of
course he was.
Didn’t you make any complaint?—No, I used to ride
for the sport of the thing; I didn’t care who won.
(Laughter.)
You were prepared to pull a horse every time an owner
told you?—l didn’t trouble; I rode for the sport.
(Laughter.)
Mr. Shearman (with surprise): I have heard many
wonderful answers ! (Laughter.) I think we know what
sport has descended to. You consider it your duty, fair
or foul, to do what an owner told you to do?—Yes.
This is some more :
Did you get a telegram telling you to go through and
win?—lt was too late.
Why?—l had told Lord Molyneux the truth, and I was
not going to put him in the cart.
What did you tell Lord Molyneux ?—He came to me and
said: “Is your horse going to win?” I said : “I have
been instructed twice by word of mouth, and now I get
this telegram.” I thought Stoddart might as well be put
in the cart as him. (Laughter.)
You are accusing Lord Molyneux of supporting this
race with the knowledge that you were not going to try
to win ’—That is what they do.
What Lord Molyneux does?—He does not do it notv,
because he has gone over to the great majority.
You are speaking of the gentleman who afterwards
became Earl of Sefton ? —Yes.
When owners, jockeys and sporting noblemen all
regard stiff or “ cronk ” running as a matter of
course, the chance of the public—the mule-headed,
fly-flat old public that pays for this great game
—is fairly poverty-smitten.
THE CAUSE CELEBKE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Two King's Counsel, eight other ban isters, and a host
of attorneys, who crowded every inch of available space
around the table in No. 2 Court this morning, were en-
gaged in a divorce case which is expected to last at
least a week. —Gladsome daily paper item.
The court’s a piebald mass of wigs and gowns ;
Each client-chasing lawyer in the town’s
Nosing round those sacred haunts.
Which, a legal fiction vaunts,
Or claims to be, by ancient right, the “ Crown’s.”
The table gleams with cheery-faced K.O.’s
(They’re free from care ; t,he3’’ve s.ifely banked
their fees).
At their shafts of wit the crowd
Rocks with laughter long and loud ;
All parties are entirely at their ease.
The members of the Junior Bar spoil clean,
White paper, scrawling notes. They must tie keen,
Or appear so, anyhow,
That the whole world will allow,
To justify their presence on the scene.
Behind them lurk the affable Gents. One.
While Costs disport, like lambkins in the sun,
Pleasure sparkles in their eyes—
An occasion for surprise
To few, who think, when all is said and done.
“Retaining fees” leap fatly ev’rywhcre,
“ Refreshers ” simply permeate the air,
So does “ out of pocket cash,”
“ Sundries ” cut a howling dash—
And do the legal persons present care
They don’t. They revel in it all. The rant
Of warring counsel soothes them and the cant.
Only one class in the Court
Looks with sadness on the sport—
That luckless, brainless type, the litigant.
N.S.W,
H. SINGEMOIXR.


The Theatrical Choristers and Ballet Ladles’ Unlon_ will shortly oe
called together to take action to amend their rules, as by law through
the Industrial registrar-required.
Uioni.nT'Ulkt-LVIy ■ - «*/ *"*»"
our rule's ’ jm sure »»!.
quits respectable
Deife- Trese elojljey,
uMy 6 “ r >, “ „„„ , ui K
"bitter «f rr « e^, ' <!d f 0 1" * 1 S
J)if
Willie Wactt" Whew does t§e St*te
Government"" Come in -
I rime Minister Fisher Wtyen youVe tnvte op
your mind 'to get' * dipper.
Mr. Watt was received with loud ap-
plause. ... When they travelled between
Ballarat and Beaufort they saw huge
areas of land not being put to their
highest use. Yet this land was in great
demand by the native-born. If the
holders of the land would se6 the wisdom
of breaking up their estates and selling,
this would accelerate the solution of the
problem. Just when the Victorian Oov-
vernment was making up its mind to
solve the land question, and introduce
new measures, the Federal Government
said, •• Hands off I We want first dip.”—
Argus.
“I am the worst-treated man in this House,’
Mr. Cook’s observation in the House of Repre-
sentatives to-day, when Mr. Mahon taxed him with
taking up more time than any other member.
Keen speculation exists among members of the City
Council in regard to the election of Lord Mayor for
next year, which will take place on October 9. Colonel
Burston secured the position for the second successive
time last year against Councillor Davey by two votes.
The contest will be exceedingly close, and the “ count-
ing of heads ” shows the result to be in doubt.
George Jenkins, the Victorian Clerk of
Parliaments, will retire on 16th September.
A*\
loor Joe !
Kevet' c ovrnT' /our
Victoria,: - Alas! I stall n«v«r
on liKe • (VtaKj dow^
MOSTLY VICTORIAN.


GOLDEN YELLOW AXLE GREASE
A Pure Oil Lubricant for
all Axles and Bearings.
Manufactured by LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney.
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
PLAQUE PENDANTS
are the latest fashion in Europe.' Flat, elegant
and of the most exquisite, refined workman-
ship, they are an artistic pleasure to see.
We receive the latest designs, each mail, and
then make them here. We thus save all duties
(viz., 27 Yz pet cent.) and importing expenses,
and are able to sell at London prices.
FAIRFAX <a ROBERTS,
The Oldest Jewellery House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
Choice Diamonds, set in. Platinum, with
whole Pearls, £l9.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
“Dandalup”: I have grave suspicions
that “Narrew ” (B. 25/8/TO) is Muldooney’s prize
bull, when he accuses me of dislocating the truth
re the she-oaks and the little hill, near N. Nar-
rewarren (Vic.), where the Binghis of those parts
settled their antagonists of other days. I note
that “ Narrew ” has “lived in Narrewarren for 20
years.” If he has not seen what I described,
then he is like a lot of other old inhabitants who
have lived in the same district for countless years
and not discovered anything more beautiful or
interesting in the landscape than Jones’s cham-
pion milker or the massive pumpkin reared by
Smith the year before last. I now emphatically
state that those she-oaks do exist. “Nar-
rewarren,” itself, I believe, means “ the-she-oaks-
by-the-sea.” The “little hill” referred to is not
very far from Mount Moreton, and I hope, some
summer evening, at sunset, to have the pleasure
of leading “Narrew ” by his nose-ring to its bald
summit to graze upon its wonders.
■***•*
“ Vigilans,” concerning the Northern Ter-
ritory
There are not many selectors in No Man’s Land, but
those that are there think a bough shed or grass humpy
good enough. I shall never forget camping with one
selector in the Far North. He lived alone, except for his
six dusky wives and 17 piebald children. His next-door
neighbor lived 56 miles away. “By cripes!” he said,
“ these girls of mine are beginning to trouble me. I
would give any one a start who would marry them.”
“ What sort of a start ?” I queried. “ Well, I’d give him
a dozen horses and a hundred head of cattle.” The place
they cooked in was a breakwind, in the shape of a green
hide drawn round four posts, and the domiciles were bark
humpies with grass roofs. He had lived there for 20 years,
never going further than the pub, 150 miles away. But
when he went on this annual holiday he went in style, leav-
ing the homestead in charge of the niggers. The cavalcade
consisted of a four-horse waggonette, in which sat the
ooss, a couple of ebony wives, and half a dozen creamy
piccaninnies. Then' followed the other ladies of the
harem, driving the spare animals and packhorses, the
remainder of the family bringing up the rear. On arrival
at the pub-store, camp was pitched, and a picnic indulged
in for a fortnight or so. Then the return journey was
commenced with the year’s load of provisions and a few
gallons of rum. For 20 years Brigham Outback had kept
this up, and he said he wasn’t tired. “ Why don’t you
go south for a trip?” I said. “What’s the good?” he
replied. “ I’ve got all I want here.”
The table consisted of a sheet of rusty corrugated
iron ; the chairs were boxes ; the beds cowhide stretchers;
the tucker, day after day, beef, damper, tea and treacle.
The proprietor lived for months without seeing a white
man, except the mailman if he went for his mail,, which
was seldom, because he could not read or write. “ I’m a
king here,” he told me; “I’ve got 500 square miles of
country and 1000 cattle, besides 100 horses : plenty to eat
and drink and my family round me. What more does a
man want?”
In the great empty North this is the fashion of the
country. No one thinks anything of it. As soon as you
leave Palmerston you are in the wilderness. It is a good
place for an adventurous miner with some capital; but
for the farmer it cannot be recommended in present con-
ditions. As to the climate, that is no drawback what-
ever. The white race can develop the country without
the Ohow or any other colored man to help. For two
years I wandered through Kimberley ; two more I spent
roaming about the Territory from one end to the other ;
six months I spent in North Queensland. I never had
one day’s sickness the whole time, and I do not know
what malaria is like. North Australia has a fine climate,
and the winter on the tablelands is perfect.
“The Ancient” : I don’t know much
about prickly pear and its edibility, the subject
of a recent fierce controversy ; but I do know that
I was out Camden way during a big season of dry
weather, about five years ago, and the cocky I
was visiting was feeding his cows on prickly pear,
boiled and mashed. Of course, he may have just
commenced doing it, and the cows may have died
after I left. On the other hand, they may not have
died through pear. #
“ W.C.E.” : Be “ Quan ” and his Cerato-
dus (B. 25/8/TO). There are not three brands of
Geratodi in the world ; one, Ceratodus Forstcri , is
owned by Queensland. This fish belongs to the
order Monopneumona, and has four pairs of gills
and one rudimentary gill, together with one
median lung, corresponding to the air-bladder of
other fish. This fish-amphibian lives in still
waters where there is plenty of decayed vegeta-
tion, etc., and occasionally comes to the surface
for a whiff of fresh air. There is another order of
lung fish which “Quan” has confused with Ceru-
todus ; this is the order Dipneumona, and consists
of two species—the Protopterus of South Africa
and the Lepidosiren of South America. Both
possess a pair of lungs in addition to gills, and
are mud fish. As far as internal fittings are con-
cerned, they form the missing link between fish
and amphibians.
* # « *
“ Edyson ” : Relics of the digging days
are continually turning up in Victoria. The
other day a farmer in the old Forest Creek
country split a big butt that had served as part of
the base of a a chock-and-log fence, and found
inside it, about 2ft. from the end, a pickle bottle
containing lloz. of alluvial gold. The farmer
recollects rolling this log from the vicinity of a
mining camp of the early ’so’s. Obviously the
hollow log served as a bank for some miner who
either disremembered the log, or met his finish
after making the deposit. Similar finds are
numerous; I have noted at least 40 within the
last 10 years. A more peculiar discovery was the
striking of apparently rich wash in a hole at
a spot, about seven miles from Geelong, where
nobody had ever dreamed of looking for gold.
The discoverer in this case cleaned up something
over filso in water-worn gold and hard cash, for
there were sovereigns, half-crowns and shillings
in every tub of dirt he puddled. The “ claim ’
soon petered out, however. The explanation was
long in coming, but simple enough. The
hole had been the cellar of a hotel on the route
from Geelong to Ballarat, a popular abiding-
place with diggers coming in for a spree
with heaps of gold. The lavishness of the
digger of the roaring period. Combined with the
wide cracks in a rough shanty floor, accounted
for the surprising auriferous deposit in the cellar.
» * # *
“ Fitful ” : Owing to the exceptional rains
of this winter the N.S.W. Western District is
clothed in so joyous a green that the Flames of
Smithfield crowd suspect Rome of having squared
Providence. As a result of the generous growth,
myriads of caterpillars are goingon the land, with
the promise of a heavy crop of moths to follow.
These crawlers vary much in shape, size and color,
but are animated by the same peerless appetite.
HIS FOND ILLUSION.
BROWN : "Don’ talk t’ me! Don ’ talk t’ me!
Fact is, I’m the on’y sober man in the crowd.”
Some are burly chaps ornamented with a buttonhole
pattern along the side, and are haberdashered in
various shades of green. Others are plug-faced,
and wear shepherd’s plaid suits and walk with a
concertina gait. Then there is the hairy Billjim
variety that leans against a saltbush to chew, and
spits copiously when accosted ; and the others are.
too numerous to mention. When these visitors
have succeeded in discouraging the herbage suf-
ficiently, they will retire to prepare for their next
appearance in the great moth act, while their
places are taken ,by grasshoppers. The latter
having finished their famous quick-lunch turn, the
West will draw down its khaki curtain and wait
for another long drink.
AN ILL OMEN.
DOCTOR: “ Injured at the big fight. you say ? You don’t look like a prize-fighter.”
THE PATIENT : “ No, I was only a second; but before the gong went I spat on my man fer luck.”
“ Bark Holden ” : There is one phase of
this bush hospitality argument that hasn’t been
touched upon, possibly because most of the con-
testants have never been further out back than a
few miles from the big bush towns. Took a trip
through the back of Westralia recently, and on
past the rabbit-proof fence to get a glimpse of
some country which is being opened for selection.
I fluked a ride with the mail-cart as far as the
fence, and had dinner with a cocky. About 20 of
us sat down to the meal. At least half were men
looking for work. The rest were
English jackeroos seeking land,
and a few oockies who had
dropped in to get their weekly
mail. My wanderings east of
the fence occupied five weeks,
and whenever I arrived at a
cocky’s place there was no
trouble about tucker. But
tne point is here. Tucker is
not ladled out in return for the
latest society gossip, but be-
cause there is always a demand
for the worker. A good tucker
track pays the suppliers, and
if a far-out track gets a bad
name it is shunned until the
scarcity of labor sends wages to
balloon altitudes. The hospitality is
there all right; but it is a curse in dis-
guise to the travelling toiler as well as
an obvious blessing. It floods the labor
market, and the cocky and the squatter
can pick and choose and pay practically
what they darned well like. That
doesn’t matter to the traveller from
the city ; but it matters to the men
who pursue a living with heavy feet
along the Outer Tracks.
* * *
“G.R.F.”: Be the comments of
“A.H.”as to the suitability of King
Sound, Nor’-West Australia, as a naval
base (B. 18/8/’10), and his remarks
about “cockeye” blows, Whirlpool
Pass and tierce-running tides. I admit
all these, but the difficulty of entering
the Sound should, in my. opinion, be
one of its ■ recommendations. The
Sound itself is all I have described it.
There is a vast expanse of deep, shel-
tered water on the south and sou’-east
side of Escape Pass, the only en-
trance or vessels of, say, over 200
tons. Pearl Pass, where “ A.H.’s ”
lugger bumped- heavily, is only
used by small craft which pass
along it on either the flood or ebb
tide. ' It has never been and can
never be used by any very large vessel. It is
simply a fierce current racing between huge,
boulders, yet it can.be safely negotiated with
reasonable care. The Karrakatta was wrecked
near Escape Pass whilst attempting to enter the
Sound against ebb tide. Something went wrong
with the steering gear, and the rush of water
swept the vessel out of the channel to its doom.
Whirlpool Pass and the Graveyard are miles away
from Cygnet Bay, the exact locality I referred to
m the Sound as being suitable for naval dock-
yards.
“ P.” : Here is one of the finest stories of
the year, hidden away in a paragraph on a back
page of the Melbourne Akgus of 29/8/’lO :
Bunyip, Sunday.—Mr. and Mrs. P. Flinn —
How’s that for a good start ? What better hero
and heroine could there be for an Abo. yarn than
the Flinns— spelt with an “i” for choice? I’ll
bet eighteenpence to one-and-nine that “P ”
stands for Paddy—
were driving’ to the Bunyip cattle sales —
Been to Bunyip? It’s a real name, not a spoof.
A reclaimed swamp, flat as a floor, immeasurably
dusty in summer and unspeakably miry in winter,
and just the place for the adventure herein re-
lated—
along the bank of the main canal yesterday—
The main canal is the pride of the swamp, and
hasn’t been called the main, drain for years. It
would pass for a magnificent river at Yassberra —
when a cow tied to the shaft obstructed the passage of
the horse.
This is ambiguous, but yon know what it means,
and it makes a picture of absolute fidelity to Out-
back memories. The Flinns might have led
Strawberry, or driven her to market* But, no !
They hitched her to the shaft, in order that
things might happen.
Mr. Flinn alighted, and took the horse by the head.
It should have been P. (or Paddy) Flinn
“aloighted an’ tuk th’ harrse be th’ hid.” But no
matter. Anyhow, he didn’t take the steed by the
tail. Let us hasten to the climax —
But it backed the cart, in which Mrs. Flinn was seated
I know you had forgotten Mrs. F., but there she
was all the time, settin’ in th’ carrt and watchin’
Mr. P. Flinn wrestle with horse and cow at once —
into the water. The fall from the bank to the water
is 15ft., —
Look at it! Oh, shut your eyes and look at it !
There is a thousand pounds of Bunyip loam for
the artist who will dror it—
and horse, cart, cow and a calf,—
We hear of the calf for the first time, but there
was a cow, and a cow without a calf is a Malthu-
sian beast not to be tolerated in Bunyip. Read
on and you will find the calf explained—
which was tied in the cart to a can of cream, —
And where else should it-be tied ?- If you’ve ever
lifted a can of cream, you’ll know that it is solid
and heavy enough to hold any calf that ever rode
in its carriage—though that unfortunate calf
ought to have heen christened Tantalus. I hurry
on-
fell into the water.
O Saints of Glory ! Souse went the lot of ’em,
with P. Flinn at the top of the bank as sole sur-
vivor ! What a day? (Say this three times over.)
In the end we can rejoice with all Bunyip
Fortunately, Mrs. Flinn was thrown clear, and escaped
uninjured.
Came out of dire ordeals unscathed, as all true
heroines should. The story then fades away from
its climax—
The horse was unharnessed, and the animals rescued
by persons who happened to be in the vicinity, and later
on the cart was pulled up the side of the bank.
And now I’m going to live in Bunyip to see
adventures. Things like that never happen in
our street.
THE LINGOTHATWEUZE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
I metabloke in Collun-street—
A cove I yustano
When I wuz workinin Southoss,
A yeerertwo ago.
Sezzi, “ Well, owye ktimminup?
I spose yelinomee still?”
’E grabstne betha ’andansiz,
“ W’y owsheegoinbil?”
“Well, wotchadoinow? ”
Alludin’ to ’is work.
“ I aven gotakop,” sezee,
“At presen’. VVot’s your lurk?”
“ I’m upagenit pritty bad,
An’ lookin’ furra job,”
I answers. Then I bytsiz lug :
“Say, kinyeh lensabob?”
*E anzitover. Then Isiz,
“ Well, wotsbekumaflo ?
Referrin’ to a tartuviz—
But eesiz, “ Idunno.
'‘She yusta gimnielip,” eesiz,
“ Anso we ata paht.
Ixcepin ferer mag,” eesiz,
“Shewuza boshtataht.”
“ Shewuz i orright piece," sizzi,
“ Althoer tongue wus free.”
An then I springsa traponiin :
“ I seener yestadee.”
“ Gostroot.h ! ” sizee. “ I didunno
Thet shewuz ovareer 1
I ’ope she izen ehasinme ;
Buttit looks bloomingqueer."
“ Orright,” sizzi, “ don’t loosyerblock,
You’ll meeter byunbye.
But she won’trubble you bekos
I’ve marrider,” sizzi.
“ Well, sparemedays, it beatstha band
’Ow these things workeround 1
But after wotcha say,” sizee,
“I'll standja ina pound.”
“ A quid’s orright,” sizzi, “ but still
I dunnowota think.”
“ Don’t chewitover now,” sizzee,
“ But cumanavadrink.”
We adabeer an’ didagit ;
An’l’ve dunnin the quid.
Ewuza tofter gimme it.
I wunnerwye edid?
VICTORIA.
DEN.


What’s the time ? Just the time for
glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . . .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences,
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
TO CURE A COLD IN ONE DAY
Take LAXATIVE BUOMO Quinine Tablets. Chemists
refund money if it fails to cure. E. W. GROVE’S signa-
ture is on each box. 1/IJ. 1
The Old Blead
dlnburgh.
Whisky
•'w<S
DIRECT PROM OISTILLCR6.
ALWAYS THE SAME. PURE
UATUAKD SCOTCH MALT*
Better far than pin or brandy,
Or so-and-sa’s best sugar candy,
You should always keep it handy,
And no cough need you endure.
Whether English. Irish, Danish,
All your colds this cure will banish.
Every cough and chill will vanish
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.*
ħ
THERE is absolutely NO
RISK when CASTRATING
■ with
DONALD ROSS
EMASCULATOR
Price, £3 3s.
Money Back if not Satisfied.
DONALD ROSS 8 CO., LTD.,
Angel Place, Sydney,
THE VETERINARY SUPPLY STORE
Cured of Biliousness.
"No one, I feel sure, can speak more gratefully
of Laxo-Tonic Pills than I can,” writes Mrs.
Corbett, 116 Fitzroy Street, Surry Hills, N.S.W.
“They cured me of settled biliousness, which
seemed as though it would never leave me. I
took Laxo-Tonic Pills, and they proved a perfect
remedy*” Price 10jd. and Is. 6d.*
The remarks of “Quan” (B. 25/8/TO) re
the rare white ’possum promptly brought along a
reply from a man in Victoria who was familiar
with white ’possums. Before his remarks got
fairly into type two more letters came from Vic-
toria, one from S.A., and one from the N.S.W.
northern rivers. The writers knew ail about
white ’possums. These letters were sent to the
compositors’ department with a certain reluct-
ance ; it seemed as if the white ’possum business
was getting numerous. A few hours later a whole
stack of correspondence and a packet containing
A NOCTURNAL MEAL.
MRS. COCKY: “Hurry up wid yer brekjust, Jim , an ’ yet them cows milked .”
NEWCHUM (who has been told he would yet five meals a day in Australia): "S’elp me, Missus,
I thort I was ’aviny supper.”
a white ’possum skin came from S.A., and the
white ’possum mail from the outlying parts of
N.S.W. and from Southern and Central Queens-
land began to pour in. Also, telegrams about
white ’possums arrived from places still further
out; and Westralia, North Queensland and the
Territory have yet to be heard from. The white
’possum literature has all been suppressed. Ap-
parently the pallid bird, instead of being a great
rarity as “ Quan ” suggests, is so common that he
would fill this paper if not promptly and vigor-
ously sat upon.
“ Werrimee ” : Those who harbor the
opinion that our old people, the aborigines of this
country, are the lowest type of the human race
have seen little, and understood less, of the black-
fellow in his natural state. It is a libel on the
race to take the degenerate King Billy who loafs
about the towns as a criterion, embodying, as he
does, the results of rum, opium, tobacco, unsuit-
able clothing and ocher vices of the white man.
In his native wilds he is a smart, intelligent
animal—quick-witted, keen-eyed and possessed
of a retentive memory. He lives from hand to
mouth, the boundless bush being his storehouse.
When there is nothing on the premises for dinner
his industry in pursuit of the elusive meal is pro-
digious, his patience and endurance are wonder-
ful, his cunning is admirable ; and when the roast
bandicoot and grilled snake have put a bulge on
him his indolence and all-round incapacity are
sublime. He has never attempted to cultivate
anything, or to domesticate and improve the breed
of his wild stock. His inheritance afforded him full
and plenty, and when one locality was depleted of
game, sugar-bags, yams, fish and other digestible
items, he selected a new Billyfederal capital site,
and took the municipality with him. He had no
use for substantial dwellings ; they made hard
work and involved difficulties in transportation.
And as he had never been taught to cover up his
own body as a thing of shame, he had no use for
clothes either. He made only the things that
were indispensable, and having no trams to catch,
and no message-sticks to go by the 4.20 post, he
had plenty of time to make them in. When
cordial relations existed between his Government
and the King of Sandilands and the Emperor
of BungaValbyn, and his stock and poultry
were numerous and fat in a bounteous season, the
child of nature revelled in opulence, and got more
enjoyment out of life than the white man. The
only thing he wears under natural conditions is a
tabby (loin girdle), which may take the form of a
kind of cloth or matting made of bark or root
fibre, a number of ’possum tails strung on a
string, or a bunch of emu feathers. I saw a
robust tribe, however, near the head waters of the
Maranoa(Q.), the members of which, male and
female, wore absolutely nothing. In Central
Australia kooditchas (shoes), made of emu feathers
and human hair, cemented together with human
blood, are sometimes worn. As a rule, state
dress consists of a few stripes of paint and a neck-
lace, plus a bit of hair-frill. Excepting the paint
and the necklace, which could be dispensed with,
this is the most comfortable, common-sensible and
healthy style of dress in use among human kind.
I have tried it.
“Dandalup”: “The Battler ” (B: 25/8/’10)
enters several Westralian towns for the deserted-
village stakes. None of the W. A. towns carries
off the plate—Grant (Victoria) does. In the
roaring days Grant had 26 pubs, four banks, a
number of churches, sly-grog shops, dancing and
music halls, and other simple accessories of life.
Its population was about 10,000, and it had over
300 registered ruining concerns. At present there
are two mines at work in the district. I drifted
into the town recently and had a drink with the
population—which numbers three. Only half a
dozen buildings remain—all the others have
been carted away. The pub hangs out in what
was once a bank. One fine church still stands on
the rise overlooking the scene of desolation. I
don’t know where the others have gone, but I
suppose they are pursuing the sly-grog shops and
the dancing halls that fled in the long ago.
THE VOICE THAT
BREATHED O'ER EDEN.
When Capital Flies Away.
“ Gordon Inglis ” : When I left Australia a little
while back the air was torn and tattered with the
shouts and lamentations of Capital threatening to
leave the country on account of the Labor party’s
proposed progressive land-tax. Being anxious to
save Capital needless expense, I hereby warn it
not to come to England. Life is dear enough
in this, the most heavily-taxed country on
earth, but death is, if possible, even more expen-
sive—in fact, only wildly-extravagant people die
in England. The day I sailed from Circular
Quay, old Capital said to me: “Ah, me boy,
you’re going to the Right Place. They don’t
hound a man down there ’cause he’s got a few
pounds—not in the Mother Land. I’m goin’ to
end me days there, Gord willin’. Things
is very different there.” So they are, so
they are. Soon after I reached the Mother,
or, rather, Uncle Country, one Schroder,
head of the banking firm of J. H. Schroder and
Co.. Leadenhall-street, London, died, and his
will has now been proved. The estate was sworn
at £1,970.927, and the shameless hand of the law
grabbed no less than £480,000 in legacy duties,
etc. —according to the scale enforced under Lloyd
George’s new Finance Act. Under Asquith’s
Act of 1907 the toll would have been £315,500 ;
and under the Harcourt Act of 1894 it would
have been only £250,000. Death duties on the
estimated value of entailed lands in England
have driven Capital to that stage when even the
grave offers no escape. The only haven of refuge
I can see for English Capital is the Workhouse,
and even there they hound a man down if he
tries to rook a fellow pauper of his fish sandwich.
♦
“Lantana”: Some time back, when Premier
Wade was urged to chase the Hindu over the
horizon every time he turned up at a N.S.W.
land ballot, that highly Imperial politician pulled
out a Union .Jack and remarked : “One flag, one
fleet, one nigger,” or something like that. Ram
Singh, he declared, was a British subject, and, if
he were not allowed to shoulder the white man
from Australian land, Downing-street or some
other blunderbluss would go off pop and knock
the precious Constitution into a cock-and-bull
hat. Later on, however, when the white
population in the Northern Rivers districts
gave Wade to understand that if he didn’t
shift his nigger beyond reach of the lucky marble
he (Wade) would probably be shifted from his
lucky job, the Union Jack was hurriedly furled,
shoved into an old boot, and thrown under the
"house. Wade allowed that, if it was a toss-up
between him and the nigger, it was best to sacri-
fice the nigger. So he gave the nigger a welt
with a regulation which prevents him balloting
for Crown lands, and in the Gooninbar district
recently a score of Singhs and other shirt-tails
were dispersed from a land gamble and scattered
far. So far, the Channel Squadron hasn’t steamed
up the Blotter River, and the cables haven’t even
mentioned that Barnum Powell is mobilising
the Toy Shouts.
“W.C.M.”: All this steam that Wadr and his
harassed vote-hunters are making about the sal-
aries of the “ small ” N.S.W. school teachers being
increased to £lOO condenses into about a thimble-
ful of water. Carkuthers raised a similar cloud
when he increased the salaries from £72 to
£B4, with a £4 rise for the second year’s
service. Consider these munificent bribes—
£l2 a year comes out at 4s. 7d. a week;
the £l6 rise pans out 6s. Id. a week. Many of
these teachers have been toiling for years in small
schools, and can never hope for anything
better or expect to rise above a 3A classification,
which carries with it, at the most, a salary of £l6B
a year, including various, allowances, such as
house rent, or a payment made to the wife —£26
in some cases ; £l2 in others—in return for her
services as sewing mistress. For this £l6B they
toil and suffer in the Backblocks out west, with
never a chance of anything better. Of course, it
is argued by the Department of Public Instruc-
tion that these teachers represent the unskilled
labor of the Department; but even unskilled labor
can command at least 7s. a day, with none of the
heartbreaking worry and struggle of the small
country school teachers. And if Wade wants to
get their votes, a bid of about 4d. a day is hardly
any good. In fact, it’s no good at all.
A PICTURE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Dreary is the light of winter, dull the sighing of the
breeze,
And streaming o’er the fallow lands slants low the
falling rain ;
But a subtle fragrance drifting comes beyond the
drooping trees
From the Cootamundra wattle in the lane.
And it paints a vision splendid past the low clouds
drifting grey,
Beyond the swollen river and the paddocks bleak and
cold.
Will the Bush be soon awaking in that green land far
away ?
Will the roadsides soon be fringed with wattle-gold?
I can see the heavy dogwood, snowy sweet with morning
dew,
Hear the bronzewing crooning down the gully cool,
Where the crysial river’s murmuring the old song ever
new,
Where the dusky blackwood hides the dreamy pool.
Are the bracken glades still royal with the crimson
waratah ?
Is the clematis star-spangled with the rain ?
And its oh 1 amid the languor of the dull, brown days that
are,
To be riding down those ferny aisles again.
Are the Christmas lilies waving by the homestead garden
wall,
With a red rose at the gateway and a white rose by the
door?
And do the cattle wander where the lilacs used to fall
And the daffodils spread wide their golden store ?
The winter day of mist fades out in streaks of yellow
light,
And the distant hills are hidden with the rain ;
But I’ve been awhile in dreamland with the scent that
came to-night
From the Cootamundra wattle in the lane.
VICTORIA.
KATHLEEN WALKRER.
HATS!
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A motion, “That the council of the W.L.L. desires to
express its hearty sympathy with the society recently
formed in England for the promotion of the purity of
English literature, and earnestly desires that similar
steps may be taken in New South Wales to combat this
phase of impurity.” was carried unanimously.— Daily
•paper report of a Wimmen’s Liberal League meeting.
The round world rolls not on its way by the
pawing of meddling Cats,
Who hang together with good whalebone and
babble ’neath awful Hats,
And wince with a clash of golden gauds at the
cynic’s yell of “Rats!”
No healthy Cause to its destined end is floated
with cups of Tea,
Or shoved with the thrice-cursed Day-at-Home of
the shrill and gadding She ;
For all Small Talk is utterly damned—it availeth
Nobody.
A dull Curse sits on the Hat Insane that worries
the crowded car ;
It moves the kindly man to hiss: “ What a terrible
Ass you are ! ”
Charity flies from the Hat Absurd, and Com rnon.
Sense sits afar.
I lie Hats may tattle of “taking steps” to order
the Universe ;
Unseen forever but wideawake there sitteth the
old, drab Curse •
To bring to nothing their futile plans and whistle-
them up a Hearse.
Gossip and Fuss are their daily food—they must
Gossip and Fuss or die ;
They’ll talk and sip in a nodding ring without
ever knowing YVhy
Until such time as the trams are full, then like
parrots home they fly.
The Foolish Thing—the Futile Thing to the-
foolish and futile Hat
Appeal like Satan did to Corelli before she grew
Old and Fat ;
Nothing’s worth while that bears on it the
smudged paw-print of the Cat.
From Hats Absurd with no sense beneath, de-
liver us all, O Fate !
Preserve us, Lord, from the Hats that motor, and
Hats that merely skate !
Shepherd us well or else we perish by Small Talk,
Hatpins and Hate !
N.S.W.
A HORRID SOCIALIST.


A meeting of special magistrates of the
Children’s Court was held to discuss sugges-
tions (or the improvement of the mode of
procedure under which the Children’s Court
Act is administered.
oo sey
A«Jnr Keacfen in sW>
Xow, you'll
“be
•$€ Joltr* MHtT'Ay
if y^aVeg-^i
rjo-Tgood-
Mr, A. McKinley was of opinion that
the beat place for boya waa a farm.
(Zrti,n ly 1 A<, a <h*tlo|>«r of
mtg.'.c HKeitef<l™e>’.
They would be pleased
to hear It had been de-
cided that when a boy
was not bad enough to
be sent to gaol, and had not pre-
previously been convicted, he
could be put aboard the training-
ship, John Murray.
hiy while
-|fj!e Son
but'Mar of *7**l UcM,
K f \cf7I+{ bosVter. 1
a or'mdsfa** M »>
■J}* intellect *»” S^ e
i?£-
l?oys
iAn'to' figjiteot^n^^.
I%e of tj&fure by
n*i™ wi^
/mil*. +f>e cows '°®*s.
/ b$ tfye effect - .
In nearly all the cases which had come
before them, Mr. Arkle and he were
forced to the conclusion that the chiel
factor in causing the boys to take to evi
ways was the laxity of parental care and
the absence of home surroundings.
To. Kids-" Well «
y e r control
«s !"
"The 'tffXMh tup mJvdime
*U.». S W ^ u,d .
le«d 4 'teA.cVi children * °W
A«a ™ 'T° v *
l)oors C^l '
yworK IS <*o«e Of * 00Y &)
sWId Co course
toys, "to K j>ra^ers,
before bedtTroe, 'S Ip
•& toy doesVT *&l««|»
"before be.
wtfVT i?p(j«s see *T
>W<
CONCERNING KIDS AND REFORMATIVE METHODS.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Delicious
Drink.
* dr,nk > which warms, In.
SktmnfnhVr*? »* * y ° U P . roo ' a^alnst ‘he COld
!*“^‘?J ,er i. s .°* " loter. It is a grand remedy
lor Cold*, Cone, aad Indigestion. 7
Take dome a bottle to-dayl
BiStifri
PERSONAL
ITEMS
Death, still busy with Adelaide lawyers,
hasi gathered in the fourth within ns many weeks.
This time it was the senior of them all. Alfred’
Bonnin, aged 82. He was in the office of Judge
Gwynne long ago, was a partner of Judge
Andrews, and a fellow-clerk with the present
Chief Justice Way. Bonnin’s beautiful copper-
plate handwriting was the only old-fashioned
thing about him ; he kept youthful always,
married a young girl at 75, and has left a widow
and a small child.
JUDKINS, OF MELBOURNE.
Bacchus Marsh (Victoria) has gone into
crape over the death of George Thomas Dickie,
M.L.O. Deceased, who was a very junior mem-
ber of the Victorian House of Landlords, is
accredited with all the virtues peculiar to post-
mortem pars. He was that ideal trinity— a
Liberal, a Baptist and a Rechabite. He was a
gentleman, a bachelor, and also 36. In addition
he was president of his shire, and was connected
with the A N.A and a local co-operative butter
factory. He had other noble attributes, but these
are kindly taken as read. It is mainly as a well-
to-do bachelor of 36 that his death will be deplored
by all the girls who knew him.
From the Adelaide press gallery :
The most lachrymose voice in the S.A. Assembly be-
lon/s to Labor.member Smeaton. Always hch pitched
andwithasobm its notes.it saws right tluXh the
aching brain of the listener. Premier Verran testily tnlrt
the sawmill-proprietor the other day that he was “ a fad!
dust with a bagfull of ideas.” The rebuke was entirely
A^th'^nH? 16 ° f a he t?h her Laborifce ’ s weeping
°ther end of the scale is Senior, who, though the
ta?ker Pa bv n his St r.h" er House < cheers many a lonely
talker by his chirpy interjections. An idea of the
from X the °a the S ' AUs ‘ Labor P art V can be got
be,ore p,cklnE h,,n ,or * Labor
William Dodery, the old gentleman who,
being: formerly President of Tasmania’s House of
Obstruction, supplied The Bulletin with a name
for the Chamber, ,s still alive. He was 91 on the
doth ult. \\ illiam s father, a member of the 57th
Regiment, brought him out to Sydney 85 years
Puketapu ” about a varied and numerous
citizen :
feS°a!i hl ' 0U ” h * theGafcevv ' a - vto the Promised Land, a
few dajs ago, Augustus P. Mason, one of the best-
known residents of Wellington (M.L.). Mason
ln Melbourne as a boy in 1856, and
started to spill ink in the Argus office ; but, not
being impressed with the prospects, he got an en-
gagement with the party which was surveying the track
of the Melbourne-Geelong railway. The Otago (ML)
w - dreW ‘T awa .V from Victoria, and he panned
2*A be 3 f 'if or l’ at Du P sfcan ’ Pox’s, Shotqyer and other
fields, without procuring even an encouraging remark
a l K ekin? his bad luck . he returned to
wnnri • business as a newsagent and stationer ;
dno «? od ’ chucked it; joined one Blair, mining engi-
neer at baffnev s Creek, and otherwise had consistent ill-
mV." 1 * 1 i! e k ' ot fitted 011 Surveyor-General Vickery’s
staff. There he remained until the end of 1866. In
Januan of the following year Mason, even then only °5
years of age, reached Wellington (M.L.), and helped
Alexander Dundas (since dead) in his trigonometrical
survey of the Wairarapa district. Later on, he gave the
tnangle business best, and tried the occupation of en-
grossing clerk in a solicitor’s office, which job was in tu "n
discarded for that of land transfer draughtsman for
the Government. For 15 years he held the appointment
but he resigned in 1887-the year when the notorious
Atkinson Ministry was given the final glad good-bve
and began hunting up business for himself. For over 20
was at his office every time business called, but
recently he took his sign down and returned to the
Government Land Department. He was there when the
Bony Visitant sent in his card.
Ibe Saturday Review (London), on the
pious Cadbury, the cocoa man :
„ A in one false position may be unfortunate. A
man in three false positions must, be more so Mr Cad
bury cannot any longer be explained away. First post
tion : Mr. Cadbury is a preacher that Freetrade is good •
'"cueyfrom a protected industry. Second
position Mr. Cidbury is a preacher that slavery is
abominable ; but for years in his factory at Bournville he
was grinding the product of slave labor! Third position®
Mr Cadbury is a preacher that betting is wicked - but
the Star is largely Ins-more his than anybodv’s-and to
i eadeis of the Star there is no name so dear as the name
of Captain Coe. The Star is frankly a betting paper
largely bought for its tips. Mr. Cadbury owes it toto
supporters to put himself right. People may think the
?nf LY Th fcVVS a C l a^ and adniirable sheet, or they may
not. They may hold with the Star and with betting as
a national kill-time, or they may not. But no one can
understand a devout reader of the one buying the other
Mr. Cadbury a 1 but owns them both-one of his strange
dilemmas. When a preacher—and Mr. Cadbury is the
born preacher—preaches from three texts to which his
own conduct and position give the lie, it is time for him
to convert himself rather than others.
There passed, out last week, in an Irish
workhouse, a humble maker of history. His
name was Janies Fitz-Harris; he was called
akin the Croat for reasons apparently un-
known ; and he once drove for hire that Insane
and top-heavy vehicle, the Irish jaunting-car.
it vvas out of his trap or contraption that certain
lndnuduals leaped to kill Lord Frederick Caven-
dish Chief Secretary for Ireland, and Permanent
Under-Secretary Burke, while they were walking
in Phoenix Park, Dublin. That was 28 years ago,
so the lately deceased must have been a fairlv old
man when he passed away. The Phoenix Park
murders madea heap of excitement. John Kennv
turned informer,” and James Poole wiped John
Kenny off the face of the earth. James Poole
was hanged at Dublin. James Carey turned
informer, and afterwards fled to South
Africa, but when he had nearly arrived
there Patrick O’Donnel, a fellow-passenger
quietly put a revolver to his head, and
blew James Carey off the face of the seven
f a f: Patrick O’Donnell was hanged at New-
ca.stle (England), which is a dreary town. that
nobody would want to be banged at. In those
days the wear and tear of rope was considerable
Joseph Brady, Daniel Curley. Michael Fagan,
Timothy Kelly and Thomas Oaffrey were all
hanged with enthusiasm, though it is hard to see
how they could all have been present at the
murder, for as already mentioned, the assassins
arrived in Skin the Goat’s” jaunting-car, and
that spidery sort of vehicle isn’t a pantechnicon
by a long way. In the wild excitement of
the moment people talked of also hanging
the Czar, the Emperor of Germany, the Em-
peror of China, the Mikado of Japan, the
I ope, Joan of Arc, Francis Xavier, William the
Conqueror, Pontius Pilate, the Twelve Apostles,
the Devil and the Deluge ; but in course of time
the excitement calmed down. Fitz-Harris and a lot
more were sent to penal servitude. In those davs
several women were liable to be kicked to death
oy their husbands in London almost any Satur-
day night, yet unpleasant and frequent crimes of
that sort didn t cause a tenth of the excitement
which arose over the isolated slaying in Phoenix
.Hark, it was understood that the slayings in the
park were inspired by a perverted variety of
patriotism, while the ordinary Saturday night
murder arose through beer. And, in the view of
the conventionally respectable classes, patriotism
is a heap worse than beer.
TRAGEDY OF A TUBE DRESS.
Bill Jones, Agent-General for M.L., has
not found his health improved any since he
collapsed at the burial of Edward VII., and the
probabilities are that he will give up his job in
London before long. Jones has not been a strong
man for the past four years; in fact, he is nothing
b ke thesameold Jones who used to toi 1 so hard under
Seddon, and he might easily nowadays be taken
for a mere Smith. All going well, he will stay on in
London until after the next Premiers’ conference,
and then let Joe Ward or somebody else take
over the borrowing job. When he is out of
harness he proposes to make for N.S.W., where he
will lead the quiet life for the balance of his days.
“P.T.F.” about a burnt scientist:—
Alexander Shand, who was recently burned to death in
his house on the Chathams, was born at Wellington
(M.L.) in 1841, and went to the outlying islands witli his
father, also Alexander Shand (who was first resident magis-
trate of the Ohathams), in 1854. The elder Shand led a
strenuous life on the scene of his job, and was finally
chased off by the natives. For the past 40 years Alexander
Shand spent his time, when he wasn’t busv farming, in
compiling a history of the Morioris, and a dictionary of
the Moriori language. He had just completed his MS.
for publication when Fate arrived and wiped author and
screed out in one flaming act. As all but half a dozen of
the old pure-blooded Morioris are now dead, the infor-
mation contained in Shand’s cremated MS. is gone for
good. The only reliable knowledge now remaining re
the legends and history of the ancient aborigines of the
Chathams is contained in articles contributed by the
deceased to the journal of the Polynesian Society.
Following President Turley, of the Corn-
wealth Senate, and Speaker McDonald, of the
House of Representatives, appears an-
other enemy of official millinery
and ancient Indian decorations
in the person of Morris, the
new Mayor of Port Melbourne.
Morris declines to wear the
official robe or Turkish towel
or Flathead blanket, or what-
ever it is, and loyal and honor-
able supporters of the Vest-
ments are shaking their heads
ominously. They foresee the
time when a Socialist Lord
Mayor of Melbourne city will
conduct business in the uni-
form of Bolivar’s famous
cavalry, which was a fighting
force of great tonnage, with
a stolen horse under it, and
the sky above it for a hat, and
not much around it save a blanket and a loud
yell and a rifle.
James Alexander Mackinnon, who joined
the Huge Surplus the other day, had a legislative
innings of over 14 years, playing all the time for
Young (N.S.W.). At the end of that time a
Sydney Star compositor, named Watson, arrived
on the scene, and Mackinnon went out amidst the
lamentations of the old identities of Lambing
Flat, who were only half convinced that a mistake
hadn’t been made even when this young Watson
became Prime Minister of the Commonwealth.
“Ricardo” moves among the pots and
pans of Melbourne :
Much business interest attaches to the fusion of Mel-
bourne's tuo great ironmongery firms, McEwan and Cos
and Mcb.au Brothers and Rigg. The first conspicuous
Melbourne ironmonger was one Jackson, who did re-
markably well, but died remarkably early. He built
Toorak House, which gave the name to that suburb
and was the residence of Governors Hotham, Darkly’
Manners-Sutton, etc. When Jackson went, the biz was
taken up by McEwan and Cos., an English concern. It
became the most successful retail shop in Melbourne
M'ith VV. K. Thomson as the chief moving spirit. In 1872
the three best subordinates were lost, being RW anc [
the two brothers McLean. The fight that followe7i was
keen. The new firm did astounding business. In 1887 it
formed a co. with a paid capital of £250,000. In the first
year’s business the net profit was £62,702. Yet it
couldn’t weather the storm when the banks broke A
new co. was formed, but this couldn’t hang on either.
It sold to Lux ton and Sons, sharebroking people, in the
first place, and they brought in fresh capital. Now the
Luxtons have bought the McEwan and Cos. business and
ended the old i.valry,
“A Message to a Motorist,” which is a beauteous
booklet m a brown wrapper, breathes a solemn warning
to him who lubricates the working parts of his motor
with a compounded oil. Organic oils contain certain
fatty acids that have an etching effect on the surface of
the wearing metal they are intended to protect They
are insidiously destructive. Therefore, the booklet saith
in effect: Use straight mineral oils for automobile work
and the days of your car will be comparative! v Ion"- in i he
land. The argument in favor of “straight mineral”
as against compound oil, is conclusive to anvone
who digests “A Message to a Motorist.” More-
over, the fact that Vacuum Mobiloil possesses the
desired virtues is forcibly presented in the figures given.
An absurd waste of lubricant is the rule with motorists,
and in this excessive use of oil lies the explanation of
the obnoxious smell and smoke which so many
motorists diffuse. The “stinkers” among 1 cars
are the oil-wasters. These consume on an aver-
age a gallon of oil for every 300 miles of travel.
But the technical editor of The Adto (London)
states that a four-cylinder 4in. vehicle, with pump-feed
to the engine, can be driven a distance of 7000 miles with
a consumption of hardly more than 2J gallons of lubri-
cant. He writes from his own experience. In the course
of his long journeys he used only two grades—A and B—
of Vacuum Mobiioil, and at no time was his engine
starved. Another instance is quoted of a six-cvlinder
car which ran 3000 miles in Tasmania year on one
gallon of Vacuum Mobiloil, whilst other cars were wast-
ing nearly 10 times as much of other lubricating oils, and,
as a matter of course, emitting 10 times as much mal-
odor. The Taxi Cab Cos. in Melbourne recognises the
excellence of Vac Mob lubricant, and uses no other. Not
to use it is to admit oneself an unenlightened motorist.
Hence the Message.*
George Jenkins, Clerk of Victorian Par-
liaments—he who, in the time of the Yorks,
waved his hands and bade the State’s minions “ do
the thing properly”—retires from office on the
16th instant. He has been 47 years in the State
Parliament’s service, having joined when Murphy
was Speaker. Avery long Speaker was Murphy ;
he Spoke from 1856 to 1868.
Neil McGlashan, who has just died in Glas-
gow (Scotland), was one of the original partners
of Brooks, McGlashan and McHarg, softgoods-
men, of Flinders-lane, Melbourne, He had been
connected with the business for about 26 years,
and is understood to have made a heap of £, and
a stack of s. and many bags of and. Nothing else,
however, is known against him, except that he
lived a life of respectability, and indulged in
charity and church-going as some men indulge in
lobsters on Saturday night.
A CHAIN OF TITLES.
Tn connection with the annexation of Korea by Japan.
appropriate titles of dignity and honor, with annual
grants, are to be conferred on the Emperor and Crown
P rince of Korea, their consorts and heirs.— Cable Item.
Ihe Japs always have been close observers of
British methods.
What a notable person is Sir Gilbert
Parker, M.P., these times ! The cable recently
reported a theft of £9OOO worth of jewellery from
his sister-in-law. Australia remembers Gilbert
-Parker as the collaborator with George Rignold
in a dramatic version of “Faust,” which Rignold
staged some 20 years ago. He (Parker) was then
a journalist in Sydney with a tender attachment
to Melbourne. He was much struck on Mabel
Lane daughter of the late Mrs. Lane, of the City
Club Hotel, ere the amiable, ill-fated Mabel took
to the stage. In after years it was the regretful
boast of Mrs. Lane that her daughter would have
been Lady Gilbert Parker had she seen the title
coming when she declined G.P.’s offer. But it
would have been all the same to poor Mabel now
anyway. She died of cancer.
THE PLEA OF THE GOFF-ARTIST.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
. rra y prevent Mr. Stephens from writing nonsense, and
in my own c ise l particularly urge it, not that it dis-
turbs my paintiner the least little bit; but when I am
plaj mg golf, to think of such stupidity makes me shudder
Sun UtS me ° ff n '“ y —Percy Spence in Sydney
Ah do not, Mr. Editor,
Permit your virgin page
To be defiled with carpings, for
Your critic’s persiflage
Does more than cramp my Art. His scoff
Impairs my faculty for Goff !
I reached the links last week, alack !
My caddie by my side,
(A crate of hardware on his back)
And built a tee, and plied
M3’ cluli—recalled his savings hard—
And missed the globule by a yard !
It was no better “ on the green,”
Your hireling’s acid gibes
Obsessed 1113’soul with anguish keen.
His heartless diatribes
Occasioned me such agonee
I did one hole in forty-three.
Thereafter, maddening mishaps
Proceeded to befall.
Into all sorts of hidden traps
I engineered my hall.
I really would not care to say
The things I did (and said) that day.
There are no drains or hopeless “ lies”
That do not know we well ;
No “bunkers ” but have heard my cries
Of “Dash it all!” and “Well!”
And all through him ! Ah ! call him off.
I ask it in the name of Goff !
N.B.W.
10-2-4.
THE WOEFUL SHEPHERD.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The pastoral industry is threatened with a serious set-
back in the shape of land legislation brought in by the
Commonwealth Government.— J. C. Ritchie.
The woeful shepherd pipes on oaten straw
Amid his tearful sheep,
And curses Federation and the law
That gives him cause to weep.
Alas ! His precious muttons are foredoomed.
The time is coming when
The wandering wool that o’er the landscape bloomed
Must yield to homes of men.
The school shall rise, the little kid shall play
By many trodden tracks,
While huge estates of Fat shall fade away
Before the cruel tax.
Cradles shall rock where pretty lambkins sport,
The fields shall ring with toil,
While trade shall draw to each new-opened port
The fruits of all the soil.
The wicked spade shall delve, the plough aecurs’d
Shall scar the yielding plain,
And, where our sturdy overdrafts were nursed,
Shall wave the cocky’s grain.
This evil Socialistic land shall see,
With a despairing “ Dash,”
Some happy country where Fat yet is free
Welcome his sacred cash.
Alas the day ! Shall capital remain
Where one small land-tax waits?
The tearful shepherd pipes his note of pain
Behind his clos6d gates.
N.S.W.
M. M.


•%. '• v ;<
•f* ? :■
mm
m
\>.. .
■;•••••■•
m§m
mm
:cv
m
m
2r * * d
1
Pis
n
•>.
« vi
§&
1
| *
P : *&
ii
:?i
*k
% %■
y..<£;
w a
? **
V 4
■V,
1
H
A
ii
«
m
W*¥3J
H
**«#
i
ii
lli
■a
Hi
m
'■foy
■am
m
>:••is
m
mm
11
m
m
m#
m
Wi
m.
:■>
■
I
if
H
M
m
m
m
m
h
v
ii
it
■
n
#*•.#**
*«**
m
l
m
m
H
m
II
m
M
§
.m
*
m
ip
ii
>#s<
»
wSw : ::
&«
SS^SSsi
"<Sw
■■''yytftySffy
:•*<«&
kf>,
m
m
I mm
•AV^
r-•-,':*3£;■;- -^*3
«
Austral” Three-Guinea Suits
“ I grow the Wool, Vicars make the Tweed at Marrickville, Gowings make the Suit, and you are pleased.”
COWING 8R05., , Distributors Australian Goods,
486, 488, 490 George Street; and 7,9, 11, 13, 15 & 17 Royal Arcade, Sydney.
P.S.—Send for Patterns and Self=Measurement Forms.
Carriage Paid on all orders throughout Australia.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” CAS ENGINE and PLANT
(made in England.)
beat all comers at the
Royal Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the OOLn ucr...
“NATIONAL » ENGINES STOCKED IN SYDNEY.
Represented
by
Arthur Leplastrier & Co
•i Circula
Quay East, Sydney.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gell ~gn»te» Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
WT "/VO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE^
Special Coal Mining' Explosives.
LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Ihe States’ revenue returns continue to wear a
ook of affluence, notwithstanding- that, on account of
aeavy payments falling due for the new cruisers, the
Commonwealth Government has been obliged to hang on
for a few' weeks to part of the States’ share of'the
Customs revenue. The Commonwealth has been able to
pay the States £1,053,039, leaving a balance of £661,231
outstanding. This “ Braddon blot ” arrangement expires
on December 31; after that the 255. per head hobble
comes into force. Notwithstanding the short-payments
from the Commonwealth, every State’s returns for the
first two months of the financial year show a substantial
increase:—
State Revenues for Two Months.
1909. 1910.
N. S. Wales ..£2,047,223 £2,128,689 Inc. £81,466
Victoria. .. 1,244,841 1,387,501 Inc. 142,660
Queens and .. 705,265 774,479 Inc. 69 214
VVestraha .. 408,615 441,388 Inc. 32,773
Tasmania .. 129,166 159,746 Inc. 30^580
Railways are, in most cases, responsible for the biggest
improvement. The three principal States show these
railway figures :
\r oHr i Jul .''-A„g.,’o9. July-Aug.,’lo.
-V S. Wales .. £741,711 £846,769 Inc. £105,058
Victoria .. 570,397 644,083 Inc. 73,686
Queensland ... 356,973 425,882 Inc. 68,909
N.B.W. tramways also show an improvement of £22,406.
These are, however, not net gains; there has been a
general growth of working expenses and interest charges
m the few oases where such things can be followed.
. tllree , States furnish any expenditure
data. Their total figures for the two months are
State Expenditure for Two Months.
„ „ , 1909- 1910.
N. S. Males ..£2,036,989 £2,139,200 Inc. £lO2 211
Queens and .. 608,036 442,085 Dec. 65,951
VVestraha .. 492,070 492,603 Inc. 533
1143 on t ' le two mor >ths’ operations a deficit
of £lO 511 as against a surplus of £10,234 last year •
Wh S 'r r .i d ha ?.- 2,394 towards the year’s interest
Ovhich it doesut charge up monthly as the other States
psi a f a,nst . £1 97,229; and VVestralia has a deficit of
veat- 215 af > ainst £ 83,455 for the first two months of last
O" n he su v rface looks as though Wade and
r\mln e Iv Wer ?i b , orro v Wln ? less furiously ; the two months’
Cohen expenditure has been £306,015, as against £353 113
But two months’ figures mean little; heavv pay-
ments have apparently been hung up. Waddell is mop-
ping up a great deal of local money : no less than £778 148
has been raised in Sydney during the two months
Queensland continues its plunge ; £282,012 for two
months = £1,692,072 a year=£2 IBs. for every man
woman and child in the State. * *
* * * *
The Balmain New Ferrt Co. (Sydney):—
Writ-
„ , ten To Re- Re-
Fronts. Dividends. Off. serves, server
June, 1904.. £H73 7£p.c.=£6l6 £4675 £1939
Dec., 1904.. 1392 74 „ „ 616 125 £651 9 son
June, 1905.. 1352 7J 616 - 736 S
Dec., 1905.. 1378 7 f „ ” 616 - 762 I’m
1 remium on new shares .. 3294 7’as9
June, 1906.. 1726 10p.c.= 1419 307 7 689
Premium on new shares .. .. 5000
Dec., 1906.. 1046 lOp.c. = 2000 n’735
Premium on new shares .. 262 n’997
June, 1907.. 2022 10p.c.= 2000 - 22 12 019
Dec., 1907.. 2069 10 „ „ 2000 - 69 19088
June, 1908.. 2838 10 ~ ~ 2199 639 12 727
Premium on new shares .. . 4979 ]7’7nfi
Dec., 1908.. 2110 lOp.c. = 2400 _ _1 jftX
Premium on new shares .. 152 17’fifiR
June, 1909.. 2022 10p.c.= 2518 - _ X 7072
Premium on new shares .. 13 17’nKfi
Dec, 1909.. 1879 7*p.c.= 1875 _ 4 £7,,39
Premium on new shares .. 16 17’-ink
Jw 1910- 5 Nil _ 5 naio
After this co.’s accounts have been laid on the table and
cut up, this paper has fora good many years been unable
to view the result with any enthusiasm. For one thing
it has been impossible to tell what amount of revenue ha's
been written off to cover the depreciation of the company’s
arks. The amount may have been just enough, or too
much, or not enough. If it wasn’t too much, then the
dividend was too great; for as at December, 1908 the
co. paid away £290 more than it said it earned, and as at
the next June it paid away £496 more, and as at Decern-
her last it paid away so much that only a paltry £4 was
put by. So in these 18 months of great prosperity when
a prudent co. should have been laying by for the dull
day, it divided £782 more than it said it earned ; and it
did this very imprudent thing in spite of repeated warn-
ings. Then the dull day arrived—the day of the coal
strike, when costs bounded up and receipts bounded
down, and the result is shown in the table
Twelve months ago the shares, as the result
no doubt, of the inflated dividend, were being-
bought at 335. To-day they can be got for 235.; and that
isn t the sort of movement that a management can be
proud of. In fact, a general view of the co.’s record for
several years past gives such thoroughly unsatisfactory
results that shareholders ought to insist upon getting
much more information than the accounts offer And so
should investors before they touch the stock.
The present paid capital is £50,000, and another
£13,716 has been put up in the shape of premiums
Besides this, there are liabilities totalling £l6 923. The
following shows these things and also what has been done
with the money
~ , Dee.,:o4. Dec.,’o7. Dec.,'o9. June,’lo.
Capital .. .. £16,420 £40,000 £49,969 £50,000
Premiums.. .. _ 8,555 13,700 13,716
Liabilities.. .. 1,070 36,209 14,597 16 923
C' h ‘ P n " " 17 ’ 635 47,562 44,296 45,’795
Freeholds.. .. 4,594 34,991 33,312 33 703
Cash, etc 1,825 1,209 1,539 923
Other assets .. 1,442 6,534 4,382 4,313
Freeholds are a big item. Mostly they are large spaces
with harbor frontage, secured as picnic grounds Some
day or other there may he money in subdividing them •
but for the present they can give only a small return on
their purchase price. And the graduated land-tax
won’t make things any better for the holder of bi<>-
practically unused blocks. The tax mav be very sinful’
of course; on the other hand, the concern which is
merely sitting down and waiting for the growth of popu-
lation to give a value to an estate isn’t performing any
great national service. Certainly there ought to be big
open pleasure grounds with harbor frontages ; but the
public ought to own them for ever and not a ferry
co., which will only go on owning them so long as it
doesn’t pay better to cut them up and fill them with
bricks and mortar and “ Keep off the Grass ” boards and
“Beware of the Dog” notices.
The Adelaide Steamship Co.:—
I9()i’ £47 04 B ,' Dividends. series. selves.
1902 5 p.c.= £25,359 £21,682 £21.682
June’ 91 ’ 329 10 .. .. 50,718 40,611 62,293
1904” 86 ?04 in* ” ’’ 50,718 44,260 106 >553
1905” fnoos In ” ” 50,718 35,386 141 > 9 39
1906” in ” ” 50,718 36,280 178,219
1907” sf’fon In ” ” 50,718 25,589 203,808
1908” in ” ” 50,718 33,172 236,980
19 ° 8 ”.P9n9 8 a-n? *° *• 50,718 32,132 269,112
1909 Bi l ,9 ranS l n rred to capital .. .. 66i 242
1910 ” IH«9 10 P- c,=: 62,129 21,983 88,225
1910 80,462 10 ~ „ 71,004 14,458 102,683
r, if you reckon it on the old capital of £507,175, the
dividend is a very distressing-14 per cent. And that last
wasn’t the first little stock-watering job that shareholders
have borne with patience either. Prosperity came with
a rush about 10 years ago. Up to that time’tnings were
pretty sick ; in 1599 the £lO shares were worth less than
£lO. The capital was then £202,890, and the shares were
held in a very few hands. But the public began to wake
up and expect something, and by 1901 the shares were
up to £25. Federation and inter-State freetrade were the
primary factors in the change. The secondary ditto was
the “ honorable understanding ” the shipping cos. come
to. It has been a wonderfully profitable understanding for
the cos., and undoubtedly it has also enabled them to put
on a very much better type of ships. But, while it
appreciates that much, the public doesn’t always appre-
ciate the coastal freights ; and even now the Newcastle
coal vend, which is more than half-brother to the
shipping combination, is being asked to explain matters
under the Commonwealth’s Anti-Trust law. There is
n e .l ort - 0f fly in P rett y well every pot of ointment
that the investor uncovers, though the insect isn’t'
always easy to distinguish; and the danger that
something may happen to the combination is
the principal fly m this little gilded pot. Just at pre-
sent Australia will, in a general way, pay almost any-
thing; it is in the Jenkins frame of mind in which'it
waves a lordly hand and says: “Do the thing well.”
And quite a lot of people are doing it well. But by-and-
bye there may be a change.
c °- lts u e l f doesn’t admit the profit of
£85,46-set out above. Very modestly it is content with
a - I ? ere 0 f, 69 J 441 ’ which wouldn’t pay the dividend. The
other £16,021 consists of additions to the Insurance and
Kepairs and Renewals funds. It is possible that these
additions are not true profits. They may be a provision
for wear and tear and other things. But it is more than
likely that provision for depreciation has been made
in other ways. “Steamers, hulks, lighters, plant,
freehold properties, wharves, and shares in other pro-
perties, etc.,” are in the books now at £809,241; and
12 months ago they stood at £869,677. There has thus
been a heavy reduction somehow. It hasn't been
through the sale or loss of steamers, for none have been
sold or lost. It may certainly be through the sale of pro-
perties or shares ; but it may also be partly or wholly
through using undisclosed profits to write down assets*
r ive years ago assets other than the composite item men-
tioned above were £88,561 in excess of liabilities. On
June 30 last they were £38,989 in excess. But mean-
time the co.’s three biggest steamers, the Echunga,
Lammeroo and Koombana, have been added to the
fleet, besides the Junee and several other smaller ones •
and they weren’t built for £50,000. Put in another
i'i'Mu 6 {!?■ ,n flv ! years has Paid its big dividends, added
its three biggest ships (12,008 tons among them) and two
or three smaller ones, and very likely also added to its
coal-mine interests, and has only cut into its liquid assets
to the extent of £49,572. The Bulletin doesn’t know
how long it will last; but while it does last it is gor-
* * * *
Finney, Isles and Co., Ltd., retail softgoods
people chiefly, of Brisbane : °
Towards
1904 Ch ’ Pn^ tB, Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
1906 ” 6 Per cent. = £1768 *16,166
1966 •• 5,323 6 „ „ 1909 3,414 11 741
1907.. 9,457 6 „ ” 2189 7,268 4,473
1908 .. 12,767 6 „ , 3929 8 838
1909.. 14,898 6 ~’ 3983 1(\915 15’,280
IMO.. Sf a .'pe?S?:‘S 7 ““ B , SsB -- jjgf
That is as near the facts of the case as the data available
wiil aHow The Bulletin to get. The figures differ
slightly from those put before shareholders at the annual
meetings, chiefly on account of an appropriation to pay a
bonus to employees. For instance, the profits for the
SsnriefThT SaKl have been £13,195; but apparently
£BOO of that was either paid or reserved during the year to
SnA e u IO " DS on the previous year’s transactions. Of the
£3OOO shown as 1 provided for depreciation,” £lOOO was
consumed in connection with the transfer of the business
to the co. s own new premises. The other £2OOO has
been set aside as a depreciation reserve, but
is not included among the reserves. The slight falling
off in profits for the past year is probably due to the dis-
location of trade while the business was being shifted to
its new quarters.
The co.’s record is thusfar very fine. Six vears
or so back, when senior-partner Finney died-there was
then no Isles—it looked a good deal as though the whole
thing would have to be wound up. The affairs were
however, put into good expert hands, and the present
co. was formed. The Finney estate, represented by the
Queensland Trustees, Ltd., left its money in the business
ZZ'T n IC T ° f I . nterest - on condition that the
debt was to be steadily paid off—partly by the accumu-
themno°ff dl‘VB‘‘ V8 ‘ °- ‘’l*® oth . e r partners and the issue to
ofV em f°u new shares in lieu of dividend money. Shortly
new c °- was Queensland took a turn for
the better, andtthe new co. leaped ahead. The lease of
the old premises had almost expired ; and the co. looked
round and decided to have a home of its own. Most of
the money for the purpose was borrowed ; but a recent
01 25,000 new shares (at Is. premium, to cover exes.)
ill reduce the balance owing. The present accounts do
not, however, show this transaction. The chief move-
ments since the co. was formed are shown hereunder
ri -i. 1 1905> 1909. 1910
S a P' ta! £29,462 £66,392 £67 293
Debt to tinneyestate.. 42,704 30 507 97 ’.«
Other liabilities .. 60,’m infer! igsf
Stock .. .. 60,878 82,106 89 119
•• -• 7,665 58,266 S 4 332
Book debts .. .. 25,550 43 876 45 122
Other assets .. .. 25,648 43,588 34 649
These figures are as at July 31 in each year, before the
appropriations for dividend, etc. And, as remarked iust
asfc co,umn doesn’t show the recent issue of
20,000 new shares. Adding £25,000 to the capitaTand
deducting it from the liabilities we get a canitil nf
£92 293 and liabilities of £136,253, whTch is £ much
better and safer proportion than the co. started with.
Boiled down, the co. has done this in six years :
Goodwill wiped out £ig 235
Flotation exes, wiped out .. * ’ 1 ’331
P. and L. balance built up .. ” 20’638
. , Tofcal £38,204
And *-17,815 has also been paid in divs.; so that 32 per
or less than one-third, of the profits have been dis-
tnbuted. A co. that starts out on those lines commands
respect and confidence. That the co. can maintain the
proportion to shareholders’ capital is,
Ti? d °u t ’^- nllkely;4or,t is b ound to gradually pay off
mn ?° eaP Fmney estate money, and, besides, it has so very
other harfri ,n '' ested now in bricks and mortar. On the
nnvfhint d U the accu mulated profits are not costing it
and no dh^idend 1-6 f fTc trifle fchat carries no interest
The Wellington Woollen Mandfactueing
Co. (M.L.)
Written To Re- Re-
Julj l , Profits. Dividends. Off. selves, serves.
1901.. £8,791 8 p.c. =£4281 £2500 £2OlO £19,301
1902 .. 10,773 8 „ „ 5137 2500 3136 22,437
Premiums op new shares .. .. 1413 23,850
1903.. 9,065 8 p.e. = 5604 2500 961 24,811
1904 9,130 8 „ ~ 6273 1000 1857 26,668
1905 ~ 3,950 6„ ~ 4800 2000 23,818
1906 ~ 5,200 5,, „ 4000 1000 200 24,018
1907 .. 6,708 6,, „ 4858 1500 350 24,368
1908 ~ 11,190 6,. „ 5353 2000 3837 28,205
1909 .. 6,277 6,, ~ 6114 3000 25,368
1910 .. 13,653 7,, ~ 7957 5500 196 25,564
There is almost a chuckle in the past j'ear’s accounts,
and the directors refer to the same matter in their re-
port: “ The freehold land at Petone, 17J acres, with its
appurtenant water-rights, is shown at the small sum of
£1209, the original cost being 1 reduced to that amount by
the net compensation received from the Railway Depart-
ment for some half an acre taken for road widening.”
In plain words, the co. bought 18 acres for £2409,
and now Ward’s bleeding country pays £l2OO for
a mere shaving of half an acre of it. In other respects
also the co. has been having a very good time. Still,
when the eye falls on the “profits” column in the
table it had better not stay there too long; it had better
(1) look up the increase in the capital and (2) look down
the “ written off ” column. For instance, £5500 is written
off this year, making the net profit £8153. Of that £5500,
one lot of £3OOO comes off the book value of buildings
plant and fittings (£69,997), and another lot of £2500
comes off merchandise stock (£2OOO came off the
same asset last year). The depreciation of stock
might better perhaps come off profits at once,
before they are shown; but the amounts have
been included in the “written off” column because
possibly the over-valuation occurred in previous years.
It means this, anyhow: that sometime or other profits
have been over-stated. And possibly they are over-stated
now, inasmuch as £3OOO looks none too much to write off
for wear and tear, notwithstanding that in some recent
years as little as £lOOO has been judged sufficient. On
this point, however, nothing definite can be said. It is
certain that, on the whole, Australasian manufacturing 1
cos. have been in the habit of writing off too little against
depreciation ; for not only do modern plants wear
out fast, but often they l have to be rushed to the
scrap-heap to make room for improved machinery as
good as competing factories have installed.
The capital for many years was £BO,OOO, in
ordinary shares; but in 1907 a preference issue was
authorised, and money has been gradually drifting in
since. Total capital (including calls paid in advance) is
next shown :
1906 .. £80,240 I 1909 .. £116,515
1907 .. 94,145 1910 .. 123,204
1908 .. 103,726 |
This new money has been used almost exclusively to re-
<?,^<Lthe co ’’ s labilities. In 1906 the latter totalled
£62,724; they are now £19,916. The change makes
things safer for the shareholders, although so far as the
ordinary shareholders are concerned it means that a
preferential creditor has been introduced for all time.
* * * *
The Castlemaine Brewery and Quinlan
Guay and Co., Ltd. (Brisbane) :
Added Nominal
T , Written to Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Nil £7,757 £3224 £14,576
1901.. 9,538 Nil 22,863 1 250
1902.. 9,026 Nil L 902 6 10 976
1903.. 7,499 5 p.c. =£3750 - 3749 14 525
1904.. 4,311 5„ „ 3750 - 561 14 586
1905.. 3,983 5 „ „ 3855 - 128 14 714
1906.. 4,177 5 „ 3855 - 322 15 036
1907.. 5,025 6„ ~ 3855 U7O 16 206
1908.. 5,106 5 „ „ 3855 - 1251 17 457
5.. „ 3857 - 2512 19,969
1910.. 7,478 5,, ~ 3857 3621 23,590
Down to 1902 the co. had a capital of over £l5O 000 in
255. shares, mostly paid to £l. At that time the bulk of
the old assets were still overvalued, in spite of years of no
dividends and constant writing down. The directors
then took the cow’s husband b,y the horns and wrote off
half the capital. That allowed of about £75,000 of boom
froth being blown off the pub-property and other assets •
and the directors, believing assets were thus reduced to’
a fairly reasonable book-value, resumed the payment of
dividends. Since then the business has, to all appear-
ances, made a lot of solid progress. This gives some idea
of the principal changes :
_ . 1900. 1908. 1909. 1910.
Capital.. ..£150,075 £77,147 £77,147 £77,147
Liabilities (less cash
balances) .. 111,613 67,047 64,267 60,751
Premises, plant, etc. 141,535 90,180 89,857 90 965
S ot i 8 "jj L ” 57 > 165 18,700 18,700 15,’700
Stocks and debtors.. 76,809 54,797 54,851 59 202
Revenue .. .. 33,358 25,006 28,868 29 601
Expenses .. .. 22,377 19,900 22,499 22^026
Going back to 1902, the first balance after the reor<4ni-
sation, we get this comparison :
T . ...... 1902. 1910.
Liabilities £79,101 £63,106
Stock and other liquid assets .. 57,017 59,202
Excess liabilities .. „ £22,084 £3,904
Meantime a 5 per cent. div. has been paid regularly since
1903, and £4538 has been put into new warehouse pro-
perty. On the other side, £4lOO of new capital has been
got in. The situation has, therefore, visibly improved to
the extent of about £20,000 in the eight years ; and most
of this accumulated profit has been put to the very
excellent purpose of paying off liabilities. How much
has been written off premises, plant, etc., to pro-
vide for current depreciation, is, however, an un-
known quantity. It appears to be something consider-
able ; at any rate, the chairman mentioned at the
annua meeting the other day that “ the result shown in
the balance-sheet was after wiping off all bad and doubt-
ful debts, and 10 per cent, off plant, and placing the
machinery and rolling stock in thoroughly good order.”
The figures look all the better in the light of that com-
forting remark ; and the gradual increase of the declared
prout is another very hopeful circumstance.
* * * *
R. H. Gordon and Co., Ltd., furniture and
time-payment salesmen, etc. (Sydney)
_ „ To Re- Re-
T Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
June, 1909 .. _ £g
Dec., 1909 .. £7942 10 p.c. =£2500 £5442 14’026
June, 1910 .. 7033 10 „ „ 2571 4462 18,488
This co. was formed in 1907 to take over the time-
payment business of R. H. Gordon and G. E. Wise • but
the public only began to come in during 1909, when the
stock was listed by the Exchange, and accounts for the
earlier terms are not available. The reserves consist
mainly of a formal reserve fund (£18,008), and the profits
shown above include additions made direct to that fund
apparently to provide for possible losses on uncompleted
transactions. The profits shown above are made up this
way:— y
Profit (as per Added to
P. and L. Reserve
account). Fund.
June, 1909 .. £4137 ?
Dec., 1909 .. 5822 £2120
June, 1910 .. 5585 1448
How much of these reserved profits will turn-out to be
true profits The Bulletin doesn't know, being’ out of the
Elijah business for the moment. Even without these
amounts the results would be extraordinarily good—a
matter of 22 per cent, on the capital for the past
12 months. But something more even than the amount
of reserved profits may be necessary to provide for bad
debts. The entire assets total £82,458, including a goodwill
item whose dimensions are not specified ; and no less
than £53,880 of the total consists of book debts. These
are mostly, no doubt, sums owing on time-payment bar-
gains ; and, as these bargains are made in most cases by
people who haven’t the money to pay cash, there is
pretty large scope for defaults. Still, payments will be
kept up well while times are good ; and the co. is acting
very wisely in building' up a big yeserye during such times
in order to leyej things pp in the slack years that are
bound to come sooner or Jater, The co. is in 60,000
shares ; 50,000 are fully paid to £l, and 10,000, hitherto
paid to 55., have nosy the privilege of paying themselyes
up to 10s. The total liabilities on June 30 were £BB9S,
* *■ * *
Alburt Brewing and Malting Co. (N.S.W.);
Written To Re- Re-
June, Profits. Dividends, Off. serves, serves,
1901 ~ £849 5 p.c. =£725 £l5O £248
1902 1340 5 „ „ 725 300 £315 563
1903 .. 446 5 „ ~ 725 150 134
1904 ... 773 5 „ ~ 725 48 182
1905 .. 704 5 „ „ 725 161
1906 .. 698 5 ~ ~ 725 1 34
1907 .. 209 Nil 209 343
Loss.
190 S ..9 Nil 334
Deficit.
1909 .. 1445 Nil HU
Assets written up .. .. 833 278
1910 .. 3403 Nil 3681
Twelve months ago the coroner’s verdict concluded this
way: “The capital is only £14,500. At the best things
look miserable; and at the worst they may turn out very
serious. Much will depend on the management during
the next two or three years.” Things haven’t improved.
Gross proceeds from sale of beer, etc., have moved like
this : 1907, £7533 ; 1908, £7525 ; 1909, £4851 ; 1910, £3910.
An effort is being made to amalgamate two local
breweries to better fight city competition ; a new brewer
is being tried ; and “ meantime it is imperative that
more capital be obtained.” Probably the bank, which
has advanced £6529, isn’t as affable as it used to be. To
some extent the directors have themselves to blame; for
they continued the 5 per cent. div. much too long, and
left themselves in no state to meet a hard knock. And
naturally the other fellow saw it and grabbed his oppor-
tunity to give the knock. However, nominally the co.
has still £10,819 of capital intact; and £lO,OOO is worth a
struggle to save.
* * * -X
The Newcastle Coal Co. (N.S.W.): —
Writ-
ten To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903.. £8484 15 p.c.= £7500 £2009 £15,361
June, 1904.. 5660 7J- „ „ 3750 5302 11,969
Dec., 1904.. 7107 5 „ „ 2500 7963 8,613
June, 1905.. 3582 Nil 2688 £894 9,507
Dec., 1905.. 6854 6 p.c.= 3000 6137 7,224
June, 1906.. 5376 6 „ „ 3000 3601 5,999
Dec., 1906.. 3682 6 „ ~ 3000 2093 4,588
June, 1907.. 6827 5 ~ „ 2500 2556 1771 6,359
Dec., 1907.. 5561 5 „ „ 2500 1143 1918 8,277
June, 1908.. 7633 6 „ „ 2500 6326 7,084
Dec., 1908.. 8211 5 „ „ 2500 5430 281 7,365
June, 1909.. 7014 5 „ ~ 2600 5234 6,645
Dec., 1909.. 3807 Nil 4134 6,318
June, 1910.. 2698 Nil 4305 4,711
This co. was in clover for nearly 30 years ; but it went on <
eating the vegetable and forgot ail about planting any-
more until there was only a mouthful or two left in a
corner. As late as 1902 it paid 30 per cent, in dividends
for the year ; and just about that time it realised that it
had eaten up the mine and had very little in the locker
to buy another one. Nevertheless it got hold of a little
property at Maitland, and proceeded to develop it; and
it has done rather better than it deserved. The new pro-
perty didn’t promise well at first, but the directors say it
has improved very much in the last two or three months,
12ft. of good hard coal having lately been struck in the
tunnel. At Dec., 1907, just after the Whitburn property
had been bought (546 acres at £25, with a small leasehold,
£13,732 the lot), the position compared with the present
this way :
1907. 1910.
Liabilities .. .. £11,608 £13,737
Liquid assets .. .. 13,654 12,581
Surplus .. £2,046 Deficit £1,156
Seeing that the co. has got in no new capital, it has
pulled through remarkably well. The new mine has
been practically developed out of profits. Certainly the
bulk of the equipment was transferred from the old
mine ; but, even with that help, £15,876 has gene into
development and similar work at Whitburn during the
past 18 months without any serious increase in the lia-
bilities.
Yale of Clwydd Coal Mining Co. (N.S.W.):
To Re- Re-
Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
Dec., 1903 .. £lBBO 10 p.c. = £l5OO £3BO £1935
June, 1904 .. 1618 10 „ ~ 1500 118 2053
Loss.
Dec., 1904 .. 157 5„ „ 750 1146
Profits.
June, 1905 .. 1606 10 „ „ 1500 106 1252
Dec., 1905 .. 2269 10 „ ~ 1500 769 2021
June, 1906 .. 1720 10 ~ ~ 1500 220 2241
Dec., 1906 .. 2688 10 „,, 1500 1188 3429
June, 1907 .. 1835 10 ~ ~ 1500 335 3764
Dec., 1907 .. 1454 10 ~ ~ 1500 3718
June, 1908 .. 4018 30 „ „ 4500 3236
Dec., 1908 .. 2957 10 ~ ~ 1500 1457 4693
June, 1909 .. -H 543 , 10 1500 \ 1094
l £2912 dropped out of Reserves / JBZ4
Dec., 1909 .. 1511 10 p.c. = 1500 11 1835
June, 1910.. 8020 10 „ „ 1500 6520 8355
etc.,” which usually brings in about
£5OO per half-year, is credited with £5733 for the past
term. It seems to have been a good season for “ etc. ”
whatever that may be. The co. owns one of several
Western District mines, which had a poor time
until they fixed up the Lithgow Coal Associa-
tion ; and it is probably owing in part to this
honorable understanding” that the profits move in
a mysterious way. Ten years ago, before the understand-
ing was arrived at, Clwydd shares were worth 6s. or 7s.
They are now worth 385.-whicb shows what an “ honor-
able understanding” can do while it lasts. Besides the
unusually big revenue from “rent, interest, etc.,” coal
sales have brought in a revenue above the ordinary : for
most of the time the Newcastle trouble was on, this mine
was at work under a Wages Board decision. In five years
the position has been changed this way :
T . ~ , June, 1905. June, 1910.
Liquid assets .. .. £14,300 £20,549
Liabilities .. .. 2,383 703
Surplus .. .. £11,917 £19,846
So a steady div. has been paid, additions have been made
to the plant, and £7929 has been put away in the stock-
ing. Capital is only £30,000; so two-thirds of it is
now represented by liquid assets. It is a good record ;
only fly in the ointment is the same fly that is in
every mining co.’s ointment—no mine can last for ever.
But the mining co. which gradually replaces the worn-
out asset by liquid assets is in a very different situation
to the co. which wears out one lot of assets and pa vs so
much in divs. that it can’t provide itself with any other
assets.
* * * *
Central Zinc Co.—This co. was formed in 1905
or thereabouts mainly to handle the output of the Sul-
phide Corporation’s zinc-concentrating works at Broken
Hill. The Sulphide Corporation itself had raised just
about as much money as it could ; so this co. was formed
on the Corporation’s guarantee of a 5 per cent, dividend
for 10 years. In return, the Corporation is to get half
the profits over and above the 5 per cent. But so far
there haven t been any profits to divide. Down to the
end of March, 1909, the co. had gone £43,882 to the
bad, of which £28,030 was on ordinary trading account.
The working profit for the past year was £2158 ; but
from that law costs and general expenses take £1874 re-
ll]e net gain for the year to £284, and leaving
£43,598 of leeway to be made up. The output is still
very small it was only 1119 tons of spelter last year
but the furnaces are being gradually increased, and the
management very reasonably reckons that the profits
in ? rease with them. The co. has a capital of
£150,000 ; about £70,000 of this has been spent on the
plant—much of it wasted—and, as shown above, £43 598
was dropped in the first few years of work. The co. even
now isn’t out of the wood, for so far a small matter like


GREENING’S
SCREENING.
Agate Steel, Phosphor
Bronze, Brass.
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building;, Melbourne;
Macdonald street, Kalgoorlie.
; • -ta-
Everk engineer ifi Charge df factories and trulls
should give close attention to the flower wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible fioller Searings
Save 20 per cent, power ahd 75 per cent, of oil; so one Of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car bokes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills* Factories* etc.* in Australia, Bush-
ings of flexible rollers may be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lenipriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealand.*
“Ferrodor” Paint,—Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort's
Dock and Mt. Lyell buildings ; Hawkesburv, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. &O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
THE LOSS of LIVE Steam in generating
steam power through faulty joints, badly packed piston
glands and leaky boiler mountings and stop valves causes
waste of fuel which can be prevented by using Bell s
Asbestos “Bellite” Jointing, “Dagger” Packing and
Bell’s Asbestos Packed Water Gauges, Blow-Off Cocks
and Stop Valves. Permanent economy is also ensured
by protecting steam pipesand boilers with Bell’s Asbesi os
Non-Conducting Composition or Flexible Rope Lagging.
Send for illustrated catalogue of engineering specialties to
BELL’S ASBESTOS AUSTRALIAN AGENCY LIMITED
(A. J. Borchert, General Manager), 315 Kent Street,
Sydney.*
* * * *
The Bigelow Patent Rock Breaker commends
itself to mine managers who welcome an effective
machine which is cheaper to maintain and repair than
Gyratory and other crushers. This machine is of the
well-known Blake type, but has some additional improve-
ments which have justified in practice all the claims
advanced by the patentee. The work of crushing is done
on the down-stroke of the pitman instead of the up-
stroke ; there is no strain on the pitman cap ; two large
side rods resist the thrust of the toggles, and enable the
jaws to be regulated within a large range ; the back
toggle is so made as to resist all legitimate strains of
crushing, but will shear under exceptional conditions
and save the machine. The shaft and eccentric bearings
are self-lubricating ; the jaws are convex and concave,
and with the cheek plates are made of steel and are
reversible. The Austral Otis Engineering Company, of
South Melbourne, have installed a great number of these
machines, and hold the sole manufacturing rights for the
Commonwealth.*
The original “ Balata ’ Belting, patented by
R. and J. Dick, Glasgow, maintains its high standard
of excellence, and is distinguishable from inferior imita-
tions by the maker’s name and brand on every few feet.
Sole importers, James Hardie and Co., West Circular
Quay, Sydney and Melbourne.* [4
* • * *
The Post Magazine & Insurance Monitor,
London, of 31/.10/’OB, in commenting upon The Colonial
Mutual Life Assurance Society, Limited, writes:--
“ Wherever the Society has gone it has stood for sound
life assurance principles, and it can look back upon one-
third of a century of useful work.”*
* * * *
WOOD PIPE has become a very definite item
in the specifications of Australian Waterworks pro-
positions, and for its economy and great durability is
being more and more extensively adopted. Catalogue
from The Australian Wood Pipe Co., Ltd., Balmain,
Sydney.* # # »
Have You an Idea worth patenting? If so,
write to Griffith and Hassel, registered Patent Attorneys,
for information. Address, 163 King Street, Sydney; and
9 Queen Street, Melbourne.* [2
TUCKETT & STYLES, Machinery Auction-
eers A vents and Valuers, Tuckett Chambers, 359 Collins
Street, Melb. (J. W. Styles, 20 years Expert Salesman.)*
„ * * #
Mine managers will be largely guided by the
wide experience of the N.S.W. Government Railways.
Half this year’s contract has been placed with Messrs.
Win Adanis & Co., Ltd., 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, for
their Genuine Nobels Explosives. Large stocks of high
explosives on hand. Write for contract forms and
quotations.”* v #
Mine managers when requiring air compressors
either belt, steam, or electrically driven, should not fa.l
to inspect the Reavell Air Compressor, when they will be
impressed by its simplicity, compactness and portability.
Owing to the working parts being entirely enclosed it can
be placed to work on any part of the mine, either on the
surface or underground. The number of repeat orders
which Messrs. Reavell have received from the mining
community proves how greatly their compressor is
appreciated. The representatives for Australia are
Messrs. Babcock and Wilcox, Haymarket, Sydney.* [2
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street. Melbourne, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Colmson & Co., 483 Collins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
Assayers, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Silberbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to 200
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainswonth s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 gram ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain; weights; pocket transits;
gasolene combination furnaces; Morgans crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*
NOBEL-GLASGOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire.
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
has been overlooked amidst the greater
; but under Australian manager j. G. Moulded
n-nf J 0,?" ears to' at last haVe it le'ast a liobe. Until ifc
3 u °[V lcs ftet it will,, fed io yesLrs at ahy hate, be a drag
driMw the Stilphidfe Cof flotation. Its! Owb shareh'oldfers
|ij 4 £ td have been bollecting thes pfer cent.; which
lUs befed left to held finance the cb. sih'ce i 907.
■H . • * * *
~, ® E WatsOn, Ltd.—Thddgh this is the iiinth
( 4 Sydney hduse-fdrnishirig; cd.’Slifie, the present
.j,,,? “tst balance-sheet available. Up to the last year
S?A a private affair; with a capital recently of
Then the plentifulness of dioney induced the
aanagiement to go to the public arid thus get relief from
e bank-, and at the same time secure funds for business
tensions. So 27,300 ordinary and 7500 6 per cent,
cumulative pref. shares were issued, making the total
tbe , former 50,000 and of the latter 15,000. Ap-
parehtiy the prefs. stop at 6 per cent; Besides
these prefs. thefe are also £6300 of debentures stand-
p l S’ ahead of the ordinary capital. The net profit
tor the past year (to July 31) is set down at £12,582,
which is cut Up as follows:—6 per cent. pref. div., £769 ;
iv^oo r cenfc - ordinary div., £4375 ; to various reserves',
*>7438. The reserves now total £12,827, so . that, though
the co. is nine years old, j list on 60 per cerit; of the.total lay-
Pj nue.tb the BaSt year’s trading, ft mh)’ be that the
year’s trading vtds dnushally profitable; or it may bfe
ra 11 . Previous yearS’ dlstributiohs were Vfety heavy;
V* ylew of this, ddd id the dbsehce bf inforihati'on, the
past gear’s profits,taken alone; are dot sufficient evidence
for the idvestor. The totdl liabilities; including thfe dfet
previously .Mentioned; are £38,123 ; and prac;
treally the \Vhdle of this dioney and the bapital and
r U-. reSerVes rlrb in book debts ([£41,344) and stocks
\*' / 3;402>. There are do redl property Or building assetS;
Which; Uo doubt, partly explains the high rate of profits
shOWd by the co; during the country’s preseht burst of
prosperity ; for plaihly a bo.; dhd especially a new co;;
With a large amount of its capital in business premises
finds it niohe difficult to Show or 18 per cent; on its
bapitgl than one which has do capital in premises. But
it isn’t all gain by any means to have no property assets.
A big business concern which has its home in rented
quarters is in much the same position as if it had
issued a Certaih amount of cumulative preference capital;
No matter Whether times are good or bad, it must pay
dividend od that capital ih the shape of rent. In good
times the co. with the most Cheap capital of that and
other kinds, carrying a fixed dividend or interest; can
usually show the biggest return to the ordinary share*
holders J the trouble comes when times are not good,
and the same dividend on the preferential capital has to
be kept up. For this and other reasons this co.’s net
profits are likely to see pretty large Ups and downs. One
satisfactory feature is that there are apparently no good-
will or other paper items ; in other words, the co. hasn’t
to pay dividends on any capital that only exists in the
imagination, in which respect it differs astonishingly
from some of the concerns recently put upon the
market. i
* * * *
Broken, Hill South Blocks people must be
watching the lead market reports with a lot of anxiety.
For, though the monthly figures they send out look very
beautiful on paper, the iovely reports can’t stand having
the surface scratched off them. Last month showed 1381
tons lead and 18,9990 z. silver, which works out: —
Lead @ £l2 10s £17,262
Silver @ 2s. 2d 2,058
Total £19,320
Working expenditure is said to have been £7856. Clearly
there is a balance of profit of £11,464. But let us dig.
The metal mentioned above is in 2111 tons concentrates.
Returning (smelters’) charges are £4 13s. per ton.
Off, then, comes £9816 at one blow of the axe. That
leaves £1648. Now, though working expenditure was
only £7856, equal to 14s. 3d. per ton, there is to be added
to that mine development (£1471 for the month); also,
management expenses, etc. Put the latter at £2OO per
month, which is under the mark. The total of the other
expenses is t hus £1671, as against the £1648 that was
available. Which means a small loss, taking lead at £l2
10s. and silver at 2s. 2d. Or, if you want to'check that
result, you can do it another way. Outgoings last year
were £107,858, apart from money spent on plant. Ore
treated was 117,172 tons. Expenditure, therefore,
amounted to 18s. ss. per ton of ore. The concentrates
are worth 9oz. silver and 65 per cent, lead :
9oz. silver @ 2s. 2d. .. .. .. £0 19 6
65 per cent, lead @ £l2 10s. .. 8 2 6,
Total value .. .. ..£920
Less returning charges .. .. 413 0 1
Net value to mine .. ..£4 9 0
It required 11,034 tons of ore to make the 2111 tons con-
centrates = 5’23 tons of ore to one ton of concentrates.
As shown above, last year’s expenditure was 18s. sd. per
ton of ore. Make a very liberal allowance for extra
charges through the coal strike, and reduce the costs to
17s. At that rate 5’23 tons will cost £4 Bs. lid. Soon
this basis of calculation a profit of Id. per ton of con-
centrates is shown, or less than £9 for the month. And
even then nothing has been charged for wear and tear
and renewals.
* * * *
It was a long time before the Broken Hill
Junction North directors could be persuaded to try for
the western ore body, which Broken Hill mining men
felt pretty certain existed in the property ; and when
they did at length point the diamond drill in that
direction they did it with so much secrecy that
the public thought there was a far more important
move on. Exaggerated reports of what was going
forward were flashed over the wire by the few
who had the inside running, and as there was no official
report to place matters in their proper light, a wild rush
for shares set in. Many speculators were bitten, be-
cause the truth leaked out next day ; and then
shares fell with a thud. Just how much this western ore
body will mean to the Junction North no one can say.
It mav prove a big thing, cheaper to mine and
easier' to mill than the main lode; but it is quite
as likely that it will turn out to be merely
a branch of the main body, temporarily separated from
the big deposit by an unusually large intrusion. If this
is so, the western body is not likely to maintain an inde-
pendent course for any great distance, but will curve
eastwards and soon merge into the main shoot again.
There is no direct evidence that this will be so ; ; but color
is lent to the theory by the disturbed condition of the
country at this point.
* * * *
The directors of the Silver City and South
Range Blocks, Broken Hill, have been angling for a long
time, and they haven’t caught a man with a silk hat yet.
They ought to change the bait. In the good old wild-cat
times a little ore assayed through a magnifying glass was
sufficient for a float; but it needs more than that to-day.
For a fortnight the men were reported to be crosscutting
through “ rich friable ore,” and in that fortnight the pro-
gress made was s£ft. A minute inspection of the mine
dump after all this tremendous delving in “rich friable
ore” revealed not much more ore of any payable kind
than would fill a miner’s billycan. If sJft. of “rich
friable ore” has been hewn out in a fortnight, and there
is no room to stack it below, and there is none of it
worth mentioning on the dump, it is up to the directors
to say whar. has become of it.
*** , *
It was 17 years on the 10th inst. since Fred
Neeld discovered the Wyalong goldfield (N.S.W.). Neeld
- with his five sons had taken up the country as a selection.
Nothing of much value has since been found in the dis-
trict. The Hiawatha, Buddigower (alluvial), Wamboyne,
Pine Hill, Called Back and Kildary finds, though respon-
sible in their turns for a big hue and cry, all turned out
duffers, the best Wy along output was in Md, when
35 OQOoz: were taken out, principallyfrotn 1 ee : ?
“fa's r«,tSo h t“h'l "oA “dSn/S S o»a
guniS Up the positioh. i *,
There ate Still Some bright spots in taker's
Greek Hillgrove (N:S.W.)* as Shown by a recent clean-up
SfMtoi goldtth behalf of tributorS who have been rais-
in* stone wbrth from 2oz. to Boz. per ton. A few of the
Co% shares haVb been traded in lately* but at verj low
Prices * the idea seems to be that at some time or other A
forking agreement may be made with the New Hillgrove
Prop.* riext door* whose straight shaft is no great d
tancefrom the boundary. Old plans of New Hill-
grove Prop. make it clear that rich stone pitched unto
the Prop. It wasn’t all theory either, for ti ibutors bayfe
g-ot some Very Hch stone oh both sides of the bhe. Ih
fhe same district the Elearioi-a, which belongs to the NeVr
Hillgrove Prop.; iVas provided with ah expensive hydro-
electric plant and an extravagant equipment.for hahling
ahd crushing. It proved Unpayable in the hands of th|
bo., but tributorS are mdking a good thing oUt of No. 2
dnd No. 3 levels. Another Hillgrpvfe old-timfeh the Cos-
tiiopolitari; is splendidly equipped; and things Should go
along at a hierry pace while the rich stone holds out.
From a ittine that has been doing development work for
So lontr a fe\V good cruShings at the start are nothing
Very wonderful. The trouble is that the proved reserves
bf <»ood stoiie are small, ahd dt Hillgrove yoti can’t abso-
lutelV rfely oh getting mofe Stone than you can See.
Vegetable Creek (N.S*W.) is Up against thfe
landlord trouble. Half the tin it gets has to go to the
Gordons, who own the freehold * the money is applied
towards the purchase of the land. The total price is
£2O 000 ihe wash Is rich* and the mine looks as though
there is money in it; but to hand over half the tin and
at the same time early on the development work, which
has hitherto been neglected, means calls, calls, calls. The
unfortunate part of the business is that there are so many
Who don’t have to pay calls. To the 80*000 contributings
there are no less than 50,000 paids, and the contributings
are getting very tired. In spile of the good mine pro-
spects, the whole thing may therefore collapse unless
some sort of a rearrangement is taken in hand.
* * * *
The \yestralian Mint says it received 118,4730 e.
during August, though the Mines Department only
claims a yield of 116,4010 z. February is bottom of the
list for the year, with 111,0350 z., and March stands next
with 117,4750 z. Then comes August, whose figures com-
pare badly with the 136,6170 z. of the corresponding
month of last vear. There should be some improvement
from this out, for the Perseverance takes up the running
this month, the Horseshoe is getting into better ore at
deeper levels, and some of the outside fields are being
pushed along. * * *
The Perseverance (W.A.) mill is in running
order, but the public is trying to find the kernel of a
pretty little argument that is in progress. The null
power is derived from the Electric Power Co., a concern
which supplies the trams and many minor shows. The
mill manager explains that he is running half speed
because he is frightened of overloading the Power Co.,
and philanthropically states he does not want to hang up
any other mills by going faster. The Power Co. people
hint that the Perseverance mill man needn’t worry, and
seem to reckon that he can go ahead all he wants. The
general verdict is that the power bogey is being used to
explain possible shortcomings on a first month’s clean up.
After some weeks’ blank work at other levels
the Great Boulder joyfully announces having drilled
through a body sft. wide worth 24dwt. This is at the
2650 ft. level, and is 140 ft. north of the main shaft, and,
more significant still, 65ft. east —well in Boulder
ground. This gives fine hope of a shoot running north,
and prices have been pushed along accordingly. But it
is noticeable that no further borings have been reported,
though the drill has been kept atwork. #
The latest phase of the Hannan’s Star juggle
is shown in a circular from London. The directois ex-
plain that the 3s. a share commandeered from share-
holders for the purpose of developing and equipping the
mine is not now needed, as the arrangement with the
Lake View Co. provides a mill and some working capital.
The Star directors magnanimously declare they will
hand over Is. 6d. a share in cash and one Lake View and
Star share, and will devote the rest of the money to the
formation of a finance co. in which Star shareholders
may have one share for each Star share. The directors
thus keep control of £20,000 subscribed for a totally
different purpose. They also announce that they have
already taken an option on an unnamed mine at Meeka-
tharra, and hope to make £lO,OOO from a heap of tailings
on the Star lease. Notable that nothing is said of the
share in the pub at Ravensthorpe,. which asset mysteri-
ously appeared a year or so ago in the Star’s balance
sheet. Probably it has been taken out in drinks.
* * * *
The likelihood of another “duckpond” being
found in the Lake View Consols is always good enough
for some effective whispering, and recently some fine ore
has been picked up about the 1900 ft. level. Some of it
is quite up to sbipping-telluride sample, but unfortu-
nately it is only in patches. A winze going down below
the 1900 ft. level is now being closely watched, as values
of 85s. per ton over 75in. are the latest reported. When
the combined leases are throughly opened up, some fair
returns may be got; for the Star reports 51s. ore, 66in.
wide, in its latest development work.
The Kalgurli is preparing some deep-level de-
velopments for the annual meeting. Work is going on
apace at the 1650 ft. and the 1850 ft. levels east, and the
lode is expected in the former drive before the end of the
month. Westward the 1450 ft. level and the 1850 ft. are
being pushed out, while a little-noticed piece of work in
the south end of the property is giving good indications.
The Kalgurli is one of the few sheet anchors of the Golden
Mile at the moment.
* * * *
The talked-of deal between the Gwalia South
and the Sons of Gwalia is off. The price wanted for the
South was £60,000 cash and 25,000 Sons of Gwalia
shares. The negotiations were carried out altogether in
London, and it was understood there was a good chance
of the deal going through, with Clark, Robinson and Co.
holding the option on the reserved shares of the Gwalia
South.' However, the Gwalia directors would not come
at the offers made, and there it rests. The latest
estimates give the Gwalia South 61,000 tons, worth
£125,000, against 57,756 tons, worth £116,021, on the
last half-year. The grade is reduced from 435. 2d. to 41s.
On this showing the deal would not have been too glaring.
The difficulty was over the 25,000 Gwalia shares, which
were worth on the market £43,750. This was considered
too much to pay for the South and its mill. The South
has some money in hand, and if the estimates are borne
out by the mill, dividends should be forthcoming.
* * * *
Bainbridge, Seymour and Co., who have not
been prominent in Westralian mining since the earliest
days, have taken on the derelict Westralian Mount
Morgans, and are now poking about the country with all
the energy of a child with a new toy. Yuill, best known
in connection with the search for asbestos deposits, is in
charge. The results of his asbestos investigations are
still not known.
At the Brilliant P.C., Charters Towers, the
winze going down below the 1613 ft. level, some 220 ft.
east of the New Brilliant boundary, has shown an im-
provement in the size and quality of the reef. This
winze has followed the dip of the formation, and it is
onlv within the last few feet that good stone has been
met. There is'a large un worked area along the dip of the
reef towards the Brilliant Blocks, and away to the east in
the direction of the Brilliant St. George, whose shares
are getting noticed on the strength of this development.
Good stone was met with in extending the 1613 ft, level
from the Freeholds’ boundary ; but it was in patches.
Blanks are, however, quite consistent with the nature of
the Day Dawn. As an instance of this the East Mexican’s
No. 5 level was driven 300 ft. from Mills’ United boundary
before payable values were met. All that can be said
about the'Mexican is that the reserves are small in pro-
portion to the share value, so the market is very sensitive
to changes underground. The Mexican’s last crushing
realised £1295 from 156 tons. The rise from No. 6 has
holed through to No. 5. Shaft sinking is making fair
progress, but it will take some months to complete.
Great Fitzroy (Q.) is doing- better work, and
the stuff smelted has been of higher grade. During
August the tutnaces.treated 6300 tons, assaying 4‘bl fret
bent, copper find 3‘ssdwt. gold; for 688 tons matte,
estimated to contain 2b2 tbns copper, 1026 oz; gold ancj
46170£; silveir. Taking copper at £5O, gbld at £4 and
silver at 25., thb tnetals vverte wotth £14,665. But
t'itzrop, assuming that its coppbt finally realists £5B pet
ton, only expects to receive £12,338 for its August out-
put ; which shows what a bite is taken by fheight, con-
verting and refining. Recent wbrd from the hiine states
that the incline wiii2e from the 300 ft. level has reached
53ft., and the ote has avei-aged 5-8 pet cent, copper and
2dwt. gold fbr the last 25ft. This vtinze was started
860 ft. north ot thfe shaft, because several winzes sunk
furthet south rapidly passed out of ore into low-grade
Stuff, it is hoped that, by maintaining a low angle; this
winze will keep in touch with the ore-body for a Con-
siderable distance.
* * * *
McGregor, Cloncurry (Q.), has taken advantage
of the strong market for Elliotts to bring out its little
reconstruction scheme; Having hsed lip its Capital in
developing stmiethjng like 10t),000 tonsbf ore under many
disadvantages, arid wantihg rhonejf to build works, the
old co. is to be put to as painless a death as possible, and
a new co. is to be formed in 3p0,0t)0 shards of ss. each,
paid to 2s. It rheans practically a call of Is. at once on
each present Share (275,000), with d further liability of
2s. Shepherd, late of Mount Morgan and 0.K., gives the
scheme his blessing, and figures out the costs at £4O 15s;
per ton of blister copper, delivered at Townsville ; and On
present measurements and assays there Should be about
6500 tons or 7000 tons of blister available.
/4* * *
Vulcati titi (N. Queensland) paid £148,830 th
diVs. betWeeh 1890 and 1907 on a Capital of £28,283 ; ahd
as it didn’t haVe a mill of its own, it also put something
iveighty into John Moffat’s pockets. It was about 1906-7
that Southern investors had whispered into their ears
that Vulcan was a good thing. They snapped ; and there
hasn’t been a div. since June, 1907. Hast half-year tin sales
brought in £8450 ; expenses ran to £lO,llO, apart from de-
preciation. The ore treated was 3608 tons, and “ crushing,
cartage, etc.,” ran to £3506, practically £1 per ton ! Under
the circumstances it isn’t very surprising that the cash
balances have been reduced to £249. The pot has lately
been kept boiling by gouging out a few overlooked patches
in the upper levels, but there has been a glimmer of better
things lately below the 1050 ft. ; and not to utterly kill
the goose that has been laying the eggs, the mill people
have quoted special rates for treating the ore from these
deep levels.
r * * * *
Altogether, in spite of the fact that tin is worth
about £l6O, Irvinebank (Q.) was never so gloomy. The
Vulcan can’t, of course, keep the works going, and there
is very little coming in from outside, so that the
stampers are often idle. The little independent plant at
Watsonville keeps going. The new Lancelot mill isn’t
finished yet, though it was started in what seems like the
middle ages; and Rumor says the German people who
own this show are looking around for others, which
doesn’t sound too well for the Lancelot.
* * * *
The O.K. copper (Q.) is in a bad way, and at
last admits it, too. The whole thing has been shut down,
and only a caretaker is left. The stock of coke, etc., has
been sold to the Chillagoe Co., which is now shifting the
stuff ; and the traction engines are for sale. The law-
suit with Aaron Hirsch and Son was the straw which
broke the camel’s back ; but it was already a sick camel
with its spine cracked —which was no doubt why the
Hirsch people compromised in the end and grabbed what
they could while they could.
* * * *
Mungana is helping Chillagoe put a more
cheerful look on the face of the big company’s affairs, in
view of the attempt to interest J. Bull in Etheridge
properties. For the last fortnight no less than 1612 tons
of ore were sent away, 427 tons of it being a mixture of
copper and lead carbonates from the Lady Jane’s 420 ft.
level. Also it is given out that some of the prospecting
near the surface is having “ encouraging results’’—which
are vague things and no good for a square meal.
* * * *
Chillagoe-Ruddigore (Q.), which suspended it-
self last October, is still in that unprofitable condition.
After the rich carbonates had been gouged out, the sul-
phides wouldn’t pav to smelt without concentrating, and
the co. preferred to let the big Chillagoe Co. do the con-
centrating. The necessary plant has been slow in going
up. Meantime Ruddigore waits, and in the present
state of the metal markets probably isn’t anxious to see
the big co. hurry. # *
The Hodgkinson (North Queensland) is to get
another stir. The old Tvrconnel reef is to be the scene,
and some Melbourne-Sydney people are the cooks to boil
the pot. If the reef were in Victoria the prospects would
be quite good enough to be joyful about. But if it is to
get typical North Queensland mine-management the
thing can only end one way.
* * * *
Blair Athol coal mines, near Clermont (Q.), are
said to be developing in a very encouraging wav. The
Bluff people have taken up a lease at Blair Athol, and
the manager telegraphs that a bore has penetrated 43ft.
of what appears to be clean coal. If a shaft proves that
to be correct there will be a prospect of getting a railway
to connect with the northern line, and incidentally with
Charters Towers and Cloncurry.
* * * *
That Melbourne Fatmen’s fat tin-mining show,
the Pioneer, at Bradshaw’s Creek (Tas.), suffered from
the drought last summer, so that only 2s. 6d. a share
could be paid in divs. But Cecil G. Ryan hummed along
when he got the chance in the winter ; so the goods
handled for the year mounted close to 500,000 cubic yards
of drift. This panned out 362 J tons of stream tin. The
average (1 -6371 b. per cubic yard) is down a shade.
Seeing that, to date, the average of the 3,600,000
cubic vards works out at 2-0821 b., it is mani-
fest that, with depth, there is a, shrinkage of
the tin contents of the wash. This fact, may be
worth noting by those who are pinning faith to the
Briseis deep ground as bonanza dirt. It has taken Ryan
24 years to \vork out his present paddock. Now that a
shift is made to the new ground the full value of the new
plants and of Cecil G. Ryan’s capable administration will
be better demonstrated.
* * * *
Attorney-General Hughes was at Bendigo last-
week and was taken down the Central Red, White and
Blue to look at the new side-line find. Amazed at the plum-
pudding gold, Hughes wants the Murray Government to
buv the specimens and send them to London as an adver-
tisement of the mining resources of the State and of
Bendigo in particular. Thus speaketh the innocent.
Bendigo made its d6but in London long ages ago. Bull
planked down his coin to help mining like a toff.
Since then he has learnt wisdom, and now' mostly leaves
Bendigo to the Bendigonians. Moreover, if a man comes
along with specimen gold, J. Bull reaches out for a club.
Not because he doesn’t worship the golden calf, but be-
cause he doesn’t want to be thought such a fool as to be
taken in like that.
*.* * *
Frenchman’s Reef, Dayiesford (Vic.), picked up
the old Dayiesford Gold Mines lease next door to its claim
a week or two ago, licked it into shape as the Frenchman’s
Reef South, and made up part of a dividend out of the pro-
ceeds. Now the South, to emulate Mamma, wants to have
a wee chick of its own. So its claim is being cut down the
middle to allow the Mauritius and Frenchman’s Gold
Mines to come into existence. Seeing the juvenility of
Frenchman’s South, this is rather quick. The wish to
propagate “ pups ” while the market is in a mood to nurse
them may be commendable, but why pay £4OO for under-
writing the £2OOO required to start the new-comer? It
looks like giving specialists fees when nothing was needed
beyond the goodwill of the Frenchman’s and the South
shareholders. Such a fee in a mining float of this size is
fairly new even for Ballarat.
* * * *
Mount Lvell (Tas.) sent away 3223 tons of
blister copper during its past half-year. For the first
five months of the term the 3289 tons of blister contained
254,9510 z. silver and 45010 z. gold. The furnaces smelted
an dverdge of 31,020 tdris per niohth; and required
Shade over 47 tons of dre to produce a ton of blister. The
copper was practically foiir times as valuable aS the silver
and gold. At the North Lyell the limit df No. 36 Stope
orfe-body on the ground floor dt the south end is pretty
'Veil reached. It has been proved about 180 ft. long and
from 20ft. to 25ft. wide. Very different this from the
big area proved on the gtound fldor at the 850 ft. level.
Generally speaking; the reserves are iri good heart ; but
the big ore-wedgeS are narrowing at increased depth.
The copper oiitput front August, 1903; to August; 19i0;
has been 59,070 tons, vVhich gives ah average of 8438 tons
df blisteh a year—a great record for a low-grade miiie. A
\Vhile ago Mount Lyell took tip the Chester mine, bear
the Emu Bay railway, and this show is now sending Out
from 800 to 900 tons of heavy pyritic ore; which comes
handy in sulphuric acid manufacture.
Romulds : (1) That office has Such a table. A
person aged 35 may bdy an annuity of £l5O for a person
aged 40, to be payable on the first petsoh’s death, to* £2B
d year ; the premiUm is payable while both persons are
living, to get the sanie,annuity for a person aged 20 the
cost would be £44 2s. 6d. a year. (2) That English Office
is off oiir beat.


/
❖
$
y
CHARLES
HEIDSIECK
CHAMPAGNE
s
1904
Laxo-Tonic Pills,
The combined Laxative and Tonic Pills leave no
unpleasant after effects. Sold at 10$d. and Is. Gd.*
D
01 2
D
D
r-.
?c 4
:£-o"cf3i
A
ft
t"il
A wringin’ out clothes and
peggin’ ’em up to dry makes
yer feel pretty tired, l can tell
yer—right on th’ top o’ a ’ard
wash too—still yer don’t mind
much if yer can get a cup o’
good tea every now an’ then, an’
my word it do go down alright—
it just puts new life into yer.
They say as how too much
tea isn’t good—well, 1 dunno
nothin’ about that, but 1 does
know this, 1 cuddent work all
day without my cup o’ tea, and
for preference 1 likes Robur,
th same as 1 uses in my own
’ome-1 uses th’ No. 1 Grade,
an’ 1 thinks it’s cheaper n any
other tea ’cos it goes a long
way, an’ makes such a nice cup
o’ tea.
In some ’ouses 1 goes to they
uses th’ No. 2 Grade, and it’s
all light—still, 1 thinks th’ No. ]
tastes better than any other,
and that’s why l uses it.
The Washerwoman.
QUALITY—BUCHANAN WHISKY
BLACK & WHITE
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, September 13, 1910.
My Dear Arini,—
The cable tells us that the widow of his late
Majesty Edward Rex desires to be known as
bjueen Alexandra, and not as the Queen-Mother,
/he maternity .affix was by the new King’s order
for it was given out with the notices and circulars
and commands he issued when he came into
his kingdom. His wife was to be known
as Queen Mary; his mother was to be the
Queen-Mother. Evidently the lady resents
the suggested back-numbering, though she doesn’t
seem to have started libel proceedings over it.
(I consulted a conveyancer’s clerk of my acquaint-
ance on this point, and he assured me that, so far
as lie knew no case had been commenced.) But
why does the lady object? Does she think she
ilbout "'earing the affix
Mother with her chestnut hair and beautiful
slight figure ? Anyway, whatever her reason,
Queen Mary will not like the implied equality of
the Queen Alexandra.”
Returned Australians, who have seen the ex-
Queen ‘‘quite plain” (meaning at close range)
within the last 12 months, speak an.azedly of the
success with which she continues to look 30 years
of age instead of 60. Sixty was the age at which
the famous Ninon de l’Enclos, who lived early
in the seventeenth century, sawa young man die by
his own hand for unrequited love of her And she
was 79 when the Abbe Gedyon lost his heart' to
her. A little monograph from the German that
I have just come across tells: “She kept aloof
‘ r °m him. and when at last she received him in her
famous yellow boudoir, and the Abbe complained
of her cruelty in having kept him waiting so long
Ninon said : “ Believe me, my ardor was no less
than yours, but from a little remnant of vanity and
because after all it is a rare event. I desired to
wait till I was 80—and I was 80 this morning ”
ihis, her last worshipper, adored her for a year
and when he went away on a journey the ever-
green wrote to him : “The shorter follies are the
best.
At the radium disquisition, a few weeks
ago, one of the doctors gravely said that the
text (or the metal) of his address had so
far proved valueless in cases of senile decay.
It is possible that the famous charmer of the early
seventeenth century and Queen Alexandra
may have discovered something better than
radium. Or, possibly, radium is good for senile
decay, but there isn’t enough of the article on
hand ; and the reason why there isn’t more may
lie that Ninon de 1 Enclos— or possibly Methu-
selah—ate tiie rest.
A careful reading of Lady Dudley’s letter to
the press leaves one in doubt as to whether it
signifies ‘Stop” or “Go on” with the Bush
Nursing Scheme. (Bush Cursing Scheme is pro-
bably what the secretarial staff now names it.) In
a cultured way, the letter suggests that the writer
is done with the business, but that we may go on
with it if we like. Even yet there is time to save the
bantlings life, but it would take a lot of personal
exertion on the lady’s part. Let Lady Dudley
circularise every Australian mayoress not
except'ug the mayoresses of Ghinni Ghinni
and Giriiambone, to the effect that, on or about a
certain date (a margin being left on account of the
fact that a bullock waggon doesn’t run, or canter
to a time-table), she will be with them to scheme
for the Bush Nursing. Where there are no mayor
anti mayoress there will be a Progress Committee,
which will do as well; and when there is no Pro-
gress Committee there will be a publican or a
tank-keeper or a hatter or a sundowner. One of
these would be asked by the Countess to have a
meeting convened, at which she would preside
and to have subscription-lists ready. The whole
population would come out to meet the vice-regal
bullock-waggon, all dressed in their best, and with
cheques in their pockets. This is no joke (the
„. d /„ wouldn t bnd lfc one )- but she would get her
£40,000 sure.
Judging by the following excerpt from a Lon-
don paper, some parts of England want a Parish
Cursing scheme. The writer says :
Out of 696 parishes in Norfolk, only 186 are covered bv
the existing midwives, leaving the mothersof no less than
510 parishes entirely without qualified aid. Mv figures
are taken from the latest report of the lady inspect and
superintendent of midwives in Norfolk, dated June 4
1910. In some parts of the county the nurse-midwife
covers three or four parishes combined together- but
even if this plan were generally adopted, it would still be
necessary to have 164 more midwives for the county to
be efficiently served. If the present rate of increase of
midwives is maintained—viz., five per annum—it will be
34 years before the requisite number is reached.
The latest intelligence of the Bush Book
Club rete on Friday is that it will afford
an unrivalled afternoon and evening for
the children. Here is some of the bait
for the half-pricers : (1) A Punch and Judy show,
(2) conjurers, (3) a merry-go-round, (4) two ponies
to ride, (5) electrical tricks with pennies, X-rays
etc., (0) a triple chute (three at a time, Id. each),’
(7) cock shies at a blue-jacket in a tub. (8) a gigan-
tic snowball (instead of a bran pie). The grounds
will be all decked with electric light, so,
if the moon fails, there will yet be light’
Grown-ups will be equally well found, and, at the
evening end of the revel, some beautiful Dutch
naval officers from the arriving squadron will dis-
tribute heartaches to girls.
A cable-message that gave one to think hard
came through last week, to the effect that Lady
Marjorie Stuart Erskine, second daughter of the
Earl of Buchan, had been found dead on the golf
course at Aviemore, Inverness, after being missed
from home for four weeks. What sort of golf
courses do they have in the home of the Ancient
Game? Do they resemble trackless deserts or
He l® u golf course a strictly limited
f nr ?u® whlch > on most days, is all too small
rh, 6ager . a r my of ball-smiters that
chases across it I do not know of a links
anywhere on which a daylight corpse could repose
undiscovered for four minutes much less four
moTuo , An . d w hat a queer family it sounds that
lets its cherished daughter wander off golfing or
what not, and raises no particular hue and cry
when she doesn’t return for a month. It is a slip-
shod business, and somebody should be convicted
ot gross carelessness.
Just as this letter is going into the machinery
}^r ge A and beautifully-f rocked meeting is raging
at the Australia on the Reception to Ethel Turner
had £ ot t 0 tlle point of deciding that
the Welcome Home” shall be enacted on the
twentyrsomethingth day of this month at the hotel
aforesaid. Mrs. Hogue, Mrs. R. Arthur and Mrs.
Aden, who are steering the revel, seem to know
what they are dome. In the multitude of steers-
women there is safety.
Miss L Ducker, a daughter of Mr. Roland
-Ducker, who is a citizen of this by no means mean
city, is the first lady (so I am told) to take out a
motor-car driver’s license in our State. She runs
her chug-chug in and out of the giddy traffic of
the central maelstrom of George and Pitt streets
with ease and grace, and scrapes down no ware-
houses on her way.
Two of the very largest-sized financial guns of
iimrope dropped in upon S}'diiey the other day;
out, as they were out for business, they didn’t
sound a large report. Beer and Sonheimer are
tile names of the two large weapons of commerce.
Ihe Beer-Sonheirrier firm is alleged to have mil-
“O"8. ’ n metals. There is a mysterious thing
Ca i e< r> a Z ' nc com bme or convention in Europe,
and Beer and Sonheimer are two of its chief
pillars; and it is said to be the cold, blue-grey
substance that cases are lined with that brought
them out so stealthily to these parts.
Right you are!” said the verse-carpenter,
cheerdy, when I asked him for a verse on Tommy
Burns s new daughter, whom he has had christened
Sydney, after this our city. “ Right you are! I’ll
Ti 1 bf)y round with th ’ Pome at four sharp.”
And he took down his foot rule and started on the
job:—
MISS SYDNEY BURNS.
(A warning to her regarding the care of her complexion.)
Miss Sydney Burns, when up you grow
And learn to loathe a twisted rhyme,
By freckles you may come to know
That Sydney burns in summer time.
The Rev. Sydney Marston, who has been tilling
the vineyard at fashionable St. James’s (Sydney),
but couldn’t possibly agree with the new Arch-
bishop’s views on ecclesiastical millinery, goes to
Madresfield, in Worcester, England, and thus
becomes domestic chaplain to our ex-Governor
Beauchamp, the serious young man who gave
St. James’s the vestments that have caused so
nu,c h bother. The Rev. Carr Smith was offered
the Madresfield job, but had, it seems, already
got another for himself elsewhere.
The eldest hope of the house of Stewart Dawson
is on a visit to Sydney. Dawson, senior (“the
Napoleon of the jewellery trade,” as the West-
minster called him), and his uncommonly pretty
wife will find time for a run to this hamlet next
year As they own eight big, shining, glittering
establishments in Australasian cities, it cannot be
said that they have no object in looking us up
occasionally. y
This is the third time of asking in connection
with the forthcoming concert for the Children’s
Hospital. One of the hon secs, mentions that the
whole of the organising committee people 14 in
number, have children of their own, from Mrs.
Alex. Gordon with her one small son to Mrs’
Duncan Carson with her 10—the youngest only
five months old. Mrs. E. W. Knox and Mrs. H
Dangar are proud grandmothers. A preliminary
meeting, with a little musical programme, will be
held next Thursday in the vestibule of the Town
Hall, when Mrs. Henrv Dangar, Mrs. R Mac-
kinnon and Mr. Southwell will speak on the im-
portance of the charity for which the concert is
being given. Mrs. Spencer Brunton and Mrs
Harry Levy are hon. treasurers, and Mrs. Phillip
Street and Mrs. Langer Owen are hon. secs.
Last Thursday the public was reading of the
heroism of railway porter Allen, who saved the
life of a boy and was frightfully mangled in the
effort. If at that psychological moment, when a
chorus of sympathy and admiration was going up
from behind 100,000 coffee pots, the public had
been asked for a subscription in recognition of the
bravery of Allen, it would have given all the coin
it had in its pockets or the silver coffee service
from its tables. But though the admiration re-
mains, nothing cools so rapidly as sympathy, not
because the public is hard-hearted but because it
has such a big hole in its memory. Now the
Herald is taking subscriptions for the noble
fellow ; but, judging by the long time between
doles, no memoer of the staff will get corns on his
fingers counting the money. I’m going to sell my
dog and send in the result.
Russell Barton, of Russell Lea, Five Dock
celebrated his 80tli birthday recently. On the
occasion were assembled six'brothers, the whole
of the male portion of the family, who had not
congressed for 40 years. The two eldest are
English born; the other four are of South Aus-
tralia, where their father arrived in 1839, when
Captain Hindmarsh was the Crow-eating Crnsar
There were 10 in the family—six sons and four
daughters. One of the girls died a couple of
years ago. Mr. Russell Barton was one of the
first Cobar copper men. He represented Bourke
in the Assembly for three Parliaments The
numerical strength of the family and the ages to
which its members flourish remind of Old Testa-
ment worthies respectfully mentioned by the
Psalmist and others.
The deaths of two old, well-known sporting club
men are announced. Mr. George Faithfull of
Goulburn, was a leading light of the Australian
Club, Sydney, and a lavish supporter of the
Tirar.na Picnic Race Club, near Goulburn Mr
“Jimmy” Johnson was among the oldest of the
old Union Club brigade. They were both keen
supporters of the A.J.C. Mr. Faithfull died a
bachelor ; Mr Johnson leaves a widow and six
children behind him.
Fifty-three matrons are giving a dance in the
Paddington Town Hall, as a mark of their esteem
for the racing season. The Harry Levy dance
occurs at Baumann s rooms.
The number of things that the average person
does not know is surprising. The matinee woman
for instance, does not know (at least in the collec-
tive sne does not) that there is a Department of
Cookery, Laundry Work and Household Science
at the iechnical College. Even a few of the
highly-informed women who, last week, ate of a
test dinner cooked and served by six cirls
trained at the College were hazy on the
subject. Ihe notable six have graduated
in culinary science, and now go forth to
divers public schools in the country to impart
their valuable acquirements. Miss A. M. Monro,
the officer in charge of the Domestic Science De-
partment, who has a valuable dimple at the right-
hand corner of her mouth, headed the beautifully-
decorated dinner table. The dinner itself was of
the kind that might have been recommended by
the speaker of those immortal words : “ Feed the
brute.”
Forty platforms and 150 speakers madfe the
backbone of the recent big votes-for-women
demonstration in Hyde Park (.London). From the
platform for Australia spoke Miss Margaret
Hodge, so well known here asateacher; and Mary
Gaunt, the writer. Mrs. .Robert Stout and Dr.
Robert Chappie, formerly a member of the M.L.
Parliament, represented Maoriland. If any
of your friends want illuminating on woman
suffrage recommend to him or to her Laurence
Housman’s “ Articles of Faith in the Freedom of
Women.” It is a booklet of only 60 pages, so
charmingly and convincingly written that, for its
sake, one forgives him for that fatal accident,
An Englishwoman’s Love-letters.’’ His “Ar-
ticles, like the Commandments, are ten in num-
ber. Right-of-Way, The Anti-Suffrage Point of
View and The “ Physical Force ” Fallacy are the
first three, and a capital “Article ” (IX) is hung
on George Meredith. Housman’s arguments are
put temperately and often with humor. He once
heard an anti-suffragist say a really wise
thing. The driver of a Piccadilly omnibus was,
with hundreds more chauffeurs, coachmen,
carters and the like—held up on a certain Satur-
day afternoon to allow passage to a procession of
ten thousand suffragists. For 10 minutes the ’bus
driver eyed the orderly thing with a hard and
scornful eye. Then, losing patience as he realised
how time — his time—was being wasted, he threw
IVvaV 16 s P°nge. Waving his whip despairingly,
‘Oh ! give ’em th’ vote,” he cried, “but don’t
stop the traffic.” Using that as a text the writer
puts a dreadfully sharp point on the moral he
deduces, and stabs Downing-street with it.
“Opponents of Woman Suffrage,” lie says in
Article 111, “ put forward as their final and most
irrefutable argument against the admission of
women to the franchise, that, as the State rests
in the hist resort on physical force, and as woman
cannot fight, they have therefore no right to share
in the making of the laws by which the State is
governed. Twould take too much space to
quote his contrary arguments; but here . . . “It
would be almost as reasonable to say that a man’s
legs determine his course of life, because he stands
and goes upon them and not upon his head,
as to assert that physical force is the funda-
mentally deciding factor in the life of a com-
munity.” An army in primitive and even later
times was really and truly composed of nothing
but fighting men. .. . But the organisation
(army) of to-day demands for its existence a pro-
portion of non-combatants to combatants which
can certainly never be less than five to one, for at
the back of every combatant we have a whole
string of workers through whose exertions alone
he is able to take the field.
~ curls the tail of his argument very cleverly :
‘Fifty years ago we loaded our guns at the
muzr.le ; then we loaded them through the breech ;
and now we load them through a magazine in
the stock. And, as with our firearms, so with
our armies the loading-point has been put farther
and farther back. The army is a weapon loaded
from the rear, and women as well as men are the
loaders of it; and women even more than men are
the cleaners of it when it becomes fouled by too
much fighting.” No doubt, Mrs. Pankhurst will
send the little lantern book to the German
Emperor.
This reminds me that a returned girl wanderer
reports Miss Nora Long, she who found it advis-
able to take the name of D’Argel, as singing in a
Strauss composition in London last July.
The Melba Canadian tour, starting at Halifax,
was to have begun on the first of this month. As
all the seating accommodation was said to have
been secured months ago, nothing but a visitation
of Providence could have arrested the tour, which
must be now 15 days old.
According to the British Australasian, those
two handsome girls, Misses Guildford Quin and
Jean Martin, who ornamented the Australasian
stage for a time and then went to London, have
got engagements. Miss Martin is to appear in
Beerbohm Tree’s “ Henry VIII.,” and Miss Quin
is to marry a Dr. Graeme Robertson, of Canada.
The same paper publishes a portrait of Miss
Phyllis Hop wood -Fold i, the Australian musical-
monologue artist, who has been in London, two
years, and will arrive back in Sydney about the
end of this month.
Baronet-Rupert Clarke leaves Australia at the
end of the year for what is called, in the re-
porterese language, a well-earned holiday. His
partner, Mr. Meynell, will be out in time to take
his place, and he will go and dwell in Arcady or
Papua. He has rubber and cotton plantations at
bamarai, a butter factory in Queensland and play
interests in London ; thus it must be difficult for
him to get out of the sight of work. “The
Chocolate Soldier (an adaptation of “Arms and
the Man ) and “The Gay Gordons” are recent
acquisitions of the Meynell and Clarke combine.
Miss Winifred Austin, who is popular in Syd-
ney society, made her first appearance on Satur-
day night as leading lady in the new Plimmer-
Denniston theatrical co. She is the wife of Leslie
Victor, who does good work with J.C.W.’s dra-
matic shows.
The lady who was Miss Elsie Anderson, and is
now Mrs. Beerbohm, had a son, in London, last
week.
Miss Ethel Brenchley, a Svdney business girl,
had an original play—“ The Explanation ’’—read
last week at the meeting of the Dramatic Authors’
Association. The audience listened intently, and
at the close gave the young dramaturgist ’much
enthusiastic sound.
A girl with a beautiful speaking voice, the
healthiest of complexions, the finest of grey eyes
under black kshes, and the very best in the way
of teeth (Nature’s, own), got into Sydney on
Monday at midday from Adelaide and' the
Osterley, to start rehearsals for “ Our Miss
Gibbs, ’ the new J.C.W. piece of Saturday
week. Blanche Brown is her simple, alliterative
name. In the new musical comedy she will be
Miss Gibbs, a shop girl. Miss B. B'. was under-
studying Miss Gertie Millar at the Gaiety when
J.C.W. snared her for the Australian production.
A big revival in English music and musicians is
occurring in England. In the month just past
12 works by native composers were produced in
London. A prima donna called a critic’s attention
to the fact that none of the dozen found it
necessary to take a foreign name in the hope of
getting a better hearing. One of them was
Clutsam, well known here, and even he wore his
own rather awkward designation, and didn’t
announce himself as Clutsamoosky or Clutsammi.
Mrs. Ellis Rowan’s Australian flower paintings
are holding a second At Home at Angus and
Robertson’s. Visitors who have looked at the
500 or so beautiful pictures go away suddenly
educated to the fact that Australia is one of the
beflowered countries on the planet. They marvel
that the Government doesn’t acquire the
collection hurriedly. (There is always an
element of marvelling why other people
don’t do what we want.) They ponder
on Mr. Wade’s amazingly narrow objection, that
the flowers are not exclusively representative of
N.S.W. It recalls, in an inverted sort of way,
somebody’s dynamic remark that the U-nited
States are bounded on the north by the Aurora
Borealis, on the south by the Eternal Cold, on the
east by the Rising Sun and on the west by the
Day of Judgment—or words to that effect. That
was the large view of things. The small view is
that N.S.W. is bounded on the north by the
North Shore ferry boat, on the east by the row
over the vestments at St. James’s, on the west by
the tramway power station and on the south by
the trunk of Mr. O’Sullivan’s white elephant.
And that’s the reason why this State can’t pur-
chase Mrs. Rowan’s pictures.
When people have fully considered these
matters, they take a penny tram. But sometimes
they buy a picture before taking the tram. Why
someone has not yet secured No. 8, the pink
eucalyptus against a mass of its own green foliage,
and No. 6, the presentment of that adorably per-
fumed flower, the native rose, may be because
buyers preferred the pittosporum and the banksias.
The Northern Territory flowers in the collection
are in a haughty class of their own. Big, bril-
liant and bold, and quite new to Southerners,
they are as compelling as florid posters inviting
us to come up and see the land that produces such
marvels.
While you are on a picture orgie you ought to
pay a visit to Henri Tebbitt’s collection of Aus-
tralian scenery at the Government Tourist Bureau,
Challis House. His South Coast views and Blue
Mountain pictures are worth a little time snatched
from the chase after the swift-footed daily crust.
Yours affectionately,
AKENEHL.


HARDY
BROTHERS
LIMITED
VICE-REGAL
JEWELLERS
AY appointment
WATCHMAKERS
SILVERSMITHS
Silver-Plated Tea and Coffee Services
HIGHEST QUALITY.
For Design, Excellency of Workmanship and ValuOi
Hardy Brothers’ Stock Is Unequalled in the Commonwealth.
ik *
#2 &
II
Plain Afternoon Tea Set, Hot Water Jugr and Tray, with Wicker
Handles to Jug: and Teapot. Tray 16in. long;; Teapot holds 1J pints.
£8 10s.
ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE FREE ON APPLICATION.
13 HUNTER STREET SYDNEY
118 OUEEN STREET BRISBANE
AND AT LONDON
Posted, 1/2
HOME
Posted, 1/2
Complete
Words
and
Music.
sdfsd
Contains 81
of the
Dearest
Old Home
Songs
ever written
Forming No. 84 of the Famous Australian Music Books.
CONTENTS
1. Ah, he kiss’d me, when he
left me.
2. Always Take Mother’s
Advice.
3. Brannigan’s Band.
4. Babies on Our Block.
5. Belle Mahone.
6. Bonnie Sweet Bessie, the
Maid o’ Dundee.
7. Beautiful Isle of the Sea.
8. Close the Shutters, Willie’s
Dead.
9. Don’t be Sorrowful,
Darling.
10. Denny Grady’s Hack.
11. Do not Heed her Warning.
12. Driven From Home.
13. Do they miss me at Home ?
14. Farewell, Marguerite.
15. Fallen by the Wayside.
16. God Bless the Little Church.
17. Give my Love to all at Home
18. Gentle Annie.
19. Grandfather’s Clock.
20. Her Name io Norah.
21. I believe it, for my mother
told me so.
22. I had fifteen dollars in my
inside pocket.
23. If the Waters could speak
as they flow.
24. I’m waiting, my Darling,
for Thee.
25. I’ll meet her, when the sun
goes down.
26. Johnny, get your Gun.
27. Just to pay our respects to
Maguiness.
28. Keep in de Middle ob de
Road.
29. Little Green Leaf in our |
Bible.
30. Lighthouse by the Sea.
31. Let your Tears kiss the
flowers on my grave.
32. Lily Dale (Toll the Bell).
33. Mary Blane.
34. My Bonnie Blue-eyed
Scotch Lassie Jean.
35. McSorley’s Twins.
38. Mulligan Guards.
37. McGinty’s Wake.
38. Molly Darling.
39. My Nellie’s Blue Eyes.
40. Marguerite.
41. Many Happy Returns of
the Day.
42. My Grandfather’s Clock.
43. Meet me by Moonlight alone
44. Norine Maurine.
45. Never take the horse shoe
from the door.—
46. Never take No for an
Answer.
47. Nelly Gray.
48. Only an Ivy Leaf.
49. Officer’s Funeral.
50. Only to see her face again.
51. Pardon came too late.
52. Peek-a-boo.
53. Picture that is turned to-
wards the wall.
54. Put me in my little Bed.
55. Ring the Bell, Watchman.
56. Roses underneath the snow.
57. Silver Threads among the
Gold.
58. Somebody whispered so
sweetly.
59. Scotch Lassie Jean.
60. Some day I’ll wandor back
again.
61. Ship that never returned.
62. Sweet Violets.
63. Sentenced to Death.
64. Song of the Steeple.
65. See that my grave’s kept
green.
66. There is no one like mother
to me.
67. Toll the Bell.
68. Take this message to my
mother.
69. Tom and I’ll go too.
70. Tipperary Christening.
71. True as the stars that are
shining.
72. Under the Willow She’s
Sleeping.
73. Volunteer Organist.
74. Veteran.
75. When the spring-time comes
again, gentle Annie.
76. Wait till the Clouds roll by.
77. Won’t you buy my pretty
flowers ?
78. When the Pilot takos com-
mand.
79. What is home without a
Mother.
80. Woodman spare that tree.
81. Willie, we have miss’d you.
82. When the Violets bloom
again.
83. When the Robins nest
again.
84. Whip-poor-WiH's Song.
85. Won’t you tell me, Mollle
darling ?
86. Write rue a letter from home
THE GREATEST ONE SHILLING COLLECTION PUBLISHED.
99
Collins St., MELBOURNE and BENDIGO.
And all Music and Booksellers throughout Australia and New Zealand.
3
Royal Order for Lakshmi Cream.
Mrs. Stannard (John Strange Winter) has received through Lady
Mary Fitzwilliarn (Lady-in-waiting to Queen Alexandra) an order
for John Strange Winter Lakshmi Cream to be sent to Her Royal
Highness the Duchess of Saxe-Coburg Gotha and her daug 1 ter,
the Princess Beatrice. Their Royal Highnesses, writes Lady
Mary Fitzwilliarn, "are enchanted with them.”
John Strange Winter is now offering her famous preparations
to the Australian public at London prices.
JOHN STRANGE WINTER’S LAKSHMI CREAM.
A delightful compound of ingredients for softening,
cleansing and stimulating the skin.
Kitty Mason says : “ Lakshmi is glorious.”
Countess Cowley says : “ I cannot tell you what a comfort it was.”
Price 3/=; post free, 3/6.
Obtainable at all leading
Chemists and Stores.
“Comely Woman ” booklet, by John Strange Winter, free on request.
John Strange Winter
82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
And at MELBOURNE and ADELAIDE.
European Depots—LONDON, PARIS, VIENNA.
■v
“THE BLADE’S THE THING.”
Yes—the blade is the important feature that we em-
phasise in the PLUM.
Almost the whole half-guinea's worth is concen-
trated in the perfecting of a high-grade, silver-
steel, keen-edged blade that will give 365 shaves in
a year, and always be ready for immediate use
again the moment you need it.
Plum Razor in Strong' Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 15/6
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6 each.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
Price 10/6, and
honestly worth
every penny of
it. Post free
anywhere.
We Crind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Send for our Free Illustrated Price List.
CRAIG 8 AITREN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
BILLMDDS
:
I*
in
m.
im
■a
-
isSßk
if
—®
.
m
ssos-Xv
n.
50 years ago the name of Alcock was practically unknown —to-day
it is synonymous with billiards. Why ?
They have always maintained that high standard of excellence,
so scientifically and accurately constructed their tables, cues, etc., that
it is no wonder that the popularity of Alcock Tables has grown so
much.
Gray, who made his record break of 836 —831 coming off the red
—and other champion players, are prompt to proclaim these tables as
perfect in every respect.
We make them in all sizes and styles —the 44 Bijou ” table is a
special favorite for the home.
Write us for Illustrated Catalogue —we supply every billiard
requisite.
ALCOCK & CO. Pty. Ltd.
397 George St., Sydney. 7 King William St., Adelaide. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St, Melbourne. 114 Edward St, Brisbane. Murray St, Perth.


Madame Weigel's Patterns.
SYDNEY Agents—
W. T. WATERS & CO. LTD., King & George Streets.
J. W. JOHNSTON, 440 George Street and
746 George Street, Haymarket.
MELBOURNE Agents-
W. H. COOPER, 23 Royal Arcade.
BALL & WELCH PTY. LTD., Flinders Street.
MADAME WEIGEL’S PATTERNS.
MANUFACTURED IN AUSTRALIA.
THE FIRST and STILL THE BEST.
' ’ jnts Everywhere.
bTORIA.
The
Famous
French
Royal
P.D.
Rustless
Corsets
ħ
are essential to the correct
wearing of your dresses.
Every woman who has given the matter
due thought recognises that correct Cor-
setrle Is the foundation of all smart frock-
lng. “ P.D.” Corsets are specially designed
to ensure that graceful “ slimness ” so
much desired by fashion leaders to-day—
and they do so without imposing any un-
due restraint upon the limbs. By making
a point of having your Spring frocks fitted
over these famous French Corsets, you can
absolutely rely upon that graceful “set,'’
without which the best efforts of your
Costumleres are little short of failure.
Your
Draper
will
show
P.D
£5
You
the
Latest
Models.
l2
SQUARE TREAD WBB3
96ss
E
«* t
Mb
NlL_
i?S“
-
TTT,
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, September 12, 1910.
My UeaS Yarrie,
A Wattle Day demonstration was fixed for
Saturday at the Temple of the Winds in the
Botanic Gatdens (ail architectural replica of the
Temple of the Winds in Greece). But; the winds
sulked and dropped out, and the rain fell in
torrents, so there was no Wattle Day on Satur-
day, On Sunday, however, the worshippers
gathered at the poet Gordon’s grave in
Brighton cemetery. Wattle blossom was thrown
at the foot of the broken granite column, and ex-
travaganzas were speeched by Senator Russell,
journalist Benjamin Hoare, actor Ned Duggan
and others to a vast audience of Gordon lovers.
Wattle has bad its innings this last week.
There has been some beautiful expression of the
Wattle Day, despite grotesque gambols. One such
gambol was the Wattle Tree Dance. Stodgy,
heavy, unbeautiful humans .of uncertain age
galumphed round a bushy tree and grunted a
chant, and kept time very badly.
Then there was a Wattle Night in the upper
room of the Atheneeum. The platform was
stacked and packed with beautiful blossoms, and
heavy horticulturists took that background unto
themselves. Governor Carmichael was forced to
listen to almost unending lectures on the glory
tree. A. J. Campbell, who speeched the back-
bone of the night, called his lecture “ Yellow-
haired September.” The title gave an uncomfort-
able vision of peroxide rather than blossom. Beau-
tiful pictures of wattle country were flung on
a screen—photographs taken by enthusiast Camp-
bell. Gaud Mayor Burston, who is. president of
the Horticultural Society, helped the human
decoration of the room. Human men, nowadays,
are so highly decorative. They never realise the
true beauty of the tubular garments they wear just
above their very big feet. Miss Campbell,
daughter of the lecturer, came out in the dusk of
picture time and recited Jennings Carmichael’s
honorable wattle poem. Papa Campbell then ex-
plained in his further lecture what wholly
unreasonable creatures poets are. He criticised
carefully Jennings Carmichael’s references to the
tree. The lady had imide unpardonable mistakes
about the species. She is not alone in this, it
seems.
That Wattle Night had the full support of The
Bulletin. The affair was in the room with The
Bulletin pictures all about, so that the back-
ground could scarcely have been more Australian.
Governor Carmichael, in speaking of these
pictures, said he considered that “The Bulletin
raked in whatever there was. of art in the whole
of Australia,” or words to that effect.
By cable to his mother atShepparton comes the
news that Jack Clark, Australia’s champion
cyclist, has overtaken a wife at Salt Lake city.
The lady is Miss Rena Bray, and the Voice
breathed on the last day of August. The bride is
described as an only daughter, who runs her own
motor-car, and has enough expectations to keep a
whole pack of wolves away from the woodheap.
“Johanna” is sorry to hear that the much-
whispered rumor of an engagement between Miss
Jessie Landale and Roderick Murchison, which
she mentioned in this letter on August 4,
has given great annoyance to Miss Landale.
The ways of the wealthy and unattached
Roderick are winning, but seemingly the
Landale charmer was never won by them.
The motor drives of the smart pair had
no prophetic meaning in them, and the lady
remains as heart-whole and fancy-free as usual.
The Fourth Conference of Women’s Anti-Social-
istic Organisations—that is what it calls itself—is
raking in delegates. It travels to Adelaide,
where it is due to talk and expound on October 17.
Mrs. Claude Macdonald is packing up for
Sydney—she and a troop of bright youngsters.
They have been making a perch at the Grand for
a few weeks before trundling on to Port Jackson.
Mrs. Macdonald has been for months in Tasmania
recovering from the disaster of her motor, which
butted her against a tree.
The Mackinnons are all clanning up. Godfrey
Mackinnon, a brother of our L. K. S. Mackinnori,
is engaged to Jean Mackinnon, daughter of
William Mackinnon, of Vancouver, British
Columbia. Jean’s papa is a brother of the
“Corry” Mackinnon, in Toorak.
At St. Paul’3 church, Warragul (Vic.), on the
last day of August, were married Mr. Eucalyptus
Duncan and Miss Zenobia Payne. Thus did
Eucalyptus prove his reputed worth and do away
with Payne. The bridegroom with the botanical
name is the son of Dr. Duncan, of Bairnsdale.
What check has an unfortunate babe on parents
with forest fancies like that? Poor Eucalyptus
had to live through a badgered boyhood, and
Heaven knows what untold agonies of school days
with a name that was never even submitted to
him for consideration. I wish him every happi-
ness now with Zenobia. Zenobia is the daughter
of Mr. John Payne, of Warragul, and the wedding
was fancifully tucked round with silks and laces,
and bridesmaids and hothouse flowers.
Vice-regal Secretary Victor Hood is back in
Melbourne taking things easily. The energetic
young man got at loggerheads with a bucking
motor-car, and the petrol animal put him out of
fighting trim for a month or more. He has been
drowsing through a rest-cure on a station in
Bananaland, and seeing old friends in Brisbane.
Along with springtime and the Show come
flocks of honeymooners. They have not all
fluttered away yet. The type is plainly marked.
He wears a pale blue tie. She wears a sky blue
dress, and her hat is of crinoline straw. Crinoline
straw is never seen in town save when it arrives
in a “best” hat along with the feminine youth-
fuls of the Backbone of the Country. It is a
flimsy hay or grass effusion that a delicate zephyr
would puff into grotesque shapes, and it is no
delicate zephyr that puffs in September for
Melbourne Show time. They (the couples)
are mostly, but not all, consumed with self-
consciousness. Across. Collins-street, one day,
there swung a pair who made a perfect
poem in self-sufficiency. They joined hands and
threw themselves up at the sky with an ecstatic
abandon of happiness as they ambled along.
There was no one in the whole city but their
blissful selves. She had a stole and a small,
round muff of rabbit skins—undyed, unblushing
rabbit skins. Probably He trapped the rabbits
for his girl’s decoration.
A practical scientist of great note figured, not
along ago, as the hero of a romantic story which,
alas ! weakened in the last chapter. It seems
that when he was a young man, with no worldly
possessions to speak of save his inventive faculty,
he was engaged to marry a girl who shared his
enthusiasm for his ‘‘ career.” She was so unsel-
fishly concerned about his prospects that,
when he got a chance to better them by
making a comparatively wealthy marriage,
she (the first love) released him from his
promise, and smiled upon his union with
the other girl. Subsequently she came to Aus-
tralia and settled down in, say, Melbourne, where
she lived with a French lady. After many years
her old lover, now arrived at his celebrity, came
to Australia on a visit. The heroine of this story
wrote to him, suggesting an interview, and he re-
plied with enthusiasm, making an appointment to
call at her marine suburban home. The agi-
tated spinster waited in the dining-room,
whilst her French lady friend kept watch in
the drawing-room. He came along the garden
path, pulling hiscuffs down and otherwise making
ready for a picturesque entrance. A maid ser-
vant opened the door and showed him into the
drawing-room. Without pausing to note the
utter unlikeness of the French lady to his long-
lost sweetheart, he rushed at her with extended
arms and kissed heron both cheeks, crying: “Ah,
my dear Matilda, we meet again ! ” “ But,” said
the warmly-embraced one, “/ am not your
Matilda—she is in ze next room.” In piquant
accents Madame tells that she could not resist ze
temptation to follow ze gentleman into ze next
room, just to see whether he could pump up a
second burst of delight; but, no ! it was no good
ze second time. His mistake had damped his
ardor, and ze real Matilda did not get so many
kisses —ah, no.
A quintet of Frenchmen in the aviatorial line of
business arrived, last week, at a boarding-house in
St. Kilda-road, with a view to teaching Mel-
bourne how to fly. Their machines were to be
unshipped this week—one big aeroplane to carry
passengers, and smaller ones for individual flights.
Apparently they have come all on their own, and
are struggling with business difficulties in broken
Engleesh, or no Engleesh at all. The site
for their grand aviation show was a vexed
question with them all last week, but they
have almost made up their minds to charge
“ fife shilling ” for admission to the ground, and
200 francs for a seat on the aerial bus—when it
gets going. Williamstown racecourse strikes
them as being the place where “fife shilling” ad-
mission can be charged with the best prospect of
getting a large crowd at the price. Caulfield and
Flemington courses offer too much scope to the
multitude that wants to see things gratis. So
Williamstown it will be—perhaps. The gentle-
men have some pleasing names among them.
There’s a Gaston, a Maxim and a Roger, and one
of them twirls his moustache to the tune of Rene
Devais de Martignes.
Vera Deakin, one of the gifted Alfred Deakin’s
trio of girls, is just in her tender teens, yet she
has blossomed out with a play. It saw gaslight
last week in a small affair fixed up at the Turn
Verein in aid of the Free Kindergarten. The
work was dramatised from one of Henry James’s
novels. Vera Deakin took unto herself the ex-
pounding of an American character, and tied her
pretty self into knots over the ’Murkan twang,
mixed with good Australian. The feature of the
affair was that girls took all the parts—men
parts and women parts alike. The men-girls
got on well enough until they had to cross the
stage. Then confusion took possession of them
and they fled with a scurried gait. They didn’t
know what to do with their legs when they
walked; still less did they know what to do when
it was necessary to sit and cross their extremities.
The only girl who seemed sublimely unconscious
of her understandings under these conditions used
to go riding astride in bifurcated garments. The
matter was second nature to her, and she scored a
distinct success.
Dolores, whose name suggests dimples and
everything adorable, is due here on September
24—at least that is the date of her first concert.
Spring is coming, and Dolores is another beauti-
ful bird in the chorus.
Ruby Grey, a black-eyed damsel with a voice,
is to have concert. She is one of a fine team of
smart brunettes—daughters of the late Collins-
street medico Grey. Weighty musical and medi-
cal people are sitting on the committee, and the
event will happen about the middle of October.
Amy Castles scored her big night on Thursday,
and sang like a drove of cherubim. It was her
second-last appearance in the part. The curtain
fell on the suicided Butterfly, but it rose on a
cheerful Amy Castles Butterfly with the pallid
make-up washed off and her natural roses show-
ing. Prime Minister Fisher came on the stage
to make a presentation. It was a magnificent
butterfly of diamonds hung on a platinum chain.
There was an album full of of names of
presenters—names from all over the country.
Amy, all dimples, bundled the album and jewel-
case back into Mr. Fisher’s hands, and lost no time
in clasping the dangling, brilliant thing about her
neck. It was altogether seemly that this pretty
Australian girl should get this pretty bauble
with so much heartiness at the back of it.
Fisher made a speech—not a grandiloquent one,
for Fisher is not much of an orator. Then stage-
manager Bracy chipped in for a speechlet, and
Amy bowed her thanks. Outsiders never consider
stage dressiness. The Prime Minister may look
all right on the floor of the House; but he is not in
it on a stage. Next time Mr. Fisher has a walk-
ing-on part, the stage-manager should see to the
length of his breeks.
Amy Castles has made her solid hit. Her voice
hasalways been abeauty thing, but during this spell
of grand opera she climbed up several extra rungs
of the ladder of fame. She has improved even in
the short season here—the season into which
she was plunged breathless. Her Mimi in
“ Boheme” reached a high place. The imported
prima donna, charming as she is, has had a back
seat. It was Amy who packed the houses every
time of singing.
Last week was full of theatre parties. There
was the party for the Amy Castles “Butter-
fly” presentation (by the way, there were
quite 50 Chinese in the dress-circle, very
much blue-bowed about the hair and spread in
crow-like evening dress). Then, next night,
Prime-Minister Fisher headed a Caledonian
party to the Theatre Royal to see Scotch Lang
as Manx Pete. It was a braw huge hoose, and in
the box with Mr. and Mrs. Fisher were Post-
master-General Thomas and his wife, and Mr.
and Mrs. Artist Hugh Patterson.
At the same time the tanners and curriers
(something tells me it should be furriers) were
partying in a great semi-circle at the Princess’s.
Most of the men were loyally decorated with
sprigs of wattle, and the bloom of the wine at the
previous dinner had not wholly departed. Kather-
ine Grey is a man’s woman. She gets her houses
of men every time. There is always a large
majority of the he-sex at “The Third Degree.”
Carreno, a beneficent presence in coppery-gold
broideries on a black velvet gown, sat gently down
at the Town Hall piano and the-audience called
her blessed. What a woman she is ! She has
hands as gentle as a baby’s and arms' as powerful
as the village smith—who is musical by force of
poetic usage. The Moonlight Sonata breathed
romance, and a quartet of Chopin numbers ran
the gamut of motion. Carreno is crowding her
“dates.” Four concerts in five days will be her
hurried programme while passing through Mel-
bourne.
I have discovered another of the youthful-
nesses of Carreno, who should be taking some
note of years, but, being-loved of the gods, has no
need to. It is her most youthful neck. Pessi-
mists tell anxious women that the age can be
known by the neck. Few, like Ninon de l’Enclos,
can confine their wrinkles to their foot soles and
tread them under foot. Carreno has a girl’s neck
—especially the curve of the nape, where the hair
sweeps up jet black and only turns to a tinge of
grey on the crown and sides.
The small child who plays Little Trouble in
“ Butterfly ” has extremely sensible notions about
her future. Someone asked her if she were going
on the stage as a regular thing, when she grew up.
“No,” said the kid, “I’m going to be a servant.
I’m going to be a housemaid and keep my place.”
She looks for limelight, surely. No ambition
could be rarer. And the child is only four years
old.
Bernard Hall takes up the Athenaeum running
on September 15. That is the day of the private
view—the only show he has had in Australia —
and the exhibition will remain open until October 1.
Some Australian plays, played by Australians,
are to make a show next month. This year
dramatist Will Moore won’t hog all the limelight.
Louis Esson and Miss Pritchard have a say.
The say is purely local and in local scenes. Louis
Esson draws lurid lines in Melbourne slums ; per-
haps he’ll hand a glossary round the audience.
Will Moore makes Paris Cafe the haughty back
ground of his mummery. Miss Pritchard makes
a governess-girl-Socialist deal with a burglar.
Somewhere about October 5 is the date of this
interesting show.
A man writes me six cramped pages of crowded
news from London. He is an Australian on the
pleasure hoof. A page of marks like tracks made
by a politician explaining away a damaging cir-
cumstance, goes into hysterics about “Le Bois
Sacre,” done in pantomime, with Rostand’s opera
recited from the stalls. That is in Paris. An
occasional London paragraph is legible. He
raves over Melba in “Boh^me” —says her first
night house was a fever. From his other
“Notes and Observations” I dig these following
remarks, and drop them in upon you in small
letters :
Tetrazzini is short and wide and frowsy ; she wears a
diamond fender in her hair, and has no middle or lower
register to her voice. Melba is seriously chasing the
grand-opera-for-Australia scheme. She has engaged
John McCormack, the young tenor who is singing
Rudolph in “ Bohfeme ” with her.
Mrs. George Vivers (our Irene Marks of old) has been in
the hospital again, but is cheerfully on the mend. She
has had hard luck with her health, poor girl.
One of the Australians who have made good in London
is Jimmy Alitson, w'ho married Elsie Baxter, a clever
little Sydney girl. He is “connected with the Times,’
and they live, if you please, on Magna Chart a Island, and
have the shades of King John with them at supper and
ghostly barons in the back yard.
Lean Vallange and Mrs. Madden-Vallar.ge have gone to
Brittany, where the pretty fisher-girls grow ; and the
George Chirnsides have gone from Stratton-street to
Scotland. Both have Scotch forebears to hunt up.
Madge Titheradge is playing Miss Elizabeth with
Waller in “Miss Elizabeth’s Prisoner.” Kate Goodson
Lee, the pretty soul who was out here with the Brough-
Flgmmings, is also in the cast. Nora Kerin, who is now
Mrs. Cyril Michart, has grown stout, but is as pretty as
she w»as when she starred inMusgrove’s Shakspearian co.
She play-acts only occasionally, and much prefers playing
mother to her two children.
Dorothy-Vane Menzies is having the time of her life
among old friends in London. She made a big break with
Fogland when she took Norman Menzies for better or
worse, and found it chiefly better.
“Silante” Ffrench (with a double F) and his wife,
Blanch Watson, are on at the Halls, doing an Australian
stockwhip act.
A good many Australians have crept in among the
show girls. The Gaiety girls nowadays don’t act ; they
do nothing, in fact, except stroll on and off with a bored
air and “ svvankey ” clothes and 27-guinea hats. There
is a legend that any girl who is seen with an umbrella, or
who doesn’t come to the theatre in a taxi, is dismissed on
the spot.
The Book of the Season, about which London is tying
itself in a knot, is the mysterious “Letters to My S«n,’
written by a woman to her unborn babe. The scramble
is to place the anonymous authoress. All sorts of names
have been suggested—among them that of a woman well
known in Australia.
From “Rosna,”of Adelaide: —
Our Admiral, his wife and their two nice daughters
have been making merry at Port Pirie. The dust-fiend
was either providentially absent for the moment o
gaoled for the occasion. The Exes, scrutinised the smelt-
ing works, flying-foxes and other local fauna With a
measure of comfort.
Some people with a fondness for aged and infirm curios
found an old Broadwood spiqnet recently in a cottage at
North Adelaide. The owner had bought it for 30 shillings,
as the cheapest thing in its line he could discover. I believe
a generous sum was given to the unappreciative proprietor
in exchange for it; and it now dwells in the luxurious
surroundings to which it is entitled.
Our child composer, rejoicing in the picturesque name
of Merle Robertson, has been playing some of her self-
made music toan astounded public. At the end of Willie
Silver and Eugene Alderman’s concert t’other day the
youngster, who may have reached the advanced age of
nine, performed her waltzes, love-songs and studies
with her own small fingers. She has no knowledge of
composition save an instinctive one, yet the little girl’s
works are remarkable for their tunefulness If she is not
exploited as a prodigy, she may become great and cele-
brated. I will let you know in 20 years whether she is
great or only a prodigy.
That other clever Adelaide kiddy, Wanda Radford, has
been sent to Paris for further dramatic study. Aus-
tralians who have seen her performing in the Land of
Fog say she has grown into a beautiful girl and a fine
actress.
A card, with a New York post-mark, but guiltless of
address, comes from sweet Marie Narelle, with the brief
but cheering announcement: “ Doing splendidly over
here.”
Adelaide has developed the truly metropolitan habit of
running over people and killing them. Our newspapers
feature a daily picture of the scene of the accident with
a cross to mark the victim’s dying yelp. The other day
the electric cars got reckless and tried to demolish three
distinct sections of the populace in 24 hours. The
Glenelg train which ambles up and down King William-
street, and elbows the Hyde Park car into the gutter, has
also been getting itself disliked. It actually refused to
move out of the way of a man who preferred the railway
line to the open road, and all those people who have been
deputationing succeeding Governments to remove that
train off the face of the street are saying they told you
so. At present, we are undecided as to whether we will
put a wire fence around the train, or use it for firewood.
The Royal Geographical Society went out last Friday
into the highways and the hedges and the post and rail
fences, and collected an audience to be lectured by Dr.
Bevan. The subject was “The Three Great Rivers of
China,” and the congregation wore its spectacles and pre-
tended to know all about it. His Excellency was coaxed
in, and divulged the fact that he did know something on
the subject, having spanked Britain’s enemies in that
locality during his active nautical days.
That clever boy, Felix Barton, came home from Britain
last week. He went away a year ago to assist in some
literary labors regarding the life and letters of his
ancestor, John Stuart Mill. But the foggy climate didn't
agree with him, and he has returned to drink a pint
of the good Australian air.
Concert-manager Johnson, who has been a notable
decoration on this musical landscape for the past year or
two, has gone back to Sydney. Sundry dozens of local
concerts owed their success to his management, and we
weep and pipe our eye at losing him. A little crowd of
melodious folk had a farewell party, and thrust a tank Of
sovereigns at him.
This city refused to be satisfied with four Carreno con-
certs, and a matinee was arranged for the day of the
lady’s departure. After the show the audience blocked
the street, scoffed at the policeman who said “ move on,”
and fell on Carreno’s neck, while it begged her to come
back soon. She said she would, and said it before wit-
nesses, though, unfortunately, the verbal document
wasn’t stamped. Half a hundred gardens were flung at
her, and she carried them off in a taxi.
Mrs. Butterfly—three of her —is unpacking her kimonos
on the doormat of the Theatre Royal.
There exists a school for mothers in the Slowly City,
and at the school information is handed out gratis and
in generous quantities to the parental poor. A woman
doctor, a nurse and sundry leisured mothers are always
on hand to explain that it is unwise to give crumbed
chops to infants under three months, and that children
of one year or less should not go to dances. The making
of small garments and the cooking of simple food are
also taught, and the little society does goodwork in a
quiet way. It was a year old on September 7.
We have some navy tied up to the orest of the waves
of the Outer Harbor. It is called the Psyche. Some
people think this is “ fish ” badly spelled, but it isn’t. It
really sounds more like the surname of Bill Sikes, the
burglar.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


ill
'“V
OO
w,
Q ■<©
0£
GxG
CNQ
C*V<
W*T :
Pretty Tucked Chaly Blouse in newest
design, with Bajpe Collar, 12/6.
Plain or Spotted Ne;t Blouses, in various
styles and shapes, ffoni 17/6 to 79/6.
Linen Tunic Coat and Skirt, with
Leather Belt, trimmed with Self-
colored Braid, from 73/6.
An Up-to-date Coat and Skirt, in
Black and White Summer Tweed,
Guineas.
i«*r
/SKt-.
jJBBK/n
/ *//-»
/ i ■
a
a«5
/
o
$
HK
$!•- -:Sj
-k
■
„
‘-W,
Linen Blouse and Skirt Cos-
tume, in the new May gar
style, trimmed with Self
Embroidery, 73/6.
Dainty Frock, in Striped Or Plain Ninon,
lined with Cotton, trimmed with new
Oxidised trimmings, from 5 Guineas ;
lined with Silk, Guineas.
NEW STYLES FOR THE SPRING.
Smart Linen Coat and Skirt,
in the new semi-fitting shapes,
any color, 29/6.
French Linen Suit,
in any color, with
new Paisley Collar
and Cuffs, Coat
pleated at sides,
Skirt to match,
59/6.
Lustre Dust Coat, newest shape,
in Navy, Black or Cream, 16/6 ;
also in Linen Crash, 21/-
Pretty Visiting Gown, in Crepe
Meteor, trimmed with Cluny Lace
and caught in at feet, from
Guineas.
Smart Paisley Foulard Race Gown,
trimmed with Satin and new Alu-
minium trimmings, 10 Guineas.
h
Melbourne’s Leading
Department Store,
ASK FOR OUR
NEW “STYLE BOOK.”
Opposite Flinders Street Station.


COUNSEL TO THE CORPULENT.
Know Exactly What You Are Taking.
Whether a man or woman be excessively stout,
or quite normally proportioned the first consider-
ation is—or should be—the maintenance of health,
and vigor. That is what many over-fat persons,
are inclined to forget when, apart from the deplor-
able abuses of fasting, exercising, etc., they swallow-
medicines of which they know absolutely nothing.
Such unwisdom is much to be reprehended. Here
is a recipe of a remedy which has proved wonder-
fully efficacious in thousands of cases of obstinate-
obesity—a recipe which any chemist will make up.
for you, or for which, if you prefer it, he will
supply you with the necessary ingredients:—One
half-ounce of Marmola, one ounce of fluid Extract-
of Glyeyrrhiza 8.P., one ounce of pure Glycerine
B.P. Mix well with peppermint water to make
six ounces in all, and take in doses of two tea-
spoonfuls after each meal. Appetite and diges-
tion will be much improved, and as a consequence
perfect health and strength will accompany the.
quick recovery of normal weight and shapeliness.
Firm limbs, a bright, healthy ‘complexion, a.
delightful feeling of bodily ease, a graceful alert,
bearing—these are the priceless results of a won-
derful treatment now within every stout person’s,
reach.*
ONCE you fret, the CHERRY
BLOSSOM shine you will
want no other, and the
paste needs to be applied but
seldom. A rub with a soft cloth
will always renew its brilliancy,
so that CHERRY BLOSSOM
is also very economical.
All ifchfl leadintr dealers sell
ik or
land
Ailty
ħ
for Australia:
Connell Street, Sydney.
Brought to Bay
Are those enemies of civilisation, indigestion and
•dyspepsia, when Dr. Sheldon’s Digestive Tabules
are employed ; 2s. 6d. per tin of 80 Tabultes.*
The Commissioners of the Government
Savings Bank of N.S.W. have introduced Safety
Deposit Boxes for the encouragement of thrift,,
more especially for children. As a medium for
saving small amounts, which by themselves would
not be taken to the Bank, the boxes are unsur-
passed, and there is no doubt that they will be
largely availed of. Full particulars may be
obtained from any branch of the Bank.*
Man wants but little here below,
If he gets the best of goods.
For coughs and colds perhaps you know
’Tis best to swallow WOODS’.
For Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure’s a treat
For asthma and for chills.
You’ll find it very hard to beat,
For these and other ills.*
NEURALGIA.
If the affected parts are bathed freely with
Chamberlain’s Pain Balm those stabbing, burning
darting pains will soon disappear. Rub the Balm
well in several times during the day, keeping the
patient warm and out of the cold wind. Dozens
of people suffering from neuralgia have been
cured by the use of Chamberlain’s Pain Balm.*
ECZEMA—THE
SKIN SCOURGE.
*
This Man Tortured Night
and Day— Cured by Rich
New Blood.
«
Eczema is one of the most torturing of skin
disorders. The burning, itching, prickling sensa-
tion is often maddening. Sometimes persons
apparently healthy in every other way are
attacked." Often it is a symptom of stomach
trouble, rheumatism, gout, or a generally low
state of health. Lotions and ointments are only
of value to allay the itching sensation. They do
not cure. All the highest medical authorities
agree that a tonic is necessary to drive the com-
plaint from the system.
Amongst tonics Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills stand
alone. They actually make the new good blood
that drives the impurities from the system and
leaves the skin soft and smooth as a child’s.
“For months I suffered with eczema,” said
Mr. Malachi O’Mara, 409 Lonsdale Street, Mel-
bourne, Victoria. “It first appeared on my
arms, and then spread all down the front of my
body, on to my thighs, and as far as the calves of
my legs, in the form of a dry scale which would
rub off in a dry powder. If I rubbed the skin
hard it would go quite raw and inflamed. I
could not go to business for some weeks. Count-
less tiny red pimples with matter would push
through the skin and a rash would come out in
large patches. I might say my body was covered
with small sores, and as fast as some would go
others would come. I got very thin. I could
not eat or sleep for the terrible itching. I was
told if I took mineral water baths I would get
better, so I went to Davlesford and took them for
some weeks. They didn’t do me any good, so I
bought some ointment and took sulphur, thinking
that might cure me, but it did not. It would
only stop the itching for a little while. I grew
quite ill with worry and weakness. I thought I
was permanently affected, when one day 1 read
that Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills would cure eczema,
so l sent at once and got some, and took between
nine and ten boxes altogether, and here is the re-
sult : I am completely cured, and my skin is as
clear as ever it was. If it had not been for Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills I don’t think that I would
ever have got better. lam sure no one ever
suffered more than I did, and in curing me Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills have proved their worth. I
shall always advertise them.”
Don’t let any dealer talk you into taking some-
thing which he says is “just as good.” If you are
pestered to take a substitute, send 2s. 9d. for one
box, or 15s. 3d. for six boxes, to the Dr. Williams’
Medicine Co. of Australasia, Ltd., Sydney.*
IF YOUR’E RUPTURED
OENYER
von need not
fear themost
st r e n u o 11 8
exercise or
hard physi-
cal work if
you wear
DENYER’B
SPECIAL ELASTIC TRUSS.
It is the safest and most ef-
ficient for successfully over-
coming the inconvenience and danger of rupture.
No irritating springs—cool and comfortable.
17/6 Single. 22/6 Double. Expert fitting.
Call or write.
DENYER BROS.,
Truss and Abdominal
Beltj Makers,
2SI GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter Sc.), SYDNEY.
POLITICAL
POINTS
During the talk on the Budget vote for
the Yassberra capital, Labor-member Anstey
struck a needed blow in defence of the very foun-
dations of the Labor party. After broadly hinting
that he would not be whipped in to vote with
the Ministry, he hurled this question at the front
Ministerial benches: “What became of their
answers to the attacks of members of the Opposi-
tion if they pursued the old, discredited methods,
and tried to bind members on matters outside the.
party programme?” This was a startling in-
quiry, and it received an eloquent answer in the
dreadful silence of the Government.
Prime Minister Fisher announced in his
Financial Statement that the vote for Defence,
this year would be equal to 12s. Bsd. per in-
habitant, and even the Melbourne Age, which is.,
a strong advocate of an efficient Australian army
and navy, issued the news under a big sensational
heading, “Enormous Defence Vote.” Yet the-
British defence vote amounts to nearly 30s. per
inhabitant, and Britain has 367 inhabitants to pay
for the defence of each square mile of country-
while Australia has about Is. That is to say,.
Britain puts up more than £5OO per annum for
the defence of each square mile of country, while-
the Commonwealth proposes to put up about 19s.
It doesn’t look so very “ enormous ” when ifc i&
considered in cold blood.
The Bulletin is in receipt of a 41-page
pamphlet:—
Tim Wade Government.
Achievements in Administration and Legislation.
Sydney:
W. A. Gullick, Government Printer.
191°.
It is indexed ; and the index winds up this way :
Trial by Jury —What the Labor Party said—
which is conclusive proof that the pamphlet is a
straight-out party electioneering whoop. And
yet, as mentioned above, it is turned out at the
Government printing works. To level things up,
The Bulletin is now expecting, every day, to
.receive another pamphlet:—
The Wade Government :
A Record of Bounce and Blunder.
One of its chapters ought to be devoted to the
story of how the Wade crowd threw out Waddell
■on the ground that he was a danger to the coun-
try, and then took him back and put him in the
same office to save its own political bacon, and
hang the danger to the country ! That pamphlet
ought to be printed at the Government Printing
Office too. But The Bulletin will chance it and
bet tuppence that it won’t be.
SENT HOME.
Ex-Senator Pulsford, writing to a
Sydney paper, expressed the view
that Australia should have a
proper understanding with
the Japanese as to the
immigration question.
A large funeral came off last week in Mel-
bourne, and there were 22 burials in one day. It
wasn’t another accident on Tait’s railways ; the
deceased were old, rotten Private Enterprise
companies of the boom time. After a com-
pany has been quite dead for six years,
the Supreme Court may, according to Vic-
torian law, order any final scrap of assets to be
paid into the Treasury, and thereafter the concern
passes out of human ken, and its name is Mud,
and its site is sown with salt, and its progeny is
accursed, and the place which once knew it shall
know it no more. Justice a’Beckett, as already
mentioned, finished off 22 of the deceased* and
the atmosphere is cleaner in consequence. No-
thing is gained by keeping cadavers lying around.
An eminently frank statement by a N.S.W.
Government candidate—lnnes Noad, the Wade
nominee for Hartley (Sydney daily paper re-
port).:—
Mr. Noad said that he was told if he was defeated it
would be at the hands of the men employed in railway
duplication and deviation work in the electorate ; but he
could not believe that the men so employed—and likely to
be for the next six or seven years—by a Liberal Govern-
ment, would put him, the Liberal candidate, out.
Now what did Mr. Noad mean? Did he imply
that the men were put on the work to purchase
their votes for the Wade candidate, or that they
were liable to be put off if they voted against the
Wade candidate? Or did he simply lay it down
as a sort of abstract principle that, when a Tory
Government uses the money of Laborite and other
taxpayers to construct a necessary public work, it
expects to buy the workmen’s support as well as
their toil, and claims a sort of general right to feel
ill-treated if the article isn’t delivered ?
Wentworth (N.S.W.) has its own ideas
about the great services of the Wade Govern-
ment to the man on the land. About
10 years ago the township got an irri-
gation settlement; that is to say, it
got a pumping plant if it didn’t get
much settlement. A couple of years
ago, however, things looked up, and
some settlers arrived ; but, when the
future was beginning to appear nice
and pink, the Government decided
that part of the pumping plant was no
good. This happened in the summer ;
and, though the renewal wasn’t urgent,
the plant was promptly shut down and
dismantled and another one was
ordered. The settlement thus had to
pull through the critical time as best
it could. Now, when another summer
has arrived, it is found that the new
plant isn’t powerful enough to get
at the water when the river is low ;
hence the Government will not use it.
;So, for the second critical period, the
settlement must pull through somehow
—or pull out, and go to Sydney, and
whoop for a continuance of the Wade
Government’s beautiful management.
Kaiser William, who was one of
the leading mourners at King Edward’s
funeral, has just received a formal an-
nouncement of the accession of King
George V. Old Lord Roberts and a
special mission carried the official news
to Divine William who presumably
said, “You surbrise me!” or words
to that effect. The rules of the royalty game
don’t seem to have been amended since the
Muddle Ages.
The poor, lone widow again—the poor,
lone widow who won’t be asked to pay a ha’penny
unless she has over £5OOO worth of land, apart
from improvements and every other form of
wealth :
Not only will they (the Labor party) penalise lands
unfit for development, but they will in some cases in-
flict personal hardship, because no reasonable allowance
is made for those estates which are locked up to
•certain settlements for educational purposes, or for the
support of WIDOWS and females past the age at which
they can earn their living.
And the man who trotted out this tattered old
property of the Conservative and Fat crowd was
Deakin —Alfred Deakin !
One item in the Fisher Budget fascinates
the eye. It is a matter of £lOO, which, as Fisher
declared, is “set aside to commemorate in some
way those leaders of the federation who have
served the people faithfully and well, and are no
longer amongst us.” One cordially applauds this
piece of wild extravagance.
“ C.M.G.” writes :
Pro-Jap Currie Elles’s at tention is hereby concentrated
on the London Daily Mail's report of the final meeting
of the British Nippon Syndicate, Limited. The syndi-
cate has been suddenly wound up, and there is crape on
its door knob. The cause of the decease is “ inability’ to
transact any business of a satisfactory nature with the
Japanese.” The chief mourner regretted to say that the
company’ had inherited calamity’ as a result of “ the wide-
spread unreliability’ of the Japanese nation in com-
merce, no less than as a consequence of the reluctance of
our allies to admit British enterprise to any share of the
resources of the Far East.” The Nippon Syndicate dis-
covered, to its great sorrow, that the Jap idea of Free-
trade is to trade and never pay’ —the simple and direct
principle of the thief.
“Colin Street ’’makes a few remarks as
tbe car ambles towards the end of its journey :
In response to a nudge from Melbourne Trades Hall,
Premier Weary has bestirred himself and shaken a bed-
lath or a pillow-slip at that insolent monopoly, the
Tramway Co., over the matter of sectional fares. Wear.v
is reported to have said, on awakening, “ that the time
had arrived when Parliament should intervene on the
question ; and that if the co. did not act voluntarily, it
should he compelled to do so by legislation.” Which
seems a bit contradictory. Apparently, Weary has no
intention of intervening personally, and reckons it is a
fair thing to stand hack and allow the old Highway Ex-
tortion Co. time to consider whether it will be decent
and divide tbe journeys and the fares, or keep on demand-
ing the price of a whole journey for a two-block ride. It
is safe to bet that the savage old co. will be the usual hog
and grunt a surly refusal, or else mutter something about
an extension of its lease. As a Melbournian, who
has rained several cwt. of thrippences into the pockets of
the co. for journeys that were worth on the average
Id. each, I would rather suffer the old bushranging siale
of fees for the few years that remain to it than see the
out-of-date and tyrannical concern get any sort of con-
cession, small or large.
According to Toronto (Canada) Globe,
the province of Ontario alone, on its present
water-power development, saves yearly the cost
of over 7,285,000 tons of coal, which would other-
wise have to be imported from the U.S. A. With
a mere fraction of water-power in operation,
Canada runs practically all its trams and public
and private electric lighting, and an immense
number of factories in cities like Quebec, Mon-
treal, Ottawa, Toronto, Hamilton, Winnipeg and
Vancouver. Australia hasn’t the Dominion’s
bounteous fluid, certainly ; yet there’s one place
where it might do exclusively what Canada does
generally, and, with the waters of the Snowy, at
Dalgety, run the national capital practically free
of cost for power. But the self-interested paro-
chial insects aien’t letting an opportunity like
that trouble them. Instead of selecting the site re-
commended by their official expert—the site
with the abundant water-power —they are de-
liberately choosing a place where even the drink-
ing water will have to be pumped up. Think of
the beautiful eternal coal bill to drive the eternal
pumps, and consider the eternal foolishness of it
all !
From Arthur Griffith :
No single incident could more clearly indicate the
class bias of tbe anti-Labor party in the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment than a little matter that occurred during the pas-
sage of the Girls Protection Act. Tbe Bill proposed to
make it a penal offence for a schoolmaster to seduce a
pupil under 17 years of age, and I moved an amend-
ment to apply the same provision to a guardian
seducing a girl left under his protection, up to the
same age. This was carried by the Assembly,
but rejected by the Upper House—apparently as
constituting an' interference with the recognised
rights of the propertied classes—and on the Bill being re-
turned to the Assembly, the Council's attitude was sup-
ported by a solid party vote of the Government and its
following. As a result of this interesting vote (a school-
master— who is generally a poor man—goes to gaol for
seven years if he seduces a pupil under 17, but the same
girl’s guardian (who may, and frequently does, belong to
the wealthy classes) is free to use with impunity the op-
portunities his position gives him to seduce her. Surely
it has a strange conception of morality, this Liberal-
Wowser party.
DOWN WITH THE SLUMP.
With regard toa Tasmanian proposal that the Governor
General should be asked to veto the Federal Govern'
ment’s land-tax proposals, the Attorney-General, Mr.
Hughes, said that they seemed to forget in Tasmania that
the Government was carrying out the wishes of a
majorley of the electors.
HARD-SHELL TORY: “ Ooh! Ooh! Look what
them Labor fellows are doing."
AUSTRALIA : “ Carrying out my instructions.
that’s all.”
“Boswell”: .Recently, in the Rous
(N.S.W.) electorate, a man named Andrew Fisher
resolutely refused to have his name placed on the
electoral roll for fear he might possibly be induced
to become interested in politics. The Fisher
fear seems to be growing proverbial. Another
Andrew Fisher, at Melbourne, refuses to allow
the people ot Australia a referendum as to the
site of their own capital city for fear the press-
boomed Yassberra site should be passed out with
contumely and blue cats.
A DAYS MARCH NEARER HOME.
The Premier starts on his first country tour on Sunday
night. He will undertake a number of other trips before
October 14. Sydney Paper.
It is calculated that under the present
break-of-gauge folly it would take sixty-three days
(over two months) to shift 30,000 mounted soldiers
and their equipment by rail from Melbourne to
Brisbane, which means that they would average
a shade over 20$ miles per day. The country that
can’t shove its army along faster than that is just
about lost.
NOT ANTICIPATED.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
When the Commonwealth was established it was not
anticipated that a Federal land-tax would be imposed.—
Several hundred mournful Tory newspapers and
politicians.
“It was not anticipated”—thus the primal Tory said ;
Thus he howled and perorated whilst the Axe-Inventor
sped !
Whilst his skilful brother cave-man innovated with the
tree,
Fat remarked, “ You should behave, man, more respect- ■
fully to Me !
For this axe is all new fangled, and the thing might
injure you ” ;
Thus he wailed at length and wrangled like the present.
Tory crew !
Still, the feet of young Invention climbed the ever- ■
lasting stair,
Whilst the cove whose case I mention tore his prehistoric-
hair !
“ It was not anticipated,” wailed the Tory, long and loud,
When the first canoe created shocked the unprogressive
cro vd ;
“ Man was never meant to travel on the moist, surprising
sea ;
He should stick to loam and gravel,” said the early
M.L.C. ;
“Things like these are most impious and a mark of
disrespect;
Yea, they grieve us with their bias, and they- shock the
folks elect! ”
But the strong Canoe-Inventor simply went his earnest
way,
And he mocked his anguished mentor as we mock our
Fat to-day !
“ It was not anticipated,” wept the Tory monks of old
When Columbus steered, elated, from tbe land of pearls,
and gold !
They had sworn by book and candle that no WesteriL
land could be ;
But. Columbus was a vandal who proceeded cheerfully.
He went and found the regions which they vowed could
not exist;
Sc the angry monkish legions shook a large, collective
fist 1
Yea, the shores Columbus trailed to filled those Tories,
with disdain ;
But to-day the land lie sailed to shakes a larger fist than.
Spain !
“It was not anticipated,” cried the convict-driving crew,.
When they saw this Land was fated to adopt procedures,
new !
Yea, the old, forg-otten gaolers thought such things must,
always be,
They’were sad, despairful wailers when the Land began
to “ gee ! ”
For their views were small and solemn, as tbe Tory’s.
always are ;
So, to-day, Fatfills the column and inspires tiie anguished,
par !
'Tis tiie same old Fat of Ages who objects so loudly now ;
Whilst Australia cheers, he rages like a mad, dishevelled,
cow 1
VICTORIA.
GRAST UERVEY.


VICTOR PIANOS.
•; ;2
• V,
V
i<(^WQk'
r
■ ';>
>v« •*»«>••*»
:•• I
■riX,...
: /
'
, ' • :< ' '"i :.'J
I
m
f ' £> >
*0^
... -'
To those requiring a medium-
priced Piano we recommend,
with great confidence, our
Vicftor Models.
Made specially* for us, they
embody our half-century’s ex-
perience, and are sold fully
guaranteed.
They are grand wear resisters,
and stand true as a rocK in
any climate.
Full particulars and Catalogue
post free on application. We
sell either for Cash or on Easy
Terms.
If you have an old piano we will
taKe it as part payment.
W. H. PALING <%L CO. LTD.,
338 Georg'e Street, Sydney.
And at . . .
BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
TD
T*i
HE
HOE
Pump Sole
■
.. ; fl
Welt Sole
118/6
BEST
VALUE
TN
Australia,
. * |
Postage
Extra
9°
V * V ■' ■
im
N9L.8.101.
namelKid
Lace Shoe
Dull Kid Top Strai
Buckleys Nunn, Li?
MELBOURNE.
Fine
Shoe
Dealers
•• ■ * 'I
pnnutk
Am
buffir
fQStonuiiitiiilll||T|^nnnimniitlinD
'oVi
a*
8
•?<r:
gr
IfijiiiSttal
J ' V
V - *•
m
-V
s«r?
Wva"
4*
\
Sarg'ents’ Wedding; Cakes.
THE EXCELLENCE OF SARUENTS’ WEDDING CAKES cannot be over-estimated.
A proof of their perfection is clearly shown in the increasing demand, not only
in Sydney and Melbourne, but practically all over the Commonwealth.
Their superior quality is due to the select recipe and the particular way in which
they are prepared.
Whatever design of Cake is decided upon, whether it be simple or elaborate, of
either one, two or three tiers, there is not the least difference in the quality—each
possesses the same deliciousness of taste. Prices are most reasonable.
Sargents’ Ltd.,
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High-Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt
Ci, (’Phone—Office, 3559 ;
Ola Cafe, 1876; Catering:, 4250).
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St.
(’Phone, City 1344).


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland. & Sons, Hatton Garden,
London.
PILES CURED IN 6 to 14 DAYS.I
PAZO OINTMENT is guaranteed to cure any case of
Itching, Blind, Bleeding or Protruding Piles in 6to 14
days, or money refunded. 2/3.
.DEFYING FATHER TIME.
Time seems inopportune when he brings a
woman to the turn of life. Life is or should be,
at its ripest and best for her, and she approaches
this change with a dread of its effect born
of her
know-
ledge of
the suffer-
in g s of
other wo-
rn e n at
this sea-
son.
There is
not the
slightest
cause for
<?■
is 7/5
fear or anxiety at this
period if Dr. Morse’s
Indian Root Pills are
taken occasionally to
keep the system toned
and the stomach in
proper working order.
Doctors prescribe them,
nurses recommend them,
and thousands of women
who have successfully
and cheerfully passed through that stage can tes-
tify to the value of these pills.
“I have found your pills to be highly beneficial
for headaches,” writes Mrs. E. Wilson, 406 Harris
Street, Ultimo, Sydney, “and also during that
critical period known as the change of life,
through which I have passed. I can conscien-
tiously recommend Dr. Morse’s Indian Hoot Pills
as a genuine remedy for all general family ail-
ments) and also to all women for complaints
peculiar to their sex. You are at liberty to pub-
lish this, and I shall be pleased to give my per-
sonal experience to anyone calling on me.”*
RESCN’S SELECT STOCK ALE & LASER
E. RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
to His Excellency the Governor-General.
ABSOLUTELY PURE. NO PRESERVATIVES.
West Australian Agents—RICHARD HOLMES & CO., PERTH. KALCOORLIE and COOLCARDIE.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, REDFERN, SYDNEY.
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The absolutely-final inner history of the fight is
given by the New York Sun. It is safe to be accepted by
ii he public in the U.S. A. because it makes out practically all
parties concerned to be liars (including the referee), and
most of them thieves. (1) Jeffries would not fight unless
assured that he would win. So “the fighters got to-
gether, signed secretly with Rickard, and each got 10,000
dollars.” All parties were to make millions by backing
Jeffries, who was to retire permanently after winning,
and let Johnson reclaim the title. (2) The Governor
of California got a tip that the thing was not
to be on the square, and blocked it. It is
presumed he did this from some bad motive, but
there are no details. (3) The Governor of Nevada in-
sisted, doubtless with the worst intentions, that the best
man should win—at least he did this openly whatever
swindle he might have had on privately. (4) So Jeffries,
who thought he was going to win for certain, was left in
the lurch by his fellow-iniquities, who went back on the
agreement. (5) He got to know of this—presumably be-
cause one of the other scoundrels turned dog on his col-
leagues—hence the state of funk in which he entered
the ring. True or untrue, it is a sweet story, and typi-
cally American.
* * a *
Although more than expected, it is unpleasant
to have to record the fact that Bill Lang did not make a
brilliant impression in the States in bis match with Al
Kaufman at Philadelphia. As most people know, they
fight under curious conditions at the City of Brotherly
Love. There the scrap is limited by law to six rounds,
and no referee may arise and state that his brother has
been slugged out. No decisions are allowed, and the
gentlemen of the press report who scored the victory.
When the papers disagree, each man who is interested
forms his own opinion. Kaufman was described by the
Mclntosh as being too slow to suck eggs, or something
like that, but he was too clever, according to
the paper accounts, for Lang, who. is reported
to have been compelled to hang on in order to last
even the six rounds. He was badly knocked
about, and proved to be very slow and unable to avoid
punishment. He also proved too slow to administer it,
and missed frequently. Altogether; the people who re-
ported the fight decided that neither Kauffman nor Lang
is worthy to look into Johnson’s gold-lined mouth in a
ring. Of course, it must be remembered, when reading
these reports, that it is a hard thing for a foreigner like
Lang to get a fair deal in the States. To make a good
impression Lang would have had to knock Kauffman
right out, tear him to pieces, and distribute his remains
among the audience. Under any other circumstances
the biassed and unsportsmanlike Yank would have pro-
fessed to be dissatisfied.
* * * *
Said that Tommy Burns “ has been and gone and
done it.” Playing lacrosse, recently, he “sprained his
right leg,” and has had to seek a postponement of his
fight with Sammy Langford. On investigation, it turns
out that Tahmmy has again injured his right knee, a
province of his anatomy that was damaged years ago,
and that has, at off-times, given him lots of trouble.
Burns is reported to have said he is afraid it has gone
altogether, and, if so, he is out of the bruising and all
other active games for the rest of the term.
* * * *
“ The unco’ guid,” more generally known in
these latter days as “ the wowsers,” have just about
burst the N.S.W. Lawn Tennis Association, as they
usually burst everything they get into. The Coun-
cil of the Association decided that, in the interests
of the game and the members, the rule which prevented
the courts at Double Bay being opened for play on Sun-
days should go overboard. But something like a two-
thirds majority was necessary to carry any amendment
of the constitution, so the wowsers rolled up and easily
defeated the proposal—although they were in an actual
minority. More members were in favor of opening the
courts on Sundays than were opposed to the idea, but
the insane law of minority rule enables a few
selfish people to prevent the others gaining
healthy exercise and harmless amusement. The
Council very properly took up the attitude that, if its
policy was defeated at a general meeting, it was time for
it to get out. So it threw in its resignation, and cour-
teously requested the successful Opposition to take
charge of things. The Opposition, knowing it was a mere
minority, and also, apparently, being fully seized of its
own incompetence to do anything but obstruct, declined.
At present the Association is being held together by a
sort of junta composed of members of the Council who
happened to be absent when the majority resigned, and
the Association is likely to just go to pieces.
It will be a thousand pities if these dour joy-
killers succeed in wrecking this'concern. Never was an
association more happily placed. It had, by a combina-
tion of fortuitous circumstances, acquired splendid courts
from the Daniel Cooper estate on liberal terms of interest
and payment, and a large number of enthusiastic players
had bought debentures to provide the ready money
for buildings and so forth. The debenture-holders
became ground members, and they it is who desire to
have the courts available for Sunday recreation. Tennis
is essentially a Sunday institution. All over the city the
private courts are crowded the whole Sabbath, and the
only place in Sy’dney where there is no Sunday tennis is
the headquarters of the game. Clubs are springing up
like mushrooms, and the game is spreading, and if the
present grounds are lost the chances are that the new
body to come will not be able to secure others anything
like equal to them. The Sabbatarian minority is not
called upon to play tennis against, its conscience even if
the courts are made available. But it is certainly called
upon, if it is in the minority, to disregard its advantage
under a ridiculous regulation which makes for minority
rule. If it is out of touch and sympathy with the
majority’ of the association it should either go under or
get out. Of the alternatives, the latter is preferable. If
the present course is persisted in the Association will have
to dissolve, and the grounds and buildings will either
pass to the debenture-holders, or the whole thing will go
smash and the courts revert to the Cooper family.
The struggle for the Gardiner Cup, the coveted
trophy’ of N.S.W. Soccerites, was spread over 16 matches
in which 17 teams took part. It was a sudden death
competition, and the team that fell once was out, and to
be downed was to be dead. The teams that survived the
first round were Wallsend, Ultimo, Powerful, Adnms-
town, Rozelle, Corrimal, Helensburgh and Balmain. Of
these Powerful, Helensburgh, Wallsend and Rozelle
reached the semi-final stage, out of which Powerful and
Helensburgh emerged to fight out the premiership and
possession of the Cup. Powerful clawed through by two
goals to one, and is the first warship team to secure the
much-beloved utensil. The Cup was originally battled
for awav back in 1885, and the Granville Club held it for
the first two years. But by far the most frequent
holders have been teams from Pyrmont, which have
waged war under a variety of ’ names. It was in
1889, when the club battled under the title of Pyrmont
Rangers, that that district first got possession ; and it
held the goods that and the next year. Then the article
passed to Parkgrove. But in 1893 and ’94 the imple-
ment was back in the P.yrmont Rangers’ hands, to be lost
in ’95 to Balmain. Bdmain held the utensil till ’9B,
when it crossed to Pyrmont Volunteers. The next
.year saw the prop, won by Pvrmont Rangers, who lost
it, in 1900, to West Wallsend. In 1902 that coaly locality
left the gaud with Pyrmont Rovers. In 1903 the
substance was still held by Pyrmont. It was lost
to Granville in 1904, to be won again in 1908 by
Pyrmont. Next the coveted circumstance was lost
to Adamstown. Now it is on board the flagship
Powerful. The struggle was an interesting one. Only’
two drawn matches eventuated in the whole competition,
and those were in the first round. Ultimo struggled out
of the first round and downed Wallsend in the s cond, and
in the full tide of victory was blown right out for having
played an unqualified man. Wallsend, thus snatched
from an untimely death, came to grief in the semi-finals,
where it was stamped flat by the ultimate winner, the
Powerful team.
* * * *
Last Saturday saw tVie final of Australian foot-
ball in Sydney till next season, and the game was a fitting
dose to about the best year the Australian “Rulers”
have had. East Sydney and Y.M.C. A. were the con-
testants, and Muscular Christianity finished brilliantly
with 48 points to 24. It was a curious game, as the
winners did not score a solitary goal during the first
two quarters, and had only nine points scored by single
behinds to their credit at half-time. It was East Sydney’s
chance, and that team made all the use it could of the
favoring wind. But, when the Y.M.C.A. woke up in the
third quarter, the scene changed with great rapidity.
The Good Young Men did as they liked and played East
Sydney to a standstill. East was obviously winded at
the finish. Right through the season the Y.M.C.A. has
pla.ved a straight and strenuous game, and richly earned
its bubble reputation at the toe of its trusty boot. East
Sydney is runner-up, followed by Sydpey and Padding-
ton in that order.
* * * *
Newtown is still in the lead in the N.S.W.
Rugby Leagtie competition with 23 points. South
Sydney is second with 22, V)and Eastern Suburbs
stalks third with 20. After that nothing is much
worth considering at this stage of affairs. Prac-
tically the position is unchanged, the two great
rivals having each taken a step higher on the
scoring-board. Newtown defeated Annandale by 19
points to two, and South Sydney chewed up Balmain by
16 points to seven. Eastern Suburbs broke Glebe right
up with 36 points to nil, which, was a fearful accomplish-
ment, and proved the truth of what the critics had said
—that East was as good as the best of them, just now.
But the trouble is that others have got a start and the
competition ends on Saturday. Time has run out and
Messenger’s mighty men are left.
* * * *
In the Union division, things are somewhat
more exciting—but, then, so few people are interested
in the Union game to-day. In that division, Newtown
is also on top, but it has a shivery feeling that in Satur-
day’s match against University it had more than its fair
share of luck. The blue-and-gold students shook the
boss team to the very centre of where it lived, and only
the splendid discipline of the leaders saved the situation.
The closeness of the game was out of all proportion to the
score by which University was beaten (11 points to
three), and but for that luck—the luck that John Oak-
hurst said was an absolute mystery, and about which the
onl.v thing known was that it changed—Newtown might
easily have been beaten. South Sydney had an easier
job with Glebe, although it won by only 12 points to six.
The South had a back machine which worked perfectly,
and broke Glebe right up every time it was let loose.
The amazing part was that it was not let loose more
often. Newtown’s chances for the premiership are now
easily’ two to one on.
* * * *
N.S.W. Rugby League has decided to give
“ Dailey ” Messenger a “ testimonial match ” on Septem-
ber 24 as a set-off for the football labors put in on the
League’s behalf during the present season. The benefit
—the wind-up of the season—will consist of a match be-
tween Eastern Suburbs and the winner of the League
final on the coming Saturday.
* •* * *
Saturday in Melbourne was a day of disappoint-
ments. At noon the bath upstairs started to leak, and
for three long hours it drenched the city. Few expected
that the League semi-final, ’Wood v. Essendon, on the
Metropolitan Cricket Ground, would be played ; but a
curtain-raiser had been arranged in the shape of a Metro-
politan Ass. semi-final, Leopold v. S. Yarra, and as the
youngsters had ignored the moisture and were bogging
in, the League decided to go ahead. At 3 p.m.
bright sunlight greeted the players, but the ground
was a mud-hole. On their season’s record the two
teams were expected to provide something special,
the individual brilliance and speed of the ’Dons being
counterbalanced by the persistence and combination of
the Magpies. But at quarter time all hopes of a choice
game had vanished. The tally then was—’Wood, 22
points ; Essendon, seven. The ’Dons were hopelessly
outclassed. They marked vilely; they were slow, they
fumbled and they kicked anyhow. On the other hand,
the Magpies were out to win, and they threw away nothing.
They pla.ved fast, picked upcleanly and marked accurately.
It was all beautiful to watch, but it would have been
vastly more exciting if done against strong opposition.
The ’Dons, after ’Wood’s first dashing lead, seemed dazed,
and the final tally—’Wood, 14 goals 11 behinds ; ’Don, 5
goals 7 behinds—correctly showed the relative strengths
of the teams on the day. The curtain-raiser had con-
cluded—Leopold, 51 points; S. Yarra, 20. Attendance
was 24,000; “gate,” £686.
The Metropolitan Association’s other semi-final
was the curtain-raiser to the Ass. semi at North Mel-
bourne. This was a more elevating encounter, inas-
much as the two teams, Beverley and C irlton district,
were evenly matched, only seven points dividing them
at the finish. The former led throughout; but in the
last minutes the “ District ” put in a couple of deter-
mined dashes that yielded two goals and gained it the
day—Carlton District, 37 points ; Beverley, 30. Learn-
ing that these Juniors were kicking vigorously and that
the League had decided to go ahead, a sizeable crowd
betook itself to North Melbourne, only to learn that the
Ass. believed in keeping its players dry, and had post-
poned its scuffle to a more convenient season. Whereat
ensued much curse. But the Ass.’s wisdom lies in the
fact that it will thereby probably get the last, final, ulti-
mate “ gate ” of the season all to itself.
* * * *
The football libel action has arrived at last.
The Llanelly team (Wales), being accused by the New-
port Argus of foul play in a Rugby match against New-
port, united to bring an action against the paper. The
referee, who apparently felt himself the most insulted
person of the lot, swore that there was no foul play at
all; if there had been, he would have ordered the offend-
ing players off. The jury, rather puzzled by the novelty
of the action, gave a verdict against the paper for a
farthing—which is an awkward coin to cut up among 15
men and an umnire.
* ” * * *
The inter-State baseball “carnival’’ concluded
at Richmond (Vic.) on Saturday in rain and mud and the
presence of a great void where the spectators should
have been. During the week Ma had collided with Vic-
toria once more and had managed to defeat it by six runs
to five, and Tassy had improved under expert tuition
sufficiently to make seven runs to the same Ma’s 21 ;
while South Oss had shown itself not altogether a novice
yet by no means an expert. Few persons would have
dreamed of playing baseball on Saturday, but the Corn-
stalks were anxious to get back, so the third collision be-
tween them and the Victorians proceeded to a damp con-
clusion, the Vies, having most of the say and the runs, the
same being 10 to N.S. W.’s 4. Tasmania was due to col-
lide with a second team of Gumsuckers, but they decided
that the fireside and a tot of something hot was the better
part of valor, and abandoned the game. So the carnival
was brought to a soggv conclusion.
Wrestling is no game for a white man these
days ; but, all the same, the white man seems to hold
his end of the stick up at it fairly well. Gama, the
Pathan, who went to England with the title of “ The
Lion of the Punjaub,” bumped Zbysco, the Gallician, in
the Stadium, London, on September 9, and after 160 min.
of vicious wrestling the struggle was stopped without
either man scoring a fall. The affair will be resumed on
September 17. All things considered, Gotch did well to
retire.
* * * *
The Goulburn to Sydney Road Cycle Race
(which is promoted by the Dunlop Rubber Co., assisted
by the cycle traders of N.S.YV., and run under the rules
and governance of the League of N.S.W. Wheelmen),
comes off on September 17. The object is to find an
official N.S.W. State rep. for the Warrnambool to Mel-
bourne race. The acceptances number 145, and the limit
men start on a 45min. handicap. The scratch men are
seven —A. B. Smith and J. Coulter, of Maoriland;
McNamara, of Dubho ;T. Larcombe, of Yass ; and A. Aplin,
F. W. Walcott and R. E. Mutton, of Sydney. The feeding
stations are Moss Vale, Picton, Campbelltown and Liver-
pool. The one machine must be ridden from start to finish,
and the competitors must ride the tyres nominated on
theirentry-forms. Anychangeof tyres meansdisqualifica-
tion. The prize-list is extensive, the first being a cheque
for £3O and a gold medal worth £5. Then there are two
cycles, one d.b.b-1. cun, with case and fittings complete,
worth £7 7s. ; another gold medal and three cheques for
£3 3s. In addition, there are 10 special prizes for the
riders who achieve various things ; and, finally, there are
bronze and enamel medals for all riders who finish the
course in 10 hours and under.
* * * *
N.S.W. champion cyclist George Horder and
ex-champion Percy Mutton had a serious smash-up while
training on Sydney Sports Ground last week—just when
the big road races and the corpulent prizes appear on the
horizon.
* * * *
The Australasian cross-country championship
at Hobart (Tasmania), last week, enticed a large bunch
of athletes to make the trip across to the Speck.
N.S.W., Victoria and Tasmania were represented in the
teams’ race, while Queensland sent one rep. to try and
gather the individual honor. The course was a trying one
of sand and soil, which the runners dubbed “glue-pot”;
and out of the mire and dust N.S.W. athletes emerged in
sufficient number to win the dignity with 33 points.
Victoria followed with 45 points ; while Tasmania was a
toiling mass in the sea with 114 points. The individual
championship went to “Andy” Wood (N.S.W.), with
C. Weyman (N.S.W.) close behind in second place (the
sixth time in Australian cross-country struggles), fol-
lowed by J. Chalmers (N.S.W.) and A. Luton (Queens-
land’s only hope). The 10 miles were cut out in the
record time (for Tasmania) of 60min. losec.—the
previous best (60min. 30sec.) being put up by A. W.
Clemes in 1906.
* * * *
Fate lately gave Grahame White, the English
aviator who has been kicking up considerable dust.astrong
hint that it is time to get out. At Boston he was trying
to break an endurance-record when he fell into an air-pipe,
was sucked down, and bashed heavily on the earth. The
machine was smithereened, and although Grahame White
escaped with his life, it was by the skin of his teeth, and
he suffered enough minor but painful injuries to satisfy
any glutton.
* * * *
It is quite probable that Maoriland won’t see
the Davis Cup tennis struggle after all, as last week the
Yankee Tennis Association withdrew from the contest.
The only chance of a visit, therefore, hangs upon Eng-
land. Recently England refused a one-third gate-money
guarantee ; and now an extra lure of one-half gate-
money is being dangled under the Lion’s nose.
*'* * *
The prospect of a sculling race between Aus-
tralian champion Pearce and ex-champion of the world
William Webb rouses some slight interest, but no wild
enthusiasm. Despite judicious flogging by a cheerful
press, nobody outside a small, intimate circle takes much
interest in sculling. And, after all, the question of
which man can urge a piece of timber through a
given space of water in the shortest time is hardly
one to appeal to an intelligent populace. It is
mostly' a matter of brute . strength. Skill and
mental quality go for very little in compari-
son to muscular power. But to come back to
Webb and Pearce. Pearce was anxious to row on the
Parramatta,, and Webb preferred the Wanganui. But
when someone put up a purse of £2OO, the aspect
changed. Pearce, feeling sure of landing the bacon, as
Mr. Squires said, decided he would go to Wanganui,
although Webb had expressed his regret that he could
not see his way clear to allow expenses. So the present
understanding is that Pearce will go to Maoriland in
November, and early in December will reach out for the
bacon aforementioned.
* * * *
N.S.W. Cricket Association has a mighty pro-
gramme ahead of it during the coming season. Inter-
State matches with Victoria, Queensland, South Aus-
tralia and Tasmania are listed, and among them will be
sandwiched test and other troubles against South Africa.
In fact, the congestion is so great that N.S.W. is obliged
to play Tasmania and Queensland at Sydney on the one
date (janu ir.v 2), besides supplying players for the test
match at Melbourne on the same day’. Cricket barrackers
are promised a programme sufficiently lurid to kill in-
terest in the game—that is, unless the players make the
game attractive by departing from the funereal methods
of recent years.
The glorious uncertainty of billiards between
amateurs is very mild in its glory as compared with the
happenings in the best artistic circles. In Melbourne,
the other night, Roberts started a “ session ” by adding
a paltry 17 to an unfinished break. Then Lindrnm
scored a run of 373, including 117 hazards off the red.
Then Roberts proceeded to score 733 (making his total
750 for the session), whilst Lindrnm was adding only 27
to his account. The “ old man’s” efforts gave him an
average of 125 points per innings—the last being an un-
finished 164.
This year’s Melbourne Cup will be a jubilee
celebration. It was on November 7, l B ® 1 ’ *£ at ®
Mestre’s five-year-old Archer, carrying 9st. 71b., and
ridden by Cutts, won the first Melbourne Cup. The t
recorded for the race was Smin, 52sec. Next V-,
same Archer, carrying lOst. 21b. and the same Cutts d
the two miles in Smin. 46sec.; so the course, presumab y,
had been levelled a bit in the meantime. In this second year
the club added £2OO to the sweepstakes, Which, Up to
1887, was always “ 20 sovs. each, 10 forfeit, or five i « de-
clared.” In 1888 the fee for starters was Mi'sed to £29,
and next year it went up to £5O. The added ttionej r.
bv degrees to £5OO. Then, in 1883, it jumped to £l00t> :
Five years later it had gone up to £3oo° alilda tropli\ ,
and for three years, beeinning jvith Carbine s y e M
remained at £lO,OOO. Then the Melbourne land boohi
having left impoverishment behind it, the
£lO,OOO to the race, but kept the sweepstakes to help make
up the amount, and next year the ten thousands were re.
duced to five. This jubilee year the MelboUtne Cup is
“ a handicap of 30 sovs, each, with £6OOO added, and a
trophy, value 100 sovs.” „ -
* *
Gaston Cuznet, the French aviator who has
came to Melbourne to found a School of F y' n t> „
papers that all an airman needs is a cool cead.
Bulletin has no practical experience, but belliesit
are moments when a thick head serves better. Bes des,
no one lias his cool head about him at the time when it Is
most essential. The concussion makes it hot,
* * *
The latest game bird in England is the bliie-
bottle. The Sanitary Committee of MiddlesbOinUgh
(Yorkshire) offered last month a penny a dogen for blue-
bottles, and twopence a hundred for ordinary nies. It
got 100,000 in a few hours ; but the wear and tear of the
clerical staff in sorting flies mixed Up With treacle ahd
other sticky stuffs, and the bitter disputes as to Whether
a large fly was or was not a small bluebottle, sobh
wrecked the scheme.
The late Harry Garlick’s collection of
pictures, mostly animal subjects, is now on exhi-
bition at the Lockley Library, Bull’s Chambers,
Moore-street, Sydney. Garlick did his beasts in
oils and black-and-white, and did them better
than any other artist Australia has produced i
wherefore, as Garlick’s estate is being wound up,
the public has an unusual chance of getting a
good animal.
That great rascal, Private Enterprise, was
up at court in Melbourne, the other day, charged
with selling as “ refined neatsfoot oil ” a concoc-
tion that was 90 per cent, mineral oil. Asked
what he had to say about the swindle,
pleaded that it was a “custom of the trade,
neatsfoot oil being almost unobtainable. A
shocked P.M. wanted to know why he couldn’t
sell the 10 per cent, that was neatsfoot oil as such,
ahd dispose of the adulterant for what it was;
but the culprit didn’t appear able to understand
the question. A fine of £5 seemed to sharpen Ins
wits a little, but not half as much as was needed.
If a miner, charged with gold-stealing, were to
plead that it was a custom of the trade, the same
Bench would probably gasp that, it being very
difficult to obtain convictions, it was most neces-
sary to make an example of those who were con-
victed. Whereupon the miner would get a year
for his own offence and two years for other people’s
alleged offences. But when Commerce pleads
guilty to being only one of many robbers, its idea
is that the punishment should be divided by 10 or
thereabouts.
At ancient Parramatta (N.S.W.), Dowell
O’Reilly, thinker and scholar and writer, is going in
the Labor interest for the political scalp of “Tom”
Moxham. Tom Moxham hasn’t a political idea
of his own ; he has just been pushed in because
he is a good fellow who has made money. Beyond
that, he can make a few impressive but utterly
meaningless remarks about “the grand old Liberal
flag.” Parramatta is supposed to be the kind of
dull. Conservative place that can’t be bothered to
think—the kind of place that that kind of member
suits—but there are signs of a revolt; and quite a
lot of Parramatta begins to feel that it would
like to have a member who would do or say some-
thing that it might be a little proud of.
Political bribery has never been more
shamelessly exhibited by a Government than in
the dying weeks of the New South Wales
Assembly. Look at the list: Saturday Half-
Holiday, Railway Superannuation, Workmen’s
Compensation, Clerical Workers’ Minimum Wage,
Industrial Disputes Amendment, Crown Lands
Amendment, Railways Loan (£2,250,000), Second
Ballot, Miners’ Accident Relief Amendment,
Crimes (Girls’ Protection), Public Service Appeal,
Closer Settlement (acquirement of freeholds), and
a number of resumption bills. It was the last
flutter of the desperate loser putting his shirt and
his boots on an outside chance.
LINES TO SENTIMENTAL TOMMY.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Tommy Burns has decided to call his baby girl Sydney’,
in appreciation of the treatment that the ex-champion
boxer received from Australians. —Cable item.
When your baby girl’s grown tall,
And with stoushing you have finished,
Happy days here you’ll recall.
May your joy not be diminished
E’en the slightest bit, to know
That your offspring’s name is fated
To remind you of the “go ”
When no longer you were rated
As the Champion of the World.
Though you bravely’ took your licking
It’s a fact your flag was furled,
And at facts it’s no use kicking !
Let us hope this thought won’t vex—
You’ve the boodle, that is vital!
Sydney’s where you got the “ ex ”
Tacked on to your former title ! ■
N.S.W.
EARDLEY TURNER.


A lament from Freetra&e England
Mr. J. Wilson, of the Battersea Polytechnic, London,
addressed the Association of Teachers in Technical In-
stitutions in Birmingham. . . . The English manufactur-
ing world was some decades behind its chief competitors
'—Germany and America. England was slowly, but
surely, losing the industrial leadership of the world. In
invention, Germany, America and Prance led. England
followed. Let them consider the new industries which
had come into existence during the last 15 or 20 years—
the manufacture of motor-cars, aeroplanes, metallic fila-
ment lamps, incandescent gas mantles, machine tools,
“ high-speed ” steels, synthetic indigo, calcium carbide,
artificial silk, and many other things. All of them were
either German, French or American in their origin or
commercial development; none were English. Certain
of these industries were now in more or less profitable
operation in England, but the English manufacturer,
coming later into the field, was handicapped in having
to fight against the acquired knowledge and the busi-
ness connections already obtained by the continental
manager.
Well, it seems quite natural. If a man manufac-
tures, say, synthetic indigo in England, he has
the run of the English market only. If he makes
it in Germany, he has the run of the German
market and the English one. So, as a matter of
course, he prefers Germany.
LINSEED COMPOUND” —Trade Mark of Kay’s
Compound Essence of Linseed for Coughs and Colds.
The MOTA
(Regd.).
The “ Mota ” is the nobbiest, most comfortable
and most stylish Soft Felt Hat of the 1910 season.
Its exclusive design appeals with irresistible
force to the men who “ think ’’ well before select-
mo- a hat.
Easily adapted to almost any shape, it fills the
requirements of men in every walk of life. In
all fashionable colors. Prices, 7/6 to 12/6.
Stocked by all leading houses throughout Aus-
tralia. If unobtainable in your district, write to
us direct.
THE AUSTRAL HAT MILLS LIMITED,
ABBOTSFORD, MELBOURNE.
b unaffected by climatic conditions.
That’s another point t
Anont Capt. Scott’s South Polo £xpo£tiom
Motor" 2 0161 JO, *u,y+~
“In this expedition of Captain Scott’s,. * Shell *
motor spirit has been selected. The intrinaio
value of this order may not be so very great,
but when one remembers the momentous re-
sponsibility thus threvrn on to ordinary cans ot
'Shell,' the confidence and good opinion of the
selectors is better expressed than any words
can convey.”
MAKE A NOISE LIKE AN ORDER.
CADILLAC,
25-30 H.P. £,500.
450 in Australasia.
35,000 in the World.
WRITE FOR CATALOGUE.
ROY W. SAND FORD,
181 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
HOWARD MOTOR CO., Brisbane.
SAUL’S MOTOR CO., Launceston.
Perfection in Cycle Building'.
h
We think that our Model 3 at JBII represents—at the price—cycle
perfection. It is strongly built of British-made fittings of
standard gauge and size, and you’ll ride it many miles before
seeing one you like better.
Tyres are the Dunlop-Welch Multiflex—the highest grade tyres
manufactured by the Dunlop Co. Call and inspect one or write
for our catalogue.
BENNETT & BRRKELL,
Largest Cycle Building House in the State,
234 Pitt Street and Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
SHOES WITH A CHARACTER !
There’s character, individuality, comfort and ser-
viceability in every Rigney Shoe.
The quality of Rigney Footwear is of such a high
standard that we guarantee the uppers of
every shoe to take re-soleing.
The shoe illustrated is a Calf Willow Derby Shoe
in Black or Tan ; also in Boots.
Price - -21 s.
Postage 9d. Extra.
Write for Booklet, “ The Rigney Shoe for Men. 1
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
ĥ
The Most Perfect Bicycle in the World.
® c °Py the latest B.S.A. Handbook and learn how to distinguish the GENUINE B.S.A*
FITTINGS trom the shoddy imitation, it costs you nothing and may save you a great deal. Post free from-”
D. Y. RENNIE, representing B.S.A. Cl!. LTD., 5 Stock Exchange Bolding, Mefiroom.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ UNIVERSAL BICYCLE.
Built of genuine B.S.A. Parts wEth EADIE Two-speed Coaster Hub.
Free Wheel on both gears, and Dunlop Tyres. As ridden by
FRANCIS BIRTLES. £l2 10s. Write for Price List, post free.
Anthony Hordern (SL Sons,
Only Universal Providers,
New Palace Emporium,
Brickfield Hill, Sydney.
A. M. L. 8 F. Co. Ltd.
(Established 1863)
The Oldest Pastoral Institution in Australia.
Pastoral Bankers,
Wool, Produce and Grain Brokers,
Stock and Station Agents.
CAPITAL £4,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £3,000,000
PAID-UP £520,000
RESERVE FUND ... £300,000
Approved advances made (at current rates of interest) on Pastoral Pro-
perties and Stock, and on the Growing Wool Clip and Wheat Crop.
Full market rates obtained for all consignments of Wool, Wheat,
Hides, Sheepskins, Tallow, etc., entrusted to us.
Our Show Floors are amongst the Finest in Australia, being all
recently constructed.
Australian Mortgage, Land 8 Finance Co.
LIMITED,
William Street, MELBOURNE-;
BligH Street, SYDNEY ;
Eagle Street, BRISBANE.
The S. M. Herald (9/9/TO), in an editorial
about old-age pensions, conclusively demonstrated
what it set out to show :
If anyone will take the trouble to think this out, he is
sure to see what a grave peril is here involved. Wages
in Australia are at such a high level that, in at least 90
cases out of 100, provision for old age could easily be
made.
And a little further on :
Very great complexities are introduced into the
economic theory of wages by our experiments in indus-
trial legislation, and by the wholly artificial wages scheme
we thus endeavor to create. But these endeavors are
doomed to failure, because wherever we have artificially
high wages we have artifically high prices, and the loss
consumes the gain.
So-
(1) Wages in Australia are so high that the workman
can save heaps of money, and doesn’t, therefore, want a
pension.
(2) Prices are so high in Australia that the high wages
don’t count, and the workman can’t save—and, therefore,
wants a pension ever so badly.
Which leaves it all as clear as mud, and shows the
horrible consequences of having to curse Black and
White in the same breath.
“ What can you expect the Labor party to
know about banking?” the superior person asks.
Well, there was one man, and only one, whostoodup
in the Vic. Assembly about 18 years ago, and amid
jeers from the superior person, told exactly what
was going to happen in Melbourne in 12 months’
time. And it happened. That member was
Laborite John Hancock.
The practical S. Aus. Ministry has run
nearly all the members of both its Houses up the
700 miles to Oodnadatta, the present stopping-
place of the transcontinental rail. They all came
back whooping for the Straight Line to the Ter-
ritory, and delighted with the country. It is
covered with grass, fairly clear of rabbits, and
getting back its saltbush, which the last long
drought so nearly used up. Meanwhile, petitions
are being signed all over Adelaide by Trade,
Commerce and Co., urging that S. Aus. shall
withdraw the offer to the Commonwealth of the
N.T., and make the through rail itself, just as, 40
years ago, it made the telegraph line that linked
Melbourne and Sydney with Europe.
ħ
DUNLOPTYRES
STILL SWEEPING THE BOARD.
Bathurst—Sydney Road Race - - Ist on “Dunlops”
Tlmaru—Christchurch Road Race - First 6 on “Dunlops”
Beverley—Perth Road Race - Every Rider but Bth finished on
“ Dunlops ”
This is One Day’s Demonstration of the SPEED and
DURABILITY of “Dunlops.”
* * *
DUNLOP RUBBER. CO.,
L Melbourne. Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, and Christchurch, N.Z..
L
<5?
-<P A
r
.1
m
¥
DUNLOP GARDEN HOSE
Is now wkmwMfvd to bo tho boot suited to Australian Conditions. It
lasts for years, and does not kink or burst.
Last season we sold MILLIONS OP FEET of this FINE HOSE, and oan
|uvsnt«« satisfaction. If you cannot obtain "DUNLOP” Brand from
your Storekeeper, kindly forward your order direct.
Hlwtmfd RcviaM Mo# U«t
n Appltoatlon.
TTHB DUNLOP RUBBER CO. of Aust. Ltd.
MclMtim*. jlyflntjr, AMiaMa, Nrth, »m»w and WirittahwtH. N.i


A. SAUNDERS’ NEW TOILET REQUISITES I
A. SAUNDERS.
HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver,
Finest Quality Silver, Drawn
Bristles,
20/.
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/, 12/6,
15/, 20/, 25/, upwards.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S SOLID SILVER
CARD-CASE, Handsomely Hand-engraved,
15/6
Without Lid, 12/6.
OUR BEAUTIFUL ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE.
FREE
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S HAIR BRUSH, Solid Silver,
Richly Embossed, Long White Bristles,
10/6.
Other Styles, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
(JLOVE BOX, Pure Silver-plated Mounts, Best
Velvet Finish,
r>/«i
A. SAUNUEJSS,
SHAVING CUP, White Coalport
China, Solid Silver-mounted,
5/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
RE\L MOTHER-O’-PEARL SHELL TRIN-
KET STAND or ASH TRAY, Ebony Base,
Solid Silver Mounted,
4/6
Larger, 8/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
REAL COPPER PHOTO. FRAME,
Oxidised Finish, Handsomely Em-
bossed, Size 6£ x 5 inches, 4/(»■
Other Styles, 3/6, 4/6, 6/6, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
HEAD SALTS BOTTLE,
Pure Silver Screw-top,
Hobnail Cut-glass,
4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
RACK COMB, set with Parisian
Diamonds,
10/
Other Styles, S/6, 10/, 12/6, 15/,
17/6, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
PURE SILVER-MOUNTED COMB,
Embossed Design, Full Size,
*>/6*
Other Styles, 3/6, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6,
Silver-
A SAUNDERS.
HAND MIRROR, Pure
plated, Handsomely Embossed, full
size.
7/6-
Other Styles, 6/6, 8/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
NURSERY RHYME CUP,
Solid Silver - mounted,
White Enamelled China,
5/6
Other Styles, 5/6, 7/6, 10/,
15/, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOBACCO BOX, Solid Silver, Richly Hand-engraved,
Gilt-lined. Self-acting Spring Lid,
Other Styles, SO/,*35/, 40/. 50/, 60/.
A. SAUNDERS.
PINCUSHION and TRINKET-BOX, Velvet
Finish, Pure Silver Mounts,
2/6
is
A. SAUNDERS.
WAIST-BELT BUCKLE, Floral Design, Finest English
Enamel, Richly Pierced, Solid Metal Back,
Gilt Finished, 12/G-
A. SAUNDERS.
'NKSTAND, Pure Silver-
plated, Pierced and Em-
bossed, Cut Crystal Glass
Bottle, size 5x5,
20/
Other Styles, 12/6, 15/6, 20/.
ILLUS-
TRATED
CATA-
LOGUES
FREE.
ON
Y POSTAGE I
THESE GOODS
PAY
WE
ALL
ffiSßmSlimiKSuiiS
A. SAUNDERS.
Two Hobnail Cut-glass TOILET PUFF JAR and POMADE POT, with Richly
Embossed Solid Silver Tops, in Silklined Case.
£2/51--'
Other Styles, 30/, 40/, 50/ upwards.
HAT or CLOTHES,
Solid Silver Back,
Finest Quality
Bristles,
7/6-
Other Styles, 5/6,
7/6, 8/6, 10/6.
A. SAUNDERS. . ,
SOLID SILVER BOOK-MARKER, 3Jin long,
A. SAUNDERS.
HANDSOMELY-EMBOSSED HANDKERCHIEF BOX,
Pure Silver-plated on Nickel Silver, Silk or Gold
lined, Size Bx 7 inches,
£ 3
With Glove Box to Match, £5/10/ the pair.
A. SAUN'DERS:
GENT.’S COLLAR-STUD BOX,
Pure Silver-plated,
5/6
Other Styles, 4/6, 5/6, . /6, 10/6,
12/6.
I
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGARETTE CASE, Solid Silver, Hand-
Engraved, Size 3in x 2in,
12/6-
Other Styles, 17/6, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
HATPIN STAND,
Solid Silver 6in
High, 7/6-
Other Styles, 3/6,
5/6, 7/6.
ILLUS-
TRATED
CATA-
LOGUES
FREE.
A. SAUNDERS.
JEWEL CASKET, Handsomely Pierced and Em-
bossed, Pure Silver-plated, Silk-lined, A 1 Quality,
Other Styles, l7/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
MANICURE SET, Cherub Design, Solid Silver-
mounted, Handsomely Embossed, in Silk-lined
Case, 32/6
Other Stvies.
Other Styles, 10/6, 15/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
MOROCCO PEGGY BAG, Buckle
Handles, Extra Division, Strongly Made,
Well Finished,
7/6.
Larger Size, 9/6. Other Styles,
5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/6, 10/6, 12/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
SCENT PUMP, Solid Silver,
Fancy Cut-glass,
15/6
Nickel, 4/6, 6/6, 7/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
MOROCCO PEGGY BAG, Leather
Handles, Chamois-lined, Extra Divi-
sion, Well Finished,
15/
Other Styles, from 4/ up.
A. SAUNDERS.
TOILET SET, Fluted Design, Sterling Silver, 2
Full-size Brushes and Tortoiseshell Comb, in Silk-
lined Case, £3-
Other Styles, 25/, 30/, 35/, 40/.
1!4. MAKER
SYDNEY’S LEADING JEWELLER.
807.809.811.813.815.81?. GEORGE ST. [ ODDQ3ite Railway Station) SYDNEY*. N.S.W.
tO HSULT//V C
OPTICIAN


; - S
mi
/*%, <&■
gii
*&■
m
Y
w?
‘t'r
«?
m
VtZZ
fcs X M
SSfeP 'ljl/i'l "/. ' #
Sll4s,M,j
£d
\
1 Hi' l
P
#
»?
/'//'
4m
#.
VA
t.
m
«r<
5>
ft
W 3^
I .
zX
i
T
129 Hours Non-Stop
Day and Night Ploughing
“We wish to say that the ploughing done by the 20-h.p. “1.H.C.” Gasolene Traction
" Engine and the one 4, and one 5-furrow “Ontario” Disc Ploughs has been nothing short
of a revelation to us.
“We saw the work started at 7 minutes past 7 a.m. on Monday morning, August Ist. and finish
at 7 minutes past 4 p.m. on Saturday, August 6th. During the whole 129 hours the engine did not
stop for one single instant, day and night, and finished with so much reserve power as to thoroughly satisfy
us that she could have easily hauled another plough all the time.
“In addition to the large acreage ploughed, what surprised us was the condition of both the engine and the
ploughs at the finish—the bearings on the engine being so cool that she might have only been running for a couple
of hours instead of 129 hours, while the ploughs, in spite of the stony ground, have stood the strain remarkably.
“The work has not only been done, but done well, and no one could possibly wish for anything better.
“We are both now thoroughly satisfied that anyone who has large holdings to plough is throwing away
good money by doing the work with horses, because the “1.H.C.” Tractor has proved this to us.”
(Signed)
John Hackett,
Patrick Hackett,
Werribee, Victoria, Aug. 6,1910.
The above letter from the owners of the land ploughed tells in brief the story of a Most Remarkable
Performance, full particulars of which including the certified acreage ploughed, the fuel and lubricants used,
etc., and illustrations of the outfit at work, are contained in a pamphlet which is yours for the asking.
If you have work for an engine of any size, it will pay you to send for this pamphlet
now because all types of the “1.H.C.” are identical in general construction with the
engine that hadn't a single hot bearing after running continuously for 129 hours.
International Harvester Company of America
( Incorporated)
200 Roma St., Brisbane. 37 Broadway Sydney. 545 Bourke St., Melbourne.
17 Bank St., Adelaide. 75 York St., Launceston.
GEO. WILLS & CO., Perth, General Agents
for Western Australia.
(309)
Britisb-flustralasian
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.
/irl POST FREE, jCI per year,
i IH/C in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address—
-115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kings way),
LONDON, W.G.
What Ball-Bearings are to the Cyclist,
Ball-Pointed Pens are to the Writer!
—they go easy, glide over the surface of the paper without sticking or
spurting, and make writing a pleasure. You write on a ball instead of
on a sharp jagging point —that makes the difference !
Ball-Pointed Pens
are sold by Stationers in 6d. Assorted Sample Boxes.
You’ll be pleased with them. Buy a Sample Box.
h
ir APfT T ABTMF THE MOUSTACHE PRODUCER
tSk
GROW A MOUSTACHE !
A man’s frightfully handicapped with a too youthful appearance. If
3'ou cannot grow a moustache, or only a small one, or if you’ve
tried some “sure” preparation without success, then try
CAPILLARINE.
It is a preparation of great value, and has never been known to fail
during the 30 years it has been on the market.
Price 10/6 a Jar, post free to any part of the World.
Craig: & Aitken, 654 George St*, Sydney
Established 30 Years.
s
r
A HUGE SUCCESS!
BIRDX
Custard
Bird’s
Custard with Sruii
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.


Throat Trouble
can be cured
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Throat trouble, acute or
chronic, is cured by Scott’s
Emulsion. Scott’s Emul-
sion permanently cures
throat trouble. This state-
ment is made because hun-
dreds of people have written
to say they were cured of
throat trouble by Scott’s
Emulsion. For example, Mrs.
Theresa Riddell writes, 15th
July, 1909, from 40, Wells
Street, Redfern, Sydney,
N.S.W.:
"I gave Scott’s Emulsion to my son
Harold, aged 12 months, as he was suffer-
ĥ
ing from tonsilitis. In a
short time, the tonsilitis was
quite cured, and he rapidly
increased in weight arid
strength. He is now better in
healtli than he has ever been
before, and owes his complete
recovery to Scott’s Emul-
sion. This trademark was
on the emulsion I bought.
If you wish to get rid of your
throat trouble, and decide to
buy Scott’s Emulsion,decide
also to GET SCOTT’S
EMULSION. You may be
asked to buy another emul-
sion and told it is “just as
good as Scott’s.” Substitute
emulsions can only be sold
on the reputation of Scott’s
Emulsion.
Scott’s Emulsion cures the disease —
no matter the age of the patient—and
will be approved by your Doctor for
Throat Trouble if you ask him.
Of all Chemists and Dealers in Medicines.
“MAN TO MAN”
is the title of a Valuable BOOKLET explaining
the Causes and Cure of
NERVOUSNESS and ALLIED TROUBLES,
which embitter life, and cause premature decay.
A copy of this Booklet will be sent FREE
(sealed) to anyone interested.
London Specialities Agency,
44 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
\
/
X
r Big G >
Borated Goldenseal
Compound » .
i A cafe and simple remedy for \J
f Bronchitis, Catarrh, Hay Fever *■*
f Inflammations, Irritations, ulcer-
ations of ALL mucous membranes
or linings of the nose, throat,
stomach or urinary organs,
i AT CHEMISTS
l Why not cure yourself
\ Treatise with jach bottlo
\ or mailed on request.
Tha Etui Gbemicsl Co.
k Cincinnati, Ohio,
D.S. A, _
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS.—New
Series. IV.. V.. VI. Packet of Twelve, 6d ;
Packet of Ten, sd. Posted free to any address.
Special rates to agents. The Bulletin Office,
214 George Street, Sydney.
“LINSEED COMPOUND.’’ —The “ Stockport
Remedy ” for Coughs & Colds. Of 40 years’ proven efficacy.
The Tie
ħ
i that
?will not
Crease
"IRIS'M
Rea) Poplin Ties
Genuine
without
th ij j
RecM Tab
[IRIS
h
REAL POPLIN
5Hk& Wool.
REC?
Obtainable All Mercers
FOR YOUR HEALTH AND WELL BEING.
f
\ar
The
One
Remedy
that
Cleanses
the
System
pleasantly
and
naturally.
m
OF
%
HAWUIAt COttSriPATION
Qf m.%. tit
KIONCYt, UVCR AMft tOWCU.
» SNO« Mil IONOO* l
Acts
Gently
on
Kidneys,
Liver
and
Bowels,
overcoming
Habitual
Constipation
>"•
£
D
NATURE’S PLEASANT LAXATIVE.
A delightful liquid laxative, and the only true remedy for habitual
constipation and the many ills resulting from a weak or sluggish
condition of the kidneys, liver, and bowels. Pleasant to the taste,
and prompt, gentle, and thorough in action.
Of all Chemists, 1/3 and 1/11.
ĥ
The Ideal Summer
Shoe for Ladies.
Beauty, daintiness, adaptability and ease of fit
were never better exemplified than in the fine
Shoe here illustrated —it is one of the latest and
• most fashionable models.
PRICE 16/6.
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, l/“ extra.
GAZEKA SHOE PASTE, in Black and
Brown, large tin, 6d.
Write for Booklet, “ Shoelight.”
Price
LEEMING’S BOOT STORES,
109 Swanston Street, Melbourne; 257=259 Bourke Street, Melbourne;
303 Chapel Street, Prahran; I=3 Errol Street, North Melbourne, [l
“ LOVELY WOMAN! ”
Is the Name of our FREE BOOK
[3
which tells
thin women
how they
may in-
crease their
weight and
develop in (
i m m ature
bust. It
tells how
thin people
are de -
veloped to
normal.
I
::
0,
DR. FALLIERE’S
FLESH=FOOD”
is a pure, medicated, scientific .bust
developer and flesh builder. Harmless
and efficacious. In average cases
weight can be increased five pounds a
week, and inches are rapidly added to
your measurements. Send 2d. stamp
for free trial sample and free book, or
call if convenient. Hours, 9a.m. tosp.m.
FALLIERE
“FLESH-FOOD” GO
Dept. 5,
Linden Court,
Oastlereagh St.,
SYDNEY
For your everyday use,
and your everyday
comfort, buy . . .
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Toilet Soap,
For you want a soap that is pure
and cleansing, you like a soap that
is pleasant and refreshing, and an
antiseptic soap like this, containing
10% pure Carbolic —an ample
proportion—protects you against risk of
contagion. Sold at Local Stores and
Chemists, in three-tablet boxes.
Makers, F. C. CALVERT & Co,
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
AN EXTRAORDINARY OFFER.
A GENUINE
IMPROVED
LEVER WATCH
For 7/9» Post Free,
(LADY’S or
dENT.’S),
11
r\
6
SECURELY
PACKED,
719
Best Finish Gun Metal Case, Silver Dial,
Glass Dome, Compensation Balance.
Keeps Time to the Second.
To introduce this Splendid Timekeeper in your
neighborhood, we are presenting- with each watch a
Reliable Nickel Silver Chain FREE of Charge.
Send at once to avoid disappointment.
Satisfaction Guaranteed or your Money -Returned.
Williams 8 Co., 261 Collins St., Melbourne
“ mHE Australian thinks in Continents, because
I he is the only man who lias a Continent
to think in.” THE LONE HAND is the only
Magazine that caters for a Continent.
'* AWL-YOU-WANT."
THE GEM SEWING AWL.
EVERYBODY CAN USE IT.
Repairs Bags, Belts, Straps, Harness, Boots, Shoes ; Sewt
2S. Posted.
(Awl, 2 needles,
i reel cotton.)
Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins
etc., etc., with a LOCK-STITCH.
ħ
| Its immense value in repairs to Boots
' and Shoes is now well known, and in
repairs to Bags, Belts, Straps, etc., it
lis the *' Awl-you-want." Thread from the
reel (which may be kept in one’s pocket) is
supplied continuously—a great advantage,
apparent in sevung Carpets, Canvas, Blinds, Tarpaulins, etc:
Needles are interchangeable, extra ones can-always be obtain,
ad. Stout or Fine, Bent or Straight.
PRICE—Gem Sewing Awl (polished wood handle, brass
fittings, brass bobbin, 2 steel needles—l bent, 1 straight—l reel
prepared cotton), 2s. complete, post free. . Extras: Cotton,
sd post free. Needles (stout or fine, straight or bent), 4d„
post free; 2 for yd., set of 8 for 2s. Se.ld postal note to
STAB NOVELTY CO., 22* Collins Street, Melbourne.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Relieves Asthma and difficult breathing.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (except of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insufficiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re.contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
J.M.K. : You think Thk Bulletin is “ in favor
of press censorship of Anti-Socialistic opinion.” Great
heavens—no! We want more Anti-Socialistic opinions
published. The one time when a democratic paper gets
a chance to be really joyful is when it frets something of
that kind to comment upon. Take three recent in-
stances—Parson Rivett on the alleged race suicide of
the white peoples ; J. Currie Elies on the alleged intel-
lectual superiority of niggers; and the Three Holy
Children, who wrote about the alleged drunkenness of
small boys in Sydney. They were most interesting sub-
jects. If it wasn’t for people like them this paper
might one day be reduced to filling up with agri-
cultural articles re bonedust and dry farming....
E. B! David : You are indeed a blighted as«. N.S.W. is
better than Victoria in the way of small settlement, yet
in N.S.W. the average size of a holding in 1880 was 509
acres and in 1909 it was 608 acres. In 1880 there were
940 holdings of between 2000 and 10,000 acres, and in
1909 there were 2705. In 1880 there were 327 holdings of
over 10,000 acres, and in 1909 there were 718. In 1880
the small holdings of 1000 acres or less represented 30T1
per cent, of the alienated area; in 1909 they only stood
for 24"35 per cent. In 1880 the big holdings of over 1000
acres represented 69‘89 per cent of the alienated area ; in
1909 they were 75 - 65 per cent. It is time something was
done. Go and throw your cerebellum at the Salvation
Army. ...H. Howell: Cut out the verses, mark date and
page on them, and forward to Accountant Briago
(V.): Where’s your poet’s license? Unregistered Wow-
ser rhyme burnt by the Religious Editor in the office
crypt C.V.E.: You are evidently full of healthy re-
sentment ; but your bricks are roughly fashioned and
your aim is inaccurate Bellerive: We hasten to
print it before the execution takes place :
At my head the Jew levelled a pistol,
Which aroused me to the fury of Hell ;
Shots were exchanged between us,
And he uttered a groan and fell.
During the scene his artful missus
Managed to slip out the door,
And speedily returned with civilians
And two otficeis of the Law.
I’ve but a few hours to live, sir.
To-morrow I swing by the neck.
May the Lord have mercy on my soul,
A woman my life did wreck.
... .Louis M. : Verses too uneven and low-spirited.
....G.B.A. : The poem about the basket has been
pasted on it: the other items have been dropped
in D.M.M. : You forgot your foot-rule and
your rhyme-testing thermometer, and the poem
is a failure.... M.8.P.: The course is about No-Yes by
No, and you are badly, in need of a reliable pilot who
doesn’t partake of the flowing compliment. You have
warmth but not sufficient skill; also, you seem to be
fairly careless. In one “poem” you try to rhyme
“mourning” with “pouring,” “shine” with “slime,”
and “aghast” with “mass,”... Scarlet Runner: Quite
unnecessary to urge the barmaid in inferior verse to smile
on. Her professional grin will not fade while her teeth
last... .Sceptic : Four sheets of decent foolscap ruined.
Ranji: Descriptive sketch is fairly dull Jam Tin :
Your poem entitled “ Life ” is composed of one or two
old, bald-headed remarks and a bit of dog’s-eared advice,
with a few obscure observations of your own tacked on.
What urged you to rise up and throw darkness on the
great problem in this way ?... .G.R.B. : You are not a
skilful enough rhymer, and we don’t believe that you
kissed all those girls.... The Parson: Both unsuitable.
W.R. (Q.): Willy is a useless lad so far as we are con-
cerned. You neglected to enclose a stamped, addressed
envelope to take him home again.. ..Tweets: Not at all
a bad jingle, but it is rather long and rambling.. ..B.P. :
Guess you had better send it direct to Rose—if there is a
Rose. If the lady is merely a myth, the poetical goods
will probably be left on your hands Lance (W.A.):
It reads like a wet Sunday J.M.D. (Brisbane):
Butchery rhyme about a body found in Morocco
hastily rejected. Don’t drag your corpses so far...
Gripon : Small idea roughly handled...J.M.D.: “Morals”
and “ The Great Question ” dropped almost of their own
accord into the basket.. .Mirboo: The song has the echo
of the axes in it, but it requires a lot more carving
Tom M.: Too crude S.H. (V.): One verse of your Anti-'
Judsong:
Now% Wowser, tell me is it true
That when the gardens you went through
You said you saw a maiden fair—a maiden young with
flowing hair
And seated beside her was a man? Why perhaps it was
her brother Dan.
Walk behind Judkins down Collins-street at some suit-
ably crowded hour and read the poem at him in a loud
voice until he starts to run. Then, still reading, run
after him till he leaps on a tram. Follow the tram on
the box seat of a cab, and continue shouting till your
voice gives out or he gets home. The next course would
be to hire two or three street-singers, or a couple of un-
employed oystermen to stand in front of his house
and sing it to him. We calculate that you could
kill Judkins in three days by this method
H. J. : Sawmill story is hopeful stuff, but not up to print
standard. You may make your beer yet H.M.M.
(Kent, England): Unsuitable T. Daniels (S.A.):
“Prayer of the Rich” too turtle-soupy.-... W.F. (Chil-
tern, V.): Alas! ...JohnM.: “ The Lady’s Help ” is un-
necessarily violent in the last verse, and not very capti-
vating or capable in the first and second. We discharged
her without a reference C.V.E. : Why did you mark
only one line “ rotten?” There are 20 lines together
H.il.: “ Mystic Zephyr” blew on our heated brow at the
end of a long day. It is a refreshing poem, and demands
publicity :
Whence this gentle murmur,
Cause to ponder much ;
Habitat of leafy boughs,
Rare array are they.
Seek the prior tenets,
Ever vain the quest;
Phenomena so weird.
It baffles genius.
Still this airy rumble,
Its purpose withheld ;
Lasts perennially,
Completing a design.
..,.The Hireling : The Judding rhyme is promising stuff,
but it doesn’t quite arrive. It is at its best when it
speaks of the three eminent Wowsers blowing into
Heaven, clad in ‘‘immortal pyjamas.” You forgot to
put your name and address on the MS J.L.N.: The
lamentable old Argus flies to one extreme in prose, and
vou rush to the other in verse. Avaunt, both of you !...
Demijohn : “Treatmentof Travellers in the Backblocks”
was adjudged sincere but dull, and, in consequence, it
was basketed A.F.J.M.: Interred decently, as re-
quested 4x : The fact that no one can say any good of
Bung in M.L. doesn’t seem to alter the general opinion of
Bung’s merchandise L.F. : Commonwealth Public
Service Commissioner, Melbourne Sunbeam: Re-
marks concerning goldfish as big as a man’s finger in
England of no interest. Do you know of any goldfish as
big as a barracouta in Australia ?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
R.S.L. : Picture of two men being hanged to hand. It
isn’t humorous, nor is it a great landscape effect; and it
can hardly be called a notable contribution to religious
art. Probably it belongs to the Hung Meat School.
Though he is supposed to know his way
about in a Stock Exchange deal, Murray’s Public
Works Minister, Baillieu, is in some respects a
simple soul. Lately he circularised the perpetu-
ally cadging municipal councils, telling them they
needn’t waste money in coming to Melbourne to
ask for a new bridge or a culvert —a simple note,
presented by the local member, would do just as
well. Now Baillieu is surprised that the councils
have ignored his hint. Heavens! What does he
suppose a man gets on a council for ? Does he
think an alderman never wants to get to Mel-
bourne?


Beale
Grand Prix
(London)
Pianos.
TO INTENDING PIANO BUYERS
H aving decided that you will only have a piano with the best tonal qualities, and the
BEALE PIANO answering all requirements in that respect, as attested by the award of
THE GRAND PRIX,
you next consider the question of the permanence of the instrument, i.e.> its lasting musical
qualities. Here the BEALE PIANO meets requirements to a greater degree than any
other. By the nature of its construction it is the most durable piano manufactured. In
foreign instruments the wrest-plank, or block which holds the pins to which the wires are
strung, is made of wood, and fitted into a space in the iron frame. In the BEALE.
PIANO the pin-block is cast solidly with the iron frame, and is part and parcel of it. The
strength of the BEALE PIANO, and therefore its durability, is obvious.
The difference in the pin-blocks naturally means a superiority in the tuning system. In
the wooden pin-block the pins are driven in from the front. 1 hey depend entirely upon the
pinch of the wood to hold them against the stress of the wires, whose total strain is about
twenty-five tons. In the Beale metal pin-block the pins are fitted from behind, and controlled
by tension studs on strict mechanical principle. Our tuning system is the only positive and
truly scientific method yet invented. Tuning is the perfection of smoothness and simplicity.
It was for this frame, with the patent pin-block and tuning system, that the
DIPLOMA OF HONOR
(next to the Grand Prix) was awarded at the Franco-British Exhibition. In the 13,000
Beale Pianos now in use there are 2,800,000 pins, and every one acts with precision.
BEALE CO. Ltd.
PRINCIPAL SHOWROOMS—
-378 George Street, Sydney 3 D c.l s o T ° m 107 Swanston Street, Melbourne
291 Queen Street, Brisbane (next G.P.O. —our Only Address in Brisbane).
127 Bundle Street, Adelaide, S.A. 837 Hay Street, Perth, W.A.
Branch Offices at Newcastle, Bathurst, Orange and Qoulburn, N.S.W.; Maryborough, Rockhampton,
Mackay and Townsville, Queensland ; Kalgoorlie, W.A.
TRAVELLERS EVERYWHERE. Write for Catalogue, or for Representative to call.
Head Offices & Factories : Trafalgar Street, Annandale, Sydney.
Cash or Easy Terms. 25 Years’ Guarantee. Repairs and Tuning.
Old Pianos Allowed For. Direct from Factory to Family.
Save Importers’ Profits by Buying Direct from the Manufacturers.


jlllilii
: :
I \
mm
ip
■I
■
i
n
■
£
\
w.
a
a
p®
i...
»
i
V
■
m
mmm
I
szO)
B
; * "T ;■; •••;
M
m
jp
<:
a
»i:
s
I
■• ?a
■*<> ■<**'
r
5§S
■
ft'>
XI:
MMim
-
US
»
•;-:
ft -.
:2ft
H
g£gg£P
: , .
ite*
m
mtm
■a
a
r
&
B
:
i
5H
SU
4
If
o.
H *
m
<C
CO
m
uu
11 'i
CXm
o-
CO
lii
O
O
LU
cC
I*—
JC * <f
LU
C/1
o
<0
«Q
sa
<C
Q>
o
d: ii
■
<c
<
2 <
<
t
■
Q
~
Z
h-:
QC Lii
■5
h-
sz
o
o
in
iu
m
D
cc
to
<
to
«<C
CO
B
Hi
<
©
LU
m
<
an
.>■ • i
i *
.Q-
O .
O
'
1 1 1
v*
QC
<c
Cl.
■: fl.iUlfotJH
TY*
<
Q
Q
».— I-
o <
O
CO
*Q
ro
<
Q •
Hj
>“ .
§»«* •#• '
CL.
o *
o
o<s
nr
O
u.i
«C
nr
5
o *
■
...
O
OFFICES & AGENTS AT ALL PORTS


PRIVATE PICTURE SALE.
Art Lovers, Connoisseurs
and others, Please Note.
THE WORKS of thelate HARRY G. GARLICK, Australia’s Eminent Animal
Painter, comprising Oils and Water Color Paintings, Black and White Drawings, etc.,
are now offered for Private Sale at the rooms of the LOCKLEY LIBRARY,
Bull’s Chambers, 14 MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
Attention is drawn to the fact that, in order to wind up the Estate of the late HARRY G.
GARLICK, the whole of the remaining works of this talented artist are being offered at prices
much below their original value.
Such well-known pictures as “In Time of Drought,” “The Last Furrow’,” “Austral
River Song,” etc., are amongst those offered.
Catalogues and further particulars on application to L. PLOWMAN (Representative of
Estate), c/o THE LOCKLEY LIBRARY.
<*
#■
A GREY MOUSTACHE,
accentuates the lines of the face and adds years to your appearance.
McGEE’S MOUSTACHE DYE
dyes from brown to black in an eminently’ pleasing manner. It’s easy to use—and
undetectable when ymu do use it. Price 3/-, posted N.S.W. free ; Inter-State, 3/2.
McCEE’S CELEBRATED HAIR STAIN, 4/6 and 8/6 A BOTTLE,
posted 9d. extra N.S.W.; Inter-State, 1/2.
ANDREW McGEE
GENTLEMEN'S
HAIRDRESSER.,
5 and 7 Castlereag'H Street, corner Hunter Street, Sydney.
w
0
i
'.*v
1
©
\\\ ww\\\
Ar
W
1
f.4\
/,„. <>
s>
4
m
w
S W >',
\\\
\\N>V^v
V.
©I
:iiiittp|ii*®i
?2»
$ ■ \ • . /#i &/
:<- o'C * 4#^***.
k* wr^i
■ZZ. * / ys&xZ-7' 7
//
«-=• --V •^A'>y
TO
2\
4//. •!> ,1. ■ •!<•
||M V
»
‘Vlltll
3f
in «
ry
'"&! xk
H.iV'l
W'"‘
Jr 1 ) ►:
&
psr
%
•* *'{'
TUG
r
<%
r
'll/)/
WIH
[MI
, /1
V * .
* u* »•
•■At'■:>• ‘
•aS
p 53
KG’
mu
3a£
-V
««&*
?-
o
©
ii
us
'■-Ok
'■"III
r^yyeL'."*
M , '""~" .\\i\\
" ■;.,
<r ;."/ »■• V'”*''* " Wj fw. ,( li/jJIJ
W 0
It's all very well to
Make Hay while the Sun Shines
but the question arises: How to make the Most Hay for the Least Money?
Our stock of Haying Machinery comprises an assortment greater than can be found among the
combined stocks of all other Machinery Houses in Australia.
It includes several Money Savers that are not procurable elsewhere.
Among the lines constantly in stock each in a variety of sizes are:
,c Deering” and “McCormick” Mowers, “Deering” and “McCormick” Self Dump Rakes, “I.HC”
Side Delivery Rakes, Push Rakes, Hay Loaders, Swinging Stackers, and Baling Presses.
A considerable number of the largest Lucerne Growers in Australia are now gathering their crops by
the use of “LHC.” “Side Delivery ” and “Push” Rakes, and stacking them with “1.H.C.” Swinging Stackers,
at a tremendous reduction from previous costs of Harvesting.
Every shipper of Hay who hasn't yet provided himself with an “ 1.H.C.” Baling Press is paying
heavily in waste for his failure to do so.
Every man who cuts Hay whether on a large or small scale should post himself on the advantages
offered by — . .
International Harvester Company of America
( Incorporated)
2GO Roma Street, Brisbane. 37 Broadway Sydney. 545 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
18-20 North Terrace, Adelaide. 75 York Streep Launceston.
ROBT. NETTLEFOLD, Hobart, General Agent for
Southern Tasmania.
(312)
In the Victorian Council of Fat some wild asper-
sions on the character of the State coalfield at
Powlett were recently cast by M'Whae, a hard-
shell Tory stockbroker, who admitted to having
got his “ facts ” from a Private Enterprise source.
On the word of the manager of the Jumbunna
coal mine, M'Whae declared that the-Powlett
area of “useful” coal would be worked out in
seven years if the output were increased to 2000
tons a day. Whereupon the Fatted brethren of
M'Whae mostly beamed with delight, and
reckoned that the commercial impracticability
of Socialism had been proved up to the
hilt. When M'Whae’s information was looked
into it appeared that his informant had
done his level best to get the billet of
manager of the State coal mine in the first place,
however temporary the concern might he. As
regards his report on the Powlett field, the evi-
dence of rival experts, better informed than the
Jumbunna gentleman, is>quite reassuring. The
Government Geologist says that the Powlett area
of “useful” coal should be equal to a yield of
2000 tons a day for 40 years, anyhow, whilst the
manager, who speaks from the position which
M'Whae’s informant unsuccessfully applied for,
declares that the field contains 30,000,000 tons of
coal for certain, and '‘it is only a question of bor-
ing to extend its area.” In short, the weight of
evidence favors tfie hope that Powlett will be
turning out good coal in large weekly quantities
long after M'Whae is at rest with his fathers and
the Vic. Council of Fat has become a shocking
memory of the past.
James William Johnson, who died at Moss
Vale (N.S.W.) on Thursday, was the eldest son
of Robert Johnson, M.L.C., solicitor, and was
one of the first members of the Sydney University
when it was opened in what is now the Sydney
Grammer School, in College-street. Johnson,
jun., was originally in partnership with Sydney
Want; later on the firm became Johnson, Minter,
Simpson & Co., and the senior man only dropped
out about a dozen years ago. In his day he pur-
sued the cricket ball and Costs with about equal
energy, and played for the N.S.W. 22 against the
second team of English cricketers (Parr’s XI.)
in 1864.
“Billem,” concerning a retiring Ma-State
M.L.A.: —
Albert Ernest Collins, who will not negotiate the
Nainoi (N.S.W.) at the coming collapse ot Wadeism, is
really a much more strenuous person than Hansard
makes him out to be. To begin with, he took over the
management of one of the biggest N.S.W. country trad-
ing concerns at the age of 16. That was when brother
Charles was returned by the same Namoi to the House in
Macquarie-street. When he was 21 he and Cansdell.were
partners in the firm (brother Charles had by this time
disposed of his interest). Later, he became sole pro-
prietor. He, the youngest of the aldermen, was Maj or
of Narrabri when the aforesaid Charles was member for
the district. When Charles ceas. d living with great
suddenness, the Namoi called on Albert Ernest to contest
the vacancy. He was too busy at the moment, so Hugh
Ross.filled the gap for three years; and then Albert
Ernest campaigned successfully against Job Sheldon and
John Gately. His innings extends to nine years.


Shipping.
P. and O. BRANCH SERVICE
(late Lund’s Blue Anchor Line).
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and LONDON.
*T\vin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
I,ON DON .. .. .. £l6 to £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL .. £l3 13s. to £3l 10 8 .
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by this Steamer.
BOUND THE WORLD TICKETS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
SPECIAL ROUND TICKETS for return by P.O. Com-
pany's Mail Steamers, First-class both ways, £lll 2s. ;
Second-class, Mail Steamer, £B4 6s.
GILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD., 7 Bent St.
Mkt.bomhnk Aoknts: JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Aium.aidk & Fiikmanti.k Aoknts : GEO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
AUSTRALIA. ENGLAND.
Sailing every fortnight from BRISBANE, SVDNEY,
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, and FREMANTLE.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Ltd.,
l2 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
flank of Rorth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. .. .. £700,000
Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. .370,000
HEAD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydßey Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director :
ADAM FORSYTE!, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: R. It. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD.
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Bankirur Business.
flank of new Zealand.
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, GEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £2,000,000
Uncalled Capital £500,000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £564,134
GRANTS DRAFTS
on Australia, New Zea-
land, Fiji, Great Britain
and Ireland, and other places.
RECEIVES DEPOSITS
at Interest for
fixed periods, and
transacts all other usual Bankinsr busings.
lllAi,
Australian Bank of Commerce
LIMITED.
(Registered 1909 under the Companies Act.)
AUTHORISED CAPITAL - - - £2,000,000
SUBSCRIBED £1,042.960
PAID-UP £958,172
HEAD OFFICE —George and King Streets, Sydney.
LONDON OFFICE—2 King William Street, E.C.
DIRECTORS—PhiIip H. Morton, Esq., Chairman ; Ciias.
H. Myles, E<q. ; Sir William P. Manning, Kt. ; Hon.
Sir Francis B. Sijttor, Kt., M.L.C. ; Rowland H.
Ducker, Esq. ; George J. Sly, Esq., LL.D.
Branches throughout New South Wales and Queensland.
Agencies throughout the Australian Commonwealth,
New Zealand, and all the principal towns of the world.
A. P. STEWART, General Manager.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up .. .. .. .. £513,632 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,449 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 74.500 0 0
£759,581 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE. ~
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day. A«st. Mngr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London,
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
The Qoionial mutual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, £3,.009.090. > ''
lssued 116.154—Assuring £33.388.510.
; Amounts paid to Policy holders, £4,727,264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, lndeleasible.
Premiums moderate and without restriction as to
travelling. Liberal Bonuses equitabtv distributed.
Chief Office for New South Wales:
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
Directors :
The Hoi., C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
A. ROSS MILLER, Resident Secretary.
'THE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
A and
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Coiiins-st., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND (Invested in Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £36.000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C.M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; J. H.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M‘Cracken.
JAMES BORROW MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd., of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Corpn, in Australia.
Directors— Sydney: J. Campbell-Wood, Esq. ; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Ltd.); Hon. W.
H. Wood, M.L.A.; E. Owen Cox,(Birt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia: JOHN GOODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
“ LINSKED COMPOUND * of 40 years’ proven
efficacy, for Coughs, Colds, Bronchitis, etc.
Shipping;
REDUCED FARES
To EUROPE
N ord
BY
D eutscher
L/loyd.
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples,
Genoa, Algiers, Marseilles, Gibraltar,
London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
iv Kitted with “ Wireless ” installation.
* Arriving in London in good time for the Coronation.
To MANILA, CHINA and JAPAN
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL
SERVICE from Sydney and Brisbane, via
New Guinea, by Twin-screw Steamers.
For Passage and Full Particulars apply to—
LOHMANN & CO., General Agents,
7 & 9 Bridge Street, Sydney.
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series. IV., V.. VI. Packet of Twelve,
6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd. Forwarded Post Free
to any address.
TN€ AB€RP€€N LIN€.
Durban, Capetown. Plymouth, and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLINC AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
* Twin Screw, a One class only.
FARES— Saloon. 3rd Oiass.
London .. .. From £57 .. £T6 Os to £2O Os.
Cape or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
P. & O. Branch Service.
Special Return Tickets available for outward passage
by Orient Line—£ll2 (First-class each way) ; £ss
(Second-class Orient).
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge decks.
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of tbe highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE, received onlv on dav of sailing.
PALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
h
Twin-screw Steamers.
MEDIC, 12.C00 tons, to sail about
September 28.
AFRIC, 12,000 ions, to sail about
October 26.
SUE VIC, PERSIC and RUNIC to follow.
Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy and
Submarine Sig’nalliiiff Apparatus.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
FABKS—Capetown or Durban tin 15 0 to £'24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
Melbourne . .. .. 1 10 0
New fork, Boston, Quebec,
Montreal, &c. from 24 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.
LUGGAGK Received Only on Day of Sailing,
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
ĥ
WINTER TOURS
to Papua and the Pacific Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns Return £2O
Sept. 23, Nov. 4 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands Return £2O
Oct. 21, Dec. 2 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) Return £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 Bridge St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales,
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVINGS BANK DEPARTMENT. —INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to ,£25,000 at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT. —CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS.
Full particulars on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
Fistsblished 1817.
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund -
Reserve Liability
Proprietors
DIRECTORS :
£2,500,000
£1,750,000
£2,500,000
£6,750,000
The Hon. O. K. MacKellar, M.L.C., President.
The Hon. Sit- Normand MacLaurin, lit., M.L.C.
Senator The Hon. Janies Thomas Walker.
The Hon. Reginald James Black, M.L.C.
Thomas Buckland, Esq.
Richard Binnie, Esq.
Auditors: William Harrington Palmer, Esq. ; Shepheard Edgecliff Laidley, Esq
Head Office—George St., Sydney. London Office—64- Old Broad St., E.C.
With 305 Branches in all the Australian States, New Zealand, Fiji and Papua ; and Agents and Correspondents
throughout Tasmania, the United Kingdom, Europe, India, China, Japan, and the East, Africa, Canada, the
United States, South America, Honolulu, and the West Indies.
Cable remittances made to, and Drafts drawn on, Foreign places DIRECT. Foreign Bills negotiated and
collected. Letters of Credit and Circular Notes issued NEGOTIABLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
J. RUSSELL FRENCH, General Manager.
Banking-, &c.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales.
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
THE SAFETY PATENT
DEPOSIT BOX.
ri'HIS ingenious device for saving- money and for
encouraging thrift in children may be had from any
branch of the Bank except Moore Street —Price 6d.
When a full box is returned a new one is issued FREE.
Obtain a box and commence Jo SAVE YOUR SMALL
CHANGE—the result will surprise you.
Boxes may be seen and pamphlet obtained at any of
the Bank’s Branches.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
Alexander’s Squash Bottles.
Alexander and
Pateison give
notice that they
will institute proceedings against anyone who makes
use of their bottles which are branded with their name.
They are prepared to give 12s. per gross for their
bottles dirty, packed in straws and comsacks, and
placed free on board Inter-State steamer addressed to
them at Melbourne—straws and bags extra.
CARBIDE.
For First-class Results use Best Scandinavian
“P&RNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can be obtained
from AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
Susiness Announcements.
THE DEMON OF DRINK.
HAS HE
GOT YOU ?
Drunkenness, the curse of so many homes, has for
years baffled scientists, but now a reniedv has been
f )Uiid. Dr. Shaw's Anti-Alcohol (Registered by the
Govts, of Vic. and N.S. W.)isa certain cure—is harm-
less, and can be friven secretly or taken voluntarily.
Advice Free. Write or Call. Dr. Shaw’s Establish-
ments, 54 Russell Street, Melbourne ; 1161 Hav
Street, Perth, W. A. [2
Early Spring'
Suitings.
WE have'made arrangements with our
home buyer to send us fortnightly
shipments, during the season, of the
manufacturers’ latest productions in the
newest patterns, reserved exclusively to us.
We have received the first two consign-
ments, and are showing them at our new and
well-lighted premises in Market Street,
where we shall be pleased to see our patrons.
DAVID BRAHAM 8 CO.,
TAILORS and COSTUMERS,
76 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY
(Next to Farmer’s).
Sole Agents for AERTEX CELLULAR
UNDERWEAR, SHIRTS, etc.
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Qussnsland Ports*
FOR MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transhippinsr at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALDTON (W.A.)
S.S. Kanowna, Sept. 17
(To Fremantle without
transhipment), connect-
ing: with S.S.Koombana,
leaving: Fremantle Sept.
29, for N.-West Ports.
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to o»i rr **-
S.S. Grantala, Sept. 24.
S.S. Yonprala, Oct. 1.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after tbs
first Port of call with other inter-Sbate Companies on ai
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company's Office.
G. S. YUILL & CO., LTD.,
Asrents, 6 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
To VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER,
t Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
* Laundry on board.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
Agents throughout Canada, United States
and Europe—Canadian Pacific Railway Co.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F.—H. —5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “SUFFOLK,**
11,300 Tons. p. Daviks, Commander
Will be despatched from BRISBANE about 20th Sept.
» ii ii SYDNEY 271 h Sept.
MELBOURNE „ 3rd Oct.
» „ ~ ADELAIDE „ 11th Oct.
The saloon accommodation consists of ail two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets issued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and
LIVERPOOL..
£49 10s. £l3‘l3s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. For further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & 00., Ltd., Sydney and Brisbane:
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobart;
McILWRAITH, McEACHARN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELLER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
Hotels, &c.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND.
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., London, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
'EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda., Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria.
G. A <
39
ħ
Points
iSr Inventors
BY LETTER. Reliable informa-
tion and advice on all matters con-
cerning the obtaining of Patents,
and the best means of keeping the
titles thereof inviolate during the term of grant.
If you have an invention and wish to patent it, forward
an accurate description of it, and you will receive an
answer by return of post as to whether it is patentable,
and what will be the cost of completely protecting it (in-
cluding drawings, etc.). No charge made for such report,
and all communications treated strictly confidentially.
A. J. CALLINAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.


!/.
A
“ gUNY I P“
Forest Devil.
The Roots Must Come Out,
as well as the Trunk.
POSITIVELY the hardest work the Farmer, Settler or Squatter is called upon to do is
grubbing. The old method of uprooting dry or green stumps and trees is now entirely
revolutionised by tho introduction on the market of the most marvellous labor-saving
. device for Farmers, etc., ever invented. It is called “The Bunyip Forest
Devil.” This particular Forest Devil is far superior to any other Forest Devil in the market,
m that it is the very essence of simplicity m adjusting and in manipulating. The most
admirable features of “ The Bunyip Forest Devil ” are that it is not only light in weight
and can be moved with the greatest ease from tree to tree, where it can be rapidly fixed and
adjusted, but it is absolutely certain to accomplish almost any task set to it.
The tremendous strain which can bo brought to bear with “The Bunyip Forest
Devil ” makes it absolutely imperative for the tree or stump to leave the ground entirely
roots and all, no matter how big the tree or stump, how long it has been growing, or how
firmly it be rooted in the ground.
Many “land men,” once doubtful of the assertions claimed for it, are now loud in their
praises of the unbounded and entire satisfaction it has given in their case, and in many
instances they have paid for the cost of the machine in a very short while by hiring it to
their neighbors.
Convincing proof of its wonderful power and its durability, the quickness with which it
can be adjusted, the labor and money it saves, will be found in a special and attractive
catalogue Messrs. John Cooper & Sons, 287-289 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne, have just issued.
Copies will be sent free to every enquirer, together with any other information required.
When writing, please mention this paper.
John Cooper 8 Sons,
287-9 Elizabeth Street (opp. St.
Francis’s Church), MELBOURNE.
TWO BEAUT IE S
m onLY
TYRE /
BUILT'on
/CIEfWK
PRIACIPLC
Co£^
/>>,
V
V.
ass
cw
v V :
r-r?
A
; ' ; \
c?
±h
Cy
s
&
m
1U 01
s?
the
/ILVERTOWn
r RUBBER (?
279 GEORGE / r
) /YD HEY
A2X
WOOL
Hosiery <3
Underwear.
gocds
will not wear for
ever. Eut they wi 1 wear
longer than other all-wool goods, because
they never shrink. You do not have to discard
them before they are half-worn because they have
shrunk so much that you cannot get them on. T hat is why
are so much more economical. And they cost no
more than the ordinary.
“Jason” Stockings, Socks, and Underwear for Men, Ladies, and Children.
In all prices. Of Men’s Outfitters, Drapers, and Stores.
If your dealer does not stock he can obtain it from his wholesale house.
In case of difficulty write for "Jason" Booklet and name of nearest Agent, to
Aai Jason Hosiery Co., Leicester, England. <?>
Model “T” Touring Car, 4-cy!., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“FORDS’’are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials :
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
0. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
HEARN E’S
Bronchitis Cure
The Grandest Remedy in the World for
COUGHS & COLDS
ONE DOSE IS GENERALLY SUFFICIENT.
rp HOSE who have taken this medicine are amazed at
its splendid healing power. Sufferers from Bron-
-i- cliitis, Cough, Croup, Asthma, Hoarseness, Difficulty
of Breathing, Pain or Soreness in the Chest, experience
delightful and rapid relief; and to those who are subject
to Colds on the Chest it is invaluable, as it effects a
complete cure. It is most comforting in allaying Irrita-
tion in the Throat and giving Strength to the Voice,
and it neither allows a Cough or Asthma to become
chronic, nor Consumption to develop. Consumption is
not known where “Coughs” have, on their first appear-
SMALL
SIZE:
2/6
ance, been properly treated with this
medicine. No house should be without
it, as, taken at the beginning, a dose or
two is generally sufficient, and a com-
plete cure is certain.
LARGE
SIZE:
4/6
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS and MEDICINE VENDORS, and
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
Forwarded to any Address when not obtainable locally.
N-S.'W. Branch Office : 522 George Street, Sydney.
The Auto Strop
is the only Safety
Razor that can be kept
sharp without the ex-
pense of new blades.
The automatic self-contained stropping arrangement
ensures the keenest possible edge for every shave—
can ot be stropped wrongly —no blade-changing—
nothing to take apart to strop or clean. The
Auto'Sirop
ktToR
Siropsltsel?
k
and is far quicker, handier and cheaper than a no-
stropping razor—finished like a piece of fine jewellery.
The Standard Outfit consists of quadruple silver-plated, self-stropping razor ;
one dozen spec al'y lancet-sti el blades; one horsehide strop; the whole
contained in handscn.e hather case, size 2 in. by 3! in. The price complete is
25-
and no
further
expense.
h
ĥ
You
cannot
strop it
wrongly.
Insert the <tro.p in the
Auto Strop Safety Razor—
move the Razor to and fr
the blade re->er«es automati-
callv j.t the end of ♦ ach ‘■troke.
thus str-ppi e it elf—in c.n
jnstaut jou ha.e a ns.ii edge.
Sold by all high-class dealers. You s:e it
everywhere.
lAMSON STORE SERVICE CO., LTD.,
The Rialto, Collins Street, Melbourne; and
222, Clarence Street, Sydney.
ħ
h
POLKEY MOTOR LAMPS
ALL BRITISH.
ACETYLENE and ELECTRIC.
Supplied from stock. Write for Catalogue.
SCHEELE 8 GIBBBS, 2 Hunter Street, Sydney. Te c it y 64


Some of the recent votes in the Federal
Parliament show that the intelligence of even
intelligent politicians is not always in its
best form. In fact, the wisdom of the wisest
men is likely to fall from mental grace, unless
consistently kept up to concert pitch by
inspiring appeals to D.0.L., the Whisky of
the Wise.*
That Incessant Tickling
In the throat, and all throat and chest troubles
promptly relieved'by Dr. Sheldon’s New Dis-
covery. Price Is. 6d. and 3s. per bottle.*
ĥ
TRY IT IN YOUR BATH
BY
APPOINTMENT
ħ
TO
H.M. THE KING.
SCRUBB’S AMMONIA
MARVELLOUS PREPARATION
Refreshing as a Turkish Bath. Invaluable for all Toilet Purposes.
Splendid Cleansing Preparation for the Hair.
Removes Stains and Grease Spots from Clothing, Etc.
Allays the Irritation caused by Mosquito Bites.
Invigorating in Hot Climates. Restores the Colour to Carpets.
Cleans Plate and Jewellery. Softens Hard Water.
For Sale by all Grocers and Chemists.
SCRUBB & CO., LTD., LONDON, ENGLAND.
None Genuine without the Signature of Scrubb & Co. on each Bottle.
h
IN BANANA LAND
“ C.S.A.” : North Queensland reached the
zenith of prosperity recently, when John Moffat,
mining magnate, purchased a township at auction
for £177. Included in the outfit was a sawmilling
plant (complete). This item, if properly enlarged
upon by the advertising authorities, and handled
in their usual masterful manner, should be an ex-
cellent immigrant bait. A complete town for
£l77—surely Canada can’t offer Bill Hodge any
more than that. /
The Queensland Educational Journal
contains the following highly-suggestive passage :
Nothing undermines confidence and destroys discipline
so rapidly as the spread of an idea that heads of a
Department are amenable to pressure. Members of the
Legislature are sometimes of great help to a Department,
but not when, at the instance of souje interested friend,
they interfere with thefair distribution of appointments,
promotions, transfers or punishments.
Singular to say, Police-Commissioner Cahill’s
last annual report made a similar complaint.
What have the Kid-Philpites been doing lately?
Brisbane is going to have a public morgue
again. It had one before the big flood of 1893,
but that deluge carried the corpse mansion and a
lot of other things into Moreton Bay. The
Government then enlarged the premises at the
General Hospital, on condition that the stray
dead were to be given living room inyat. Now
the hospital reckons that it wants the place as a.
sitting-room or billiard apartment for its own
defuncts, and it can’t spare slabs for outsiders.
The new place will be near Victoria Bridge, pre-
sumably because it is handiest for the Brisbaneite
who desires a cool, moist passing-out. ■*
An Australian census is to be taken on
April 3, and the forms to be used have now been
as good as fixed. The “ card ” idea has got hold
of the Statistician, and that is the most notable
thing about the arrangements for the count. The
whole document is only Sin. x Sin. of cardboard,
but, besides a general one for the householder,
there is to be one apiece for all the people in the
house. On to this small fragment the inhabitant
is urged to put a vast quantity of biography ; so
the inhabitant who owns a J nib and a heavy
hand is liable to get himself considerably mis-
understood. The'Census-taker ‘hinlself evidently
has a horrible suspicion that something
of the sort may happen, wherefore he
has prepared a list of abbreviations, more
or less weird. For instance to the question
“Nationality (political allegiance)” the inhabi-
tant is exhorted to write “P” or “N” if a British
subject; “P,” it transpires, stands for “ Parent-
age ”j and “N” for “Nationalisation,” so that
the inhabitant who doesn’t hang on to the four
p iges of “Instructions” and do some hard study,
may Cause trouble. Still, the only questions that
appear in this census paper which haven’t ap-
peared in a good many others relate to beer and
wages. The inhabitant is exhorted (under a
penalty of 1*50) to say whether he total abstains
or not, and also what work his salary-hook had to
do in the previous four weeks ; but there wasn’t
room to mention four weeks on the card, so that
remark has been also crowded into the instruc-
tions. No doubt the cards will be'-delightfully
easy to handle compared with the old piece of
flappy, crumpled foolscap; but there will be a
worried statistician before the job is finished.
“ San Remo ” : Brisbane has been smitten
with the “Hoop-la” epidemic. Hoop-la is a
game, but not a game of chance unless you
reckon Buckley’s to be, a chance within the
meaning of the Act. All that is required is a
number of cane hoops and mugs (the ones that
grow in the bush preferred). The game con-
sists in throwing the hoops at pegs to which are
attached prizes. Hoops are a penny each. Re-
cently a member of the Queensland Legislature
denounced the game, and called upon the Premier
to sool the police at it. I drew “Hoop-la
Harry’s” attention to these remarks recently,
and the following is his enraged reply :
Er game ev charnce ! Blime, tliere ain’t no charnce in
it. I promise y’ weK'e done everythink we know to
erliminate charnce from ther game. The ’ole bleedin’
trouble is this Socialism. What with er land-tax, er note
issue and No Licence, er bloke might as well peg out. En
Phidston, as y’ call ’ini, is er reg’lar twicer. Fust of all
he tells thet dangerous anarchist what complained that
Hoop-la was perfeckly legal, and then he rats on it an’
sez he’ll consult ther ’Torney-General en see what can be
done, /know—we’ll get ther boot. Ther Johns ’ll he
put wise, en we’ll get 14 days’ notice ter quit. And ns
British subjects, an’ ther King ’ardly cold in ’is coffin.
It’smonstrious. Socialism is rooning this country, an’ a
bloke kin see ther pernicious inflooence of Labor on every
side. ’Ere, take er couple er hoops and see if it’s ergame
er charnce.
I bought a dozen, and I’m satisfied it isn’t a game
of chance. It isn’t even a forlorn hope.
Some bitterness has been caused in the
Queensland Assembly through an angry member
addressing the Speaker as “ Cocky.” That sort
of thing must be put down. If it is allowed to
go on someone will yet slap the Governor on the
back and call him “ Old Boots.”
Queensland’s new rules for the regulation
of artesian or alcoholic bores, provide that none
may spout for more than half an hour at a time,
except on the address-in-reply or on a want of
confidence motion, when an hour is allowed ; but,
with the consent of the other bores, the half-hour
may be extended to an hour, and an hour and a
half is given to the deep well who moves the
second reading of a Bill, and to the leader of the
Opposition or any member deputed by him to be
a cataract in reply. In committee no bore may
spout more than three times on any question—ten
minutes for the first eruption, and five minutes
for the others ; but this does not apply to a geyser
in charge of a Bill, a Minister in charge of an
Estimate or delivering a Financial Statement, or
a member debating a Financial Statement. The
last-mentioned will Vie given an hour, but is per-
mitted to speak only once, and the Minister is
then allowed to blow up for half an hour. The
most cheerful part of the business is that every
bore in the House whoops for the regulations,
but wonders what poor Spouter will do now.
THE THIN OLD TALE.
HENRY THE CLERK: “ Hullo , Bertie , I’m surprised to see you in this hole.”
BERTIE THE CLERK : “ Oh — a — l'm only visiting this kind of place to gain experience, you know.”
HENRY THE CLERK (relieved): “Same here, old chap.”
DISPASSIONATR WAITER : “Same as usual, gents?”
The Queensland timber industry leaped
like an agitated kangaroo last year. According
to the recent report of the Director of Forests,
84 new sawmills were established : 3012 mill hands
were employed; over 100,000,000 ft. of timber,
valued at £665,1550, were cut; and the railway
freight was £180,045. Also, it is alleged, on poor
authority, that somebody planted two trees.
“ San Remo ” writes :
In his paragraph (B. 28/7/10) “ Quail ” sets out to show
me what he knows about the naming of Brisbane’s
streets. Perhaps he or some other old identity will ex-
plain how Tank-street came to bear its name. It is a
short street in the middle of the city, something like
Barrack-street in Sydney. As far as I can learn, Tank-
street was so named in commemoration of the grand
banquet or colossal jag that followed the christening of
the city’s principal streets after members of the royal
family. The proposal to collar the whole nomencla-
ture of the reigning house was such a stupendous
crawl that the citizens of the day thought nothing
short of a royal charter or letters patent or something
would properly record it. When the document or what-
ever if was arrived, it was welcomed with the biggest
spree of the century ; even to-day the old, toothless in-
habitants, who remember the occasion, speak of it with
awe. Beer flowed right along the street, into the river,
and deadbeats floated in it for days afterwards. When
the aldermanie head had subsided, and street-naming was
resumed, Tank-street (where the jamboree took place)
readily suggested itself. And when I look at Brisbane’s
freak streets I come to the conclusion that in the old days
the original population were always tanking. In fact,
the city is wrongly named. It should have been called
Tankedagain.
The Hold of the Churches.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Rev. W. Temple was asked if the Church of Eng-
land had lost its hold on the masses. He replied
promptly: “No! It never had an y."—Clerical news
item.
HAVE the churches lost their hold upon
the masses ?
Have they ceased to elevate the lower
classes ?
Do the worker and his wife
Getqui added zest in life
From the vision of the parson as he passes ?
Do the churches put a curb upon the sweater ?
Do they damn him as a poverty-begetter?
Do they always heave a curse
At the coin within his purse,
And refuse his big donation as a fetter?
Is the grabster by the churches alienated ?
Is his greed by bitter speaking e’er abated ?
When Sir Midas takes the pew,
With his smugly-smirking crew,
Is the bosom of the preacher not elated ?
In the temple is the money-bag berated ?
Is the leper with a bank-book isolated?
In the chapel’s mental span
Is the merit of the man
Never by his power of giving estimated ?
Does the Church, before Sir Div&s never falter?
Does it damn unholy riches —does it palter?
Does it say, with solemn sigh,
That the narrow needle's eye
Can't be widened by a gift Upon the altar ?
Does the plant of goodly fellowship now grow
there ?
Does the poor man on the Sabbath gladly go
there ?
When the curse of Adam weighs
Like a mountain on his days.
Does he find a gentle solace for his woe there ?
Nay—the pickle of the churches is a sad one,
If their hold has not departed, it’s a bad one ;
But we blunder, if we say
That their hold has passed away—
For it’s doubtful if the churches ever had one.
QUEENSLAND.
F. B.
The Northern Line.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THEY are going to build a railway line to
Palmerston, up North,
At least so say the papers day bv day;
From a town in South Australia will the
trains go steaming forth
With troops to keep the Monkey-Men at Bay ;
But Queensland is afraid,
And so is Gregory Wade, i
’Twill
ruin
all
■ the
Commonwealth
. t- unless
like
' th is
-w it’s
made.
They don’t think about the nation when they sit
and plot o’ nights !
Stone-deaf, they cannot hear the leaden hail
That may sweeo the coastal cities ere they’ve
finished with State Frights,
Aird got the bulge upon the long steel trail.
So Fisher, do not fail !
Such lunacy curtail!
And
let ■*
this
down
line
be
the
out-
line
of
? your y -
North-
ern
rail.
VICTORIA.
C.V.E.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, September 10, 1910.
My Dear Thargomindah,—
By way of toning 1 up Brisbane s taste, the
Musical Union broke forth in Elgar’s “ Dream of
Gerontius ” last Tuesday ; and, notwithstanding
that the first storm of the season emptied itself
just about 7.30, the city realised its shortcomings
so profoundly that there was not an empty chair
to hang a dripping hat on. To really appreciate
the masterpiece, one wants to cultivate a stormy
state of mind ; as to saying that one “enjoyed’
it—why, the very notion would be indelicate.
It was, however, elevating, which is what it is
intended to be; and when tenor Newbury had
sung himself out of purgatory, with the assistance
of an angel, the folk fought their way to their
trams with the air of those who have ‘ acquired
merit.” Mrs. R. Bell provided the afore-
mentioned angel with a very sweet mezzo, and
was altogether a very creditable angel. If you
have any work for a mezzo angel 1 don t
know another that I would sooner recommend.
To hark back to the storm, that of Tuesday
was followed by another in the small hours of
Thursday morning. This other one happened in
the Assembly. An attempt to deprive private
members of their lawful grievance-hours led to an
outburst by the politician for Gympie ; and when
he insisted on standing when he should have sat, he
was invited to stand down for a week. This sud-
den ruling heated things up generally, and in
the course of the subsequent conflagration,
Ferricks, of Bowen, denounced Kidston as a per-
son of the deepest dye, who had waxed fat upon
the hard-earned money of the bleeding State.
Whereupon Mr. Ferricks was given a month away
from his judicial duties in which to think over his
remarks. Another member poured out language
such as, I am told, “no self-respectin’ woman
would take even from ’or own ’usband,” but some-
how he escaped without a scratch.
In the annual report of the Lands Department
the Surveyor-General makes remark of the
appointment of three young women to the
draughtsman’s room, and suggests that, even
though they lack field experience, there is no
reason why they may not, with their deft fingers
and artistic tastes, make good draughtswomen—
if they stay long enough in the office and are not
attracted to a “ higher sphere.” What thehigher
sphere in question is the Surveyor-General doesn’t
say. There are two of them, so I understand-j-
-une with the sign of the harp, the other with tlfc
sign of the cradle. But, as I mentioned before,
he doesn’t specify. „
Mrs. Woolcock gave a party on Friday to
several dozen learned folk to meet two
other learned folk, who have- come from
Sydney to tell us things about our baby Uni-
versity. It happened at Rowe’s, and everybody
wore her best hat. The hostess, a dream in
apricot stuffs and black lace, has a way with her,
and her parties are well manned, so that the
gathering was nicely interspersed with black
coats. A cheery American at my table gurgled
with delight because he found a George Washing-
ton hatchet in sugar icing, and imagined it a deli-
cate compliment to the nation that cannot lie, or
cannot tell the truth, or whatever it is. Person-
ally I have an idea that it was a delicate hint to
the learned ones to cut their speeches according
to the capacity of their listeners. Anyway, it
was a very nice, dainty party, and the daughter
of the house looked another.
The long battle in the Ann-street Presbyterian
Church is ended, save for a minor trouble over the
organist. The poor old doctor, broken in health
and heart, receives a tardy salve in the shape of
£35 per month for a year, and the deacons, the
elders and the rest of the congregation are now
at liberty to hunt round for a fresh spiritual bone
to worry.
A little lady who about holds Queensland’s
record as a charity organiser has left the Cold
Land for Australian shores. She fled in a Bull
direction in search of recreation and rest about a
year ago. I thus vaguely indicate Mrs. Abraham
Rertzberg, to whom, with Mrs. Philp, belongs
the honor of the Lamington Hospital F6te, the
greatest financial success of its kind ever held in
this city.
The wedding of Miss Brenda Macalister and
Mr. Middleton passed off successfully, with the
small exception that an excited lamp burst in
upon the proceedings. At the church, the general
public clung like a locust to the sloping gravel
walk, and in the dim religious light the procession
looked like a number of persons struggling along
with a highly decorated and curtained half-tester
bed. Still, that was only in the half-light. In
the full blaze of things, Miss Brenda looked
decidedly charming in ivory satin powdered with
seed pearls. Her merry maids were in cream
frocks and coronets of gold, and carried pedlar’s
boxes of flowers. The bride’s grandfather was
the second Premier of this State, also the fourth
and the eighth. He fought the good fight three
times, but he didn’t fight it very long on any one
occasion.
The Cecil Palmers are about to trip to Albion,
where Miss Palmer is already holidaying, while
the Belles of Coochin—that is the dowager and
the flock—set their faces homeward at the close of
the.year. Mr. and Mrs. Lex Craig, who have
been here for some weeks, go south for the visit
of the S’African cricketers, and thence on to the
Cup.
The De Ruijter, Koningin Regentes and Hertog
Hendrik, of the Dutch East Indian fleet, have
anchored in Garden Reach for a few days, and
the town is thick with square-heads, who seem to
have their own ideas about discipline. They may
improve on further acquaintance ; but at present
—well, Brisbane finds them just a little trying.
Yours affectionately, MARIO.


NORTH QUEENSLAND
IS PLEASURELAND !
I
i
"■' I
: :j: 3
rt
it
jsfe
Sfc^
Jr*
~j^
. ' ''■’
’
£
ft
W - ■ #*.i
I'M
WF : 3
■.
Sdk
fe*
m
‘T'HE Wonderland
of the North calls
the holiday-maßer
all the time. For
combined rail and
steamer fares apply
Railway Stations.


TO DIE OF ECZEMA
She was a Mass of Humour All Over
When Three Months Old—Sat with
Her Night and Day, Thinking the
End Would Come at Any Minute-
Skin Now Clear —Doctor Declares
CURE BY CUTICURA
TO BE A MIRACLE
“I use Cuticnra Soap steadily for my
baby’s skin. She had the eczema when
i/m
L
SET
she was three months
old. She was in an
awful mess all over
her body. We never
thought she would
get over it. We sat
with her night and
day for about a month,
expecting every min-
ute to see her die. The
doctor gave me an
ointment to rub her
with but it did her no
good. My mother was
home from America
and she told mo to try
Cuticura Ointment
and to wash her with
Cuticura Soap. There was a great
difference when I used the first box.
It seemed to soothe her and she slept.
I used three boxes of Cuticura Ointment
and she was quite cured. She has the
purest skin and is the fattest baby now!
She is a miracle, the doctor declares.
I am glad to tell anybody about it.
Mrs. John Ewan, 5, Victoria St. f
Inverurie, Scotland, Sept. 21, 1909.”
Reference: R. Towns & Co., Sydney,
• »
CLEAR SKINS
Through the Use of Cuticura.
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Ointment
afford the purest, sweetest and most
economical method known of preserving,
purifying and beautifying the skin,
scalp, hair and hands of infants, children
and adults, of preventing minor erup-
tions becoming chronic and of soothing
and dispelling eczemas, rashes, itchings
and chafings. Peace falls on distracted
households when Cuticura enters.
A single tablet of Cuticura Soap and box of Cuti-
cura Ointment are often sufficient to cure. Depot*:
London, 27, Charterhouse Sq.: Paris, 10, Rue de la
Chaussec d'Antin: Australia, R. Towns & Co., Syd-
ney; U. S. A„ Potter Drug & Chem. Corp., Sole
Props., Boston. JB®“Post-free. 32-page Cuticura
Book on the Best Care and Treatment of the Skin.
ANTINEURASTHIN
is a nerve food. It cures by feeding and strengthening
the nerves, and not —as in the case of drugs—by stimu-
lating or deadening. Let this point be clearly under-
stood. Antineurasthin is a food—not a drug. The
sufferer from hysteria, from languor, headache, melan-
cholia, insomnia, nervous dyspepsia, neuralgia, or any of
the troubles coining under the head of Neurasthenia,
are each and every one suffering from a lack of the
material of which the brain and nerve system are
nourished and built up, and that material is Lecithin,
which alone can supply the nerves with their indispen-
sable nourishment.
Antineurasthin feeds the brain and brain centres with
Lecithin in an active organic state, and is the only means
known to science of doing this.
A sample of Antineurasthin and treatise on nerve
troubles will be posted to any address in Australia or
New Zealand on receipt of one shilling in postal note or
stamps by the Wholesale Distributor fur Australia,
H. A. GODDARD, Eagle Street, Brisbane. [2
PEOPLE
WHO
ARE
FAT
V
COPILD r«QM ACTUAL* PUQIQCaAPJIS
•09
often fail to fully realize what a tremendous
burden they are carrying. A body intended
to carry ten stone must suffer severely when
constantly loaded with 50 per cent, excess
weight. Dead weight, useless tissue. Why
do you carry it ? Obesity ruins the health.
“Fatcure”
reduces excess weight and cures Obesity.
It reduces and keeps down Corpulence. It
rids the body of five pounds superfluous fat
per week. No drastic dieting or exercise is
required. It is harmless and pleasant to take.
Improves the general health and restores a
good figure., The fat, once removed, does
not come back Send 2d. stamp, or
CALL for FREE TRIAL SAMPLE.
Watworth Co., Suite Jj
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney.
PEARLS.
The Oldest Established Pearl Buyers
in Australia. Establishkd 1880.
m “ HIGHEST PRICES GIVEN.
Send through any Bank for our Inspection.
PROMPT CASH PAYMENTS.
P. KLEEMO &l CO., Ltd.,
Pearl and Diamond Merchants,
3 Wynyatd Street. SYDNEY.
LITTLE
Ailments
SUCH AS
LOSS OF APPETITE, WIND,
HEADACHES, WEARINESS, ARE
SIGNS OF
INDIGESTION
To neglect them is dangerous.
They weaken your system,
because undigested food
poisons your blood instead of
giving you nourishment and
strength, and may lead to
serious illness.
Take Mother
SEIGEL’S
SYRUP
Mrs. N. Durand, 26, Botany
Road, Alexandria, N.S W.,
suffered a long time from in-
digestion and biliousness,
but she says: “ Mother
Seigel’s Syrup thoroughly
cured me of both complaints.*'
THE IDEAL
DIGESTIVE TONIC
FOR ACCURACY
8c DURABILITY
L
ON
THE>
LINKS
BABNET GLASS’
FLITB RED DOT
WHITE FEITB
B.G. SCIENTIFIC
B.G. REMADE
GOLF BALLS
BARNET GLASS
RCBBEiR CV X/F"
231 Clarence Streot, Sydney;
13 Perkins Street, Newcastle.
AND ALL STATES.
Free to Smokers!
Mr. It. J. Hinton, Jerrara Creek, Marulan,
N.S.W., writes: —
“ It gives me great pleasure to inform you that I
have been completely cured of the Tobacco
Habit by your wonderful Tobacco Specific, after
using tobacco heavily for seven years, sometimes
Boz. to lOoz. in the week. It is now 12 months
since I last used tobacco, and, although I am con-
tinually in the 'company of smokers, I do not have
the least desire to smoke, therefore I consider
the cure permanent.
“My general health is now perfect; all my
former complaints, such as irregular Heart
Action, Dizziness, Nervousness and Stomach
Trouble, which I have every reason to believe
were caused through the use of tobacco, have ’en-
tirely 7 disappeared, and are only remembered as a
hideous nightmare. I eat and sleep well, and feel
fit to face the world again. It will give me great
pleasure to recommend your remedy to others.”
FREE SAMPLE.
Send 2d. stamp and we will post you a FREE
SAMPLE of Tobacco Specific, also Booklet, Testi-
monials, etc.
H. SINCLAIR & CO.,
DEPT. G, VICTORIA ARCADE, SYDNEY. [2
MACMILLAN’S
SHILLING
LIBRARY.
Globe Bvo. Is. net per Volume.
Leaves from the Note=Books of
Lady Dorothy Nevill.
Edited by Rai.ph Nevili..
H.M.I. Some Passages in the Life
of one of H.M. Inspectors of
Schools.
By E. M. Sneyd-Kynnersley. •
Tales of Old Japan.
By A. B. Freeman-Mitford (Lord
Redesdale). Illustrated.
At Last: A Christmas in the West
Indies.
By Charles Kingsley. Illustrated.
The Relief of Chitral
By Colonel G. j. Younghusband
and Sir Francis Younghusband.
Illustrated.
Barracks, Bivouacs and Battles.
By Archibald Forbes.
Reminiscences of the Great Mutiny.
Including the Relief, Siege and
Capture of Lucknow, and the
Campaigns in Rohilcund and
Oude.
By William Forbes-Mitciiki.l.
Cawnpore.
By the Right Hon. Sir G. O. Trevel-
yan, Bart.
North Italian Folk. Sketches of
Town and Country Life.
By Mrs. Comyns Carr. Illustrated
by Randolph Caldecott.
Alcohol and the Human Body. An
Introduction to the Study of
the Subject, and a Contri-
bution to National Health.
By Sir Victor Horsley, P’.R.S., and
Mary D. Sturge, M.D. Wbth
a Chapter by Arthur News-
holme, M.D.
MACMILLAN’S
SEVENPENNY
SERIES.
1. The Forest Lovers.
By Maurice Hewlett.
2. A Roman Singer.
By F. Marion Crawford.
3. The First Violin.
By Jessie Fothergii.l.
4. Misunderstood.
By Florence Montgomery.
e. Elizabeth and Her German Gar-
den.
6. The House of Mirth.
By Edith Wharton.
7. Diana Tempest.
•By Mary Cholmondeley.
8. The Choir Invisible.
By James Lane Allen.
9. A Waif’s Progress.
By Rhoda Broughton.
10. John Glynn : A London Story.
By Arthur Paterson.
11. Marzio’s Crucifix.
By F. Marion Crawford.
12. A Cigarette Maker’s Romance.
By F. *Marion Crawford.
13. Nancy.
By Rhoda Broughton.
14. A Strange Elopement.
By W. Clark Russell.
15. My Friend Jim.
By W. E. Norris.
16. The Stooping Lady.
By Maurice Hewlett.
17. Mr. Isaacs.
By F. Marion Crawford.
18. A Tale of a Lonely Parish.
By F. Marion Crawford.
19. Cometh Up As a Flower.
By Rhoda Broughton.
20. Cecilia de Noel.
By Lanoe Falconer.
21. Dr. Claudius.
By F. Marion Crawford.
22. The Solitary Summer.
By the Author of Elizabeth and
Her German Garden.
23. Mamma.
By Rhoda Broughton.
24. Mrs. Lorimer.
By Lucas Malet.
25. A Beleagured City.
By Mrs. Oliphant.
MACMILLAN & CO. LTD
LONDON and MELBOURNE.
Business, Robbery, etc.
Pretty well half the time of Australia’s seven
Parliaments is spent in passing- Bills and Amending Bills,
and Further Amending Bills dealing with the rascalities
of Private Enterprise. One of the rascalities is the
in iking of foot-coverings, partly of leather and partly of
brown paper, strawboard, giue and shavings, and selling
them as boots. This being, at present, a purely State con-
cern, the Australian Parliament can do no more than L
has done, and most of the State Insects are too busy
buzzing in the Federal Government’s ear to bother about
their own work ; but Vic. Premier Weary, for one, has
promised to deal with it “ when he has time." The
chances are that when he does get time he will provide
a fine of about 40s. for the offence. The no-account
shark who issues a Brummagem coin is lucky to miss
seven years ; but if a big Private Enterprise shark issues
the equally dangerous Brummagem boot—well, he is
given a rope that stretches almost to eternity, and when
he is pulled up it is usually with an apology and a small
fine.
* * -i *
“ Puketapu ” : Twenty years ago, before pure
food legislation was in active business, I got a job with
a Wellington (M.L.) merchant, who ran a sort of cheap
market. Tea and fresh butter were his long suits, and
he made much money. I don’t know where he pur-
chased his hulk tea, but by the look of it I nominate the
dustman. It was all the same quality, or, rather, quantity,
and we used to put it up in various fancy packets, the
prices ranging from Is. a lb. to 3s. a lb. But it Was in
butter that he made his reputation. He advertised that
he would be no party to the high prices ruling on the
retail market; that the unfortunate workers were being
swindled by unscrupulous traders; and that, while he
laid no claim to being a philanthropist, the Maker of all
Things Good based His teaching on a fair deal between
neighbors. He (the merchant) then proceeded to make
the goods, and deal it out to the neighbors. He bought
up tons of salt butter and fresh tallow fat and dumped
the lot upon a concrete-floored room, where hot and cold
water were laid on. A special staff was employed in that
room, and nobody else was allowed in. There was the
boss, a big Dutchman, a cook’s-mate who had skedaddled
from a Yankee barque, and a bloke who had seen better
days. I saw the butter-manipulators at work only once.
The Dutchman emptied a barrel of tallow fat with a
shovel on to the floor, and on top was pitched six or
seven kegs of salt butter. While the cook’s-mate sprayed
the mass with water, the others, stripped to the waist,
and with no boots or socks on, mixed it up with shovels,
uppercuts, flat feet and other primitive churns. Having-
got it to a'satisfactory state, they wheeled barrow-loads
to a large bench, where it was shaped into lib. pats,
lightly sprayed again with water and dressed with
parsley. It was then ready for the neighbors, and
looked the type, badge or representation of a
Fair Deal. Shortly before I resigned my honorable
position of barrow-cleaner, the butter staff got loaded
with grog, and the fight that follow ed ivas only equalled
by the gorgeous scrap in which Arminius burst up the
Romans wherefore Augustus used to cry out in misery :
“ Varus, Varus, give me back my legions.” When the
police broke in the door of the Wellington butter room
the boss, the cook’s mate and the bloke who had seen
better days lay amid a wreckage of kegs, barrels and
shovels. Tne only man on his feet was the Dutchman,
and he kept the constabulary, at bay for an hour with
half a cwt. of tallow.
T,; * * * *
“Rod ’’ : The sale signs that stare out of many
Sydney windows just now, recall how one Calico Jimmy
met his Waterloo. .He made a specialty of salvage sales,
and when there was no fire or marine disaster handy,
wasnjt above seizing his left-over stocks and a hose
-wherew'ith to conduct a wreck in the back yard, after
which event he sold the damaged goods to confiding
femininity at a profit of 17 per cent, on invoice cost.
One day he had billed his winctews with placards announc-
ing a sacrifice of goods salvaged from a sunken vessel.
He was sranding outsjde watching the water drying on
the dress-stuffs, when a hard-faced woman stopped and
fingered a length of damp woollen material. As she
sniffed it suspiciously Calico Jimmy accosted her. “Step
right in, madam,” he said. “Genuine sale. The
goods, as you see, straight from the ship’s hold.” The
woman sniffed some more, and finally projected her
tongue and solemnly licked the article. “ Youngfeller,”
she said, “ don’t you tell me no lies. That’s tap water—
fresh!" She moved on with a snort, and before C.
Jimmy had time to assure her that the vessel had been
wrecked in the Cotter, she had passed into a rival shop.
THE CHURCH’S MAIN FOUNDATION.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Recently the Rev. Meredith Morris, Vicar of St.
Thomas’s, Clydach Vale, sent out 242 offertory envelopes,
of which only 59 have been returned. “There are
people,” he says in his parish magazine, “who come io
church because they get their religion on the cheap, and
it is high time they should be shown up. ... lam not
going to spare them. ... If they cannot pay for the
privileges they enjoy , their room is better than their com-
pany."—English newspaper paragraph.
Tne Archbishop of Capetown proposed to take up col-
lections at all the King Edward memorial services.—
News item.
The love of the Fijians for the Methodist missionary
cause w-as shown by their contribution of nearly 8000
s 'vereigns.— Financial statement, Methodist Missionary
Society.
“ It’s money makes the parson say his prayers.”—
Once-popular song.
There’s a lot of human nature in mankind,
And the human-nature student must admit
That the clergy are as humanly inclined
As the rest of us to gain “ a little bit ” ;
For if money makes the motion of the piare,
It seems equally the driving-power of prayer.
And “ Salvation’s ” in the filling of a hat
When it’s clerical of cut, and handed round
With a deftness which takes in the tray and sprat,
While the organs or harmoniums resound,
Or, in eloquent possession of the floor,
Bishop Stole or Brother Sr.iggins asks for “more.”
Here, at least, there’s unanimity in sects ;
Here, at least, we find community of aim.
Priest, or minister, or vicar, each expects
Ready largesse when he formulates a claim.
Small responses cause him scornfully to w’eep
“ People try to get religion on the cheap !”
Ere a requiem be sounded for the dead,
Ere the Bread and Wine of Consecration pass,
Let the coffers of the Church be fully fed—
Coin is metal, anyway, if flesh is grass.
And “ the sinfulness of riches ” isn’t sin,
Save when “ worldly men ” are owners of the tin.
O be thankful that the Fiji folk exist
To have dollars, though they haven’t any breeks ;
To be meek and mild, and mostly Methodist,
For it’s absolutely true that “ money speaks."
And we know how much they love us, as they dash
Into the passing Hat their ready cash.
’Tis good business for the pilot of the sky
To win boodle for his betterment below’,
And I would not criticise him, no, not I,
If he did not cover up his motives so.
Did he only say : “ My brothers, just like you
I love lucre for its ovvn sake ; yes, I do ! ”
For there’s lots of human nature in mankind ;
And the critic who’s unbiased will admit
That the parson’s, like the layman’s, frame of mind
As to money, may be summed up, “ Collar it 1 ”
“God is Love,” the Bible teaches ; but we see
That our preachers read it, “God is £ s. d. 1”
N.S.W.
TALAFKKAU.


Aruott’s MilK Arrowroot Biscuits
"THE CHILDRENS FOOD.”
FROOTOIDS
Cur© Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion, and Biliousness. They are elegant
in appearance and pleasant to take;
they are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the blood, tissues, and internal organs,
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that lead
to and from them. Frootoids are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when any
Congestion or Blood Poison is present,
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use ; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
feelings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested.
Frootoids are a very economical
MEDIQINE.
A dose taken once a week, at bed-time,
is highly beneficial. They act splendidly
on the Liver. A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootoids in-
stead of an ordinary aperient. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
RHEUMATISM
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY.
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
ĥ
GOUT AND
RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
Pills
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
All Chemists and Stores at i/i J & 2/9 per box.
Proprietors. PROUT & Co., 229. Strand.
London. England
* E
P^Eaa
ħ
By using an unsightly device, when
you can obtain Wilson's Common
Serse Ear Drums. They relieve
Deafness and Head Noises, and are
invisible and comloriab'e ; help ears as
glasses help eyes. Hundn ds long consid-
ered past help now hear. If you suffer, why
not get particulars free? Write—
STAB HOVELiY CO,, 129 Collins St., Malbourns.
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
m'
WM
i
MORRIS'S 1
irecWtflhtfi
ciOA*rrr«»
-vlUi/H
6° for’ 10
Loodoo Made. V
HIGHEST GRADE.
Bs pep 100, Post/Free.
MICK SIMMONS, SYDNEY.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
h
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-GAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest lliuminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopted by the N.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and Victoria. Thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
“A POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH."
Post Free 6d. from “Th«
Bulletin ’* Office
fiREME LA FRANCE
mi
&
iv
An Exquisite Lotion and
Cosmetic for Beautifying
and yivin<r Tone and
Brilliance to the Com-
plexion, Neck and
Arms —is mostberie-
i ficial to the skin
when showing a
tendency to be-
come thin, flabby
and discolored.
It softens a hard,
dry skin, and is
perfectly harmless to
7 the most delicate skin,
Price 2/6, Posted 3/-
Obtainable only from
MADAME LEIGH, Hair and
Skin Specialist and Ladies’
Hairdresser, 23 The Block Arcade, COLLINS STREET
ENTRANCE, MELBOURNE.
Free for the Asking.
ĥ
The completcst illus-
trated Catalogue and
Price List of Acety-
lene Burners ever
published in the
States. Shall we mail
it?
Sample Dozen
Assorted Burners,
Post Free, 10/-
Robert C.i>wanB Co. Ltd.
304 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Golds. Loosens phlegm. Allays irritation.
A Pamphlet on INFANT FEEDING & MANAGEMENT (48 pages) free.
THE
9
t
The Milk Foods closely approximate In composition to
human Milk, the natural and therefore best nourishment for
the young infant
They are as easy of digestion as maternal milk, and
provide a perfect diet for the formation of firm flesh and
strong bones.
The Milk Foods are absolutely free from any noxious
germs, and hence are far superior to cow’s milk as obtained
in towns-
No diarrhoea, digestive or stomach troubles need be feared
from the use of the “Allenburys" Foods.
The Milk Foods can be made in a moment, hot water
only being necessary.
The “Allenburys” Foods are so graduated as to provide
the maximum amount of nourishment that the child is able
to digest at the periods of life for which the foods are re-
spectively recommended. For the robust and delicate they
are alike suitable.
ALLEN & HANBIJRYS Ltd., LONDON. * 1 5'” Market Street, Sydney
£3-10-0
And Freight
Pre-paid
to your nearest Railway Station, Queensland, Northern Territory, and W.A. excepted,
provided you order before Oct. 15, 1910—after that much higher, and customer pays freight.
If ordered before Oct 15, 1910, can be shipped to suit up to Feb. 28, 1911.
Above price is for Cash with Order. For Cash on Delivery, £3-15-0 For Four
Months’ Terms, £4-0-0. Guage Wheel 5, -, Knife Coulter 7!6, Rolling Coulter 15J- extra.
10-inch “Red Jacket” Plough 5/- above “9-inch” prices.
These Ploughs are equipped with “soft centre” share and mouldboard, solid steel land-
side with beaded heel Wrought steel beam, frame, and handles.
The splendid quality of the steel used in share and mouldboard enables them to “clean”
perfectly in sticky land wnen other ploughs cause trouble, and to reduce draught in any land.
They are ploughs of positively the highest quality—nothing better can be purchased at
any price.
Prices we quote are below those at which inferior ploughs are sold, and are well worth
the consideration of every man intending to buy a plough within the next six months.
If you require a plough of any kind — single furrow to seven furrow, mouldboard or
disc, walking or riding—send to us for quotations.
We are agents for four of the largest and most highly regarded Plough Manufacturers in
the world, i.e., Deere & Co., Moline, U.S.A.; The Oliver Plough Works, South Bend, U.S.A.;
The Cockshutt Plough Co., Brantford, Canada ; Newell Sanders Plough Co., Chattanooga,
U.S.A. A /
We stock larger quantities and a greater variety of types of ploughs than any other
house in Australia.
Make known your wants to us the Headquarters for all and we promise to fill
them to your satisfaction.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AMERICA
(Incorporated)
37 Broadway, Sydney. 545 Bourke St., Melbourne. 17 Bank St, Adelaide. 75 York St, Launceston.
(311)
9-inch “Red Jacket” Deere Plough.
ħ


Legal Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES.
PROBATE JURISDICTION.
IN the matter of the Estate of JOHN KERIN
formerly of Black Rock near Wellington in the
State of New South Wales hotelkeeper.
PURSUANT of the directions of the Honorable
the Probate Judge of the Supreme Court of New
South Wales made in the above matter NOTICE
is hereby given that on the 15th day of December
19U9 an order was made by the said Supreme
Court in its Probate Jurisdiction empowering the
undersigned to administer the Estate of the above-
named JOH& KERIN who married MARY
DRISCOLL at Mud <ree in the said State on the 3rd
day of February 1880 on the presumption that the
said JOHN KERIN has died intestate since the
year 1887. NOW therefore the said JOHN
KERIN is hereby called upon to come into tne
office of the undersigned and prove his identity on
or before the 10th day of December 1910 and if
the said JOHN KER-IN fails to prove his identity
as provided and no evidence is adduced that he
is still living or that he died testate an applica-
tion will be made to the said Court for an order
declaring that the said JOHN KERIN shall be
presumed to have died intestate since the said
year 1887 and directing,,that his estate be dis-
tributed amongst the persons entitled by law to
same. All persons who are possessed of any in-
formation whatsoever concerning the said JOHN
KERIN are requested to communicate with the
undersigned.
T. W. GARRETT,
Curator of Intestate Estates.
Supreme Court, Queen’s Square, Sydney, N.'S.W.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES. MATRIMONIAL
CAUSES JURISDICTION. No. 7315.
Between GEORGINA TRIBE, Petitioner, and
WILLIAM ALEXANDER TRIBE, Re-
spondent. ■
TAKE NOTICE that the said Georgina Tribe has
commenced a suit against you in this Honorable
Court and is applying for a dissolution of marriage
on the ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse during three years and upwards. AND
TAKE NOTICE that you are required to enter
an appearance to the said'suit at the proper office
of this Honorable Court on or before the sixteenth
day of December next and in the event of your not
doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the petitioner will proceed and the
suit be heard and determined your absence not-
withstanding. A,copy of the Petition tiled herein
may be had on application to the undersigned
free of charge.
ARTHUR WAKEFIELD SIMPSON,
Solicitor for the Petitioner, Armidale.
By his Agents, SLY & RUSSELL, 369 George St., Sydney'.
For the Registrar, JOHN GEO. LEARY, 1,5., .
To WILLIAM ALEXANDER TRIBE. Chief Clerk.
Edison “gent
Combination
Phonograph and
10 Records,
complete, for
£4.
The Edison Phonograph will entertain
you wherever you wish—at home, in the
'drawing-room, on the verandah, or in the
garden. You can take it with you to
holiday camps, to the picnic or to week-end
outings.--It is the. ideal entertainer, at
any time, anywhere.
The Edison “Gem” Combination
Phonograph (which plays both 2- and 4-,
minute records) can be purchased complete
with 6 Amberol (4-minute) Records 4
Standard (2-minute) Records for the small
sum of £4. Get one of these Sets„£o-day.
.
Any Edison dealer will supply you, and
you can have your own choice of Records
from'the thousands included in our lists.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF
AUSTRALIA LTD.,
Dept. B, Kent Street, Sydney.
For the P.M.G.—and others
1. Gambling is trying to . get gain at
another’s loss ; it is a part of a larger whole,
an outward trouble begotten of something
inward — viz., love of money, excessive desire
for gain.
2. Finding money and keeping it and
winning money by gambling, are morally
about equal. . .
3. Betting is, upon occasion, both lawful
arid right; but gambling never is.
4. An opinion worth having is worth back-
ing but let it be done more to show that
you believe in what you say, that you have
the courage of your convictions, than to
make money. Many a battlefield, has been
but a backing of opinion.
5. If all backing and betting were done in
silver coin only, and winnings given to
charitable purposes, there would be increase
both of real sport and of enjoyment from
same, as well as of income to the charities,
with a corresponding decrease of desire for
unlawful gain.
6. If some of the “upper ten” were to
set example as above suggested, same would
spread to the multitude ; and what is now
largely a nuisance, if not a curse, would
become a means of amusement, for all equally
pleasurable and useful. — Advt.
DUGONG OIL
in any quan-
tity, obtain-
able from
H. L. GODFREY, Port Darwin, Northern Territory
%
%
*
A WISH:
Let good Digestion
Wait on Appetite
And Health on Both*
“ Montserrat”
:: Sauce
the basis of which is
“MONTSERRAT’ 4 LIME
FRUIT JUICE, helps to
fulfil this cheery wish.
Jlsk your Storekeeper for it.
| Guaranteed free from Preservatives.
WHENEVER you see a bear with a Con-
tinent on his back, think of THE LONE
HAND. It’s swag is a Continent.
Most doctors from goodness of heart treat some
cases without expectation of payment, but did you
ever know of a doctor who returned fees when he
failed to cure ? The Union Manufacturing Com-
pany guarantee to return LlrtTdWamount paid if
Wright’s Rheumatya yutemedy,.Ahef Canadian
cure, does curi jpur
lumbaEb, or yftdpey /fgoublesfZOrcourse,' this
coiUdinJf/bpb'done 111 ihote \yere many failures,
and^/as Jh matter have been only
thrdeinstances inly/e'years in which the refund
was claimed Hyou send to 299 Elizabeth Street,
Melbourne, the company will give you full par-
ticulars and a copy of the legally binding guarantee
they issue with the remedy The price is only 1
5/6 for a full month’s treatment, that is often
sufficient to cure a severe and long-standing case. J
Amusements.
gUNDAY NEXT, SYDNEY TOWN HALL.
Sydney Professional Band,
THE FINEST COMBINATION EVER HEARD
IN AUSTRALIA.
TOUR OF
Antonia DOLORES
DIRECTION
H. N. SOUTHWELL.
MELBOURNE-OPENING SEPTEMBER 24.
PERTH ; OPENING OCTOBER 15.
ADELAIDE OPENING NOVEMBER 7.
O W N
Direction
HALL, s Y D N E Y t
BENNO SCHEREK.
Commencing SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 17,
PIBST CONCERT
OF MADAME TERESA '
CARRENO
. (Pronounce Ciir-rain-yo)
THE CELEBRATED PIANIST.
Also onTUESDAY, THU R S D A Y and
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 22 and 24.
p r j ees —6s., 4s. and 2s. Tickets at Paling’s.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
W Direction .. WILLIAM ANDERSON.
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 24
(Six Nights only),
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S
FAMOUS DRAMATIC ORGANISATION
in NAT GOULD'S (SERAX) Notable Sporting Drama,
TheCITANCE of aLIEETIME
Popular Prices —3/-, 2/-, 1/- ‘ Booking 1/- extra.
VICTORIA THEATRE, NEWCASTLE,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S FAMOUS DRAMATIC CO.,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 1.
HIS MAJESTY’S THEATRE, BRISBANE,
WILLIAM ANDERSON’S DRAMATIC COMPANY,
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 29.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY,
WILLIAM AND.ERSON’S COMPANY,
' SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 26.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY
Lessee : FRANK MUSGROVE. ;
RUPERT CLARKE k CLYDE MEYNELL SEASON.
EVEKY EVENING at 7.45,
THE AKCADIAJSS.
Nayed by RUPERT CLARKE and CLYDE MEYNELL’S
NEW ENGLISH COMIC OPERA CO.
First Appearance in Sydney of ‘‘ CH ANTE cLEII ’
introduced by THE SHOW GIRLS.
Box Plan at Elvv’s.
AmusemeuSs.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: J. G. WILLI AMSON, Ltd.
TO-NIGHT AT 7.50,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents '
THE ROYAL COMIC OPERA COMPANY
THE ORCHID.
A CARNIVAL OP MUSIC AND MERRIMENT.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices as usual.
Theatre
Direction
ROYAL, SYDNEY.
.. ALLAN HAMILTON.
EVERY EVENING at 8.
HARRY PLIMMER and REYNOLDS
DENNISTON present the new Clyde r itch 1 lay,
LOVERS’ LANE.
Box Plan at Paling’s. Prices-35., 25., Is. All hooked
Seats, ss. Earlv Doors (7-7.30) to all parts, 6d. extra.
Day Sale Tickets, Row’s Confectionery.
PALACE
Lessee
THEATRE, SYDNEY.
.. ALLAN HAMILTON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
ALLAN HAMILTON & MAX MAXWELLS
Dramatic Company in the EamousHuman Drama,
A WOMAN’S REVENGE.
(By arrangement with Bland Holt, Esq.)
Original Scenery by the late John Brunton.
Prices—3s., 25., Is. (Booking Fee, Is.). Box Phn at
Elvy’s. Day Sale White Rose. Early Doors to All Parts,
6d. extra.
pm he glaciariu m, sydn e y.
■ Opposite Railway Station —Where all Id. tiamsstop.
BIGGER, BRIGHTER and BETTER THAN EVER!
W E ST’S PIC TU R ES,
“BEST OF ALL.”
Proprietors—Wests, Limited. Mgr. Dir. :T. J. West.
DE GROEN’S VICE-REGAL ORCHESTRA.
6d. to 2/- Plan at Nicholson’s (Fee, 6d. extra).
the. uyceum ..
I FVFRY EVENING AT S ——
M ati nets -Wednesdays . Saturdays amd Holidays at Z 00.
Cpencer'shTeatrekok <?.
J PICTURES
Sg&JgZgZ V^rV.'SSiC
Tivoli theatre, ay«« & ■.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mil, Harry Rickards
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS
MDE. LYDIA YEAMANS TITUS, High-class Vocalist,
assisted by PROF. FRED TITUS, Accompanist.
THE QUEALYS, in Farcical Comedy, ‘Fun in a Kitchen.
THE AUSTRALIAN GOLD DIGGERS, by a Quartette
of Leading Vocalists (Messrs. A. Sharpies, H. Poweh,
E. Harrison and J. McKellar).
BERT TERRELL, Dutch Comedian and Yodeller.
TOM DAWSON, Popular and Favorite Comedian.
PRICES—3s., 2s. and Is. Plan at Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards.
POWELL & VESEY, Duologue Entertainers
LIEUT. FRANK TRAVIS. MARJORIE DEAN.
MORRIS CRONIN AND.PARTY, Jugglers. o
' GRACIE GRAHAME.
GODFREY. JAMES, Singing Collier.
FANNY POWERS, Mimetic Artiste.
DONNELLY TRIO, Song and Dance Artists.
FRED BLUETT and HIS BOY SCOUTS.
Plan at Allan's. ffgf PRICES 3s, 2s, Is.
THE KINO’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager — William Anderson.
A TREMENDOUS SUCCESS.
William Anderson’s Famous Dramatic Co.
in a New and Picturesque Australian Drama
of Sporting Life,
THE WINNING TICKET.
Magnificent New Scenery and Effects.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES-Ss, 2s and Is.
HER MAJESTY’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson, Ltd.
SATURDAY NEXT, SEPTEMBER 17,
Mr. J. C. WILLIAMSON presents his NEW LONDON
COMPANY in the Greatest of Drury Lane Dramas, in
THE WHIP.
! A SERIES OF SENSATIONAL-SCENES,
SUPERLATIVE SPECTACULAR EFFECTS.
Plan at Allan's. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, Is,
Theatre royal, Melbourne.
LAST SEVEN NIGHTS.
MATHESON LANG and HUTIN BRITTON in the
Enormously Successful Play, _
PETE,
, Dramatised from Hall Caine’s Famous Play,
“THE MANXMAN,”
Plans at Allan’s. PRICES AS USUAL.
pRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
JULIUS KNIGHT, KATHERINE GREY,
and a Brilliant Supporting Co.
S ‘ _ —IN— ’ ■
HENRY OP NAVARRE.
Prices as Usual.
Plan at Alim’s.
U/EST'S PALACE, MELBOURNE.
the best WEST’S PICTURES, THE best
OF ALL. LIMITED. OF ALL.
Managing Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & All Holidays at 2.30.
Tiie Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in the World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Anv Moving Pic ure Worthy of Note always to lie seen at
YVEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. to 2s. Box flan at Glen s.
——— —w-r
IVI
ELBO U R N E
TNG
ARIUM,
ICE-SJR
EVERY {AFTERNOON
AIN U
EVENING.
XA/IRTHS ©L-YMPIA-
XL EVERY EVENING AT S ——
MATiMEts-'WEDHtsDAYS. Saturdays and Holidays atz ou.
na
SUPEKIOfI ro /Tlt_
Popular Prices Plan as_ij&ual-_
ATHEN/EUM HALL. ME L BOjO-ff N E
Lessees J. & N. TAIL
J.tN.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchestra. I Jans at Allan s.
Of late the Vic. honorarium has been get-
ting in some great work on the minimum wage
laws. The other day he had to deal with a shirt-
making employer who had been paying a member
of that most-sweated class, the outside workers,
considerably less than the fixed rate. It wasidt
any use the sweater pleading ignorance in this
case, because he was a member of the Wages
Board which had made the award. But there was
really no reason why he should trouble to plead
anything ; for the wretched administrators of the
law fined him 10s —probably less than he
made in a day by his sweating. The next
time an amendment of the Factories Act is before
Parliament the Labor party should bring up these
cases, and make an effort to have something like
reasonable minimum penalties fixed. Failing
that, reasonable jug should be fixed.
The imminence of a Federal land tax has
made John Forrest an angry old person emitting
loud sounds. Almost every day he explodes in
some fashion like this: “ There are 44 Labor
members in the House of Representatives in favor
of the Bill, setting their opinions against 349
members of the Legislative Assemblies of the
various States who are against it. I regard it as a
piece of arrogance—and would apply a worse term,
if it were Parliamentary—on thepart of the Federal
Parliament to dictate to the legislators of the
States in the matter.” To the ancient screamer
the fact that a majority of the people are favor-
able to the tax doesn’t matter in the least; all
his concern is for the 349 hostile members of the
various Assemblies. Of course, they are not all
hostile, or anything like all; but John in ins
wrath jumps at conclusions with both feet.
“ A Public Servant’s ” remarks :
George Brodie, who has been the worry of the N.S.W.
Public Service Board for months past, and who has been
on “ extend j d leave ”at the rate of £BOO a year, lias
been temporarily provided for in the Lands Department.
Brodie’s case shows how difficult it is for the public ser-
vant to get our of the service. As one time Inspector-in-
chief of the Treasury, and next on the list for the billet
of Auditor-General, he somehow became Asylum-
director at £BOO per annum, which was quite out
of his old line. While pursuing asylums, there broke
out, with suppressed fury, a shindy between him and
a very big subordinate. It ended in tire abolition
of Brodie’s office, billet or job. Since then, part of
his time has been spent in “relieving” other officers;
and the rest of it has been just plain leave. Now he has
been fixed up as acting-accountant of the Lands, while
Victor Cohen is on long leave. The difference between
Cohen’S salary of £550 and Brodie’s £BOO will, of course,
have to be made up. When Brodie was chief in-
spector he reported Cohen to the P. S. Board, but
after a tremendous clawing-match, Cohen hung on to his
billet. Now Brodie will keep the office tidy while Cohen
goes holiday-making for nine months. At the end of
tnat time the Board will presumably have another
wrestle with the problem, “ What shall we do with our
Brodie ? ”
“ Brassbound ” runs up a string of flags: —
When one puts to sea in an oil-launch, it is as well to
know how to make a distress signal, in case the engine
goes off t,he boil And refuses to give its life-like imitation
of a bare individual being smacked. morning re-
cently four venturesome lubbers oiled their way through
Sydnev Heads aiid squatted several miles out on the
chest of the blue Pacific, with the intention of having a
good day’s fishing. They put in half a'dav at the grisly
sport of shark-catching. Then they found that one of
the accumulators was not feeling well, and that
the engine would not chastise the ocean any more
until it was fixed. As the defect could not be
remedied, fishing was abandoned and signalling for
help began. A coat and towel tied to the end of a pole
was waved from the top of the cabin while daylight
lasted ; but so far as the wavers could see, the perform-
ance went unnoticed. And the sea was getting perilously
rough. At nightfall, a flare was constructed witli cotton-
waste, a quart, of kerosene and a broom handle. This
device wAs flourished at the eastern edge of Australia for
long, anxious hours whilst waves rushed snarling out of
the darkness and kept the mariners’ nerves on edge. They
hadn’t forgotten the sharks caught in the early part of the
day, and they had no lifebelts —merely an empty kerosene
c ise amongst fourof them. In between times they roared
as loudly as they could at about 30 steamers; but the
Pacific roared louder than they did and the steamers all
fled past them. The cockleshell rode the blow out and
the pilot steamer stumbled om.He""derelict at 6 a.ill. |
When the South Head signal-master was asked about the
matter he explained .wearily that he had seen the flare
and had spent an hour asking it questions with the Morse
lamp, and h id also burnt blue lights, bub had received no
intelligible reply- As boats frequently stay out all night,
he concluded.that this one didn’t intend to come home
till morning. Regarding the tbwel flourishing, the man
of signals waxed indignant, and remarked that if they
had flown an ensign upside down, tp-y would have been
understood and brought iii immediately!--.Either the voy-
agers didn’t know this or else there was no ensign, blue
light or other-signalling apparatus on board. The annoyed
official also asked why the people who brave the sea with a
few pints of petrol don’t either learn how to make a dis-
tress signal or take the trouble to carry a pair of oars and
a sail in case of emergency. The water-police recently
p anted out that the stpall, heavily-laden motor-boats
that stagger cheerfully/across the rollers, where they
gallop between the Heads, are practically inviting the
ocean to trample them down and provide a nice, damp
sensation for the evening paper. The still more venture-
some pint-pots that stnpck their way.right out the front
gate and half-way to. the horizon with nothing more
buoyant on board than a kerosene case, and without
knowing how to make the proper signs for help, appear
to be almost too wild a proposition for any marine
authority. The people who do these things should be
haled before the Children’s Court.
I —4.
“7T.H.” writes :
Please consider this extract from last Monday’s
paper:—
“The Prime Minister stated on Saturday that he never
expected the Federal capital vote to go through ‘with-
out a bit of a flare up.’ Yass-Canberra is a pretty site,
and if the Snowy River was there it would beat them all.
Personally I prefer the previously selected site. At the
same time, there must be some finality to the question,
and what is the capital site question compared with
others that face the Commonwealth? It is after all a
very small matter.”
“ It is a pretty site ’’—that is to say there are a lot of
grass and a few trees there, just as there was once a
picturesque rustling forest where Paddington (Sydney)
now stands; and when the grass and trees have been
sacrificed to make room for streets, Yassb'eria will’ be
just the same as 27,000 other places. Anyhow Andrew
Fisher, now appears, on his own 1 definite statement, as a
min who is voting persistently against his conscience,
against his beliefs, and against what he regards as the
country’s interests. He poses as the man who drifts.
That lias beeii the trouble all along. The Labor men,
like Hughes and Watson, who preferred the had site that
was close up to their own city of Sydney, fought for it like
wild cats ; while the Labor men, like Fisher, who wanted
the site that they reckoned best for Australia, made a
languid scrap on its behalf and said that, after all, “it was a
verv small matter.” It is a pity that didn’t remem-
ber that it was a verv small matter when Hughes was put-
iin.r up such a Home'ric scuffle for Yassberra’, and tell him
either to stop filling the air with dust over trifles or to
<.-et out of the Ministry. And, if the capital
question is such a very small affair, it is an
especial pity that Fisher should ‘self his political
soul ovpr it by voting against his beliefs ; the world has
a certain tolerance for the man who turns dog.on his
beliefs for a big prize, but the one who does it for the
sake of a thing which, fie says, is of really no account is
merelv pitiable. But, after all, is the matter so very
trivial ? According to whether the selected site has great
or few possibilities, the Federal city may be another and
a better London, or a new Paris without its poverty and
its blood-stained record, or a second New York without
its misery, its corruption and its slums; and, on the
other hand, it may he a revised edition of Parramatta.
It may be Athens at its best, or Cow Flat in its ordinary
condition. It may be worthy to be the world’s one conti-
nental capital, or it may be only fit for a suburban aider-
man to live in. The man who says such a thing is a very
small matter ” has the imagination of a pawnbroker and
the brilliant fancv of him who sells tripe, not because he
is forced to sell tripe, but as a matter of preference.
Mrs. Elizabeth Austin, the founder of the
Austin Hospital for Incurables, at Heidelberg
(Vic.), died at Barwon Park, Winchelsea, re-
cently, aged 89 years. She had a family of five
sons and six daughters. It was to the pioneer
Austin, of Barwon Park, that Australia is sup-
posed to be indebted for the rabbit pest. Two or
three rabbits came out with the First Fleet, but
apparently they were kept in captivity. Any-
how, rabbit dropped out of Australian history for
many years before the bunny plague came.


The Waybacks Again.”
Another
stack of
joy and laughter about the famous family, Is,
4
*
FOR
INFANTS,
INVALIDS,
AND THE
AGED.
FOOD
Wherever there is a
case of enfeebled diges-
tion, whether from ad-
vancing age, illness, or
general debility, there is a
case for Benger’s Food.
When the stomach becomes weakened, the digestion of ordinary food
becomes only partial, and at times is painful, little of the food is assimilated,
and the body is consequently insufficiently nourished. This is where Benger s
Food helps. It contains in itself the natural digestive principles, and is quite
different from any other food obtainable.
All doctors know and approve of its composition, and prescribe it freely.
The British Medical Journal says : “ Benger's Food has, by its excellence, established a reputation of its own."
BENGER'S FOOD, LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, Eng.
Benger's Food is sold in tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere. 831
*
PRIZES Value £2250
IN THE
8-HOUR
ART UNION
AND SPORTS
(Under sanction of the Attorney-General). Drawn Oot. 29,1910.
Ist Prize, value £5OO.
3rd Prize, value £lOO.
2nd Prize, value £250.
Arid 207 other valuable Prizes.
The First, Prize last year was won by Mrs. J. Sawdv, Warner
Avenue, North Bondi, for the modest outlay of ONE SHILLING.
Results of Drawing will be advertised in this paper on November 3.
To any person forwarding stamped addressed envelope, a list of
the results will be posted. Tickets may be had from Ajrents in all
towns, or direct from
JOHN TRAVERS, Secretary,
Trades Hall, Sydney.
* COAGULINE, ’ ‘ KLINX, ’ ‘ TENASITINE ’
■Cements for breakages, manufacturing purposes, etc.
Australian Magazine. THE LONE
I HAND, the National Monthly. Price 6d.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE SPRAY WATER PISTOL.
Durable, Reliable and Perfectly Safe.
h
Will atop the most vicious
dog or man without
permanent injury. In-
valuable for cyclists, un-
escorted ladies, cashiers,
night-watchmen, homes,
etc. Has more effect on
beggars and tramps than
a watch-dog. Reloading
unlimited. It creates great, amusement for young
and old. Length 5 inches, nickel-plated and nicely
ornamented. Price 1/6 post free'anywhere.
NICKEL-PLATED CHANGE PURSE.
Beautifully chased, and guaranteed to wear white
throughout. Will hold any of the coins, as illus-
trated”, and will also take sovereigns and half-
sovereigns in the 1/- and (id. compartments, and
pennies and half-pennies in the 2/ti and 2/- com-
partments. Split ring attached for affixing to watch
or key chain. Price, po-t free anywhere, 1/2.
THE “JOKER” TRICK MATCHBOX.
The box can be filled with matches, and then closed,
and, to the amazement of your friends, upon re-
opening' the box, the matches have completely dis-
appeared. A great joke on cadgers, who, upon
begging a match, are shown the empty box, and the
next moment, if the owner chooses, he may help
himself to a match from the same box. Strongly
made of polished nickel, and can be carried in the
vest pocket. Price with full directions, 7d. post free.
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
H. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box'3, Haymarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
Schute, Bell & Go.
LIMITED -
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices :44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow f etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in the interests of their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
=£3B
75
AGENTS:
Melbourne—T. R. (Jones & Co.,
366 Bourke Street.
Brisbane—Elliott, Donaldson &
Douglas, Ltd., 108-110 Eagle
Street.
Adelaide—Lord & Heseltine, 90
Pirie Street.
Launceston—John McKenzie &
Co.
Hobart—John Ferguson & Co.
" OLD
ORKNEY
WHISKY
£sr
TSS
" The Whisky of
Age 6 Flavour
Made in the
old-time way.
And We hold a
10 Years ’ Supply
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London,
Proprietors of STROMN ESS "DISTILLERY,
ORKNEY, SCOTLAND.
BOOKS YOU CANT GET ELSEWHERE
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1008 edition, ‘2s Od posted. Merrie
England, 6d. How to Get Rich, is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is Od. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How to Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted-
Thurston’s Card Tricks, Is 2d. All Zola’s,
including Nana, Is Gd each, posted. Educating the
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made Easy, Is. Up.-to-
Datf. Comic Reciter, Irish Comic Reciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. Bell’s Standard Eloci;-!
tionist, latest edition, Ss Od posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is Od,
Joys of Life, Is Od. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is.
Window Ticket Writing Explained, ls3d. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt. Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. .Carver’s Tricks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, Is 6d. How to
Make Love, Is post free. Fowler’s Science of. Life,
10s 6d. Aust. Miners’ Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Book of Fate
(Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price 1,8 ; post, Is 3d. Devil
in Sydney, Barmaids, Bald Heads, etc., Is 2d post.
Equality, i)d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) Is
pnsted. Sandow’s Book iof Strength, 3s posted.
Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted. Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of tiie Hod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), scarce, 11s. Practical Gas and
Oil Eng. Handbook, ss. Not Guilty (Blatch-
ford), 9d. The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
GOd and My Neighbor, 6d. Britain for the
British, 6d. How to Read Faces, Is 3d. How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle of Love, 2s. French Polishing
and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
How to Make Sweets, Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Tricks with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. .Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
ĥ
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, 1s 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CAIiDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-working for Ama-
teurs, Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is 3d. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Games), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, 5s 6d.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Ts
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-'
to-Date, Is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made Exsy, Is. posted. Kelly, .Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, Is; post
Is 2d. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s 6d.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
UNBRACING
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK.”
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, athou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in-and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor : Every Man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped tiie Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. Tiie Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, Heptameron, and many
others, all at 2s 6d each posted. Bride of tiie First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don’t be fooled into paying more.
Compare my prices with others and
save yOur cash. iOT~ Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot—
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS ADVT.
♦
Write for my
gig Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OF ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY. BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Up, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks witu Cards, Is. Sappiio, genuine,
is. Old Bush Songs, Is 3d uost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s 6d.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
Is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. fid. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. "Vest Pocket
Dictionary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingersoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, Is 3d post free. G. W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. Tiib Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. N ervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1000 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing, Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s 6d posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is 6d posted. The Age of Reason, by Paine,
posted, Bd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
The tale of “Scarlet Runner ” :
One man who has no time to be a coward is the daily
press reporter. When the danger happens along he just
drags out an old bit of copy-paper and roosts calmly on
the edge of the proceedings, thinking how much time
he’ll have to get his story up before the foreman printer
starts in to throttle the sub-editor on the question of
space. On a recent Sunday night the steamer South
Africa, with 300 tons of explosives on board, took fire in
Port Adelaide. A reporter of one of the dailies,
walking into his office, was met by the night sub
with the following casual remarks: “Just received
telephone message that a ship loaded to the lid with
explosives is afire in the river at Port Adelaide.
People flying for their lives. Town expected to be
blown to blazes or somewhere any minute. Better get
down.” The pressman didn’t even wait to say “ So-
long” ; he just scooted for the scene of impending de-
struction and sudden death as fast as he could. And
while the firemen were pouring tons of water into the
place where Judgment Day was reaching to press the
button, the man of letters was quietly collecting news
for what was expected to be the remnants of the sub-
scribers to his paper. If he thought about himself at all
ir, was to hope that, supposing the explosion did send all
hands sky-high, be would land in the vicinity of
the office sufficiently conscious to write up his notes.
The firemen have been adequately rewarded for
their bravery by large public subscriptions, but the
pressmen who were on the spot got as much credit as
they claimed—which was just none. The daily paper
man is always supposed to be in the van when things are
happening—all sorts of things, including fires, explosions,
battles, mad dogs, murders, hangings, epidemics, devils,
ff" ids, and people falling off roofs. And the public just
tikes him for granted.


©
National Arms Co.’s 12- or 16-Gauge D.8.8.L. Gun,
reinforced breech, top lever, full rebounding, bar interchangeable locks, Greener cross
bolt, extension rib, left full, right modified choke, 30in. special steel barrels, pistol grip,
walnut stock, engraved, weight of 12-gauge about Gflb. to 71b.,
of 10-gauge G-Jlb. to Glib. DELIVERED,
67 6
We can supply this Gun in 20-gaug’e, at /4/- extra.
We are the Sole Agents in N.S.W. for the above Gun, which has been made to our own specifica-
tions, and therefore can thoroughly recommend same as a cheap, reliable weapon.
Harrington & Richardson’s
5.8.8. L. Gun,
12-g :i u ge, top
action, solid case
hardened locks,
decarV)onised steel barrel, 30in. pistol grip, walnut stock, weight
about Gilb. Gun can be taken apart, same as an ordinary Double
ħ
Barrel drun.
Non-Ejector, 23/6 ; Ejector, 25/-
Postage—2/6 N.S.W.
4/8 Inter-State.
Our
Special
Snaps.
Send for our Illustrated
Sports, Fishing and
Tobacco Lists, FREE.
h
"THE MAINE ~
f?if!e
Shewing Pi fie Apart.
’ THE MAINE ” S.S. Rifle
designed for 22 short, long, or extra long cartridges, Rim
is a take-down, and can be taken apart easily and quickly, by simp y
unscrewing the thumb-screw located underneath the fore arm. -tbe action
used on this rifle is of the safety bolt type, and is exceedingly simp con-
sisting of very few parts. The barrel is round, 18in. long, bored and n e
with the same care as the military weapon, and guaranteed
accurate to 300yds. ; weight 31b., fitted with plain \ bade
sight
Or with Winchester Sliding Sights to 300yds.
Postajre on one Riffle —1/3 N.S.W. ; 2/2 Inter-State.
12/6
15f-
ĥ
REMINGTON RIFLES, No. 6 Model,
22 Calibre R.F.’, 20in. round blued
steel barrel, weight 3Jib.,
Or with Sliding Sights
16/6
21 /-
Postage—l/6 N.S.W. ;
2/8 Inter-State
MICK SIMMONS
Head Depot, HAYMARKET, SYDNEY, N. S. W.
Branches Hunter Street, Newcastle ; 273 Darling Street, Balmainj
197 Oxford Street, Sydney; Church Street, Parramatta ; 113 King Street,
Newtown.
ħ
MELBA
the ACCORD EON with
The Mellow Tone.
Is just perfection for song accompaniments,
Dance and Picnic Music. The organ-like
tone of these instruments is attained by the
use of Bell Metal Reeds which are hand
fitted and tuned.
3 Popular Models.
THE ORGAN-TONED MELBA
8 sets Bell Metal Reeds, price 22/6, postfree.
THE DANCE KING.
4 sets Eell Metal Reeds, price 30/-, post free.
THE PICNIC MODEL.
2 sets Bel! Metal Reeds, price 15/-, postfree.
Other Models from 7/6 to 40/-
Catalogues Sent Free.
ALLAN & CO., 276 Collins St., Melb.
S. SMITH & SON’S
(LTD.)
SMfTH&SON
9. STRAND
LONDON
rENT
mmm
From 5 Guineas.
Perfect
SPEED
INDICATORS
ARE FITTED TO
Over 20,000 Caps
AND HAVE COVERED
200,000,000 Miles.
IN USE ALL OVER THE WORLD.
LARGEST MANUFACTURERS OF
SPEED INDICATORS, MOTOR WATCHES, MILOMETERS,
PETROL-METERS and MOTOR ACCESSORIES.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue. Special Terms to Shippers.
9 Strand, London.
WOOL,
Grain, Hides, Furskins,
Fat Stock or Store Stock
WILL BRING GOOD PRICES ALWAYS
WHEN THE SALE IS ENTRUSTED TO
New Zealand Loan 8 Mercantile Agency Co. Ltd.,
SYDNEY
Small Lots and Large Lots receive the same careful attention.
The British & Colonial Aeroplane
Company, Limited.
Directors.
SIR GEORGE WHITE. BART.
SAMUEL WHITE, J.P.
G. STANLEY WHITE.
Bankers —THE BANK OF ENGLAND.
Builders of the British
Zodiac Aeroplanes
\J>
DJ
Uoe •***
“Zodiac” Biplanes
50/60 h.p. - - Price £l,OOO.
“Zodiac" Monoplanes
25/30 h.p. - - Price £5OO.
\tT Vo,
ve
Terms—One-third with order, balance before delivery.
Delivered F. 0.8. any port in Great Britain in one month from receipt of order.
Write for Catalogue and full particulars.
Offices and Works - - BRISTOL, ENG.
Flying Ground - SALISBURY PLAIN (W. D.)
Telegrams: "AVIATION. BRISTOL.” Codes—A i, A.8.C.. and MOREING.
COOLS AND REFRESHES THE SKIN
LAIT LAROLA
Invaluable
forfheSKlN
in HOT
orCOLD
climates.
Removes all
IRRITATION
andTAN.
Lait
aro
Peg
Sole
Makers
M.BEETHAM &SON,
CHELTENHAM,ENGLAND.
Gives a
Perfect
Complexion
Soft
as
Velvet.
LAIT LAROLA
VERY' SOOTHING AFTER SHAVING
MILLERS
SSM
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
5/-
Length, 12 Inches.
POST FUEL.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
fMention Tiie Bulletin.! [4
V
s?
*
%
5^5
Send in your Application
NOW. .
Absolutely FREE
r yiViON
(Drawn from Photo)
“ The
Champion
Senior
Phonograph
List Price,
£6/10/-.
A FREE PHONOGRAPH
FOR—YOU!
Owing to the enormously increased demand for our Records
as the result of our last Distribution of Free Phono®
graphs, we have decided to GIVE HWfIY a further
ONE THOCSHND PHONOGRHPHS FREE.
You may choose the machine you prefer from our various
styles, including our latest and best,
“ The Champion Senior,”
exactly as illustrated, which is listed at/6/io/ and Guaranteed
for 5 years.
How can we afford to give away these expensive
machines without charge ? The explanation is a
simple one. We hold and control enormous
= stocks of Records. Now, we propose to give
vou the Phonograph to create an increased demand for our Records. Do you see our reason Now ?
We will send one of our “ Champion Senior” Phonographs Free «f any charge
Whatever to any respectable and approved person applying if you agree to give a practical de-
monstration among your friends and comply with the conditions we send in response to
your application, in respect to the distributing of our Circulars and Price Dists, and
the use of our Records. &c. Full .particulars of our method of Free Distribution sent
to each applicant. Write at once to
j v,uv/ii
Anglo-Australian Importing Co.,
Opposite G.P.0., SYDNEY, New South Wales.
No. 2
CUT THIS OUT
and Mail to the
AN GLO-AUSTRALIAN
IMPORTING CO, SYDNEY
I hereby make application for
full particulars Of your EREE
PHONOGRAPH DISTRIBUTION as
advertised by your Company.
Name
„fS '■
Street ....
Town... State... ..........


&
i
m
i
is
Rexona is a specially prepared remedy
for Chilblains and CracKed Hands. It
was designed particularly to cure these
complaints, and can be relied upon to do
its work quickly and effectively.
My husband suffered greatly from Chilblains for two
years,” writes Mrs. Maus, 5 Harvey Street, Richmond, Vic.
They were very painful, and he could not sleep because of the
pain and itch. He tried Rexona and was relieved at once,
and in a week's time the Chilblains had completely
disappeared,”
" I had terribly chapped hands, they were just like beef
steak, they were so raw looking,” writes Mrs. A. Deakin,
118 Cobden Street, South Melbourne, Vic. “I was so bad I
could not do my house work or washing. The pain was
excruciating, 1 tried all sorts of ointments on my hands day
and night, but it was no use- At last I tried Rexona and
that ointment healed them rapidly. My hands are now
thoroughly cured.”
You will find a cure for your Chilblains and Cracked
Hands in Rezona, the Rapid Healer.
©xona,
Sold at 1/6
per Pot, and
in large pots
holding
nearly four
times as
much at 31- J
The Rapid Healer
Allcocks
Plasters
APPLY
Wherever there is Pain.
n
XT,
m
Pains in the Chest
Coughs, Colds, Weak Lungs.
Allcock’s Plasters are a preventive
as well as a curative.
Rheumatism in the Shouider
Pains, Stiffness or Soreness in the
joints or muscles. Relieved by
the use of Alicock's Plasters.
SOLD BY CHEMISTS EVERYWHERE.
Brandreth’s Pills
The Great Blood Purifier apd Tonic.
For Constipation, Biliousness, Headache,
Dizziness, Indigestion, etc. Purely Vegetable.
Established 1752.
ALLCOCK MANUFACTURING CO,, BIRKENHEAD, ENG.
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
and by all the Champions of the World, fast and fancy. RICHARDSON
SKATES have held all World’s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.
Richardson Ball-Bearing Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S.A.
"RICHARDSON’
h
CHICAGO
Buyers of
Horrockses
LONGCLOTHS and
MADAPOLAMS
GRAND PRIZE
FRANCO- BRITISH
EXHIBITION, 1908
G. & G. 603
have a guarantee if HORROCKSES"
name is on the Selvedges, that they
are getting the very best that the
Old Country Produces.
Decline all Substitutes.
Sold by all First-Class Drapers and Storekeepers.
THE ACCORDEON for Country Residents.
ĥ
We don’t believe any Accordeon conies
so near perfection as the Celebrated
STAR Trombone Accordeon.
It ha.s a powerful tone, handsome ebonised case, extra
larjre bellows protected by steel corners ; 2 sets of extra
broad steel bronze reeds. Patent Rotary Celeste Stop.
Price £l,
Postage to any Address
in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Extra quality, with 3 sets of Reeds, Celeste and Organ Stop,
10-tnld Bellows with steel corners. Price £1 7s. 6d •
postage to any address in Australia, 2/6 extra.
Other Accordeons from 7/6 to 100/=
HEINDORFF BROS.,
Importers of Pianos and all kinds of Musical
Instruments, Watches, Jewellery, etc.,
210 QUEEN STREET BRISBANE
The Lone Land Calls.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
THE Lone Land is calling for the hammer
and the drill—
lor the engineer and fitter and the factory
and mill.
Can’t you hear her a-calling with a voice to lift
and thrill ?
The Lone Land, our own Land, is calling to her
sons.
The L be 6 Land yearning for fche bigger days to
For the Nation all puissant, with its ships upon
the sea.
The Lone Land is reaching with her call to you
and me—
Through the air Australia’s message like a
battle-anthem runs !
The Lone Land is asking for our service here to-
day—
For our hammers on the anvil and our cruisers
under way,
The Lone Land is calling ; shall her children say
her nay
When she calls for ships and iron and for steel
and shotted guns ?
The Lone Land is waiting for the builders and the
strong;
For the masters, all-courageous, with their earnest
toiling song—
Ihe Lone Land is calling. She has waited very
Are the Nation-Makers lagging, are they blind
and deaf and dumb?
The Lone Land beseeches—give her iron, give
her steel, 6
Grive her railroads, ships and dockyards with the
clang of plate and keel,
Give her seaports, give her service from her
children true and leal—
Give her strength—our strength and effort ere
t the Days of Battle come !
The Lone Land is calling in the stillness of the
night—
Hear Australia supplicating when the stars are
spilling light—
Hear the Commonwealth a-calling—let us work
to keep it White,
For the foes are on the water and I hear their
battle-drum !
1 he Lone Land is calling for the engines and the
rails,
For the dog-spikes and the sleepers and the smoke
that lifts and trails.
The Lone Land is yearning, and her ceaseless
song assails—
Tis the song of Faithful Service and of fighting
Will To Be;
The Lone Land is urging with a long, insistent
urge—
Tis a cry that lifts the spirit with a strong,
exultant surge;
’Tis a song of work and vigor, not a threnody or
dirge—
’Tis a paean of her glory in the Mighty Days To
.oe !
Ihe Lone Land is craving for the throb of steel
and steam,
The Lone Land is calling for the furnaces a-gleam.
Ye who hear her, rise from slumber—let the sloth-
ful sluggards dream
Whilst we work and whilst we worship with our
skill and energy !
The Lone Land is singing of the Days that lie
ahead—
Of the splendor and the glory when the Elder
Lands are dead ;
Of Australia fair and fearless, freedom-crowned
and chapleted ;
Of the New Republic shining through the years
of death and gloom.
The Lone Land is chanting with a voice all men
shall hear.
Heed the message that she carries; heed her
anthem full and clear—
’Tis the Song of Strength and Labor, Song of
Hope and Fighting-Cheer;
Tis a Song of Marching Forward whilst the
laggards find their doom !
The Lone Land is sending from her heart and
from her lips
Songs that call for armored legions and for speed-
ing battle-ships—
Sending songs that throb with meaning, songs
that sting like sudden whips—
Songs, methinks, of blood and battle when the
great Armadas loom !
The Lone Land is waiting. She has waited very
long,
Let her children work and worship, they are reso-
lute and strong.
Let us build her up a Nation serving Truth and
hating Wrong.
Let the roaring foundries echo with the Song
Australia sings—
Song of People swift and eager, going forth with
axe and drill;
Song of earnest Nation-makers toiling on with
stubborn will;
Song of Working Men and Women making offer-
ing of their skill—
Ha, the anthem of the dockyard where the
hammer lifts and swings !
For the Lone Land is calling. Shall we send her
back a moan ?
We will build Australia’s bulwarks, we will make
for her a throne.
Ha! * he , Arm y Marching Forward .'—ne’er a
doubt and ne’er a groan,
When the New Australian Nation all its
strength and vigor brings !
victoria.
GRANT HERVEY.
Some New York Theatres and
Sundries.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
A DOWN the “Great White Way,”
which is the New York name for Broad-
way—though it isn’t as broad as Collins-
street, Melbourne—l went, and I found it not
white, but colored. At night it roars and rackets
—buried railways whirring under the streets, sur-
face cars -racking and clatter-ingon the street level,
uid yet other railways on stilts howling at the
height of the first storey, so that the late return-
ing joyster may see whole families going to bed.
It’s the maddest, noisiest place in the world, be-
cause the Car Company owns New York, and no-
body tells it to lay good streets, or to keep track
grooves and flanges below the level of the street,
or to put in points and crossings which won’t
shriek and thunder like a 10-head mill whenever
a car passes.
Broadway is a drunkenness of incandescent
lights. They pick out the lines of the Singer
tower in electrics. The dome of the Would office
is a blaze of light; the clock tower of the Tribune
is a circle of green ; and on the top of an 18-storey
building opposite the City Hall appears the sar-
castic notice in letters of red fire, “ Home Life.”
There is a great deal of home life about an
18-storey building, but it is the home life of an
anthill. Broadway is almost as light a street as
San Francisco is a city—San Francisco, which
lights bulbs by the million, apparently to show
that a hundred thousand bulbs, more or less, don’t
matter.
Beyond Union-square and Madison-square the
trees and the arc lamps are as great shrubberies
with Brobdingnagian fireflies in the branches.
Further north, however, the madness really
begins. There are lights in white and color that
whirl and run up and down and play alternately,
ihey blaze and black out. A cat of light pursues
a rat of illumination up the face of a 14-storey
building, and the rat is always running up and
the cat always chasing it. And that is merely to
advertise that somebody’s chewing-gum kills
bugs. There are lights that wink and sneer and
dance until the human eye is irritated ; but the
human eye and the human being that owns it have
no rights in New York. The advertising fiend
and the street car divide the Bird of Freedom.
Theodore Roosevelt—the noisiest advertiser of
them all—takes the remnants. 1
In that part of Broadway which is stuffed with
hotels where they charge like the Light Brigade,
and restaurants where not-rich people go to prac-
tise the snobbery of advertising that thev do not
value the little money they have, and "theatres
that look as if old Jerusalem and Petticoat-lane
had transported all their people to New York
there are madder electric signs still. One shows
a man outlined in electric bulbs perpetually tak-
ing off and replacing an electric bulb hat, lifting
it with an incandescent arm from an incandescent
head. All the theatres go in for these moving
picture signs. The air is blurred and on edge
with the making and breaking of circuits and the
whir of lights in and lights out; so that at last
you are driven into a theatre or a cellar to rest
your sight. It reminded me of that fairy-story
dog that had eyes as big as cart-wheels. All over
the city there are picture shows that go continu-
ously from 10 a.m. to 11 p.m., and God help the !
pianist, for he seems never to be relieved. But
the picture show must go. Here it is already
half-gone. Variety entertainments have to be
given between films to keep an audience. And
its about time. The impossible aeroplane films,
and the tabloid melodrama, and the comic fool on
the runaway bicycle—they, are going. In the
picture shows here you can buy the best seat for
a shilling and stay in for 12 hours if you like. The
picture is essentially a toy—and it is a toy that
tires in time. Somebody once paid somebody
£lOO a week to shriek Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay,”
and the fact astonishes us to-day. Similarly, the
one-time popularity of the flickergraph will be-
come but a surprising memory.
The theatres of New York are practically in
the hands of the Frohmans, Klaw and Erlanger
and theShuberts; and the theatres of the U.s!
have mostly gone the same way. The ticket
speculator is everywhere, and the managers appear
to be in with him, though they deny it. “The
Mikado,” put on at the Casino, hits been such a
success that the speculators mopped up the stalls
and a two-dollar seat (Bs. 4d.) sells for four and a
half dollars (18s. 9d.). An acquaintance of mine
paid £1 17s. 6d. for two stalls of which the pub-
lished price was-16s. Bd., or Bs. 4d. each.
In the rottenness of the productions appears
the reason for the existence of a Dramatic Cen-
sor in England. The license given or taken here
is sufficient, to call for desperate remedy, such as
the appointment of Judkins, Hume Cook, Mau-
ger or Snowball as censors. There was a shocking
thing, called “The Girl with the Whooping
Cough,” produced at a principal Broadway theatre,
and it was so shocking that the police stopped it.’
Yet it is easier to turn a constitutional sneak into
an honest man than to shock a New York police-
man. I didn’t see “ The Girl with the Whooning
Cough,” but I did see a filthy thing called “The
Merry Whirl.” It had no story nor music nor
humor, and therefore it had to be frankly in-
decent. There were girls dressed in one article
of underwear only ; girls who wore corsets and
had forgotten almost everything else ; girls who
went to bed without a nightdress; and so on.
The people who were responsible for this would tell '
you that they play down to their public ; but they
couldn’t rise to the level of their public if they
used an aeroplane. The people want the better
stuff, if they can get it. “ The Mikado,” revived
here six weeks ago for a three weeks’ run, is to be
removed to another theatre in a fortnight more
though the cast is indifferent and the manage-
ment is bad and the stage is so small that the
chorus is all bunched up till its effect is lost.
I had two dollars’ worth of it the other night,
and wondered what an Australian audience would
have said to it. In this New York production all
Gilbert’s color-scheme is thrown away. The
second-act chorus is dressed as if for vaudeville,
the ghastly “Geisha” imitation foolishness being
grafted on to the originals. It is actioned like a
vaudeville, and its producer is apparently a
vaudeville man.
Gilbert and Sullivan, under the guises of merry
men, were two great philosophers. Gilbert’s
merry philosophy becomes buffoonery at the
Casino. Ko Ko is more like the Widow O’Brien
than anything else. A giggling Mikado dances
like a corner-man in a minstrel show. A Katisha,
made up pretty and showing so many bril-
liant ivories that she. has to cut out the line about
the tooth that stood alone, introduces local hits.
I think if Gilbert had been there on first night he
would have executed the lot.
There’s a Parisienne here who is drawing great
money in a variation of the dreary old Apache
dance. She has a 13in. waist and a mop of hair
a,nd an appallingly large mouth and no beauty.
She wears boots almost to the knees, so that you
can see them when her skirt lifts. She dances
with a burglar, who is trying to rob her, and finally
she stabs him as they waltz together. Before that
happy ending, though, the burglar has danced
with the lady clasping him round the body and
under the arms with her legs ; and this makes the
thrill.
You see the Apache girl at a matinee and
“The Merry Whirl” in the evening, and then
stay up all night washing -yourself.
RANDOLPH BEDFORD.


TRAINED NURSES
DAILY USE ZAM-BUK
and recommend it to their patients.
PUII
Kj
IN’ the course of her duties the nurse
is brought into contact with every
description of skin injury and com-
plaint. She is also brought to fully
realise the need for a reliable healing
balm which can be applied to diseased
and wounded skin with every confi-
dence that only good will result.
The fact that hundreds of nurses daily
use Zam-Buk in the course of their pro-
fessional duties is further proof, if such
were needed, that in Zam-Buk the
public is furnished with a safe and
reliable healing balm and skin-cure,
the purity and power of which cannot
be denied. Zam-Buk is not only a
powerful skin-healer. It is strongly
antiseptic and germicidal, and so forms
the ideal protection for the skin against
disease germs. Below we quote the
opinion of three of the many trained
and qualified nurses who have written
in praise of Zam-Buk.
NURSE SMITH,
SYDNEY.
NURSE
SMITH,
residing in Underwood Street, Paddington, Sydney, says‘-After exten-
sive experience I; can confidently say that Zam-Buk is the Best Healing
Balm I have ever used. In my professional work 1 often have urgent need
of -it, as, because ofTts great antiseptic virtues, I find it unequalled for
use in cases where dangerous symptoms threaten, as in the after-effects of childbirt
“Personally, I have used Zam-Buk for a very severe burn on my hand, caused by a
box of matches exploding whilst I was striking a match. The pain was excruciating, and,
fortunately, having a pot of Zam-Buk in the house, I smeared the balm all over my hand.
The burning pain was at once soothed, and in a very short time my hand was quite better.”
NURSE XOHMANN, of 156 Jersey
Road, Woollahra, Sydney, a professional Ladies’
Nurse, of 43 years’ experience, writes: —“I con-
sider Zam-Buk uniquely superior as an antiseptic
application for poisonous wounds, ulcerated sores
and cuts of extensive nature. I always use Zam-
Buk in my professional duties for lacerations in bad
cases in childbirth, and I find it soothing and mild
in action, and an efficient healer.”
NURSE LAWSON, of Evelyn Street,
Balaclava, Melbourne, writes: —“As an all-round
healer for all descriptions of home hurts I consider
Zam-Buk invaluable. I have proved it of ffreat
utility in cases of cuts, corns, warts and other skin
troubles, and have never known it fail to soothe
and heal the daily home hurts and family mishaps
so common in every household. I publicly re-
commend Zam-Buk to all.”
Zam-Buk is unequalled
for eczema, bad legs,
plies, eruptions, cuts,
bruises, burns, scalds,
etc. Of all chemists and
stores at 1/6, or 3/6
family size (containing
nearly four times 1/6).
6
4
NEEDS
home
p OT.
IV£RY
THE.
QUESTION of the DAY.
The question of to-day,
of to-morrow and of
every succeeding day is
HAVE, YOU USED PEARS’ SOAP ?
If you Have not, you Have not
done your duty by your skin and
complexion. If, on tHe otHer Hand
tHat is, on HotH Hands, and on tHe
face, and on tHe skin generally-you
HAVE used PEARS, you can feel
Happy, for you will Have done tHe
best tHat possibly can be done tor
tHe skin’s HealiH and beauty. THere
can be no question about tHat.
PEARS Has been making beautiful
complexions for nearly 120 years.
PEARS
Matchless for the Complexion.
Veiled.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
SOJOURNER of the peaks divine,
No gusts of human folly sweep,
Fenced from the shadow and the shine
That dapple Life’s disastrous deep.
Hushed is the world-heart’s stormy beat,
Earth’s clanging discords faint and fail.
In holy silence round thy feet—
O, Sister of the sombre veil !
To steadfast eyes undimmed of tears,
And lips that have no boon to crave
From largess of the laughing years
That flit like shadows to the grave,
Rise there no ghosts of “ Used to be ”
To mock the quest of Holy Grail
By guarded glance and suppliant knee?
O, Sister of the sombre veil!
Noon-glooms to dusk—the desert days
Slip slow by prayer-enchanted leas;
Pale pilots of the parted ways.
Wan warders of the Silent Keys.
In catacombs of twilit years
What fear forms frighted passion pale?
Or Jesus’s cross or Mary’s tears ?
O, Sister of the sombre veil !
O, Woman, is thy smile a mask ?
Life cries for more than bread to eat;
“The daily round, the common task,”
Are these beatitude complete ?
If faith be first I stand aghast
In outer dark beyond the pale
Of thine, the first faith and the last—
O, Sister of the sombre veil!
VICTORIA.
MARIE E. J. PITT.
The “Matukuing” of Mere Tane.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
MATUKU is Maori for “Crab Yer
Luck.” Matulcu is illimitable. There
is no one capable of diagnosing matuku.
The victim! makes a statement, and if he has
sufficient influence with the tohunga or the boss
chief something violent and painful happens to
the one who “ matukued.” Possibly he has his
allowance of waipiro cut off by order of the
potentate. In the mad, bad old days allegations
of matuku sometimes devastated whole districts.
This is a story of the old days.
’Tvvas in the hoary-headed past when Maoriland
was a country with a future and no public debt to
speak of. The art of high finance and frequent
borrowing was hardly understood in those crude
Dimes, and a Government surplus would not have
been recognised if it had paraded the streets of
the capital. But there were blots on the land-
scape. The old “ Mean but Mighty” Steamship
Company was one of them. Its boats went
everywhere,'and its minions infested every hole
and corner of the country. Lord ! how we slaved,
from office boy to sea captain, for the enrichment
of the owners and a pittance for ourselves. It
was a glorious example of the benefits of Private
Enterprise.
We were battling nor’ard of Gisborne in the
ironpot misnamed the Beautiful Belle—the “ M.
but M.” owners had a happy knack of satire in
their nomenclature —on our usual round of the
bays. It was a miserable business, all surf-boat
work—shipping wool, landing stores, with often
a boat capsized, and sometimes a dead man under
the boat. The purser was the company’s agent,
and the settlers’ trader, and many things beside.
He mostly took a fatherly interest in his clients,
advising the ladies of the latest fashions, or dig-
ging up a name for the new baby, or encouraging
the men-folk to peg away and grind a competence
out of the wilderness. Bellingham was purser of
the Beautiful Belle.
We had called at Nukutihi and Awarua, and
our next port was Monogle’s Bay, called
Vjy the natives Utu, which means revenge.
I knew but little of Monogle, and that little was
not to his credit. He was a wild-brained indivi-
dual who, on his arrival from England, had pro-
ceeded to vermilionise the towns. Later he had
acquired land at Utu, and except for occa-
sional outbursts at Waipiro or some other place
where the cult of Bacchus was the only ritual
tolerated, had stuck to the business of growing
wool. He was quite incompetent, and lost money
steadily. Then one day a lady arrived in
Wellington and booked a passage by the Belle to
Utu Bay. She was Monogle’s fiancee from Eng-
land. On the trip north she confided some of her
history and expectations to the fatherly Belling-
ham—she was one of the confiding sort, and
beautiful. I found Bellingham on the fo’c’s’le
head, cursing the night and the foolishness of
English parents, and Monogle—but mostly Mon-
jgle. Next day we anchored off Gisborne, and
Bellingham put in a busy day ashore. In the
evening he boarded the Belle with a dilapidated
sky-pilot in tow and a wedding-ring wrapped in
tissue-paper. Two days later the wedding trans-
pired at Utu Bay, and Bellingham, who was best
man, was so busy that he quite forgot his intended
castigation of Monogle. When he did remember,
the Belle was 10 miles from Utu, and Bellingham
had to recite his homily to the stars. We were
all too drunk to make appreciative auditors.
Since then 12 months had elapsed, and the Belle
had buried her anchor in the mud of Utu Bay
three times. Bellingham had continued his
paternal interest in Mrs. Monogle, and each time
the Belle had swung round Kea Point on the home-
ward run the stout purser had stood on the after-
hatch and waved a somewhat discolored handker-
chief to a white-clad figure on the beach. Mar-
ried life had not improved Monogle. He was
friendly with a number of flash young natives,
and the waipiro bottle and cards received most of
his attention. Naturally, his wife sought distrac-
tion elsewhere. She found it in Anthony Alfred
Westly, Esq. WhiLt Monogle was a fool and a
cumberer of the earth, Westly was cunning and a
“bad” man. Starting life in the gutters of San
Francisco, he had wormed his way along the
devious track which leads to prosperity and a
large waistband. While Monogle had degener-
ated, mentally and morally, Westly had acquired
a veneer of polish. He was the sort of man to
attract the sort of woman that Mrs. Monogle was.
Westly owned the next place to the Monogles,
and prospered. Tliere were many ways of getting
a livelihood in the old days, and Westly s income
was not onlv derived from Most
of this Bellingham learned from the Belle s half-
caste bosun, Wi Tareha, whose relatives were as
the sands of the seashore. To have many Maori
relatives is to be in touch with an unfailing
information bureau.
We were four hours’ steam from Monogle s
when I discovered Bellingham in the foreliold
checking merchandise with Wi Tareha. And \V 1
had a tale to tell. It was of the “ matukuing ”of
Mere Tane. Mere was chief of the Ngatiporis,
and boss dog of a large tract of country. He was
a repulsive savage, a bad enemy, and the incarna-
tion of superstition from his ugly, tattooed face
to his toeless feet. The latter peculiarity was the
result of frostbite, and was in no small degree re-
sponsible for the Ngatiporis’ veneration of Mere
Tane. Mere possessed the combined authority of
chief and tohunga. What he said "‘went.
Ropata,' cousin of Wi Tareha, had visited the
bosun at Awarua and told the tale of the matuku.
Mere’s luck was out. He was no longer able to
carry his waipiro in comfort, the after effects of a
tangi were alarming, and his success at cards was
damnable. So Mere filled himself with swankey,
and, falling asleep, dreamed strange dreams.
When he awoke he announced that he was the
victim of matuku. There was consternation in
the Ngatipori pah, and the more nervous of the
natives leaped hurriedly for the bush until the
trouble was over. Those that remained worked,
as they had never been guilty of working
before, to extirpate the evil. The affair cul-
minated in a human sacrifice. But the
matuku remained. Then Mere withdrew to his
w.hare and prophesied his early removal to le
Reinga, unless somebody discovered the cause of
the matuku. Incidentally he promised a hot
time for the Ngatiporis unless they got a move on
with the medicine-man business.
At this juncture Westly appeared. He was a
big man with Mere Tane, and when he announced
that he knew the cause of the matuku, Ropata de-
cided that Awarua would be a desirable place in
which to spend the summer. That was the tale
of Wi Tareha as told in the forehold of the Beau-
tiful Belle.
When the .Belle anchored half a mile from Utu
beach, we could hear, above the noise of the surf,
the tangi-wail of a score of women. They squatted
on the ground near the ashes of Monogle’s house,
and waved small green boughs above their heads.
Robins, the mate, pronounced the surf impass-
able, but Bellingham said that lie was going ashore
if he had to swim for it. Wi Tareha and three
others offered to take him through. They swung
out the surf-boat whilst Robins stood by sarcas-
tically telling the purser that he would have his
swim in any case. Bellingham, white-lipped,
wild-eyed, never heard him. You see he was
very much interested in Mrs. Monogle.
An hour later he was on board again. Mono-
gle’s house had been burnt during the night, and
both the Monogles and their factotum, Haere
Weepa, had perished. The tangi was in full blast
and likely to last for days. And the principal
mourner was Anthony A. Westly.
When the Belle called at Gisborne Captain
Eckhold reported the matter to the inspector of
police, and a trooper visited Utu Bay and wrote a
lengthy report on much Government paper.
Thereafter the Monogles were forgotten by the
few pakehas in Maoriland who knew of their
eX J)uHng the next 12 years I was master and
part-owner of a brig in the Island trade. We
never touched civilisation, our cargo being tran-
shipped into steamers for Sydney or Auckland -
When our decrepit craft was finally condemned 1 j
was despatched to Sydney to purchase another,
and in the City of the Sun I met Bellingham. He
told me the second part of the “ matukuing ” of
Mere Tane. Bellingham got it, 10 years after the
burning of Monogle’s house, from one of the
Ngatiporis.
Westly sat in Mere Tane’s whare, opposite the
chief, the waipiro bottle between them, and the
korero lasted all night. Westly did most of the
talking. It was a great and undying shame that
anyone should be so evil of heart as to matuku the
great chief whose rule had been so beneficent to
the Ngatiporis, the mightiest fighters in the land
of Maui. But, fortunately for the Ngatiporis,
Westly had found the rotten-heari ;done, and it was
but for Mere Tane to go forth and slay. Monogle
of Utu Bay had caused the matuku. When Mere
played with Monogle he lost ; when they drank
together Mere was seized with vertigo, whilst
Monogle walked home unharmed. Monogle had
cast covetous eyes on the wives of Mere Tane,
therefore, he wished to matuku the great one.
Westly was plausible. He knew how to handle
the gentle savage.
The next night twelve whooping savages, led
by Mere Tane, rushed Monogle’s house. Monogle
fought like a cur ; his wife like a she-devil. They
were bound with native rope and carried ten
miles inland to a deserted pah, which was “ tape”
to-everyone but Mere Tane and such as he desired
to visit the place. To that spot came Westly and
talked long with Mere Tane. It was better that
Monogle should go ; the killing of a pakeha was
apt to get noised abroad, and once out of the
country Monogle wouid be powerless to matuku
the chief.' Westly had his way. For a month
and ten days the Monogles sa w no one except one
of Mere Tane s warriors and an antiquated
wahine Avho tended to Mrs. Monogle’s wants.
Without whisky and tobacco Monogle had a fore-
taste of Hell. What spirit he possessed broke ;
he became craven, desiring but liberty and the
wherewithal to procure waipiro. When Westly
considered the time ripe, he made a proposal,
and Monogle acquiesced. Mrs. Monogle was not
so complaisant. She met Westlv’s advances with
a blow which staggered that worthy, and followed
it up with such vigor that he was glad to retire.
But Westly was not disheartened. Before ho left
that night it was arranged that Monogle should
start for America next day, the necessary funds
and something over being supplied by Mr. Westly.
Westly was in great heart, as befitted a man who
had played and won, as he rode along the winding
track which led through the bush to the old pah.
It was not everyone who could carry through a
little affair so successfully, and Westly, who was
intensely vain, felt the lack of an applauding
audience. Except for this deficiency, he was well
satisfied. The dispatching of Monogle would
take but a little time; then the spoils were for
the victor. Westly possessed a fine, practical
nature, quite unconcerned with ethical doubts.
There might be trouble at first —no doubt there
would be—but he had dealt with recalcitrant
women before, and tipped himself a winner every
time. .
As he neared the tapu ground Westly noticed
an odor of burnt timber mingling with the fresh
smell of the bush. He spurred forward and,
gaining the clearing, pulled up. Where the pah
had stood, was a heap of smouldering logs, which
sent a thin, blue smoke curling heavenward.
That the conflagration had been fierce the charred
bodies of bush giants, too green to burn, which
bordered the clearing testified. Perhaps it was
but the working of an excited imagination ; but
Westly thought that he could discern amongst
the debris in the centre of the pah two shapes
which might once have been human forms. Mere
Tane had changed his mind.
MAOLI MAC.


TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
■
• AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
ENO S ‘FRUIT SALT’
A HOUSEHOLD REMEDY FOR
.AH Functional Derangements of the Liver, Tempo-
rary Congestion arising from Alcoholic Beverages,
Errors in Diet (Eating or Drinking), Biliousness,
Sick Headache, Giddiness, Vomiting, Heartburn,
Sourness of the Stomach, or Constipation. It is
a Refreshing and Invigorating Beverage, most
Invaluable to Travellers, Emigrants, Sailors, and
Residents in Tropical Climates.
Eno’s ‘Fruit Salt’ assists the Functions of the Liver. Bowels Skin nnrt
by Natural Means. There is no doubt that, where it has been taken in the earliest
stages of a disease, it has, in innumerable instances, prevented a serious illness/
CAUTlON.— Examine the Capsule and see that it is marked ENO'S ‘FRUIT SALT’
otherwise you have the sincerest form of fIattery— IMITATION '
Prepared only by J. C. ENO Ltd., FRUIT SALT ’ WORKS, London
S.E., Eng , by J. G. ENO’S Patent.
Sold by Chemists and Stores everywhere.
DINNEFORD’S
ea
I
The Physician’*
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
Safest, and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA
h
MEN WILL FEEL YOUNG
for just as long as their digestive organs continue strong and
active. When the stomach grows weak, the liver sluggish,
the bowels constipated and the kidneys insufficiently active,
age creeps on apace. There is truth in the saying that a man
is as old as he feels, and the woman, is as old as she looks.
Some men at sixty are almost boyish in the exuberance of
their vitality. Others at forty show all the signs of being
“played out”—appear, in fact, prematurely old. Men of all
ages should remember that
AS LONG AS THEY TARE
Beecham’s Pills they can either preserve a good digestion or
restore an indifferent one. In both cases they will discover
that this is the surest way to feel young again. And perfect
digestion means so much ! It is a process that involves the
harmonious working of important organs. Properly* per-
formed, long life, verility, good spirits and nervous energy
attend it. Without it, the most splendid physique drifts
towards deterioration. How excellent,, then, is it to know that
the right way, as well as the easiest way, of preserving these
vital functions is to take
BttGHAM'S
puxs
Prepared only by THOMAS BEECHAM, St. Helens, Eng.
Sold in boxes, labelled price l'oy£d. (36 pills),
1/1 (56 pills) and 2/9 (168 pills).
%
Owing* to its cleansing
action on the Kidneys
and other organs it is
a real Health tonic.
■-J-M
9
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibault. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s; 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvf.rs Power.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Prices Nett.
ĥ
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your case
I will advise you
honestly and without charge.
S.H. HENSHALL,#S£3±S
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original ant! Only Genuine
Convincing
SOLD BY ALL
CHEMISTS.
Prices in
England—
m. 2/9 & 4/6
ħ
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
Best
known for
COUCHS, COLDS, ASTHMA,
bronchitis.
Acts like a charm in
D/ARRHCEA, and is the only
speoiflo in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY.
p. BRANDAUER & Co.’s, Ltd.
Circular Pointed
Pens.
Seven
Prize Medals,
Works b
h
These series of
Pens neither scratch
nor spurt. They glide
over the roughest
paper with the ease
of a soft lead pencil.
Attention is also
drawn to their patent
Anti-Blotting Series.
Ask your Storekeeper for an
assorted Sample Box.
ĥ
ħ
Manufacturers
of
Fireproof
Safes.
strongroom
Doors.
Government
Contractors.
WEARNE & BREAKSPEAR,
296 SUSSEX STREET, SYDNEY.
» Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centunee
INGLETON'S EYE OINTMENT^
In use since 1596.
, x _ CURES
lustralian Blight, Falling Eyelashes, Weak Sight
tsk your chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
POST FREE lA
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
HCK SIMMONS
SYDNEY.
Storekeepers * eobaccomsts
SHOULD SEED TOR OUR TRADE UST
ASTHMA CURE
h
Difficulty In expectoration. Asthma, Nervous Coughs,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression immediately
■ relieved by GKIMAULT & Co's INDIAN CIGAK-
j; ; TF.S. Sold by all Chemists.
ĥ
Superior to
INJECTIONS
CUBEBS and
COPAIBA.
Cures the same
diseases without
inconvenience
in
48 hours.
ħ
Each Cansule bears the name
“LINSEED COMPOUND” for Coughs and
Colds. Of proven efficacy for chest complaints.
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors recotnmend Port Wine for Invalids.
V.A.V. BudgerreePort
Nature’s Gift.
rtAv?
mrwm
PORT.
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too cheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If yonr hotel or store doeB
not stock “ Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0. for 18s.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers arid Merchants,
Basement, 78 PITT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIC.


Use a Perdriau
“Watershed” Hose.
Perdriau’s “Watershed” Red
Rubber Hose is the best pro-
curable in Australia. It is made
at our Drumnaoyne 1 factory, right
on the foreshores of Port Jack-
eon, and is warranted not to
burst, peel or leak. It is light,
Strong and flexible.
Our prices for this Hose will
oompare favorably with any—for
instance, you can purchase a
40ft. coil, fin. x 3 ply, complete
With fittings, for 38/-; or a 60ft.
eoil will cost you 55/6.
Of course we can supply any
length that is a multiple of 10ft.,
and have other qualities at
lower prices.
Call and inspect, or write for
free Price List and Samples.
IN
HI
PERDRiAU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“ The Best House for All Rubber Goods,”
270 George Street, Sydney.
ELECTRIC HAULAGE
AND OTHER
Electric
PLANT
h
FOR
MINES.
Sole Agent: T. K. STEANES, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney.
"Fibro-Cement
WHAT IS IT? Portland Cement, rein-
forced with Asbestos. It has the strength and
durability of concrete, and the cool and fire-proof
quality of Asbestos. It is, therefore, strong,
light, durable, cool, ant- and tire-proof, artistic in
appearance.
Made In Slates for roofing, Red, Grey and Purple.
In Sheets Bft. 2£in. x 4ft. for Walls, Lining
and Ceilings.
Used by the Australian Governments ; also for covering
Churches, Villas, Homesteads, Dairies, Silos, etc.
Write for Illustrated Catalogue “B ” to Sole Importers,
JAMES HARDIE & CO.,
Circular Quay West, SYDNEY ; and
581-583 Little Collins St., Melbourne.
HE BULLETIN POST CARDS—New
Series, IV.. V., VI. Packet of Twelve, fid ;
Packet of Ten. bd.
ĥ
%
BE UP-TO-DATE AND USI
THE
Electric Shearing Machines,
British Made. Therefore Reliable.
Write for Information to
)ALGETY & CO. LTD.,
SOLE AGENTS .
£
c
*
o
o
<3
m
ħ
h
Where . PORTABLE STEAfI ENGINE
is required we strongly recommend
The'Clayton 8 ShuttlewortlT
WELL KNOWN AMONGST AGRICULTURISTS t
ĥ
Sole Agents
for Above—
ħ
Miller’s Point,
SYDNEY.
m
m
.E.G. “FOOL-PROOF”
for Factories,
Mines 8 Sawmills.
Starter is mechanically interlocked
with short circuiting and brush
lifting gear. False manipulation
is therefore impossible.
NO SWITCHBOARDS
REQUIRED.
Simplicity in erection, only the
three line connections being neces-
sary. LEAFLET E.D. 179.
mm
i m
mm.
4
r-■ > & r* ; <?••& v
40 CLARENCE STREET, SYDNEY;
172 WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE.
NOYES BROS
(Sydney) Limited,
109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
45 Adelaide Street, BRISBANE.
(Melbourne) Propy., Ltd.
153-7 William Street, MELBOURNE.
Commercial Bank Chambers,
St. George’s Terrace,
PERTH.
7 Pine Street, ADELAIDE.
Electric Tramways,
Railways.
Complete Design
and Equipment.
BECK’S LAGER BEER
WELL AND ARTESIAN BORERS, remember
SEND FOR
CATALOGUES.
We are the Agents of the World-famed
KEYSTONE DRILLER CO.
Our PORTABLE and TRACTION DRILLS, for Well Boring, Coal and
Mineral Testing, have been successful everywhere.
N. GUTHRIDGE LTD., 263 George Street, Sydney; 486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
h
