

DEWAR’S —All that a perfect Whisky should be.
R. Gr. WATKINS «K£ CJO.,
107 Kent street. Sydney,
' ' • : i■' FOB— -*
Mining and Contractors’ Plant, Engineers’ and Sawmill Machinery, Mining Requisites,
EXPLOSIVES, BUILDERS’ and GENERAL IRONMONGERY. NEW and SECOND-HAND PLANTS ALWAYS AVAILABLE.
sr
Wheels and Axles,
by Sami. Osborn & Co. Ltd.
MINING STEEL, HIGHSPEED
TWIST DRILLS, etc.
7 Bent Street, Sydney,
AND
486 Collins Street, Melbourne.
BCO33A.KT.
fiadiey’s Orient fiotei.
PIONEER
LEATHER BELTING
Guaranteed.
(/. C. Ludowioi <& Son, Ld.
117 YORK STREET, SYDNEY . >
\
ff
Take it back*
I must
-
fine Apple Brand
HAMS S
BACON.
CHUBB’S
FIRE
RESISTING
SAFES.
JUNKET made from these genuine Tablets is
recommended by numerous doctors as being
highly nutritious and invigorating for the diges-
tive organs.
mm
un
BL
©
INDIGESTION
and DYSPEPSIA
One of these specially-prepared Tablets softs most
beneficially when taken daily after meals.
Awarded 130 First-Class Prlxa Medals.
vw:
L 4
THE SECRET OF IT’S POPULARITY IS INSIDE EVERY BOTTLE.
0* V*
A'
9
%
*
X® „< 0 A
V'
A
6
K
* SF
&
Money advanced upon all Securities at Reasonable
Rates of Interest.
EUSTACE BENNETT, General Manager.
THIS COMPANY WAS FORMED TO SUPPRESS USURY.
And at MELBOURNE, BRISBANE and NEWCASTLE.
sd
f
adf
mm
istheQueenof&llCocoti
ro K
I
In building a house there is nothing more important and desiring of quiet
thoughtful deliberation than the roof. No doubt everyone should when
building strive for the beat. There are people who still use iron, slates
and shingles, but then they are unacquainted with the fact that
MALTHOID is absolutely the best. MALTHOID is a perfectly
water and weather-proof roofing sold in rolls. Get some particulars.
' a
PAINT
ANT (WILLIAM BALDWIN, GENERAL FOREIGN MANAGER), OHALLIS HOUSE, MARTIN
THE PLANT ADOPTED
by THE BRITISH
ADMIRALTY.
SUCTION GAS ENGINES
.. , AW »
GAS GENERATING PLANI^
The Plant that secured
the GOLD MEDAL at
PLYMOUTH , 1906 ,
against all makers .
. MacDONALD, LTD., 63 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
C. A,
dg
sd
Send for Catalogues
SIMPSON BROTHERS, Sole Australian Representatives 52 8 54 Clarence Street, Sydney.
THORNE’S
WHISKY.
-
MARTELE’S
BRANDY.
The Bulletin
V01.31.—N0. 1583.]
[Thursday, June 16, 1910.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.


BOOKS FOR BUSINESS MEN.
Brfrton, J. S.: 20th Century Bookkeeping, 10s6d,p. 11s 2d.
Bithells : A Counting House Dictionary, 2s 6d, p. 2s lOd.
Corbion & Grimsdale : Salesmanship, Ss, posted 3s 4d.
Dawson’s Accountant’s Compendium, 30s, posted 31s 6d.
Bird’* Sales Plans for Retailers, 15s, p. 15s 9d. [p. 9s Sd.
Derveese : Pract. Publicity : The Art of Advertising, 9s,
Dioksee’s Bookkeeping for Co. Secretarys, 6s, p. 6s 6d.
Dicksee’s Advanced Accounting, 255, posted 275.
Dicksee’s Auditing, 255, posted 275.
Lisle’s Accounting : Theory and Practice, 18s, posted 10s.
Moody : Men Who Sell Things, 3s 6d, posted 3s lOd.
Scott’s Theory and Pract. of Advertising, 7s, posted" 7s 6d.
Scott’s Psychology of Advertising 7s, posted 7s 6d.
Scon I lor’s Pract. Accountant’s Guide, 2s 6d, posted 2s lOd.
Steele’s Present Day Banking, 6s, posted 6s 6d.
Templenian’s Marine Insurance, 2nd ed., 3s 6d, p. 3s lOd.
OFFICIAL YEAR BOOK OF COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA: Statistics 1901-1009. No. 3, 1910; price 3/6, p. 4/9.
GEORGE ROBERTSON & CO. PROP., LTD., 71 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY.
HUDSON’S
“EUMENTHOL JUJUBES.”
The Great Antiseptic and Prophylactic,
contains no cocaine or other poisonous
drug.
For COUGHS, COLDS, SORE THROATS,
BRONCHITIS, INFLUENZA, and the
PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION.
The Lancet Laboratory report is conclusive evidence
of the value of “ Eumenthol JujuWs as an Antiseptic."
The Lancet says :—“ Proved to be as effective
bactericidally as is creosote.”
5>
■
A. The Larynx or
Organ of Voice.
B. The Trachea or
Windpipe. '
0. Th « Bronchial
Tubes Of a dis-
sected Lung.
D. A Lobe of one
of the Lungs.
Sold by all Chemists, post free on receipt of 1/6 stanfps.
HUDSON'S EUMENTHOL CHEMICAL COMPANY, LTD., 19 York Street, SYDNEY.
the Australian States, New Zealand, and at 320 Regent Street, London.
Agencies in all
THE RED PAGE
Bohemia Buries Her Dead
Wo all know about Herbert Low’s brilli-
ancy as a journalist. The Star had the
best article on it by W, B. Melville, who
knew him as long and as well as any. I’ve
seen little or nothing in (the Great Dailies
that profited by that brilliancy more than
20 years ago, just when it wus wanted—
from the time of the Dock Strike onward.
I remember best the “Shifting Scene”
dialogues—something more than Pett Ridge
in them—and when an Australian writer
will watch out with interest for a con-
temporary’s work, there is something special
in it.
I remember him as a dean man—a tidy,
well-dressed man-—a good Bohemian, a good
pal, a generous man—whether up in -the
world or down—a doer of kind and noble
deeds on the quiet; and—and he died game,
if ever a man died game ; and it was a long
and terrible death to die—l remember
it well now—he many a time helped Some-
body when Somebody was seemingly down
and out and “ doing a perish ” ; saved a life,
so to speak, and more. We know what that
means, if you don’t; so it doesn’t matter.
We know it all too well.
There were just 10 of us, comprising the
same men who were at Victor Daley’s and, a
year later, at Mrs. Daley’s funeral. (One was
unavoidably absent, on account of his death
last year). We are growing too old and too few
now (and our lives have not been too angelic)
not to pay a little respect to our dead.
There’s one of us left to round up the old
writers for the funeral; one to go out and
comfort the bereaved ones—and he is born
to it; one to fix up any hitch that might
occur when the papers have to be signed;
one to get pars, in, and he does it somehow,
in unlikely papers, when none of the others
would think of it, or do it in time; one to
philosophise cheerfully on the way back;
and always one with a few bob to stand
drinks all round, hats off, empty glass on
the bar, to the memory of the dead, at the
first hotel in the city, when all is said and
done.
Herbert Low was buried in the Inde-
pendent Cemetery at Rookwood, down by
the railway line, next to the last of ’em :
and being neither Christian, nor othodox
Hebrew, a burial service selected from
the Book of Common Prayer was read
by Billy Melville, who always turns
up in the most unexpected places, whether
in speech or print, and just when he’s wanted.
Then he said something like this :
“Brother pressmen, artists and friends and
admirers of the bright spirit that has passed away.
I am asked, as Herbert Low’s oldest journalistic
friend, to say a few words in appreciation of his
fine talents, robust character and generous dis-
position. He was a man and a colleague in the
truest and noblest meaning of the terms. He has
fone forever and by us will never be forgotten.
[e was one of Nature’s gentlest and most humane
. . . . God rest his soul! ”
Billy faltered a bit; but it didn’t matter.
Then we groped for the softest handfuls we
could find in hard, lumpy, gritty clay.
We have learned to do without par-
sons or priests; we have had to, because
of the marvellous difference between our
creeds, or the want of a creed, or of
having been excommunicated, kicked out of,
or of having renounced or deserted or fallen
away from one and all respectable creeds or
religious bodies. Which things only crop
up in a formal way when we’re dead.
We’re beginning to book our passages out
a bit of late years, we oldsters. Let me see:
There was Harry Cargill (“ The Dipso-
maniac ”); Barcroft Boake—who didn’t wait
to see it through before he went where the
dead men lie ; and Philip Mowbray (“ Scotty
the Wrinkler”). He had Bohemians, too,
to help him and see him out. Victor
Daley—“ What shall a man remember
in the days when he is old, and life
is a dying ember, and fame is a story told ? ”
And what shall a man remember ? “ Sweet,
ugly women of the past, who had been kind
to me 1 ” And, just a year after, the little
woman who had stuck to him so we 11... And
Frank Myers—“As happy as Larry in Castle-
barry.” And Goodge, the swift, cheer-
ful political jingler. And Ernest Favenc,
journalist and explorer, and (after death),
F.R.G.S. His wife got the papers out by
the English mail on the day he was buried.
I wish Ernest could send back some notes
and a rough sketch of the route, for none of
us have been used to exploring with angels
to guide us. And others who went away to
die—and Herbert Low. We are going to
Waverley and Rookwood over much of late,
and coming back one short. It will be a
rather dull time for the last one on the
return journey; but after that it won’t
matter.
And, speaking of little women, there’s a
little woman who stuck to Herbert for many
years and was the best of wives and mates
and a Brick through the last, long, lingering
months of pain, suffering, irritation and
poverty. And she’s not too well 'off now,
from a Bohemian point of view. We like to
do what we can for those little women who
have stuck to our dead. We’re mostly hard up
ourselves and spend our last bobs on black ties,
quick half-soleing for them boots, and return
tickets for the funeral train. But I think
there’ll be a concert or something—what
would be called, in the regions that Herbert
Low wrote so grandly about in his best
days, “A Friendly Lead.” But you will be
notified in due time, either in print,
writing, or—if you are a privileged person—
personally, by some disreputable journalist.
HENRY LAWSON.
Some English Novels
The central figure in The History of Mr.
Polly , by H. G. Wells (Dymock’s Book
Arcade), is Indigestion. The story begins
with Polly in a bad temper after eating much
cold pork and pickles. He abuses his wife,
and goes out to meditate on the cussedness
of things in general.
If he had been transparent or even passably
translucent perhaps he might have realised from
the Laocootv struggle he would have glimpsed
that indeed he was not so much a human being as
a civil war.
Then the story suddenly reverts to the his-
tory of his infancy, education and subsequent
career as a draper. “He was a man-whose
brain devotes its hinterland to making odd
phrases and nicknames out of ill-conceived
words.” His adventures in literature are
funny, and pathetic too, for they represent
the gropings of a half-baked intelligence for
the light, the struggle of the inarticulate for
expression, and the tragedy of those fitful
gleams from higher latitudes, which come
now and then to such people only to intensify
the surrounding gloom. And all poor Polly’s
vague emotions are sicklied o’er with the
pale yellow of dyspepsia until he comes to
the decision that arson is sometimes justi-
fiable. He burns down the house which had
framed 14 years of married misery, and
starts on the tramp—a free man. The value
of this book is discounted by the prior
appearance of Kipps, The Wheels of Chance,
and Love and Mr. Lewisham, for Polly is
made up of elements from all three.
,/ J. C. Snaith’s Fortune (Dymock) is a good
story spoiled. Spain of a few centuries ago
makes a good setting for adventure. The
British • swashbuckler of great size, ready
tongue and readier sword is a good imitation
of Porthos, and there are admirable foils in
the simple-minded young hidalgo and the
courtly knight of mysterious origin. But
the woman is unconvincing, some of the
incidents are stale, and the end is abrupt
and absurd.
Barry Pain is mellowing richly as he grows
older. The Exiles of Faloo (Sydney Book
Club) is a capital story with humor, satire
and some excitement. A number of gentle-
men who “ left their country for their coun-
try’s good” are located on an obscure island in
the Pacific, out of the reach of extradition
treaties. Most of them flitted with money,
and are therefore able to preserve a dignified
ease, support a club, and indulge in the mild
excitement of lizard racing. The president
of the club is a masterful spirit, who is in
business partnership with an intelligent
native engaged in exploiting the island’s
industries. The sole desire of the whites is
to be left alone ; but the native chief has
other views about the island. A surprise
visit from a retired English merchant, a
philanthropist with a Nonconformist con-
science and a pretty daughter, brings about
some very interesting complications.
“Gertie de S. Wentworth-James ” is a
name which combines the attractions of
“Flossie Fewclothes ” and “Mrs. Pon-
sonby de Tomkyns”; and the owner’s
escapades in fiction are fitted with ap-
propriate titles: The Wild Widow, Bed
Love, Pink Purity, and A Scarlet Kiss
(Werner Laurie). Gertie is not quite so
naughty as she would have you believe ;
but she gets near it; she is “ warm, ”as they
used to say in an old children’s game. Her
smart newspaper woman in A Scarlet Kiss
snares a doctor into matrimony. A year
afterwards she reflects that, though she had
had kisses a many, there had never been one
vividly vermilion kiss, never a truly blazing
moment for her soul. She lays herself out
to get that kiss, eventually gets it, and
also gets left. The- ingenuous Gertie wishes
the weaker sex to understand that a man’s
work is more important to him than any
woman, and the seeker of scarlet kisses
always gets left. This seems an uplifting
doctrine; but the delicate Library censors
were afraid that damage might be done
before the tender reader got to the moral.
Putnam’s Maga . came to an end with the
April number after a brief and not brilliant
career. The balance of a serial is to be
printed as a pamphlet and sent to subscribers
—which is a decent way out of the difficulty.
There was a Putnam’s Monthly as far back
as 1853. It lasted four years, was revived
in 1868 and died again in 1870. The Atlantic
Monthly, which began soon after the first
Putnam’s, absorbed it on its second decease,
and has now swallowed the latest Putnam’s.
For years past The Atlantic has been the
most literary of the American reviews,
occupying a position similar to that of the
Fortnightly Be view in England.
O Liberty ...!
From the preface to Law and Liberty, by
Alex. W. Johnston, M.A. (Syd.), it seems
that he has spent the leisure of many years
in formulating the definitions and principles
which make up this ‘ ‘ Manual of the Elements
of Political Economy for the use of States-
men, Teachers and Students ” (Angus and
Robertson). It is a pity that anypne should
waste time which might have been spent in
raising good cabbages or rendering some real
service to the State. Tire doctrinaire econo-
mists were placed on the shelf long ago, and
Johnston’s extreme individualistic theories
ate no longer held as applicable to pre-
sent conditions by anyone professing
sanity. To establish principles in vacuo,
as Herbert Spencer did in Social Statics, is
all very well, and a set of bare definitions
would be useful if they defined accurately.
A. W. Johnston, M.A., confuses statics with
dynamics, and confounds the present day with
the millennium. His definitions are abstract
ones, such as “ The object of government is
Liberty,” and he uses them in arguing about
existing governments in a way that is profit-
less to students,' teachers and even states-
men. He also confounds natural rights with
moral rights.
Natural Rights are created‘ and conferred by
natural law. ... Human Law consists of customs,
rujes, etc., which are valid only when in harmony
with natural law.
“ He may take who has the power, and he
may keep who can ” is a natural right of man
and other animals ; but it is not a rtioral
right. The natural right of the rabbit to
eat anybody’s grass that he can get is created
by natural law ; but human laws interfering
with it are quite valid.
It is not necessary to pursue Mr. John-
ston through his loose deductions to
his fulminations against Socialism and
what he calls Tariffism. Even where his
principles are correct his exposition is not
illuminating. The case against Land Mono-
poly gains nothing, by his geometrical dia-
grams. The book is neither a good manual
nor a good tract, but it is more tract than
manual.
“ 0. C. Cabot ” : Be Henry Fletcher’s gradu-
ated literature tax (B. 12/5/TO): By all means—
certainly—most decidedly ! When the last Tariff
Commission was sitting I prepared certain evi-
dence which I proposed to offer for its considera-
tion, and intended to urge a tax upon all the
“syndicated serials” by third-rate English and
American authors, which our beloved “great”
dailies and other papers are so fond of publishing
for the “benefit” of the Australian people. I
was dissuaded from doing this, as it was repre-
sented to me that if I appeared before the com-
mission and sought to “cruel” this particular
little “ pitch ” of our patriotic press I should
never be employed by, or get the slightest recog-
nition from them. I was cowardly enough to
back out that time, but when the new commission
aits lam going for ward joyfully to tell what I know,
and ask for protection for the worst-sweated class
of brain workers in the Commonwealth. When
you have papers like the Protectionist Age im-
porting cheap and wishy-washy stories, and re-
fusing to pay a fair thing to the local author, you
need not wonder at the Foreign Trade Sydney
Telegraph and similar publications doing it. The
papers will say that there is nobody in Australia
capable of writing good stories—either serial cr
short. Isn’t there ? The same libel was adduced
against our boots, hats, clothing and other manu-
factures. It has been blown out. Give the
Australian writers decent remuneration—which
can only be done by putting a stiff -duty on the
imported stuff —and they will soon prove their
capabilities. Is there anybody writing verse in
the English tongue who is doing better work
than that of Arthur Bayldon at his best ?
Haven’t .Randolph Bedford and A. J. Buchanan
(to name only two) given us vigorous novels?
What about our short story writers? C. A.
Jeffries’ “Shepherd Kings of Canterbury,” and
the work of men like Alex. Montgomery and
Dorrington (now in England) supply an effective
answer. For first-rate sketches of Australian life
give me the writings of men likb Robert Kaleski
—perfect little cameos of the things they have
seen ; they appear all-too-rarely. Critics? Well,
there’s A. G. Stephens, Walter Murdoch, Ling-
ham, Norman Liliey, Frank Morton and a dozen
others. Classical literature shines here in men
like Chief Justice Griffith, Professor Tucker and
several others —m en who needn't write for a living,
certainly, but who are models and teachers for
the coming men. The fact is that, though they
have tardily recognised the virtues of Australian
athletes, actors, speakers, singers and craftsmen,
the “great” dailies tabu the artists, poets and
writers of Australia. As Henry Fletcher says, it
is time this was altered! I, for one, will help him.
“4-2n-Bus” (M.L.) supports Henry Fletcher:
Here, on this side of the Tasman Sea, we get practi-
cally nothing Australasian. I took up casually
several of our leading pampers the other Saturday,
the N. Z. Crimea, the Evening Boast and several
others, and looked through the Signs of the Liar.
I found acknowledgment to Arthur Geoghegan
(“The Hill Fern”), YoneNoguchi (“ThePilgrim-
age”), McClure’s, The Windsor, Life (New York),
St. James' Budget, and Frederick T. McArtney
(The Australasian). I wandered through the
imported stuff and found myself in “Finchley
Road” (Songs of London) amid drizzling rain,
omnibuses. Baker Street, then in Hampstead
Heath “with a touch of fog and a touch of sleet.” I
turned that down and wandered through prim-
roses, sobbing winds, bluebells and Irish fern till
I came to Macartney (“An Autumn Leaf ”). Now
I’ve got it, thought I. But I hadn’t. I got
stubble fields and elm-tree boles, and nothing to
indicate that Mac. was an Australian (except the
name of the paper). These bloated organs do
not offer much inducement to Australasian writers.
A friend of mine wrote to one of our leading rags
inquiring if they accepted copy, and if they paid
for it when published. He was, informed that
they paid for it if they thought it was worth
it. Practically, they might TJublisb a lot of stuff
and pay for very little. I’d reckon that if the
stuff wasn’t worth paying for it wasn’t worth
printing. I think that every author should have
the name of the country he resides in printed
beside his tripe. I (and many others here)
would like to help “H.F.” in his patriotic
suggestion.
Mary Gilmore writes
Re Spooks and Spiritualism generally (“Red
Page,” 26/5/’10), it seems to me that Spiritualism
is the denial of evolution. The evolutionist shows
that things grow bit by bit; the spiritualist
“produces” them whole and complete. From
this standpoint the question is not one of “other-
ness ”—worlds, planes, material, immaterial, or
anything else of the kind. It is simply a question
of—can a blackfellow “jump up whitefellow,” a
tadpole become an ostrich, or a tree a man with-
out intermediate stages ?
If it is possible to produce “ apports,” it should
be a very great deal easier to produce education
in an uneducated mind, seeing that mind is not
only more receptive, but also more plastic than
the material atom, say, of a ring or a cup ! What
a happy time it would be for childhood if
spiritualists turned their energies to the educa-
tion question, and instead of a paper or a chair,
“ produced ” the multiplication table on a child’s
mind !
Alas ! for all of us, multiplication tables grew
as hardly in our minds as does a Jree in a forest
and the transmutation of the digits and “x ” into
logarithms. Algebra dissipates enough energy to
store a whole world with “apports,’’enough even
to develop a backbone in a worm. If there is
anything in the non-evolute theory of spiritualism,
why, oh why, does it not turn its attention to all
this wasted energy? Everything in life—tree,
plant, animal, man, mental processes and all—
points to evolution. Nothing points to the full-
blown rose of spiritualistic production—not even
a ghost, for even these are the products of marsh
gas, defective nerves, or the predisposition of'
heredity and training—which are, in themselves,
phases of evolution. . _
“The Hack”: I have been unfortunate in my
experiences with serial stories. The first that I
started to read was R. L. Stevenson’s “St. Ives,’'
in Melbourne Aye or Argus. Stevenson died
before completing it, and long afterwards Quiller-
Couch supplied an ending for the book-edition.
I next began a yarn entitled “The Difficulties of
My Courtship,” by one Ann Dante, in Steele
Rudd's Magazine, which was brought to an
abrupt conclusion somewhere about Chapter VI.
Undaunted, I tackled “ Bolts and Bars,” by
“Islander,” in the same publication. Just
as this was nearing the end, the author
got on the beet, or into gaol, or something;
and the concluding instalments never appeared.
“The Tracks We Tread,” by Gf. B. Lancaster,
also failed to come to “Finis” in S. Rudd’s
columns, owing to the magazines death. In fact,
only one out of four serials which S. Rudd ran
arrived at the marriage-bell stage. This was
Sydney Partridge’s “Rocky Section,” a good
first attempt which its author has not followed
up. I next “fell in” over a yarn by Anna
Katherine Green, which died prematurely at the
same time as Fitchett’s Womans News. Then
a prosecution for indecency left me wondering
whether the wicked villain in “Growing to Man-
hood in Civilised (?) Society” triumphed over the
virtuous niaiden, or whether the virtuous maiden
reformed the wicked villain. As the American
censor refused to let the rest of the story
appear, despite the urgings of Physical Cul-
ture that it was publishing it “in the in-
terests of humanity,” I am still wondering.
Lothian’s Native Companion next disappointed
me by dying while giving birth to an unsigned
story (written, I believe, by E. J. Brady) of a
grotesque, but highly-interesting, nature; also a
travel-series by Brady. Comments died with my
curse upon it for interesting me in Wild Timet,
by Arthur Elliot, and then leaving my curiosity
regarding the incidents after which the story was
presumably named, unsatisfied. “ There were
others”; but this par. is getting beyond par.
length. I will therefore merely say that these
remarks were drawn forth by a rascal named
Randolph Bedford, who lured me to buy The
Clarion for several issues by publishing a story
entitled “Sops o’Wine” therein; When I was
in the full thrall of the wine-sops, he stopped The
Clarion. I intend to demand back the money I
spent on Clarions ; also to sue Randolph for
time wasted and disappointment caused ; also
never to read another “ serial ” except in book-
form.
+
Arnold Eiloarfc, Ph.D. of Walden, Ditton
Hill, Surbiton (Eng.), asks for copies or
particulars of poems which might be suit-
able for a “ Reformer’s Verse Book.” He
hopes to compile an anthology which will be
“a treasure house of beauty and an armory
of spiritual weapons ” to help the humani-
tarian movement, and he wishes to represent
Australasian verse-writers. Bulletin readers
with scrap-books might send him their selec-
tions of fighting verse?


n
wia
/
• x 301
m
m
A
No. 80]— Brown Velvet Hat, trimmed Silk atul
iVhite Mount .. .. .. 25/-
No. 7842-
Kaii ey
—Silk Hat, triilinied Qui
Wing arid Colored Bead
lings of Ribbon,
21/-
No. 94-
Soarf
No. 94.
Fe't Hat, trimmed fancy colored
14/6
No. 26.
■No. -26— Stravu Hat, Full Crown of Velvet
Roses and Foliage.. .. .. 18/6
Fashionable flats g BIoiJSCS
AT
Anthony Horderns*
Famous Low Prices.
&
SE?
No. 728.
a
No. 4339.
No. 5979
No. 728— Shirt Blouse, Plain Black Merveilleux Silk, fasten in front, long" sleeves IS/G
Also similar designs.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 16/6, 21/-
No. 4339— G01f Jersey, Cream, with Tartan, Green and Cardinal Collars and Cuffs .. .. .. .. IC/-'
No. 5979— G01f Jersey .. 7/0
Similar designs in. Black .. .. .. .. .. .. 9/6, IC/6
S7sZ
Yx
w
No. 720.
n. “-'O^-Bu'rnt• Straw Hat, liner] Glneg.
Sl . i i iimi'L-d llibbun Velvet, It' ses
and Fulinne .. .. .. 21/-
Consult our Illus-
trated Price Lists
for anything you
want. Write for
copies, posted free
oa application,
and reap the full
benefit of our
unique system of
Spot Cash Trading.
No 91. t .
N0.:91 — Fancy Straw Hat, ti;inuned
Velvet looped liiroimh Str.uv
ltinps .. .. .. .. 14/6
smo on
3
X
No. 550
4
am m
No. sao.
No. 0133.0 — Shirt Blouse, Tartan Chiffon Glace Silk, pin tucked, fasten in front as illustration, shades Navy, Iff own, Green.. 19 6
No. 350 Blouse, Cream "round Delaine, fancy stripes, trimmed Silk and Buttons, fasten in front, as illustration .. 10/6
Also in Black around with White stripes .. -v. 10/6, 12/6
No. 500 — Dainty Delaine Blouse, in all new shades, long- sleeves, as illustration .. 12/6
mm
1
v&m
r- .W
S»
~*w
SLYS
®i?S
No. 29.
No. 29— Velvet Toque, Ermine Brim, full fancy
Osprey Mount ami Buckle .. .. 50/-
703
No. 7°3 Silk Hat, Trimmed Shaded
It,bin.n, Velvet Bow at back..
Rose? and
30/-
No. 92.
No. 92— Straw Hat, lined Glnr-6Silk,
folded Scarf, and ends of Silk
trimmed
16/6
'
tS
[
<*) f
m
Mo. 36.
No. 36— Burnt Straw Hat, trimmed Ribbon
Velvet, Roses .and Foliage .. .. 15/6
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS
Only Universal
Providers,
Palace Emporium
BricKneld Hill
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


TOOTH &. CO. Ltd.
> Proprietors
Atild Jock Whisky
Rent Brewery, Sydney
Will Andrade ™ BOOKS.
Any of these Catalogues
Free for the asking-:
U) Plays, Recitations
and Make-Ups.
(2) Conjuring Appar-
atus.
(3) French Novels.
(4) Gift Books.
(5) Useful & Mechani-
cal Books.
(6) Medical Books.
(7) Socialistic Books.
(8) Sixpenny Novels.
(9) Australian Books.
(10) Cheap Music.
(11) Musical Instru-
ments.
Kelly Gang, True Story,
1/-. Book op Coin Tricks,
1/-. Wrestling, by Prank
Gotch, World’s Champion,
lOd. One Thousand Ways
to Get Rich, 1/6. How Old
Mose Counted Eggs, and
115 other Recitations, 1/-.
Letter Writer, ]/-. Dr.
Foote’s Plain Home Cyclo-
paedia, latest edition, 1248
pnges, 400 colored plates
and engravings, 7/6. Dr.
Faulkner’s Original Book
of Nature, the only genu-
ine and unabridged edi-
tion, 3 6, posted 4/-. Free-
masonry Explained, 1/3.
New Tricks with Cards,
1 /-. How to Mesmerise, 1/-
O I "AND ANY BOOK
YOU WANT.
Mention The Bulletin.
CHEAP CONJURING TRICKS.
u.
Marvellously Simple !
Simply Marvellous !
Multiplying: and Van-
ishing- Billiard Balls,
Produced from no-
where, appearing at
word of command be-
tween the fingers (see
illustration). Complete
with Full Instructions
(enabling the merest
amateur to perform it),
1/6 ; posted, 2 -
Two-from-Five Card
Trick. Another start-
ler, introducing some-
thing quite new in
magic. Price 6d.; post
free, Bd.
The Above Two Tricks (which require no stage,
no confederates and no special skill), post free any-
where. with Illustrated Catalogue of Magic, 2/6.
Above prices include postage to any address. Stamps or Postal Notes of any State will do.
CATALOGUES
FREE.
201 Bourke St., Melbourne.
NATURAL
ENOS
HEALTH-GIVING
FRUIT
REFRESHING
SALT
INVIGORATING
Underwear
Made in
England
MARK
3 QVU±
The “ BIRD MARK” on your Underwear
is a guarantee that the garments are made from
the finest Australian Lambswool and Cotton,
and in some qualities Silk is added.
The garments also have patented improve-
ments and fit the figure perfectly.
The most perfect underwear for hot weather
is the “BIRD MARK” Merino and Silk
Underwear, it will stand hard wear yet light in
weight.
Sold by all Drapers and Outfitters.
Wholesale only : -
I. & R. MORLEY and GEO. BRETTLE & CO.,
London, E.C
Ask for THE ‘ BIRD MARK * MERINO UNDERWEAR
gsfd
The Physician’s
Cure for Gout,
Rheumatic Gout
and Gravel.
The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the
Stomach, Headache, Heartburn, Indigestion,
Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections.
Safest and most
Effective Aperient
for
Regular Use.
DINNEFORDS
MAGNESIA.
g
{Australian Mutual Provident Society.
Established 1849. For Life Assurance on the Mutual Principle.
1 HAS MONEY TO LEND
On Security or Freehold or Leasehold
City or Suburban Properties, or on
Freehold and C.P. (Combined), Pastoral and Agricultural Lands, or on the Security
of Government Debentures, Inscribed Stock or Treasury Bills of any of the Aus-
tralian States or New Zealand AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES OF INTEREST.
Our new Mortgage Deed contains a condition allowing' Borrowers the privilege of repaying
up to 20 per cent, of the loan during any year, without notice or payment of any fine.
Director —The Hon. A. W. Meeks, M.L.C., Chairman : Senator the Hon. J. T. Walker, Deputy-Chairman : Benjamin
Short Esq. : The Hon. James Burns. M.L.C. : The Hon. R. J. Black, M.L.C.; The Hon. F.E. Winchcombe, M.L. C. ;
Adrian Knox, Esq., K.C. General Manager and Actuary : Richard Teece. F.1.A., F.F.A., F.S.S.
HEAD OFFICE, 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. H. W. APPERLY, Secretary.
DINTED
t ALWAYS TOP
“ It’s such a relief to get
a Pen that suits me! ”
That’s what people sav who use the
BALL-POINTED PENS.
Made for easy writing, in styles to suit every
hand. Suitable for writing in every position, glide
over any paper, and never scratch or spurt.
Ask your Stationer for a 6d. Sample Box of Ball-Pointed Pens.
COUGHS
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis and
Lung troubles quickly cured by
POWELL’S
BALSAM
OF
ANISEED
Of All Stores
gM-SAM UpAff
%
and Chemists,
**ade maR* 1,
BOV R I L
The Supreme Achievement in Beef Concentration.
INFINITELY SUPERIOR TO MEAT EXTRACT OR BEEF TEA.
BOVRILi is supplied to the British Admiralty and War Office, the India Office,
and is used in over 2,000 Hospitals.
BY APPOINTMENT TO
fdg
HIS MAJESTY THE KING
FOR AN/EMIA or DEBILITY
or for the Convalescent Invalid, or those who suffer from Poor Sleep or
Appetite, Indigestion, Constipation, Biliousness, Weakness, or Nerve Breakdown.
A WELL-KNOWN NURSE- DECLARES.
It is in the sick-room where a good nerve, strength-recuperating medicine is required after
severe attacks of wasting illness, fever, accident, etc., to assist in regaining health. Nurse
Jamieson, for many years of various nursing hospital staffs and late of the well-known Coast
Hospital, Sydney, whose portrait appears here, declares :
“CLEMENTS TONIC Ld.
“ I liave seen hospital life in many phases, and have had
considerable study of convalescent cases after severe attacks
of Fever, Diphtheria,
Nervous - breakdown
worries, Insomnia or
often seen the direct
Tonic in these
suited in complete
nerve force,
and perfect rest,
undoubtedly the
convalescent inva-
who may be out of
indigestion, anaemia,
liver, weak nerves,
constipation. I know
ssa :•
:
Accidents, Casualties,
through business
Intemperance. I have
result of Clements
cases, which has re-
restor ation of
healthy appetite,
Clements Tonic is
medicine for the
lid as well as those
sorts, or victims to
biliousness, sluggish
broken rest or
m an y professional
experts recommend it because it can be relied on.
“Faithfully yours, ( Signed) NURSE JAMIESON.
For the cure of lassitude, physical breakdown, anaemia or bloodlessness in
women, hysteria or melancholia, debility in men or lack of vital force, indiges-
tion, flatulence, biliousness, sick headache, palpitation, constipation, or irregular
kidney action, no medicine equal Clements Tonic, because it keeps the bowels
regular, the stomach healthy, and the nerve strong. All chemists and stores
sell it. Send for it. It lengthens life and keeps disease away. In fact,
according to many medical authorities, it is lasting health in a new guise.


Saif
is the finishing
touch to the
well-laid table
Agents—Harrison &■ Attwood, Sydney.
WARRANTED TEN YEARS.
We despatch direct from oar Coventry factory
to anyone, on ten days’ approval, our
highest grade MEAD
Coventry Flyers
at less than lowest manufacturers’ prices.
Absolutely British-made throughout, and
guaranteed longer than any other make
MODEM £3.10 to £9
Fitted with all latest improvements
Packed and Delivered
Free to any port in the World.
ACTIVE AGENTS Si “t!®* Larg“
easily made. Write a. once, using sufficient postage,
for free Art Catalogues and our Speoial Offer
on sample machine.
dsf
MEAD CYCLE CO., »e P t.2Bo LIVERPOOL.
JAS. J. GILTINA V, Agent,
157 Clarence Street, SYDNEY.
BLED TO DEATH.
NOBODY KNEW FIRST=AID.
MELBOURNE, Wednesday.
In the absence of the knowledge of the prin-
ciples of first-aid by those about him, Thomas
Howland, farmer, 50 years of age, bled to death
to-day at his home, four miles from Dimboola.
Howland knocked an ulcerous sore and burst a
varicose vein near the ankle. His daughter
attempted to stanch the bleeding by applying
flour, but this had no effect, and he died within
10 minutes.
The above news item will serve to show how fallacious
is the opinion held by many sufferers from Varicose
Veins that they are “ really not dangerous.”
If you suffer from Varicose Veins, or have a relation or
friend who does, and if the veins should burst, would you
know what to do ? Let us send you an illustrated free
book describing Varicose Veins in all their forms, the
methods to adopt in bandaging, and the course to pursue
if they should burst. This book also fully describes the
Vecsey Method of treating and curing Varicose Veins
without operations.
To sufferers from Varicose Veins the Vecsey Method of
Treatment comes as a great boon. Previous to its dis-
covery no painless, permanent palliative was known.
It cures the veins absolutely, and once cured they do
not return.
Do not fail to send for our free book, which gives full
information and particulars. Post free to any address
upon receipt of 2d. stamp. Call for free advice.
THE VECSEY VARIX-ARIUM,
104 Linden Court, Sydney.
Take Lift to Second Floor.
[606
YOUR EYES!
MORRIS’S
IMPERIAL
OINTMENT.
INSTANT
RELIEF.
RAPID
CURE.
NOTHING
LIKE IT!
Sold Everywhere. Price 2/-. Or by post from
Proprietors, 443 Bourke St., Melbourne.
Mm
PATEN7J
Collison&Co.
PATENTS and TRADE MARKS
obtained in all countries.
483 Collins St., MELBOURNE.
Eagle Chambers, ADELAIDE
Write us for Inventors' Guide.
Established 1877.
RUPTURE
Do you suffer from this complaint ? No
doubt you wish to be cured without operation.
Have you grown tired of wearing useless
trusses ? Then send for our little book,
giving a full description of our
AUTOMATIC
Air Cushion Appliance
by means of which a permanent cure can be
effected. We positively affirm this in spite ot
the many previous disappointments you may
have had. This appliance is something en-
tirely new —is in tact the Best Rupture
Appliance of the Century, and to
prove this to you
WE GIVE YOU TWO DAYS TRIAL
with each appliance that we send out. Perfect
comfort and ease trom the first day s use. No
steel bands to torture or galling pads or
leather chafing understraps. The pad is made
of soft pliable rubber, which presses gently
but firmly on the correct spot.
Full Particulars Posted Free
WINSLOW CO.,
261 Collins Street, Melbourne, Vic.
COLORED POST CARDS,
Weston “ WEEKLY
Set of six, posted free, 6
Newspaper Co. 214 Georg
by Harry J.
WORRIES.”
i. Bulletin
b St., Sydney.
n
IAJadJIOiS
BOTTLE AFTER BOTTLE—
of “ Bonnington’s Irish Moss” goes forth on its
mission—that of curing Coughs and Colds. You
can rely on each one doing its duty faithfully.
IT IS A REAL CURE FOR
GOUGHS, GOLDS, BRONCHITIS, GROUP,
WHOOPING GOUGH, SORE THROAT,
SORE LUNGS, LOSS OF VOICE, INFLUENZA
DIFFICULTY OF BREATHING.
and all these kindred ailments of the throat and lungs.
Do not be misled by worthless imitations. Take only—
BONNINGTON’S IRISH MOSS
OF 40 YEARS FAME.
HEALTHFUL. ECONOMICAL. CONVENIENT.
BICKFORD’S Essence of Coffee,
«« quR JACK*’ Brand. Fulfils the requirements of the “PURE FOODS” Act.
Obtainable Everywhere. 100 CUPS FOP 1/6 .
A. M. BICKFORD & SONS, LTD,, Pitt St., Sydney; Currie St., Adelaide; Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
H
ORLICK’S
MALTED MILK
For all ages, from the nursery
upwards, Horlic k’s
Malted Milk is an
ideal food-beverage,
easily digested, nour-
ishing, invigorating.
It is indispens-
able to invalids
and the aged,
and prov-
ides a full
diet in
sick-
ness
*
FOR
ALL
\TIMES
AND
'V ALL
\ CLIMES
At
break-
fa s t
time or
supper time
H or Hick’s.
Malted Milk is
a delicious substitute
for tea, coffee and cocoa.
It is prepared in a minute
and requires no cooking.
Of all Chemists and Wholesale and Retail Stores,
&c., &c. Samples: 8?, Pitt Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Horlick’s Malted Milk Co. Slough, Eng.
jirurw j ~si
TUbflJl/
Latest Evolution of Modern Pharmacy.
“ GOLCRYST ” is a Combination of
Epsom Salts, Senna, Sarsaparilla,
Dandelion, Liquorice and Ginger.
ie crystals dissolve in water, forming
a Blood-Purifying and Rheumatism-Curing
Aperient Medicine.
SOLD IN sd„ 6d. and Is. PACKETS.
Write for Free Sample to the Proprietors,
ROCKE, TOMPSITT 8 CO., MELBOURNE.
BARROWS
English Portable Engines
X r
PASTORAL-
ISTS AND
FARMERS
USE NO
OTHER.
SOLE
AGENTS:
J. H. YOUNG 8 CO., LTD.,
SYDNEY, MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE,
LONGREACH, CHARLEVILLE.
A LIGHT TREAD ]
When you wear
Rubber Heels your foot comes
down softly—your step is light and
springy—hard pavements or stony
paths lose their terrors.
It’s good for you to avoid the
nerve-racking jar of hard leather
heels; it’s also good for your purse,
because Wood-Milne heels wear
four times as long.
WOODMILNE
RUBBER HEELS
are made in Britain, from new, -
resilient rubber: they enable you
to walk without fatigue, and give
a surprising feeling of buoyancy
and vigour.
Look for the name Wood-Milne on
every heel, and refuse all imitations.
Gold ttedal Paris 1900 # Grand Prize St Louis 1904
KALOAERMAB
IB PREPARATIONS
FJOLFF & SOHN, Karlsruhe and London
Kolodermtt Jelly
prepared with glycerine St honey without
oil or fat, does not grease; is most
agreeable # efficacious for preventing and allaying irritation.
Knloflemw Soap
prepared with glycerine and honey, a
most refined and delicately perfumed
Toiletsoap, the leading soap for softening it improving the sKin.
Modena Rite Powder
most popular and refined
toiletpowder. Jcf
Knlodermfl Stinging Soap
pr epared with the renowned
Kaloderma Jelly undispu-
tedly the most emollient shaving soap on the marKet.
refined luxury at a popular price. j& / ' ./cf Jc/' * Jef
Obtainable from all the leading establishments.
VARIOUS VERSE
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
An Assyrian Cast.
A bas-relief of Assur-Bani-Pal —grandson of Sen-
nacherib—and his wife feasting, made about 668 8.c.,
has been obtained by Professor Woodhouse for the
Sydney University.
A bas-relief, a plaster cast,
Preserve an empire of the past.
The palace falls ; a graven stone
Rebuilds the walls of Babylon.
A winged bull-god, burnt in clay,
Enwraps the might of Nineveh.
An epigram embalms, I wis,
Sennacherib, Semiramis.
Assyrian feast and festival
Rekindle, Assur-Bani-Pal,
Grandson of him the book revea Is
Crunched foes ’neath furious chariot wheels —
Before this image of thy face
Contemptuous of time and place.
Shadowed with dreams of Shepherd Kings,
Gold, incense and burnt-offerings,
Remembering Chaldean stars
World-trampling hosts, triumphal cars,
Chained Hebrew captives, queens and slaves.
Beast-gods, with hordes of priests like waves
Breaking in baffled ecstasy
On darkening rocks of mystery,
The sultry splendor, and the vast
Voluptuous vision of the past.
While, with thy wife, thou drain’st the cup
Of pleasure, Time is withered up,
Centuries crumble into ashes.
Through legend’s veil thine image flashes,
Torches of cedar flare, the roar
Of victims sates the Minotaur ;
Wild cymbals clash ; and darts are hurled
At our poor, pale-complexioned world.
Thus, as a carven god, thou sate
With winged lions at thy gate,
Feasting with wife or concubines ;
Maidens, with tabors, knelt in lines,
Lilce fluttering doves ; fierce jewels gleamed,
The censers swung, the fountains steamed
With perfumes rising, cloud on cloud ;
The King of Kings, to whom all bowed,
Life seemed but a flower to press
Under thy feet in wantonness.
In shabby brick and mortar we
Enshrine our dull modernity.
But thy keen eyes seek swinging lamps
In sacred groves ; bright silken camps
Pavilioned ’neath the desert sky ;
Wide courts of gold and ivory,
Sardonyx pillars, corridors
Fretted with mystic symbols, floors
With gems encrusted ; towers and domes.
Carved obelisks and catacombs ;
They seek the sacrificial rites
Of Asian star-bespangled nights,
The swooning dance, the flowery feast
In hanging gardens of the East
Where lovely queens, all amorous,
Whispered to Sardanapalus.
Assyrian antiquity.
Blood, lust and gorgeous savagery,
Courts, temples, jewelled palaces,
All are but misty memories.
Like Egypt, Rome—Assyria
Of empires first hath seen decay.
Only the frailest things, in sooth.
Resist the venom of Time’s tooth.
Though pride and pomp weak souls allure,
Man’s deeds are vapor ; dreams endure.
So, monks with pen in fancy dipped
Bending o’er pious manuscript,
Inscribe a thunderous hero’s glory
Into the children’s fairy story.
And, image immemorial
Thou showest, Assur-Bani-Pal,
How a proud empire of the past
Lives in a vase, a verse, a cast.
N.S.W.
LOUIS ESSON.
When I am Dead.
When I am dead and hidden in the earth ;
Passed from the daily round, the common task;
I wonder who upon the street will ask :
Where has he gone ? Will any check their mirth,
All suddenly as rain on summer day.
To momentary grief, and pause to say :
“Now that I think of him, he had some worth.”
I watch each day go past with heavy heart—
It brings the grave the nearer to my eye.
“God speed,” it says. “The hour when you
must die
Creeps on a-pace ; the rumble of the Cart —
The Cart that takes you home —swells with the
night,
And there is no escape. Death does invite
But once ; and, at the bidden hour, you start.”
Aye ; lam feared of Death. My blood runs hot
And cold alternately, in very dread
Of that last snapping of the golden thread
That binds me to the world—Oh, it is not
The dread of pain, the fear of Judgment’s
doom —
I fear not God, but the eternal tomb—
That, and the day when I shall he forgot!
Time will not pause, nor love be lesser fed ;
Sunshine and stars, laughter and passioned tears
No check shall find—no halt in all the years—
Women I loved —Raven or Golden Head—
Men that I knew—their love was best of all— ■
Will one of them in memory recall
The man who was—the man who lies there dead ?
N.S.W.
J. B.


Combination Couch and Bed.
CHANGED INSTANTLY. Size when open, 4ft. x 6ft. 7in.
"A\\\
Mg
m
v sl
s' 1 '- ■<
CLOSED AS COUCH.
OPEN AS DOUBLE BED.
Cannot get out of order; is
exceptionally strong and durable.
Just the thing for offices,
small rooms, or where an extra
bed is required.
Invaluable for hotels, boarding-
houses, coffee palaces, and similar
establishments.
Can be had fitted with box, to
act as linen press. Three pieces
of furniture in one.
Elegantly upholstered.
PRICES:
In Cretonne, £4 4s. ; in
Tapestry or American Leather,
£4 155.; in Rexine, £5 ss. and
£5 15s. With Box, 20s. extra.
Can only be obtained from
MARCUS CLARK & Co. Ltd.
« -
SYDNEY,
The Bulletin Post Cards.
NEW SERIES, IV., V.,
Packet of Twelve
Packet of Ten
VI.
If You Want a
Good Vehicle,
read this Mr
At the late Royal Agricultural Show
W. Dwyer’s Buggies and Sulkies
WKRB AWARDED
10 FIRST PRIZES, 2 SPECIAL PRIZES, 2 GOLD
MEDALS, 1 SECOND PRIZE.
This is sure proof of their excellent qualities.
Factories - - - - WOLLONGONG and SYDNEY.
The Goldfields Diamond Drilling Co., Ltd.,
339 Collins Street, MELBOURNE. 79 Pitt Street, SYDNEY. Boulder Road, KALGOORLIE, W.A.
Diamond Drilling and Water Boring Contractors.
Sole Manufacturers of The Victoria Percussion Drill. Agents for THE SULLIVAN MACHINERY
CO.’S Diamond Drills, Air Compressors, Rock and Air Hammer Drills.
Drill Carbons and Spares for Diamond Drills stocked. Pull particulars and prices on application.
Queensland Intelligence and Tourist Bureau;
Full Particulars Supplied respecting the Tourist Resorts of Queensland.
Climate Healthy and Delightful. Tourists should visit this wonderful country,
with its endless variety of superb and marvellous scenery.
Agricultural and Dairy Farms can be obtained on Better Terms than
elsewhere in Australia. ,
Corner of Queen and
George Streets, Brisbane.
T. C. TROEDSON,
General Director.
Sydney Branch Office at 116 Pitt Street.—Local Director: A. MESTCN.
0
0/4E OA
Matchless Merit
The Watch of
THE WATCHWORD IN THE OMEGA
FACTORY is “accuracy”—accuracy in mak-
ing the various parts —accuracy in assembl-
ing them —and, above all, accuracy in testing
the completed time-pieces. The result is
that OMEGA Watches are the most uni-
formly accurate time-keepers in the world.
In GOLD, SILVER, NICKEL and GUNMETAL CASES.
Stocked by i/eweWers throughout
Australia and New Zealand.
gdsf
CIGARETTES.
TURKISH, EGYPTIAN, VIRGINIAN.
DALGETY & CO. LTD., Wholesale Agents for Australia.
ILLUSTRATED
CATALOGUE
AND
SIZE CARD
SENT FREE
ON APPLICA=
TION.
CO
(Australia, Ltd.),
STRAND CORNER, 412 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
WE REFUND
YOUR HONEY
IN FULL IF
GOODS DO
NOT OPEN UP
TO YOUR
APPROVAL.
RINGS of every shape and size, heavy and light, plain and ornamental, set with Diamonds, Pearls, Turquoise, Emeralds, Sapphires, Rubies
and any stone you wish —every ring our own manufacture and the handiwork of skilled jewellers. There is no showing of beautiful
rings like that at the u Treasure House,” and, besides knowing that every ring is perfect, you have the satisfaction of effecting a
saving from 15 to 20 per cent, by purchasing direct from us. On all cash orders we pay postage and delivery charges, and guarantee
the safe arrival of all articles we send you. We employ no travelling salesmen or agents, so deal direct with us*
No. 171 A—lBct. Gold, set
5 Opals, £2/10/-
No. Hls92—lBct. Gold,
set 1 Sapphire or Ruby
and 2 Diamonds, £7/10/-
No. FS69s—ltict,. Gold,
set Rubies, Diamonds
and Sapphires, £6/10/-
No. ,0112—18 et. Gold,
Single Stone Diamond
Ring, £lO/10/-; Smaller
Stone, £5.
No. H9942—18ct. Gold
Signet Ring, £3 ; 15ot.
Gold, £2/10/- ; Oct. Gold,
£l/5/-
No. 45—1801. Gold, set
10 Diamonds, £B/8/-
No. G4Bl5 —18ct. Gold
set Pearls and Diamonds,
£5.
No. G279l—lBct. Gold,
set Diamonds, Ruby and
Pearl, £4/10/-
No. G4444—18et. Gold,
set 2 Diamonds, 1 Emer-
ald, £2/5/-
No. 0190—18 et. Gold,
set Fine White Diamond,
£6/10/-; set Sapphire or
Ruby, £2/5/-
No. GB9B0 —18ct. Gold,
set 5 Diamonds, £'s/5/-;
Larger Stones, £lO/10/-
Ring
No. Jl44—lBct.
Diamond Clustei
£7/10/-
No. 1923—18 ct. Gold,
Diamond and Ruby or
Sapphire, £lO/10/-
m
No. 114314 —18 ct. Gold,
Fine Pearl and Olivine
Ring, £4.
No. 179—18 ct. Gold,
Chased Keeper Ring,
£l/7/6 ; other designs at
21/-, 30/- and 40/
No. 181—18ot. Gold, set
Diamondsand Sapphires,
£7/10/-
No. 106 ISct. Gold,
Fine Opal and Diamond
Cluster Ring-, £l7/10/-
No. 7305 ISct. Gold,
Fine Pearl Halt-hoop
Ring, £2/10/-
No. C9OB0 —18ct. Gold,
set Sapphire or Ruby,
£3/10/-; Single Diamond,
£37/10/-
No. F 4612 9ct. Gold,
Amethvstor Garnet set
Ring, £l/7/6.
No. F 9278 —18ct. Gold,
set 3 Sapphires or Rubies
and 2 Diamonds, £2/10/-
SM"
pm
No. G 5195 —18ct. Gold,
set Diamonds and
Rubies, £l3/10/-
—IHIIm
No. Cl9lo—lBot. Gold,
Diamond and Sapphire
or Ruby Ring-, £6/10/-
18ct. Gold, set 5 Peridots
or Garnets,, £2/5/-
No. Cl—lBct. Gold Wed-
ding Ring, £l/1/-
Heavier ones, 25/-, 30/-,
40/- to 60/-
No. G 7358 i.s-i. Gold,
set Pearl, Sapphire and
Diamonds, £3/5/-
No. 02012—18 et. Gold,
set 7 Fine White Dia-
monds, £7/10/-
No. H 9828 —18et. Gold,
Diamond Cross-over
Ring-, £l5/10/-
No. D2B9l.—lBct. Gold,
set 1 Ruby or Sapphire
and 2 Diamonds, £5/10/-
All Diamonds, £6/10/-
No. 171—18 ct. Gold, set
2 Sapphires and 7 Dia-
monds, £3/10/-
No. 104—18 ct. Gold, set
1 Sapphire, or Ruby and
3 Diamonds, £lO/10/-
&
No. C2oo7—lBct,. Gold,
Sapphire and Diamond
Cluster Ring-, Hitt.
No. G4B63—lBct. Gold,
set 10 White Diamonds,
£6/6/-
No. F 532S —1 Set. Gold,
3 Sapphires or Rubies
and 4 Diamonds, £5/10/-
No. 180—15 ct. Gold
Buckle Ring, 30/-; 18ct.
Gold, 40/-
No. GB9B4—lBcf. Gol 1,
s-et 5 White Diamonds,
£lB/10/-
No. Gs29B—lBct. Gold,
Diamonds and Sap-
phires, £lO/10/-
No. G4Bl6 —18ct. Gold,
set Pearl, llubies and
Diamonds, £5.
St 3
No. C6—l Bct. Gold,
Diamond and Sapphire
Cluster, £l2/10/-
m
No. 7264—18 ct. Gold,
Snake Ring-, set 4 White
Diamonds, £6/6/-


The Bulletin
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Vol. 31.—N0. 1583.
THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 1910.
Price On.
MINISTER WOOD OF N.S.W. ADDRESSES HIS CONSTITUENTS.
WOOD (to his Monaro audience): “Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Wade and I have toiled for you incessantly . But for us you would have had a
great Federal Capital about here, and your simple honest natures would have been corrupted by money, and all the beautiful
rabbits would have been scared away.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper*
“ Australia for the White Man.”
Printed and Published bv William Maclkod. of
Musgrave and McLeod Streets, Mosman, for
The Bulletin Newspaper Co., Ltd., at the
Office of the Co.. 214 George-street North,
Sydney. JN'.S. Wales, Australia.
PUBLISHED ONCE A WEEK.
TELEPHONES; Business, 1384 Central.
Editorial, 257 City.
terms to su use nr be ns.
(in Advance, Only)
Eer Annum ... ... • ... £1 6 0
Half-yearly ... ... ... 0 IS 6
Quarterly ... ... ... 0 7 0
By seiuHny direct to Tim Bulletin Office Twenty-Six
Shillings sterling you can have Tiir Bulletin posted
reyularly to you every Week for a year.
Cheques, Drafts, etc., awl all Business Communications
tube addressed to William Maclkod, Managing Director.
How to Address Letters.
Correspondents to Tub Bulletin would obliye the paper
(and, to an extent, themselves) by taking some care as to
methods of address.
Business letters (with regard' to subscriptions, advertise-
ments, etc.) should in no case be addressed to the Editor,
but to the Manager. To send them to the Editor is to
invite inattention.
It is not a yowl thing to address editorial letters to
anyone by name. “ The Editor. Bulletin.” is the proper
superscription for "copy." Delay, and even loss, is
sometimes caused by addressing to persons instead of
officials. The person may not be there; the official
always is.
Special Notice.
insufficiently stamped letters are liable to be refused.
The contents of this paper are copyright by the pub-
lishers. The right to reproduce or translate any part of
the contents of this number is hereby expressly reserved by
the publishers.
The Editor will carefully read and, where practicable,
acknowledge in the “ Correspondence” column all contri-
butions submitted, whether in the form of Political,
Social, or other Articles, Verse, Short I'ales or Sketches
(those dealing with Australian subjects, ami not exceeding
twe columns in length, or, say, 3000 words, are specially
acceptable). Paragraphs. Letters, or Newspaper Clippings.
All communications will be regarded as strictly confi-
dential.
Tub Bulletin will return all unsuitable MS. ivhen the
address is specified and stamps are enclosed. But no
MS. ivill be returned, or preserved, unless these comlitions
are observed. When MS. is forwarded without stamps
for return it will be understood that the copy is to be
destroyed if not acceptable. Personal applications for
return of MS. cannot receive attention. Tiib Bulletin
desires, further, those sending MS. to distinctly under-
stand that it is not responsible for the preservation or
transmission of MS.
To Amateurs •>» Black and White.
Anyone supplying to Tub Bulletin original humorous
or other topical drawings in line or wash, of sufficient
merit and interest and adapted for direct reproduction, or
any interesting photograph illustrative of a current event,
will be paid for same on acceptance. Any picture con-
taining a good idea, but unfitted for direct reproduction
— i.e., any picture which has to be re-drawn —will be paid
lor as a suggestion only. The conditions under which
such artistic contributions will be received are those
applying to MS.
Tiir Bulletin is forwarded direct to agents on account
of Messrs. Gordon and Gotch (wholesale agents) to
Victoria, West Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, and
New Zealand; and on account of Messrs. Atkinson and
Co. and Rigby, Ltd., Adelaide—at A/t? per doz. nett.
Copies of Tim Bulletin can be obtained in London,
after the arrival of each mail, from Messrs. Gordon and
Gotch, Liulgate Circus, and at British Australasian
Office, 115 High Ilolborn, London, W.C.
South Africa. —The Central News Agency, Capetown;
Dawson and Son, Capetown ; The Central News Agency ,
Durban, Natal; and others.
Vancouver. —Thomson Stationery Co., Vancouver , 8.C.;
Irvine and Forsyth, Uhl Hastings Street; Norman,
Caple and Co., Stationers.
U.S.A.— lsserlisA., Seattle, Washington;lnternational
Neivs Agency, Los Angeles ; Chicago Newspaper Agency,
170 Madison Street, Chicago.
Egypt. —The Colonial Book and News Stores, Port Said.
Hong Kong. —Bower and Co., Pedder-st., llong Kong.
Singapore. — Messrs. John Little and Co.
Agents’ Special Notice.
The Bulletin metal advertising plates,size 6iin. x If,in.,
will be forwarded on application. Larger sizes can be
supplied if desired.
THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 1910.
GREGORY WADE’S RAILWAYS.
Borrowing and more borrowing and still further
borrowing are the chief features of the policy on
which Gregory Wade, State Premier of N.S.W.,
proposes to go to the country a few months hence.
There is to be a short session before the election,
and apparently it will be mostly filled with loans
and promises. The railway question, of course,
loomed large in Wade’s pronouncement. It has
become such an overwhelming problem that even
the most active and long-legged Premier can no
longer side-step it with any degree of success.
Wade’s railway policy proves to be just the
policy which one would naturally expect from
a man whose capacity for being unsatisfactory
amounts to genius. He proposes to borrow
many millions —how many no oqe knows yet—
and with them to finish the duplication of the
railway lines from Sydney to Werris Creek on the,
north, Blayney on the west, and Goulburn on the
south. Some cross-country inland lines are also
suggested. Further, the appalling congestion at
the bottle-neck at Redfern is to be relieved by
the building of a new line into Sydney with a
terminus somewhere' about Glebe Island.
Wharves are to be constructed at Ball’s Plead on
Sydney Harbor, and a railway line is to be
brought there also. Long-distance freights are
to be reduced. And a commission is to be
appointed to give a learned and unbiassed
opinion after deep research as to whether it is
or is not advisable to open up the closed deep-
water harbors of the State. The head of
the Commission will be Charles Oliver, ex-
chief of the railways. By a curious coincidence
it was another Oliver—Alexander of that ilk—
who was appointed as a commission to give a
learned and unbiassed opinion about the best site
for a Federal capital. He gave the verdict in *
favor of Monaro, and it was partly at the instiga-
tion of Gregory Wade that his judgment was
set aside. Possibly this old event rpay be an
omen; possibly it may not.
Tin’s silly and transparent dodge for shelving
the issue of the Closed Ports naturally arouses
loud and continuous applause among the papers
and politicians that stand for the Congestion
policy and the old disastrous scheme of dragging
everything to Sydney. They represent that the
matter of the Closed Ports is buried in profound
gloom; that a deep mystery attaches to it; that
great investigation is required to decide whether
the ports should remain closed or not; and that,
as the S. M. Herald put it, “a vital question of
this kind ” cannot “ be solved off-hand by the
man in the street or the man on a Labor plat-
form.’’ It would be interesting to know, in this
connection, exactly what question there is to
solve. Nobody in these days appoints learned
and costly commissions to decide whether pigs
lutve wings as a steady thing, or to decide
whether the sea has a general habit of being wet.
Vital questions of that sort solved themselves
so very long ago that learned investigation is
superfluous, and it is the same with the matter of
the Closed Ports. The only queries concerning
them which can well be put to the commission will
be somewhat as follows :
(1) Is there any scientific or natural or divine law
which makes it requisite to drag 'everything to Sydney?
(2) Will it do M.S. \V. any harm to have three or four
big coastal cities instead of one? If so, would the com-
mission, supposing it ruled m England, burn Liverpool,
Cardiff, Hull, etc., in the public interest, with a view to
concentrating everything at London ?
(3) Is 300 miles longer than 50 miles?
(4) Is it cheaper to carry goods 300 miles or 50 miles,
other things being equal ?
(5) Supposing it is dearer to drag goods for export 300,
miles than 50, do the wheat and wool and other tilings
get so much enjoyment out of the extra scenery that it
compensates for the extra expense ? ' v
(6) Do cabbages get better the further they are carried?
(7) Have you heard the producers whose goods, through
the closing of all N.S. W.’s deep-water ports except
Sydney, have to be carried at great cost perhaps 200
miles further than would otherwise be necessary, ap-
plauding wildly over the present arrangement and saying
that they wished the superfluous distance was 400 miles
instead of 200?
(8) Do you think that the purpose of railways is to
lengthen distances or to shorten them ? If the purpose
is to lengthen distances, would you recommend that the
line from, say, Bombala to Sydney should first proceed
to Oobar, and there turn round three times, and then go
on to Sydney via Hungerford?
These are the vital questions that Wade’s com-
mission will have to answer; and Labor-leader
McGowen wisely remarks that it would be better
to consider them answered and get straight to
work.
* * * *
Meanwhile, on the much more costly matter of
the proposed duplications, Wade doesn’t see any
necessity for a commission or a profound itrquiry
or anything else. While his experts are consider-
ing the advisability of opening new ports, be pro-
poses to be busy pouring out millions of bor-
rowed money on this work so that the lines may
be able to bear for a lot more years the strain of
dragging everything to Sydney. By the time
Oliver and his colleagues learnedly report on the
advisability of relieving the congestion by divert-
ing part of the export trade to its natural outlets
at harbors like Port Stephens and Twofold Bay,
Wade probably hopes to be in a position to reply
that their isn’t any congestion at all, and that the
report is waste paper. His scheme will involve
the building of some 400 miles of railway, a por-
tion of it in the city itself where the cost of
resumption will be stupendous. Sydney is cer-
tainly much in need of some new railway.
It wants the main line Carried right
through the city and over the harbor,
for the people are weary of being thrown out an
O’Sullivan's white elephant a mile from the
business centre, and then crowded like sardines
into tram-cars which used to work smoothly but
now jolt at every stoppage like demented streaks
of lightning. Also in badly requires branches
from the new city railway, when that work is
built, to connect with the eastern and other
suburbs, and relieve the over-loaded tramway sys-
tem and the murderously-overcrowded streets.
But, apparently; these urgent matters are likely to'
go overboard in order that there may be money
for expensive duplications, so that the long-
distance traffic may still be crowded into the
same old city. A mere 30 miles or so of construc-
tion would give all the northern export trade
a new deep-water outlet at Port Stephens,
and furnish more relief —unless the new port was
killed by some villainous fake in the way of dif-
ferential railway rates —than all the fifteen or
twenty million pounds’ worth of works which
Wade proposes. In fact, Port Stephens could be
opened up without building any extra railway
mileage whatever, for Wade’s North Coast rail-
way takes a great and costly circuit in order that
it may go round that harbor at a distance and
keep trade away from it, ‘and if that expensive
circumbendibus was cut out the saving would
more than compensate for the, few miles of road
which* would have to be built. Certainly
some harbor works would be required, but
this would be repaid a thousandfold by
the acquisition of a new commercial city
. of which the State, profiting 'by past mistakes,
could constitute itself sole ground landlord for
ever and a day. The same sort of thing could be
done at Twofold Bay, in the south. The proper
opening up of that port would require much more
railway building than in the case of Port
Stephens; but it would be cheap country line,
not an outrageously expensive suburban affair
like the making of a new track into Sydney, and
again the State could be ground landlord of a new
city. With that set-off it is safe to assume that
the net cost of the whole work would bo nil, and
the congestion difficulty would be settled for very
many years. On the other baud, the staggering
outlay on Wade’s scheme will merely create un-
earned increment for the benefit of private land-
lords. That is bad enough, yet it is only one of
its evils, and not even the greatest one.
* * * *
For, even if Wade duplicates the lines, or
triples them, or quadruples them, or builds ten
lines side by side, the man on Monaro will still be
paying for 260 miles of needless carriage, and the
settler at Finley or Berrigan or Hay will be pay-
ing for about 200 miles, and the man in the north
will be' paying, according to his location, for 100
or 200 or even 300 miles of the same superfluity.
It is this appalling tax which makes N.S. W. agri-
culture a steadily diminishing quantity, despite
the huge sums that are being spent to put
people on the land, and despite the
Wade Government’s boast that it has planted
11,000 or some such number of now settlers.
It is for this reason that the area under wheat has
diminished by more than 500,000 acres in four
years, that the total area under cultivation has
slumped, and that there were 7787 fewer men
engaged in agriculture in 1909 than in 1905. All
the duplications on earth won’t stop the cry of
the north and south for the opening of the Closed
Ports. But if these are opened and get fair treat-
ment, Wade’s duplications—except perhaps that
on the western line—afe hardly 'likely " to’earn
their oats for many years. The-necessity for
making them pay will be one rqason for adher-
ing- to the old Congestion policy. ~ The other
reason—which will probably alsq,be a, reason why
Sydney shouldn’t get its long-postponed rail-
way through the city and its suburban lines
will be that the duplications and sundries to-
gether witli the North Coast railway require all
the money that can be cadged from Cohen during
at least a dozen years. It is characteristic of
Wade, by the way, that his gigantic construction
schemes should come to the front just at a time
when the fate of the old two-line railway is Hanging
in the balance and when no one really knows how
soon the advent of the mono-rail may necessitate
the tearing of it up by the roots. At such a period
a wiser man would try to relieve the congestion
by the least costly device, and a comparatively
cheap country line to give Riverina and Monaro
an outlet at Twofold Bay, with a mile or
two of railway to open up Port Stephens,
would certainly answer the purpose. lliere
would be this added merit that a line to
connect Monaro and Riverina with Twofold Bay
would open up new country along every mile of
its length, while all the proposed duplications
won’t make a yard of extra land available for
settlement. A wiser man than Wade would
notice that point also. But then nobody ever
suspected that gentleman of acute wisdom or
noticed him stagger under the burden of his own
over-bloated sagacity.
THE PRIVATE ENTERPRISE BRITISH
LANGUAGE, AND OTHER ITEMS.
“Henry Horsecollar 5 ’ speaks a piece
It was cabled last week that British Labor member
Ramsay Macdonald, just returned from a visit to Ger-
. mail#; expressed the opinion that the German was getting
ah&Td of the Englishman “ because German brains were
trained and scientitic.” In a superficial sort of way the
statement is probably correct, yet it seems incomplete.
It vaguely suggests the ancient legend that the earth
doesn’t lose its place in the solar system and fall head-
long through immeasurable space because it is supported
by a stupendous serpent, and the serpent in its turn is
boosted up by a tortoise. The tortoise, apparently, sits
upon nothing, and how it is supported remains a mystery
to this day. In like manner Ramsay Macdonald says
that the German, who is of the same race as the
Englishman, is getting ahead of his brother because he is
better trained and more scientific, but when the
question is asked : “ Why is the German better
trained and more scientific?” Ramsay Macdonald
has no answer to give save that he is. Cer-
tainly the German’s tariff has a lot to do with the
result. If he has a trade he knows that his Government
won’t allow it to be killed by cheap foreign competition,
as is too often the case in Fieetrade England ; his occu-
pation being to him a reliable stand-by for all the days of
his life, it is worth his while to become perfect at it.
Again, the German’s compulsory military training sys-
tem teaches him habits of order and regularity which he
finds of .inestimable advantage in future years. These
things count for a great deal, yet they don’t count for
everything. Perhaps one reason why the Englishman
begins to lag behind in the industrial race is his language,
and it may be that another is his utterly accursed tables
of weights and measures. Also his irregular verbs may
have something to do with the matter.
* * * *
Man has only a certain amount of time which he can
devote wholly to education, arid the more difficult things
are made to learn the lesshe really knows when he starts
out to fight the battle of life. Thus, one great reason
why China has lagged behind so miserably in the scramble
of the nations is its .alphabet, and another is its theory
about devils. There is a great literature about devils in
China, which the wise men of older days had to acquire.
It goes so deeply into details that it even explains why
devils can only walk in a straight line, and how, in conse-
quence, streets should all be built crooked in order to
prevent devils getting far into a city. When the middle-
class Chinaman had learned his awful alphabet, and to
sfifne extent read up the subject of devils, it
was time for him to start hustling for a crust,
therefore lie began the struggle of existence
rather badly equipped. He knew more about alleged
fiends than about science. And the Englishman,
though he doesn’t waste much time over devils, has his
own special, handicaps. His language, to begin with,
was made by Private Enterprise, and it is the sort of
botch of which Private Enterprise is usually guilty.
Language was given to man—especially if man is an am-
bassador—to conceal his thoughts, and that fact drops
a thick veil between one male humah being and another.
But, in addition, spelling was given to the Englishman to
Conceal his pronunciation, therefore he hides behind an
even thicker veil than most mem Lurking at the back
of the amazing entrenchment of his alphabet he .is
the world’s mystery. Also, lie is a mystery to
himself. He has about Hi vowel sounds and only
five vowels to express them. He has a multitude
of consonant sounds which he has no consonants to ex-
press, so they are represented by arbitrary combination,
even as X;5 might represent a place of worship or a
pound of brown sugar. His vocabulary is about the most
comprehensive in the world, and he has to learn the
pronunciation of almost every word in it separately, for
the alphabet hardly even gives him a clue. His “a”
may represent any one of at least three sounds. His “e ”
may represent any one of at least three sounds, and a
final “e” may be silent or otherwise, as Providknok
directs. His “ch” may be“k,”or may be something
else. His hard “g” has no letter to represent it. In
type “g,” may be “j” or otherwise. His “o” is
sometimes “ wu,” as in “one,” and his “u” may be
itself or it may be a long “o.’VNo educated man has ever
lived long- enough to learn to pronounce the awful
English Private Enterprise language in a w'ay that
wifi quite agree with the theories of another equally
educated man of the same age, even though they were
born in adjacent streets-and spent all their lives in the
same town. And. no man has ever lived quite long
enough to get the complete hang of the English irregular
verbs, which are almost all irregular.
* * * *
The English tables of weights and measures were also
devised by Private Enterprise. Atdeast they weren’t de-
vised ; they just happened. They are not worse than the
English language, for nothing could be much worse than
a language in which “Colo” sounds “ Kur,”
and in which the “u” in “Kur” is a sound that the
alphabet doesn’t even mention or hint at. A nation
wants only five tables —of money, of length, of
weight, of area, and of cubical contents, which
latter can do equally well for rock or whisky or
laudanum. They should all be built on the decimal
system, and any intelligent youth should be able
to learn the whole lot in a week. The English people
have such a vast complication of weights and measures
that it is fairly safe to say that the most brilliant arith-
metical intellect in the Empire couldn’t recite them
without at least a dozen blunders. Not one of them goes
on the decimal system. Everywhere two or four or 12 or
Hi, or2o or 112 or 2240 or evensJ or3o;£of something make
something else. A pound of one thing isn’t the same as
a pound of another. A pipe of wine may mean any one
of five different sizes, according to the kind of wine. A
mile at sea isn’t the same thing as a mile on land.
A customary stone is 81b., and a legal stone is 141 b.
A firkin of butter is 81b. less than- a firkin of
soft soap. A barrel of gunpowder is 121 b. less
than a barrel of raisins and 1561 b. less than a
barrel of soap. A long ton is 22401 b., and a.short ton is
20001 b. A fodder of lead is 19Jcvvt. at London and Hull,
21£ewt. at Newcastle, and 22Jcwt. at D< rby. A
hundredweight is either 1001 b. or. 1121 b., according to
the goods. There is a long hundred (132) used only' in
counting fish, though the ordinary hundred is just 100.
In fact, it is all chaos, and unspeakable chaos at that.
Still there is one thing which the English people have to
be thankful for, and that is the multiplication table. It,
at least, is solid and steady and logical. But the English
people didn’t make it. If they iiad, they would have
enacted that nine times nine would be 81 on Tuesday*
and Fridays, and 87 on Thursdays, and on other days it
would be 83 up to Bp.m. in summer and 6 p.m. in winter,
after which hours it would he 86J, with 2£ per cent, dis-
count during Lent.
* * * *
It is quite possible for a country to be commercially
ruined and lost and to be conquered and annexed, and
for a nation to be wiped out, because of its language and
its weights and measures [and its irregular verbs. * If the
English people acquired an alphabet of about or 50
letters which expressed all the sounds in the language,
and a system of spelling by which everybody c.o.uld tell
through merely looking at a word how it should be pro-
nounced, and if they threw their needless multitude of
irregular verbs overboard, and if they reduced their iu-
credible system of weights and measures to five tables,
all constructed on the decimal system, they would cut
something like five yeais off the time required
for the middle-class youth’s education. And five
years made available for technical education, for
scientific instruction and for military training would
count for a lot in the efficiency and defensive
power of a nation. In a community the size of the
United Kingdom they would mean over 200,000,000 years
gained in each generation, and a lot can be done in
200,000,000 years, especially when all these years
happen about 2J times each century. If the
British youth had devoted to chemistry the lime
that he wasted trying to remember in which
words the final “e” is silent and in which words
it isn’t, Germany wouldn’t have mopped up the bulk of
the world’s chemical industries as it has done. If he had
spent on military training as much time as he scattered
in trying to learn the difference between a sea mile and
a land mile, or lib. of gold and lib. of sugar, and all the
rest of the silly tabular misinformation, Britain to-day
wouldn’t see the German terror looming so large as it
does. A country can die of an insane alphabet, a mad
dictionary, a great derangement of irregular verbs and
a chaos of weights and measures. Sometimes I think
these things will yet be the end of the British Empire,
great as it is.
QUEENSLAND SEPARATION.
The old northern Separation movement, of which
John Murtagh Macrossan was the most sizeable
apostle, has slept for awhile ; but it isn’t dead yet
by a long way. Queensland is the only one of the
three monster States in which the population is
so much diffused that a strong Separation
idea is possible. There aren’t enough people
yet in the far northern part of Westralia or
in the Northern Territory to make their cry
very audible even if they all clamored at
once. They haven’t even anything to correspond,
in a population sense, with Central Queensland,
which also has a voice with which to demand
Separation. The places which hang on to
the same parallel of latitude in S. Aus-
tralia and Westralia are the McDonnell
Ranges and the Gascoyne. Some day they
will also speak for themselves; but at
present the most serious complaints which come
from these parts are those of the crow and the
wombat and the bull camel. It befell in
the chapter of accidents that Australian
settlement began far south, and for that
reason the North came to be, in the bright
lexicon of Toryism, a sort of burnt and blighted
land where the white man can neither live nor
work. Queensland is the first State that has had
a chance to disprove that lie on a big scale.
It has such a large and vigorous white population
up on the top of the map that the country there-
abouts feels competent to dispense with far-off
Brisbane, which is really an absurd distance
away, at the extreme corner of an absurdly large
State.
* * * *
It was at a meeting at Rockhampton that
Higgs, the local Labor representative, launched
the new Separation movement, and these reso-
lutions were carried without a dissentient voice :
That whereas the area of Queensland is 27£ times that
of Tasmania, and more than seven times the size of Vic-
toria, and comprises a large quantity of good agricul-
tural, pastoral and' mineral lands, well distributed
throughout the northern, central and southern divisions ;
And, whereas the population of the three divisions is
estimated as follows :
Northern division ... 122,614
Central division .. ..- .. .. 70,859
Southern division 364,764
Whereas, when Queensland was granted Responsible
Government, 50 years ago, the population of the whole
State was only 28,000 ;
And, whereas, in spite of the endeavors of the Execu-
tive and Legislature at Brisbane, it is impossible to cope
with the increasing demands of the southern, central,
and northern divisions, on the various departments of
the State, and since the natural and inevitable tendency
of any Government is to satisfy the requirements of the
population near the seat of government, before consider-
ing the requirements of residents in remote districts,
ttiis meeting is of the opinion that the time has arrived
when Queensland should be divided into three States,
and Central and Northern Queensland should each be
granted a separate Constitution, subject to the Common-
wealth Constitution Act,
That a league, to be called the “ Creation of New
States League,” be formed for the purpose of carrying
out the aims of the resolution.
* * * *
It is a deserving movement, but The Bulletin
respectfully propounds the theory that at present
it hasn’t got a hope. There have been Separa-
tions in the past—Maoriland, Tasmania, Victoria
and Queensland all broke away and set up for
themselves—but in every case it was the British
Government which did the severance. Now the
British Government has surrendered the right to
cut up Australian States, and except in the matter
of the Northern Territory, which may yet be
acquired by the Commonwealth and subdivided
as the Commonwealth sees lit, the Australian
Parliament hasn’t acquired the right which
Britain has abandoned. As matters stand, the
decision in such cases rests entirely with the
State Parliaments, and exactly what chance
Northern and Central Queensland have with
the Parliament at Brisbane they know by past
experience. They might get a majority by the
casual accident of being over-represented, but
that seems a very doubtful prospect. They ate
said to be over-represented at present, but a
Redistribution of Seats Bill is looming, to destroy
any hope in that direction. The trouble about mcs
Separation movements, as things stand now, is
this: If the northern half of a State with, say,
200,000 people wants to break away from the
south with, say, 300,000 people, it can’t have its
wish for want of a majority in Parliament. And
if its population increases so rapidly that in time
it has a majority, then it probably no longer
wants to break away, because it has become the
governing power itself. This theory may not
exactly apply in Queensland, where the North
and Centre stand together against the South ;
but even in Queensland the North has a chance
of being one day’the ruling influence, and when it
begins to see its time coming its willingness to
help the Centre to set up on its own account will
probably diminish very greatly. The Centre
seems to be a small concern between two big
millstones.
So The Bulletin rises to propound the theory
that what Queensland wants is not a local Separa-
tion movement, but an all-Australian Reconstruc-
tion policy. And it submits this resolution in
place of that advanced by Higgs, M.H.R.
(j) That a referendum be taken on the question of the
surrender to the Australian Parliament, for a space of at
most two years, of all the powers, rights, assets and
liabilities of the States.
(2) That the Australian Parliament be pledged, within
the two years aforesaid, to subdivide the inhabited part
of Australia into 15 or 20 States, so laid out as to attach
to each good port the territory it is naturally intended
to serve, and to.furnish each of these States with a simple
and workable Constitution, a Legislature of one House,
and whatever else is required.
(3) Tlrat each'feme shall retain its own public lands.
(4) That the 'Common wealth shall retain all the public
debts. 1
(5) That,the Commonwealth shall retain the railways,
being pledged tor eStilbtfslr &' unrforrfi ’gauge, and also to
give to eacjh State railway communication with its own
natural port where such is not already provided.


(6) That the practically uninhabited or uninhabitable
pirts of the country—such places as would only he a
burden on the States—be retained and administered by
the Commonwealth.
A scheme of that kind would command powerful
support in Northern and Central Queensland ; in
Northern N.S.W., which has its natural outlet
at Brisbane ; in Central N.S.W., which has its
natural outlet about Port Stephens; in far South-
ern N.S.W. and Eastern Victoria, which really
belong to Twofold Bay ; in Western Victoria and
South-eastern South Australia, which want Port-
land for their commercial centre ; around Broken
Hill, which belongs naturally to Adelaide; in
Western Riverina, which Providence intended
to trade with Melbourne ; in Northern Tasmania,
impatient of the domination of sleepy and back-
ward Hobart; in Albany and Kalgoorlie, which
are a trifle weary of Perth ; and in Northern
Westralia, which is too remote to feel much sym-
pathy with Perth. According to the Australian
Constitution the proposal would be carried if it got
a majority of the aggregate votes and a
majority in four States, therefore it might be
the luck of Northern and Central Queensland to
get the Separation they desire so much even
though there was a majority against them in
Queensland itself. A general Reconstruction
movement would bring together all the malcon-
tents of all the States, and while the malcontents,
a lean and eager race, generally vote almost to a
man, the party which reckons that tilings will do
fairly well as they are is lazy and sleek and bell-
toppered, and very frequently lets the matter
slide. The best hope of Separation lies in bring-
ing the matter to a popular vote, and as the
Federal Constitution is the only one which con-
tains any provision for a popular vote, the most
promising device is to make Separation an all-
Australian concern and drag it into the Federal
arena. Higgs, M.H.R., might do well to call
another meeting at Rockhampton and debate
these points.
PLAIN ENGLISH.
Monaro’s Debt to Wade and Wood.
The bad-tempered Mr. Wood, who is first lieu-
tenant to the far from good-tempered Mr. Wade,
sprang off his tail at Bom.bala (N.S.W.) last week,
and expounded the great things that his Govern-
ment is going to do for the districts thereabouts.
It was the same old promise that the Wade
Government makes wherever it goes. Owing to
the extreme fertility of the country—this is the
same region which the Wade Government de-
clared to be so dashed barren as to be quite unfit
to be a Federal capital site—it had been decided
to acquire and cut up some of the big estates.
Then people are to settle on the land and grow
produce, and send it over 300 miles to Sydney,
they having no railway connection with the
port at their door, and there being no big
city there, for lack of that connection, to sell pro-
duce to. Then the wilderness is to blossom like
the rose, and the rabbit and the olive and the vine
and the cedar of Lebanon are to flourish together,
and Monaro is to be an earthly paradise.
Unfortunately, the place was an earthly paradise
once, before, and the bottom of paradise fell out;
it blossomed like the rose a iong time ago, but
the rose handed in its resignation. Monaro
wasn’t always the land of big estates. ‘ A great
part of the tableland was cut up for closer settle- '
meut many years back. The deserted homes of,
the old selectors can still be seen by dozens, if not
by hundreds, and their rusted iron tanks redden
the landscape. Settlement washed right up to
the foot of Kosciusko, and then washed back.
The awful remoteness from the only market with
which they were allowed any effective* mbans of
communication made that bygone generation of
farmers glad to sell out, just as the promised new
generation—if it ever arrives—will probably be
also. , And then the squatter bought up the
small holdings for a song, because there was no
graduated land-tax to make the accumulation
of gigantic holdings unprofitable, which is
exactly the way things stand even now. And it
is the way things are to remain standing so far as
the Wade Government is concerned. Chief-
Secretary Wood assured his Bombala audience
that he was against a progressive tax because it
would reduce the value of land—and thus make
it easier for the would-be settler to get a bit. The
eminently unreliable S. M. Herald states that
the Bombala audience was wildly satisfied with
Wood and his statements, and that the vote of
confidence was unanimous. Certainly Monaro
owes a large debt to Wade and Wood and the
Government for which they stand, and it ought
to be unanimous, but not quite in that sense. It
was that Government which persistently repre-
sented Monaro as a barren, bleak, blighted
place, and wholly unfit in every respect.
It was the Wade-Wood push which by
years of aggression, arrogance, obstruction, in-
trigue and shameless misrepresentation deprived
the Bombala district of the Federal capital, and
it is because of Wade and Wood that the founda-
tions of a great city are not being laid there to-
day. It is also because of the policy of Wade
and Wood that there is no railway line to carry
the exports of Riverina and Monaro to Twofold
Bay and that a new Sydney is not arising there
right alongside the great tableland. When Monaro
considers what it might have been save for the
policy of Wade and Wood, and what it is by
reason of the policy represented by Wade and
Wood —when it thinks of its emptiness, its
povert3 r , its lack of settlement, its rabbits and its
isolation—its desire to fall on the necks of Wade
and Wood and break the same in three places
must be well-nigh overwhelming.
♦
The Law’s Maltreatment of Varawa.
The liberty of the subject under the law, and the power
of the Court to protect itself against all possible forms of
deception and abuse, are two issues which have been
definitely raised by the case of Varawa versus the
Howard Smith Company, Limited. The jury's findings
have induced doubts which must be set at rest; and
those who are responsible for the integrity of our laws
and whose duty it is to preserve unsullied the fountain
sources of justice, are obviously under an obligation to
ilie community to sift the question to the bottom.—
Melb. Aon.
This loud cull to the Victorian Attorney-General
to ‘'do something” in the Varawa matter was
inspired by the findings of the jury which awarded
Varawa £5OOO damages against the defendant com-
pany for wrongful arrest, false imprisonment and
abuse of the processes of the Court. The jury
found, by a majority of 11 to one, that an order
for Varawa’s committal to gaol was falsely and
maliciously procured by means of affidavits
“ which were to the knowledge of defendants
wholly false and misleading.” Also, by a majority
of nine to three, the jury found that tha defen-
dants obtained a writ of capias against Varawa,
not because they believed in the justice of their
civil claim against him, hut in order to "terrify”
him into procuring (from the Russian Govern-
ment) the money they were suing him for. In
short, the allegation against the Howard Smith
people is that they, in the first place, sued a man
on whom they had no real claim ; and in the
second place, got him committed to gaol-
on the ground that he was trying to escape
from the Court’s jurisdiction—by misrepresenting
the facts of the case. The Howard Smiths had no
contract with Varawa re the sale of the vessel
they had hoped to dispose of through an agent.
Their agent had merely communicated to them
bv telegram the telegrams he had exchanged with
Varawa’s agent, and their agent was quoting to
Varawa’s agent a higher price than the shipping
people had demanded for their old boat. Ques-
tions of breach of international law in regard to
the sale of a vessel to a belligerent Power—
Varawa being the agent for the Russian
Government, which was then at war with
Japan—had apparently deterred the Howard
Smith folk from any attempt ' to deal
with Varawa direct. Nevertheless, they sued
him for having broken a contract to buy
their boat from them at a higher price than they
had even asked for it, and they got him arrested
and imprisoned on representations which the jury
says were false in all respects. Hence the frank-
ness of the statement in Melb. Age: "Those
who are responsible for the integrity of our laws
are obviously under an obligation to the com-
munity to sift the question to the bottom.” The
Victorian Grown Law Department can be mighty
eager when it chooses to prosecute legislators and
lawyers on suspicion of conspiracy to pollute the
" fountain sources of justice.” Here is an urgent
demand for departmental energy in connection
with the same old fountain.
Manufactures Aren’t Built Up by Customs
Duties Only.
Last month a deputation of tanners, leather
merchants and leather consumers interviewed
Customs Minister Tudor and asked him for
an export duty on hides. They explained •
that the price of hides was eternally rising ; that
foreign buyers bought up huge quantities and ex-
ported them, and that the Commonwealth’s im-
portations of manufactured hides in the shape of
boots—especially the cheaper varieties—were
steadily increasing. The facts were indisputable,
but Tudor remarked that the subject was very
complex, and he wasn't sure. Yet the subject is
no whit more complex than any other that strikes
a country with a genuinely Protective tariff. Not
only should such a country strive to keep out
foreign manufactures by high Protective duties,
but it should aim, in all cases where it
can produce the raw material, at compelling
every scrap of that raw produce to be
turned into the finished article within its
own borders. The foreigner doesn’t buy our
leather to look at, hut to turn into hoots.
Tnese he sells to us, to his fellow-countrymen, or
to whosoever will buj r . Doubtless he must have
boots, and being unable to produce the leather
himself, he comes where he can get it; but the
leather-producing country also has rights and
duties, and these should impel it to refuse to sell
raw hides, hut to dispose of as many boots or
other leather-wares as the foreigner will. take.
Thus it would give work to its own bootmakers
and others, and it could see that fair wages were
paid and civilised practices and healthy conditions
observed throughout the various processes. This
cm he brought about by an export duty; and if
the foreigner dislikes paying that duty he can
always shift his factory here. And, even more than
to hides, this theory applies to.wool, wheat aud
other staple exports. The policy already obtains,
through natural protection, in the butter in-
dustry. If it were possible to export
milk instead of first turning it into butter,
the foreigner W’ould enthusiastically buy the
milk and keep-the profits of butter-making to
himself. In the butter trade the enhanced value
created by manufacture stays here instead of
going to the foreigner; and it should do so in
many other lines of industry. While he is con-
sidering the virtues of an export duty Minister
Tudor might remember that England built up its
wool manufactures by even more drastic methods.
It simply wouldn’t allow any wool to leave tlie
country at all. Even the moderately intelligent
James I. perceived that home manufactures were
of greater concern than external trade. Crom-
well and Charles 11. continued the policy.
Early in last century further penalties
were provided for anyone removing sheep from
the British Isles, and right up to 1833 the Brad-
ford people notified the Government that "a free
export of British wool would he destructive to
their trade,” while Leicester citizens ingenuously
proclaimed that “foreigners are now obliged to
purchase in this country wool goods of every
description, whereas if English wool is permitted
to be exported the trade in manufactured goods
will soon be annihilated.” This last statement
seems to fit the hide exporters’case like a glove.
There is no necessity to hang, draw and quarter
persons who remove bides from the Common-
wealth ; but an export duty that will discourage
such removals will undoubtedly advantage Aus-
tralian workers and manufacturers by compelling
foreigneis to purchase goods manufactured in the
Commonwealth.
♦
“ Their Natural Allies.”
Ip ever John Weary, of Victoria, realised how
far apart he now is from the fiery democrat of a
few years ago, it was surely when he read this
remarkable statement in the Argus leader of
June 6
The constitutional party in the Legislative Assembly
once more presents a united front to the enemy, and the
results of the elections on Thursday very clearly express
the desire of the country to see the Legislative Council
effectively co-operating with its natural allies.
Times have certainly changed, when Premier
John Murray can be openly alluded to as a
“natural ally” of perhaps the most Tory and
retrogressive House in the six States. Sad to say,
the remark is true; and it forms a scathing com-
mentary on the general worthlessness of the
Weary Ministry. Only once, of late, has it even
threatened to be less exhausted than usual, and
that was when the House of Rich Landlords last
session contemptuously threw its Land Taxation
and Electoralßeform Acts down the kitchen steps.
Then the Premier said that at the next Council
elections the. Government would run candidates
of its own. One member of the Cabinet, Attorney -
Geiieral Brown, really thought that the Govern-
ment meant it, and he got to work with an
electioneering pamphlet. But he discovered very
soon that John Weary’s threats were purely and
solely bogus. Brown’s opinion of Murray, when
the Premier publicly disavowed the Attorney-
General’s attack on the House of Land-
lords, has not been made public. Since
then the Attorney-General has been muzzled.
His references to the Council have been
withdrawn. And now, as the Argus truly says,
they are a very happy family. It is all very
pitiful and contemptible, and shows the urgent
need for a strong democrat in Victorian State
politics. A man qf even very moderate strength
could shift the whole Weary crowd at the next
elections; but so far that man isn’t in sight.
Prendergast, the leader of the Opposition,
hasn’t even strength enough to shift himself.
♦
An Occasion When Silence is Neither
Golden Nor Even Copper, but Just
Plain Foolishness.
A letter from the Teetotal Bricklayer :
Amongst the desperate efforts being made to save
Wade and his party of Tory heelers from extinction at
the N.S.W. Slate elections next September the firing of
crackers under the teapot of the anti-liquor party will
be a long suit. This has been said to the Labor party
before, and it needs to be said some more. While the
Sydney Telegraph (practically the mouthpiece of the
ginger-beer people) and Carrutiibrs (who passed the
1905 Liquor Act) are rousing Cold Tea to fever heat with
inflammable information about an alleged unholy and in-
fernal alliance between the Labor party and the Drink
interest, McGowen, as the official head of Labor in the
State, rises to say nothing, or remains seated to make
similar remarks. McGowen may possibly believe (1)
that the general public knows as well as he does
that the support his followers will receive from
the Liquor party is a splintered stick ; (2) that the
Labor party’s attitude towards the question of Local
Option can be taken as read ; (3) that the supporters of
Labor who are formally or informally attached to the
Rechabite tent will make Labor their first consideration
and the Liquor question their second consideration; (4)
that the result of the elections is a foregone conclusion,
and that, therefore, the matter isn’t worth bothering
about. If lie does, lie is far enough out in his reckoning
to run the ship ashore at the entrance to the harbor. In
the first place, the general public does not know what
support the public-house irives to Labor; but, no other
information bring available, the general and mistaken
belief is that Bung is shoving behind Labor for all he .
is worth. In the second place, the Labor party’s policy
towards local or State option cannot be t ken as read by
either side. There are quite a large squadron of indi-
viduals who desire to know, for instance, what the Labor
party proposes to say about State control of the Drink
industry when the question rings at the front door, a« it
will before very long. In the third place, it is u.y
doubtful if the supporters of Labor who are Cold
£ea barrackers will make Labor principles their first
; as a matter of fact, if their minds
can be sufficiently influenced to 'see the down-
fall of their mania in the victory of their cause
they’ll be waiting at the polling booth before daylight on
election day to smite Labor with every vote they can find
on the road. Fourthly, a Labor victory at the coming
elections is not a foregone conclusion—nothing is a fore-
gone conclusion in this#?orld except Woman ; but it is
next door to it, and the'only spoke that can go into the
wheel is in the possession of the teetotalers. If they can
be stampeded in a body to Wade, the Labor members will
wear their coat-tails out on the same old benches in
Macquarie-street for three more years. And already the
stampeders are at work good and hard, publicly and
privaielv.
O
The Fraudulent Orange Politician.
In the iS. M. Herald (8/6/’io) a Liberal named
Davison set himself to rebut the statement of a
fellow Liberal, E. C. V. Broughton, that “ the
Liberal patty is the ‘open foe ’ of the Catholic
community.” Of course, Broughton’s statement
was grotesquely untrue. The “Liberal” party
isn’t the sort of party that constitutes itself the
open foe of any section that gives it votes ; and it
habitually gets a whole heap of votes from
moneyed Romanists. As a fact, if “Liberalism”
ill-uses any’- religious section, it is the Yellow Pup
section, whose leg it has pulled hard and per-
sistently' in the past with promises of anti-
Catholic pleasures, which it never intended to
supply. As S. Davison put it: —
None can point to any act on the part of the patty
when'ied by Mr. Henry Parkes, Mr. G. H. Reid, Mr. J.
Hv Carruthers or Mr. Wade that qquld be construed
into being prejudicial to the Catholip community, either
collectively or individually. In what manner have
Messrs.'Gray, Wn,Ksf“H'URLEY, Law and Jessef attempted
to deprive Catholic citizens of their commonest lights
as citizens
Yet,’fo!.more years than the oldest inhabitant is
the political frauds whom Davi-
SdN enumerates have been snaring large masses
of support solely on the anti-Rome ticket. The
toiler who badly needed a job was assured that
the Protective tariff which was going to give it
to him was , calculated in some unexplained
fashion to benefit the Vatican and its minions,
and that the way. to checkipate- Rome.-:was:
to vote for some one like Gray or Jaw-
bone Neild —and for the abundant importation
of goods the manufacture of which had given
employment to Catholic foreigners. When the
horse-sense of Australia declared definitely
against Freetrade the barraekers for the dead
idiocy fell back on “anti-Socialism.’ Ihe Pro-
testant worker was told, in effect, that the issue,
so far as he was concerned, was the domination of
Rome versus his own personal welfare and social
betterment. False alarm democrats of the Wilks
stamp claimed that they didn’t oppose Arbitra-
tion, Old Age Pensions and so on because they
hated Progress much, but rather because they
feared Rome more. And they asked the low-
wage toiler to vote and work for them (and, inci-
dentally, for long hours and inadequate pay)
in order that they might be enabled to
bump the Vatican in Parliament. To the
shame of the workers’ intelligence the flagrant
old confidence trick came off repeatedly. Candi-
dates in essentially working men’s constitu-
encies like Dailey (Federal) and Marrickville
(State) rolled home easily on the Orange ticket,
at election after election. Yet, as Davison
notes, these men who owed their Parliamentary
existences to the anti-Rome cry made not the
slightest effort to do a thing to Rome, once they
were safely returned. They didn’t sefck to
abolish nunneries, extirpate the priesthood, or
deport Cardinal Moran. When the Sydney
Watchman started a fund to buy out Rome,
with the object of wiping it off the face
of the earth, none of them subscribed.
Thanks to the arrival on the electoral rolls of the
younger generation of Australian, which has been
State-educated into a proper appreciation of the
Walls of Derry foolishness, every one of the
mountebanks enumerated by Davison— together
with a whole raft more of the same species—has
been fired out of public life. They never had any
excuse for living as Parliamentarians; and as one
of their own crowd now proclaims, they didn t
even justify themselves as sectarians.
The Case Against J. Drysdale Brown.
An informative statement of the Melbourne per-
jury case, which seems to be the least generally
understood of all the notorious and prolonged
criminal stories that ever were, cannot be pub-
lished whilst the alleged “conspiracy’’ sequel to
it remains sub judice. But, as regards the inclu-
sion of Robert Harper and his son among the
alleged conspirators, there is no longer any
restraint on the utterance of plain truth. The
Vic. Attorney-General and his abettors in this
scandalous prosecution—whoever his abettors
may have been—stand exposed as persons
actuated by a most foolish variety of
obstinate cussedness in misapplying the crimi-
nal law to an obviously innocent man.
Robert Harper, on all the evidence that the
Grown could obtain after months of seeking, was
clearly proved to have been an intended victim of
a conspiracy of scoundrels; whereas the Crown
charged him with being the head partner in the
conspiracy. The evidence against young Harper
hardly carried any suspicion with it; nevertheless
father and son w’ere twice prosecuted in defiance
of the facts. At the Police Court, where the case
was spun out for 28 days, Robert Harper was
discharged as soon as the Crown counsel had ex-
hausted his miserable resources of evidence.
His son and two other defendants were dis-
charged after making statements in defence.
But the Vic. Attorney-General, instead of ac-
cepting the police magistrate’s decision as
highly satisfactory, especially as regards Robert
Harper, immediately announced his inten-
tion of “going through the papers” to' find
possible cause for re-indicting Robert and the
others. Which was another way of saying that
he doubted the honesty of the P.M., and was
determined to prosecute Robert some more if he
could find barristers to back him up with an
opinion. The re-indictment happened in due
course, and the same old Crown prosecution—
which looked shockingly the worse for wear on
its reappearance—was dragged along in 'the
Criminal Court for many days. Then Judge
Hood was asked to say whether the Crown
case against the Harpers was worth twopence,
or rather, worth sending to a jury. His
Honor said that there was no case against
William, the son ; and as for Robert, the father,
there was “not the slightest justification for the
prosecution, not a scintilla, not a tittle of evidence
in support of the case.” It now' remains for the
Attorney-General to show cause why the two
prosecutions of Harper, M.H.R., for which there
was no justifiation, should not be attributed to a
conspiracy in which he, the Attorney-General,
acted as bomb-thrower. His palpable duty is to
commit himself for investigation before resigning
his position in the Murray Government.
♦
Melbourne’s Absurd Transport Services.
Footscray (Vic.) arose in desperation the other
day and urged Parliament to see about electrify-
ing the suburban railway with which it is cursed ;
and the Age is hounding the rest of the suburbs
along the same road. They shouldn’t need much
hounding if they have sense. It is a toss-up
whether Melbourne’s cable-tram system or its
suburban railway system is the more archaic and
unsatisfactory and generally uninhabitable. In
the matter of trains, the city which used , to
pride itself on being the most up-to-date and
business-like in Australia stands about where
Sydney did a score of years ago. Gooc)
old Private Enterprise goes on afflicting
Melbourne with a toy transport arrangement that
would be sniffed at, somewhat, by patrons of a
Wonderland City or Earl’s Court Exhibition
show'. And the imported Tait administers the
local railways. His w'atchword from the jump
appears to have been “ Cheapness at any Price.”
Year after year the railwas's have returned
bloated surpluses; and the State has paid '
the price in the shape of sweated rail-
way employees, Sunshine and other smashes,
and innumerable minor disasters. Among the
latter may be numbered a rotten suburban rail-
way service, for which Tait’s adherence to
steam motor-pow'er in preference to electricity is
mainly to blame. A side agony, which is also the
result of ill-advised economy, .and which is- re-
sponsible for much of the rail way congestion at
the Melbourne terminus is the fact that thesuburbs
aren’t “linked up.” < The average Melbourne
suburbanite Smith who sets forth lightly in the
spring to call on Robinson in another suburb
proceeds on much the same devious lines as a
N.S.W. wheat bag, which frequently.reaches its
objective, 100 miles distant, after a round railway
trip, via Sydney, of anything up to 300 or 400 miles.
It is impossible for the visiting-Melbourne sub-
urbanite Smith to go to his friend Robinson more
or less as the crow flies; he has to scuttle into the
city and start out from there. The Age has
also noted that in the last five’ yefirs ‘ the
traffic on the suburban railways of the Victorian
capital has about doubled. Yet, according to a
recent compilation, the trains of the whole State
run on the average more slowly than they did; 25
The Reason.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Nobody is calling ior a doubly-entrenched citadel of
political privilege in this State. The demand is rather
f>r the ah ilition of the Council altogether. Most of the
Canadian Slates get along very well with one representa-
tive House ; and with a Federal Parliament to manage
our larger national concerns there is no need for the
elaborate paraphernalia of government now existing in
the six different States of the Commonwealth. The pre-
servation of State Rights is in no way identified with the
keeping up of an extravagant form of State government.
— Sydney Telegraph leader (916/’10.)
I SAID to myself : “ What is this ? ”
What’s amiss ?
Well, I’m blessed!
Will the Sydney D.T. take a rest —
Give it best ?
Oh, what bliss !
What! barrack like II for the — Well!
Who can tell ?
Will the Sydney D.T. take it on?
Now it fights, bites and skites
For State Rights
(Which, it writes, “are half gone”).
Will the Sydney D.T. swear off Wade ?
Rush to aid those who made
Wade look small —
Small and cheap ?
Will it hit out at Fat, and all that—
Rage and break things, and shake things ?
Do I wake ?
Do I sleep ?
Please pinch me—l fear I’m asleep 1
Will the Sydney D.T. take an axe-~r
Make attacks ?
Hunt the tracks of the House of the Lax ?
Jumping Jacks ! What’s the cause 1
Of this sudden volte-facc,
This mad race—this wild pace—
This rush to get out of the place and hack at the
poor House of Pause ? . . . .
Still- i *Ts sense ;
It’s immense ! It is done with a clever pretence.
(Not for pence—oh, dear no !)
We’re curious ; let’s know the worst. . . .
Well, the fact, in one act, is that nowadays we
and our neighbor,
And everyone's Labor.
(Strange; it means change , so we have to arrange.)
Let us— Hush /—quietly RUSH, ere our chance is
im perilled—
By the News or the Herald—
Let's rush to be FIRST ■'
N.S.W.
MONTY PEET.


Films! Films! Films!
There’s MONEY in Them.
HARRINGTONS LTD. are the People for
ITiy— Moving: Picture Machines and Films.
BEST HIRING SYSTEM and BEST SUBJECTS.
Sydney—3B6 George St. ; Melbourne—266 Collins St.
Brisbane— 93-95 Queen St.; Adelaide—Gawler Place
Franz Josef Lag'er Beer.
SPARKLING, REFRESHING, EXHILARATING AND PURE.
Franz Josef possesses the true Lager quality and character, being sharp, clean, and of light gravity.
Adams' Tattersall’s Hotel,
One of Sydney's Most Comfortable Residential Hotels.
The Grand Centre for Business, Comfort or Pleasure.
&
The Celebrated MARBLE BAR
attached; also ADAMS’ CAFE.
years ago. That isn’t going to worry a Railway
Commissioner who is out after a record as
an economist. It is apparent that, with a
monopoly of the transport business and a
custom automatically increasing every year, the
Commissioner who sticks to practically the same
old plant, and, as far as possible, to the same old
time- and wage-schedule, is bound to achieve amaz-
ing results in the money-saving line. The question
is, how long the public, which is being victimised
and harassed in the matter, is going to stand it.
When a costly imported expert announced that the
suburban railway system would be run to greater
advantage by electricity than by steam, the sug-
gestion was turned down on the ground that there
was no sign of any prospective increase in traffic.
L’hen traffic went and about doubled itself off-
hand. The new Flinders-street station was
built allegedly on a large generous scale, so that
it could take practically all the business that used
to be divided among Spencer-street, Flinders-
street and Princes Bridge. It cost an enor-
mous amount above the estimate, and before
it was quite finished it was found that
so little allowance had been made for the
growth of trade that it would be neces-
sary to keep both Spencer-street and Princes
Bridge stations in full commission. The main
station can’t be enlarged further, else it would
block up Flinders-street on the north or else fall
into the river on the south. So a patch has been
put on the frayed trousers of Spencer-street, and
Princes Bridge station is to be rebuilt of wood.
Barring the fact that wood is a very common
material in Canada, no one can guess the reason
of this. Yet things might be worse. Princes
Bridge station might have been re-constructed of
celluloid or brown paper or something.
♦
A Smite at Costs.
Justice Gordon made a good start in the N.S.W.
divorce jurisdiction a little while ago by refusing
Costs to a petitioning wife whose charges were
shown to be grotesquely untrue. Also, the new
Judge intimated that in future, before he allows
Costs against a husband who has been exonerated
of wild charges, he (the Judge) will have to be
satisfied that the wife’s solicitor “took pains to
correct her statements.” Which is an eminently
equitable and common-sense decision, and a large,
bright nail in the coffin of the speculative attorney.
In the past—owing to the absurd rule which.laid
it down that, no matter how blameless a husband
might prove himself, he had to pay both his own
and his wife’s costs in a divorce action—the lower
class of attorney has been delighted to take up
any sort of preposterous case against a moneyed
husband. That their clients were in many cases
irresponsible, wicked, immoral or half-demented
women didn’t worry these disgraceful samples of
Gentleman One. Nor did the certain know-
ledge they must have held, as men of ordinary
intelligence, that the accusations hurled at
the unfortunate husbands were false. With the
glad beacon of certain Costs shining before them
they forged cheerily ahead, and heaved mud at
the characters of men whom they knew, as a moral
certainty, to be innocent —and did it, moreover,
with the maligned one’s own money. Under
-Justice Gordon’s new system, this refinement of
legal cruelty and injustice will be to a certain
extent suppressed. The unscrupulous solicitor
will still take “spec, cases” for vindictive or
eccentric women ; but he will first see to it that
the women are moneyed. That will lessen
the flood of unnecessary divorce litigation (1)
because the average woman isn’t moneyed ; (2)
because, when she is she mostly hesitates about
dispersing her assets in a court of law, where she
wouldn’t hesitate a moment about dispersing
chose of a husband with whom she had become
annoyed. If Justice Gordon had only gone a
step further, while he was about it, and announced
his intention, in future, of letting attorneys
whistle for their Costs in all cases where the cause
of action impresses the Court as flagrantly unjusti-
fiable, a shark-harassed community would have
arisen as one man and called him brother.
Judging by the rumpus which lately occurred at
Randwick (Sydney), Prem er Wade and Chief
Secretary Wood have ideas of importing the
Yankee boss methods into N.S.W. politics.
Hitherto, it has always been urged against the
Labor party that its members are not free men,
but must vote against their own convictions at
the bidding of the Caucus. (That the Labor
members are the Caucus does not count for right-
eousness.) Now it seems that the Liberal and Re-
form Association has determined that the Liberal
members shall be under its domination, and there
is a dark suspicion abroad that the Liberal and
Reform Association itself is merely the puppet
of Premier Wade and Chief Secretary Wood.
During the recent session Storey, M.L.A. of
Randwick, occasionally assumed the r6le of
candid friend, and though he obeyed the crack of
the party whip in divisions he occasionally said
things which were unpleasant but true. And
for this. Storey avers, Chief Secretary
Wood promised “to deal” with him. The
“dealing” started last week when a small
number of people in the electorate wrote to the
central executive of the L. and R. Ass. (which
lives in an underground room in Pitt-street, Syd-
ney, and has for its outward and visible emissary
a gentleman with the curious name of Arch-
dale Parkhill), and invited it to come out to
Randwick and form a branch of the Association.
As there is a branch of the organisation already
m Randwick, the formation business seemed
superfluous. One of the gentlemen who wanted
the branch formed desired, it is said, to secure
the party nomination as against Storey, and
was understood to be very displeased with
the independent, not to say critical, attitude
adopted by Storey towards the Premier .and
party. He wished to represent Randwick on the
“ complete submission ” ticket. And apparently
the new branch was to be formed to nominate
him, the old branch being with Storey. How-
ever, a number of electors rolled up, among them
retiring member Storey ; and a motion that the
extra branch be formed was defeated overwhelm-
ingly. Whereupon one in authority arose and
requested all those who had voted against the
proposal to retire before he had them slung out.
The others were invited to stay and form the
blessed branch, and eventually 18 did so. So the
Liberal and Reform Association, which condemns
the alleged coercion of Labor members by the
Caucus and leagues, is seemingly determined to
oust Storey for having a mind of his own.
“F.C.” on Melbourne’s gradual trams and the
future control thereof :
The initial meeting of the conference called by Melb.
City Council to consider the Tramways resumption ques-
tion showed the utter incompetence of that body to deal
with any matter larger than the leg-roping of a tame
cab. The delegates didn’t do much before adjourning till
the end of the month ; but what they did was enough to
make every sensible citizen weep. The city had eight
delegates, South Melbourne (with which it is coquetting
with a view to absorption) had three, and the other inner
suburban municipalities one or two each. The 11 dele-
gates from Melbourne arid “ South ” constitute an abso-
lute majority of the conference. Not one of the big outer
suburbs—Camberwell, Malvern, Caulfield, Footscray, etc.
—was represented, yet the delegates cheekily agreed, bv
16 votes to three, that the representatives of the 200,000
people living outside the inner circle should not come
into the business till “ a later date ” —that is till some cut
and dried scheme of taking over the tramways and work-
ing them has been agreed on. It is very nice and pretty
—for Melbourne City Council; but it may presently strike
that egotistic animal that the general public wants a
good deal more than the mere resumption of the
existing tramways. The whole out-of-date cable
system has got to be electrified, and the
absurd, horse-drawn hearses abolished ; the lines have
got to be extended in every direction for about
double their present length, and cross lines have to be
built, so that a Caulfield resident, for instance, can get
to Elwood Beach on a hot night without trapesing 10
miles into the city and out again—a 20-mile journey to
reach a bay that is only three miles off. At Melbourne’s
present rate of progress the suburban railways, even
when electrified, will still be ineffective to carry the
traffic, wherefore there is urgent need for a swift tram-
way service along the wider roads to all the outer
suburbs. And the job can’t be tackled too soon.
Victoria’s Board of Public Health got quite
angry lately when it learned that only 111 out of
206' municipal councils had troubled to forward
samples of food from their districts for analysis,
as required by the Health Act. It had a good
mind to prosecute the tired corporations until
some person explained that a good many of them
simply couldn’t afford to spend even the few
pounds necessary to gather in samples, because
they were so diminutive that their revenue
hardly equalled a laborer’s wages. Raywood'
borough, for instance, boasts 122 ratepayers and
revels in a revenue of £335. Smythesdale has
153 ratepayers and £378 revenue, and there are
many others. All these pay a lot of unneces-
sary officials half-or-quarter-time wages, and then
they have to find the interest on the usual
overdraft. So there isn’t much left for the neces-
sary business of keeping roads, etc., in order and
attending to the public’s health and comfort. If
the Local Government Act were honestly admin-
istered a lot of these municipalities, not being
highly enough valued to raise £l5OO a year on a
Is. rate, would be wiped out; or if the Health
Act were properly administered and the effete and
hopeless councillors fined they would speedily
wipe themselves out; but, under the regime of
Weary, Watt and Co., laws are made merely to
be looked at and to afford bumptious mediocrities
a chance to put on frill and to carry themselves as
though they were not common clay, but some
extra special brand of stiff marl or blueslimes.
Thus S. M. Heraud, last week, naively oblivious
of history :
There is no reason why the Boer should not be as
thoroughly British as is, for instance, the French
Canadi in. The Empire is a mighty solvent for racial
antagonisms. In South Africa there are wounds that
will rake time to heal, but we need not doubt that they
will heal, and that when the ominous hour of conflict
conies South Africa will be found shoulder to shoulder
with Canada and Australia.
The British Empire isn’t a “solvent for facial
antagonisms.” Take Ireland, for instance. It
has been attached to England for some 800 years,
but nothing will make an Irishman regard himself
as an Englishman. If the Boer is to be no more
British than the French Canadian it will be a bad
lookout for the Empire. Canada has been nomi-
nally British for 150 years, yet in that time the
French have rebelled repeatedly. Professor
Thorold Rogers tells a story of a French
Canadian village in which all the people had
Highland Scotch names, spoke nothing but
French, were devout Catholics, and hated the
English like poison. They were the result of a
cross between Highland crofters, who had been
“cleared” to make room for deer, and French
Canadian mothers. India has had one mutiny,
and, if the best authorities are to be believed,
another is doing its best to battle to the surface.
And even in Egypt the gentle natives’ racial
antagonism is only kept in solution by the
constant presence of Imperial troops.
«
“Hermes”: So it appears that the reason why
Wade, of N.S.W., abolished trial by jury for
offences connected with the Gaming and Coercion
Acts was his desir.e that there should be rio
vexatious delays. Why it should take longer to
try a man before a Judge and jury than before a
Judge alone is hard to explain. Finding a jury
is not an elaborate or long-winded job ; but find-
ing a jury that will accept as final the word of the
policeman whose job it is to convict first, last and
all the time, is another matter. Wade discovered
this in connection with the Broken Hill trials last
year, when the accused men were dragged all the
way to Albury. The difference in the findings of
what was looked upon as a conservative jury from
a farming community, and the findings that Justice
Pring would probably have arrived at sitting
alone, was no doubt one strong reason for the
alteration made in the law by a Government
which believes in short shrift and long gaol.
Gone to the country where, according to
available information, a man’s political views
don’t matter worth a copper, Robert Kyffin
Thomas —on June 13, at Adelaide —jour,
nalist, Tory and fair employer. Thomas,
who was 58 years of age when he went
to press for the last time, was principal
proprietor of the Adelaide Register, Observer
and Evening Journal. Recently he toured the
world pursued by the demon of ill-health, and,
although he kept ahead of the demon in the race,
it caught up on him when he arrived home
again, and worried at him remorselessly. At
the 1909 Imperial press conference in London
Thomas was chairman of the overseas delegation,
and as a compliment to the party was knighted in
1910. His political views were of the Tory
brand, but as an Inky Way employer he was
broad-minded, and endeavored to pay his staff a
fair thing. As a vanished Conservative, Robert
Kyffin Thomas doesn’t matter ; but as a departed
newspaper man he is to be much regretted.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
SYDNEY SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK.
Her Majesty’s “The Dollar Princess.”
Royal “Henry of Navarre."
Criterion “The Passing of the Third Floor
Back.”
Tivoli Rickards’ Co.
Palace West’s Pictures.
LYCEUM Spencer’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Y.M.C.A. Hall Jessie Sheath (21st).
MELBOURNE SHOWS FOR COMING WEEK
Her Majesty’s “A Waltz Dream.”
Royal. “ The Honeymoon.”
Princess’s Besses o’ th’ Barn Band.
Opera House Rickards’ Vaudeville Co.
King’s “ The Sailor’s Wedding.”
Wirths’ Olympia Spencer’s Pictures.
West’s Palace West’s Pictures.
Athenaeum Hall Tail’s Pictures.
Glaciarium Ice Skating.
Comparisons inevitably suggest themselves
between “Henry of Navarre,” the new Sydney
Royal production, and “ Count Hannibal.” Both
plays deal with the same period ; they are both
melodramasof a gory brand; both are strong on the
sectarian side; both are cynically defiant of his-
torical facts, and so on. “ Hannibal ”is indiffer-
ent dramatic stuff, but it is coherent; there are
fairly plausible excuses for most of its thrills.
“ Navarre ’’is, for the most part, a frank, rank
absurdity. The main concern of the author has
been to end each act with a triumphant “ situa-
tion ” for his hero. That is why Navarre flirts, re-
moves his boots, and wears bis hat in thepresence of
inoffensive little Margot. She is no viperish
Katherina who needs to be tamed. Palpably
these things are done in order that the lady may
be stung into giving an assignation to the
naughty Due de Guise. For Navarre to discover
them in her bedroom, shoo Guise off the premises
and bolt, cloaked and masked, into a cupboard is
the work of a moment. And thus, when
Charles IX. enters with a portion of his army
and taxes Margot with frivolity, the path is open
to Navarre to emerge, tear off his disguise and
exonerate her in the most sensational, generous
and cheer-extracting fashion conceivable. The
exigencies in the way of stirring “curtains”
for Henry do gross wrong to Catherine
de Medici’s memory as a capable murderess.
She wants Henry killed, and so she hands Margot
a lethal drug, tells her it is a “ love potion,” and
urges her to make him drink it. Henry drops to
the plot, and confounds Catherine publicly. Par-
ticularly futile is the old lady’s effort to end
Henry’s earthly course by throwing a certain
deadly powder on the fire in his room. The net
“THE DOLLAR PRINCESS ” AT SYDNEY
HER MAJESTY'S.
Grace Edmond, Frank Greene and Comedian
Percy.
result is that she narrowly escapes going under to
the fumes herself, half kills an innocent waiting-
maid, and provides the exasperating Henry with
yet another crowded spell of glorious limelight.
Her most rational scheme for the extermina-
tion of Henry occurs off-stage. She arranges
for bricks to be dropped on his Protestant
head from a street scaffolding. However, the
bricks miss him—due doubtless to natural ex-
citement on the part of the Hibernian hod-carrier
who, as history records, was hired at the price of
three beers and the glory of the Church to do this
fell deed. Consideration of "Navarre” con-
vinces one of the sound judgment shown by the
writer of “ Count Hannibal ” in introducing his
Barthplomew massacre early. It is possible for
actors to suggest a tense atmosphere of suspense
and brooding dread for a scene or two ; but when,
as in "Navarre,” they are required to extend it
over four long acts, failure is certain. Indeed,
during most of the show, on the night The Bul-
letin attended, the ambient ether was no more
electrical of imminent doom than that of the
average “Liberal” candidate’s committee room
was last March.
* * * *
There is scant plot outside the persistent
attempts on Henry’s life and his sure frustration
of the same. An “astrologer ” wanders on peri-
odically, and exercises his preposterous craft
without getting arrested as a confidence trickster.
At onestage he has the lights put out, and throws
on a screen dreadful colored portraits of Henry
and Charles IX. Charles is, not unnaturally,
smitten with homicidal mania, and clamors for the
execution of the magician—a sentiment that has
oftentimes stirred the writer as he watched
similar wizardry at Rickards’ abode of song, to
the sweet strains of a Yankee ballad of senti-
ment. There is some innocuous love-making be-
tween one of Henry’s male friends and the half-
murdered maid afore-mentioned. The conflict
between Charles’ love for Henry and his desire to
wipe out the latter’s co-religionists is shown.
Then come the howls of the massacred—lament-
ably unconvincing by comparison with the
Criterion howls of some weeks previously—and a
full reconciliation and complete understanding
between Henry and Margot.
* * * ■k:
Miss Susie Vaughan (Catherine de Medici)
is in the false position of having to look dangerous
and subtle, and yet be constantly shown up as an
utterly fatuous, not to say idiotic, old bungler.
She performs her trying task with some skill, and
looks regally handsome throughout. Miss Grey’s
art is wasted in the r6le of Margot, who is color-
less where she isn’t incredible. Julius Knight is in
his element as the splendid and tremendous Henry
—one who, to the fighting ability of a Johnson,
addstheshiftycunningof a racing pony-owner. He
has the light touch which Asche lacks in similar
rhles. Sydney Stirling provides a powerful
character study of the half-demented king.
George Bryant is a likely-looking astrologer.
Reynolds Deriniston makes a manful de Mouhy ;
and Cyril McCay a comely and spirited Guise.
Subsidiary parts are well handled by Miss Flor-
ence Kelly and Leslie Victor.
** * *
“ Pete ” retires amid a final gust of sobs
from Sydney Criterion to-morrow (Friday) night.
The Matheson Lang Co. is putting on Jerome K.
Jerome’s extraordinary play, “The Passing of
the Third Floor Back,” on Saturday.
** & *
At Her Majesty’s (Sydney), “ The Dollar
Princess” is flickering to a finish. “A
Knight for a Day,” which is to be the next
production at this playhouse, is in rehearsal.
** * *
Calve gave the last concert but one of her
Sydney season on Saturday night last, and the
applause was so frequent and tempestuous that
the immense Town Hall repeatedly leaped into
the air like a short man trying to get a glimpse at
a procession. The fascinating star, who seemed
to be in a particularly happy mood, gave the audi-
ence plenty of provocation for enthusiasm ; so the
subsequent raids made by the critics on the dic-
tionary may be considered justifiable. It would
be hard to pick out the lady’s best number, so
uniformly good was she in all of them ; but
the spirited “Chanson de Bacchus” (Offen-
bach) was the most popular, and brought
forth the most determined and sustained
encore of the evening. The musical “hold-
up” was, however, smilingly resisted. One
could blush for the average concert audience,
only that the half-furnished appearance of the
programme indicates clearly that the management
expects to be bushranged and has made its pre-
parations accordingly. The present arrangement
seems to be fairly satisfactory to both parties;
but the noisy interludes of hand-clapping and
floor-thumping between numbers gets very weari-
some to the people who pay to listen to sweet
sounds. Tenor Gasparri, in addition to carolling
artistically some six solos, once more assisted
Calve in the strenuous “Cavalleria Rusticana”
duet, and Jacques Pititel played earnestly and
quietly through a new programme, which in-
cluded the Sixth Rhapsodie of Liszt. The last
Sydney Calve concert is in progress as this Bul-
letin is chasing through the press.
** * *
Antonia Dolores is paying another visit to
this land of promise. She opens her mouth and
her season in the Sydney Town Hall on Wednes-
day, 29th inst., under the direction of H. N.
Southwell; and if she doesn’t repeat her previous
success, it is difficult to say whether Southwell or
Sydney will be the more astonished.
** * *
Mendel (the Blind Musician), Carter (illu-
sionist), and Godfrey James, the singing collier,
are still the best turns Sydney Tivoli has to offer.
The dancing Raymond Trio of banjoists and
mandolinists, Fanny Powers (mimic), and one or
two others also lend the bill valuable assistance.
The share of entertainment contributed by the
unnamed performers is, however, small—about 10
per cent, of the whole. The Bulletin is dead
tired of remarking that Billy Williams of the
Velvet Suit has not gone away yet. Duty, how-
ever, once more drives it to draw attention to his
continued lack of absence.
** * *
“The Honeymoon,” which Oscar Asche
restored to light at Melbourne Royal last Satur-
day, proves to be something more tha,n an old-
fashioned plagiarism from “The Taming of the
Shrew,” eked out by gentle larcenies from other
comedies of Immortal William the Plot-lifter.
Tobin’s comedy, to be sure, bristles with re-
minders of masterpieces. The Duke of Aranza,
locking his furious bride in a domicile where two
barrels of cheap wine are the principal articles
of furniture, resembles Petruchio subduing
Katharine, but the system of discipline is differ-
ent. Instead of feigning to be a mad bully he
plays the reasonable peasant who has deluded his
wife and is bent on winning her forgiveness. The
prettiest incident in the story is his sub-
jugation of the rebel by legitimate means.
When she objects to attending a merry-
making in humble picnic garb he paints such
a florid word-picture of his Juliana’s beauty
unadorned that she presently darts at him and
kisses him on the back of the neck. There’s a
whole sermon in that act of endearment. With
the torch of flattery he tires her heart, and at the
subsequent festival she melts into his arms. Pre-


CINEMATOGRAPH Films for hire —new
subjects constantly arriving. Machines,
parts, and accessories stocked. Write.
Jerdan’s, 293 George Street, Sydney.
Insure
with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LIMITED,
PITT AND KINO STREETS, SYDNEY.
FIRE ACCIDENT, EMPLOYERS’ LIABILITY, . PLATE GLASS, Etc.
Lowest Rates Charged.
’Phone Ko. 23G Central.
Settlements Prompt and Equitable.
SYDNEY H. CARY, Chairman.
G. HOWARD POPE, Manager.
sumably she had been taking some wine with her
cigarettes, but that was all in the game, any-
how. If the Duke and Juliana had their inspira-
tion in “The Shrew,” another couple are just as
suggestive of “Twelfth Night” and “Much
Ado.” Captain Rolando, posing as a woman-
hater, is pursued by one of Juliana’s sisters, dis-
guised as a boy, until she gets him alone in a
wood. Then she bursts forth as an attractive
female, and needs to follow him no more. He
chases her. The other sister and her admirer
are more trivial in their interest than
the Captain and his pining she-boy. A farcical
interlude is provided by a mishap to the father of
the girls. On his way to rescue Juliana from the
custody of her supposed fraud Of a husband, the
old man gets laid-up at a country inn. The land-
lady (Bessie Major), being a harpy of the deepest
dye, urges the local apothecary to do his worst for
the invalid in their mutual business interests.
This pair of incidental characters bring an atmo-
sphere of “Gil Bias ” into the comedy. Whilst
they are plotting the further prolongation of the
sick man’s agony the cadaverous victim, in his
night shirt, overhears their conversation and
vanquishes them with the leech’s own carving
knife. The spectacle of the druhken phlebotomist
(Caleb Porter) being forced to swallow his own
pills would be much funnier if Grimwood, as the
outraged patient, were moderate in his antics.
Grimwood’s performance of the parent is an
irritating matter all the time. He is excessive in
gesture, exaggerated in senility, extravagant in
all his notions of the part. Regarded as ap elderly
Spanish artist (although his name is Signor
Balthazar), he is just a doddering, overwrought
impossibility.
* * * *
For the rest, there is plenty of Spanish
color in the scrappy entertainment. Conden-
sation has robbed the situations of whatever
realism they formerly had, whilst relieving the
play of dulness. There is some human nature
and poetic charm in many isolated episodes, and
some originality in a few of the lines which have
been adopted and adapted by Tobin’s imitators.
But the abruptness of the happenings is much
more marked than in “The Shrew.” Many
things are not explained ; some don’t even suggest
an explanation. “The Honeymoon” is a curio
interestingly artistic in its careful Ascheian
setting, but it lacks the value of skilful construc-
tion or sparkling humor.
* * *
Oscar Asche, in playing the Duke, is
rather hampered by the necessity to steer a middle
course between Count Hannibal and Petruchio.
He has to boss his wife respectfully and express
a deep affection without bumping- against Hanni-
bal, and to do it in a low comedy environment
w thout running into Petruchio, which is a likely
accident to occur when he fries a string of sausages
and gives Juliana her supper. Asche manages to
avoid any confusion with those other characters.
The Duke seems a better and more kindly tyrant
than either of them, and the maxim re “ the man
who lays his hand upon a woman save in the way
kindness” comes naturally from the urbane
Spaniard. Kay Souper gives a humorous
sketch of the easily converted woman-hater.
Miss Clement, as the romantic girl in the
knickers of a sentimental boy, is charmingly con-
vincing. lan Penny, as the lover of the third
sister (Miss Robertson), is picturesque and
natural in artificial situations, and Miss Lily
Brayton appears at her best in the play’s best
acting part. Her diction may be theatrical in its
studied melodiousness; the vehemence of her
anger and irony seems too savage ; she gets none
of the sympathy due to a woman who thinks her-
self horribly deceived. Nevertheless, she strikes
the true note of feeling oftener in this case than
in any of her previous parts. In her resentful
moods she affects a Carmen swagger and hums the
“Habanera.” In her melting moments she is
magnetic. If the Asche season is to last only
five weeks, “The Honeymoon” will be shortly
succeeded by “The Merry Wives.”
** * *
The Princess’s is just now in possession of
the Besses Band, which will give two final perform-
ances in Melbourne on Saturday, the present
advt. states. Therefore any citizen who is still
ignorant of what the Besses can do with music,
ancient and modern, and would like to be well
informed on the subject ere he dies, h id better
pay his money and take his choice of the few
remaining programmes. The Bulletin gives a
guarantee with each performance of this admir-
able brass band; Next week Muriel Matters, the
Australian Suffragette, who went to the House of
Commons to get Grilled, is to lecture for two
nights before Calve gives the first of her operatic
concerts. The young lady’s name sounds rather
too pretentious, for this journal is not quite sure
that Muriel Matters at all. But if the Matters
she is gives particular interest to the Matters she
talks about, Muriel should do very well.
** * *
At Her Majesty’s (Melbourne) the escaped
Prince Consort continues to be led back to his
domestic obligations by a Dream Waltz tune, and
all is going well in the little court of Schopen-
kraukenstein. The Working Men’s Collegians
are to have a night at Her Majesty's next Thurs-
day, when old students will be expected to im-
prove the shining hour by rolling-up.
* * stf *
The iniquitous treatment of George Cross,
alias James Gordon, continues to appal the sight
and disturb the souls of all the patrons of Mel-
bourne King’s. The poor fellow, condemned to
14 years’ prison on evidence that isn't worth
mentioning, looks a picture of woe and a cari-
cature of sublime self-pity. Whatever sympathy
is excited by his condition is mocked by a doubt
as to whether his agony is induced by his persecu-
tion or by the demoralising contact of Convict
Bailey. And, unhappily, this doubt will never
be cleared up, for before The Bulletin will have
time to make inquiries “The Sailor’s Wedding”
is due on the scene. The “Wedding,” which
broke out in Adelaide some time ago, will make
its appearance in Melbourne next Saturday night.
** * *
West’s Melbourne programme is stealthily
seductive this week, and includes “The Smoker,”
a pretty story of smoke and kisses; “Ransom’s
Folly,” the well-known Harding Davis yarn ; and
“ Baffles, Bandit.” Also there is an amusing
and instructive picture of Roosevelt reviewing
French troops at Vincennes. In this film it
is quite plain that Teddy is not only the
idol of himself but the gorgeous centre of the
solar system. Indeed, when he turns on that grin
like a dentist’s showroom, he makes the moon
look petty and the sun absurd.
*■ * * -fc
Rienzi, the subject of a romance byLytton
and of an opera by Wagner, is now mentioned in
Tait’s bill at Melbourne Athenaeum. The picture
appears to follow history with a confident tread,
and gives one a good idea of the man beside
whose hauteur mere pride seems divine humility.
“ Gold is not All ” -will appeal to those who love
to see poverty and riches in a strident contrast.
As for “Californian Industries,” it is a film for
which the unfair sex should be properly grateful.
It deals with the breeding of ostriches, pigeons
and crocodiles, upon which women naturally rely
for supplies of plumage, pouts and tears.
** * *
At the Opera House the Rickards pro-
gramme has not moulted a feather or budged an
inch since last notice of it- The programme is
about two yards long and full of femhle attrac-
tion, but the supremely shapely lady jiyho figures
in the Billiard Room will be gone to-morrow.
“MAN TO MAN ” AT
MELBOURNE
KING'S.
Max Clifton as
Warder Turner, of
Portland Prison;
also a small im-
pression of
the goings-on
therein.
Bert Bailey as the
murderous .
convict. Bill
Burkley
(escaped
from the
said prison).
At Adelaide Royal Nellie Stewart has been
revelling in the part of Princess Mary, who had
to marry an old King of France against her will.
It is an utterlv artificial play, like “ Sweet Nell,”
but full of effective tricks, and she got the last
ounce out of the whole bag of them. The change
to “ What Every Woman Knows ” is extreme,
and she gives another blever rendering here,
though probably it is not just the heroine that
Barrie had in mind. The Tivoli has lost that
remarkable family. Vasco of the rolling eye and
the 31 musical instruments, and Alexandra and
Bertie of the silver trapeze. (This last pair,
by the way, adopts a firm-name that would have
been contempt of Crown, or something of that
kind, not long ago ; it is exactly the way in which
the late King Edward and his wife were alluded
to by Queen Victoria while she lived.) Allan
Shaw, the gentle humorist who pushes the
atmosphere and extracts silver dollars from
it. has also gone from the Tivoli, but the
Mysterious Howards and Fred Bluett fill the
gaps. Miss Muriel Matters, an Adelaide girl,
has come back from London to describe at the
Town Hall (with pictures) how she was sent to
gaol in London for asking for a vote in an un-
seemly and traffic-disturbing manner. S.A.,
which gave women votes as long ago as 1894 (and
without any frenzied popular demand for them,
either), listens with a gentle interest to this tale
of missionary enterprise. West’s Olympia and
the Empire are showing pictures against each
other fiercely. The newspaper controversy about
Oscar Asche’s Shvlock continues, despite his ab-
sence. The chief objector plnckily but unwisely
gave his own name, and the argument is degener-
ating into personalities.
“ Polly Fresehardt ” : It was in Hobart one night that
the audience had to endure six acts of frantic melo-
drama through a thirsty lapse on the part of the leading
lady. In the ordinary course of events, the heroine
would have run the whole gamut of the emotions in
about 2J hours; but on this occasion the performance
ran on to midnight. And thereby hangs my tale. In the
first scene of the Ist act the leading ladj- had been fully
equal to her responsibilities; but later on,-when she
failed to answer her call, she was found lying in her
dressing-room dead to the world, decked out like a queen
in velvet robes and a diamond tiara-. There had
been other days when the stage manager was
prepared for such happenings. Then, when the unre-
liable one had the devil in her, there Was an
understudy to take her place. Now things didn’t run to
an understudy. But it happened that an ex-leading
lady was in the theatre. She was besought to meet
the emergency, but unhappily she had left her
best pair of corsets at the hotel. Being more
than slightly pass 6, with a redundant figure, she
felt that she couldn’t risk an appearance in her old,
every-day corsets. So the manager, with the call boy at
his heels, dashed through the main street and fetched the
essential garment whilst the emergency lady was preparing
for the ordeal, and borrowing what plumes she could.
After she had moulded herself info her casings the play
began at the beginning again, and it was continued to the
bitter end, for the new lady flatly refused to have any-
thing to do with the piece unless she did it all. Perhaps
this was her undoing. Anyhow, next day the regular
leading lady managed to persuade the manager that she
was more sinned against than sinning, and resumed busi-
ness at the old stand.
AT POVERTY POINT.
“Brayvo”: “The Honeymoon” has the finest bit of
claptrap in any acting play. Listen, and judge. Juliana:
“If I refuse to obey, you will beat me, 1 suppose.”
Aranza : “ Never, Juliana ! The man who lays his hand
upon a woman, save in the way of kindness, is a wretch
w-hoin it would be flattery to term a coward 1 ” (Terrific
applause.) A humble actor who had only one common-
pi ice line to speak, once said to a pal : “ You’ll see me
get the biggest round of the night.” “Impossible!”
said the other. “ Well, you see,” said the humble one.
At night he came on with “My lord, the carriage waits."
Then he went down to the footlights and spouted : “ Also
I desire to add that the man who lays his hand upon a
woman,” etc. He got the applause sure enough.
Shade of Bulwer L.vtton ! Spencer’s Pictures advt. in
Melbourne announces “ Rienzi, the Last of the Barons,”
and goes on to mention that Lyt ton’s famous story por-
trays the plagues and riots in ancient Rome with
wondrous realism. If the film portrays a final baron in
ancient Rome it must be a staggerer indeed.
Melbourne University Dramatic Club intends to break
out into management at the Princess’s on June 27 for one
night only. The programme is John Galsworthy’s drama,
“The Silver Box,” preceded by VV. S. Gilbert’s little
comedy, “ Rosencrantz and Guildenstern.” The U.D.C.
circular announcing this theatrical venture states that its
objects are twofold —firstly, to raise money towards the
building of a Students’ Club house in the University
grounds ; and, secondly, to give “ a proportion of the
proceeds ” to the University Boat Club, which has
“shared the burden of the expense of the present pro-
duction.” The burden of expense can’t be very
heavy if a “ house” at 55., 3s. and Is. 6d. is to yield a
profit which can be cut up as aforesaid. But why didn’t
the ’Varsity boys select Bernard Shaw’s “ How He Lied
to Her Husband” for their curtain-raiser? It requires
only three performers in a drawing-room setting, and the
cynically humorous story is a lovely sermon for young
men.
“0.K.”: The demand in Melbourne for Joe M’Cabe’s
discourses on Evolution must have been a surprise to the
lecturer and his manager. Without any preliminary
boosting to speak of, the stranger opened to a fairly-
crowded house at the Athenaeum Hall, which doesn’t
hold more than 600 people, and at the end of a week he
had an audience of more than 2000 for his final lecture at
the Town Hall. M’Cabe’s success, unassisted by any
large exp nditure in advt., was a dead silencer for those
Jeremiahs who protest that Young Australia troubles
about nothing but sport. Old English literary and his-
torical lectures, such as Charles Clarke travelled on
triumphantly in the dead past, have lost all drawing
power. Young Australia lias no enthusiasm for old
books or old monuments, or for modern literature as
literature. He is anti-pedanr.ic even to a fault, but his
interest in up-to-date subjects is not confined to football,
cricket, Johnson and Jeffries, and the Melbourne Cup.
Evolution is an up-to-date subject with a long- future
before it as well as a long past behind it, and M’Cabe
catches public interest on the hop. He appeals to
casual readers and thinkers more than to the studious
few who take themselves and their litile bit of knowledge
too seriously. And because the principle of Evolution is
entirely-dentocraiic and subversive of the Fatman sense
of personal importance, M’Cabe attracts many people in
this country to whom the word “lecture” usually
strikes cold.
“J.A.K.”: Last week, at Sydney Cri., while Kate
Cregeen Britton was bending over her che-ild in anguish
prior to bolting from home, a scandalised male galiervite
cried, “ Be a mother ; take it with you ! ” and burst into
loud sobs. The police tried to fire the interjeetor, but
as he was sober and had the sympathy of the audience,
they ultimately desisted. It recalled to me how, many
years ago at Melbourne Royal, just as Humpy Logan
was about to steal the hero's papers, a spectator yelled,
“Ah, would you ! ” and the orange he had been sucking
missed Humpy’s ear bv a fraction of an inch or there-
abouts.
“ O. K.” : If a Sydney Sunday paper, as appears from
some ironical verses in last Poverty Point, found “The
Dollar Princess” to be “admirable as an entertainment
which is healthy in its tone,” one would like to know the
exact- point where the tone of a musical-comedy story-
starts to be wwhealihy. Melbourne’s opinion of “The
Dollar Princess” was that the grace of its music barely-
sufficed to save it from contempt. The story avoids ail
suggestion of lewdness, but there is no health in it.
One American girl falls in love with an English
johnnie who strolls adventurously into the house of
her multi-millionaire father for the purpose of living
on his eccentricity-in any capacity that offers. Her
cousin offers herself in marriage to a titled British waster
who has been pretending to earn his living as groom.
And the absurd millionaire himself is captured by a circus
lady, who is introduced to him by- a pair of his male para-
i sites as a countess in search of a housekeeper’s billet.
Her designs are frankly artful. The fraudulent lady
starts to entrap the rich lunatic for the sake of his dollars
long before she attempts to persuade the audience that
she is fond of him. . . . Apart from these three couples
there is no entertainment to speak of. They supply all
the healthiness of tone that appealed to the moral sense
of the Sydney Sunday paper.
“Ganesha”: “Micawber” (B. 26/5/’I0) suggests that
the r ason why some Australian type—a pushite or
swaggie—is never utilised for music-hall turns is that
nobody will write or compose a suitable piece. This
means'that the author, who refuses to be inspired for
eightpence, the approximate price of his song, has gone
on strike. Is it not rather the want of courage on the
part of the comedians? If’the union rate for an Aus-'
tralian song is only- eightpence the price can’t sool off the
mummer. The truth is that, the mummer is afraid of the
job. It would be new, and he would have no models. In
a coon or coster turn there are so many conventions
established in garb, speech and movement that it is diffi-
cult to fail. But to reproduce, for the first time, an un-
conventional type on the stage might require some slight
-ouch of originality, and the lion comique recoils from
the daring experiment.
“ M.P.” writes about a girl: “One does not fully
appreciate the Williamson girl until one finds her twirl-
ing a shapely leg arid raising a melodious voice at some
so-called theatre in the wilds of Maoriland, perhaps fol-
lowing after a wild and awful variety co. with a quantity
of serio-chrohie. She is an absolute type, and stands
alone in the way of show females. A slight analysis of
the ladies and flappers of the chorus will reveal talent
miles ahead of the recent importations into Australia for
pantos, and other shows. Here, in Maoriland, certain
variety merchants present girls with good physique,
wooden movements and awful noises—supposed to be
singing voices. Take one of the best of the J.C.W. fl ippers
and she would lick the variety-performer by lQyds. in
100, to use a pedestrian term. The Williamson girl is
the flesh and blood of the opera, so to speak. The prin-
cipals represent the bones, and s6me of the people with
their names large on the bill of the new comic opera co.
at present touring Maoriland are indeed very frail bones.
Reduce the flesh and blood ever so slightly and the life
of the show is reduced. The Williamson girl makes the
show. She can even make a dull opera bright.”
The moving-picture is certainly moving. Aecordingto
the latest report from Paiis these things have happened :
(1) A great surgeon resolved to have all his big opera-
tions cinematographed for the benefit of students and
posterity. (2) The operator turned a dishonest pound
by selling the films. (3) A great lady, lately convales-
cent, got the shock of her life when, at a theatre, she
saw herself brought out and scientifically carved —on the
screen—for the amusement of the crowd. (4) The
surgeon is claiming- heavy damages from the operator.
“The Oldest Inhabitant”: Re a Bullktin controversy
of some time ago as to whether G. V. Brooke’s second
name was Vasa or Vaughan. Mr. John Bennett, the
doyen of Australian theatrical man gers, tells me that
Gustavus Vaughan Brooke was the great actor’s complete
and imp- rishable monniker. Vaughan was the maiden
name of his mother, and Gustavus the first name of his
father. Mr. Brooke stood godfather for one of Mr.
Bennett’s sons, the name given at the font being
Gustavus Vaughan Brooke.
The picturesque evidence of Frank Curzon, London
theatre-manager, acquitted of “ assaulting and beating ”
a lady whom he removed courteously from the stalls in
w'hich she wore a hat one yard across: “ When I was sent
for, she was extremely excited. The gentleman who had
complained was a very bad second in the race ; he did
not get much chance, but he did chip in occasionally. I,
personally,- did not get anv chance ; I was an Also
Ran.” The lady got her half-guinea ticket-money back,
and (thank Heaven !) she had to pay five guineas costs
for the frivolous law suit.
Only one survivor remains of the two companies that
formerly played “ The Honeymoon,” Oscar Asche’s old-
new comedy, in Melbourne. Veteran G. R. Ireland, father
of the stately Miss Harrie, is that last man. He says the
play had only some very brief spurts, away back in the
’6o’s, and made no dint on the surface of things. It was
too calm and voluble for the rude taste of the time.
Ooppin was the only really popular character in the
comedy, and hp merely clowned the fictitious duke into
general acceptance. Asche takes the play by the scruff
and shakes it till it rattles. That’s how he found there
was money in it.
There is some talk of reviving “What Happened to
Jones ” when the Willoughby co. returns to Melbourne.
As a test of the effect of time on the “Jones” humor a
revival of the farce that brought a fortune to Charles
Arnold would be interesting. At this distance of years
it is hard to say whether “Jones” was essentially
humorous or merely a funny show in its day. Captious
critics found all sorts of excuses for its phenomenal suc-
cess in Melbourne and Sydney, yet it had similar luck
everywhere else—lo years ag-o. Fareical comedies, as a
rule, don’t wear forlO years, but this may bean exception.
If “What Happened to Jones’’crops up again at Mel-
bourne Princess’s in August or thereabouts, it will have
to follow “ Mr. Preed.v and the Countess,” by R. C.
Carton, which is witty as well as farcical.
“Locust”: After a profound study of the concert
“ direction ” of recent years, I am prepared to bring out
a soprano who will put the Australian public in a state
of paralysis. She will have a faithful husband—who also
sings, and who punches the unfavorable critics—nine
lovely children, including three sets of twins and one set
of triplets, and their names will include such touching ones
as Joy, Sorrow, Trouble, and a boy, Edward Spondulix.
She will have castles in Spain, Italy, France and New
York, besides a few terraces in London, and a small flat
in Paris where she entertains 500 people in perfect sim-
plicity and without any affectation. Our programmes
will contain photos, of her husband, children, castles,
dogs, jewels and other movable and immovable property.
It will also, incidentally, have the words of the songs which
she will sing each evening in English. French, German.
Arabic, Dago, Italian, Aboriginal and Greek. In addition
to all this my soprano will be able to sing a little.
An elderly man named Jerome has had
an experience that sheds a great radiance 5 upon
the methods of N.S.W. bobbydom. Recently a
Sydney stationer took a bad £5-note, uttered by
an elderly man with grey hair. On the descrip-
tion Jerome was arrested, and the stationer
readily picked him out of a row of gaol inhabitants
as the offender. Then a confectioner was also taken
down with a bad fiver. The fact that Jerome was
in prison over the trouble’ with thp stationer when
the confectioner was swindled didn’t prevent him
also identifying Jerome ?as the bftender, and ap-
parently no one noticed the discrepancy. Jerome
was Committed for trial, and as he couldn't find
the bail demanded, he remained in the lockup.
This was lucky for him, for when, news arrived
that the, same bad old man waS; still ayound
passing dubious paper the alibi came in very
handy. At the trial the stationer practically
withdrew his charge. He said that it had dawned
on him that he identified Jerome, not because he
had passed the note, but because of a resemblance
to someone he used to know years ago. He was
a hazy stationer, and had got his recollections
mixed. Anyhow, the man wanted was
an Englishman with grey hair, and Jerome was
a foreigner without a single grey hair about him.
The confectioner’s identification went to pieces be-
Cause Jerome couldn’t be in two places at once.
The jury requested that the blessed folly should
cease and that the accused should be discharged.
Then the Law decided not to go on with a third
impossible case, and braying in a minor key it
went forth with its tail down to get a thistle for
lunch.
OLD MEMORIES.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
In Her Majesty’s Theatre they are rehearsing “A
Knight for a Day.” The Knight in question will have
the assistance of a newcomer in Miss Toby Claude, who
was in the first London production of “The Belle of New
York. ” — Sunday payer.
What age are you, Toby, I wonder ?
Employed in “ The Belle ” from the jump !
Nay, surely the statement’s a blunder.
“ The Belle !’’ The mere thought brings a lump
To one’s throat.... As of old times I ponder
I yield to depression and hump.
In those days no motor-cars hastened
With theatre-folks to the play ;
We fared to the joys evanescent
That give these shows most of their sway
In cabs, at a speed that was chastened —
Withal, being young, we were gay.
The present-day comedy darlings
Were sleeping the sleep of the snug,
Like immature sparrows or starlings,
Long ere the original Mugg
Reeled back at the bloodthirsty snarlings-
Of the Baron, that bland Teuton thug.
Tommy Burns was a schoolboy, and Johnson
A quite insignificant bloque
When Violet, Fifi and Bronson
First burst on the City of Smoke,
And Harry B. put, for the nonce, on
The garb of the utterly- broke.
Then Irving and Coquelin were acting—
No thought of the drear epitaph
Their minds, for the moment, impacting—
And Leno was good for a laugh ;
And Toole played parts long and exacting ;
And none knew the hoot of the “ ’graph.”
Fair dame, I deplore your decision
To play to us here at long last ;
I’d welcome with cheers its recision—
In fact, the scheme leaves me aghast.
You’ll come as a heart-rending vision
From out of my gay, long-dead past.
N.S.W.
10-2-4.
EVER OF THEE IN BUSTED BOOTS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“ Ever of thee I’m fondly dreaming 1 ,”
Hark to the cornet’s brassy hoots !
Before a pub I see it. gleaming,
Played by a man in busted boots.
Why did he learn that tune, I wonder,
In the financial Long Ago ?
Sadly it moans and gurgles under
The grimy place where the long beers grow.
“ Ever of thee I’m fondly dreaming ”
’Neath Her window he must have played
Till she peeped from the lattice beaming,
And acknowledged the serenade.
Where is that girl now ? Old and faded.
Does she live in a lodging dim,
Hoping still to be serenaded,
As of old, once again by him ?
Does the troubadour sadly braying,
Seek his lost love? Aye, there’s the rub !
If he wants her, why is he playing
Oh ! so sadly outside a pub?
“ Ever of thee I’m fondly dreaming.”
Red is his nose ; the case seems clear ;
The lovesick tune now upward streaming
Is addressed to the Maid of Beer.
Life’s a tragedy, slow, uncertain—
Time a villain who swiftlj’ scoots ;
Throw him a coin, ring down the curtain
On a minstrel in busted boots.
N.S.W.
KODAK.


is
2S
MODELS—
-7 H P. 1 CYLINDER
... to ...
70 H.P. 6 Cylinders
Illustrated Catalogues
posted on application.
Enquiries should state
approximate horse-
power and style of ear
required.
’The Very Best Motor Cars for AUSTRALIAN USE
are those Imported by Dalgety S Company Limited.
The above statement i 9 a real fact, for Dalgety’s Car Agencies were specially selected on account
of the advantages they offer to the Colonial buyer. Apart from this, all models for Australian
use are specially equipped to
stand our rough conditions.
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Fremantle.
By Special
Appointment
gds
to
Lord Brassey.
ROBERT OVENS, MOON J«
THE CATERER, Tel. No. 2, Ascot. "H'IUKIA.
Wedding- Receptions and At Homes catered for under
Special Supervision and on Continental lines.
NEW PLANT UP TO DATE.
Ring up No. 2 Ascot, and make an appointment, when
our Manager will call and give all details.
Piles Cured.
“My husband suffered with piles very badly
for 12 months,” writes Mrs. Alice Eokbold, Robert
Street, Hind marsh, S. A. “Some days he could
hardly work, he was so bad. He tried every thing
he heard of, without getting relief, until he used
Rexona, which cured him after a few applications.”
Price Is. Gd. and 3s.*
The Royal Hotel,
GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
Most centrally situated Hotel in Sydney.
Best place to lunch and dine in town.
J. W. COCKBAINE, Proprietor.
Society
PENFOLD'S
WINES
KNEW THE VALUE OF A PEACEMAKER.
PAT: "Hullo. Mick! What are ye wearin' black
for, sure !”
MICK: "Faith, its in memory of the dead
Peacemaker."
Moored in the neighborhood of Williams-
towa (Vic.) is an unobtrusive nine-ton yawl that
proposes to blow, round the world in a gust of
recklessness, aided by a few sails. When all
hands muster to hear the articles read over they
comprise two sea-sons named Blythe (British)
and Arapakis (Greek). They navigated the
small craft from Bnnbury (W.A.) to Williams-
town, and the outward course is marked via
Sydney, Maoriland, Juan Fernandez, the Falk-
land Islands, U.S. A., England, and back to Bun-
bury by way of the Cape. The voyage is ex-
pected to finish in 20 months or in Davy Jones’
locker.
• The Law played an ill-considered jest on
a Victorian lady the other day in its anxiety to
have everything done in due form. Mrs. O’Flynn,
of Echuca, desired to be divorced from Bernard
O'Flynn, who had deserted her away back in ’9l.
In ’94 she saw what she believed to be a notice of
his death in a paper, and subsequently identified
as his the photo, of a corpse taken from the
Yarra. After a decent period of mourning she,
in 99, married Frank Loubert, and dwelt
happily with him till ’O4, when the allegedly
deceased O’Flynn called. She declined to see
him, and again he disappeared, and has remained
so ever since. Believing herself legally ''married
to Loubert she continued, dwelling with him till
last December, when sundry reverend gentle-
men persuaded her that a resumption of
grass widowhood was the Correct thing until
she got a divorce. Justice Cussen opined,
that she deserved severance from the lamentable
O’Flynn, but was dubious about giving it on
account of her continuing as Loubert’s wife after
O’Flynn’s.re-appearance. He passed the prob-
lem on to the Full Court. Its collective wisdom
decided that it could not give the lady
her decree ; but that “any further period of wait-
ing was not imposed by way of penance, and
that, now that she was living apart from Loubert,
it would be in the discretion of any Judge to grant
her a decree should she file a new petition.” The
Court thinks it is right, but if another Judge says
it is wrong it won’t be offended. In other words,
the lady knocks at the door, the Law slams it in
her face, and then pokes its head over the transom
to remark that if she knocks again she may, or
may not, be admitted. It is a good legal jest ;
but as each knock at the door means a long bill
of Costs, the lady is hardly likely to appreciate it.
The question of the salaries of Salva-
tionists (as brought up in a recent case at Bathurst,
N.S.W.) has been explained by a major-general
or somebody in the Melbourne cohort. He said
that the emolument of a married officer in charge
of a centre was usually £2 2s. a week. Pressed
further, he admitted that the officer must always
send a percentage of his takings to the head-
quarters of the sweating faith, even if the per-,
centage. took a bite out of his weekly income. As
to what might happen to the officer in the event
of the percentage consuming his whole income,
the dignitary was rather cryptic, but quite
re-assuring. He declared that the Army always
looked for “self-sacrificing officers,” who would
not expect to be “employed on the. usual
business lines.” And, judging by the information
furnished, the officers’experiences are just about
up to their expectations. But they have the
uniform —which is mainly a cap with a red band—
and the title of “captain,” “adjutant,” or what
not; also the adulation appertaining thereto.
There’s a certain amount of doting on the
military, even among Salvationists. By-and-bye,
however, the Preachers’ Wages Board may come
to their relief, and insist on all adjutants and the
like receiving a living wage. Then they will have
three square meals as well as the glory and the
clothes.
* * * *
A while ago some benevolent people
started a subscription for the purpose of endow-
ing Sydney Hospital with sufficient radium to
enable that institution to carry on the war against
cancer and other cellular diseases. Immediately
the subscription began to look respectable the
Private Enterprise section of the medical wor d
became alarmed. Radium is a frightfully scarce
commodity, and its price is in proportion to its
scarcity ; and if Sydney Hospital, which is a
Socialistic concern pure and simple, gets ahead
with the supply it is calculated to damage private
practice. It is also calculated to cause a big rush
to the institution from that very brummagem
concern, Prince Alfred, which is a clinic first
and a hospital a very long way after. So
immediately a wild outcry was' raised about
a mischievous monopoly, and much other
fudge was flung into print. However, out of evil
comes good, and the result of Private Enterprise
apprehension was a sudden demand for whole-hog
Socialism in the shape of a Radium Bank on
the lines of those recently established in
Europe. The bank obtains a supply of
radium and hires it out at so much per
hour, and the accumulated funds are used
to replenish the supply. It is proposed
to start the bank with a sum of money
donated by the State Government, and
make up the balance with private subscrip-
tion ; but in the long run it is obvious that
the bulk of the capital will be put up by the
State.
* * * *
The Magistrate, a Sydney magazine
devoted to the Law, recently attackedjthe system
of Acting-Judges on the ground that it is calcu-
lated to cause suspicion of favoritism, and con-
cluded its remarks with the statement that “it is
far more important that justice should seem to be
fairly administered than that it should be fairly
administered.” Time was when the current pro-
verb was, “Let justice be done though the
heavens fall ” ; to-day, in New South Wales,
the recognised organ of the legal fraternity
suggests that justice doesn’t matter so much as
long as the other thing will pass for the goods.
And the Attorney-General of the State doesn’t
give a bullocky’s cuss for either of them. He
upsets the decisions of an arbitration Judge who
fines a wealthy constituent, with the same indiff-
erence as he refuses trial by jury to a poverty-
stricken coal-miner, or hounds an old public ser-
vant through every court in the country to grab
his few pounds of pension. “ Justice, be hanged,’’
says Wade in effect. “Let’s have Law —mv
Law.”
THE PESSIMISM OF FAT.
CITY MAN: "My word , what a great season you're had!”
SQUATTER: “ Yes; but look what it takes out of the ground!”
For many years Australian journalists have
tried to find a sufficiently expressive term to
describe the deadness of the village that calls
itself the capital of Tasmania. It has been desig-
nated “ Slowbart,” “ The Village of Sleep-a-Lot,”
“ The Village of Go Slow,” “ The Town of Let-it-
Slide,” “The Hub of the Isle of Dreams,” etc.,
etc. But it has remained for a Hobart man to
strike the Absolute Limit. A phonetically-
spelled letter which the writer has just received
from Derwent-side is headed “Obit, 30/5/TO.”
* * * *
Another of Victorian Railway Boss Tait’s
schemes has gone wrong. When he planned the
new Central station befitted up a large area of
the first floor as an elaborate restauiant.
Then he invited caterers to tender for
the lease of it, and awaited the
rush. It didn’t come ! Not a
solitary tender ! The caterers
who understand their busi-
ness know that the subur-
banites.who use the station
don’t want elaborate
meals —not there at any
rate—and the country
visitors who would
patronise the place
aren’t there because
Tait daren’t bring the
country trains round
from Spencer-street as
promised until he finds
a more successful way
of running one express
on top of another. So
the gorgeous dining-
rooms, the kitchens and
the luxurious lounges have
been turned into offices and
shops, and more experience has been bought at the
public expense.
* * * *
The increase of the hawk-faced Hindu in
the Northern Rivers districts (N.S.W.) is a tall
circumstance. Lismore hospital, which finds
India pervading the wards with increasing regu-
larity, lately decided that it was time some of
Wade’s dusky land-balloters put a bit into the
collection box. On appeal, about 10 per cent, of
these “ British subjects ” contributed £37. Some
good old British names appear in the list: —
Shajowal Khan, Amir Khan, Imoos Khan, Migud Khan,
Rahinut Khan, Rahmut Khan, Yakut Shah, Shah Ma-
hommed, Dowlet Khan, Ilasham Khan, Jaugeer Khan,
Nawab Khan, Gulam Rasul Khan, Kamal Deen, Khalico
Daad, Mahomed Aalun, Abdul Hamid, Saba Khan, Freed
Bux, Haman Rayeen, Kans Khan, Mola Buuxu, Murhban,
Nurthoo, Mahommed Bux, Daffa Daar, Amarn Deen,
Rhanja, L(\boo Railsy, Shahab Deen; Utcher Singh,
Phaal Singh, Etcher Singh, Indur Singh, Rahmur Box,
Nunder, Panhur, Stanbar. Gunga, Pham Singh, Mehar,
Hejarah Singh, Dickie Arrnahn Singh, Tucka Singh,
Uthroo, Sunday, Ameer Singh.
The list was a small one compared with the length
it will probably attain three years hence if Wade
is not emptied out at the elections.
“ Briner ” : Chelmsford’s jaunt to Norfolk
Island reminds that Polynesia has a future.
When the Panama Canal is put through, all the
Pacific islands will become completely civilised.
Barbarism will be rooted out of the New Heb-
rides, Solomons, etc. I think some American
millionaire will lease Norfolk Island to make a
paradise like Hori Grey’s Kaw.au. The Pit-
cairners won’t want to stay for all time. Already
they get restless, with trips to Sydney. Nor will
the Church of England require that particular
Mission when it can mish with perfect safety in
all the archipelago. Norfolk Island has a won-
derful future, somehow.
PREHISTORIC COURTSHIP.
"Tis better to have loved and lost than never
to have loved at all.”
Eight Sydney nubs are ordered to be
closed at the expiration of their present annual
licenses. One of these is the Royal Highlander
Hotel in Flinders-street, which dates back to the
early ’forties. Auiong its earliest lessees was Dr.
G reeves, afterwards Mayor and a Minister of the
Crown. As patients were scarce, the medico
went a-pubbing for a time. At that time almost
anybody could keep a drinkery without losing his
professional status. The old house has retained
the same name all through its 70 years of pub-dom.
BOARDERS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The man has for some considerable time baffled all the
attempts of the police to catch him. It is thought ttiat
he lies up in some boarding-house, emerging only when
his supply of money runs out.— Evening paper.
Me boarders come and me boarders go.
But I never asks no questions.
This is th’ tip, if per want V know :
Treat ’em alike ivhile they’ve got th’ dough,
An' study their indigestions !
Th’ one that’s rentin’ th’ first-floor back
’E only goes out at nights ;
An’ I’m sure th’ p’leece is on ’is track
’Cause ’e gets some ’orrid frights.
’E’s always askin’ f’r pens an’ ink,
An’ practisin’ writin’; so
Valueless cheques is ’is dodge, I think ;
O’ course I don’t reely know.
’E always looks through th’ winder blind
W’enever e’s goin’ out;
’E’s most respeckful an’ orful kind,
But always quizzin’ about.
’E’s never answered th’ front door yet ;
’E calls f’r Ruby, th’ maid ;
Then ’e sneaks upstairs an’ waits. I bet
It’s only ’cause ’e’s afraid !
’E’s got somethink on ’is mind, pore man ;
Y’ can see as plain as day ;
Th’ day before yesterday ’e ran
From someone a crool, long way !
Oh ! I daresay ’e’ll be taken soon—
It always ’appens ! You see !
’E’ll go f’r a walk some afternoon
An’ never come ’onie t’ tea !
Well, I’ll be reel sorry wen ’e’s gone,
But, o’ course, ’e takes ’is chance ;
An’ any’ow I shall keep right on
Askin’ f’r cash in advance.
Me boarders come and me boarders go,
But I never asks no questions.
This is th' tip, ifyer want t’ know :
Treat, ’em alike while they’ve got th’ dough,
An’ study their indigestions !
Jtf.S.W.
The Religious Editor.


SCIENTIFIC OPINION.
Professor W. A. Dixon, F I.C., F.C.S.
Public Analyst, of Sydney, adds his testi
morty to that of other scientific men on the
purity of Sunlight Soap, He reports:—
“Having analysed samples of Sunlight
Soap purchased on open market, we have
pleasure in attesting to the especial purity
of Sunlight soap Sunlight Soap is evi-
dently manufactured under close chemical
supervision, for we find it to contain no un-
saponified fat, no free alkali, and to be a well
made soap. There is no adulteration what-
ever. Sunlight Soap has the healthy, clean
smell of refined fats and oils, and is a good
genuine laundry soap Whilst it cannot
injure the finest fabric nor the skin, yet b
will do its work thoroughly.”
Mail wants but little here below,
And as a rule lie’ll tret it;
He’ll make that little last him Ion",
If other folks will let it.
Man wants but little here below,
But wants it of the best,
So Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure lie’ll use,
For cough or ailing chest.*
A series of “Magazine Talks,” by the
Editor of The Lose Hand, will be delivered in
the "Red Page,” inside the back cover. The last
talk appears in this issue.*
Gentlemen who wish to look smart should
pay a visit to Wild’s Hairdressing Saloon, where
six first-class artists are engaged. The establish-
ment is under Vice-Regal patronage. Address,
30 King Street Arcade (upstairs entrance from
George or King Streets).*
AGAIN THIS SWEATER!
Wgmffi
It appears again in these columns as an old friend. For a time
we were sold right out of them, but we have now
received a new shipment.
It, is a sweater that at once imparts a desirable negligee
appearance together with convenient warmth and free-
dom. The material is pure w'ool, of long fibre, giving
splendid wear.
The collar is the roll variety, the body is faultlessly made and
very elastic, and the arms terminate in snug wristlets,
which cling neatly without being tight.
The price makes the sweater very big value, and the colorings
are varied enough for any purpose—sporting or home wear
—that the garment may be intended for.
IN WHITE, BROWN, GREY and NAVY.
Pr jr 6/6
Postage 9d. Extra;
Inter-State, !/■
State Chest Measure when Ordering.
Peapes & Co., Ltd.
309-311 George Street, Sydney.
“ 0.K.” : The full strength of a “ Bench
lin'd liar” incident in the Melbourne “Con-
spiracy” case can only be guessed at from the
newspaper reports :
Mr. I’urves interjected a remark to the effect that
something should be shown to him.
Mr. Justice Hood : Mr. Purves, I wish to address a
few words to you. Partly from old acquaintance, and
partly from the position which you hold at the Bar I
have been forbearing. But there is a limit to that. You
are exhausting my patience. I think any further for-
be iranoe will be a breach of duty. I urge you strongly
to keep out of court.
Mr. Purves : I think I should have the opportunity of
seeing what the positions on the plan are. I was
retained by the Attorney-General to conduct this case,
and I am the leader of the Bar and a counsel for the
King. For four days I have never said one word in con-
sequence of your Honor’s remarks.
Mr. Justice Hood : I have said that for old acquaint-
ance sake I have endured a great deal. If it occurs again
I will not talk. I will act.
One point to be noted here is that the same
Purves who claims to have been retained to con-
duct this ease, in front of the Crown Prosecutor
(Mr. Woinarski) in the Criminal Court, did actu-
ally conduct the same ease a while ago in the
Police Court, where it was protracted for 28 days,
with the result that four of the defendants were
acquitted and the principal one —Robert Harper
—was discharged as soon as Purves had presented
all the evidence for the Crown. This time the
Attorney-General’s special legal instrument
appears "to be earning his fees by holding his
tongue for days fit a stretch, and when he “ chips
in” the Judge advises him, as an old acquaint-
ance, to keep out of court.
* * * *
“ Lestrange ” : The N.S.W. Education
Department rents or owns at Lightning Ridge a
strange shebang or contraption of bark, poles and
bagging, which same is the local school. It is an
aged concern, and large holes and splits yawn in
the bark. Through one of these the late or
delayed or protracted boy enters unobtrusively,
trying to select a hole that the teacher isn’t look-
ing at just then. Even the swiftest teacher can’t
look at all the holes at once—there are so many of
them. The dimensions of the place are limited,
and the temperature sometimes climbs to 115°.
Tenders were once called for new premises, but
the local pine scrubs have all been cutout, and all
the decent-sized trees have been barked, so the
scheme fell through.
* * * *
Melbourne was surprised to learn that a
gentleman who was making a second appearance
at the City Court on a charge of breaking a
shlip window had only lately entered Victoria as
a State-assisted emigrant, and the surprise
deepened when he cheerfully admitted having
completed a sentence for burglary just before his
departure from the Cold Country. Though this
ciuntry wants agriculturists chiefly, it has no
special objection to professional men ; still, the
importation of burglars to Melbourne seems like
an attempt to promote the immigration of niggers
into India.
Hannah Rachel Silberman, paradoxically
ertough, both suited and unsuited her husband,
David, pawnbroker, of Sydney. After a few
months of wedded blister, the separation
documents were signed, and she returned to
her home in London. David, however.
posted his opinion of her to her sisters,
and it was scarcely an opinion she
would frame and hang up in her
drawing-room or wear next her
heart. It was alleged that the
lady “begged in the street,”
“slept in the poor-house,” “pre-
ferred the society of women of
questionable repute,” and
“stole a silver bag. an unre-
deemed pledge.” The indig-
nant bride hastened back to
Sydney and actioned David
for £lOOO damages, for libel.
Justice Pring presided at the
trial, and David explained, on his
Russo-Australian oath, his experi-
encesof married life. The jury awarded
her £l5O, and that gigantic animal Costs
is now rejoicing over a stay of proceed-
ings.
“ Vectis” : Poultry breeders will do well
to look upon the “sexaphone” (described in
B. 2/6/TO) with the cold, fishy eye of suspicion.
The barbarous name, half Latin, half Greek ; the
frame of aluminium (all new inventions contain
aluminium, yon know); the cork and the copper
wire and the little ball, vaguely suggesting elec-
tricity ; the appeal to experiment, the jargon
about the egg that contains the germs of both
sexes (ye gads!); the hint of dark mystery—
“ Science can’t explain it”; finally, the fancy
price, are all familiar signs. Even if Stead and
Judkins were not its sponsors, this scribe wouldn’t
be taking any sexaphone. The rooster can do his
durnedest as far as I'm concerned.
ANOTHER ACCIDENT.
HE: “I ran across an old acquaintance last night.”
SHE: “ Casually , or with your motor?”
“ Dunno ” : describes several thuds :
“America lias no monopoly of the third degree busi-
ness,” says “ J.” (B. 26/5/’10), who goes on to describe the
“moral” suasion used by the police in the lockup cells.
Here’s what I saw some time ago. I happened to arrive
in King-street, Sydney, one night in time to see a small
son of a sea-cook bang a big son of a gun on the centre of
gravity or thereabouts. Both were the better for liquor,
and the stricken man went wallop to the pavement, dea t
or unconscious or both. A John Hop at last reluctantly
appeared, and at short intervals he was followed by
about 67 others. The biffed individual was taki n
away to the hospital by two Hops, and the
remaining 65 made a simultaneous charge for
the inebriated biffer, who was lurching in drUnkm
flight down the passage of a pub. One minute
36 secs, later he was being dragged out with handcuffs
on him, and thrown into a cab. Then as many 14st.
Hops as could crowd into the vehicle satsion top < f him,
and the groaning horse tugged the load away. Next day
my business took me to the Central Court, where 1 saw,
HIS SHARE.
THE DARK ONE : “ They say your wife has eighty
thousand pounds. What do you get? ”
THE BENDICT (gloomily): “ The better kalf."
huddled in the dock, my little son of a sea-cook. He was
minus the greater portion of his starboard ear, one eye
looked like a foc’s’le duff, a lump sprouted from his
temple like a miniature bowsprit, and dried gore marked
his face like a chart of Torres Strait. Such physical
transformation requires considerable strenuous effort on
someone’s part, and as it was not done by the son of a
gun, and as the incapable son of a sea-cook had no op-
portunity to argue the point when he was arrested, I
concluded that something must have struck him while he
was in the cold cell. Possibly his conscience smote him.
This cryptic statement recently appeared
in the Woman’s Budget :
This is a “ mutual help” society, which Nofee of any
kind is charged, hue by its already numbers hundreds of
members, means women in all parts of Australasia h
another. Lonely bush women have beenave been put
into communication with: oiie cheered by letters from
busy town dwelleul persents in kind from their coun-
try is : city folk have gratefully received usef friends;
visitors to the busy centres have in every possible manner
the bond of friend-been kindly welcomed by city mem-
bers, and ship between women at a distance from
onrided. e another has been
strengthened and exte
THE EDITOR’S MAIL BAG has eachbeing interest,
written from distant homes week contained letters of the
most absor in the quiet bush, revealing, with an unconce
which alone have made life in the Out-scions eloquence,
the courage and enduran Back 'possible to women.
Possibly it is only a recipe for a new liair-wasli.
* * * *
“Edyson” : Melbourne does not possess
a really fine statue (the Joan of Arc,in the Gal-
lery grounds and the Burns on St. Kilda-road are
the best specimens); but there is a great deal
of awful frozen rubbish standing round, and
public personages are agitating for at least
four more stone effigies “to beautify the
city.” The public personage’s idea of
beauty is a crude, white figure on a
pedestal that is the sublime ex-
pression of the bricklayer’s art.
Now, this,thing is getting mono-
tonous; moreover it grows ex-
pensive. Permit me, therefore,
to suggest that tenders be called
among monumental masons for
one huge, fixed, non-committal,
marble figure, to which anybody's
head may be screwed, so that when
a new, inconsequential applicant
for statuesque glory comes along
the old head may be taken off and
the new one shoved on. After only a
few years, people are already wondering
who Fitzgibbon was, and asking if Wil-
liam Clarke wrote ‘"His Natural Life.”
If the ephemeral great must have a
street statue, let the tenancy be
limited. I think niv patent statue
with interchangeable parts will
meet a long-felt want, and save
many collections. A store-room for
tlte heads that have had their day should occupy
the basement.
The Religious Editor ; The Empire
generally seems to he considerably worried in
its head a? towhat is the best sort of memorial to
keep green the memory of dead Edward VII.
“ A Wandering Scot,” who says he is a confirmed
bellringer, strayed into the columns of Sydney
Telegraph last week, and, while discoursing on
the dark subject of change-ringing (*.«?., agitating
church-hells), asked if a pea] of bells would not be-
a lasting memorial to the deceased monarch..
Until I read that letter I was more or less indif-
ferent to the memorial business. But when
I realised that there was a possibility of an-
other noise-making contrivance being put up to
swell the uproar of Sydney, I immediately became
red-hot on the subject of statues and Chairs of Inter-
national Law and Arbitration. No person can
, make a noise with a statue, and the most drunk
and disorderly loyalist that ever mafficked could
not create much of a disturbance with an endowed
piece of furniture in a sedate University. My
nerves are already kept raw with the ordinary
noises of Lower George-street, Sydney, and I feel
that I cannot hear any more. Here are a few of
the stock rows : (1) Striking clocks, (2) steam
whistles. (3) motor horns, (4) electric trams, (5)
barrel-organs, (6) cornet players, (7) German
bands, (8) bird-shop cockatoos, (9) crows, (10)
dogs, (II) dying yelps of run-over curs. (12) rabbit-
ohs, (13) street menders’ hammers, (14) street sing-
ers, (15) drunk singers, (16) telephone bells, (17)
office lift, (18) horses’feet. (19) office boys’ fpet,
(20) office-boys’ whistles, (21) steam-escapes, (221
fire-brigade yells. (23) phonograph yells. (24)'
pen-scratching, (25) paper-rustling, (26) things
falling off carts and downstairs, (27) carters”
curses, (28) borrowers’ whispers, (29) slamming
doors, (30) warship salutes, (31) homeless whine
of the north wind, (32) ditto east, south and west,
winds, (33) dull thud of loans falling due. These
and innumerable other noises have soured me on
any project for making silence scarcer ; and. as I
desire to remember Edward VII. kindly, I refuse
to contribute to the erection of any sort of
memorial with which it is possible to make a row.
The descending scale of importance of
nations, from the U..S.A. point of view—aa
casually disclosed in The World’s Work foi-
April, 1910: “America, England, France,
Spain. Germany, Russia, Latin-America, Scan-
dinavia, even Japan and China, and such slightly
known countries as Iceland, Persia and Aus-
tralia.”
* * * *
“ Taffrail ” writes :
N.S.W. Marine Court dealt savagely with tlie master
of tlie Wyreenia, adjudged in fault for the sinking of the
Ourrajong off Bradley’s Head. Captain M eburn is com-
modore of tiie A.U.S.N. fleet, has had 80 years'experi-
ence, and has never had a previous mishap. On the
fateful evening his vessel rounded Bradley’s, and he saw
before him a collier, a ferry steamer and a ketch. lie
had to decide instantly, and he did the wrong thing—
turned his steering gear over one way instead of the
other. For that momentary lapse he was suspended for
a year. If a Judge makes a mistake—and lie makes
many, involving innocent persons in heavy loss—lie
makes it after mature deliberation. When his decisions
are reversed, as opposed to the law and justice which his
Honor is paid to administer, nobody puts his horsehair
wig in a bag for 12 months. This decision is in startling
contrast to the verdict in the Satara case, where absolute
carelessness and inattention threw away a 5000-ton
steamer and its valuable cargo and jeopardised 90 lives.
Its master was suspended for three months.
THE GLIDE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The glide is coming into our midst again. The kicking
strap, which now ties the skirt below the knee, regulates
l he steps of the wearer.—“ IVowall’s Letter."
Now fades the waddle and the mannish stride,
And fair Australia, manacled and tied,
Along the crowded way begins to glide.
Lord, it appears peculiar. I suppose
The thing was foreordained by one who knows.
Dress is a mystery. The wonder grows.
Does fashion’s ruler reap the thing he sowed ?
Who knows? Our verse must catch the changing mode,
And tell in silver song how Mary glode.
The strange, new thing is not to be derided—
Life is and always must he many-sided—
He ours to tell how Angelina glided.
And when our wreath of song shall fade and wither,
And newer fashions are imported hither,
Some bard shall sing how Susan used to slither.
n. s. w.
D. M. W.
THE CIRCUS COMES TO TOWN.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The Maori footballers were officially welcomed.... A
war-crv was given bv the visitors.— Sydney Telegraph
(6 16 rid).
The Maoriland Rugby Union footballers (white) were
officially received at the Union Rooms, Bligh-street,
yesterday.—.Seme paper (8/6/’ 10).
When General Cameron and his Imperial troops,
besieged the rah at Orakau he was so struck with the
gallantry of the natives that he sent in a messenger offer-
ing to spare their lives if they would surrender. Rewi’s
reply is historic. “Ka whawhai toriu matou, ake ! ake !
ake!” (We will fight on for ever, and ever, and ever.”)
— “Arawa," in the. identical paper.
The Maoriland footballers were driven to La Perouse
yesterday afternoon, and in the evening attended West’s
Pictures at. the Palace Theatre. After the overture the
team, led by Maguire, went through their war-cry— Same
paper again (10/6/’lO).
Yet once again I saw them stand ; I heard the war-cry
rage;
Oh, Maoriland, my mother! They ivere posing on the■
stage.!
The orchestra had ceased to orch, the flicker-graph to>
flick,
The fighting men had come afar a hollow ball to kick.
Ka whawhai tonu ! Ake ! Ake ! Ake !
The kids up in the gallery they chewed the monkey nut ;
They cried aloud “ 00-blanky-ray ! ” Maguire he raised
his fut.
The drummer beat the time for them ; they leaped a
frenzied leap. .
Oh, Maoriland, my mother, we are growing very cheap !
Ka whawhai tonu ! Ake! Ake! Ake!
Growing cheap and plurry nasty ; circus men, they call
us here.
Prancing for the mob’s amusement for the price of bread
and beer.
If they won't cut out the circus when they cross the
Tasman foam,
Maoriland, my brown-eyed mother, keep the blessed lot
at home !
Ka whawhai tonu! Ake! Ake! Ake!
N.S.W.
PURETAHT.


SUCTION GAS PLANTS.
The “ NATIONAL ” GAS ENCINE and PLANT
(made in England.)
bear, all comers at the
Roval Agricultural Society’s trials in England, and was awarded the GOLD MEDAL.
" NA TIONAL ” ENGINES STOCKED IN S YDNE Y.
Represented
by
Arthur Leplastrier & CO., Circular Quay East, Sydney.
CAPE EXPLOSIVES WORKS, LTD.
Gelignite, Blasting Gelatin, Dynamite, Detonators and Fuse supplied.
TOF “NO CONNECTION WITH ANY COMBINE^
Special Coal Mining Explosives.
NOYES BROS. (SYDNEY), LTD., 109 Pitt Street, Sydney, (Sole Agents for N.S.W.).
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The Fisher Government’s proposed issue of
Commonwealth notes has roused thg ire of various per-
sons whose knowledge is in inverse-proportion to their
race. The other day a man named Butt, of Geelong
(Vic.), yvoke up hp state flurriedly that “ a Common-
wealth note issue must be viewed with alarm, as it would
lead to individual as weil as to national loss.” Butt
didn’t risk going into details, nor did he explain how or
why the Commonwealth shouldn’t he able to pay 20s.
or one sovereign for each note if it was asked to do so ;
he just bellowed his vague assertion and relapsed into
slumber. But Fisher gave five of his busy minutes to
telling Butt, what he obviously didn’t know’, that, aState
i-sue of notes has been in force in Queensland for 17
years, and has been such a success that that State’s
Premier is raising old Henry at the prospect of losing it;
also that there are more State notes held per capita by
the people of Bananaland than there are bank notes held
bv the people in any other State. That shows that the
people want State notes more than they want private
bank notes. Apparently people like Butt rage out of
pure cussedness.
* • * *
National Building and Investment Society
(Adelaide): —
Loss Net To Re-
on Loss on Written duce
April, Business. Sales. Off. Deficit. Deficit.
1899 .. £459 £2l £11.160 £9,437
1900 .. 546 19 10,002
Forfeited capital .. .. £854 9,148
Profit.
1901 .. 324 162 162 8,986
Profit.
1902 .. 327 54 381 8,605
1903 .. 399 147 546 8,059
Forfeited capital .. .. 77 7,982
1904 .. 536 60 16 580 7,402
Forfeited capital .. .. 2734 4,668
Loss.
1905 .. 460 107 353 4,315
Forfeited capital .. .. 92 4,223
Profit.
1906 .. 100 99 199 4,024
1907 . 344 20 364 . 3,660
Forfeited capital .. .. 1776 1,884
1908 .. 565 315 # 880 1,004
. Reserves.
1909 .. 505 672 1177 173
To Re-
serves.
1910 .. 417 1137 1554 1,727
This concern is something of a mystery. It got into
great trouble in 1898 and wrote off Ail 1,160. This not
only extinguished the reserves hut left a shortage of
£8957. There was a long, hitter struggle to wipe this
out, and most of the time the dreary item called “For-
feited Capital ” gave more assistance in the work than
did the society’s legitimate earnings. In 1907 things
looked so blue that a lot of shareholders agreed to accept
10s. in the £ and clear out, hence the £1776 realised
that y< ar. Now, according to the figures, the deficit has
been all shifted from the premises, and the society is
making money and accumulating reserves. But the
capital (“Amount due to Investors” the balance-sheet
calls it) is set down at £16,936. The year’s earnings are
£417 (for “ Profits on Realisation £1137” are not earn-
ings, but merely the recovery of part of the capital pre-
viously written off in excess of requirements), and that is
less than 21 per cent. Such a return can hardly be
described as holding out much promise as regards the
reality of the professed surplus, though the trouble may
arise out of the fact that the institution possesses too
much vacant land, which yield’s no return. The directors
apparently treat the society as an affair in liquidation.
No dividends are paid, but as money becomes available
the shareholders get back so much in the £ of their
capital. Througli these payments the assets keep
steadily shrinking, and possibly the time is not far off
when the National Building and Investment Society will
go to dwell with the angels.
* * * *
Goldsurough, Most and Co., Limited, the
wool people, of Sydney and many other places :
Interest paid on Written Re-
Mar., Earnings. Debenture Stocks, etc. off. serves.
£ £ £
1898 60,257 Astock4p.c.= 59,656 601 Nil
1899 60,102 A stock 4 p.c. „ 59,656 446 Nil
1900 65,338 A stock 4 p.q. ~ 59,565 5,773 Nil
Added to
(Net) Reserves. £
1901 69,810 | g®tockl pc’ ” } 60,351 3,459 3,459
1902 83,897 All stock 4 p.c. „ 82,398 1,499 4,958
1903 79,136 All stock 4 p.c. ~ 78,771 365 5,323
1904 84,723 Ail stock 4 p.c. „ 78.089 6,634 11,957
1905 95,459 All stock 4 p.c. „ 78,023 17,436 29,393
f A stock 4 p.c. „ ) o- ino )
1906 181,817 -{ B stock 5 p.c. ~ 168,765 98,158
p.c. div. ~ 27,950 /
f A stock 4 p.c. ~ 46,8971
1907 220,675 4 B stock 5 p.c. „ 36,385 '-81,493 179,651
TlO p.c. div. ~ 55,900 J
f A stock 4 p.c. ~ 43,2861
1908 160,147 4 B stock 5 p.c. „ 36,079 '-24,882 204,533
p.c. div. ~ 55,900 J
I A stock 4 p.c. ~ 42,724 I
1909 162,390 { B stock 5 p.c. „ 35,716 V 12,079 216,612
126-7 p.c. div. „ 71,871 J
( A stfifk l n p 49 199 A
1910 241,916 ( B stock 5 p!c! ” 181,227 297,839
U 5 p.c. div. ~ 83,849 J
The earnings are shown net, that is to say, less allowance
for depreciation. Allowance for depreciation is a variable
item, and of late years it has wandered about in this
fashion :
Depreciation Written Off.
1903 .. .. £3,190
1904 .. .. 3,134
1905 .. .. 3,073
1900 .. .. 38,043
1907 .. £30,078
1908 .. .. 28,56-2
1909 .. .. 2,882
1910 .. .. 3,136
The assets total £2,732,701. Among these the
biggestitems— in fact, the items upon which the solvency
of the concern and the beginning, middle and end of the
business depend—are these two :
Wool and otjier Produce, Freehold and Lease-
hold Stations, etc., at Valuation .) ■ ..,£1,291,001
Freehold and Leasehold and Stock
at Valuation 732,009
1 £3,023,010
A year ago this composite item stood at £1,837,270. The
increase shows that the business of the stupendous old
wool firm is advancimr. But the sheep is a wandering
and treacherous animal, and the bullock drifts tip and
down the multiplication table in an amazing fashion.
When the seasons are good these tWo beasts are splendid
assets. When the seasons become very bad they are
merely two carcases lying dead on a plain, and crows are
sitting on them. Even the most expert accountant that
Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. can hire can’t really value
the pair of quadrupeds which are the foundations of the
whole business. Therefore the big item is a gamble. The
firm tries its best to make it an honest gamble, but
it remains a poker game or lottery none the less.
By way of preparation against the time when Providence
next stacks the cards to the disadvantage of this bleeding
country, Goldsbrough, Mort and Co. have over £530,000
in drought-proof assets —cash, debentures, British con-
sols, etc. —which is a considerable stand-by. That is
probably good enough for an ordinal drought. Whether
the next drought will be ordinary or not no man knows.
According to the agreement which the co.
made with its creditors in the hot dry years when the
sheep was only a perished bad debt, 40 per cent, of the
capital value of the “ B ” debentures was written off.
On the balance (which now represents £091,376) 4
per cent, interest is due so long as the dividend
isn’t higher l than 3 per cent. When the dividend
is above 3 per cent, the “B” debenture-holders
are to get 5 per cent. The arrangement was made at a
time when the prospects looked bleak. Now the share-
holders are getting 15 percent, and adding considerable
sums to the reserves, and the old compromise looks
much more rough on the creditors than it did eight or
nine years ago. So it isproposed that the “ B ” debenture-
holders should get 5 per cent, as a permanency, and the
proposition looks no more than a fair thing. Five or six
years hence, if it happens that the multitudinous sheep
and the bullock are again dying horribly of thirst on the
greatdry plain, the situation may wear a different aspect;
but just now these “ B” people appear to call for some
consideration. A much more dubious proposition is to
the effect that £79,856 of the reserves should be added
to capital, thus increasing the shares from 355. paid up
to 40s. paid up. Anything of the kind should be post-
poned until the breaking of the next drought. If there
happens to be £79,856 to spare when the next drought
breaks, the wisdom of the proposal will be visible to the
naked eye.
* * * *
The Elkctric Light Department of the
Sydney City Council
Sinking Deficit
Fund less
Contri- Written Sinking
Dec., Loss. button. Off. Fund.
i-h. 7 £4,794
1904. £1,921 £1767 6,715
IC)n , j 661 2.>45 £1404 8,780
" f Loan flotation expenses, £787 .. .. 9,567
Profit.
iq of! / £8,648 £3349 1400 2,319
1 Net profit on Loan flotation, £357 .. 1,962
r Loan flotation and other expenses, £lOl 2,063
Goodwill Empire Co., £31,000 .. .. 33,063
1907.. -[ Compensation for disturbance, £13,300 19,7(53
Profit. Siuking'Fund. Written Off.
k £19,144 £3587 £l4OO 2,019
{Goodwill of purchases, £79,375 .. .. 81,394
Less Loan premiums, £lOOO .. .. 80,394
Profit. Sinking Fund. Written off.
£17.697 £4652 62,697
1909.. 37,371 5211 25,326
The profit was arrived at as follows :
Balance from working .. .. £36,877 ' -
Sinking fund .. 494
Total ... .. .. .. £37,371
And the amount was appropriated like this: —
Sinking Fund contribution . . . . £5,211
Depreciation, Fund contribution .. 14,556
Preliminary expenses (net) .. .. 122
Profit and ioss balance .. .. 17,482
Total £37,371
The amount actually written off “ preliminary expenses,”
which includes the settlement of troubles over damages,
was £312; but £l9O of new “expenses” Was added to
the paper item which appears in the balance-sheet, and
now stands at £3324 ; and as t his isn’t a real asset, the
amount in the foregoing calculations was written off
revenue direct. It would be far better to clear these
paper assets right off the balance-sheet at one sweep,
instead of disfiguring the document with them for 25
years, as it is proposed to do under the present very
gradual arrangement.
Besides this preliininary-expenses-good wi 11 item,
there is a much bigger one, amounting, in f\ct, to
£110,375. When the City Council decided to go into the
business of supplying electric light and power there were
four private cos. already at the same business—cos.
which had cut up the city among them : the Empire,
Strand, Imperial Arcade, and Oxford-street. Fora time
the City Council ran in opposition to these. It made
progress, but it was obviously not an economical
arrangement. The cos. ,or some of them, were prepared
to sell out; but the question arose : Should the Council
pay anything for goodwill ? In the end, an arrangement
was fixed up with the Empire Co., which was made the
basis of other settlements. The Council didn’t buy the
plant., etc., but it bought the business at a fixed price.
The customers were transferred to the Council, and all
revenue in excess of one penny per unit is paid to the co.
in extinction of the debt for the purchase price, plus
interest in some cases. The total amount now owing,
and repayable in this way, is £79,460. At the present
r ite, however, it will be a very long time before one or
two of the cos. are got rid of. This shows the amounts
owing at the end of 1908 and 1909 respectively :
1908. 1909.
Empire (purchase money) .. .. £17,650 £12,222
Strand (purchase money and interest) 40,103 39,190
Imperial Arcade (ditto) .. .. 17,074 18,778
Oxford-street (ditto) 10,086 9,270
Thus the excess revenue from the Imperial Arcade Co.’s
transferred customers was not sufficient to pay the
interest on the outstanding balance. Unless things im-
prove, it looks as though the council has saddled itself
with a permanent charge over a small portion of its busi-
ness. The whole financial position as to reserves, etc.,
can be summarised as follows :
Purchases of goodwill, as above .. £110,375
Loan flotation and other expenses.. 3,324
Total paper assets .. ..£113,699
Less Sinking Fund ..£20,611
Depreciation Account 32,279
Special Fund.. .. 13,300
Loan Premiums .. 531
P. and L. balance .. 21,652
88,373
Deficit as above.. .. £25,326
The “Special Fund” referred to in the foregoing is
money derived from compensation paid by the Govern-
ment on some property resumptions.
The Sinking Fund, now amounting to £20.611,
is invested apart from the business; but the Depreciation
Fund is not. The right thing is being done with one,
but not with the other. A sinking fund is for the repay-
ment of capital; a depreciation fund is for the replace-
ment of machinery. And why one should be credited
with its own interest earnings while the other isn’t
thus credited is not at all obvious. The common-sense
thing is to put the appropriated profit aside into two
separate funds, and draw upon the Depreciation
investments as plant wears out and has to be renewed.
Then one would know' the real strength of the Deprecia-
tion Fund, and whether the contributions to it w'ere
sufficient or not. At present 3 per cent, of the bo k
value of plant, etc., is transferred from profits to the
Depreciation account. For some time it was much less
than that; and in the future it will probably be found
that 5 per cent, is none too much. The Sinking Fund is
1 per cent. The Depreciation account is the weak point
in the scheme. It is insufficient; also it ought to be
treated in the same way as the Sinking Fund.
Further details of the working of the business
follow:
Working Net
Revenue. Expenses. Revenue. Interest. Loss.
1904.. £4,061 £5,313 £2,436 £3,688
1905.. 22,176 15,005 £7,171 7,874 703
Profit.
1906.. 40,983 21,567 19,416 10,931 8,485
1907.. 65,868 31,899 33,969 15,025 18,944
1908.. 93,600 56,785 36,815 19,380 17,435
1909.. 128,980 67,338 61,642 24,575 37,067
The profit, shown there doesn’t quite square with that
shown in the first table. This explains why :
Profit for 1909 shown above .. .. £37,067
Less new “ preliminary exes ” .. WO
£36,577
Add sinking fund interest .. .. 494
Total profit .. £37.371
That would be very nice indeed if it were profit. It
would in an £6 13s. 6d. percent, on the present capital
debt of £560,000. But depreciation has to come off that.
The City Council wipes off 3 per cent.; but, as remarked
before, that is probably too little. Still, after knocking
off 1 per cent, for sinking fund, there is 5§ per cent. left.
Until it is made quite clear that depreciation is being
sufficiently provided for, the revenue should not, how-
ever, be cut into by any further reduction of charges.
The output continues to grow :
Power. Lighting.
1906 ... 1,202,482 units. 1,361.803 units.
1907 .. 2,386,959 , r 1,945,349 „
1908 .. 3,097,636 „ 2,540,437 „
1909 .. 4,374,898 „ 3,171,795 ~
This is apart from customers transferred from the
bought-out cos., and also the City Council’s own lighting-.
The latter amounts to 1,683,046 units for lighting and
38,004 units for power. The average price paid by the
Council’s customers is £1 6s. 2d. per 100 units for light-
ing; the City Council pays the department an average
of 19s. 3d. for its street and all other supplies.
The Castle Salt Co-opeeative Co. (Adelaide):
Nominal
Written To Re- Re-
Mav, Profits. Divdends. Off. serves, serves.*
1900.. £2,195 Nil. £1420 £775 £775
1901.. 2,214 Nil 802 1412 2187
t 19025,049 Nil 2542 2507 4694
1903.. 6.665 8J p.c. =£5762 1134 4463
1904.. 6,041 7£ „ „ 4939 750 352 4815
1905.. 5,609 7£ ~ ~ 4939 750 4735
1906.. 5,890 7b „ „ 4939 750 , 201 4936
1907.. 4,883 6± ~ ~ 4116 750 17 4953
Loss
1908.. 632 Nil 4321
Profit.
19096,426 7£ p.c. = 4939 2000 3808
1910.. 10,863 10 ~ (, 6585 3000 ,1278 5086
(♦Amount of “ Goodwill ” item being unspecified.)
It has been a fairly good year, and taking into account
the hard effort,that the co. bad to put up in the early
part of its career it deserves some luck in these later
times. If has always been struggling against the
woe of insufficient Protection ; salt is the sort of
stuff that ships bring out as ballast or at, ballast rates,
and considering the low wages of; European salt-
workers and the low price at which their wares are
carried to this country, the granular thing that we
balance on thg edge of the plate to eat along with the
tripe requires a fair amount of Protection. In some
respects the balance-sheet of the Castle-Salt Co. is satis-
factory, and in others it isn’t. Th? biggest item among
- the assets is described as “ Freeholds, Leaseholds, Plant,
Goodwill, Trade Marks, Live and Rolling Stock.” (“ Pa-
tents” and “ Preliminary Expenses” used to form part
•of the item, hut they have dropped out.) And this is
how that very comprehensive asset has moved during
recent years :
Freeholds, Lease- Written Off Free-
holds, Plant, holds. Leaseholds,
Goodwill, Plant, Rolling Stock,
Patents, Pre- Patents, Pre-
liminary Ex- liminary Ex- Written
ponses, Trade pensesand off
Marks etc. Live Stock. Goodwill.
1899 .. £55,768 £2189 .. Nil
1900 .. 55,063 .. 1420
1901 .. 57,757 .. 802
1902 ... 61,073 .. 2541
1903 .. 60.156 .. 1134
1904 .. 60.277 .. 750 ..
1905 .. -59,48.) .. 750
1906 .. 59,130 .. 750 .. ~
1907 .. 59,512 .. 750
1908 .. 59,669 .. Nil
1909 .. 59,977 .. 2000
1910 .. 57,724 .. 3000 ~ ~,
Apparently the Castle Salt Co. has been fairly conscien-
tious in its dealings. Though the profits have greatly
increased, the value set upon freeholds, leaseholds, plant,
etc., is less than it was eight years ago. “Preliminary
expenses” and “ Patents” have been wholly written off,
and “ Trade marks ” only stand for £3l. But nothing
has been written off “ Goodwill,” and for all the balance-
sheet shows that papery item may be Jd. or £25,000. The
law which allows, goodwill to be lumped in with solid
assets in this indefinite fashion is a kookaburra of a law.
And even if the law is a kookaburra, a reputable concern
like the: Castle Salt Co. shouldn’t take advantage of it,
but should set forth the amount of the, goodwill
separately.
* * * *
Mercantile Bank Assets Co.—This is another
memorial of the Melbourne land boom which there is
very good .-'hope of getting rid of before long. Matthew
Davies was the head and front of the, Mercantile Bank of
Australia ; and when that ,elaborate thing went bung
the liquidators' reckoned up this way, so. far as the
creditors were concernedv
Due to depositors .. .. .. £1,548,776
Assetsfpi ohahle value) £1,300,124
Uncalled capital .. 577,500
— 1,877,624
Surplus .. £328,548
But it didn’t pan out, like that. The old liquidators' soon
gave up their job, and W. F. Ducker took it on, and con-
tinued the work untilfl'B9B, when the'prgsent co. Wasin-
formed. Up to then the creditors had got 6s. Bd. in
the £, and the liabilities still amounted t0,'£1,642,97-87
The new co. issued to creditors £268,952 of 3 per cent,
debentures and £15,370 of share capital—little more than
ss. in the £. The .cods affairs were handed oyef to the
Melbourne Trust, Ltd., which was doing tpe same kind of .
work for three other-derelicts. The prosperity of Vic-.,
toria, in consequence, of which much higher prices
have ruled for properties during, the past few
years, has been a great help to the liquidators. On Dec.
31 last, the total debentures outstanding. we ; re £58,-246 ;
and the directors gave notice that they intended to redeem
than balance on May 3. The latter transaction isn’t, of
course, shown in the present accounts, which bring the
matter no further than this :
Debenture Debt Outstanding. -
1898 .. .. £268,952
1903 .. .. 144,421
1904 .. .. 130,655
1905 .. .. 123,681
1906 .. .. £105,491
1907 .. .. 88,305
1908 .. .. 70,590
1909 .. .. 58,246
The valuations now adopted in the accounts were made
in 1899, and supported by another estimate in 1906. A
surplus has been realised over and above these valuations.
This amount, which is at present treated as aeontingency
reserve, has grown as follows
1904 .. .. £11,692
1905 .. .. 16,370
1906 .. .. 19,147
1907 .. .. £25,073
1908 .. .. 37,308
1909 .. .. 40,243
The realisation? of securities has been helped by the
<rradual §i)iieez'mt>' of a few pounds more out of the old
Mercantile Bank shareholders. The amounts received
from calls have in late years been as follows :
1904 .. .. £1153
1905 .. .. 1046
1906 .. .. 326
1907 .. .. £212
1908 .. .. 136
1909 .. .. 666
What, a nightmare—a bank hopelessly broke in 1892 and
calls to partially (ill in the chasm still being squeezed out
in 1909! How much more will be derived from this
source nobody knows: for years past the possibilities
haven’t been reckoned as an asset in the co.’s balance-
sheet. What sums are got in go to swell the “ surplus ”
—which is another way of saying that they go to reduce
the appalling deficiency between what the shareholders
undertook to repay and what the bank’s assets would
produce. It is a history to be profitably studied by any-
body who is inclined to view lightly a liability on shares
Though the directors announced that the out-
standing debentures (£'58,246) were to be paid oti May 3,
there was in hand on December 31, only £10,329. Pre-
sumably either considerable payments were expected in
the next few months, or matters had been arranged with
the co.’s bankers. With total liabilities(debentures, etc.)
of £59,569, and assets valued at £115,182, the arrange-
ment probably wasn’t difficult. The assets (here some-
what lumped) are, or were on December 31: Liquid,
£10,329; property and other securities, £83,457 ; pur-
chasers’ balances, £21,395. What the “ other securities ”
are isn’t mentioned. With the debentures both of this
co. and of the Melbourne Trust, Ltd., cleared
off, an amalgamation is proposed ; and the manage-
ment wants to get authority to launch out a bit
more freely. There is, however, some opposition to this ;
a section of the shareholders want the assets realised
and distributed. They don’t want to have their capital
invested for them; they want to in vest it themselves.
A point which some of them no doubt overlook is that
the surpluses so far exist on paper only. They don’t
consist of money in the till. In any case, therefore,
there isn’t likely to be any very rapid distribution of
cash in large qu mtities.
* * * *
“ W.T.”: Reported in the Australian Mining
Standard that a Dutch co. at Sumatra is to put out 60
barrels of cement per hour. The quarrying and milling
of limestone, etc., will be done by ill-paid black labor,
while the cheapest transport by means of a Bleiehert
aerial ropeway will be utilised. What, then, is to
prevent the co. from chartering vessels and dumping
cement in Australia. Under such circumstances, the
present rate of duty would afford Australian cement
manufacturers no protection worth mentioning.
The Intercolonial Investment, Land and
Building Co. (Sydney):—
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profits. Dividends. serves, serves.
1899.. £4,235 7 per cent. =£2325 £l9lO £19,145
Forfeited capital .. .. 16 19,161
1900.. 4,392 7 per cent. = 2339 2053 21,214
1901.. 4,911 7 „ „ 2448 2403 23,677
1902.. 5,261 7 ~ ~ 2537 2724 26,401
1903.. 5,900 7i ~ ~ 2762 3138 29,539
1904.. 6,59] 9 „ „ 3355 3236 32,775
1905.. 7,639 10 „ ~ 3792 384 7 36,622
1906.. 8,952 12£ ~ ~ 4742 4210 40,832
1907.. 9,249 10 „ „ 4126 5123 45,955
1908.. 9,535 12J ~ ~ 5659 3876 49,831
1909.. 12,018 12£ ~ ~ 5836 6182 56,013
April,
1910.. 5,246 10 „ „ 2540 2706 58,719
The six months’ figures don’t show profit on quite the
gaudy scale of last year, still the earnings are at the rate
of over 20 per cent., and the person who complained of
the insufficiency of that would be very hard to please.
The co. is how 24J- years old. During 15 years of alleged
Freetrade, with each State going on its own, it saved
£21,214. During 9J years of Federation and Protection
it saved £37,505. Therefore it may be described as doing
very well under Federation and Protection. Some more
figures follow :
April,
1900. 1905. 1908. 1910.
Debts (deposits, etc.).. £17,417 £26,219 £55,907 £50,976
Freeholds, etc. .. 29,999 26,163 65,303 42,339
Advances .. .. 43,611 75,149 88,314 120,814
Other assets .. .. 154 1,551 165 338
The capital stands at £51,257, hut it is proposed
to increase it by issuing 9000 shares at par to-existing
shareholders -only. Considering how very badly' tlfe con-
cern seems to w.mt money one would rather have ex-
pected it to demand a stiff premium. Apparently,
despite its £51,257 of capital, £58,719 of reserves,
£24,641 of deposits and £21,132 of money acquired in other
ways (described as “Sundry Creditors”) it can findprofit-
able investments for every penny and more. Soit lias added
an overdraft of £5203 to its burdens. It mostly seems
to have arl overdraft, and it seldom seems to have any
loose cash except “ Agent’s Balance, Perth, £16195. lid.”
Of course, such a sound concern as the Intercolonial
could probably get £50,000 overdraft if it wanted the
accommodation, and it is good policy, in a profit-earning
sense, to keep every possible copper busy earning in-
terest. But for this very reason one marvels that it
doesn’t charge a premium on these .9000 new shares, and
thus get some more money to rush into the land-dealing
business. Tnere is, by the way, one item in the balance-
sheet which might be clearer. It reads: “Borrowers
and Purchasers’ Balances (after deducting Suspense Ac-
count), £120,813 13s. lOd.” When company law is a little
better than at present, no concern will be allowed to
have a suspense account without stating'the amount of
it. And it will be the same with goodwill accounts.
The other day the native bears in Adelaide
started a rumor that the Broken Hill North lode was
poor md unsatisfactory at the 1100 ft. level. The report
caused a little uneasiness for a while, but it didn’t have
the desired effect of bringing the shares tumbling down.
As far as its lode at the 1100 ft. level is concerned, the
North mine is on a very solid foundation. The ore is
quite as good as it is at the level above, and it extends
from the Junction North boundary right across to the
North’s new main shaft. Those who listened with all
their eartf—Very long ears in some cases—to the old yarn
about the North lode coming into the Junction North at
depth will pr bablv be surprised to learn this. It is an
indisputable fact, however, thatinstead of the ore slipping
out of the North and into the Junction North, as certain
authorities would have had the public believe, the
southern ore body in the North mine has extended
further into the co.’s own property at each successive
level,
* * * *
The B. 11. South Blocks people have been
worrying considerably over the odd behavior of the
zinciferous lode which they have been following from the
old Block 5 shaft with the persistence of a coon after a
chicken on a dark night. A few weeks ago this zincifer-
ous body landed the management in difficulties, and
now it has again dodged behind a roek. An intrusion of
mullock seems to have cut across the lode in a diagonal
fashion, and has caused the ore to play a good deal of
hide and seek with the management. Latterly it went
away West, but as it is underlying east, there are still
Hopes of it uniting with the main ore body at depth and
forming one big lode. Such theories are pleasant for
Urge shareholders to speculate upon, but in Broken Hill
they have seldom found realisation.
That the geology of the Broken Hill lode is a
bit of a puzzle even to eminent scientists is well known,
but the fact was made very apparent at a recent meeting
of the Broken Hill branch of the Australian Institute of
Mining Engineers. Mr. J. B. Jaquet, chief mining in-
spector, has always held the opinion that, the faulting of
the Broken Hill lode occurred in the country and not in
the ore itself. Through the efforts of members of the
branch a mass of evidence has lately been collected which
goes a long way ro prove that the faulting has occurred
in the ore body iiself. The establishment of this fact
would greatly assist those who are concerned in the
practical development of the Barrier field.
Great Cobar (N.S.W.) has taken over Cohar
Gold Mines, and at time of writing a couple of the staff
of Great Cobar were engaged stock-taking. The new
property is a valuable one, but it will need a lot of work
to get it into shape. The shaft is much too faraway from
the ore body. At No. 4 level (426 ft.) the southern end of
the lode has to be reached by crosscutting g,nd driving
some 400 ft., and it is still dipping north and underlying-
east, and therefore getting farther away from the shaft.
A new shaft is practically a necessity. Also the cyanide
sand tailings dumped into the mine for filling are likely
to cause trouble. Nos. 1 and 2 levels have practically
collapsed, and the majority of the mullock passes have
been lost, and those that are open are not likely to stand
much mullock being dropped through them. Between
Nos. 2 and 3 levels there has been an interinediate stope
worked, the free milling ore picked out and sand dumped
into for filling. If the ore from the No. 3 level to the
bottom of this intermediate stope is taken out, it is
likely to cause trouble to No. 3 level. The whole of the
machinery and boilers Want renewing. Great Cobar will
need to take its coat off and drop a little perspiration
over this property. But the ore is there iu plenty.


PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY (Limited),
2, 4 and G Spring Street,
Sydney,
ads as
Trustees, Executors,
1 Administrators,
Attorneys under
Power Agents, etc.
Trust Funds to Lend
from 4 P er cent.
Write for Booklet with full information.
A. J. MACKENZIE,
Manager.
SAMPLE GRINDERS
FOR REDUCING SAMPLES TO
POWDER FOR ASSAYING. **
Write for particulars to
FRASER & CHALMERS LTD.,
Equitable Building:, Melbourne;
Macdonald Street, Kalgoorlie!
i 2
NOBEL-GLASCOW EXPLOSIVES.
The Standard of Quality throughout the Empire .
Monobel
Samsonite
Gelatine Dynamite
Gelignite
Blasting Gelatine
Dynamite
Safety Fuse
Detonators
Cartridges
Manager Bellinger, of Great Cobar, unburdened
himself the other day to the local press, and in an inter-
view published by the Oobar Leader he states that more
ore is now blocked out than has ever been the case before,
and the plant is getting its second wind and going to
shake things along shortly. Perhaps! (The CoiiAß
Leader, at the commencement of the article, said that
owing to the many unfavorable rumors getting around
the district re Great Cobar, it had decided to get an
official report direct from the manager —and this was the
result.) Bellinger appeared to have been very affable,
and showed the reporter records and papers, the
contents of which it would have been breach of
confidence, so the paper considered, to make public ;
but the paper’s assurance could be taken that all the
rumors were groundless and everything was tip-top.
And the public wondered if the paper expected Bellinger
at £6OOO a year to say anything else even if he thought
it. The article didn’t mention if the reporter caught
Bellinger winking as he closed the door.
Occidental, Cobar (N.S.W.), is still worrying
about what it is going to do with its sulphides. The
latest is that it is going to try Wilfley tables prior to
the slime treatment. Manager John Davies resigned a
few weeks ago, and a new manager was advertised for ;
but Oobar Hogan went out to the mine before church
one Sunday morning, and the next heard was that the
resignation had been withdrawn. It wouldn’t suit the
mine or Hogan to lose John Davies.
'** ■ * *
Cobar Silver Peak (N.S.W.) is about .to com-
mence concentrating its silver lead ores, but no one
seems to be too jubilant as to the future.
* * * *
Queen Bee (N.S.W.) shares are beginning to
move up a little, although the co. has just made a call. The
move up, no doubt, is due to the fact that Great Cobar
is. sampling the dump, and will probably give a few
pounds to enable the Bee crowd to sink its shaft.
Crowl Creek (N.S.W.) was granted suspension
a while back, but the mining warden has been asked by
the Minister for Mines for an explanation ; and the co.’s
chance of getting further suspension is not a safe one to
bet on. It is quite time the Growl Greek crowd was made
to toe the mark.
* * * *
Main Ridge Deep Lead Co. (Rockley, N.S.W.)
is still short of water, and a rabbit-proof fence round the
dam embankment suggests that bunny is getting thirsty.
But there is water not far away at the Swallow’s Nest,
which is an old field between the Ridge and Mount David.
Prospecting has been suspended because of the big flow
of water met with. It has been estimated by the Main
Ridge Oo.’s engineer that there are 6000 cubic yards of
wash blocked out between the various drives. But the
ground is sandy and stony, and it will require consider-
able care to-secure the roof. Generally speaking, the
conditions don’t favor low costs. The best prospects are
somewhat illusionary, because they are associated with a
narrow and irregular seam of wash. Some of the prospects
have given 6dwt. to the ton for a thickness, of 2^ft., and
others 15dwt. for a thickness of Din. ; but it is difficult to
judge values by dish-prospects when there are a lot of
large stones. . M
o : * - * * *
“G.W.”: A company flotation of the past
month was that of the North Sydney Coliseum, Ltd.
The N.S.W. Tramway Department decided to give up the
old sheds at Ridge-street, North Sydney, in favor of a
more central power-house on the Military-road, and the
Ridge-street premises came on the market. A couple of
enterprising capitalists burrowed round and discovered
that the upset price was £9500. The buildings alone
cost £12,000, exclusive of the land, which is 260 ft.
frontage to a main street, and 170 ft. in depth.
A co. was formed (30,000 in £1 shares), the ven-
dors receiving 16,000 shares. The co. proposes to
catch the picture-show and roller-skating booms,
and the building will need little alteration to fit it for
these purposes. Further, the co. proposes to eke out an
existence by adding half a dozen shops and a refreshment
room on the Miller-street frontage. Figuring on the
receipts of local sflows of both classes, and allowing a
fair thing for exes, and contingencies, the Coliseum
reckons it sees 15 or 20 per cent, in the venture.
*'* * *
Great Fitzroy (Queensland) estimates its reve-
nue for May at £10,257 ; but working costs take £11,942 ;
so production has been carried on at a loss. It required
5618 tons of crudes and 518 tons of 7 per cent, concen-
trates to run out 155 tons of copper, 8220 z. of gold, and
37070 z. of silver in the form of converter matte, which is
subject to a good deal of subsequent expense. The official
estimate is that the metals produced will realise £10,257,
which is at the rate of £66 3s. sd. per ton of blister
copper. As far as can be made out, the actual quantity
of crude ore treated to produce a revenue of £10,257 was
7600 tons ; so it is not to be wondered at that costs
came to £11,942. The concentrating mill treated 2901
tons for 728 tons of 7 per cent, concentrates, containing
6‘9dwt. of gold. The recoveries seem fairly good, bat
the concentrates are low grade. It is hoped that sinter-
ing in pots previous to smelting will reduce the metal
losses from fine concentrates.
* * , * *
Last month Chillagoe (Queensland) obtained a
revenue of £9054 from its railway, which must havecome
mainly out of public traffic. The smelting works treated
3708 t" ns of ore for 132 tons of copper, 11,5910 z. silver,
and 1087 oz. gold, giving a total value of approximately
£12,007 (copper taken at £5O). It is evident that Obilla-
goe would have a poor railway revenue if it had to depend
on its own works. A profit can hardly be expected on
the customs treatment of such a small tonnage of ore.
Chillagoe is prospecting quite a number of reefs in the
Etheridge district, and the increased production of gold
is mainly from this Source. Generally speaking, pros-
pecting has shown the narrow quartz veins in the Have-
lock, Queenslander and Nil Desperandum mines to be
patchy, containing values from a few dwts. up to 3oz. of
gold per ton. The Mungana mines are making much
larger shipments of ore, and a lead furnace has recently
been tflown in, so the returns maybe expected to show
some improvement.
Mount Morgan (Queensland) tops up its half-
year with £93,927 for May, but a thorough clean-up of
the filters at the gold-reduction works helped with
61280 z., worth nearly £26,000. The copper works had a
good run, treating 18,157 tons of copper ore and 394 tons
of silicious ore for 597 tons of copper and 89570 z. of gold,
which gives an average of very close to 15oz. of gold per
ton of copper. The furnaces and converters extracted,
approximately, £3 12s. per ton of ore, that being the
estimated value of an average extraction of 3 - 21 percent,
copper and 9‘6sdwt. A shade over 30 tons of crude ore
was required to produce a ton of metal. Three im-
portant things to take notice of are the yield in units of
copper and dwt. of gold, the copper market, and the
cost of producing blister copper. To some extent the
costs are a mystery, but it is quite evident that with
large profits from the gold-reduction works, and with
blister copper containing up to 15oz. of gold, that the
cost of producing “ blister ” must have been much higher
than the value of the red metal, or profits would have
shown up better.
East Mexican (Charters Towers) crushed 71
tons for an average return of £8 13s. 6d. per ton. Sloping
is being continued east and west of No. 1 rise, but the
reserves of this rich stone are not very large. No. 5,
which proved so patchv and capricious some time since,
has been extended beyond the 300 ft. mark, and prospects
seem likely to improve. The New Brilliant Freehold has
stoped the reef below the Mexican’s boundary for 500 ft.,
and one of the rises shows a good face of stone some dis-
tance ahead of No. 5 level. Sinking in the underlie shaft
below the 760 ft. level is being continued, and as the for-
mation has a diorite footwall and granite hanging wall, it
is quite possible that a shoot of payable stone may be met
with. Some of the Mexican shareholders had so much
faith that the Day Dawn reef would improve as risen on
that they paid tiie expense of some of the prospecting
work. But mining theories are of very little value with
an erratic formation like the Day Dawn.
* * * *
Mills’ United (Charters Towers) crushed 1961
tons for the month, which gave £6532. This co. has a
large cash reserve, and owns eleven-twentieths of the
Burdekin mill, purchased from the Day Dawn Block find
Wyndham. Mills’ United has proved the Day Dawn reef
some hundreds of feet (six levels) below the deepest
workings in the adjacent New Brilliant Freehold lease,
hut the reef carries such irregular values that deep (de-
velopments, together with the shrinkage in the output
and the ore reserves, make the future life of this 300,000-
share concern somewhat doubtful. A few years since it
was thought that the East Mexican would get the con-
tinuation of the good stone from Mills’ United top levels.
The hope still lingers that the Mexican has passed
through a blank for 300 ft., and will eventually find a
good reef. A recent development in No. 5, just beyond
the 300 ft. mark, shows a few inches of stone. In the
Freehold’s top level the reef made a loop of rich stone on
the hanging wall side, so the East Mexican hopes that,
by continuing its No. 5 level, it will meet with the up-
ward continuation of this reef. The conditions are also
becoming more favorable for a development in the
underlie shaft from the 760 ft. level.
* * * *
“Kobbi”: Blair Athol Coal and Timber Co.,
which holds country near Clermont (0.Q.), has held its
second half-yearly meeting. As the concern had no
working profit to show, the meeting spent a good deal of
time in eulogy of its managing-director, after which it
was said “ that mining operations are now in full swing,
and work is being done at a profit.” The co. has lately
purchased the freehold and leasehold land of the foun-
dered Peak Downs Coal and Copper Co., which adjoins
the Coal and Timber people’s areas. To do this an extra
7400 shares at 10s. have been created, which makes the
capital of the co. £lO,OOO. Three thousand of the new
shares go to the public, and the remainder to the old
shareholders.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe’s financial position looks very
shabby when put alongside those of other Kalgoorlie
cos. The 1909 balance-sheet credits it with £55,958
cash and £2279 worth of shares and loans, but as sundry
creditors are owed £37,292, and dividends amounting to
the rather large sum of £43,968 are awaiting claimants,
the co. is—on paper —really a good bit to the bad. With
due regard for economy, as a London paper puts it, the
directors and a few friends have taken up £lOO,OOO
worth of 6 per cent, debentures to enable the co. to en-
large its plant and push on development. Another
£50,000 may be required for these purposes, and this
sum is to be provided out of revenue. The debentures
have a currency of 10 years, and their redemption begins
at the end of 1912, but at what figure is not stated.
* * * *
In his address from the chair at the Golden
Horseshoe meeting a knighted person named Purcell
grumbled about the co. having to fork out £28,000 —
equal to 11J per cent, of the profits—in English, Austra-
lian and French taxes. Another thing that he went sour
over was the action of the State Government in forcing
all the cos. that have weighed in light in the matter of
dividend duties during the past seven years to pay up
arrears and fines in a lump sum. This (haw) dashed im-
position (haw), coupled with the heavy duties levied on
mining supplies and the increase of the water rate from
ss. to 7s. (haw), was enough to make Capital pack up its
traps and clear out of the country in disgust. Purcell
evidently forgot, or didn’t know, that before the State
pawned all it could lay its hands on to build a railway to
Kalgoorlie, and then did the same thing later on
to raise £3,000,000 odd to provide a water scheme,
the cost of getting a plant and mining requisites
was twenty times higher than it is now, and the price
charged by dam owners for limited supplies of fresh
water was at least treble that now asked by the Govern-
ment. Yet despite the gibes and jeers of ungrateful and
uninformed persons like Purcell, the State still goes on
carrying goods at a comparatively low rate over its rail-
ways, and retails water at bare cost price, in return for a
paltry 5 per cent, on dividends which, in these days of
hoarding up enormous cash reserves for speculation in
other countries, only represent a small proportion of the
actual profits.
* * * *
Boulder Perseverance accounts for 1909 are set
out as follows : Gross receipts, £301,307 ; expenses and
taxes, £241,250 ; depreciation, £3129 ; net working
profit, £56,837 ; Frank Gardner’s loan and interest
(written off), £46,938; reserve, £50,000; brought
forward, £16,280; carried forward, £41,193; stores on
hand, £20,083: broken ore reserve (at cost of mining),
£17,988; ore crushed, 192,178 tons ; yield per ton,
325. 9d. ; cost per ton, 19s. 3d. ; working profit per ton,
13s. 6d. ; ore reserves (actual), 380,772 tons; average,
6.548dwt. ; ore reserves (probable), 249,080 tons ; average,
4'493dwt. ; total gross value, £791,469. An important
feature of the year’s development was the opening up of
good ore in the lower levels. When the balance-sheet
was made out, the co. was about £35,626 to the good ; hut
as all this and more will have probably been swallowed
up in new plant and development by the time there-
organised mill gets going, shareholders may have to wait
some time for another dividend. If Frank Gardner
would Only square up his judgment indebtedness the
Board couid make a sixpenny distribution right away ;
hut having got the “office” that there is no chance of
Frank paying up in this World,it has written the amount
owing (£46,938) off as a bad debt.
* * * *
Tindal’s (W.A.) has had friendly advice to stop
treating unprofitable ore from above the No. 2 level, to
shut down half the 20-head mill, and to work the mine
properly for a change. There is plenty of ore in sight,
and, if the values \yere as good as the management
alleges, everything would he right, but somehow mill
results have so far been all wrong. The Board can now
get an extra good strain of new blood, provided an inde-
pendent sampling of the property is allowed beforehand ;
hut The Bulletin doubts if this reasonable condition will
be agreed to.
* * * *
Up to last April, £3,129,787 worth of gold
bullion had been won by the State batteries in the West.
With the exception of Kalgoorlie, where there is keen
competition among the mill owners for public crushing,
nearly every established field has its Government crusher
—and some have Government cyahide works as well.
When the local paper is stuck for news it abuses the
battery manager or the plant, or both, and sends marked
copies to headquarters.
* * * *
The Westralian interests of Hudson’s Consoli-
dated look particularly dazzling—on paper. Less than a
month ago shareholders were told in London that the
co.’s Pilbarra property had a big 2ioz. reef, and as
£40,000 had been dug out down to 200 ft. the valuation of
£BO,OOO put upon the mine by the manager was not out
of the way. This statement evoked a chorus of “ hear,
• hears,” but when an announcement was made that the
Mount Margaret property was just as valuable, if it were
not even the richer of the two, there was deafening ap-
plause. An extraordinary feature about these two
bonanzas, however, is that nobody in the West seems to
know their whereabouts. No doubt by the time they are
located and the truth about their past and present told,
those who now do the puffing will have skipped out and
left the public in the soup. This is the usual wind-up in
cases of this sort in Westralia, after which another black
mark is put against the gold industry.
* * * *
Sandstone Development (W. A.) seems to have
struck trouble. According to the local paper, the pro-
ceeds from recent crushings will riot permit of any out-
lay on development, and as the co. has treacherous
ground to look after, re-construction is said to be inevit-
able. Its next-door neighbor, the Oroya Black Range,
still pays dividends on diminished profits, but 8., M. and
Co., who boss'the show, reckon the bottom level is sick.
* * * *
Kalgurli (W. A.) announces a diamond drill dis-
covery of 58ft. of 25d,wt. ore at 1550 ft. The find reads
well in print, but whether the crosscut which is now
following up the bore hole will get the same results or better
is another matter. The prospect, however, looks good.
The Kalgurli ore deposits are shaped like enormous
bladders of lard. Some day the workings may get under-
neath these partly scooped out bags of wealth, and then
it will be a case of stand from under or get financially
hurt.
* * . * *
Ivanhoe (W.A.) has installed a drill in the
Horseshoe co.’s Ivanhoe South Extended shaft, and made
a start at 2000 ft. to search for some of the lodes
which Geologist Maclaren thinks may possibly exist
in that part of the field. The bore will go out some
distance to the westward, and will prove an area of coun-
try which hasn’t earned its salt to date, and which is now
partly covered with mountainous residue dumps.
* * * *
In a report dated May 3 the Oroya Links
Board states that an annual profit of £50,000 is expected,
but in all probability it will have to be content with a bit
less. At the end of March the available cash balance was
£42,000, so that the co. isn’t short of a pound or two
just at present. The general managers, 8., M. and Co.,
state that “it has been found impossible to give a com-
plete estimate of ore-reservesowing to the heavy work
attaching to the consolidation of such an extensive pro-
perty and the distribution of de\elopment work over
such a large area.” Recent developments, however, are
said to be satisfactory. They might have added that the
future of the mine practically depends on developments
in the Eclipse lease, but perhaps they thought that this
was a matter for the Board to express an opinion on.
* * * *
The story told in Melbourne is that the Briseis
(Tas.) lead in the Ringarooma section is 100 ft. deep, and
that a lot of overburden will have to be removed.
Here’s something hotter than curry. Yet considering
that the boring done on the Briseis side of the river in
Krushka’s old area showed deep ground, it was to be ex-
pected, unless the gutter ran uphill, that the lead would
deepen as it made away from the ranges. Indeed, the
bores from the tunnels put in by Currie and Clark went
down to 160 ft., so that the clever chiel who has just found
out that deep ground exists must have come in with
the nitrogen on the tail of Halley’s comet. As for
overburden, the Scottish bards who sent out baw-
bees to wash the deposit away yielded up their
financial ghost long since, allowing Fred Hughes
to take the lease over at a mere song, and so
gave the Briseis its second chance. A bit of real news—
copyright and not for a brokers’ circular—is that one of
the reasons why the Briseis directors don’t splash out
their cash is because they have been told how tough and
how thick is the basalt above the Ringarooma drifts.
Chesterfield and his crowd know that they have a big job
ahead—a job that won’t wash out divs. until a lot of the
reserve has gone. So they turn down dividends until
they know for sure that the drifts will pay.
* * * *
Garden Gully, Bendigo’s pride in days of old,
once more shines out as a dividend-payer. To date,
nearly 1,709,7000 z. of gold have been yanked out of the
claim, and £848,812 paid in dividends on, say, £72,000 of
contributed capital. Half the heroes who cut up the
Garden Gully old profits, are dead, but there is still a
consistent string of the old hands to line up for the
cheques. A good feature is that the gold comes from
2250 ft. instead of having been found in the upper
ground, whither so many of the deep mines are now
refusing. A good slab of stone is available at this point
and on the slide at 2550 ft. But it must not be presumed
that anything like the old glory days are at hand.
* * * *
Another Bendigo hero that looks like reviving
is Hustler’s Reef. It has got an east leg above 1650 ft.
There is always a cheery sensation when one has touch
with the right sort of a leg ; but when it has a few colors
of gold sprinkled about, the exhilaration is greater than
that from a dose of champagne. The Hustler’s east
le«- is only 6in, wide as yet, but when the toe of a Bendigo
saddle is got there are often better things higher up. To
add to the pleasure of a call-paying community, the
west leg also turned up at 1550 ft,, having been
put out of place by a nasty, rude fault. It js
nice to be told that it is of attractive appearance. So
now, with the two legs showing, the cap can’t be far off,
Hustler’s, therefore, may have another run after its long
breathing speil. The story is that the formation is a
continuation of the Extended Hustlers, That was rather
a patchy make of stone, but there was plenty of it,
Bendigo will not grumble if it gives only moderate pro-
fits, for with outsiders off the feed, gold is needed to keep
even locals breasting the call tape,
* * * *
A swell crowd went out to give the New Langi
Logan, Ararat (Vie.), a shove off into serious mining. The
old Duke United plant isup, and is capable of handling daily
3 000,000 gallons of the water that is awash in the gutter.
What.possessed a frugal Scot like James Mackay to go
smashing wine against the wheels when coin is so short
no one knows. The shaft is only down half the depth it
has to go, then the gutter has to be driven under and the
■wash risen into. Talk is that 3s. per share is to see this
done. No one wants to discourage honest industry, but
such a story cannot pass. This is just where the wisdom of
Minister Mcßride came in when he pushed off the men
who wanted to link up the North, the New, and the South
Langi’s. Three big pumps at work would give a show to
the field, because costs divided among three sets of share-
holders would not be so heavy a load as leaving the whole
business to a single mining crowd. This risk is ahead if
Peacock doesn’t do more mining at the South. Anyway,
if the New Langi Logan gets to the gutter, Mcßride will
be able to call on the South to contribute to the cost of
the New’s pumping, and he is just the chiel to do his
duty in that respect.
* * * *
“G.W.” writes : Talisman Consolidated (M.L.)
proposes to increase its capital (£300,000) by the issue of
45,000 new £1 shares, and at the same time to call up the
outstanding 2s. on the existing shares, which are 18s. paid.
It will do this by declaring a special bonus, and then
applying it to cover the amount of the call. The co.,
which comes a moderate second to Waihi as a bullion
producer, has paid £400,000 in divs. At present it is pay-
ing about 7s. yearly. The extra capital is to develop the
Woodstock property, on which £60,000 has already been
spent.
r * * * *
North Tarnbun Tin (British Malay States),
prospectus of which will appear in next issue, will have a
chance of showing the difference between the Tongkah
type of management and the other sort. O. H. James,
one of Bewick, Moreing and Co.’s men, has reported
on the thing, and .is to take charge. His report, with the
prospectus, makes good reading, and appears to The
Bulletin to sum the thing up very fairly. He estimates
his costs at 9d. per yard—which is a good deal higher
than Australian practice ; but James probably had in
mind that he would be working the claim. The costs at
the Cope’s Creek Central (Inverell, N.S.W.), the most
successful of the Australian suction dredge propositions,
are 7d., working with a 12in. plant on rocky ground
worth from lflb, to If lb. The North tambun will work
■'with a 14in. plant on 31b. ground. One of James’ bores
at the southern end of the property average 7"241b. for a
depth of 52ft. North Tairibun is not likely to affect the
price of tin, but should pay a dividend or two and
encourage some good Australian men to take a look
round those parts.
* * * *
Several of Bewick, Moreing and Co. s concerns
are mixed up in the Maikop oil gamble. Algernon Moie-
ing has been on the spot four times already, and, besides
risking (it is said) £50,0'00 of his own, has just assisted in
the formation of a co. known as the London Maikop Oil Cor-
poration, Ltd. The working capital of £150,000 is being
supplied by the Lake View Consols, London and Aus-
tralian Exploration Co., Victorian Deep Leads and other
concerns. The field is situated about 50 miles from the
shores of the Black Sea, in . Russian territory, and is
reckoned to be the biggest oil circumstance m the world.
* * * . *
Everv engineer in charge of factories and mills
should give close attention to the power wasted in trans-
mission of power. The Hyatt Flexible Roller Bearings
save HO per cent, power and 75 per cent, of oil, so one of
the first duties is naturally for engineers to direct their
special attention to these bearings and to car boxes for
trucks. Hyatts are in continuous use in Cement Works,
Ore Dressing Mills, Factories, etc., in Australia. Bush-
ings of flexible rollers mav be applied to loose pulleys or
truck wheels, etc. Should engineers require further
details, they can apply to the Australian Agents, W. &
J. Lempriere, Melbourne; or E. W. Hursthouse & Co.,
of Wellington, the Agents in New Zealapd.*
*** - *
“Ferrodor” Paint.—Specially manufactured
for preserving galvanised iron and steel. Unaffected by
sea air, sulphur fumes, cyanogen gases. Used on Mort s
Dock and Mt. Lyell buildings; Hawkesbur.v, Princes and
Victoria bridges; P. & O. and N.D.L. steamers, etc.
Covers 1000 sq. yards per cwt. Does not chip or flake.
WM. ADAMS & CO., Ltd., Sole Agents, King and Clarence
Streets, Sydney.*
* * * *
COAL IS SAVED in the generation of steam
by absolutely reliable boiler mountings and stop valves,
steam tight piston glands and steam joints, also perfect
insulation of boilers and pipes to prevent radiation and
ensure transmission of heat. Bell’s Asbestos-Packed
Water Gauges, Blow-off Cocks and “Belfry” Patent
Steam Valves, Bell’s Asbestos “Dagger” Packing and
“ Bellite ” Jointing and Bell’s Asbestos Non-Conduct-
ino - Composition will ensure economy and safety
to" steam users.-BELL’S ASBESTOS AUSTRALIAN
AGENCY LTD., 315 Kent Street, Sydney. Also agents
for THE FARNLEY IRON CO., LTD., and FRASER &
CHALMERS, LTD., Mining Machinery.*
» * * *
The works of the Austral Otis Engineering
Company at South Melbourne are at present busily en-
gaged in connection with the copper industry, and
among the works in hand are a complete converter plant
for the Great Fitzroy Mines, consisting of two blowing
stands with steam power turning gear, and six steel con-
verters each 10ft. 6in. by 7ft. 6in. diameter, two pneumati-
cally operated telescopic blowing hoods and main flue
connections, concentrate briquetting machines and water
jackets for the blast furnaces ; several very large water
jackets for the Great Cobar Copper Mines ; steel framed
converter housing, two pneumatically operated telescopic
blowing hoods and main flue connections for the converter
plant, and hydro-pneumatic tamping cranes for converter
lining, for YVallaroo and Moonta Copper Mines, South Aus-
tralia; steel water jackets and crushing rolls for the Phil lips
River Copper Company, West Australia; and a complete
100-ton water-jacketed blast furnace and steel main
chimney, sft. diam. and 150 ft. high, for the Hampden
Cloncurry Mines, Queensland. The Company have also in
hand the construction of the extensive coal screens, con-
veyors, automatic tipplers and coal hoppers required
for the State Coal Mines at Powlett River.*
* * * *
Cool, fireproof houses, ensuring less discomfort
in summer, obtained by building with “ Fibro Cement
Asbestos Slates on roof, sheeting in walls and ceilings.
Light, strong, cheap, artistic, besides being durable, fire,
acid, ant and vermin proof. Photos., testimonials,.from
Sole Importers. James Hardie Co., West Circular Quay,
Sydney.* D
**■*■’'
The Policy Holder, Manchester, in its issue
of 30/9/’OB, writes regarding The Colonial Mutual Life
Assurance Society Limited: —“ The Colonial Mutual
tvpifies to a great extent the Australian spirit, the key-
notes of which are ambition and enterprise. This Society
has much which commends it for acceptance to our
countrymen, while its reputation for straightforward
dealings largely explains its suceess in the other countries
in which it operates.”* ,
* * * *
' i
WOOD PIPE can be fitted to any connections,
and connections are easily made. Less skill and labor
are required to lay wood than metal pipe. Catalogue
from The Australian Wood Pipe Co,, Ltd., Balmain,
Sydney.* #
Mining and assay requisites cap be. procured
at lowest rates from Felton, Grimwade and Co. Sample
grinders and dividers, balances, crucibles, furnaces, and
all modern scientific appliances kept in stock. Estimates
supplied for fitting laboratories. Head office : Flinders
Lane, Melbourne.*
* » * *
Refractory Mines.—Owners of arsenical gold
mining properties are invited to send particulars with
samples of refractory ores to the Oxy-Hydro Company,
Sydney, who are successfully treating - same by their new
and economical process. Mutual Life Buildings, 11
Martin Place.
* * -* *
Nobels (Hamburg) Explosives.—Messrs. Wm.
Adams & Co. Ltd., of 175 Clarence Street, Sydney, have
now taken over the sole agency in N.S.W. for the above
high-grade explosives. Large stocks on hand. Please
note these are the genuine Nobels.*
* * * *
The Bolinder Oil Engine, which is known as the
simplest and most easily managed of all oil engines, tsdiow
represented throughout Australia by Babcock and Wilcox
Ltd., Havmarket, Sydney. The advantages of the
Bolinder are small consumption of oil, ease of starting, no
complicated arrangement of valves, and automatic lubrica-
tion, and these are testified to by Australian users. The
engine is made by a firm who have manufactured oil
engines for 25 years, and comes from a factory with an
output of 1500 engines per annum.* [1
* * * *
Due to mechanical construction The Mephan
Ferguson spiral riveted pipe is from 30 to 50 per cent,
stronger, gauge for gauge, than any other riveted pipe.
It is also the lightest and cheapest pipe in the market for
all purposes, which is evidenced by its general use by all
the foremost engineers, contractors, mining and manu-
facturing interests. Prospective purchasers of pipes may
learn the many different uses for which spiral riveted
pipe is especially adapted by consulting Mephan Ferguson,
engineer, iron founder, boiler maker, etc., 475 Collins
Street, Melbourne, Victoria.*
COMMONWEALTH and Foreign patents
obtained. Coi.t.ison & Co., 483 Cojlins-street, Melbourne
and Adelaide). Twenty-six years’ practice. Write us for
Inventors’ Guide.*
■* * * ■
Assaykrs, Mine Managers, and Prospectors
write to H. B. Sit.berbkrg and Co., 443 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, for particulars concerning mining requisites
and scientific apparatus. Braun’s disc pulverisers to‘2oo
mesh ; hand sample grinders to 120 mesh ; Ainsworth’s
assay balances sensitive to 1/13000 grain ; prospector’s
balances to 1/1000 grain ; weights ; pocket transits;
)gasolene combination furnaces; Morgan’s crucibles;
chemicals; etc.*


What’s the time? Just the time for
glass of Wolfe’s Schnapps.*
Join the Army
Of those who have tested the wonderful curative
virtues of Dr. Sheldon’s Magnetic Liniment It
gives quick relief and speedy cure whenever
applied to a burn, blister, bruise or a pain or sore
of any nature. Price Is. Gd. and 3s.*
& WHITTY’S OLIVE
Guaranteed in conformity with the PURE
FOOD REGULATIONS of the Australian States.
LEWIS & WHITTY, Melbourne and Sydney* [i
OIL.
LEWIS
McKENZIE’S EXCELSIOR BAKING POWDER.
THE OXFORD HOTEL,
KING STREET, SYDNEY.
Central and Charming Situation.
Special Attention to
the Cuisine. . , .
Lift and all Modern Conveniences.
Tel. 321.
F. 0. Robinson, Proprietor
VACUUM MOBIL OIL
Saves One-Third of Your Running Cost.
ABORIGIN
ALITIES
S. S. Severn”: A Kiwai boy, from the
Fly River delta (Papua), with his kit in a cocoa-tin,
conies smiling across Torres Strait to the shelling
industry. The pay of 10s. a month is affluence to
him ; but the treatment he receives from the Jap
diver and tender isn’t of the beer and skittles
variety. They hearten him often and heftily
with a hunk of mangrove. Then, if there are no
boys aboard from his own village, he frets himself
sick ; or the cheap rice provided by the Jap boss
gives him beri-beri. After that his chances of
getting to hospital depend on what sort of
a patch the party is on. If it is good,
the lugger is run in to Thursday Island just
in time to drag the poor brown thing to the
hospital steps before he gasps his last breath.
Sometimes he stops gasping when the steps are
quite a long way of, but if Nippon Legree can
land him somewhere near them that is good
enough to ensure a hospital funeral and no ques-
tions. Which has the double advantage of saving
money and time. And as nothing can save
Brown Brother it doesn’t much matter to him
who buries him. In fact, if nobody buried him
he’d probably just lie round as if nothing had
occurred.
THE MELBOURNE FOOTBALL BAR-
BACKERS’ TOPHET .
Not allowed to yell or swear.
The rivalry among bush journals to
chronicle the biggest pumpkin of the season is
equalled by that of the city broadsheets in chasing
the oldest inhabitant to his lair. The man who
lived under four monarchs is knocked out next
day by one who lived under five, and then comes
a veteran who lived under six, and in the absence
of birth certificates claims to even mightier long-
evity may be discovered. But the Henry Barling
who kicked a football at 109. and Cootamundra’s
John Perfect, who reached 111, are eclipsed by
Toby, of the aboriginal camp at Bowravjlle
(N.S.W.), who has just died there aged (allegedly)
125. In the old, old days Toby helped to recap-
ture a white woman who had been carried away
by the blacks. That achievement brought him
much rum and tobacco for a time ; but the was-
sail, apparently, didn’t shorten his days.
Edyson : lb was at Toy’s cow-farm,
and in 20 stalls of the long milking shed stood as
many cows patiently masticating the cud while
the milking machine extracted the contents of
their natural dairies. Toy leaned on a post
tondly watching the operation. “See here,” he
said, “ they’re talkin’ about marriages failin’ off
in this country. So they are ; ’n’, let me tell you,
they re goin’ to’ fall off a whole lot more when
sett.ers get t’ understand the virtues o’ this here
machine. Why, she’ll go through a matter o’ 20
cows in 15mins., ’n’ the woman ain’t horn what
can do that. Marriages ! Where’s the sense in
them ? With this machine they’re no longer
necessary ! ”
* * * *
“ Gideon ” pulls the past up by the roots :
Raking through some old N.S.W. records the other
night. I came across a set of returns, signed by Gover-
nor Macquarie, of prisoners tried before the Courts of
Onminal Jurisdiction held at Sydney between the years
loil and 1817. A few extracts will serve to show the
good old days ” in a fragment of their glory : “ Prisoner
o°.‘ 1 forgery—guilty—death (pardoned conditionallv).
Prisoner iNo. 2—privately stealing in a shop—guilty—
death (pardoned conditionally). Prisoner No. 3—grand
larceny-guilty—to be transported to the settlement of
Newcastle, and there to be kept to hard labor for
seven years. Prisoner No. 4—stealing goods to the value
ot 40s.— guilty—hard labor for four years. Prisoner No. 5
—stealing goods above the value of 40s. in a dwelling-
house—guilty—death (executed). Prisoner No. 6
simple larceny— guilty—hard labor for three years.
Prisoner No. 7—petty larceny—guiltj'—hard labor
lor four years. Prisoner No. S—killing a bid-
i u intent to steal the carcase—guilty—-
death (pardoned conditionally). Prisoner No. 9—grand
larceny—guilty—death (executed). Prisoner No. 10—
sheep-stealing— guilty—death (executed). Prisoner No.
11—ditto. Prisoner No. 12—ditto. Prisoner No. 13—
burglary—guilty—death (executed). Prisoner No. 14—
ditto. Prisoner No. 15—ditto. Prisoner No. 16-steal-
mg two cows the property of the Crown— guilty-death
(executed). Prisoner No. 17—receiving same, knowing
them to have been stolen—guilty— 14 years’ transportation
to Newcastle. Prisoner No. 18—ditto. Prisoner No. 19—
stealing six cows the property of the Crown—guiltv—
death (executed). Prisoner No. 20—stealing four cows
the property of the Crown—death (executed). Prisoner
No. 21—perjur.v-guilty— to stand in the pillory
thiee several times, for the space of one hour
each tune, at Parramatta, Windsor, and ac Sydney, and
transportation to a different part of the territory for
seven years. Prisoners Nos. 22 and 23—wilful murder—
guuty to be hanged by the neck until dead, and after-
wards to he delivered to the principal surgeon and their
bodies to be dissected. Prisoners 24 and 25—accessories
before the fact—guilty—same sentence (all executed). Pri-
soner No 26-grand larceny—guilty—publicly whipped
(50 lashes) and hard labor for two years. Prisoner No.
28—highway robbery—guilty— death (executed). Pri-
soner No. 29—stealing promissory notes of the value of
k,so in a dwelling-house—guilty— death (executed). Pri-
s m.er 1 °- 30— stealing two bullocks the property of his
Majesty—guilty—death (executed). Prisoner No. 31—
steahng wearing apparel in a dwelling-house to the value
. s * * iarc * labor at Newcastle for seven vears.
nsoner No. 31—stealing- in a dwelling-house sundry
artier-s to tie value < ( 40s.—guilty—publicly whipped (100
lashes), confinement in a solitary cell at Parramatta Gaol
on bread and water for six months, and hard labor at
Newcastle for three years. Prisoner No. 32—stealing in
a dwelling to the value of ss.—guilty—exposed in the
Pi'. °o ry . 1 ab Sydn< ;- V for orl( ? hour, and kept to hard labor in
the Sydney gaol gang for six months in heavy double
irons. Prisoner No. 33—for stealing 48 cotton shirts be-
longing to the Crown—guilty— twice expost d in the
pillory and afterwards sent to Newcastle to be kept to
hard labor for 14 years—two of them in irons. Prisoner
S?;' „ 31 ~; T shee P- stea,in s ~ guilty death (executed).
Prisoner No. 35—stealing a bundle containing divers
articles—guilty— 100 lashes in the Market-place, Svdriev
and six months in the gaol gang. Prisoner No. 36—kiil-
ing a bullock with intent to steal the carcase—vuiltv
solitary confinement on bread and water three years
in Parramatta gaol, afterwards two vears’ 'hard
labor in gaol gang there, and afterw'ards tram-,
portation to Newcastle for life. Prisoner No.
37—killing a horned wether with intent to steal a
carcase—guilty—two years’ solitary confinement in Par-
ramatta Gao , one year’s hard labor in gaol gang, and
afterwards 14 years’ transportation. Prisoners Nos. 38
and 39—steahng a variety of articles from the Kind’s store
—guilty—confinement at Newcastle forHyears. Prisoner
JNo. 40 stealing two- pieces of leather, valued at ss.
guilty—pillory for one hour and 50 lashes. Prisoner
'arceny in a dwelling-house—guilty— death
(executed), and hodj r to he dissected.
About the only cheerful patch was where two
prisoners found guilty of. manslaughter, were
each fined one shilling and sent up for six months
The glory of the Macpherson Range, which
marks the dividing line between Ba.nnnal.md and
N.S. W., is Mount Lindsay.
It is ov.er 5000 ft. high, and
the last 1000 ft. is mostly
perpendicular wall. Re-
cently R. J. Cullen, Peter
Ronald and Jack Aider-
man managed to reach the
top with the aid of GOft.
of rope and much pluck.
They report that the sum-
mit of the mount is flat,
with an area of 50 acres.
No. animal life was seen,
but plenty of birds. On
the highest pinnacle is a
spring of pure water. An-
other peculiarity is that,
amongst the timber, are
specimens of the white
sassafras tree, a variety
that is not found at the
base of the range. How
they got there is a mvs-
tery. Seen from the
N.S.W. side Lindsay re-
sembles in shape the top
of a cream can. On the
Queensland side there is
a sheer fall of 2000 ft.
J.E.W.' : Talking about noises in the
bush, have you ever heard the lyre bird going
through the repertoire of all the other feathered
blokes? Was close up to one the other day, and
heard him performing the warbles and cries of
about a dozen. There was the yell of the jackass
when he discovers agohanna ascending a tree in
which his (Jack’s) youngsters are concealed • the
long, drawn-out howl of the black cockatoo ; the
squawk of the black magpie and the remarks of
the common or penny mag.; the vigorous whistle
of the coach whip; the call of the thrush to its
mate; the rasping song of the satin bird ; and
several other imitations. The weird wail of the
curlew was missing, and I hope the lyre never
learns it. Probably he won’t, seeing that the
curlew mourns during the time the lyre snores.
KATE: It aint true that Bill’s a married man,
is it?”
LIZA: " Noa: but he will be before I've done
wif him."
“Minyip”: Have frequently seen tame
birds drink spirituous or fermented liquors, but
the other morning I came across the uncommon
sight of a group of intoxicated wild magpies. I
had walked out of the back door of a pub in the
early morning, when I spotted seven or eight of
the little clergymen waddling in a drunken-
fashion round a drain where the overnight bar-
slops had been emptied. The landlord told me
they were regular customers, and the discredit of
luring them to the pub and educating them in
depraved tastes belonged to a mag. that had been
held in captivity for some time, and had learned
the art of beer-chewing before he had escaped to
spread the glad news.
Wal : Talking about the things divers
have to put up with in the pursuit of the elusive
pearl oyster, I give this yarn told me by a Euro-
pean diver. He was working in deep water, and
was having indifferent luck, until one
day he struck a nice patch of shell.
He worked on it for about a week,
and was raking in the shekels, when
a dirty brown sneak of a Jap trotted
along and commenced operations
within a few yards of the first man’s
boat. Diver No. 1 was on the bottom
at the time, and was just picking up
a shell when spi anchor lobbed along-
side of him, and then things hap-
pened. The world seemed to lift up
and hit him in about ten places at
once. It tossed him through space
for a mile or so, and then brought
him back with a thud to the sea bed
once more. After searching himself
all over for broken bones, and being
agreeably surprised at not finding any,
he looked around and found he was
on a 1 are mud bottom with devil a
shell in sight. He was pulled up, and
said things to his tender that even
made that heathen blush. Then he
found tl at (here had been no earth-
quake shocks felt on board, but that
he had been seen to fly up out of the
water (he was in 10 fathoms) like a
rocket, and drop back again. An old
Papuan on board reckoned the mystery
was easily explained. The Jap had
dropped his anchor on top of an old
man devil-fish that was doing an afternoon nap ;
and, not liking such treatment, the fish-Beelzebub
had left in a hurry, taking the sea-bottom with
him.
* * * *
“Leo Lear ”: “ Chink” (B. 19/5/10) asks
the most peculiar noise of the hush. If he has
been camped out on his ownsome with a pack of
dingoes performing on the north, a native bear
holding forth to windward in opposition to a
bittern in the swamp, and all trying to drown an
army of curlew on the ridge, I bet he is a bald-
headed individual by now. The long-bodied, big,
fan-tailed Queensland pheasant also makes a
respectable shindy in the wet season. He dis-
perses his sound-waves on the atmosphere not un-
like the kick-up made by horses when trotting.
The wail of the State blighters on the loss of the
25-bob clause is a weird and supernatural con-
trivance; but, not being exclusively confined to
the bush, I Suppose it isn’t eligible.
“F.H.R.”: If
anyone knows an
ill that kerosene
won’t remedy send
it along for a curio-
sity? I know men
who swear the oil
will cure anything,
from cuts and
bruises, a p plied
externally, to in-
fluenza and peri-
tonitis, applied in-
wardly. One case
that stands out
prominently is re-
corded of a man
who was given up
by the doctors for
pneumonia. He
sipped a pint of
the oil and lived
until he got distri-
buted all over the
place in a blasting
accident. There is
some uncertainty
re the amount
that constitutes an
inward dose, but
everyone seems
sure that kerosene
will not kill up to
a quart, for a
drunken Cousin
Jack got hold of
the wrong bottle
one night at Char-
ters Towers and
nearly emptied it.
He went to work
as usual next
morning, but his
mates lost a shift
each, because they
said the smell of
oil made the drive
uninhabitable and
a dog couldn't live
in it.
“Vigilans”:—
I see that Haldane, Britain’s War Minister, contem-
plates establishing Government horse ranches in Aus-
tralia, with tlie object of breeding Indian remounts. Let
me commend to him the Barkly tableland, that immense
Prairie now occupied by a few pastoral companies. The
country is limestone—the most suitable for producing
stamina, bone and development. The fodders are the
best in the Commomvealth. The climate resembles that
of North-West India. It would be easy to paddock
20,000 horses in such a country. This most excellent
“patch” of Australia’s “ problem province ” is just half
the size of Victoria. It has a 17in. regular rainfall and
good surface water, while sub-artesian water is tapped at
from 200 ft. to 300 ft. almost anywhere. The hard country
like Morestone, Rocklands, Avon Downs, and Eva
Downs is the best for horses. There is now
no system in breeding, yet no finer horses for
grit and stamina are to be found in Australia. They are
dry country equines. A day’s journey of 100 miles is
not out of the common, and the usual day’s ride
is from 40 to 50 miles. The mailman rides 100
miles a day every day of the year. Mailman Beckham
used to ride from Renner Springs to Anthony’s Lagoon.
At one time of the year there is sometimes a 90-mile drv
stage, all open plain country, with hardly a landmark ill
places. He used to get over this at the jog. These long
IN YASS-CANBERRA.
SWAGGIE: Wot’s the trouble? Murder?”
BOBBY: “ Worse than that; he’s got away with
the water-supply.”
stages do not trouble either man or horse. Of recent-
years a few good sires have been sent up there. There
are a couple of Brakpans, a Projectile, an Archie, and
others.
The Maearthur River is the natural outlet for the
Barkly. The country, systematically stocked and cut
up, would carry millions of beasts of all sorts. The
climate is the healthiest in the North. There are no dis-
eases amongst stock or man. lam no lonely enthusiast.
Explorers David Lindsay, Favenc, Oresswell; drovers
Phillips!, Walter Rose, Skuthorpe, Field and Williams-
and squatters Lewis, Kidman, Buchanan and others have
all sung the praises of this famous land. What a wicket
some of these squatting cos. are on, to be sure ! They hold
areas like principalities, paying rent at Is. 6d. per square
mile. There are no taxes, and their leases run for 42
years.
A VLADIVOSTOK MYSTERY.
[For The Bulletin.]
In consequence of f,he growing: aggressiveness of the
Chinese a number of Russians are leaving Vladivostok.
—Daily paper.
Mow doth the everlasting Chow
In Vladivostok’s ice prevail ;
Before the onslaught of this cow
The bearded Russians flinch and pale.
Yea, blokes from Nishni-Novgorod
Eschew the Mink-polluted sod.
The pigtail waggeth in the breeze
That erst had flapped the Russian flag,
The yellow smile on frozen seas
Hath caused the Cossack heart to sag ;
Yea, Muscov hopes and longings sink
Before the pushing slant-eyed Chink.
His padded slippers crush the snow,
He is no longer mild and meek,
The Cabbage John that all men know
Developeth unholy cheek,
And Moscow’s warlike sons begin
To creep away from bold Ah Sin.
The Muscovite is not the bloke
To move till he has cause to go ;
He feareth not a little smoke
E’er aught of fire begins to glow ;
Something his heart h <th cause to dread
E’er this cove’s vision seeth red.
Behold ! It is a mystery
The song this singer doth indite,
A something hot and blistery
Is fevering the northern night ;
Some fear of Chow, he knows not what,
Flameth beneath the Russian hat.
And this he knoweth all too well,
That yesterday held no such fear,
And that no bloke on earth can tell
What Ah Too Soon will do next j 7 ear;
For, starting late and getting level,
China moves onward like the Devil.
Australia needs to watch the game
Awake ! Arise ! And still look out,
Lest Asia’s bonds of yellow shame
Enfold her people round about ;
Lest the dull pagan, mild and meek,
Get on his Vladivostok cheek.
N. S. W.
D. M. W.


CHILBLAINS.
There is no preparation manufactured that will
soothe and heal chilblains as Chamberlain’s Pain
Balm will do. When this liniment is applied it
soon allavs the itch and prevents the chilblain
breaking." It causes them to heal in a very short
while.*
CHERRY BLOSSOM BOOT
POLISH gives you good
reason to be satisfied, because
it is perfect in every way—the
kind of boot polish you desire—
the only sort you should use.
It gives a bright, lasting
shine, resists the damp, adds
life to your footwear, and is as
good for wet weather as for fine.
If you should have any diffi-
culty in getting CHERRY
BLOSSOM just write to us, arid
fg
we will see that, von are supplied. Managincr Affents for
Australia-SWIFT & COMPANY, 32 O’Connell St., Sydney
For those in peril on the sea
We oft for succor pray,
But lots of people here ashore,
Require some help to-day.
They are troubled with a bad sore throat
Or cough that’s tight and hacking.
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure’s the help
These victims all are lacking.*
A series of “Magazine Talks,” by the
Editor of The Lone Hand, will be delivered in
the "Red Page,” inside the back cover. The first
te.lV. appears in this issue.*
DIAMONDS Reduced
Enormously.
For six months we will offer Diamonds in Rings and Pendants,
and Jewellery generally, at prices never before attempted in
*”"*"*• WHY ?
Well, we have undertaken a Sole Agency that calls for an
enormous output, and we have to live up to it-and so, to
increase our already large output, we are offering All Diamond
Goods at merely a commission on the actual cost. It will pay
us— because of the advertisements and the increase of customers.
Superb' Diamond and Pearls, set in
Fine Gold and Platinum, £5O.
Plain Figures'
Cash.
Fairfax & Roberts,
The Oldest Jewellery
House in Sydney,
23 Hunter Street.
Deer Buliteen. —Arf a mo. Gag that
houlin mob uv prevarakitora fer two jiffs, while I
take a hand in this bush hospitality scrap. In
1912. at the seesun uv the yeer wen they pyrate
the jumbuk uv is embroyderi, I struk the Mur-
umbijgee at Narandara, an jurnied down streem,
pur Jo Gardner, as far as Brinagee, sum 65 myles,
kaulin at orl stashuns N rute. I wood that tin-
pot pomposoty had been with me on that oka-
shun. Wy, Ikood not by, bartar, horror or beg
even a pint uv dust orl the wa doun. Jakv Wor
thretened 2 suel is dorg on me. (Ime a feerles
Australian, an alvvais speelt mi opinyun—hense
the k 9 thret.l At Brinagee, the Ist shed 2 start,
they wear depryvin the jumbuk uv is warein
apparel under festerin kondishuns. The skab
kook ladeled owtthe informashun, “No skran to
travelars.’’ I met 2 bloaks their hoo hadd booted
70 od miles on a jonnv kails. On a ryval their
they, in kompani with erbout h a dozen uthers,
mi self inkluded, wear refuised a feed. Absolootly
refuised ! mind u. I krost the trikle an baxtered
up streem for niani weery myles with dyer results
to mi pelvus reejun. The sheds orl shoar shabby,
an a moar ungry mob never trod a fre man’s land.
Filnntrofee wood not keap a mykrobe alive in
that distriked. lav romed roun the bak kuntrv
for a numbar uv yeers, an the onli hospytality I
ever reseeved wos frum bloaks as pore as miself—
diggers, drovars, fensers an sutsh lyke koves.
They wil shair there last krust with u. But, frum
skwatters, middel Idas peepel, farmurs an Isoldes
Lord delvver me in mi ungar.—Yrs, I Wayman.
‘** * *
“Petifi” :
The Wagga (N.S. W.) Lund Board recently handed down
a decision which, on the published facts, is deserving of
a o-ood wmrd. Somebody applied to it for permission to
transfer a O.P.L. in the Ganmain district to somebody
else. About 15 months earlier the Board refused per-
mission to the same applicant to transfer the same block,
the consideration for transfer then being £5OO. Since
that time the applicant had made no effort to use the
land, although he alleged that he bad spent a whole
£O5 in improvements, yet be now had an offer
of £lOOO for it. He said that his reasons for
wishing to transfer (for £10)0) were that he had no
capital to work the territory ; that be had sustained
heavy losses in the drought,when four valuable horses
died"; also that he had dropped much cash in a timber-
getting contract. The Board, having carefully inspected
those reasons, coldly pointed out that, according to the
evidence, the alleged losses had happened prior to the
former application ; moreover, the horses and plant (if
any) had never been within long-range coo-ee of the
land and, furthermore, applicant and his nephew had
cleared (not lost) £5O each on the wood-procuring con-
tract. Then the institution warmed up to its good work,
and remarked that, as the applicant had made no attempt
to use the land, his hard-uppishness was due to his own
neglect and want, of industry ; and it wasn’t going to
encourage speculative dealings in public property. It
wound up bv opining that if applicant didn’t fulfil his
obligation to the State the land should he forfeited.
Then the State would get the benefit of the unearned
increment, and speculation would get a well-deserved
biff. I think that Wagga Board is a brick.
“F.C.L.”: Last Christmas, while she"'
ing in the vicinity of Yarra Glen (Vic.), I came
across a large brown snake of rotund appearance.
Promptly I blew its head off. Coming back the
same way shortly afterwards, I was amazed to
find that the serpent had shrunk to about one-
half of its previous girth. But I soon discovered
the reason, for, on approaching closer, I observed
dozens of young snakes about Gin. in length.
These had evidently been inside the big one
when I shot it, and had come out afterwards to
investigate the cause of the cessation of their
parent’s locomotion. When they became aware
of my approach they made haste for their domi-
cile, but, to their amazement, they no sooner
entered the mouth of the detached head than they
found themselves again in the open. After they
had all passed through once they were so flabber-
gasted that for a time they lay inert without
making anv fresh attempt at escape. Suddenly
an inspiration struck one as it glanced towards
the muzzle of my gun, which I had laid on the
ground, and it slithered into the orifice, closely
followed by the rest of the family. Then I
pulled the trigger and secured the record for a
single shot, and it rained snake for three days
and three nights.
TOO TERRIBLE.
BRIDGET: “An’ phwat would happen if the rope broke?”
LIFT BOY (impressively): “We'd fall right down to the bottom an get busted ter pieces ."
BRIDGET (horror-stricken): “Sure, ’twould break wiry egg Oi her in me basket."
“Boswell”: A New England (N.S.W.)
lady recently made the following frantic appeal
to her solicitor :
I write to tell you sir that my husband has now been
away from me 21 months, and has left me no support. I
don r t know where he is but I hear he lives with some
other bad woman in T . I want you sir to get me a
divorce from him. I have a baby six months old to keep
and he doesn’t care if it starves and me too. I have
always been a true wife to him.
The case didn’t go into Court for exactly six
reasons.
“ Snakebiter ” : Was the unthinking cause
of a domestic tragedy the other week. For a
long time a pair of pet jackasses that I had were
the most loving couple in our street; but one day
Mrs. Jack laid an egg and started sitting on it.
A few days later I changed it for a bantam’s egg,
and in course of time a little bantam was born.
Its surprise on viewing the world for the first
time was absolutely nothing compared to the
shock that Mrs. J. received when she stood up to
observe her work. She gazed at her offspring
with horror, and it was plain that her mind was
hurriedly reviewing the recent past. Presently
Jack came along, and after one brief look at the
child that was not his he spat on the doorstep and
left the home. Then arose a cry of outraged
virtue, and the missus pounced on the chick and
swallowed it. Jack hasn’t come home yet, and I
feel as if I were a co-respondent after the fact.
“H. W.C.”: Be bush hospitality. I have
travelled the back country from Broken Hill to Yal-
punga, and from the Big Trickle on the east to the
wire fence on the west that was erected by the
Government to keep S. Aus. crows from coming
into Westralia. I have put up at bush pubs of
every conceivable kind, and, in addition, have
camped with the poorest cookies, and shared my
damper with the strong arm of the law, and
further, have stayed with the hirelings of the
bloated land companies of Sydney and
Melbourne, as well as with the unen-
cumbered owners of their own properties.
Never once was I passed the frozen shoulder. I
think I stayed, for one night at least, at every
homestead, with the exception of about two or
three, between Broken Hill and Yalpunga. My
only complaints in regard to the hospitality the
bush provides, are (1) the gramophone, (2) the
Harry Lauder record, both of which are horribly
prevalent. The fact is, in the wide, lonely spaces
Outback, anyone—unless he has the physiognomy
of a chronic spoon and umbrella shaker—is sure
of a warm welcome for a reasonable space of time.
He doesn’t need to have the winning personality
that Pannikin claims to possess. There are wild,
bored parts I wot of where one of the sour, in-
furiated disposition of 0. G. Wade himself could
be sure of an uproarious greeting and a heavy
feed on sight.
DEMETRIUS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Demetrius, Demetrius, ah, yesternight I dreamed
Between the cocktail and the soup, the oysters and the
stew,
Of Athens and the Isles of Greece, when your fair
presence beamed,
Until the crayfish blushed rose-red, and blotted them
from view.
Demetrius, Demetrius, O beauteous, classic youth,
Resplendent, Kalos Kagathos, what hard Fate drove
thee forth
Like Jason for the Golden Fleece, and stranded thee, in
sooth,
Within a Dago flsh-saloon last night in George-street
North.
I sat behind the cruet where I heard the sordid crowd
Demand fish-food; and long I stayed to hear what
words you speak—
Wis' 1 , wingfed words from Hellas, for, according to
O’Dowd,
Our atavistic Gnostics here talk theosophic Greek.
A dream about a shadow—that is man (as Pindar saith)
x watched thee stir a deadlier broth than Spartan
heroes knew ;
And, more than Delphic mysteries, you’ve learned, with
simple faith,
To float a drooping Sydney “ rock ” upon your secret
stew.
You sail no more in splendor by the blue Aegean Sea ;
Son of the men of Marathon and sea-girt S damis
Akin to Alcibiades, by cruel destiny
You grace a George-street flounder-booth —and serve
such fish as this 1
Demetrius, Demetrius, poor creatures of a day
Are men ; their grandeur ends in smoke; like smoke
they come and go.
In Corinth, New York, Adelaide they pass their foolish
way ;
Obscure old Heraclitus said, with wisdom, “ All things
flow.”
Yea, all things flow. Hellasis de id. Her marble corridors
Echo no more to Plato’s tread ; Helen is now a guide ;
Where burning Sappho loved and sang the blatant bag-
man roars ;
And by the shaded Academe huge hoardings rise with
pride.
The gods are still in exile : Venus warbles in the street;
Apollo hides in cocky’s farm from Delos very far ;
Hermes runs messages, express ; Zeus tramps a Pitt-
street beat;
And, thou, Demetrius, art here behind an oyster bar !
Yea, all things flow. The world spins round. In George-
street, now and here,
The blood of gods and heroes, like cheap wine, finds no
respect.
And what is Fame? .. . I watched, sad-eyed, Apollo Bel-
videre
Exclaim “Fried feesh,” and push a plate with lemon-
slices decked.
Demetrius, Demetrius, ah, yesternight you brought
A vision of the City Fair of the White Violet Crown.
To-night I pass disconsolate, by recollection wrought—
Serene, you stand, and stir the stew, and fry the
flounder brown.
N.S.W.
GANESHA.
THE DIFFERENCE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
lii the Berlin Zoo is a baboon with a bright blue and
purple face, bright red nose, and greyish-white beard and
whiskers.
There is a baboon in the Berlin Zoo,
With a purple face that is streaked with blue ;
And a bunch of greyish white whisker grows
Luxuriant under his bright red nose.
Being ugly as sin in its lowest stage,
He’s labelled and kept in a gilded cage ;
And folks till late in the afternoon,
Flock forth to visit Berlin’s baboon.
There is an old tank who will not budge
From the corner hostel ; a purple smudge
Serves him for face, and much whisker grows
Luxuriant under his bright red nose.
Right readily might he pass as twin
To the comical fellow in far Berlin.
But folks, alas, flee forth in fear,
From this frayed old freak, for he bites one’s ear.
MAORILA.NI).
SING S. CLARK.
ANSWERS to CORRESPONDENTS.
No notice (exceot of a hostile character) will be taken of
communications insu(ticiently stamped. Name and
address must appear on MSS. No liability is under-
taken re contributions voluntarily submitted, whether
sent by post or handed in; and no MS. will be
returned unless stamps (of any State) accompany.
Geo. T.: “King’s” yarn commonplace. You
lack the sketch-factor’s gift 8.J.L.: “Insomnia”
effort sincere, seemingly, but crude Mallet: Language
altogether too violent. Do you want to bring down the
opprobrium of the whole community upon us ? R.C. A.:
Sentiment sound ; execution horrible. A sample :
The cove wot first hinvented beer
Orter ’ave a bloomin’ prize,
An’ ’e orter ’ave a monument
Ter show chaps where ’e lies.
P.J.H. : Verses neatly done, but trite G. Eden:
“ Grandfather ” has gone to his long home. He is too
unmetrical... K.H.: YVe don’t recommend the treat-
ment. The recommendation is an advt. Probably it is
all right, but there is no medical expert on the staff. The
religious editor says it is out of his line, and the theatri-
cal critic says the same, and the Wild Cat man is
making holiday in Java. The Woman’s Letter de-
clines to certify, and the Sporting authority says that if
it were anything about a horse or an aeroplane he would
back his opinion for £5, but he do-sn’t want to take
chances about things he isn’t acquainted with
Unity (Brisbane): Still more polish needed... .P.P.F.:
Ragged rhymes.... J.H.S. (V.): No, thanks!... S.B.
(Melt).): Inferior comet poem ... W.A.T. : Regret to
inform you that the “verses conceived when seeing a
Spanish woman offering some fruit to two monks in the
south of Spain in 1863” are very weak verses indeed.
Suggestion valueless W.C.K.H.: It gets past the door-
step, but falls heavily on the stairs.. ..F.P. (Melt).): Too
slight.... J.U.P. : Your poem. “ The Snake,” recalls Mrs.
Pott’s “ Ode to an Expiring Frog.” One verse:
Imperial Snake !
From whose eyes the boldest quake,
And whose spirit fierce and royal ne’er was tamed,
F'eared, yet fearing none,
O'erpowered but ne’er subdued
Its haunts the wise will shun ;
Yet if Man will intrude
Into its lair and feel a pang—the reptile can’t be blamed.
R.J.I. : It is a somewhat monotonous rhyme, and
there is not enough horse-sense in it to make seven
verses... George Eden: Keep to the simple themes and
the simple language. Have carved three verses out of
the last batch :
Jimmy’s in the Harvest,
And Johnny’s in the Cane,
And Billy’s in the Bushman’s Camp
And now Frank’s gone again.
The steamer’s smoke is trailing
Up to the heaven’s slow ;
You wonder how he’s feeling—
You’re feeling rather low.
It’s sun and sea that’s making
Your eyes go dim that way
And bringing back the visions
Of mates of yesterday.
...M.P.: Aproinising rhyme, but just a trifle below print
level..'. .Calafanc(Q.): Looked at it hard several times, but
fin illy decided that it was too slight. .. .C.YV.E.YV.
(Umeralla, N.S.W.): Unsuitable A.A.A.: Grieve to
say it is very wild and jagged Tourist (N.Q.): Poor
stuff ... Warrenjella : The ill-fited Bill seems to have
suffered from general vagueness and capital letters. Take
this verse, descriptive of his journey :
Past mountain hut and drovers’ camp, past shearing
shed
He journeyed out towards the graves of Our Great Dead ;
He followed the Endless Track and Endless Road
T > the land where Drought, the Scrub-Fiend, has his
abode.
Of course, when he got there he died miserably of thirst.
Other poem about the break of day only interests us
when it casuallv mentions “flower-fiends dancing in the
laughing wind!” YVhat are flower-fiends, and why do
they dance? . ..E.G.B. : Football sketch almostcriminally
■ lull Hvacinth : Gentle, tid.v verses with a speck or
two of color. N0....H.8. (Footscray): It is a dull,
scramblesome yarn, and the plot is old and accursed. It
and the murky verses beginning “ Spectral figures moving
t.ht o’ the gloom ” cost us Is. extra postage because you
gummed down the flap of the envelope F.D. : Poem
with a shout of “ Bah ! ” at the end of every verse scorn
fully rejected with a veil of “ Bosh ! ”.. .. YV.A. (Mel-
bourne): “The Dying Seer’’rushed in with his mouth
full of notes of exclamations and false alarms, and per-
ished miserably in the basket F. Hope : Feeble little
ve -ses about a very large harbor G.H.B. : In hopes
that it. will afford you some relief, we are printing two
verses :
Here to-day but gone to-morrow
everchanging, ne’er at rest,
tossed and fashioned on life’s ocean
destiny what is they quest?
Oftimes I wish a fleeting glance
that future’s veil be torn ap rt
perchance my wish were it be granted
relieve me of this broken heart.
Emu: The egg is a failure. Even the first verse is
a Idled:
Over the sand waste lone they went
On a stock route mission bent
Forty camels and twenty men
Facing danger thrice times ten.
Battler (S. A.): Regret verses unsuitable. N 0.... J.J.D.:
Naval poem turned turtle. .. G.P. (Vic.): Poem about
boots sorrowfully declined. YVe are looking f<>r a good
poem about boots, but yours is not the one R.C.L.M. :
Unsuitable. ...Democrat: Your suggestion that Tire
Bullktin staff should be “ honored ” by George Y r . seemed
all right at first sight; but on writing down “ Sir Henry
Hors collar,” “Lord Petronius Ear hi ter,” “Baron
Augustus Blowfly,” “ Duke Ah Too Soon ” and “ Count
10-2-4” we reluctantly turned it down.,.. E. Frazer:
Don’t wish to call you a liar, but if the person in question
had done half you allege he wouldn’t now be on the roll
of solicitors J. Dale: It takes a whole heap of cheek
to send along that story of the death of Frederick as a
perfectly new piece of intelligence.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC) CONTRIBUTORS.
O. Handfield : Declined for various reasons —F. Noon :
A weak and harmless little thing Lis :As art it is
strictly moderate ; and as humor it is plain Gehenna..
YVal O'B. : A pointless sort of thing.. ..L.E. : “Stout and
Bitter ”to hand. YVould you prefer it to be cremated or
buried? ...Matthews: The drawings are all just nearly
good enough. Two were so very near to being good
enough that good jokes would have carried them. The
jokes, alas, were not good Bert R. :An old, old,
ancient, archaic, dead-and-buried joke. London Punch
had it about ’B5, when there was trouble on the Afghan
border. “YVho hit my little brother, Afgy?” said
Britain threatingly. “I did,” said Russia, “and what
have vou to sav about it?” Britain (backing out):
“ Well, vou hit him an awful lick.”... .G.H. : The gag re
the old clo’ mail who essayed to father the smell of his
wares was old when Jerusalem was young. The sketch
is hopeless.


In view of the approaching retire-
•nent of Mr. George Jenkins from
the State Parliamentary service as
Clerk of the Parliaments, the
Cabinet will shortly take into con-
sideration the appointment of a suc-
cessor. It is almost certain that
Mr. T. G. Watson, the present Clerk
of the Legislative Assembly, will be
appointed to the post.
Proposed
That
iMoer. The a«;e °f 63
SHA.LL BE ALLOWE.P AT
I,ar<aE- AfTER.
WHEtJ cuffFEW
Will Be
/ftl R VrJq
JOVIAL JACKASSES.
MISTAKE CHURCH FOR TREE.
Coleraine, Monday.—The serviceN
at the Presbyterian Church was
brought to a sudden close yester-
day morning, owing to the loud and
continuous laughing of kookohurras
perched on the ridge of tin- ouild-
, ing-
ft
ftev/
ft f
Aft
ye S ,fe *7e
They may teJK a,
but tfiey do H~
hoi" raajly. After nfe Hfe deluge
it may be as well for me to say that
✓ after the meeting of the party, when an
/ understanding was arrived at with the
/ Government, Mr. Brown willingly agreed
/ th t a campaign against the retiring
members of the Council was undesir-
/ able, and in the subsequent issue of the
paper nothing that could in any way be
/ considered hostile to these gentlemen
j was published.—Yours, etc.,
| _ . J. MURRAY.
1. Premier’s Office,
4 6th June. ~////
w/ummnu / mrl/111111/,
V\/(7En y oik
! > ftlKe4 of ' W*r to ife Knife
'jou N/eKe of-
/ |)A|>gr Knift of Cowi'se
/PrEwiicu f^\orr\-j
'/M \ A o|4 tairfiin
you a-re.! (T
f7ow Kejjori'cel o*t &ood
D--I who
VWy of J*CKASS<?S trained ft %<L
[jai'f’oje of d<,i4inft)in>> •»* "K*s w©kK .
%3
lo *e,
« I .
t lA h d TaocaTToto
/ 2"- Farmer - " We re
lncome TjoJ
y J We doot^w&.v>"l
ho ijiyrj !
— All
7\ is GovernmenT *
Ay railway electrification. ''K\
f i The Premier (Mr. Murray) is not so A >
, muc, > enamored with railway electrifi- \ *
' , as his colleague, the Minister ||\ ,
< Ra,lwa > s - He said to-day that our V
( *‘w‘| rban railwa y system was, on the |
, whole, a good one, and the Railway Com- V\\\V
; nussioners, he gathered, were against \\\
any hurry m converting it into an l\\\
Sc electric one. He did not see any I'V
\ r,ecessi ‘y for “rushing things.
7 Thv& r/oVT*iK
/ wot'K src&dift-
/ never
IN MELBOURNE AND ITS ENVIRONS.


jpEBS "T"*""" m - II mm ini '
1M?«6'5510N Pw
(w<s
Hop t»S w
A SYDNEY CITY STREET IN 1915.
It is expected that Premier Wade’s railway duplications will about double the congestion of trade into the city, and
in the absence of a city railway the struggles of Johnson’s trams to get along will probably resemble the above.


GAELIC
WHISKY
(The Old Smuggler Bottle)
BEST OF QUALITY.
PERFECT PURITY.
Coughs and Colds.
“My little girl and boy suffered for more than
a fortnight with bad coughs and colds, and nothing
I did for them seemed to have any effect,” writes
Mrs. Eliz. Hough, 43 Wind Mill Street, Valiev,
Brisbane, Q. “At last I gave them Dr. Sheldon’s
New Discovery, and a quarter bottle effectively
cured both children.” Price Is. Cd. and 3s.*
The Old Blend
bur
wiusky
omecT rnoM distiller a. r
ALWAYS THE SAME. SURE Mllu^
matured scotch malt*
Refuse
Low-priced
Substitutes.
13*
Look for this Name
and Trade Mark.
Dixon b
neomv
Genuine
Extract of Fruits and Herbs.
A DELICIOUS DRINK FOR MAN, WOMAN & CHILD.
Public Warning.
Be on your guard when
you ask for “0.T.,” as
some unscrupulous traders
attempt to pass off low°
priced substitutes.
Zl.
TO DESPAIRING STOUT PERSONS.
Pounds Avoirdupois Lost, Pounds Troy
Saved.
Years of misery have been passed by many men
and women afflicted with the dreaded disease of
obesity in futile attempts to cure the humiliating
and health-sapping complaint. Temporary reduc-
tion of weight by means of abstention from a
proper amount of nourishing food, with the per-
nicious help of exhausting exercise, cathartics, etc.,
is of course possible. But at what a cost ! There
is no need for these costly abuses. Dietetic and
other “wasting” treatments cannot cure the
morbid condition of body which generates fat to
excess. Try this simple and harmless remedy
and save useless expenditure : —.One half-ounce of
Marmola, one ounce of fluid Extract of Glycyr-
rhiza 8.P., one ounce of pure Glycerine B.P. ;
shake well together with sufficient Peppermint
Water to make six ounces in all. Any chemist
will make up this prescription for you, dr supply
you with the materials. Take a dose of two tea-
spoonfuls after each meal, and you will be gratified
beyond measure to find your weight reducing
daily. Very stout people lose several -pounds in a
week. The return to health and strength is
equally satisfactory. This admirable remedy is
of very marked benefit to the digestive system,
and perfect nutrition does all the good in the
world.*
“ Everything comes to him who waits,” so some-
body said long ago, and right now we’re beginning to
sdfg
prove the truth
o{ the state-
in ent. Every
housekeeper has
experienced the
need of a perfect
Tea-strainer.
Not the ordinary
dripping-, unre-
liable tfiing- of
yesterday, but
something' practical. Such is the charming 1910 Tea-
strainer and Drip-stand illustrated here, just landed from
the English makers by A. Saunders, Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller. It is pure silver plated, hard metal base, the
strainer (designed with'handsome handles) being easily
lifted and replaced on the stand—the whole an attractive
and practical addition to any table, and the price 4s. 6d.
post free, a marvel of moderation for the quality and
value offered. Why not send for one straight away,
you’ll never regret it. A. Saunders, Sydney’s Leading
jeweller, 807-Sl7 George Street Sydney.*
PERSONAL
ITEMS
George Reid has found great favor in
London, the city of heavy feeding. In his first
two months there he attended 20 banquets and 12
public lunches, and the Daily Express admir-
ingly calls him “ the Champion Diner-out.”
“ Bill M.” writes :
The estate of R. M. Fitzgerald, of Dabee, Rylstone
(N.S.W.), was valued at nearly half a million sterling.
Dabee was taken up by his grandfather, Richard Fitz-
gerald, one-time superintendent of convicts at Emu
Plains. The property passed to Richard’s son, Robert,
who managed the stock and station properties of Gover-
nor Macquarie. Robert Fitzgerald (born at Windsor in 1807)
contested Cumberland Boroughs in 1843, and was beaten
by Bowman by two votes. He represented the County of
Cumberland from ’49 to ’56, when he was nominated to
the Council. Among other doings Robert Fitzgerald
provided the property that gave James Martin a qualifi-
cation for a seat in Parliament in the old, bad days of
propertied members. He died in 1865, and his only son,
Robert Marsden Fitzgerald, inherited Dabee and much
cash. Treasurer Waddell deducts £49,000 in stamp duty.
THE STRANGE TONGUE OF
SHAKSPEARE.
The mere fact of origin is much in nations as in family.
Britain is the mother country, the British dominions are
onr sister States. We are inheritors of the same stock,
same privileges, same language. We speak the tongue
that Shakspeare spoke. We hold the faith and morals
held by Milton.— Daily Paper.
Sir Milton Shakspeark-Brownk : “ Avaunt
thee hence from my path, thou scurvy knave.’'
Bill: "Gam, yer blessed furriner I Git
work, er I'll pass yer one fer luck."
Will Dyson looks like prospering in
London. The Spectator and the Nation both
select his cartoon, “Damming the Consequences,”
printed in one of the London Liberal dailies, as
“ the most effective and humorous product of the
elections.” Dyson is doing a regular weekly
page of comic “sorts” for the Dispatch these
days.
The will of Frank Oswald Starkey,
ginger-beer manufacturer, late of Phillip-street,
Sydney, has been proved at £24,891. In the
rnid-’forties Starkey the First—William M. of
that ilk—commenced to manufacture gmger-beer
in Elizabeth-street, and various members of the
family have been engaged in the business ever,
since.
lhefe has just been celebrated with minor
pomp the jubilee of Waterloo, a rather unkempt
and bottle-gathering Sydney municipality,
ihomas Slattery, who rose to much fame in
later years, was Waterloo’s first council clerk.
In 1860 Thomas was “doing splendidly ” on 80s.
a week.
“ Bloggs ” supplies an obituary :
General Sir William Butler, who died in Ireland last
week, was, at the beginning of the Boer War, about the
hardest-cursed man in the United Kingdom. It was a
common thing 1 in those demented days to hear
what the press would term “ a sober London busi*
hess man ’ inform a ’bus or underground railway-
carriagreful of his countrymen that “ Butler ought
to be handed like a dog/’ The prevailing impression
throughout the country was that he should be flogged
•and dismissed the servicei The uproar arose from
Butler s fatal habit of outspokenness. He was in command
of the troops in South Africa at the time of the Jameson
Raid and after* He knew the country and the Boers*
having gone through the last Zulu campaign. He had no
delusions about the burghers being “an unarmed and
ignorant rabble.” Speaking from his extensive eXperi*
ence, he informed the British War Office that it would
require an army of at least 100,000 men to subdue the
Transvaal. Those were brave days when im*
perialistic Britains, the world over, were wont to
refer to the trouble as “a picnic a trifle to
be easily soothed by two or three English regiments find
a couple of machine guns. City clerks and stock-jobbers
and so on, who had not been to war and never meant to
go, damned Butler, over their mid-day tea and scone, fora
fool and a poltroon. Though one of the ablest generals in
the Empire, he Was recalled and shelved. Subsequent
events indicated how much more he knew than his
Cockney assailants ; but he never got another chance in
South Africa or elsewhere.
A tale of sin from Melbourne
Will Longstaff, the Melbourne artist—cousin of John of
that ilk—has just passed his first contamination in
horse-dealing; and is qualified to brand himself A.D,
(artful dodger) on the left hindquarter. Longstaff is a
land-owner of late. He owns 50 acres down at Elthatn,
and divides his time between a studio in Collins-st reet
and a rudimentary farm on his Elthatn landscape. The
other week, being then concerned with building a cow-
shed on the farm, he dropped into Kirk’s Bazaar in Mel-
bourne to see about a ’orse. Up to then he had been
hiring a horse to drag cowshed timber up the hill, but, as
a practical farmer, he reckoned that every artist should
Le in a position to paint his own horse as
well as his own cow. So when the auc-
tioneer implored the company present to make
a bid of £1 sterling for a comparatively live-looking
animal Longstaff artfully controlled his eagerness and
ultimately acquired the bargain for 15s. A handy
man in the saleyard contracted to deliver the beast
at Elthatn for another ss. if it didn’t die en route, and
next day the poor old piece of live stock staggered
into its destination with the handy man on its back.
Then the reason for the bargain sale became apparent.
The horse, although doubtless full of appetite, couldn’t
eat. In the midst of hay and corn it remained hungry,
owing to an entire absence of teeth, aggravated by” in-
flammation of the glints. Nothing apparently remained
for Longstaff to do irt the matter, save to dig a large
hole in his estate and wait for the fifteen
boh quadruped to die. But Providence sent a
local councillor to his aid. The councillor, who is
a good sort hut a keen bargain hunter, had been leasing
to Longstaff the honest milch cow for which he was
building the shed aforesaid, and presumably he had on a
previous visit noted some good points in the hired horse
that was pulling timber up the hill. This time, when he
came round for a yarn, he remarked the toothless
stranger in a dint light and took it to be the beast he had
seen before. So, after some preliminary comments on the
weather, he broached the question of buying the
horse. What price? Longstaff stroked his chin
and talked casually of a “ tenner.” The councillor
scorned the thought of a tenner, but without
looking the bargain-horse in the mouth he pro-
posed to swap the cow for it, and Longstaff accepted
the offer. Two days later the new proprietor of the
fading gee-gee met him with a gaze of mingled admira-
tion and reproof. “The thing can’t eat,” said he. Long-
staff went away wondering whether it would be a neigh-
borly action on his part if he were to send the poor
invalid a quart of fresh milk from the cow he got in
exchange for it.
As genuine-looking a centenarian as the
average run of the article passed over lately at
Geelong (Victoria) in the person of Angus
MePhee, of Scotland. Angus spent most of
his lengthy days grooming sheep and similar
placid animals around Catnperdown, where
the denizens acquire contemplative habits
and gradual ways. Being unmarried, the
squatter class naturally liked MePhee, and
“gave” him employment till he was 96;
after which he transferred himself for the
last 12 of his 108 years to an even more
soporific atmosphere—Geelong Benevolent
Asylum, to wit.
R.C. Bishop Gibney, of Perth (W.A.),
has gone out of the religious game after a
struggle with Beelzebub that has extended
over some 25 years. He was parish priest of
Glenrowan (Yic.) whep the Kelly gang were
operating thereabouts, and in that capacity
entered the burning pub, which they were
holding against the police, to argue them into
surrendering. He bought the Perth Morning
Herald some years ago, but did no financial
good for himself with it.
Like most politicians, E. W. O’Sullivan
died poor. He left a family, and that was about
all he did leave. So an impracticable world pro-
poses to erect a drinking fountain or some such
uselessness to his memory in the neighborhood of his
unfortunate Sydney railway station. A more
business-like proposal is that Parliament should
be approached by some influential person holding
out an inverted hat ns a hint. Great is the Sign
of the Capsized Hat.
“ Script’s ” inscription :
I fancy “ J.F.8.” must he going'chiefly on hearsay. I
say Holman is not the best debater in the N.S.W.
Assembly by a long way, and, as I reported him for four
years, I know what I’m talking about. If “J.F.8.”
means that Holman can, w:ith plenty of time for prepara-
tion, make a better set speech than any other man in the
House he is on safe ground. Holman has all the
essentials—a mellifluous voice and fine vocabulary, with
the added advantage of being a skilled elocutionist. But
as a ready and effective debater, I consider that, in the
present House, Griffith, Dan Levy and Neilsen are miles
ahead of him. I have seen Griffith take up a Bill that
had just been laid on the table, scan it through, and
there and then tear the very vitals out of it, and I have
seen Neilsen do very nearly the same thing ; but Holman
never ! There is one test that I consider infallible. Take
the Old-Age Pensions Bill, Miners’ Accident Bill, Local
Government Bill, the Liquor Bill, the State Bank Bill,
the Industrial Disputes Bill, or any of the important
measures passed during the last few years, and you will
find that nearly all the amendments made in Com-
mittee w’ere necessary to meet defects pointed out on the
second reading by one of the three men I have named.
The Fisher Ministry shows up well in the
matter of introducing small immigrants to the
Commonwealth. Since it took office Customs
Minister Tudor has acquired a small son, Senator
Pearce another, and last week Prime Minister
Fisher raised his tally by one—four boys and a
girl, the oldest only eight. Also Harry Beard,
M.P. for Batman, had to find room at his table
for another girl.
A SLIP OF THE TONGUE.
GLOBE-TROTTER: “ Aw, I have a bwother who is
— aw—a genewal."
MISS PUB: “I s’pose you mean a sister.”
The estate of Bishop Tyrrell, of N.S.W.,
whose health broke down under the'terrible strain
of trying to make the best of both worlds, did
fairly well last year in the hands of trustees. The
properties extend from Newcastle into the back
country. The pastoral portions carry at presen t
46,417 sheep, and a 65 per cent, addition of lambs
is expected. There are 186 cattle and 102 horses
eating the grass of the holy man’s bequest. The
net profits of the year amounted to about £12,000.
All this money goes for the benefit of the church
and clergy of the diocese of Newcastle.
Concerning a journalist of great merit :
Herbert Low, a decade ago, was the heir apparent to
the editorship of the S, Ifi Herald. Age and increasing
infirmity pointed to the early retirement of William
Curnow, who had a genuine admiration for the brilliant
and versatile, but quite unmanageable journalist. Low
was absolutely intolerant of correction and Scornfully
contemptuous of tradition. Interference with his comma
was an insult; the cutting out of a word or a sentence
was assault and battery. Old man Curnow allowed him
more latitude than was ever granted to any other mem-
ber of the staff, and always refused to quarrel with
him. When he failed to reason with Low he would
benignly request his intractable lieutenant to excuse
him, as he was busy. In many ways. Curnow
indicated Low as his successor. But the erratic
genius managed to quarrel with the Herald at last,
though whether it was a strike or a lockout it is not easy
to say. He shot in a writ claiming much damages.
Efforts were made to settle the dispute, but the arbi-
trators (manager Sam Cook and journalist Jim Philp)
failed to agree. At the first trial, Wise, K.C., was for
Low’, and Want, K.C., for the Herald. Justice Matthew
Henry Stephen presided, and a generous jury of four ver-
dicted that Low was entitled to nearly £400.' Then there
was champagne. But the Herald obtained a new trial.
Darley was on the Bench, and Reid appeared for Low.
This time the verdict was for the defendant—and there
was no champagne. Shortly afterwards, Low joined the
Brisbane Courier. His special capacity for quarrelling
accompanied him north, and, having made his mark and
spoilt his market, he returned to Sydney. In the field of
advertising and commercial journalism he found he could
quarrel with impunity. He did remarkably well, for his
address was splendid, his manner masterly, and his argu-
ments irresistible. Mentally and physically, Low was
extraordinarily strong. He was the incarnation of good
nature and generosity. Cancer came to him, and the
tragedy began. His case baffled a score of doctors, and,
having flung an epigram, he passed out bravely at the
age of 44.
Some remarks by “N.” •
From her connection with the royal family of Britain
there is just now some peculiar interest about the
lengthy notice of Dora Jordan, the actress, in the
“ Dictionary of National Biography.” Her daughter by
William IV., the Countess of Errol, was ancestress of the
Duke of Fife, who married Princess Louise, daughter of
King Edward and sister of King George. Dora Jordan
was daughter of Mrs. Bland, an actress, w’ho was one o 1
three daughters of a Rev. Mr. Phillips. They
all took to the stage, like the three daughters
of the Rev. Prebendary Barnes—known in
London as the Sisters Vanbrugh. Bland
is said to have been a scene-shifter with
much talk about his high family. Dora
first came into notice as an actress in
Dublin. She had a daughter by
Manager Daly, afterwards know n
on the stage as Mrs. Alsop.
Dora and her mother went to
England in a penniless state,
through quarrelling with
Daly. She obtained a good
engagement with manager
Wilkinson, on the York cir-
cuit. She lived with one
Ford, by whom she had four
children. Engag-ed for Drury
Lane, London, she soon rose
to the treetop. She lived
with William, Duke of Clar-
ence, afterwards William IV.,
hv whom she had ten chil-
dren, the Fitzclarences, all
well provided for. William
allowed her £lOOO a year,
and she made as much at
Drury Lane. When the Duke
of Fife’s marriage to Louise
was proposed, the blue-
blooded aristocracy Bue-
cleuchs, Sutherlands, How aids
and the like—were up in arms.
However, Queen Victoria and
Edward favored the Jordans.
They hated the memory of Wil-
linni IV., who had treated Vic-
toria badly. John Bull loves
the illegitimates. He esteems
the bastard dukes of Charles 11.
—those of St. Albans, Grafton
and Richmond above any
others. William IV., after cast-
ing poor Jordan off, married
young Princess Adelaide, and
had two wretched rickety female
kids, who died in infancy. Dread-
ful statuettes of them' used to
be shown at Windsor Castle.
I fancy Edward VII. threw
them into the coal-hole.
When the last Duke of Clar-
ence died, Laboncbere
pointed out in Truth
how. near Princess
Louise (Duchess of
Fife) was .to the
throne. Only three
lives W’ere in front
of her— Victoria,
Edward and George.
Labouchere hinted
that none of thise
lives w’as a first-rate
policy, whereas Louise
was sound as a bell.
However, George V.
took up the weeping
Mary (then called May)
of Teck, and- there are
sundry more lives in the way.
The dead hand of the late Sam Hordern,
Sydney draper and millionaire, helped to prop up
the tottering finances of G. Wade, last week, with
a desirable slip of paper. It was a cheque for
£294,687, representing 10 per cent, probate duty
on the N.S.W. portion of the gigantic heap of
Hordern wealth,
Henniker Heaton is leaving British politics
for good and all, and intends taking a long sea
voyage for his health’s sake. If there is a disap-
pointed man in England to-day it is Henniker.
Although he has pushed himself forward and
advertised himself vastly as the apostle of cheap
postage, his services have not been “adequately
recognised.” He looked for a peerage. Knight-
hood was offered, but the cheap gaud was hurled
back with scorn at the minion who proffered it.
Better far to be plain Henniker.
S.A. seems to be booked for a bad attack
of the Methodist Conscience. Premier Verran is
in for a long lease of popularity and power; and
before he had been in office 24 hours he had
attended meetings of (1) Rechabites, where he ex-
pressed thankfulness that nearly all the 22 Labor
men in the Assembly are total abstainers; (2)
the Anti-Gambling League, where lie stood on a
platform with Judkins and Woodfull and urged
the abolition of the totalisator —the only form of
wagering that remains legal in S.A.
WADING
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
Ih a pose of supplication standeth Wade before the
nation,
In a posture of humility and prayer
(And if this be repetition it is due to Wade’s condition,
Who bends his supple knee-joints everywhere).
No longer is he painted as a Still Strong Man untainted
By the fawning ways of demagogues and such ;
With the ’umbleness of Heep he’ll flatter now the
Sovereign People,
And the S.P. doesn’t like it very much.
The promises are gushing, from his mouth in torrents
rushing—
New schools and railways, harbors, village pumps—
The speeches which he cries are reminiscent of a geyser
Belching shapeless mud afar in steamy lumps.
H rom a footbridge to a Jetty tin re is naught too large or
petty
To lure the gurgling promise from his throat;
And his words will be unsober from to-day till next
October,
When he seeks to snare the shy inconstant Vote.
The civil servant’s wages will advance by rapid stages,
And fatter goats in rural streets will roam ;
The fertile soil will cheapen, and the river-bars will
deepen,
And laying hens will gladden every home.
F"r the statesman’s making pledges, and he neither halts
nor hedges,
In his hope to make the fickle Vote his own ;
He will promise all creation to the daily deputation,
Vi hile he Wades through seas of largesse to a throne.
VICTORIA.
L.


ip s' ■** *
mmmxj*
This is the
PERFECTION
OIL
HEATER.
Smokeless, Odorless and Economical.
That 50,000 Perfection Heaters are in use in Australia
is Proof of their MERIT.
PRICES —From 17s. Gd. to 375. Gd.
Vacuum Oil Co. Pty. Ltd
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Rockhampton,
Townsville, Adelaide, Fremantle, Hobart,
Launceston, Auckland, Wellington,
Christchurch, Dunedin, Suva (Fiji).
mm
m
MILLERS
OSTRICH TIPS
From South Africa.
Black, White, Cream,
Natural, or Black Tipped
with White.
51 Length, 12 Inches.
/ " POST FREE.
The Feathers we offer you
cannot be bought for twice the
money in any other house.
Send Postal Notes or Money
Order payable to John Miller.
Illustrated Price List Free.
MILLER’S FEATHER SHOP
Corner Strand Arcade, Pitt St., SYDNEY ; also at
Corner of Bourkeand Swanston Sts., MELBOURNE.
[Mention True Hulletin.l [4
THREE WITCHES
CIGARETTES.
mm
MORRIS'S |
iree Witches
CIfIARETTBS \
6f for iff
London M»»
HIGHEST GRADE.
Bs per 100, Post Free.
MICK SIMMONS, sydney.
Storekeepers and Tobacconists should
send for our Trade Lists.
Professions, Etc.
TONCKAH HARBOR TIN-DREDGING CO., N.L.
WANTED GENERAL MANAGER, also SUPER-
INTENDENT ENGINEER. Applications ale in-
vited until 31st July next to fill the above positions.
The Company’s operations are at Puket, Malay Penin-
sula, and five large dredgers will be in commission.
Minimum salary for General Manager, £l2OO per year,
with Residence ; and for Superintendent Engineer-, £5OO
per year, with Residence. Apply, by letter, with full
particulars, experience and qualifications. Any further
information can be obtained from H. J. WISE, Manager.
Hpbart, May 25, 1910.
, HJGH priced quality
/IN A LOW PRICED CAR
Model “T” Touring Car, 4-rCyl., 20-h.p., 5-passenger, £3lO (full equipment included).
“FORDS” are without doubt the most suitable cars for Australian
conditions, and the following features will be at once recognised by
the man from the country as being absolute essentials:—
1. Extra High Clearance.
2. Light Weight.
3. Plenty of Power (20-h.p.)
4. Easy on Tyres.
5. Cheapness of Maintenance.
6. Extreme Simplicity.
7. Vanadium Steel.
8. Cost (£3lO complete).
9. Interchangeable Parts.
10. Reliability.
A large, full and complete set of SPARE PARTS is always kept in stock
in Sydney, which enables us to send by return mail any spare part required.
WRITE TO DEPT. B.
FORD MOTORS, 133-137 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
1
THE BESSES O’ THE POCKET
CJ The Besses o’ the Barn
have gone, but the
Besses o’ the Pocket
have come to stay.
CRACKAJACK
(SENIOR)
»ii'miiniff,ii;:ii.i;iiiii:n i 'iri i !fi::i;.i|.-)i!riminwiwHiwi'im«’n!i
Built to Beat the Band
•I The Reeds are made
of Be l Metal, and
are Tun-d to Perfec-
tion.
Crackajack Mouth Organs
MADE in six styles
Crackajack Professional, 40 Reeds, 3/-
Crackajack Senior, 20 Reeds . . . 2/-
Crackajack Junior, 20 Reeds ... 1/6
Crackajack Double, 40 Reeds ... 1/-
Boss Cracky 20 Reeds 1/-
Crackajack Cadst, 20 Reeds .... 6d.
SOLD EVERYWHERE
Sole Agents ALLAN & CO. PROP. LTD.
Melbourne
»J Ift ■I iI sill ;
<4
You Can Have a Full Moustache
in a Few Months.
CAPILLARINE rubbed on each night before retiring will do it for you.
CAPILLARINE has never been known to fail.
In a very short time it will produce a full, strong, handsome moustache
that will remain with you permanently.
Price 10s. 6d. per Jar. Post free anywhere in the World.
Craig; & Aitken, 654 George St*, SYDNEY,
Established '3O Years.
A
df
You can cure deafness and head noises
at home by our invisible device, even
when other remedies have tailed. Helps
ears as good glasses help eyes. Fits com-
fortably and is invisible. Want to hear
perfectly? Then write lor booklet, free, (men-
tioning this paper) to
VCVELTY CO , 229 Collins St., Melbourne.
©
M
0?
U.S.P^
Trinidad Lake Asphalt
In street pavements has withstood
heat, cold, air, rain, snow, sun,
acids and heavy traffic for twenty-
five years.
GENASCO
READY ROOFING
is made of Trinidad Lake Asphalt.
No wonder it lasts longer than
any other roofing.
The Barber Asphalt Paving Company,
who have used asphalt for more
than a quarter century, make
GENASCO, and they are the
largest makers of ready roofing in
the world.
Mineral and smooth surface in several weights.
Ask us for samples and full information.
Briscoe 8 Company Ltd.
383-5 Kent Street, SYDNEY.
Wanted.
PARTNER .wanted with £'sooo. Advertiser has secured
the Sole Agency of several Well-known Prepara-
tions, and has a 20 years’ connection to ensure success.
Enormous returns are absolutely certain the first year,
and it should be one of the biggest businesses'in Sydney
the second. Pull particulars, Box 1856 G.P.0., Sydney.


Pity the really splendid game of Australian
football should be so often hit in its reputation
by pugilistic encounters on the field. No need
for it either. Judicious appeals to D.0.L., the
Whisky of the Wise, by players, umpires and
populace would induce a spirit of enthusiastic
peace into the most enterprising proceedings.
The vigor inspired by the right brand is the
cordial vigor of D.C,L. wisdom.* , , - , .
You may talk of vivisection,
Or of after-death dissection,
And the subject of protection
We must at all times endure.
But Protection is alluring’,
If it’s colds you talk of curing.
No more be enduring
If you use Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
DO NOT BE BEHIND THE TIMES,
But move with them, Salts, Castor Oil and harsh
purgatives are out of date, and have been the
cause of many a case of constipation. Chamber-
lain’s Tablets are the medicine that you -Want to
take. They cure constipation, indigestion, bilious-
ness, and cure them permanently. Remember
the name—Chamberlain’s Tablets, and be sure
>ou get them, for there is nothing “just as good.”*
ATTACKS OF
NEURALGIA.
The Cause of the Complaint, and
the way to cure it.
More often than not neuralgia attacks weak,
run-down, bloodless people. The reason is that
the nerves, which get their nourishment from the
blood, fail to get this nourishment when the blood
is thin and watery ; they become run down and
give rise to neuralgia and other nervous troubles.
Curing the cause of neuralgia then amounts to
increasing the blood supply. This is why Dr.
Williams’ Pink Pills have cured seores of eases.
They actually make new blood and tone the
nerves. Neuralgic pains quickly disappear under
their influence. They cured Mrs. Harriett
Madigan, Wallaroo Mines, near 'Kadina, S.A.,
whose story will interest any other sufferer.
“Some time back my system got run down,” sa\d
Mrs. Madigan. “I was always catching cold,
and at last neuralgia set in and troubled me for
months. Between about 9 and 10 o’clock every
night the attacks would come on, and I could
ne'ver get a night’s good sleep. I might dose off
at first, but I. would be bound to wake up, and lie
awake till early morning. On other nights I
couldn't close my eyes for hours after I had gone
to bed. Many a night I would have to get out of
bed and walk about the house ; the agony wouldn’t
let me lie still. Anything that I happened ,to
have in the house that might give me ease J would
try ; rubbing all sorts of things on'my gums and
cheeks. I seemed to have violent toothache in
every tooth. The pains were enough to drive any-
one distracted. One day I happened to read of a
cure effected by Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills. It
came into my head that my cousin had found
them useful ,so I ordered a couple of boxes, and
from the first dose I found alittle relief. Thedread-
ful shooting pains got less and less, and I felt much
brighter and stronger. I left off at the third box,
as every symptom had gone.”
When you want Dr. Williams’ Pink Pills don't
be put off with anything else said to be just as
good. If you have trouble in getting them send
direct to tne Dr. Williams’ Medicine Go of Aus-
tralasia Ltd., Svdney, who will send- them by
return post free, 2s. 9d. for one box, six boxes
15s. 3d.*
This Elastic Truss
Elastic
Truss-*-
Single, 17/6
Double, 2:2/6
istheacmeo’f comfort, made of
the best materials, and gives
Lile required pressure without
the discomfort of springs.
. We make all kinds of Trusses
and have experienced, lifters.
DENYER BROS., Surgical Instrument Makers,
281 GEORGE ST. (opp. Hunter St.), SIDNEY.
Also at Mklbournk. •
POLITICAL
POINTS
In his policy speech at Chatswood
(N.S.W.) Gregory Wade proposed that the size
of the Assembly should be reduced, and that the
membership of the Upper House should be fixed at
half that of the Assembly. In other words, that the
power of swamping the Council with new mem-
bers—the one thing which prevents the Nominees
rejecting progressive legislation in one great act—•
should be abandoned. It is, indeed, a notable
idea. Possibly-Wade didn’t notice that it was
loaded.
“WIN, IF YOU DARE!"
The Governor of San Fran has said that if
Johnson wants to win he'll not only have to fight
Jeffries, but the referee and the whole of the
U.S, public as well.
“D.”: From Sydney Telegraph (10/6/TO):
Berry, Thursday.—The Labor party is determined to
run a candidate, if only for propaganda purposes.
So highly is the present member (M. F. Morton) regarded
by his electors—the result of nine years’ prompt and con-
scientious attention to their local requirements—that he
might even dissociate himself from the Liberal party, and
stand as an independent candidate, without in any way
endangering his re-election.
It is not improbable Mr. M. F. Morton will stand as an
independent at the coming election.
Same paper, same day :
When the time comes to face the electors, I shall haive
no hesitation in asking for support as an Independent
candidate, free from the shackles of any league or clique
in Sydney or elsewhere, whether it be branded “ Liberal
and Reform ” or “Labor.”—l am, etc., G. S. Brinf.r.
Meanwhile, in Randwick, Davifl Storey hjas
utterly spurned Wadeistn and denounced its lead-
ing lights; Broughton, Mahony and McCoy have
thrown in their political towels without striking a
blow; Miller, in Bathurst, is claiming support
on the ground that, though nominally a “Liberal,”
he mostly opposed “Liberal” measures; and
Maclaurin has gone over to Labor direct. Jimmy
Graham is apparently doomed in Surry Hills.
On the Federal figures Hogue and Waddell have
little hope of holding their seats unless they take
the Labor pledge. In all the circumstances
Wade’s loud talk of what he means to do in the
railway-building, land-settling and other big lines
begins to look a shade pathetic;
The Victorian State Government’s pro-
gramme for the forthcoming session is appar-
ently compiled from a railway accident. The
mangled Land Taxation Bill, rejected last session,
heads the procession, closely followed by the
Electoral Reform Bill minus most of its innards.
The damaged Land Resumption Bill is a little
way behind, on a stretcher, and, pursuing at a
slow pace, is an ambulance containing all that is
left of the Education Bill. One or two minor
measures whip up the rear, but even though
they are sound and whole they are items of com-
parative unimportance. The Murray programme
can hardly be called a programme at all. It more
resembles a strolling hospital.
“ Artisan ” writes
A deputation that spoke with Customs Minister Tudor
lately reiterated the old complaint re the dumping
of winter goods from the Cold Country, by which
Australia suffers to such an extent that not 15 per cent,
of the winter trade goes to local workers. The English
winter being over, the English merchant takes his unsold
stock, which by reason of fashion’s demands is, to all
intents and purposes, unsaleable at any price, and sends
it out here practically as ballast. If he yets only a trifle
more than the freight back tie is still in pocket over the
deal. There might be another side to this question if
the Australian consumer got the goods at an
exceptionally cheap rate; but he doesn’t. The
importer merely ascertains what the local manu-
facturer can sell similar goods at, and fixes his
figure low enough to freeze the other out and no
lower. And the importing firm is very often no more
than a branch of an English house, so that the profits go
back to England. Under this system tfie local manu-
facturer gets only a scrap of unprofitable business here
and there, and the employees, who should be working
full time, get half a day a week or so. Of course, there
is Protection —of a sort. These made-up garments pay a
duty of 40 per cent. —35 per cent, preference—but the
raw’material of which they are manufactured pays 30 per
cent, duty—2s per cent, under the preferential tariff—
and in effect the “ Protection ” afforded is a scanty 10
per cent. And that won’t stop dumping.
Premier Weary, of Victoria, must be a
great trial to his colleagues. A few of them, like
Mcßride, Billson and Baillieu, would willingly
go into progressive undertakings, such as supply-
ing State coal to the public, constructing a decent
port at the capital, and electrifying the railways ;
hut Weary always answers, “ What’s the hurry ?”
Lately he was asked about the electrification
scheme that is lying rotting in a pigeon-hole.
“The suburban system,” he yawned, “is on the
whole a good one, and the Commissioners are
against any hurry in converting it. Ido not see
any need for rushing things.” Weary is very re-
mindful of the tired gentleman who had for years
been vainly seeking work and was one day slain
by a motor-car. His hard-working widow forbore
to weep. “Well,” she said, “he was an easy
man to get on with, and never worried when
things were bad ; still ... it’s a blessing the Lord
called him.”
From North Sydneyite
Wade’s party is up against a Teddy Bear in the North
Sydney electorate. In 1907 Ed. Clark beat the Deform
League, which fought him tooth and nail. For three
years he has steadily voted for Wade in Parliament, when
his vote was superfluous. Next Parliament Ed.’s vote
will be a dire necessity, and Wade wants the local league to
shove iiard behind the candidate. But Ed. is wildly impos-
sible, according to the high-toned ideas of the North Syd-
ney Deform push. He has been a-ked if he will acquiesce in
the League’s selection of a candidate, and he says lie will,
provided he is the candidate. Otherwise he will probably
tun as an independent. The League won’t nominate Ed.,
and it doesn’t like to annoy Wade by nominating any-
body else, so its present resolve is that it will nominate
nobody, and leave the field open for 50 candidates if they
feel like coming. North Sydney was one of the few
electorates in which the Wade interest looked safe, and
the Premier is said to be almost mad enough at the mix-
up to throw rocks at the place.
As a sample of unconscious Tory humor
The Bulletin quotes the circular of John
McWhae, candidate for Melbourne Province
at the recent Victorian Leg. Council elec-
tions :
Your name is on the roll. You have Interests to
Conserve, and it behoves you to preserve your re-
presentation in the Upper House. The Labor
Socialist party is leaving no storie unturned to cap-
ture the seats at this election. Remember, they
will vote, but if you will make it a Special En-
gagement to Record your Vote you will contribute
your part to Outvote Them.
The cocksureness of John McWhae in as-
suming that it behoved the recipient of his
circular to preserve the present House of
Rich Landlords unspotted from Labor was
quite characteristic of the Rich Landlord
party in general. The duty of everybody
with interests to conserve was to consider
his interests threatened by anyone who
threatened to oust the good old Tory mem.
ber. John said it from the bottom of his
heart. And as John is chairman of the
Stock Exchange, and the qualification for
Council electors in Melbourne Province is
confined mainly to dogmatic denouncers of
the working man, the worthy Tory was re-
turned by a large majority. It behoved a
terrible lot of Collins-street brethren to vote
for the presidential stockbroker and save the
country.
Mark Morton, M.L.A., is threatening to
leave the Deformers and stand for his electorate,
Allowrie (N.S.W.), as an independent. In 1906
the Berry estate handed over Ball’s Head and a
tract of Port Jackson water frontages to the State
on certain conditions. One of tjhese was that a col-
lege was to be started in the town of Berry, where
local adolescence could study cow and the reason
of cow, and cow generally in health and disease.
Wade accepted the offer, took Ball’s Head, passed
an Act for the'building of thej college, and left it
at that. Mark Morton has received an ultimatum
from his constituents that the non-existence of the
college is either his (Mark’s) fault, or Wade’s. If
it is Mark’s, Berry doesn’t want him. If it is
Wade’s, Berry doesn’t want Wade. So, as a solu-
tion, Morton is likely to sling Wade and run on
the independent ticket.
“Demos” sends a full account:—
The Political Labor Council of Victoria held its annual
conference at the Melbourne Trades Hall on June 4 and
three following days. The meeting opened with three
cheers, and the delegates included a clergyman, a doctor,
a University student, a relic of the building society
boom, a popular story-teller, pedagogues of both sexes,
and a colored unionist. Over the president’s chair hung
a portrait in oils of Hume .Cook.and a portrait of Higin-
botham. Nobody mentioned Higinbotham in debate,
but Dickens was introduced. So were the Deity, several
politicians, a few hatters, several ratters, the Fusion,
beer, the Bible, democracy, the Future, freedom, 18,511
points of order, the Day of Judgment and “ blanky.”
Prendergast provided enlightenment; Dr. Maloney, an
appeal for more kids ; a photographer, a group picture of
the assembled countenances. There were 150 of them.
Three sessions were held daily between meals, and drinks
were two for a shilling at any of the pubs. At the con-
clusion of the conference the Labor leader was visibly
affected in saying a few words of farewell, and I wrung
his hand and came away.
The State Labor Conference that sat in
Melbourne last week carried one eminently sen-
sible resolution —that in future all public borrow-
ing be restricted to loans for renewal purposes,
and that a sinking fund be established in connec-
tion therewith. There may be little present hope
of the State Labor party getting a chance to carry
out that policy, but it at least denotes an inten-
tion to tread the narrow track of solvency, and is
in fine contrast to John Weary’s announced in-
tention to once more go the easy primrose way
that leads unto Cohen.
A STEADY SUPPLY.
FRIEND: “What a lovely collection of birds,
Professor. How long did it take you to
collect them?”
PROFESSOR : “ Oh, I just collect them from my
wife’s worn-out hats!”
Another ghost of the N.S.W. Govern-
ment’s miserable litigiousness came home to the
old roost last week, when the Judicial Committee
of the Privy Council flung out the appeal in the
case, McHarg v. Williams. The trumpery thing
(a civil servant’s claim for £lO4 of salary, and a
verdict for £81) had already been before the
N.S.W. Full Court and the High Court. Costs
are about the size of an elephant.
“ Red Tape Junior ” :
If I’d the time, I could write a book on the way the
N.S.W. State Government treats us in the service. Some
day, somebody will. Do you remember ’95, when Georgie
Reid came in an easy winner on the cry of .Public Service
Reform?. Out of that came, for our sins, the Public Ser-
vice Board, and Retrenchment was the.watchword, and
there was a scatter. Crowds lost their jobs, from the
Under-SeCretary who was paring his corns when the
Board paid him an . official visit, to the careless'junior
who was never in at ail when the Board called to see him.
The survivors jogged .along much as usual. Most’of the
sacked strayed back again, often 10-the Board’s astonish-
ment, and we got on until Cocky Oarruthers stormed
the ramparts with Reform and Retrenchment for bis
battle-cry. He introduced a policy of no new ap-
pointments. When civil servants died or retired, their
work was to be divided among their mates or done any
old way. This worked for abopt 11 months, and then
new appointments were made by the bucketful, and the
cost of the departments bounded up like a kangaroo
rushing for the top floor. To-day they are, many of
them, in need of clearing out. They are full of tempo-
rary clerks who get more than the permanent fellows
and last lbnger than the permanent chaps,; They are
full, also, of men over the retiring l .age'whd are kept on
because keeping them pn saves pension money. The
service would be alarmed" but for the fact that April 13
has taken all the starch out of the Deform party. The re-
grading is due again on Jan. 1, 1911, and Wade appa-
rently hopes to consolidate the public servants behind
him in September by speaking them fair about what will
happen next year. The Telegraph, Wade’s big prop, has
gone so far as to state that in asking for a big increase on
every salary under £3OO the service only demands its
lights. ; I see Kaiser William has got £200,000 extra pay
on account, of the rise in the price of provisions. So why
shouldn’t I get £2O?
“ F.C.” Writes :• —
Stirred by the information that the Sydney brick-
makers have raised their price from 40s. to 445. per 1000,
the Melbourne combine pondered whether it couldn’t go
and do likewise ; but, while it was pondering, some of its
own products hit it in the nec-k, so to speak. This com-
bine consists of two large companies—the'Hoffmann and
■ the Nortbcote —and a number of smaller ones, many of
which are spread round the eastern suburbs. All of them
charge the same price, but of course cartage varies, arid
cartage on bricks is a sizeable item, To-the eastern and
Southern suburbs, where most of Melbourne’s building is
now going on, the Hawthorn, Toorak, South Yan a, Oak-
leigh and other companies can cart at from ss. to Bs. (id.
per 1000, whereas Northcote demands from 12s. do
17s. So these smaller companies have their books full
of orders, which they cap’t supply because the agree-
ment allots each co. a proportionate amount of the
business and no more. This is doubtless satisfactory to
the big companies, but the small ones are full up of it,
and as the agreement, or horrible understanding, or
whatever it, is, expires on July 31 the chances are they
will be deaf in that ear when they are asked to renew it.
Meanwhile, neither the two large companies nor the
dozen or so smaller ones seem to mind being- specifically
referred to as part of a combine which charges an our-
rageous price for bricks and then plays ducks and drakes
with the public’s orders.. It not being an inter-State
matter, the Australian Government can’t intervene, and
the Combine has a large contempt for the State Ministry.
As for the law of supply and demand, the Combine seems
to have taken that by the ear and swung it three times
round the Combine’s head and then thrown it away.
After all, Mead, of Balaclava (Vic.), is
justified by his opponents. Mead is the Laborite
who, according to the perfect lady president of
the Women’s National League, “couldn’t take a-
heating like a sport,” because he arose on his feet
and accused the other side (the Fusionist Wynne-
and his supporters) of too much motor-car. Now,
the first petition lodged against a Rep’s, return
comes from Fusionist Crouch, ex-M.H.R. for
Corio. Plainly, Crouch isn’t a sport.
“Annandale Liberal ” recently wrote jto
the Sydney Evening News to say that unless-
the awful impevsonatipre
that had been carried cjut
in the Federal elections-
could be prevented in- the'
State ditto, Liberalism was
as good as dead. Said the-
Liberal : “I was an inter-
ested listener of a conversa-
tion in one of our city cafes'
not many weeks ago, in
which A GENTLEMAN OK
LARGE INTERESTS IN THE
CITY actually created merri-
ment by his statement that
he was responsible for 4<lo
dead men voting!” Well,
supposing he did, for whom
would the dead men vote
at the dictation of “a gentle-
man of large interests in the
city”? For Labor? Not
much ! Probably for Briice
Smith and Willie Keliy.
.Of course, although illegal,
it is not morally wrong,
as, according to the Her-
ald and Telegraph, all the-
people who were on the rolls-
and didn’t vote were Liber-
als : and quite a number of
the people who were on the-
rolls and didn’t vote were-
dead. Krgo : All the dead
- people were Liberals.
“Syrinx”: One of
the 39 Federal Articles is
“ Marriage and D.vorce,”'
and it’s' N up to the Labor
Ministry to get its anvill
ready to belt into shape a
fair and uniform law on the
subject applicable to the
whole of Australia. At
present there’s a lop-sided
sort of justice in the Shiels
and Stephen Acts in force
in Vic. and N.S.W., but
the other States are content
with the antiquated Eng-
lish system under which
no relief is obtainable
unless both misconduct and desertion or cruelty
are proved in the case of the offending hus-
band. A ?ane divorce law for Australia, that
could be invoked by anybody without being
buried under an avalance of Oosts, is bound to
arrive in time; but unless somebody gets hold of
it by the decree nisi , or some other part of its
anatomy, and drags it in, bigamy and adultery
will sow a crop of trouble that will break too
many backs in the reaping.
JOYFUL NEWS.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
it Was not, he Stated, the policy of the Government for
the rfeitt general election. For that occasion he pro-
mised a progressive, cl'isp, and Up-to-date programme
that Would not grow stale before election day. Wade,
at Willoughby, N.S. «\
Brethren, come ! Let’s forth with banners :
Hire the buoyant German band ;
On the bars dash down our tanners —
Wear our Sunday morning manners
And go gaily through the land.
Let your hearts with joy he burning,
Free your laugh, your looks elate !
See ! at last the long lane’s turning,
Yonder, glimpsed by the discerning,
Lies the prize which all await.
We have marched in great dejection,
Darkly fearing for our fate ;
Hence with gloom)' recollection !
Surely this will bear inspection?
Hurry up, and close the gate!
Here you have it—nicely labelled :
“ Policy to save a State ; ”
Copper-bottomed, domed and gabled,
Every dish most choicely tabled—
Crisp—progressive—up-to-date.
As you see, the best of leather
Has been put into the springs ;
It will stand all sorts of weather
Where you see that ostrich feather,
That is where you tie the strings I
Do not touch the spark-arrester;
Notice how the patterns glow,
And observe the spirit-tester
Underneath the phono-jester—
That's to make the whiskers grow.
Brethren, come ! Lead on with laughter ;
To the bars let’s hie us straight!
Throw your sixpence to the rafter—
Dash whatever follows after !
Jump and sing like merry friskers,
Cheer the Policy with Whiskers
That will shortly save the State !
N.S.W.
Prteonius E arbiter.


gfd
99
THE
PERFECTA (® !]
€?LF i SMITING
SUITS,
THE ACME OF COMFORT.
3tt\d FOR MEASURE-FORMS* PATTERNS.
rtP
V W I
---io*-/
VVJ!
r ~
I
u;
\7
if vjl/r
Y
M
(7
tylM
w 3
f//U
m
WRITE
FOR
CATALOG,
g
Melbourne, S.E
Excellent Pianos
FOR
Moderate Incomes
There are times when the cost of. a piano stands in the way ot a
family enjoying all the musical opportunities that a really good
■ instrument affords. This is a fact that we long ago took into serious
consideration, with a view of providing instruments to meet a very
moderate expenditure, at the same time to incorporate, as far as
possible, the leading features of those much higher priced. Our
MIGNON PIANO
is Over-strung—lron-framed—Trichord—with a scale of seven octaves,
which constitutes an instrument capable of withstanding the severest
climate, while the tone is sweet and pure, adapted for either singing
or playing, to a degree that will be fully appreciated by all lovers of
music. The case is in elegant Walnut and modelled in various
artistic designs. 1
Each instrument carries a ten years’ guarantee, though with
ordinary care will last a lifetime. Our
NANON PIANO
is a somewhat cheaper model, and specially commended for the
heavy wear of schools and young pupils.
Either of these instruments may be purchased on our extended ,
payment plan, so that the cost is very lightly felt.
Our aim has been to give the very fullest value possible, and we
feel justified in saying that these two instruments in that respect
cannot possibly be approached by any others in Australia.
OLD INSTRUMENTS TAKEN IN PART PAYMENT.
Tuning by Experts on Single Occasions or by Yearly Contract.
SOLE AGENTS:-
NICHOLSON * CO. LIMITED
342 George Street, Sydney; and at Newcastle.
FERRO VALVELESS Engine
... FOR...
Pumps,
Dynamos,
Cement Mixers,
Stone Crushers,
Vacuum
Cleaners,
Saw Benches,
Spray Pumps,
Separators,
Chaffcutters,
Lathes,
Drilling
Machines,
Well Boring,
Sheep Shearing,
Mining
- Machines,
Printing
Presses,
Refrigerators, .
Launches.
df
There are already over Eight Hundred FERRO ENGINES in use in Aus-
tralia, and for whatever purpose they have been installed they have proved a success.
The following result of a test will give Some idea of their strength and reliability
United States Navy Brake Test of a
15-H.P. FERRO ENGINE
showed 18.85 H.P. on a CONTINUOUS RUN on 30th Sept., 1909.
ALL FERRO ENGINES develop EXCESS OF RATED POWER.
MADE IN 3,4, 5>4, 7#, 8, 11, 12, 15, 17 and 25 H.P.
THE PRICES ARE RIGHT. FOR FULL PARTICULARS write to NEAREST AGENT.
Agents—
VICTORIA, SOUTH AUSTRALIA, TASMANIA—
Acme Motor & Eng. Co., 355 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
NEW SOUTH WALES—HaII Bros., 51=53 Druitt Street, Sydney.
QUEENSLAND—Howard Motor & Cycle Co., Queen Street, Brisbane.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA—W. Sandover & Co., Perth. '
NEW ZEALAND—Ayers Baker & Co., Fort Street, Auckland.
SAMOA—H. J. Moorls, Apia, Samoa.
gdf
■*ir
m
m
yi
A SUCCESSFUL DINNER.
SARGENTS' SUPERIOR SERVICE is the key to a Successful Dinner, whether
‘ for a large or srrialf party. You Could not offer your guests anything better,
more inviting or more enjoyable than is to be had at Sargents' perfect table
appointments; quick, quiet and courteous attendants j > and a repast of uniform
excellence prepared with daintiness and skill. There is no guest too fastidious, no
function too select or important for Sargents'. Write or telephone the Manager
for’ terms and all particulars!
SPECIALITIES: Wedding and Birthday Cakes, Meat Pies J Fruit Res and Pastry.
•f
Manufacturing Pastrycooks and High-Class Caterers,
SYDNEY: Head Office, 252 Pitt St.
(’Phone—Office, 3559 ; j
Cafe, 1876; Catering:, 4250).
MELBOURNE: 28-32 Elizabeth St.
(’Phone, City 1344).


m,
mm
Esfab.
1818.
Only those who suffer from premature
greyness know what a worry it can be, especially
to women, because to them, even more than to
men, the appearance of youth means a great deal.
A lady patient writes:—
“My hair Is now improving-wonderfully; the white
hair is quite brown, and the other hair, which was a
mouse color, is quite a pretty brown, and it is all so soft
and g-lossy. If it goes on like this I shall most certainly,
in another twelve months’ time, have quite a beautiful
head of hair again ; it is getting so thick and long, too.
I am so pleased, as you can imagine.— F.S., Camberwell
Victoria.”
The President may be consulted, free of charge, any day
but Saturday, between 2.15 and 4.45, and on Wednesday
between 6 and 7. Those who cannot call may write to
the President, Dept. 8., Hygeia Limited, Ocean House,
Moore Street, Sydney, enclosing 3d. stamps to cover
postage, and they will receive booklet and testimonials
without delay.*
a
ram
n
Ever notice the smell of drugs
in a chemist’s shop pretty
strong, isn’t it? —it’s not a nice
atmosphere to work in, and we
chemists have to stand it for
such long hours that you can’t
wonder we’re worn out long
before close up time.
There’s an old saying that
“few doctors believe in their
own physic’’ well, a chemist
is much the same as a doctor in
that respect, for with my shelves
full of stuffs to cure everything
under the sun, including “that
tired feeling,” 1 turn to a cup
of good hot tea myself—because
1 find it brisks me up, and there’s
no harmful reaction afterwards.
A freshly made cup of R o bu r
tea at 1 1 a.m., and another at
3 p.m., with those 1 take at
my meals, keeps me pretty
a’ert during the day 1 know
no tea that 1 like so well as
No. 1 Grade Robur it’s
absolutely pure, and very cheap
at that money, at least, that’s
my opinion.
The Chemist.
VERY OLD COGNAC.
r
OTARD BRANDY
1875, 1800, 1848, 1820 VINTAGES.
A
WOMAN'S
LETTER
Sydney, June 14, 1910.
My Dear Arini,—
District Nursing in all its branches was dis-
cussed at a meeting at Federal Government
House on Monday, before an audience which was
chiefly members of the A.T.N.A. It filled
the ball-room, and listened attentively to
speeches from his Ex., Mr. Boulton and Miss
Hughes, and afterwards drifted tea-wards to
the dining-room in the gloaming. On the platform
were the vice-regals, including Lady Chelmsford.
Various units of the suite were dotted about. Mr.
and Mrs. Cyril Ward were there, also Mrs. Hore
Ruthven, nursing a little dog. The speakers talked
well, especially Miss Hughes, who became practical
at once. “I once washed a baby in a sugar basin,”
said she, ‘‘and I made the baby quite clean, though
Idon’tknow how he liked his bath.” She remarked
incidentally that Australian-trained nursing is in
a wonderful state of organisation and far ahead
of British-trained nursing in that respect, but
district nursing is yet in its babyhood. Listen-
ing to what she carefully did not say, one
gathered that Miss Hughes, like most of us, con-
siders that the ‘‘ bossiness ” of the trained nurse
is the bane of an otherwise perfect human being ;
and, in a less degree, the fussiness of that offi-
cial leads to discomfort on the part of her patients.
“Don’t worry the patient’s people for what
they haven’t got,” was her advice to the district
nurse who goes into a home where the ’oof-bird
does not flap his wings very audibly. To make the
patient perfectly clean when there’s not a scrap of
clean linen in the house, and when one is compelled
to use water as carefully as if it were champagne,
is the first bit of knowledge required by the
district nurse. So says Miss Hughes. “We all
know,” said this practical nurse, “that, bad as
the patient sometimes is, the patient’s people are
often 10 times worse,” and a murmur of sympathy
ran round the meeting.
The local committee seems to be the strong
point of this district nursing scheme as detailed
by Mr. Boulton on Monday afternoon. The
local committees, which will be in touch
with the central committee, can find out
the cases and draft off a nurse to suit
each. The nurse is to receive market rates. No
underpay is to be allowed. This scheme, said the
expounder, works excellently well in Canada, where
the distances are as great as here and where there
is a severe winter to fight against. Why should
it not answer here ? He said some patients
could not carry out the doctor’s orders through
sheer ignorance of what was meant, and threw
off an illustrative chestnut. The doctor had
ordered “animal food,” but after a week’s in-
terval, the next visit found the patient no stronger.
“ Oh yes, we carried out your directions,” affirmed
the amateur nurse. “We gave him animal’s
food. The bran mash went all right, but
the mangel wurzels gave him indigestion,
and the hay upset him altogether.” On
Friday next, 17th, there will be another
meeting, when the scheme will be given a
further shove forward. Her Ex., by the way, was
somewhat oddly dressed. She had a "tight-
fitting gown of black crepe-de-chine, high to the
very throat, and the sleeves consisted of thin net,
looking as if these useful appendages had been
cut off the gown altogether. She kept on a hat
with a lace veil having a scrawly pattern run-
ning all over it.
A useful charity, the Fresh Air League, got
itself together at a Town Hall meeting on Thurs-
day afternoon to discuss ways and means for the
coming season. This league exists for the pur-
pose of sending people out into the air, as a
cure-all. The doctors have none better in all
the bottles of creation. Owing to the Court
mourning now on, the platform held an assem-
blage in black. Lady Chelmsford, the Mayoress,
Miss Kellick, hon. sec., Mrs. Julius Caro, Rabbi
Cohen, Dr. Arthur and other believers in the
ox yg e n cure were there. Another meeting will
shortly be beld under the auspices of the Mayoress
to still further plot how to secure money and send
sufferers into air so fresh that it will not be
brewed till next summer. Business was diversi-
fied by tea-drinking, and a little girl with short
skirts and a very clear voice recited a mournful
piece. She did it well enough, yet the proceeding
seemed slightly irrelevant.
Mrs. Allen Taylor, who has herself been trying
the fresh-air cure, has returned to Sydney looking
quite well again, and ready to take on the most
stony-broke charity and collect money for it, as in
days of yore. No fund can remain wasted and
anaemic when the Mayoress gets busy.
This is the age of counter irritants. The Fresh
Air League very sensibly devotes itself and what
funds it can scrape from a rather reluctant public,
to the sending of impecunious invalids into the
country. (For this object Lady Chelmsford sug-
gests that 1000 children should give 1000 s. yearly.)
At the same time, a writer in Saturday’s Tele-
graph, Dorothy Gardiner, voices the tendency
on the part of another section of the charitable
cpmmunity, to establish playgrounds in the city.
Instead of sending Mahomet to the moun-
tain, they will reverse the movement and bring
the open spaces to Mahomet. “ Playgrounds for
children ”is now the cry. Statisticians say that
our real need is “ children for playgrounds.” As
stated last week, slumming is fashionable, and
the “ pore ’ are being prodded into progress and
enlightenment. How truly ludicrous it is, on the
fringe of this vast, empty continent, to talk of
overcrowdingand “grey-faced peoplereflectingthe
greyness of the day ” ! Why, in our sun-blessed
city, isn’t it a relief and a soothing boon to eves
strained and tired with the old glare when a grey
day comes upon us? If our color sense were as
strong as our charity-faddishness, we’d organise
color carnivals on “grey ” days, when the mists
bring out the most gorgeous gleams of purple and
green and blue around every bay and headland
and cove in the harbor.
Slums there are, no doubt, in Sydney ; but the
way to get people out of the slums is to make the
country more accessible and easier to live in. In-
creasing the attractions of city life is non-effective
as a mode of slaying the slum habit; it is a kind
of perpetual blackmail levied by the shimmer on
the public at large. From any city slum, by
walking a few hundred yards in any direction,
a beauty spot can be reached. The Domain
is our chief slummers’ haunt; but it isn’t
very squalid, is it ? Well-meaning folk,
who feel that it is the part of a good Chris-
tian to help others, always take their views on the
hard-up half of the world from reading facts pub-
lished in dismal, overcowded London, and try to
fit the facts to us. The facts of London are mis-
fits in Sydney, being about 10 sizes too big. If
Sydney were quartered and distributed in four
parts anywhere in the Commonwealth, it would
be difficult for even a faddist to find need for
another teeny-weeny charity.
The mother-in-law of the N.S.W. State Gover-
nor has been getting into trouble and the illus-
trated papers lately on account of her son, Cap-
tain Guest. Said mother-in-law—the wife of Lord
Wimborne, a millionaire peer, and the sister of
Lady Sarah Wilson —was accused of using undue in-
fluence to secure the return of herson as the Liberal
member for the district wherein the paternal
home is situated. One of her daughters is Lady
Rodney, another Lady Chelmsford. Mr. Winston
Churchill (“Winny,” as the family calls him, is
Lady Chelmsford’s cousin) was “among those
present ” when the case came into court.
Undue influence, it was alleged, meant shillings
and tea judiciously distributed among voters and
wives of voters. The little story is worth telling
for the sake of the moral. The Judge was
particularly severe upon tea as a bribe. Pro-
bably it was good and well-brewed tea. Yet
our Liberal Leaguers used freely to invite all and
sundry to tea parties before the last election, and
although much was said nothing was done-
nothing, at least, big enough to get into the
illustrated papers as the Guest tea-drinking has
done.
Under the favoring auspices of many Cohens,
the Montefiore House Ball went off with the
resounding clang of success on Thursday night at
the Town Hall. As usual, it was a beautifully-
frocked affair. Several of the leading feminine
promoters of this annual dance get their things
from Paquin and Doucet, and the others who
haven’t either of those magic names sewn on
to their inside waistbands look as if they had, so all
goes well. The Rabbi and Mrs. F. Colien smiled
upon the scene; also Mrs. B. X. Cohen, Mrs. L.
Phillips, Mrs. A. L. Lion and Mrs. L. E. Moss,
who were all on the committee. Miss Harris and
Mrs. L. Packer were hon. secs. Mr. Sidney
Price led a band of artists in a preliminary pro-
gramme, which was a great gallery draw. Mauve
and white paper bloomed like wistaria upon
the walls, the work of Misses Louie Blumenthal,
Jacobs and Harris. Mrs. Reggie Marks wore a
lovely gown of creme charmeuse, and Mrs. Geo.
Michaelis was in graceful black. The late King
was a great friend to the Jewish community.
Consequently the tribes have gone ex-
tensively into mourning for him, and
most of the matrons at the ball were gowned ;
in sable hue. There were several debutantes,
and their white dresses showed up well against so
much black. One of the Maoriland Nathans,
Mrs. C. of that ilk, relieved the color scheme of
the gathering by wearing white lace and white
satin brocaded with pink roses.
Among attractions for the lovers of hard exer-
cise, as well as the merely frivolous, the ice-rink
still holds its own. It has a fascination for
country visitors; hundreds of pretty girls and
stalwart youths from the remote hindquarters of
Beyond glide round on its glassy surface o’ nights.
You wouldn’t expect Queenslanders to know
much about ice-skating, would you ? Yet, the
other night a jolly party from Brisbane and
Maryborough made merry over their first attempts,
and got on well, too ! One clever Maryborough
damsel. Miss Garde, whose knowledge of skates,
other than rollers, was asextensive as Mr. Winkle’s,
was assisted on to the glassy floor, but before the
evening was over she was skimming along in great
form. Miss Garde and her sister left for the Hon.
Andrew’s electorate on Saturday by the Bombala,
after a visit to friends in Bathurst and Sydney.
Our own girls are skating better each season. ;
The couples who come into the waltzing enclosure
are the picture of graceful motion. Waltzing on j
skates looks just a heavenly whirl. One of the
best at this high-voltage dancing is Mrs. Maughan
(Miss Barton “as was”). Her slender, black-clad
figure is often seen among the frozen dancers.
Another glider easily picked out is Miss Cissy
Turland. The favorite rinking get-up now, in-
cluding a dark velvet skirt and white silk shirt
blouse, is really too sweet for anything. Fancy
skating turns are not so frequent as they
were. At one time the rush of business was less,
and there was always time and ice to spare for an
exhibition by Prof. Langley, the man who does
apparently impossible things on skates, such as
making his legs go in opposite directions simul-
taneously without their owner either falling down
or dragging himself apart. Miss Dent is here this
season, but she seems to devote most of her time to
teaching beginners, which occupation brings her in
much coin. Miss Dent makes profit out of the cir-
cumstance that the sun revolves over the middle or
waist line of the earth instead of merely shining
on the butt end of it. (I may be wrong scien-
tifically, but I know what I mean, if you don’t.)
By this comfortable arrangement on Nature’s
part, she is able to spend a winter at the Anti-
podes and a winter here, thereby getting two
skating seasons in one year. So, financially, our
premier skateress has nothing to complain of, and
is like and yet unlike the celebrated cuckoo—she
has no sorrow in her song, no summer in her year.
Going to Java is becoming quite a craze with
this community. The latest to be stricken with
Javatitis are Mr. and Mrs. “Jim” Toohey, of
Strathfield. Mrs. Jim was a pretty Miss Oxen-
ham, and is one of the most popular young
matrons in her exclusive district. They will
leave by the next boat of the Dutch line. From
the last boat a letter comes, posted at Townsville
and written by Miss Winifred Gullett, of
Wahroonga. In the epistle she sorts out her
male fellow-passengers as “most interesting.”
One man has been in Malaya since the
’Bo’s with Clifford and Swettenham. One is an
official on the Papuan goldfields. One was mixed
up in trans-Andean tunnel building, and one was
in the horse transport from Argentine to South
Africa. As the weather was vile, Miss Winifred,
who is a much-travelled person herself, was at
times, she avers, the only woman at dinner ; and
that is how she made all the above discoveries, I
suppose.
Another correspondent, who writes with much
feeling of the awful weather lately raging in the
Pacific, is Miss Laing Meason, a member of the
Roberts-Day company, who took “Pete”
to Maoriland. Miss Laing Meason wrote
from Auckland, where the opening night
was postponed on account of the Pacific’s
behavior. When that much-praised ocean
does exhibit weather, it is of the very dirtiest
and most tempestuous brand. The mildness of
that little turquoise-blue pond is obliterated.
Didn’t Balzac say, “There is nothing more ter-
rible than the revolt of a sheep ? ” The Roberts-
Day co. had a little “Pete” with them, in case
the Maoriland birth-rate hadn’t been doing its
duty lately. Miss Day’s son, Robin, is in Mel-
bourne to do his name part in “The Merry
Wives” with the Oscar Asehe co.
An old-time Sydney family, which has always
held its head very high, came into the social lime-
light last week. The cause of the glar e was the
marriage of a scion, Mr. George Lord, who on
Saturday took Miss Beatrice Green to wife
at St. James’, where the Clothes Wrangles
come from. Mrs. Herbert Lord held a pre-
liminary tea party in honor of the event at the
Australia on Tuesday.
The Women’s Club has been given notice to
quit Ghallis House. It was founded mainly by
University women, includes about 500 members,
and is a quiet and heavily-respectable body. It
pays its rent punctually, and intended taking a
whole wing of the building next year. But
Challis House belongs to the University, and a
University building is better without women,
thinks its anti-feminist Chancellor. University
women are a patient crowd, not given to airing
the wrongs and slights of outrageous male
humanity. But this last blow tries their angelic
natures considerably. There had never been a
female on the University staff until lately, when
a solitary woman lecturer was smuggled in. (Her
initial, instead of her name, was placed upon her
application.) The Chancellor didn’t appreciate
what had happened till a year after, and then his
grief was as that of a haggis which has been
jumped on.
Miss Violet Brooke-Hunt, whose death was
cabled on Monday, was best known to Australians
in connection with her Colonial Troops Club at
the last coronation. As a type of woman which
this century is bringing forward, Miss Hunt, was a
noted organiser, and if a woman has that gift
nowadays she simply gets up and organises. It
may be a dogs’ home, or it may be an
army nursing scheme, or merely a bonnet
shop. She can do it if she likes. Formerly
the woman who could organise had no scope given
her, and was compelled to let concealment prey
on her damask cheek. Miss Hunt was educated
by the celebrated Miss Beale, who, as head of
Cheltenham College, let a lot of wonderfully
clever women loose on the world. Some of Miss
Beale’s girls are in Sydney. Miss Rose Seaton
was at that school before she took to elocuting as
a professional.
I cut this remarkable advt. from the S. M.
Herald (11/6/TO)•
mO Japanese Gentlemen.—Widow Lady with lovely
old house, wishes six Japanese Gentlemen as
paying guests. Highest credentials. Apply ,
Herald Office.
It is the first “No white need apply” intima-
tion that I have met to date. But think of the
baseness and the horror of it if a small European
dyes himself brown and creeps into the bosom of
that family unawares !
Maie Sydney is May Peach in real life. The
pretty little soprano, who has been having a good
time in Melbourne and making a success in “ The
Arcadians,” was the topic of conversation at a
meeting at the Australia last Tuesday. This
gathering, under the guidance of the strenuous
Mrs. Rutter, who has hustled successfully for
numerous societies and leagues in our city, and of
Mr. Denison Miller, who is the boss of the pater-
nal Peach, decided to extend the glad hand to
May on her return. May’s record both in London
and Australia is distinctly good. She won the
vocal scholarship of the R. A.M., and is, at a still
youthful stage of her career, prima donna of the
Clarke and Meyneli co. in Victoria.
Women and girls—and many men also —are
beginning to chatter about the coming of Dolores.
The placid Parisian always appears to sail into
Sydney on such a zephyr-sort of breeze that we
hardly know she is among us, and suddenly she
is trotting about the city hailed by each and every
one like a sunbeam on a dreary day. Undoubtedly
the visits of Dolores seem to make everyone
musically glad. A reception is to be given to her
in the Town Hall next Wednesday afternoon by
musical friends represented by Messrs. H. Cham-
bers (Liedertafel), W. Johnson (Philharmonic),
and James H. Merritnan (Orchestral). A novelty
will be that everyone is to be seated. As the
guest will be on a slightly-raised dais, all the
uncomfortable crowding to catch a glimpse of her
will be avoided. A little musical programme,
arranged by Mrs. Christian, and equally brief
speeches by A. J. Gould, William Manning, and
A. W. Meeks will precede the hand-shake.
Dorothy Court is undergoing some farewells
this week. Monday she gave a party herself at
Baumann’s, when, dressed in navy topped off with
expensive-looking ermine, she had most of her
sometime colleagues in the Royal Comic Opera
Co. to tea; also some outside friends were
asked. Some of the guests told of another “ un-
charted rock” shipwreck in Middle Harbor on
Sunday. The launch which had conveyed director
Hart, Lottie Sargent, Grace Edmond and other
picnickers, was left piled up on a reef when the
tide went down, and they had to go- home on a
friendly craft which hove in sight in a timely
manner. The shipwrecked people all turned up
at the tea, so no loss of life is to be chronicled.
For Tuesday Mrs. Bert Gilbert and Miss Olive
Godwin sent out invitations to an “Australia”
party for Dorothy’s benefit. The Malwa will bear
away from our shores this vivacious little
brunette.
Yours, as of old,
OLEO.
“Motorist’s ” tale :
“ What shall we do with our chauffeurs? ” is the cry of
the hour. The recent episode in Melbourne, when the
State motor-car, supposed to l,j peacefully asleep in bed,
suddenly burst at 1 a.m. into the front window of a
suburban ham and beef shop, strewing- pickles, sausages
and rashers of bacon all over the landscape, is an example
of the difficulty. The slaying of a Sydney citizen by a
racing motor-car in the dead of night is another. Not
only does the motor-car owner not know what his car is
doing after the household has gone to sleep, but he can’t
be sure of its conduct while he is awake. When pa and
ma and the girls go to the theatre they have either to
send the car home or let it stay in town. If the latter,
the chauffeur probably idles aa ay the time in a city
bar; and, going home, sees two William-streets, and
when travelling at 12 miles an hour one is quite enough.
If he remains with the car he takes Flossie round Cen-
tennial Park. If he is ordered to drive home and return
later, he also takes Flossie round Centennial Park. As a
solution of the difficulty the Pest People now book a
theatre or concert seat for the chauffeur ; and pa, tnaand
the girls have their night spoilt by the necessity to con-
tinually bob up and see that the petrol Jehu remains in
that seat. This expense, added to the rent of the garaee
for the night, worries pa, but not so much as the sus-
pected midnight prowl worries ma. Darling Point tells a
horrid tale of one of its mag-nate’s matrons who went to
take the air one afternoon in the honk-vehicle. She
espied a foreign item in a corner of the tonneau, and in-
vestigation showed it to be a lady’s garter, expensiveand
slender, quite unequal to the amplitude required by tin-
matron herself. A vitriolic order to the chauffeur turned
the car’s head citywards, and the irate female
astonished her respectable merchant by dashing her dis-
covery on to his office table, and demanding divorce and
alimony. Fortunately, Providence looks after even the
importer, and he was able to fix the blame on the
chauffeur. That sinner was fired, of course, and now,
when the garage is locked up for the night, the key is
under the matron’s pillow. Further, the wretched
chauffeur is forming a union, and talks of asking 10s. a
day wages, or retaining fee. These and other woes are
the burden of the suburban motor-car owner, and he says
his cup of bitterness is running over and is not yet full.'


fio
i^h
T'X
r
v
/
r
✓
\-r i
--X
A
sx/xm*
m
££
Rub-
C-O-B-R-A Boot Polish
Chunder Loo,
Of Akim Foo,
Plays a little
Cricket too ;
When the bear
With “COBRA”
All three wickets
Would demolish,
Polish
Chunder trembles
In his shoes.
(Which reminds him
YOU should use
“COBRA” on the
Shoes YOU cherish —
“COBRA” will not
Let them perish.)


DUNLOP
>
RUBBER
make hard pavements feel like
pile carpet.
YOU can walk further, with
less exertion and more comfort,
when using our soft Dunlop
Heels—TßY THEM.
Various Shapes and Sizes. Obtainable All Leading
Stores. Accept only “Dunlop” Brand.
THS DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States and N.Z.
It
Pays-
to Ride
DUNLOP
TTR.ES
Owing to the Wear
and Satisfaction they
give.
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. NONE
GENUINE WITHOUT THIS ©BT
DUNLOP RUBBER CO., All States and N.Z.
Dunlop Tyres -
Ensure Easy &
Comfortable Riding.
He
$?
I
Medical & Toilet. Black & Green Met r«“
MISS [ jILDA SPONG and SOLYPTOL SOAP.
Miss Hilda Spong, the beautiful and accomplished actress, who commenced her stage career in Australia,
sends the following unsolicited testimonial to the manufacturers of SOLYPTOL SOAP
Messrs. F. H. FAULDING & CO. Savoy Hotel, London, W.C., July 31, 1909.
Dear Sirs, —Your Solyptol Soap was recently brought under my notice, and you may be interested to know that
I have found it absolutely the best skin soap I have ever used. It lathers most freely in the hard London water
its perfume is delightfully refreshing, and it leaves the skin soft and velvety in a manner unobtainable with
anv oth j r soap. It is particularly gratifying to me to know that Australia is the home of such a perfect
production. Yours faithfully, HILDA SPONG.
BBaniaaaagaaiiaßßnßaaßaanra Sold by all Chemists and Stores. mmmmmmmmmmmmmmaußi
MELBOURNE CHATTER.
Melbourne, June 13, 1910.
My Dear Yarrik, —
The benevolent are doing a bargain counter
rush just now. The Jennings-Carrnichael children
affair tilled the South Yarra skating rink, and real
live actresses poured out tea —at a price. They
do it quite nicely, right in the middle of the cup
every time, and the dears are used to posing.
Certainly it may be worth while to get your tea
with an exquisite bend of an elbow and a dazzle
of white teeth to flavor the brew. It is better
than getting tea down your neck or coffee over a
just-renovated gown, but it needs sweet charity
(and a fashionable flavor) to drag the extra pay-
ment to the surface.
That was one affair. Then the mummers had a
matinee at Her Majesty’s in aid of the Royal
Comics’ Benefit Fund. On Friday charitable
people fell over themselves to fill the house.
They courted police notice by hanging over the
back of the dress circle. Really, there is little to
choose between dress-circle manners and gods-
behavior at a crush, and the choice is probably up
aloft. One woman stuck her chooky-hen hat
quills in my eye, and another sat her baby on my
shoulder, so that “Lovey” could see the pretties
over the human barrier at the circle back.
“Lovey” kicked with delight—kicked me.
And a person of social tonnage (with a
special weight of hat) would stand up
in her -circle seat all through the “Merry
Widow ” act. But, despite all discomforts, things
.could scarcely have been better in the cause of
Charity. Full price seats ascended squashed to
the far epds of the house. High-priced pro-
grammes were sold out. Grace Palotta, in a hat,
auctioneered sweets from a high stand in the
foyer. Things hummed, I can tell you, and great
was the hum thereof.
At the most stuffed and elongated matinee on
Friday (in aid of sick actors) one number was from
the far-back “Florodora.” Hugh Ward and
Grace Palotta, who were the shining lights of
those “ Florodora ” days, got themselves into the
1' Florodora ” sixtette. The men were the girls,
and the girls the men. Hugh Ward had
beautiful fair curls hung coyly down the side of his
face. Roberts looked a real “tart,’’and Higgvmade
an excellent girl with hair decorously crimped
on either side of his countenance. Grace Palotta’s
boy was a graceful, dignified thing. Grace’s
understanding is very subtle. Mrs. Hugh Ward
and Miss Palotta (who had given over auetioneer-
ing sweets) played in a quaint old comedy. The
programme took hours to'go through, and it is a
long time since there has been such a rousing
charity performance. Suppose the mummers all
felt that they might any time be “one of them.”
They toil hard to amuse, and the length of the
working life is only a dragon-fly section after all.
The Aschescame into their own at the Royal on
Saturday with “ The ’ Honeymoon ” (Tobin’s
“Honeymoon,” not “A Bachelor’s”). Much as
the Asches get puffed into flame by society here,
it is from the gods that they get their real old-
fashioned reception. The squeals apd whistling
and shrieks are unmistakable. The stage dress-
ing is of interest as an accurate picture
of the period—a Spanish period of 100 or so
years ago. Lily Braytpn (Juliana) wears a
Spanish . lace scarf on flier. wedding morning.
It is an ancient thing of exquisite pattern
—a web to catch and twist the heart
of any woman. Her peasant dresses, later,
are gorgeous scarves of cotton wound round
head and body. A white winding—all white
even to its fringe—is a seductive thine. She
sulks in it to the village “ green ” (which is a
forest) for the village merrymaking, and finishes
a spell of brooding anger by a madly-passionate
dance with husband Oscar. Asche wears his
scarf (serape—is it?) in the way Mexicans do
nowadays, and supposedly Spaniards also. It
needs practice to balance that gorgeous thing
just at the shoulder-angle needed. Asche does it
as one to the manner born. Rupert, of the eo.,
and George Cummings had a box and two' ladies
with Titian hair. One, in black, wore an ador-
able cap of jet like a jester’s, with the jet-tails
drawn like marguerite pigtails on each side of her
dimpled neck. The Whitings had Maie Sydney
in their box. She shed mufflings of “p’tite gris ”
(as the French call the most fashionable
fur), and showed a shell-pink sheath. Mrs. Bors-
dorf mixed her furs in an up-to-date way. She
had old-fashioned brown squirrel edging her
ermine, and the thing was a revival of a 50-vears-
ago “dolman,” a thing which only lives in odd
corners now with its shiny black silk and “ bugle ”
edging. Everything resurrects in clothes.
Maie Sydney, the Sydney Peach who has been
dolled and entertained and petted by mhinmer-
loving society all thi’ough her Melbourne season,
trave a return party on Thursday afternoon. It
spread into 150 guests in the upper room of the
Vienna, with waiters sentinelling the stairway
and the doors. Mrs. McNicol, in sparrow-brown,
threw in the necessary chaperonic tinge., The
hostess guffed several extra inches of height out of
a long narrow amethyst crepe tube of a gown, and
she topped her small golden head with 3cwt. 2qrs.
sgrs. of black ostrich plumes. Anyhow, a good,
weighty head-dress is useful for erectness—like a
water carrier’s, jar. Mrs. Howard Smith had
green glimpses showing somewhere through her
black as she came upstairs. Mrs. Justice Isaacs
clung to her favorite black and white. Widow
Galbraith-Moore brought the newly-fledged
daughter, Rhyll. Mrs. “Fairfield” Morris wore
most sumptuous black buried in black furs,
and ■ Miss Morris was one of the prettiest
mounts for the everlasting black. velvet
coats. Fan Dango smiled behind half a dozen
huge black blots— meant for a veil. Mrs
Ledingham exploited mole color. Colonel Baf-
lenger’s two youngsters were there—girls who
tear over the country riding like sprites, and
attired in long divided coats, riding pants and
waist-high crinkled boots. At the tea-party they
were demurely frocked and furred.
There was a good assortment of music laid on.
Maie Sydney sang some beautiful things. Miss
Cavanagh delighted the gay youths of the party
by lifting up her voice in melody. Miss Gillian
pattered out a “ baby ’ song. Essie Perrin was
saying good-bye to her friends. Probably she
will not return with “The Arcadians.”" The
crowd goes to Ballarat—thence to Adelaide, and
back to Sydney.
Scotch collegians and their hame folk will mus-
ter numerously at the Masonic Hall next Monday
night, when Murray Lucas, music and sihging
master at the Scawtch College, is to give a vocal
recital in conjunction with George Cowley.
Maggie Stirling, ’cellist Hattenbach and Irene-
Fletcher (at the piano) are to assist thfe
double-barrelled recital; but although the name
of Maggie would indicate a braw Scotch nicht of
music, the programme is to be classical and cos-
mopolitan in its selections from Verdi, Brahms,
Schumann, Gounod. Massenet and sundry Eng-
lish song-writers. All the colors of the rainbow
are there.
On the same night, the cricketer hoys will fore-
gather in South Melbourne Town Hall to blow a
cloud at a smoke concert, caterer Skinner being
the host. The social business of the evening is
a presentation to Frank Laver, who managed the
last Australian Eleven. Mr. Skinner will present
the honored guest with an urn to hold the ashes—
not of cigars, pipes and deadly cigarettes, but the
legendary ashes of international cricket, which
somebody put into a figure of speech long ago.
Irene Dillon, the Melbourne dentist’s daughter
who took to the stage, has captured a Chicago
bull or bear or some such animal in the Wheat
Pit of that city. She is to be married this month.
Mamma Dillon, who will just wait for the
wedding, arrives in Melbourne at the end of July.
Hereby is a budget sky-high of press cuttings
about the dainty lady’s theatrical flutterings
calculated to warm the hearts of Mrs. and Florrie
Green, who taught the young Irene how to dance.
The Boston American splashes a full-sized por-
trait, and an interview headed “An Australian
Girl comes to Town.” She went to New York
without engagement, and was lucky enough to
fall into place in a week. Since then she has done
continuous touring with Shubert and “Dick
Whittington.” Now the affluent Chicago wheat
johnny is putting her into a domestic part.
The Ice Rink crashed open on Saturday after-
noon, and the row sounded as if it were even
going to knock popular roller skating where it
lives. All the people who count for much at an
opening came along as befurred as polar bears,
and wearing the cutest things in tight, short
skirts for the whirl. The fashion in walking
skirts is abbreviated enough, but the latitude for
skating will be very chic. Very high boots, with
soft-fitting suede tops—like stockings—help to
meet the extreme case. A fitting suede shows
the curves of a good ballet understanding', while
a discreet layer of cotton wool in the
lining is not too dusty if the upholders
are meagre. The new ice floor is ripping,
in other words, quite sound—a very exhila-
rating field made up of tons of the glassy stuff.
Fan Dango risked those valuable ankles in a
first try at ice skating. She is a dandy
runner on the rollers. On the ice she propitiates
Fate by never skating alone. Two tall, broad
cavaliers flanked her small self. All the Cana-
dians in Melbourne rolled up with gleams of joy
in their eyes—there are plenty of the species
hereabout—and some German masculine com-
plexions glowed with a stolid reddish ecstasy.
But the Australians of Melbourne and Sydney
are becoming as bird-like on ice as any frozen-
country foreigners. They glide and waltz and
two-step with the best.
Elliot Murray, the young man of woolly wealth,
grandson of old dead Elliot Murray, is laying
himself and the great accumulation and multi-
tude of his jumbuck at the pretty feet of Fannie
Sholl, a Sandgroper, who trips socially over
this side at times under the chaperonage
of the Westralian Parker lady. She is a
daughter of politician Sholl, now deceased. The
two doves met at Medlow for the first time a
brief three months ago, and since then young
Murray has chased Miss Sholl round three-
quarters of a continent. Coming from the West,
the moon and the comet and a smooth trip all
worked in the young man’s favor. Now the
Murray mamma, Mrs. Earle, is rounding up frivols
in their honor.
Mrs. Peter Mitchell is back again from London,
New York and Parisian shops (when a woman
goes abroad shops are her chief objective), and is
getting her giddy triumph by knocking local
women flat with envy at her new togs. Mrs.
Peter is the lady who carried the first really big
muff (the portmanteau or elephant kind), whereat
other residents ground their teeth in an agony of
envy. She also exploited one of the first tight
sheath skirts— very tight.
At the Oakleigh Hounds on Saturday Tom
Walls had a fall, which shows that it is much
wiser for a mummer to stick to the footlights and
stalk the ghost on pay-day. Russell Chirnside,
that darling of the Chirnside clan, also came a
cropper, and his collarbone is now out of working
order for three weeks or so.
Bess Norris gets busy on a prospective picture
show. The show is sure to be worth the showing
—her miniature work is somewhere on the very
top level of such things in the most critical cities
of the world. A special viewing will- open the
exhibition on Tuesday (June 28) at the Grand
Hotel.
The Dental students—worshippers of the Golden
Tooth—find it in their hearts to dance. Their
glittering ball will revolve in the St. Kilda Town
Hall on Wednesday, June 29.
University students are in the throes of theatri-
cal rehearsal. They contemplate a show—some-
what classical—at the Princess’s Theatre, on a
nearby Monday. People are implored to put off
the washing and go.
There is room for a modern sensational story on
good old wicked uncle lines in a cablegram this
week. A seven-year-old aristocrat, the Viscount
Chelsea, died after an operation for appendicitis.
The small Viscount was heir of the Earl of
Cadogan, and by the chee-ild’s removal his uncle
steps into his shoes. The appendicitis is a modern
touch ; in the old order of things the heir was
poisoned or thrown into the family moat.
Apropos of wicked uncles, what a splendid device
is that of the aged nobleman in “A Hun-
garian Nabob.” He is dying. His wife is
dead. His infant son alone stands between the
Nabob’s younger brother and immense wealth.
The younger brother is penniless, and a perfect
fiend for wickedness. He is the worst kind of
uncle. In fact, he is so bad that when he and the
Nabob have an interview in a country inn the old
.aristocrat immediately buys the inn and burns it
down to clear the moral atmosphere. But the
Nabob fixes him. He leaves him a life pension
of 55., or something like that, per day. It is to
be paid to him every 24 hours in a certain
city, by a certain legal firm. Never in all
his life can he go away to murder the
heir without a beastly lawyer’s clerk with ss. in
his hand becoming aware of his absence. And as
the heir is to be brought up at the other end of
the empire, the wretched five-bob uncle can never
save the railway fare to go and murder him. It is
a picturesque revenge. If the uncle had been
left penniless he might have walked across
Austria secretly and in rags and done the deed ;
but the daily coin anchors him down. He can’t
go anywhere unobserved. That is the prize uncle
story of its century.
A young man named Tewkesbury has bought
the Oriental Hotel and the £ £ Smith abode
next door. The £ £’s have lived there from
time unrememberable. The Smith mansion was
once Government House. Hotham lived there.
It was not quite the earliest Guv’ment House—
that, I think, was round in Lonsdale-street, and
if n . (>w P'irt of the Old Colonists’ Home—but the
Smith fortress was one of the earliest. Possibly
Tewkesbury means to make the whole thing—
Oriental and ex-££—into one sumptuous hotel.
One expects a Tewkesbury to do something
strenuous like that.
The energetic spouse of a Melbourne profes-
sional man, who wears a handle to his name, has
got at least two commercial irons in the fire.
Lately she bought a “beauty parlor,” in which
she will be the sleeping partner, whilst her lady
colleague controls the business and puts the
assistants up to all the wrinkles. Also, the
partners have bought a large orchard, with home-
stead attached, a few miles out of the city. From
there they will presently feed the market with
apples, pears and other Arcadian food. This
conjunctionof businesses should have great results.
The sins of society’s complexion will be all eradi-
cated, if the customers at the parlor let themselves
be gently persuaded to forswear restaurant diet
and purify their blood with a menu of apples and
nuts and things. Or, better still, the caterers for
a beautifully simple life may extend their opera-
tions to a new Arcadian restaurant, where nothing
stronger than pumpkin will be consumed on the
premises.
It is murmured that the wife of an ex-politician
is diverting her campaign capabilities into a dif-
ferent channel now that her lord is out of the
political field. The elect who used to be urged to
vote for the old man will now be called together
to get their fashionable thatch renovated in
stylish Collms-street rooms. The said rooms are
not yet finished. They will be part of the re-
built beauties of Collins-street. There is a
whisper that pretty girls will take shaving
patients there.
From “Kosna,” in Adelaide: —
Lady Bosanquet lias been borrowed by Melbourne for a
few weeks, and is shedding her charms on Stale Govern-
ment House.
Professor Robertson, formerly of S.A., but now lectur-
ing on pharmacology and sundry other learned ’ologies
at the University of California, is back in Adelaide for
a few weeks. Two American scientists come with him to
gather a collection of Australian botanical specimens for
tlie Museum of Natural History of New York. They
have already begun to hunt our flora to its lair, and
expect to take a year or more to complete the work.
Professor Robertson took his Doctor of Science degree
Adelaide’Varsity.
The A.R.C meeting at Victoria Park had two chill days
with icy blasts that deranged one’s Sorry Widow mil-
linery and sent shivers down one’s spinal column. Still
there were streaks of sunshine, and most of the local
baronetage resolutely dropped its royal mourning and
came forth in cheerful raiment. Saturday’s meeting was
the more exhilarating both as to chiffons and dividends, to
say nothing of the stampede around-the woman's" tote,
from which you emerged alive if your lucky star hap-
pened to be in the ascendant. Otherwise, you emerged
dead. The goodly local steed Coonabar rushed in where
angelsfear to tread and captured ihe Birthday Oup, and
kl 4 rewarded the prophets who spoke before the event.
Mrs. Herbert Rymiil was a creamy-yellow clad lady in
a beaver hat, and pretty Mrs. Arthur Rymiil was a vision
in olive-green. There was a Cudmore matron in cream
with beauteous white furs, and Mrs. Jim Anderson in
smart raiment of prune and black. Most of the pretty
girls seemed to have been left at home in the band-box.
Monday’s frocks were nearly all of the coat and skirt per-
suasion. Everybody “too numerous to mention” was
there.
Balls are beginning to roll all over the landscape.
Early in August the Prossers, who are kind to the muni-
cipality of Norwood, will entertain that large suburb,
which is so unwieldy that it has to be chopped into two
slices, and asked to dance in segments on the 3rd and
sth respectively. Gn July 20 the girly population of the
same locality will collaborate at the Town Hall, and fill
the premises with their gladdest chiffons and brethren.
On July 8 the School of Mines hoys will trundle their ball
into next day, materially aided by the flapper population.
This is the revel where the youthful hosts scorn all mere
she-assistance in their preparations, and do even the
floricultural decorations themselves. They invariably
provide enough supper for 16 full-grown and able-bodied
balls.
Among the chilled breezes of Friday afternoon the
School of Mines raced and leapt over the Oval, while its
sister and its cousin and its girl shivered in the stand.
There were cruets, candlesticks and other sportive brie-
k-brac for the victorious athletes ; but nobody thought
of rewarding the frozen audience.
We are firmly convinced that the British Parliament is
a body devoid of taste and manners. Otherwise, when
our Muriel Matters asked it to give the vote to women
it would have immediately handed it out on a plate, and
a gold plate at that. Seven years ago, she went away
from Adelaide, a pretty and talented girl, and
she hasn’t lost her right to the two adjectives,
while the noun is still with her. A flower-laden crowd
hurried to the Ormuz to meet her, and some of it ex-
pressed its disappointment that she wasn’t wearing
white stockings and elastic-sided hoots! Various re-
ceptions have been spread over the week. On Thursday
eve the Woman’s Non-party Political League carried
Muriel in triumph to the May Club. This revel was god-
mothered by Mrs. Percy Moriee, Dr. Violet Plummer
and Miss Tomkinson. Another day the Slowly City’s
women scribes welcomed her in a bunch ; bnt the gather-
ing nearly broke up in consternation when oneof them
asked the guest if the Westralian women had the fran-
chise. Miss Matters’ sister, Mrs. Cross, of Perth, and Miss
Tillard, an English suffragette, are travelling- with the
lecturing maid.
The Society for the Prevention of Tram-horses bor-
rowed some celebrities to make speeches at it, and had
an annual meeting last week. Mrs. Ennis, who is in
private communication with the whole animal kingdom
of the State of South Hoss, and is a special constable to
boot, is . urged to again be secretary of the
thing, andthere is a possibility that she may do so.
Mrs. Ennis thinks nothing of spending a whole day out
in the road, foodless and regardless of weather, lest a
baa-lamb should be maltreated, or a cow sent to bed
without its tea. Naturally the society’s minions are not
so self-sacriflcing, though they have managed to get
through some goodly work at times. “The Pageant ”is
still vacillating among the dates of August, Dr. Ennis’
newly-made music not being quite ready.
Once a week for the last 49£ years Adelaide has been
told that it is going to be presented with a brand new
theatre, and the statement is beginning to pall. Now,
however, someone has arisen and called for tenders,
which looks like business. It is quite possible we shall
get the thing by the end of the century, after all.
Clytie Hine, the singer maiden, has wrested yet an-
other large and bulky honor from the Royal College of
Music in the Bull-Hungry Land. Hereafter she is
authorised to trail A.R.C. M. afterhername, andasshe was
already wearing A.M.U.A. when she left S.A.,she may
be supposed to have as much of the alphabet as any one
person has any right to expect.
The obscure seaside resort of Port Pirie burst into a
performance of “The Mikado” last week, with pretty
Muriel Cheek as Yum Yum.
The Onkaparinga racecourse, where this State disports
itself collectively every Easter Monday of its life, hasi
found a novel use. Recently diphtheria broke forth in
the neighborhood, and the course was turned into an
isolation hospital or concentration camp for the juvenile
population until danger had taken to its heels and fled.
The Methodist Conference has gone home to mother,
having been treated very kindly in the City of Churches.
One day the Chief Justice Ways called it in to tea in the
Exhibition barn ; another day some other folk gave it a
bun-party in the Hills.
The just-announced engagement of the Earl of Cam-
wath and Maude Maitland, younger daughter of the Eden
Saviles, of Clanricarde Gardens, London, is interesting to
us because the lady’s mother was a South Australian.
She was a Miss McDonald, of Campbelltown, and a sister
of Leslie McDonald, the Melbourne sporting man. Eden
Savile came to these parts years ago, married Miss
McDonald, and took her to Britain.
Hymen has been over-worked again this week. On
Wednesday afternoon Stanley Murray insisted upon
being married, his fellow-conspirator being Olive Wigg,
the tall and gladsome daughter of a city doctor. Next
day the god of marriage packed up his torches and rushed
down to St. Peter's, Glenelg, where there was a knot to
tie between Miss Gebhardt and Mr. Dempster.
Sincerely yours,
JOHANNA.


W
DEWARS
WHISKY
Specify Dewar’s ‘lmperial’—the Whisky of High


A. SAUNDERS’ SPECIALITIES
CARRIAGE PAID ON ALL GOODS
EXCEPT CLOCKS AND GLASSWARE.
SPLENDID GOODS THAT SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES.
OUR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE
SENT FREE ON REQUEST.
A. SAUNDERS.
PEGGY BAG, Morocco Leather, Chamois
lined, Strong. Riveted Nickel Frame,
with Extra Division, Well Finished.
15/6
Other Stvles, 4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, S/6, 9/6,
10/6, 11/6, 12/6, 15/, 16/6, up.
A. SAUNDERS.
KIT BAG, Square Opening, Very Roomy.
12in 14in 16in
Best Cowhide Leather,
deep cut 12 6 13/6 16/6
Leather-Lined, Best
Leather * 2 V 23/6
18in
17/6
26/6
A. SAUNDERS.
Silver-mounted One-day
BEDROOM CLOCK,
7/6.
Other Designs, Better Quality,
10/6, 12/6, and 15/.
A. SAUNDERS.
GENT.’S POCKET BOOK, Seal Leather,
Stirling Silver Shield, with Perpetual Calendar,
10/6.
Other Styles, 5/6, 7/6, 8/6, 12/6, 15/, 20/, 25/.
A. SAUNDERS.
SEAL CHAIN PURSE, Sterling
Silver Lock, Chain, and Mounts,
nicely finished throughout.
13/6.
Ditto, with Leather Strap
Handle, 13/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
NICKEL SHAVING STAND,
Fitted with Telescopic Mir-
ror, Hot-water Bowl, and
Brush, with round base,
15/
Other Styles, 5'6, 6/6, 8/6
10/6, 12/6, 17/6, 20/.
A. SAUNDERS
PEPPER MILL,. Highly
Polished Nickel-plated, Well
Made Throughout,
3 /«.
Other Styles, 1/, 1/3, 1/6, 1/9,
2/3, 4/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
PEGGY BAY, Morocco Leather,
Strong Handles, Best Quality,.
Nickel Frame, Leather Lined,,
with Inset Purse, S/<>-
Larger Size,, 9/6.,
A. SAUNDERS.
FIELD or OPERA GLASSES, Pocket Size,
Morocco-covered, Perfectly Adjusted, Enamel
Finished Frame, Achromatic Lenses,
In Solid Leather Case, 25/-
Other Powers, 12/6, 16/, 17/6, 20/, up.
WHEN YOU ARE IN SYDNEY.
If your sight is troubling you, when
you are in Sydney call in, and let our
Optical Expert Test your Eyes. Ills ad-
vice is the Finest obtainable, and will
cost you nothing. If you cannot call,
send for our Free Home Eye Chart.
WE DO NOT SEND TRAVELLERS.
■si
'lir
!
lafik
HMII
nil iffiaSHi
■Bl
PlMilpi
1:;!
A. SAUNDERS.
CIGAR CASE, Seal Lea-
ther, Green, Black, or
Brown, French Calf-lined,
Pure Silver Mounts,
157-
Other Styles, 7/6, 10/, 12/6.
NICKEL-PLATED NUT-CRACKERS,
Strongly Made,
1/6
Other Styles, in Bright Steel, 1/.
A. SAUNDERS.
READING GLASS,
Suitable for All
Sights, 2 16, 3/6, 4/,
4/6, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6.
In Round Lense, 1/6,
2/6, 3/6, 4/.
A. SAUNDERS.
Gent.’s Solid Eb-
ony HAIRBRUSH,
Sterling Silver
Shield, Fine White
Bristles,
7/6.
Larger Size, 10/6.
THE “PERFECT” EYEGLASSES,
WITH RIDING ARMS.
FINEST ENGLISH GOLD-FILLED FRAMES. Fitted with Ordinary Lenses, 15/6.
Astigmatic Lenses, 17/6, 21/, 25/; in Solid Gold, 30/, 40/, 50/.
A. SAUNDERS.
RABBITER’S POCKET KNIFE. 2 Blades, Buffalo
Horn Handle, Best Sheffield Blades,
27-
Other Styles, 1/, 1/67 2/6, to 10/6,
A. SAUNDERS.
AMERICAN EIGHT-DAY MARBLETTE CLOCK, Highly
Finished, strikes A -Hours and Hours, Guaranteed
Free Repairs for Two Years.
£2.
'■'‘her Styles, 25/, 32/6, 37/6, 40/. All Guaranteed.
A. SAUNDERS.
SCISSORS, Pine Sheffield Steel, 5 in, 1/3; s|in, 1/6;
6in, 1/9; 6Jin, 2/3; 7in, 2/9.
Manicure, Embroidery, Hospital Scissors, etc., always
in Stock.
„ - A. SAUNDERS.
MEAT CARVERS, Pure Silver-plated Handles, Knife, Fork, and Steel, Hand-
Forged Sheffield Blades, in Silk-Lined Case,
22/6.
Similar Designs, with Sterling Silver Handles 33/, 40/, 42/6. Other Styles in
Stag, Xylonite, and Ivory, 10/6, 12'6, 16/, 17/6, 20/, to 72/6.
WE STOCK, REPAIR, AND MAKE
Any Scientific Lens or Frame. We
Specialise in the Filling- of Prescrip-
tions. Our Specialty is the A. SAUN-
DERS COMFORT CLIP GLASSES,
Comfortable, Secure, and Elegant, a
Wonderful Improvement on the Old
Style.
A. SAUNDERS.
MOROCCO STRAP PURSE,
Sterling Silver Mounts and
Lock, Extra Division, Nicely
Finished,
14/6.
Other Styles, 8/6, 10/6, to
27 '6. With Silver Chain,
Same Price.
A. SAUNDERS.
; CHATELAINE CASE,
Solid Silver Body and Chain,
Velvet-lined, JSO/--
Heavier, 35/.
In Silver Plate, 10/6, 12/6.
A. S.iuJNDKRS.
buckskin TOBACCO-
„ P I °, UC B. Solid Silver Shield,
Rubber-lined,
4/6.
Other Styles, 6/6, 7/6, 10/6
32/6. ' ’
OAUJNLf.ll.tti3.
HAIR BRUSH, Real Ebony,
Sterling Silver Mounts, Fine
White Bristles, Best Quality,
20/-
Mirror to Match, 22/6.
Other Styles, 10/6, 12/6, 16/,
17/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
NICKEL HAIRBRUSH and COMB, Handsomely Em-
bossed, Fine Quality White Bristles, in Satin-
lined Case,
12/6.
Other Styles, 15/, 17/6, 20/, 25/, 30/.
A. SAUNDERS.
BUSHMAN’S PURSE, Best English
Pigskin, Hand Sewn, Strongly Made,
2/6.
Other Style, with Sovereign Tray
Enclosed, 3/6.
A. SAUNDERS.
-GENT.’S DRESSING- COMPANION, -Fitted-with
Every Convenience,
10/6.
Larger Size, 25/. Ladies’, 21/.
Sydney’s Leading
Jeweller, Silversmith
and Optician.
AUNDERS
807, 809, 811, 813, 815, 817
GEOEGE-STREET,
OPPOSITE RAILWAY STATION,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.


Mr. Robert H. Bowman,
Herekino, New Zealand,
Found a certain cure for
Croup & Whooping Cough in
CHAMBERLAIN’S
COUGH REMEDY
It is m the home where there are young children that Chamberlain s Cough Remedy has proved
most valuable. As you will see from Mr. Bowman’s leter it is not only a certain cure for Croup
and Whooping Cough, but it is the best and surest.
“ I have very great pleasure in saying that I have found Chamberlain’s Cough
Remedy a certain Cure for Croup, and the only Remedy I could get to cure my
children of Whooping Cough. Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy was the means of
curing them of this dreaded disease, after I had tried all sorts and descriptions of
other remedies. 1 here is no question about it, we have found from our experience
that Chamberlain’s is the best and surest.”
ROBERT H. BOWMAN, Herekino, N Z.
WHOOPING COUGH.
Unless it is properly treated whooping cough is a very dangerous
disease, for besides the dangers of the disease itself, the child is
often permanently injured by the awful straining of the cough.
The quick relief afforded by Chamberlain’s Cough Remedy makes
it a favourite with mothers of small children. It liquefies the tough
mucus, making it easier to expectorate, keeps the cough loose and
counteracts any tendency towards pneumonia. Chamberlain’s
Cough Remedy has been used in epidemics of whooping cough in
all parts of the world, and always with perfect success. There is no
danger whatever from the disease when it is freely given.
.
A HUGE SUCCESS!]
CKa^SSE
BIRDS
CUSTARP
jgws
Bird’s
Custard with sruit
The delicious Fruits of New South
Wales,when stewed, form an exquisite
Dish with BIRD'S CUSTARD, served
either hot or cold. Most popular with
Adults and the Youthful alike.
gdf
CONGO
NEVER
LEAK
ROOFING
You lay it yourself and get a first-class roof with-
out the help of skilled labor.
Congo Roofing has a good reputation in Alaska, in India,
in Brazil, in Africa, in Holland, and in the United States where it is
made. No climate is too severe for it. .
Heat and cold, rain and snow, have no appreciable effect upon
Congo. Even fire itself is stubbornly resisted by these roofs.
Send for Free Booklet and samples and see for yourself.
3. C. DELMAZ, Box 1740, fi.P.O., Sydney, N.S.W., Australasian Representative for “CONCO."
NOYES B f <OS. (Sydney) Ltd.,
109 PITT STREET,
SYDNEY.
Congo Damp Course
is a fabric that can be cemented on the outside of foundation
walls to protect them aga<nst dampness Samples tee
ON THE HOP!
A superb library volume, handsomely printed
and bound ; containing upwardsof Three hundred
of “Hop's” best drawings. Full Bollktim m
g
GRAND PRIX
PARIS ST LOU IS
1900 1904
The Celebrated
Pianos
THE
BEST PIANO
for tha
Australian Climate.
Obtainable from
MAX WURCKER,
99-101, York Street, SYDNEY.
And all prominent Piano warehouses in
the whole of Australasia.


HAIR PRESERVED
AND BEAUTIFIED
BY USING
Rowland’s
MACASSAR OIL.
It prevents baldness, eradicates scurf, is the best
dressing for ladies’ hair and for Children it is invalu-
able. Also in a Golden Colour for fair hair.
Sizes 3s. 6d., 75., 10s. 6d. Sold by Stores
Chemists, & A. Rowland & Sons, Hatton'Gardcn,
London.
RHEUMATISM.
Rheumatism is generally regarded as one of the
most difficult ailments to cure, and invariably
medicines are tried simply with the hope of tern-
«AUWA
i wrl
L-t
m)
p >rary re-
i ief. Dr.
Morse’s In-
dian Root
Pills have
been won-
derfully suc-
cessful, not
by merely
affording a
cessation of
the pain, but
by restoring
the joints to
their origi-
nal supple-
ness. Used
in conjunc-
tion with
Comstock's
Nerve and
Bone Lini-
ment, the
most stubborn cases of rheumatism, lumbago and
sciatica have been overcome. In the case of Miss
King, TTnion Street, Foxton, N.Z., related by her
mother, the results exceeded expectations. She
says“My daughter suffered acutely from rheu-
matism in the arms and hips, which caused her a
great deal of pain, especially during wet weather.
Having tried many remedies for rheumatism, all
of which proved useless, she went on suffering
until advised to try Comstock’s Nerve and Bone
Liniment, which was used in conjunction with l)r.
Morse’s Indian Root Pills. After the first bottle
we noticed a great improvement, so we persevered
with the treatment, and used four bottles in all,
when all signs of rheumatism left and have never
returned since. I cannot speak too highly of your
Nerve and Bone Liniment, and can also recom-
mend Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills as a grand
corrective for all common ailments.”
The Liniment is sold by all leading chemists and
storekeepers, or will be posted at same price,
2s. 6d. per bottle, by the W. H. Comstock Co.,
Ltd., 58 Pitt Street, Sydney.*
“Confomat’Hard Hat
“THE ACME OF COMFORT.’’
THE highest grade HARD HAT, hand-made in a.
special way from the choicest materials ; con-
forms to the head, making it most comfort-
able and easv-fitting even when new, and fits any
shaped head. Exceptionally light, very durable,
and guaranteed absolutely FAST DYED.
Price 13/6.
In all the newest Season’s Styles. Stocked by
Leading Retailers throughout Australia. Try one. .
Insist upon having the genuine best with the
Trade Mark “ Confomat stamped on the leather.
If unobtainable in your district, write us direct.
The Austral Hat Mills, Ltd.,
Abbotsford, Melbourne.
ALE i
RESCN’S SELECT
LASER
4
RESCH, Brewer by Appointment
absolutely pure.
NO PRESERVATIVES.
Brewery and Offices :
Dowling Street, RED FERN, SYDNEY,
SPORTING
NOTIONS
The Sydney Rugby boom continued on Saturday
with about 30,000 people to watch the Leaguers play
England. And on Sunday and Monday it was hardly
possible to meet a man in Sydney who did not inquire if
the League match against England was “ a schlenter.”
It is doubtful if in our sports we are not somewhat too
suspicious. For business reasons it was imperative that
the English team should make a better stand, if not win
outright; for on the way to the match the opinion was
that if the team went under three times running it was
time for it to return to the Cold Country. The presump-
tion was, therefore, when the Englishmen came out on
top that it was a business arrangement pure arid simple.
Only one thing would have convinced the crowd that the
match was not pre-arrang'ed ; and tlrat would have been
the drubbing of the English.
* * * *
The two previous defeats had worried the
English considerably, with the result that no men on
earth worked harder than they did during the week.
When they got loose on Saturday it was soon apparent
that they had improved out of sight. Not only was their
speed increased but the tactics were improved. Owing
to the bettered condition it was no longer possible to
leave the team struggling in the far corner while the
game was played out at the opposite end. The
English never lost their formation, and when an
Australian broke through the forwards and past some
of the backs he was swept down by a cross current
of bone and hard meat before he could get clear. More-
over, the Australian form had gone off somewhat. Our
men no longer took the ball in their stride, as they did
aforetime, but to a man they yawed, as they used to say
at sea. The Englishmen had evidently been practising
that splendid evolution, and some of them had mastered
it. And it was on this decrease of “ flying tactics ” that
the crowd based its belief that the N.S.W. team was not
playing to win. On the other hand, it must be granted
that the “ flying pass” is only possible when one can get
something like a clear run, and on Saturday the übiquity
of the English forwards made anything like a clear run
impossible. Boiled down, the Englishmen had so in-
creased their speed that they were able to bustle the
Blues till they lost their combination, and their game
degenerated into a series of individual scragging matches.
And in these the heavier Englishman mostly came out
on top.
England drew first blood in the shape of a
penalty goal kicked by Lomas ; and shortly afterwards
the same hooter repeated the dose and placed four on
the board to N.S.W.’s nil. Messenger tried to equalise
things by a penalty kick from about half-way ; but, like
the girls of yesterday, the wind blew it away. Half-time
arrived with England leading by six to nil, all obtained
from penalty kicks. In the second half the Blues pulled
themselves together and dashed into the fray resolved
to do or die. But they met with an enthusiasm just
as fierce. The game became very willing, for the English
were playing with the rope round their necks,
so to speak ; and they gave no chances. With a splendid
dribbling rush N.S.W. carried the ball right through the
English, but Sharrocks, the full-back, booted it back to
halfway. Then his forwards swept it along and passed
to Lomas, who hurled himself through the Blue line and
scored a try. The kick failed. In the scrum N.S.W,
was penalised, and again Lomas made the points ; England,
13 to nil—-10 of them from penalty kicks. Sharroclr and
Lomas seemed invincible, and England was 18 before
N.S.W. managed to score. Then McKivatt a
passing rush, which Hickey carried over the line and
Messenger converted. The game now became wild cat,
but the English; again emerged triumphant, and raised
the score to 23 to five. It was right on time when
Messenger again crossed the British fine, and immediately
he had added the points the whistle blew, leaving the
British Lion on top with a margin of 13 points.
*■* * *
Several odd thousand people who battled their
way into Sydney Agricultural Ground on Saturday,-
solely for the purpose of seeing a more open game of/
Rugby under League rules than the Union rules afford/
missed the ’bus. It is the Union’s sorrow to-day that
such football as was played on the Cricket Ground be-
tween the N.S.W., fifteen and the Maori land representa-
tives has not been more frequent. There have been m-rny
harder-fought battles on the Cricket Ground 1 ; there have
been games containing more incidental or accidental
brilliancy ; but there never has been a Rugby contest
in Svdnev more consistent in bright, fast, interesting
and iiigh-'elass play. ■» That Maoriland won by 21 points to
eight means little or nothing ; the -real difference between
the teams on the day’s plav was about ljlb. of resource
and experience. Time and time again the Blue brigade
would sweep the field to within diving distance of that
white fine where the sombred-garbed enemy hung out;
and in that moment the flash of resource, the coolness
born of experience, were missing in the local ranks. On
the other hand, the Maorilariders had both virtues up their
jersey, and generally produced them on demand. And
because of that, one score rose steadily while the other
flapped its wings helplessly and cursed under its breath.
The Maoritanders played a game anything but character-
istic of the country’s Rugby traditions, which echo with
the thud of reckless, furious boots and the groans of men
trodden into the ground by hissing, fighting mad giants.
These forwards of 1910 are a clinking lot —fast and strong,
but clean, and building their reliance on skill; the
backs make up a good combination, but they are mostly
below top Maoriland form. As for the N.S.W. team, it
gave bright and particular proof that, with all the defec-
tions to the other banner, the Union fort is still well
defended. Coming to individual play, there was one
man who shone away above the rest of the 30 men in
Saturday’s exhibition. That was Roberts, the Maoriland
skipper ; and if the high art of the half-back has a pro-
phet, Roberts is the man.
1 * * * *
It was N.S.W.’s day in the dust on Saturday.
England, Maoriland, and North Adelaide alike trampled
on it. The v isiting Australian Rules crowd are a hefty
lot, not one of them under 11st. Also their form was
excellent, their marking and hand-balling superb, and
the match they played on Erskineville Oval as fine an
exposition of the Australian game as one could wish to
see. The home team was hopelessly over-matched,,
and the visitors ran out winners by 120 points to 81.
The only solace was that away in Brisbane the visiting
N S W. 18 overwhelmed Queensland by (ITpoints to 37.
* * * *
The Yankee footballers, who are to play under
the N.S.W. Rugby Union, arrived in Sydney op Monday,
and were received in the usual luxurious fashion. Thp
team numbers 23, and the average weight is 12 stone.
There will be 11 matches, so the combination will have a
fair chance to show what it can do. Its war-cry is to
give the ocher fellow the axe, and in the neck. Evidently
the opposition in Yankeedom is supposed to be some-
thing of a chicken.
* * * *
The crowds that betook themselves to Mel-
bourne’s football games on Saturday were more thought-
ful and argumentative than usual. The previous Monday’s
holiday had furnished only one surprise—the capsizing of
the premiers. South, by Geelong ; but through the week
the quaint Vic. honorarium had been “viewing with
alarm ” the suddenly-discovere'd tendency to stoush, and
had been handing out fines'lavishly, and there was no
knowing where he would stop! The maximum penalty
of £lO had been inflicted on a Carltonian, whom the
League had already passed out for two years, and on a
Southern player in the same match, whom the League
hadn’t dealt with at all, because he hadn’t beerv“ re-
ported ” ; a North barracker had had to part a
Aver for “ langwidge ”; and the luckless umpire
of the Melbourne-St. Kilda match was ordered to
pay 40s. and £3 3s. costs for jobbing- the wrong
man. The evidence in this case showed that a crowd
of hooligans had “got to” the official with sticks and
stones, and that, in forcing his way to the pavilion, he
struck out at all and sundry. The beaks remarked that
this was a foolish attitude to adopt; but most people
would think that, when 2t)o or 300 people were mobbing one
individual, any one of them was the right one to hit. If
he wasn’t the right one to hit why was he there ? At the
Nagambie-Broadford collision a dispute between the
timekeepers culminated in a willing go, and a P.JL made
it 40s. The Association passed a fighter out for six weeks,
and the League one for the season, while another is to be
called on to excuse himself for jobbing an umpire who had
given evidence at the inquiry into this offender’s case.
Altogether, it was a busy week.
The clay’s main disturbance transpired at
Carlton, where Essendon endeavored to hold its end up
against the undefeated Blues. The ’Donshad not Carl-
ton’s certainty in handling the ball or in marking it, but
they fully made up this discrepancy by their speed and
determination. Quarter-time scores—Carlton 22 points,
’Don 9 —didn’t look too healthy, there being' no wind ;
but by half-time they had brought the account square-
-30 points all. Resuming, one of the ’Don’s best men
sprained his ankle, and their stock went down ; but by
a series of sustained dashes they kept level, and at lemon-
time were 42 to Carlton’s4l. The last quarter was agreat
struggle by two teams of dog-tired men. Though
Carlton got the most shots they weren’t straight enough
to alter the result, so the bell rang with the Old Blues
tasting- their first defeat this season—sl points to Essen-
don’s 52. At Richmond the Colling.wood Magpies played
Old Henry with the locals for the first half, scoring 30
points to 8; but thereafter the Yellow and Blacks bogged
in more systematically, though their marking was a thing
to make barrackers swear, and wound up not altogether
disgraced—37 points to ’Wood’s 45. ’Varsity met Fitzroy
on the East Melbourne ground, and a pleasing game en-
sued up to three-quarter time, when the board showed,
’Varsity, 50 points ; ’Roy,49. After that the Maroons went
to pieces and the'Students piled on 40 points in half as
many minutes. Seeing their pets hopelessly beaten,
some ill-regulated ’Roy barrackers twice seized the
ball as it came over the railings and incontinently
kicked it outside, the fence, where Tait’s trains ran over
it or otherwise suppressed it. Anyhow', a new' ball had
twice to be obtained, w'hile the blackguardly “sports”
jeered and pelted the umpires. The ’Roy crowd is getting
the reputation of being unable to take a licking, and that
is a bad reputation for a club to get. South managed to
wallop the negligible Melbourne team, by 81 points to
46 ; and Geelong passed the customary thrashing to
Saints, by 74 to 60, thereby fulfilling the Scripture,
which saith the way of the Saints is hard, or something
to that effect.
In tVie Association, Brunswick failed dismally
in its effort to rout the all-conquering North —32 points
to 55 being the measure of the attempt. ’Wick reckoned
it bad bad luck in hitting the goal post no le>s than six
times. Williamstown, which put up a mighty game
against North the previous Monday by running it. to a
single point—62 to 63—had apparently exhausted itself
in the effort, and went down before Essendon with
a fearsome bump, notching only 52 points to ’Don’s 90.
Brighton received an afternoon call from ’Scray, and after
deluding the Smellful citizens i nto a belief that victory w as
theirs galloped over them in, the last lOmin.—6o, points
ho ’Scray’s 50 being- the record. P’ran accommodated
’Cote with a 62 points to 40 licking. P’ran is evidently
neglecting its practice to luxuriate in rides on its new
trams, or is indulging in some other form of riotous
living. Preston put up the cheerful score of 10 goals
4 behinds, and, if the circumstances justified it, this
writer would have been happy to say something nice
about Preston ; but then its opponent, Port, simultane-
ously notched 22 goals 14 behinds. As Fat would say, the
time has not yet arrived to pat Preston on the spine. '
* * * *
Many members of the Northern Union team
now in Sydney look as though they had bumped an ava-
lanche or two instead of three friendly games with the
Cornstalks. Ratnsdale has an injured “ smeller ” which
will take some time to recover, Webster is going round
with three stitches in his head, and nearly every man
that has played is -stiort of skin or hair and has. a few
dozen bruises to prove that he is a ’bailer of grit and
importance.
* * * *
That football scoring of the North Coast of
N.S.W., mentioned in Tub Bulletin of 2/6/10, is beaten
already. King’s School, in the Sydney Great Public
Schools Premiership, has in six matches piled up - 210
points to 25. In the making of the record St. Ignatius
was downed by 67 to nil, and the High School by 59 to
nil. An average of 35 points per match is good.
* * , * *
“ J.N.” : Down South by the Yarra’s flattened
strand. Premier Weary is consulting with the chief of the
Criminal Help Department re the stoppage of pro-
miscuous cursing at football matches. One way would
be to make “blanky” a capital offence, to treble
the police force, arid to sack every constable who
doesn’t secure a conviction within 12 months. Another
device would be to stop football. That method has
proved very successful in other respects. For instance,
some of the language used in England by spectators at
the burning of heretics was exceedingly coarse, but there
h ive been no complaints on that score for quite a while
now. ,
Lewis Allen, in his “ Airship Aim an fires ojf
some neat, things.. Here, for instance, is his song df
“ The Flighty Damosel ” :
The Flighty Damosel looked out 1
From aeroplane at? eveh •
- When she set sail that haphy riiorh k
’Twas little more than seven-;
And now, away above the clouds, 1
’Twas night and past eleven.
The Flighty Damosel she sighed
Among the stars that even ;
The miles between her and the earth
Seemed to be quite eleven ;
My goodness, ain’t it hell,” quoth she,
“ Up here so near to Heaven ! ”
And these are a handful of specimen Lewis Allen
epigrams:—
Two wrongs don’t make a right ; but two Wrights
make a dandy aeroplane.
Ladies with any degree of modesty will always descend
head-first when falling from an airship.
“ I’ve got the drop on you !” hissed the villain, as his
airship crashed into the home of his hated rival.
A stitcli in time saves the gas bag-.
A book of verses underneath the prow,
A speedometer, a case of wine, and tho r u
Beside me helping steer the aeroplane,
And aeroplanes w.ere paradise enow.
* * * *
Rivalry for the Amateur Billiard Championship
in Victoria, seems'to be much keener than in N.S.W.,
notwithstanding the pretty consistent superiority of
Arthur Tricks. There will probably be 16 entries for
this year’s Melbourne tournament, which starts at the
end of the month, whereas the “field” for the Sydney
event will not exceed five. Thus far the other States
have not produced a player with solid pretensions to
capture the Australasian championship.
* * * *
Fred liindrum, the Australian billiard cham-
pion, made short work of the English professional, A. E.
Williams, and won out with a margin of 1490 in a,n 8000
game. The battle took place at the hall-of Billiards Ltd.
(Sydney), where Lindrum scored breaks of 370, 271, 202,
and twenty of various numbers over the century. Wil-
liams’ best efforts were 201 and thirteen over the 100.
During the first three sections of the match play was
fairly evfen, and then Lindrum broke away with 668
-points to 80, and kept going right to the end of the
mat ;i.
A nropos, it is now definitely announced that
'.JoA. Roberts will open a fortnight’s session in Melbourne
where-he will concede Lindrum 3000 in 18,000. The
match is expected to be hair-raising*. When that little
affair is concluded, the pair will give another display in
the capital of the Ma State.
'** * *
N.S.W. amateur golf championship created
much dust on the Kensington (Sydney) links last week.
After the preliminary weeding-out, Claud Felstead and
Michael Scott (Victoria), E. P. Simpson (N.S.W.)
and Gallagher (Scotland) were left in the semi-final ; bur.
the Victorians outed the opposition. The final on Satur-
day was a busy affair, and after the caddies had been
sorted out from among the niblicks, mashies, tees and
other furniture, it was ascertained that Mick Scott had
done it by four up and three to play. The barrackers
who know all about the game nodded their approval ;
the unwise nodded also ; everybody seemed pleased ; and
Michael Scott smiled benignly at winning the
championship for the second time.
* * * *
Jeffries is suffering from an epidemic of boils,
pimples and othe,r Job-like unpleasantnesses. Choynski,
who is in charge of the great man’s hide, is said to he
seriously alarmed, and considers that it is a case for
suspension of .training and careful nursing. Wright and
Doug'las can civfe boils in ’less than a week by the Opsonic
treatment, and probably an endeavor will be made to
bring one of those great bacteriologists all the way front
England to get the champion of the white race clean in
time to face the nigger.. It would be a fearful, thing if
the championship were lost through the champion being
spotted all over like a bad apple.
Altogether, the Jeffries-Johnson fight is in
angry waters. Johnson has his troubles too, and not the
least of these is a legal scrap with one of his regiment of
ex-managers, a certain Little, who alleges that he put up
the £2OOO with which Massa clinched the match. He
asks for an injunction to restrain anyone from paying
Johnson anything till his matter has been decided by the
Courts, iiteJ;alleges that, in consideration of his putting
up the i®o6, Johnson bound himself to pay him 25 per
cent, of his .share of the profits of the big scrap. What
Johnson says in reply has not yet been cabled. Mean-
while the'arena is rising steadily into being, and much
finesse is displayed in bargaining for the moving pictures.
The final night of Melbourne Sports Club’s dis-
trict tournament provided an abundance of fighting', and
any one of the winners in the three classes represented is
material for a-champion if he takes the game seriously
and devotes himself to the study and practice of stoush.
G. Elliott, the pride of Richmond, came out on top in
the bantam division, winning from C. Perry with a hefty
prod to the mark in round two. He is a brig'ht, busy
little 1 fighter, who shifts briskly, is an ambidexterous
hitter,,and holds a knock-out in either hand. If he doesn’t
get up among the best professionals it will be because he
prafersa comparatively soft existence in a flock factory. P.
Rot iiberg scored some glory for Collingwood, winning
lightweight honors from E. McMahon, of Carlton, to the
vociferous disgust of the blue suburb. -Rothberg won.
with a monumental punch in the third act. Pie, too, is
the making of a ringer. The best scuffle of the night,
however, was that of E. Mack v. D. Thomas (Carlton v.
Kensington) for the honor and the goods in the feather-
weight bunch. It went the limit, and the campaign was
always gay. Kensington won outpoints.
John Wren is so elated with the success of his
recent Two Thousand race meeting at Albion Park (Bris-
bane), that he threatens to have a race there before
very long which will equal the Melbourne Cup in value.
Jack Sparrow is making the horse-racing section of Bris-
bane fairly gasp. With staring eyes they ask how long
these big prizes are going to last. Some of them have a
vague fear that they are dreaming.
* * * *
Entries for the Nationals at Flemington and
the two August jumping races at Caulfield show a con-
siderable reduction on the figures of previous years.
Minor opportunities for hurdlers and’chasers to get in-
jured or killed out-right are so much more numerous
than of yore that the number of respectable candidates
for the big winter events seems bound to diminish
rather than increase. Owners don’t keep their best
jumping stuff in reserve for the Nationals, as of old,
which" is regrettable from the public point of view.
Npr are “classv” flat racers put to the hurdles
as in the da vs of'Mal.ua, Yeoman and other notable per-
formers at both games. For the scarcity of unschooled
entrants, practically certain to fall if they try to keep
-near the leaders over three miles, the public has some-
thing to be thankful for. Among the 53 listed for this
year’s G.N. Hurdle Race there is material for an interest-
ing battle. Vernier, King’s Ransom, Ataahua and Port-
light are the most promising lot for the Hurdle; and
Ripen, Maui, Confederate and Seymour should be worth
considering in the Steeplechase.
As for the Melbourne Cup, everything seems to
have been entered, not forgetting the venerable Tartan:
The Footes, in their various grades of titular distinction
—King, Prince, Duke and Lord—are all there,
the notoriously slippery ones that haven’t an “earthly’?
for a two miles go. The proportion of possible chances
among the -205 entrants for the Caulfield Cup is corp
siderably larger, yet not strikingly great. Last
three-vear-olds, with the exception of Prince Footej,
seenrie'd mediocre, and nothing much is predicted of the
lot 'that' is c jming on.
. * * * *
. The Adelaide Racing Club, which is in ever f
way just about as strong as the S.A. Jockey Club (but is
content to leav\e the other unchallenged as law-maker
and penalty-enforcer), held its three days’ Birthday Cup
meeting immediately after the Adelaide Cup. The
A.R.C. races right in the city, on a section of the Park
Lands, and the flat is free to the crowd, but the enclo-
sures and appointments are equal to those at Morphett-
ville. The two weeks together gave over £9OOO in stake
money. Sydney owners paid the S.A. fixtures more
attention than usual; but again local horse-proprietors
had all the luck. R. M. Hawker, who won the
Adelaide Cup with Medagiia. took the City Handi-
cap with" Tierdel (Pistol— Olga Nethersoie). Divi-
dend £9 75., and £8 13s. to Slippery for being
second! The only weight-for-asre event, was won by
Sam Jacobs’ Kooringa (Bobadil— Lady Augusta). Dhobi,
warmlv fancied, was a bad third. Dividends, £ll 18s.
> 1
and £7 95., in a field of 10 ! In the Birthday Cup, Glue
and Perilous, backed down to 4 to 1 each, ran nowhere
a crowd of 23. Coonabar, A. P. Bowman’s three-year-o
Malster colt, won from a little mare, Topedi, which na
since Easter run second in the Onkaparinga Cup, latter-
sail’s Cup, Adelaide Cup, Birthday Cup, and another Dig
handicap. Coonabar paid £l4 2s. On the last da.v, a
public holiday, the disappointing Glue at last s °° r ® cl .’ rl
the Alderman Cup. The totalisator beat all Adelaide
records (though Onkaparinga has done more) by
handling £22,671 in the afternoon ; and in spite of a
wet first day (so wet that Tiercel’s race was endangered
by 2£lb. of water over weight) £55,736 went thirougrri r.ne
machine during the meeting. The Club gets £4lBO ot
that —or nearly all its stake-money. The Verran Govein-
ment, which hates all gambling, has reluctantly to
accept £l4OO of it, and the public gets back nine-tenths
of what it risked. What proportion would it get back
from Jacob Jeremiah Moses?
*** * _ .
Australian champion swimmer Beaurepaire is
going it. In a fortnight he has smashed up no less than
five European continental championships. Before he left
for England Bogey’s bedroom looked like a silversmith s
show window. When he comes back it will be a ware-
house.
* * * *
Melbourne Bicycle Club, the body that organ-
ised and mostly lived on the once-mighty Austral W heel
Race, worth £650 in 1905, has decided to change its name
to one that will embody the catholic sporting tastes of
its members. It is surprising to learn that last Austral
meeting—which was more balloon and toy-aeroplane
than bike-race—gave a return of £2201 9s. against an
expenditure of £1454 ss. The club is now worth-
£92ol 15s. lid. besides the Collins-street block, on which
it is going to build its new professional chambers and
club room. Meanwhile the track-racing wheelist has
departed to foreign parts, and Australia knows his capers
and his legs no more.
*■*■**
Melbourne, Adelaide and Sydney dis-’
cussed their annual paddle over about2J miles of the L.°wji
Yarra last week. From a good start, the heavy Adelaide
craft soon pushed its prowin advance of the rest, and
thence onward led a toilsome procession, finally winning
with four or five lengths to spare. Sydney-, which tlug
its oars into the argument with great wisdom and will,
was second ; and Melbourne occupied a place somewhere
on the horizon.
* * * *
Looks as if there is going to be another mild
boom in “ Marathon” racing in and around Sydney ; and
the sooner the A.A.A. gets down to business the bettei.
The medical examinations must be made more critical, or
the thing, which might be a useful exercise, will degene-
rate into a heart-wrecking business and leave scores of
confirmed invalids, in its wake. It is suspected that the
examination at the recent Newtown event was not as
strict as it should have been. Also, it is more than
doubtful if the A.A.A. should not prohibit any youth
under 21 years of age taking part in these 26-mile events.
*** • * *
J. B. Hobbs, the English cricketer who was a
member of John Bull’s team which the S’Africans wiped
out last season, says that G. A. Faulkner, of the Trans-
vaal, is the greatest cricketer in the world, and .
members of the team support the view of Hobbs. Faulk-
ner is said to combine the best points of Noble, Aim-
strong- and Hirst. Australians will probably have a chance
of seeing- this marvel next season.
TUB DRORITFCL PUG.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
“Poor boy,’poor boy,” said Owen Moran, weeping-;
“ ir. was an accident, but., oh, such a terrible accident! ”
Then, wiping- bis eves, Moran declared that the fight
was a “ frame up,” the agreement being- that McCarthy
was allowed to stay through 15 rounds. —London Daily
Chronicle’s revelation anent the Moran-McCarthy
tragedy.
Doubtless McCarthy’s backers would have settled without
strife
Had their man lost the fight, yet failed to, also, lose his
life ;
Which shows how mad it is to bet on those who, when
they biff,
Are stiff in death ere punters learn that they, in life,
were “ stiff.”
N.S.W.
10-2-4.


m
K
BENNj
The B. & B. is Good on the Roads.
Our B. & B. Models have the advantage over the imported stock cycle of
being made in Australia for Australian conditions—good steel and expert work-
manship only is used in the making—nothing shoddy in the B. & B.
B. <& B. MODEL 3 CYCLE, £,ll.
*Our Free Catalogue fully describes it. Ask us to send you a copy.
Our Pitt Street Depot is open every Friday till 9 p.m.
BENNETT & BARKELL,
Specialists in Modern
Ovcle Building-,
234 Pitt Street, and SvdnPV.
Castlereagh Street, 'Jjuuejr
Shell Motor Spirit
ITS PERFECT PURlTY—
that’s the Point.
Amusements.
DIRECTION OF H. N. SOUTHWELL.
Antonia DOLORES
(The Sweetest Singer of Our Time).
Concerts— SYDNEY TOWN HALL,
WEDNESDAY, 29th JUNE,
SATURDAY, 2nd JULY,
TUESDAY, sth JULY,
THURSDAY, 7th JULY.
PRICES—RESERVED SEATS, 6/-
PLAN AT PALING’S ON 20tii.
Y.
ML C. A.
HALL,
SYDNEY.
MISS JESSIE SHEATH’S CONCERT
TUESDAY, JUNE 21, 1910, at 8 p.m.
TICKETS—B/-, 2/- and 1/-
Plan Now Open at Nicholson & Co. Ltd.
Jessie Sheath.
Her MAJESTY’S THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee and Manager: J. C. WILLIAMSON.
NEW
EVERY EVENING at S.
J. U. WILLIAMSON’S
COMIC OPERA COMPANY
THE
in the Bright Musical Comedy,
DOLLAR PRINCESS.
Box Plan at Paling’s.
Prices as usual.
CRITERION THEATRE, SYDNEY.
Lessee : FRANK MUSGItOVE.
RUPERT CLARKE & CLYDE MEYNELL SEASON.
LAST TWO NIGHTS OF “ PETE.”
SATURDAY NEXT, JU.NE IS,
THE PASSING OF THE THTRD-
FLOOR BACK.
MATHESON LANG as THE STRANGER.
HUTIN BRITTON a« THE SLAVEY.
Box Plan at Elvy’s.
Theatre royal. Sydney.
Lessee & Manager : J. C. WILLIAMSON.
EVERY EVENING AT 8.
Emphatic Success of MR. JULIUS KNIGHT,
MISS KATHERINE GREY,
and A BRILLIANT SUPPORTING COMPANY,
in the Romantic Drama,
HENRY OP NAVARRE.
Prices as usual.
Plan at Paling’s.
PALACE THEATRE, SYDNEY.
THE WINTER HOME of the Popular and Unrivalled
WEST’S PICTURES,
Managing Director : T. J, West.
WEST’S PICTURES Stand Alone Superior to
All Others, and are “The Window of the World.”
6d. to 2/- People’s Popular Prices 6d. to 2/-
Owing to Limited Capacity, Seats should be secured
at Nicholson’s.
H E
LYCEUM,
SYDNEY.
TWO PERFORMANCES DAILY.
MATINEE at 2.30. EVENINGS AT 8.
SPENCER’S THEATRESCOPE CO.
PICTURES.
SPENCER IS SYNONOMOUS WITH SUPREMACY.
Prices as usual. Plan at Paling’s, 2/6.
NEW PROGRAMME EVERY THURSDAY’S MATINEE.
S YPN E Y GLACIARI U M.
REAL ICE SKATING.
THREE SESSIONS DAiLY :-
10 to 12 Noon ; 3 tk> 5 p.m. ; 8 to 10.30 p.m.
ADMISSION, 2s. ; HIRE, SIXPENCE.
CHlLDREN—Admission Morning and Afternoon Only, Is.
Saturday Morning Only, Sixpence.
Particulars of Season Tickets will be sent, on Application.
’Phone, 492 Glebe. DUNBAR POOLE, Manager.
Tivoli theatre, Sydney.
Sole Proprietor & Manager—Mil. Harry Rickards.
MATINEES WEDNESDAYS and SATURDAYS.
MENDEL, The Wonderful Blind Pianist.
BILLY WILLIAMS, Laughter-Making Comedian.
THE RAYMOND TRIO, Musicians and Expert Dancers.
GODFREY JAMES, Welsh Vocalist.
CARTER THE GREAT, Mysterious and Psvohic Marvel.
808 LLOYD and NELLIE POWER.
THE HUXHAM TRIO, JOHNNY GILMORE,
THE BANVARDS, OON MORENI, ALMA LYNDON.
PRICES —35., 2s. and Is. Plan ac Paling’s.
OPERA HOUSE, MELBOURNE.
Sole Proprietor & Manager, Mr. Harry Rickards,
LILLIE LANGTRY, Comedienne.
OLIVE LENTON, Musical Scene, HARVEST TIME.
VAUDE and VERNE, Comedians.
ALBURTUS and MILLAR, Eccentric Comedian and
Lady Cornetist.
LIEUT. FRANK TRAVIS, the Tramp Ventriloquist.
MARJORIE DEAN, Burlesque Actress and Danseuse.
Plan at Allan’s. <t3T PRICES—3s, 2s, Is.
-pHE KING’S THEATRE,
MELBOURNE.
Sole Lessee and Manager— William. Andurson.
SATURDAY NEXT, )Bth JtfNE,
William Anderson's Famous Dramatic Co. in
SAILOR’S WEDDING.
THE
The action of the play takes place in the lovely
district surrounding Naples, and each of the
scenes will be of exceptional beauty.
Box Plan at Allan’s. PRICES —3s, 2s, and Is.
H
ER MAJESTY’S THEATRE. MELBOURNE.
Lessee and Manager : J. C. Williamson.
THE MOST DELIGHTFUL COMIC OPERA
YET PRODUCED.
A WALTZ DREAM.
ast includes s Florence Young, Fanny Dango, Andrew
tigginson, Bertie Wright, Langford Kirby, Florence Vie.
Plan at Allan’s. PRICES—Ss, 3s, 2s, Is.
Amusements.
I'HEATRE ROYAL, MELBOURNE.
EVERY EVENING.
SHORT FAREWELL SEASON of the
OSCAR ASCHE—LILY BRAYTON
CO. IN.
THE HO N E YMOO N.
THEN >E U M HALL, MELBOURNE.
Lessees .. J. & N. TAIT.
J.&N.TAIT’S
PICTURES.
THE FINEST IN AUSTRALIA.
MATINEES—WEDNESDAYS, SATURDAYS & Holidays.
Popular Prices. First-Class Orchesr.ra. Plans at Allan’s.
FAREWELL TO THE BESSES!
PRINCESS’S THEATRE, MELBOURNE.
Direction of J. & N. TAIT.
THURSDAY, JUNE 16, FRIDAY, JUNE 17,
SATURDAY, JUNE 18,
FINAL PERFORMANCES IN MELBOURNE OF
THE ROYAL
BESSES O’ TIE BARN BAND
BRILLIANTLY DIVERSIFIED PROGRAMMES.
Prices—S/-, 3/-, 2/-, 1/- Plans at Allan’s. ,
IRTHS OLYMPIA
. EYEftY EVENING AT 8..
Matinees -Wednesdays.Saturdays and Holidays at ?. 30. j
C PENCER'SUTeaTREJCOPE <?.
J PICTURES
rs HRE SUPERIOR TO P/.L OTHERS, so
Popular Prices —Plan as u&UAL J j« : j
Vf
t ST’S
PALACE, MEL
MELBUUHNE.
THE BEST
OF ABB.
WEST’S PICTURES.
’> THE BEST
OF ALL.
LIMITED.
Managing' Director : Mr. T. J. West.
NIGHTLY AT 8.
Matinees Wednesdays, Saturdays & Ail Holidays at 2.30.
Tup. Greatest Pictorial Enterprise in tup World.
PRE-EMINENT IN TWO HEMISPHERES.
Any Moving PiO ure Worthy of Note always to be seen at
WEST’S PICTURES. Complete Change every week.
Prices—6d. ro 2s. Box Plan at Glen's.
| C E SKATING.
Melbourne GL AC I Alii UM
EVERY
AFTERNOON AND .EVENING.
RE E F REE
R
E E
HINTS to SHOOTERS by Donald Mackintosh
(of Shooting fame) also Price List of Guns, Rifles
Revolvers, etc., handsomely illustrated It con-
tains valuable information. Send name and
address and it will he sent FREE by return post.
Donald Mackintosh. 400 r ‘ Jm . '"’'nvsonrne
r
CZ3
3 in One Oil immediately*
removes stains, spots and
scars from piano cases -and
all tine furniture. It restores
the original lustre and a
bright lasting finish, just
a gentle rub with a rag
moistened with 3 in One and
any varnished or veneered
surface will shine liVe new.
Contains no grease or arid to
soil or injure; has no dis-
agreeable varnish ouor. Try
it at our expense.
s
Write for free sample to
REID & REID (Dept. A ). Australasian
Representatives—Wellington, New Zealand.-
sf
gsd
Zaw Points
is,. Inventors
Caa I Obtain a Patent ?
The quickest wav to ascertain
this, WITHOUT EXPENSE,-is to
write to me describing: your invention, .enclosing: a i-mall
sketch where necessary. Nicety of drawing: isnot essential;
all that is necessary at first is to give me YOUR IDEA.
I will at once inform you whether the idea is patent-
able, and, if so, give the necessary instructions for
further procedure.
Persons desirous of obtaining, really reliable advice or
information regarding Patent matters are ccrdiaily in-
vited to consult me personally or by letter. In all cases
a careful consideration of their plans, ah hones opinion,
and a prompt reply may be expected.
A. J. CALLIiMAN, Patent Attorney,
Citizens’ Buildings, Collins Street, Melbourne.
Public Notices. <
£l5O REWARD.
STOLEN from WESTGROVE (tJpper
Dawson, Queensland), about FEB-
RUARY this year, EIGHTEEN (18)
head UNBROKEN HORSES (seven fillies and
eleven colts—two saddle and balance draught—
majority bays), branded B V 5 over distinguish-
ing number on off shoulder, with number seven
(7) on cheek.
THE ABOVE REWARD WILL BE PAID
to anyone giving information which will lead to
the CONVICTION of the thief or thieves and
the recovery of the stolen horses.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION refer to
the PQJLICE-or tu~the_undersigned,
JOHN COLLINS & SONS,
Tamrookum, Beaudesert,
June 4, 1910. Queensland
Missing: Friends.
WA. E. Will dawn ever come ? I have
• been ill fbv weeks. Over four years no
support. Oh, the cruel suffering.—LEN.
DISTINCTIVELY A HIGH-GRADE SHOE !
Notice carefully the perforations, the punching and
perfect finish of the Shoe illustrated.
It’s distinctively a High-Grade Shoe.
In Willow Calf, Derby, fine-slitched Welts, in Black
or Tan.
Price = - 21 j=
Also in Boots. Postage 9d. extra.
Write for Booklet, “ The Rigney Shoe for Men.”
THE RIGNEY SHOE CO.,
“ The Exclusive Men’s High-Grade Shoe Store,”
305 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
(between Hunter Street and Martin Place).
fg
mu
c%
&
wmf
.«? * JBb in oV
St
CHfIUP
rou [fin
Mr
m--conroßT-
•Oh-
BILMEU
COUP
I’D
•Tut-
•moutHM-e?
■ 279 - fiCORGC-5 T -SYPiItY -
1801 Longevity —l9Ol
Famous Centenarians.
Length of years is commoner than of old —centenarians are
on the increase. This is partly due to greater enlightenment in
matters of hygiene, but not a little to those famous centenarians,
Cockle’s Antibilious Pills, which have been regularly prescribed
by the medical profession since the year 1801. Truly a glorious
record! They are simply unrivalled as a remedy-for-all dis-
orders of the liver, stomach and bowels.
W/a
PILLS.
ZERCHO’S
CORRESPONDENCE
COLLEGE.
s
nSil E!
m
1 %r*
r« f^o)
sto’-CT
> rvs
IK
id
sAr v' * i ==
sfc.,
cm
iEES^
159 Collins St., Melbourne.
. $ i
28 Moore Street, Sydney.
Edward Street, Brisbane.
Currie Chambers, Adelaide.
Utilise your spare time by studying at home some
of the following subjects :
t end for Descriptive Pamphlet " S" and state subject
in which you are interested.
Shorthand
Typewriting
Bookkeeping
Accountancy
English
Penmanship
Arithmetic
Correspondence
Latin
French
Greek"’
Algebra
Geometry
Trigonometry
Elementary Science
History
Geography
Surveying
Electrical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Draftsmanship
Freehand Drawing
Pen and Ink Drawing
Illustrating and Designing.
Let us coach you for a University, Local Government
(Shire Clerks or Auditors). Public Service, Sanitary
Inspectors’, or any other examination.


Throat Trouble
can be cured
by SCOTT’S
Emulsion
Throat trouble, acute or
chronic, is cured by Scott’s
Emulsion. Scott’s Emul-
sion permanently cures
throat, trouble. This state-
ment is made because hun-
dreds of people have written
to say they were cured of
throat trouble by Scott’s
Emulsion. For example, Mrs.
Theresa Riddell writes, 15th
July, 1909, from 40, Wells
Street, Redfern, Sydney,
N.S.W.:
I gave Scott’s Emulsion to my son
Harold, aged 12 months, as he was suffer-
df
ing from, tonsilitis. In a
short time, the tonsilitis was
quite cured, and he rapidly
increased in weight % and
strength. He is now better in
health than he has ever been
before, and owes his complete
recovery to Scott’s Emul-
sion. This trademark was
on the emulsion I bought. ”
If you wish to get rid of your
throat trouble, and decide to
buy Scott’s Emulsion,decide
also to GET SCOTT’S
EMULSION. You may be
asked to buy another emul-
sion and told it is “just as
good as Scott’s.” Substitute
emulsions can only be sold
on the reputation of Scott’s
Emulsion.
Scott s' Emulsion, cures, th'e. disease —
n ?>,Hotter the age of the patient—and
will be approved by your Doctor -for
Throat Trouble if you ask him.
Of all Chemists- and Dealers in Medicines.
*7\
THE STRONG
and Vigorous Man will ahvavs succeed
where the weak, nervous and debilitated
man must fail. We restore health,
strength and vitality with Nature’s
remedies. Our advice is free to all.
HERBAL DISPENSARY,
63 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY
Established 27 Years.
FROOTOIDS
Cure "Headache, Indigestion, Constipa-
tion,- and Biliousness. Th6y ar4 elegant
in appearance-'and pleasant to take •
they/ are immensely more valuable than
an ordinary aperient; they remove from
the bkxpd, tissues, and interna) organs
waste poisonous matter that is clogging
them and choking the channels that” lead
to and from them. Frootoids _are
THE BEST
aperient medicine to take when''any
Congestion, or Blood Poison is present
or when Congestion of the Brain or
Apoplexy is present or threatening. They
have been tested, and have been proved
to afford quick relief in such cases when
other aperients have not done any good
at all. Frootoids are absolutely un-
rivalled for
FAMILY
use; their beneficial effects are evident
by the disappearance of headache—a
bright cheery sense of perfect health
taking the place of sluggish depressed
tee lings, by the liver acting properly, and
by the food being properly digested,
frootoids are a, very economical
MEDICINE.
A/! 0 ?® t a^en once a week, at bed-time
is highly beneficial. They ack splendidly
on the Liver: A constipated habit of
body will be completely cured if the
patient will on each occasion, when
suffering, take a dose of Frootofds in-
stead of an ordinary aperient.. The
sufferer thus gradually becomes quite
independent of Aperient Medicines.
Price 1/6. From all Chemists and
Medicine Vendors, and W. G. Hearne &
Co., Ltd., Geelong, Victoria.
drunkenness cured.
It is now generally admitted that Drunkenness is
Vlce ’ ' ,ut a disease—happily one that is curable.
n P**'? ANTI-ALCOHOL (Registered by the
Govts. Vic. and N.b.VV.) is a certain cure—is harmless
»nd can be given secretly or taken voluntarily.
; , Advice Free. Write or Call.
DR. SHAJI 3 ESTASUSHMENT3 : 51 Russell Street
__jAgjbOMrne >WI Hay Street. Perth, W. A. f'l
LEEMING’S for
Ladies’ Footwear
of STYLE and QUALITY.
gsd
DERBY SHOE,
PRICE,
16/6
The Shoe illustrated is one of the latest models—
enn be had with either pump or welted sole—just
the Shoe for Winter Wear. PRICE, 16 6
Postage in Victoria, 9d. ; other States, 1/- extra.
Send for our Booklet, “ Shoelight."
LEEEVSING’S Boot Stores,
109 Swanston St., Melbourne : 257-259 Bourke
St., Melbourne ; 303 Chapel St., Prahran ; 1 & 3
Errol St., North Melbourne.
fg
r-
%
Q
A'.
They play for Four
Minutes instead of Two
If you have not yet heard the Am herd
Record you should go along’ to the nearest
Edison dealer to-day and ask him to play one
or two selections over for you. You will he
astonished at the sweetness, the clearness
and richness of its rendition ; but, most of
all, you will be delighted with the great ad-
vantages that a Four-Minute Record renders
possible in the production of music heretofore
impossible of reproduction on the Phono-
graph, or which had to be cut or hurried.
Write us for lists of the Amberol.
NATIONAL PHONOGRAPH CO. OF AUSTRALIA
LTD.,
Dept. B, Kent Street, Sydney.
$
33
pnn
WHO HAVE USED “|-fl F 1 A"
SAY IT IS MAGIC
" e sa - v “ H EIA ” removes pain immediately and cures diseases. It supersedes-
„ poultices and ointments, stops bleeding instantly.
EASILY APPLIED, DOES NOT IRRITATE, IS CLEAN and'EFFECTIVE.
Betore griving up hope or undergoing an operation for anything, try
Dr. H. F. Bell’s Wonderful Remedy, “HELA.”
Exter 1 yHfo AR A ri^divc’ INFL EENZA, RHEUMATISM, NEURALGIA, etc.
f abscesses, burns, eczema, eye complaints, RHEUMATISM, PILES, etc.
respect to myself. become popular”' 11 y ° Ur Pamph,et haB 1,66,1 Verifled in *
Vendors y S °A hook i^°fnil F °f & Cibson ’ s ’ Civil Service Society, Cole’s Book Arcade, and all Medicine
Price 2/6 per bottle or hJ and '"tmor.als sent anywhere on receipt of a penny stamp.
Weaskvon **y post 3/6, from “ HE LA ” DEPOT, 295 Malvern Poad,
e ask youto K n e HELA a trial. Tel. 290 Yarra. South Yarra, Vic..
GLASS’ FLITE TYRES
The Road Racing- Season will soon be here, and Cyclists who wish to
do well In their events should remember that, In addition to many
triumphs scored on
F L, I T E S,
L R. Mun-o put up a World’s Record on the Celebrated Tyres In the
Warrnambool to Melbourne Road Race, covering the 165 miles In
7hr. 12min., and beating the Warrnambool Express by five minutes.
§|if§i
: • '
L,. ■
BARNET GLASS RUBBER CO. LTD.,
289, 291 ’ 293 Swan *ton Street, Melbourne.
234 Clarence Street, Sydney. 73 PirJe Street, Adelaide.
And All States.
sdf
In Asthma
Freeman’s Chlorodyne
, . is a veritable life-saver.
V The terrible wheezing and choking quickly yield to a few doses
of Freeman's, and perseverance with it will effect a lasting cure.
Excellent also for Colds, Influenza, Bronchitis, Spasms, Diarrhoea, Colic &c.
Recommended by Doctors for sixty-five years. P.ice 1/1 i, 2 9 and 4/6 per bottle.
3W Be sure to get FREEMAN’S the original”- Chlorodyne
If your Chemist is B ' s ai > Meal remedy —keep it handy,
out of stock, order
a bottle, he can
quickly get it.
NEVER accept
imitations.
TRADE
MARK
FREEMAN'S
CH LORO DYNE
Richardson Cushion Frame, Anti-Jar Ball-
Bearing: Roller Skates.
Used exclusively in all of the largest and most successful rinks in America,
“ r ' d , ''N B ' l the of fche Wor,d > fast and fancv. RICHARDSON
SKATkS have held all Worlo s Records for 24 years. Write for Catalogue.
Tells how to open and operate Roller Rinks.— Richardson Ball-Bearing
Skate Co., 311 Michigan Street, Chicago, U.S. A. Sole Distributing Agents
Messrs. J. C. Plimpton & Co., Liverpool.
“RICHARDSON
CHICAGO
Business, Robbery, etc.
Walker : Thecocky countryseemstoliterailv
J l< ? Ur ?' t At , th ? c ’ an S' ai copper mine, which
vv 6 U /? k t 0 h u In that sort of country—the
flVv a'eh”' 1 u w:° aSt—the ei^ht : llour system isn’t 0b-
m,16 18 at eve, '. v decent-sized mine in
knock n t ff'nr T^Qn nien f e Start ' 00 day Sllift at 7 ’ 30 and
knock off at 4.30, afternoon shift starts at, 4.30 and
M«nnl ° ff “i 1- - d °' .clu ey have tried t 0 ffet-a change, but
the only reply is— Shorter hours, shorter nav.” Mines
worked under the most experienced managers have lone
!! n ° e pi '” v , ed that an eight-hour shift gives better results
than a 10-hour turn ; but the management of the Oangai
is mostly of the Oockv and Co. persuasion, and Cocky a'lid
Co has long hours bred in the bone, a cow
} Bn c ’ however, quite the same as rufinjn'g a mine Lone-
hours on a mine are a danger to every workman in it • so
better°° ner ka " takes a hand in this business the
* * * f'. *
“ Marloo” : Murphy and several of his cocky
order to save a few pence, traded with'l
Whcn M ,or u thel r drapery and grocery supplies.
When t hey ran short they were obliged to go to Sand, the
local storekeeper and Sand didn’t like it. The goods
arrive by ,li ‘rhP train, and Oockv
asked Sand to let them come with his goods and stav
° n h i S , Sho vP vera, *dah. While reflecting on
the toughness of the human hide, Sand conspired with
himself to divert this trade into its proper course. Murphv
presented the first opportunity. Murphy's son Dan was
tn he married on the 14th. On the night of the 12th
Dans wedding outfit arrived. Next day Murphv took
home the parcel from Sand 8 verandah, and Dan fell over
hnnself in Ins eagerness to try ir, on. The result was not
gratifying. Dan s feet and hands protruded bin. too far
and the vest refused to meet by ,3i». Also, the boots and
S ‘? eS on <*<? small side. The situation was
such that Murphy made a bee-line for the store, explained
the trouble to Sand (which was quite unnecessary) and
implored him to fix Dan up with another outfit.' Sand
supplied the goods, and by exercising a little adroitness
made an extra 20s. in the process. The wedding over’
Murphy made a parcel of the misfit, and, with some
heated remarks to the Sydney firm enclosed, left it at
Sa n ( \! St ' Or V, 0 be lx : tui ' npd - Sand kept it for a fortnight
and then addressed it hack to Murphv. Murphy’s re-
sultant language threatened an eclipse of the sun. 'When
things calmed down Sand got the boots and hat at half
price. Also, he got Murphy’s future trade. Dan’s brother
Bill came in for the suit.
* * * *
“ Yarrnm,” ; Marvellous liow close some of
these Dagoes can go to the weight of a fish—especially if
they have weighed the thing beforehand! A hiilkiiw
. n ’ at ' " ander Y d lnto » fish-shop on the South Coast
(N.S, W.) the other night When there was'a crowd aboui
There happened to,be a largish schnapper lying around
at the time. yer a boh,” said ttje milking man to
Italy, that I can guess as close,to the weight of that fish
as you can.” “Make it a kv,d !” implored the Dago
The milking man “dropped” at once, the wao-er was
made, and the money hoisted. Then tl.e Dago “ guessed ”
121 b. The other fellow at once guessed 121 b. too, and
claimed the kvids. The Dago snorted a lot : hut the
crowd decided against him.
*/ * * *
The wholesale softgoods man on the ferry-boat
scornfully indicated a group'of straw-hatfed youths
Dye see those narrow-brimmed straw hats? Foolish
aren t they? That’s imported fashions for von < The
lads in England, where the sun shines once every three
weeks or so, are wearing the ugly things, and, of'course ,
our boys have to follow suit. Lord only knows how their
eves stand the racket. That sort of headgear is plain
madness in a land of sunshine. And vet—would you
believe it?-I got a big order for them'yesterdav from
North Queensland, of all places. Of course, I sent them
along ; it s part of my business to sell hats. But it hurt
me Apart from the question of profit, I like to think I
am hardhng sensible g-oods and giving good value But
you have to give people what they ask for.” The com-
mercial man groaned in a most uncommercial wav as the
boat slid alongside the wharf. J
:. * *
•n ‘‘^ astus ” : The noble families who export their
ill-balanced offspring to get, shut of them ought to pay
them periodical visits and observe the results.' I know a
remittance man in Maorihnd who was installed bv “the
dear old guv’nor” in a big freehold farm, clear 'of any
encumbrances and well stocked. This bright specimen
stuck to the land for two years, and then there was a
meeting of creditors. It was found that £5OOO had been
raised on mortgage and had evaporated in the same
d ."! e . ( ?. tl ? n a f the Profits; also, there was a list of
habilitiesas Jong as thefarm frontage. These liabilities con-'
■sisted mostly of wine and spirit bills. The culehawed
youth couldn’t understand what the blawsted fuss wasall
i •!“i’„ and f efllse .d to live on the place when a “ beastly
bailiff was put in. He didn’t Worry,' “ for,” said he
“ what the deuce is the good of me worrying when so
many other deuced fools are worrying?”
> ’ * * ; V *
X “Galileo”: While passing through a small
town out West (N.S.W.) I gave way, )n a weak moment
to a request from the local clergyman that, I should audit
the church hooks, as the treasurer was leaving next day.
The treasurer told me that his system of book-keepinv
was absolutely perfect, “ provided vou didn’t forget t,o
enter tilings up.” I found on the first attempt that there
was a long deficiency,’so I concluded that he had for-
gotten <to enter things up. Also there were several
mystifying items, such as, “By errors and omissions,
L 3 ; and “By amount paid to someone I forg-et £2
Most of-the receipts and cheque butts appeared’to he
waste paper, and when the clergyman suddenly produced
from his trouser-poCket 14s. fid. which he had forgotten
lo bank, I abandoned the’ audit in despair. But 1 called
in a friend and explained matters, and we both signed a
statement that the bank balance had better be taken as
correct’, because auditing was impossible; also that the
books should he burnt and a fresh start made. It would
really have been better if the church had been burnt
and the parson and the treasurer.
THREEPENOE.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
The thrcepcnny-whisky agitation is leading to business.
—Melbourne paper.
The street went up and the street went down—
Hooray !
In a most peculiar, freakish way,
With a rollicking, sideways swerve and swav,
As the taster travelled the track through town
In threepenny whiskies his to drown ;
And the Rechabite stared with a bitter frown
At the lamb from the temp'rance fold astray
Through threepenny whiskies, come to stay ;
Rut—ten more whiskies for half-a-crown,
With the pavement up and the roadway down !
Hooray 1
The street went down and the street went up—
Hooroop !
As the tasting traveller looped the loop
To the sad dismay of the temp’rance troop,
Of the Rechabite pale and the yellow pup
As the taster sampled the malted cup,
With here a swallow and there a sup,
While the pubs swung round and the corks went
cloop,”
As he called, with spirits that failed to droop,
J’or the whisky [hie !] and the water [hup !]—
While the street went down and the street went up.
Hooray 1 Hoor— whoop !
The street went £id«4ays, to and fro—
Ilooroar !
As the taster tasted, and called for more,
With his gay feet flitting from door to door
Of the pleasant; pubs, with his soul aglow
At the thought of that joyous, unstinted flow.
In the dens where the threepenny whiskies grow
A dollar in. whiskies means a score
Of drinks, and possibly one drink more ;
For whisky js cheap to-day, you know,
And the sidewalk’s flickering to and fro !
Ilooroop 1 ’Ooray 1 Hooroar!
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


j* *7 ""* *■*
Brownie Cameras are manu=
J j
factured by the Eastman Kodak
Co., and are “almost Kodaks.”
Brownie Cameras m Inexpensive
but
They Produce Excellent Pictures
* ‘ •
The Brownie Cameras are famous throughout the world for their
efficiency, economy and simplicity*
They have enabled many a novice to gain a good working knowledge
of photography prior to embarking into more ambitious work.
They are compact, convenient, thoroughly well-made, and are
reliable in every respect.
If you wish to get started in the fascinating hobby of photography at
small expense; or if you would like to start your children, remem-
ber there is sure to be a Brownie suited to your purse and purpose.
And also remember that the dark-room is unnecessary, and that
every operation can be carried out in daylight with ease and
certainty.
Call at one of our Stores and inspect these splendid little cameras, or write
for a copy of the Kodak Catalogue giving all details —it's free.
No. 1 BROWNIE, 5/-
Takes pictures 2Jin. x 2|in., and has a
carrying capacity for 6 exposures without
refilling. Weighs only Boz.
Price 5/», Postage 6d. extra.
No. 2 FOLDING BROWNIE, 21/-
For pictures x 3Jin., and makes 6
exposures without re-loading. Weight
16oz.
Price 21/-, Postage 9d. extra.
No. 2 BROWNIE, 10/-
Makes rectangular pictures 2jin. x 3£in.,
and has a capacity for 6exposures, without
re-loading. Only weighs 13oz.
Price 10/=, Postage 1?d. extra.
No. 3 FOLDING BROWNIE, 37/6
Makes 12 Quarter-plates, 3£in. x
without re-loading. Weighs 250 z.
Price 37/6, Postage 1/- extra.
No. 2A BROWNIE, 12/6.
Takes 6 or 12 pictures x without
re-loading, and weighs 21oz.
Price 12/6, Postage 1/- extra.
No. 3A BROWNIE, 42/=
The popular postcard size, 3|in. x s£in.
Has a capacity for 12 exposures without re-
loading. Prick —
With Single Lens, 42/= ; Rapid Recti=
linear Lens, 50/= ; Postage 1/3 extra.
No. 3 BROWNIE, 17/6
Makes 12 Quarter-plates, 3£in. x
without re-loading. Weighs 250 z.
Price 17/6, Postage 1/- extra.
No. 2 STEREO BROWNIE, 50/=
For Stereo Pictures, each 3£in. x and’
has a capacity for 10 stereo exposures with-
out re-loading. With a pair of Achro-
matic Meniscus Lenses.
Price 50/=, Postage 1/3 extra.
AUSTRALIAN KODAK, LTD.
Incorporating Baker
& Rouse, Prop., Ltd.,
379 George St., Sydney.
78-80 Queen St., Brisbane.
“The Block,” 284 Collins St., Melbourne.
Ruthven St., Toowoomba, Q. 346 Argent St., Broken Hill.
37 Rundle St., Adelaide.
6 Mercer St., Wellington, N.Z.
The Merit of a
Whisky is not
dependent on its
name, but on its
//
P 0:
bllmucurWhi^i
fIM
ZA
7
Old
ORKNev
Is a IVeal Liqueur ScotcK
from a century-old distillery,
reserving its wHole output
for tbis one brand.
McConnell’s Distillery, Ltd.,
Dacre House, Arundel St., W.C., London.
Proprietors of STROMNESS D ISTILLERY, Orkney, Scotland.
et
25 Years’ Good Reputation.
The same pure Silver Steel that was put into the
PLUM RAZOR a quarter of a century ayo is used in the
manufacture to-day. That is why we gruarantee and
offer to keep in order every PLUM RAZOR we sell for
two years after purchase.
PRICE
10/6
post free
to any
address.
We Grind and
Set Razors,
1/- each.
Single Razor in Strong Case, 10/6
Pair in Morocco Leather Case, 21/-
Single Razor, Ivory Handle, 16/6
Pair in Handsome Case. 30/-
The Plum Razor Strop, 10/6 and 7/6.
Other good kinds from 3/6.
Cake Universal Shaving Soap, 6d
Razoleo Lightning Sharpener, 6d
All the above Post Free.
CRAIG 8 AITREN, 654 George Street, Sydney.
Established 30 Years.
•• X POLICY FOR THE COMMONWEALTH."
Post Free 6d. from "Th«
Bulletin ** Office s
THe
ROYAL MERCEDES
THE ROYAL MERCEDES.
(The Exclusive Car)
Owned by every Crowned
Head in Europe, and the
Nobility of the World.
The MERCEDES Car is
knop’n by everyone to stand
by itself, and is without
doubt the finest ear money
can buy. Year in and year
out it sets the fashion to the
motoring world. If you want
the best car that money can
buy, well, there is only, one
car for you, and remember
that although the Mercedes
is bv far the most expensive
car in the world, we:sell them
for less than other cars of the
same, power on the market
here. Why ? because we are
satisfied with a fair profit.
B.S.A. CARS (Birmingham Small Arms Co.)
Undoubtedly the very best English car manufactured. The firm who manufacture these cars have a world-
famous reputation for workmanship and quality of material used in the manufacture of their products.
S. C. A. X. (Societa Ceirano Automobili Torino)
The Italian car that is designed and manufactured by that motor genius Ceirano, and the only car in
the world that has 1 a reliable pneumatic self-starter and tyre inflater. See the new 15-h.p. S.C.A.T.
before deciding on a car.
THE “COMMER” COMMERCIAL CAR..
British-made, the most substantial, powerful and economical motor lorry made, owned by most, of the
leading.firms in England ; and all firms that have bought these cars have given Repeat orders. We can
prove to intending purchasers that the COMMER is doing work without, the slightest hitch that many
other Commercial cars have broken down at. Call and see,us and have t.hb COMMER shown you.
The Reliable DAYTON MOTOR »UGGY.
A Motor Car on bnjrjry Wheels 20-h.p. 2-cylinder water-cooled ehjririe, (Inal Ignition, Bosh
We only ask you to see and try the 'DAYTOX before deciding". If aou will do this, we have your Older.
Motor Body Building Department
We would like the trade, and everyone interested in this
class of work, to inspect our up-to-date pi ant of machinery
and factory. We are in a position to, turn out the best
work at the lowest cost, and in the shortest time. Give
us your orders for this class of work ; we guarantee to
{five you satisfaction.
MOTORIES LIMITED,
280 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Tel. 4902 Central. Body Building Dept., 470 Paddington.
COMMERCIAL CARS,
LTD.,
See the CHALLENGE REINFORCED INNER TUBE. It prevents blow-outs, anti allows of old blown-out
and discarded covers to be used. By using: them you will reduce your, tyre bill by more than half.
gsd
A nODERN HAIR STAIN.
atMgECMPaP—II IHITHMPHM ■■U—BI.HIIHM If
This preparation is permanent and prompt in effect—will not
wash nor rub off —does not discolor linen—will restore grey or
faded hair to a natural brown or black color—is perfectly harmless
and not unpleasant to use.
4s. 6d. and Bs. 6d. Posted 6d. extra;
ANDREW McGEE,
Sydney’s Leading Tobacconist and
Gentlemen's Hairdresser,
5 7 Castlereagh Street, corner Hunter Street, Sydney.


For Coughs
of Children.
180 George Street, Fitzroy, Victoria.
Dear Sirs,—l would be very ungrateful indeed if I did not acknow-
ledge the good Angier’s Emulsion has done to my little girl after an
attack of bronchitis. Her cough has now almost gone and her general
health is much improved. The best of it is, she likes it so much that
it is quite a treat when Emulsion time comes not to have to resort to the
usual threatening, coaxing and bribery, as with all other medicines.
Thanking you for the good your Emulsion has done my little one.
(Signed) MRS. BEATRICE ABBOTT.
iNCIEK'S EMULSION
I PETROLEUM WITH HYPOPHOSPHITES.)
For delicate children who catch cold easily Angier’s Emulsion is
incomparably the best tonic. It soothes the lungs, improves appetite
and digestion, and gives the delicate child strength and stamina to resist
colds. If he already has a cold or a cough, nothing will so quickly cure
it, Angier’s Emulsion is pleasant to take and the little ones all like it
and thrive on it. Of all Chemists, 1/3, 2/9 and 4/6.
A FREE SAMPLE
sent on receipt of 4d. postage. Mention this paper.
THE ANGIER CHEMICAL CO., Ltd., 7 Barrack Street, Sydney. *
8 8
Post Free.
fg
Made of Glace Kid —
machine sewn —solid leather
throughout —five different shapes,
pointed, medium, narrow-square, square
and full round.
8/8 Pair,
Send for Catalogues.
finney, Isles 8 co.,
LIMITED,
The Big Block, BRISBANE.
IN BANANA LAND
“H.H.” : Struck the tailory of one Hill-
man at Cairns on a recent trip, and almost fell
down dead at the glaring inscription on a card: —
THIS WINDOW CONTAINS NOTHING BUT
AUSTRALIAN-MADK GOODS.
I have struck one or two good Australian trades-
men of that sort in Melbourne and Adelaide, but
never in Sydney ; there the sign generally reads
“Newly Imported.” It was mostly Marrickville
tweed that the Cairns tailor was booming, too.
Thus does the prophet get an occasional hearing
outside his own country.
Ex-Minister Foxton complained recently
that at the Federal elections 12,000 electors in the
Brisbane district failed to vote. But an increased
vote isn’t necessarily a good thing for the Foxton
party. In 1906 barely 40 per cent, of the Brisbane
electors voted, and Foxton got in. In 1910, 61 per
cent of those on the roll voted and Foxton went
out. The more numerously Queenslanders vote
the worse for the Foxtons. When 80 per cent, of
the men and women on the roll vote there won’t
be any Tory members left.
Alma Moodie, the wonder-cMld from
Mount Morgan, continues to do big things at the
Conservatoire of Music in Brussels. She distin-
guished herself with the violin before most
youngsters manage to talk properly. At five she
passed her preparatory exam, with full marks,
and has crowded almost a career into her 10years
of existence. Recently she made her debut at
Antwerp before the Queen of the Belgians, and
at present she is at tracting attention by leading
one of Belgium’s star orchestras.
“ Furore ” : The frenzied rush for land in
Canterbury (M.L.) savors of the pathetic. At a
ballot held recently for 10 thistle-infested,
swampy, leasehold blocks, averaging 50 acres
each, there were 56 struggling applicants. The
sections are 21-year leaseholds ; rent, 355. per
acre. I questioned the successful (?) competitor
for 35 acres thusly :
F. : What is the land best suited for?
S.C. : Dairying.
F. : How tnanv cows will it carry?
S.C. : About 15.
F. : What do you expect each cow to earn a year ?
S.C. : About £lO.
F. : How will you manage about feed ?
S.C.: Grow mangolds and turnips.
F. : Do turnips affect cream ?
S.C. : Yes ; but you can’t have everything.
Thereupon I figured out the problem something
like this : Rent per annum, £6l ss. (at 5 per cent,
interest this represents a capital value of more
than £l2OO. or over £34 per acre); cow-juice
return, £150; profit, £BB 155., besides some income
from pigs and poddies—a rather elusive item.
The graft side of the proposition is a little ap-
palling. Fence, build and otherwise improve;
toil like the d Ito eradicate and keep in check
thistles; plough land and cultivate mangolds and
turnips (which are not the best cow-feed extant);
milk and attend to 15 moos; and perhaps the
swampy land might demand some little attention
—all for £BB odd. Immediately I sought out that
successful competitor with- this advice :. “ Put your
lease in the fire. Throw your 35 acres of thistles
and swamp to the Devil. Then gather up your
traps and fly to the rich Atherton Scrub, in North
Queensland, a place where a man can-live like a
human being, and be something better than an
almost unpaid valet to 15 blighted cows.” He
reckoned he would think about it.
Representative Higgs, in his campaign for
the creation of new States in Central and
Northern Queensland, finds that “Premier Kids-
ton ridicules the idea.” Hereupon Higgs goes
back -to a Kidstonian utterance of May, 1905,
which runs: “It would be much better for
Queensland if the country were divided into three
States, as it would assist in developmental work
considerably. . . . Separation would do no harm
to the South. Notwithstanding Federation,
Queensland’s ultimate destiny should be three
great States, if not four; and, in spite of all
difficulties, probable events would shape in that
direction.” Higgs wants to know why Kidston,
who entered Parliament a strenuous Separationist,
can’t lend a hand now in the business. Higgs
doesn’t understand Kidston. That politician is
just busy completing a great work. He has
turned his back, by degrees, on every political
principle he ever professed, and this somersault
on Separation is the finishing touch required to
complete the glorious structure of recantation.
THE TRAP.
DENT: “ However did you come to marry? "You, mid, you meant to remain single all your life.”
BEST: “ Met a girl who was also resolved to remain single all her life , and as vie were of
one mind we married.”
“ Kob ” : A line frbm a recent Mount
Morgan report (1/6/T0) : , .
Henry Lucki.ris proceeded agafpW J. J. Hayes, club-
swinger.
So the waving of hits of wood has become a recog-
nised profession, at last.
“ Itan has many beautiful
volc.inic lakes. Lake Eacharn, at Atherton, back
of Cairns, is oue of the best known. The Coals-
toun lakes, near Gayndah, have been visited by
very few 'people. They are situated on top of
precipitous eminences, and are difficult of access.
The largest is about 300yds. wide. As far as ciin
be seen, no watercourse runs into these lakes or
out of them. They seem to play a lone hand.
The sides of the craters consist of large masses Of
black lava, much honeycombed and very light.
About half a mile separates the two lakes. The
water is very deep. Not far distant is a spring
which throws up gravel and mud as well as
It has no visible connection with the lakes, and is
supposed to represent the bursting forth of: a
creek or river* which the old dead volcano tried
hard to smother before our remote progenitor,
Adam Monkey, came down from his arboreal resi-
dence and married Eve Tree-top.
Her Corner.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
IT is just here that she used to sit, the shadowed
corner, the long low chair ;
Beyond, the droop of a ragged palm, with
a church roof looming over there,
The weeping figs and the flat white road, an
orange glory along the sky ;
But I saw only the asking eyes that bade me
loiter as I went by !
It is just here that she used to sit, the shadowed
corner, the long low chair ;
And now I wake in the empty night and try to
fancy her sitting there.
The sparrows stir in the swishing palm, the city
sobs through its broken sleep,
Oh ! wide are the plains between us, dear, the hills
are mighty, the seas are deep !
QUEENSLAND.
M. FORREST.
QUEENSLAND GOSSIP.
Brisbane, June 11, 1910,
Mr Dear Thargomindah,—
The clan Macgregor, having been surfeited
with the beauties of Rockhampton, sets sail for
Townsville, where elaborate arrangements are
being carried out. lam informed that strings of
bunting will be stretched across the rift in the
municipal lute, and so will be healed along-fester-
ing disturbance. The new Ross Creek quay, built
with so much care out of money which should
have been expended elsewhere, will come in handy
for the crowd to throng upon. After the Gover-
nor has been fed, talked at and driven round
Castle Hill, he will leave for the still further
north with the utmost dispatch.
Talking of dispatch, the Kidphilp Cabinet will
have to shake itself up in the matter of hos-
pital finance. The coffers of the General
Hospital are filled with the east wind, and the
locust seems to have eaten the last subscription.
Yet the day Kidston carries out his five-year-old
threat of nationalising the General Hospital be
will he faced with the necessity of shouldering the
whole round of charitable institutions between
Gape York and the Tweed. The trouble has
been in the past that the subsidy, paid by the
Government was as inadequate in one instance as
it was prodigal in the other. There are, roughly,
about 100 little hospitals in the small, wild vil-
lages north of Thargomindah and west of Curma-
mulla. They get from £2OO to £3OO in sub-
scriptions annually, and the Government aid
is £3OO or £4OO. Then a medical man is
imported at a modest salary, paid out of
Government subsidy, but with the right of
private practice. Another couple of hundred
suffice for the matron and wardsman and
the upkeep, and the committee is-often able
to save money. Novv, in cases like the General,
which is a base hospital, the subsidy is on exactly
the same rate as that given to the little shanty
town institution, and, of course, it is insufficient.
While it is about the reorganisation of the hos-
pitals, the Government might very well introduce
a system of periodical inspections of private
curing grounds. When this is permissible (mind,
I’m not making any special reference) I prophesy
a terrible shock to the Health Commissioner, who
I hope will do the job in person.
There has been returned to us one John Dal-
rymple, son of the before-time Minister, the Hon.
D. H. The young person has been acquiring the
tooth-tinker’s degree in far-off Philadelphia, and
is now running round with his brass plate under
his arm seeking a door-post that has not already
four or more of the same order screwed aloft.
It is said that the same baker’s dozen of hoary
sports occupied the front stalls during the whole
of the recent panto, season, hut whether the
theatre attendants used to dust them over in their
chairs or whether they sometimes went home I
am unable to discover.
There must, after all, be something demoralising
to'the feminine mind in Bridge. The wildest
rumors are circulating here with regard to certain
parties devoted to the popular game. At one
(according to a personage who was discussing the
matter in stentorian tones on the racecourse last
Monday) a male player is said to have been so
exasperated by the feeble support given bv his
partner that he told her what he thought of her.
Then the lady got wild and threw her cards in
liis face. She afterwards left the room with the
air of a tragedy queen. The cream of the stories
this week, however, has to do with the loss of a
valuable jewelled purse full of gold. It went
missing in a manner which threw suspicion on
all and sundry, including the cat, within a radius
of 100 miles of the occurrence. But happily its
recovery partially cleared the air, and incidentally
the reputation of the cat.
There is another local happening that doesn’t
look nice, and people are saying darkly that the
luck which appears to cling in certain quarters is
too good altogether. Thi#. recalls the trick of
the Moscow gentleman who fqy many years found
cards so profitable a pastime. He carried a weak
solution of phosphorus in his pocket, and with
this he lightly touched the cards he wished to
trace. Then he donned dark glasses, which
made the slight tint of green visible to his
dimmed vision, while to unshaded eyes there was
nothing to see. He made many roubles, and but
for the jealousy of his best girl he would tie at
it yet.
Grace Watson, of political memory, has arrived
in this city. I haven’t seen her yet," so can’t say
what effect the recent Fused fuss has had upon
her. Southern papers hint at colds and com-
plications.
A list of possible, starters in the debutante
stakes at the coming Assembly and Rowing Club
Ball includes Misses Scriven, Goggs, Pagan and
Robertson.
I hear from Townsville that an engagement is
announced between Miss Love, of that city, and a
squatter by the name of Steele. The latter has
recently acquired a station home for a little
matter of £30,000 odd. I also tremble for the
freedom of the widower whose name was the
plaything of Dante Rumor last week.
A pal, who occasionally has to do with that form
of alleged amusement called progressive euchre,
has been holding forth to me of the unpleasant-
ness caused in a certain town by a professional
prize taker. I say “ taker,” for the lady in ques-
tion is said to have no scruples in the matter of
either cards or markers, and a clean sweep of
silver ornaments has so roused my friend that he
has absolutely refused to join another committee
unless the members consent to a detective being
placed at the table with the delinquent. Some
women seem to run to petty dishonesty for sheer
love of the game, like the local heroine who
obtained the notoriety of a month’s “hard” for
lifting dry-goods, valued at 4s. 9d. gross.
Pretty Mrs. Frances and her doctor husband
(the lady was Molly O’Brien once) have been
in town for a few days, and the former has been
the subject matter for half a hundred feasts. She
sings as sweetly as ever.
Yours affectionately,
MARIO.
The cry of “Lex ” :
For short-sighted foolishness I nominate the Queens-
land Government in relation to its treat merit of Yarrabah
(N.Q.). Yarrabah is one of the O. of England’s few prac-
tical ventures in this hemisphere. It doesn’t lav itself
out to plague with superfluous clothing and h.vmn-books
a heathen who is happy in his unsophisticated nudity.
What it aims at is to provide sanctuary of a sort,
together with a steady if light job for the
nigger or semi-nigger who has bumped up against
white civilisation and found the propositibrr too complex.
Here, under the Church’s benevolent eye, the dying
races are enabled to give up the ghost with the least'pos-
sible damage to themselves and the rest, of the com-
munity. A weird assemblage of black and brown humans
is encouraged to graft for its sustenance, exist in amity
more or less, marry when it feels like it, and otherwise
live the innocuous life in surroundings whence tempta-
tion has been as far as possible eliminated, instead of
being a curse and a menace in the haunts of the Cauca-
sian. In N.d.W. the State attends to these unfortunates.
When, as in Queensland, Private Enterprise in the form
of a Church voluntarily takes on the weighty job, it
seems to the writer that the State, which is thus relieved
of a costly burden, ought rather to cheer on the enter-
prise than discourage it.
The Ividston crowd regards the matter differently.
Spurred on by the Queensland housewife’s chronic harikei-
ingfor cheap domestic “ helps,” the Government laid it
down that, at a certain age, the Yarrabah females must
become domestic servants or otherwise earn their livings
in theoutside world. No particular good is achieved there-
by, except to the mistresses who get indifferent service at
the price it is worth. The harm to the other parties
concerned is considerable. The lady from Yarrabah is
not distinguished for moral fibre. In about 90 per cent,
of cases she trails back at the end of a year or so with
an unwanted infant or a wrecked constitution. White men
won’t marry her, and her departure lessens the mar-
riage opportunities of the colored males she leaves be-
hind. Prior to Government action the marriage-market at
Yarrahah was pretty brisk. Here is the Bishop of N.
Queensland’s list for the past three years:—
“Man and woman, black, 10; woman, half-caste
(white) and man, black, nine ; man, haif-caste (white)
and woman, black, one; man, black, and woman, half-
caste (Asiatic), two ; man, South Sea Blander, woman
half-caste (white), one ; man, South Sea Islander, woman,
half-caste (South Sea Islander), one ; man, black, woman
(half-caste), one, both man and woman half-caste, six ;
total, 31.”
On the principle that, if a country must be afflicted
with a certain number of blacks or browns, it is best to,
as far as possible, segregate them from contact with the
whites, there is much to be said for institutions like
Yarrabah. To defeat their objects in the interests of a
few cheap-labor-seeking mistresses amounts to an act of
idiocy.


Meldeaf-Pfanof
' —^MDST
'Wunderlich
ART- METAL • CEILINGS •
/ \
$
&
mrnniiffijinumumiw,
3
O
I L
V.', ■**',
INFIXING KFCEIUNOSUST
*
■i**'
*obXr.
\ ■ - . ':% ri .cm
V
mmm
«
i!
m
mt <r
I f?
*
■V t
FIXING- WALLS •
NOTE THE RESTFUL, REFINED DIGNITY of the WUNDERLICH-CEILED ROOM.
The above illustrates the Drawing Room of a large Sydney
residence, every part of which is ceiled with Wunderlich Art
Metal. By far the majority of houses now being built in City,
Suburbs and Country are fitted with that new and better system
of interior lining. For richness of decorative effect and refine-
ment of taste Wunderlich Metal Ceilings are unexcelled.
How to Choose the Haterial
for Your Ceilings.
You can easily determine what is best for your home by
observing what others are doing. Visit the finest Public
Buildings (the Sydney Town Hall, the new Melbourne Central
Station are cases in point), the leading Cafes (Sargents’, for
example), the largest Warehouses (Robert Reid & Co.’s new
premises in Melbourne ; Mark Foy’s, Limited, in Sydney ; or
Finney, Isles, Limited, in Brisbane, for instance), or the really
modern homes, and you will find everywhere Wunderlich
Ceilings and Walls.
Wunderlich Metal meets every need of the humblest
cottage or the most elaborate residence, hotel, club, warehouse
or office building.
Wunderlich Hetal is now in
Fashion.
It is easy to see that Wunderlich Metal is now in vogue,
and the fashion won’t change, for good health as well as good
taste demands it. Good health —because there are no crevices
to harbor dust or vermin ; no liability of cracking or falling, as
mum
4
m
%
m a
- - it*
gif
was the case in the days of old-fashioned plaster. Good Taste—
since your home will have the most beautiful and artistic walls
possible. Wunderlich Metal costs no more than plaster, yet it
will retard fire and stand.shocks, strains or vibrations that ruin
plaster.
Are You Building or Re=
modelling a House ?
Anyone building a new house or re-decorating an old one
may secure many helpful suggestions from us free by writing
for them. The Wunderlich Decorative Department will, on
receipt of plans or photographs of the house, prepare a complete
scheme for every room with the detailed cost. No charge is made
for this service ; it is to our interest to see that Wunderlich
Metal is used with the most charming effect. Wunderlich
Metal may be built over and without the removal of the old
plaster: no matter how old or dilapidated a room may be it can
be transformed entirely by the use of Wunderlich Metal Ceilings
and Walls, without the dust and discomfort of removal.
ASK FOR THE 48=PAGE WUNDERLICH
CATALOGUE—WE POST IT FREE.
This booklet is exceedingly beautiful and practical. It
contains hundreds of illustrations of handsomely designed,
deeply embossed Wunderlich Metal Sheets. It gives every
information with diagrams of how to fix the metal, and instruc-
tions that anyone handy with tools may follow. This Catalogue
will be sent post free. Please send for it to-day. Address to
the nearest Branch and ask particularly for Catalogue LI.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED,
SYDNEY? 56 Pitt Street.
MELBOURNE: 243 Collins Street.
ADELAIDE: King William Street.
BRISBANE: 303-5 Queen Street.
LAUNCESTON: St. John’s Street.
HOBART: Collins Street.
PERTH ; Lord Street


A
Zt
ffi
/>
N\JA
AA
J
A lifetime of disfigurement and
suffering often result! from the
neglect, in infancy or childhood,
of simple skin affections. In the
prevention and treatment of minor
eruptions and in the promotion of
permanent skin and hair health,
Cuticura Soap and Cuticura Oint-
ment are absolutely unrivaled.
Sold throughout the world. Depots: London, 27,
Charterhouse Sq.; Paris, 10. Duo Cs 'la Chausseo
d'Antin; Australia, R. Towns & Co., Sydney; India,
B. Kj. PauJ, Calcutta; China, llong'Kahg Drug Co.;
Japan, Maruya, Ltd., Tokio; So. Africa, Lennon,
Ltd., Cape Town, etc.; U SM., Potter Drug & Chem.
Cqrp., Sole Props., 133 Columbus Avc., Boston.
oar 32-page Cutieura Booklet, post-free, tells all
about the Care and Treatment of Skin and Scalp.
A beautiful complexion in three minutes
PULCHRIT,
A GENUINE SKIN TONIC, AND SUBSTITUTE FOR
FACE CREAMS and ALL OTHER SKIN SPECIFICS.
(1) Pulchrit is the only powder which produces
amazing- effects after being washed off. (2) If used
as ordinary powder (dry), lightly rubbed into the skin,
it becomes equally invisible. (3) It produces a dazzling,
beautiful skin, and idealises the complexion, (4) It im-
parts to the roughest skin a velvety softness, and pro-
duces that fascinating appearance which is go much
admired. (5) If, is indispensable for the culture of the
hand. (6)-.lnstead of clogging the pores it cleanses them,
removing all blemishes, such as wrinkles, freckles, red-
ness, yellow 'skin, pimples, etc. (7) It creates a feeling
of comfort an'd ease by neutralising'perspiration'; there-
fore indispensable at balls, theatres, etc. (8) It stands
for health and hygiene of the skin.
Price 45., post free, from the wholesale agent for Aus-
tralia and New Zealand, H. A. Goddard, Eagle Street,
Brisbane, Queensland ; or a sample will be 'forwarded on
receipt of Is. in stamps or postal note. [2
60S
ARE
YOU
TOO
FAT
■
For Fat Women exercise is good, but a
Sydney Physician who has investigated says
“that without any doubt, the most successful
harmless, reliable, pleasant and certain
remedy, as well as the cheapest, is
“FATCURE”
It reduces weight in many cases by over five
pounds a week, and when reduced the con-
dition does not come on again. The cure
is permanent. . . . This method is perfect,
its results are marvellous, its clientele tre-
mendous. . . Send 2d. stamp for FREE
TRIAL SAMPLE and full particulars.
No ill after-effects result from the use of
“ Fatcure,” and it can be taken with abso-
lute secrecy. WRITE or CALL at once.
Watworth Co., Suite J,
Linden Court, Castlereagh St., Sydney
CHANGE OF SEASON.
BEST for YOU
and BEST FOR. ME.
LAXATINE The Peerless Aperient.
LAXATINE The Gentle Regulator.
LAXATINE The Lollie-like Laxative.
LAXATINE The Cure for Constipation.
LAXATINE Sold by All Chemists.
LAX A TINE Equally Good for Children and
LAXATINE Adults.
LAXATINE ONE SHILLING a Box of 25.
1
LIGHTING.
For Country Houses, Hotels, Stores,
Farms and Townships,
The “DE LAITTE”
AIR-CAS SYSTEM
is the best.
The Cheapest and Safest llluminant.
NON-EXPLOSIVE.
Adopter! by the N.S.W. Government and by the Railway Commissioners of N.S.W.
and Victoria. Thousands already in use in Country Houses, Hospitals and Hotels,
Railway Stations, etc.
Equally suitable for Cooking and Bath Heating.
Incandescent Burners and Mantles used. Small or Large Machines supplied.
Ordinary gas piping used for distributing the Gas. More brilliant than Coal Gas.
Cost is one-fifth that of Acetylene Gas.
Full Particulars
obtainable from
McEUEN 8 CO., 3 Spring Street, Sydney.
/7~\ ~N
6V
S:
•«
£t J*
You
cannot
strop it
Wrongly
Insert the
strop in the Auto Strop
Safety Razor —move the
Razor to and fro —the i
blade reverses automatically
at the end of each stroke,
thus stropping itself
-in an
instant you have a keen edge
That is why the
Auio&trop
w SAFETY *
KAZO
always gives a smooth and luxurious shave. And the Auto Strop user avoids
continual outlay for new blades —required by any ordinary safety razor,
k There is nothing to take apart to strop or clean. Far quicker, handier
k and cheaper than a no-stropping razor.
‘i
The Standard Outfit consists of quadruple silver-
plated, self-stropping razar ; one dozen specially
tested lancet-steel blades; one ho sehide
strop ; the whole contairied in handsome
leather case, size 2 in. by 3} in. The
price complete is
25'-
ahd no
further
expense.
LAMSON STORE SERVICE CO.,LTD
The Rialto, Collins St., Melbourne; and '
222. Clarence St„ Sydney.
fdg
Make Money with a Cinematograph
====== this Winter. - -=
There’s big: money to be showing
pictures in Australia.
Winter is the Showman’s Harvest.
Start NOW.
Little capital needed ; little knowledge
either. > >
We are Cinematograph
Experts.
We have a big stock 'of Machines,
Apparatus and Accessories.
259,000 Feet of Fihyts
in Stock .
We loan and sell Machines and Films.
We make Films.
We sell at BEDROCK prices.
Come in and have a chat with us, or let
us send you full particulars.
© ffl
ffl
©
(I)
7-
Q)
0
©
V\Q) ®
RDAN’S
(Formerly OSBORN 8 JERDAN),
' Leading Cinematograph Specialists,
393 GEORGE STREET,
FACING
JtOYAI, HOTEL,
SYDNEY.
i
y
1
Waterproof Coats, Cycle
keepings, Goloshes an
Foot Holds, Rubber Roots.
Write Us for Prices. Lowest in the Commonwealth.
NOVELTY ROBBER CO.,
250 Ftizabeth Street, Melbourne oo doors past c.p.0.).
The Inky Way.
John Plummer, journalist (Sydney), aped 79 years
on June 3, is still as busy as he was a quarter
of a century ago. Away back in 1862 he assisted in
founding and conducting the Figaro (London), and since
then he has filled Time up to the muzzle with ink. For
two years he was sub-editor of the Morning Advertiser
(London); for two more years associate editor on the
Hornet and Home Journal; editor of a batch of trade
papers ; aiid for 20 years London correspondent of the
S. M. Herald. In 1879 he arrived in Sydney, and
b came editor of the Illustrated News, the Tribune
and several minor publications. Subsequently he joined
the Town and Country Journal staff, and after leaving
that pap r he worked like an over-charged storage bat-
tery to supply information on Australian affairs to a long
string of British and American prints. John says that
ttie only thing the matter with him is that everybody is
growing old, while he is getting so young he can’t stop
himself. lie will probably die, 20 years hence, from
improper feeding in infancy.
* * * *
“Slug”: The proof-readers of the Sydney daily papers
propose to organise themselves, and held a preliminary
meeting a few days ago. Promptly came what looked like
the first hint of intimidation in the following advt. :
A PPLICATIONS are invited from Competent
HEADERS for a Daily Newspaper. Box, etc.
It recalls the circular which the Sydney’ Telegraph
heaved a few years ago at the newsagents to the effect
that every agent who didn’t refuse to sell the proposed
new Labor daily would have h'is supply of the other morn-
ing papers stopped. As the Labor daily didn’t eventuate,
it is impossible to say- exactly what was behind that high-
handed act of intimidation and threatened boycott. In
those times it was quite possible that business was meant
and that the gun was loaded. Things have altered some-
what since then,’and nowadays‘it would hardly be safe
to tear round with a loaded weapon in that fashion. The
result might be a fine, or even’ gaol.
* * * *
“ Adelaide ” : Does Fitchett get his Australian articles,
as well as the rest of hisf stuff, frtjm English and U.S.
papers? June Life refers pleasantly to S.A. Governor
Bosanquet’s stirring speech on Australia’s navy—and
locates the place of speaking in Sydney, and makes the
Admiral Governor of N.S.YV.
* * * *
“F.H.”: I am glad to see that The Bulletin (19/5/’,10)
has shown up the election-circular “ newspaper ” device,
by which the Parliamentary candidate gets advertising
for. himself and his policy without spending the £lOO he
is keeping for taxi-cabs on-election day. The Patriot, a
newspaper printed- prior to the Federal elections by Sands
and McDougall, of Melbourne, for an unnamed proprietor,
contained a picture of George Fairbairn in his best coat,
vest, collar, tie and moustache. . 'There were also para-
graphs and articles in which the name of George Fair-
bairn occurred once in, every-1000 words or less; and
George’s politics, such as they are, were occasionally',
if not oftjener, dragged violently into the letterpress.
Another proprietor (whose office is at 414 Oollins-street,
Melbourne—lwhere Drysdale Brown, State Attorney-
General of Victoria hangs out his shingle) has come forward
with a four-page newspaper called the Land Owners’
Gazette. In the Gazette the case for land-taxation is
stated according to the anti-Conserva(ive, but not quite
Labor, view ; and the Argus and the Tories, and (thev
say) Premier John Murray himself, are filled with fury at
the proprietor for rushing in where Murray has faded
to tread loudly enough to awaken the sleeping Upper
Chamber. Of course, this newspkper businss is
always an uncertain sort of gamble, and probably the
Gazette proprietor was well aware of that fact when he
conceived his patriotic idea'; but, in the absence of a
crowd of anti-Fat candidates for the UpperStrata.it is
difficult to see what good the proprietor expects to do by
entering the publishing game. Possibly John Murray is
making th,e same remark to his inmost.soul at t,he present
moment; then, again, po'ssiblyhe is not. Very’ likely the
proprietor,qbuld tell us exactly what'the Premier thinks
about the proprietor and the proprietor’s newspaper;
and it would ma)te an interestingpar.'for the next issue
of the Gazette.
* * * *
“Baro”: Adelaide’s recently-formed Institute of Jour-
nalists —a tough little-body—is -preening itself for a
stern fight fp'r the uplifting of the pay and status of
reporters in the City of Culchaw. The committee, men-
tioned in the “Inky Way” (B. 26/5/TO), has prepared a
schedule of wages, which sets out that any person with-
out previous press experience, who is marked for an
engagement, should receive a minimum of £2 weekly ;
after-one year’s experience, £2 10s.; two years, £3; and
soon, rising toa nominal maximum of £4los. for general
reporting work. Recorders of the platitudes of poli-
.ticians, entering the gallery for the,first time, are con-
sidered to be wprth £4 10s. each week ; after they- have
been listening t‘> the member for Smith’s Curse for one
year, £5 ; and those who have surviv, d two years or more
tire to get £5 10s. ' Adelaide, in common with most other
cities in the Commonwealth, has long been the abode of
the overworked and underpaid reporter. Men of experi-
ence and ability are remunerated by one journal with as
little as 255., and £4 is considered a princely' ransom,
striven after by many but attained by few.
SCRIBES OF TOE BUSH.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
From slippered chills of drowsy morn, clean through
unlil the moon
Of midiright shows her lamp forlorn, to light the late
buffoon
Slow homeward from his loyal lodge—or from the
A.N. A.—
To shine on them and help them dodge the trees upon
their way.
The pencil-pushers hump it, day by day.
Before the dawn is in the sky, while yet black night is
here,
And restless worlds go flashing by to mock the man in
beer
Who has his own starred universe within his bleary
eyes—
With many a random, rousing curse as time a-gallop flieS,
The pale scribes of the grey bush wake and rise.
Their slow steeds start along the track to meet the dawn,
aflame
Far down the skyline, grim and black; some days these
nags go lame ;
Some days they reef or plunge or kneel ungainly in the
mud,
While, slow, the scribe, with clinging heel, slips forward,
with a flood
Of threatenings to spill the poor plug’s blood.
So, travelling far, the restless scribe picks shining pearls
for print
From council-swine—gross diatribes and words whose
flaring tint
Of turquoise or of purple fills the silent one with joy ;
lie gathers gems from some bucolic cove in corduroy'.
(Stick little things that cove seem to annoy.)
Weird nights of pothouse banqueting, to toast the cricket
club,
Fill up his hours. He haunts alike the chapel and the
pub;
The township butcher posts him in the price of beef and
chops;
The farmer, with his goat-like ehiv., lies to him re the
crops—
And ! while ! he ! toils ! his ! salary 1 never! stops !
He courts the rectory and the manse, each with its little
show,
Tea-fight and concert—no, no dance I —where all good
pressmen go ;
And, final straw, the late press-night when, with the
blushing dawn,
The scribejgoes home with pipe alight, and half his screw
f in pawn
For beer, his sy'stem simply one .. . vast. . . yawn !
VICTORIA.
FRANK HENTY.


*SB Ha tIB B • ■ *
Of all Drapers throughout the World. Manufacturers 57, Newton St., Manchester, Eng.
DISTINCTION IN PRESS
No dress looks so rich and feel’s so soft and silky as one of Louis
Velveteen or Chiffon Vel-Duvet. Its lines are graceful and
flowing, and for Pile, Lustre, and
Brilliancy, it is unsurpassed. It is famed
for its exquisite Colours and won’t crush
BRANDT DE LUXE
THE LATEST ACETYLENE BURNER,
THE BRANDT PE LUXE
Gives the most light and the least trouble. No metal
arms to warp, only the best lava used in the manufac-
ture. Solid hexagon base, will not crush when screwed
on with pliers.
Send us 10/= and we will forward SAMPLE
PARCEL OF ASSORTED BURNERS.
Booklets on Air Gas and Acetylene Gratis.
BRANDT BROS.’ LAMP HOUSE,
197-199 Elizabeth St., Melbourne ; and 256 Pitt St., Sydney.
df
1. A Tearing, Hacking Cough ?
2. A Stuffed-up Chest ?
3. A Teasing Irritation in your Throat
4. A Difficulty in Breathing?
5. A Cold in Your Head ?
6. A Fit of Sneezing ?
7. A Pain in Your Chest?
8. A Shortness of Breath ?
9. “Only a Bit of a Cold?”
HAVE
YOU?
IF YOU HAVE, TAKE
HEARNE’S
BRONCHITIS CURE
THE GRANDEST REMEDY FOR
COUGHS & COLDS
“A STITCH IN TIME SAVES NINE/’
. ' • >■ .■ ‘ \ ;
FROM ALL CHEMISTS AND STOREKEEPERS, AND
W. G. HEARNE & CO., Ltd., Geelong, Vic.
N-S.W. Branch Office: 522 George Street, Sydney.
Conjuring Tricks, Puzzles, Surprise 8 Joke Novelties.
THE U.S.A. SQUIRT PISTOL.
will stop the most
vicious dog (or man)
without permanent
injury. Invaluable
for cyclists, unpro-
tected ladies, night-
watcli men, and
others. Ca n b e
charged with water or other liquids, and will
carry a distance of 25 feet. It creates great
amusement for both young and old, it is strongly
made of polished nickel, and is one of the
most useful, durable, reliable and economical
novelties ever produced. Price 2/9, or post free
anywhere for 3/-
The TOUCH-ME-NOT SUR-
PRISE MATCH BOX. Can be
carried in the vest pocket, and
never fails 10 five the match-
cadfer a shock. When your
friend asks for a match, just
hand him the box, and im-
mediately he attempts to open
same he receives a very sudden
shock. Nicely made of nickel,
and finished in leather. Price,
post free anywhere for 1/2.
V
IHS SEBACKROSCOPE, or Detective’s Assistant.
UNDER
v
r>+-‘V c -
o-z
O
040
Attach to the
eye in the same
mariner as the
common mag-
nifying lens in
use by wfitch
repairers,being
careful to turn
the small open-
ing in square
tube to the
outside* that
is, away from
the nose. When
placed to the eye you can see what is taking place
behind and in front or you at the same time. No
need to wish for eyes in the back of your head, as
with this article you can observe all that occurs in
that direction without even turning your head. You
will find lots of fun in owning a Sebackroscope.
Made of hard rubber, and finished in an excellent
mariner. Price, securely packed and posted to any
address free on receipt of 1/-
“ PICKITOUT.” A perfect Puzzler
10 the uninitiated. JUST OUT.
The Effect—Three cards are shown
—the ace, deuce and three of
hearts. Someone is requested to
pick out the ace when the cards
are placed on the table. But it is
absolutely impossible to pick it
out. Price complete, with full in- i -
structions, 7d. post free anywhere.
gdf
NEW YORK NOVELTY COMPANY,
710 GEORGE STREET,
Haymarket, SYDNEY.
11. L. HUTCHINSON, Manager. Postal Address: Box 3, Ha.vmarket Post Office.
No. 1 Branch: 25 and 27 Oxford Street, Sydney.
No. 2 Branch : 111 King Street, between George and Pitt Streets, Sydney.
THE
WORLD'S RECORD BREAK
ftft 9ft
836
4
SITS
on an
Alcock
rW%
NO more positive proof of the woptfiinesg ojf an ‘‘ Aleock ” billiard table could
be given than by the splendid performance of-George Gray, the young
Queensland player, in his recent matchj with Fred Lindrum, jun.
A Standard “ Aleock” Billiard Table 'was'used, and certified to by the
Amateur Billiard Association of Victoria (which is affiliated with the Billiard
Association of Great Br itain and Ireland). | • ...
Gray, who made 833 — 831 coming off the fed—used Crystallite balls, and the
marvellous accuracy with which they came off the cushions, the ease with which
the most difficult shots were accomplished,| speaks for itself of the merit and
superiority of “ Aleock ” Billiard Tables, j i .
Write for illustrated catalogue—it’s full of information.
ALCOCK & Co.
Pty.
Ltd.
397 George St., Sydney. 7 Ring William St., Adelaide. Lower Cuba St., Wellington.
155 Elizabeth St., Melbourne. 114 Edwards St., Brisbane. Murray St., Perth. [3.
For your everyday use,
and your everyday
comfort, buy . . .
CALVERT’S
Carbolic Toilet Soap,
For you want a soap that is pure
and cleansing, you like a soap that
is pleasant and refreshing, and an
antiseptic soap like this, containing
10% pure Carbolic—an ample
proportion—protects you against risk of
contagion. Sold at Local Stores and
Chemists, in three-tablet boxes.
Makers, F. C. CALVERT & Co..
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
A COMPLETE FOOD FOR GENERAL USE.
gdf
g
fdg
fd
gdf
This DIET is recommended
in place of ordinary miik fo^d c ,
gruel, etc. Whilst acceptable to
all as a light nourishment it is
particularly adapted to the needs
of Dyspeptics and Inva ids.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
readily digested by those who, a'e
unable to take cow’s milk and is
particularly serviceable in conva-
lescence and as a light supper
diet for the Aged.
The “Allenburys” DIET is
made in a minute by simply adding
,boiling water.
The “Allenburys” DIET is for ADULTS and is quite distinct from the “Allenburys” Foods for Infanta,
FULL PARTICULARS ON APPLICATION TO I '' “ ’ ’
ALLEN & HANBURYS Ltd. and E ridge & Loftus Streets, SYDNEY.


Shipping.
LUND’S BLUEJNCHOR LINE.
For NATAL, CAPETOWN and 'LONDON.
• Twin Screw. Calling at Plymouth.
And Regularly every Four Weeks thereafter.
LOjSDOrs .. ## ## l,O • £66
CAPETOWN and NATAL £l3 13s. to £3l JOs.
t Specially reduced First-class Fares
to London by this Steamer.
, ROUND THK WORM) TICK RTS from £126 10s.
RETURN and STOP OVER TICKETS INTERCHANGE-
ABLE WITH THE ABERDEEN LINE STEAMERS.
For Illustrated Pamphlets, Plans, &c., apply to
CILCHRIST, WATT & SANDERSON, LTD.,
A<*ents, 7 Bent-street, Sydney.
MKWtO'iRNK Aoknts : JOHN SANDERSON & CO.,
11l William-street.
Adelaide <te Fremantle Agents: d KO. WILLS & CO.
ORIENT LINE
Of Royal Mail Steamers.
Australia.—England.
ORVIETO .. Twin-Screw .. 12,130 Tons.
OSTERLEY ~ 12 129
OTRANTO. 12’ 124
OTWAY .. ~ .. 12 077
ORSOVA ” 12’036
ORONTES.. „ „ .. 9,023
, OMR.AH .. ~ .. 8 282
O.PHIR .. „ ~ .. 6’814
ORMUZ 6,465
SftiHujr every fortnight' from BRISBANE, SYDNEY,
Melbourne, Adelaide, and fremantle.
ORIENT S.N. CO., Lta.,
12 Martin Place, Sydney.
Banking-, Public Companies, &c.
The Colonial (|)utual [ife
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
FOR
Mutual Life Assurance, Endowments and Annuities
without Mutual Liability.
l . Head Office :
419 & 421 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE.
Accumulated Funds, ±3,000.000.
Policies Issued 116.154—Assuring- £33.888.510.
Amounts paid to Policyholders, £4,727.264.
Policies Unconditional, Unchallengeable, Indefeasible..
Premiums moderate and without restriction as ti>
1 ravelling. Liberal Bonuses equitablv distributed.
Oiiif.f Office for New South Walks :
28 ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY.
i Directors:
Tiie Hor., C. J. Roberts, C.M.G.. M.L.C., Chairman.
The Hon. Bruce Smith, K.C., M.P.
, A. ROSS MILLER. Resident Secretary.
w Bank of florth Queensland
LIMITED.
Authorised Capital .. ... £700.000
; Subscribed Capital and Reserves .. 370.000
HI-AD OFFICE - - BRISBANE.
J. MACKENZIE LEES, General Manager.
Sydney Office: Corner of George and Bridge Sts.
Manager: J P. CANNY.
Local Director:
ADAM FORSYTH, Esq. (Burns, Philp & Co., Ltd.).
LONDON OFFICE: 4 QUEEN VICTORIA STREET, E.C.
Manager: E. It. LOVE.
Bankers: THE LONDON COUNTY & WESTMINSTER
BANK LTD. , 0
BRANCHES throughout QUEENSLAND . and in
NEW SOUTH WALES.
AGENTS throughout AUSTRALASIA, AMERICA,
and THE EAST.
Transacts all usual Banking Business.
AUSTRALIAN
METROPOLITAN LIFE
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD,,
Ordinary § Industrial Life Assurance.
Directors :
R. M. Phillips, Esq., J. p.
Victor E. Ludlow, Esq., L.K.C.5.1., L.K.Q.C.P.I.
Claude Manning, Esq.
H. Montgomerie Hamilton, Esq.
IX VV. Watkins, Esq.
General Manager: J. A. Henderson.
Secretary: Consulting Actuary:
Freeman J. Eaton. W. R. Day, F. I. A.
Head Office:
30 CASTLEREACH ST. (facing Moore St.), SYDNEY.
Queensland: Victoria:
Metropolitan Building's,
Adelaide St., Brisbane.
48 Queen St.,
Melbourne.
The “Metropolitan’' always has vacancies on its
l Agency Staff for reliable and trustworthy men.
THE OCEAN
Accident & Guarantee
Co. Ltd. r of London.
The Premier Fire, Accident and
Guarantee Gorpn. in Australia.
Directors—Sydney: J. Campbell-VV'ood, Esq.; W. O.
Watt, Esq. (Gilchrist, Watt & Sanderson Lid.); Hon. VV.
H. Wood, M.L.A. ; E. Owkn Cox (Btrt & Company, Ltd.)
General Manager for Australia: JOHN GOODWYN, A.1.A.,
Write for Prospectus. 131 Pitt St., SYDNEY.
HE TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS
AND
AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED,
412 Collins-Bt., Melbourne.
CAPITAL PAID-UP £90,000 0 0
RESERVE FUND(lnvested m Debentures
Stock, and First Mortgages) .. .. £36.000 0 0
Directors : R. Murray Smith, Esq., C. M.G., Chairman ;
John Grice, Esq., Vice-Chairman ; Hon. J. M. Pratt ; J. H.
MacFarland, Esq., M.A., LL.D. ; Alexander M'Crackeh.
JAMES BORROW.MAN, Manager.
FREDK. A. LANG, Assistant Manager.
CARBIDE.
For FirsLclass Results use Best Scandinavian
“PERNIX” CARBIDE.
Addresses of Merchants distributing it can he obtained
/rnm AUGUST BLUMENTHAL LIMITED, 62 Pitt
Street, Sydney, Sole Agents for Australia.
CN HE A P EDITION of “ON THE HOP.”
j Price 2/(>. Postage, N.S.W., 7<l. ; other
States, 1/2. The Bulletin Office, 214 George
Street, Sydney.
Shipping:.
N or d
D eutscher
L
loyd.
FOUR-WEEKLY MAIL SERVICE,
PASSENGERS booked to Egypt, Naples, Genoa, Algiers,
Marseilles, Gibraltar, London, Antwerp, and Bremen.
Unsurpassed Seagning Qualities Maximum Speed,
Safety and Tonnnsre, Best Accommodation, Excellent
Cuisine, CIVILITY. For further particulars apply to
the Agents.
REGULAR FOUR-WEEKLY SERVICE to MANILA,
HONGKONG and YOKOHAMA, via NEW GUINEA.
LOHMANN & CO.,
Tel. 698. 7 Bridye-street, Sydney.
Banking, Public Companies, &c.
Bank of |)eui Zealand,
SYDNEY BRANCH:
EQUITABLE BUILDING, fiEORGE STREET.
Total Capital Paid-up £'2.000.000
Uncalled Capital .. .. £500.000
Reserve Fund and Undivided Profits £710.998
GRANTS DRAFTS
and Ireland, and other places.
The Royal Bank of Queensland, Limited.
Capital Paid-up £518,632 0 0
Reserve Liability of Shareholders .. .. 162,449 0 0
Reserve Fund (Invested in Govt. Stock) .. 0 0
HEAD OFFICE: BRISBANE.
£750,581 0 0
Gen. Mngr.: Edwd. D. Day, Asst'lMtiffr.: E. H. Matthews.
London Office: 31 Budge Row, Cannon Street, London
21 BRANCHES IN QUEENSLAND. E.C.
Agents and Correspondents throughout the World.
TH€ AB€RJ>€€N LIH€.
Durban. Capetown. Plymouth » and
London.
DISCHARGING AT DURBAN WHARF.
CALLING AT MELBOURNE and FREMANTLE.
•Twin Screw. a One class only.
FARES— ' Saloon. 3rd Class.
London .. From £57 .. £l6 Os to £2O Os.
Cane or Durban .. From £3l 10s.. £l3 13s to £l7 17s.
Return and Stop-over Tickets interchangeable with
Lund’s Blue Anchor Line.
ROUND THE WORLD Tickets from £126 10s.
SALOON Cabins on upper and bridge
THIRD-CLASS Accommodation of the highest standard.
Pamphlets, Time-Tables, &c., on application.
LUGGAGE received onlv on day of sailing.
DALCETY & COMPANY, LTD., Agents in Australia.
WHITE STAR LINE.
DURBAN, CAPETOWN, PLYMOUTH and LONDON.
g
Twin-screw Steamers.
SUEVIC, 12,500 ions, Co sail about
J uly 6.
PERSIC, 12,000 tons, to sail about
August 8.
RUNIC, MEDIC and AFRIC to follow.
Only One Class of Accommodation.
PARES—Capetown or Durban *l5 15 0 to £24 3 0
London .. .. 19 0 0 to 30 0 0
New fork, Boston, Montreal,
Quebec, &c. from 24 10 0
Melbourne .. .. .. 1 10 0
Pamphlets and all other information on application.,
LUGGAGE Received Only on Day of Sailing.
DALGETY & COMPANY, Ltd.,
Agents in Australia.
dfg
WINTER TOURS £
to Papua and the Pacfic Islands.
To Papua, via Brisbane, Cairns £2O
June 24, Aug 1 . 12 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Solomon Islands £2O
July 29, Sept. 9 (five weeks’ round trip)
To Lord Howe Island, Norfolk Island and
New Hebrides (seven weeks’ trip) ... £25
First of every month.
Send for illustrated descriptive pamphlet, describing these
and other delightful Holiday Trips, from £lO upwards.
BURNS, PHILP & CO., Ltd., 11 BHdje St., SYDNEY.
Government Savings Bank of New South Wales
Head Office : MOORE STREET, SYDNEY.
• T. -■;
SAYINGS BANK DEPARIMENT. —INTEREST is paid on the minimum monthly
balance on deposits up to £5OO. NO CHARGE for keeping accounts.
ADVANCES made up to at moderate rates of interest, on city or
country lands.
ADVANCE DEPARTMENT.— CHEAP MONEY to Farmers and Settlers on
advantageous terms. REPAYMENT EXTENDING OVER 31 YEARS,
; Pull particular's on application to Branch Managers, Postmasters or at the Head
Office.
J. H. DAVIES, Secretary.
'V
mfWm
FOY’S FAMOUS FOOTWEAR.
We are Sole Agents for the World-Renowned
“Walk-Over” Boots 8 Shoes,
stocked in Half Sizes and many different
widths ; made in Vici Kid, Vici Calf,
Platinum Calf.
Send us your Size and
Fitting, together with
22/6
and l/«
Postage.
ONCE YOU WEAR "WALK-OVER ”
YOU WILL ALWAYS WEAR THEM.
MARK FOY’S LTD.
THE PIAZZA, SYDNEY.
df
gdfg
' Mew Visible Loading
Repeating Rifle No. 70.
The Most Accurate .22 Calibre Repeating Rifle Made.
Barrel'''rifled with' slow twist, one torn in twenty-five indies. Weight 4J pounds. Handles fifteen .
short cartridges, which are always in sight While being fed into chamber. Extra double extractors.
The No. 70 Rifle is also manufactured for .22 long Rifle Cartridges.
The Stevens No. 70 Repeater is absolutely guaranteed, and bound to give universal satisfaction.
- No. 70. Pitted with bead front and sporting rear sights.
Ask your Dealer.
Insist on
STEVENS.
Write for Catalogue to
ARTHUR H. HILL, Australian Represent-
ative for Stevens Arms and Tool Co.,
Box 86, G.P.0., Adelaide, S. Australia.
Send for latest Fire-
arm, Telescope and
Stevens-Pope Cata-
logues. [8
Shipping.
THE ADELAIDE STEAMSHIP CO.
(LIMITED).
EXPRESS PASSENGER SERVICE to and from
West Australian, South Australian,
Victorian and Quoansland Ports*
FOR .MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PORT PIRIE
And GULF PORTS
FREMANTLE.
Transbippinsr at Fremantle
to all North Western Ports,
GERALPTON (W.A.)
S.S. Grantala, June 24.
(Melbourne only.)
'S.S. Koombana (from Fre-
mantle), June 29, callinu
at all N.-West Ports to
Derb3 r .
BRISBANE
MACKAY
TOWNSVILLE
And Ports North to Cairns.
S.S. Marloo, June 18.
S.S. Inriamineka, June 25.
S.S. Grantala, July 2.
Best and Cheapest Route to Goldfields.
Saloon Passage Tickets are interchangeable after lb"
first Port of call with other inter-State Companies on vl
services subject to conditions, which can be ascertained
on application at the Company’s Oltice.
G. S. YU ILL & CO., LTD..
Agents, 6 Bit IDG 15 STIMSIST, SYDNEY.
CANADIAN-AUSTRALIAN
ROYAL MAIL LINE.
THE ALL-RED ROUTE.
T o VANCOUVER, via BRISBANE,
FIJI, and HONOLULU, thence
by Rail to any part of CANADA
or UNITED STATES.
The Best Route to Europe.
SAILINGS :
AND EVERY 28 DAYS THEREAFTER.
t Fitted with Wireless Telegraphy.
Illustrated Pamphlets Free on Application.
For full particulars apply—
UNION STEAM SHIP COMPANY OF N.Z., LTD.
Managing Agents, 259 George-street, Sydney.
F.— H. 5.
Federal-Houlder-Shire Lines.
For London and Liverpool
Via SUEZ CANAL.
T.S.S. “AYRSHIRE.”
11,900 Tons. W. Chicken, Commander
Will be despatched from SYDNEY about 24th June
The saloon accommodation consists of all two-berth
cabins on the upper deck, situated amidships.
The superior third-class accommodation, comprised of
two, four and eight-berth cabins, situated on the main
deck, amidships, with dining room on the upper deck.
Well lighted and ventilated cabins and spacious decks.
Third-class passengers supplied with fresh provisions
from cool chamber throughout the voyage. Surgeon and
Stewardess carried. Electric light throughout. Return
and Round Trip tickets i.-sued via Cape and (or) Suez
routes. Prepaid passages arranged.
FARES— Saloon. Third Class.
LONDON and
LIVERPOOL..
£49 10s. £l3 13s. £l5 15s. £l7 17s.
Steerage fares from Brisbane One Guinea extra.
To be followed at regular four-weekly intervals by fast
twin-screw passenger steamers. Far further information,
illustrated books, pamphlets, etc., apply to
BIRT & CO., Ltd., Sydney ;
8.1. and Q.A. Co., Ltd., Brisbane;
H. JONES & CO., Ltd., Hobirt ;
McILVVKAITH, McEACUAItN & Co., Ltd., Melbourne;
ELDER. SMITH & Co.. Ltd.. Adelaide.
Hotels, &C.
Superior Inducements to Colonial Visitors at the
Westminster Palace Hotel,
VICTORIA STREET, Opposite Westminster
■ AMnnsu Abbey and the Houses
L.UIVUUIV, England. of Parliament.
A thoroughly comfortable Home-like Hotel,
located in one of the best districts in London.
Mo>t convenient situation for business or pleasure.
Single bedrooms front 3/6, ami Double Bedrooms
from 5/6 per dav, and NO ATTENDANCE
CHARGES.
Illustrated Tariff Booklet Sent on Request.
GEO. J. BRINK WORTH, Manager.
POSITION UNRIVALLED
IN
LONDON, ENGLAND*
THE
LANGHAM
HOTEL,
Portland Place and
Regent St., Lcndon, W,
FAMILY HOTEL OF
THE HIGHEST ORDER,
In Fashionable and Healthy Locality.
mi
n
' EORGE HOTEL,
St. Hilda, Melbourne.
Largest Hotel Accommodation in Victoria*.


(I
The Wayhasks Again.
joy and laughter about the famous
JJ Another
stack of
family. Is.
RHEUMATISM'
GREAT ENGLISH REMEDY,
GOUT, RHEUMATISM,
SCIATICA. LUMBAGO,
NEURALGIA.
gout and
UlUli RHEUMATIC
They Never Fail.
They Always Cure.
The only true and safe remedy for Gout and
Rheumatism that has stood the test of time
AU Chernists and Stores 2/9 per box
Proprietors, PROUT & Co., 229. Strand,
London, England \
Pills
GOUT
A
4
A FOOD OF GREAT
NUTRITIVE VALUE
which can be made suitable for any
degree of digestive power by the simple
process of letting it stand for a longer or
shorter period at one stage of its preparation.
For INFANTS, INVALIDS and the AGED.
It is used mixed with fresh new milk, and forms a
delicate and nutritive cream, which is enjoyed and
assimilated when other foods disagree. It is entirely free from rough
and indigestible particles which produce irritation in delicate stomachs.
The Lancet describes it as “ Mr. Benger’s admirable preparation."
The British Medical Journal says ; “ Benger's Food has, by its excellence , established a reputation of its own. '
BENGER S FOOD, LTD., Otter Works, Manchester, Eng.
Benger's Food is sold m tins by Druggists, etc., everywhere. 833
Ladies’ and Gent’s Watches FREE.
m
i*4
Test your Size.
Send us your Number.
Solid Sterling Silver
£ oN
ZoH
:W
1 6M
Rings FREE
SXSSB3
(3£S©
OS3©
IF THEY FIT YOU.
They are not made of brass, tin or white metal, but are
Guaranteed to be i PURE STERLING SILVER through-
out, STAMPED and WARRANTED, and are sold retail
from 2s 6d to 4s 6d at all jewellers. THESE RINGS ARE
FREE IF THEY FIT YOU.
HOW TO WIN ONE.
Cut out the inside of the Rings marked No. 1, N 0.2, and
No. 3, and try on any finger of either hand, forward us
the number of the one that fits your finger, and we will
immediately forward one of these SOLID SILVER RINGS
&& MOTHER
JMM/l'Mr
50^
KIAORA
FREE. With the ring we will send you also FREE 12 of our NAME or MOTTO BROOCHES (as illustratedlfor
Distribution Among Your Friends. These Brooches, which are very strongly made (acid proof), and unique in
design, are sold Sydney Price 2s. each, and WE GUARANTEE THEM to be the BEST VALUE IN BROOCHES
EVER PLACED ON THE MARKET.
All We Require You to Do
is to place these Brooches among your friends and collect Is. from
each. Return us the 12s. collected, and We Will Send You FREE
A RELIABLE WATCH and CHAIN (Lady’s or Gent’s)
OR ANY OTHER PRESENT FROM OTJR ILLUSTRATED PRICE LIST which we will send with the Brooches.
Remember, We Require No Money “ advance. Simply send us your Name and Full
' " J Address, and we will send the Solid Silver Ring
and the 12 Brooches by return mail, postage paid, at our own expense. We know you will HAVE NO TROUBLE
in SELLING THESE BROOCHES, owing to their Excellent Value, or we would not go to the expense of sending
them. We send them out at our own risk, and if you are unable to sell the 12 we will reward you according
to the number disposed of by you upon you returning us the balance unsold.
All letters must be
addressed direct to
the Sole Manufac-
turers, j
Jewellery Supply Co.
Pitt-st, Sydney,
N.S. Wales.
I V
Hotelkeepers! Storekeepers! Confectioners !
. 1 • V".'. ■ . J ■’ » v V,' / ■ .
Make your own AERATED WATERS
df
Price, £lB
and up.
Cash or Terms.
WITH AN
“AUSTRAL”
Aerated Water Machine
at a cost of 4d. per dozen.
Requires only ONE (unskilled) MAN to work it. No special
bottles. Aeration superior to' any Others. Catalogues and
full particulars from the SOLE PROPRIETORS:
ECRERSLEY 8 SONS, 628 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Queensland Agents :
ELLIOTT & DONALDSON, 113 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
Furskins are bringing Bi| PficCS
\ ' TO GET THE BEST RESULTS SELL YOUR LOT THROUGH
New Zealand Loan § Mercantile Agency C
SYDNEY -
■A . • • ; - • y ■' jf ’ • - ' . • 1 ' • Y
Experts Carefully Supervise the Handling of Each Consignment.
0.
Ltd.
Ghe BULLETIN POST CARD^S
PACKET OF TWELVE ,6d. PACKET CF TEN sd.
gfdgdf
BOOK OF NATURE AND ILLUSTRATED
MARRIAGE GUIDE, illustrated with over 50 en-
gravings, new 1908 edition, \2a 6d posted. Merrie ■
, England, (id. How TO Get Rich, Is posted. Dr. Lamar-
tine’s Silent Friend, Is'6d. Ned Donnelly’s Art
of Boxing, new enlarged edition, 40 engravings, Is.
How To Dance, Is, post. How to Wrestle, Is. Moll
Flanders, a rare book by De Foe, Is posted.'
Thurston’s Card Tricks, IS 2d. All Zola’S,
including Nana, Is 6d each, posted. Educating The
Horse, Is. Ventriloquism Made EAsy, Is..'Up-To-
Date Comic Reciter, Irish jComiitßeciter, Favorite
Reciter, Is each posted. 1 Pell’s Standard Elocu-
tionist, latest edition, 3s 6d posted. Riddle of the
Universe, Bd, and all the Rational Press Reprints
(Send for List). Casanova’s Love Stories, Is 6d.
Joys of Life, Is 6d. Nigger Stump Speeches, Is. :
Window Ticket Writing Explained, lfe Jd. Mechanics’
Workshop Handybook, Is 3d. Quadrille Call Book,
2s. Adventures of a Flirt, Is. 3d. Parlor Tricks
and Games, Is. Fortune-Telling by Cards,
Is 2d. All The Bulletin series. Dr. Carver’s TRicks
and Diversions with Cards, illus., Is. Beauty’s
Secrets, post free, Is. Maria Monk, l's 6d. How to
Make Love, Is p6st free. Fowler’s Science of Life,
10s6d. Aust. Miners’Guide (simple tests for minerals),
3s 6d. Mahomet’s Fortune Telling Rook of Fate
' (Dreamer’s Sure Guide), price Is ; post, ,1s 3d, Devil
.in Sydney, Barmaids, Baldheads, etc., Is 2d post.
,i Equality, 9d. Will Power (Personal Magnetism) is
posted. Sandow’s Book of 1 Strength, 3s posted.
1 Carlisle’s Freemasonry, 3s 9d posted., Stranglers
of Paris, Is 6d. History of the Rod (Flagellations
and the Flagellants), sfearce, Us, Practical Has and
Oil/Eng, Handbook, ss. Not GuTlty (Blateh-
|ord), 9d- The Art of Jiu-Jitsu, 9d and Is 6d.
God aNd My Neighbor, tid. Britain for thr
British, 6d, How to Read Facer, Is 3d. ■ How to
Train for all Sports, Is 3d. Diseases of Horses,
Is 3d. The Battle oj? Love, 2s. French Polishing
\ and Staining, 1/2. Photography Self-Taught, 1/3.
1 row to Make Sweets,' Jams and Syrups, Is 2d. New
Trick's with Coins, Is posted. House Painting and
Papering, Is 2d. Prof. Fowler’s Human Science,
10s 6d. Mysteries Court of Queen Elizabeth, Is 6d.
g
FRENCH ART STUDIES, 500 kinds, Is 3d dozen.
GIPSY FORTUNE TELLING CARDS-LOVE,
BUSINESS, FUTURITY, &c., with full directions,
Is posted. Gamblers’ Secrets and How to
Win at Cards, Is 3d. Metal-Working for Ama-
teurs,. Soldering, Brazing, Gas-Fitting, etc., Is 3d
post. How to Play Billiards, illustrated, Is 3d.
That Rascal Gustave Is ; post Is Sd. Camille, Is
post. How to Vamp on Piano, Is. Piano Tuning and
Repairing, Is 3d. Modern Etiquette, Is. Hoyle’s
Card Games (Rules for all Gaines), Is. How to
Mesmerise, Is 3d. Man From Snowy River, os (id.
Poultry Keeping, Is posted. Parlor Magic, Is
posted. Every Man His Own Builder, Is. Every
Man His Own Carpenter, Is 3d. Ready Reckoner
and Lightning Calculator, Is. The Doctor, cures
for all diseases, Is 3d posted. Letter Writer Up-
to-Date, is 3d posted. Speeches and Toasts, Public
Speaking Made EAsy, Is. posted. Kelly Gang of
Bushrangers, illustrations and portraits, is; post
is Ld. Electricity Made Simple (new), 4s ed.
HOME CYCLOPEDIA
KMRR.ACINO
THE POPULAR “PLAIN HOME TALK."
By Dr. E. B. FOOTE.
Plates. 36 Chromos. 400 Illustrations. 1248 Pages.
IT IS FREE FROM TECHNICAL TERMS, and shows up Human
Nature as it exists. Here are answered, in plain language, a thou-
sand questions that occur to the minds of young: and old, but about
which they feel a delicacy in consulting their physician. Chapters
are devoted to innumerable interesting subjects concerning mar-
riage, which makes it a superior guide to the action of men and
women both in and out of marriage. No man or woman who
anticipates a bright future, and wishes to enjoy married life in its
fullest sense, can afford to dispense with the information embraced
in its covers. The new 20th Century edition just arrived.
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. Complete, unabridged,
cloth-covered edition of this great work. It will be posted to
ANY address for SEVEN SHILLINGS AND'SIXPENCE.
Self Instructor. : Every man His Own Schoolmaster,
Is posted. Cabinet Makers’ Handybook, Is 3d.
Complete Bookkeeping, 2s. Elements of Social
Science, 3s 6d. How McDougall Topped the Score, &
Other Verses, Is 3d. The Gay Count, Is 3d. French
Self Taught, Is 2d. Wannan’s Engine Driver’s Guide,
5s 6d posted. Virile Powers of Superb Manhood, os.
Decameron of Boccaccio, lleptameron, and many
others, all at 2s Gd each posted. Bride of tiie First
Night, Is 3d. Women’s Secrets, Is post. Gay
Life in Melbourne, Is posted. The Waybacks, Is 2d.
All these prices Post Paid.
No Matter what Book you
want I’ve got it.
Don't be fooled into paying; more.
Compare my prices with others and
save your cash. ' Established 25 Years.
SIR ROBERT BEAR,
Cheap Book Depot-
-16 Park Street, Sydney (only).
ONLY A SHALL IDEA OF MY STOCK CAN
BE GOT FROH THIS A DVT.
♦
Write for my
Big Illustrated Catalogue
Sent Anywhere for the Asking.
S t V
REMIT IN STAMPS, MONEY ORDER, OR
POSTAL NOTE OP ANY COUNTRY.
ORDERS SENT BY RETURN POST. NO DUTY.
ANY BOOK ADVERTISED ELSEWHERE SENT.
How to Make Ur, Illustrated Guide to the Stage, Is
posted. New Tricks with Cards, Is. Sappho, genuine,
Is. Old Busii Songs, Is 3d Dost. Dr. Milford’s Mid-
wife’s Handbook, 92 practical illustrations, 2s,fed.
Aristotle, 3s 6d. Clog Dancing Made Easy, Is.
Practical Palmistry, Is. Champions of the Ring,
is 2d. Guide to Auctioneering, 2s. fid. Secret
History Court of England, Is 3d post. Lovers’
Letter Writer, Is. All About Incubators, Is 2d.
Morgan’s Freemasonry Exposed, Key to all
Degrees, New Edition, Is posted. Lest Pocket
Diction ary, 8d posted. Tokology, 7s fid post.
Ingkrsoll’s Works, Bd, 2s. How to Read Heads
(Jas. Coates), Is 3d posted. Chevasse’s Advice to a
Wife, 3s fid posted. Wonderful Budget Song
Book, over 300 latest songs, is 3d post free. G..W.
Reynolds’ Court of London Series, 2s each posted.
Sappiio, Is. Bread and Biscuit Bakers and Sugar-
Boilers’ Assistant, Is 3d. The Wife’s Handbook,
Is 2d posted. Fruits of Philosophy. Is post. 100 New
Recitations and Readings, Is 3d. Nervousness and
Its Cure, Is 2d posted. Webster’s Large Un-
abridged Dictionary, 1700 pages, 1600 illus., leather
bound, my price, 15s post paid (why pay 3 and 4
guineas). Bootmaking and Repairing” Is 2d. Dyna-
mos and Electric Motors, Is 2d. Moore’s Universal
Assistant and Complete Mechanic, 1016 pages, cloth
bound, 10s fid posted. The Secrets of Clairvoyance,
Is post. 200 Old-Time Songs (words and music com-
plete), Is Cd posted. The Age of Reason, bv Paine
posted, Sd. WRITE FOR CATALOGUE TO-DAY.
“ The Undersigned ” sends a breaking-
the-news item :
Myself and friend were in Swanston-street the other
evening' for the purpose of investigating the properties of
i certain liquors. After making a qualitative analysis at a
place called a pub, we adjourned to a place called a bar to
make our quantitative analysis, as is the custom with us
scientists. It was at this second place that we struck the
Man with the Warped Face, who was telling a companion
all about it. He said, “The first I heard of the lad being
under a cloud was from old Mitchell, who got him his job
about a week before this happened. He began by askin’
me how me nephew was gettin’on at the new place. I
told him I believed he would be all right in it, but that I
hadn’t seen him since he started. ‘Oh!’ says he,
lookin’ at me a bit curious, ‘he ought to do well
, enough ; that is, if he sticks to it; but I don’t
think he’ll stay there somehow.’ I asks him why.
■ ‘ Well,’ he says, ‘ these young fellows nowadays are
hard to please with jobs, and I believe ve’ll soon hear of
hnn leaving.’ ‘Not he,’says I. ‘You take it from me
he will,’ he ; ‘in fact, they’ve as good as give him
notice already.’ ‘ I can’t account for that,’l says to him.
How do you know about this ? ’ *Oh! ’ he says, ‘ I seen
him just now in Collins-street. He was askin’ after you.
1, fancy he’s got something on his mind, and I told him
I’d look you up. He was pretty much cut up, I may say.’
■ Did he tell you what was the matter?’ I asks. ‘Not
exactly ! ’ he says ; ‘you see, he wasn’t altogether alone,
aiid he_ seemed to feel his position pretty bad, as
the sayin’ is.’ ‘Why,’ says I, ‘who was he with?’
‘Well,’ says Mitchell, ‘he was with tw’o of’em.’
‘With two of_ ’em?’ I says. ‘Two of what?’
‘Oh !’ says he, ‘ just two of ’em. To tell you the truth,
he wants you to go up and see him.’ ‘ Where is he?’ I
asks. ‘Up Russell-street,’ says Mitchell. ‘Whereabouts
in Russell-street?’ I asks. I couldn’t get the hang of it
at all, never havin’ had anything of this kind on me
hands before. ‘ The usual place where they take ’em,’
he says. ‘He wants to see you about bail.’ Why, you
could have knocked me down with a cricket-bat. That’s
how old Mitchell give me the strength of the matter.
You, wouldn’t giv e a rough old codger like him credit for
bein’able to break the news so delicately, would you?”


MICK SIMMONS
HaymarKet, Sydney, N.^S.W.
S6e LEADING
HOUSE "»
CANT
B
BEAT
Sporting Goods
Fishing' Tackle & Tobaccos.
SEND FOR OUR ILLUSTRATED SPORTS, FISHING AND TOBACCa LISTS, FREE.
WE PAY FREIGHT to all parts of Australasia on all parcels of Sporting Goods selected
from our Catalogues (excepting goods mentioned on inside front cover of catalogue) to the
value of 50s. or more, and on al! parcels of Fishing Tackle to the value of 30s. or more.
°£ r Special Snap
No. IF.-Best Quality Fishing Nets, well tanned, fitted ready for use,
with Leads, Corks and Ropes, 24-in. to sin. Mesh.
no. i2sc. Sparrow Catchers’ Nets,
and Pegs.
fitted complete with Ropes, Sticks
5 x 12
5 x 15
5 x 20
5 x 25
5 x 30
We also carry in stock Rabbi. Nets, Fruit
Tree Netting, and all Net Sundries.
10
s?
Bridles
SEND FOR OUR NET PRICE LIST-POST FREE.
Schute, Bell &Go.
LIMITED
Wool Stores: Central Wharf. Produce Stores:
Quay. Offices : 44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Do not sell Fat Stock,
but only Wool, Sheepskins,
Hides, Tallow, etc., and
Marsupial & Rabbit Skins.
Each head of the Company a worker
in theinterestsof their constituents.
Proceeds protected Trust Account
Bank of N.S.W.
fd
U nder
THE NEW TURBAN FRAME,
in two sizes, 1/6 and 2/6, postage 3d. extra ; covered with natural
hair, 21/- Light, dull and grey shades extra. Obtainable only at
UKCE? KA ATS Ladies’ Hairdressers, Hairworkers, etc.,
ihe MloolSo IoAALo, ,6i king street, Sydney,
Telephone 2138 Central, between Elizabeth and Castlereagh Streets.
Combings Made Up. Country Orders promptly attended to.
gfd
Prompt Relief
rfrom Rheumatism
LUMBAGO, SPRAINS,
AND ALL ACHES AND PAINS
Assured by Applying
S T JACOBS
Sold everywhere
gdf
g
NATURE’S lines are
graceful smooth flow-
ing healthy lines like
the Venus Medeci
not broken, injurious and
harsh, as produced by the
ordinary corset.
.—Nature intended you to have
graceful, smooth and flowing
lines, the lines our new Corset,
the D & A Directoire gives you.
.—The resultant health you’ll
enjoy by wearing the D & A
Directoire the resultant fine
shapely physique are Nature’s
smiles of approval.
.—We looked the fashion centres
of the world over in our quest
for a perfect corset; our designers
studied the styles at the Long-
champs race track Paris, in the
most fashionable tea rooms of
the world, and at the great dress-
makers of the Rue de la Paix.
—Then our ideas were deve-
loped on the human figure, and
our D & A Directoire is the
result. Don’t buy a corset
before seeing this one.
CANADIAN
CORSET
For sale by all leading drapers. A-3
Tht Dominion Corset Company, Quebec, Canada.
POLICY fob the COMMONWEALTH
■ilHiUWiiiii&HiiiHß
THE BULLETIN POST CARDS
NEW SERIES—IV., V., VI.
Packet of Twelve, 6d. ; Packet of Ten, sd.
r
r
“ Hold thee that to drink.”— Shakespeare.
Nature’s Finest
Brain & Nerve Tonic.
“WINCARNIS”
Disposition, thought, activity, every movement of the body, are de-
pendent on the brain, and the power of the brain is dependent on the
blood. Languor, faintness, depression, exhaustion, nerve decay and
general ill-health are signs of a loss of vital force, an impoverished
blood, and of wasting tissues, which quickly affect the brain. To be
strong, forceful, with a clear, healthy brain, a good memory, to feel
that work is a pleasure, take “Wincarnis.” It is a natural nerve and
brain food, because it enriches and rejuvenates the blood, creating
strength and vitality in every organ of the body, “ Wincarnis ”
Gives the Joy of
Being Strong' and Vigorous
with that spirit of youth, with its health and activity that mean suc-
cess and happiness. Take “ Wincarnis ” daily as a beverage, try it
with a dash of soda water; it will refresh and revive you at all times,
weakness will disappear under its administration, and health and
strength predominate.
The World’s Greatest Wine Tonic.
Recommended by Medical Men the World over.
Australian and New Zealand Depot: 5 & 7 Barrack Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W,
COLEMAN & CO., Ltd., Wincarnis Works, NORWICH, ENQ.


f/5
fat
n
OO
PEPS ABE INVALUABLE IN THE HOME.
COLDS have a habit jof “running thro’ the house”
because of the germ origin of these complaints.
The first sufferer walks into the house and
scatters broadcast countless germs, which are then
breathed in by the rest of the family. Then brother,
sister, father or mother begin to complain of a
cough, and it is a piece of good fortune if this does
not leave behind some more serious chest weakness.
There is no limit to the consequence of a cough or
cold, and no wise alternative remains but to treat
the first symptoms promptly with Peps—the won-
derful medicine which is breathed from pleasant dis-
solving tablets into the cough-torn breathing-tubes
and lungs.
With a box of Peps always handy, coughs, colds
and influenza are banished from the home and kept
away. Their throats strengthened by Peps, the
children can enjoy the sharp, bracing winter air,
while old folks find in Peps a quick escape from that
old-age winter cough.
A MOTHER'S PRAISE FOR. PEPS.
MRS. H. DOW, of John Street, Rosewood (Q.), says: —“I do not feel safe
without a box of Peps handy, as my experience during the past two winters has
convinced me that they are the best remedy obtainable for the throat and chest. I
always give the children Peps, and whether at bedtime or going to school, a few
Peps is their constant companion in the winter months. I generally give them a few
Peps to put under their pillow at night, in case their coughs should be troublesome
enough to disturb their rest, and one Pep is always sufficient to allay the irritation
and enable them to have a good night’s sleep.”
Peps are an indis-
pensable remedy for
coughs, colds, bron-
chitis, sore throat,
chills, asthma and
other chest troubles.
Sold by all chemists
and stores at 1/6 and
31- per box, or direct
from The Peps Pas-
tille Co., 39 Pitt St.,
Sydney.
fdg
“THE TRUE BREATHING CURE.”
Beauty’s Favourite.
The article which excels all others
in improving the beauty of the sßin
is naturally and deservedly beauty’s
favourite. This has been the
acknowledged ® and honoured
41-
position held by Pears’ Soap for
nearly 120 years. It won, and has
maintained that position by virtue
of its complete purity, and by the
possession of those special emollient
properties which soften, -refine,
and impart natural colour to the
sßin. No other soap possesses
these qualities in such a pre-
eminent degree as
Matchless for the Complexion.
On Keira.
[For T h k Bullktis.]
jl 1 f HEN Youth, a callow Knight untried,
V \ With golden spurs to win,
Rode bright in armor at his side,
And, all his Soul within,
Love sang him on a harp apart
A song of young desire—
He, careless, threw another heart
On Life’s red altar fire.
On Keira rose the sun that day,
By Illawarra green ;
On grand old Keira, far away
Beyond the Might-Have-Been.
The sun on Keira, like an earl.
Still flaunts his banners brave ;
But at his feet the dews impearl
The grass above a grave.
Oh, whiter than the surf was she
That breaks those coasts along ;
And redder than the coral tree
That gi’ows by Uerringong;
And graceful as the Springing palm
On Illawarra hills;
And sweeter than the meadow balm
By cool Shoal haven rills.
A maiden of old fairyland.
With dove eyes, shy and brown ;
A youth with Happiness in hand,
Who flung the rare gift down.
For he was tall and true and strong,
In her adoring eyes ;
Nor could he harbor thought of wrong,
Be perjured or unwise.
To her he came, Love’s Avatar,
Resistless, from the West ;
Upon his forehead shone the star
Of Morning for his crest.
World-old her dream, as songs aver
By primal poets sung ;
But new and ever sweet to her
Who trusted and who clung.
He scorned the guerdon he had won,
And went his youthful ways ;
So fame bewitched him, and anon
He drank the cup of Praise.
Then Gold and Women snared his thought.
And drew him to his fall;
He strove, he conquered, won and sought
And lived—to curse it all.
Grey hairs lie on him, and his brow
Is ploughed by Time. The goad
Is ever ; but he would that now
He took the other road ;
For, often as his mem’ry brings
Its echoes from Beyond,
One voice through all the distance rings,
Despairing, lost and fond.
He hears it in the crowded towns,
He hears it on the seas;
He hears it where the star-dome crowns
The bush infinities.
“ Come back to grand old Keira ;
I wait, dear heart, for thee ;
Come back again to Keira,
And Love, and Youth, and Me.”
The sun on Keira, sinking yet,
Doth furl his banners brave ;
And at his feet the night-dews wet
The grass above her grave.
Its wreath of joy, its cross of pain
Each generation bears;
But Time shall surely reap the grain
And sift it from the tares.
And this is true ; all else is vain
And idle at the last,
No foot shall ever meet again
The cross roads of the Past.
Unto the Dark and Narrow Place
Each man shall bring his load ;
And woe to him who turned his face
From his appointed road.
N.s.w.
E. J. BRADY.
The New Boy.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
fl'lWO small boys were standing at the
back gate of a house, engaged in staring at
each other and eating bread and jam.
One was Peter, and the other an entirely new
boy. Peter had never seen him before. He had
never even heard of him before. For all Peter
knew the other boy might have only been hatched
10 minutes ago.
The new boy had a brick-red countenance and
snow white hair. He had a dirtycollarand astaring
eye. Apparently he had a home, because he was
eating bread and jam.
The boys eyed each other with a fixed, calm,
unblinking stare that would have distracted an
adult mind.
Presently the new boy’s attention wandered a
little, and he looked in at the gate. The action
aroused Peter at once. He hurried inside, and
after a moment appeared on top of the gate. By
this simple means it was clearly demonstrated to
the new boy that he could have no possible right
in that yard, as Peter lived there himself.
Bill hurried importantly down the road with his
bag of books. He was late, it appeared, for the
delicious hour of bread and jam.
The moment Peter caught sight of him he called
Bill’s attention to the pale-haired stranger.
“ What price?” he said, pointing.
“Who is it?” asked Bill, interested.
Peter shook his head. Bill became more in-
terested still. He hurried across the road and
climbed the gate.
“ What yer eatin’, Pete ?” he asked, anxiously,
Peter graciously supplied the information.
“What sort of jam is it, Pete?” asked Bill,
inspecting the piece so closely that some of the
jam came off on his nose.
“Raspberry,” said Peter, munching. He took
a large bite, and allowed his glossing eye to
wander round the landscape. At each successive
mouthful Bill’s desperation increased. He fol-
lowed Peter’s bread and jam from hand to mouth,
feverishly munching in company a phantom piece,
and swallowing phantom mouthfuls.
At last his feelings became too poignant to be
borne.
“Yer know yer uncle, Pete,” he said.
Peter considered the terms of relationship, and
examined the piece.
“Yer can have one bite,” he said, at length.
With indecent haste Bill bit off as much as he
could get into his mouth. Then he took the bite
out and gave an exultant chirrup. The new boy,
who had watched the whole transaction with ex-
treme interest, made a sound that might have
meant anything, and attacked his piece with some
energy. There was an interval, filled with the
sound of eating, till Bill made an important dis-
covery.
“ Bet yer I know who he is,” he said.
“No; who?” asked Peter, with interest. The
new boy stopped eating, and stared fixedly at Bill.
“His old man’s the new Church of England
parson,” said Bill. “The very identical,” he
added, hilariously.
Peter scrutinised the new boy narrow]}', as if to
verify the statement. “ His old man ain’t got
hair like that, anyway,” he said to Bill.
Bill promptly gave him the lie.
“ I tell yer he ain’t,” shouted Peter.” “ I seen
him meself up the station.”
Bill forgot for the moment that he was eating
Peter’s bread and jam.
“Yer never seen his hair,” he said, aggressively.
“ I did, yer liar.”
“Yer never.”
“Yer did—l mean I never. Why didn’t I?”
shouted Peter.
“’Cause he had his hat on,” said the Jesuit,
promptly.
“ Yer think yer funny,” said Peter, nonplussed.
“ I tell yer I seen his old man hundreds o’ times
up the station yesterd’y ! I tell yer he ain’t got
hair like that, any day”
Here the new boy, who had listened to the
whole discussion with intent but impartial air,
thought fit to put a word in. As an undoubted
authority on the matter, he looked a trifle
important.
“ Me father ain’t got hair like me, see,” he said,
“ because he cuts it short.”
This was interesting.
“ What for ? ” demanded Peter.
“ Because he has to,” said the new boy.
Peter was determined to get to the bottom of
this mystery.
“ Who makes him ? ” he asked.
“Nobody don’t make him,” said the new boy.
“ He was bit in the neck by a black spider, so he
has to cut his hair short.”
“ What for?” asked Peter, staring.
“Because he was bit by a black spider,” said
the new boy. He took a large bite, and munched
with a solemnity befitting the gravity of the dis-
cussion. Bill and Peter munched over the new
boy’s explanation a moment, and then discovered
the solution simultaneously. It was a simple
matter, and they put it to him at once.
“Who’s kiddin’ yer?” demanded the new
boy, aggressively.
Again the answer was promptly forthcoming,
with the additional information that in Peter’s
opinion the new boy was “a dirty skite.”
“ I tell yer me father was bit by a black spider,”
shouted the new boy ; “up to (iippsland— so he
bloomin’ well has to cut his hair off.”
Peter looked doubtful. Such persistence sounded
like truth. But Bill had a poser ready:
“ Prove it,” he said.
The new boy stopped eating and reflected
deeply. Then he jumped mechanically into the
gutter and stared vacantly at the landscape.
Peter patted Bill on the back. “ Ye’ve proved
him,” he said with approbation.
Bill collected a lot of saliva in his mouth and
made a bubbling sound with it, looking import-
antly down on the proven one.
“ As if,” he said at the conclusion of this per-
formance, “because yer was bitten by a black
spider ver’d have to cut yer hair off.” The affair
of the black spider was evidently intimately con-
nected with the new boy’s family honor. “Yer
do,” he shouted, springing out of the gutter at
once. “Black spiders’ll make yer cut ver hair
off any day. My word,” he went on, pointing at
Bill. “I’d just on’y like me father to hear ver say
that.”
Bill hedged a little. “I never said nothin’
about yer father,” he said.
“Well, he did.” The new boy indicated Peter
with his crust. Peter denied it hotly. His re-
marks had referred, it appeared, not to the new
boy’s father, but to the new boy’s father’s black
spider. The new boy merely munched at him,
totally ignoring his explanations.
“It’s a good job,” was all he said, “that me
father never heard yer.”
Peter regarded the new boy coldly. Here was
a total stranger with white hair, actually attempt-
ing to obtrude the authority of his father on the
very footpath in front of Peter’s gate.
“ I ain’t afraid of yer old man,” he said at last.
The new boy had just put a large crust in his
mouth ; but in his astonishment at Peter’s te-
merity he forgot to eat it. He stood there, with
one end of the crust sticking out, and stared
fixedly at Peter. Yet there was worse to come,
for Peter, leaning far over the gate to get as close
to the new boy as possible, said these dreadful
words:
“ Pigs to yer old man ! ”
The new boy commenced eating rapidly. He
bolted a couple of times, choked, got the crust
down, and ran back a little to get a better view of
the mocker. He was a slow thinker, but such
words could only have one solution.
“Wait till me father cops yer out,” he said.
“You only wait.” He paused a moment, as if
making a mental note of Peter’s appearance, and
pointed him out to Bill. “ That’s the bloke,” he
said, nodding.
His tone was such that Peter drew certain in-
ferences.
“You let your old man touch me,” he said
ferociously. “ He’d pretty quick find out.” That
the threat might not be unduly indefinite, he
added, He d get a rock at his head soon as look
at him.”
It was quite a time before the new boy got over
the shock of this frightful hesesy. When he did
his manner was portentous.
“Ye’ve dun it,” he said. “ I’m goin’ to tell me
father.
Peter chanted a cordial permission from the
ga‘e; “Pell him an’smell him,” he said. That
might have settled the matter if Bill hadn’t
poured a little oil on the embers.
“ What’ll yer father do to him ? ” he asked
“Me father’ll give him a hidin’,” said the new
boy prompt y, “an’ not let him speak to anyone
for a week. J
Peter was so incensed at this that he could only
hoot frantically. “Will he, will he, will he?” he
shrilled, almost bereft of breath by his indig-
nation. X hen he laughed scornfully.
“He muMf, reckon his old man’s’the King of
( < 'ontmucd on next page.)


A Man can only do as much Work as his back will stand.
Once the back gives out he must lay down his tools.
But that is not all, for backache tells of sick kidneys. Other unmistakable signs are dizziness, stiffness of the
limbs, sick headache, and sleeplessness. Before long the patient grows nervous, short tempered, and depressed; the eyes
become heavy and sunken, with swellings beneath them, and the color flies from the cheeks. There is danger of kidney
disease, rheumatism* dropsy, and Bright’s disease. The liquid poison
which causes kidney troubles is driven from the' body quickly and
thoroughly by the genuine Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills. This great
medicine will strengthen your back by relieving and toning up the kidneys.
SYDNEY TESTIMONY.
ELIZABETH STREET .
Mr. John Moroney, Ham and Beef Shop, 228
Elizabeth Street, Sydney, says: —“About 18
months ago I began to suffer with backache, and
got a feeling in the small of my back as if I had
a growth there, or as if some foreign substance
had lodged there ; it did not show outwardly, but
troubled me more than you would suppose. I
could not lie in bed with comfort. I saw in the
paper that Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills had
cured a man I know, and one day I asked him
for the full particular's of his ease. He told me
he had been very bad, and this remedy cured him,
and strongly advised me to try it. I did use
them, and have not much to say beyond that
they cured me also. The backache and the un-
pleasant sensation have quite gone. I strongly
recommend the use of Doan’s Backache Kidney
Pills to all who suffer with backache.”
Eight years later, Mr. Moroney says:—
“Thanks to Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills, I am
still well, and free from backache. This remedy
cured vne'eight years ago.”
PADDINGTON.
Mr. George Saunders, 82 Boundary Street, Pad-
dington, Sydney, who is a prominent Union
worker, writes Just 12 months ago I had a
severe attack of influenza, and afterwards I was
doubled up with terrible pains in the small of my
back. I tried remedies for kidney complaint, a
prescription from a well-known city doctor, reme-
dies recommended by friends, and various patent
medicines ; but my back ached on in spite of
treatment. A fellow employee who had used
Doan’s Backache Kidney Pills with success, pur-
chased a box (I did not have the money with me
at the time). He gave them to me, saying, ‘Try
these pills; I believe in them. If they cure you,
pay me later on ; if they don’t, I’ll bear the cost.'
I am delighted to, tell you that they did cure me.
I have no backache "flow. My quick cure has
made me a firm believer in them.”
Mr. Saunders says, three years later; —“My
cure has proved a permanent one. It is now
three years since Doan’s Pills stopped my back
from aching, and generally toned up and
strengthened my kidneys.”
as,
o-f
/" '"i
11,11
4
\u
1
J
*' Every
picture
tells a
story.”
fd
g
Kidney
fdg
At all Chemists and
St or ekeepers, 2/9
per bottle ; or from
Foste r- McClellan
Co., 76 Pitt Street,
Sydney.
England,” he said to Bill. Bill dodged the
question by bubbling loudly.
“Yer must reckon the King qf England’s yer
old man,” Peter informed the new boy. -
Apparently the new boy had never - been so
insulted in his life. He looked up and down
and round about, and again there was but one
solution to his mind.
“Yer old man couldn’t catch me,” said Peter
promptly. “ I’d run him any day.”
‘‘Me father’s. the champion runner of Mel-
bourne,” shouted the new boy.
“ So yer say,” said Peter hilariously, intimating
that the statement was mere wild boasting.
“He is,” roared the new boy. “He won first
prize for our dog at the Hog Show ! Me father’s
got the champion ferret that’ll come if yer whistle
it out of a hole ! Me father wouldn’t take a ten
pound note for him. That knocks yer,” he added
triumphantly.
Peter hastily improvised a few facts to meet the
ease. Sam Brown, it appeared, also had the
champion ferret—Sam wouldn’t take a hundred
pounds for him. Futhermore, Sam Brown had a
bonzerdouble-barrelled gun—a conclusive proof, as
any one could see, of the superiority of his ferret.
It knocked the new boy.
“I tell yer,” shouted the stranger, “me
father’s the champion shot of the world.”
Peter was in the middle of a frantic hoot when
Bill put a word in :
“ What about Dr. Carver ? ” he said.
The proposition was so unexpected that it
brought the discussion to a full stop. Both Peter
and the new boy stared hard at Bill, considerably
mystified.
“ What about him?” said the new boy, at length,
a trifle more mildly.
“ about him?” asked Peter, in a low
voice.
Bill climbed off the gate, and motioned Peter
to follo.w. The new boy hoard a hurried whisper-
ing within, and the two heads shot up again.
“ He’s the champion shot of the world,” shouted
Peter triumphantly.
“ Who is ? ” asked the new boy, aggressively.
Peter had forgotten the name.
“ Who is ? ” he said to Bill.
“Dr. Carver,” said Bill.
“ Carver,” shouted Peter.
“ Prove it,” shouted the new boy.
Again the prompter’s services were required.
“ He read it in a hook,” announced Peter.
The riew hoy was clearly outclassed. He looked
about for a fitting retort, and presently found it.
“ Gooseberry eyes,” he said.
“ Snowy head,” was the prompt reply.
The new hoy scrutinised Peter carefully.
“Puddeny fane,” he said at length.
“ Lousey white head,” returned Peter instantly.
The new adjective was successful.
“ Lousey yourself,” roared the new boy.
,1 “ Lousey, lousey, ’ - . .
Stinkerhousie, i
Stunk the doy
Out of the housie,”
chanted Peter from the gate. The effect of this
brilliant, epigram was tremendous. Peter himself
was astonished; at the ease with which he had
dashed it off. It maddened the new boy.
“Puddeny Woodnev,” he bawled, but his
effort was poor in comparison with Peter’s
finished performance. He danced on the foot-
path and roared to cover his paucity of wit, but
Peter easily out-sarig him. There was only one
fitting retort left to the new boy, and he lost no
time in employing it.
The; song of triumph from the gate stopped
iiistantly, and Peter lpoked ferocious.
“ You drop them rocks,” he said.,
“You drop callin’ me lousey,” said the-new
• boy.
Peter eyed him carefully, calculating to what
lengths he might be goaded, into employing th ! e
rocks. , v . s/ ■;>’
“ So yer are,” he.said, after a pause.
The rock, thrown with great accuracy, parsed
exactly in the place where his head would have
been if he hadn’t shifted it by falling backwards
off the gate. Peter ran up the yard in a towering
passion, gathering stones. ;
When he ran out again the new boy was en-
sconced behind a heap of road metal. Peter
sighted liim and let fly, the new boy dodging
carefully. The new boy returned the compli-
ment, and for a while they pelted away indus-
triously, aiming accurately but dodging with pre-
cision. It was a pleasant and healthful recreation,
but. without success, apt to border on the mono-
tonous. After a quarter of an hour of it, interest
perceptibly slackened. The mew boy climbed the
heap of metal and looked about him. The setting
sun gleamed on his snow-whitehair. Peter had a
stone in his hand and he threw it carelessly. It
hit the new boy on the top of the head and
hounded across the road. So unexpectedly
successful was Peter’s humble effort that be was
considerably more astonished than his .enemy.
The new boy took off his cap and stared
vacantly round at the stone. Then he felt bis
head, and evidently coming to the conclusion
that the natural result of being struck on the
head by a rock at full speed must mean death, or
at least a dreadful wound, he cast himself sud-
denly on the earth and roared frantically.
Peter ran instantly inside and hid behind the
gate. It was no business-of Bill’s, but he climbed
down hurriedly and crouched beside Peter.
The yells ceased, and there was dead silence.
Peter turned pale, and Bill, after drawing bis
underlip in as far as it would go, took a deep
breath and tendered Peter a piece of information.
“ Now ye’ve done it,” he said.
Peter listened with feverish anxiety -for his
victim to resume yelling, but all was silent.
“I never done it,” lie whispered, after a dread-
ful pause.
“Yer did,” hissed Bill, fiercely. “Yer
bounced it fair off his head.” Peter trembled
violently. “ I wouldn’t mind bettin’,” Bill went
on impressively, “that ye’ve killed him.”
“He flung at me first,” said P,eter, feebly-
working up his case. “Fair at me head—he
might have killed me, any day.” :
“ If ye’ve killed him,” said Bill, following up a
pleasing train of thought, “ve’ll be a murderer.
How’ll yer feel about it then ?”
Peter evidently felt pretty bad about it now.
'He stared uneasily round, as if expecting an
immediate visit -of the Law in all the awful
majesty of a policeman’s helmet.
“ What ’ud you do ? ” he asked Bill, as though
it were a matter between giving himself up or
fleeing the country for life.
“ I’d have a look what’s up with him,” said
Bill, promptly.
Peter considered the advice a moment, and
then crawled to the gate and looked out. There
was no sign of the new bov anywhere. He was
either behind the heap of blue metal, or else he
had been taken away for burial. Peter approached
tbe ! heap on tiptoe, and looked over. The new
boy was there, lying flat on his back with his eyes
wide open, staring up into the sky.
He. appeared to be meditating profoundly on
nothing in particular. Peter inspected his head
carefully. His air was reverential; he expected
at least a dreadful gaping wound. But he had
been grossly deceived.
“ Yer ain’t hurt at all,” he said fiercely.
At the sound of his voice the new boy’s wander-
ing fancy came down from the sky in a hurry.
He commenced to kick frantically.
“I am,” he roared. “Me brain’s fractured.”
The new boy's exhibition of craven fear was
obviously nothing short of a trick to involve Peter
in a felon’s doom.
“ Yer dirty skitin’ liar,” he said, “ I never
touched yer brain.”
The new boy sat up and felt his head carefully,
He wasn’t going to take Peter’s word about it.
Bill, from afar, regarded the scene with interest.
“Is he wounded much ?” he shouted.
“He ain’t wounded at all,” said Peter, with a
scornful laugh. “He reckons his brain’s frac-
tured,” he added hilariously. “ He’s got a rat.”
The new boy listened vacantly, as if Peter’s
remarks referred to somebody else. He got up
now and menaced Peter with his fist. “ Who’s
got a rat?” he demanded.
“You have,” said Peter, defiantly.
The new boy measured carefully at Peter with
his fist, as if calculating exactly where he intended
applying it, pranced a little, and then merely put
on his cap.
Peter had no words wherewith to express the
contempt he felt at this poltroonery. He closed
his eyes, protruded his tongue, wrinkled up his
nose, and variously disposed the rest of his
features to express the nature of his feelings.
When he opened his eyes again he discovered that
the new boy had put both thumbs into his mouth,
drawing that organ out till it resembled a letter-
box, and at the same time plucked down the outer
edge of his eyelids in a very insulting manner.
This was not to be borne. Peter ranged up
alongside the mocker, disposed his features, puffed
out his cheeks, and made a loud, offensive sound
with his mouth.
It. was at this point that the new boy grappled
with him. As Peter had his eyes shut, he was,
of course, utterly unprepared for the attack, and
was borne easily to the ground. There was a
considerable amount of dust raised immediately,
so that Bill was unable to clearly observe the
fight. They rolled about very rapidly, and by
the insistent demands to “ Leggo me neck,”
choking seemed a particular point of the game.
A little irate man, wearing a pair of loud Check
trousers in open defiance of a clergyman’s coat,
came round the corner briskly. He stopped at
once, inspected the agitated dust cloud, and then ’
gave it a few sharp, perfunctory raps with his
cane. For about half a minute both small boys
were stimulated to the most frantic efforts, each
under the impression that the other was at work
with some deadly weapon of offence. The
other half a minute Peter was engaged in
bolting for home. After that he and Bill
waited a long time (fully half a minute), and then
they peered cautiously over the gate. The new
boy and the irate man were walking down the
flat. Presently they stopped abruptly, and the
irate man interrogated.the new boy at the point
of the cane. Evidently his commands were per-
emptory, or else the new boy was not ready with
his lie.
The irate man seized him suddenly by the neck,
beat him with considerable energy and walked on
briskly. Then Bill and Peter knew who the irate
man was. He was the new boy’s father.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
The Woman You’ve Treated
Badly.
[FOR THE BULLETIN.]
HERE’S a woman you’ve treated badly—a
woman you can’t forget;
* There’s a woman who loved you madly—a
woman who loves you yet!
Lo ! her face comes out of the gloaming and
follows you down the years ;
Wherever you may go roaming you feel the drip
of her tears !
For her voice is always calling—aye, calling you
back to her ;
Aye, back to her arms enthralling and back to
her breast of myrrh !
’Tis the woman you treated badly—she is always
upon your track —
O, she follows you onward sadly, and always call-
ing you back !
You may leave your home behind you and wander
over the earth.
But her eyes and voice will find you in the midst
of your wildest mirth.
She’ll follow you over the bcean and over the
farthest seas ;
You will know by your heart’s emotion—you wiil
hear her voice in the breeze !
It wiil call ’midst the jests and laughter in the
flash saloons and bars ;
You’ll know that she’s following after, out under
the silent stars !
’Tis the woman you’ve treated badly—aye, you
can’t escape the eyes
Of that woman who loved you gladly with a love
that was not wise !
There’s a something always stirring down in your
deepest heart,
Though you drive with engines whirring and
follow the farthest chart !
There’s a Someone always yearning back in the
red-lipped past;
There’s a Someone always mourning—but she
hopes for joy at last !
You sit by yourself and ponder in the still, dead
hours of night
You think of a sweet girl yonder, and her breast
so soft and white.
’Tis the woman you’ve treated badly—no, you
cannot forget the name
Of the woman who loved you madly with a love
of sacred flame !
Go back and tell her about it—go back to yoiir
wistful love ;
Aye, the earnest stars all shout it as they blaze on
heights above !
Go back and sue her for pardon—go back, alid
she’ll guess the rest;
Go back—strive not to harden the heart in your
guilty breast!
Confess how the years have pained you—her
kisses will pay you back ;
Let the thought of the arms that chained you
speed you swift on the homeward track !
To the woman you’ve treated badly, go back —go
back again ;
And her lips will greet you gladly, and her eve-
will lose their pain !
VICTORIA.
GRANT HERVEY.


slli
Mr. J. Williams, of Northern Sta-
tion, N. E. Port Augusta, sends his
photo and writes that he has been a
sufferer from impure blood and indi-
gestion, with pimples on his face, and
blackheads. He was always taking
medicines of some kind, with no re-
lief until he began with Ayer’s Sar-
saparilla and Ayer’s Fills. He took
in all three bottles of the Sarsaparilla
“'•and two bottles of the Pills, with the
result that the pimples and black-
heads disappeared and he was relieved
entirely of his indigestion.
AYER’S S arsaparilla
acts directly upon the blood-forming glands of the hpdy, stimulating them to
produce healthy, rich, red blood ; the kind of blood that brings a good whole-
some color to the lips-and cheeks, clearing away pimples and'blackheads.
As now made, Ayer’s Sarsaparilla contains no alcohol. Be
sure that you get “AYER’S,” not some worthless imitation.
Take Ayer’s Pills -with Ayer’s Sarsaparilla. One aids the other
Prepared by Dr. J. C. Ayer & Co., Dowell, Mass., U. S. A.
TOOHEYS LIMITED
Standard Bottle Ale & Stout.
AGENTS FOR
Murray’s English Ale. Club Rum.
Dog Head Stout. King’s Liqueur Whisky.
Manufacturers of Aerated Waters and Cordials.
DR. J. COLLIS BROWNE’S
The Original anti Only Genuine
Convincing:
Medical
Testimony
with each
bottle.
8010 BY ALL
OHfiMISTS.
Prices in
Bngiand
V*. */***!• _
fd
Checks and
arrests Fever,
Croup, Ague.
The Best
Remedy
known for
BS, ASTHMA,
umuHITIS.
Aots like a charm in
DIARRHOEA, and is the only
specific in CHOLERA and DYSENTERY .
YOU REQUIRE A STIMULANT.
Doctors raoommend Port Wine for Invalids.
Y.A.V.BudgerreePort
Nature's Gift.
m
fills this prescription.
(Refuse substitutes.)
Don’t think it is too eheap.
Buy a bottle and compare
with other brands at a greater
cost.
The secret is—we grow,
make and bottle this Wine,
thereby saving you middle-
men’s profits.
If your hotel or store does
not stock “Budgerree Port,”
send us a P. 0.0. for 18g.,
and we will forward you a
dozen properly packed with-
out delay.
VICTORIAN ASSOCIATED
VINEYARDS CO.,
Growers and Merchants,
Basement, 7* PITT BTREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
And at 19 McKILLOP STREET, MELBOURNE, VIO.
Si Britisb-flustralasiaii
tr
A Weekly Journal for Australians, written
and published by Australians in London.'
P**ir** POST FpBE - P cr y ear '
* 1 IvC UU« in advance, all over the world.
Australians visiting London are cordially
invited to visit the Reading Room where files
of all the leading Australian papers may be
inspected. Letters may be addressed care of
the British-Australasian during the first
two months of a visit to Great Britain. In-
formation on all topics of importance to
visiting Australians is supplied by the paper.
No fees. A little patch of Australia in
London.
Note the Address— v
115 HIGH HOLBORN (Near Kingsway),
LONDON, W.C.
POLICY for the COMMONWEALTH
Price 6d, from The Bulletin Office.
CANT
B
BEAT
RIAR
PIPES
ALL SHAPES
|/each post free f/s
Quality Not Better
in a
Guinea Pipe
MICK SIMEONS
SYDA/EY.
smrrjiesAVfis* roMerw/srs
shovlo iota rmf om txm>£ujt
Compulsory Winding-up of the Insolvent
Stock In the Estate of
Weadon, Thomas & Co.
139 Elizabeth Street, Melbourne.
AS it is necessary for the Trustees Do bring this business
** to a close, they have decided upon the boinpulsorv
winding up of same, and beg to submit the following
lines at greatly reduced prices to clear :
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns', engine-
turned rib, left full choke, right modified, re-
bounding locks, pistol grip, Usual price,
£6 10s. Sale Price £3 17 6
3 Double-Barrel Breech-loading Guns, steel
locks, walnut stock, rebounding iocks, No. 1
SPECIAL quality, treble wedge fast Greener
cross-bolt. Usual Price, £O. Sale Price ..£5 0 0
3 Single-Barrel Haminerless Breech-loading
Guns, choke bore, excellent stock. Usual
Price, £3. Sale Price .. £1 15 0
3 Single-Barrel Duck Guns, kill quantity game
at 100 yards, large bore. Usual price £lO 10s.
Sale price £5 16 0
8 Double-Barrel Breech-loaders,excellentstock,
with cartridge machine and cleaners complete.
Usual price, £5. Sale price'- £2 17 6
12 Rifles, Winchester pattern, fire 22 short or
long cartridges. Usual Price, 225. 6d. Sale
Price IS 9
All the above guns are complete with Cartridge
Machines and Cleaners.
CARTRIDGES, 12 Gauge, 6s. 6d. per 100
A Fair Trial given with every Gun.
All Bank Drafts, Cheques or’ Post Office Orders must be
made payable to WEADON, THOMAS <fc CO.
All orders for guns and rifles delivered carriage paid to
ny address in Australasia.
Send for illustrated Catalogue—posted free.
1
Superior to
, INJECTIONS
ICUBEBS and
j COPAIBA.
f same
diseases without
inconvenien-e
in
48 hours.
gdf
Each Capsule bears the name
PUBLIC OPINION
is generally sane and trustworthy. It is only on really insignifi-
cant and unimportant matters that the sense of the community is
ever at fault. The sentiments and opinions of the world are more
likely to be right than those of the isolated critic. This is partic-
ularly true of such matters as must be decided by the test o f expe-
rience. What the majority have proved in practice to be true *
ought to weigh with us as an established fact. Now if there is one
question more than another on which public opinion is unanimous
it is that the excellence of BEECH AM’S PILLS as a family medi-
cine is unsurpassed. Their universal popularity has very suitably
been expressed in the world-famed expression
BEECHAM’S
PILLS
ARE WORTH A GUINEA A BOX.
Prepared only by THOMAS BEBCHAM, St. Helens, Lancashire.
So.d everywhere in boxes, price lU\ (56 pi Is) & 2 9 (168 pills).
Magazine TalKs
By the Editor of THE LONE HAND.
No. 1.
HAS it ever struck you that when you buy
an imported sixpenny magazine you.are
paying sixpence for a magazine that is pub-
lished for less than sixpence ? If it is an Ameri-
can magazine, the publishing price for Ameri-
can readers is ten cents (fvepence) ; if an
English magazine, the English public pay only
fourpence halfpenny for it. Owing to freight
charges the Australasian reader pays sixpence
for a magazine whose publishers consider it
worth only f/z d. or sd. Do you get your
money’s worth ? There is a magazine pub-
lished in Australia at sixpence, for which you
have only to pay sixpence. In buying The
Lone Hand you get a magazine worth six-
pence for Sixpence. (This senes will be continued.)
ft a
CONSULT
Me on All
DISEASES
I have a practice ex-
tending all over Aus-
tralia as a Consultant
Chemist. Write to me
fully about your case
and I will advise you
honestly and without charge.
S.H.HENSHALL
»by Examination
246 Clarendon Street, South Melbourne.
THE BALLET GIRL
g
fdg
Her Theatrical ud
Domestic History.
Post Frss. Us.
The Life, Adventures
and Concessions of a
SYDNEY
BARMAID
Post Frss, Is.
Bond Stamp for lUurtrated Lists of Books <
Madame Panza,
Box 913. G.P.0. , SYDNEY.
ASTH MA CURE
GRIMAULTS INDIAN CIGARETTES
Difficulty in expectoration. Asthma, Herrons Cough*,
Catarrh, Sleeplessness and Oppression imme4iately
relieved by GKIMAULT A Co's INDIAN CIGAR-
ETTES. Sold by all Chemists.
Critchley Parker’s
Publications.
Australian Mining and Metallurgy. £1 Is.
Donald Clark. 600 pages, royal octavo.
Metallurgy of Tin. 12s. 6d.
Thibaiilt. 230 pages, demy octavo.
Ventilation of Mines. Sarvaas. 2s. 6d.
West Australian Mining Industry. ss.
New South Wales Mines and Minerals. 2s.
Victoria and Its Mining Resources. 2s.
Gold Refining. Donald Clark. 12s. 6d.
Electrical Progress in Australasia. 2s. 6d.
IN PREPARATION.
Collieries 8 Coal Fields of Australia. £1 Is.
F. Danvkrs Powrr.
Mining 8 Railway Map of Australasia. 10/6.
Order through your Bookseller, or
Australian Mining Standard Office,
Sydney, Melbourne, London.
All Pricks Nktt.
The Standard Remedy which has outlived the Centimes
SIR6LETON*S EYE OINTMENT.
In nse since 1E96.
CURES
Australian Blight, FaUing Eyelashes, Weak Sight
Ask yonr chemist for its history—the book is free—or write
S. GREEN. 210. Lambeth Road. Loudon, Eng.


Get one of Perdriau’s
8
Driving Rugs.
We have an unexcelled range of
Driving Bugs at prices ranging
from 8/6 to 60/*
▲ very good Bug comes in
Bubber-proofed Sheeting, lined
with the popular Kersey material,
in either Magenta, Blue or Green.
It is fitted with a nickel ring and
mount. Size 60in. x 48in. The price
is only 16/- ; postage extra, 1/6.
A Special Bug for Motorists is
priced at S 6- It is made of Aus-
tralian Wool to Double Texture
Twill, and measures 78in. x 60in.
Postage extra, 2/3.
Full particulars are given in our
Catalogue. May we send you a
copy ?
PERDR/AU RUBBER CO. LTD.,
“The Best House for All Rubber Goods,"
270 George Street, Sydney.
HOUSE LIGHTING.
BATTERY SETS
always in stock.
For particulars and prices apply %
T. K. Steanes, 39 Pitt Street, Sydney
DICK’S PATENT
BELTING.
THE ORIGINAL AND
GENUINE BALATA.
TRADfc.
dfg
MARK
The STRONGEST and most EFFICIENT yet produced
Every Belt GUARANTEED. As a sruard against intecior
imitations, look for the TRADE MARK on every few feet.
Importers: James Hardie & Co.,
West Circular Quay, Sydney, and at Meltooura®.
npiiE BULLETIN POST CARDS—N«w
Jl Series, IV., V., VI. Packet of Twelv*, «d ;
Packet of Ten. 6d. >
SCHNAPPS
The beverage
that benefits.
At all times
ask for and obtain only
Two
Crank
Com-
pressor.
Series B.
Size No. 4
Double.
800 oublo
feet per
minute.
Pres,
surea up
to 1301 b.
df
gfd
ma-
.
61
or OIL ENGINES.
Adopted by British Admiralty, and used
by the Largest Power Users of the World.
g
AIR COMPRESSORS
fdg
HIGH-SPEED ENGINES
Simple, Double or Triple Act-
ing, with Forced Lubrication.
J. Wildridge & Sinclair, Ltd., 82 Pitt Street, Sydney
1910 PATTERN.
© m
fd
Send in your Handpieces early and hay®
them fitted with the new Screwless Joint,
Repairs to outfits carried out quickly and
cheaply in our new up“to»date workshop.
THE
Sleep Shearing Machines
Sole Agents for
Australasia-
'V i
Miller’s
TEL.
f 3236
\5221
‘SXSnVIOBdS AH3NIHOVW ONINIW IVom±o3l3
FRANK I & CO.
AGENTS FOR ERNEST SCOTT MOUNTAIN LIMITED, GATESEND ON TYNE.
'
: '
Clarence Street
Postal Address;
Castlereagh Chambers,
10 Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
'Phone: City 2325.
THE MINE SMELTER
ENGINEERING and SUPPLY CO. LTD.,
Hoad Office: Gasfiereagh Chambers, ll- - - street, Sydney*
Telegraphic Address:
“ MINE SMELTER,”
SYDNEY.
m
_
m
f&T-'J
AIR hand HAMMER DRILLS
and for Prices and Full Particulars shall be pleased to receive your inquiries.
EVERLASTING B.
:
SELF GRINDING & SELF COMPENSATING.
Specially Recommended where Water is Bad.
ALL SIZES from lin. to Sin. Numerous Testimonials.
SCREWED or FLANGED. IRON, SEMI-BRASS and ALL BRASS.
gfd
263 George Street, Sidney;
525 Collins Street, Melbourne.
SECTION OF
VALVE.
